{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1941__robinson___strange_autobiography_of_frank_b_robinson.pdf","mytitle":"Strange Autobiography Of Frank B Robinson","mylang":"de"}
T5IfpjStrange^utohtugrajilig
. of prank B . Bnhinaon .
Juattfor nf “psyrtjiana” Hasrmu, ittmijn
Publtalfrb by "JJagrtitana” 3nr., Mnsrmu, Sbahn —1941
(C o p y r ig h t , 1941, by “ P sy c h ia n a .” I n c .)
THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED TO
MY STUDENTS EVERYWHERE
P r in t e d in t h e U n it e d Sta tes o f A m er ic a
by M e t r o po l it a n P ress, P o rtla n d , O regon
DR. FR A N K B. RO BIN SO N T O D A Y
Born July 5th, 1886
In Appreciation
T h e a u t h o r desires to express h is t h a n k s a n d g r a t i-
tude to those thousands of people all over the world who
stood loyally by him through the times of stress he was made
to pass through. It is impossible to list these good people
here. There are too many. But I do want to publicly thank a
few who, in many ways, showed their loyalty and friendship
to me in those dark and fateful hours. First, of course, comes
Senator Wm. E. Borah. He has gone to his reward. I hallow
his memory. Then there is Milburn Kenworthy, Chris A.
Hagan, Charles Schroeter and Anne Schroeter, Bill Mari-
neau, Dr. C. W. Tenney, Jim Palmer. There are hosts of
others too. The reason they are not all mentioned by name
is because this book could not contain all their names. But
their friendship is known and appreciated, not only by me,
but by my family.
I feel I owe these good people a debt of honor. That debt
shall be paid by fearlessly fighting for the things I believe
to be of God, just as long as I live. How long that will be
I don’t know. I care very little. But no matter how long it
may be, these good friends will always find me giving the
very best in me to the task of bringing to this earth, not
traditions or superstitions about God, but the facts of God
as I have discovered those facts to exist. Those few in
Moscow who sent wires to the Review Board—they were
forgiven long ago. And I know them all. I have also for­
given everyone who, under the baneful influence of one
whose viciousness ran away with his good judgment, at­
tempted to hurt me and mine. May the Spirit of the Infinite
God abide with them for ever. I shall never try to harm
them. I shall try to help them.
FRANK B. ROBINSON.
Dr. Robinson^ FavoriteHymn
LEAD , K IN D L Y L IG H T
Lead Kindly Light— amid th’ encircling gloom,
Lead Thou me on.
The night is dark—and I am far from home ;
Lead Thou me on.
Keep Thou my feet I do not ask to see the distant scene,
One step enough for me.
* * *
I was not ever thus,norprayed that Thou
Shouldst lead me on;
I loved to choose and see my path, but now;
Lead Thou me on.
I loved the garish day; and spite of fears,
Pride ruledmy w ill;remember not past years.
# * *
So long Thy Power hath blest me, sure, It still
W ill lead me on.
O ’er moor and fen, o’er crag and torrent till
The night is gone.
And with the morn those angel faces smile,
Which I have loved long since, and lost awhile.
JOHN H. NEWMAN.
Cardinal Newman was born in London, Feb. 21, 1801. He was a Church
of England Clergyman, young, unimaginative, and very superstitious. On a
pilgrimage to Rome, he became violently ill. The sailing vessel on which he
was traveling was becalmed between the Island of Sardinia and Palermo.
When an official of the church was called to administer the “ last rites” ,
John Newman, looking him in the eye said “I shall not die, for I have not
sinned against the Light” . He recovered. Then he wrote this beautiful hymn
which is Dr. Robinson’s favorite. He plays it continuously on his pipe-organ,
and he says “This hymn brings me closer to God than any other piece of
human writing” .
Dr. Robinson’
s Favorite Poem
EACH IN H IS O W N T O N G U E
BY WILLIAM HERBERT CARRUTH
A fire mist and a planet,
A crystal and a cell,
A jelly-fish and a saurian,
And caves where cave-men dwell;
Then a sense of law and beauty,
A face upturned from the clod—
Some call it evolution,
And others call it God.
A haze on the far horizon,
The infinite, tender sky,
The ripe rich tint of the cornfields
And the wild geese sailing high ;
And all over upland and lowland
The charm of the goldenrod—
Some of us call it autumn,
And others call it God.
Like tides on a crescent seabeach,
When the moon is new and thin,
Into our hearts high yearnings
Come welling and surging in ;
Come from the mystic ocean
Whose rim no foot hath trod—-
Some of us call it longing—
And others call it God.
A picket frozen on duty,
A mother starved for her brood,
Socrates drinking the hemlock,
And Jesus on the rood ;
And millions who, humble and nameless,
The straight, hard pathway plod—
Some call it consecration,
And others call it God.
Statement by Mrs. Robinson
I MARRIED FRANK B. ROBINSON ON NOVEMBER 2 3 r D, 1919.
The ceremony was performed in the old Leavitt home on
Conger Avenue in Klamath Falls, Oregon. My father was
the late Circuit Judge A. L. Leavitt, one of Oregon’s old
pioneers. Graduating in law from the University of Cali­
fornia, my father, with Sam Summers and a group of friends
from Oakland, began a trek to the Northwest in search of
fame and fortune. Dad found a certain amount of fame—
but little fortune. He was a politician.
The destination of these pioneers was Spokane, Washing­
ton, but my father and Sam Summers never got farther than
Klamath Falls, or Linkville, as it was then known. That
was in the year of 1880. H e was soon appointed County Clerk
of Linkville, and on July 24th, 1889, he married Florence
Reed, a school teacher, at Merrill, or what was then known
as Tule Lake. Although Dad was handicapped through
life as the result of an attack of scarlet fever when he was
five years of age, which kept him in bed until he was four­
teen, he carved for himself a little niche in the hall of
Oregon’s historical fame. He was loved by all who knew
him.
Dad passed away a few years ago, closely following our
mother, who, too, was very greatly loved throughout the
whole Klamath Basin. He passed away as he had predicted,
“with his boots on.” Dad always told us that he would
“die in the harness with his boots on.” After mother passed
just a few years ago, Dad began to decline. H e lost all
interest in life, and those of the immediate family knew that
so great was his devotion to our mother that he would not
last very long after she was gone.
Dad must have had a premonition of impending death,
12 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
for the day on which he died, he dressed up in his “Sunday
best,” went to the barber shop for a hair-cut, shave, and,
of all things, a face massage. Never had we known Dad do
that before. My sister took him later in the afternoon to
her home, which -was on the west side of Klamath Lake.
After dinner, when it became quite late, Maybelle, my
sister, asked Dad to retire for the night. This he consist­
ently refused to do, stating, “You kids go to bed—leave me
where I am in the chair— I’ll read for awhile.” That is
where they found him—dead—the next morning, with his
boots on. Judge Leavitt had done his task. He had gone,
and was mourned by many thousands throughout the region.
Active in Republican politics and occupying every political
position to which it was possible fonhim to be elected, Judge
Leavitt will long live in the hearts and memories of all who
knew him. So will my mother, for it is a question which was
the sweeter of the two.
Four children were born to that marriage, and I am the
youngest of the four. Lester is the oldest and is now proprie­
tor of Leavitts Grocery in Eugene, Oregon. Arthur comes
next. For more than twenty years, he has been employed
by the California-Oregon Power Company. Every summer
he takes charge of beautiful Rocky Point, where my husband
is now writing his autobiography. Rocky Point is on the west
side of Klamath Lake, about thirty miles from Klamath
Falls. It abounds with beautiful lake trout, which my hus­
band loves to catch.
The third child to be born to Alfred Lewis Leavitt and
Florence Reed was my sister, Maybelle. She, with her hus­
band, Mr. Howard Barnhisel, a prominent realtor of Kla­
math Falls, now occupy the old home place in which Robbie
and I were married.
Within a stone’s throw of the cabin in which “Robbie”
(I call my husband that) is writing, there stands a tall
yellow pine. It has stood there for centuries. At the foot of
that pine tree on July 20th, 1900, in a little tent in which
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 13
Dad and Mother were living, I came. Perhaps that is the
reason my brothers and sister call me “squirrel.”
As I was the youngest daughter, Dad hated to see me get
married and protested the marriage very vehemently. Not
that he had anything at all against Robbie—he just hated
to see me go, I guess.
It is not my intention to take up very much space in this
book, for a much more interesting personality will speak to
you through its pages. Knowing my husband perhaps better
than, or at least as well as anyone will ever know him, I
feel that perhaps I can throw a bit of light on phases of his
character and nature which are not seen by those outside of
his family. This is the only reason I consented to write a
few paragraphs. It may help you to get the true picture,
for there are many things a wife can say about her husband
which he cannot, or will not, say about himself.
I met Frank Robinson one Sunday afternoon shortly
before we were married. He was working at the Star Drug
Store in Klamath Falls. The owner was then Carl Plath.
He took his meals, with several other employed young folks
of Klamath Falls, at the home of Mrs. Rutenic. On this
particular Sunday afternoon, one of the girls, a friend of
mine, called on the phone stating that she was going to
bring a very handsome young man down to meet me. I in­
sisted that I was not interested in any man, regardless of
how good-looking he might be. I had other thoughts. (Had
I not met Frank Robinson, I should have been in the foreign
mission field. Fate willed it differently). My girl friend
insisted that she was going to bring this young man down,
regardless of whether or not I wanted to meet him. We met
on the front lawn. My hair was hanging down my back;
and certainly if Frank Robinson fell in love with me, which
he did, it could not have been because of my appearance—
unless he likes Indians, for that is what I must have looked
like.
However, a lot sometimes hinges on a small thing, and
14 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
that afternoon, after I had “spruced up” a bit, all went for
a walk. That evening I informed my folks that I had met
the man I was going to marry. Frank Robinson took me to
a show the next night, and inside of one week had proposed
to me. Being just as much in love with him as he was with
me, we were soon married in the old home place by the
Reverend E. P. Lawrence, a Presbyterian minister of Kla­
math Falls.
An interesting sidelight on the determination of my hus­
band may be seen in the fact that, although he knew and had
been plainly told that my father was not in sympathy with
the marriage, the first thing he did was to go and buy a
marriage license which he carried around in his pocket sev­
eral weeks before we were married.
The twenty-two years we have lived together have been
interesting years. Some of them have been trying years. Yet,
as I look back, I don’t know that I would ask for one of
them to be recalled. There have been times when the going
has been tough. There have been times when it seemed all
the power of those opposing my husband might become a
little too strong j for there were many anxious days during
the years from 1934 to 1937. We did not know if a good
husband and father would be ruthlessly snatched from us,
either to be put in some federal penitentiary or deported to
some land—we knew not where.
I have seen Doctor Robinson so hemmed in that escape
seemed impossible. Those who would have stopped his work
at any cost went to great lengths to accomplish their evil
ends. There have been days when our hearts have bled for
our husband and father. As we look back upon those days
now, we know, both children and I, that the only one who
did no worrying was Robbie. I have seen him with his back
against the wall. I have seen him apparently overwhelmed
by antagonistic forces—and I have seen him smile and tell
us not to worry. “Let me do the worrying,” was a favorite
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 15
expression of his through the criminal trials and deportation
proceedings.
These are not nice things to talk about. I try to forget
them. Yet it was in those days of trial that the true charac­
ter of my husband came to the surface. I think I can say
that Doctor Robinson is never his true self unless he is up
against odds which seem overwhelming. When those odds
come, he smiles. I should say that he knows what the out­
come will be from the beginning.
Let me give you one incident which stands out clearly
in my mind. It was during his trial on federal charges of
passport falsification. Naturally, he was acquitted on those
charges. He has never committed a criminal act in his life—
not even a misdemeanor. If he had, it would have been found
out a long time ago.
This particular evening, the federal jury was out consid­
ering the evidence. Doctor Robinson will tell you about that
trial later on. Our two attorneys, Edward W. Robertson of
Spokane, Washington, and the Honorable A. L. Morgan,
now Circuit Judge of this county, were in our home in the
living room. Little was eaten at dinner that evening except
by Robbie. H e ate a good meal. Attorneys Robertson and
Morgan were pacing up and down the living room. They
were just as much interested in this case as they would have
been had their own sons been on trial. Doctor was sitting
at the pipe-organ playing. Attorney Ed. Robertson, one of
the very finest characters we have ever met, walked over
to Doctor Robinson saying, “My God, man—how can you
sit there playing a pipe-organ with that jury out?” Robbie
replied, “Ed, you and Morgan pace the floor all you want
to—I’m going to bed.” Inside of fifteen minutes, he was
sleeping as peacefully as a baby. He was fast asleep when
the verdict of “not guilty” was brought in, and he did not
awaken until morning.
The strain of these two trials was especially hard on
Alfred. He did not know what to think. A special newspaper
16 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
was started here in Moscow by some of Doctor’s enemies
and poor Alfred sat alone in his room, wondering what it
was all about. But he was a brick. He stood side by side with
his Dad through it all. He had the satisfaction of seeing his
father completely vindicated on every charge. He had the
further satisfaction of seeing every man who had anything
to do with those charges go down to defeat. However,
Doctor will tell you about that.
* * *
My husband is the most kind man I ever met. He loves
every member of his family with a passionate love. It has
been said that “every kid and every dog in Moscow knows
Doctor Robinson,” and while he is not too fond of dogs, he
would go to any length to protect any animal or any human
being that was suffering. That is one thing he cannot stand
—suffering. I recall a few instances which may be interest­
ing. Let me first say that I have seen my husband go to the
bank where he already had borrowed “up to the neck” and
borrow additional money with which to help someone else
who needed his help. Doctor is the largest donator to charity
in this county. Robinson Park stands here as a monument
of his thoughtfulness to others. He will literally give his
own clothes away to one more needy than he.
One evening the telephone rang and Doctor Robinson
was informed that a certain family whom we will call the
“White” family was destitute. He was a bit nonplussed at
receiving this information, knowing that the Community
Chest was so well supplied with funds that no drive was put
on that year. Calling up one of the officials of the Commun­
ity Chest, he told him of the phone call about the “White”
family. The president of the Community Chest that year
was a Lutheran minister, and he assured Doctor Robinson
that he had personally visited the “White” family only that
day and found it “amply provided for.” The gentleman who
phoned Doctor Robinson was quite a substantial citizen, so
Doctor called him back and reported to him the result of
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 17
the telephone conversation with the president of the Com­
munity Chest. This led to another phone call on another
director of the Chest’s activities. This gentleman also in­
formed my husband that the “White” family was fully taken
care of and needed nothing.
Here may be noted an insight into Doctor Robinson’s
character. If there is any question about anything, he will
take the word of no one but will go and investigate for him­
self. This is exactly what he did that evening. Inside of five
minutes after the second phone call, he was in the car and
on his way to the “White” shack, for that is what it really
was. On arriving there, he found five children with absolute­
ly nothing in the house to eat. On the floor, lying on an old
rusty set of springs covered with gunny sacks, was the mother
who was about to give birth to another child. Not even a
bottle of milk was in the house. Doctor Robinson at once
hired a physician to take charge of this sad case and called
up a grocery store and ordered twelve dollars worth of
groceries sent to that house every week.
The next day he made arrangements for a position for
the husband and had a local store send down the best bed,
the best mattress, sheets, blankets, etc., it had. In addition
to that, the children were properly clothed. Shortly after
this incident, Alfred came home from school and, backing his
Dad into a corner, said, “Pop, those poor ‘White’ boys have
to stay away from school because they haven’t enough
money to buy school books. You give me some money, and
I’ll go down and buy them.” The boys got the books.
This incident was never mentioned in our home again.
However, Doctor Robinson had given his last donation to
the Community Chest. He will never give it another cent
locally as long as it exists. He never forgets.
On another occasion, a little child was lost in the thick
underbrush and timber which surrounds Moscow on the
north. A search was instituted and hundreds of people
scoured the surrounding country. Going out to the scene,
18 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
Doctor Robinson looked over the ground and then came
back to the house and told me about it. “The only way they
will ever find that child is by airplane,” he said. Calling
Spokane by long-distance telephone, he engaged Nick
Mamer, a well-known pilot, to bring his plane to Moscow
and stay here until the child was found. They found the
baby from the plane that evening.
I could give you many more instances of the generosity
of my husband, but this is only the very smallest part of his
big nature. To meet him, one may make the mistake of
thinking that his bluff, gruff manner indicates that type of
man. Nothing could be farther from the truth. I recall that
a writer for Collier's Weekly came to the house a few years
ago to secure material for a story of Doctor Robinson and
his Movement. After spending half a day with Doctor, this
man left making the statement, “That man Robinson is the
coldest-blooded individual I have ever met.” It was on the
evening of that same day that the “White” family was cared
for.
I suppose that when a man through his work becomes
the center of attraction in any line, there are certain penalties
which go with such prominence. I know we have them.
Salesmen with many new and clever selling schemes try in
vain to get an audience with my husband. If he gave them
audience, he would have no time for his work, and his work
means more to him than anything else. Sometimes I think
he is more interested in his work than he is in his wife. Then
he will come home, play the organ, and later get little
Florence down on her back in the middle of the living-room
floor and there they will “rastle” until one of them is tired
out.
The appeals for charity are many. None are ever refused
if Robbie has the money or can get it. But it must be remem­
bered that all Doctor Robinson gets from the “Psychiana'l
Movement is a salary, and that is none too large for his
needs. Personally, he has no needs. He has one great aim in
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 19
life, and that is to bring men and women a clearer conception
of the Power he believes to exist. He is a deeply religious
man—perhaps not in the accepted and orthodox sense of the
word5 but he is very deeply religious, nevertheless.
Creeds, dogmas, rituals—these mean nothing at all to
Doctor Robinson. He believes in the present existence of
one Great Spirit, and he believes that the Power of that
Great Spirit when fully known, as he believes it can be fully
known, is more than sufficient to rectify the many ills this
world is suffering from. God is a passion with my husband.
He never attends a church unless it is to speak in one, and
he would rather never do that. His idea of God is that of
an ever-present Spiritual Power, more than able to bring
permanent peace, happiness, joy, and material and spiritual
abundance to all.
* * *
No words of mine can describe Doctor Robinson. If it has
been my privilege to know him a bit better than others
know him, I am grateful for that privilege. He is a soul
from the beyond. He lives among us—yet he is not of us.
Human to the ’nth degree, his inspiration, his ability, his
dynamic genius come from a source that is a bit higher
than human—not that I would wish to give the impression
that my husband is a “supernatural” being, far from that.
I assure you he is very natural. He is, however, motivated
by and from a Source which must be infinite in its nature.
He has been called “the greatest religious genius of the
twentieth century.” To me, he’s just simply “Robbie,” a
human, loving, inspired, religious teacher. If I were asked
to designate in one word the secret of his power and his
greatness, I should use the word—Simplicity.
Someone has said that genius is nothing more than hard
work. That may be true. If it is, my husband is a genius,
for he works incessantly. He goes days and nights, and the
marvel of it all is that he is able to stand up under it. I recall
a few years ago a long-distance telephone call came in from
20 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
Mrs. Marriner S. Eccles, the wife of the president of the
Federal Reserve Bank. Doctor Robinson had just returned
from a four hundred mile drive from Portland, Oregon. He
was very tired. However, the little daughter of Mrs. Eccles
was ill. ccCould Doctor Robinson come?” He could, and he
did. Without considering himself for one moment, he left
at once on a nine hundred and sixty mile drive from Moscow,
Idaho, to Ogden, Utah. His average mileage every year
by car is over fifty thousand miles. In addition to this, he
makes frequent trips to the East and other parts of the
country. It is worthy of note that while he will leave
Moscow at one minute’s notice, if he believes he can help
someone, he has never yet allowed anyone to give him even
five cents toward paying his expenses.
Not long ago in New York City, a group of men offered
him a certified check for $250,000.00 for control of the
“Psychiana” Movement. After looking at the check and the
contract which accompanied it, Doctor smiled and turned
to this group of men said, “You are the fellows who should
be living in the sticks—not I.” These men had the false
impression that money can buy anything, and only the night
before had tried to “high-pressure” Robbie into accepting
the check and signing the contract. “Here is where you sign
—right here,” said one of these chaps in endeavoring to
close the deal. Doctor Robinson picked up the paper and,
smiling in a droll way, said, “We read the contract to­
night, and we sign it tomorrow—maybe.”
While Doctor Robinson has the reputation of being a
very keen business man, in reality he is nothing of the sort.
You can sell him any sort of “gold brick” you want to, for
he is entirely too trusting. He takes everyone at face value,
and the person who knows how, can get away from my hus­
band everything he has. The only thing that has saved
him from trouble many times is the fact that before he makes
a move of importance he will ask me what I think of it.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 21
If I agree, he never will do it; so to protect him, all I have
to do is to tell him to go ahead. Then he never will.
We live very happily here in Moscow, Idaho—my hus­
band, Alfie, Florence, and I. That is, when my husband is
at home, we do. I do not know of a family more completely
in love with each other than this family is. What the future
holds for us, we do not know. There is one thing I do know
—no matter how fast the “Psychiana” Movement grows,
and no matter how many laurels are heaped on my husband’s
head, the center of attraction as long as we are all here will
be his home and his family.
PEARL B. ROBINSON.
CHAPTER ONE
Introductory Message
M rs. ROBINSON, in h e r in t r o d u c t io n to t h is b o o k , has
very kindly referred to me as a “soul from the beyond.”
I do not know whether that statement is true or not. What
I do know is that, as a result of the humble life you are
to read about, this world will see the dawn of a new era.
It will be an age which, for the first time in the known
history of the world, will see man living in conscious recog­
nition of the Great Spirit—God. God will not only live with
men, but the consciousness of the presence of God will elimi­
nate by Its own Power, all the things which have made man
such a miserably unhappy creature in the world of today.
In that day, which will be brought in as a direct result
of the life and teachings of this one man, sorrow, illness,
tears, despair, fear—yes, even death itself, will be unknown.
These could have been possible a long time ago. They would
have been possible had man but known God; but, man has
not known God. One may truthfully call this known world
a “God-less” world, for that is what it is. The knowledge
of the Great Spirit—God has not yet been brought to the
world. That knowledge will come shortly, and this hope­
less, “God-less” world will exchange the inconsistencies, the
worries, the impotent religious philosophies, the hopeless­
ness of life as we know it, for the joys, the peace, the love,
the immortality which is God.
Despite the fact that major systems of “religion,” with
their welter of claims about God, exist, the fact remains
that this world still does not know God. There are eleven
major systems of “religion” operating on this earth today,
exclusive of “P sychianaAll have different “gods” or dif-
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 23
ferent conceptions of the One God. Their theologies, how­
ever, are taken, for the greater part, from much older
systems of “religion” which they themselves call “pagan.”
Where that is not the case, their system of “religion” was
manufactured by them out of thin air. It may have been
honestly manufactured, but manufactured it was, never­
theless.
God, as this Spirit will be revealed to the nations of this
earth ’ere long, bears no relation to any of the “gods” these
many theological systems have offered. One look at the
universe around us should convince the most skeptical that
the nations are “God-less.” As I write this, Germany has
just taken under its “protecting wing” the neighboring coun­
tries of Norway and Denmark. Other small nations will be
as helpless against the German type of aggression as a wax
bill on a woodpecker.
This type of aggression which believes and plainly says
that “might makes right” will, if not stopped soon, engulf
the whole earth under its “protecting wing.” The name of
the Creator would then be given little room and the place
of that Creative Spirit—God—would be usurped by a man.
Let none argue that God is known on the earth today. Were
God known, Hitler, Stalin, Mussolini could not exist. If
God were known for what God is, there would be on the
earth today universal peace. There would be universal love
instead of universal hate. There would be no poverty, no
strikes, no crime, no immorality-—certainly no wars with
their ghastly inhuman instruments for the destruction of
human life. There could be no illness; nor could there be
any death; for the Great Spirit—God—is a Spirit of Eternal
Life; and Life, which is God, knows nothing about death.
So then, I affirm that God is not known on the earth, in
spite of all our systems of “religion.” The Great Spirit—
God—is not in the “religions” of today nor yesterday. We
must then look forward to the true conception of God, and
24 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
the Power of God, in the future. It will be in the near future.
The present state of things cannot long exist.
* * *
From the very earliest years of my life until today, 1
have known quite definitely that somewhere in me was a
direct connection with the Great Spirit, God. I have always
known that I was “set aside” for the express purpose of
bringing to this earth the truths of God as those truths exist,
and as they will be revealed to mankind soon. They are
being revealed to men today. ’Ere long, there will flash
across the horizon such a revelation of the Divine Power
of the Great Spirit, God, that this world will be reborn. It
has been my lot to be the one chosen by God to bring in- this
“Great Day of God.”
This is not the statement of a paranoiac or a rattle­
brained religious fanatic—it is the statement of a man who
keeps both feet firmly on the ground. It is the statement of
a man who, although thirteen years ago was unknown, today
leads the eighth largest religion on the face of the earth.
This religion has demonstrated the actual Power of God in
human lives during those thirteen years—and its record
cannot be approached by any other religious system in
existence.
This has been done entirely by mail. We have no churches,
no ministers, and we preach no sermons. We give to the
world the plain simple truths of God as those truths have
been revealed to us. Those truths prove themselves. Through
the Power of those truths, men and women are, for the first
time in known history, finding the Power which is God.
This book will be written very simply. No attempt at
flowery rhetoric will be made. I am not capable of produc­
ing a polished academic work, never having had more than
a high school education. It is true that several educational
institutions have decorated my name with “Doctorates” but
this means nothing. I do not know any more now than I did
before I received them. These are plaudits of men. As such,
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 25
I am not interested in them. The only thing I am interested
in is the work given me to do. That work is of God, and
from the Realm of the Great Spirit—God— I shall receive
whatever reward there may be—if any.
This is my life’s story. I must write it in my own way.
No one can help me. In fact, I shall not ask anyone to. I
shall give you the facts as I recall them, and I shall do this
as honestly as I can. I shall do this as briefly as I can. Using
my own terms and method of writing, I believe you will
understand me. I do not want to write this autobiography.
I never have wanted to push myself into the limelight.
Having been pushed into the world’s international religious
spotlight, however, and the demands for the story coming
in to us in ever-increasing volume, I have decided that this,
coupled with the other means I use, may be one means of
bringing the true conception of God to this earth.
Now that the book has been started, I shall work day
and night on it— for there is no time to lose. What will have
happened before this book reaches you, I do not know. The
powers and forces of darkness are making themselves very
evident these days; they will never rule the earth. How­
ever, there will come a definite clash between these forces
of darkness and the Light which is God. Neither Germany
nor the Allies will win this war. Wars are never “won.”
What will happen is this—the conception of God which I
am bringing to the world will be universally grasped. The
Power of the Great Spirit, God, which accompanies these
revelations will spread over this earth, and that Power—the
Power of the Spirit which is God—will be so powerful and
breath-taking that these armies—all of them—will fold up
their tents and, like the Arabs, steal away, never to return.
Let me repeat—the Day of God is at hand, not the day
some of our “religions” have predicted. But it is the Day
of God, nevertheless. Let me state here that what this earth
is about to discover about God could have been discovered
long ago. Why it was not, I do not know. It may be because
26 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
another picture of God was offered to the world. It may be
because those who were offered this other picture used the
sword to propagate their religion. It may be because they
made men and women “afraid” of God. Perhaps they told
them that if they did not accept their conception of God,
they should “suffer in torment through the ages.” Or per­
haps they told the world that they, and they alone, were the
“only ones authorized to act and teach for God”—and it
may be that millions of people, earnest in their search for
God, believed them.
Whatever the reason the truths of God have not been
made known before is beside the point. These truths are now
known. They will save this world. They always could have
saved it. So then, you will understand the earnestness of
your writer to bring these truths of God to the people as
fast as he possibly can. Sometimes I wonder why I, of all
men, was chosen by God for this task. Surely someone much
more competent could have been chosen. Surely someone
with a much better education than I might have been called!
But they were not, and there is one thing I shall never do
—that is, shirk anything God gives me to do. I never have
yet, and I know now I never shall.
Regardless of present existing “systems of religion,” re­
gardless of “criminal trials,” regardless of “deportation pro­
ceedings,” yes, regardless of any obstancle thrown in my
path, this work will continue to prosper in that which it
was sent to do. Opposition will fall by the wayside. I have
seen that happen. Persecution will only help me succeed,
for it will steel me to the task of bringing to the earth, the
Day of God. The reason?—The Power of the Spirit which
is God is in this Movement and it Founder. That Spirit—
that God—never can fail.
* * *
I shall write things in this book which, if I considered
my feelings, I certainly should not write. I shall have to
bare facts which will be hard to reveal. I shall not spare
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 27
myself. The world has not spared me. I shall not spare
myself, then. Ruthless, regretfully, and probably with tears
streaming down my face, shall I tell you everything I can
remember which has any bearing on the work I am now
doing for God and humanity.
One is not supposed to write anything in an autobiography
which does not bear directly on the life of the writer. Every­
thing I shall put in this book has a very direct bearing on
that life. You will see the almost unbelievable manner in
which a “blind faith” in God was transformed into a “living
faith.” You will see the staggering results which are fol­
lowing. There is one thing I am supremely happy over. That
one thing is that I have never lost faith in God. A little
later, you will perhaps marvel that I did not lose, not only
faith in God, but my mind as well.
The result, however, more than repays me for what little
suffering I have gone through. Even if every day from
this day on means additional suffering, and it may, I shall
still pursue the course set for me. Regardless of how stormy
the sea, this vessel will fight the waves and the tempest,
secure in the knowledge that the Great Pilot is on board.
One word of caution, please. Naturally this book must be
written in the first person. I am writing about myself. So
please understand that no matter what I relate to you, no
matter how hard it may be to relate these things, no thought
of self shall ever enter into this work. If you knew me
personally, as few do, you would know that just one thing
matters—to live and die for the cause of God. The revela­
tions which have come to me, and the understanding, is
of God. The vision, as you will see as you progress, unques­
tionably is a Divine vision. The “call” to service could
not have originated elsewhere than in the Realm of the
Great Spirit—God. That fact I want you to have before
you as you read this book, not looking at Frank B. Robinson,
but at what the message of that man is meaning to this
world. The messenger is a poor one. But the message is
28 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
what matters—not the messenger. In the infinite wisdom of
a Great God, strange vessels are sometimes chosen to carry
valuable wine. Things which are not are sometimes used
to bring to naught things which are. The stone which the
builders reject may have an important place in the finished
structure. The uneducated may sometimes, in the wisdom
of God, be used to confound the mighty.
I was asked last evening in Seattle whether the great
conflagration in Europe is “Armaggeddon.” Yes it is—
only not the “Armaggeddon” some people are looking for.
God Almighty will not descend from the skies and commit
a wholesale slaughter of his “enemies” for God does not
operate in this manner. Anyhow, if that is the object, these
“enemies,” if left alone, will slaughter themselves just as
effectively as God can do it, even if God would do it.
“Armaggeddon” is figuratively pictured as a “battle-royal”
between the forces of “Satan” and the forces of God. There
never has been a gentleman by the name of “Satan.” We
must look for another definition of the “forces” which are
opposed to God. We must also find out what God is. What
is happening in Europe is the natural result of a God-less
world. Never has God been known on this earth. Had God
been, how do you think these war-mad wholesale murderers
could exist?
This ghastly thing in Europe is nothing more nor less
than a heading up of those who believe that might makes
right. Obsessed with the insane idea that they are all-pow­
erful, these men, leaving God out of the picture, have
attempted to rule the world by brute force. This, they will
never do. But no -power exists on the earth today which
can stop them. It is the new conception of God your
writer is bringing to this earth which can bring them to
their knees. Let me repeat, had the Power which is God
been brought to this earth by anyone, the earth would
be a paradise today. But the true conception of God, and
the Power of God, never have been known, and hence we
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 29
see the earth as it is today. It is a perfectly natural con­
dition. It could not have been otherwise. Without God on
the earth, you see what has happened. With God on the
earth, the picture will completely change. May God grant
that I be man enough to continue to the end that which
God has given me to do.
There are over four hundred religious sects on the earth
today. But only one God. My joy is to bring to all of them
the true conception of God which, when it is brought to
the earth, will banish everything evil, bring eternal life
and eternal happiness, and thus satisfy all these sects and
the human race.
CHAPTER TWO
M y Father
M y f a t h e r is t h e r e v e r e n d j . h . ROBINSON, a n d at t h e
present writing, is minister of the Morpeth Congregational
Church in Morpeth, Northumberland, England. I cannot
give you his exact age, but it must be close to eighty years.
H e is, I understand, still actively preaching. Prior to joining
the Congregationalists, he was a Baptist preacher, leaving
that denomination some thirty or forty years ago because
of the closed communion. It seems that the Baptists will
not allow those of another denomination to observe the
sacrament of the “Lord’s Supper” with them. The Con­
gregationalists will. This is not showing a very godly spirit,
it seems to me, but that’s how it is.
Father was graduated from Spurgeon’s College in Lon­
don, and his first work was at the Costermongers Mission
in a low part of London. I cannot give you much of the
history of his folks. His marriage certificate, issued on
June 11th, 1882, shows that his father was a plumber.
The address is not given. His age then was twenty-three
which makes him seventy-eight now instead of eighty years
of age. That’s a ripe age for a minister to be still ministering.
My mother was Hannah Rosella Coope, and her father’s
name was John Coope. His occupation was “steward.” At
the time she married my father, she was one year younger
than he, or twenty-two. I know nothing of her folks except
that she belonged to the famous family of Ind. Coope and
Co., large British brewers. What the actual relationship
was, I do not know. Both her mother and father were
present at the marriage which occurred in Trinity Chapel
in London.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 31
Mother was about the sweetest thing it has ever been
my pleasure to know. She passed away while I was but a
child—eight years old. I shall never forget the fine sim­
plicity and beauty of her character. She was deeply religious.
Every Sunday morning she would take me to church and,
finding the sermon rather dry, and perhaps knowing the
preacher, I invariably would fall asleep on a black sealskin
coat she used to wear. Before her death, prominent special­
ists were called, but to no avail. Bronchial pneumonia took
her. It closed, at thirty-three, the sweetest career I shall
ever know. The death occurred at No. 7 Lilac Street in
Halifax, Yorkshire. She lies buried in Illingsworth ceme­
tery. I visited the grave a few years ago. There is a custom
in the north of England of pulling down the window blinds
when a funeral cortege passes by. The popularity of the
deceased can be judged by the number of blinds pulled
down. I remember that funeral, and blinds were pulled
down for miles along the way.
The funeral sermon was preached by the Reverend
Henry Davis, a childhood friend of my father. I shall
allude to Henry Davis again. So little did I realize what
was happening that when we children were put in the
carriage, we thought it was fun to get to ride behind a pair
of horses. It was the first such ride we had ever had. That
funeral will long live in my memory. I remember the
hymns they sang: “A few more years shall roll,” and
“The sands of time are sinking.” After the funeral father
was pretty well “broken up.” Sneaking up to his chair in
his little study, I put my arms around his neck and kissed
him. “Don’t cry, Dad—she said she would see us in the
morning.” Little did I realize what “morning” she meant.
I have realized it many times since.
Perhaps in my nature there is some of my mother’s. If
so, regardless of how much good I am able to do, I shall
never be able to equal the good she did. She was loved
by all—a beautiful character if ever there was one. I want
32 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
to mention here a death-bed scene that has a very distinct
bearing on what happened in my federal criminal trial here
in Moscow. The night she died, one after another of we
children were called in to kiss her “good-bye.” It came my
turn. After asking father and the physician to leave the
room, she said, “Frankie, there is something I must tell
you before I go, for Pm going.” I shall never forget say­
ing to her, “But, Mother, you’re not going for long, are
you?” “No, not for long, Frankie-—-I’ll see you in the
morning.” Then, clasping her dying arms around my neck,
she said, “I want you to remember this: There may come
a time when your birth-place will be questioned. Remem­
ber, you were not born in England $ you were born in New
York.” Little did I dream then, forty-six years ago, the
import of those words. Luckily I remembered them. I had
always been known by my mother and her folks as “the
little Yankee,” although when father would hear that, he
would show displeasure and change the conversation. How­
ever, all my relatives on her side knew that I was born in
New York. I shall have more to say about this later.
While in England a few years ago, I visited Long Cren-
don where my boyhood years were spent—at least, a few
of them. On arriving in London, I sent a wire to my father
stating that I was in England and asked him if he would
not like to see me. He replied by wire that he had no son
by my name. I then wired back and asked him for the
address of my two brothers who I knew still lived in
England. His reply was that he knew nothing of their
whereabouts. I discovered later that he knew at the time
where they were. For some reason, he did not want to see
me or have me see my brothers. Strange father this! Strange
man of God! I had not seen nor heard from him for many,
many years. My letters had been returned to me unopened.
Just at the critical time in life when a boy needed the com­
fort and advice of his father, that comfort and friendship
was denied me. Had mother lived —but, she died.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 33
While in England in 1934 visiting old childhood scenes,
I met a Mr. Betts who knew me as a child. I found two
other old fellows who knew me and who gave me some
very valuable information regarding those childhood years
of mine. Mr. Betts was owner of the small village bakery,
and I recall the night the old bakery had burned to the
ground. I watched it burn from my bedroom window in
“The Manse” which is pictured in this book. Mr. Betts
invited me in for a cup of tea and a piece of cake. The
true British hospitality was evident. After the little snack,
I told Betts that I would like very much to see the house
in which I lived, and more especially the room in which
my brother Sydney was born. I remember being allowed
to hold him in my arms before the grate fire on the night
of his birth. Mr. Betts said he knew the people well who
now lived in the old “Manse,” and he took me there and
introduced me to the good lady of the house. She did not
remember me, but she did remember the Reverend J. H.
Robinson, and we chatted for quite awhile. “Here is a
book you might like to see,” she said, going to a cupboard
and bringing out a little volume. It contained a history of
the Long Crendon Baptist chapel where father preached,
and, in addition to having a photo of my father, it had this
to say:
“The church remained pastorless until the Reverend J. H.
Robinson of Henley-in-Arden received a call at the end of
1887, which he accepted, and he entered upon his labours as
stated minister in March, 1888. The new pastor had recently
returned from a long visit in America. (At my trial on charges
of passport fraud in Moscow a few years ago, an affidavit was
introduced, signed by my father and sworn to before the
American Consul in Newcastle-on-tyne, that he had never been
in the United States).
The new pastor speedily became known as a powerful
preacher, and large, and even crowded congregations frequently
gathered together, the people coming in from the neighboring
villages to listen. In addition to his ordinary pulpit work, Mr.
Robinson found time to devote his eloquence to the champion-
34 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
ing of the People’s rights, and he attracted considerable atten­
tion by his boldness and fearlessness in this direction.”
This book was published by “The Bucks Advertiser,” and
is entitled “The History of the Long Crendon Baptist
Church and Sunday School.” I did not think to secure the
book, but had I known what the future held, I certainly
would have secured it. I did, however, take down a com­
plete memorandum of the references to my father, because
even then there was considerable demand for my life story.
If I was born in 1886, it must have been in the U. S. accord­
ing to this book.
There was a man in Long Crendon, a village of one
hundred and fifty souls, who ran a butcher shop and made
very famous sausages. His name was George Elton. For
years after we had left there, father would send to Mr.
Elton for his famous sausages. On my recent trip there,
I called on Mr. Elton and introduced myself. We talked
old times for, young as I was then, every incident of that
young life in that small English village is indelibly stamped
on my memory. “Did your father ever tell you about the
time he tried to open a barrel of beer?” Elton shot at me.
I replied that I had no recollection of father having re­
counted such an experience to me and requested Mr. Elton
to tell me about it.
In brief, a party was being held at the Elton home and
Dad and a large group of other “Baptists” were there. This
barrel of beer was in the cellar. Dad, feeling pretty good
already, asked to be allowed to open this keg of beer. It
was the second one to be opened that night. It’s a wonder
the Baptists don’t baptize their “converts” in beer if they
love it so well. If beer is good for the inside, why is it not
good for the outside, too? Well, father went down with
Mr. Elton to tap the beer barrel. Seizing the bung in one
hand and the mallet in the other hand, he gave the bung
a tap—but not hard enough. The beer, according to Mr.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 35
Elton, squirted all over the cellar and nearly drowned the
Reverend J. H. Robinson, champion of the rights of the
common people and Pastor of the Long Crendon Baptist
church. I was somewhat taken aback by the recounting of
this happening. I wondered what sort of preachers they
had in those days. I wondered, too, if they were not more
interested in drinking beer than they were in saving souls.
However, lots of water has gone over the dam since that
occurrence until 1934, and I have learned many things about
those who act as “Agents of God.” I never was able to
reconcile the drinking of beer and whisky with God
Almighty—not even at the Eucharist, or “Lord’s Supper”
—unless, of course, Almighty God drank beer and whisky
and wine, too. Here, however, was one of God’s agents
tapping a beer barrel in the cellar of a butcher shop. I’ve
seen them do a lot worse than that over a period of fifty
years.
Usually drinking and other things much worse go to­
gether, and evidently they did in the case of my father.
There followed at this time, an affair with a pretty lady
member of father’s church. I knew at the time, young as
I was, that this and one other affair were going on. It must
be remembered that at Long Crendon he could not have
been married very long. It must also be remembered that
he had the sweetest wife God could give to any man. Yet
these two affairs persisted. While they were going on, my
mother was sitting alone in “The Manse,” crying her eyes
out and trying to keep her sorrow from me. In the year
1890, the Reverend J. H . Robinson was “withdrawn” from
the Baptist denomination. He had always told me that he
“left” because of the “closed communion.” I should call it
a very open “communion.”
A U T H O R ’S N O T E
I have given very serious thought to the recounting of these
incidents. There may be those among my readers who might feel
36 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
What may lie in the background of my father, I have
never been able to find out, although I have investigated
quite thoroughly. A letter in my possession from the Rev­
erend J. Sylvester Poulton to the Reverend Walton, the
Registrar of the Spurgeon’s College, states, “Robinson
always talked about his indebtedness to the Costermongers
Mission for rescuing him from the gutter.” It is to be pre­
sumed, therefore, that my father had troubles of his own
in his early years. I have a recent report that, although
he is an old man now, at this present writing he is carrying
on another affair with a lady singer in the choir.
Now God may be in this sort of thing—that is, the “god”
he preaches may be in it. However, I know one God who
certainly is not in anything on this order; yet practically
every minister in England will drink all the beer he can get.
I shall have more to say about these ministers and their
beer-drinking later on.
inclined to criticize. Yet this was the man who, knowing full well
that vicious attempts were being made to send me to some federal
penitentiary, swore under oath that he had never been in the United
States. He knows full well where I was born, and so do I. I can­
not conceive of any man who claims to be a representative of God
stooping so low as to deliberately lie when he knows his own son’s
liberty may be at stake.
However, it is not for this reason I am including these unhappy
incidents. They have a very distinct bearing on what followed
later, and what followed later was a vital part of my life. I should
like very much to leave this part of father’s life out of the record;
but this is an autobiography. It must be truly written; and it must
be written so plainly that you who read may get the true picture
of the obstacles I had to overcome before I came to the place where
I was qualified to lead hundreds of thousands into the new concep­
tion of God. I love that man. I never have understood him. He
has caused me lots of pain, and by this thoughtlessness, has made
my path immeasurably harder than it should have been. Still, I
love him. Would he allow it, I would fly to his assistance, if it
became necessary, at any moment.
I still believe that what I am recounting here should be re­
counted. Millions will read this story. I must tell them the truth
even though it hurts me to tell it................................ F. B. R.
M RS. FR A N K B. RO BIN SO N
Youngest daughter of former Circuit Judge A. L. Leavitt of
Klamath Falls, Oregon, and Dr. Robinson’s true helper.
A L F R E D RO BIN SO N and DEAN S M IT H and “ C H U B B Y ”
In his school days Alfred had many friends. He is here seen sitting
on the doorstep of his home with Dean Smith, whose father, Harvey
Smith, is the city engineer in Moscow. Dick Long, Howard Manson,
Bob Cummings, were among his many high-school and grade school
friends. “ Chubby” , the little dog, died, and was replaced by “ Ching” ,
the dog written about in Dr. Robinson’s book, Blood on the Tail of
a Pig. Alfred is holding Chubby.
FLO R E N C E RO BIN SO N
This picture was taken in a neighbor’s ygrd in 1937.
The white object in her hand is a marshmallow.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 37
I recall one amusing incident which happened in Long
Crendon. Finding a cigarette butt on the sidewalk one day
on my way home from school, I begged a match and lit the
cigarette, puffing away like a good fellow. Whom did I
see coming towards me but my father. Not in the least
abashed, I gave an additional puff on the cigarette as he
passed by, saying to him in all seriousness, “How do you
do, Mr. Robinson.” I not only found out “how he did,”
when I got home, I found out “what” he did. He was
mercilessly cruel to me. Why he picked on me, I do not
know.
I recall one day in Halifax which was the town we moved
to after leaving Long Crendon. What I had done, I do not
recall. It could not have been very much, though. At any
rate, father ordered me upstairs into the bedroom and made
me take off every stitch of clothing I had on. Then he went
to work on me with his razor strap. I was mercilessly beaten.
The blood flowed, and my mother was screaming down
stairs, begging him to desist. Finally he became so exhausted
that he was forced to lie down on the bed. I was cowering
in a corner of the room. Seeing him in such a state of exhaus­
tion, I went over to the bed and, kissing him, said, “Did
you hurt yourself, Daddy?”
On another occasion, I entered his study without knock­
ing. He had a black ebony round ruler on his desk, about
one inch in diameter. It was very heavy. Flying into a rage,
he threw the ruler at me and it caught me over the left
eye. I was knocked unconscious, and a physician was called.
I bear the scar to this day. At the federal trial in Moscow,
this scar was exhibited to the jury, and it was told how the
scar was obtained.
I tried in vain to find out why I merited the brutal treat­
ment I received at his hands. Sometimes one would think
the “sun rose and set on me.” At other times, I was afraid
for my life at his hands. One day, while playing in the
front of the house, I climbed up on the little iron railing
38 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
you will notice in the picture of No. 7 Lilac Street in Hali­
fax. H e called me in, and I received, then and there, one
of the worst trouncings I have ever suffered. Not satisfied
with beating me, he threw me on the floor and, jumping
on me with both feet said, “God curse the day you were
born.”
The strange part of all this is the fact that no matter
how rough he got with me, I still loved that man. I still do.
We have not written for years. I have told you about the
telegrams I sent him in 1934 from London. I have also
told you about the lying affidavit he signed when he knew
that my liberty was at stake and when he knew the docu­
ment he swore to was not true. I cannot understand that.
However, he was a “great preacher and champion of the
people’s rights,” excepting his own first-born child. He
had no rights.
* * *
After mother died, there followed a siege of house­
keepers, and I could tell some interesting incidents here,
too. I was not quite as dumb as Dad supposed. At any rate,
although my life with him was hell, it probably must have
been hell for him, too, or he could not have acted as he did.
The wonder is that I ever came through at all; but the
protecting hand of the Great Spirit—God—watched over
me, and kept me for the work at hand. I do not feel the
slightest anger. I would do anything I could to help my
father. However, he is not too far from the grim reaper
now, and the worst I wish him is that in the infinite wisdom
of a Great God, his weaknesses may be forgotten.
The siege of housekeepers came to an end, and father
began making frequent trips to Huddersfield which was
just a few miles from Halifax. Both cities are in Yorkshire.
In a roundabout way, I heard that he was about to be mar­
ried again. He was, and soon after that, we were moved
to that city. Arthur was the youngest, next came Leonard,
a beautiful child, and then Sydney and myself. All four of
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 39
us were moved to Huddersfield, although none of us was
allowed to be present at the wedding.
The bride this time was Miss Ellen Haigh, the daughter
of Wealthy Ben Haigh, a textile factory owner of Hudders­
field. It was here the real trouble began. Instead of getting
better for me, it got worse. In some unexplained manner,
this second wife took as violent a dislike to me as my father
did. This dislike became evident immediately after their
return from their honeymoon. None of us children fared
too well from that point on, but Frank bore the brunt of it.
Everyone else, wherever we went, seemed to love me. Only
my own family hated me. That hatred seared my young
soul. Here I was, misunderstood, beaten, cursed, and tram­
pled upon—but why? You will see later on in this story
what the cause of it really was.
The chapel, the pulpit of which was occupied by my
father, was the Oakes Baptist Chapel. At Halifax it had
been the Lee Mount Baptist Chapel. A report I have
informs me that “John Henry Robinson, upon showing
signs of regret for past mistakes, was ‘reinstated’ into the
Baptist ministry.” I am thankful for that, although I saw
no signs of “regret” for the cruel beatings I used to get,
for they still continued, only two were after me now—not
one. The step-mother was a cruel type, and “hell” was
the order of the day in that “home of God.” It was not so
very long after father’s second marriage until she was tell­
ing him that the only thing he married her for was her
money.
Lavishing in wealth, driving in a “carriage and pair”
with footman and butler on the driver’s seat, I have seen
this second “mother” drive past me scores of times. Instead
of picking me up and giving me a ride home from school,
she would, in a condescending manner, wave her hand out
of the carriage window and let me walk two miles home
from school. Whenever I could, I would run behind the
carriage, climb on the iron bar which went across the back
40 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
and “sneak” a ride home in my own step-mother’s carriage.
As I look back and think on these happenings now, I
find myself more nonplussed than ever. Yet I would not
have it any other way. I see now how these cruelties drove
me closer and closer to the heart of God. There, I found
rest. There, I found peace. There shall I ever stay until
I know as fully as I am known. Now we see as in a glass
—darkly— but then?— face to face. The day will come,
before too long, in which this whole world will know the
glorious truth of the present existence of the Great Spirit
—God. As I sit in my bedroom in my home in Moscow,
Idaho, once more I pledge my whole life to the work the
Spirit of God has given me to do. I shall be happy to forget
these childhood happenings—in fact, they have been for­
gotten. Had it not been for the general insistence for this
life story, let me assure you, it never would have been
written. The Power of God will be made known to hun­
dreds of thousands through this unusual story, and that is
the only thing in which I am interested.
* * *
A few months with this new “mother” about made up
my mind to the fact that life was becoming too unbearable.
Not only was she worse than our father, but she started in
on Sydney. He began to get the beatings, and so frequent
did they become at the hands of these two “people of God,”
that Syd ran away. They found him several days later
begging for food on a country lane, and they brought him
back. In the meantime, Mrs. Robinson the second was doing
her duty for “God” by leading several different “church”
societies, and by taking an active part in the Sunday School.
Leonard, who was a frail little thing, afraid to call his
soul his own, escaped the beatings. Probably they figured
that he could not stand them, and, had they given them to
him, they might have had to face a serious charge in the
criminal courts, as I had to—but not for anything on that
order. One day, after work, for they made me work at
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 41
the carpenter business, I came home. As I approached the
house, I heard the most terrifying screams I had ever heard
in my life. Knowing that another “beating” was being given
to one of my brothers, I rushed into the house, throwing
my dinner pail in the front hall.
The screams came from the kitchen. There was Mrs.
J. H. Robinson, forcing Arthur to stand up against the
kitchen wall. As he stood there vainly trying to defend him­
self, this brute of a woman of God was hammering him in
the face and eyes with both fists. That was enough for me.
It was all I could stand—for Arthur could not have been
more than ten years old.
They say even a worm will turn. I turned that day.
Seizing her by the black hair of her head, I threw her to
the floor and gave her some of her own medicine. I gave
her a good dose, too. I shall never forget what I said to
her in between poundings—“You dirty low-down son-of-
a-something. I’ll teach you to beat my young brother.”
She will never forget that lacing to her dying day. She
was a woman, but she deserved it. Or was she a woman?
I knew something desperate would happen when Dad
came home, so I prepared for it. Meeting him at the door,
I asked him for an interview. He took me into his study,
and there I informed him that “that woman” will have to
go or I will. A full explanation of what happened was de­
manded, and I gave it, straight from the shoulder. “You
realize that you cannot live here another day?” my father
asked me. I replied that I had lived with that “wench”
too long as it was, and rather than see my brothers suffer
and suffer myself, I chose to get out. There was a hasty
“council of war” that evening, to which I was not admitted.
The next morning I was informed that I was to take “The
Queen’s shilling.” That meant—join the navy. I was taken
down to the recruiting office that afternoon and actually
forced to sign up for the British navy. The British navy is
an honorable career, but it was a tough break for a boy of
42 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
my age. At the trial in Moscow a few years ago, Mr.
Casterlin, one of the federal district attorneys who so vigor­
ously prosecuted the case, objected to the words given by
me in my testimony, “forced me to join the navy.” Yet,
those words are true.
It did not take me very long to know that I was in with
the toughest bunch of fellows it was possible to meet. I
have never been “tough.” There is a sense of refinement
to my nature which rebels at the faintest suspicion of
“toughness,” and this life in the navy was worse than the
life at home. However, I was duly “signed up” and got
the “Queens shilling” which, incidentally, father took away
from me. H e would not even let me keep that. I was sent
to the training ship H.M .S. Caledonia which lay under the
Forth bridge, near Edinburgh. This is’the bridge the Ger­
mans have tried so often to bomb recently. I know the
bridge well, having walked over it many times.
One day while on duty, I was caught smoking a cigarette
in the “heads.” Navy men will know what I mean. The
boys on the training ship were not allowed to smoke, but
all did—even after we were caught. Then came the “trial”
and the sentence was “twelve strokes with the cane.” These
beatings were always administered at noon, just before
dinner. I was “scared to death,” for I had witnessed those
“canings” many times. My whole nature revolted against
them—but there was nothing I could do. Now, here I was,
in the same boat.
To try to describe my feelings and fear would be im­
possible. I was afraid of that beating. My time came, how­
ever, and two “jimmy-legs” which means “Master-at-
Arms” seized me. I was strapped to the “bitts.” They tied
me hand and foot and there, screaming with fright and
pain, twelve strokes with that five-foot, half-inch thick cane
were laid on me. It was horrible. It put me in the hospital
as it put many others there, too. The ship’s surgeons always
were present at those “canings” and about half the time,
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 43
they had to order the “jimmy-legs” to desist. The boys
would faint with the pain. Some of them went crazy. Hor­
rible is no name for it.
After about six months of this navy business, I began to
do a little figuring on my own account. I did not like the
navy. It was foreign to everything in my nature. I began to
attempt the almost impossible task of getting out. Father
refused to entertain the notion that he buy me out. He
wrote me threatening me with this and that and telling
me that if I ever did get out, to keep away from his home.
When a bunch of young fellows get together on a British
naval training-ship and make up their minds to do some­
thing, they usually do it 5 and we did. I had about six extra
good friends on that ship, and, in the strictest confidence
I told them what I wanted to do—to get out. They prom­
ised to help me. One of these chaps by the name of Pry,
a Glasgow alley-cat, invited me to the upper deck one Sun­
day afternoon. “Now listen, Robbie,” he said. “I’ll tell
you how to get out of this man’s navy. All you have to do
is to fall overboard. Then get rheumatism. Make your
knees swell up, and it will affect your heart. Then you’ll
get an M.C.O. which meant Morbus Corpus Organicus or
something like that—organic heart disease.”
The Caledonia was anchored in the Firth of Forth, and
this Sunday afternoon was a beautiful day. “When shall
I fall overboard?” I asked Boy Pry. “Right now—no time
like the present,” he replied. So overboard I went. The
Caledonia was one of the old Nelson flagship type, and I
had quite a “drop.” “Jump” would be a better word. At
any rate, overboard I went. Quite a hullabaloo was raised.
At the proper moment, Boy Pry appeared on the scene,
and I was sent to the sick-bay. Then Pry did what he was
supposed to do. He kept me posted on every move. He fixed
the temperature chart. It ranged about 100 degrees. It
would have been too bad had the doctor checked up on
that temperature, but he didn’t.
44 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
Under proper treatment, my knees started to swell,
and I began to get quite short of breath—all under the
direction of Boy Pry from Glasgow. A wise boy that Pry
was. In about two weeks, the doctor ordered me ashore to
the naval hospital at Rosyth. That worried me. What should
I do without Boy Pry? He agreed to come over and see me
every few days, and he did. We knew the times the doctors
would come around, and always when he put the stethoscope
over my heart, it would be palpitating. The way that was
done was by jumping out of bed and working my arms
rapidly up and down. Then, just before the physician en­
tered, I would scoot back to bed again. Lo and behold, the
heart would be pounding like a trip hammer.
After about two weeks of that, the long-coveted words
M.C.O. went on my chart at the foot of my bed. If those
doctors could have seen my antics after they had left, I’m
afraid I should have been in the ship’s brig instead of in
the naval hospital. Finally the day came for the medical
discharges to be signed. A special doctor of high rank was
always called to “survey” those ready for medical discharge.
There were a lot of us in that bunch, and I think about
twenty-five per cent were “working a ticket” as it was
called. Unfortunately for me, I was placed at the end of
the line. That threw a monkey-wrench into my “palpita­
tions” for the survey doctor held his examinations in the
middle of the day, and it was hard for me to “work my
arms.” However, necessity was the mother of invention.
I was too near a “ticket” to slip up now; so the end was
accomplished by holding my breath unduly long.
It got by; my “medical discharge” was signed, and I
was a free boy. In a few days I was handed the beloved
“ticket” home, and was given a few shillings. Not know­
ing where to go, naturally I went back home again. I
arrived on a Sunday morning and, knocking at the front
door, was asked by the servant who did not know me,
to come in and sit down. Soon my father came downstairs
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 45
and, seeing me sitting there, said, “What are you doing
here—how did you get out of the navy? Did you run away?”
After I showed him my naval disability discharge, he
said, “Well, you can stay here tonight, but that’s all. You’ll
have to get out for we don’t want you around here.” Then,
as it was Sunday, he went down to his church and told the
people all about God. He was a great preacher. He was
greatly interested in the “common people.”
* * *
My return did not seem to help matters any, for in
addition to being constantly treated as an interloper, a couple
of lacings were thrown in. My brother Sydney came in for
a “dandy,” and during the week I was there, he ran away
again to escape from his parents. I began to show a bit of
spirit which had not manifested before. On one occasion
when my father undertook to “teach me how to behave,”
I looked him squarely in the eye, cocked my fists, and said,
“I don’t believe I’d lay a hand on me if I were you.” Seeing
something in my eye which warned him he had better leave
me alone, he desisted.
Sydney was brought back, and I had a “show-down” the
same evening with my father. The result was that we were
to be permanently eliminated from the picture—both Syd
and I. We were to go to Canada. This appealed to us, of
course, so two wooden boxes of clothing were packed and
passage was booked for us in the steerage of the Allan
liner Parisian. The stepmother accompanied father, Sydney,
and me to Liverpool where we embarked for Canada.
Handing me ten shillings and a letter to a preacher in
Belleville, Ontario, Canada, father wished us both luck.
Seeing the ten shillings, the second Mrs. Robinson said,
“Henry, how much money did you give him?” On being
informed that the sum between us was the large sum of
$2.50, she said, “Oh, that’s far too much!” Evidently she
had forgotten the luxury in which she had been raised. At
any rate, the sum of $2.50 wasn’t too much to start two
46 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
boys off in a strange land with nothing more than a letter
to a preacher who, by the way, was not a personal friend,
just an acquaintance. I’ll tell you more about this gentle­
man later.
Before leaving this chapter, let me give you a picture
of the famous Baptist “fraternals” which were indulged in
every month. You will understand then how some things
which happen later can be accounted for. Every month,
the Baptist preachers in Huddersfield met at each other’s
homes, each taking the “fraternal” in rotation. About every
six months, it was Dad’s turn to hold one. In these “fra­
ternals” these Baptist preachers would provide a huge feed
—usually roast beef and Yorkshire pudding. Several cases
of beer would be ordered, and the activities would begin.
After the dinner, these good men of God would retire to
the study, and the beer would be brought in. The air would
be blue with tobacco smoke, and as the night wore on, sing­
ing and other loud and disturbing noises could be heard
all over the house. Usually the “fraternal” kept going most
of the night, and they were usually held on Monday
evenings. Had they been held on Saturday evenings, I
am of the opinion that many Baptist churches would have
been lacking preachers the next day.
This was one of the reasons which later caused me to
doubt the very existence of God. In another book I stated
that I was “raised in the shadow of the church in a Christian
home.” In this book I am giving you an insight into the
“shadow of the church” and also into the “Christian home,”
for that is exactly what it was.
CHAPTER TH R EE
Long C
,Buck
W e go back n o w to l o n g c r e n d o n , t h a t c h a r m in g
little English village situated in the Chiltern Hills in
Buckinghamshire. Beautiful meadows surround it, and the
song of the skylark mellows the glow of the morn. Wild
blackberry bushes grow on each side of those country lanes
which, like a meandering stream, wind in and out through
that beautiful scene. The old church stands alone. The
graveyard, with its silent sentinels of the dead, surround
it. Perhaps this is a proper setting—who knows?
There is physical beauty in that spot. Every autumn,
these villagers “glean” after the harvest; for they are
poor. ’Tis the simple life they live. Money, fame, pop­
ularity—they care nothing for these. All they ask is to be
let alone to live their own lives in their own way. Hard
by is Cop Close, a garden of buttercups and daisies through
which my young feet loved to paddle in the years of early
childhood. Much water has gone over the dam since those
days of wonder and happiness. Much more will go over the
same dam. I wonder, as I write this story, if it might not
have been better, if Frank B. Robinson had lived and died,
never straying farther than the confines of that little village
of Long Crendon. The churches think it would.
On Saturday afternoons, I would take a little basket and,
whiling away a few hours, would pick the wild blackberries
which grew in such profusion along those wondrous lanes.
An old mill there—but its wheels do not turn any more.
The joints are decayed and creaky. Years ago it ground out
its last bushel of wheat. I visited this old mill a few years
ago. I stood on the little platform and watched the water
48 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
idle through the silent wheel, and while I was watching,
the bell from the old church belfry tolled the hour of day.
It awakened me from my reverie—a sacred reverie—-and
reminded me that, soon, I must leave that spot of peace
and take the stage to Thame, thence the train back to the
city of London—from thence, into a busy world, where
countless thousands would seek from me the solution to
the things of life and God. Can I give them that solution?
Yes; for the infinite Intelligence, capable of creating a
scene of such marvelous beauty, must live in that scene—
somewhere.
“The Manse” was on Frog Lane, a little unpaved street
at one end of the village. Across the narrow street was the
“Community H all” where father would “champion the
rights of the •people” by taking an active part in politics.
I remember once they put him in jail for refusing to pay
taxes to support Catholic schools, and they can put me there
any time for the same reason. The Salvation Army barracks
were on the corner adjoining “The Manse,” and every
Saturday and Sunday night we were treated to the services
of that organization free of charge.
A wall, six feet high, surrounded the old home. In my
boyhood, the geraniums grew on the top of this wall. Squire
Blake, a wealthy and pompous English Squire, lived next
door. One day I had the temerity to climb up the wall and
look over the top. The fat squire was sitting on a chair on
the porch. Rousing himself in anger, he said to me, “You
get down off that wall and don’t ever let me catch you
climbing up it again or I’ll tell your father.” I climbed
down and never did climb up the wall again. That threat
was enough.
Our yard was quite small, and it was overgrown with
grass tall enough that when I sat down in it, I would be
completely hidden from view. I had a favorite spot in the
corner of that yard, and it was to this spot I used to go.
There, by the hour, I would ponder over this world and the
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 49
Power behind this world. Let it be understood here that, at
that early age, my thoughts were almost always of God.
On one memorable afternoon, I was lying down on my
back in this favorite corner of the yard, looking up into the
sky. That afternoon, there came to me a very strong con­
viction that what I saw above—that beautiful sky—was not
all there is to this world. I shall not say that this was either
a spiritual visitation or a vision. Whatever it was, it un­
doubtedly had its origin in the great Realm of the Spirit
which -is God. I can faithfully describe the movement, and
I know, as I knew many times since, that God had spoken to
me. God had made plain to me in a very marked spiritual
manner that what I saw there, all around me—that beau­
teous scene—this world around me—these things were not
the real world. It was a rapturous experience. It was like
a message from the beyond. It was realistic. There was noth­
ing unusual about that visitation or whatever you choose to
call it. It was an experience which made very plain to me
that there is much more to this life than appears on the
surface.
At once, I made up my mind that I would know the truths
of God if that was the last thing I ever did. Going into the
house and snuggling close to my mother who always un­
derstood me, I said, “Mammy—there’s another world beside
this one. God lives in that world—and you. I can find that
world, and I’m going to find it.” Mother, as before stated,
was as Godly a woman as I have ever known. Too bad she
passed away at so tender an age. I needed that mother, and
the world needs all the mothers like her it can get. Putting
her hand affectionately on my shoulder and kissing me, she
said, “Frankie, dear—God is everywhere—not in the sky.
H e’s in you, in me, and in the butterflies which flit from
flower to flower. You live in God.”
That was a rather startling statement for me to hear com­
ing from the lips of that sainted soul. It was utterly foreign
to what I knew, even at that tender age, as religion. It did
50 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
not jibe with the theology taught by my father and other
Baptist preachers. I did not quite understand it; but it
started a new train of thought in my young mind. “Mammy,
can I find God?” I asked her. “Darling, anyone who doesn’t
look too far away can find God,” she replied. Then lifting
me on her knee, she said, “Frankie, there will come a day
when you will disclose to the world the truths of God. I
cannot say more to you now, but you must keep very quiet
about what I am saying to you now. Never do anything
wrong. Don’t do too much praying, and someday, ■
at the
proper time, God will speak to the world through you.”
My young heart was in raptures at that statement. “Mam­
my,” I said, “When will these things be? Will it be here
in Long Crendon?” “No, child, it will be a long way from
here. The new revelation of God which you will bring to
the world will be so stupendous that it will be known all
over the world. You will bring it from the land of your
birth—America,” she replied.
I asked mother how she knew those things. She told me
that God was very precious to her. She told me that if she
died that day, she considered she had done her duty to God
and the world when I was born. I have often wondered just
how much that sainted mother knew which she did not tell
me. It must have been plenty, for here was a case of a
mother, fifty years in advance, prophesying what is happen­
ing today.
There lived in Long Crendon a beautiful lady whose
name was Carrie Shrimpton. Mother and Carrie Shrimpton
spent hours together talking about the things of God. I
never heard mother ever mention the name of Jesus Christ.
It was with her all God. One day when father was on a
rampage, I remember his saying to mother, “Yes, go over
to Carrie Shrimpton’s and talk about a lot of damfool
religious ideas you have. It’s a good place for you. Why
don’t you take him (alluding to me) with you?” Mother
did; and there, in that little Shrimpton cottage, one of the
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 51
most wonderful afternoons I have ever spent will long be
remembered by me.
I have already told you that, at this time, father was
having an affair with a woman of wealth in that village.
I knew it, and so did everyone else. I believe it was this
affair which led to father’s “withdrawal” from the Baptist
ministry. The “withdrawal” did not last too long though,
as he was soon back in the ministry again.
These moments spent with mother were precious. Seeds
were sown in those tender years which are today blossoming
out and bearing full fruit all over the world. The American
Renaissance, in which men and women shall actually and
literally find and know the Power of the Great Spirit—
God, is very close at hand. Regardless of how big this Spir­
itual Awakening becomes, the seeds of it were planted in
that little thatched “Manse” and in Carrie Shrimpton’s cot­
tage. I saw the cottage when I was over there. I took a
picture of it, but it is not of sufficient clarity to make a cut,
or I would show it to you in this book. The well in the
yard you will see.
When I recall how mother began to fade shortly after
those sweet periods, and when I remember that in two
years she was laid away to her eternal physical rest, the
remarkableness of the whole scene becomes quite vivid.
Shortly after those days, father announced that he had
received a “call” to the north of England. H e was going
to Halifax. I well remember the day we moved. There were
no automobiles in those days. When the time for moving
came, an old lady named Welsh was engaged to move our
household belongings from Long Crendon to Thame, a few
miles away. The railroad ran through Thame and not
through this village of Long Crendon.
Mrs. Welsh drove up in front of the house with a
donkey hitched to a two-wheeled wagon. Wrapping the
lines around the whip, she went into the house to see the
furniture which had to be moved. I was playing out in
52 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
front, and this donkey had quite a fascination for me. Kin­
dred souls perhaps. Without giving it a second thought, I
climbed into the dray, or whatever you would call that
two-wheeled contraption, and unwrapping the lines from
the whip, I said, “Giddap donkey.” The donkey did.
This was the first time I had had any experience with
either donkey or two-wheeled contraptions, and you can
imagine my dismay when the donkey started and I found
out that I couldn’t stop the thing. Putting the lines in my
left hand, I began to pommel that donkey with the whip
in order to make it stop going. That, of course, made it run
all the faster, and to make a long story short, the donkey,
the two-wheeled contraption, and I came to a halt in the
middle of a large pond at the other end of the village. The
water was up to the animal’s belly, and he absolutely re­
fused to move in any direction. They found the whole trio
about half an hour later, and I was sitting in the bottom of
the wagon crying my eyes out. When Mrs. Welsh arrived,
she called to the donkey, and the stubborn thing turned
around and went right to her. Of course, a lacing followed
when I got home, and that took all the pleasure out of that
trip to Halifax in the north of England. I remember mother
was arguing with father all the way to Halifax. They had a
regular “knock-down, drag-out.” All this was because of
the lacing which was administered to me.
Now, let me give you a couple of incidents which still
tend to give you a little insight into my nature at that time.
One Sunday afternoon, Dad took me walking. He took a
shot-gun with him. We walked towards Thame. Suddenly
some pheasants flew overhead, and Dad took a shot at them.
H e missed, and I was glad he did. “Dad, you wouldn’t shoot
one of those beautiful birds—you wouldn’t kill things,
would you?” I asked. I was told not to be foolish. The very
thought of killing anything horrified me; and to see the
Reverend J. H. Robinson with a gun, looking for birds to
kill, shocked me. It made me doubt the sincerity of what
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 53
ever he said in the little chapel which I was religiously made
to attend. I would far rather have spent an hour with Carrie
Shrimpton and mother—but chapel it had to be.
The little Long Crendon Chapel was holding a Whit­
suntide festival in Cop Close. Hot Cross buns and coffee
was served. We kids were allowed to wander over the Close
after the eating was over. I wanted to be alone that day.
Every waking thought was of God, and not being able to
be in the corner of our back yard, I sought out another
lonely spot in which I could ponder over the things my
mother had told me. Suddenly I came across half a dozen
boys in a group. They had caught a frog, and having tied
a string to one of its hind legs, they fastened the string to
a branch of a tree, leaving the poor frog hanging at the end
of two feet of the string. One would follow the other, and
each had a stick in his hand. As they passed this poor frog,
each would hit it as hard as he could. The sight sickened me.
Approaching the crowd of boys, all older than I was, I said,
“Boys, you’ll have to stop that.” I looked them right in
the eye. Normally that bunch of fellows would have con­
signed my interfering self into the warmer regions; but they
did not. They hung their heads and disappeared. I took the
frog down, put it in my pocket, and when I arrived home,
made a nest for it in “my corner.” The next morning the
frog was gone. Evidently it was not hurt too much. There
has always been a mellowness to my nature, so I cannot
stand the sight of pain or cruelty. I cannot see suffering. As
Mrs. Robinson said in her introductory remarks, I would
literally give the shirt off my back to anyone who needed
it more than I did.
I have been imposed on many times. I am still imposed
on, but I cannot stand to see or hear of suffering. You can
imagine how I feel when I read of the ruthless slaughter of
human life in Europe, China, and other parts of the world
today. What is wrong with the world? How can men and
nations be so cruel? With all the beauty God has provided,
54 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
why must men fight each other? Shall I tell you? They do
not know God. In spite of what has been told this world
by religious organizations, the world and menfolks do not
know God. Soon they will.
The night we moved from Long Crendon into Thame,
a circus was in that town. That was something. We had
never seen a circus, and Dad would not let us see that one.
We stayed that night at the home of one Mr. Jones, a
stationer, and our bedroom was directly opposite the circus.
Naturally, as all kids that age would do, I opened the
window and was taking in the sights. The merry-go-round,
the swings, the coal-oil lights—these were all new to me.
Leaning a bit too far out of the window, I fell out and
landed on the awning below, which, fortunately, had not
been wound up when Jones closed his shop that night. Well,
I was in a predicament that time. I knew that I would be
whaled within an inch of my life if father found it out, and
yet I did not know what to do about it.
Looking over the edge of the awning, I decided that it
would not be too big a drop to the sidewalk, so I dropped.
Then the big problem came. I was standing on the sidewalk
in my nightshirt. The problem was—“How can I get back
into the bedroom without Dad seeing me?” Well, I did it.
Sneaking in the back door, I stole upstairs and to this day,
my father does not know about my falling out of that window
in the little shop in Thame. He will probably read this
strange autobiography. If he does, he will wonder what sort
of memory I have to remember these little incidents after
fifty years; but I remember most of them—and many other
things, too—such as the large estate I should have had but
did not get. However, I know where it went.
It is not my desire to embarrass father; but the “Psychi-
ana” Movement is of world-wide importance now. The true
story of its founder must be told. I cannot longer refuse to
write it. It will hurt Dad—or will it? In any event, the
feelings of one man are of little import when the future of
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 55
religion in the world is at stake. I love him still— I always
shall. I do not care whether or not that love is reciprocated.
I know it is not. True love, no matter to whom it is directed,
will register in one way or another. Let us hope that the
last few years of that misguided father’s life are free of
pain. Let us hope that, ere it is too late, he finds and knows
the unspeakable joys which come from being “at one with
God ” here and now and not after death or beyond the
tomb. God lives now. All the Power of that Great Spirit
may be known now. If that is not possible—there is no God
—we are all creatures of chance. That, no thinking man or
woman will admit.
There was never a night or a day when I did not talk
with God. Not with Jesus Christ but with God. I never
got down on my knees. I instinctively knew that some great
work for God would be done by me—but then— I was only
a child. I had to learn a lot of things before I could be
qualified to do anything of importance for either God or
man. I believe I can best express my feelings by saying
that through these years, there was an insatiable desire to
actually know who and what God was. Where I made the
mistake was in not keeping quiet and letting God reveal
Himself to me, which God undoubtedly would have done,
had I learned the lesson I now know. I thought there was
something I had to do. What I know now is that everything
I did to try to bring the present consciousness of God to me
was all wrong. All God wanted me to do was to keep quiet
—to be still. Then, at the proper moment, I would be given
both the Power and the opportunity to carry out the pur­
poses of God. The greatest and most profound eight words
in my life are— Be still, and know that 1 am God. And that
does not mean Jesus Christ.
A true religious experience is something like a kinder­
garten. You start with simple things. Then as you master
them, you progress into things of more import. The trouble
with anyone’s getting any sort of religious experience today
56 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
is that so many crazy theories of God have been advanced
that I very much question whether there are six people on
the face of the earth who truly know who and what God is.
There are millions of church members; but that’s something
else, as we shall see later.
I have seen lots of “religion” in my day. I have seen
religion in action. I saw it nearly beat its own sons to death.
I saw it guzzling beer by the gallon. I saw it having illicit
intercourse with members of its own church. I saw it lie
under oath. I saw it steal. I saw it as it exists today. I do
not want that sort of religion, for religion, or what mas­
querades as religion, has not changed for the better since my
boyhood days. It has gone so far that the whole world knows
it for what it is—a ghastly sham perpetrated on the world
by the church in the name of God.
I do not care what religion did to me, and it marred me.
I do not care how I have suffered through religion—and
I have suffered. I am only glad to realize and know that
at last—the actual truths of the Great Spirit—God—are
beginning to dawn on this earth. What a day! What a re­
sponsibility! What a coveted privilege is mine! Many trying
times lie ahead. Many hard battles remain to be fought.
These battles, however, will be won—for I learned well the
lesson— Be still, and know that I am God. The call is clear.
The objective is God. The Power comes from God. How,
then, can I fail?
* * *
We arrived at Halifax the next evening, and were enter­
tained by a Mr. Ezra Knapton. He fed us potted meat for
supper, and I wish I could get some of that potted meat
today. After supper, or “tea” as they call it in England,
we slept in Mr. Knapton’s home, moving into No. 7 Lilac
Street the next day. I was sent to the Lee Mount Board
School, being the only one of the boys old enough to go to
school. At the trial, Mr. Casterlin tried to make me out a
liar when I stated that I first went to school in Long Cren-
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 57
don at the age of three. H e failed, as a Moscow lady of
English girlhood corroborated my statement that children
did go to school in England at three.
The only thing that happened in Halifax was the sad
death of my mother. She continued to pine and waste away.
She could not stand to see what she was forced to see. She
could not bear to see the repeated thrashings and other
brutal sufferings I was made to go through. H er sweet life
began to ebb away. Bronchial pneumonia they called it. I
know the true name. I have already told you of the remark­
able funeral. I know that her “death” was only physi­
cal. (Read Blood on the Tail of a Pig.)
Between then and the time father married again and
moved us to Huddersfield, there started an affair with an­
other member of Dad’s church. This time it was a Miss
Martha Hurley. I know, because one day on my way home
from school, I dropped in on Miss Hurley without knocking.
So I know, and both father and Miss Hurley know that I
know. This did not do me any good—if anything, it made
the punishment more frequent.
Opposite our house at No. 7 Lilac Street, was the par­
sonage of the Church of England which stood one block
away. A Reverend Parkinson was the rector or whatever it
is an Episcopal pastor is called. In Moscow, they call the
Episcopal minister “father” so he must be a priest. In the
corner of the churchyard, I made another little place out of
grass, and there was established another rendezvous with
God. To this little spot, I would go at every opportunity,
and there, with “an unknown God” to guide me, I would
pour out my longings and desires. I would talk with God
just as I talk with others— only—with a good deal more
earnestness.
Often, the organ repairer would come to this Church of
England, and when he did, father would make me stay out
of school and blow the organ for the man while he repaired
it. I was paid two shillings which father religiously kept.
58 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
Not one penny did he give me to spend for candy. Other
boys had money—but not I. The times when I was allowed
to go and play in the street in front of the house were few
and far between. Many times, in the middle of the night,
have I awakened and quietly crept out of the house to “talk
with God” in the little churchyard across the street.
I recall one Saturday when father had sent me “down­
town” to have his Sunday sermon subjects inserted in the
daily newspaper. He had enclosed the cost in coin, and in
some manner the coin had been lost out of the envelope.
When I arrived at the newspaper office and handed in the
notice, the man in charge said, “Where is the money?” I
replied that it was in the envelope with the notice. “No, it
isn’t—and you get no free announcements in this paper.
You’d better go home and get the money.” I was too afraid
to go home, so I wandered through a park that night and
all the next day. That evening, a police alarm was sent out
for me. When the “bobbies” found me, I was standing
against a tree stump using it for a make-believe pulpit, and
I was preaching to the trees and shrubs.
The police officers told me later that that was the only
real sermon they had ever listened to—“and it was a bloody
good one,” one of these officers said. Arriving home in cus­
tody of the officers, I knew another whaling was in order.
It was duly, although not thankfully, received. I noticed
that as soon as father secured himself another “interest” in
Huddersfield, he paid less attention to me. I liked that, for
he had paid altogether too much attention to me so far.
One day after a brutal attack, I came down with double
pneumonia. My life was despaired of, but it was mother
who looked after me and nursed me back to health again.
Someone had given me a metal “nigger” which held its
hand out and, when a coin was deposited in the hand, a
lever was pressed in the back of the “nigger” and he swal­
lowed the coin. While convalescing, I worked that “nigger”
overtime. I had the bank full, for it really was a child’s
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 59
savings bank. As soon as father found out what I had been
doing, he took the “nigger” away from me, broke it open,
put the money in his pocket, and I have never seen that
“nigger” since.
I had some good times in Halifax, though, and made
many friends. I shall never forget the wagonettes we used
to hire, which, filled with Sunday school people, would drive
out onto the moors. There, in the mellow glow of evening,
we would sing the old songs. One I remember particularly:
Summer suns are glowing, over land and sea,
Happy light is flowing, bountiful and free;
Everything rejoices, in the mellow ray,
And earth’s thousand voices, sing a song of praise.
CHORUS
Oh, Almighty Giver, bountiful and free,
May we seek thy favor, ever being free.
That is what I wanted—to be free—to know God. During
these picnics onto the beautiful moors of Yorkshire, I would
be missed from the crowd. Someone would say, “Where’s
Frank Robinson?” A search would be started, and they
would find me off in some corner of a field, communing
with God. There never was the slightest shadow of doubt
but that what mother had told me would come to pass. Had
I known how hard the path was to be, I might have shrunk
from it, but I did not know—Thank God for that!
CHAPTER FOUR
In Canada
O n e su n n y a f t e r n o o n in j u n e , t h e a l l a n l in e stea m er
Parisian was nosing its way slowly up the St. Lawrence
river towards Montreal. The trip from Liverpool had been
successfully made through the Straits of Belle Isle and the
warm sunshine and calm water of the St. Lawrence were
welcome relief to the stormy passage across the Atlantic.
Later in the afternoon, as the steamer neared the port, the
decks were lined with eager men and women watching and
waiting to enter their new home.
Most of the people on that ship were emigrants. They
had come from the “old country” seeking fame, seeking
fortune, or seeking just a home on some western range. A
motley crowd they were—young and old—penniless and
well-to-do; for in the 1900’s these passenger ships carried
every conceivable sort of passenger. Sitting astride one of
the large cables in the bow of that steamer were two young
boys, one, your writer, then fourteen years of age. Sydney,
his brother, was twelve years old. Quite young they were;
too young, in fact, to be sent to a new and strange land;
but here they were, all excitement as the steamer docked.
The fact that they were flat broke did not seem to worry
them. The ten shillings so generously donated to them by
their father had gone for candy and soft drinks on the way
over. No—they were not quite broke—for Sydney had saved
a quarter out of the wrecked ten shilling capital with which
they started. Twenty-five cents—that was all; and the letter
they had in their pocket was addressed to a Baptist preacher
eight hundred miles away. They had no ticket to Belleville,
Ontario—just this twenty-five cents. When the customs in-
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 61
spection was out of the way, these two boys began to wonder
what came next. They had nowhere to go. Something like
the traditional Nazarene “foxes had their holes, birds had
their nests,” but these two preacher’s sons had nowhere to
lay their heads 5so they did the next best thing.
Montreal, Canada, is a large city—far larger now than
it was then, but it looked quite large to Sydney and me as
we meandered around the streets in the middle of the night,
not knowing where to go, what to do, where to sleep, and
with only twenty-five cents between us with which to eat.
We certainly were “on our own” for sure. Outside Notre
Dame Cathedral there were some seats, occupied by others
as broke as we. Every so often the police would come along
and rap the feet of those who had dared to stretch out and
try to snatch a bit of sleep. All types were on those benches
—Bums and near bums, down-and-outers, drunks—a bad
crowd and one to which we had not been used. We had seen
small groups of “men of God” get drunk—in fact we saw
that ever so often. However, these men were respectable—
they were well dressed—they had sufficient to eat, and they
had a place to sleep. This sort of crowd, however, we had
never seen before.
The hours dragged by. There we sat, Sydney and I. I saw
no chance of leading this world to God as we sat there.
The clock in the cathedral struck four. We were both get­
ting hungry, so, “borrowing” the twenty-five cents from
Sydney, I told him to wait there and promised him I would
return shortly with a sack of cookies or something else to
eat. I found an all-night restaurant and bought a sack of
mixed cookies and doughnuts. These I took back to Sydney,
and we sat there eating them. Then we were really and truly
broke, but the “eats” were good.
That day, we walked around Montreal, not knowing what
to do. Taking the letter to the Reverend Wallace from
my pocket, I read and reread it. It was just a plain formal
note from my father, one Baptist preacher, to the Reverend
62 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
Wallace, another Baptist preacher. The note stated that—
"This letter will introduce to you my two sons, Frank
and Sydney. I trust that you will be able to help them find
something to do in Canada.”
The Reverend Wallace lived eight hundred miles away,
and that letter held no hope that I could see. It must be
remembered here that we had never before been thrown on
our own. The wonder to me is that either of us is alive today.
A greater wonder is that we did not fall in with the wrong
people and go down the scale to the lowest depths. Finally
an Irish policeman saved us, for the very next night, while
both were sleeping on this bench outside of Notre Dame
Cathedral, I felt a tapping on the sole of one foot. Awaken­
ing, I saw there one of the biggest Irishmen I have ever
met. “Sure and phwat is it the likes of ye two arr doin’
sitting outside of this house of the Lorrd at this hour o’ the
morrnin’r,” said the officer.
We gave him the story of our arrival on the S.S. Parisian
and showed him the letter to the Reverend Henry Wallace
of Belleville, Ontario. “Well, that’s a hell of a long way
from here, and begorra, ye can walk if ye want to, but
maybe Oi can foind yez another way to git there—yez had
bether follow me—come on,” said our friend—for that is
what he proved to be. “Never heard of a pracher turnin’
two kids the like of yez out loose in the worrld before,” he
said, “What sort of a pracher is the mon?” We side-tracked
the question and followed Pat, for that is probably what his
name was, to the largest railway station in the city of Mon­
treal. There he met a city detective and, explaining the situ­
ation to him, called a railway official into a huddle.
The first thing we knew was that we were to have free
railway transportation to Belleville. That sounded good. Of
course, we were hungry again, but that did not matter. Surely
the Reverend Wallace would look after us when we arrived
the next day. We managed to “beg” a bit of food on that
ride from Montreal to Belleville, and we arrived there the
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 63
following day, which happened to be Sunday. It was about
a two-mile walk from the depot to the house of the Rev­
erend Wallace, and at about seven o’clock in the morning,
we arrived there. Knocking at the door, or rather ringing
the bell, we heard an upstairs window open and a voice
shouted, “Who is it—what do you want?” Backing up from
the porch and looking up at the window, I beheld there a
bespectacled individual with a long pointed “billy-goat”
beard.
“We are Frank and Sydney Robinson, the sons of the
Reverend J. H . Robinson of Halifax,” I told him. “Father
said that you would look after us and help us find jobs when
we got here.” It did not take this Baptist man of God very
long to show his indignation at being disturbed at seven in
the morning, nor did it take him very long to tell us that
he was a very busy man. Moreover, he never did any busi­
ness on Sunday. “Come back tomorrow,” he shouted as he
banged down the window. “I wish he’d have caught his
whiskers in the window,” said Syd, and while I did not re­
echo that sentiment, it would have been very easy to have
done so.
Well, here we were—a preacher’s two sons, refused a
place to stay and something to eat by another preacher. I
have a sixteen-year-old boy, Alfred, and regardless of what
he might do, regardless of what sort of jam that boy might
get into, I would stand by him through thick and thin. I
cannot conceive of my ever sending him on a four thousand
mile journey into a strange land with $2.50 in his pocket.
How my father’s mind reasoned, I do not know, and I never
want to know. Yet, he was a representative of God. H e was
in “the Baptist church” and as such was supposed to tell
others how they might find God. What sham and hypocrisy
is that! This man Wallace was not one iota better. These men
may have known “god” but they certainly did not know the
God I know.
It makes no difference which system of religion one may
64 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
take to analyze today; they are all alike. Each has a con­
ception of God which was either borrowed or stolen from
an older system of religion; or it was manufactured out of
thin air for the convenience of the particular system of
religion which promoted it. There is no system of theology,
nor is there one religious organization on the face of the
earth which is giving to mankind the true conception of
God—not one. Each and every “god” is either a man-made
or a church-manufactured “god” who never existed in reality
or in truth. This applies to every system of theology in
existence. Herein lies the magnitude of the “Psychiana”
Movement. It is through this Movement, and through this
Movement alone, that God, the True Spirit, is being re­
vealed to the world. The man who is now revealing that
Spirit to the world was the boy who, nearly forty years ago,
stood outside this Baptist preacher’s home, broke, hungry,
and with no place to sleep.
It seems to me that somewhere in the bible of the de­
nomination of this man are words which read something
like this:
“Inasmuch as ye did it not unto one of the least of these
my brethren— ye did it not unto me.”
I do not know whether or not they hold “fraternals” in
Canada. If they do, undoubtedly the Reverend Wallace
could be found guzzling beer and smoking cigars in the
midst of them all. For these things were done and are still
done by these “men of God.”
* * *
On Monday morning, the following day, Sydney and I
reappeared at the home of the Reverend Wallace. This time,
it was not quite so early. The night before, we had met a
livery-barn proprietor called Mike McMahan in Belleville,
and Mike allowed us to sleep in the hay-loft over the horses.
Strange how Irishmen were coming into our picture. First it
was an Irish policeman in Montreal—-now, an Irish livery-
barn owner. Anyway, we slept; and the next morning Mike
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 65
saw to it that we had a bite to eat. In Belleville recently, I
looked Mike up. Rather I inquired about him, only to find
that he long since had passed to his happy hunting grounds,
or wherever it is good Irishmen go when they die; yes,
both the Montreal policeman and Mike McMahan were
good Irishmen—no doubt about that. The two Baptist
preachers would not feed us—one sent us away to a strange
land with $2.50, and the other, on the Lord’s Day, was too
“busy” (in bed in his night-shirt) to see us.
Another passage of scripture from the bible of the Baptist
comes to me here. It runs something like this:
“Inasmuch as ye did it unto the least one of these, my
brethren, ye did it unto me.”
The two Irishmen, therefore, were better men than the
two “representatives of God, in the Baptist denomination.”
On this second visit to the home of brother Wallace, we
were shown into a large cold room and there catechized for
further orders. Why were we here?—what did we intend to
do?—did we have any money?—were we “saved?”—and
a lot more foolish questions on the same order. Finally,
after giving us a free meal, which he really did, and I say
this to the man’s credit, we were sent to different farms. I
went to George Bacon at Corbyville, a few miles from Belle­
ville, where the famous Seagram’s Whiskey plant is located.
I don’t know why I was sent there unless it was to remind
me of the “fraternals.”
The “salary” with Mr. Bacon was the large sum of $2.50
a month and board. Some of the “board” was more like a
board than anything I have seen. In any event, beggars
should not be choosers, so to George Bacon in Corbyville I
went. The funny part of this story lies in the fact that al­
though the Reverend Wallace was “too busy” to talk to us
that Sunday morning and “too busy” to give us something
to eat or a place to sleep, he did exact his “pound of flesh”
from me. It cost me three months’ wages which went to him
66 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
for “securing the position.” Believe me, when one had
worked one month for Bacon, he knew he had worked.
Sydney hit it off a bit better. He was sent to Deseronto,
about sixty miles from Belleville. His “salary” was $5.00 a
month, and Gould was a real fellow. This man Bacon got
me up before daylight, and we never ate supper until dark
—and all for $2.50 a month—after Wallace, the “man of
God” in Belleville, had taken his toll. I don’t believe there
is such a place as “heaven” and, therefore, neither Wallace
nor I can go there. But if I should be wrong and there should
be such a place, I can’t help but believe my chances are far
better than his. I suppose this man is long dead and gone,
and perhaps I should not talk about him. This story, how­
ever, will be truly told.
One thing Mr. Bacon insisted on was that I attend church,
which, incidentally, I refused to do. After working six days
in the “fields of Bacon,” I needed a rest. I needed a rest
badly. Church did not appeal to me. I never wanted to
see the inside of another church after this experience with
the “agent of God” in Belleville. Bacon and I clashed on
the church subject, and after the first battle, church was
never mentioned again. I’m just wondering why it was
that George Bacon was so insistent that I go to church. If
he had religion, I never saw it—unless, of course, it was
the same kind of religion my father and the Reverend Wal­
lace had.
After I had worked long enough to pay Wallace his “fee,”
I began to figure that I was getting just exactly nowhere.
I was working hard day and night; and when the end of the
month came around, I owed Bacon for laundry and new
shirts. That just did not add up; so I began to cast around
for something which paid more money than Mr. Bacon did.
Hearing that $1.50 a day could be made shovelling coal
out of cars at the Grand Trunk Railroad shops, I applied for
a job. Here I ran into another Irishman, Pat O’Brien. How­
ever, I don’t believe it was the actor by that name.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 67
Giving me the “once over,” Pat said, “Sure and it’s
dommed little coal ye’ll be afther shovellin’ Oim thinkin’.
But if ye want to thry it, I’ll be the lasht wan to shtop ye.”
I worked half a day, and that half a day nearly killed me.
Here I was, with Greeks and Polacks, shovelling coal out
of cars into a chute.
It was hard work—too hard for me; so at noon I walked
off the job, or rather I staggered off the job. The seventy-
five cents for the half day’s work is still there. I never went
back for it.
It was quite evident, however, that it was up to me to
get another job. I had no home to go to, and I didn’t want
to go to see Wallace again. If I did, I figured I would be
working another three months for nothing. It was then that
I met a railroad fireman called Herm Robinson. I met him
outside a boarding house where I had gone to see if I could
wash a few dishes for a meal. I did. I ate. Herm told me
that he knew of a job shovelling concrete. Now, “shovelling
concrete” meant nothing to me. I did not even know what
concrete was. I knew what a shovel was. George Bacon
taught me that. But concrete—well—where was the job?
The next morning bright and early I discovered what
concrete was. The job I was after was for a contractor who
was laying concrete sidewalks in Belleville. Like a real man,
I tackled the job. Well, if shovelling coal was heavy, this
job was worse; for wet concrete weighs more than coal.
Anyway, I stuck that job out as long as it lasted, which was
only a few weeks. It gave me eats, and when I left, I had
thirty dollars in my pocket. In other words, I was a rich
man. Then along came a job in the middle of the winter.
This was delivering bread on a country route with an old
white horse and a sleigh. The man I worked for was Mr.
Foster. He was another religionist, and so was his son, Fred.
This bakery job paid $5.00 a week with board and room.
I liked that job; but Belleville can get awfully cold in the
winter time. However, I stuck it out until Foster found a
68 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
boy who would work for $3.50 a week, and let me go. At
that time, Sydney came down with double pneumonia. He
had lost his job at Deseronto when the season closed; and
although he was then only thirteen years old, he got a very
heavy job cutting ice out on the Bay of Quinte. I did not
know this until later, but the toes were sticking out of his
shoes and he had no socks. He was dreadfully ill. The county
put him in the hospital where his life was despaired of.
Beside myself with grief, for I did not want to lose Syd, I
met another good Irishman—an attorney called Paddy Mc­
Mahan. I told him the story of Syd, and he advanced the
money with which to wire the Reverend J. H. Robinson
for help. I have a copy of this wire, and I have the original
reply from father. Here is the wire I sent:
“Syd dangerously ill double typhoid pneumonia— I need-
help out of work"
(Signed) F r a n k .
Here is the reply which came back:
“Secure best medical advice sorry cannot help financially”
It must be remembered here that the step-mother could
ride around in her “carriage and pair,” and it must be further
remembered that at this time my father was able to keep two
servants. Yet the only thing he did was to tell us to “secure
best medical advice.” We knew that already, and Syd was
getting the very best medical advice possible.
It was at this point that I received my first faint inkling
that there is real Power in the Spirit which is God. All
through these months I had continued my private talks
with God. I still knew that sometime, in some manner, I
should head a movement which would make God real to
the whole world. Naturally, I was beside myself over Syd.
Miss Green, the Supervisor, called me one evening to the
hospital. “Syd cannot live,” she said. Then I began to think
of applying the Power which is God to this terrible illness,
DR. RO BIN SO N A T T H E A G E O F S IX T E E N
This picture was taken thirty-eight years ago.
DR. RO BIN SO N A T R O C K Y P O IN T , O REGO N
Every summer for many years, Dr. Robinson takes a couple of weeks
from his arduous duties and goes fishing. His favorite place is Rocky
Point, Oregon. Arthur Leavitt, his brother-in-law, is the manager
of this resort. The fish in the picture is a 17-pound lake trout. The
waters of the Upper Klamath abound in such fish.
FLO R E N C E RO BIN SO N , age io
She was born in Moscow, Idaho, January 13th, 1931. Her life was
despaired of on two different occasions, one, a ruptured appendix,
the other, a throat infection. She was pulled through both crises
by the Power of God.
A L FR E D B R U C E RO BIN SO N
Born in Tucson, Ariz., March ist, 1923. He is a student at
Oberlin Conservatory of Music. His major is pipe-organ.
Dr. Robinson is passionately fond of his family.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 69
and at once I knew Syd would live, whether he could
or not. A great calm came over me. Looking at Miss Green,
I said, “May I see him?” She said I might. I shall never
forget my reply. Here it is—“Oh, well—he’s unconscious,
Miss Green, and wouldn’t know me anyhow. I’ll see him in
the morning, for he will be completely recovered by then.”
She looked at me with a curious sort of look and then, grasp­
ing my hand, she said, “Frank— I believe you. Your face
shows a Power—I wish I knew what it was.”
I was at the hospital in the morning to see Syd. The
fever had gone. He was conscious—and better. This was a
case where the application of the Spirit of God, even without
seeing the sufferer, brought the desired results. Now, so
many years later, I receive more wires and long distance
calls from over the world than any man engaged in religious
work. They come by the hundred. They all recover. To give
you a typical example: Day before yesterday I had to leave
hurriedly for Seattle to see my advertising agency. Just as
I was leaving, a long distance call came in from Davenport,
Iowa. Here was the substance of the call—“I am Mrs.
Blank, one of your Students. My sister is dying of cancer—
will you come and heal her?” I replied that it would be
impossible for me to come and that it was not necessary
that I come. “I’ll wire you $5,000 if you will come,” she
said. Here is my reply, “Madam, if you wired me $50,000,
I could not come. It will not be necessary; for the Spirit
which is God is not bought with money.” Today I received
a message that her sister, dying of cancer two days ago, is
well.
Let me interpolate here long enough to say to you that
if you will learn the best eight words in the English lan­
guage, you will be able to drive out all illness just as fast
as I can drive it out. Certainly the Power which does this
is not a human Power. Therefore, it cannot have anything
to do with me. It operates alone, under its own influence, and
the only thing necessary to be able to heal as we do here,
70 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
is to recognize who and what God is. Then, when that
recognition is complete and full, remember these eight words
— “Be still, and know that 1 am God.”
If you really want to know, find, and use the invisible
Power which is God, you, as a first step, had better forget
everything any church organization has taught you about
God. You cannot find the Power of the presence of God
through anything any church teaches, for the simple reason
that what they teach is not of God. Many church members
and priests and preachers will rear up at this statement. Let
them rear. One look at this murderous world today will con­
vince anyone that God is an unknown factor in it. God will
not be unknown very much longer; for already there are
“Gleams over the horizon” and those “Gleams” are lead­
ing us onward to the Eternal Day—not because of anything
your writer can do, but simply because he knows who and
what God is, and is smart enough to allow God to bring
in the Day of Eternal Righteousness through his humble
efforts.
I don’t want to meet anyone. Student or non-Student.
They would be disappointed in me. They might look for
some frock-coated, white-faced, priestly-looking individual,
and they would be disappointed, I assure you. I prefer in­
finitely to stay in the background, letting God work through
what I write and do. This, I shall do as long as I live. After
that, well, the Movement will still be in the hands of the
Almighty where it belongs.
* * *
Syd went to work at another farm job after his complete
recovery, and he did pretty well. I lost track of him for
many years, but I understand he is now a street-car conduc­
tor in Toronto. He was in the World War and was decorated
many times. He was also shell-shocked, which will account
for some of the strange things I shall relate to you a bit
later on—inexplicable things they were.
The city of Belleville had a great fire department with
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 71
four of the finest horses I ever saw in a fire harness. Bob
McCoy had the contract of furnishing both horses and
wagons, and I got a job working for Bob McCoy. I drove
the fire wagon; and when there were no fires, I drove a
“carry all” hauling men to and from their work at a cement
factory a few miles out of Belleville. That was a good job.
I slept in a little room in the livery barn at night, and there
was a fire alarm right in the room. Bob usually drove the
teams when a fire broke out in the daytime.
Then old Dr. Tracy wanted a man to drive his buggy,
and I took this job. It paid ten dollars a week, and that was
something in those days. I met my first girl then. She was
the daughter of a butcher, but her father did not take very
kindly to me. The people were wonderful people, but when
they saw me getting too serious and falling too deeply in
love, they decided that I had better go fishing somewhere
else. It nearly broke my heart, but I kept away and did my
love-making by mail. May is married now, and I under­
stand she married a good man. I have never seen her since.
Oliphant, was her last name.
There is another chap I must mention, and that is Arthur
Sills. When the Tracy job “petered out,” I secured another
job packing apples for the R. J. Graham Co. Mr. Graham
was mayor of the city of Belleville, and a fine man he was.
Arthur’s father picked and packed apples for Mayor Gra­
ham, and that is how I knew Arthur. I boarded and roomed
with them. Their home was just a couple of miles from
Belleville, out in the country.
While I was trying to make my case with May, Arthur
was trying to outdo me. We were both pretty good-looking-
chaps, but I thought I had the edge on Art. May thought
the best way out of the proposition was to marry someone
else, and she did just that. Then I was taken down with a
terrific case of tonsilitis while living with Mrs. Belle Sills
and almost lost out. You see—I completely forgot God. Hot
milk applications were applied, but the throat got worse
72 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
and worse. However, in the moment I talked with God
about that throat, it disappeared, and the next day I was
out picking apples again.
After May’s parents had given me the “good-bye” sign,
I spent that winter in a logging camp owned by Mayor
Graham. It was on the Central Ontario Railway, and the
Post-Office was Hogansville. Another Irishman—Denny
Hogan—ran everything there was in Hogansville. I remem­
ber one Christmas I was sent with a sleigh load of loggers
to the station. They were going to Belleville to get drunk
and to squander every cent they had made so far that year.
Mr. Mott was the camp foreman. I had never driven a team
of horses in my life.
An order for blankets, axe-handles, biscuits, and a lot of
groceries had been given to me, and my instructions were
to load up with these things. Then, after the train had left,
I was to come back to the camp. “Just give the horses their
heads and hold the lines taut. They’ll come home them­
selves,” said foreman Mott when I doubted my ability to
take that team to Hogansville and back safely. Well, all
went as it should have gone until the train pulled in. The
sled was loaded with blankets, axe-handles, groceries, and
lamps ■
, but those horses did not like that train. I had them
tied to a hitching post outside Hogan’s store. That hitching
post, however, was not strong enough to hold that team.
Both of those horses reared up on their hind feet, gave a few
snorts, and away they went into the woods, leaving me there
looking at them. I wouldn’t have been on that sled for all
the logging camps in Ontario. There were axes, groceries,
flour, lamps, blankets, all over the woods. When Mr. Mott
came to rescue both the horses and their freight, he took
one look at me and said, “This is all coming out of your
wages, young fellow.” However, he never did take it out of
my wages. I had given him fair warning that I was no man
to drive a young team through the woods. There was no
one else there who could drive them, so I considered when
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 73
I told him of my inability and experiences with horses, I
had done my duty.
I could recount many pleasant days spent in Belleville,
but I think I will reproduce in this chapter a news item
which appeared in the Belleville Intelligencer shortly after
Time magazine gave me a prominent write-up in 1938.
Perhaps I had better tell you about the job I had driving a
hack. I drove the first rubber tired hack to come into Belle­
ville—and was I proud?—Two white horses (old nags)
and a beautiful rubber-tired hack. I met the trains at the
depot, charging twenty-five cents a ride to the hotels. Mr.
Coe Graham owned the hack service. Here is the Intelli­
gencer write up:
FR O M H U R R IC A N E D EC K O F A C R U ISIN G
H A CK T O “ F IR S T C IT IZ E N "
Dr. Frank Robinson, Newspaper Publisher, Druggist and Leader of
a Mail Order Religious Study group W ith Membership in
Sixty-seven Countries, Recalls Early Days in Belleville— The
First Rubber Tired Victoria— The First Ford— The Men Who
Drove the Hacks that M et All Trains and Boats— Olden Days
and Golden Days Recalled.
From driving a hack in Belleville to the status of first citizen
of a thriving city in western United States seems a far cry but
that happens to form the two ends of the life history of a young
man who began business life in Belleville, drifted west and won
fame and fortune, now known as Dr. Frank B. Robinson, of Mos­
cow, Idaho, one of the first citizens of that thriving western city,
owner of the leading daily newspaper, three drug stores, the Robin­
son Professional Building, a tea room, a wonderful home with
beautiful pipe organ in it, and recently donated Robinson Park to
the city.
Frank Robinson will be remembered by many Bellevillians as a
clerk in Templeton’s drug store located at the corner of Bridge and
Front streets some thirty odd years ago. To a former Belleville friend
Dr. Robinson said that he has always retained a warm spot in his
heart for Belleville the beautiful, adding that the happiest days of
his life were spent in this city. He remembers living with a Mr.
and Mrs. Brason, who ran a boarding house, and he says they were
a fine old couple. He also remembers Mr. Charles Bowell who ran
The Intelligencer and had a fine horse and rig. After working for
Mr. Robert Templeton in Belleville, Robinson went to Toronto
74 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
where he was employed by J. G. Templeton (a relative of Robt.
Templeton) in the drug business at 142 King Street West, Toronto.
Early Hack Drivers
Returning to his early days in Belleville Dr. Robinson remembers
driving a hack for Coe Graham. Working at the same place at the
time were “Gibber-Gabber” Harrington, and “ Rusty” Marlowe.
Coe had the first rubber-tired Victoria there, and Dr. Robinson says
he used to be as proud as a peacock to drive that elegant equippage
to the depot to meet the trains.
From hack driving this ambitious lad graduated to the “ Big
Apple” and was employed by R. J. Graham in what he describes as
the “ apple factory.” Here he worked under Gene Fairfield, George
Rennie and Chas. Chesson who drove for Col. Lazier and Arthur
Sutton are mentioned as friends of those days. Wonderful days
he called them.
The First Ford
Memories of Belleville old days and old boys came flooding back
as Dr. Robinson chatted with his friend, and he recalled driving a
carry-all for Bob McCoy, later working for George Sills, packing
apples. Early love affairs and the girls of those days of bustles and
long dresses and dainty ankles which were only visible on rainy days
at muddy crossings brought back smiles and heart warmings. Happy
days as a member of the militia with the old 15th were recalled and
the faces of the friends of long ago floated past in memory’s mirror.
Others recalled included “Whale” Mackey, Johnny Consaul and
old Dr. Tracy—and that red-letter day when Dr. Gibson took the
road with his first Ford. It went chugging up Front street— and
then stopped—all the King’s horses and all the King’s men could
hardly get it started again—being one of those runabouts, which
ran about a block and then stopped to consider the next start if any,
a hectic period in early automobiling long since passed away.
Shady Lanes and Quinte Waters
Friends who attended the Ontario Business College were also
recalled with pleasure and the many happy days and nights spent
in the horse and buggy days and the days when boating on Quinte
waters was considered the peak of enjoyment, particularly sailing.
Leaving Belleville, Frank Robinson drifted west, coming to rest
for a time in Vancouver where he drove delivery rigs and took
various odd jobs which added experience if not much money to his
assets.
Taking an interest in religion, he took a course in a Bible Training
School at the suggestion of Dr. Elmore Harris of McMaster Uni­
versity, and from that study came “ Psychiana” , a religious movement
of which he is the head which has enrolled thousands of students,
and he claims has spread to 67 countries with a membership of over
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 75
half a million and is still spreading. This includes home study groups
with textbooks furnished from headquarters in Moscow, Idaho, last
year’s publications reaching nearly half a million dollars. Dr. Robin­
son says that he believes “ Psychiana” is bringing happiness into the
lives of hundreds of thousands and he is very happy in it.
This Belleville Old Boy with the interesting past and more inter­
esting present and promising future wished to be remembered to all
Belleville citizens who may remember him and stated that if he
receives an invitation to attend the next Old Boys’ Reunion at Belle­
ville he will be there if he has to shut down his daily newspaper to
do it.
Before closing this chapter, let me tell you about Mr.
Templeton who, by the way, is still alive and doing busi­
ness in Belleville at the same old stand. How old he is, I do
not know, but he was at least fifty when I worked for him.
It was quite a “come-up” to me to be employed at a white-
collar job in a drug store. That was really something. How­
ever, the pay was only $5.00 a week, and it cost me $3.50 a
week with Mr. and Mrs. Brason for room and board. I had
to have a clean collar and shirt once a week, too, so that did
not leave very much.
At the Brason boarding house lived a group of young
fellows attending the Belleville Business College. They were
a good bunch, full of life as a crowd of young boys going-
through business college should be. The fifth of November
came around. In Canada that’s quite a holiday—Guy Fawkes
day, and it is celebrated in much the same manner as our
Fourth of July. On this particular occasion, we “kids” as
we were called, planned some mischief, which we usually
did. I had bought some very large fire-crackers about eight
inches long. They detonated with a noise like a cannon.
The Belleville Police Department had on the force a
very corpulent officer called “Cheezer” Downs. No one
liked the “Cheezer.” I was never able to find out why he
was called that nickname. The only thing that occurs to me
now is that his stomach was shaped very much like a cheese.
Perhaps that was it. The name, in that case, was appropriate.
We were all up in our bedrooms and, seeing the “Cheezer”
76 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
coming down the sidewalk, we lit the fuse and timed it to
explode just as the “Cheezer” went by. Then we dropped
it out the window. It wasn’t timed just right, though, nor
was it dropped as accurately as it might have been. The
result was that it hit the “Cheezer” on the back of the neck
and then exploded. It nearly blew the officer off the side­
walk.
In a few minutes, there was a great commotion in the
hall below, and then the “Cheezer” in person breezed into
the large bedroom, only to find everyone fast asleep—not
only asleep but snoring heavily. Downs never did find out
who threw that fire-cracker. He had a good idea, though,
for the next night I felt a hand on my shoulder, and into the
calaboose I went. The Chief of Police of Belleville was
one Pat Hayes, another Irishman, but this time not so good.
Of course, for me to be put in a cell in the city jail was
something new, so I naturally was alarmed and called up
my friend, Paddy McMahan. Paddy came down and, on
inquiring what the charges were, was told “making and dis­
tributing counterfeit money.” That knocked Paddy off his
feet as it did me. “Where is your evidence?” asked Paddy,
and they told him that the evidence would be produced in
court the following Monday. That meant that I stayed in
jail from Saturday until Monday. I could not figure out
what it was all about. I certainly knew nothing about coun­
terfeit money, never having seen any and certainly never
having made any. Paddy knew that as well as I did, but the
bail was placed at $5,000, which meant that I stayed in.
On Monday morning the “great counterfeiter” was hauled
into court. The charges sounded very impressive and very
bad—“that the accused did, wilfully and knowingly, and
feloniously, make, manufacture, and distribute counterfeit
money in the Province of Ontario in the Dominion of Can­
ada,” etc. I still did not have the faintest idea of what was
going on. All I knew was the case was serious. Here I was
charged with making and passing counterfeit money. That
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 77
is a serious charge in any language. The strange part of it
all was that I was absolutely in the dark, for until the first
witness was presented, I did not have the faintest suspicion
of what this charge consisted. I did not have very long
to wait though. “Call the first witness,” the Judge, another
Irishman called Flynn, shouted. A lady whom I knew as
Mrs. Thomas and who ran a little tobacco store next door
to the boarding house took the stand. I knew her well—
bought all my cigarettes from her—“Ran my face” through
the week and paid her every Saturday night when I was
paid. Mrs. Thomas was asked to hold up her right hand—
“so help you God,” etc. The prosecuting attorney, handing
Mrs. Thomas an American silver dollar, asked her if she
had ever seen that dollar before. She replied that she had,
and when asked where she had seen it, she told the court
that I had given it to her in payment of a bill the Saturday
night before. Well, I knew that as well as she did.
The next witness, however, was a government agent, and
he testified that the dollar was counterfeit. He further testi­
fied that he had reason to believe that the counterfeiters
were operating from Belleville. Paddy McMahan at this
point asked me what I knew about that dollar, and I told
him that Mr. Templeton had given it to me last Saturday
night in my pay envelope. It did not take long to bring Mr.
Templeton into court, and he corroborated my statement;
and so the great “counterfeiting case” against Frank B.
Robinson blew up. Much to-do was made over this petty-
fogging little case in the recent trial in Moscow, and certain
men tried to establish the fact that I had been arrested for
counterfeiting. I had to reply in the affirmative, but the
evidence also showed that Judge Flynn honorably dismissed
the case and issued to me a certificate to that effect. The
next day, Pat Hayes, the bad Irishman, told me to get out
of Belleville.
* * *
It was in the beautiful little city of Belleville that my
78 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
first real “religious” experience broke into light. It brought
disastrous disappointment to me. Through the eighteen years
I had lived, the consciousness of God and of the work I
felt I had been called to do grew. There never was the
slightest suggestion that God would not speak through me
to the world; but, as yet, the full consciousness of God had
not come to me. Perhaps I should say that another way
—let me say that the Recognition of the consciousness of
God had never come to me. The God-consciousness is always
with one, but the recognition is often absent. So many
pseudo-gods have arisen and been presented to the world,
that recognition of the consciousness of the only true God
there ever has been is lost in the welter of false and pagan
systems of religion operating on this earth today. No man
ever spent more time seeking God than I did, and yet there
was always the consciousness in me that the Great Spirit—
God—had set me apart for a specific work.
As I have already stated elsewhere in this record, I made
the fatal mistake of attempting to bring the recognition of
the Power of God to myself, instead of keeping quiet in
the knowledge I had of God. Had I known enough to do
that, I should have been spared a lot of suffering. How­
ever, the end has been accomplished, and the Movement
through which the Spirit of God will be universally known
is an actual fact. Already the results of thirteen years’ work
have been amazing, and as the years and months go by, and
as more men and women are liberated by this invisible Spirit
which is God, it will not be too long until the fullness of the
Spirit which is God is known to all men and all nations.
But to come back . . . .
In Belleville, I happened to get acquainted with the
pastor of the First Baptist church. His name was the Rev­
erend O. C. Elliott. He met me first in Templeton’s drug
store. After having met him a few times, I called him up
one day and asked for an appointment with him; I told him
I wanted to speak with him about God. Reluctantly he gave
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 79
the appointment. On entering his study in the church, I
said to him, “Mr. Elliott, I want to do something for God.
I feel that I have a work of quite some magnitude to do for
God, and I’d like to talk with you about it.” Evidently Mr.
Elliott was more interested in money than he was in God
and human souls, for this is the reply he made to me, “I
shall be very happy to have you join my church, if you
are able to do your part in its support—-but we must have
that.”
I saw at once that the Reverend Elliott and I were not
speaking the same language. He was talking money while
I was talking God. They are different things. When I in­
formed him that I was getting only $5.00 a week and keep­
ing myself out of that, he said to me, “I think the Salvation
Army is the place for you—why don’t you go down and
join it?” I thanked him for his good “Christian” spirit and
went down to look the Army situation over. That night it
stood on the corner of the main streets, and I listened to
the testimonies of the “saved.” Here, I thought, was ex­
actly what I wanted. These good people actually knew God,
and certainly that was what I wanted. So I followed them
into the hall at the close of their street meeting. Adjutant
Newman was in charge of that corps. I forget the name of
the Lieutenant who assisted him. The songs were not very
inspiring, nor was the band music. I have heard better.
When the altar call came, of course, I went up. “God bless
you my brother— hallelujah!” said the Adjutant. “Get
down on your knees and let’s have a word of prayer.” Down
I went to my knees and the Adjutant said, “That’s right—
pray, brother—pray yourself into the Kingdom.” Well, I
didn’t know very much about praying. I knew considerable
about quietly talking with God, but this public praying busi­
ness was something new to me. However, to make a good
fellow out of myself, I did some praying. It sounded like
hollow sham to me, but I did it nevertheless. “Amen,” said
the Adjutant, “another brother has found the Lord. Won’t
80 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
you have a word of testimony, brother?” I asked to be ex­
cused from the testimony and promised him I would be out
at the next meeting.
On the following Wednesday night, I showed up at the
hall. Being rather a husky young man, they tied the big
bass drum around my neck, and lo and behold, here I was
in the Army, going down the sidewalks of Belleville with
a big drum around my neck, hammering it as if I really
meant it. I liked pounding that drum. It made a lot of
noise and it gave the very thing I wanted—action for God.
It made little difference of what action consisted 5 it was
action. When we arrived on the street corner, the Adjutant
took off his hat and prayed. It was about the average run
of Army prayer. I took it all in and trusted he wouldn’t ask
me to pray. He did not. After the collection was taken, we
invited the few stragglers into the hall for the regular Wed­
nesday night prayer meeting.
All this was so foreign to what I knew about God that
I really began to wonder what it was all about. God, to me,
was an infinitely great invisible Spirit. That Spirit, to me,
was the Creative Intelligence and Power behind every thing
that ever was created. It was a very sweet experience I had
on the lawn of the Manse at Long Crendon some years
before—but this—well, this was all so strange to me. I just
could not see God in it at all. I watched the members of
that corps very carefully. After the meeting, they would
join me and we would walk up the street smoking cigarettes,
and we would go in and get a glass of beer or a glass of
ginger ale or something to refresh ourselves. When I got
home, however, I gave those performances considerable
thought. Was all this of God? What was all this talk of
“hell-fire,” “Salvation,” “the blood of the lamb,” etc.?
Where did that come from? What did it mean? What had I
ever done to damn me into an eternal hell? By what au­
thority did the Army stand there and tell the whole world
that unless it believed what the Army taught, it was in
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 81
“danger of hell-fire and the judgment”? If these good folks
we were preaching to were in danger of hell-fire, so was I
—so were the rest of us, for certainly joining the Army had
brought no noticeable “salvation” to us. All we did was to
stand on the street corner and tell a pack of lies. We told
the men and women listening to us that we were “saved
by the blood of Jesus,” and there was not a man or woman
in the whole Army corps that knew the first thing about
either “the blood of Jesus” or “salvation.”
All that and every other Salvation Army corps in exist­
ence was doing was to go by the rules and regulations of
the Army. There was not a man in the crowd who knew the
structure of the Christian bible. Not a single one of them
knew where it had come from, and certainly there was no
one in that crowd who knew the reason there are four
gospels in the Christian bible. The reason there are four
gospels is because animals have four legs. That is one rea­
son, and that’s not the best reason for anyone to pin his
faith in anything any bible teaches if the story is in that
book because “animals have four legs.”
Had I known then what I now know about the bible
they were teaching, I should have challenged them then
and there. As it was, my connection with the Army in Belle­
ville was not of too long duration. I was getting a bit sick
of the sham and hypocrisy of it all. I wanted God. I wanted
to do something to bring to men and women the actual truths
of God. The Army or what the Army taught was not doing
that. What “sin” had I committed up to that time which
merited such a fearful thing as an eternal home in a lake
burning with fire and brimstone? The only thing I had done
was to try to find God. I had suffered plenty at the hands
of those who taught this same philosophy under a different
denomination, but as far as my being “born in sin and shapen
in iniquity,” well—that just simply was not true. My mother
was the sweetest thing that God ever put breath into. I was
born according to the laws of God, the laws of nature, and
82 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
the laws of the land. In what way had I sinned enough to
merit the “wrath of God” ?
My decision to leave the Army came one Sunday after­
noon. In that corps was a very fine looking girl. I had seen
her looking at me often and wondered why. She always
turned out in full Army uniform. On this particular Sunday
afternoon she came into the barracks rather late and took a
seat by me. We had a few words of ordinary conversation,
and then she said to me, “I want you to come outside with
me. I want to talk to you.” Not knowing what it was she
wanted, I naturally followed her out of the hall. She was
working as a servant, or maid, for a Doctor Dolan in Belle­
ville, and she headed straight for the Dolan home, her
arm in mine. On the way home, I asked her what it was she
wanted to talk to me about. She said, “I’ll tell you when we
get home.” Mystified, I went with her, and soon we reached
the Dolan home. Entering, she took off her Salvation Army
bonnet and coat and, taking me into the living room of that
fine home, she said, “The Dolans are away—let’s lie on the
floor.” Then it dawned upon my trusting self that the salva­
tion of this world was the last thing this young Army Cadet
was interested in. The next day I left Belleville for Toronto,
more disgusted with religion than ever.
CHAPTER FIVE
In Toronto
I n d u e season, i arriv ed in Toronto and a l t h o u g h i
did not know it at the time, strange and unusual happenings
were to come my way. Nothing very unusual had happened
so far in my life. It had been anything but a happy life.
Whatever the inner workings of father’s mind were and are,
I shall never know; nor am I particularly interested. He
married his own wife, raised his own children, and until
they became of legal age, I suppose he had a right to do
whatever he wanted with them. I just have never been able
to link up that sort of father with the Infinite Spirit which
is God. It may go with Jesus Christ, but it does not go with
God. That God exists, and there is an answer to the stag­
gering human problems which face us today, I have no
doubt. I never have had any doubt on that score, and from
what I have seen of the workings of the Spirit which is God
over the past thirteen years, I am pretty well convinced that
we are closer to the answer than we have ever been. I trust
I live long enough to see the whole world at peace. It can
be at peace whenever it wants to.
The only thing that can bring permanent peace is the ex­
perience of God. By that I mean this—when this world
knows who and what God really is, these tendencies, all
conceived in ignorance of God, cannot exist. If Hitler actual­
ly knew God and needed more territory as he claims, it
would not take thirty minutes for him to have what addi­
tional territory he needs. The nation which has more terri­
tory than it needs would give him what he wanted at once.
If Hitler knew God, he would not ask for more than he
needs. This same principle would work throughout all
84 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
nations if God were known. The trouble is that God is not
known.
I am reminded here of the journey of Paul, the old pro­
moter, along the Athenian road. He, seeing a sign by the side
of the road “To the unknown God,” and undoubtedly being
interested in the promotion of a new system of religion,
called on the people of Athens and said to them, “Ye men
of Athens, I -perceive that in all things you are too super­
stitious. For as I passed by, I beheld a sign with these words
(To the unknown God.’ Him, therefore, whom ye ignorantly
worship, the same declare I unto you.”
I find myself in a similar position. I, too, knowing some­
thing of the superstition and idolatry of present day re­
ligions, and knowing that the “god” these religions worship
does not exist, am trying, and very earnestly, to bring to
these good people of this and other lands the truths of God
as that Great Spirit actually exists. I know the truth. It
came through periods of great tribulation. It was not easy
to learn. It seared the soul—for it is not an easy thing to
inform millions of people that the God they are supposed
to be worshipping, even though they admit him to be an
“unknown god,” does not actually exist. The assurance of
the success of the “Psychiana” Movement lies in the fact
that the whole world is questioning what the churches of
every denomination attempt to teach about God. That makes
my task considerably easier.
The facts might as well be faced. They will have to be
faced sooner or later anyway. So why not face them now?
Of two things we are sure. The first is—God, and by that
I mean the Great Creative Spirit which is responsible for
this creation, really exists. The second thing, I am sure of
this,—that Spirit which is God can be found, known, and
through its operations, complete peace, happiness, health,
and life eternal can be found. It is obvious, however, that
nothing offered to this world today by any system of theol­
ogy, bears the slightest indication that such a condition of
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 85
perfect peace, etc., will ever be manifested on this earth
through the teachings of any system of religion, as those
teachings exist today.
There have been “gods” and “systems of religion” on
this earth for 20,000 years—and we do not yet know God.
We are closer to finding God than we have ever been, and
God can be found. God will be found; but he will never be
found through any system of theology which teaches god
crucified on a cross. I am fully convinced of that. I shall
not give my reasons for this statement here, as I have al­
ready given them in my book Gleams Over the Horizon,
and I do not want to repeat. Suffice it to say that in
“Gleams”, every existing religion on this earth today is
shown for what it actually is. I told you what that is at the
beginning of this book.
I often wonder as I sit here in my study day after day
and watch men and women all over the world swamping me
with letters asking for information about God. I often won­
der if the world ever was as close to knowing the truth as
it is today. I don’t believe it ever was. I do not believe
that the religious world in any stage of its history, until
now, ever had the faintest conception of the true God, and
certainly it has had no conception of the Power which the
True Spirit brings with it. That there have been many
honest attempts to find and know God is admitted; but the
fatal mistake these religions have made lies in the fact that
unless God operates and manifests according to their con­
ception of God, they are not interested.
Right at the core of every major system of religion on
the earth today, except one, is the impossible theory that
because God is so big and powerful—ignorant man cannot
find and know God. Therefore, it was necessary to clothe
God with human aspects, put him in a human body, kill him
on a cross, raise him from the dead, and send him back to
“heaven” from whence no word has come from that day to
this. It should be unnecessary to say that all such concep-
86 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
tions of God are utterly false. Tracing them down, you
find they are all originations of the religious institutions
which foster them. They have no standing historically. The
historical world never heard of these “gods.” I include the
Christian “god.” So then, as we approach the time when
the True Spirit of God is to be known on the earth, shall
we not take hope? Shall we not look up, for certainly “the
day of our redemption draweth nigh.”
I have stated once in this book that I would rather this
autobiography had not been written—and for this reason,
it may detract some from the Power of the Great Spirit
which is God. There may be millions who will try to make
a “god” out of the writer. So to prevent that, I’m going
to tell the truth about the writer, and when I have told it,
I don’t believe there will be much danger of anyone’s
looking to me as being a “superman.” Tenney and others
say, “He has an inspired vision.” That is true—but the vision
which inspires me and the Power which lies in that vision,
may also inspire you. When that day comes, this world will
know God. I do not say that this will happen all at once.
After I have demonstrated who and what God is, and after
the religious systems know that I know whereof I speak—
my work will be done. I shall be very happy then to fade
away and let far brainier men than I am carry on the work
of manifesting the power of God to the world.
All I was sent to do is to point the way. I stand as a sign­
post along the highway of life. When too many along that
highway get lost, someone will see my sign and, following it,
will reach the haven he seeks. Then, it will not be long
until the glad news goes forth that the way of God has
really been found. Try and bear in mind these things as
you read on. Try and understand the motive which is behind
this book. I’m no author—I cannot write—and no one knows
that better than I know it. I don’t believe I have ever written
anything yet which could pass as a “polished” work. I don’t
want “polish.” I want to bring to men and women the con-
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 87
sciousness of the Power of the Great Spirit, God, and this
I shall do. Let the academicians have the polish. Let them
seek glory of men. I shall content myself with thinking of
God. In the knowledge that I did faithfully what I believed
the true thing to do, I shall rest.
* * *
I arrived in Toronto with about thirty dollars in my
pocket, and I located a combination rooming-house and res­
taurant on Adelaide Street. It was called “The Red Star”
and the price was $3.50 a week for board and room. The
room must have cost much more than the board. Had I been
naming that restaurant, I believe I should have called it
“Hash Center” or something which had “hash” in it, for
certainly they put lots of “hash” in their boarders. Sydney
had secured a job on a farm, this time in Napanee, just a
few miles from the Gould Ranch in Deseronto.
To be in a large city was a new experience for me. Belle­
ville, I imagine, had a population of about 7,500, while
Toronto now has more than half a million. It is much larger
than it was then. After trying in vain to get a job, and with
my money about gone, I was rather “down in the mouth.”
At about that time, the rich Cobalt mining strike was in
progress, and I happened to hear a fellow called Dick Suth­
erland who boarded with us make the statement that he was
leaving his job in the drug-store and going into the Cobalt
district in the morning. Making his acquaintance, I asked
him if anyone else had taken his job. He replied that so far
as he knew, the job was still open. In fact, he went out to
the drug store in Parkdale and got the job for me.
I had some wonderful times in that drug store which was
situated on the corner of Wright and Sorauren Avenues. I
even remember the telephone number although that is a
long time ago. It was “Parkdale 1183.” The owner of the
store was William Wright, a wonderful fellow. His father
was an inspector of police, and his mother was as fine a lady
as I have met. Bill was superintendent of a Methodist Sun-
88 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
day School in Parkdale. He had no more religion than a
jack-rabbit, but he was superintendent of the Sunday School,
nevertheless. It was a small store, and Bill was a real fellow.
The store is not operating as a drug store now. I saw Bill
Wright working as a telegraph operator in Toronto just a
few years ago.
I boarded with a Mrs. Gordon a short block from the
store on Wright Avenue. Mrs. Gordon had two sons and
one daughter, Ethel. Mickey, the elder of the two sons,
went to the dogs through liquor, while the other boy whose
name was Percy, made a big success with the National Cash
Register Co. Ethel was a very lovely girl. She fell violently
in love with me, and for a while I thought my days of single
bliss were over. Women, however, did not interest me. Al­
though I had not found the full answer to the God-proposi­
tion, I knew that sooner or later I should, and until that
time, I did not care to become involved with any girl.
I remember one Sunday evening when I was lying on the
davenport resting, Ethel came and knelt down beside me.
“Frank, I love you more than anyone I have ever met. Let’s
go away to Niagara Falls and get married,” she said. Assur­
ing her that if I had wanted to marry her, I did not have
the funds, she countered by telling me that she could get
five hundred dollars from her mother who, she said, was
all in favor of the marriage. It looked somewhat like a put-up
job, but Ethel was a fine girl. To make matters easier on
them all, and to save myself embarrassment, I moved from
Bill Wrights drug store and secured a position with a John
Whiting about one mile from Bill Wright. I also moved
into a new boarding house. This one was not really a boarding
house although three people did board and room there. I
suppose you would call them “paying guests” as Mrs. Welch,
who owned the house, had no license to operate either as a
rooming house or restaurant manager.
The Welchs were fine people, too—a bit too religious
to suit me, but good wholesome folks, nevertheless. Effie
89
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON
was the youngest daughter, and Clarabelle was the elder of
the two. It was in the Welch home that I met Valborg Mar-
tine Zollner, a talented pianist and a pupil of the famed
W. O. Forsyth. Val suffered from epileptic seizures and
passed away in one of them. Josef Hofmann called at the
house to see Val ever so often. She was a talented girl, and it is
too bad death took her away. Mr. Welch worked for a Jewish
firm of jewelers making rings. On the side, he made rings
in his own home at night. Nothing of importance happened
while I was working for Mr. Whiting. My evenings were
spent around the Cowan Avenue fire-hall, playing checkers
with “the boys.” The Captain of the fire-hall was named
Brennan and Charley Dunn was the Lieutenant. Dunn is
now Captain of the Dundas Street fire-hall. I remember
especially two Irishmen who were firemen at that time, Ike
Clough and Tom Conolly. Both could drink a lot of liquor
and both liked to sit around the stove on the cold winter
evenings and argue which could drink most.
For reasons which I will not mention here, as Whiting is
still alive, I decided to leave his valuable employ. Another
position opened up, this time at 142 King Street, West, and
the proprietor, J. G. Templeton, was a nephew of the Robert
Templeton whom I worked for in Belleville. Mr. Temple­
ton was called as a U. S. Government witness against me in
the 1936 Federal trial, but he turned out to be a star witness
for me. As a matter of fact, he visited my home in Moscow,
and we enjoyed many hours together talking about old times.
The Federal agents tried to talk him out of coming to my
home during the trial, but all Templeton did was to argue
with them that he knew me far better than they did and he
told them very plainly that they were making a mistake in
trying to put me behind the bars. They had other ideas,
though.
An interesting side-light on that trial might be noted here.
While I was in Belleville, I had my barber work done by
Herb Wrightmyer who, at that time, ran a barber-shop there.
90 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
Imagine my surprise when at the trial in Moscow, whom
should I see there as a representative of the Canadian Secret
Service but my friend, Herb Wrightmyer. I invited him to
the house also, but he refused to come. What he was doing
in Moscow during that trial and what interest the Canadian
Government had in the trial, I have never been able to find
out. In view of the fact that the trial took on international
importance, I shall allude to it in detail later in the book. A
lot of hullabaloo was created by that trial. One would have
thought that the greatest criminal on the face of the earth,
Public Enemy Number One, was being tried instead of a
harmless chap whose only crime consisted of heading a re­
ligious Movement which had the audacity to tell organized
religion that its story of God was not true. Had the “Psychi-
ana” Movement never come into existence, there would
have been no criminal trial and no deportation proceedings.
But then, the world might never have heard of me, either.
So as always in the Realm of the Great Spirit— God—all
things worked out for the best. I would not recall those
cruel days if I could.
Mr. Templeton’s store was on the corner of what then
were the two main streets in Toronto, King and York. Now,
however, the center of the city is miles away. In those days it
was the hub of Toronto, and Templeton’s Pharmacy, being
on one of those corners, was the “hub” of the city of Toronto,
figuratively speaking. Mr. Templeton’s specialty was T.R.
C.’s, which means Templeton’s Rheumatic Capsules. I don’t
think the capsules were any good, and even to this day, Mr.
Templeton and I josh through the mails about those capsules.
In any event, they sold, or rather we sold them for one dollar
a box. Templeton was, and still is, a good Presbyterian. He
lives in Streetsville a few miles from Toronto and used to
commute from home to store. When in Toronto, he slept on
a little cot in the back of the drug store. Next door was the
then famed Roumegous Restaurant. Not many remember
that. On the opposite corner was the old Rossin house, and
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 91
on the other corners were the Imperial, the Palmer, and the
King Edward—four hotels, and Templeton and I in the
middle of them. Every letter Mr. Templeton writes to me,
and I receive several a year, he winds up by “razzing” me
about what he calls “that damnable doctrine of yours.” He
tells me that he is “saved and sanctified” and always has
been. Perhaps he is. I am not in a position to dispute him. I
have my own ideas on that subject and they do not jibe with
J. G.’s ideas. However, we have been personal friends too
long to quarrel over his “salvation and sanctification.” I just
want to tell what happened in that drug store while I worked
there. It must be remembered that I am writing about things
which happened thirty-five years ago. Conditions have
changed considerably now. What was perfectly legal then
is highly illegal now.
There was no Harrison Act then either in Canada or in
the United States and “dope” could be bought freely by
anyone who cared to sell it, provided it was sold under a
State Pharmacy license. Agnews Catarrh Cure was on the
market in those days, and the “hop-heads” would buy it by
the dozen packages. We used to buy it by the gross. It was
loaded with cocaine. Toronto was full of “hop-heads,” and
Templeton’s Pharmacy did business with most of them. One
of my jobs was to package up at night morphine and cocaine
in little white papers to be sold for different prices. We even
put out two-grain packages to sell at ten cents. We had
others for a quarter, fifty cents, and what have you. These
packages of “morph” and “coc” were on the prescription
counter in seidlitz-powder boxes. We did not advertise the
fact that we were selling “dope,” but we did sell it to those
“in the know.”
In those days cocaine and morphine cost about $2.00 an
ounce. There are 480 grains in an ounce. We charged five
cents a grain. You figure out the profit.
There was an old Irish college professor called DeCour-
cey. He had been a very brilliant man and was a graduate
92 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
of some large college in Belfast, Ireland. “Dopey,” we called
him, and the name fitted him. If ever there was a human
derelict, “Dopey” was it. He used to wash bottles for us,
and in pay he would be given “dope.” I refused to give him
any. On the evenings on which I would be weighing it out
into little packages, “Dopey” would be there watching me.
Just let me spill a fraction of a grain on the floor, and down
would go “Dopey” on his hands and knees, licking it off that
dirty floor. I don’t know where “Dopey” is now—probably
dead. I was in Toronto not long ago, and Templeton and I
wondered what had become of him. It seems that Borax
intensifies the anaesthesia of cocaine. I did not know that
then, for I was not a graduate pharmacist as I am now. Every
so often I would see “Dopey” go into the lump Borax drawer
and take a piece as big as a pill and stick it into his mouth.
One day I asked him what he was eating Borax for. “Oh, just
to intensify the anaesthesia,” replied “Dopey.” “Dopey’s”
pastime was to dissect rats in the basement.
Mr. Templeton was then, and I understand is now, an
elder in the Presbyterian church. He told me recently that
he was “saved and sanctified and always had been.” I’m
wondering though, whether “Dopey,” when we all stand
before the “great white throne,” won’t prove to be just as
much “saved and sanctified” as my friend, Templeton. He
knew better. “Dopey” was in the clutches of the most ter­
rible demon known on this earth today. The Japs are feeding
cocaine and morphine to the Chinese by the barrel, trying to
bring their downfall in that manner. This is just a passing
thought, however. Mr. Templeton cannot be selling “dope”
today, and as it was perfectly legal then, no legal condemna­
tion can be his. Nevertheless—I wonder.
Thoughts of God were still uppermost in my mind then,
yet here was an elder of a Presbyterian church, helping al­
ready lost souls a little further into the hell they already
were experiencing. Cocaine cost $2.50. The net profit was
$21.50 on each ounce.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 93
I shall here give you a copy of the last letter received
from Mr. Templeton last Christmas, together with my reply.
“Raz-Mah” is the new name of Templeton’s Rheumatic cure.
Hence the reference to “Raz-Mah-Taz” in my letter.
Toronto, Canada, Dec. 12, 1939.
Dear Frank:
Another Christmas is about upon us and I am minded to write
you. I will always remember my delightful visit at your home and
your most entertaining wife. You have every reason to be proud of
her and you must have great enjoyment out of your children.
I have six grandchildren and they keep me going, I can assure you.
This war will not affect you but with many it is most disastrous
and causing a lot of suffering. You people think you can keep out of
it— perhaps so.
I saw your friend Timothy Haggerty, the other day. He is aging
fast.
R. T . in Belleville is getting very feeble. I write him once a year
and am doing it today.
I wish you and your good wife and family a Joyous Christmas
with all the good things that go with it.
Yours faithfully,
J . G. T E M P L E T O N .
December 18, 1939.
Mr. J. G. Templeton,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
M y Dear Friend:
When I left the house this morning, I said to Mrs. Robinson, “ It’s
about time Mr. Templeton was writing. I wonder if he is ill.” And
when I got to the office, here is the old, familiar “ Raz-mah-taz”
envelope lying on my desk.
However, in spite of the very low regard and esteem I have for
the proprietor of this “ Raz-mah-taz” business, I am happy indeed
that you remembered me at this Christmas time. I can understand
how your six grandchildren worry you considerably at Christmas
time, because, being a Scotchman and a good Presbyterian, I imagine
considerable mental suffering will be your lot until this painful ordeal
of giving Christmas presents away is ended for another year. I think
the cheapest way out of it is just to send them a Christmas card and
state on this card that it covers Christmas day up to the year 1950,
so that you can use one card for ten Christmases.
Poor old Tim Haggerty. I am surprised that he is still alive, but
I understand he is a Scotchman, too, and you know how those boys
hang on to everything, even life itself. I am very much surprised that
94 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
Robert Templeton is still alive, because he was ready for the bone
pile when I was working for him forty years ago. But this Scotch
trait will predominate, and I expect you will live to be at least one
hundred and fifty.
All joking aside, though, I was very happy indeed to think that
you had remembered me, because after all, the sweetest things in life
are the memories of days gone by. The sad part of it is that they
cannot be recalled.
We received international publicity over the radio, in the press,
and through the news photo services, on account of the wire I
received from the Premier of Finland asking the spiritual assistance
of this Movement, and of course, I will immediately fly into action,
and am causing to be inserted in the newspapers of the United States,
appropriate copy.
If all religions could knock out every creed and dogma they ever
heard of and every creed and dogma they contain, and could work
from the single hypothesis of the present existence of the Spirit of
God, there wouldn’t be any war. But with Presbyterianism and all
the rest of these rotten “isms,” there can be no peace.
However, James, life is an evolution, and man will continue to
progress until all creeds and dogmas are banished, and man lives in
perfect peace with his neighbors, in perfect consciousness of the
Presence of God.
I wish you a long, happy life, and you will always stand out in
my memory as one of the nicest scoundrels I have ever met, and at
the same time, one of the finest characters. Don’t make your letters
too far apart, because I like them.
Kindest personal regards,
FRANK B. ROBINSON.
It was about this time that I made up my mind to make
one final effort to see if I could not find out something about
the Power of the Great Spirit—God—through the church.
I realized that it probably would be a hopeless task, for my
dealings with those who professed religion had been disas­
trous. First— my father. Second—the Reverend Wallace.
Third—the Reverend Elliott. Fourth—The Salvation Army
cadet. Fifth—J. G. Templeton. There were many others.
I mention only these five. Yet I instinctively knew that God
must be a living Reality, and my mind was made up to find
God or die in the attempt. There is running through my
mind now a passage from one of the many bibles of the
different religions, and it runs something like this: “Though
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 95
he slay me, yet will I trust him.” It’s foolish, of course, to
trust one who would slay you, but I was that much in earnest
to find just what the Truth of God was, and is.
One Sunday night, I wandered into a church. The roof
did not fall in. It was a little church out in North Toronto
and it was a Baptist church. The pastor’s name was Brown.
The singing from the outside attracted me. It was good
music, and I like good music, so I went in. There was a large
choir in Toronto those days called the Alexander Choir. It
was evangelistic in its nature, and this choir would split into
different groups and visit the different churches in Toronto
every Sunday night. On this particular Sunday evening, the
sermon did not appeal to me. The singing did, and when the
“altar-call” was given, there was I, once more believing
what this Baptist denomination told me. I should have known
better, perhaps, after what I had seen. But I was in earnest
—in deadly earnest. I wanted God more than anything else
in the world. If, by going to the “altar” every night in the
week for ten years, I could find God, I would have done
just that.
This experience was not quite as picturesque as the “salva­
tion” experience in the Army in Belleville. There was no
“hallelujah-—this brother has found the Lord.” It was much
quieter than that. Mr. Brown, a very fine chap he turned
out to be, grasped me by the hand and asked me where I was
working. He did not recommend the Salvation Army, nor
did he ask me how much money I could give to the support
of the church. This chap honestly meant and believed what he
preached. I think most Protestant ministers of that day did.
I’m quite sure very few of them do today. Recent ministerial
polls showed that more than sixty-seven per cent of those
ministers polled do not believe in the divinity of Jesus Christ.
They are becoming intelligent. But what are they doing in
the ministry? Why do they not be honest for a change and
stop preaching what they admit they do not believe?
I made quite a friend of Brown. I made many friends as
96 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
a result of that Sunday evening. Many things happened be­
cause of it. The hymn which brought me to my feet is still
one of my favorite hymns. I play it on my pipe-organ fre­
quently. Here is the hymn:
In loving kindness Jesus came, my soul in mercy to reclaim;
A nd from the depths of sin and shame, redeemed, he lifted me;
C H O R U S:
From sinking sand he lifted me, with tender hand he lifted me;
From shades of night, to plains of light, Oh praise his name,
He lifted me.
The hymn really means nothing to me, and it meant noth­
ing then, for I was not in the slightest degree interested in
Jesus Christ. I wanted to know God. The story of Jesus
Christ as far as I was concerned may have been all right. But
it was God— the great hiving Spirit— God, I wanted to
know. I had heard that Jesus had been put to death two
thousand years ago and had never been heard from since—
so how could that help me? I wanted the hiving Spirit which
is God, and I did not want to wait until I was dead to find
that Great Spirit.
It was not long after this experience until a Miss West
of Parkdale came down to the Templeton store to give me an
invitation to join the Alexander Choir. I have a voice like a
crow. She did not know that. She soon found it out. Anyway,
I joined this Alexander Choir. Its leader, as I recall the
name, was Melvin Fuller, or something like that. A dentist
called George Palmer, who had been with Torrey and Alex­
ander some years before, was the leader when I joined, but
after a few weeks he was replaced by Melvin Fuller. On
Saturday nights we would meet in a down-town church parlor
and practice for the following Sunday. Everything I had, I
gave to that choir. I meant business. I never was sold on the
philosophy it taught, but I did like the singing, and I liked
the evangelistic meetings, especially when we went out of
town. I imagine there were more than one thousand voices
in that choir. We gave concerts of a religious nature in the
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 97
Massey Hall, the largest auditorium in Toronto at that time.
Someone must have sensed the deep spirituality in my
nature, for it was not long until I was given spiritual charge
of that choir. By that I mean that I was given charge of the
devotional end. I would have to lead the devotions, do the
praying, and in general, act as “spiritual advisor.” I did this
to the best of my ability. Then, before I knew it, I was being
asked to preach here and there, and whenever it was adver­
tised that Frank B. Robinson was to speak, you could be
sure the crowds would be turned away. About the only thing
there was in my preaching was earnestness. I have been ac­
cused in the past twelve years of almost everything, but I
have never yet met a man who questioned my earnestness if
he knew me at all.
I had little education. Certain it is I had no training in
platform work, and equally certain was it that there was little
knowledge of the bible. The only book I knew anything
about was a Gospel of John. I wore that book to a skeleton of
its former self, trying to find God through it; but I never
found God that way. Anyway the crowds came, and it was not
long until Robinson had the reputation of being “another
Spurgeon.” Calls from outside towns came in, and I filled
those calls. I enjoyed it. Of course, I was not satisfied at all.
I knew that I did not know anything about the Great Spirit
—God. My sermons kept as far away from Jesus Christ as
I could keep them. I knew nothing about Jesus, and was not
particularly interested in him. So I preached the Power of
the Spirit of God. That is all I preach now. That is all I
know, and that is the reason for the staggering growth and
success of the “Psychiana” Movement.
One day Mr. Templeton handed me a letter when I came
to work. It bore the emblem of Doctor Elmore Harris, a
millionaire farm instrument dealer, and a member of the
celebrated firm of Massey-Harris, here in the United States.
Hastily opening the letter, I found it contained an invitation
to call and see Doctor Harris in his home whenever con-
98 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
venient. Mystified, I called up the doctor and asked him
what he wanted to see me about. He explained that he was
interested in me and thought it might be a good idea if I
were to meet him. The next week, I did so. Doctor Harris
lived in a beautiful home, surely suitable for a millionaire,
and I felt rather like a fish out of water as I sat there in his
huge parlor, my cap hanging over one knee. After a few
moments, Doctor Harris came in, and in the very friendliest
manner, he said to me, “Frank, I’m very glad you came. I’ve
been hearing about you, and the Lord has put it on my heart
to put you through the Baptist ministry. I believe you will
draw this world closer to the cross.”
This was something new. Never had I even faintly sus­
pected that this great man had ever heard of me. I knew he
was president of McMaster Baptist University, and I knewr
he was a powerful influence in the Bible Training School,
but how he had ever heard of a little chap like me, I did not
know. I asked Doctor Harris how that was. “Frank,” he
replied, “Many have come to me and told me of your power
on the platform and your deep and spiritual nature. I have
attended the last three sermons you 'preached. I consider you
the most powerful platform man the Baptist denomination
has in it.” When I reminded Doctor Harris that I was not
a member of any denomination, he replied, “Oh, yes, you
are. I have the authority to ordain you as a Baptist minister—
Stand up a moment, please.” I was then and there ordained
as a Baptist minister by Doctor Harris. What good it has
done me, I do not know, nor do I know why Doctor Harris
was so insistent about having me in the Baptist denomination.
Perhaps he had an insight into the fact that ’ere this life was
over, a work of stupendous import for God would be done.
Whatever the reason, certainly the pressure was put on me by
Doctor Harris.
* * *
All this was happening a bit too fast for my slow mind to
grasp. When I left Templeton’s, I was an unknown drug-
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 99
clerk and now, an hour later, I was a full-fledged Baptist
minister. That was something. Not that I felt any different,
for I did not. I do not believe I even felt honored by this
ordination. It meant just exactly nothing to me. In fact, I
felt the cart was before the horse. I knew nothing about God.
I had the very definite impression that I was to be used by
God to bring to this world the greatest spiritual awakening
it has ever experienced 5but I also knew that the mere making
a preacher out of me did not equip me spiritually for the
work I knew would be mine to do sooner or later.
I never jump before I know where I’m going to light if
I do jump. I thanked Doctor Harris for his ordination and
inquired a bit further into his future designs on me. He
informed me that “the Lord has blessed me with material
abundance and has put it on my heart to give some of that
abundance to you.” What he wanted me to do was to leave
Templeton’s and go to the Bible Training School, there to
equip myself for the Baptist ministry. Normally that would
have been a very nice thing to do, and later I did it. “If you
tell me in advance every month what your expenses of living,
etc., will be, I will mail you a check sufficiently large to
cover those expenses,” said Doctor Harris. He promised, in
addition to that, to see that all my expenses at the Bible
Training School were taken care of. He pressed me for a
decision that night.
I told him that such a step as that would have to be care­
fully thought over, and made another appointment with him
one week from that night. In the meantime, I did a lot of
thinking. Here was an opportunity of a lifetime. A mil­
lionaire, with all his money, wanted to help me. But that
didn’t mean so very much to me, for under this plan, as I
visualized it, I could probably become a well-known Baptist
preacher and that was all. Something seemed to hold me back
from making a decision. The more I thought this proposition
over, the more I disliked it. The idea of entering the Baptist
or any other ministry did not appeal to me at that time.
100 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
What experience with God had I which qualified me to tell
others the priceless truths of the Realm of the Great Spirit—
God. What did I know about God? I knew that some day I
should lead a religious movement of importance, but had
that day come yet? Was this the time? I had known many
Baptist preachers, to my sorrow, and if all ahead of me was
what they had, I did not want any of it. The future—the
idea of livelihood did not enter into my meditations on this
amazing offer of Doctor Elmore Harris. I wanted to do the
right thing, but I certainly was skeptical of anything that
looked like a Baptist preacher.
I thought of my father—how much of the Spirit of God
was in him? How much of the Spirit of the Infinite God
was in him the night in Elton’s cellar when he was putting
the bung in a barrel of beer and squirting the beer all over
the cellar? How much of the Spirit of God did he have when
he threw me to the ground, shouting at me, “You cursed
hound—would to God you had never been born” ? How
much of the Spirit of God was in that father the day I unex­
pectedly interrupted him on my way home from school by
dropping into the Martha Hurley home? How much of the
Spirit of God was in him when, to get rid of me, he forced
me into the British Navy? You answer these questions.
Then the Reverend Muxworthy, a friend of my father.
That pipe-smoking, beer-guzzling girl-raping Baptist preach­
er—how much of the Spirit of God was in him while he
attended those famous “fraternals” ? How much of the Spirit
of God was in him the night they had to help him to bed in
our home because of his complete intoxication? How much
of the Spirit of God was in the Reverend Wallace when, that
Sunday morning, he turned away from his door two friend­
less, penniless, hungry children because he was, on a Sunday
morning, “too busy” to help them? How much of the Spirit
of God was in the Reverend O. C. Elliott when he advised
me to “go join the Salvation Army” ? And how much of the
Spirit of God was in that female Army officer when she said
Who, when this photo was taken, was about two years of age.
Evidently something had gone wrong here judging by the
expression on Florence’s face.
M RS. RO BIN SO N A N D L IT T L E FLO R E N C E
DR. R O BIN SO N ’S FA T H E R , T H E REV.
JO H N H E N R Y RO BIN SO N
Is a Congregational minister in the north of England. He is 80
years of age and still preaching. Picture of mother is not available.
The Robinson family at home at 122 South Howard Street, Moscow, Idaho. Florence, the girl, is
now ten years old. Alfred, aged 17, is a student at the Oberlin Conservatory of Music, Oberlin, Ohio.
His major is pipe-organ.
W IL L IA M T . (B IL L ) M A R IN EA U
Managing Editor of the Daily Idahonian and close personal friend
of Dr. Robinson. Mr. Marineau is a member of the American
Legion, the V.F.W . and has served several terms in the Idaho
Legislature. At this writing he is an officer of the Moscow Chamber
of Commerce and the Kiwanis Club. He is a constant companion of
Dr. Robinson on many of his trips throughout the west. A married
man, “ Bill” has two children, Arlen and Bill Jr. Mrs. Marineau
is very active in community affairs.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 101
to me in Doctor Dolan’s house, “The Dolan’s are away—
let’s lie on the floor?”
You see, all these things were very vivid in my memory.
My life, to date, had been very hard. It had been pitiless.
It had been merciless. Then I thought of my younger
brother, Sydney—I remembered his terrible illness. I re­
membered the wire to the Baptist preacher man-of-God, my
father— “Syd dangerously ill— not expected to live—■
double
;pneum oniaand I remember the heartless reply. No wonder
I hesitated about going into the Baptist ministry. The week
rolled round, and the time for my second appointment with
Doctor Harris arrived. When I left Templeton’s that night,
my mind was made up to thank Doctor Harris very kindly
for his offer of assistance and his interest in my future—but
to refuse these offers.
That night Harris sent a rig down for me. On arriving
at the house, I told him that I did not believe I chose to take
up the ministry at that time. H e argued with me and tried
to convince me that the good I was doing by preaching now
could be many times multiplied—“if you have the authority
of the Baptist denomination behind you.” That was it. If I
had the authority of any denomination behind me today, I
should be as useless as a flying-fish in the Sahara desert. As
it is, I have made my own denomination and I control that.
This work I am doing now could not be done under anyone
or any denomination. It is bigger than all of them. I take
orders from no bishop or moderator or pope. The only in­
structions I need I get direct from God, whose I am and
whom I serve. It would be really funny some night to see
me in some big Baptist church, giving the same sermons I
give in the largest auditoriums in the country. I don’t believe
I’d be a Baptist very long.
This particular conference progressed far into the night.
At about ten o’clock Doctor Harris rang for some beef sand­
wiches and some black tea. He invited me to stay all night,
but as I had to be at Templeton’s early the next morning, I
102 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
refused the offer. Perhaps some hop-head might be waiting
there for some “morph” or some “coc,” and if Mr. Temple­
ton discovered that I had allowed any of his cherished “hop-
heads” to wait when the store should have been “open for
business,” I might have lost my job; for Elder Templeton
was a very hard business man. I shall never forget his ringing
up his broker, one Beatty, every morning after he came to
work. “Buy one thousand Nip. Sell five hundred Cobalt,”
etc. “Nip” was the Nipissing mine which made lots of money
for its shareholders.
When pressed for a definite reason why I should not take
up the ministry, I came right out and told Doctor Harris
that I did not believe either the Baptist denomination or any
other denomination knew very much about God. The subject
of Jesus Christ was brought up, and it did not take me very
long to inform Doctor Harris that I never had considered
Jesus Christ to be God, for the simple reason that God existed
before there was any world, while Jesus Christ, if he ever
existed at all, died two thousand years ago and had never
been heard of since. I think this shocked Doctor Harris. It
would shock any good Baptist. But it was the way I felt.
Instead of this statement driving Doctor Harris away from
me, it seemed to make him all the more insistent that I do as
he wished me to and enter the Bible Training School. Said
he, “I am more than ever convinced now that God Almighty
has a work for you to do.”
When pressed for an answer to the question of Jesus and
his divinity, Doctor Harris replied that most certainly Jesus
was God in human form. I disagreed. I still disagree as you
will find out later. Later, however, I agreed to enter the
Bible Training School if Doctor Harris would permit me to
leave any time I cared to. This was agreed upon, so one day
I entered the Bible Training School in Toronto, Canada,
with all expenses paid by Doctor Elmore Harris. I recall
one statement the good doctor made to me in his efforts to
have me go through the school. “Now here is the Mississippi
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 103
River—you want to get to the other side. Here is a boat
going to cross that river. Don’t you see, you must get on the
boat if you ever get across. Do you see that?” he asked me.
I saw that. I was not so sure of the boat as I might have been.
When I informed Mr. Templeton that I was about to be­
come a preacher and enter the Bible Training School, Elder
Templeton said to me, “Frank, you never appeared to me
to be too much of a damned fool, but you’re certainly making
one out of yourself now.” For a gentleman who told me
that he was “saved and sanctified” that was a strange state­
ment.
One would think that a “man of God” such as J. G.
Templeton would be only too happy to see a man enter the
ministry, but that was not the effect my announcement had
on him, so a man by the name of Maxon took my place there
the next week.
A uthor’s N ote: Remember, Mr. Templeton is a good
friend of mine. He is still alive. What I am saying here is true.
No doubt he will get fighting mad at what I have written, but
if this autobiography is to be of real value, it must, first and last,
be true. Before this book is ended, you will see just what picture
I am attempting to draw, and just what bearing that picture
has on the whole "Psychiana” Movement. Whenever a personal
reference to a living person is made in this book, it will be made
in the interests of truth and the general public.
CHAPTER SIX
The Bible Training School
I n d u e t i m e and w i t h m ix e d f e e l in g s , i e n t e r e d t h e
Bible Training School. A check for $75.00 a month was
received from Doctor Harris, and in addition to this, my fees
were taken care of. This school, as I remember, was located
on Gerrard Street—perhaps it was College Street. The loca­
tion makes no difference. It is an interdenominational school,
operated under the Baptist denomination. I remember well
the consternation which reigned supreme when a Christian
Science church was built right next door. They were damned
time and time again, but there was nothing the Bible School
could do about it.
The classes there consisted of several hundred students
from all Protestant denominations. The Salvation Army was
represented there and the Mennonites with their funny little
black bonnets. The “Holy Rollers” were there with two of
these in the school when I attended it. The resident instruc­
tor was a Presbyterian named McNicol. Doctor McNicol
was a wonderful chap-—quiet, reserved, plain, and he took
his religion very seriously. I don’t care what a person believes
about religion if that person actually believes it. What makes
me boil is to hear some radio or regular preacher whose only
motive is the dollar, get up over the air and rant about some­
thing he himself does not believe.
I know a radio preacher who goes on many stations. To
hear that man preach, you would think butter would not melt
in his mouth. Let me tell you a little true story. A few years
ago, I was giving a series of Sunday addresses in person over
KNX in Hollywood. This chap, hearing that I was in the
studio, asked the technician if he would be so kind as to
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 105
introduce me to him. His program followed mine. The tech­
nician agreed and, calling me into the front studio, said,
“Doctor Robinson, I’d like to present the Reverend------
who has asked to meet you.” I shook hands with the man
and, not liking his looks, decided to play with him a bit to
find out whether the fellow really was in earnest or not.
“You certainly have done a mighty fine job with “Psychi-
ana,” the Reverend said. “Yes,” I replied. “How’s your
racket—getting lots of money out of it?” “Not too bad—
not too bad at all. I’m making about $1500 a month.” Then
he asked me what I was making, and I turned from the man
in disgust. I cannot tolerate a hypocrite, especially in the
realm of religion. This Realm of God is a very real Realm.
No one who does not know whereof he speaks should fool
with it. There is too much at stake for that. Yet there are tens
of thousands of preachers and priests in this fair America
today who, every Sunday, will get up in their pulpits and
teach something which they cannot prove and which they
do not believe themselves. I have no use for that sort of
thing. That is what my father was doing. It nearly ruined me.
* * *
The other instructors in the Bible School were Doctor
Stewart, a wonderful old man—hair snowy white, eye keen,
jovial disposition. Then there was Doctor Imrie, a tall, thin,
lanky kind of individual of the intellectual type. Doctor
Harris himself also taught a subject. What it was I forget.
Every month, prominent speakers were brought in to speak
to the students, and the atmosphere of that school was good.
I liked it. I remember we had a blind boy there by the name
of Clark. He used to punch out his exercises on a Braille
book. I felt sorry for poor Clark, and whatever became of
him, I do not know .
On one of the special attraction occasions, an old colored
lady, Mrs. Amanda Smith, came to talk to us. I think that old
colored lady had more real religion than any speaker I have
ever heard. She told a story that made me split my sides
106 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
with laughter, although one could not laugh in the Bible
Training School. Whether the old colored lady believed the
story or not, I do not know; but here is what she told to us
as the truth. Maybe she was joking—who knows? She said
that one winter several years ago, things were in a very bad
way financially with her. The going was awfully tough.
She lived in a little cabin somewhere in the South, and on
this particular evening she was very hungry. Mrs. Smith
did not explain how she came to be so hungry, nor did she
explain why she did not make her condition known to the
neighbors. Surely they would not have let her starve to
death. Well—here she was—this old colored lady—all alone
in her cabin and very hungry. I’ll let the story be told in her
own words from this point: “So, knowing that de Lawd
would provide fo’ a poor ol’ colored woman, ah drops to
mah knees, shet mah eyes, and said to de Lawd, cOh, Lawd
—you all knows all about dis o? colored woman in dis yere
cabin. Ah’s a child ob yose, an ah’s powerful hungry. Maybe
ah can wait till mawnin’ for somethin’ to eat, Lawd, but ah
knows ah’ll have to have lots to eat in de mawnin’.”
Then, after praying that prayer to “de Lawd,” she said
she got up, bolted the door of her one-room cabin and went
to sleep. Remember—she bolted “de do’.” Imagine her
amazement when she awakened in the “mawnin” ’ to find,
right in the middle of “de flo’” a half a dozen eggs and
no hen. I shall never forget trying to keep from laughing
right out loud when Mrs. Amanda Smith told us that story.
On the same program was the Bishop of Kingston, and it
almost seemed like going from the ridiculous to the sublime.
This Kingston bishop walked out on the platform with his
gaitered legs and, in the most serious of manners, said,
“Brethren, let us pray, but not for eggs.” Just what the
bishop was trying to get at, I never could quite figure out.
Perhaps you can.
I seemed to be quite well liked among the students, and it
wasn’t very long before I had a host of friends there. I
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 107
became known in that school as “another Spurgeon.” On one
occasion, while speaking with a group of “missioners” from
the Bible School, I was introduced as “the man who walks
and talks with God.” Where they got that impression, I do
not know, for I was very careful never to give out any such
impression. I tried to be quite normal and, while friendly
with all, and quite in earnest, I kept everyone there at arm’s
length. I have a habit of doing that. Not consciously, perhaps
but I do it, nevertheless. I shall not burden you with the
routine of the school because you are not interested in that.
I’d like to tell you of one incident that happened which might
give you who may never see me, an insight into my character
and general make-up.
A call had come into the Bible School from the Christian
Missionary Alliance church in Owens Sound for “someone
who could drive the devil out of Owens Sound,” and the job
fell to me. On the Saturday before the “devil-driving” was
to begin, I left by train for Owens Sound, some few hundred
miles from Toronto. What I was running into, I did not
know. My instructions were to stay there until the “Spirit
of God had complete control of the city.” That was some
order, and it could have been done had there been anyone
in that church who knew the first thing about the Spirit
of God. Unfortunately there wasn’t such a man or woman
in the entire church. I had been informed that someone would
meet me at the depot. On the train, I mulled over a statement
Doctor McNicol had made to me just before I left. “Frank
—you’re going to a hard church. If you can crack this one,
you’re a good man.”
It must be remembered at this point that I had been in
the Bible School only a few months and others had been
there for years. I had not learned much about theology yet,
and why I was handed this Owens Sound job, if it was such
a “tough nut,” was a bit beyond me. Of course, my reputation
was “a mighty powerful man,” although I personally felt
about the weakest person in the whole Bible School. If others
108 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
thought me powerful, I was not responsible for that. I was,
in any event, very much in earnest about everything I did.
I arrived at the Sound late on Saturday afternoon. Taking
an old battered suitcase with me, I walked up the station
platform looking for the one who was to escort me to my
room. Finally I spotted an old fellow who, on approaching
me, said, “Be you the preacher?” I replied that I was. “Is
your name Frank Robinson?” he asked. I assured him that
it was. “Well, give me your grip, Mr. Robinson, and you
jump up thar in the seat of the buckboard. I’ll tuck your
baggage in the back.” This old chap made little impression
on me, and I wondered more and more just what was ahead
of me. Somehow or other, I seemed to sense danger.
“I hear you’re a stem-winder of a preacher,” he began,
and when I assured him that I was nothing of the sort, he
said, “That ain’t what we heared up here.” On the way from
the depot to the house where I was to stay, we passed a
blacksmith’s shop. Pointing his finger to the blacksmith who
was standing in the door of the shop, my escort, a grizzly
old farmer, said, “See that feller standing there—that black­
smith?” “Yes, I see him,” I replied. “What’s wrong with
him?” “Wall, sir, that guy ain’t got no more religion than
a polecat. He sits in the second seat down the front on the
left-hand side of the church. You better get after him and
git him saved. He shore needs it. H e’s a deacon in our
church, but that scoundrel ain’t got no more religion than
a polecat—no siree.”
Now I knew there was danger ahead. I knew someone was
going to have some fun. A little further down the country
road, my driver again called my attention to a little farm
house—this time on the other side of the road. “Wait till I
tell you about that old scoundrel who lives in thar,” he
began, and then followed a long discourse on how little re­
ligion that “thar feller” had. H e too was a deacon. I had
my own personal opinion about the religion of the driver,
but not wishing to hurt his feelings, I let him drivel on, as
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 109
long as I could stand it. When he began to point out another
“old scoundrel” who belonged to his church, I took the con­
versation away from him by asking him where the regular
minister of the church was. He informed me that he was
“holding evangelistic services” in the next town. When I
asked him why the pastor did not hold evangelistic services
in his own church, he replied, “Well, you see, Mr. Robinson,
the roof on the parsonage wants a bit of fixin’ and we ain’t
had money enough to fix it—it ain’t hardly fit to live in, so
the preacher thought he mought make a little extra money
holdin’ evangelistic services over there. Then he mought
bring back enough money to fix the parsonage hisself.”
“How much do you pay him?” I asked. “Waal, he ain’t
worth much. We been a-hopin’ he’d git another church some
place,” the old fellow replied. I pressed him for the amount
the minister had been promised and was informed that there
was no stated salary—just whatever the “brethren” felt like
giving to him. When I asked how many children their pastor
had, I was told five. I did some more “fishing” with that
old chap, and before we reached the home in which I was to
stay, I had a pretty good idea of the type of congregation
I had to deal with. This was my first try at “driving the
devil out” of anywhere. Being a natural born fighter, I felt
in my bones that the fur would fly before I left Owens
Sound. It did.
Two services were to be held the next day, one at eleven
o’clock in the morning and the other at seven-thirty in the
evening. The Christian Missionary Alliance denomination
was, if I remember correctly, headed by one Reverend A. B.
Simpson who broke away from the Baptist denomination and,
like Paul, started a church of his own. The church itself held
about two hundred people, and when I arrived there for the
morning service, the people were standing outside—not a
seat was vacant. This had not happened there for years, if
ever. Well, I didn’t do much preaching that Sunday morn-
110 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
ing, just fooled away the time. I was waiting for the evening
meeting. I always do my best work in the evening.
I played around with that congregation, and more time
was spent in sizing it up than in doing anything else. Perhaps
my unusually quiet demeanor that morning gave the im­
pression that I was loaded with dynamite, for at six-thirty
in the evening, one hour before the service was scheduled to
begin, the place was packed. In the little corner home where
I stayed, I came in for some more advice. These good folks
were very useful to me in giving me the low-down on the
congregation. They tried hard to pump me about the evening
sermon, but I wasn’t talking. I was listening and making
them talk.
Arriving at the church, I asked for the caretaker. When
he came, I said to him, “Have you got the key to this build­
ing?” He replied that he had. “Then give it to me,” I said.
He rather hesitated and, wanting that key in the worst way,
I took it out of his hand and put it in my pocket. Then lock­
ing the door from the inside, I went into the pulpit. There
was a very tense atmosphere in that church that night. You
could have heard a pin drop, although I had not given any­
one the faintest inkling of what I might do or say. I did not
know myself. (I have never yet walked out before an aud­
ience knowing what I was going to say or do. I invariably
allow the Spirit of God to lead me in every detail.)
Standing there quietly for a few moments, during which
the tenseness increased so that you could cut it with a knife,
I pulled the key from my pocket and, holding it in plain
sight, I said, “You folks are locked in—and here you’re
going to stay until I get through with you. Don’t anyone
attempt to leave.” That was dynamite. Usually the service
would have commenced with a hymn. This service had no
hymns nor prayers in it. I won’t burden you with that
sermon. It was not a sermon. It was the most withering
“bawling out” any congregation ever had. I recalled to them
their telegram about “driving the devil out of Owens Sound”
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 111
and proceeded to inform them that instead of driving His
Satanic Majesty out of Owens Sound, I had pulled a fast
one on him— I had locked him in a church and had the key
in my pocket. Then I let go. At ten thirty that same evening,
the key was still in my pocket and I was still working over
that crowd of false religionists, for that is what they were.
There wasn’t a single one of them that knew the first thing
about God, and they knew it before I was through. Then,
at exactly ten thirty, I took the key from my pocket and
announced that I was taking the night train back to Toronto.
I told them that when they really wanted to know something
of the Power of God, to get their own preacher’s back salary
paid and have his home renovated. Then, from the back of
the church, I threw the key up on the platform and (this
was my strategy) I walked back to the platform again. Be­
fore eleven o’clock, I had raised seven hundred dollars in
cash and checks. After taking out one hundred dollars for
my own expenses, I told them I would mail the balance to
their regular preacher. This was done except, instead of
mailing it and instead of leaving for Toronto that night,
I drove to the next city where their regular minister was
“holding evangelistic services.” The next morning, I went
into a huddle with him. The next week, he was back in his
old charge. Where he is now, I do not know—probably dead,
for he was fifty-four years old then. Thus closed my first
attempt to “drive the devil” out of anywhere.
* * *
T h e r e is o n e t h i n g t h a t b ib l e sc h o o l did for m e , and
I am very grateful to it for that. Somehow or other, I felt
that I had been on the wrong track in my search for the
actual truths of God. I had heard the theory that the Great
Creator of this universe came down from “heaven” in the
form of man, only to be met with crucifixion on a cross.
Somehow or other, that story did not appeal to me. It just
didn’t make sense. It was not logical, and it never entered
into my search for the true Spirit which is God. I had heard
112 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
the story preached from childhood. I had lived with those
who said they were “saved.” I knew to my sorrow just how
that “salvation” worked. I made up my mind that if those
with whom I had come in contact were “saved,” I would
rather take my chances on being damned. However, I never
took the story seriously. In attempting to find the truths of
God in that story, I had been on the wrong track. The
Toronto Bible Training School teachers put my feet on the
right track, not by what they taught, but by what they did
not teach.
Let me summarize some staggering facts which will put
your feet on the right track as they did mine. I am well
aware of the fact that if what I am saying here is true, the
major part of the Christian religion is gone over the dam.
The best part of it has not gone, however— only that part
of it which is not true. When that untrue part has gone, what
is left will be of God—if there is anything left, and I think
there is. Up to this time, my father had religiously preached
that “there is none other name given under heaven whereby
men might be saved.” I had heard that story so many times
that I knew it by heart; yet the more I heard that story, the
farther I got away from God. That, at least, is how it ap­
peared to me.
I had always been taught that the bible of this religion of
the Baptist denomination was, to quote, “the divinely in­
spired Word of God, absolutely true from cover to cover.”
Every word in the book was given by direct inspiration of
God, and in this bible alone, I was told, was the answer
to how to find God. Naturally, until now, I had believed
that statement. I had not been able to find God, however,
through it, nor had I as yet met anyone who gave the slight­
est evidence that he had either. The more I heard that God
Almighty, the Infinite Creative Invisible Spirit which must
have created this wonderful scheme of things, was brutally
murdered by a handful of Roman soldiers, helpless on a
cross, the less faith I had in the story. Before I left this Bible
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 113
School, I had no faith in that story at all, for that school gave
me inside facts which I longed to know, lo these many years.
Yet it was not so much what the school did tell me as what
it did not tell me. I shall not burden you by relating the
curriculum; I shall merely give you what I discovered there.
Thirty-five years of intense study of all systems of religion
since that time have proved to me that there is a vast dif­
ference between the things of the Great Spirit, God, and
the teachings of any theological seminary.
One day, shortly before I left the school, I called for
an appointment with Doctor Harris. He took me to New
York City with him, and we stayed at the old Waldorf-
Astoria. An interesting side-light on the great character of
that man was evidenced one day when we were eating dinner.
The waiter handed us the menu and, looking at it, Harris
said to me, “Frank, choose anything you wish. Pm going to
take a nice dish of fish. You know, Frank— Pm a millionaire,
but I don’t believe the Lord will blame me too much if you
and I have a dinner which costs $1.50, do you?” I assured
him that if I were a millionaire, I should probably be eating
dinners that cost $5.00.
After dinner, we went up to our room, and I pinned the
good doctor down where I wanted him. He admitted to me
before we were through that the entire story of God crucified
on a cross was absolutely without proof and, so far as legal
evidence is concerned, might not be true at all. He ad­
mitted to me that the Bible Training School and MacMaster
University existed, only to teach the truths of God as the
Baptist denomination believed those truths to exist. At the
same time, he admitted that the entire Christian structure,
insofar as Jesus Christ is concerned, is only a matter of con­
jecture, not fact. That was what I wanted to hear him say,
for it was the conclusion I had come to long ago. This Bible
Training School provided me with the proof. Here is a sum­
mary of what I have discovered through that bible school,
and since, regarding the religion of the Baptist denomination.
114 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
If the whole Christian structure believes these things, let
it note what I write. If it reads the handwriting on the wall
aright, it will see the Light and, throwing away its unprov-
able and untenable theories of God, it will, I sincerely trust,
join with me in bringing to this world, not Christian beliefs
about God, but the actual Power of the Spirit of God.
* * *
The following were proved by me to be facts. Anyone
can prove them to be facts with little research:
First—No book in the Christian bible can prove its authenticity.
They are all anonymous. The Mosiac Law is a copy of the far
older Hamurabi code, which, in turn, goes back twenty thousand
years to the Osirian religion. Whole passages, chapters, appear
word for word as they did in the Osirian religion— this long
before Christ was ever heard of. Not one book in the entire
Christian bible can produce evidence of its truth— not a single
original manuscript exists, or has ever been known to exist.
Second—The only reference anywhere to God Almighty, the Su­
preme Ruler of the universe, being crucified on a cross is in the
four gospels of the Christian religion. History never heard of
this stupendous happening. These four gospels are positively
anonymous writings. Who wrote them is not known. The titles
they bear were added by the Roman Catholic priests in whose
hands these anonymous documents first appeared. Where they
came from and who wrote them is not known. Not until the year
1545 A.D. were they placed in the canon of New Testament
scripture, and then, it was not by “ divine inspiration of God,”
but by vote of 180 Catholic priests who voted, after a fist fight
at the Council of Trent, to admit these four gospels as the
“Word of God.” In these four gospels, all completely anonymous,
is to be found the only reference to God Almighty being killed
on a cross, and the originals of these four gospels “ are all lost.”
In other words, we have only the vote of 180 Catholic priests
to thank for the entire story of God being crucified on a cross as
Jesus Christ.
Third— One of the reasons we have only four gospels is because
animals have four legs. Irenaeus, Bishop of Lyons in 1545, A.D.,
presided at the Council of Trent. The argument he used for
having four gospels is this— “The earth has four corners (which
it has not), there are four great winds (which there are not),
animals have four legs, so we must have four gospels— no more
and no less."
Fourth— Outside of these four gospels, there is no known reference
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 115
to Jesus Christ anywhere. Historians, living almost on the exact
spot where these amazing things were supposed to have hap­
pened, and writing in detail the religious history of that day
and age, never heard of Jesus Christ or of any of the mira­
culous things we are asked to believe about his birth, death, and
crucifixion.
Fifth—The story of Jesus Christ crucified as Almighty God is about
the thirty-second time a similar story had been told. It is the
most recent of all such stories. It is very interesting to note in
passing that this world has rejected every story of God Almighty
being crucified as a man ever been offered it. The story
of Jesus Christ as God Almighty crucified has also been re­
jected. The “powers that be” in the Christian religion admit
that themselves.
Sixth— Every fundamental doctrine, creed, and dogma of the Chris­
tian church existed hundreds and thousands of years before this
church was ever heard of, in religions which the Christian
church now calls “pagan” and “heathen.” The immaculate con­
ception of a god by a god, the virgin birth, the crucifixion, the
resurrection, the communion of saints, the forgiveness of sins,
the atonement, the eucharist, baptism, the trinity—every single
one of these doctrines existed, and therefore, must have come
from older systems of religion. As an example of this, let me give
you one outstanding system of religion larger than the Chris­
tian religion and existing fifteen hundred years before, if not
longer than that. I refer to the old religion of India.
The Christian bible recounts the story of the creation, and
the creation of the first man and woman whose names were
Adam and Eve. But fifteen hundred years before, the bibles of
the Hindoo gave a similar story, only the first man and woman
there were called Adimo and Heva. There was a similar flood
story, and a similar “talking snake” story. The only man found
“ righteous in the sight of the Lord” in the Christian story was
Noah. In the Hindoo story, fifteen hundred years before, his
name was Noe. The Christian Noah had three sons, Shem,
Ham, and Japheth. The Hindoo Noe also had three sons, fifteen
hundred years before, and these sons were named Sherma, Hama,
and Jiapheta.
We all know how one day nineteen hundred years ago, a star
appeared over the Bethlehem plains. We have been told how the
wise men from “the East” (which means something) came bring­
ing their gifts to an infant who was born in a manger. This
infant was Almighty God. The angels sang “Glory to God in the
highest, on earth Peace—Good-will to men.” (If that was the
object of this birth, it failed). All know how the life of the
young child was sought by the ruling King Herod. What we
116 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
do not know, and what the Bible Training School did not tell
me was that fifteen hundred years before, to the very same day,
December 25th, another star appeared over other plains, herald­
ing the birth of Almighty God in the manger. Wise men from
“ the East” came bringing their gifts. Angels sang songs in the
night. Their song was “ Glory to God in the highest, on earth
Peace, Good-will to men.” The life of this other God-child was
sought early by the ruling King Cansa. The name of the “god”
who was born in a manger nineteen hundred years ago was Jesus
Christ. The name of the God born in another manger four thou­
sand years ago was Jeseus Chrishna.
If the reader cares to have full and authentic information
about these other “crucified gods,” secure Gleams Over the
Horizon by this author. In that book is material which I
should very much like to introduce here. If I did, this
volume would be too bulky and besides, that subject calls
for a volume in itself. So, with these six points made clear,
I shall trot along with this autobiography. It is not an
attempt to destroy the Christian religion. At the same
time, if the Christian religion is based on false information,
if it is based on theory and not fact, if its complete structure
was copied from another—a heathen system of religion—
it will destroy itself.
We are living in perilous days. No false system of theology
can meet the conditions of our time. Too many dangerous
elements are running wild. What will have happened before
this book sees the light of day, I cannot predict. Perhaps
the “might makes right” forces will have scored a temporary
victory. The point is: No false story of God, no unsafe and
untrue system of religion, is capable of coping with the
opposite forces which are abroad on the earth today. Let
the Christian not be alarmed at what I write—he should be
used to that by now. Rather let him take hope, for if his
religion does not contain the truths of God, those truths are
to be found elsewhere. If the Christian thinks more of God
than he does of his religion, he will find God, letting his
religion, if proven false, fall by the wayside.
If my personal opinion means anything to you, let me say
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 117
to you that in other writings, I have proved, beyond per-
adventure of contradition, that what, under the guise of
Christianity, masquerades as being of God is nothing more
nor less than the same old religious tradition the “heathen”
have, told again. That statement is either true or false.
Material proving that statement has been published from
this office. It has gone all over the civilized world. It has
never been challenged, by priest, 'preacher, or theologian. Yet
I am an uneducated man. If my statements are untrue, why
do not these brilliant theologians, Protestant or Catholic,
show the world where I am wrong? If I am wrong, it will
be very easy to prove me wrong. That, I repeat, has never
yet been done. Nor can it be done, for before I write, I know.
I would much rather have had some church challenge me
to an open debate on this subject. That, however, was not
done. Instead, criminal trials, deportation proceedings, were
the order of the day. I am not saying that any church had
anything to do with those trials—in fact, I am not saying
anything either way. I could talk, if I cared to, and what
I could say would make very interesting reading; but it’s all
over now. The dog is dead. Why try to revive him again;
he was a bad dog; let him rest.
I do not believe there has ever been a spiritual pioneer
who has not suffered persecution during his life. I do not
believe there has ever been a time when a true spiritual
prophet and pioneer was needed as much as one is needed
now. Such a man will have to rise. Such a one will have to
bring to this earth the actual truths of God. Nothing less
can stop these war-mad dictators. These days are serious.
Let none think that because we in America are safe today
we shall always be safe. We may be in that war, or in another
one, before this book goes to the publisher. Let us suppose
that Hitler and his forces win. In war, none can predict,
but suppose they do. What then? He would have the world
in the hollow of his hand. The name of God would be com­
pletely eliminated, and the name of Hitler would take its
118 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
place. That day will never come, but there will be hell on
earth before peace is restored. Let me ask you a question, my
friend, whoever you may be. What religious organization is
there on the face of the earth today which knows enough of
the Power of the Spirit of God to give Spiritual battle to
Hitler?
You know the answer as well as I do. Such an organiza­
tion does not exist. The reason such an organization does
not exist is because no organization on the face of the earth
is teaching the truths of God. All are teaching the traditions
of their own church-—-nothing more. These traditions may
be precious, but if they are not true, regardless of how pre­
cious they may be, they are valueless. They can have no
spiritual truth or Power in them, and nothing short of Spir­
itual Truths and the Power of the Spirit of God will bring
peace to this earth now. What we are witnessing is the Great
Armageddon so many have looked for. Well, it’s here, and
something will have to be done about it. It is quite useless
to look “above the skies” for the “god” of any religion to
come back and take a hand in world affairs. That cannot
happen because the stories of those “gods” are not true. Let
me tell you what will happen. Then perhaps you will under­
stand the full significance of this Movement here in Moscow,
Idaho.
The Christian Church today knows it is licked. It knows as
well as anyone knows that it is not competent to do one
thing to stop such men as Hitler, Stalin, and Mussolini. Even
the Italian system of religion which is spreading so much
propaganda in this country, the Roman Catholic Church,
knows that it is as impotent as a dead man to do one thing to
either stop this war or to demonstrate the Power of God on
this earth, and nothing short of the actual demonstration of
the Power of God will bring peace. The Christian church,
driven to desperation as it is, will do one of two things—
it will either die in its tracks, in which case another religion
(“Psychiana”) will step into the picture; or it will discard
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 119
absolutely the foolish and false theory that God Almighty,
the Infinite Spirit whom no man has ever seen nor ever can
see, was crucified on a cross under the alias of Jesus Christ.
That insane theory of God will have to go. The only thing
that story is good for is to cater to the ignorant and super­
stitious and build up a church organization. It can mean
nothing to anyone who knows that God must exist, in all
Power, here and now.
It is not my intention to deal with the possibilities of the
church throwing away its pagan philosophy of a “crucified
god.” Whether it does or not is its own business. If it does
not, it will die, if something already dead can die again.
There is one faint spark of hope left. The Christian church
is not quite dead. The foolish story of God Almighty being
crucified on a cross is killing it— but it is not quite dead yet.
If this church will arise to a new life— if it will throw away
traditions which can very easily be proven to be the same old
traditions the Pagans had— it can live. If it does not do that,
the “Psychiana” Movement will grow and grow until the
world of peace-loving people, seeing the fallacy of what the
church teaches— will turn to the movement through which
the Spirit of God is being manifested on this earth.
God is right. God is everything that is Good. God is every­
thing that is just. God is the Infinite Spirit of Life. God is
that Intelligence—the soul of the universe, through which
Life, Love, Peace, all of these eternal-—came to this earth.
That Spirit cannot die, nor can Hitler or Stalin or Mussolini
kill it. The crying shame of the world today is that those
religious organizations who say they know and teach God
are, instead of teaching God, bringing to the earth, in a vain
attempt to save it, theories of God which are as false as hell
itself is false. Think of it. Less than four hundred years ago
the entire story of Jesus Christ was put into the Christian
bible because “animals have four legs.” And the Christian
church expects to bring this world to God by such a cock-
and-bull story. What think you of that story?
120 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
I believe the Protestant church is absolutely honest in what
it thinks it believes. I think it believes the delusion under
which it labors. It believes a lie. I cannot say as much for the
Roman Catholic church. I love everyone, Catholic or Pro­
testant. But I hate the organization which, while telling the
world that it represents God, and is “the only one authorized
to act and teach for God,” and still is about as much use
against world conditions today as a bump on a log. The
Roman Catholic church tells us that Jesus Christ founded
that church. I believe that. Certainly God never founded it,
and there is a great possibility that Jesus Christ never even
lived. If he did live, it was as a man, and not a god. There­
fore, this makes the Roman Catholic church a man-made
and church-made organization. It never was anything else.
The Protestant church, being a “branch” of the Catholic
church, is of the same material. This material cannot save
the world. It is of Man— not of God. And it will take the
Power of God to save this world—believe it or not.
CHAPTER SEVEN
Go Out West
I LEFT THE BIBLE TRAINING SCHOOL BEFORE THE TERM WAS
over. I left it in disgust, for what I had begun to suspect was
true. When I entered that school, I expected it to be able to
give me absolute proof of the story with which it was coming
to the world. There was no hesitance about telling the world
that it was hopelessly lost unless it believed that story. Never
did the Baptists leave the slightest loophole for escape—
you either believe this or you’ll be damned— God said so.
I did not believe that, and very frankly said so.
I must tell you how I came to leave so unexpectedly. One
morning a call came into the classroom for me. I was wanted
in the front office. Entering, I saw Doctors Harris, Mc-
Nicol, Imrie, and Stewart who, evidently, had been in con­
ference. Entering the room, I was invited to have a seat, and
after that Doctor Harris opened the conversation. “Frank, we
want you to keep very humble before God; we want you to
realize your Spiritual Power; we believe God has a great
work for you to do; and we don’t want you to spoil it. You
haven’t been up-to-snuff lately, and we want to pray with
you.” You could have knocked me down. I often think of
that conference. It was a fact that there was a big work for
me to do in the name and interest of God, and that work is
just now, thirty-five years later, coming into fruition. How­
ever, it is not the work those good men thought I should do.
Their ideas were to have a big evangelist who could, by
the power of his personality, bring men and women to the
“altar” by the tens of thousands. That was not my idea, nor
was it God’s idea, for instead of bringing men and women
to the “altar” by the tens of thousands, I am doing something
122 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
very much better. I am bringing to them the truths of God,
and no “altar” is necessary for that.
Instead of telling men and women that “there is none
other name given under heaven whereby we may be saved,”
I am telling them that the Great Spirit, God, is instantly
available to them, in all its Power, and that, without believ­
ing one single thing any church asks them to believe. The
world is believing me. The world, so hungry for God, so
disappointed at not being able to find God in the church, is
turning to us here in Moscow, and finding God through the
humble, though simple, message your humble and simple
writer is giving.
I will tell you the amazing story of the birth and growth
of this Movement later on. Let me say here that thirteen
years ago this Movement was unknown. Today, numerically,
it is the eighth largest religion in America, and this has been
done by mail alone. We have no churches, no ministers, no
priests. We operate exclusively by mail, and we advertise the
religion. Don’t you think the hand of God is behind us?
However, I must not anticipate, but get on with the life story.
(A real writer could have made a good book out of this).
Looking that group of good men straight in the eyes, I
astounded them by saying, “Gentlemen: I appreciate your
interest and your kindness. I am, however, afraid that I shall
have to disappoint you; I shall never preach another sermon
until I am convinced of the truth of the story.” That threw
consternation into the camp with a vengeance. They were
staggered. “Do you mean to tell us that you do not believe
the story of Jesus Christ?” Doctor Harris asked me. I re­
plied that I had not been shown either proof or evidence that
the story of Jesus Christ was true.
Then, I informed these good men that I came to that
school to learn the truth, and instead of having the proof of
the story given to me, I had been utterly convinced that the
whole story was only “a belief” of the Baptist denomination,
and of the whole Christian church. This they admitted, and
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 123
the only encouraging word I got was to be told that I must
“take the whole story on faith.” Doctor McNicol said:
“Frank, we very freely admit that we cannot produce evi­
dence of the truth of this story (now listen, reader) but
religion does not consist of -proof—only belief.” I shot back
at Doctor McNicol this statement: “Then, Doctor McNicol,
without the proof, is there not a possibility that your story
may not be true at all?” This floored him, for he did not
want to admit that. At this point, old Doctor Stewart entered
the argument. “Of course, in the absence of proof of the truth
of the story, we depend upon the leadings of the Spirit of
God, and that Spirit tells us that the story is true.” “Well,
that Spirit tells me something entirely different,” I replied.
It was suggested then that an immediate “prayer-meeting”
be held, but I stopped that. I did not want to pray, nor did
I want them praying for me. I wanted to know the actual
truths of God. I did not care one whoop what the Baptist
church believed, or what any other church believed. If what
they believed was true, they should be able to produce the
evidence, especially when the souls of millions were at stake.
This evidence, the Bible School could not produce. I, on the
other hand, could and did produce evidence that the story is
not true, and never was true. While studying the regular
curriculum, I had also been studying other religions. In those
studies, I found several amazing things which I have already
gone into, and into which I shall go into again later on.
I saw then, in that conference, and very clearly too, that
the whole story of Jesus Christ as God is only the belief,
without proof, of the Christian church. When I use the term
“Christian church,” I include both Catholic and Protestant
and the four hundred sects which comprise the Christian
church. On the other side of the ledger, there were ten other
major systems of religion on the earth, some of them larger
than the Christian religion, although size is irrelevant. What
about all of them? Were they wrong? Were they going to
hell because they did not believe what the Christian said he
124 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
believed. I did not hear the name of Jesus Christ mentioned
in these other systems of religion, but if Jesus Christ was
God Almighty, why didn’t I?
I gave much thought to these other religions. They con­
sisted of human beings, different color, perhaps, different
countries, perhaps, but all creations of the one great God.
I did not believe that only those who believed the Christian
theology were to be saved. I might have believed it, and
would have been glad to believe it, had the slightest iota of
proof been submitted to me. Such proof was not available.
When I really understood that the only reference in the
world to Jesus Christ was in the four gospels; when I
realized that no one knows who wrote them; when I recalled
that one of the reasons they are in the Christian bible at all
was because “animals have four legs,” well, somehow or
other, I demanded more evidence than that. Other religions
had their bibles too. They had a different “crucified god.”
Some of these “crucified gods” were so similar to the Chris­
tian’s “crucified god” that logic and reason must admit that
the story of the later “god” was either stolen or copied from
the older “god.” I did not want the Christian “god.” /
wanted the God of the entire universe, and, by throwing
away the teachings of the Bible Institute, I found the right
track, and, at the proper time, found God.
A lot of water went over the dam after I walked out of
that conference, for that is what I did. Those folks have never
seen me from that day to this. The next day I left for the
West, joined up with the Royal Northwest Mounted Police.
* * *
I have never been able to understand the years which im­
mediately followed my leaving the Bible School. Naturally,
when I discovered the truth about the Christian religion,
away went all my hopes and the bottom fell out of every­
thing. I was disconsolate, sad, and discouraged. I had proved
beyond any shadow of doubt that the whole Christian struc­
ture was made out of thin air. There was no chance that I
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 125
was wrong. Of course, I could have gone “down the stream”
with the rest, and there is no question but that the future
would have been bright, insofar as my own future was con­
cerned. Undoubtedly I had power on the platform and in the
pulpit. Without any question there was a dynamic in my
personality which would have carried me to great heights,
but I could not bring myself to preach something I knew was
not true. “Faith” and “belief” were not enough. Anyway, it
was impossible for me to believe when I had so much evi­
dence against the truth of the story.
Take the Hindoo “savior,” Jeseus Chrishna, for instance.
It is more than coincidence that fifteen hundred years before
Christ was ever heard of, the whole and complete story of
God, as Chrishna, was known. The virgin-born mother of
Chrishna was Maia, and the virgin-born mother of Christ
was Mary, which means the same. Then the rest of the
stories told in the religion of the Hindoo—it just was im­
possible for the later edition, Christian, of that story to be
true, the earlier edition being false. Yet that was what I was
asked to believe. In the infinite wisdom of God, I could not
imagine anyone, of any religion, or without any religion,
being cast into hell-fire. Yet that was, and still is, a funda­
mental teaching of the Christian religion.
I weighed the whole matter very carefully and decided
that rather than preach something I could not believe, and
which could not be proven true, I would get as far away from
it all as I could.
That night, wandering round the streets of Toronto alone
and disconsolate, I did something I had never done before
in my life. I went into a saloon and drank one glass of beer
after another. Why, I do not know. Perhaps the shock of
what I had discovered about the story of God as told me in
that Baptist Bible School. I never should have taken the
first glass of beer, for, as the days rolled by, more and more
beer was drunk by me, and the first thing I knew, I was down
and out. This, I say, had never happened before. On three
126 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
different occasions, I had bought a “shanty,” which was a
glass of half beer and half ginger-beer, but until that night,
I had never entered a saloon. However, it is more than
thirty years now since any kind of liquor has touched my lips,
and about all I ever drank was beer. The stuff got a hold of
me, and I liked it. Anyway, what difference did it make?
The future held nothing for me, and the one institution in
which I had trusted for the truths of God had given me a
stone when I asked for an egg. I asked it for a fish and had
been given a scorpion. Why care, for I had no one dependent
upon me. Why not have a “good time.”
Let me repeat here that I do not want to write about the
next few years. It is taking a lot of courage. I could keep
quiet about it, and no one would be the wiser, but this book
must be written truthfully. I must tell all. There are people
who, when they read what I am about to write, will say, “I
told you so; I knew there was something wrong with that
fellow.” Undoubtedly the Sunday School Times, which
“Christian” paper has been so bitter in its attacks on me,
will come out with another article, and what it will call me,
the Lord only knows. It will not upset me too much, how­
ever, for this Movement is now large enough to stand on its
own feet, even with me out of the picture.
Soon, what little money I had was gone. I found myself
on the streets of Toronto without a dime—no food, no home.
I cared about nothing except getting money together to buy
some more beer. I sold my watch to a pawnbroker, and when
the money from that was gone, I sold my clothes, excepting
those I wore. Every friend and acquaintance in Toronto was
begged by me for money, and when they gave it to me, I
made a bee-line for the nearest saloon and did not leave there
until the money was gone. The downward trail—the part of
my life I regret—had begun.
In relating the events of the next few years, please under­
stand that the only one I hurt was myself. I never knowingly
hurt a fly. I never took what did not belong to me. I just
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 127
simply seemed to lose control of myself, so great had been
the shock received in the Bible School. In this drinking busi­
ness, I did it as I do everything else, with all the power I
have. There were no halfway measures with me. I either
went all the way or none. This time I went all the way.
One night I saw a sign that said that recruits were being
enrolled for the R.N.W.M.P. Here, at last, was the chance
I had been looking for— a chance to go out West and get
away from everything. There, I could drink myself to death
as fast as I could, for there was nothing left to live for. In­
spector Fitzgerald was in charge of the recruiting. When I
told him I wanted to join the Mounted Police, he told me
to go home and sober up and come back the next morning.
This I did, and that night I was a Constable in the Royal
Northwest Mounted Police.
The trip out to Regina was a good one. Several scores of
men were recruited in Toronto. All of them were not the
best citizens, I assure you, but nothing mattered to me now.
I wanted to get away from it all. I wanted to forget, and
forget I did, just as long as I could drown my sorrows in
drink. A poor way, to be sure, but I had to find that out. A
couple of days later, we arrived in Regina, and were sent
to Post Headquarters. Within a week, we were fitted with
uniforms, and our first instructions in riding began. I had
some trying times with that riding. Never having been on a
horse in my life, I had a new and very “sore” experience.
They gave me a horse named “Big Bill,” which stood eigh­
teen hands, and when I came off of “Big Bill,” I knew I
had received a fall. In those days, I was about six feet tall
and weighed one hundred and fifty pounds. On one occasion,
Sergeant Dann, who was riding instructor, tied into me. It
was autumn, and our riding was done in the gymnasium.
Round and round we went. First we walked, then we trotted,
and then we ran. For some reason or other, I experienced
considerable difficulty in keeping my arms close to my side
while riding. They had a habit of flapping round like wings
128 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
on a crow. Stopping the parade, Sergeant Dann called me to
center of the gymnasium and said to Corporal Meakin, “Will
you please open the window; this damned fool wants to fly
out.”
That night was pay-day. On the Post grounds was a res­
taurant where they sold beer. Getting loaded up, I spotted
Sergeant Dann drinking a glass of beer at the other end of
the bar. Walking up to him, I said, “So you’re the famous
Dann, eh? You thought you were having a lot of fun with
me today in the gym, didn’t you? Well, you take ‘that’.”
“That” was a poke in the jaw which Sergeant Dann knew he
had received. A bit later, just a few seconds, I discovered
Sergeant Dann could “poke” harder than I could, and I went
to sleep. Dann never forgot that. The next day he called
me to one side and said, “Robinson, let me give you a little
friendly tip. Lay off that booze or out you’ll go on your
ear.” I replied that I was drunk when the outfit hired me,
and I’d get drunk every time I had a chance. The R.N.W.M.
police had other ideas, and inside of sixty days they handed
me my release which was marked “Chronic Alcoholic.”
This was the same Frank B. Robinson that Doctor Elmore
Harris had told would “draw this world closer to the cross
than it had ever been before.” It began to look as if Doctor
Harris had been mistaken. As for me, little cared I in those
days. After every “bender,” I would suffer a period of re­
morse, but the very next day, or as soon as I could get a
dollar, into the saloon I would go and never leave there
unless carried out, or thrown out. Being able to play the
piano, I was usually welcome and made enough money to
keep me pretty well filled up with beer most of the time. I
never drank whiskey, except on a few occasions.
Taking what money I had coming from the Police, I made
a bee-line for the Kings Hotel in Regina, Saskatchewan, and
stayed there until every penny was gone. A few days later,
I was standing outside of a drug store in Regina when the
proprietor came and stood in the doorway. He passed the
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 129
time of day with me, and I said, “Don’t know where a feller
can get a job, do you?” He asked me what sort of work I
did, and I told him I was a druggist. “Well, Pm looking
for a man right now, come in,” he said. In I went, and was
hired. When he remarked about my appearance, I told him
that I had been on the Police but didn’t like it so was let
out. H e took me to a clothing store, O.k.’d a suit of clothes,
a few collars, etc., and the next day I went to work for
Doctor Whitmore in his drug store in Regina.
Willie Hayes, a fine chap and a singer, was working there.
I don’t know where Willie is now, as what I am relating
happened a long time ago. Willie Hayes made arrangements
at his boarding house for me, and I felt pretty good. It was
nice to have a clean suit on and a good job again. I swore
I never would take another drink as long as I lived. Re­
ligion?— I completely forgot that. I wanted nothing to do
with it. It was a fake—a sham—it was not true, I told myself,
and that was true when applied to the denominations which
profess religion. Rather should I say theology—for religion
and theology are different things.
Everything went swimmingly at the drug store, and I
made a host of friends. Then, one day out o f a clear sky, I
walked into the Kings Hotel bar—and I was off again. That
time I stayed drunk several weeks. When it was not possible
to beg any more money, I jumped on a freight train and rode
that train to the next town which was Moose Jaw. How I got
another drug job in Moose Jaw, I do not know, but I did.
Ed Colling was the name of the man I worked for. He liked
booze as well as I did, and we would get together after the
day’s business was over and both get drunk in the back of the
drug store. Ed drank whiskey. I drank beer, and we kept it
up for many months. As a result of this, the store had to close.
I caught a freight train away out to Vancouver, B. C., and
arrived there, after several weeks of tramping around and
sleeping wherever I could find a place. I finally got a job
with the J. A. Teepoorten Company who were wholesale
130 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
druggists. “Are you a manufacturing chemist?” they asked
when I applied for the job. “Oh, sure,” I was a manufac­
turing chemist— I was anything to get a job so I could earn
some more money with which to buy some more beer. That
was what I was interested in, for I could drown all thoughts
of God in beer. I could even drown my conscience in beer.
Everything was sold—not for a mess of pottage—but for a
glass of beer. Fortunately it was only beer—not anything
stronger.
The first job I was given was to match a batch of lead
plaster. If there is a druggist reading this book, and I imagine
many druggists will read it, he will know just how hard a
job making lead plaster is. You mix lead oxide with glycerine
and, I believe, olive oil and then boil it in a huge boiler. You
have to be careful to add the ingredients in just the proper
proportion and at the proper time or the mixture will ex­
plode. That is exactly what happened to the mixture I was
making. It blew up like a bomb detonating. Fortunately, or
unfortunately, I had gone to my coat to get a drink, for I
had come to work that morning with three bottles of beer
under my coat, and I was in the cloakroom when the lead
plaster went skyward. The J. A. Teepoorten Company has
not seen me from that day to this. I got out, and I stayed out.
One Sunday evening I was in a saloon in Vancouver when
the band of the Salvation Army struck up outside. That sort
of awakened memories in me, and I went outside to listen
to the music. On that particular night I had about all the
beer I could drink. I never got foolish, nor did I ever make
a nuisance out of myself. What I did get from drinking was
a temporary respite from the remorse I could not get away
from. Such a brilliant future might have been mine—“A
famous preacher,” they said. Then, at the very moment when
the “proof of the pudding” was to be forthcoming, I was
disappointed. The remorse, and the shock of this discovery
nearly ruined me, for there were no limitations with me now.
I didn’t care what happened to me. I had looked to the
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 131
church for God, and had found out God was not there.
As I stood listening to the music, tears began to well up
in my eyes, and a young Salvation Army worker by the name
of Delbert Box left the ring and, coming up to me, said
“What’s the matter, brother? Do you want to be saved?” I
informed him that I could probably tell him a few things
about salvation. Then, impulsively, I said, “I’m going to
end the whole damned business—I’m going lower and lower,
and I don’t give a damn what happens to me. Your religion
is as false as hell, and I can prove it.” This young Box was
a far smarter boy than he looked, for he did not argue with
me. What he did say nearly knocked me off my feet. “Let’s
go in and get another drink,” said Box.
Looking at him, I said, “What do you mean—let’s go in
and get another drink?” “Well, if booze is good for you,
why is it not good for me, too? You’re a pretty good-looking
boy, you know something, come on in. I’ll buy you a drink.”
I believe that man showed remarkable judgment, for instead
of going back in the saloon and having some more beer, I said
to him, “You’re nobody’s fool yourself. If you were willing
to go in that saloon with me and buy me a drink, I’ll go you
one better— I’ll go up to your hall with you and preach you
the best sermon you’ve ever listened to.” Box took me up,
and I went with him to the hall, but I did not preach that
night. After the meeting Box took me home, and I stayed
there with him a week.
The memories of all these happenings, long ago as they
were, are stamped on my mind and will be as long as I live.
My vivid life must have a meaning. What this life was meant
for is just becoming known. When the fullness of the work
I am doing is complete, I probably shall not be here. In any
event, those who read this book will understand why I am
writing it so plainly. I want there to be no undue credit given
to me. I want you to know that I am a human being, subject
to the same temptations you are, and just as fallible. If it
were not for the consciousness of the Power of the Spirit of
132 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
God in me now, in all probability I should be back in those
saloons—if I were still alive.
I agreed with Delbert Box to go to Army meetings with
him on condition that he did not try to get me “saved.” That
was repulsive to me, knowing what I knew about the Chris­
tian structure. Box was very clever. He told me in confidence
one day that he “didn’t believe that salvation stuff” any
more than I did, but he did like to be in the Army. “I have a
future to look out for,” he said. Then I understood.
Deciding to leave Vancouver, B. C., shortly after the in­
cidents related here, I took a steamer to Victoria, a beautiful
little spot on Vancouver Island. I was a good boy for quite a
while, first getting a job as a lather, and later driving a
Ford for the Pantorium Cleaners, which was owned then
by two young fellows from Nampa, Idaho, Roy and Hers-
chel Brown. I had good times on that job. I stayed at the
Y.M.C.A. and officiated at the piano every Sunday after­
noon during the meeting and the “lunch” which followed,
for the Y.M.C.A. was not above having a feed every Sunday
afternoon and charging for it.
The secretary of the Victoria Y.M.C.A. was Fred Witham.
I called upon him at his home in Portland, Oregon, just a few
months ago. We discussed old times, and Fred reminded
me that in his basement he had a lathing hammer I had
“soaked” with him for $1.50 while on one of my drinking
spells. He promised to give me the hatchet before I left, but
he either forgot, or I forgot to repay him the $1.50 with
interest. Mrs. Witham is organist in a Portland, Oregon,
church at this writing.
It was in Victoria where I became quite active in the church
again. I joined the First Baptist church. The pastor, and he
was a humdinger of a Baptist preacher if I ever saw one, was
the Reverend A. B. Warnicker. Later he left the ministry
and went into the real estate business. That is where he be­
longed. He certainly never should have been a Baptist
preacher, for he did not believe any more of the stories he
Student correspondence is a very important part of the “Psychiana” Movement. Every student letter
is personally answered either by Dr. Robinson, Rev. DeBolt, or one of their many assistants. Dicta­
phone machines are used for the dictating of all letters to Students and the girls in this picture are kept
busy. In the neighborhood of 15,000 letters and post-cards are received on an average every month,
S T U D E N T C O R RESPO N D EN C E D EPT .
The gentleman in the center is Irving S. Hart, publisher of the Boise, Ida., Statesman. Dr. Robinson
is a dyed-in-the-wool Republican. This picture was taken in Mr. Dewey’s room in the Owyhee Hotel
in Boise on a speaking engagement in his campaign for the Republican nomination for President of the
United States.
DR. RO BIN SO N AN D TH O S. E. D E W E Y
E L M E R F. AN D ERSO N
Accountant of "Psychiana
M r. Anderson has been in his present position practically from the
inception of the Movement. He is one of the Moscow men who
invested a few hundred dollars in it in 1928. Before coming to
“Psychiana" he was employed as cashier of The First Trust and
Savings Bank of Moscow.
DR. RO BIN SO N IN 1928
This is the first photo of Dr. Robinson to appear in his national
advertising. The first ad. using this photo created a sensation in
national advertising circles. The photo is not used any more.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 133
preached than I did, and he very frankly told me so. Rev­
erend Warnicker had a wooden leg, but had it so carefully
disguised that it was not too noticeable. I went quite a long
time in Victoria without a “blow-up.” I was elected president
of the B.Y.P.U. and vice-president of the Brotherhood. I
remember them carrying me around the church on their
shoulders when I was re-elected to office. Here again, my
reputation for speaking ability and power became noticeable.
True, I had not yet found God, but what difference did that
make? The rest of the Baptists were having a good time in
the church, not believing any more about it than I did, so
why shouldn’t I?
I called on the Reverend Warnicker one day, the same
Sunday on which he preached a sermon entitled “Should a
Young Stenographer Take Gifts of Jewelry from Her Em ­
ployer?” That actually was the topic of his sermon that Sun­
day morning. What that had to do with finding the Power of
God, I know not. Neither did he, for we made a dinner ap­
pointment after the sermon. We ate in a little restaurant,
and I began to dig into him, asking questions as to how much
he believed of what he was preaching. I told him of my ex­
perience with the Bible Training School, and then and there
I discovered that the Reverend Warnicker could be placed
in the same class with Robinson, Sr., Muxworthy, Wallace,
Elliott, and practically every other Baptist, or any other kind
of preacher I had met up with at that time. I have met good
men and earnest men in the ministry, but I have met far
more of the other kind.
I spoke very plainly to Warnicker. What should I do?
Should I continue my search for God, or was there anything
to this God proposition? Imagine my surprise when he re­
plied directly to the above question, “Not a hell of a lot to
it, Frank.” Then he went on to explain that these old bible
manuscripts were of questionable authority, and quite value­
less historically. “There is no historicity to the Christian
religion—there isn’t supposed to be,” he said. “The church
134 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
is a good thing—it keeps people from going to worse places
—but as far as finding God goes, you had better forget it,
for you and I will never know anything about God this side
of the tomb, and probably not much more on the other side.
You keep on as you’re going. You’re doing all right,” War-
nicker told me as I closed the interview.
It was in Victoria that I became acquainted with a fellow
called Scott, a plasterer. He gave me a job mixing plaster
and carrying it up a ladder to him as he plastered houses.
That was a tough assignment, yet I did not mind it too much,
and besides, I needed the money. I knew that full well one
of these days I should cut loose and go on another of those
now horrible drinking spells. Scott was a member of the
Victoria Salvation Army. I had about $64.00 coming from
him when I decided to quit. He had quite a large check, and
showing the check to me, he said, “Let’s go down to the bank
and get this cashed, and then I’ll give you the money that
is coming to you.” At the bank he told me that I need not go
in with him, and I, like a “simp,” stayed outside. I waited a
long time for Mr. Scott. I probably could be still waiting,
for Scott slipped out of the side door of the bank, and I have
not seen him from that day to this. Yet this man would stand
on the street corner and tell the people of Victoria how he
had been “saved by the blood of Jesus.” Perhaps if he had
not had so much salvation, I might have had my $64.00.
One evening a couple of us young fellows were feeling
pretty good. We were sitting in the lobby of the Y.M.C.A.
The Catholic church was across the street. My companion,
one Coleman, now in Portland, Oregon, said to me, “Frank,
let’s go in and see what’s going on.” So across the street we
went and into the Catholic church. There were a few people
standing around about forty-eight lighted candles. There
were also two money boxes and a sign on the table on which
they stood told “the faithful” to put their contribution in the
box, and then light some candles. How many candles could
be lighted depended upon how much money they put in the
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 135
box. The candles were supposed to burn up their sins or
something equally ridiculous. Not having any money to put
in the box, and not desiring to have our “sins” burned up with
candles, Coleman suggested that we blow out the candles
which were already lit. We did, and then we ran. Three
priests took up the chase after us, but being “fat and forty,”
they never did catch us.
I remember going to Portland, Oregon, but I do not
remember the boat trip back to Vancouver. However, a
couple of days later, I found myself in Portland, Oregon.
That was about thirty-four years ago, I imagine. What I
was doing there, I do not know. I remember sitting in the
lobby of the Y.M.C.A. playing the piano. One of the sec­
retaries, Jim Palmer, got acquainted with me. He used to
love to hear me pound the hymns out of that piano. By the
way, Jim Palmer is still secretary of that same Y.M.C.A.
I visit him nearly every time I go to Portland. During the
trial, he came to Moscow as a witness for me, to swear what
registration of birth I had given him about thirty-four years
before. I am not sure as to these dates, but I know it was
more than thirty-two years ago at the time of the trial. Inci­
dentally, the place of my birth was always given where I
was told it had occurred—New York. This is corroborated
by the entry in the Long Crendon Church book to which I
have referred.
The drinking spells were still the order of the day, and
the Y.M.C.A. did everything it could do to straighten me
up. Jim Palmer was a prince. He gave me money, saw that
I had room and board at the “Y” and really did everything
in his power to bring me to my senses. Jim Palmer is one man
who really believes in his religion. He really believes what
he preaches, and he really believes the Christian story to be
both original and true. It can very easily be proved to be
neither, but even if you proved that to Jim, he still would
choose to believe it. If he were any other way, I wouldn’t
waste my time calling on him.
136 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
As far as I am concerned, he is welcome to believe it. It
won’t do him any harm. The only thing that Jim is missing
by believing in the story of Jesus Christ is the Power of the
Great Spirit—God—in his life. Jesus, having died some
two thousand years ago, cannot possibly have any power in
the life of anyone. But, if Jim believes hard enough, he will
get some good out of it. Did not the old promoter, Paul, say
that it was perfectly all right to tell lies and to believe lies
for “The Kingdom of Heaven’s sake?” If it was O.K. for
Paul, it certainly should be O.K. for anyone else who chooses
to believe the story.
Not long ago, Jim and I were talking in his office in the
“Y.” The conversation turned to religion. “You’ll never get
me to give up my faith in Jesus Christ,” said Jim. “Who is
trying to?” I asked. “Your believing a story has no bearing
on the truth or the falsity of the story. You can believe that
the moon is made of black cats if you care to, Jim, and you
can believe that with all your heart and soul,” I told him,
adding, “but that won’t make the moon full of black cats.”
I tried to explain to Jim, as I try to explain to hundreds of
thousands of others that religion is not a case of what one
“believes.” It is a case of what are the facts.
It is well to remember here that no true system of religion
can be founded on untruths, and the story of God Almighty
crucified on a cross as Jesus Christ is an untruth. There
may have been a man called Jesus Christ. He may have been
crucified on a cross, for they still crucify men in Mexico every
Christmas. But if there was such a man, and if he was cruci­
fied, it was as a man and not as a God. God Almighty, the
Infinite Soul of everyone, was never seen by mortal eye. God,
being Spirit, never could have been crucified, for the spiritual
and the material are two different things. They are two
different creations. They have nothing in common.
One evening in Portland, I was standing on the docks just
outside the building then occupied by the Port of Portland.
Seeing a good-looking fat man coming out of the office, I
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 137
said to him, “Could you help me get something to eat?”
Sizing me up, he said, “You’re too good-looking a man to be
on the bum like thisj what’s the matter? Can’t you get a
job?” I told him that was the trouble. I did not tell him that
if I had a job I would work only long enough to save a few
dollars and then I would get drunk. His name was Billy
Eshenbaugh. He is dead now. That night he took me to his
apartment in the San Marco Apartments, East 8th and
Couch, in Portland. A young fellow by the name of Art
Conway lived with him, and they made room for me to sleep.
I slept with Art. I had dinner at the Multnomah with Art a
few weeks ago. H e lives in Portland and has a fine position.
Art was always a good boy5 he’ll never set the world on fire,
but neither will he do it any harm.
Over our coffee at the Multnomah, on the occasion alluded
to, Art asked me if I remembered the time he and I rode
home on a street car with a cat. I remembered it clearly. It
seems that I was feeling particularly good that day, and
from somewhere had rescued a small grey cat. I had a habit
of picking up and feeding every stray cat I could find. I still
do that whenever I have the time, for I don’t like to see
animals suffer. On this particular night, Art and I were
riding across the Burnside bridge. Sitting next to me was a
stout dignified lady, and Art was sitting on the other side
of me. “Lady, would you like a cat?” I inquired, pulling this
cat out of my pocket and placing it on the lady’s lap. This
lady informed me that she certainly did not want a cat and
knocked pussy to the floor. “Then perhaps you would like
some fish to eat,” I said, pulling out of the other pocket the
contents of a can of sardines which I also deposited on the
lap of the lady.
About that time, we had arrived at Couch, and Art figured
he had better get me off the street-car. Shortly after, I got
straightened away, at least temporarily, and Billy Eshen­
baugh got me a job at the Frank Nau all-night pharmacy.
At that time, Nau had moved from the Portland Hotel and
138 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
was occupying temporary quarters on Morrison Street. Later
he moved into the Selling Building. I filled the first pre­
scription filled in that building. During the next year, I
studied hard and took the Oregon Board of Pharmacy exami­
nation, and I passed with good grades. Working with me
then were Winn Ward who now owns the Irvington Phar­
macy, Joe Woods who was boxing commissioner before his
death a few years ago, and a very funny guy called Charlie
Redmond. I do not know where Charlie is or if he is alive.
John Brockman was the night clerk and Harry Stryker was
a relief man. I understand both Brockman and Stryker are
dead.
One day Frank Nau, Sr. came bouncing up into the pre­
scription room with a bottle, a letter, and a very upset look
on his face. Handing me the empty prescription bottle, he
said, “Look up that number and see who filled that pre­
scription.” Each prescription bore the initials of the man
who filled it. In that particular case, it happened to be me.
Raging, Nau said, “Read that letter and then go to the office
and get your pay-check and get out.” I read the letter which
went something like this:
Dear M r. N au:
I have been patronizing your store for many years. A few days
ago I had the enclosed prescription filled. When I got home, I poured
out a spoonful and a big blow-fly came out into the spoon. We have
all the blow-flies we need out here in the country without paying
you $1.50 a bottle for them.
Please return my $1.50 or refill this prescription leaving the
flies out of it.
I had no way of knowing how the fly got into the bottle.
Certainly I did not deliberately put it there. The prescrip­
tion was a thick, syrupy liquid, and the presumption is that
the fly got into the syrup, thence into the prescription bottle
unseen by me, but I lost my job just the same.
Drawing my pay, I went down to the very toughest saloon
in the United States at that time. It’s gone now. Liquor is
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 139
sold in much nicer surroundings now, but it is sold just the
same. States are in the damnable liquor business now, to
their shame. I would like to see the day when the manufac­
ture of liquor is barred by law. When the New Day dawns,
and when the fullness of the Power of God is known among
men, there will be no liquor, for the desire to drink liquor
will not be there. The Spirit which is God will be such a
wonderfully satisfying Presence that everything aside from
that Spirit will go. May God hasten that day. What beer I
drank hurt no one but myself, and it did no permanent dam­
age. I imagine this drinking period occupied about six years.
Why it had to be, I do not know. You may depend upon it
though, it was for a purpose. I wish these things did not have
to be related, but I believe they should be, so regardless of
the cost, they will be. I could sit here by the hour and tell you
of experiences in Portland, but I won’t. I must leave them out
or this autobiography will grow too large.
It was immediately after losing my job at Nau’s that I
really started drinking. It was always periodical, but the
periods became closer and closer together. There would be
moments when I would recognize the foolishness of it all, but
there did not seem to come a moment when the shock of
knowing the facts of the Christian religion as I had discovered
those facts was alleviated. The shock went deeper than any­
one will ever know. It was like a knife wound. I was too
honest and so earnest in my efforts to find and know God
that to be disappointed as I was, well, it hurt and it hurt
plenty.
I am happy to state here though that years later I came
back to Portland, and it was in this city the foundation of
“Psychiana” was laid.
CHAPTER EIG H T
In P
o
rtla
O
re
g
o
n
T h e r e w e r e m any ba ptist c h u r c h e s in Po r t l a n d , o r e-
gon. The two which I wish to mention briefly are the White
Temple Baptist church on the west side and the Hinson
Memorial Baptist church on the east side. At the time of
which I write, there was no Hinson Memorial church on the
East side. The White Temple was there where it is now, and
the pastor was the Reverend Walter Benwell Hinson. Run­
ning true to Baptist traditions, and in spite of their “salva­
tion” and “sanctification,” these Baptists began to fight
amongst themselves. The history of the Baptist church, and
of every other church for that matter, is a history replete
with fights, arguments, splits, etc., and, as a result, we have
the Christian Church— (The Campbellites) and several
other smaller fry too numerous to mention.
It seems strange that wherever we have a system of
religion founded on the story of “god crucified,” there we
have bloodshed, wars, strifes, and the many other things
which should not go with true religion. This present war is a
religious war. The recent war in Spain was a religious war.
Hitler claims that he is an “agent of God, sent to bring
permanent peace” to this earth, and the allies claim they are
agents of God, sent to crush Hitler. While each side fights
and brutally murders other human beings in the name of
God, the Roman Catholic church says that neither side knows
God, as it is the only church, and its head is the only man
authorized to “act and teach for God.” The Protestants deny
this, and they, the Baptists included, tell the world that they
have the only true religion. You cannot know God unless you
know Him by way of the Protestant church.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 141
How we are up against it—for there are ten other major
systems of religion operating on this earth, and each tell us
the same thing— they and they alone have the true religion.
They, and they alone, have the true conception of God. It is a
pretty safe bet in the face of conditions like these to question
the claims of all. We cannot admit the existence of more than
one God. Nor can we decide which of the varying claims to
truth and divinity is true. Therefore, we have but one thing
left, and that is to deny that any of the “fighting Salvation­
ists” know anything about God. That is the stand I take.
That is the stand I shall justify before this book is closed.
Let me interpolate here for a moment, before I forget some­
thing which I read yesterday and which is very pertinent to
this autobiography. The main, and the earliest Christian
“bible” is the Latin Vulgate. It is from this edition (one of
sixteen) that the present volume has been derived. Let me
say that the history of the Christian bible is a history of
change after change. Every system of religion that cared to
change the book, added to it, took away from it to its heart’s
content. Just recently the Yale Divinity School took the name
Jehovah completely out of it. If this school can take away,
it can also add.
The Vulgate edition comes from the hands of a Catholic
Pope called Jerome. Here is his statement as to how the
“inspiration” came to him. He states that when he got ready
to do some “translating” he would pull a bell, and the “Holy
Ghost” in the form of a dove would fly into the room, fasten
its claws into his hair. Then, with feet firmly anchored, this
Holy Ghost would bend over and stick his bill in Pope
Jerome’s mouth, and thus would transmit to Brother Jerome
the “sacred interpretation” of the Scriptures. Personally I
don’t believe that, but you may if you choose to. In any
event, the Christian bible is founded on that fact. At least
the edition we have today is. And don’t forget the “four
legs.”
All right, we come back to the two Baptist churches in
142 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
Portland, Oregon. One Sunday I was sitting playing the
piano at the “Y” when Jim Palmer came along and, tapping
me on the shoulder, said, “Frank, I’m taking you to the
White Temple tonight.” I thanked Jim, and that evening
we went to the White Temple where he held membership.
I went several times after that, and was very much impressed
by Doctor Hinson. Tall, gaunt, eloquent, earnest—surely, I
thought, here is a man who knows God and here is a “dif­
ferent” man. Then and there I made up my mind to have a
personal talk with Doctor Hinson. During that week, I went
up to his study and was invited in. We had a long talk, but it
brought me no more satisfaction—it brought me no closer
to finding God than the many other talks with preachers I
had had. I explained in detail to Doctor Hinson that I wanted
to find the Power of the Great Spirit—God. “You mean you
want to be a Christian,” said the good doctor. I told him
that I did not care whether I was a Christian, Mohammedan,
Confucianist, Brahmin, Buddhist, or what have you, 1
wanted to know the Power of God in my life. That was all I
was asking, and was I asking too much? Doctor Hinson
looked at me rather skeptically, and finally said, “I think
what is necessary here is that you follow the Lord in Bap­
tism.” I carefully explained that I had followed the Lord in
baptism several times already, but still had not found out
anything about God. The suggestion was made that I try
again and so, being willing to do anything to find God in my
life, I “followed the Lord in baptism” once more.
The baptismal service was conducted in the evening, and
the church was full. After coming up out of the water, Doctor
Hinson—earnest, good old soul—said to me, “Frank, you’ll
never know how you have repaid me.” What he meant, I do
not know, for certainly I felt no different after coming out of
the water. I was wet, and we went into a little back room to
change clothes, but as far as knowing God through that ex­
perience, I never did. It brought me just absolutely nothing,
and I was in the same seeking frame of mind after the cere-
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 143
mony as I was before. I went into that pool. Before I met
organized religion, I knew God. But organized religion al­
most drove God permanently out of my life.
The good Baptists who read this (if any of them ever do)
will tell me here that I certainly did not “believe.” No, I
certainly did not “believe,” if by that you mean “believe”
the theory you hold that Almighty God, the Infinite Builder
and Creator of this universe, came down to earth to die on a
cross to save one he had never heard of, from sin. I never did
believe that and I never shall believe that. Moreover, neither
do you. For to ask one to believe something that one’s reason
cannot grasp is asking one to do the impossible. Unless your
reason is most deplorably warped, you cannot believe in the
death of a “just God” for an “unjust sinner.” The whole
story does not belong in the realm of the True Spirit—God.
It belongs in the realm of religious tradition and superstition.
It is not of God.
After the ceremony, the congregation started singing:
“Jerusalem the golden, with milk and honey blest;
Beneath thy contemplation, sink heart and voice oprest.”
and as they sang, there in the little back room changing my
wet clothes for dry ones, I wondered. Here I was with an­
other baptism, member of the White Temple Baptist church
now, but did I know God? Had the Power of the Great Spirit
—God—been manifested in my life? What was that hymn
they were singing out there—Jerusalem the golden? What
had that to do with my finding the Power which is God?
Little cared I about Jerusalem, and I cared not whether that
city was blest with milk and honey, or whether it was cursed
with thistles and wild mustard. What I wanted was God in
my life, and I knew, the very moment I came out of that
pool, that another attempt to find God was a failure.
What I wanted, and all I had asked Hinson for, was that
the Spirit of God, about which he did so much talking, be
made known to me. Now perhaps I am different from all
144 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
others. Perhaps every other church member except me does
not have the same trouble I had. Perhaps the fullness of the
Power of the Great Spirit—God—does actually exist in other
lives, maybe I’m the one who is wrong. Can that be it? Could
that be it? That suspicion was gone a few days later, when
once more, I was in Doctor Hinson’s study talking about God
again. I told Doctor Hinson that what I had gone through
hadn’t meant one thing to me insofar as finding God went.
Then, I knew all that the whole Baptist denomination had to
offer me was pagan tradition and religious myths, for Doctor
Hinson said to me, “Frank, we never shall really know
whether what we are believing is true until we pass on to the
Great Beyond.”
That was the worst thing Doctor Hinson could have said
to me. By that admission, he told me as plain as words could
tell it that all the Baptist denomination, and all the Christian
churches for that matter, really have is an old traditional
theory of God, the truth or falsity of which cannot be known
until after death. That was what I had suspected for a long
time. Now, it came to me from the one man I really thought
knew God. What was the use? I am perfectly willing to grant
the Baptist or any other church the right to believe anything
it wants to believe. (They should pay taxes, though.) It is
not my business, what they believe. They can even believe a
lie and know or suspect it is a lie as far as I am concerned.
They can know, or suspect that their religion is only a “be­
lief” of unproven worth, and they can choose to believe it so
far as I am concerned. That is their business—not mine. They
can be the biggest bunch of hypocrites on the face of the earth
if they choose to. None of those things is my business.
It is my business, however, when and if I discover that the
story they bring to the world is not true, to tell the world
what I have discovered. That is my business. I shall work
hard at that business. Not that I care very much what hap­
pens to the organization which attempts to bring these un­
proven and untrue stories of God to the public—that is not it
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 145
—for if they are untrue, they cannot last, and the condition
of the Christian church today gives little sign of lasting.
According to its own heads, “Ichabod” is written over the
door. These differing religious organizations have been clut­
tering up the earth with their pagan theories of God, and in
the name of God, they are given their properties tax-free.
They say they will not fight to defend America if it is
attacked. The Lutherans went on record as saying that the
other day, and last night over the radio, the Methodist church
went on record as saying the same thing. This being the case,
these religionists should be made by law to prove the truth
of the story, by which they hold their property tax-free, and if
they cannot prove the truth of their story, they should not be
allowed to preach it, for it might very easily be, if their story
of God is not true, that the church instead of being an “agent
of God” on the earth, is an agent of the very opposite power.
That is logic which cannot be overthrown. In any event,
whether the story is true or not, it has been told in detail by
other systems of religion, far longer than the Christian
religion, and still the world has not yet had the Power of the
great Spirit, God, brought to it. All it has had brought to it is
a conglomeration of religions, and it is my opinion, based on
my own experience, that had it not been for all these systems
of religion, this world would have found God a long time
ago. This world will never find—it can never find the truths
of God through anything any system of religion on the face
of the earth teaches, just so long as that system of religion
is based upon the theory of God Almighty being crucified on
a cross. That story was hoary with age and was known to
millions, thousands of years before the Christian religion,
and its Jesus Christ were ever heard of. The Hindoo “god”
who was crucified on a cross was Jeseus Chrishna which is
not much different from Jesus Christ.
You will begin to see at this point in this book, just what
we of “Psychiana” are driving at. I know and you know too
that this world is impossible of salvation through any church
146 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
organization in it. You also know, or strongly suspect that
God still exists, in spite of the efforts of the church to legis­
late God away off into space. You know that the Creator
still lives in the creation. This being true—the Creator can
be found. It took much suffering, it took a devious trail before
the Truths of God as they exist were made known to me—
but it was worth it, for it brought to this world the true con­
ception of God, and that conception is proving its worth by
its effects in human lives. It is doing something no church
has been able to do— it is making God real to all men, in
spite of, and without church theology. As a matter of fact,
God is being found by men and women today, not by believ­
ing what the churches teach, but by denying it.
* * *
Disappointment again—stark, gaunt, soul-searing disap­
pointment, with God farther away than he ever was. Surely
I was giving the Christian church every opportunity to prove
its claim that it knew God and was teaching the truths of God.
Many and many a time the suspicion began to form in my
mind that the world might be better off without these
churches and ministers if all they could offer seeking souls
after God was “after you die.” I did not want God after I
was dead. I wanted to know God now. I knew, beyond a
shadow of a doubt that God lived and I also knew that sooner
or later I should come into the experience which would make
God a living reality to me. Had I not known from childhood
that God had set me aside for His work? Was I not trying to
find God as honestly as I possibly could try, and through the
only organization which publicly professes to be “God-in­
spired” ? What was wrong? Was the fault with the preachers
and the churches, or was it with me? Did these churches
actually know God, and were they really telling the truth
about God, or was the whole thing just a form of godliness,
just a system of religion, having no Power whatsoever in it?
Were these good folks who attended these churches, and
these good ministers who preached to them just doing it
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 147
because it was the custom to do it, or did they know beyond
any shadow of doubt that God lived and was known to them?
Gradually the suspicion became stronger that God was not to
be found in anything these churches taught.
Then there must be another conception of God which is
absolutely unknown to the church. Was that it? What was
the Power which kept eternally urging me on in my search
for the actual truths of God? For you could not fool me. No
quasi-religious experience would satisfy me. No church
dogmas or doctrines could fill the aching void in my life—
for I wanted to know God, and I had made up my mind to
find out what the literal truths of God are, or die in the
attempt. I nearly died in the attempt, but I thank God now
that I had the bull-dog tenacity to continue the search until
I had found the answer. I did not care what any church in
existence told me about God, unless they could prove to me
that what they teach is true. This, none of them to date has
been able to do. If I seek for God among the Christians, they
tell me a story that God Almighty, two thousand years ago,
came down from heaven, born of a virgin, and was crucified
on a cross for the sins of the world. What sins, I have never
been able to find out.
If I seek for God among the Hindoos, I am told that
thirty-five hundred years ago God Almighty came down
from heaven, was born of a virgin, and was crucified on a
cross for the sins of the world. Not long ago a minister told
me that this world had never heard of a “crucified god” out­
side of Jesus Christ, the only true God. If there should be
others who think that, let me here give you a list of enough
“gods” who, according to their own traditions, were God
Almighty. Most of them were born of virgins, and they all
came down from heaven to save this world from sin. It is
interesting to note that none of these crucified “gods,” the
Christian “god” included, have ever been able to achieve
their objective. This world has rejected every crucified God
ever offered to it, and the reason the world has rejected them
148 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
all is because none of them was the true god, and the world
knew it. I shall give you just a few. There are scores more,
and incidentally, there is no more proof of the existence of
the “crucified god” of the Christian religion than there is of
the rest of these “gods.” Not as much in some instances. Here
they are: they really do not belong in this autobiography, but
they are of such staggering import to the subject matter of
this book, and they have such a profound bearing on the
truth of what I later discovered that I shall, at the risk of
turning this autobiography into a historical volume, insert
them here. I believe the world should know these facts. I
believe Christians should know them, too. They are taken
from two of my other books, Crucified Gods Galore and
Gleams Over the Horizon.
“It is claimed by the disciples of Jesus Christ, that he was
of supernatural and divine origin; that he had a human being
for a mother, and a God for his father 5that, although he was
woman-conceived, he was Deity-begotten, and molded in the
human form, but comprehending in essence a full measure of
the infinite Godhead, thus making him half human and half
divine in his sublunary origin. It is claimed that he was full
and perfect God, and perfect man; and while he was God, he
was also the son of God, and as such was sent down by his
father to save a fallen and guilty world; and that thus his
mission pertained to the whole human race; and his inspired
seers are made to declare that ultimately every nation,
tongue, kindred, and people under heaven will acknowledge
allegiance to his government, and concede his right to reign
and rule the world; that ‘every knee must bow, and every
tongue confess that Jesus is Lord, to the glory of God the
Father.’
“But we do not find that this prophecy has ever been or is
likely to be fulfilled. We do not observe that this claim to the
infinite deityship of Jesus Christ has been or is likely to be
universally conceded. On the contrary, it is found that by a
portion—and a large portion of the people of even those
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 149
nations now called Christian—this claim has been steadily
and unswervingly controverted through the whole line of
history stretching through the nearly two thousand years
which have elapsed since his advent to earth.
“Even some of those who are represented to have been
personally acquainted with him—aye! some of his own
brethren in the flesh, children in the same household, chil­
dren of the same mother—had the temerity to question the
tenableness of his claim to a divine emanation. And when we
extend our researches to other countries, we find this claim,
so far from being conceded, is denied and contested by whole
nations upon other grounds. It is met and confronted by rival
claims.
“Upon this ground hundreds of millions of established
believers in divine revelation—hundreds of millions of be­
lievers in the divine character and origin of religion—reject
the pretensions set up for Jesus Christ. They admit both a
God and a Savior, but do not accept Jesus of Nazareth as
being either. They admit a Messiah, but not the Messiah;
these nations contend that the title is misplaced which makes
cthe man Christ Jesus’ the Savior of the world. They claim
to have been honored with the birth of the true Savior among
them, and defend this claim upon the ground of priority of
date. They aver that the advent of their Messiah was long
prior to that of the Christians’ and that this circumstance
adjudicates for them a superiority of claim as to having had
the true Messiah born upon their soil.
“It is argued that, as the story of the incarnation of the
Christians’ Savior is of more recent date than that of these
oriental and ancient religions (as is conceded by Christians
themselves), the origin of the former is thus indicated and
foreshadowed as being an outgrowth from, if not a plagiarism
upon the latter—a borrowed copy, of which the pagan stories
furnish the original. Here, then, we observe a rivalship of
claims as to which of the remarkable personages who have
figured in the world as Saviors, Messiahs, and Sons of God
150 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
in different ages and different countries can be considered the
true Savior and ‘sent of God’; or whether all should be, or
the claims of all, rej ected.
“For researches into oriental history reveal the remarkable
fact that stores of incarnate Gods answering to and resem­
bling the miraculous character of Jesus Christ have been
prevalent in most, if not all, the principal religious heathen
nations of antiquity; and the accounts of narrations of some
of these deific incarnations bear such a striking resemblance
to that of the Christian Savior—not only in their general fea­
tures, but in some cases in the most minute details, from the
legend of the immaculate conception to that of the crucifixion
and subsequent ascension into heaven—that one might almost
be mistaken for the other.
“More than twenty claims of this kind—claims of beings
invested with divine honor (deified)—have come forward
and presented themselves at the bar of the world with their
credentials to contest the verdict of Christendom in having
proclaimed Jesus Christ ‘the only son, and sent of God’;
twenty Messiahs, Saviors, and Sons of God, according to his­
tory or tradition, have in past times descended from heaven
and taken upon themselves the form of men, clothing them­
selves with human flesh, and furnishing incontestable evi­
dence of a divine origin, by various miracles, marvelous
works, and superlative virtues; and finally these twenty
Jesus Christs, accepting their character for the name, laid
the foundation for the salvation of the world, and ascended
back to heaven.
“ 1. Chrishna of Hindostan; 2. Buddha Sakya of India;
3. Salivahana of Bermuda; 4. Zulis, or Zhule, also Osiris and
Orus, of Egypt; 5. Odin of the Scandinavians; 6. Crite of
Chaldea; 7. Zoroaster and Mithra of Persia; 8. Baal and
Taut, ‘the only Begotten of God,’ of Phenicia; 9. Indra of
Thibet; 10. Bali of Afghanistan; 1 1 . Jao of Nepal; 12. Wit-
toba of the Bilingonese; 13. Thammuz of Syria; 14. Atys of
Phrygia; 15. Xamolxis of Thrace; 16. Zoar of the Bonzes;
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 151
17. Adad of Assyria; 18. Deva Tat, and Sammonodadam of
Siam; 19. Alcides of Thebes; 20. Mikado of the Sintoos;
21. Beddru of Japan; 22. Hesus of Eros, and Bremrillah, of
the Druids; 23. Thor, son of Odin, of the Gauls; 24. Cadmus
of Greece; 25. H il and Feta of the Mandaites; 26. Gentaut
and Quetzalcoatl of Mexico; 27. Universal Monarch of the
Sibyls; 28. Ischy of the Island of Formosa; 29. Divine
Teacher of Plato; 30. Holy One of Xaca; 31. Fohi and Tien
of China; 32. Adonis, son of the virgin Io of Greece;
33. Ixion and Quirinus of Rome; 34. Prometheus of Cau­
casus; 35. Mohamud, or Mahomet, of Arabia.
“These have all received divine honors; nearly all have
been worshiped as Gods or sons of God; were mostly in­
carnated as Christs, Saviors, Messiahs, or Mediators; not a
few of them were reputedly born of virgins; some of them
filling a character almost identical with that ascribed by the
Christians’ bible to Jesus Christ; many of them, like him, are
reported to have been crucified; and all of them, taken to­
gether, furnish a prototype and parallel for nearly every
important incident and wonder-inciting miracle, doctrine, and
precept recorded in the New Testament, of the Christians’
Savior. Surely, with so many Saviors the world can not, or
should not, be lost.”
CHAPTER N IN E
I Join The Navy
A b o u t t h ir t y years ago, t h e r e stood on t h e co rn er
of Morrison and Seventh Streets in Portland, the old Mascot
saloon. It was operated by a chap called Clayton Fallas. The
names of the two bartenders were Harry McGoughey and
Phil Nolte. Hy Everding, a now well-known Portland
sportsman, used to drop in there early every morning, and he
and Harry McGaughey would eat breakfast together in a
little room off the bar. This was a “high-class” saloon so far
as saloons can be “high-class.” I remember Fallas had a
beautiful English Coach dog, which later died. It was
poisoned, I believe. After leaving the study of Doctor Hin­
son, I went to the “Y” and borrowed ten dollars from Jim
Palmer. I had been “on the wagon” for over a year, and Jim
did not hesitate to let me have the ten dollars which, by the
way, I don’t think I have ever returned. I shall ask Jim the
next time I see him. Taking the ten dollars, I made a bee-line
for the Mascot saloon and, throwing the ten dollars on the
bar, said to the bar-tender, McGaughey, “Keep that in the
till and just give me twenty glasses of beer a day until it has
all gone.” At five cents a glass, this ten dollars should have
lasted ten days if I drank only twenty glasses of beer daily.
Looking at me with a smile, McGaughey said, “Robbie, you
had better keep that ten in your pocket, I’ll have it before
night, maybe before noon.” He was right; he had it all
before that night.
The only explanation I can give to this act, and to similar
acts of beer-drinking, is that my mental state at that time
was so upset over the disappointments I had experienced
through my honest attempts to find God through the church,
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 153
that I took this way of finding a temporary suspension—a
poor way. But you must remember that there was, down deep
in me, the consciousness that I was to be used by God to bring
to this earth a Spiritual awakening such as the world had
never before seen. Even in those foolish years, and they were
only foolish, that consciousness in me was never dead. I tried
to kill it. I had been disappointed with everyone, minister and
Bible School, in my search for God. Yet I knew that sooner
or later, the Light would break. How, when, or where, I did
not know. In those days, there were just two things to do. I
could have stayed in the church, in which case I never would
have been heard of5 or I could do exactly as I did— continue
my search for the actual truths of God, come what may. I
chose the latter course, and I am glad that I did. No young
man of my age should drink as I did, yet no young man under
similar circumstances would have done anything else. This
life of mine has been unusual. It is unusual today, and it must
be unusual, for the work I am doing is unusual, and it takes
an unusual man to accomplish the unusual. This world is full
of “usual” men, both in and out of the ministry, but what this
world needs today is a man who, inspired by a larger vision of
God than the world has had to date, will fearlessly bring that
vision to the world, and then, that being done, this world will
quite naturally see the larger conception of God, and through
that conception it will be everlastingly blessed.
God can never be higher than a human conception of God.
If the sum total of the Christian religion is of its “god,”
hanging on a cross, bleeding to death and slain by a handful
of Roman soldiers, that church can bring to this world a
picture no higher and no greater than that. A “crucified god”
means a decadent, dying church, because there is nothing in
such a conception of God which has the power to raise one’s
thought above such a conception. This world, especially the
religious world, if there is such a thing, is going through an
evolutionary process. As the process goes on, the old “gods”
which have cluttered up the garden will be pulled up. They
154 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
are but weeds. In their place will grow beautiful flowers, for
the True God, or rather the true conception of the only God
there can be, will come to the world through its present evo­
lution. When the plain simple truths of God are known,
there will not be one single crucified god in that picture, out
of about fifty-two this world has heard of to date. Such
stories originated in the dark and pagan past. They do not
belong to this civilization, and this civilization will progress
in the exact measure in which it comprehends the fullness of
God. That fullness cannot either be known or comprehended
through any “crucified god” regardless of what he may be
called, and regardless of the system of theology which teaches
him.
* * *
After leaving the Mascot saloon that night, I went home.
I had been working for the past year at the E. P. Charlton
store. The manager was a very “religious” man called
Baldwin. I forget his initials, but his wife was prominent in
Portland social activities, and he had a son named Lapeer.
The next morning, I went up to draw my pay and quit the
job. Gipsy Smith had been holding revival meetings in a
huge specially built auditorium shortly before and, being a
“good boy” prior to this last outbreak, I had been singing in
his large choir. Baldwin, by the way, was a “holy-roller”
member, a little bit too “holy” for me, but he belonged to
that denomination.
One night, just as Gipsy began to preach, it started to rain
as it can rain in Portland. The roof of the tabernacle was of
sheet metal, and the rain made lots of noise as it came splat­
tering down on the roof. Smith could not be heard so, lifting
his hands in the air in front of him, he said, “Oh, Lord, this
is your meeting, not mine, please stop this rain.” Well, at
once the rain stopped, and Smith continued with his preach­
ing. The rain started again the moment the meeting was over.
Although the Gipsy was preaching “Jesus Christ and Him
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 155
Crucified,” that night, in stopping that rain, Smith never
knew how close to the Power of the true God he was, for it
was Smith’s prayer that stopped that rain. It was not Jesus
Christ who stopped it, but Smith unconsciously complied with
the law of God, and the rain stopped. He, I suppose, at­
tributed it to Jesus. He made a mistake. I saw in a Los
Angeles newspaper recently where this same Gipsy, although
eighty years of age, married a young girl of twenty-six.
That’s perfectly legal and perfectly all right. I have no
comment to make on it. I merely mention it. Another branch
of the Christian church won’t let its “ministers” marry at all.
Being human though, I believe I would rather throw in my
lot with Smith than with the other crowd, at least as far as the
marriage business is concerned.
I met Baldwin in the ten-cent store the next day, and I
asked him if he had heard about Gipsy Smith stopping the
rain. H e replied that he had, but added “It was not Gipsy
Smith’s prayer that stopped the rain; it was mine.” Maybe
so, but the thought then occurred to me that it was rather a
ridiculous statement to make. What difference did it make
whose “prayer” stopped the rain? Might have been neither
one of them. The point here is that here was a man, a holy
man, jealous of another holy man because he had been able
to stop the rain. At least he got the credit for it, and the
Portland Oregonian next day plastered the front page with
the incident.
Every sermon Smith preached throughout the whole
meeting was published by the Oregonian. It would take a
pretty good preacher to do that well anywhere today. The
Christian Science religion publishes its sermons in full page
articles, but it pays for them. I know, because my paper
sometimes runs them.
That night, down and out again, I stood on the corner of
Sixth and Alder listening to another group of religionists.
They had a wagon and a team of horses, and on the wagon
was a little foot organ. They played away and sang as I stood
156 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
there and listened to the “testimonies” of those who had been
“saved” and drank in every word. When the meeting was
over, I followed the crowd down to Burnside Street and into
a hall which had a big sign over it that read, “Jesus—The
Light of the World.” In I went, and listened to what they
had to say. More singing and more testimonies followed.
Then the usual “call” for those who wanted to “know Jesus.”
I was not interested in knowing Jesus. I wanted to know God,
and I knew from what I had already learned that there could
be no possible connection between Jesus and God Almighty,
so when the call came, I did not respond. Then the preacher
asked everyone who did not want to pray to leave the room.
I was rather intrigued and wanted to stay, so I sat there in
the back seat. Soon, a young lady came up to me and said,
“Brother, don’t you want to be a Christian?” I remember
my reply. It was this: “No, I don’t particularly want to be
a Christian, but I do want to know God.”
That was the signal for action. “Hallelujah, Hallelujah,”
shouted this good sister at the top of her voice. “Here’s a
brother who wants to be a Christian.” I had just specifically
stated that I was not interested in being a Christian. I had
told her that I wanted to know God, but in less than sixty
seconds I found myself surrounded by a group of about
twenty-five “missioners” who, pushing the chairs away from
me, had me there sitting in the middle of them. They all
went down on their knees and started to “pray.” They all
prayed at once, and how they “prayed!” They yelled and
screamed and finally one or two of them who had “the gift
of tongues” went raving off into another language which
sounded like Swedish to me. Pandemonium raged. Several
colored “brethren” were in the crowd and, to tell the truth,
I was getting just a little sore. All should have been in a
lunatic asylum. One of these colored men, seeing me rise
to my feet preparatory to leaving, pushed me back to my
seat again and said, “You-all ain’t goin’ to leave this yere
house tonight until you has found de Lawd.” That made me
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 157
rather peeved, for I don’t like anyone pushing me round
any place, and this colored man was quite insistent that I
should not leave that mission until, as he put it, “You has
found de Lawd.” I had, in my hip pocket, half a bottle of
beer which I had religiously saved until I got outside when
I would drink it. Getting up to my feet a second time, and
seeing the “colored brother” coming at me to push me back
a second time, I looked him in the eye and pulled the beer
bottle from my pocket, saying, “If you don’t get out of the
way and let me leave, I’ll break this bottle over your head.”
That was exactly what I did, for his head did not break and
the bottle went flying into pieces all over the place. Finally
I got out, minus half a bottle of beer.
I do not particularly like to mention these instances, but
here again was a group of people who “knew God.” They
hold their property tax-free, yet there was little of God Al­
mighty in that house that night. There was a bunch of re­
ligious fanatics, and this was the sort of thing which was
passing itself off as being of God. The whole subject in that
mission that night was Jesus Christ, and I must insist once
more that there is no relationship between the Great Spirit—•
God—and Jesus Christ of the Christian church.
After a few days of tramping around Portland and eating
from the free-lunch counters in the saloons, I happened to
drop in at another mission, not so far from the “Holy-
Roller” mission where I had the exciting experience a few
nights before. This was the Portland Commons Mission. It
was run by the Reverend Maclaren, a little Scotchman, and
I believe he is still there. I never could figure out what a
Scotchman was doing in the “mission” business. There must
have been some other income from some other place. Any­
how, on this particular night, the organist had not appeared.
I kindly volunteered my services which were accepted. It
did not take the preacher very long to find out that his
organist was feeling very good, for the hymns rolled from
that organ as they had never been played before. I love
158 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
an organ and can make an organ talk when it comes to play­
ing sacred music, for that is the only kind of music I play
on my pipe-organ now.
At the close of this service, a Mr. Brimson came up to me
and said, “Brother, you are a diamond in the rough.” After
a few minutes’ conversation, I told him I had no place to
sleep that night, and he took me to his home. Asking me if I
did not want to become a Christian, I said “No, I want to
find God, if I can.” He said he was going to pray for me,
and I am sure he did. The next week, he was arrested, for he
was living with another man’s wife, illegally. Knowing all
about that, I was more disgusted than ever, and the next day
I joined the United States Navy at the recruiting office in
Portland. Being a registered pharmacist, I was enlisted with
the rank of Hospital Apprentice, First Class.
The recruiting officer in Portland gave me a ticket to
Seattle, and I was instructed to report to the U.S.S. Phila­
delphia, a training-ship anchored in the Navy Yard at Brem­
erton. I reported for duty on the Philadelphia, during which
time my uniform was issued and the details incidental to
enlistment concluded. After two weeks on the “Philly,” as
we used to call the ship, I was transferred for duty to the
Naval Hospital, also at Bremerton. This is a lovely hospital,
situated on a sloping hill at the rear of the Navy Yard
proper. It is one of the most completely equipped hospitals
I have ever seen. The food was good, the doctors were good,
and everything one could desire was there.
I made up my mind that here, in these wonderful sur­
roundings, I would cut loose once and forever from the ties
which bound me. I have never been able to tell where that
diabolical craving for liquor came from. It may have its
origin in some relative or parent of my father, but I do not
know. It may have come from draining the beer bottles, in
which pastime I had indulged after the “fraternals,” held
in our home. I would go down to the pantry where the beer
was kept, and drain dry the bottles the “men of God” had
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 159
used in their celebration the night before. That is more likely
to be the reason for these continued drinking spells, for, to
my recollection, I never drank anything stronger than beer.
Whatever the cause may have been, I wish it had never been
there, and yet, who knows? Perhaps, had I not been through
these experiences, bad as they were, I might not have been
able to do as much for the spiritual uplift of humanity as I
have been able to do. God knows what I have been able to
do is little enough, but it is something. Moreover, the end
is not yet in sight. It may be that this book itself will be
the cause of hundreds of thousands of my fellow Americans
finding God. If that be so, what does the suffering of one
man amount to? If, by laying down my life, I could bring
to this world the truths of the ever-living God, I would not
hesitate one second. However, this will not be necessary, as
this world will very shortly know, at last, the truths of God,
and knowing those truths, it will be liberated from those
things which today bind it down. If the experiences I am
relating to you have any part in this great redemption of
the human race, I am glad they happened.
My stay in the Navy was short, however, for my good
intentions were destined to be upset. I do not believe I was
in the Navy much over three months, if that long. One day,
Doctor Rossiter, the Chief Surgeon of the hospital, sent me
to Seattle to get twenty-four guinea pigs for laboratory ex­
perimental purposes. My instructions were to secure them
from the city health officer whose name, if I remember
correctly, was Doctor Hendricks. Leaving Bremerton with
an order for these guinea pigs, I secured them as I was told.
They were packed in two light boxes, twelve pigs in each.
On my way down to catch the steamer the H . B. Kennedy,
back to Bremerton, I met another hospital apprentice, first-
class, by the name of Wells. “Fat” Wells we used to call
him as his avoirdupois was considerably over two hundred
pounds. After passing the time of day with me and asking
my mission in Seattle, “Fat” Wells said, “Let’s go in and
160 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
have a beer, Robbie.” Robbie should not have gone in, but
Robbie did.
The saloon we entered was the Alberta Cafe at the corner
of First and Cherry Streets. It was owned and operated by a
Mr. Spence Thompson. One beer led to two, two beers led
to four, four led to eight, and so on. By that time, I did
not care whether I ever saw Bremerton again or not, as I
was having a “good time” playing piano in the saloon. While
I was entertaining the crowd at the piano, Fat Wells decided
he would have a look at those guinea-pigs which I had left
at the end of the bar. Wells, by the way, had more “Old
Nick” in him than anyone I had ever met, myself included
possibly. Anyway, Wells had cut the string around the
guinea-pig boxes, and these pigs ran up and down the bar,
behind the bar, and all over the floor of the Alberta Cafe.
Hearing the commotion, I left the piano and went over to
the bar to see what the trouble was. Sizing the situation up
at once and realizing that I had to rescue those pigs, I said,
“For Heaven’s sake, we’ve got to catch every one of those
guinea pigs, for they are all inoculated with diphtheria.”
I then described in detail just how the guinea-pigs were to
be handled, and after about one hour’s commotion, I finally
got the guinea-pigs back into their boxes again. I felt quite
a hero picking up those “inoculated” pigs, for needless to
say, they were not inoculated with anything.
Then, Wells and I left the saloon and got a room across
the street at the Rainier-Grand Hotel, taking the boat back
to Bremerton in the morning. Wells had overnight leave.
Being on a special mission, it made no particular difference
when I got back. However, on arriving at the hospital, I was
summoned before the O.C. and asked for a detailed ex­
planation of the “inoculated guinea-pigs.” The news of those
pigs had travelled back to Bremerton before I got there. A
severe lecture followed, and as usual, I promsied to “never
take another drink.”
It was not very long, however, before I was found in the
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 161
pharmacy completely unconscious, lying on the floor between
two rows of bottles. This was followed by another escapade
which involved my getting drunk in Seattle and not having
the fare back to the hospital. Uncle Sam very rightly will
not stand for that sort of thing, and one morning I was
handed my discharge across the front of which was written
“chronic alcoholic.” I was no use to myself, no use to Uncle
Sam, and certainly no use to anyone else. ’Twas a far cry
from those days when I would snuggle up on mother’s seal­
skin coat and talk to her about the new picture of God I
was to bring to the world, a very far cry. However, there
was an over-ruling Power which protected me, and which
has been protecting me ever since. I make no excuse for any
of these happenings. It was all my fault, and no one is to
be blamed. Had I passed out of the picture then, no one
would have missed me. Perhaps it would have been better,
who knows? I leave you to be the judge of that after you
have finished this book.
The next Sunday, without a cent in my pocket, I was sitting
on a bench in Pioneer Square in Seattle. This Square is a
block of “park” in the center of Seattle, and benches are
placed there, or were placed there then, for the weary to
rest. All the riff-raff, all the human derelicts, gathered there
in Pioneer Square. That is the reason I was there, and I was
where I belonged. On this particular Sunday we were watch­
ing the antics of the Salvation Army, the Volunteers of
America, the Holy Rollers, and the Industrial Workers of
the World. Each occupied a position on each of the four
corners of the Square and competition was keen. As soon as
the Army band would start up, the Volunteers would have to
temporarily hold up their street-meeting as one could not
hear what was being said while the band was playing. When
the Army band had stopped playing, and they were nicely
started on their “testimony” meeting, the Volunteers of
America band would begin, and this silenced the Army meet­
ing. The Holy Rollers had a wind organ, and regardless of
162 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
what the Army and the Volunteers did, they kept pegging
away. On the fourth corner, the Workers had a song of their
own, so no matter what song the Army or the Volunteers
started to play, the “wobblies” had a song to fit the tune in
their “song book.” If the Army started to play “In the
Sweet Bye-and-Bye,” the “wobblies” would start singing,
“You’ll Get Pie in the Sky When You Die.” It was bedlam
to be sure, but the main contest was between the Army and
the Volunteers. Each was preaching the “gospel of Jesus
Christ” and inviting “sinners” to “come to Jesus and have
your sins washed away.” While they were doing this, the
people were laughing at the competition “for souls.” What
a pious sham the whole thing was.
When the offering was taken up, the captain, who made
the appeal, stated that “no one is ever turned away from
the Army,” so taking him at his word, I went up to the
Rescue Home of the Army a bit later and asked them for
something to eat and some place to sleep. A man called
Petersen, a Swede, was in charge of that home. He informed
me that there was nothing the Army could do for me. When
I recalled to him the words spoken on Pioneer Square earlier
in the day, his reply was to put his foot in my stomach and
push me to the bottom of the stairs. This same Army officer
would stand on the street corners and tell the people how
he had been “saved” many years ago, which I have often
seen and heard him do. This was Christianity in action.
After this experience, I retraced my way back to Pioneer
Square—at least I could sit down there.
While I was sitting there, my eye caught a sign on the
other side of the street, “Pioneer Drug Store” Going into
the drug store, I said to the man who came to wait on me,
“I’m a registered pharmacist, I’m broke, down and out. Do
you know where I can get a job?” Sizing me up, the druggist
said to me, “You look like a man with good home surround­
ings, and why you’re on the bum, I don’t know. However,
I have a drug store which is closed out in Ballard—man
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 163
quit, and I’m working here. If you want to go out there and
open up the store, I’ll give you $125.00 a month.” This
man’s name was A. M. Hoidale. Asking him for a nickel
for street-car fare, I took the key he gave me, jumped on a
street-car and went out to Ballard. The drug-store was on
the corner of 64th and 14th N.W. It was called the Olympic
Pharmacy. The landlord was a Swede named Zackerson.
That evening, I opened up the drug store and for several
months worked very hard and was doing a nice business.
Then Hoidale offered to sell me the store, and I bought it
with nothing to pay down. All went well until one day while
down town doing some buying I dropped into the Alberta
Cafe again. It was a fool move, but then a fool made the
move. I have not seen the Olympic Pharmacy from that day
to this. I never did go back again, and I understand Hoidale
had to take it over. Well, it was not very long before Frank
B. Robinson was down and out again, and at this point, I
really began to give up hope. Was this thing called “booze”
going to get me permanently? I believed it was, and believing
that, I made no attempt to put on the brakes. Up to this
time, I had fought this liquor habit with all the power I
had, but evidently that power was not enough. Digressing
again, it was not so very long since I walked into the Wash­
ington Mutual Trust and Savings Bank in that same city of
Seattle and borrowed $37,000 from Dietrich Schmitz. Rather
should I say through Mr. Schmitz, the bank made the loan.
What Dietrich will say when he reads this autobiography,
I do not know. I probably would not have been able to get
thirty-seven cents if he had known what he will know when
this book is released.
Walking down to the freight sheds in Seattle that eve­
ning, I jumped on the first freight train I saw moving. I
did not know where it was going, nor did I care. As long as
I was on the move, I was satisfied, for what difference did
it make, anyway? I was useless and just a common drunk.
No one suspected the heartaches under those shabby clothes.
164 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
No one ever knew the hours, the days, the weeks, the years
spent in one untiring search for God, and then, to be handi­
capped by this craving for liquor. It would have downed
far better men than I am, and as I write this autobiography
in a little cabin on a knoll at Rocky Point, Oregon, the marvel
to me is that Pm here at all. Not that I hurt anyone but
myself, for I have never been convicted of even a misde­
meanor 5 not even a traffic violation. How I escaped is be­
yond me.
It so happened that this freight train was going to Spokane
via Ellensburg, and it was at this little city we were thrown
off the train at three o’clock in the morning. I shall never
forget that ride. We were in a car loaded with lumber with
about two feet from the top of the lumber to the top of the
car. At least twenty-five hoboes were sleeping on top of that
lumber. I could not sleep, but the fellow just ahead of me
could. Every so often, he would stretch in his sleep and his
hobnailed boots would press into my head. It was a very
uncomfortable ride, but at Ellensburg, the monotony was
broken when the “shack” started to throw rocks in at us, at
the same time ordering us to “pile off.” We piled off, and
there I was at three o’clock in the morning in Ellensburg,
Washington.
I walked around the little city and could find no place
to sleep, so I made my way back to the freight yards. There
was a big pile of sawdust close by and, as it was cold, I dug
a big hole in that sawdust, covered myself up with it, and
went to sleep. Imagine the shape I was in the next morning,
sawdust down my neck, in my pockets, everywhere, in fact.
I shook off what I could and made my way down town,
miserable beyond words. I did not like this sort of life, but
what could I do? I was helpless in the grip of some monster,
and I’ve often suspected that perhaps I was made to go
through these experiences just to try me, but I leave that
to you.
About nine o’clock in the morning, I went into the Young
T H IS IS T H E C H A P EL IN LO N G CREN D O N
Where Rev. J. H. Robinson preached, and where his eldest son Frank spent several of his childhood years
T H E H O M E A T No. 7 L IL A C ST., H A LIFA X , E N G LA N D
The room above the door is the room in which Dr. Robinson’s
mother died when she was thirty-three and he was eight years old.
He visited this room in 1934.
O NE M O RE V IEW O F P O M P E II
This was the “ red-light” district in olden times. Only adults are allowed to enter it now and pictures
are not supposed to be taken of it. However, here is a picture which was taken there. No females,
young or old, are allowed to enter here on account of the nature of the paintings on the walls. In those
days the sexual organs were worshipped and these organs are carved in the stone over every “ red-
light” house. Also in the flagstones in front of these houses.
A N O T H ER P IC T U R E T A K E N IN P O M P E II IN 1934
This old city was buried under lava from Mt. Vesuvius over 2000 years ago. The Italian government
has been “digging the old city out.” You will note the bricks in the building are still in good shape
despite their age. Original paintings may be seen inside the houses, on the walls.
T H E RO BIN SO N H O M E
This home is at 122 South Howard Street in Moscow, Idaho. It is annually visited by many thousands
of students who come from far and near to see Dr. Robinson. Many of them go away disappointed
as his work keeps him out of Moscow almost as much as he is at home.
DR. RO BIN SO N A T CO NSOLE O F HIS PIPE-O RGAN
This is the only form of relaxation Dr. Robinson takes. But many hours does he spend alone at the
organ. Much of his inspiration comes while playing his favorite tunes.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 165
Men’s Christian Association and there met the secretary,
Chester Raymond. I understand Chet is now the general
manager of a large bank or savings and loan association in
Tacoma, but I have not seen him since. Some day I’ll look
him up if I ever have time, for Chester was a good friend.
He gave me meals, a place to stay, and got me a job at the
drug business in Ellensburg. I had some of the happiest days
of my life in that little city. There had been little of joy or
happiness in my life up to that point, and not too much since.
There never will be too much, for I do not seek happiness
for myself. All I want to do now is to faithfully reveal to
the world the priceless truths of God which will mean the
bringing in of the Day of God. In that Day, I shall be su­
premely happy, but not until. I have a very wonderful fam­
ily, and I am happy with them, but underneath what super­
ficial happiness there may appear to be, there is a great
burden. That burden will not be lifted until this world knows
the fullness of the Power of the Great Spirit, God.
Coming back to Ellensburg, the man who gave me the job
was O. W. Ball, who owned the Model Pharmacy. I imagine
he is dead now as I am writing about the years 1915 and
1916. Mr. Ball was a very peculiar chap and a very rabid
anti-Catholic. Sometimes when a stranger would enter the
store, Mr. Ball would say to him, “You’re not a ------ Catho­
lic, are you?” One occasion I distinctly remember, a man
replied that he was a Catholic and asked, what he was going
to do about it. Mr. Ball replied, “You get to hell out of this
drug store; I don’t want any Catholics in it.”
I don’t know how long Mr. Ball was in business there after
I left, but I do know it was not very long, for the Model
Pharmacy has been closed these many years. It was also in
Ellensburg that I made friends with Ernie Schorman, who
had a Flying Merkel motorcycle and Sunday after Sunday
we would ride through the country taking pictures. They
were wonderful days while they lasted, and I called upon
Ernie the other evening in Portland where he has been with
166 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
the Shell Oil Company for the past eighteen years with a
good position. I always knew he was in Portland but was
unable to locate him until recently when we visited until
quite late, looked over the old snapshots we took together.
We spent a very enjoyable evening. I had several hundreds
of pictures too, but when I left Ellensburg and went to
Spokane, Washington, I pawned both of my suitcases, one of
them containing these pictures, for six dollars. They were
given to a druggist by the name of Savage to hold as security
for the six dollars I borrowed. If by any chance Mr. Savage
sees this book and reads what I am now writing, if he still
has those two suitcases, let him communicate with me in
Moscow, for I’ll be glad to return him his six dollars with
interest to get those photos and clothes back again just for
the sake of the memories they bring.
Rather a strange circumstance should be noted here. While
I was working with Ball in Ellensburg, two other druggists
were there in another drugstore. One was Jim Urquhart, now
owner of the Pioneer Drug Store in Yakima, and the other
was Bob McKinley, who has been working with Jim Urquhart
in Yakima for nearly twenty-five years. It was the Pioneer
Drug Store which I left to go to Moscow, Idaho, to write
my message to the world, and both Jim and Bob knew me
in those days of which I am now writing. Of course, every
time I pass through Yakima now, I drop in and see Jim and
Bob and Mortland, the manager. They’re good fellows and
they had something in Ellensburg I did not have while I
had something they probably did not want. However, if I
had the opportunity now to draw back these days and take a
chance on doing the work I am now doing, I do not believe
I would withdraw one thing that happened. Of course, it
would be nice if I could blot it all out—but I’m not so sure
the “Psych-iana?’ Movement would be in existence had my
path through life been any different, so I shall not waste
too many tears over wasted years. In short, I know what I
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 167
have done in the past thirteen years has more than made up
for all the mistakes I have committed.
Another friendship I made in Ellensburg was with Pro­
fessor Kooken, one of the faculty at the Ellensburg Normal
School. One day Kooken came in to see me to try to sell me
some Christian Science. “Robbie, I’ve just discovered the
greatest religion in the world,” he began. “Why I can put
my hand on a red hot stove and not feel it,” he continued. I
don’t remember what I said to Professor Kooken, but I do
know that neither Kooken nor anyone else can sell me that
sort of religion. If one puts his hand on a red hot stove, the
hand will be burned, and when one burns his hand as a result
of placing it on a red hot stove, that one feels it, Christian
Science notwithstanding. However, the strange part of my
meeting with Kooken happened last year. I was staying for
a few days in Portland at the Portland Hotel when I spotted
Kooken across the lobby. Now you must remember that it
was at least thirty-five years since I had seen him. Walking
up to him, I held out my hand and said, “How do you do,
Mr. Kooken—remember me?” He admitted that he did not
remember me, so I jogged his memory. The thing that
astounded Kooken was the fact that I could give him in detail
many things which happened in Ellensburg which he had
forgotten. We had a nice chat, and he told me that he knew
of this work of mine and thought it very fine—not quite as
fine as Christian Science, of course, for Professor Kooken is
practicing that religion in Bellingham, Washington, and has
been since he left Ellensburg.
These good times came to an end all too soon. A travelling
evangelist came to Ellensburg, and some local preacher, I
think his name was Yager—a Baptist, came to call on me and
invite me to attend this “revival” service. By that time, I was
getting pretty well fed-up on “religion” and on everyone
who professed “religion,” and I was skeptical. I had seen a
lot of religious professors, but I had not seen one, Catholic
or Protestant, who could give me any evidence that he knew
168 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
the slightest thing about God. I had listened to all their
claims, and I had tried as few have ever tried, to find the
actual Power of God, yet I had been misled and deluded
all along the line. This evangelist, however, was a hot one.
I refused to go to his meetings, but he called on me at the
Model Pharmacy and wanted me to go into the prescription
room with him and pray. A prescription room is for the
filling of prescriptions, and O. W. Ball was not paying me
for holding prayer-meetings in his prescription room, so nat­
urally I refused either to pray or to be prayed for, especially
not by this fanatic.
The next Sunday afternoon he was preaching on the steps
of the court-house, and Ernie Schorman and I happened to
be passing by. He spotted me, and pointing his finger at me,
said, “There goes a young man who ought to be in the service
of the Lord. Instead of that, he is desecrating the Lord’s
Day by taking pictures instead of going to church.” Of
course, everyone in the crowd turned and looked at me, and
something inside of me which I thought asleep awakened.
That night I was as drunk as a lord and on my way to Spo­
kane, Washington. Friends, job, nothing mattered when the
urge to drink came over me. It was irresistible, but today I
can have the stuff all around me and never even look at it.
I remember a few years ago I was making a radio address
and had neglected to cool off before leaving the studio. I
jumped into my open car and drove nearly onehundred miles
that night, and the next day I was about dead. The attending
physician said the only thing that could save me was whiskey,
and I took two tablespoons every three hours. There has
been in my home ever since that day, half a quart bottle of
Scotch whiskey. I threw it away the other day. This just
goes to show how absolutely and completely this desire left
me when I found God, or when I at long last got off the
“church” trail and onto the trail at the end of which lies, God.
I do not want to weary my readers by relating too many
of these experiences. I have given you enough to show that
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 169
Frank B. Robinson in those days was just about as useless a
piece of humanity as ever lived. I must relate just one more
incident, and then I shall take you up another and even more
remarkable trail than the one I have led you up so far. My
travels had taken me to San Francisco, thinking I would get
a j ob in some drug store and work until the liquor urge came
to me again. One morning I was awakened by the blowing of
a bugle. Was I dreaming, or did I really hear a bugle blow­
ing? Then I turned over and went to sleep again, but this
“beauty sleep” did not last long before I found myself lying
on the floor with a sergeant from the Thirty-First Infantry
standing over me and asking me, “Whoinell do you think you
are—General Pershing?”
Looking around, I said to this chap, “Well, where am I
and what is all this?” I was informed that I was in the United
States Army and on this particular morning I was in a
barrack room on Angel Island. There was no mistake about
it at all, I was in the Army, and I later discovered, I had
enlisted for service in the Philippine Islands. I have never
had the faintest recollection of joining the Army, and I
knew nothing about it until the next morning. It later turned
out that I had given another name, told them the wildest
stories about who I was, and when shown a copy of the en­
listment record some years later, I was staggered, for I
have to be pretty bad when I don’t know what’s going on.
I do not believe men in that condition should be enlisted,
and I do not believe they are today. But they certainly were
then.
It was quite a shock to find myself in the Army, as I
remembered the Navy experience and did not see how they
could take me into the Army when the Navy had let me go
as a “chronic alcoholic.” However, in due time I was on the
United States Army Transport, Sheridan, bound for Manila.
On arriving there I was transferred to the Hospital Corps
because I was a registered pharmacist, and from Manila was
sent to Batangas. One day one of the medical officers who
170 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
had taken a very violent dislike to me ordered me to the
surgery to have all my teeth pulled out. I did not need any
teeth pulled, for none of them were decayed and none needed
treatment. Nevertheless, I was ordered to the surgery to have
“all his teeth pulled out.” I refused. I should have refused
under any circumstances, and regardless of what the cost
might be. For that order was wrong. It was given through
animosity and it was not a proper order. Who was a buck
private to dispute a Captain, and what could I do but refuse?
I reported to the surgery and there, awaiting me was the
Captain in question, the hospital steward, and two assistants.
“Get on that operating table,” ordered the Captain. “What
for, sir?” I asked. “To get all your teeth pulled out,” the
Captain replied. He then asked me if I refused to get on the
table. I replied, “For that purpose, yes, sir, I refuse.” The
Steward and the assistants were then ordered by the Captain
to forcibly put me on the table. Then, when they attempted
to do this, they discovered they had tackled a wild-cat. Un­
doubtedly they could have subdued me in time, but the Cap­
tain shortened the fight by shouting, “Take him to the guard
house.”
In due time a general court-martial was held, and I was
found “guilty” of the military offense (not criminal) of
“wilful disobedience of orders.” Of course, with the Captain
as a witness against me, it did not take long for that verdict
to come in. At an army court-martial, one is provided with
an “advocate,” but it is far different from civil or criminal
law, for the word of an officer overrules the word of a
private. The private may be telling the truth and the officer
may be lying, but the officer will be believed because of his
rank, and the poor private is out of luck in such cases. For­
tunately such cases do not happen every day.
There are two significant things which should be noted
here. One is that the original sentence recommended was
eighteen months in a disciplinary barracks and a “kick-out.”
This was recommended, but it was not approved in Wash-
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 171
ington. It was cut to six months, and this was about up while
I was in the guard house at Batangas. The second significant
thing is that before the sentence was half served, I was
offered a full pardon, a chance to be restored to duty and
the record swept clean. I refused them all. Why that offer
was made, I do not know, for to my knowledge such an offer
has never been made under similar circumstances to anyone.
Perhaps I should not have refused it. I do not know. But I
do know that under similar circumstances I would do the
very same thing again. No one will pull my teeth if they do
not need pulling. My dentist will tell you he has a hard time
to pull them even when they do need pulling.
My reaction to this offer to be restored to duty with the
slate wiped clean was this— I was guilty of no wrong. I was
defending my inherent rights against a rotten attack on those
rights by one who had the authority to legally make the
attack. Therefore, if I had been found guilty of “wilful
disobedience of orders,” I was perfectly willing to pay the
penalty. I did not ask for any quarter from anyone. I do not
ever ask for quarter. All I ask for is fair play. I will fight
an injustice to the death, but I will never ask favors from
anyone. In this case, the Captain was utterly wrong. H e swore
before the G.C.M. that my teeth needed pulling. That was
about thirty years ago, if I remember correctly, and I have
half of those teeth yet, and had all of them until last year,
which is proof enough.
Now, let me tell you how and when I took my last drink
and that will close Part One of this autobiography. When I
was discharged from the Army, they gave me a five-dollar
bill and a suit of clothes. That was all. Taking the five
dollars, I walked up Market Street in San Francisco and into
a saloon in which I had spent many dollars. As soon as I
entered, the bartender, Jimmy Wisnom, said, “Well, for the
love of Pete, here’s the piano player. Where in the Sam Hill
have you been? Come on, and I’ll set up the drinks on the
house.” “O.K., Jim, give me a glass of milk,” I replied.
172 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
He poked lots of fun at the milk, but he bought it just the
same, and that is the last drink I have ever taken.
Why I asked for milk, I do not know. How nor why the
desire for beer left me, I do not know either. I know that
from that moment on, my life was slowly changed. You
could not buy me to take a drink. It was a fight, don’t think
it was not, and I walked all that night, up Mission Street and
down the peninsula to San Jose where I sneaked into a livery
barn with the five dollars still in my pocket. The rest of the
story belongs in Part Two.
P A R T
CHAPTER ONE
Rehabilitation
To REHABILITATE SO MANY WASTED YEARS WAS NOT EASY,
yet I tackled the job with a determination which meant
business. There would be no more fooling around from this
point on. If my childhood dreams were not to come true 5
if I could not find God, then I would do the best I could
without God. Maybe I was a “lost soul.” More than one
evangelist told me that, and I still hear it every day even
yet. My mail always brings in at least one letter a day which
tells me to “flee from the wrath to come,” or to “stop
trampling under foot the blood of the lamb,” or some other
phrase equally as foolish. I remember a few years ago, just
before his death, Billy Sunday wrote me a letter from Can­
ton, Ohio, where he was holding a “campaign for God and
souls” as he put it. In his letter he said, in part, “for God’s
sake stop driving men and women out of the Kingdom of
God—just as fast as I save them, you drive them away.”
The last time I heard Bill Sunday, he was preaching in the
White Temple Baptist church in Portland, to which church
I have made reference elsewhere. Sunday had clambered
on to the top of a table and was preaching from there. His
sleeves were rolled up, his coat was off, and if I ever saw
174 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
a good theatrical performance, that was it. In the midst of
has harangue, a baby began to cry. This bothered Sunday
quite a bit, so stopping his sermon, he asked, “Is there a cow-
puncher in the house?” Someone raised his hand signifying
that he was a cowpuncher. “Then I wish you would come and
lassoo this heifer and take her out of the house,” said Sunday,
alluding to the mother of the crying baby.
I replied to Sunday that I disputed his claims to “leading
men and women into the Kingdom of God” and offered to
meet him in public debate either in Canton or any other city
he named. The offer was not accepted, nor has Sunday cor­
responded with me from that day on. I saw a list recently
of the Sunday earnings covering his ministry5 I saw also his
statement as to how many souls he had led into “the King­
dom” in his twenty-five years ministry. If he did, and if
each “soul” secured one other “soul” and brought it into
the kingdom, and if it took one year to win that other “soul,”
the way I figured it out, this world would have been “saved”
fifteen times over. Surely it is not asking too much to ask
one who has found God to win one more, even if it takes a
year to do it, is it? The “Psychiana” Movement is not thir­
teen years old. It has no preachers nor churches. Its opera­
tions are entirely by mail, and its members are secured by
advertising. One man alone, however, has been able to bring
more than 750,000 people to a knowledge of the True Light.
Surely Sunday’s converts should have been able to get one
each year.
In closing the first part of this book, I left you in San
Jose, California. I had slept that night (without a drink) in
a livery barn. In the morning, the proprietor, a man named
Hill, raked me out of the hay and began a series of questions.
He said he liked my looks and did not see why a “fine hand-
some-looking young man like you are” should be out of
work. I asked him if he knew of any work, and after thinking
a while, he said, “Yes, I believe I know where you can get
a job. It isn’t much, but it’s work, and it’s honest work.” I told
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 175
him to put me in touch with the man who had the work.
Going to the phone he called up a man by the name of Ben
Davis. Ben wanted to find a man, and he would be in the
livery barn that afternoon—keep me there. Ben came, and I
hired out to him for five dollars a month with room and
board. Neither of the latter were worth having, but I took
the j ob, even when I knew what it was.
Ben Davis was in the dead horse business. Whenever a
horse would die, Ben would go out, give the owner five
dollars for the horse, and haul it to a glue factory in San
Francisco. In the case of old “nags” that, though still living,
could not stand up, Ben would give them (the owners) from
five to seven dollars and fifty cents for them. He had a pas­
ture behind his “farm” and into this pasture went these old
“dead and dying nags.” When he had enough to make up a
carload, he would tie them together, the tail of one to the
halter of another, and it would be my job to drive them into
Milpitas, just a few miles from San Jose. There I was to
load them into a box car and accompany the load of old nags
to Petaluma, where they would be chopped up for chicken
feed. Usually, by taking it very slowly, we got the nags into
the box car. At Petaluma, however, it was a different job to
get them out. This was my job— collecting dead horses and
hauling them to a San Francisco glue factory and shipping
dying nags to Petaluma. Every month I received five dollars
for this work. I stayed with Mr. Davis quite a while. I
remember when I left I had thirty-five dollars. The reason
given for my discharge was that horses were not dying fast
enough—as good a reason as any, for I was very happy to
leave that place. I drive past it occasionally whenever I am
near San Jose, but I never stop to call, although the name of
Davis is still on the mail box.
Taking my thirty-five dollars, I boarded a train for San
Francisco. I never paid the slightest attention to saloons. I
was not interested in them. What I was after was another
job. Murray and Ready were then, and still are, the leading
176 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
employment agency in San Francisco, so there I hied myself.
I stood out in front of the place for several hours, watching
the new jobs stuck on the board in front. There are usually
scores of people standing in front of Murray and Ready’s. It
is one of San Francisco’s oldest landmarks. Most of the jobs
were out in the woods, and that, I thought, was where I
should be for at least a year. I wanted to think. I wanted to
get this big physical frame of mine in the best of condition,
and the woods certainly would do that. The only trouble was
—what could I do? In a little while the “artist” wrote on
the huge blackboard, “Whistle punk wanted— fifty and
found.” “Is there a whistle-punk in the crowd,” he asked.
“What’s a whistle-punk?” I asked him. He told me that a
whistle-punk was a boy or man who pulled the whistle cord
which communicated with the donkey engine in logging oper­
ations. “Can you do that?” I said, “Of course, I can do that,”
and he hired me.
The job was at the camp of the Pelican Bay Lumber Com­
pany near Klamath Falls. By a strange coincidence, I am
writing this autobiography at the foot of Pelican Mountain
on which “I punked whistle” nearly twenty-seven years ago.
The president of the Pelican Bay Lumber Company is Mr.
H. D. Mortensen, who was also president at that time. I was
entertained in his home last year. He is a student of mine.
It is strange how things work out in this checkered life of
mine.
Those days, when you hired out at a distance, the com­
pany would advance the railroad fare. This amount, coupled
with the Murray and Ready commission, would be kept from
your pay. That evening I was on a train for Klamath Falls.
Here is another strange coincidence—the man who had the
contract to haul the men from Klamath Falls to Rocky Point,
the man who manages Rocky Point, is now my brother-in-
law, Art Leavitt. In due time, I arrived here at Rocky Point
and was taken up a switchback logging railroad to the Camp
Number One of the Pelican Bay Lumber Company. Little
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 177
did I dream when I went to work “punking whistle” those
long years ago that some day, as leader of the eighth largest
religion in America, I should be here at this same Rocky
Point, writing an autobiography for the world to read. Some­
one once said, “God moves in a mysterious way His wonders
to perform.” That is the way the Spirit which is God moved
in my case. Nothing less than a divine guidance could have
brought me safely to the place I occupy in the religious realm
of today.
That was a profitable season spent on the mountain just
at my back. I came out of those woods a real man. Very few
could have thrown me. My muscles stood out like bands,
and I was proud of them. I soon graduated from “whistle-
punk” to “choker-slinger,” which job consists of hooking a
large steel cable around the end of the fallen log and then
giving the signal to the “whistle-punk,” who in turn, whistles
to the engineer to pull the log from the woods to the skidway.
I saved every nickel I made those days, and when the season
was over, I did not loaf around spending what money I had
saved. I got another job piling green lumber. If my readers
know what sort of a job piling green lumber is, they know
that the only men who can stand up under it are Swedes.
Yet I could pile more green lumber, and do it faster, than
any Swede we had on the j ob. I was in the “pink” of physical
condition.
Shortly after that I walked into the Star Drug Store in
Klamath Falls to make a few purchases—tooth paste, and
things like that. I entered into conversation with a very fine
appearing clerk there, Frank Evans by name. I met him
again years later in Miami, Arizona. My shirt was open at
the neck and my sleeves were rolled above my elbows, and
really I was a bit proud of my six feet. “Boy, I’d hate to
tangle with you,” said Frank Evans. One remark led to
another, and finally I told Evans I was a registered phar­
macist. I explained that I liked work in the woods, but I
might consider going back to the drug business if a good job
178 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
opened up. Frank Evans nearly shook my hand off. “We’ve
been trying for months to get a good man here,” he said.
“Wait until I call Carl Plath, the owner of the store.” Plath
came down and met me. I went out and bought some “store-
clothes,” and the next day I was back in the drug business
again. It felt good. My rehabilitation was coming along fine
with never the slightest desire for beer.
Shortly after this, Doctor Hunt of Klamath Falls built a
hospital. He mentioned to me that he wanted a pharmacy in
the hospital. I had no money for pharmacies or anything else
at that time, but I interested the Reverend E. P. Lawrence
(who, by the way, later married Mrs. Robinson and me)
and he had some money. I opened up the Warren Hunt
Hospital Pharmacy. Later Hunt took the store over, paying
Lawrence what was due him. Recently I was in a party of
Republicans who drove Thomas E. Dewey from Boise,
Idaho, to Caldwell, where a large banquet was given the
presidential candidate. Sitting in the seat next to me was the
Reverend E. P. Lawrence. We chatted about old times, and
I shall see him again as soon as I have time.
It was about this time that I met the lady who is now
Mrs. Frank B. Robinson. Several young folks of Klamath
Falls boarded with a Mrs. Rutenic whose home was, and still
is, a few blocks from the Star Drug Store in which I worked.
Being six feet tall and a fine physical specimen, I had no
trouble whatsoever in securing attention from the ladies in
the boarding house. Ladies were far from my mind those
days, for I had more important work to do. Finally, in dis­
gust, one of the ladies called up Pearl Leavitt one Sunday
afternoon and informed her that she was going to bring down
a good-looking fellow for her to meet. Pearl Leavitt an­
swered that she was not interested in young men. She only
thought that, for it took but three meetings for us both to
fall violently in love, and we were married within a very few
weeks. That was one mistake I did not make. It has been the
good judgment and the kindly help of my good wife which
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 179
has been a boon many times. There are few moves I make
today about which she is not consulted, and her good judg­
ment, which is instantaneous, is seldom wrong.
After the Warren Hunt Hospital had taken over the
pharmacy, I took a Civil Service examination for pharmacist
in the United States Veterans’ Bureau at Tucson, Arizona,
and went from Klamath Falls to that Arizona city soon after.
Alfred, our first-born, came to us in Tucson. The Veterans’
Bureau offices were over Steinfelds store, and some happy
days were had there. Frank S. Finley, the man responsible
for the appointment and a very close friend of mine, recently
passed away during an operation in the Letterman General
Hospital in the Presidio in San Francisco. I have always
missed Finley.
The Bureau ran about a year and was ordered closed.
There was some scandal connected with the Bureau in Wash­
ington, and I’m given to understand that the big chief back
east was sent to the penitentiary for graft. Certainly there
was some sort of graft going on, for when I ordered the
initial stock of drugs for the pharmacy, when the shipment
arrived it contained about three times as much as I had
ordered j and in addition to the stock of drugs, there were
three expensive microscopes. What they thought I would
do with three microscopes, I do not know. After the Bureau
was closed, I secured a job with T. Ed. Litt, a prominent
druggist in Tucson and shortly after that I went back to
Los Angeles, where I worked for Horton and Converse, the
leading chain of prescription stores with headquarters in the
Pacific Mutual Building. Two chaps worked in that store
with me, Ralph Northrup and Eddie Riebsame. Riebsame
was quite a boy—one of the old time line of prescription men,
and at the same time a very fine chap. Rieb used to cook his
meals in the pharmacy, and these meals usually consisted of
six boiled eggs, lavishly basted with butter, salt, and pepper.
He would eat the whole six eggs and then tell us he was
hungry.
180 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
I shall have to pass over the details of our few years in
Los Angeles, for if I put them all in this book, it will be too
large. There are more interesting happenings to relate—
happenings which today are of international import in the
religious realm, and happenings which will, ere long, bring
to the human race the actual truths of God. I am, therefore,
impatient to tell you of the inception of the Movement I now
head. I am also impatient to tell you the good news of the
complete liberation, both of body and soul, which is for you.
It was at 500 Laurel Avenue in North Hollywood that
I made the final decision to cut completely loose from all
forms of religion as I knew religion to be. One Sunday morn­
ing I was in a beautiful Methodist church on Wilshire Boule­
vard. The structure must have cost a quarter of a million
dollars. I counted exactly twenty-six people in that church.
I sat through the sermon, and after it was over, I made up
my mind that this world needs something far different from
the religious hodge-podge that minister handed out that
beautiful Sunday morning. I was just as anxious to find God
as I had ever been, but I had despaired completely of ever
finding out anything about God through church organiza­
tions. I knew their message by heart. I had tried their for­
mula a dozen times. It did not work. It may work for others,
but it did not work for me, and nothing less than an actual
experience of the Power I knew must be God would satisfy
me.
I was grieved and somewhat alarmed over the whole pic­
ture, for up to that time the only organization claiming to
know anything about God was the Christian church. Not
finding any of God there, and knowing that God could be
found, I began to be a bit desperate. Thank God I had the
courage to throw away and disbelieve everything the church
had told me about God. I was alone one Sunday in our little
home on Laurel Avenue when I made the decision which
will mean so much to this world and to future generations.
As usual, I was thinking of God and things pertaining to God.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 181
I knew I had failed to find God, and I also knew that 1
would continue the search for God as long as I lived. The
trouble was that I did not know where to go for God outside
of the church, and having utterly failed to find the first thing
about God in that church, where could I look?
I decided, therefore, to see if I could not find God by
some other method. No one could have convinced me that
God did not exist, and no one could convince me that the
church knew anything at all about God. Those two things
I was sure of. This old “hell-fire” doctrine kept cropping up
in my mind, and I was a bit afraid to deny what the church
taught for fear of “losing my soul,” and landing up in “hell-
fire,” for that is the teaching of the Christian church. I do
not believe there are five hundred Christians in the United
States who actually believe that, but it is the teaching of the
Christian church nevertheless. Had it not been for that teach­
ing and the fear it instilled into human minds through the
dark ages of the religious past, there would be no Christian
church today. There would be no need for it. If man is not
a lost soul, and if man is not doomed to hell, where is the
need for the “salvation” of the church?
As I stood there in my room, distressed beyond measure,
I lifted my eyes to God and said, “Oh, God, if I have to go
to hell, I’ll go with the consciousness that I went there earn­
estly trying to find you, God.” And then, a remarkable thing
happened. Instead of feeling condemned for denying that
the church knows anything at all about God, there came to
me a feeling of wonderful peace and rest. Strange—here I
should feel desperate, for had I not taken the stand that the
church knows nothing whatsoever about God? I had, but
instead of that confession bringing condemnation, it brought
infinite peace. At last, I knew I was on the right track. I
knew that God, as that Great Spirit must exist, is not to be
found in anything the church teaches. Gradually I was going
back to the God of my childhood. As I threw overboard the
church story of Adam and Eve, the fall of man, the destruc-
182 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
tion of man by a flood because of his sin, the miraculous birth
and conception of Jesus Christ, the atonement, the resurrec­
tion, etc., I began, for the first time in my life, to experience
the freedom and the peace which I instinctively knew was
from God.
The only thing I had been able to get from the church
was theory, conjecture, doubt, and the not satisfying assur­
ance that if I lived as well as I knew how to live, and if I
believed its creeds and dogmas, everything would be all right
—I should know God up there among the angels, with their
harps and their streets of gold. My name certainly would be
found up there in the big book if I j oined some church organ­
ization and did the best I could do by believing that a certain
character, true or traditional, was God Almighty. That is all
the Christian church ever asked me to believe. They wanted
me to make public confession that this character, Jesus Christ,
true or traditional, was God Almighty.
I did not know whether Jesus Christ was God Almighty
or not, neither did I care. I wanted to know the Power of the
great Spirit, God. I was not interested in any “son” God
might have had, nor daughter, for that matter j and as far
as believing that Jesus Christ was God, I should have to be
shown proof of that. The church itself, I knew, had abso­
lutely no proof of this strange thing it asked me to believe.
Therefore, how was I to know whether Jesus Christ was
God Almighty or not? All religions are nothing more than
social organizations which say they believe that a certain
character who lived ages ago was God Almighty. The name
of the religion depends upon the name of the character who
was supposed to be GodAlmighty. As far as actually knowing
about God, and as far as being able to 'prove that this char­
acter who lived, or did not live, many ages ago, was God,
no religion can do that.
Let me illustrate what I mean. The Christian religion is
called “Christian” because it believes that Christ, ages ago,
was Almighty God in person. Millions of Christians say
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 183
that they believe that. There are more millions who believe
that another character of another name was God Almighty.
The Hindoos had every fundamental of the Christian story,
and had it fifteen hundred years before the Christian had it,
and they claim that Jeseus Chrishna, and not Jesus Christ,
was God Almighty. There are other millions who believe
that Mohammed was God Almighty. There are other mil­
lions of followers of a dozen systems of religion outside of
the Christian religion; and they all believe that some other
character was God Almighty. It is quite evident, therefore,
that all religion as we have it today, is a congregation of
people who believe that their “deity” was Almighty God.
Not a single one of them can prove their claims. God Al­
mighty does not appear in the picture at all, for the record of
each religious structure very plainly shows that they know
absolutely nothing about the Power of the Great Spirit—
God. All they believe, and all they claim to know, is that a
certain man, who may have lived and who may not have
lived, was God Almighty. There is religion as we have it
today.
In the Christian religion, everything hinges around Jesus
Christ. In the Hindoo religion, larger and older than Chris­
tianity, everything hinges around Chrishna. In the Mexican
religion, also far older than Christianity, everything hinges
around Quetzalcoatl, and so on. None of their systems of
religion even attempt to know God outside of their own
theory of who God is. The Christian claims his God to be
Jesus Christ; the Hindoo claims almighty god was Chrishna,
and so on. I disagree with them all by claiming that neither
Jesus Christ, nor Chrishna, nor Prometheus, nor Buddha,
nor any other man on this earth who is worshipped as God
— ever was God. The True God exists entirely outside of
these religious theories, and, mark me well here, is not to be
found through any of them. You cannot have two Gods. If
Jesus Christ was God Almighty, so then was Chrishna and
184 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
the rest of the “crucified gods,” for they all appeared on the
scene long before the Christian “God” appeared.
I am sure you will see this. All of these religions are
groups of people who have been taught by some organization
calling itself a “religion,” that someone, away back in the
dark and misty ages of the past, was Almighty God. Who
“Almighty God” was, and is, depends upon which system
of religion you belong to. The whole series of religions are
not based upon God Almighty, but upon someone else who
was supposed to be God, according to the founders of these
systems of religion. That none of these systems actually know
God is very evident. One look at the world around us, and
one look at the dying condition of religion as a whole pro­
vides proof incontrovertible that none of these man-made
“gods” ever was, or ever could have been, the Great Spirit
which really is the Creative Intelligence behind this universe,
which universe, by the way, was rolling around on its orbit
through space long before, yes millions of years before any
of these “gods” were ever heard of.
It is less than four hundred years since the Christian re­
ligion decided what is “the word of God.” That was decided
by a vote of one hundred-eighty Catholic priests and bishops
at the Council of Trent, and as before related, one of the
reasons we have the four gospels is because animals have four
legs. The Christian church has the audacity to offer that
idiotic theory to the world and tell it that the “god” of that
revelation is God Almighty, the Supreme Ruler of all man­
kind.
God is not to be found, therefore, in any existing system of
religion on the face of the earth today. These systems have
a “god” of their own manufacture, and that accounts for the
sad state of the world and the church—it has not now, nor
has it ever had, the faintest particle of the actual Truths
of God in either. My work is to bring those truths to the
world, and the foundation for the remarkable revelation
which is coming to this world, was laid in that little room at
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 185
500 Laurel Avenue that Sunday morning not too many years
ago.
* * *
This is not the place to introduce incontrovertible evidence
that all religions have somewhere had a common origin, nor
is it the place to enter into a discussion as to the relative
merits of the many systems of religion on the earth today.
If fuller information and conclusive proof of the human
origin of the Christian religion is desired, that proof may be
found in Gleams Over the Horizon, and in Crucified Gods
Galore, both written by me. Let me just interpolate
here long enough to say that the religion of Osiris, who
lived twenty thousand years before Christ was ever heard of,
contains the same identical teachings as the teachings of Jesus.
I am not saying that these teachings are not true, for every
inspired prophet of God, regardless of what the name and
date may be, always teaches the same thing. The trouble
with the Christian church is that while it likes to live the
easy life under the cloak of the religion which is called “of
Jesus Christ,” it does not like to carry out the precepts of
its own religion. I will give five hundred dollars and walk
five hundred miles to see a true Christian. All of these
prophets had the same message, but the churches, under the
spell of their pagan leaders, chose to follow the dictates of
those leaders instead of following the simple, plain message
of the Power of God, which message all prophets bring.
You can find in the teachings of Osiris, word for word, line
for line, sentence for sentence, the same identical teachings
which today appear as “original and inspired writings of the
fathers of the Christian church.” There is no question but
that the entire Christian religion was stolen from or borrowed
from the Hindoo. The similarities are in too great a profusion
to be just coincidence. Even the name of their “man-god”
is almost identical with that of the Christian. There is one
final argument which no religion on the face of the earth
can answer—that is—if you know so much about God, and
186 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
if the man you worship as God really is the true God, why
do you not throw the -power of that true God against the
terrific world conditions which are threatening to destroy
this civilization from the face of the earth? No systems of
theology can do that. All they can do is to tell us that if we
believe that their particular “crucified god” was God Al­
mighty, we shall be saved. They are very careful, however,
to add that there is no “salvation” in any other system of re­
ligion—“there is none other name given under heaven
whereby we may be saved,” says the Christian—evidently
afraid of competition.
CHAPTER TWO
PsychianaIs Born
I SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO DESCRIBE THE GROWTH IN THE
New Life which began to manifest in me from the day on
which I decided to throw away everything that had been
taught me about God by my parents and the different
churches. I thought perhaps condemnation would come, but
to my joy, the feeling of freedom, of new life, began to take
hold of me, and I knew, beyond the 'possibility of doubt, that
my childhood dreams were to come true. 1 was sure that the
revelation of God I was to bring to the world would be the
most amazing revelation this religious world has ever known.
1 am more than ever convinced of this today.
I saw at once that what I had suspected for so long was
true. I saw and knew that the pathway to God lay entirely
outside of the theology of any religious organization on the
earth today. I saw these systems of religion in their true
light—honest— earnest—but all based upon what the pro­
moters of their systems of religion chose to tell them to
believe. For instance, in proof of this statement, ask the next
Christian you meet if he or she is prepared to prove the truth
of the Christian story. Ask him if he knows that one of the
reasons there are four gospels in the Christian bible is because
animals have four legs. See what he tells you. These good
honest souls, and there are millions of them here in the
United States, have been misled by their leaders who, in
their off moments, may be found driving bungs into beer
barrels and the like.
The millions of church members here in America actually
want to know God. They think, without investigating, that
their church is the only thing on the face of the earth which
188 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
knows anything about God. They think, because they know
no better, that there never was another “crucified god” out­
side of Jesus Christ, and they swear by all that’s holy that
there never could have been. It is for this reason that the
heads of these churches have so very bitterly attacked this
Teaching and myself. I have brought to the American people
the truths of God. These church leaders, knowing that these
truths will eventually replace the errors they are teaching
in the name of God, foresee their own ultimate destruction.
So they try to get me out of the picture. Little do they know
the Power behind me or they would not try that. One man,
endowed with the Spirit of God, is more ■powerful in a world
which knows not God than the rest of the universe combined.
Such a man can control his own destiny because he knows
how to apply the Power of the True Spirit, God, in his life.
With God in the life, one has everything. With nothing more
than church system of theology in life, one has nothing.
This world today is a wonderful example of a world that, in
spite of several hundreds of millions of nominal religious
professors, does not know the first thing about the actual
truth of the present existence of God. Had there been one
small religion on the earth teaching the actual truths of God,
Hitler never would have been heard of. It will take, there­
fore, a new revelation of the True God to bring to this earth
the Power which can restore peace, health, and everlasting
life. That is the mission of the <
<
Psychiana,) Movement.
* * *
Every day brought new evidences of the truth of what I
was now predicating my future life upon. Every day the way
opened up, and a strange Power seemed to come into my
life. All fear went out to be replaced by a wonderful con­
fidence. At last I was coming to know the infinite peace
which God in the life brings. The strange part of it all is
that this new experience with God grew on me. It came, as a
thief in the night. It stole in. I knew and recognized Its pres­
ence, nevertheless, and I knew that God was a living reality
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 189
here and now. The big job then was to bring this true con­
ception of God to a world full of “religion” and still not
knowing God. I knew that it would be called quite presump-
tious to stand alone and tell the world of great religions that
none of them knew the first thing about God. Yet that is
exactly what I have had to do, and I have unhesitatingly
done it.
I do not believe there is another man alive who could, or
would have dared to do it. Yes, attacks have been made by
the church, but outside of the financial loss and the suffering
to my family, what have they amounted to? They gave me
more international prominence than any other religious
leader of the times.
How I was to go about telling a world of religion that it
knew not God, I did not know at that time. I did, however,
know enough never to make a single move myself. I waited
for the leadings to be clear, and when I recognized them, I
followed. It made no difference where those strange leadings
took me, I knew that through me, God Almighty was going
to show this world, for the first time in its history, the dif­
ference between “religion” and the actual Power of the Great
Spirit, God. Of course, I was eager to begin, but not eager
enough to start before the time was ripe. Sending Mrs.
Robinson and baby Alfred home to their folks in Oregon, I
decided to move from Los Angeles back to Portland, Oregon.
There seemed to be a definite urge to retrace my steps, so to
Portland I went. I secured a good paying position and at
once sent for my wife and baby. We secured a home out on
34th Street Northeast. This home is still owned by Mr.
John Suter, a printer who has worked for a large Portland
printing house for thirty years or more. He had moved away
for the summer and we rented his home while he was away.
I call and see John Suter every opportunity I have.
I shall never forget the day the Spirit of God spoke defi­
nitely to me in the Suter home. I had been lying under a
tree in Grant High Park, studying some works along the
190 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
religious new thought line. The particular set of books, as I
recall it, was a volume called The Secret of the Ages,
by Robert Collier. I have since met several times the author
of those books—in fact, I had dinner with Bob Collier in
the Hotel Roosevelt not long ago. These small books
helped open the way I was trying to tread, and my gratitude
is to Bob Collier for having written them.
The impulse which came to me that day was to relax
absolutely, keep very still, and allow the invisible Sfirit of
God to manifest itself to me. I had a definite leading to do
just that, so in order to be quiet, I lay under the trees in
Grant High Park. A feeling of absolute security and perfect
assurance was mine that day. It was not until later though,
in the Suter home, that I experienced the same “visitation”
I had while a child in Long Crendon. Perhaps I should not
call these moments with God “visitations.” If I use this
word, some religious organization might have me arrested
as an insane creature who has “visitations,” and that would
cause me a bit more inconvenience in addition to the great
amount they have already caused me.
When God decides to manifest His Power to a human
being, that man is the sanest man this side of heaven. More­
over, while there is no question but that what I am about
to relate was a direct communion with God, it was the most
perfectly beautiful and natural manifestation possible. It was
the thing I needed to assure me beyond doubt that God lives
on this earth today, and can, through his Power, bring to
this earth that Divine Power in such measure that wars, ill­
ness, fears, doubt, death— all these can be once and for all
completely banished, and God, the Great Spirit— God can
live together on this earth with man eternally. Immortality
is possible here and now and would have been experienced a
long time ago had there been no man-made religious organ­
isations to usurp the place of God. Just as soon as those
organisations are shown for what they really are, this world
will fn d and know the fulness of God.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 191
Mrs. Robinson was down town with Alfie. I had walked
back a few blocks from Grant High Park and had laid the
Collier books down on a table. Then, singing to myself, I lay
down on the bed and closed my eyes. I was always “talking
with God” as my advertisement states, but this day I wanted
God actually to reveal himself to me—not that I doubted,
but I wanted the experience that I had longed for and suf­
fered for all my life. I wanted that experience right now.
I lay perfectly still, not a move, just completely resting in
the Great Spirit, God. Then God opened the veil which is
supposed to separate us mortals from God, and though God
and I are very close now, I shall never forget that day. The
future opened up like a rose. I cannot describe it—such
moments are not described by any words in any language;
they are spiritual moments and are spiritually discerned. A
great, infinite peace stole over me. I was overwhelmingly
happy. There, in those few seconds, for that is all they were,
I suppose, I saw victory ahead. I saw the road I was to travel.
I saw the home we now live in. I saw the answer to the
criminal trials which were to come later. I saw everything
in one flash, exactly as it happened, and for this reason, I
am so absolutely sure of the future. It was indescribable. Let
me just try to describe it by saying that the Spirit of the
Infinite God spoke to me. All I could do was to lie and shout,
“Glory to God—Glory to God in the highest,” and I did
shout. The tears rolled down my cheeks, for God had at last-
revealed Himself to me, and had done it through methods
entirely removed from any theological organization on the
face of the earth.
One strange thing about that experience was that I saw
the home in which I now live, and the grounds, and the
very identical pipe-organ I have. The home we bought in
Moscow was at once recognized by me some years later, as
part of the home 1 saw that day in John Sitter’s house.
When I went to Europe a few years ago, I gave Mrs. Robin­
son instructions to build an addition to our home. I did not
192 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
draw the plans, and to this day she does not know of the
experience I am now relating to you. I keep many things
pertaining to God to myself. The public sees only the results,
not the Source of Origination. When I returned from Eu­
rope, here was the house, complete as I had seen it that day
in Portland.
That was a hallowed experience. It changed me. It made
me. It equipped me with strength to do the work which is
mine to do. It put the seal of the Most High God on my life,
exactly as I knew it would be put on me sooner or later.
I believed- God: I still believe God.I shall never doubt God
— not “up yonder in the sky”— but here and now, in me
and in you, regardless of whether you have church affiliation
or not. It is my conviction that you will be m-ore likely to
find God without church affiliation than with it. Such affilia­
tion offers a strange god to the world, one the True God
knows nothing about.
The next day there was a very famous English lady visit­
ing in Portland, and somehow or other, I met her. Looking
me in the eyes, she said, “I should like to talk with you, sir.”
We went for a walk in the Council Crest park and there,
seated on a bench she said to me, “What is the religious ex­
perience you recently had?” I was astounded; I had not
revealed this experience to anyone—yet this lady knew all
about it. “It’s beautiful to realize that I have personally met
the man whom God is to use to bring in the Great Day of
God,” she said, looking at me. Our talk lasted many hours.
God knows then, better than anyone else knows, how His
plans shall work out for the redemption of the human race.
I am reminded here of a verse which is running through
my mind—“God’s purpose will ripen fast, unfolding every
hour; the bud may have a bitter taste, but sweet will be the
flower.” Surely I had tasted the very bitterest draught life
has to offer anyone. Had I not suffered as few have ever
suffered? Had not my very soul been seared by the perfidy
of those who masquerade as “agents of God?” I think it had.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 193
But the flower is beginning to bloom now. I see the fruits
of my labors hard by. The battle is not over yet, but the
foundation of victory is solidly planted, and the next few
years will bring to this earth— God in 'person—not physical­
ly, I don’t mean that, for no man has seen God at any time.
God is invisible Spirit. If any man or any organization
tells this world that Almighty God appeared on this earth
in the form of man, that organization is not speaking the
truth. I realize that the true conception of God destroys
religion as we have it today; for all the good it is in this
present world crisis, it might just as well not be here, for it
knows not God. It knows half a hundred man-made or
church-made theories of God, but they are not sufficient to
reveal the Great Spirit, God, to the human race. This should
be evident to all. It should require no argument to sustain it.
* * *
Shortly after this, I felt a very definite urge to leave
Portland, so I went to the wholesale drug house in Portland
and asked if they had an opening somewhere else. I was sent
to the Pioneer Drug Store in Yakima, and it was there I
met to my surprise, Jimmy Urquhart and Bob McKinley of
the old days in Ellensburg. I worked hard there, saved
money, and in every spare moment was keeping very close
to God. I knew that a break would come soon. While at the
Pioneer, I shall relate a rather amusing incident which the
boys in the store still laugh about.
It was Saturday afternoon—farmer’s day. One farmer on
whom I waited told me that he wanted to get a bottle of
mineral oil for use as a laxative. We handled the Rexall line
of pharmaceuticals, and these paid a commission of two and
one-half per cent to the salesman selling them. Naturally
we all tried to sell Rexall goods. I sold this chap a bottle of
mineral oil. It cost one dollar. Then, remembering our in­
structions (and the commission) to sell in as large a quantity
as possible, I began on that farmer in earnest. I told him that
if he would take one gallon of the mineral oil, eight times
194 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
as much as one pint, he would save three dollars, and, I
explained, three dollars saved is three dollars earned. He
took the gallon. Running back to Jim Urquhart, I said,
“What is the price on five gallons of that oil?” Jim quoted
me a price, and before the farmer got to the door, I had
called him back and explained how much money he would
save if he bought five gallons of the oil.
Being a good farmer, he bought another four gallons. I
felt proud of my selling ability that day. My checks there
at the Pioneer were always larger than anyone else’s for
commissions. However, there was a backfire, for on Monday
morning, into the store came a stout lady with “blood in her
eye.” She wanted to know where the young fellow was who
had sold her husband five gallons of mineral oil for a “laxa­
tive.” I finally had her quieted down, and on convincing her
that this mineral oil was the finest thing to use in a tractor,
she went away happy. We would have refunded her money
any time she demanded it—only she did not demand it.
All through these months spent in Yakima, the outline
of the new Teaching I was to give to the world began to take
form in my mind. I was, however, working the “graveyard”
shift, and had little time in which to write anything, although
never was the Movement I was about to form out of my
mind. I considered the “soap-box” method of distribution,
but ruled that out, deciding that by mail was the only feasible
way to bring this new Teaching to the world. I would make
a charge for it, refunding their money if not completely
satisfied, and then someday, some wealthy man would endow
the Movement and I could then send it around the world
free of all charges and pay the postage and other many ex­
penses in addition.
With this in mind, I sent a wire to the Spokane Drug
Company in Spokane, asking them if they knew of a position
where the drug stores closed at six o’clock. The next day
came a wire that there was a position in Moscow, Idaho, at
the Corner Drug Store, working for C. E. Bolles. I contacted
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 195
Mr. Bolles, and by the end of the week I was in Moscow,
Idaho. At that time, Moscow was unknown. It is known all
over the civilized world today, and there is mofe talk about
“that man Robinson in Moscow,” than about any other re­
ligious leader.
When we arrived in Moscow, we were much dissatis­
fied with the place. The trip on the train from Spokane had
been hard, and the rain was pouring down. That was in
April, 1928, thirteen years ago. Outside “Bull” W ard’s paint
shop, the horses were tied to the hitching posts, and if ever
there was a farmerfied city, Moscow was that city. I said
to Mrs. Robinson, “Let’s go back to Spokane. I would not
work in this sort of place for anything. I can write somewhere
else.” She urged me to stay at least overnight, for she and
little Alfie were tired.
Calling up Charley Bolles I informed him that I had ar­
rived, but that I was not going to work. He invited me to
come up and see him and asked me what the matter was. I
told him that I was not used to working in a “hick” place
and told him further that there was not enough money in
the place to make me stay there. Laughing, Charley said,
“Oh heck, come up and see us. I’d like to see the color of the
man’s hair that talks like you do; I’ll bet you’re a heck of a
good man.” Well, after dinner that evening we went up to
see Charley Bolles, and I liked him. I still like him, for he’s
a real chap. He talked me into staying one month and getting
back the expenses of the trip from Yakima, and I agreed to
that. This experience only goes to show how very easy it
would have been for me to have left for Spokane again; but
an all-wise God was watching every move I made and was
seeing to it that I made no move that was not the proper
move to make—hence I stayed in Moscow and still live
there.
The usual job of house-hunting followed, and we were
aided in this by Harold Cornelison, the secretary of the
Chamber of Commerce, who gave Alfred a stick of rhubard
196 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
to chew. Alfred had a little tricycle, and it was amusing to
see him pedalling up Main Street that day chewing on that
stick of rhubarb. We finally located an upstairs apartment,
and the next day I started to work. The more I worked in
Moscow, the better I liked the place. The old fixtures in the
Corner Drug Store are now gone, and in their places are new
and up-to-date ones. While working for the Corner Drug
Store, I was fortunate enough to win two national window­
trimming contests, and this helped us considerably, as we
could not save much from a salary of one hundred-seventy-
five dollars a month.
Gradually what is now known as the “Psychiana” Move­
ment took form. I carried a little black-covered notebook in
my pocket, and as a valuable thought would come to me, I
would jot it down. Most of the fundamental thoughts in my
Movement were written down in that drug store. Then I
began to look around for a typewriter, finally locating one,
an old Corona, which was owned by Carey Smith, a clothes-
presser in Moscow. Carey and I had a good time fishing up
at the Bungalow a few years ago, and the memories of his
hotcakes will linger long. In the meantime, and to show how
much I was in earnest, I rented the dining room of the
Moscow Hotel every week and there held lectures on my new
conception of God. Moscow is a small city of about five
thousand people, and anything unusual is sure to be the
subject of much gossip. Here was I, working in the Corner
Drug Store all day, and lecturing to the public at night. It
created quite a sensation, and more than one finger was
pointed to the forehead and moved round with a circular
motion when I was passed on the street.
However, the crowds came, and it was evident that what
I was teaching was destined to make its mark. Many college
professors attended those lectures, and an order was issued
forbidding any professor from the University of Idaho,
located in Moscow, from attending my meetings. I do not
know why that order was issued. Perhaps it was because I did
CHURCH OF GOD
Ninth and Sycamore Streets
CLARKSON, WASH.
Deo. 28,1940
To Whom It May Concern:
The following statement concerning W.W. De Bolt
and his wife, Gwendolyn De Bolt, of Moscow, Idaho,
was passed at the last business meeting of the
Inland Empire Ministerial Association of the Church
of God: —
* We heartily endorse the aotion of the ministers
of the Northern Rooky Mountain Distriot of the Churoh
of God in the rejection of W.W. De Bolt as a minister
of the Church on the basis of his rejection of the
fundamental doctrines of the Bible. Neither do we
consider him a member of the body of Christ. We wish to
do all that is in our power, however, to restore him to
God and the fellowship of the brethren. Furthermore,
on the report of the ministry of the Northern Rooky Mountain
Distriot, we also endorse the rejection of Gwendolyn
De Bolt, wife of W.W. De Bolt as a gospel worker and
as a member of the body of Christ. We will also do our
utmost in her restoration.1
*
Signed (Arley D. Skinnerl
Secretary
Excerpt from
“Missionary Messenger"
Official publication of the Churoh of God
Billings, Montana
January 1941
" Beoause of W.W. De Bolt’s association with Dr. Robinson
and the "PSYCHIANA* Movement at Moscow, Idaho, the brethren
found it neoessary to add their renunciation to that of the
Northern Rooky Mountain District of the Churoh of God."
AN E X A M P L E O F “ C H R IS T IA N ” B R O T H E R L Y LO V E
DR. RO BIN SO N A T T H E A G E O F 24
This picture was taken in Ellensburg, Wash., by Marvin Roark.
Dr. Robinson at that time was working for O. W . Ball at the
Model Pharmacy. He lived at the Antlers Hotel.
A M O N G T H E W IN E-PO TS
Here we see Dr. Robinson standing in front of what, 2000 years ago, was a wine-seller’s place. The
stone objects are the wine-vats and oil-vats which were in use at that time. Note the brick again. At
the end of this street is the oldest known Masonic emblem in the world. It is engraven in the stone
at the intersection of two streets in Pompeii
IN P O M P E II A G A IN
A N O T H E R FO R M ER H O M E
After outgrowing the building now occupied by the Queen ‘City Printing Co. Dr. Robinson bought
the quarter of a block, on which was located this building. It was occupied for about two years, and
was then torn down to make way for The Robinson Professional Building. This two-story frame
building was formerly Short’s Undertaking Parlors.
FO R M E R H O M E O F “ P SY C H IA N A ”
This is the building into which Dr. Robinson moved the “Psychiana” Movement after it had out­
grown its upstairs offices in the Urquhart Bldg. At the time of moving Dr. Robinson thought the
building far too large. Inside of six months, however, another move became necessary. This building
is now occupied by the Queen City Printing Company.
DR. RO BIN SO N AN D H IS BR O TH ER S
The four boys are Frank, Sydney, Leonard and Arthur. This picture
was taken over 40 years ago. Dr. Robinson is seated at the table.
Leonard, extreme right, was killed in the first world war. Arthur,
extreme left, is now an engineer in the marine service. Sydney, stand­
ing next to Arthur, is a street-car conductor in Toronto, Canada.
There is two years difference in ages of these four boys, Dr. Robin­
son being the oldest.
Whenever Dr. Robinson gives public addresses, crowds usually fill the auditorium long before he is
scheduled to speak. Usually thousands are turned away. His activities in Moscow do not allow time
for much public speaking. Yet Dr. Robinson is considered one of the most dynamic orators on the
American platform. This picture was taken in Trinity Auditorium in Los Angeles where Dr. Robinson
gave a series of ten addresses.
T Y P IC A L ROBINSON A U D IEN C E
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 197
not have the academic standing of some of the professors in
the University of Idaho. At any rate, they were forbidden to
attend the meetings. This did not worry me, for the only
reason I held those meetings was to get the general reaction
of the people to the new truths of God, and that reaction was
good.
One Saturday night I took the little Corona home and,
asking Mrs. Robinson not to disturb me, I wrote that night
the complete first set of “Psychiana” Lessons. I worked all
night and all the next day, and when they were completed I
gave them to my wife for criticism. There was no criticism
—nothing put praise. She wondered how I had been able to
write these Lessons and predicted at once that they would go
around the world. “They are good. They are unusual, but
how are you going to get them distributed?” she asked. I
replied that the way for their distribution would be taken
care of at the right time, and I further informed her that if
this philosophy of God was true, I should be the first one to
demonstrate the fact.
A little later I was ready for the financing of the Move­
ment. Let it be remembered here that I had not been in
Moscow ninety days, and if anyone raises any money in
Moscow for any purpose, that is news. No one in Moscow,
with few exceptions, has any money. The city is a typical
university city, and the pay of college professors is not too
high. Sometimes I think it is, but they have to live as well
as anyone else. Putting the Lessons in an old brief-case, I left
the apartment and when Mrs. Robinson asked me where I
was going, I told her I was going down town to raise
$2500.00. She looked at me in a quizzical sort of way and
said, “In the frame of mind you’re in, you are very apt to
get it.” I knew very well I should get it.
Where, or from whom, I did not know. 1 did not need to
know. What I had discovered about God, and the present
existence of God in my life, was all the assurance necessary
that whatever money I needed would be forthcoming, even
198 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
if I had not been in Moscow ninety minutes instead of ninety
days.
I was standing outside the drug store waiting for some­
thing to happen when a grocery clerk by the name of Ned
Phillips came along. Incidentally Ned is still working in the
same store but is part owner now. “Ned, have you any
money?” I began. Ned looked at me rather mystically and
said, “Yes, I have some money. What’s on your mind?”
Opening up the drug store, I took him in and explained to
him what I wanted to do. I told him that if he loaned me
any money, he would either lose it all or I would give him
back twice the amount of the loan. Ned gave me his check
for all he had, five hundred dollars, with this remark, “I
don’t know you very well, Robbie, you haven’t been here
long; but you look good to me. I think you’re all right. I
heard your lectures, and if this five hundred dollars will do
you any good, take it.”
Ned started to leave the drug store, but I called him back,
for it was twenty-five hundred dollars I had started out to
get—-not five hundred. I asked him if he knew anyone else
who had five hundred dollars, and he replied that George
Benson, his brother-in-law to be had that sum. “Call him
up,” I said. Ned did, and a few minutes later, Benny, as we
now call him, came to the drug store. I explained to him what
I wanted, and he gave me five hundred dollars. That made
one thousand dollars inside of an hour. Then I asked both
of those chaps if they knew of a third fellow who had a little
money. Benson, who still is with the Ward Hardware and
Paint Company, mentioned the name of one of the cashiers
at one of the local banks—-Elmer Anderson. Elmer was called
over, and he wrote a check, although how a Swede came to
part with seven hundred and fifty dollars that quickly is
something I have never been able to explain. Anderson for
years has been in our employ as C.P.A. and bookkeeper, and
he’s a good one.
Well, there was $1750.00 out of the $2500.00 needed, and
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 199
the night was still young. I suggested the name of Oscar
Anderson, another Swede, and a prominent Moscow farmer.
The boys agreed to go out with me to see him, and while
Oscar rather derided the Movement, he did give me a check
for $750.00. Thus my objective was achieved. The $2500.00
had been raised in one night, in a strange town, and by a man
they knew very little about. I felt I needed this twenty-five
hundred dollars to have one thousand sets of the Lessons
printed and ten thousand each of the letters which were to
be sent to those who replied to our national advertisements,
for that is what I decided to do—advertise nationally. Many
a millionaire will stop and ponder before attempting to
launch a national advertising campaign, but I did not hesitate
five seconds. Moreover, I hold today the world’s record for
successful mail-order advertising. Let me tell you about that
first ad which has proved to be such a sensational piece of
advertising copy.
I knew nothing whatsoever about advertising. I had never
written an ad in my life. I was no promoter, but I did know
something of the Power of the Great Spirit in me, and what
little I did know about that Power was more than sufficient
for me in any emergency. Borrowing a sheet of paper from
the local newspaper, I sat down to try my hand at writing
an ad. I had not the faintest idea how to go about it. Then,
from the nowhere, came this thought, “Don’t write an ad,
tell the people what you have to offer them.” That is exactly
what I did, and all I did. It was all I knew how to do. That
piece of copy which cost me four hundred dollars to insert
brought more than twenty-three thousand dollars worth of
orders for this new Teaching. It was something never before
witnessed in the advertising field. No piece of copy like that
had ever appeared before. If that piece of copy was true, it
meant that all the differing systems of religion were not true,
for I very plainly said this in that first piece of copy.
Out of the twenty-five hundred dollars I had raised, I had
saved four hundred dollars for the insertion of this full-page
200 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
ad in Psychology Magazine. Wishing to make connections
with an advertising agency, I went the next day into Spo­
kane, Washington, where I inquired for the largest agency
there. I entered that office and asked for the senior partner
of the firm, showing him the copy, I handed him a check for
four hundred dollars to cover the cost of the ad. His com­
mission would have been sixty-eight dollars had he handled
this piece of copy; and his commissions from that day to this,
had he done so, would have been quite a tidy sum. This clever
advertising man, however, took one look at the copy and then
looked at me. “How much money have you, young fellow?”
he asked. I replied that the four hundred dollars he held in
his hand represented everything I had. Calling his partner in,
he said, “We don’t want to handle that sort of stuff, do we?
We can’t afford to. Our reputation is worth too much to us,
and besides, we don’t want to be a party to this young man’s
losing the last dollar he has.” The other partner agreed.
Turning to me, he said, “Mr. Robinson, I suggest that you
forget all about this and keep your four hundred dollars.
That piece of copy is mechanically imperfect. People won’t
answer it, and you will never get a reputable magazine to run
it. It’s too revolutionary.” Turning to those two advertising
gentlemen, I said, “Well, you fellows are the two smartest
men I have ever seen, or the two biggest fools,” and I walked
out.
I have already told you the phenomenal results of that
advertisement, and it has appeared, and still is appearing, in
the most outstanding publications in the United States. There
have been a few magazines and newspapers which have re­
fused the copy, but in every case, these periodicals have been
members of a certain “faith” which, if it could, would deny
the right to anyone to teach any other religion than the one
they teach. The two advertising men mentioned have both
personally called on me soliciting our advertising account.
When I recalled my first interview with them, they professed
not to remember it 5 but I did. The first advertisement ap-
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 201
peared in Psychology Magazine, and as before stated, that
“mechanically imperfect” piece of copy brought in enough
inquiries and enrollments to make further advertising pos­
sible. The second advertisement appeared in the Pathfinder.
It cost fifteen hundred dollars, and the third appeared in
Physical Culture. In one year from the date of the first
advertisement we were sending our teaching into sixty-seven
different countries. I believe the Spokane advertising agency
made a bad guess.
CHAPTER TH R E E
Success Comes
T h e r e was an anxious pe r io d b e t w e e n t h e o r d er in g
in the first advertisement and the receipt of the first replies.
I knew this Movement was born of God. I knew those reflies
would, come in. No other possibility entered my mind. It
could not be otherwise, for this was a message from God to
the world. Therefore, the world would receive the message.
I worked in the drug store all day long, and at night Ned
Phillips, George Benson, Oscar Anderson, Elmer Anderson,
and I built “fixtures” in a small room I had rented over the
drug store. There was no planed lumber in those fixtures. We
used a hammer, a saw, and some nails, and that is all we did
use. Incidentally, the system of mailing the replies and
follow-ups which I put into vogue in that little room is still
in use today, only it is a much more elaborate system. The
fundamental idea is the same. It has been claimed that the
“Phychiana” system is the nearest to being perfect of any
mail-order business in America. It may not be perfect, but
very few mistakes are made, and when these mistakes do
occur, they are found if the whole crew works all night to
find them.
In the meantime the Moscow Publishing Company printed
one thousand sets of the original ctPsychiana” Teaching, and
ten thousand each of the different follow-up letters which
by the way, have not been changed from that day to this.
More evidence of divine guidance, certainly. Most adver­
tisers continually experiment, changing a line here and a line
there, trying to make the advertising pay. Yet here was I,
ordering ten thousand of each letter, never for one instant
dreaming that any change would be necessary. On April the
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 203
first (April Fools’ Day), 1928, the first replies began to
come in to us. I remember calling up the “boys” and telling
them that they would have to come down and fold the liter­
ature, for it was too much for one man to do.
They were very faithful, and each night would see a pros­
perous farmer and road commissioner, a banker, a grocery
clerk, a bookkeeper for a paint store, and a druggist, working
till the “wee sma” hours of the morning getting those replies
attended to. In about two weeks the first enrollment was
received. Then I leaped for joy. I knew my work was coming
into fruition, for every succeeding mail brought enrollments
for membership in “P sych ia n a They flooded our “office”
and it at once became necessary for us to rent one more room
adjoining the one we already occupied. Mrs. Robinson hand-
stapled the first sets of Lessons to go out. In about three
weeks more we were compelled to rent still another room,
and inside of six months I had signed a five-year lease on a
building which I then thought we would never completely
fill. But inside of another six months, that building was too
small, so I bought a quarter of a block with a two-story
undertaking parlor on it, and moved into it. Our present
location is far too small, and larger quarters will be built in
the near future.
In the meantime, I had gone on half-time at the drug­
store and, seeing the handwriting on the wall, I told Charley
Bolles he had better be looking for another man. As soon as
one was found, I left, devoting all of my time to the “Psy­
chiana” Movement. I shall never forget the first “printing”
we did. I bought a second-hand multigraph machine for
fifteen dollars and set every letter of type myself. The cost
of printing was exhorbitant, hence the multigraph machine.
We now have two twin-motored multigraph machines, a
Set-o-type, and the largest and most up-to-date newspaper
plant in North Idaho, and still we cannot keep ahead of the
printing. At the present writing, three outside printers are
helping us out, we are far behind.
204 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
It is hard to estimate just how many followers we have,
as from two to ten people will study each set of Lessons.
Then again, we have “study-groups” all over the world. In
the United States alone as I write this to you, there are more
than twelve thousand cities, towns, villages, each one having
from one, to twenty-five thousand students. I estimate, as
closely as I can that we have between seven hundred and fifty
thousand and one million people who either directly or indi­
rectly have studied or are studying with me. It must be
remembered that we must make a charge for this Teaching,
otherwise we could not operate. For every Student enrolled,
ten people have had our literature, and have not been able to
study with us because of this cost. This is a pity, but at the
proper time it will be overcome, as some man or woman will
endow this Movement. I know just as surely as I knew the
first advertisement would be successful. It has to be. Who the
man or woman is, I do not know, nor do I care. As soon as
he or she appears on the scene, the advertising appropriation
will be quadrupled, and the Teaching will be given free to
everyone who wants it, and that will be millions.
Last year (1939) more than seventy-five million pieces of
literature were printed and left our Headquarters here in
Moscow, Idaho. That’s a lot of printing. As the years go by,
and as men and women find the Power of the Great Spirit,
God, we shall be enabled to move very much faster than we
are today. What we have done has been little short of
miraculous. It is phenomenal. It has never been equalled by
anyone. Had not the Spirit of God been behind this Move­
ment, it would have died a natural death a long time ago,
for the man does not live who, through his own ability, can
stand the strain and the burden of pioneering and guiding
the “Psychiana” Movement. I am not a young man any
more, but I can do more actual work than any two younger
men, and just as long as this Movement needs me, I shall be
here to guide it.
I remember shortly after the Movement started, the editor
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 205
of the Daily Star MiiTor, which newspaper we consolidated
with ours last November, was very wrathy over the “Psy-
chiana” Movement, so he called a meeting of the Moscow
Ministerial Association to see if something could not be done
to drive this “selling scheme” out of Moscow. There were
ministers there who would have left no stone unturned to
upset the Movement, but they were restrained by the Rev­
erend Clifford Drury who was then pastor of the First Pres­
byterian Church in Moscow. He is now history professor in
San Anselmo Presbyterian Seminary. Drury wisely told these
good ministers, “Better keep hands off, for if this Movement
is not of God, it will die of itself, but if it is of God, nothing
you can do will stop it.” That advice was heeded. It was wise
advice, as has been abundantly proved since.
I do not know how many magazines, newspapers, and radio
commentators have written up this Movement. There are
now, as I write this at Rocky Point, Oregon, seven requests
from the editors of large magazines for personal stories of
the Movement. I consider this autobiography of more im­
portance than magazine write-ups, so these letters will have
to go unanswered until I get back. This autobiography will
give these gentlemen the facts they need. I will try to recall
a few of the most outstanding magazines and newspapers and
radio commentators who have spoken editorially of “Psy-
chiana” and myself. I probably shall miss a score, as there
are many of these write-ups I never see. I know that in the
month of March, 1940, more than two hundred different
newspapers carried a write-up with a photo of myself in their
columns. I have received “clippings” from that number. So
it begins to look as if God really has been working in a
marked manner these past few years. He will work in a much
more marked manner during the next year or so.
Walter Winchell, of course, is the outstanding radio com­
mentator in America. Mr. Winchell saw fit to say nice things
about me in a Sunday evening broadcast just a few weeks
ago. I do not recall the names of the news columnists who
206 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
have drawn attention to this Movement, but I know there
are five of these men of national note. Time, Newsweek, The
American Mercury, Pathfinder, The Portland Oregonian,
The Milwaukee Journal, The New York News, The Wash­
ington Times-Dispatch, Cavalcade, and Everybody’s, two
of the largest circulating magazines in Great Britain, and
other foreign magazines and papers by the score have fea­
tured us in their columns.
Let it be understood that I have sought no publicity. I do
not want it. I wish it were possible for me to keep entirely
in the background, and let someone else, far more qualified
than I, take the credit. I want no plaudits of men. I want to
bring to this world the actual truths of God, which truths will
liberate men everywhere, because they are truths of God.
That is my work. All I ask is that I be left alone with my
God and not interfered with as I have been. I count it an
honor to have been so viciously attacked by the churches, for
that is evidence that this whole Movement is born of the
Spirit of God, otherwise they would not attack it.
* * *
All this amazing growth and success was pleasing and
gratifying to me in that it proved that I had the message the
world needs. But there was one thing I was looking most
eagerly for—that was letters from my Students telling me
what God was doing in their lives. I shall never forget the
first letter of that kind which came in. It told of the instant
disappearance of a case of chronic rheumatism of twenty years
standing. It went like the morning mists before the rising
sun. Taking the letter with me, I jumped in the car and
drove like fury to my home where I said to my good wife,
“It works, Pearl. It works-—-look at this.”
That was the first letter of this kind I had received and,
naturally, it made me happy indeed. Then another letter like
it came in, and before many more weeks had gone by, these
letters were the rule, not the exception. We saved one hun­
dred and fifty thousand of such letters, and now we throw
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 207
them away, after we answer them, as we have not the space
in which to store them.
These letters have all been unsolicited and, naturally, not
one penny has ever been paid for one of them. I have re­
produced a few in another chapter. They come from all over
the world. If I were to tell you all the things which have
happened through the Power we endeavor to teach, it would
make you blink your eyes, I assure you. This has never been
a “healing” Movement, and it never will be so long as I head
it. Yet cancer and other incurable diseases have melted away
before the Power of the Great Spirit, God. I can show you
evidence of death being averted many times. Yet these things,
unusual as they are, are but side-lights on the greater work
which we are doing. When God is recognized in the life, and
when the Power of God is consciously used in the life, these
undesirable physical diseases cannot help but disappear. There
are, however, hundreds of thousands of lives we have dealt
with which have no physical impairment, and naturally we
do not hear as much about those lives.
I receive more telegrams than any man in the State of
Idaho. I receive more long-distance calls at all hours of the
day and night than any man in Idaho. I cover more miles
travelling and trying to help people than any man in the
United States. The demands on my time are such that my
average day is far longer than eight hours, I assure you.
Were it not for the Power of the Living Spirit, which Spirit
I know, I should not be able to do what I do. But greater is
the God in me than any other Power, even the Power of
death. As long as I abide in that Power, and consciously know
that Power, what care I ?
* * *
Let me tell you of one amusing letter. It was not so amus­
ing at the time to the writer who was in deadly earnest. He
was a postmaster of a large Eastern city. Things had been
going wrong with him all round, and he wrote me as follows:
208 THE STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
“D ear D r. Robinson:
“There is nothing left for me in life. You are teaching the truths
of God, but I am beyond all hopes. Illness, financial worries, bad
investments have made me decide to end it all. Before many days I
shall have blown my brains out. I appeal to you as a last resort— is
there anything you can do to help me before I commit suicide.”
Here is my reply:
“M y D ear M r. So-and-So :
“Your letter received and contents noted well. In the first place
you could not blow your brains out because you haven’t any. You
might blow holes in your head, but that wouldn’t be blowing your
brains out. In the event you decide to do this, let me suggest that you
do it in some back alley somewhere, as I don’t believe the U. S.
Government would appreciate having a mess made in the Federal
Building in . . . I shall watch the papers with interest to see just how
good a job you made of it.”
That reply evidently was the right one. Later I received
a long letter from that chap telling me that had I tried to
sympathize with him, he probably would have committed
suicide. As it happened, my letter made him think. It brought
him to his senses. I am glad it did. Let it be remembered
here that it is a terrific responsibility having so many thou­
sand write you their heart-throbs; for that is exactly what they
do. Yet every letter is treated as if it were from a relative. We
give them the very best we know how to give them, and,
depending upon the Spirit of God for guidance, we invariably
achieve results which stagger people when they read these
letters.
One world-famous character who is a great booster for me
is Tommy Burns, former heavyweight boxing champion of
the world. Tommy never gets tired of singing our praises.
Premier Mussolini sent me a letter of appreciation on one
of my books a few years ago. Famous scientists, U. S. Sen­
ators and Congressmen; foreign diplomats; world-famous
physicians. In fact, from all walks of life come these amazing
letters.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 209
An analysis of my Students reveals several interesting
facts. They are about half men and half women. Their aver­
age age is from 40 to 60 years. Seventy-nine per cent of them
are “white-collar” people in the $3000.00 a year class. Not
“lunatics” as one monthly publication called them recently.
* * *
The Movement had not been in existence much over one
year when I began to feel the weight of unfair church attacks
which were being made upon the Movement and myself.
These attacks were made openly, and worse than all, under­
ground. Quite naturally, word of what was being accom­
plished through the Power of God began to spread, and the
churches began to take notice of us. Some of the statements
I made were very plain statements, both in my literature and
in my advertisements. I made the open statement that the
religion the churches were teaching was not of God. I called
attention to the fact, through the books I had written, that
every fundamental of “orthodoxy” was known to millions
of people thousands of years before Christianity was ever
heard of. These statements have not yet been challenged.
They cannot be challenged because they are true, and I have
the proof. So other means were taken to stop this Movement
and put me “out of harm’s way” as one minister put it. Cer­
tainly they tried hard enough, but as Clifford Drury so
wisely stated before the Moscow Ministerial Association, “//
this thing be of God, nothing you can do can stop it.” It
happens to be of God.
The first open attack came from the Gospel Advocate, the
official organ of the Christian church (Campbellites). I will
not reproduce the article here, as it is not worth the space.
Suffice it to say that the article, written by one C. C. Brewer
and written without the slightest knowledge of what he was
writing, was pronounced by our attorneys to be libelous in
every State in the Union. I wrote Mr. Brewer, calling his
attention to that fact and asking for the same space in the
Gospel Advocate he had given to libelling me. He agreed,
210 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
and I sent in my answer. It never appeared, though, and
shortly after I saw another name as editor of the Advocate.
The strange part of this is that shortly afterwards Brewer
became seriously ill and a wire received by me stated that he
was not expected to live. He lived, and I know why. But
wasn’t it strange that I, of all men, was asked to help when
death threatened? Surely it is strange how God works some­
times.
The next attack came from the Sunday School Times. In
fact this magazine took two or three shots at me. Harmless
shots, though, for it has been noted that when any person or
religious magazine takes a pot-shot at “Psychiana,” hundreds
of its readers write us for information and, through the infor­
mation we send them, they usually find God, and that is
something they were not able to do before. The Lutheran
Companion wrote an especially vicious article, but it did not
state that the one who wrote the article still owes me fifty
dollars for a set of books I am holding as security for the
repayment of a loan. I wonder why that fact was not men­
tioned in this article.
So organized and vicious were the attacks made on this
Movement and myself that literally thousands of complaints
were sent in to the Post Office Inspectors in Washington,
D. C. Whole Sunday School classes would write complaints
to the Post Office Department. They were ordered to. One
of these came from aBaptist minister who at that time resided
in Moscow. His name is the Reverend C. C. McGraw. The
letter of “complaint” stated that the Postal authorities should
investigate “that man Robinson” in Moscow, who is using
the mails to defraud “suckers” out of their hard-earned
money, and “judging by the amount of money he is making,
he is catching them by the hundreds.” Naturally an investi­
gation was ordered, but nothing was found which showed the
slightest taint of fraud. I do not agree with “orthodoxy” and
very plainly say so. This means that the Movement should
be stopped. Any new revelation from God which does not
211
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON
agree with the teachings of the church must not be allowed to
operate. Every one of these complaints was based on our
religious views, not on anything which could be faintly sus­
pected of being fraudulent. These complainants knew this
when they sent the letters in.
After the two inspectors who made their investigation had
reported on the Movement, the Federal District Attorney
ordered the case closed. “Believe me, Doctor Robinson, I
went through your Movement with a fine-tooth comb, and
if there had. been anything wrong with it, I would have found
it out,” he told me some time ago. However, not to be de­
feated, another investigation was made, and the same results
were reported.
What these religious bodies hoped to gain by persecuting
me, is more than I can guess. Mail fraud is mail fraud, and
in no sense of the word can any religious Movement of the
international significance of this Movement be charged with
fraud in anything it teaches. The Constitution of the United
States very effectively bars that. Yet these complaints poured
in, and I presume they still pour in, although not in as great
a number. This Movement has taken its place at the head
of the religious procession, and while there are other religious
Movements having greater claimed membership, there is no
religious organization on the face of the earth which has
grown as rapidly as this Movement; nor is there another
religious organization on the face of the earth which is demon­
strating the Power of God in as many lives as the <
c
Psychiana,y
Movement is.
After all, it’s the results in human lives that count. Talk is
cheap. Anyone can talk, but when one sees disease disap­
pearing like magic and lives by the tens of thousands being
rejuvenated and brought to know God, that is what matters.
I would rather be doing the work I am doing than be the Pope
of Rome, the Head of the Salvation Army, and the President
of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ, all rolled into
one. They talk—they make unprovable claims. We bring
212 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
God to mankind. The churches cannot prove one statement
they make.
No true Movement of the Spirit of God on the earth can
subscribe to anything “orthodoxy” teaches, for “orthodoxy”
as it exists today is obsolete. It stands here absolutely power­
less either to reveal God to man or to do one thing toward
stopping this hellish war the nations of the earth are engaged
in. I do not know what will happen before this book sees the
light of day, but I do know that no religious organization on
the face of the earth will ever be able to do anything toward
bringing this ghastly thing to a close. “The blood of Jesus”
is preached universally by the Christian church. “There is a
fountain filled with blood” is sung in almost every Christian
church, but it will take more than the blood of Jesus to bring
peace to this war-weary earth. It will take more than “the
blood of Chrishna,” for he, too, shed his blood upon the cross
to “save” mankind. It will take more than the blood of the
score of other “crucified gods” to make any impression on this
world today.
It will take the Power of God, and this Power, no church
on earth can teach because they know nothing whatsoever of
that Power. It is not a case of the Power of God in Christian­
ity today. All this religion is trying to do is to get men and
women to believe that Jesus Christ, who no one can prove
ever lived, was God Almighty. It is an impossible task. The
world does not believe that story, nor does it believe the story
that Jeseus Chrishna was God, nor Prometheus, nor Quirinus,
nor Osiris, nor any of the rest of the cavalcade of crucified
gods which have paraded across the horizon of world religious
history. This world has rejected every “crucified god” of­
fered to it, just as it has rejected the “crucified god” of the
present church. It is showing good judgment in doing so.
If these religions would preach one thing—the existence
and Power of the Great Spirit, God, there would be need for'
only one religion. When that day comes, and it will come,
this world will actually and literally know God. It cannot
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 213
know God when someone else is offered to it as God. There
was never any need for Jesus Christ or any other “crucified
god” to appear on this world’s horizon. All there ever has
been need for is the simple, plain recognition of the Power of
the Great Invisible Spirit which is God. But no—that won’t
do—the churches do not want an invisible God. So they made
unto themselves graven images, and these images the
churches of all religions have attempted to foist on the
world as being the true God. Look at the world about you as
a result of these images. Then ask yourself if it is not high
time that some man arose to bring to this earth the truths of
the One Great God, which God never has been seen by mortal
eye, never has been nailed to a cross, and never created a man
who, from the very beginning, was “born in sin, shapen in
iniquity, and damned to hell,” if he did not believe that some
one of a score of “crucified gods” was God Almighty.
The message I am bringing to this world will be accepted.
It will be accepted because it is true. It will be accepted be­
cause it has the Power to bring to men the consciousness of
the Absolute God. This is something mankind has not had
brought to it yet by any religious organization. The day had
to come in which some one, with an experience of God and
the courage to tell that experience, must come along. There
may be paths for me to tread which I do not fully see. I care
nothing for that. I know in Whom I am believing, and I know
that Great Spirit lives. Therefore, knowing that, I am happy
and content to be led every step of the way, until the day
dawns when all men shall know the fullness of the Power of
the Spirit of God.
CHAPTER FOUR
The Name “ ”
A t t h is p o in t , i w a n t t o t e l l y o u h o w t h e n a m e
“Psychiana” came into existence. This is one of the most
remarkable instances of direct inspiration I have ever known
and clearly demonstrates that there is a great ocean of Power
available to us all in any emergency. It has become second
nature to me to depend upon this hidden, though always
available Power, and I give very little thought any more to
problems which would cause many people a great deal of
worry.
I have told you about writing the original ten Lessons of
this Teaching, and up to that time I had given no thought
to what the Teaching should be called. It never entered into
my head that a name would be necessary until I drew up the
first advertisement. For several days I pondered in my mind
what the name of this new Teaching should be. The word
“psycho,” meaning soul, kept running through my mind.
Yet I could not call it the “Robinson System of Psychology”
because it is not psychology in any sense of the word. It is
pure and simple religion.
One night on arriving home, I said to Mrs. Robinson, “I
wish I could find the proper name for that teaching.” Quick
as a flash, she shot back to me, “Why don’t you put the Teach­
ing to work and have it provide you with the proper name?”
I grasped what she meant and decided to do that very thing.
When I went to bed that night, I put a pencil and writing
tablet on a chair beside the bed. It might be noticed here that
I had never done anything like that before nor did I know at
that time why I was doing it. I just simply followed this
unseen inspiration with somewhat marvelous results. I have
215
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON
never forgotten that night. I was in the most realistic dream
I have ever experienced. A dream to me is something very
unusual, because I usually sleep like a horse and awake in
the morning completely refreshed from a good night’s sleep.
On this particular night, or rather in the early hours of the
morning, I experienced this very realistic dream. There was
a room about twelve feet square painted black and in the
middle of it was a Helen Gould canvas army cot. On the
cot was a male corpse with hands folded across his breasts.
Standing over the head of the corpse and making downward
motions with his hands was a man I had never seen before.
After standing at the entrance to this room for a few mo­
ments watching the proceedings, I walked into the room and
said to this gentleman who was making the downward
motions with his hands over the corpse, “Now, just exactly
what do you call that?” Turning to me this person looked me
right in the eye for a moment and then said, “You ought to
know. This is ‘Psychicmathe Power which will bring new
life to a spiritually dead world.”
Like a flash, I awoke. If you have ever tried to bring a
concrete idea or thought into waking consciousness from the
dream realm, you have discovered that it is a very difficult
thing to do. However, in a semi-conscious state, and coming
right out of sleep, I continually repeated the name Psychi-
anaj ‘Psychiana‘Phychiana’” until I was wide awake, and
then I wrote it down on the little tablet which I had placed
on the chair by the side of the bed. Awakening Mrs. Robinson
I said, “Here is the name. I have it. It is ‘Psychiana’.” At
once she stated that she thought it was a very wonderful
name, and I knew instinctively that it would be very success­
ful. I knew that the name of this Movement would have to
be a definite entity. It would have to be something entirely
new. Had some less powerful name been chosen, this Move­
ment might not have been heard of.
Now, let me tell you the strange part of this story. Some
few months afterward, I was walking by the desk of the lady
216 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
who opened the mail then, and I happened to see a photo­
graph lying on the top of a group of enrollment blanks. Let
me explain that I ask every Student who enrolls for this
Teaching to send me his or her photograph, and I in turn
send them one of mine. While standing and looking at the
picture, it suddenly flashed upon me that this was a photo­
graph of the man I had seen in the dream standing over the
head of the corpse. Here, looking right at me, was the same
man who gave me the name of this Movement in that strange
dream. I called for the application enrollment of that gentle­
man and found out that he lived in Alexandria, Egypt. His
application said he was a bookkeeper, and while that was true,
it was not all of the truth, for Mr. Birley was and is a very
wealthy cotton importer of Alexandria. I visited him in his
home and called upon his father and mother in England a
few years ago.
Calling a stenographer into my office I asked her to take
a letter. In the letter I thanked Mr. Birley for his enrollment
in this Teaching and informed him that, whether he knew it
or not, he was to become associated with me in this Movement.
I had no way of knowing whether Mr. Birley was a million­
aire or a pauper, but I did ask him to send me forty thousand
dollars. I just came right out and told him what I needed to
really put this Movement on its feet. At that time, we were
in our second office, a very small affair, and I was still work­
ing part time in the Corner Drug Store.
About three weeks later the Spokane Eastern Trust Com­
pany of Spokane, Washington, called me over the long dis­
tance telephone. On the telephone was Mr. Sam Kimbrough.
H e said that he had a large sum of money there for me, and
I said to him, “How much is it—forty thousand dollars?”
He replied, “No, I have twenty thousand dollars here, but
another twenty thousand dollars will be here next month.” I
went to Spokane and came back with a cashier’s check for
twenty thousand dollars which is a lot of money. In due time
the other twenty thousand dollars arrived, and for a time
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 217
Mr. Birley had an interest in this Movement. H e has none
at the present time, however, as I am returning him his
money now at so much a month. This story is unusual, but it
is the absolute truth.
There was a Presbyterian minister in Moscow at that time
by the name of Clifford Drury. I have alluded to him before.
I had told Clifford Drury of what I was doing and told him
the trouble I was having in finding a name. When I gave him
the name, “Psychiana,” I asked him what he thought about
changing it to “Psychianity.” Drury replied that he thought
it would be all right. His only objection was that it would be
too much like “Christianity.” I discussed that problem with
the good wife and she was in favor of changing the name to
“Psychianity.” However, I decided that having secured this
name directly from the source of all intelligence and inspir­
ation, I had better leave it alone. This good judgment has
been abundantly vindicated, because today the name “Psy-
chianaP is known all over the civilized world, and there is
more comment and discussion of this religious Movement
than there is of any other religion on the face of the earth.
It is revolutionary. It is dynamic. It is powerful. If it is true,
every maj or system of religion which is founded on the death
of God on a cross is an untrue religious philosophy.
You can readily understand then the consternation and the
bitterness this philosophy caused when I first released it.
Only a man who knows what he is talking about by experi­
ence or a complete fool would make such a statement as that.
I have never been accused of being very much of a fool; and
when I look at the condition which exists in this world today
and when I remember the fact that these conditions exist in
spite of the multitudinous claims of the various religious or­
ganizations, and when I see the confusion among these
religions, and when I read that the Archbishop of Canterbury
calls the religion of Jesus Christ a “bloody religion,” I know
that a completely new picture of God is demanded by this
age.
218 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
I will go so far as to say that if some other picture of God
is not presented to this earth, what we know as civilization
will perish from the earth. If ever I was convinced that the
fullness of the Power of the Great Spirit of God will be
brought to this earth by this Movement, I am convinced of
that this morning. As I sit here dictating this simple though
strange story, my heart bleeds when I think of the misery
and suffering which will come to this earth before very long.
There will probably be a night attack on London by hundreds
of German bombing planes, and London and England will
fall. ( N o t e : This was written before England entered the
war.) All the powers opposed to God have headed up in one
mad man and the only movement capable of opposing an
ungodly creature such as Hitler is this Movement. I make
this statement because the record of this Movement covering
a period of eleven years is a record of dynamic action by the
Power of the Great Spirit, God.
There are many good sincere Christians (which only means
members of the Christian religion) to whom the passing of
the old regime and the coming of the new is bringing much
anguish and foreboding of coming evil. Many of these anx­
ious souls are already crying with the Solo Vetski monks,
“Woe, woe unto you. What have you done with our son of
God?” I have already received thousands of letters stating
“You are taking away our God. and our Bible and are giving
us nothing in return.” Nothing, however, could be farther
from the truth than that. I have taken away from the bible
and from the Christian religion only that which is false and
which, therefore, was a detriment to both. All that is good
and true, I have left. Wherever you find Truth, it is the
definitely inspired word of God, regardless of who writes it.
So I have not destroyed anything true. The bible of the
Christian religion is still remaining. All I have done is clarify
it by the Light of the Spirit of God as that Light has been
revealed to me. I have taken away nothing that I have not
returned one hundred fold.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 219
It is true I have taken away the cosmogony of Genesis,
but I have brought the sense of God through astronomy and
geology, and is not a revelation of God through these sciences
far safer than the so-called “divine inspiration” of any
bible? I have disputed with Bishop Usher who told you that
on October 26 at nine o’clock in the morning some six
thousand years ago, God Almighty created the heavens and
the earth. I have called that story untrue and I have blasted
out of existence any theory of God based upon such an untrue
statement, even though that date is to be found officially
recorded in a marginal note at the very beginning of the
Christian bible. This is evidence that they believe that state­
ment of Bishop Usher.
But what have I given in the place of this instant creation
six thousand years ago? Have I not given you man’s slow
but constant evolution? I have completely shattered the
foolish theories of the fall of man but in their place I have
given you an eternal progress, ever-forward and ever leading
toward the Great Light which is God. I have proved the
Tower of Babel story to have been written seven thousand
years before the time of Christ. I have proved the entire
Christian theology to be known in detail to millions of people
thousands of years before the Christ of the Christian church
or the church itself were ever heard of. But I have replaced
that story with philology. I have very effectively taken away
the “miracles for demonstration” but I have replaced these
demonstrative miracles with the present Power of the Spirit
of God which always works in a beautifully natural order. I
have taken away superstition and ignorance, but I have re­
placed them with true faith and knowledge.
I have removed the false halo of deity from the head of
the Syrian Jew, Jesus, and in place of that false halo I have
crowned him with divine humanity. I have completely ex­
ploded the authority and the infallibility of “revealed the­
ology” of which the world is full, and I have also taken away
with it the dangers and disadvantages of such a religion; but
220 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
I have brought to the world in its place, a rational, God-in-
spired, fast-growing religion embodying all that was good
in the old faiths, yet in complete harmony with whatever
progress the future may bring.
But my work is not finished. It has hardly started. Much
still remains to be done. The dogmatic walls of these old
church made “faiths” must be torn down, for they cumber
the ground where the edifice of a far greater and nobler
religion is being built. The foundations of this new religious
structure have been laid and on these foundations, under the
guidance of the indwelling Spirit of God, I shall build a
better, a nobler, a grander religious structure than the world
has known to date. No narrow church-made creed shall bar
the portals of that Temple of God. But her doors shall ever
be opened to all who seek the truth—not just for an hour on
Sunday morning to hear some man expound his theories of an
unprovable faith, but always open to those who seek the
truths of God wherever those truths are to be found. Within
the sacred walls of that structure, God, through this Move­
ment, is building, and the sacred devotees of every faith will
be able to worship in security.
No cup of hemlock shall there still the prophetic or phi­
losophic tongue. No crown of thorns shall there adorn the
brow of innocents. No burning fagots shall there await the
doubting mind and honest soul. No voice shall there com­
mand except the still small voice of the Spirit of God. On the
sacred altar of the new Temple shall rest the bible of the
Christian religion and the bibles of every other religion. In
fact on the altar in that Temple shall rest every book which
has inspired the heart of man. There in that lowly Temple 1
am building, the lowly Nazarene, the Syrian Jew—Jesus—
will be revered, and so will every other Son of God who has
helped to ease the burdens of this sin-sick world, regardless
of what his name may be.
The Holy Mother Mary will be adored by those who wish
to adore her as will the other mother Maia and the rest of the
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 221
virgins who, according to their respective traditions, brought
God to this earth in the form of a little male child. In adoring
these mothers, every woman who has played the sacred role
of motherhood will also be adored, for the child the Holy
Mother Mary bore, if at all, was a human child, even as you
and I.
As you read this book, you will understand that a more
pitiable and worthless person could not have been chosen to
bring to this world the truths of God. But I shall not try
to shirk responsibility because of my inability to do it justice.
Instead, I shall continue to be guided by the stars of hope
and destiny. There will always remain in me an infinite
peace and love for the entire human race, and as long as I
live, my every effort will be given to the task of erecting this
new Temple of God. If I continue to be guided by these two
stars of hope and love, my destiny shall remain safe and
secure in the hands of an ever-present and ever-loving God.
Guided by these two stars of hope and love, wise men from
the East, from the West, and from the North and from the
South will lay their treasure at the feet of every new born
babe and welcome it to a world of brotherhood while all
worshippers of every religion shall join the strains of peace
on earth, good will to men.
* * *
While I am on this subject of direct manifestations of the
Power of God in my life, let me give you another instance of
the supernatural, inexplicable guidance and provision of the
Power of God. This experience came before the one I have
recorded about my friend, Mr. Birley.
I received a long-distance call from New York one day
stating that I could buy the back cover of a large national
magazine for $5000.00—the regular price being $7500.00. I
ordered that cover reserved and sent my full-page display
advertisement to them by airmail. Working for me at that
time was the son of a Baptist minister who, incidentally, be­
fore he got through, forged my name to checks, nearly
222 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
wrecking the Movement. Yet after kicking him out one night
in the middle of the winter, I sent telegrams all over trying
to find that chap and his wife and young child to bring them
back to Moscow. Finally I found them. In the meantime, I
rented a house, furnished it, filled the cellar with coal and
handed the man $50.00 and put him back to work. Inside of
thirty days, he had robbed me again, so this time I let him
go for good. Just a few months ago, I was called upon to
provide his wife with the material necessities of life, which
I did. The preacher’s son is living with one of his parents
who is a professor in a Baptist Theological Seminary.
All that is beside the point, of course, but it is interesting.
Turning to me, this young man said, “Where are you going
to get $5,000.00 with which to pay for that advertisement?”
I replied that the bill would not be due for ninety days and
that, while I had no money at all, the bill would be paid
when presented. I did not have the faintest idea where
$5,000.00 was coming from, nor did I care particularly. I
knew that this Movement needed the immense circulation
of that magazine, and I ordered the ad put in. In due course,
the bill for this advertisement came in— $5,000.00 with two
per cent discount for cash. We had that morning exactly
three hundred dollars in the bank. Approaching me with the
bill in his hands, this preacher’s son, who served in an office
capacity, said, “What are you going to do about this?” Look­
ing him in the eye, I said, “Deduct the two per cent and
mail them a check.” Looking at me rather strangely, he said,
“Have you any money in the bank with which to meet this
check?” I replied that the check could not possibly be back
before ten days and informed this young man that that was
my business and not his.
It may be interesting to take a peek into my mind while
this was going on. We may be able to find the secret of the
phenomenal success of this Movement; we may be able to
find perhaps, the secret which once grasped, opens the entire
vista of the Power of the Realm of God to all. This is not my
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 223
Movement. I feel I am only the physical object being used
to bring to this earth what I know to be the actual and
literal Truths of God. I needed that advertising. I knew
that in the Infinite wisdom and power of the invisible Realm
of God was the answer to this $5,000.00 proposition. So I
did the only thing I could do. I mailed a check for that
amount.
Now, let me tell you what happened. I personally took
that check to the post office which was directly across the
street and deposited it in the mail chute. Inside of five min­
utes, I received a call from the president of one of our three
local banks. The gentleman who called me was a Norwegian
and of a very excitable type. “This is Blank at the bank
speaking. If you will come down, I have some money for you.
Were you expecting some?” I said to him over the phone,
“How much money have you there—five thousand dollars?”
He replied, “Yes, you must have been expecting it.” I in­
formed him that I did not have the faintest idea where the
money had come from, but I went down to the bank. When
the check from the East came in some ten days later, it was
paid. As a matter of fact, the money was in the bank before
the letter with the check enclosed left Moscow.
Now, let me tell you the inside story of how I came to
receive that check. Incidentally, the lady who sent it is now
a very good friend of mine living in Seattle. At this time,
she was living in Honolulu. She had seen one of our adver­
tisements in a Honolulu newspaper and had gone into a
book store to order the complete Teaching. The book store
in due course ordered the Teaching from me, sending a
check for same. When the Lessons arrived at the book store
in Honolulu, this lady went down and examined them. Not
being impressed with them, she ordered them returned. The
book seller immediately cabled me not to cash the check for
the Lessons but to return it. However, this lady evidently
thought twice, for she went back to the book seller and
decided that she would take the Lessons. As a result of her
224 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
taking the Lessons, a little later she sat down and sent me
a check for $5000.00.
If I cared to, I could enumerate not one, but hundreds,
of instances equally as remarkable as these two. As a matter
of fact, this entire Movement is fantastic in its ability to
accomplish what it wants to accomplish in spite of all opposi­
tion. Just when the days seem darkest, in some unusual
manner the Light begins to shine. It is utterly impossible
for me to take you into the inner recesses of my life. I
cannot write those experiences. They take place in a realm
which cannot be written about. But throughout this entire
life of mine, I recognize very clearly the Guiding Hand of
the Spirit of God. True, every church organization in exist­
ence would give its right arm to have this Movement out of
the way, but that is only proof of the Power of God in this
Movement.
It is so revolutionary that it means the complete casting
away of orthodox theology and the replacing of it with a
universal religion under which every living soul recognizes
that the fullness of the invisible Power of the invisible Spirit
which is God exists on this earth here and now for the use
of all. There cannot be any limitations to that Power. With
it and through it, all things are possible—even the banishing
of the specter we call death. That has always been possible,
and would be actually manifested here on the earth were
it not for the fact that orthodox religions basing their whole
theology on the false premise of God being crucified for the
sins of the world.
They have come to us with a theory of God, which theory
can be found in many pagan systems of religion. The Chris­
tian church calls these other systems pagan. Yet they were
in existence with the very fundamentals of Christianity long
before Christianity was ever heard of. So if these old religions
are pagan, so is Christianity. The premise in each of these
systems of theology is that God Almighty made a mistake
when he created the first man and made a bad one. Then
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 225
to rectify that mistake, He drowned the human race like rats
in a trap, saving only one family. Judging by the conditions
in the world today, this drowning was quite useless. If we
know anything at all about God and the true religion of God,
I am saying that there is no true religion of God on the face
of the earth today. There cannot be. I shall be told at this
point by theologians that the church does not believe those
old stories any more, but if it does not, then what does it
believe? It came into existence and for long has fattened upon
such philosophies as these, and if the churches themselves
say they do not believe them, what is left?
Truly the time is ripe for someone to bring to this world
the true conception of God. When that true conception is
brought and fully realized, what is happening in Europe
today can never happen again. A religious philosophy can rise
no higher than itself. If the God of any religion is looked
upon as an absent God, and if that religion has nothing more
to offer than an object in the future, results of that religion
must be negative. The “Psychiana” Movement teaches no
dead God. Its entire philosophy is based upon the present
existence of the infinite, invisible Life Impulse which must
be God. That Power—that Impulse—that Spirit— living in
each one of us here and now. This philosophy then puts all
the Power of God into every man’s hand, and the only
problem remaining is to discover how to apply that Power.
A Doctor of Divinity said to me in Los Angeles last week,
“Can you raise the dead?” Not wishing to enter into a dis­
cussion with the reverend gentleman, I said to him, “If I
could, you would be the first man I would raise.” Let us
keep both feet on the ground here and let us recognize the
fact that this world is saturated with the theology which has
consistently taught that God may be known only “beyond
the tomb.” In other words, we must die to “enter into the
glories the Lord hath prepared for us.” I do not believe
that. I think that is only ignorance of the Spiritual Power
which is God which allows death to manifest here at all. The
226 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
hope of every religion is eternal life. They all have made the
fatal blunder though, of telling us that we cannot possibly
know that eternal life here and now. We shall know it, they
tell us, if we comply with church regulations, somewhere
above the sky in some other realm. But may I interpolate a
rather pertinent question here? May I ask these religious
organizations why it is that if God only wanted us to enjoy
eternal life beyond the sky, didn’t H e make his creation in
the first place beyond the sky? What did he put them here
for? Why did God go to all the trouble of creating a mar­
velous universe like this only to destroy it, revealing himself
to humanity somewhere else? It just does not add up. The
only inhabited world we know anything about is this one.
Our life was given to us to live on this earth, so why blast
the hopes of the entire human race by telling it that the very
thing it desires most—a knowledge of God—cannot be had
until we have passed out of this picture.
This may seem like a fantastic statement. We are, however,
living in a fantastic world today. Fantastic things are happen­
ing in Europe, and more fantastic things will happen with
lightening rapidity. I do not know what will happen before
this book appears. I do know that this earth is for the saddest
drama ever to be recorded on the scroll of history.
It’s always darkest, however, before the dawn, and the
fact that this Movement exists—the fact that I am on the
earth with this message—is the surest kind of proof that
the vision I hold forth to the world will be manifest some
day before too long. If I have been called upon to play some
little part in this world of drama, if it has been given to me
to see perhaps a little more clearly than some what the
Truths of God are, I can do nothing more than to live con­
scientiously as truly as I can live, holding ever before me the
spiritual picture which is mine.
* * *
I must tell you of two more instances which you will find
very interesting. Some six or seven years ago, I received an
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 227
emergency call to drive some eight hundred miles in an
endeavor to save the life of a school teacher who was dying.
I rarely make those trips now. In those days, I answered
every call of that type that was humanly possible. I arrived
in this city late at night and made my way to the little wooden
hospital where this school teacher lay dying. Quietly opening
the door, I walked into the reception room and put my hat
and coat on the table. It was a one-story building with a hall
running up the middle and rooms on each side. Noticing a
light coming from one of the rooms, I quietly walked up the
passageway and stood outside the door. I heard a girl’s voice
say, “But Doctor Robinson is here now.” Stepping into the
room and taking one hand of the girl in mine and looking her
in the eyes, I said, “How did you know that I was in this
building?” She replied, “My other self saw you come in,
remove your hat and coat, and walk up the hall.”
Looking at her, I said, “Are you dying?” She replied, “I
am dying and living. In other words, while I lie here on the
bed, there is another part of me which is standing beside
you.” Grasping the situation, I said to her, “Answer me two
questions before you go, for you will go.” Then I asked her
these two questions which she answered clearly. “Is the con­
sciousness which is standing beside me the same conscious­
ness which is in that body lying on the bed?” The young lady
replied, “It is the same consciousness, but as I lose the physi­
cal body, the true consciousness of life becomes much more
clear, and this consciousness it is which is standing beside
you.”
I then asked her if she would be able to commune with me
after all consciousness had left the body on the bed. She
replied, “Yes, I could communicate with you, but you would
not be able to receive the communications, because you exist
as a physical body.” Then I asked her another question—a
daring and very vital question—and I ask all students of the
so-called psychic or spiritual realm to read carefully here.
I said to this young girl, “Do you know that the conscious-
228 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
ness which is standing beside me can prevent your physical
body from dying?” She replied, “I know that, but I do not
care to live any longer, although I could if you wished
me to.”
I submit this experience without comment, and I want to
give you another one which happened shortly after. The
husband in this case is at the present time in the Cabinet of
the United States Government. His name is known all over
the world. He has no use for me and never did have, and
loudly berated his wife because she was crying while his own
daughter had not lain in her little grave three days yet.
I received a long distance telephone call one afternoon
asking me if I could come at once to a certain city about nine
hundred miles from Moscow. I replied that I had just com­
pleted an eight hundred mile drive, but if the case was really
an emergency, I would start now. The beautiful mother im­
plored me to leave at once, offering me any amount of money
to go. Let me say in passing that I have never yet allowed
anyone I have ever gone to see to even buy me one gallon
of gasoline. Not a five-cent piece have I ever taken toward
expenses of those trips.
The patient was a little girl, a beautiful thing. As I recall,
it was internal streptococci infection, and a very bad case. Not
knowing as much of the Power of the Spirit of God then as
I know now, I worked myself up into a frenzy over that case.
This was absolutely the wrong thing to do, but I did it,
nevertheless. The little thing’s temperature was up to 106,
and the abdomen was bloated. Discoloration of the body had
started. This was the information I received over the tele­
phone.
I drove well into the middle of the night, and feeling
myself falling asleep, I pulled into a little country hotel,
at Weiser, Idaho, knowing that it would have been dan­
gerous for me to have driven any further. I put in a long­
distance call to this home and told the lady that I could not
drive any farther and was going to get a few hours sleep
DR. RO BIN SO N and C A R L G R IE F
Here is a good close-up picture of Dr. Robinson and Mr. Carl Grief, President of the Uniontown
Stock Show and a noted raiser of blooded cattle. This picture was taken at a dinner given in the City
Hall at Uniontown a few years ago. Locally Dr. Robinson is very active in civic affairs, and is one of
the most liberal donors to civic activities. To people throughout the Inland Empire he is just plain “ Doc”
DR. RO BIN SO N A T U N IO N T O W N (Wash.) STO C K SHOW
Left to right: Les Stewart, Pres. Moscow Chamber of Commerce; Claude Hunter, Manager Wash­
ington Water-Power Co. Moscow office; Dr. Robinson; Harold Cornelison (Corny), Secretary of
the Moscow Chamber of Commerce, and Carl Grief, raiser of blooded cattle, and President of the
Uniontown Stock Show. Dr. Robinson is prominent in many civic activities throughout the region.
LESSO N A SSE M B L Y D EPT .
Above is shown a revolving table on which the "Psychiana” Lessons and other mailings are assembled.
Eight girls can sit comfortably at this table which revolves. As the table revolves, the girls are able to
assemble whatever literature goes into that particular mailing. It has been said that the " Psychiana"
system of mailing is almost perfect. Seldom is a mistake made.
S T U D E N T S ’ A C C O U N T IN G D EPT .
Scores of thousands of accounts are handled every day in this department. Before the war Lessons were
sent to 67 different countries. In the United States alone, there are more than 12,000 cities, towns and
villages, each having anywhere from one to twenty-five thousand students. Some large cities have more.
G RO U P O F “ P SY C H IA N A ” EM P LO Y EE S
Dr. Rabinson may be seen smiling in the doorway, left. This picture was taken in 1930.
IN P O M P E II
Dr. Robinson is here seen standing among the ruins of old Pompeii. Note Mt. Vesuvius in the back-
ground. This place is close to the Italian City of Naples, or Napoli as the Italians call it.
DR. RO BIN SO N IN 1936
This photo was taken in his hotel room in Boise, Idaho, in 1936.
DR. RO BIN SO N A T W O RK
This picture shows Dr. Robinson at work in his down-town study in the “Psychiana” Building. The
lights may be seen burning in this study at all hours of the night. When Dr. Robinson leaves this
study, he goes home and continues his work in his study there. He works all the time. Hours mean very
little to him, He says, “ I am going to lay the foundation for the true conception of God, well. After
I ’m gone, another can continue to build.”
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 229
and would continue the journey the next morning. I shall
never forget the happiness in her voice as she informed me
that little Blank was better. Her temperature had gone
down, and she was conscious once more. I then informed the
lady, that being the case, I would turn around and drive
back to Moscow, which I did the next morning. Frenzied
attempts were made to catch me along the way between that
city and Moscow, Idaho. This family belonged to the Mor­
mon church organization which has very little use for any
religious organization outside of its own. When it was dis­
covered that the mother had sent for me, there was plenty
of trouble brewing. On calling on this little girl that same
afternoon and on noticing the remarkable recovery, the
attending physician began to squirt into her arm something,
the nature of which I do not know—probably anti-strep­
tococci serum. In any event, before night the little girl was
dead.
I drove back the next week, and the mother of that little
child and I sat practically all day in my car in the cemetery
while she told me the inside story of what had happened.
When consciousness had returned to this little child, her
mother was so happy that she threw her arms around her
neck and said, “Oh, Blank, you are going to live. You are
going to live, and I am so happy.” The little girl, however,
having been so close to death’s door that she had caught
something of the glories of the true life which is God re­
plied, “Oh, but mama, I don’t want to live. I have seen
where I am going, and I do not want to live here any longer.”
Now, these two cases have a direct bearing on what I am
trying to do, insofar as bringing the true knowledge of God
to this earth. In the one case, the young lady realized that
her real self was able to overcome physical death had she
desired to. In the second case, the little girl, only six years
old, with childish human nature had chosen to live in the
God-consciousness instead of living in the surroundings to
which she had been accustomed. I could say more about these
230 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
surroundings, but I won’t. The fact I am trying to drive
home to you is that, had it not been for the foolish and pagan
teachings of present-day church organizations, that one must
die to know God, this earth would be a paradise now. Cer­
tainly no church in two thousand years or in ten thousand
years has been able to advocate any religious philosophy or
do one single thing toward making God a reality here and
now. Every last one of them has nothing more to offer than
a “home in heaven.” As far as I am concerned, if we do not
know heaven here, we never shall know it. Not that life
in itself is destructible. It is not. It is completely indestruct­
ible. But why cannot we know and recognize the fullness of
the Realm of God, which Realm we shall know without the
bodies? I repeat, cannot we know the Power here and now
instead of having to wait until this life is over? That is an
untrue philosophy. It dishonors God. The essence of every­
thing that has life is God, and God cannot be destroyed. It
is my contention that it was never meant for God to be hidden
from the human race for even one second, and were it not
for these “crucified god stories,” this world would be a far
different place, I assure you.
CHAPTER FIVE
A Cowardly Attack
A t t h is p o in t in m y story, I w il l b r ie f l y t e l l you
about what is recognized to be the most contemptible, vicious
attack ever made on a man by a competitor. The originator
of this attack now lies silent in the tomb—shot through the
head by his small nephew not too long ago. Strange—passing
strange, how the hand of God protects the one who depends
upon that Hand for guidance. It is interesting to note that
as a result of this attack, every man connected with it has
reaped the reward of his perfidy. I shall not go into too much
detail as many of the participants are still alive, and still live
in Moscow. I don’t want to embarrass them by giving you
their names and the part each played in this most contempt­
ible of all attacks.
Senator Borah, speaking of this attack, said, “Without
question, this has been the most merciless, the most con­
temptible, and the most vicious attack ever to come to my
notice. Just as long as Doctor Robinson needs my help, he
shall have it.” Had it not been for Senator Borah, the way
might have been much harder than it was, although God
knows it was hard enough. However, the true spiritual
pioneer gets used to hardships and blows, for those things
are a foregone conclusion when one attempts to bring to
this world a conception of God which does not fit in with
the conception held by the existing religious organizations.
The remarkable thing about my case is the unerring and
swift retribution which followed in the wake of those mis­
guided individuals who tried to stop this Movement and
drive me and mine into some strange land, there to die
unknown, or to suffer remorse as long as we lived. Little
232 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
they knew that the Power of God is behind this Movement
and its Founder. Had they known that, they would have
thought twice before engaging in such scurrilous attacks.
Let me here recount what happened to those men and the
order in which it happened, and you may then ask yourself
whether it pays to try to stop a Movement which has God
in it. The originator of the attack was shot through the head.
He never knew what hit him. His two little nephews from
Klamath Falls were visiting in Moscow, and George Lamp-
here, the originator of these vicious attacks, had taken them
out squirrel shooting. On the way home, the boys who were
in the back seat of the car, saw a squirrel. Their twenty-two
rifles were loaded, and in their anxiety to shoot the squirrel,
one of them had his finger on the trigger. “Uncle George,
stop quick. There’s a squirrel,” said one of the two boys.
George stopped quickly, and the sudden braking motion of
the car caused the boy’s finger to tighten on the trigger, and
the bullet entered the base of the brain of George Lamphere.
A premature death? Perhaps. Some say a just reward, but
who am I to judge?
The second man involved was a former United States
Senator. His defeat created a national sensation, for being a
New Dealer, and having the active backing of the President
and the Cabinet, his re-election seemed assured and his defeat
impossible. Yet he was defeated for re-election, and the
United States Senator who was helped and backed financially
by me was overwhelmingly elected. This Senator is NOT a
New Dealer. He will go far in government political circles,
however.
The next man who interfered, and who did everything
in his power to upset this Movement, was a Lieutenant-Gov­
ernor. He was badly defeated in the same election which
swept the United States Senator to defeat. This man also
was a New Dealer and had the blessings of the Democrats
on his head. Two State Senators also went down to defeat,
and one attorney was up on disbarment proceedings which,
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 233
as I write this, are still pending. A district attorney was
swept out of office, and the newspaper which inspired these
attacks, owned then by Lamphere, was merged with my
paper last November (1939). There is only one newspaper
in Moscow now, and I control that.
As I relate these experiences to you, you will notice that
my plan of defeating the enemy was to let him defeat him­
self. I did not fight back. A special weekly paper was gotten
out in an attempt to swing public opinion against me, and
while the articles in the paper were criminally libelous and
I knew it, and while I was begged to take action, I just sat
back and smiled and let these forces which were trying to
defeat a Movement of God destroy themselves. That is
exactly what they did. I did not make one move of retalia­
tion. I knew they were beaten from the very start. Had these
cases been handled any other way, I might have lost. But,
recognizing the omnipotent Power of the invisible Spirit,
God, in my life and in the Movement, I knew the outcome
from the beginning.
There were times when it taxed the ingenuity of Senator
Borah to defeat the “enemy,” as he called them, but the
defeat came, and if ever a man was doubly vindicated, I am
that man. There has been lots of foolishness in my life, and
I have hurt myself plenty, perhaps, by this foolishness, but
there has never been one wrong move made which could
possibly hurt anyone else. I have never done one thing which
is dishonest. Those “foolish” things I have explained to you
in detail, and I let you be the judge, in view of what has
happened since, as to whether or not these things were for
better or for worse. Anyway, they were my doings, and if
there was any suffering to be done as a result of them, I alone
suffered.
* * *
In 1933, “Psychiana” was assuming major proportions,
and our printing bill was very heavy. It averaged two
thousand dollars a month and was all done by George Lamp-
234 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
here’s newspaper, The Daily Star-Mirror. For thirty years,
this newspaper had dominated, or tried to dominate, the
local political field. Naturally, another newspaper was not
welcomed, and every attempt was made to keep it out.
Honest, legitimate, competitive methods, however, were
forgotten. Had they been used, Lamphere probably could
have stopped me very easily. He did not know how to
handle competition though, and tried by underhand, dirty,
contemptible means to get myself and my paper out of the
way. Instead, he made me more friends than I ever had
before, and the chief reason I made so many friends was
because I was smart enough not to fight back. The Latah
County and Moscow people liked that. Their sympathies
were, and still are, with me.
Two thousand dollars a month was a lot of money to pay
out for printing. Yet I did not know how to get around it,
as this sum was in addition to our own two multigraph
machines which were running those days, three eight-hour
shifts. As a matter of fact, in that year, we had three com­
plete crews which worked eight hours each, and then we
could not keep abreast of the demand for the Teaching. The
place was never closed. Those who did not have the money
with which to pay for the Teaching were given it free of
charge. I did that until one day the cashier called my atten­
tion to the fact that there was so much mail going out to
the “free” students that if it kept up another month, we
could not operate, for the number of Lessons being sent to
those who did not pay was greater than the number sent to
those who did pay. Naturally such a situation could not last,
so against my wishes I was compelled to discontinue the
“free” distribution of Lessons. When someone endows the
Movement, I shall go back to that system.
My private study in those days was over Creighton’s store
in Moscow. I had two little offices in which the personal
mail was answered by myself and a secretary. One day a
knock came at the door. Opening it, I saw there a short-
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 235
statured man with a decidedly Indian slant to his features.
A big “seegar” was tightly clenched between his teeth. I
invited the gentleman in and asked him what I could do for
him. “My name’s Marineau. I run a little two-by-four
weekly newspaper in Elk River,” he replied. We shook
hands, and I asked him to sit down and talk about what was
on his mind. “Waal, I’ve wanted to meet you for a long
time—heard a lot about you and want to get some of your
printing. I’ve got a good plant, but the Weyerhaeuser Lum­
ber plant is closed down and the town of Elk River is all
shot to hell,” came back this man by the name of Marineau.
I explained to him that my printing was all being done
by the Star-Mirror in Moscow and told him that I did not
believe I wanted to send any of it out of town. “Well, hell,
I’ve got to eat as well as Lamphere,” came back Marineau.
“I’m in Idaho, too, just about fifty miles from Moscow.”
There was a peculiar Indian glint in this man’s eye which
I rather liked. Here was a real chap, so giving him a few
sheets of the literature on which we were running low, I
asked him to go to Elk River and give me quotations. In
a few days, Marineau was back with the quotations. Com­
paring them with the prices I had been paying the Star-
Mirror, I saw that they were about half as high. I at once
saw, too, that it certainly would save me a lot of money if
I could get my printing done at half of what I had been
paying.
Looking at Marineau, I said, “What are you trying to
do—bid below cost just to get this printing and then soak
me later on?” Picking up his hat, Marineau said, “You’re
not talking to me. If I can’t make twenty-five per cent on
your printing, I don’t want it.” I asked him if he meant that
he could make twenty-five per cent on the quoted prices,
and he informed me that he did. Then it dawned on me
that I had been paying about twice as much for my printing
as I should have paid. That meant that I had been losing in
the neighborhood of one thousand dollars a month through
236 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
Lamphere’s overcharges. I gave this Indian-looking gentle­
man, who is, by the way, a one-sixteenth Indian, the orders,
and in due time the work came back well done. More orders
were sent later.
Putting two and two together, I decided that my best bet
was to own a printing plant of my own. A few days later,
taking someone with me who knew the value of printing
plants, I slipped into Elk River. Had I not known where
the town was, I should most certainly have missed it. There
is a wonderful electric lumber mill there, closed down,
more’s the pity. It did not take long to locate the Elk River
News, and inside of two minutes it was all over Elk River
that “Doc Robinson is in town looking through the News
plant.” Bill Marineau was not at home, and we went through
the plant, my associate giving me the “low-down” on its
value. After awhile Bill floated in, and without wasting
words, I asked him what he wanted for this huge metro­
politan weekly, and he replied, “Oh, I don’t know. What’ll
you gimme fer it?” I replied that I would give him seven
thousand dollars. This was acceptable, and I wrote a check
and obtained a bill of sale. Bill often says that it took him
six months to realize that he had sold his plant to me. That
is the way I usually operate—instantly. I first make up my
mind what it is I want and then I go and do it. I have
always been like that; I make a big decision spontaneously,
where others might haggle and j aggie for a month. I can
close a deal in fifteen minutes or less, and I usually come out
on the right side of the ledger.
Bill promised to get the plant moved to Moscow at once,
so I went back and leased an old garage for the newly
acquired “Psychiana” printing plant. In some way or other,
as newspapers have a habit of doing, a newspaper in
Spokane heard of that sale. The next morning there came
out on the front page (for I was news in any western paper)
a picture of myself and a statement that I had bought the
Elk River News and was moving it to Moscow to start
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 237
another newspaper. Nothing was further from my mind.
I was not a newspaper man, knew nothing about newspapers,
and my whole interest was in bringing to men and women
the truths of God, and not in the newspaper business.
Going to work that morning, George Lamphere stopped
me outside of the building. He had a copy of the newspaper
in his hand. I had not seen the paper that morning. “See
here you son-of-a------ ,” started Lamphere, “I want to talk
to you. There’s a lot of things you don’t know, and by God,
I’m going to tell them to you now. I own the newspaper
business in this town and Pm going to keep on owning it.
I tell the business men of this county where theyHl advertise,
and if you go through with this newspaper deal, Pll put you
in the federal penitentiary, and by God, Pve got enough
political pull to do it.” I looked at Lamphere rather inter­
estedly and said, “Are you drinking?” He was a chronic
drinker. “Don’t make a damned bit of difference if I am.
I’m sober enough to tell you where to head in.” Looking at
him amusedly this time, I said, “Lamphere, I don’t know
what you are talking about, and I’m a rather busy man, so
if you have no objections, I’ll leave you now and go to work.”
Blocking my way, Lamphere said, “You know goddam
well what I’m talking about,” and pulling the Spokane paper
from his pocket, he showed me the article which stated that
I had bought the Elk River News and was moving it to
Moscow to engage in the newspaper business. It was news
to me. What Lamphere said about “telling the business
men of Moscow where they could advertise” was also news.
Personally, while I knew there was but one paper here, and
had been for about thirty years, I seriously questioned
whether Mr. Lamphere controlled all the business houses
in Moscow. In fact, I had a decidedly different idea, so
standing there, I thought much in a short space of time.
Especially did I think about the threat to put me in the
Federal penitentiary through political “pull.”
Looking Lamphere right in the eyes, I said to him,
238 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
“Lamphere, I do not know where that paper secured that
article—certainly not from me, for I never have had the
faintest notion of putting another newspaper in Moscow.
However,” I added, “if you think you control the policies
of the business men in Moscow, and if you think that you
can dictate where they all are to advertise, and if you think
you can put me in the Federal penitentiary, I’ll give you a
chance to do just that, for I do not agree with anything
you’ve said.” This interested the man, for it was a fact that
with one newspaper he had been able to dominate the local
field completely. “Lamphere,” said I, “you’ve given me
an idea. Now let me give you a little advice. Go up to your
office, take off your coat, and go to work, for Pm putting
in a newspaper.”
This made him boil. H e hit me across the face with the
Spokane paper, and then very wisely walked away shouting
at me as he did, “You think I can’t put you in the pen,
do you? I’ll spend my whole fortune doing just that if I
have to, and you had better watch out, for I’ll get you in
the pen if it’s the last thing I do.” That night, rumors
floated back to me from the Elks’ Temple, which was Lamp-
here’s hang-out, that he was making open threats that he
would put me in the penitentiary, and I was solemnly advised
by scores of people not to put in that paper. Evidently they
knew Lamphere better than I knew him. However, I do
not bluff. I never give nor take a bluff. I did not believe
that Lamphere so controlled the Moscow community that
he could stop me from putting in another daily paper.
To prove that I was correct in my diagnosis of the local
situation, let it be said that the first issue of the paper
Marineau and I put out was twenty-six pages against the
Star-Mirror’s eight pages, and the complete edition was
absolutely jammed with advertising. There was little room
for news in the paper. More than that, every business house
in Moscow, with only three exceptions, advertised in that
paper which I called The Daily News-Review. This is not a
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 239
“Psychiana” newspaper, but a regular daily evening paper
which now has the largest circulation in North Idaho. There
is nothing I would like better than to tell you all the things
that happened while that paper was coming out.
We had an old Campbell press, and each sheet of the
twenty-six had to be run through by hand and re-run to
print on the other side. Yet that first issue consisted of
twenty-six pages, and we delivered over five thousand copies
of it. All night long we worked. First Bill fed the press and
then I would feed it. Then someone else would feed. Mos­
cow at last knew that it had another newspaper. I person­
ally solicited the advertising, and Lamphere would follow
me up one side of Main street and down the other. He
threatened every business man in town that “I’ll break you
if you advertise with that son-of-a------ .”
The business men, however, seemed to have more con­
fidence in my ability than they had in his, for, as previously
stated, last November we “merged” both papers, at my sug­
gestion, and according to my terms. Thus, the famous Mos­
cow “newspaper fight” was ended. The man who instituted
the fight was in his grave. A United States Senator was
“lame-ducked,” a Lieutenant Governor and two State Sen­
ators were defeated, one attorney was up for disbarment
proceedings, one District Attorney was voted out of office.
Moscow is satisfied with its present newspaper set-up, for
we give it the very best paper we can. Lamphere gave them
the cheapest looking sheet I have ever seen anywhere, but
he made a fortune by so doing.
There are a few laughable incidents connected with this
“newspaper fight” which I think you would like to hear.
They will show you how vicious this fight was, and how
terrific was the pressure exerted to “get Doc Robinson.”
I never did take seriously the Lamphere threat, oft repeated,
to “railroad me into the Federal penitentiary.” I under­
estimated the man by so doing. H e came very close to doing
just that, or worse. I shall leave out of this narrative many
240 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
things, many names, for I do not desire to embarrass any­
one. There is much I could tell, and if I were to tell it,
even at this late date, it would be sensational, but I shall
refrain. I shall let the dead bury their dead. I hold no
animosity toward anyone. I have not the time for that, for
this “Psychiana” Movement keeps me as busy as I care to be.
* * *
We engaged the Inland Motor Freight to move the plant
of the Elk River News from Elk River to Moscow. It was
a big job, and not having enough trucks and trailers in
Moscow to do the job, the freight company sent to its Pull­
man, Washington, office ten miles away and borrowed a
trailer to assist. When the caravan of printing materials,
presses, and like hove into view, I knew something was
wrong. Standing outside the garage I had rented was the
sheriff, two deputies, the District Attorney, and the Mayor
—quite an aggregation to welcome another newspaper into
Moscow.
What it was all about, I did not know, but I stood there
watching carefully for developments. When the trailer with
the Washington license drew up, the sheriff, his deputies,
and the rest of the legal lights pounced on that poor driver
and took him to the county jail, charging him with driving
aWashington truck-trailer in Idaho without an Idaho license,
as they had a right to do. Under other circumstances, this
poor chap would have been given a “ticket.” As it was, he
was thrown into jail. He did not stay there long, however,
for inside of fifteen minutes I had paid the bail money and
secured his release. There was a lot of excitement on the
corners of Eighth and Main that day.
Rather an amusing incident occurred which I will relate
here. Not only did the officials put the driver of the truck
in jail, they confiscated the machinery also. This they put
in another garage across the street. Walking up very quietly
to the District Attorney, I said, “I suppose you know what
you are doing in confiscating my machinery, do you not?”
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 241
“Oh, yes, I know what I’m doing—that machinery was
illegally brought into Idaho, and by God I’ve confiscated
it,” he replied. Smiling faintly, I said to him, “Better go
look that up, brother. As it is, it might cost this county and
yourself rather heavy damages.” He evidently thought that
over, for a pow-wow was held between the sheriff and him,
with the result that he informed me that I could have my
machinery. I did not want the machinery in another man’s
garage, however. I wanted it in mine. The county officers
backed out the truck, drove it to our new home, and there
unloaded the machinery.
I had secured a little drug store across the street from
where this happened. The next “squeeze” movement hit
me there. To run this pharmacy I had engaged a young man
who was a licensed pharmacist in the State of Washington,
but not in Idaho. The law in such cases is that a registered
pharmacist in one state may practice his profession in another
state by registering with the National Association of Boards
of Pharmacy. It usually is about four months before the
new certificate is received. The cost is twenty-five dollars.
One day this new man, who had complied with the law by
sending in his application blank for registry in Idaho, plus
the sum of twenty-five dollars, called me up. “The Dis­
trict Attorney is down here and says he is going to have to
padlock the place because I am not a registered pharmacist
in the State of Idaho.” The law gives one the right to prac­
tice until the certificate is received, provided the registration
with the National Association has been made. Going down
to the drug store, I saw the District Attorney who was, at
that time, counsel for Lamphere, standing there. As I
entered, he said to me, “Doc’ I’m sorry, but I’ll have to
lock this place up. This man is registered in the State of
Washington, but he is not registered in the State of Idaho.”
“Well, why don’t you?” I asked. “You need not have sent
for me. If you’re going to lock it up, you’re going to lock
it up. You’re the District Attorney—not I.” Pulling the key
242 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
to the drug store out of my pocket, I handed it to him saying,
“Here’s the key.” H e looked at me rather queerly, for he
did not know much about me as yet, although he knows lots
now. “Doc, you’ve got something up your sleeve,” he said,
“What is it?” I muttered something about my discovering
that I had better have lots of things up my sleeve in Mos­
cow and said to him, “You lock up this drug store at your
own risk and on your own responsibility. If you are acting
illegally, you’ll pay the bill.”
He left, and I had him followed. H e went to the office
of the other newspaper, and after about thirty minutes re­
turned to the drug store again. “Doc, I don’t want to have
to lock this store up, and I don’t believe I will,” he said. I
informed him that if it was his duty to lock it up, he had
better do it. Evidently he thought better, or was not quite
sure I was as big a fool as I looked, for he said, “No, Doc,
I’ll give you a chance to get an Idaho Licentiate in here,
but you do that as quickly as you can.” This was pure bluff
and an effort to save his face. However, not caring partic­
ularly whether he closed it up or not, I called him into the
back room, and there hanging on the wall was my own Idaho
State Pharmacy License. In addition to that, I showed him
the receipt from the National Association which protected
the man I had working for me.
Shortly after that, the beautiful flowers which border my
home were all pulled up one night and several picayunish
attempts were made to make life as miserable as possible.
However, the newspaper grew by leaps and bounds.
In the meantime, Lamphere got drunker and drunker.
All he could talk about was “putting that son-of-a----in
the Federal penitentiary.” I could not understand this peni­
tentiary threat, yet he continually made it. On one occasion
he told a friend of mine, “T h at------ has cost me more than
fifteen thousand dollars already, but it won’t be long now.
I’ll bet you five thousand dollars that he is in McNeil’s
Island before next February.” This all came back to me, and
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 243
I was mystified as to how he was going to get me into the
Federal penitentiary. I put most of it down as “booze-talk,”
but I was mistaken. He meant business. More than one busi­
ness man warned me, “Lamphere is very vicious. He has
lots of money, and he never forgets. H e’ll keep after you
till he gets you.” All this was not too nice, for I wanted a
free hand with “Psychiana.” It was growing very fast and
taking every effort I could make, and while all this did not
disturb me much, it did keep me constantly alert. These con­
tinued threats were somewhat annoying.
One day by the grapevine, I heard of a “secret” conference
between a United States Senator, Lamphere, the District
Attorney, and two other gentlemen whose names I shall
not mention. I really took that conference seriously, and
knowing now the lengths to which Lamphere would go to
“get” me, I left at once for Washington, D. C., to talk things
over with Senator Borah. The Senator informed me that he
had been keeping pretty close tab on things, and it seemed
that he was in possession of more information than I was.
He told me to “lie low” and do nothing, and the first move
openly made against me to wire him.
The next day I had a conference with President Roose­
velt. The newspaper fight was not mentioned. The Presi­
dent talked with me about “Psychiana.” We discussed the
teachings of Philip Brooks, and he asked me how progress
was being made on Robinson Park. The government had
offered to build a large dam, thereby creating a beautiful
artificial lake if someone would buy the land and donate it
to the city or the county. I bought the land. This was dis­
cussed, and when I left, the President shook hands cordially
and asked me never to come to Washington without calling-
on him.
I must mention here a little scheme to secure that lake
and keep it in the hands of a few. I nipped that scheme in
the bud. A corporation had been formed of a few local men.
They were going to put up the money for the lake and park,
244 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
and they themselves had agreed to keep all the lots imme­
diately adjoining the lake, selling the rest to John Q. Public.
Marineau wired me in San Francisco when he got wind of
that scheme, and the next day, Saturday, saw me in the office
of the Federal Land Bank in Spokane.
A check had already been received for the land from a
Moscow gentleman, but I informed the president what the
play was. Showing me the check from Moscow, he said, “Is
this man in on it?” I replied that he was the originator of
the scheme. “Well, he won’t get away with that,” replied
the land bank man. “I’ll look into it.” I had made up my
mind to stop that steal then and there, so pulling a check
book from my pocket, I said to the banker, “Is my check as
good as his?” He replied that it was, and I closed the deal
for the land, agreeing to donate it to Latah County forever,
barring the commercializing of the Park. On Monday morn­
ing the Moscow gentleman called up the Federal Land Bank
and asked why he had not received the deed to the property.
He was informed that Doctor Robinson had bought the
property two days before. So we have Robinson Park here
in Moscow, and all may enjoy it—not just a chosen few.
* * *
After leaving President Roosevelt, I had lunch with Sena­
tor Borah, said good-bye to him, and took the train for Min­
neapolis where I was scheduled to make an address. On
arriving at the Nicollet Hotel, I found there a wire await­
ing me from a man called Bannerman— Chief Special Agent
of the State Department. The wire said, “ Would like to see
you regarding statements made in passport application signed
by you in 1934. When will you be in Washington?” Then I
knew that the mill had begun to turn. I replied to Bannerman
(he died recently) that I had just left Washington, but that
if he had anything important to talk over, I would cancel
my speaking engagement and return. Otherwise, I did not
expect to be back in Washington for several months. I re­
ceived his reply asking me to meet him in his office Monday
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 245
morning. Leaving Minneapolis on the Hiawatha that night,
I doubled back to Washington.
Let me take you back now to the “secret” conference I
had been told about in Moscow. A certain telegram left Mos­
cow that night. In about one week, two gentlemen knocked
at the door of my study and handed me their cards. They
were Inspectors Morse and Doran of the Post Office De­
partment. These two gentlemen impressed upon me that
there was nothing personal in their visit. They stated that
they had “orders” to “reopen” the closed investigation into
the affairs of “Psychiana.” I told them they were very wel­
come to see anything we had. They asked for stock-books
and for almost everything else. Calling in the accountant,
I instructed him to put all records at their disposal, tell them
anything they wanted to know. I vacated my own study in
order that they might have a comfortable place in which to
investigate me and the Movement. They stayed there two
weeks, and it was not long until Lamphere was crowing up
one side of the street and down the other, “The Postal
Inspectors are here checking on that son-of-a------- ; it won’t
be long now.” His bets were made anew.
That man was offering anything up to five thousand dol­
lars that I would be in the penitentiary inside of ninety days.
He was mistaken. One day I called on Mr. Lamphere in his
home. “Lamphere,” I said, “I’m given to understand that
you have some money you want to bet that I’ll be in the
Federal Penitentiary at McNeil’s Island inside of ninety
days. I’ll take about five thousand dollars worth of that
money.” He said that he did not want to take any of the
little money I had—he had a fortune, “Anyway, you’ll need
all the money you can get. Why, the Postal Inspectors are
down at your place now.”
I did not feel like arguing with the man, so not being able
to get five thousand dollars of his money, I left for home.
How he knew that the Postal Inspectors were in my office
the day they arrived, I do not know—rather I shall not tell.
246 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
I did ask Inspector S. H. Morse if he had ever heard of
George Lamphere. He denied that he had, although I have
since secured information that this statement was not true.
However, Lamphere did not personally appear in the
activities against me. I shall not go into the details of what
went on, although I am quite fully advised. Sleeping dogs
are better asleep.
At no time was I afraid of any Postal investigation. There
had been two already, and besides, I was teaching religion,
and under the wonderful Constitution of these United States,
I may do that without fear or favor. That was all I asked
then; it is all I ask now. If what I teach is helping men and
women to find the Power of God, it is good, regardless of
whether it agrees with the teachings of the orthodox church
or not. Orthodox churches can do nothing to stem the tide
of horror which is baptizing this world at this very moment.
Their impotence is written all over them. Their theory of
God is not true.
On this third Postal Inspection, as on the other two, the
Postal Inspectors were utterly unable to find the slightest
taint of fraud in the whole Movement. It is not there to find.
What they did was this—they found the passport I had used
on a trip to Europe a few years before. The number of this
passport was sent to the State Department to see if it could
not find something amiss with the passport. I have already
told you enough to convince you where I was born—at least
I had never had any idea that I was born anywhere else than
in the United States on the trip father and mother made
before going to Long Crendon.
The book I copied from plainly showed that I must have
been born here if that record is true. When I decided to get
across the ocean for a rest and to ramble around my child­
hood scenes again, the matter of a birth certificate came up.
I have never seen my birth certificate, and there are millions
in this country like me. However, knowing that I had no
birth certificate, I made a special trip to the State Depart-
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 247
ment in Washington, D. C., and there explained the birth
and everything connected with it. Evidently the State De­
partment believed me, for they issued the passport without
question. Under those circumstances, I do not believe that
any charge of making false statements in a passport applica­
tion ever should have been made. However, it was made.
Arriving back in Washington, D. C., I met Bannerman
in his office, and he at once began to question me about my
birth. Not being too dense or too dumb, and having had a
conference with Senator Borah in the meantime, I said noth­
ing. All I did was ask when the indictment would be returned.
I was informed that “if you leave this country and go, say
to Canada, there will be no indictment, of course, for I would
not have you brought back here. Why don’t you run your
“Phychiana” business from Canada?” This is what Banner-
man said to me. This is what I told Bannerman, “Mr. Ban­
nerman, you are talking to the wrong chap. If you have
anything in the nature of a crime or the violation of a law
by me, trot it out. I’ll never run away from it, but if you
have not, I happen to know who is working against me in
this case. So get your indictment and we will go to trial as
quickly as possible.”
This almost floored Bannerman, for evidently he did not
look for such a response. At any rate, he said nothing more,
with one exception. Having seen the President of the United
States a few days before, I said to the Chief Special Agent
of the State Department, “I believe I’ll go back and see the
President. I saw him the other day, and he’ll stop what
evidently is to be a very determined effort to get me out of
the way.” Looking at me in his quiet way, Bannerman re­
plied, “Doctor, I’m afraid it won’t do any good, ------ has
already been there ahead of you.” Then I knew that the
only thing to do was to return to Moscow and get the thing
over with as fast as possible.
I arrived in Moscow in a few days and went back to work,
although I knew what was to come. One morning I met
248 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
Lamphere on the street. “Didn’t do you much good to go
back to Washington, did it?” he queried. “Never can tell,
Lamphere,” I replied, and then as an afterthought, I said,
“George, I would hate to interfere with a work as powerful
as the “Psychiana” Movement. I should be afraid that I
might be suddenly removed from the picture myself.” How
true that prediction was, I have already explained, for he
was shot through the back of the head by a relative.
There was a tense atmosphere in Moscow those days.
“Underground” channels knew that an indictment was com­
ing up. I knew how they knew. In any event, Mrs. Robinson
and I made a trip to Boise to see Mr. Carver, the blind
Federal Attorney. Carver is a wonderful fellow. He assured
Mrs. Robinson and I that the indictment was not issuing
from his office. “I have gone through you with a fine-tooth
comb,” he told us, “and moreover, I have notified the De­
partment that this case will be a £
hot potato.’ I don’t want
it in my office, you have too many friends, but what can I
do?” he asked. “Even if you are acquitted on this charge,
there is another one coming up,” he told us. I knew about
that charge also before I left Washington.
It began to look as if the difficulties were getting moun­
tains high, and I knew that all the powers possible were to
be used against me. One government official said to me,
“Doc, whyinell don’t you stop putting out that damned
teaching. It isn’t you they’re after—it’s the teaching.” I knew
that as well as he did, and I knew something else, too. I
knew that every obstacle thrown in my path would be sur­
mounted. It made no difference how vigorously I was prose­
cuted, it made no difference how vigorously I was persecuted,
1 knew that the Power I was using would wipe out of the
way any and all attempts to stop this teaching. I knew when
I first released it that the churches would not sit idly by and
let me tell the world their story is not true, so these attacks
were not altogether unexpected. However, I did not know
so many things could crop up all at the same time. There was
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 249
only one thing I could do, and that was to sit back and watch
the Power of the Great Spirit, God, come to my rescue and
confound my enemies. You will see soon the amazing manner
in which it did just that.
P A R T T H R E E
CHAPTER ONE
I Am Acquitted
T h e fe d e r a l in d ic t m e n t ca m e t h r o u g h a f e w w e e k s
later. It was drawn in Washington, D. C., by the Department
of justice. Mr. Lamphere evidently knew it was coming
through, as he had his attorney in Boise, where it was re­
turned, awaiting the news, and ready to flash it to Moscow
so that he could spread it all over the front page of his
newspaper, The Daily Star-Mirror. George was not quite
fast enough though, for news of the indictment appeared
in my own paper, The Daily News-Review, just 24 hours
before it appeared in the Star-Mirror. This made Lamphere
fighting mad, and he blamed his attorney for having let us
“scoop” him when he was in Boise on the job, and we had
no attorney there. When the indictment was announced in
the News-Review, all the joy was taken out of it for George
Lamphere, naturally, for he had long awaited this day.
The charge was contained in five counts of the indictment,
and these five counts were all based on the passport appli­
cation. When the jury was sworn in, during the first few
minutes of the trial, four of the five counts were thrown out,
the Judge ruling they were duplications. This on motion of
my attorneys. There was left then but one charge on which
252 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
to go to trial. The government attorneys chose the count of
“willfully and knowingly making false statements on a pass­
port application, by stating that he was born in the U. S.
when he knew full well that he was born in England.” That
was the one count left.
Engaged for the defense were Attorneys A. L. Morgan
of Moscow, and Edward W. Robertson of Spokane. Judge
Morgan at the time was President of the Idaho State Bar
Association. He is now our District Judge. Mr. Robertson
is one of the best known criminal lawyers in the United
States, and one of the most lovable characters. I still owe
him money on that case, and he has been very lenient with
me. News items which have appeared the world over have
estimated my wealth at anywhere from one million dollars
to twenty-five millions of dollars. I wonder what they would
say if they knew that Attorney E. W. Robertson has not
yet been paid in full for defending me at that trial in 1936.
As a matter of fact, the “Psychiana” Movement is a non­
profit religious corporation, operating under an Idaho re­
ligious charter. All I am paid from the Movement, and all
I ever take from the Movement is a salary, and that salary
is hardly sufficient to meet our monthly obligations. I have
no bank account, nor have I any money of any sort anywhere.
I am not in the slightest degree interested in money. We
have to take in enough to pay all of our operating expenses,
and outside of that we are not interested in accumulating
money. If the making of money becomes of any "interest
to me, I certainly can make it. I can put the “Psychiana”
Movement on a commercial basis, or I can sell my services to
other concerns for far more than the mediocre salary I draw.
The growth of the Movement has been so phenomenal how­
ever, that magazines and newspapers have wrongly attributed
to it sometimes, the making of money.
I live in a good home—I have to— I should live in one,
and so should you. I drive a fine Cadillac car, and that, con­
sidering the work I do and the mental strain involved, I be-
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 253
lieve to be my right. I see nothing unusual in it. Mrs. Robin­
son owns considerable property, but none of that property
has been accumulated from any money taken from the
“Psychiana” Movement. Just as soon as someone endows us,
all charges will be taken away, and we really shall be able
to do something for God and humanity then. When a person
knows the Power of God in the life, that Power is abundant­
ly able to bring to all, whatsoever things they need, whether
material or spiritual things—it makes no difference. As a
matter of fact, the Power of God exists, not to save the world
from “hell” but to bring to the world the consciousness of
the fact that the Power which is God is abundantly able to
bring those very things into being. Surely the Power which,
through the ages has been creating this wondrous universe,
is able to bring to you and to me the few little transitory
things we need? I think it is— I am sure it is. I know it is.
When these false systems of theology are removed once
and for all from this earth, then will the fullness of the
Power of the Great Spirit—God, be made known to all.
There will be no poverty in those days—neither will there
be any newspapers-—for all those things will be swallowed up
in the wondrous revelation of the ever-abiding Spirit of God.
Those things are at hand. The only thing preventing them
from manifesting is the false picture of God brought to the
world by the many differing systems of religion in the world.
Just a calm, cursory analysis of them will convince any
thinker of the truths of these statements. Those who will not
think, or those who cannot think, well, they just lose—both
here and hereafter. For God will be brought to this world
through some man big enough mentally and spiritually to
“think God out.”
The trial opened in Moscow, and the court-room was
crowded. Everyone in Moscow knew who was at the back
of this case, and sentiment was running high. Little groups
of people could be seen on every street corner, and the subject
of their conversations was the Robinson trial. That trial broke
254 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
George Lamphere. H e is dead and gone to his reward (if
any) and I suppose I should not even mention him. I have
tried to figure some way to leave all this out, but that would
create a wrong impression. So in this book, I have not spared
myself, nor shall I give the impression that I am “keeping
quiet” about this trial and the following deportation move.
I am not ashamed of either one. I believe they belong in this
strange autobiography.
One rather amusing incident happened right at the be­
ginning of the trial, which took some sting off the tenseness in
the court-room. The Presiding Judge was C. C. Cavanaugh,
one of the fairest men ever to sit on a Federal bench. I believe
the U. S. stands alone in the world from the standpoint of
the fairness of its courts, and may God help this wonderful
country if the day ever comes when they are not fair. We
want no German or Italian or Russian courts here. They will
be here though if the Allies lose this war.
At the opening of the trial, statements were made by the
prosecution, telling the jury what it expected to prove; and
by the defense, telling the jury what it expected to prove. A
Mr. Griffith made the opening statement for the govern­
ment, and his statement was something like this:
«-* * * 0f courSe( the government has not the funds with which
to engage the noted counsel the defendant has here. Over there
sits the Hon. A. L. Morgan, President of the Idaho State Bar
Association, while over here, internationally known, sits Edward
W . Robertson— the Mark Anthony of the American Bar."
Ed. Robertson is a southerner. He was educated at the
Louisiana State University at the time former Senator James
P. Pope was attending that same university. Short of stature,
eagle-eyed, intensely in earnest, Mr. Robertson will not take
a case until he is convinced of the innocence of the accused.
Consequently he loses very few cases. When he arose to make
his opening statement to the jury, a smile stole all over his
handsome face.
“Gennelmen of the joowy— ah’ve been in the practice of crim-
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 255
inal law a long time now, and during that time ah’ve been
called most everything a lawyer can be called. But this is the
first time I have ever been called Mark Anthony. If I remember
mah history correctly, Mark Anthony is the gennelman who
knocked at Cleopatra's boudoir and when she opened the door
he told her he had not come there to talk.”
Naturally this speech brought down the house. The Uni­
versity of Idaho had the law classes attend that trial to see
Attorney Robertson in action, and it was refreshing to have
these students come to me during the frequent recesses and
tell me where Ed. Robertson, seasoned trial lawyer that he
is, was making a mistake. I think, according to that group of
law students, Ed. Robertson and Judge Morgan made so
many mistakes in that trial that the wonder is how they
secured a license to practice law in the first place.
I shall not go into the details of that trial. It cost a lot
of money, and it lasted many days. Witnesses were brought
here from England, New York, Washington and from other
parts of the country. Mr. Bannerman, as was his right, was
there too. Many Postal inspectors and Immigration De­
partment officials were there, and about the only witnesses
I could bring were those who could testify as to my standing
in Moscow. None of them could prove where I was born
any more than I could. No one can prove where he or she
was born. One has to believe what the parents tell him, which
is exactly what I did. All through the record—insurance
papers—documents of every description were introduced,
and my birthplace as I had stated it for 40 years was always
the same—New York City.
The jury was evidently convinced that I was born there,
for in addition to bringing in a “not guilty” verdict, they
signed a unanimous decision that I was speaking the truth,
and was born where I said I was born. That was complete
vindication I believe. No appeal was taken by the govern­
ment, and everyone thought that this would end any action
against me. But I knew better. I knew what was coming up
256 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
at once. Let it be remembered here that the specific charge
on which I was tried and acquitted was of “wilfully and
knowingly making false statements in a passport application,
in that he stated that he was born in New York when he
knew full well that he was not.” The jury who heard this
evidence decided that I was born in New York as stated.
I may be wrong, but I believe that verdict should have settled
the matter of my birthplace once and for all.
There is one remarkable demonstration I must mention
before I leave this first trial. Fifteen minutes after the ver­
dict was brought in, South Howard Street where we live,
began to fill with cars. They came from all directions. They
came by the dozens. My home is quite large, yet in 15 min­
utes it was packed to the doors with friends congratulating
us on the verdict. The first man to show up was Milburn
Kenworthy, the proprietor of Moscow’s two picture houses.
Putting his arm round me he said, “Frank— I’m very
happy.” Not much to say, but then, he didn’t need to say
much. I knew what he meant. This demonstration kept up
most of the day. It became necessary to put one girl on the
phone at the house and another one at the office. I do not
believe I have ever seen a greater show of friendship than
I saw that day.
If you want to make anyone—persecute them. If you want
to stop a religious teaching—never persecute its leader—if
you do, instead of breaking it you will make it. That is what
happened in Moscow, and none knew it better than George
Lamphere. Nevertheless, he had not given up hope. There
was more to follow. At once he started the rumors round
Moscow that the deportation proceedings would do what the
criminal trial did not do . . . “Just wait . . . we’ll get him
yet,” was his usual remark. When it became known that
another warrant had been sworn out against me, this time
by the Immigration Department, feeling ran high once more.
The Star-Mirror, of course, blazoned the news across its
front page, only, then toned it down very considerably, for
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 257
they knew the sentiment. I kept off the streets after the first
day for my hand was almost shaken off.
Unknown to me, a popular Moscow meat-packer, Chris
Hagan, started a petition around Moscow, asking Madame
Perkins to stop this latest deportation move. In half a day
the signatures of more than ninety percent of Moscow people
were affixed to the petition. As soon as I heard about it I
stopped the petition. I wanted no favors. I wanted to meet
out on the field of battle every charge which could possibly
be made against me. I wanted to meet them because I knew,
in a fair fight, I could lick them. I did not want any favors
or “political pull” from any source. It would have been im­
possible in this case to have secured this had I desired it, so
great and powerful were the forces arraigned against me.
However, I am glad now that this all happened, for perhaps
I shall be left alone with my God to do the work I have been
called upon to do.
There is a gentleman in this country called Harry Bridges,
who, admittedly is an alien. From all I can gather all this
chap has done since coming to the United States is to call
strikes and keep the water-front in an uproar. All I have ever
done is to lead men and women to know the Power of God.
But Mr. Bridges gets a college professor to sit as a special
judge in his case, while I, who never caused any such commo­
tion as Bridges caused, was not offered a college professor
to help me. Of course, Bridges was not interfering with
religion, so religion did not interfere with him.
While the Postal Investigation was going on I said to
Inspector Morse, in the presence of Mrs. Robinson one day,
“What good do you expect to do by trying to stop this Move­
ment?” I shall not soon forget his reply. Here it is . . .
“Psychiana is a disturbing element among the churches and
it has to be stopped.” There, you have the answer to a lot of
things which otherwise might puzzle you. The strange thing
about this affair is that the religious organization which was
the most active in the proceedings, never appeared on the
258 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
surface. I know quite a bit about the “submarine” activities
of that organization though.
Bridges did not bother the churches. I did. So, regardless
of whether the churches are teaching the truths of God or
an old pagan superstition, I must be stopped while they are
allowed to keep the truths of God from men and women
by teaching something that in its very essence, never came
from God. That, however, is the way present-day religion
operates. It has always operated that way. Remember the
Inquisitions? If you disturb it . . . if you do not leave it
alone in its disastrous work of hiding God from the masses
. . . then it will use all the political power it can muster to
“get” you. In my case, however, that power was up against
a far greater Power, and as always, when one fights against
the Power of God, that Power grinds its adversaries to
powder.
The surest proof that present-day theology is done, lies
in the fact that at last, at long last, the actual truths of God
are being brought to this earth. It must follow then, as the
night the day, that these truths will win over the errors
which have been taught in the name of God. On the one
hand you have every denomination in the Christian religion
crying its eyes out over its failure to do one thing for God.
They cannot even save their own false structures, let alone
save this war-mad world.
On the other hand, you have one man, and a poor one
at that, fighting all alone for the truths of God, yet that one
man, standing all alone, can, in twelve years, bring into ex­
istence a religious Movement which, in that short space of
time, ranks eighth numerically in the list of American re­
ligions. Therein lies the difference . . . the one is teaching
pagan superstition in the name of God, and I am teaching
the pure unsullied truths of God. The latter cannot help
but win.
If the world and the church were wise, instead of trying
to down the “Psychicma” Movement and myself, it would
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 259
listen to what we have to say. Either I am teaching the truths
of God or I am not. The evidence speaks for itself. Men do
not gather grapes from thistle bushes. If the results are good,
the Teaching is of God. If failure results, and every church
talks nothing but failure, the teachings are not of God,
regardless of the human claims made for them.
* * *
A few days after my acquittal, a knock came on my front
door, and, standing there was a gentleman who identified
himself as a Mr. Nice, an inspector of the Immigration De­
partment. Knowing that deportation proceedings were to be
instituted regardless of the verdict of this Federal Jury, I
had been expecting this call, and was prepared for it. Let me
state that deportation hearings are not judicial proceedings.
They have full judicial powers, in a way, but the accused has
very little chance in those hearings. Of course, the findings
can always be appealed to the courts, but not all have the
means with which to do this.
Asking Mr. Nice in, I asked him to what I was indebted
for this visit. He stated that he wanted to talk to me about
my birth certificate—he asked me if I had one. I told him
that a Federal Jury had just rendered a verdict which very
plainly answered the question as to where I was born. Mr.
Nice replied that he was not interested in the verdicts of
Federal Juries—he worked for the Immigration Depart­
ment which, as he put it, “is a law unto itself.” I knew what
would happen regardless of anything I said, so I said very
little to Mr. Nice except to call him a “nice” man, which he
suggested might not be the exact truth.
I referred him to Judge A. L. Morgan, now District Judge
of Latah County, and had very little to say to him myself.
That night I wired Senator Borah who, by the way, had
received many wires from others, asking him to step in and
stop these attacks on Dr. Robinson. The beloved Idaho Sena­
tor, now gone to a well deserved rest, was never asleep, and
after the warrant for deportation was served and the $2000
260 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
bond posted, I wired the Senator that I was going fishing.
I came here to Rocky Point, stayed in the same favorite
cabin I am now occupying, and here, on this wonderful lake,
I received anew the assurance that if I paid more time to
my fishing and less to the deportation hearings, I should be
better off. When anything seems to threaten to disturb me
these days, I let it alone. I do not think about it, and . . .
it disappears. It just is not there any more. That is a secret
every reader should learn. First— know that the Spirit which
is God lives in you, and, second-.— let that Spirit take care
of you. If you do this you can never be confounded. This book
is supposed to be an autobiography. It is; but it is inter­
spersed with little messages which will do you good if you
follow them. They do not originate in me—they do come
from the Spirit of God . . . in me . . . in you . . . and in
everyone else.
Senator Borah saw Madame Perkins, and she very kindly
had the proceedings put over for several months at my re­
quest. However, the day finally came when the music had to
be faced. The Immigration Department called Attorney Ed.
Robertson on the phone, and stated that they had received
the deportation warrant from D. C. “Would the Immigra­
tion Department allow me to come to Spokane alone . . .
or did they desire to arrest me and throw me in jail in
Moscow?” Ed. Robertson asked. It would be O.K. if I
appeared with $2000 bonds in my pocket, at the Immigration
Department in Spokane the next morning.
I arrived there on time, and was taken from there, with­
out escort however, for which I was thankful, fingerprinted
and “mugged” just as a criminal would have been. That
went hard. Here at Moscow was a wonderful wife, the
daughter of a prominent Circuit Judge, and with her were
two beautiful children, whose pictures appear in this book.
Yet here was their father, who never knowingly hurt a soul,
and never knowingly made a mis-statement in his life, on the
top floor of the Spokane County jail, being “mugged” and
RO BIN SO N PARK LA K E
An airplane view of Robinson Park Lake. The land for this Park was purchased by Dr. Robinson and
donated to Latah County. The Government then constructed a dam giving Latah County its only body
of water. Many thousands enjoy the Park and lake summer and winter. Benches under the trees, well
water, cooking facilities make this Park a beauty spot. The American Legion petitioned the County
Commissioners to name the park “ Robinson Park” in honor of its donor, Dr. Robinson.
The above air-photo was taken by the 41st Division Aviation, Washington National Guard. Authority
to release this photo was secured from the Regional office of the Soil Conservation Service. We appre­
ciate this authority.
“T H E O LD W E L L ”
The old well in Dr. Robinson’s childhood home. He nearly drowned in this well when he was two years old.
C O R N ER D R U G STO RE, M OSCOW , IDAHO
This is the drug store in which Dr. Robinson worked in Moscow. It is still owned and operated by
Mr. C. E. Bolles
S T U D E N T S ’ A C C O U N T IN G D E PT .
This is another view of the Students’ Accounting Dept. Dr. Robinson is standing in the doorway to
the left of the picture.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 261
fingerprinted . . . and for what? For teaching something
contrary to orthodoxy.
The County jail officers called the Immigration Depart­
ment and informed them that I had been there with Attorney
Robertson, and I was allowed to go back to Moscow to my
family. I had orders to report back in Spokane on July 20th,
which I did. That was in 1936. The warrant by the way,
charged that I illegally entered the United States at East-
port, Idaho, on the 19th day of September. As a matter of
fact I was not anywhere near Eastport, Idaho, on that date,
nor had I been for several years, if ever. I had lived here for
about 35 years that I knew of, and, to the very best of my
knowledge, I was born in this country. Moreover, a Federal
Jury had rendered a decision which should have settled once
and for all the fact of my birthplace, and where that birth
occurred.
When Senator Borah heard of the deportation warrant,
he said “Doctor— I am the oldest man in the United States
Senate—Eve seen some funny things in the past 33 years
. . . but I have never seen such a vicious persecution as this is.
Up to the time of this deportation warrant, I had nothing
to say . . . but now . . . well . . . I’ll help you, and I’ll go the
limit even if it means a Congressional Investigation.” By the
way, before the case was ended, Senator Borah threatened
to “investigate this whole affair on the floor of the Senate”
before the matter was finally settled.
When it was proven that I was not anywhere near Eastport
on the date mentioned in the warrant, Inspector Stewart,
before whom the case was tried, said . . . “I’m going to lay
another charge reading that at an unknown port on an un­
known date you illegally entered the United States.” As
before stated, there is not much one can do before these de­
portation hearings, except introduce witnesses who will testify
as to one’s standing and conduct. Personally, I was disgusted
with the whole affair, especially as the matter of birth and
citizenship had been thrashed out before a Federal jury, the
262 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
highest trial jury in the land. However, we did bring many
witnesses, and I shall briefly run over them to show you the
type of men who volunteered to help me. I could have taken
1000 witnesses into that hearing had I chosen to so do.
The first witness was a Brigadier-General of the U. S.
Army, General Chrisman, a character who was loved by all
who knew him. His testimony was clear and concise. There
was no room for doubt as to what he meant. Here, in part, is
what he said . . . “He stands very high as a citizen in this
community . . . he has a fine civic spirit, and is a very law-
abiding citizen. He has done a great deal to develop the
town in both a business and a social way.”
Then the General mentioned the gift of Robinson Park,
and the resolution of the American Legion that it be offi­
cially named Robinson Park. I wonder if the Legion would
have taken similar action had Mr. Bridges donated a park?
The next witness called was Dr. C. W. Tenney, who was
Assistant Director of “Psychiana” until the Methodist church
forced him to resign. Dr. Tenney knew me many years ago.
At the time of this hearing he was Republican nominee for
State School Inspector, which position he had held in Mon­
tana for several years. For eighteen years Dr. Tenney was
President of Gooding Methodist College at Gooding, Idaho,
and was, before that, President of Montana Wesleyan Col­
lege at Helena, Montana.
Then came the Sheriff of Latah County, Charley Sum-
merfield. He it was who superintended the proceedings
when my machinery on the way from Elk River was at­
tached. He testified that he had made me a special deputy
sheriff, which honor I still enjoy, and he also testified as to
the high standing I enjoy in the Latah County community.
Sheriff Summerfield was followed by the Chief of Police,
Ernie Whitmore, who testified that I had helped him feed
the hungry, clothe the naked, and never had turned him
down when he appealed for help for someone less fortunate.
Then came the Prosecuting Attorney of Latah County, Mur-
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 263
ray Estes. His testimony was on the same general order, and
he laid special emphasis on my being a “very truthful and
law-abiding citizen.”
Then came Harry Brenn, now State Senator of our county,
and Captain of the Troop K of the 116th Cavalry, Idaho
National Guard. Mr. Brenn testified that he knew of four
cases that year that I was personally putting through the
University of Idaho. He stated also that he was Chairman
of the Business Relations Committee of the Chamber of
Commerce, and that I was ever ready to help in any worthy
cause. (What he did not know was that many a time have I
gone to the bank and borrowed money, which I could ill
afford to borrow, to give to someone who needed it worse
than I did).
Harry Brenn was followed by State Senator C. G. Friend.
In addition to being State Senator he was District Supervisor
of the Farm Debt Adjustment organization, and a prosperous
farmer. H e was also Master of the Moscow Grange for four
years. When asked about my personal standing and reputa­
tion he replied . . . “I can only say that it is A No. 1.” The
next gentleman called was W. L. Korter, otherwise known
as “The Cougar.” He was graduated from Washington State
College. He was Democratic County Chairman and member
of the Board of Agricultural Act. He was also a State Sena­
tor. His testimony was ringing in its clarity, and gave my
standing in Moscow in no uncertain terms. As a matter of
fact, my standing in Moscow and over the whole world for
that matter is well known. The only evidence we could put
in was the evidence of these witnesses. No evidence against
me could be barred, and while the attorney could “object,”
the objection meant nothing—it could not prevent a question
being asked and answered, no matter how unfair that ques­
tion might be.
There was one thing which I thought was quite unfair
in these proceedings, and that was when Inspector Stewart
asked Mrs. Robinson if she had ever taken any steps to
264 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
become a U. S. citizen. Mrs. Robinson was born here in
Rocky Point under a large pine-tree, just a stone’s throw
from this cabin. She has never been out of the United States
in her life, yet the Inspector asked her if she knew she was
subject to deportation. The question was later withdrawn.
There came then other character witnesses, but all to no
avail, for the examining Inspector stated that he was going
to recommend that I be deported. After these deportation
hearings, the proceedings are sent to Washington to a Board
of Review. If one has the necessary funds he may have an
attorney appear before the board. When the case was set for
hearing, I sent Attorney E. W. Robertson to Washington
where he contacted Senator Borah. They both appeared be­
fore the review board. This board was fair5 there is no
question about that.
When Senator Borah personally intervened, the board
stood out of respect for him. They promised him that they
would give this case every consideration, and they stated
that they did not believe it was a “deportation” case at all.
But they pointed out the unsatisfactory condition of my pres­
ent status. I might want to run for the U. S. Senate, which
offer to run, by the way, I have twice refused. I had no
birth certificate, which meant that the citizenship was all
up in the air.
Then the Board asked my Attorney if I would cooperate
with it in straightening out this matter to the satisfaction of
everyone. Attorney Robertson said that I would do any­
thing at all to legally straighten out this tangle. Then, the
Board of Review ruled that I not be deported, but leave the
U. S. voluntarily, and, on securing a visa, be allowed to
immediately return. That was the official ruling.
It was not the ruling put out by the Associated Press,
however, which sent over its wires “Robinson ordered de­
ported.” The United Press had the truth of the report, and
sent over its wires, the true story. Undoubtedly the appear­
ance of Senator Borah before that Board of Review had a
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 265
lot of weight. They knew that this Great American would
not be there in my behalf if I were not pretty near all right.
The Senator was not that sort of man.
He has visited in my home many a time, and once paid
me the greatest honor I shall ever receive. Shortly before
his death . . . and he must have had a premonition of it . . .
he said to me “Doctor—there is one thing I would like to
see, and that is you sitting in this seat of mine.” I thanked
the Senator, but informed him the “Psychiana” Movement
was all in all to me, and political honors I did not desire.
That, I considered a real honor.
As soon as the hearing was over, Attorney Robertson re­
turned to Spokane where he lived, and we awaited the official
report of the findings of the Board. These old Army and
Navy records had been dug out, and I don’t blame the
Board for thinking I was a “bad egg”. Yet there never had
been one single thing except getting drunk in my whole
history. Better men than I am do that and get away with it.
Here let me relate one of the very dirtiest things I have
ever heard of or seen. When the newspapers found out that
Senator Borah had appeared before the Board of Review
in my behalf, the news was flashed from Coast to Coast.
“Borah defends Robinson” was about the way the head­
lines ran. When Mr. Lamphere saw those headlines, he
knew the second case against me had gone a-shimmering,
so, in a last minute attempt to do whatever damage he could
do, he had sent to the Review Board, on two consecutive
days, thirteen telegrams, protesting against the intervention
of Senator Borah. These wires were all charged to the Star-
Mirror, and most of the men whose names were signed to
them never saw them. They were called on the phone by
Mr. Lamphere, who talked them into letting him sign their
name.
I shall not give the names of those thirteen men who sent
those wires, although I know them all. Let me give you
one wire, which is typical of them all. You can imagine how
266 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
the Board of Review felt when such wires as this began to
come in. This was before the final decision not to deport
me had been rendered, and the wires might have done con­
siderable harm. However, I knew of their existence the day
they were sent, but there wasn’t very much I could do about
it. Some of the men whose signatures appear on those wires
have sworn to me they knew nothing about them at all, but
I question that. Here is one of the twelve wires:
Federal Board of Review
Immigration Dept., Washington, D. C.
Cannot understand attitude of Senator Borah in Robinson
case. He cannot be fully informed as to his standing here which
is that of a fourth rate citizen. He should be deported.
Here was I, internationally known as the Founder of the
fastest growing religious Movement on the face of the earth,
known as such all over the civilized world, and yet these
local men, under the domination of George Lamphere, sent
such wires as that. Naturally, the ministers were well repre­
sented, one of them, an Episcopalian, died last week. It was
a wonderful chance for them—only—it did not work. The
Spirit of God, as ever, was upon me, and I came through
very victorious as you will later see. (Every effort was made
to keep those wires secret. But I knew about them almost as
fast as they were sent.)
When the official findings of the Review Board were
received by the Immigration Department in Spokane, an
official called up E. W. Robertson and told him that he
could get me on a train for Canada any time he chose to.
“What is the ruling?” asked my Attorney. “Oh, Doc can
get on a boat or train, go to Canada and come right back
again,” he was advised. “Well, is a visa necessary?” he asked.
“No—it is not” was the reply. Calling me on the phone in
Moscow, he transmitted that information to me and the
same day I was in Spokane in conference with him. Neither
of us liked the information that no visa was required, as
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 267
that was not at all what Attorney Robertson had been led
to believe was the Review Board’s ruling. After talking it
over, I thought I saw a colored gentleman in the wood-pile,
and made up my mind I was not going to Canada or any­
where else unless we knew what we were doing. That day,
we both left for Seattle, and the next morning we called at
the Immigration offices there and introduced ourselves.
Evidently the Inspector in charge knew all about us, for,
when asked what we were to do, he replied, “Oh, just let
Doc go over to Canada, and come right back again . . . that’s
all there is to it.” But was it? . . . we shall see. When advised
that all that would be necessary was my leaving for Canada
and at once coming back, Attorney Robertson asked the
Seattle Inspector if, that being the case, he would not give
us a letter to that effect stating that I could immediately
return. This however the Inspector said he could not do.
Later in the day we went to the Canadian Immigration De­
partment and laid the whole matter before them. “Cer­
tainly not” we were told . . . “he can’t even get into Canada
unless he has that letter from the U. S. Immigration De­
partment stating that he will be at once re-admitted.”
This information we took back to the U. S. Inspector,
who informed us that he would not issue the letter. Going
back to our hotel we sat in the bedroom and talked the
whole matter over. Then we called up Senator Borah who
at once got in touch with the Immigration Commissioner, and
we received the information the following morning that
the Seattle Inspector had been instructed to make a pre­
examination, so that immediate re-admission could be had.
You can imagine our surprise the next morning when we
went down to get that letter. The Inspector got quite wrathy
and stated that he would not issue the letter. Then he
wired the Commissioner that “This man has n-o visa papers.”
We had been instructed by both the Spokane and Seattle
Immigration office that a visa was not necessary. Knowing
that some attempt was evidently being made to block us, we
268 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
went back to Spokane and there wrote a full and detailed
letter to Mr. Shaughnessy, the Immigration Commissioner,
stating what we had tried to do, the treatment we had been
handed, and we asked him to show us how to comply with
the ruling of the Review Board. We sent a copy of the
letter to Senator Borah. Truly something was being done
against us, or else we were trying to be led into a trap. In
any event, we waited our reply from the Immigration Com­
missioner and Senator Borah.
Many “underground” wires were pulled at this time in
an attempt to get the Senator to “lay off” the Robinson
case. But he was not that sort of a Senator. H e was in this
fight to the finish, and we saw the finish together. An
interesting side-light on the great character of Senator Borah
enters here, and you may like to read it. H e was asked by
a prominent Boise politician how Robinson came to have
“such a pull with you?” The Senator’s reply is illuminating.
“Doctor Robinson is a friend of mine . . . I know him and
his family intimately . . . he is being persecuted . . . and it
would make no difference to me if this case involved the
poorest colored man in Idaho instead of Dr. Robinson . . .
I consider it my duty, when an injustice is being done to a
constituent of mine, to do what I can to protect the one
who is being so viciously persecuted . . . I am in this fight
to stay.” That was typically “Borah”. I shall ever love the
memory of that man as I loved the man himself when he
was alive.
In a little while a letter was received from the Immi­
gration Commissioner recognizing the troubles we w'ere
having in our honest attempts to comply with the ruling
of the Board of Review. The Commissioner told me to go
to Havana, Cuba, and see the American Consulate there.
I left for Miami the next day. There was a very definite
reason why that suggestion was made, and when I arrived
in Miami on my way to Havana, I discovered the reason.
For the first time I had what to me was evidence of the
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 269
identity of the religious organization which was working so
quietly, yet so viciously against me. I shall not mention the
organization here . . . I don’t believe it will be necessary.
It is not an American system of religion.
Not much of importance happened on the way to Chicago,
for that is where I changed trains. While resting in the
Stevens Hotel, I received a long distance call from Senator
Borah. “The enemy is getting very vicious,” he said. He
also told me to keep him advised every hour of the day
where I would be. If I stayed at a hotel anywhere, he wanted
to know just where he could get in touch with me. Then he
informed me that he had talked with the Cuban Ambas­
sador to the United States, and I had been made a diplomatic
Representative of the Republic of Cuba, and this would
insure my re-admission to the United States again. My
papers would be given to me in Havana.
That never became necessary, for within five minutes of
the Senator’s call, there came a long wire from the Immigra­
tion Commissioner in Washington. He told me that I was
to report to the Chief Inspector of the Immigration Service
the moment I arrived in Miami. I called the Senator back
and advised him of the wire from the Commissioner of
Immigration, and this pleased him a lot. However, he told
me not to forget that I was a Diplomatic Agent for the Re­
public of Cuba, if things did not go smoothly.
On arriving in Miami, I made my way to the Federal
Building and asked for the Chief Inspector of the Immigra­
tion Service. There, I was informed that another Board
was to meet, before which I was to appear, and a pre-exam­
ination, which would assure my legal re-entry was to be held.
This was what we tried to have done in Seattle, but I guess
that was too close to home—something prevented it there.
The next day I appeared before that specially impanelled
Board, and my appearance before that Board constituted a
legal entry into the United States, and was registered as such.
I felt very happy over that, and at once called Attorney
270 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
Robertson in Spokane, advising him that I was leaving for
home that night. “Wait a minute—-wait a minute,” said Ed.
Robertson, what’s this all about? I informed him of the
meeting of the Board, and of the ruling that my appearance
there constituted a legal entry. However, he advised me to
go to Havana and secure the visa anyway. Senator Borah,
on being also called by me, repeated this advice.
I left Miami that night on the S.S. Florida for Havana,
Cuba. Arrived there, I called Senator Borah, or rather I
wired the Senator and told him of my whereabouts. There
is much I could say here, but I shall leave it out of the pic­
ture. I shall just say that three weeks later I received the
visa and came back to Moscow, Idaho. There is one interest­
ing side-light on the matter of the Board which met in
Miami. The instructions were to close the files on this case,
and send them air-mail to Washington. The next day a new
commissioner of immigration was appointed. So the wisdom
of getting the visa was demonstrated. The appearance before
the Miami Board might be challenged—not the visa.
While I was away, I kept in constant touch with Mos­
cow, and informed a few close friends that I should be back
without any question. When I arrived back in Miami, I
was met at the dock by newsmen, and the word was flashed
over the wires that I had made a legal entry, secured the
visa, and was on my way to Moscow. As soon as the Star-
Mirror saw that item of news, it at once ran an article
entitled “Robinson returns through the coal-hole.” It did
not make much difference to me whether you called it re­
turning through the “coal-hole” or not— I was legally back.
On my way to Moscow I stopped at Washington and
saw and shook hands with Senator Borah. We had dinner
together, and his advice was this: “Go hack to Moscow and
run ‘Psychiana’ as vigorously as you can. If you are bothered
any more, send me a wire.” I have not been bothered, nor
do I expect to be.
I think it is well recognized by now that all I am interested
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 271
in is bringing to men and women, the truths of God. Others
have the same right to teach whatever they care to teach
about God. They can teach that God is made of green cheese
if they care to. But they went a bit farther than that. Instead
of minding their own business, they attempted to stop me
from bringing to the world, the actual and literal truths of
God, and in that they made a mistake. They were fighting
God, and that, no church organization can successfully do.
Just as long as I can show that men and women are find­
ing God through the message I bring, I should be allowed
to teach that message. If the churches lose through my
message, if their members drop away as they are dropping
away, that in itself is proof that the story the church comes
to the world with, is not true. If it were true, this whole
world would have known God a long time ago. In any event,
the people themselves must be the judges of what is of
God and what is not of God. There can be no better judges.
P A R T F O U R
Conclusion
T h is a u t o b io g r a p h y m u st needs be an u n f in is h e d b o o k .
An uncompleted story. For this work of the Spirit of God,
far from being ended, has hardly begun. The part your
writer is playing in it is of only minor consideration. I con­
sider the victory already won. For this work has attained
such a scope that it will continue long after I have been laid
under the sod—probably in the little cemetery here in Mos­
cow, Idaho.
A couple of years ago we held the “Psychiana” National
Convention in the Shrine Auditorium in Portland, Oregon.
Wonderful time we had in that Convention. Students from
every State in the union were there. I remember asking the
Students who had come from the farthest point to rise. An
old colored lady sitting in the back seat rose and raised her
hand. “Dr. Robinson, ah done come from all the way from
Florida. I had quote a heap of a time gettin’ here. Lawd
help me—ah done been stealing money out of mah hus­
band’s pockets fo’ over six months now, jest to git to come
here to this yere convention. But praise de Lawd, he done
help me never to git catched doin’ dat stealing, and is ah
happy? . . . I’ll tell de world I’se happy. Doctor Robinson,
274 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
if you’ll play dat pipe-organ, ah’ll come up on de stage and
sing you’all a song.”
Of course, this old colored lady’s speech brought her the
plaudits of the crowd, and I at once invited her to the plat­
form, while I took my seat at the large four manual organ
in the Auditorium.
“What are you going to sing? ” I asked our colored Student.
“Why ahse gwine to sing dat ole song bout a fountain
being filled with blood,” she replied.
I was not over-anxious to hear the strains of “There is a
fountain filled with blood,” nevertheless I played the accom­
paniment on the organ while the colored lady sang as if her
lungs would burst.
After she had finished with the “fountain of blood,” I
turned her thoughts to other, and more pleasant subjects.
I asked her to tell the audience what the Power of the Spirit
of God had really done for her. Her testimony rang and rang
and rang. It is not possible for me to hear such testimonies,
and to read the scores of thousands of letters which are re­
ceived, and not know that the Spirit of God really is at
work in human lives, right here and now. Of course, we
are up against an institution which has for centuries brought
to this world an utterly false conception of God. That con­
ception is no more than an old pagan religious superstition,
told again.
Naturally, being honest, this statement brings down much
wrath on my head. Nevertheless, that statement is true, as
I have proven so many times. Were it not true, and had the
true picture of the Power of the Spirit of God been brought
to this earth, there would be no such ghastly wholesale
murder as we are witnessing today. This whole civilization
is bewildered. Our churches are lost. They are at their wit’s
end. They actually believe the story they are teaching, more’s
the pity. For it is a terribly hard job to tell religionists their
story is untrue. If these same people are wrong in anything
else, they might thank me for pointing out their error. But
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 275
when one discovers the actual truth of the existence of God,
and then attempts to tell those teaching falsehood that their
story is untrue, that man has his work cut out.
Nevertheless, if the Spirit of God be in that man, and if
he is a man that will never waver, and if he is willing to go
to his death at any time for the sake of the truths of God—
that man will inevitably win out even though it be against
the whole world of theology. That is one thing I know. On
that assurance, I live and progress in this work of God for
the whole human race.
At the Convention in Portland, Mr. Whittlesey, Secretary
of the Masonic Auditorium, was a very interested spectator
of the whole Convention. He attended every meeting. After
the close of the series of addresses, he came to me and said:
“Dr. Robinson, you have started something which will live
long after you have passed away.” He spoke truly. Since
that day I have come very close to the veil of shadows.
Very close—and were it not for the actual Power of the
Spirit of God in me, I should be lying out there in the Mos­
cow cemetery, even now.
It happened on the 28th of June, 1940. A dangerous heart
attack. I had, for thirteen years been tearing myself apart
physically. No call went unheeded. Calls for financial aid.
Calls in illness. Calls to speak. Calls to visit. Business calls.
Never for one moment have I considered myself in this
Movement. I never shall, I trust. For to me to live means
just one thing—bringing God to the world. If I can’t do
that I don’t want to live.
The day before this attack of Coronary Thrombosis I
had made a very fast trip to Portland, Oregon, and return.
Some nine hundred and fifty miles. The next morning I
got up and dressed as usual, but I was so tired I could not
eat my breakfast. Putting on my hat I started for the door,
intending to go to the office for another day’s strenuous
work. But I never got as far as the door. On my way from
the dining room to the front door, a very severe pain caught
276 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
me in the middle of the chest. Usually I can pass any pain
off instantly. But I knew this was a very serious pain, and
I also knew the heart had collapsed, or had some serious
disturbance.
I sat in a chair, and, the pain increasing in intensity, I
asked Mrs. Robinson to call our family physician, who, on
arriving, pronounced it Coronary Thrombosis, and a very
serious attack. A specialist was called from Spokane, Wash.,
to consult with Dr. Wilson, the local physician, and the
diagnosis was confirmed. The next few weeks were precarious
ones for me. I knew I should recover, but no one else thought
I would. There I hovered between life and death, with Mrs.
Robinson staying close by me like the guardian angel she is.
Alfie and Florence were very much upset. No visitors.were
allowed.
Well, the weeks and the months went by, and the danger
period passed, too. But the recovery was not what it should
have been. One day, it was decided to fix a bed in the back
of my car, and take me to a hospital in Seattle, Wash. I
nearly died on the trip, for it really was a very foolish thing
to attempt, and we had been warned against attempting it.
But the trip was made.
A thorough going-over was given me by two famous
physicians, and they held little hope of ultimate recovery.
They very frankly told me so. On learning that their prog­
nosis was bad, and on being told the sad news that I could
not recover, I called for my clothes—and a taxi. Dressing
with the assistance of a nurse, I had the taxi take me to the
New Washington Hotel where I engaged a room and went
to bed. I had been on a strict diet at the Virginia Mason
Hospital in Seattle, so decided to celebrate my release by
ordering a meal. If I was going to die I wanted it to be on
a full stomach. But I knew I was not going to die. And so,
calling for “room service” I ordered ham and eggs, French
fried potatoes, buttered toast, coffee and two pieces of cus­
tard, my favorite pie.
A D D R E SSIN G M A C H IN ES
The Elliott Stencil and Addressing System is used in the "Psychiana ' Building. The machines in the
above picture can each address over 5000 envelopes an hour. Two of these machines are in constant use.
Envelopes are contracted for by the million, and stencils are cut for every reply received. The Elliott
machines give no trouble whatever and seldom ever need repairing. Incoming mail is opened by machine
and outgoing mail is sealed by machine.
G E O F F R E Y P E E L B IR L E Y
This is the gentleman Dr. Robinson saw making passes over the
head of the dead man in the little black room. The name "Psychiana”
came out of that experience. Magazines all over the world have
recounted a man who, without having ever met Dr. Robinson, sent
him $40,000 to help the “ Psychiana” Movement. This is the gentle­
man. He is referred to elsewhere in this autobiography. He is a
wealthy English cotton importer. Dr. Robinson visited him in 1934.
M R. B E T T S , M R. S T O N E and M R. K IN G
Three old-timers of Long Crendon who knew Dr. Robinson in his childhood. Dr. Robinson visited
them on his recent trip abroad.
REV. W. W. D eBO LT, A S SIST A N T T O DR. RO BIN SO N
When Dr. Tenney was forced out of the “ Psychiana” organization
by the Methodist church, M r. DeBolt was engaged. He was an
ordained minister in the Church of God, and was pastor of the
Moscow branch of that church. However, in January 1941, scarcely
six months after his appointment as Assistant to Dr. Robinson, the
Conference of the Church of God, meeting in Clarkston, Wash.,
excommunicated not only Rev. DeBolt, but Mrs. DeBolt also. Mr.
DeBolt says: “ I consider this the greatest compliment ever paid
me.” It shows the narrowness and bigotry of these supposedly re­
ligious organizations. It also leads one to suspect that their preach­
ments might not be quite true. In any event, they all are very much
alarmed over the rapidity with which the “ Psychiana” message is
being received all over the world. A copy of the resolution kicking
Mr. DeBolt out of “ the body of Christ” is reproduced on another
page. Religious myth and superstition evidently is still very much
alive in the “ Church of God” .
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 277
That was that. I felt better after the meal, and, shortly
after, I dressed and went down the elevator to the lobby
where I paddled around for an hour or so. It felt good to
be able to even walk round a hotel lobby. The next day I
did the same thing, and the day after that, called up Moscow
and told Bill Marineau to bring the Cadillac. I was coming
home. And not to die, but to go to work. Bill arrived in
Seattle the same day I called him, and the next day 7 sat up
in the front seat of that Cadillac and rode 425 miles from
Seattle to Moscow. And did not die either.
Arriving at Moscow I went to work, and today, February
2nd, 1941, am working just as hard as I have ever worked.
The attack was on June 28th, 1940, barely seven months
ago. Yet here I am, feeling not the slightest sign of heart
collapse or its after-effects, and 7 have been doing this for
three months now. Last week I returned from a trip to New
York, Chicago, Washington, D. C., and made the trip alone
and without any help.
While in D. C. I was invited to speak to the associated
Bible classes of the Church of the Brethren. Dr. Warren
Bowman is pastor of that church. I spoke for about fifty
minutes, and at the end of the Bible study hour, the min­
isterial committee waited upon me and asked me if I would
not preach the morning sermon. I did. Yet not the slightest
sign of weakness, and had I desired to, I could have preached
two more sermons that day. This just goes to show how the
Power of the Spirit of God can operate in every circum­
stance where the existence of that Spirit is fully recognized.
There have been other experiences in this home in which
both Alfie and little Florence have been at death’s door,
and it has taken, in Florence’s case, all the faith, all the con­
fidence, all the assurance I have ever possessed in the Spirit
of God to pull her through. But she came through. And
throughout the length and breadth of this land, and all over
the world, are scores of thousands who have telegraphed us
here in Moscow, and I know of no case where the Spirit
278 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
of God has not responded, bringing a complete recovery, as
it did in my own case.
* * *
Let me tell you of a remarkable incident which happened
in that Portland convention. Just before I had started to
speak one evening, a Western Union boy appeared at the
Temple with a telegram. He was sent to the platform with
it. On opening the wire, in public, I read these words: “M y
nefhew Corwin H ull dying tubercular meningitis flease
help”
Opening the telegram in public, I read it to the delegates
gathered there in the auditorium. Then I said to them, “This
boy will not die, for the Power of the Spirit of God will
instantly heal him.” The next day came a wire from the
father of that boy stating that he had recovered. I was speak­
ing one year later in the same Masonic Temple, and I
recited this story. A lady interrupted, “Doctor Robinson, I
just want to state that I am the mother of that boy, and I
wish to corroborate everything you have said. The boy
miraculously recovered.”
The “Psychiana” Movement has been one continuous rec­
ord of such happenings as these. I never intended the Move­
ment to be a healing Movement, and really it is not. What­
ever healings we see, and there have been tens of thousands
of them, are but an adjunct to the Power of God as we
teach it. When a human life begins to recognize the stagger­
ing fact that it has God in it, anything can happen. And
when one is fortunate enough to have had as much ex­
perience with this invisible Spirit as it has been my fortune
to have had, naturally one begins to expect God to do big
things. And this invariably happens. Whatever I expect
God to do, God does.
There are few nights that I am not awakened out of
sleep to answer some long distance telephone call. So many
of these calls came in that I have had to take the telephone
off the hook more than once in order to secure any sleep.
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 279
More than 200,000 unsolicited letters have been received
from all parts of the world, telling in no uncertain terms
what the Power of the Spirit of God is doing, since this new
revelation of the Power of God came to this earth through
this Movement. So many come in that we do not keep them
any more. We have not the room. At this point I shall let
you read a few of these letters. I believe they rightfully
belong in this book. Needless to say, all such letters are
quite unsolicited. We never ask for the letters, and most
certainly we never pay for them. Here are a few.
“M y deepest gratitude expressed to you for your profound loyalty to
humanity. You have given to us a new love, a new life, and a new world.
That all the world could know what I, just one obscure person, have already
learned and accomplished through your Teaching, this conception of great
Truth. There could be no more suffering or sorrow. There could be no more
wars.”
* * *
“Thanks so much for your kind help. I know your and my prayers were
answered.Just a fewmonths ago I was notwell— had agrowth under my
arm. I wentback tothe hospital this last Thursday and the doctors could not
find a thing. They took an X-ray picture, too, and you can imagine how
happy I am. I shall walk in the right pathway from now on, and believe in
that great Power of our Living God. Thank you again and again for your
Teachings and good help.”
* * *
“I had two strokes of paralysis, and was in pretty bad condition. One of
your Students told me I would get well and said I should write to Doctor
Robinson. I did this, telling you of my misfortune and sickness. Today I am
feeling fine. On Saturday, Ju ly 2Z, X had my doctor examine me for blood
pressure. He tested my heart and could find nothing wrong. Then he used
the X-ray and found my heart in fine condition. I thank you, Doctor Robinson,
and ‘P sych ian a’ for my speedy recovery.”
* * *
“I cannot very well close this letter wdthout first giving you my impression
of your Lesson Number Two. One can hardly pass it without comment. It
has left a permanent marker on my mind which shall not soon be erased.
It tears through convention and tradition, and revolutionizes the manner in
which man has been taught to think. To say that I thank you and appreciate
the opportunity afforded me to participate in this great study faintly expresses
my indebtedness to you for the invaluable services already rendered upon
the receipt of my second Lesson.”
* * *
“ First I want to say 'P sych ia n a ' is beautiful. Each day I love ‘P sychiana’
more and more. Almost an invalid, my health is beginning to improve; but
best of all, Doctor Robinson, I am able to help others regain their health.
Just yesterday a lady came to me suffering with a very painful growth on
her breast. I used ‘P sych ian a’s’ Teaching— God’s healing Power— and this
morning she called me to say that when she went to show it to her neighbor
this morning, to her great surprise it was gone. Not even a scar there. Now
she is persuaded she wants to study ‘P sych ian a’. I talk ‘P sychiana’ at every
opportunity. I’m beginning now to experience a new something I cannot de­
scribe. Things are coming a bit better financially, too. Many, many thanks.”
280 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
“Without a doubt, ‘P sych ian a’ Lessons are wonderful. When I received the
first Lesson of the first series, I was a very sick and despondent man. It was
wonderful the uplift and peace of mind it brought to me, and this has
remained with me. M y financial position has very much improved, and I am
just reaching out and building a home which has been my greatest desire.
It is astounding how everything has been made so easy in connection with
the loan of money for the erection of the building. I sincerely thank you for
your teaching of the wonderful Power of the God-Law, and wish you every
success in your wonderful great work.”
* * *
“I must write to tell you of my joy and gratitude at having my little son,
Richard, home again and well after six months in Children’s Hospital in
Denver. The nurses and doctors speak of his healing in such terms as ‘a
modern miracle’, ‘who’s your guardian angel, Dick?’, etc., and I shall never
cease thanking God, after seeing the Power of the Living God defeat the
‘last enemy’ for Richard.”
* * *
“ Oh, Doctor Robinson, you are a wonderful man, and this wonderful
Truth you are teaching is worth a million dollars to anyone who will believe
it and try it. I could not go on without it now.”
* * *
“ When I began studying with you, I was not only the saddest woman in
the world, but a bitter one as well. Illness, financial worries, and misery
dogged my footsteps. Now I have a new lease on life—no, a n e w life , and
things are rapidly taking form for a better, richer life still. I would like to
continue my studies with you and help to place this Teaching in the hands
of everyone I contact. I want others to find peace and health in the Power
as I have, and believe it the best way to show my gratitude.”
* * *
“I am sure you hear this from every letter, but I will never be able to
thank you enough for bringing this message to all of us. I cannot express
myself enough to tell you how grateful I am. I am very happy to be in a
small way connected with this organization. It means much to me, and you
will hear from me from time to time.”
* * *
“Allow me to thank you ever so much for the very many experiences I
have had since I have started my studies with you. M y whole life has
changed; I have become more self-confident, I now know who and what
God is, where God is, and now I can say that I do enjoy my happy moments
spent with God.”
* * *
“I am happy to tell you I have found, through ‘P sych ian a’, the peace which
passeth all understanding. I look for my Lessons as letters from a dear friend,
study them quietly each day as you suggested, and get a new thrill each time.”
* * *
“Your Lessons are really wonderful. There’s no doubt about it they are
God-inspired. Every Lesson is a gem, so beautiful worded and so full of
Power that one feels kind of mentally recharged after reading them. Thanks
a million for introducing me to the God-Power. I’ve always believed in
God, but it took you to put me in real touch with Him. God bless you.”
* * *
“ I write these lines briefly just because I feel you should know what your
Lessons did for me. I received nine Lessons. I read and reread them, even
after being ridiculed for doing so. For the past five years I wanted to
attend business college, and thanks to your Lessons I have what I wanted.
Things have opened up for me more than ever before in my life. I am
exceedingly happy, and look to the Law of Life as my support. I trust it,
believe in it, and it has helped me wonderfully.”
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 281
“I am glad to say that I am almost completely recovered from a serious
heart ailment and much credit goes to Doctor Robinson for the understanding
I have of the God-Law and how to use it. We are very sure of financial
success as we have a wonderful start along those lines.”
• • •
“I am so happy I can hardly write. One of our state Senators whose name
I sent in has just called to see me and thank me for sending in his name.
He said it was the most wonderful thing he had ever conceived or heard
of. M y father has had an illness the doctors said was asthma of the heart.
He is now able to lie down and sleep normally, and is apparently well. We
are so happy over his rapid recovery. Thanks for the Power that works so
effectively.”
• • •
“ First I want to thank you millions of times over and over again for your
great kindness and good deed. M y daughter of four years of age was so
seriously ill with complications of a ruptured appendix that the rumors were
that she didn’t even have a chance. But I knew different. I just didn’t believe
in death with the presence of the great Life-Spirit and its Powers. After three
weeks of that most horrible illness I wired you and got an immediate reply
which I am so very proud of. Now my daughter is all through draining and
is playing around with the other youngsters. Now I will close with my hus­
band’s and my heartiest thanks to you for my daughter has got to be strong
and healthy. Thank you so very much again and again.”
* * *
“As I stated in my last letter, we have bought a little home, thanks to the
great God-Law. A few months ago I was working on W.P.A., and my wife
and I were asking God for a private job and a little home of our own so
we could get away from paying rent. Tw o months ago I got a private job,
and now we have a little home of our own. I certainly know that the great
God-power will do wonderful things for you if you will only express your
desires and expect them to be answered. Thank the great God and you for
these wonderful Lessons.” * * *
“I wish to send you this letter of thanks for the marvelous results in
healing for us through the Power of the living God. We sent you a tele­
gram last Wednesday morning concerning my nephew, three years old. He
was crying with pains in his abdomen and was a very sick child to all
appearances, but soon after we sent you word the child fell asleep and
got better and kept improving rapidly, and now is perfectly whole and well.
We cannot thank you enough for throwing the Power of God into play for
this child of ours. We w ill never forget this service, and hope to help ‘P sy-
chiana’ Movement along as much as possible financially and spiritually and
all ways. Thanking you again, we are grateful and will close knowing we
are all one in the Spirit of God and God’s works.”
* * *
“I think your ‘P sych ian a’ is a grand thing. When I started studying your
Lessons everything changed. I have a job now paying good pay fourteen
days a month. In my case it would have been impossible without your study
of the God-Law. I am wishing you lots of success.”
* * *
“It is now some time since I wrote to you asking for help for my sister, and
I want you to know my heart is overflowing with gratitude for what you
did for her. After writing you she had one very bad hemorrhage, but has had
none since.”
* * *
“Thanks many times for your wonderful help. I was very ill when I first
wrote you for help. The doctors had about given me up. After you sent me
the Lessons Numbers One, Two, and Three, I made a big change. M y doctor
is amazed.”
282 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
I am frequently asked what will happen when the world
at large knows the fullness of the implications of this work.
Frankly, I do not know. I do know that this world does not
now know God. We are faced with a situation in which
millions of people believe, or say they believe a certain set
of religious facts. Though there are about five hundred
different sects, creeds, and cults, the fundamentals of them
all are alike. They all believe in the crucifixion of a god
for the “sins” of the human race.
This conception of God, while accepted by so many mil­
lions, is a thousand miles from the actual truths of God.
These millions of good honest souls have been taught by
preacher and priest that they must believe what they say,
because there is no other name given under heaven whereby
they can be “saved”. You see, the whole religious structure
of today is predicated on the “sinfullness” of man, which
“sinfullness” is inherent in man. Adam and Eve in the Gar­
den of Eden, they sinned. Therefore, all have been born
under a curse. That curse, we are told, may be lifted only
as one professes his or her belief in the death of a god to
wipe away that sin.
It has been given to the founder of “Psychiana” to see
the True Light. And my work on this earth is to tell the
churches, and their followers, the stark, plain, simple fact
that they have been misled in what they have been taught
about God. All reference to crucifixion, atonement, baptism,
virgin birth, resurrection of the body, and to Jesus Christ,
are fictional and most certainly not fact. This is very easily
proven. (Read Gleams Over the Horizon or Crucified Gods
Galore by this writer). In spite of the fact that the whole
Christian structure of religion is founded on these supposed
facts, my work is to tell the human race these so-called facts
are not true. That, in a nutshell, is what I am on this earth
for.
Naturally, if these theories of God are not true, then the
whole Christian religion is deluding its followers. That is
OF FRANK B. ROBINSON 283
a fact. Equally true is it, that if the Christian theory of
God crucified as Jesus is not true, the truth of God must
lie somewhere else. It does. And it is my work to show this
world what that truth is. A staggering thing to attempt?
Of course it is. But, if I am the man for this work, and I do
know whereof I speak, then, through the invisible Power
I teach, I shall be able to change the entire religious struc­
ture of the world, bringing to it, not a theory of God which
was stolen from a pagan system of religion, but the actual
truth of God.
For truth is God. And there can be no religion higher
than truth. The sad fact is that men and women, in spite of
the God-less condition of the world today, choose to hang
on to their pet church theories, even though they strongly
suspect they cannot possibly be true. The Power of God
can bring such fanatics as Hitler to their knees very speedily.
And if there was only one church congregation in America
which knew God, that would be accomplished. If the churches
will not find God—if they insist upon worshipping Jesus
Christ as “God crucified”, then the true revelation of the
Power of God will come to this earth through some other
organization which operates entirely outside of the church.
That is happening now. And the world knows it is hap­
pening. And the churches know it is happening. They know
they are powerless, yet they will not give up their heathen,
pagan ideas of God Almighty being crucified by human
hands on a cross of wood. However, the choice is theirs. If
they insist on teaching such pagan dogmas, the churches will
fall. They will stand idly by while others, who do know
the Power of the Spirit of God, proceed to win the world,
not to the church—but to the Spirit of God.
That, is my work. I have tried simply, honestly in this
book to paint a bit of a picture of the man heading this
world Movement. He is not much of a man as you now
know. But, in the infinite wisdom of a great God, this poor
piece of humanity is performing a work. He is a vessel
284 T H E STRANGE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
which God can use. And the reason God can use me is because
I have no pet theories of my own regarding God. I hold to
nothing the churches teach concerning God Almighty being
born of a virgin and crucified on a cross.
There is just one thing I know, and that is that what I
do not know about God, can be, and is being daily revealed
to me, as the need arises. Personally, I am nothing. I never
want to be anything. I could not be anything if I wanted to.
But— through this insignificant man, who perhaps should
not have been born at all, God is speaking, and God will
continue to speak until the shadows of a church-filled God­
less earth pass away, and the glory of the knowledge of
the ever-existing Spirit of God covers the earth as the waters
cover the sea. In closing this autobiography, I refer once
more, as I started the book, with the words of John (Card­
inal) Newman-—-
“ Lead Kindly Light, amid th’ encircling gloom,
Lead Thou me on;
The night is dark, and I am far from home,
Lead Thou me on.
Keep Thou my feet, I do not ask to see the distant scene,
One step enough for me.”
