{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1941__robinson___god_and_dr_bannister_war_can_be_stopped.pdf","mytitle":"God And Dr Bannister War Can Be Stopped","mylang":"de"}
GOD...
AND
DR. BANNISTER
This War Can Be Stopped
BY FRANK B. ROBINSON
"Psychiana," Inc.
MOSCOW. IDAHO. U.S.A.. 1941
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
L
_.
FIRST PRINTING
COPYRIGHT 1
94 1 BY "PSYCHIANA," INC.
MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN BOOK-STRATFORD PRESS, INC.
DEDICATORY
This book is lovingly dedicated to my wife
Pearl, my son Alfred, and my daughter little
Florence, who, together, have provided me with
the inspiration, courage, protection and infinite
love I needed through many trying periods. Had
it not been for their unflinching devotion, their
unstinted love, and their perhaps unconscious in
spiration, this book could not have been written.
This dedication would not be complete if the
author did not express his gratitude to the Great
Spirit of God for Its leadings, inspiration, and
complete response whenever help was needed.
This indwelling Spirit can manifest in every life
that recognizes Its presence and overwhelming
Power. That Power is abundantly available for all,
without church affiliation of any sort. Affiliation
with religious organizations is good . . . AFTER
ONE HAS FOUND THE INDWELLING
POWER OF THE SPIRIT OF GOD; before
that, it means nothing at all.
The Author.
M521510
THE CHARACTERS IN THIS BOOK ARE ALL
FICTITIOUS. ANY RESEMBLANCE TO PERSONS
LIVING OR DEAD IS PURELY COINCIDENCE.
The author desires to express his
appreciation of the help and inspiration
given him by his friend, Dr. George
W. Allison of Ridgewood, N. J.
The author also acknowledges the
kindness and friendship extended to him
by the Management and entire staff of
the Multnomah Hotel in Portland, Ore
gon, where this book was written.
„ J
INTRODUCTORY
There is something radically wrong with humanity. There is
something radically wrong with religion. The latter statement
is the cause of the first statement. Religion tells us that in some
mysterious manner, Almighty God gave unto it His sublime
secrets. It tells us, on its own unsupported word, however, that
a long time ago, Almighty God spake to the writers of their
many bibles, and through those writers gave to religion secrets
which God withheld from the rest of the human race. An
unsound theory in the first place. An unjust theory in the
second place. An untrue theory in the third place.
As a result of these rather far-fetched and somewhat impos
sible claims, there are on this earth today, eleven major systems
of religion operating. All except one are very much older than
Christianity. Their bibles are of far greater age. There are one
billion and a half men and women following these eleven sys
tems of religion. Each system has a theory that Almighty God,
in order to save this world from sin, came down to earth,
dying an ignominious death on a. cross. By this means, "salva
tion" has been made possible for the entire human race. So
religion tells us. But I see no "salvation" anywhere.
There are many things wrong with this theory of God. In
the first place so many different "gods" have descended from
heaven in like manner to save the world from sin, that a poor
confused American is apt to have a very hard time finding out
which one of these "gods", if any, was the True God, and
which were the false "gods". For they cannot all be true. One
is true and the rest false, or they are all false.
There is something else wrong with the claims of these dif
fering systems of religion— something which convinces me of
the falsity of them all. Something which convinces me that one
xi
xii GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
system is copied after an older system, none of them having
seen the actual truths of God, nor having had those truths
revealed by any sort of revelation, divine or human. For none
of these eleven systems of religion have been able to reveal
Almighty God to man, their rather large claims notwithstand
ing. Nor is there a single priest, preacher, or rabbi on the face
of the earth who can actually and literally demonstrate the
Power of God here on the earth, stopping Adolf Hitler by
that Supreme Power.
This, to me, is absolute proof that these eleven major sys
tems of religion are only unprovable theories of God. They
are "beliefs" about God. Nothing more nor less than that.
Moreover, their inadequacy to manifest the powers of their
respective "gods" in this period of world crisis, proves to me,
at any rate, that none of these religious "faiths" is grounded
in the truths of God. If any one of them were in actual touch
with Almighty God, the Creator of this earth, its celestial
sphere, and the human race, then that system of religion cer
tainly should be able to draw upon the power of its "god"
and, through that power, Hitler should be brought to his knees
in a very short time.
But none of these systems of religion can do that. It would
be foolish to expect them to with the philosophies they have
advanced today. Here in America we have embraced the Chris
tian religion— at least nominally, although there are only two
out of every hundred Americans who see the inside of a
church on Sunday. You can't say then, that America is a
Christian nation. Nominally, perhaps, but in no other sense.
Therefore, we must place the Christian theory of God in the
same category as the other ten systems.
There are millions of Americans who are not in the slightest
degree interested in the Christian "faith" or theory about God.
And they are pretty good Americans at that. They are not all
inside the penitentiaries. They are not all morons, neither are
they all "crack-pots" as a writer in the American Mercury re
ferred to them in a recent issue. (See the author's reply in the
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER xiii
American Mercury April 1941.) They are good Americans,
the backbone of this Country. Evidently, regardless of the di
vine inspiration of the Christian scriptures and the Christian
religion, it has not enough divine inspiration to appeal to more
than two out of every hundred Amercans. That, to me, is fur
ther proof of the fallacy of the Christian theory of Almighty
God. When the actual truths of God are fully known, it will
be discovered that God's immutable word is written on every
page of nature. It was not revealed to a few in ages gone by.
The truths of God are of such magnitude, that all who run
may read. They may find these sublime truths without con
sulting or even believing in any theory of God advanced by
any of the world's eleven major systems of religion.
The author is interested in one thing. He knows— for his
common sense tells him— that Almighty God, the Creator of
this universe and the human race, exists. He knows further,
that if this be a fact, there must be some way for the human
race to make a literal and vital contact with the Creator, and,
through the Power of that contact, plus the Power which can
come from
it,
such world disturbers as Hitler can be brought
to their knees, and this quite speedily. He has written this book
in order that men and women may know that God does exist,
and that God can bring Hitler to his end, not through angels
but through ordinary every-day Americans.
Surely the Power that created the human race
is
not going
to let one little insignificant human being challenge God—
is
It? But that seems to be what
is
happening today. And the
ludicrous thing about
it
all
is
that with eleven major systems
of religion, and with one and
a
half billion followers, all these
religions combined cannot do
a
thing towards either revealing
God to humanity, or bringing Hitler to his knees. Yet both
can be done.
It
must be the true Power of the True God, though. No
pseudo-god can do that. And regardless of how precious reli
gious theories and traditions may be,
if
they cannot manifest
the Power of God to bring Hitler to his knees, they are not
Xiv GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
true religions. So I say, "pseudo-gods" cannot manifest the
Power of the Creator; neither can "crucified gods" do that.
For crucified gods are dead gods, and it will take the Power
of a Living Spirit to bring Hitler to his doom. Humanity has
had about thirty-five crucified gods offered to it in the past,
and it has rejected every one of them, just as it has rejected
the crucified god of the Christian. Only two out of every hun
dred of our population ever attend church.
Knowing what I do about religion as it exists on the earth
today, I feel there is little likelihood of religion reversing itself
in matters of "belief" and "tradition". Religious tradition, be
lief, and superstition shoot their roots down very deep, and the
only way religion can be awakened from the terrible Rip Van
Winkle into which it has fallen, is for someone else to bring to
this earth the truths of God. When that happens, religion may
awaken itself out of its traditional lethargy. If the foundations
of its "faith" are challenged, it may show signs of life. The
author hopes so.
But he cannot wait for that to happen. Times are too des
perate. Hitler is having too much success. If the Christian, or
any other system of religion is the only hope this world has,
then I am afraid it has no hope at all. For none of these systems
of religion have ever been able to reveal God to man in the
past— and there is no time for them to try now. Neither their
"gods" nor their "sacred writings" can stop Adolf Hitler. The
True Spirit of God can. This Spirit, none of these so-called
religions know anything about.
• • •
It may be that before this book sees the light of day, this fair
land of ours will be suffering, bleeding, dying in the throes of
the hell of war. That is not impossible. The author, as do all
true Americans, hopes such a day never comes. But no one can
say with certainty what the future holds for any of us. War is
war. It is ruthless, damnable destruction. It is hell. Yet it may
come to our shores. We may have to fight in order to protect
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER XV
ourselves from aggression. If we do, misery, suffering and
death, with diseases and pestilence will be the order of the day.
The gruesome tragedies Europe has been witnessing for about
two years may be repeated here. For we are up against ruthless
foes. Bloodthirsty villains if ever this earth saw bloodthirsty
villains. It may seem for a time as if they will win. Perhaps
they will— who knows? Perhaps our American democratic way
of life will go down before the mad forces of brute despots.
Perhaps the spirit of wanton and ruthless murder will sweep
everything before it. It cannot do that permanently, but it has
done just that to date. And no one I know is capable of pre
dicting what the future holds for us.
If days like these should come ... if it seems that every last
vestige of civilization is failing ... if we see nothing but death,
destruction, horror ahead, let our people take courage. Let
them look up. For you may be sure of one thing; you may be
sure that, regardless of the pseudo-gods offered to the world
by its eleven major systems of religion— THE TRUE SPIRIT
WHICH IS GOD STILL LIVES AND STILL HOLDS
THE REINS OF GOVERNMENT IN ITS HANDS. And
while no religion on the face of the earth has yet been able to
bring God to man, this crisis will bring forth the man who
will do that. It has to.
This is not a fight between Germany and England. It is not
a fight between old world powers alone. If it were, the author
would not be too much interested for Europe always had been
a hot-bed of wars. Under normal circumstances I should say
that, having started the war over there, they finish it over
there. But this is a world revolution. It is a challenge to Al
mighty God and to every man who believes in the final
triumph of right over wrong, and of God the Creator over
Hitler the destroyer. Therefore, the author deems the time to
be ripe to bring to men and women, not a church theory of
God, but the actual truths and Power of God.
It must be self-evident to all capable of thinking, that if
none of the earth's eleven systems of religion have been able
xvi GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
to reveal God to man, or to bring to this earth the truths of
God, somewhere those TRUTHS must exist, and somewhere
there must be a man or woman who has seen those truths. For
this world revolution will do one thing, at least. It will pro
duce someone who will discover who and what God
is,
and,
more than that, who will show this world how the actual and
literal Power of God may be used to bring Hitler, and other
world-disturbers to their knees. The manifestation of the
greatest degenerate the world has ever known will force the
manifestation of the greatest Spirtual Power this world ever
can know.
If
Hitler had not manifested, religion and the world could
have tobogganed along, perfectly satisfied with its theories
of God. But now— well, men's hearts are failing them for fear
of what
is
coming to this earth. They are beginning to take
religion seriously. They are beginning to ask themselves
if
there does not exist somewhere,
a
Power which can stop this
mad debacle. And they rightfully ask this. For such
a
Power
does exist, and
it
is
perfectly natural for all men and women
to look for the manifestation of that Power, when such
a
ghastly phenomenon as Hitler appears.
But
it
is
quite evident that none of the world's religions can
make known any spiritual power. They are too busily occu
pied telling the world that Almighty God was killed on a cross
thousands of years ago. They are too busy sending missionaries
into other lands, trying to have those of other religions ex
change their beliefs for their belief. An impossible task by the
way.
» • •
There are some things we may be sure of at this stage of the
world's history. We may be sure that an intelligent controlling
Spirit lives.
It
took an intelligence of more than human origin
to create this vast scheme of things.
If
that Spirit of Creation
lives,
it
does not live in "the heavens". According to Dr. Ban
nister,
it
lives where religion told us
it
did not live— in every
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER xvii
human soul. Religion has very faithfully taught that each of
us was "born in sin and shapen in iniquity". Therefore, there
can be none of the Spirit of Almighty God in us. Dr. Bannister
does not agree with that fundamental of the Christian faith
at all.
He seems to know that if the Power of the Spirit of God
lives, that Spirit must manifest through human lives right here
and now. And to give that Spirit to a chosen few, leaving the
rest of us out in the cold, would be rather unjust. Moreover,
it would handicap God. So, according to Dr. Bannister, that
Spirit of God is a natural and automatic gift at birth. This
being a fact, every one of us goes through life possessing in
him- or herself, THE VERY POWER THE CHURCHES
HAVE DIRECTED US TO THE HEAVENS TO FIND.
These religious organizations have told us, with a lot of
arrogance but with no proof, that you and I must accept Al
mighty God at their hands. They have told us, also without
proof, that unless you and I accept the conception of God
they advance, we shall all lose our souls. Only those who have
become "the faithful" shall ever know God, and even these
good souls may not have that experience until after they have
passed on, and successfully been "tried" before the "bar of
God" for the deeds done in the body here on this earth. Dr.
Bannister again disagrees.
He asks Americans to stop looking for God in the sky. He
asks them to stop looking to any church for the sublime truths
of God. Rather, he asks us all to look for God in the only
place where we know the Spirit of God manifests— that is— in
us. If no such Power as that exists, then, according to Dr. Ban
nister, regardless of who wins this present conflict, the earth
will still remain Godless, for nothing will have been settled.
It will only be a case of time until the winning nations begin
to outbuild each other, and it will be the same thing all over
again.
There can be no perfect civilization on this earth until man
discovers who God
is,
and makes
a
re-alignment with God.
xviii GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
When God and man recognize each other, and live in each
other, strikes, crime, murders, wars, and the rest of the hellish
things which are plaguing humanity today, must disappear.
Religions of all kinds and sorts have had ample opportunity
to prove their "beliefs" about God. They have all signally
failed. They are even more impotent today than they have
been in the past. The reason they are impotent is because they
have not the true conception of God. Instead of telling men
and women that the Power of Almighty God lives in them and
they in
it,
with all the staggering Power that implies, they have
sold the world
a
bill of goods which makes
it
mandatory that
you and
I
go to these churches to find God.
They have blatantly told us, all eleven of them, that "there
is
none other name given under heaven among men whereby
we may be saved" other than the name of their crucified god.
But Dr. Bannister has another answer, and you will see what
happens on this earth when men and women have the actual
truths of God presented to them.
One thing
is
certain—
if
Hitler
is
to be stopped, and
if
per
manent peace
is
to be brought to this earth IT WILL HAVE
TO BE BY THE SPIRIT OF THE LIVING ETERNAL
GOD, OPERATING, NOT IN HEAVEN THROUGH
"ANGELS", BUT ON THIS EARTH THROUGH HU
MAN BEINGS,
A
VERAGE NORMAL AMERICANS LIKE
YOU AND ME. That Power
is
available now. It has always
been available.
It
can be used to stop Hitler, Stalin, and what
ever other despot may arise. When traditional, organized reli
gion as we have
it
today
is
discarded, this earth and its inhab
itants will find God. Not until. Thank God, traditional religion
is
fast passing out of the picture. In its place
is
rising
a
confi
dence in the Spirit of God in each of us. That confidence, plus
the Power which
is
God, will solve this world's problems now,
and will prevent any such world marauder as Hitler from rais
ing his head again.
The Author.
Moscow, Idaho,
June
i,
1041.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
CHAPTER ONE
Night had fallen over San Francisco. A million shimmering
lights glittered under the mellow glow of a crescent moon.
Above, myriads of stars were peeping down at the fascinating
scene below.
Market Street was jammed with the usual Sunday evening
crowds. The theatres, night-clubs, restaurants, were throbbing
with San Francisco's night life as only San Francisco knows
how to live it.
On a hill above the city the Sunday evening service of All
Souls Church was over. The more than two thousand worship
pers were leaving the main auditorium of the city's wealthiest
and most fashionable church.
As they went out into the night, the lights in the huge audi
torium were, one after another, extinguished. It was almost
dark inside now. The choir of one hundred and fifty voices,
many of them paid, had left the choir loft behind the min
ister's rostrum. By now they were on their different ways.
Some would go home. Some would go to a theatre. Others
would hunt the relaxations and exhilaration of a night club.
Like the congregation of this famous church, the choir singers
were not exactly destitute. For All Souls was a very wealthy
church; both its membership and its choir were chosen with
care.
As the last notes of "O Star of Eve" died away among the
echoes, Dr. Alfred Bowers, the talented young organist,
gathered his music together and locked it safely in the music
compartment which was at the side of the huge organ. Adjust
ing the pistons, tablets and couplers, he threw the switch
which cut the giant motors. Then, locking the four manual
console, he put the key in his pocket. Looking his beloved
3
4 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
instrument over to make sure that everything was all right,
he left the more than one hundred sets of pipes to themselves.
Next Sunday they would speak again.
Although only in his twenties, young Dr. Bowers was con
sidered to be one of the most outstanding organ virtuosi in
America. He had earned his Doctorate in Music at the famed
Overland Conservatory of Music while only twenty-two. At
twenty-seven he had arrived. Five years under the great
Boyster had done their work well. All Souls paid him five
thousand dollars a year to play the magnificent Skinner organ
which, by the way, had been given to the church by a wealthy
member of the congregation, a San Francisco banker.
A very warm personal friendship existed between Dr. Bow
ers and Howard Bannister, D.D., Ph.D., Litt.D. pastor of the
famous church. They both lived on the Oakland side of the
Bay and for several years Dr. Bannister had driven the young
organist across the Bay Bridge with him, dropping him at his
home.
As usual on Sunday evenings, after locking up his organ,
Bowers made his way to the study of Dr. Bannister and from
there they went across the Bay together in Bannister's Cadillac
which was waiting for them at the curb, a liveried chauffeur
on hand.
• • •
Howard Bannister had been pastor of All Souls Church
since its inception. Brilliant of intellect, keen of mind, a hand
some, earnest man, his reputation had gone far and wide. He
was considered the most brilliant preacher in the United
States. In addition to his work at All Souls, his weekly radio
sermons over a large coast-to-coast network was the outstand
ing religious feature of the airways.
He was a little over six feet tall and weighed about two
hundred pounds. His age was fifty-five although he looked
nearer forty than fifty-five. His family consisted of his ten
year old daughter, Margie, and an eighteen year old son,
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 5
Bruce, who was following in the footsteps of Dr. Bowers and
studying pipe organ at the Overland Conservatory.
Bannister was passionately fond of his family. He lived for
just two things. One was to make God a living reality to the
world and the other was—his family. With him, church work
was a passion. Paid a ten thousand dollar a year salary with
a drawing account the same size, Bannister would not have
hesitated to exchange the finery and prestige of All Souls for
a waterfront mission job, if he thought by taking the water
front job he could do more towards making God real to
humanity.
For Bannister had come up the hard way. He was not born
with a silver spoon in his mouth. All he ever had was latent
ability and a soul so deep that the follies and frailties of life
made no impression on it. Personal aggrandisement and posi
tion meant nothing to Howard Bannister. Money meant noth
ing to him, either.
At the age of eight his mother had died. At ten, his father,
a Bowery mission worker, had also passed on. Tuberculosis
had taken them both. Laboring in the "vineyard of the
Master" all hours of the day and night, plus insufficient food,
had brought the elder Bannister and his wife to an early
tomb. They had one son— Howard.
The passing of Howard's father and mother had left him
alone on the streets of New York at the tender age of ten.
He did not have a nickel in his pocket. Nor did he have one
friend who could do very much for him.
For a few weeks after his father's death another mission
worker, a friend of his father, had taken young Howard to
live with him. But the added expense was too much so young
Howard was informed that, much as it grieved his benefactor
to do so, he would have to insist that young Howard go to
work and make his own living.
The first job Bannister got was in a drug store in the Times
Square Building. It happened like this: Tired, hungry, and
about half sick, young Bannister, seeing the crowds eating
6 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
at the lunch counter of the famous drug store, sneaked in and
sidled up to a seat at the end of the counter.
A freckled-faced "squirt" saw him and thinking him to be
a typical Bowery bum, said, "What do you want, kid?"
Afraid— for he had never been in a drug store alone in his
life, young Bannister said, "You wouldn't give a feller a glass
of cold water for nothing, would you?"
"What's the matter, kid,— sick?"
Bannister had hesitated just a moment. "No,— I'm not sick-
but I'm awful tired— and—I could eat if I had anything to eat.
Guess the water will help some if you'll give me a glassful.
I'd do that much for you if you needed it."
Looking him over, the soda-jerk said, "Okay, kid. Here
you go—here's your water."
Young Bannister sat there drinking the water. A lull in busi
ness brought the soda-squirt back to the end of the counter
where young Bannister was sitting on one of die high red
stools.
"You don't look like a bum, kid. . . . What's your story?"
"My mother and dad died a coupla weeks ago, and that's
all there is to it. I don't have any relatives or friends and I
haven't been able to land a job yet."
"Well, that's too bad, kid. How old are you?" said the
freckled one behind the counter.
"I'm ten. Say—that lady there—she's leaving the counter and
—well— she's leaving half of her sandwich there. She aint going
to eat it. . . . Don't suppose I could eat that, do ya?"
The soda jerker looked at him quizzingly. He did not know
whether he was talking to a professional Bowery bum or not.
Evidently he decided that he was not, for at this tender age,
Bannister was outstandingly handsome. There was something
in that face not seen too often. The high forehead, the look
of submerged sorrow, as if he were hiding a secret grief—
these, coupled with a personality which was magnetic, stood
out even at ten.
"Guess ya can, kid. It'll only be thrown in the garbage can,
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 7
anyhow. We aint supposed to feed tramps here—this is a high
class drug store—but, wait— I'll slip it to ya."
The half sandwich was "slipped" to young Howard Ban
nister and while he was eating that the soda-squirt was mak
ing him another one. This was followed by a cup of hot
coffee.
Young Bannister's face beamed. He had not known kind
ness of this sort since his parents had died. It was something
new to have to get out and rustle a living at the tender age of
ten. Usually when he stuck around all he got was "getta hell
outta here—we aint got no jobs fer kids— get out, you bum."
So treatment of this sort was something unusual. Also, it
was very much appreciated. In fact, as a result of this chance
meeting between young Bannister and the soda-jerker, a
friendship which lasted years came into blossom. That night
he took him home with him and the next day he had secured
a job for him washing ice cream glasses in this same drug
store.
We shall skip the intervening years which elapsed between
that day at the drug store in Times Square and the Sunday
night in San Francisco we are talking about.
Suffice it to say that young Bannister had tackled his fate
with a will. He had determined to win. He had his own life
to build. It was hard, of course, but there was only one alter
native left him and he went after that with everything he had.
He worked. He worked hard. Most of the little money he
earned he saved. He put himself through grade school by
working at the drug store nights, and through high school by
the same method. He stayed in that drug store several years.
The owner of the store, a wealthy Jew, took quite an in
terest in young Bannister and after he had graduated from
high school, he loaned him enough money to study pharmacy
at the New York College of Pharmacy. At the end of four
years young Bannister had his degree of Ph.G. He was twenty
then, having graduated from high school at the age of six
teen.
8 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
From that point on, Bannister had, by sheer dogged deter
mination, forged his way to the top. Probably because his
father was a minister, the yearning to preach came to him
early. So he entered a theological seminary in New York.
At once it became evident that young Bannister was not the
ordinary run of young man. He was too earnest. He talked
too much about the sad condition of humanity. He kept alone,
studying, every spare minute he could find.
Now— he was the world-famous Dr. Howard Bannister,
pastor of the equally famous All Souls Church in San Fran
cisco.
The chauffeur opened the car door at the approach of
Bannister and Bowers. They got into the car and sank back
among the luxurious cushions, all set for the drive across the
Bay Bridge into Oakland.
"You look tired tonight, Dr. Bannister," said the young
organist.
"I am tired, Alfred— too tired."
"Why don't you let up for a while? You're working entirely
too hard. Matter of fact, Howard, I believe you're taking
your work much too seriously. Why don't you take life a bit
easier? You don't need to go every minute of the day. You
don't need to tear yourself to bits preaching to these people.
All they come to church for anyway is to see and hear you.
They like the intelligent sermons you preach— they like to be
members of fashionable All Souls. But I doubt if anything
you can say to this bunch of hard-boiled buzzards sinks in
very deep."
"I'm wondering," replied Bannister. "I'm wondering."
"Well, I don't think you need to. I know this crowd—well-
not better than you do, but almost as well. All they are in
terested in is in listening to your brilliant sermons—but so far
as God is concerned, well, they just don't seem to be inter
ested."
"Alfred, do you believe that—truly?"
"I most certainly do. Take old Younger, the wealthy banker
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 9
who gave us the organ. That fellow makes his money by
foreclosing mortgages. He's as cold-blooded as a mackerel.
If you were to preach a sermon some Sunday morning against
foreclosing mortgages, why, the very next day you'd hear
about it. And if you kept it up, he'd get your job. All that
fellow is interested in is money. Oh— he likes to sop his con
science by belonging to All Souls, but Dr. Bannister, believe
me, he's a cold-blooded reptile if ever there was one."
Bannister sank deeper into the cushions, for Dr. Bowers
was saying that which he had known for a long time. Too well
he knew the sham and hypocrisy of All Souls Church. He
knew as well as Dr. Bowers that this famous church would
kick him out the very moment he began to hit at the personal
lives of its members. And this he did not intend to do. For
Dr. Bannister was interested in only one thing. He wanted to
make God a living reality, not only to the members of All
Souls Church, but to his radio audiences as well. Yes— he
wanted to make God a living reality to everybody. And he
was failing in his mission. He knew that.
For several years now Bannister had mulled over in his
mind the suggestion that he resign from the church. What
was he accomplishing for God? What did any member of his
congregation know about God? All they did was to contribute
handsomely to the support of All Souls—but so far as actually
knowing anything about the Power of God—well, it was
laughable to suppose that they did. Yet he— Bannister— was
taking their money, living in affluence and comfort and, in the
fifteen years of his ministry, not a single man or woman to
his knowledge had had his or her life changed by the Power
of God. And Bannister believed the Power of God to be the
most potent thing in the world.
The limousine swung over the Bay Bridge and soon was on
the Oakland side.
Giving the chauffeur orders to stop at the Bowers residence,
Dr. Bannister sank once more down deep into the cushions,
IO GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
after the organist had said a cheery, "Good-night, Doctor-
better go fishing for a few weeks."
"All right, Alfred, I'll seriously consider it," he had replied.
Closing his eyes as the car sped on, he began to think back
over the past years. His thoughts wandered back to the drug
store in Times Square. He remembered his theological semi
nary days. He recalled how, on graduation day, the Deans
of the College had called him into their office for a private
talk with him. He loved that old theological school. He loved
every moment he had spent in it.
How well he remembered that graduation conference. How
well he remembered old Dr. Harris, a member of the famous
Massey-Harris family. Old Dr. Stewart— and McNicol. They
were wonderful days, those. And the final conference. It was
held in the executive office of the seminary. All the Deans
were there. The executive Board was there, for Bannister had
made a record at that seminary. He had been loved by all.
His deeply religious nature had won them. His innate and
natural ability on the platform and in the pulpit had begun
to manifest early. His love for God and humanity was un
questioned. In fact it was the most outstanding characteristic
of young Bannister. He seemed to live for nothing else. His
whole life seemed, in some mystical way, to be intertwined
with the unknown and invisible life which must be God.
And Bannister knew that. Deep down in his nature was but
one desire. He wanted to know the very fullness of the Power
of God, perhaps not as the churches teach
it,
but as
it
actually
exists. Then he wanted to see that Power manifested on this
earth in the lives of all, to such
a
degree that wars, crime,
immorality, social unrest and the like, would, through the
omnipotent Power which
is
God, be forever banished.
And so, recognizing the depth of character in young Ban
nister, the Deans had decided to call him in for one final
word of advice and perhaps comfort, before he went out into
the world to "preach the gospel of Jesus Christ."
It
was shortly after one o'clock of
a
sunny Monday after
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER I I
noon when he was told that he was wanted in the executive
office. Hurrying down, he was rather nonplussed to find
there, not only the Deans, but the entire teaching staff. In
addition to these, the President of the Seminary was there.
Seldom did he show up at the school, but here he was.
"Must be something important," thought young Bannister.
"Maybe they have a church for me already."
On entering the conference it didn't take him long to find
out why he had been called there.
"Howard," began Dr. Harris, "we have called you here
before you leave to tell you how we feel about you. Every
member of the faculty is vitally interested in you and your
future. So much so that it was decided to call you before us
for a final parting word of advice and cheer."
"Well, I certainly shall appreciate any advice you may have
to give me," said Bannister.
"It is not so much a case of giving you advice, Howard, as
it is a case of suggesting to you that you keep very humble
before God. You are a full fledged D.D. now. Your whole
life lies before you. We have watched you very carefully
during your stay with us, and somehow or other, we feel
that you should know exactly how we feel towards you."
Bannister knew that something interesting was coming, but
what it was he could not for the life of him imagine. He
had done his best here. His grades had been the highest ever
obtained by any student of the Seminary.
"We feel, Dr. Bannister— all of us— that the Lord has a
mighty work to do through you. We feel that God has chosen
you to bring this world some great message. We do not know
what that message is. We do know, however, or rather we
feel that as a result of your life and ministry, this whole world
will be drawn nearer to the Cross of Jesus Christ. So, believ
ing this, we wanted to caution you a bit, and, now that you
are leaving us for good, suggest that you keep very quiet and
humble before God.
"Certainly, Dr. Bannister, this world needs a new revelation
12 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
from God. It needs the Power of God in
it,
and God knows
it
has very little of that now. Quite often when God
is
about
to speak to the earth through some one He has chosen for
such
a
work, that one does not know it.
It
may be that you
do not recognize fully your power. Perhaps God, in His
infinite wisdom, has withheld from you that fact that you
are the one man we know who
is
best equipped to bring to
this God-forsaken world the message
it
needs to bring
it
to
God. And so, loving you as we do, we want to humbly suggest
to you that you always hold the thought firmly in your mind
that God, through you,
is
going to make
a
new revelation of
His power to mankind. We firmly believe that. Never in the
history of this Seminary have we been so impressed by any
student as to call him here as we have called you."
Bannister's head drooped. Then
it
raised again.
"Dr. Harris—and gentlemen, all of whom
I
love with
a
very
intense love,
I
appreciate the friendship and love on your part
which has impressed you to call me into special conference
with you.
I
shall think over carefully what you have said
to me, for
I,
too, have known for some time that
I
was born
for the express purpose of bringing to this world
a
truth
concerning God which the world, yourselves included, has
not even faintly suspected. This has been known to me since
early childhood. Let me tell you
a
story, gentlemen:
"My father and mother, as you know, were earnest, honest
workers for God in the hardest field of the world— the Bowery
missions. As
a
result of their labors in the Bowery vineyard
of the Master, they both died
a
premature death. My mother
was one of the Godliest women this old world has ever known.
Unfortunately, her light and her talents had to be hidden.
They were hidden under the bushel of poverty. They were
hidden under the bushel of circumstances. They were hidden
under the bushel of ill-health.
"But poor though she was, ill though she was, thwarted
through life as she was, that mother of mine knew God. To
her, God was not some mythical abstract being living some
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER '3
where above the sky— God was a living reality. She loved God
as few do today, even in this school of religion. She may not
have known who and what God really
is,
but in her blind
way she trusted and loved . . . well, let me say ... the un
known God.
"Well, one day when
I
was about four years of age, maybe
a
bit younger,
I
was lying on my mattress on the floor of our
tenement room, when there came to me one of the strangest
experiences
I
have ever had. Lying there, there came to me
what seemed to be the Spirit of God itself. 'Twas an expe
rience
I
shall never forget.I would rather not go into that
experience in detail. Suffice
it
to say that
it
seemed as
if
the
heavens opened up.
"Going at once into the room where mother was,
I
related
to her the beauty of this experience, remarking, 'There
is
more to life than we see, Mamma— there
is
another world in
this one—and that other world
is
the world where God lives'.
"Asking me to climb on her knee, and pressing her thin,
worn face close to mine, she said, 'Howard, some day God
will reveal Himself to this world through you.
I
do not know
when that day will be— but
it
will be, for
I
have known this
ever since you came. When
I
gave you birth my duty to God
and humanity was done.
I
don't have many more years to last
—this old tuberculosis has too good
a
hold on me— but after
I'm gone, never forget these words of mine— 'GOD WILL
REVEAL HIMSELF TO THIS WORLD THROUGH
YOU\"
There was
a
tense silence in the room after Howard Ban
nister made that statement. Every eye was on him.
Finally, old Dr. Stewart spoke up: "We are glad to hear you
say that, Howard. We believe that experience was
a
direct
visitation from God. We believe
it
corroborates what we feel,
for we do feel that you have
a
mighty work to do for God
and humanity. We all believe, as
I
said, that because of your
ministry this world will be drawn closer to the Cross of
Jesus Christ."
»4 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
The car came to a halt at a traffic signal in Richmond. Dr.
Bannister opened his eyes, looked out through the car win
dow, then closed them again and continued to reminisce.
Yes, he remembered well making that statement to his in
structors in theological seminary. He remembered his reply
to Dr. Stewart, too. He remembered the surge of spiritual
Power which came to him, as, looking that group of earnest,
tense men in the face, he said, "I don't know how close to the
Cross of Jesus Christ I can draw this world. Nor am I par
ticularly interested in that. I am, however, very much inter
ested in making God a living reality to mankind. That is
what I want to do and, God helping me, that is what I shall
do. That is what I was born to do."
With eyes still closed he recalled the consternation that
statement had caused.
"Well, Dr. Bannister— just what do you mean by that?"
asked Dr. Imrie. "You don't mean to tell us that you can
separate the Cross of Jesus Christ from God, do you?"
Bannister had thought quietly and earnestly before he an
swered that question. Then, all of the spirituality of his nature
rising to the surface, he had replied: "Gentlemen— long before
the Cross of Christ or the Christian religion was ever heard
of, millions of souls inhabited this earth. The same Creator
made them all. One was not more precious to that Creator
than another. These souls must all come under the saving
grace and Power of the same One God—the Cross of Jesus
Christ and what you teach notwithstanding."
Then he had continued: "This is a Christian seminary. It
teaches only the Christian conception of God. But— as I have
said, long before either the Cross of Jesus Christ or Christian
ity were ever heard of, millions of human souls lived on this
earth. They had their systems of religion. They had their
crosses, too. The crucified gods that hung on them were just
as precious to those nations and beliefs as your crucified God
is to you. You will not attempt to tell me that the story of the
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 15
virgin birth of Jesus Christ is either original or unique, will
you?"
Dr. Harris had been nonplussed. What strange ideas were
these? Is this the man to whom they were all looking for a
revelation of the Power of God? Is this the one in whom all
their hopes lie? What strange words these were. Yet how true.
For no one knew that Dr. Bannister was speaking the truth
any more than these theologians did.
They knew that fifteen hundred years before the supposed
time of Jesus Christ, another god, one Jeseus Chrishna had
been born of a virgin called Mary. They, too, knew that the
religion of the Hindoo taught that their crucified god had
been born on December 25th, about thirty-five hundred years
ago. They knew that the Holy Ghost was the father of the
Hindoo "saviour" even as he was the father of Jesus Christ.
Also they knew that Jeseus Chrishna, after a ministry of three
years, was crucified on a cross. They knew that according to
the traditions of the Hindoo, he rose from the dead and
ascended into heaven where he now sits at the right hand of
God, his father.
They knew that Chrishna came to save the world from sin.
They knew that every fundamental of the Christian religion
existed fifteen hundred years before in the religion of the
Hindoo. And they also knew that more than a score of "cruci
fied gods" had, according to other religions, presented them
selves at the bar of public opinion, as divinely conceived and
born "saviours" of the world.
All these things these theological instructors knew through
their studies of comparative religion. Of course, all of these
prior "saviours" except their own were "heathen". Their di
vinity did not exist. They were all "pagan" gods. Yet the
painful fact stared them in the face that stories of these gods
did exist long before the time of their own Jesus Christ.
But to hear young Dr. Bannister state the cold hard facts
at this time was something they had not bargained for. They
were horrified. They were dumbfounded.
1 6 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
And then Dr. Bannister recalled, as he reclined deep into
the cushions of the rapidly travelling Cadillac, his last word
to his former instructors before excusing himself from the
room. Oh yes, he remembered those words well!
"Gentlemen, I stand before you as a man who recognizes
but one God. I am fully aware of the many theories and tradi
tions recounted by many religions, of God. I am interested
in all of them. I have studied them all very carefully. But I
still recognize only one God, and that Great Spirit which
created all men, still lives. That Great Spirit was never cruci
fied on a cross by anyone. It lives. That God—that Great
Spirit—I shall give my life to preaching. As I learn more about
the Power of the Great Spirit of God, I shall teach it. If it
fits in with the Christian theory of God, well and good. But
if it does not fit in, well— I shall preach the Power of the
Spirit of God without the Cross of Jesus Christ, for they may
not be connected at all. They may have nothing in common."
Yes, that was what he had said. And all this was thirty
years ago. Now, for fifteen years he had been the famous Dr.
Bannister, the pastor of All Souls Church in San Francisco.
Yes— he was known all over the world as the most powerful
man in the ministry. He was a success. Yet, as the car drew
into the Bannister driveway, he wondered.
CHAPTER TWO
Reuben Norling had beeN chauffeur for Dr. Bannister
for the past ten years. He probably knew the real Bannister
better than most folks did. Bannister did not drive a car very
much, and on the long trips which were necessary, Norling
and he had become true friends.
For Bannister was a very human man. To him, all created
beings were equal. One might be drawing a salary of ten, or
perhaps a hundred thousand dollars a year, while the other
might be working as chauffeur for the wealthier man— but that
made no difference to Howard Bannister. He saw in every man
the likeness of the Creator. He saw every man as the image
of God. Money, position, political influence meant nothing to
him at all. In fact, in his own church, Bannister knew men for
whom he had little regard. They were wealthy, affluent,
and used to the plaudits of men. But to Howard Bannister
they were just what they were. And he knew what a good
many of them really were.
Norling was, like Bannister, a human sort of fellow. Of
Norwegian parentage, he was the steady plodding type. Yet
he had a philosophy which was almost identical with Ban
nister's. Bannister's every wish seemed to be anticipated by
Norling in his line of work as chauffeur. He idolized his
employer.
"You won't need the car again tonight, Dr. Bannister, will
you?" queried Norling as he threw the ignition switch and
turned off the lights.
"I hope not, Rube. Never can tell, but I don't believe I'll
have to go out again tonight."
"Dr. Bannister, that was some message you put across to
night, if you don't mind my saying so. Boy! I've heard you
«7
i8 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
preach many times, but tonight was a humdinger of a sermon.
And the way those folks listened. You could have heard a pin
drop."
"Well thanks, Rube. I didn't know you were in the church
tonight," Bannister replied.
"Oh, I wasn't in the main auditorium. I was listening through
the side door of your study. Usually I go and shoot a few
games of pool while you are preaching, but tonight I thought
I'd stay and listen to what you had to say. You know I don't
have much use for religion," said the chauffeur.
"What's the matter— see too much of it?" asked Bannister.
"Oh— it isn't that so much— but I know a lot of people who
make a big profession of religion and the more profession
they make the less I want to have to do with them," said
Reuben.
"That go for me, too?
"
asked Bannister.
"I should say not! You are one man who really believes
what he preaches. Aint nobody can say you ever jipped 'em
out of a nickel. No sir. I have no use for religion, but I like
you because you're on the up and up. You live what you
believe and if a man is honest in his religion, he can believe
that the King of Norway is a green monkey as far as I'm con
cerned."
"Well, Rube, I'm not so sure that what I've been preaching
to All Souls ever was true religion. I'm not so sure that there
is any true religion in the world today anywhere," Bannister
said.
"Don't look like it. My country don't exist any more, and
fourteen other nations now have the hated Swastika flying
over their capitols. If there is a God, why don't He do some
thing about this mess? Why don't he stop Hitler— that's what I
want to know?"
"That's what I would like to know, too, Reuben. Maybe
this world hasn't had the true conception of God brought
to it yet. Maybe what we now have masquerading as being
of God is nothing of the sort. Maybe the whole Christian
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER '9
religion and the rest of the systems of religion are but human
ideas about God. Maybe we haven't discovered who and what
God really is yet."
Reuben Norling thought. He said nothing for several sec
onds.
Then, "Dr. Bannister, I believe you have something there.
There must be a God but maybe we have so much religion
in the world that we haven't time to find out just where God
is. Maybe we have too many churches, maybe too many re
ligions—I don't know—but I think you've got something there,
Doctor. Better not tell old Younger that, though."
Turning to Norling, quick as a flash, Bannister said,
"Reuben, if I believed anything about God, do you think for
a minute I wouldn't preach it regardless of what Younger
or the rest of All Souls might think?"
A smile spread over the chauffeur's face. "That's what I
know. And I know something else, too, Dr. Bannister."
"What else do you know, Reuben?"
"Well, I know that you don't believe all of what you are
preaching."
This statement hurt Dr. Bannister. However, Reuben did
not mean the statement to imply what it seemed to imply.
"You are wrong, Reuben. Do you mean to tell me that you
think that Sunday after Sunday I'd get up in that pulpit and
tell thousands of people something I didn't believe myself?
Is that what you mean?"
"No, Dr. Bannister, that is not what I mean. Maybe I don't
know how to say it like I should, but I mean that you are
beginning to doubt the truth of the story you are preaching.
I think for some time you have had your doubts of it. But
you believe it or you would not preach it. Am I right?"
Dr. Bannister was deep in thought. Here was his chauffeur
literally reading his mind. For Reuben had expressed exactly
the innermost sentiments of Bannister's innermost thoughts.
He had not fully made up his mind yet, but he was on the
verge of making it up.
20 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"Yes, I think you're right, Rube. And you may have to
hunt for another job one of these days—I don't know. But turn
out the garage lights and get to bed. See you in the morning."
Deep in thought Howard Bannister crossed the lawn, as
cended the patio steps and entered his palatial home by the
back door. The expensive Ispahan rug deadened the sound
of his footsteps as he crossed the large living room into the
smaller living room just beyond.
Seated in a comfortable armchair, his wife, Pearl Bannister,
was awaiting his arrival, as usual. Almost to the minute every
Sunday night she could count upon her husband to be home.
She gave him the usual kiss and caress, after which Bannister
threw his coat and hat on the floor. This was something he
never did unless exceptionally tired or deep in thought. And
tonight the coat, a heavy camel hair affair, and the hat went
down in the middle of the floor.
Picking them up, Pearl Bannister gave him another kiss and
hug and hung the coat and hat in the front porch where they
belonged.
"Sit down, honey, and let me take your shoes off— I have
some hot coffee awaiting you, and guess what sort of sand
wiches."
Smiling in his unique manner, Bannister, kissing his wife
once more, said, "Cold salmon on white bread with a little
vinegar on them."
"How did you guess?"
Bannister smiled again. "Oh—you're a pretty good fellow,
Pearl— not hard to guess what's in those sandwiches. Bet you
a dollar the coffee's like water, though."
"Shame on you, Bannie," for that was Pearl Bannister's very
pet name for her husband. "My coffee is always good, and
you know it."
"Yes— good for nothing," said Bannister with a smile.
"Oh, you're hopeless," said Pearl. "I percked the coffee an
extra long time tonight so you would like it."
"Yes, I know, but there's no use percking coffee a long time
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 21
if you don't have enough coffee in the percolator. But bring
it in and we'll see whether I drink it or make some of my
own."
"Where do you want
it,
honey? Will you sit at the dining
room table, or would you rather sit in the big room and listen
to the radio. Let's do that, shall we?"
"Okay. Bring
it
in the big room, but let's not turn on the
radio. I'm
a
little bit tired tonight. Maybe we'll turn on the
news at eleven o'clock. Winchell have much to say tonight?"
"He sure did.
I
don't know where he gets his information
but he sure gets it."
"What did he have to say?"
"Oh— he told about
a
member of the Nazi party holding an
office in the United States Military Intelligence Department
—he even gave his name. How do you suppose those Nazi
sympathizers get into such places as that?"
"Well, that's easy enough,
I
suppose. The government can't
suspect everyone just because he
is
of German parentage.
Some skunks will slip in,
I
guess, in spite of everything.
I
wish this war would stop," said Bannister, sinking into his
favorite chair by the large French window.
Pearl Bannister pulled up
a
hassock and started to unlace
Howard's shoes. This done, she put his slippers on and gave
him
a
lounging jacket.
Mrs. Bannister was loved by all who knew her. Her husband
had the knack of making many enemies. Many people were
jealous of his success. But Mrs. Bannister, well, she just did
not make enemies. Active in Bundles for Britain,
a
former
Worthy Matron of the Order of Eastern Star and active
in many other charitable and civic organizations, her name
was hallowed and revered throughout the whole San Francisco
region. She seldom attended church, however. Her religion
was to do as much good as she could here and now among
her own people. This done, she used to say, "I'm not afraid
of anything the future has to offer after
I
die."
As she sat at her husband's feet, he let his hand drop on her
22 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
hair, fondling it. Then he closed his eyes, his thoughts re
verting once more to his career to date.
"Usual crowds at church tonight, honey?" she asked.
"Yes, the usual crowds, the usual sermon, the usual collec
tion, the usual singing and the usual failure of the pastor to
make God real to that church."
"Now listen, honey," said Mrs. Bannister, "suppose we for
get all about churches and sermons and just let's talk about
ourselves for a change. Let's just be alone together. You can't
carry the burdens of the whole world on your shoulders
and there's no use your trying. You've done your part today
and it has been a big part. You have preached two sermons
in All Souls and have made two coast-to-coast addresses over
the radio. What more one man can do I don't know."
Bannister smiled. "You're awfully sweet, Pearl. If it were not
for you and little Marge and Bruce back in Overland, I
wouldn't have much ambition to continue preaching at All
Souls or anywhere else. For if ever there was a failure in the
ministry, I am that failure. Oh yes—I know what you are
going to say. I know that my reputation is nation-wide. I
know that I am absolutely in earnest. I know that my soul
bleeds for the millions of human beings who, at this very
moment, are suffering frightful atrocities at the hands of their
inhuman conquerors. I know all that. Yet—I am a failure— full
and complete."
"Oh, you are not, and I don't like my Bannie to be talking
like that. You can only do one man's work. You have preached
twice today as I said, and every ounce of energy and power
you possess has been put into those sermons— so don't try,
honey dear, to bear the load of the whole world— you cannot
do that."
"I could if I knew God," said Bannister. "Why listen, do
you mean to tell me that the Infinite Power that created this
world and the whole human race cannot manifest itself in this,
the darkest hour of the world's history and stop this thing?
Do you mean to tell me that if I could manifest the actual
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER *3
Power of the Spirit which is God on this earth, this war
could not be stopped by that Power?— of course it could.
"Do you know what is happening in Warsaw at this mo
ment?— let me tell you. The Germans have taken one hundred
blocks and have built a wall eight feet high around it. Into
that ghetto, as they call
it,
they have driven over five hundred
thousand Jews to live and die in horror and misery. And then,
to make their sufferings more intense, and to make doubly
sure that these poor devils do die, they have inoculated some
of them with typhoid fever germs—live typhoid fever germs.
And at this moment those poor Jews are dying like flies, while
you and
I
sit here in ease and comfort. Do you mean to tell
me there
is
no Power on this earth which can bring such
hellish things to an end?"
"I know, honey. What you say
is
true, and
I,
too, am
doing everything
I
can do to help. Yesterday we sent away
over one hundred layettes to Bundles for Britain. Tomorrow,
twenty-five ladies will be here in the playroom to cut up
a
lot
more.
I
wish— oh, how
I
wish
I
knew the answer to
it,
honey.
But
I
don't. Anyway,
I
don't want you to worry yourself
to death over it.
I
still maintain that you have done your duty
as you have seen
it
in conducting your radio hour and
preaching two sermons today.
"That may be true, Pearl, but what actual good have those
sermons done? How many men and women are there in
America tonight who have found God— actually and literally
found the Power of the Spirit of God as
a
result of my efforts
today?"
"I see what you mean, Bannie— but
I
still don't see how
you are going to do much to help more than you are doing."
"Perhaps not, but there's something rotten in Denmark. This
is
Sunday night. Today in America more than one hundred
thousand other ministers have, like
I,
preached two sermons.
They, too, gave everything they have to spread the gospel
of Jesus Christ. They told their congregations of the merits of
the Blood of Jesus Christ. They hold up the Cross of Jesus
24 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
Christ as the panacea for this world's ills. One hundred thou
sand of them did this. Before the Revolution, and for one hun
dred and fifty years after, preachers have been holding up both
the blood and the Cross of Jesus Christ to America. And look
at the result! In New England alone right now there are over
800 closed churches. There are more than 7000 ordained minis
ters in that area and of that 7000 only 1000 believe in the au
thoritative, infallible Bible and in the deity and atonement of
Jesus Christ. In addition to this, there are 10,000 villages in the
United States without a church, and 30,000 villages without a
resident pastor. In our own city of San Francisco there are
more than three quarters of a million people who never see the
inside of a church. In Los Angeles there are over a million. And
so on throughout the whole of America. Only eight percent
of our people attend church on Sunday morning and less than
two percent on Sunday evening. What a record of shameful
failure of the blood and the Cross of Jesus Christ— either that,
or the failure can be laid at the door of the churches."
Bannister paused a while deep in thought.
"And we call ourselves a Christian nation. We want to
convert the world to a religion which boasts that record of
failure. It is not consistent."
It had been a long time since Pearl Bannister had seen How
ard so worked up. She knew that for years he had been ques
tioning the truth of the story of Jesus Christ. She also knew
that when he became convinced of the untruth of that story,
if he did, there would be fireworks in All Souls. Yet she stood
one hundred percent behind him. She knew that his love for
God and the world was so strong that he would willingly
go to his death for his religious convictions. She knew some
thing else. She knew that her husband, if convinced that the
Christian theory of God was not true, would never rest until
he found where the truth really existed.
Mrs. Bannister worshipped her husband. Standing as he did,
head and shoulders above the average run of ministers, she
knew, or she very strongly suspected that something was about
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER *5
to break. For years now Howard Bannister had spent most
of his time studying the origin of religions. He had the greatest
library in America covering comparative religions. And Mrs.
Bannister knew, perhaps better than Howard himself, that a
crisis was fast approaching in his life and affairs. And she
was happy over it. She had great faith in her husband.
Kissing his tired head, she said, "Honey, I know there is
nothing in the Christian religion which can stop the horrible
carnage in the world today, but do you know what the answer
to the God proposition really is?"
Here was a direct challenge to Howard Bannister. A very
direct question. Getting out of the chair, Bannister walked
over to the mantelpiece over the fire and leaned his arm on
it. He did this when deep in thought.
"Yes, Pearl, I think I know what the answer is. In fact, I'm
sure I know. When I give it to the world it will stagger the
Christian religion— it will shock the world— but it will bring
Hitler and Mussolini to their knees, along with other would-be
world mutilators. It will stop once and for all the preaching
of false gods and false conceptions of the true God and, when
the true revelation of God is finally known, God and man
will live together on this earth. There will be a peace so secure
and so beautifully normal that wars, pestilences, sufferings,
strikes, injustices just simply cannot be. The reason they
cannot be is because God—the Invisible Spirit of God—shall
be known in every life for what that Great Spirit is. And
neither the blood of Jesus Christ nor the Cross of Jesus Christ
nor any of the world's score of crucified saviours shall have
anything to do with that day of eternal peace."
There were several minutes silence in that large living room
as Dr. Bannister made this statement. Then, from the bedroom
at the top of the stairs which led up from the living room,
came a child's voice:
"Is that you, Daddy? You come up and kiss me good-night."
Throwing the switch which lighted the light at the head
of the stairs, Bannister went up to little Margie's bedroom.
26 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"You little tramp— what are you doing wide awake at this
time of night?"
Bannister dropped to his knees beside the bed and putting
his left arm around the sweet little thing's neck and cuddling
her as tight as he could, he smothered her with kisses which
Margie returned. Passionately fond of this child was Bannister.
"Honey, you're the sweetest thing Daddy knows— kiss me."
She did.
"But, honey, why are you not asleep? It's after ten o'clock
and you're supposed to be asleep a long time ago."
"I waited for you to come home, Daddy, so that you could
kiss me good-night, and then Mamma and you began to talk
—and I listened, Daddy—should I have?"
"Why of course you should have listened. Your Daddy will
never have anything to say to Mom that he can't say to you."
"Daddy
"
"What?"
"I went to Sunday School today. I sang in the children's
choir."
"Fine. Did you have a good time?"
"I had a lot of fun with Mrs. Campbell, the teacher, Daddy.
I don't think she likes me any more."
"Why doesn't she like you, Marge— what tricks have you
been up to?"
"I wasn't up to any tricks, Daddy, but she called me a little
heathen and said I ought to be ashamed of myself."
"Well, what brought that conversation on? You must have
said something which led up to
it,
didn't you?"
"Well, Daddv—Mrs. Campbell was telling us
a
story in
class. She said that
a
long time ago God was walking around
on this earth. And, Daddy, she said one day He met
a
lot of
hungry people— five thousand of them. They didn't have
a
thing to eat, Daddy, and do you know what God did?"
"What?" said Bannister.
"Well, Daddy, God got ahold of two loaves of bread and
a
few little fish, about as big as sardines, Daddy, and he broke
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
them up into so many pieces that all these five thousand people
were filled up, and then, Daddy, after God had done that,
they had a lot of baskets of bread and sardines left over— a
lot more than they had to start with, Daddy."
Bannister hugged the little thing tight to him and smothered
her face with kisses once more.
"Gee! I love you, Daddy. You're the very best Daddy in
the world and Mom is the very best Mom. Daddy, I'm in love
with you— you're my only sweetheart— except Mamma— aren't
you, Daddy?"
"Well, I'd better be. But tell me some more about Mrs.
Campbell. What happened then to make her call you a little
heathen?"
"Oh that— Well, Daddy, she told about God doing that and
I couldn't see how even God could have more fishes and
bread left than he started with, so I said to Mrs. Campbell,
'Mrs. Campbell, did God really do that or are you spoofing
me'?"
"What did she say then?"
"Well, Daddy, she said it was in the Bible and everything
in the Bible is true and if the Bible said God did that, he did
do it. And, Daddv, I said something then which she didn't
like."
"What did you say, sweetheart?" asked Bannister.
"I said that if that was really true and God did that, I was
going to send it in to Ripley."
A sad smile stole over Dr. Bannister's handsome face, as,
kissing little Marge once more, he said, "Well, suppose you go
to sleep now and we'll talk about sending in that story to Bob
Ripley tomorrow."
"Okay, Daddy. Have you another kiss for me?"
"Yes—I have a million for you if you want them, but you
should be asleep, so I'll kiss you once more and then I'll send
Mom up and I want you to shut those little peepers and go
to sleep."
Pearl Bannister kissed little Marge good-night and Bannister
28 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
extinguished the stairs light, leaving their beautiful child to
go to sleep alone.
• • •
In order to give little Margie a better chance to go to sleep,
Dr. and Mrs. Bannister removed the remains of their coffee
and salmon sandwiches into the small living room where Dr.
Bannister related to his wife the conversation about the two
loaves and the five small fish. Many a sermon had Bannister
preached from that subject. Yet he had never believed it.
And as he studied more and deeper into the history and struc
ture of the world's eleven living systems of religion the more
convinced did he become that instead of originating in the
Realm of the Spirit of God, they might very easily have
originated in the minds of earnest religious promoters. He
was not quite sure yet that this was so. He was, however,
seriously considering this probability. He rather hoped it was
true. For then he could actually go to work and discover who
and what God really is and where the truth of God really
lies. If the truths of God are not to be found or revealed
in any of the world's great religions of today or of yester
day then they must lie in the future. And he, Bannister,
wanted to be the man who would bring those truths to the
world.
He knew that once the true Power of the living Spirit
of God was thrown into play against the mad, confused
conditions existing in this world today, a new day would
most assuredly come in. Bannister saw no chance of anything
offered to the world today as being of God, ever saving the
world from itself. He knew that what this world needs, what
it is crying for, is not the church— it is God.
Why, it was only yesterday when he was preparing his
sermon in his church study that he had received through
the mail news that the Archbishop of Canterbury, who, dedi
cating a new addition to St. Pauls Cathedral, had thrown up
his hands in horror at the present war and stated to the whole
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER *9
world: "CHRISTIANITY IS A BLOODY RELIGION-IT
HAS FAILED."
This statement, he recalled was broadcast over the facili
ties of the National Broadcasting Company by John B.
Kennedy. He had heard it at the time, for Kennedy, in com
menting on the statement, had opined— "I should like to know
when and where Christianity has ever been tried."
He remembered saying to Mrs. Bannister at the time that
he could tell John B. Kennedy where Christianity had been
tried. "It has been tried for two thousand years in every
country on the civilized globe," he had told his wife, "and
still it has failed."
Asking Mrs. Bannister, "How about going into the kitchen
and making some good coffee," her husband relapsed into
thought again.
When the coffee arrived they sat at the dining room table
drinking
it,
and finishing the remainder of the sandwiches.
"Honey, why don't you and Dr. Bowers take
a
couple of
weeks off and go up to Rocky Point and fish?" asked the
ever-thoughtful Mrs. Bannister. "You and Alfred always have
such
a
good time together, and you might as well take your
vacation before the summer heat starts."
"I think you're right— that would be
a
good idea. Do you
suppose it's too late to call him tonight?"
"Maybe you had better call him in the morning— he might
be asleep. It's nearly eleven o'clock now."
"O.K. You remind me to call him first thing in the morn-
ing.
"First thing in the morning I'll get out your fishing tackle,
clothes and the rest of that stuff you take with you and
if
Alf Bowers can go, the two of you can have
a
good rest and
vou can talk over together the problems which you have on
your mind, for
if
I
know you, Bannie, you'll get together
with Bowers anyhow and, before you get through, this world
will either have
a
new conception of God, or All Souls will
have another preacher."
3° GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
Smilingly Dr. Bannister assented.
"Remember the last time you got my fishing togs ready?
I asked you if you were absolutely positive you had them
all?"
"Now, why bring that up? Of course I remember it. You
got up to Rocky Point with everything except your high
boots. I still believe you lost them out of the car," said Mrs.
Bannister.
"Well, maybe I did, but someone must have found them
and brought them back to the house, for they were here
when I returned— so answer that one."
So it was decided that Dr. Bannister should go a-fishing.
Many good men have done that. And more of the true
facts of life have been discovered with a fishing-pole in the
hand than with a Bible— at least so said Bannister on his way
down to Rocky Point the next day with Dr. Bowers, the
organist.
CHAPTER THREE
Bannister slept fitfully that night. Usually a sound
sleeper, for some reason sleep did not come as quickly as it
usually did. Perhaps the excitement about going to Rocky
Point may have had something to do with it. At any rate, at
five-thirty he was lying in bed awake.
Dr. Bannister had a combination bedroom-study on the
ground floor of his home, just off the small living room and
under the room where little Margie slept. As he lay there
thinking, he heard two little feet paddling downstairs. They
came across the small living room and stopped at his study-
bedroom door. Then two little eyes peeked in to see if her
Daddy was awake or asleep.
Seeing that he was wide awake, those two little feet, with
the rest of little Margie, crept into bed beside her Daddy.
This was almost a daily performance if her Daddy was awake,
and he usually was, for he looked forward to these little love-
fests with his ten-year-old daughter with as much anticipation
as she did.
Hugging her Daddy, and smothering him with kisses and
"big loves", Margie put her arms around his neck and crooked
her knees up against her little body.
"Let's count pigs, Daddy," she said.
"Okay, but remember— the two big pigs are yours but the
little pigs are all mine."
"No, the little pigs are mine and the big pigs are yours,
Daddy."
Margie had a habit of hiding one little pig between the
others and when her Daddy could only find four pigs on
each foot, she was very happy and said, "One pig got lost,
Daddy."
3'
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
So the game of "pigs" started. Reaching down, Dr. Ban
nister caught little Margie's left foot.
"One—two— three—four—why, there's only four pigs on
this foot! Where did the other one go to?"
"Count them again, Daddy."
"Okay. One— two—three— four—five—then over to the other
foot— six— seven— eight— nine— ten. They're all here. Ten little
pigs. The two big ones are yours and the eight little ones
mine— is that it?"
Counting pigs continued for about ten minutes, and then:
"Tell me the story about the little man in the cocoanut,
Daddy, will you? Pretty please."
"Well, listen, honey— I've told you that story about a thou
sand times. Why don't you see if you can tell it to me?"
"Okay, Daddy. I'll tell it to you. I don't want you to go
fishing, Daddy."
"Never mind the fishing. Tell me the story about the little
man in the cocoanut."
"All right, Daddy. Once upon a time there was a little man
who lived in a cocoanut. This little man was about as big as
my thumb. He lived in the middle of a big forest and in one
end of his little cocoanut he had a little round door. The
cocoanut had two rooms. One was a bedroom and had in it
a little bed about two inches long. Then in the other room
was a little kitchen, with a little chair, and teensy tiny little
knives and forks. The little man had a little bitty stove and he
cooked all his meals on it. He had lived in the cocoanut in the
big forest a long, long time, Daddy.
"One day there was a great big black bear walking through
the forest looking for something to eat. Soon he spied the
cocoanut which had the little man inside it. Picking it up, he
saw the little man eating his breakfast.
"
'Hey, little man, you come out of there. I want to eat
you up,' said the big black bear. 'I won't come out of here
and you can't get in here,' said the little man.
"
'Okay, then, I'll go away and get a big rock and I'll break
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 33
open the cocoanut and then when you run out, I'll catch you
and eat you up,' said the big black bear, and he went away
to find a big rock.
"While he was gone, the little man went out of the cocoanut
and climbed a tree which stood just close by. Finally the little
man saw the big black bear coming back again. 'Now I'll
get you, little man,' said the big black bear, as he brought
down the rock, smashing the cocoanut to pieces. But when
he had broken the cocoanut open there wasn't any little man
inside.
"Looking around, the bear scratched his head and said,
'Now I wonder where that little man went to.'
"Suddenly he heard the little man laughing at him from
the top of a big pine tree that stood hard by.
" 'Oh, there you are, little man,' said the big black bear.
'But I can climb a tree, too, so I'm coming up to catch you
and then I'll eat you up.'
"Then the little man began to be afraid as he saw the big
black bear climbing up the big tall tree. But there was a little
blue-bird sitting away out on the end of a limb, so the little
man went up to the blue-bird and said, 'Little blue-bird, there
is a big black bear coming up the tree after me— he's going
to eat me up—won't you fly away with me, please?'
"
'Why of course, I'll fly away with you,' said the blue
bird. 'Just climb on my back and put your arms around my
neck and hang on.'
"So the little man put his arms tight around the neck of the
blue-bird and soon was flying away to another forest where
he found another cocoanut and there he lived happy ever
after."
"Did I tell that good, Daddy?" said little Margie.
"You certainly did, honey. You told it just as good as I
can. But what do you say if you get up and get dressed
and get the coffee on and the waffle iron heated so that Mom
will have a surprise when she gets up?"
"Okay, Daddy."
34 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
And with that, and after giving her Daddy another kiss and
hug, little Margie scrambled out of her Daddy's bed and up
stairs to dress.
Soon Mrs. Bannister came downstairs and giving her hus
band the usual morning kiss and embrace, she said, "Don't
forget to call Dr. Bowers, honey— remember— you're going to
Rocky Point."
Returning the kiss and embrace, Dr. Bannister said, "All
right. I'll call him after I have shaved and eaten. Margie has
the coffee made already and the waffle iron hot. We'll have
good strong coffee for a change this morning."
"Oh, you! I make good coffee, too," said Pearl Bannister.
"Well, maybe you call it good," said Dr. Bannister in good
natured badinage.
"Now, Daddy, you stop arguing with Mamma," said little
Marge, whereupon her Daddy lifted her high over his head
and kissing her, said, "You little tramp, I'll fight with my own
wife if I want to—you get out in the kitchen and help your
Mom get breakfast."
"Okay, Daddy," and away into the kitchen she went.
Breakfast over, Mrs. Bannister went into the playroom and
began to get her husband's fishing tackle together.
"Hadn't you better wait until I find out whether Dr. Bow
ers can go?"
"Oh, he can go—he wouldn't put off a trip to Rocky Point
with you for a million dollars. But hadn't you better call him
now—he should be up by this time?"
Bannister went to the desk phone in his bedroom-study and,
lifting the telephone from its cradle called Dr. Bowers' num
ber.
The call was soon completed and Dr. Bowers personally
answered the telephone.
"This is Howard Bannister speaking. I'm all set for a couple
of weeks fishing at Rocky Point. How would you like to join
me, Alfred?"
"I'd like nothing better. Matter of fact, I'm all packed up
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 35
and waiting for you," replied Dr. Bowers over the phone.
"What do you mean you're all packed up and waiting for
me—how come?"
"Well, you see, Howard, your wife and my wife evidently
have had their heads together. And your wife told my wife
and my wife told your wife that they each thought their
husbands should spend a couple of weeks fishing at Rocky
Point and, knowing how diplomatic and successful your wife
is,
I'm already packed. When do we leave?"
"Well, I'll be smothered! And
I
never even suspected any
thing like that going on. However—
I
can be on the road in an
hour. I'll call for you and we'll leave from your house.
I
think I'll take the Cad and Rube can come along and do some
fishing himself. The Missus loves to drive her car. Oh yes,
tell Mrs. Bowers she has one up on me now, but tell her I'll
even the score before long."
"What's that?" said Bannister in response to something Dr.
Bowers said— "The women are always two jumps ahead of the
men? Well, maybe— but we couldn't get along without them.
All right, Alfred— see you in about an hour."
Mrs. Bannister was standing in the doorway of her husband's
room,
a
big smile on her face. She was happy that her hus
band was going fishing for
a
couple of weeks.
"Think you're smart, don't you?" said Dr. Bannister as he
gave her
a
dozen kisses. "Fixing this thing up in advance.
Oh well, I'm glad you did, for I'm awfully tired."
"I know you are, honey. And
I
want you to go down there
and
if
you can forget about All Souls Church
it
will do you
good. Do your thinking. And, remember, your best works
have been written at Rocky Point. I'll call you up every night
and be sure you relax—won't you?"
"I'll do the best
I
can.
I
want to get this thing which
is
haunting me straightened out. Either God lives in this world
now, as the most dynamic spiritual Power the world has ever
known, or there
is
no God. And
I
am going to find the an
swer.
I
do not believe that Almighty God created this uni
3<S
GOD
.
.
. AND DR. BANNISTER
verse and then
is
allowing
it
to be turned over to Adolf Hitler
or any other murdering despot.
I
believe God exists, Pearl,
but
I
believe that religion— yes, religion, has made God of no
effect through its traditions.
I
believe God can be found and
the Power of God,
I
believe, can be called upon and used in
this, the darkest hour humanity has ever seen. And
if
God
can be found and
I
suspect He can, I'll find out just where
God
is
to be found."
"You mean that you believe God exists as
a
dynamic Power
entirely outside of anything the churches teach?" asked Mrs.
Bannister.
"That
is
exactly whatI mean," her husband replied. "God
can't do anything else than exist here and now and
it
is
per
fectly obvious that
if
God does exist here and now the
churches have not the slightest knowledge of that fact. The
Blood or the Cross of Jesus Christ may be fine theories for
the Christian church, but somehow or other
I
don't believe,
after two thousand years of absolute failure, the Christian or
any other religion has anything in
it
which can cope with
world conditions today.
It
is
going to take the actual Power
of God, the Creator, to stop mad-man Hitler and his ilk.
And let me tell you something else, too ...
if
God exists and
if
God can so manifest his Power that peace can be brought
to this earth, then every minister in the land
is
under
a
moral
obligation to throw overboard the traditions of his church
if
needs be, in order that he might seek the true facts of God.
That
is
what
I
am going to Rocky Point to do.
A
very much
changed Howard Bannister may return from Rocky Point."
"Well, honey,
I
believe
if
any man can revolutionize religion
you can. Not that you possess more ability than other min
isters do, but the Spirit of God has always been
a
very vital
part of your makeup.
I
wish you God-speed and good luck.
I'll call Reuben and have him bring the Cadillac to the front
door driveway and load
it
up."
A few minutes later the Cadillac was loaded and after kiss
ing his wife and little Marge good-bye, Dr. Bannister, dressed
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 37
in old fishing clothes, was on his way to pick up his friend,
Dr. Bowers.
They made a good team. The one was young, brilliant and
a very firm believer in God. Like Bannister, he questioned all
church theology— but he did have a supreme confidence in
the actual existence of God here and now, right on this earth.
This trip to Rocky Point was bound to bring forth material
results which might very easily swing the world, not closer
to the Cross of Jesus Christ, but closer to God.
One hour later, Dr. Bowers safely aboard, the big car was
swinging through Pinole, then over the Carquinez Bridge and
on to Fairfield. From there they took the Valley Highway
through Corning and other towns along that highway, stop
ping at Redding for the night. It would have been an easy
drive to have made Rocky Point that night, for it is only
about four hundred fifty-six miles from Oakland.
This, however, was a restful pleasure trip and Dr. Bannister
in his present frame of mind was not the one to go rushing
madly through the cities, driving the whole distance in one
day. He preferred to take it easy, making the trip in two days,
instead of one.
After a good night's rest at the Redding Hotel and an equally
good breakfast in the hotel coffee shop, Reuben having serv
iced the car, the trio started for Rocky Point early next morn
ing.
Their route lay through Dunsmuir, Weed and finally
Klamath Falls where they stayed overnight at the Willard
Hotel. That night they visited Mrs. Bannister's sister and her
husband who lived in the old Devitt homestead on Wilmer
Avenue. Barney, as Mrs. Bannister's brother-in-law was called,
was a prominent banker in that city. His wife was two years
older than Mrs. Bannister.
After dinner at the old Devitt home, Barney invited the
vacationing trio to a plunge in the swimming pool, and, after
that, a game of tennis on the newly constructed court.
Reuben had taken the car to a service station for gasoline
38 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
and oil and, the evening being quite warm and pleasant,
Barney, Hazel, his wife, and Dr. Bowers were sitting in the
front yard of the Barnemann home. Dr. Bannister was in the
house playing with Millie. Soon he appeared and took his place
on the lawn with the rest of the party.
"What do you think about this war, Howard?" asked
Barney.
"Howard doesn't want to talk war, Barney. He's on a vaca
tion," said Hazel. "He preaches about war and religion every
Sunday. Can't you give him a rest for a while?"
"Well, I only asked him what he thought about it. I'll bet
he has ideas that I would like to listen to, and by golly, I'll
bet he'll talk about it. How about
it,
Howard?"
"Well, the problem
is
complex, certainly. There seems to
be no way out for us. We're something like Bowers was
a
moment ago when he dived from the springboard over at
the far end of the tank. We haven't hit the water yet—we're
not wet, but we have gone beyond the possibility of getting
back onto the springboard. In other words, war seems to be
inevitable for these United States of ours."
"Well, don't you think war would be right? Don't you
think we ought to go to war to help Great Britain stop
Hitler?" asked Hazel.
"Well, that's
a
question. I'm wondering
if
war ever can
be right. I'm wondering
if
it
ever can be right to use the same
methods to stop
a
world disturber that he uses. For instance-
Hitler
is
conquering Europe by brute force alone. He has
built more flame-throwers, more Stuka dive-bombers, more
submarines, and more tanks than the rest of the world com
bined has built. And he
is
using them with deadly effect. The
rest of the world has desired and still desires to live in peace,
the one nation with the other. And then, there comes into the
picture
a
mad-man. There can be no question about Hitler
being obsessed with an insane desire for world domination.
But the point
I
would like have made clear
is
this—'can war
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 39
ever be right'? If it is wrong for Hitler to brutally murder
his fellow human being by the atrocious methods he is using,
can it be right for peace-loving nations to use the same
methods to bring him to his knees?
"
"Well, Howard, what other methods would you suggest
using?" asked Barney. "Are there any other more effective
methods— don't you think brute force should be met and con
quered by brute force?"
"I'd hate to think that, Barney. If that should be a fact,
and if Hitler can build bombers, flame-throwers, tanks and
submarines at a greater rate of speed than the rest of the
world can build them, then it is a simple mathematical prob
lem that he will conquer the world. That mad-man has pre
pared long and well. He may conquer the world— no man
alive can say with absolute assurance that he won't. The
vicissitudes of war are very uncertain. Certain it is that no
power or combination of powers to date has been able to
stop him and the war is more than two years old now. Of
course, if this world knows no power higher than the power
of brute force, then by all means let us get into this war
against Hitler and let us get in now. What I'm wondering,
though,
is,
does there exist or does there not exist any power
greater than the power of the bomb, the bullet, or the deadly
torpedo. That
is
what
I
would like to know."
"Well, Howard, this world down through the ages never
has known
a
power which can stop aggression, only the power
of
a
greater aggressor," said Barney.
"No, there may be such
a
power, but certainly this world
knows nothing about it," said Mrs. Barnemann. "Do you know
of such
a
power, Howard?"
"Well, I'm not committing myself now. All
I
am saying
is
that
if
no higher power than the power of the bomber, the
tank, the flame-thrower and the submarine exists, then this
world
is
in an awful shape. Personally,
I
believe that there
does exist
a
far greater power than brute force. But I'm just
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
talking among the family now, and not for publication. When
I get ready to call the attention of the world to whatever
greater power may be discovered, I'll let you know."
"Dr. Bannister, may I ask you a question?"
"Certainly, Dr. Bowers— what is it?"
"Well, I can't conceive of Hitler getting away with what
he is doing, at all. I believe the power of right is greater than
the power of might. Hitler doesn't think so. He believes that
might is all-powerful, but I think he is wrong."
"The theory that right is greater than might is a very nice
platitude— but a very unsafe one, unless right is transformed
into action. In other words, it would be the height of foolish
ness to rest the future of America on such a platitude if there
were no medium through which what we call right can mani
fest. Do you see what I mean? The mere statement that in
some way, somehow, at some time or other, right will bring
might to its end, is a very unsafe stand to take. Until right
has a medium through which it can manifest, and until and
unless the superior power of the right is actually and literally
thrown, in an active way, against the less potent and inferior
power of might— do you see what I'm driving at?
"
"Certainly we do. But how can such an ethereal intangible
thing as 'right' be thrown against the physical thing called
'might'? What do you think about that, Howard?"
"Hazel—listen to me. Brute force is the manifestation of a
human power and a human power alone. The power of right
did not make those damnable tanks, nor can it manifest
through them. This whole war is a materialistic manifestation
of human power— the so-called power of might. Now then,
where is the man or the organization which can throw against
this material physical force a higher and therefore, a stronger
force? And more than that—where is the evidence that a
stronger power than brute force exists? I have been preach
ing to possibly the world's largest radio audience and cer
tainly one of the largest audiences in any church in America,
and I'm frank to admit to you that after fifteen years of this
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 4»
preaching business I have yet to see the first faint manifesta
tion of any power superior to the power of material force.
I'm not saying that a higher power does not exist. I say it
does. But I also say that I have never seen any actual mani
festations of any such power, nor do I know of any preacher
who has."
Barney pulled out and loaded his pipe.
Then, in his inimitable slow way he said, "Of course, How
ard, we all know that religion is the bunk— if that's what you
are talking about. No one but a sap pays any attention to a
preacher— present company excluded, of course."
"I understand perfectly, Barney, and I agree with you. Re
ligion—or what is masquerading as religion today— is the bunk,
as you put it. There are eleven major systems of religion
operating on this earth today. They have one billion, four
hundred and sixty-seven million followers. They have a dozen
different Bibles and this world has had a score of 'gods' who
came down from heaven to save the world by the avenue
of the cross. . . . And yet, not a single member of any of the
world's eleven living religions— not a single priest, preacher
or rabbi, can demonstrate any higher power than the physical
material power of brute force. And you can put them all
together and still they cannot do it."
"You mean to tell me that there were other gods which
were supposed to be crucified before Jesus Christ?" asked
Hazel.
"Of course. There were about thirty-five of them, accord
ing to religious tradition. As a matter of fact, the whole
Christian story of Jesus Christ and every fundamental of the
Christian religion existed in the religion of the Hindoo, fifteen
hundred years before either Christ or the Christian religion
were ever heard of.
"Virgin birth, crucifixion, atonement, resurrection, baptism
—all these things are of heathen origin. Certainly there is noth
ing original, true, or unique about Christianity. And, more
than that, if Christianity contained anything more than tradi
42 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
tion, if it contained the slightest iota of Spiritual Power, is not
this the time to use it?
"I repeat to you, Hazel, that if there exists no power which
comes from a realm higher than the human realm, this world
is hopelessly lost, and you and I had better get ready for the
worst. Even if Hitler should be brought to his knees—what
would that settle? We probably would have to fight to get
rid of the domination of England.
"No— this business of meeting brute force with brute force
is all right if no greater force is known. And that's exactly the
condition of this world today."
Barney sat there puffing on his pipe.
Then, turning to his brother-in-law, he said, "I don't want
to hurt your feelings, Howard, but you're a humdinger of a
Methodist preacher!"
"That may be so, Barney— at least I'm honest. And how
long I shall be a Methodist preacher is a question. I'm up here
to think this whole matter through. ... If it should be that I
decide the whole structure of Christianity and the rest of the
major systems of religion are humbugs, believe you me I'll
tell the world that."
"I'll bet you will, and no foolin'," came back Barney.
Silence prevailed for a while.
Hazel went into the house and put Millie and Jack, the
younger son, to bed, returning almost at once. She did not
want to miss one word of this interesting discussion.
After she had returned, Dr. Bowers asked Dr. Bannister this
question:
"Is there not a way out of this ghastly orgy of bloody
murder without the use of the same horrible weapons Hitler
is using?"
"Yes, Alf, there is a way out. There is always a way out
of every problem which has ever confronted the world or
any of its inhabitants. Listen to me for a moment— and I'm
talking just between us, now. . . . Forget Howard Bannister,
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 43
the preacher, and listen to Howard Bannister, the fisherman
. . . maybe I'll get a few big ones this trip."
At this point Barney suggested that the party adjourn into
the house where the conversation could be continued.
They were all seated before the fire when Dr. Bannister
again started the conversation.
"As I was saying,— there is a right way to solve every prob
lem. It makes no difference whether it be mending a dress,
digging a sewer, making a pie—there is a right way.
"One thing is necessary, though. One must be in earnest
in his attempt to find the right way. You can't give the
measles to anyone unless you have them yourself. What you
say must be felt in your very soul—and in your search for the
right way to solve any of fife's problems, the way to solve
them will become apparent. So let's not forget that, too— the
right way will manifest itself. If sincerity of purpose and
earnestness is manifest, the right way or the right solution will
manifest itself automatically.
"There is another thought you fellows might get and that is
that every problem has within itself its own solution. This
applies to every problem. Barney should know that—he has
had lots of problems and I'll wager that he has discovered
this to be a fact. Every problem, even this ghastly war problem
has, in itself, its own solution.
"Now let's go a little farther along this line of thought.
"We have seen so far that there is a right way. We saw next
that the right way will manifest itself. Then, we said, every
problem has in itself its own solution. Now, the fourth thought
I want you to get is this:— the right way is always the best
way. Remember that—the right way to solve any problem is
always the best way. It is the quickest way, the most efficient
way, and it will be found to be the most economical way.
It may not be the easiest way, but the right way always is
the best way.
"Then there is just one more thought along this fine I
should like you to understand. That
is,
man never creates the
44 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
right way— he merely discovers it. The right way is always
self-existent with the problem.
"You will recall that some years ago the residents of Menlo
Park tried to run Thomas Edison out of that city. They said
he was crazy because he had a light in a bottle and did not
use either coal oil or wick to get that light. So he must be
crazy, they said.
"Now Edison did not create the electric light— he only dis
covered it. The principles of electric light existed long before
Edison was born. He merely discovered those principles.
"But the world will never go back to tallow candles. It has
found the electric light. When the need of the age was for
electric light, a man by the name of Edison discovered it.
"This world is now confused. It is weary of war. It is sad.
It is suffering as it has never suffered before. And there is
nothing any system of theology can do about it. Therefore,
and mark me well— some man will arise who will discover
the solution to this war problem. He will discover that prob
lem in the right way. And the right way will manifest itself.
For, in the problem of this world calamity, right at the very
heart of
it,
lies the answer. And that answer
is
the right an
swer. And man must, at this dark stage of human suffering,
discover the answer to that problem. This will be done. Every
religious tradition the world has ever known may have to be
thrown out of the window first, but the actual truths of God,
which contain the answer to every problem, will very shortly
be discovered.
"These fair United States of ours may have to go through
a
period of intense suffering before the answer to this horror
of war becomes known, but the day will come in which this
land will be so in earnest to find the true answer that, even
though every system of religion on the face of the earth has to
be discredited, the right way will be found.
"I'm not preaching now, Barney. I'm merely thinking out
loud. Something may come of it—who knows?
"This war
is
not an accident. As
a
matter of fact
it
had to
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 45
be. This old world has been without the Power of God since
it was created. It has had systems of religion, many of them,
and it still has them. But this world has never known God and
with the Power of God absolutely undiscovered, of course
this war had to come. Sooner or later some man had to mani
fest who believed that by brute force alone he could conquer
the world. This is because there is none of the Spirit of God
in the world. What the man's name
is,
or who he may be
is
quite beside the point. He might just as easily have been Herr
von Beerkeg or the Count of Spaghetti-macaroni. The identity
of the man means nothing at all. What
I
am trying to say
is
that in
a
Godless world such as this,
it
was inevitable that
some man should manifest who would seek to defy God and
rule the world without God.
"What
a
mistake that man
is
making will become evident
before this world war
is
over. There must come, however, the
actual and literal Power of God. This Power will have to
supplant the religious theories and traditions of God rampant
in the earth today. For one thing
is
quite sure. This world
does not know God.
It
never has known God because no
man has yet discovered who and what God is. That problem
will have to be solved soon.
If
it
is
not, Hitler will rule the
world.
"What we call religion, with all due respect to
it,
is
as
powerless to stop crime, war, murder, and so on, as
a
wax
bill
is
on
a
woodpecker. Let me repeat, Barney, what
I
am
convinced
is
the truth— all we have on this earth today are
systems of religion. They are all man-made or church-made.
Not one of them has even the faintest conception of the Power
of God. They are nothing more nor less than old traditions
trying vainly to answer the problems that confront this sorry
world today. And they cannot do this . . . they have no power
with which they can do it. Tradition won't help
.
. . church
theories won't help.
It
will take the absolute, vital, living
transcendent Power which
is
God. You see what
I
mean?"
46 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"Sure do, Howard, but I'm afraid you have your work cut
out if you're going to oppose organized religion."
"Barney, I'm not going to oppose organized religion. I am,
however, going to tell the American people and the whole
world for that matter, the truth about what organized religion
really is. In addition to that, I'm going to demonstrate the
Power of God in human lives on this earth. And then, at the
proper moment, I'm going to get together a group of people
who believe that God exists here and now and together we
are going to use the Power of God against Hitler and we are
going to bring him to his knees ... do you think that can be
done?"
"Well, if anyone can do
it,
Howard, you can. And
I
sure
hope you succeed.
I
think you're on the right track. Say,
Howard,
I
sure was interested in what you said about Thomas
Edison.
I
didn't know they called him crazy."
"Well, they did, Hazel, and that was only history repeating
itself. Why, do you know that school children on their way
to school were made to detour round the block in which
Edison lived? They said he was in tune with the devil and
might snatch these little children and take them with him to
hell. Yes. And let me tell you something else—
a
big New York
newspaper sent
a
reporter to Menlo Park to interview this
mad-man who had
a
light in
a
bottle without coal oil or tallow
or wick. Well, after the interview, this reporter was sold on
the idea that Edison really had something. So he returned to
New York and wrote
a
feature article about his interview.
He made the statement in that article that
it
wouldn't be very
long now until the whole state of New York could have all
the light
it
wanted, merely by pushing
a
button. The newspa
per fired him for writing the story."
"Well, I'll be doggoned!" said Barney. "What do you know
about that?"
"As
I
said, though, that was only history repeating itself.
Whenever
a
man makes
a
new discovery, whether in the realm
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 47
of science or religion, that man will be ridiculed, persecuted
and perhaps murdered . . . many of them have been.
"And the strange thing about that is this:— if the discovery
is made in the realm of religion, the church, the institution
which claims to represent God on this earth, is the very in
stitution which does the persecuting. This, of course, is
absolute proof that its own theories of God cannot be true.
If they were, it certainly would not be afraid of a new dis
covery just because someone else made it. But if they know
that their traditions and theories won't stand the light of an
investigation, why of course they object. But the man who
is in earnest in his efforts to find the real truths of God does
not need to fear the persecutions of anyone. If his discoveries
be of God nothing anyone can do can hinder them. If they
be not of God they will fall by the weight of their own
error, just as religion is falling today.
"The other day I heard a radio dispatch from Rome stating
that, according to the traditions of the Roman Catholic
Church, the priests had gone out and sprinkled every apart
ment house in Rome with holy water, whatever that may be.
Then, a little later, another bunch of priests went out and
took up a collection from these apartment house owners. Now
that may all be in accordance with the traditions of the
Roman Catholic Church, but I fail to see the connection
between that performance and stopping Hitler by the Power
of God. If it was a good thing to sprinkle these apartment
houses with water, holy or unholy, then why not have these
priests go out to the city water supply, mumble some Latin
jargon over it and then call out the fire department and have
it squirt water over every building in the city? Nothing wrong
with the logic in that, is there? Water is water. It came direct
from the Creator of this universe millions and millions of
years ago. And the saying of anything over that water does
not make it either holy or unholy. It is H2O and all the
priests in the world cannot change that chemical combination,
can they?"
48 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"They sure can't," said Bowers. "But, of course, that is only
Roman Catholic tradition, as you know."
"That may be. It is. But the Pope of Rome says he is the
only one authorized to act and teach for God. I heard that
statement made direct from Rome not so long ago. Now if
that utterance is true, then why cannot the Pope, through
the Power of God, bring Hitler to his knees? He can't, and
you know he can't. The whole thing is a rotten religious
superstition, masquerading as an instrument of God. And as
long as that sort of thing exists, and as long as supposedly
intelligent men and women believe such tommy-rot, they
cannot possibly know God. You see, they are worshipping an
idol. And the Christian church is the organization which has
provided that idol— you see what I mean?"
This was a kind of talk they had not been used to. Yet
everyone of them instinctively knew it was true.
Continuing, Howard Bannister said: —
"In the year 1564 another 'unorthodox' was born in Pisa,
Italy. Entering the University of Pisa in 1581, he was two
years later struck with the fact that the oscillations of a
pendulum seemed to be accomplished in equal time. About
this time he invented a hydrostatic balance and wrote a trea
tise on the specific gravity of solid bodies. These achievements
won for him the appointment of professor of mathematics
in the University of Pisa, where he propounded the novel
theorem that all falling bodies, great or small, descend with
equal velocity. He proved its correctness by several experi
ments made from the summit of the leaning Tower of Pisa.
He was, therefore, 'unorthodox' and by his 'heretical imagina
tions' incurred the wrath of the Aristotelians. He was forced
to resign his chair at Pisa and returned to Florence in 1591.
"In the following year he was nominated to the chair of
mathematics in the University of Padua, where his lectures
attracted crowds of pupils from all parts of Europe. Here he
taught and worked from 1592 until 16 10. Then he began a
series of astronomical investigations, all of which tended to
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 49
convince him still more of the correctness of the Copernican
heliocentric theory of the heavens. He concluded that the
moon, instead of being a self-luminous and perfectly smooth
sphere, owed her illumination to reflection and that she pre
sented an unequal surface, diversified by valleys and moun
tains.
"The Milky Way he pronounced to be a path of trackless
stars, countless in number, yet each separate.
"He also advocated the theory, since proven true, that the
earth revolves around the sun. But this was contrary to 'or
thodoxy' so this 'unorthodox doubter' was hauled before the
ecclesiastical authorities. He was questioned at length on his
statement that the earth revolves around the sun. He stood
fast and defended his theory. But 'holy hands' pointed to their
'bible'. They stopped at the place where it states that Joshua
commanded the sun to stand still and tried to convince Galileo
that 'holy writ' said the sun moved or Joshua would not have
been commanded to make it stand still.
"Then, as usual with the 'unorthodox', followed persecution
and incarceration in prison. The 'holy fathers' of the church
commanded him to abjure and recant his scientific creed
which, they said, 'is contrary to holy writ'. Threatened with
death, Galileo, then an old man, made a verbal recantation,
but as he was leaving this 'holy inquisition' he muttered, 'But
the earth does move round the sun just the same'.
"As a result of the independent thinking and the 'unortho-
doxy' of Galileo, we have the telescope which has borne out
the 'theories' of this 'heretic'.
"In 1462 another 'unorthodox' was born. Also in Italy.
Savonarola, a reformer of the orthodox, began his public
ministry in 1482, creating much attention on account of his
brutal frankness in dealing with the superstitions of the Roman
Catholic Church of which he was a member.
"In 1493 a reform on the Dominican Order in Tuscany was
proposed under his auspices and was approved by the Pope,
Savonarola, being the first named vicar-general. In the mean
5« GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
time, the violence of his denunciations against the church
increased and the displeasure of the 'holy men of God' was
incurred. He was cited in 1495 to answer a charge of heresy.
He was thus 'unorthodox'. He did not believe what the crowd
believed, choosing to think and reason for himself, as every
man under God's heaven should do.
"Then bribery was tried in an effort to restrain Savonarola
from fighting for the God-inspired truths he knew were
truths. The 'church' offered him a cardinal's hat if he would
only remain 'orthodox' and not 'doubt', but the hat was re
fused, Savonarola choosing to refuse to follow the dictates
of the 'holy men' and the 'holy church'.
"Instead, he chose to examine the foundation of the 'faith'.
He chose to follow the heavenly Light he had seen, even
though it led him away from the flesh-pots of contentment,
through the dead sea of his cherished hopes, and over the arid
desert of disappointment. He chose to follow, though sick at
heart, as all 'unorthodox pioneers' get, that Light, even though
his friends forsook him and his enemies made war upon him.
He, being truly a 'doubter', chose to fight through famines
of doubt and pestilences of despair.
"Carefully, cheerfully, did Savonarola follow the light of
his own reason, for he knew that only thus could he reach
the promised land of truth. Then came the end. The bitter
end. On May 23rd, 1498, with Brothers Domenico and Sil-
vestro, as a reward for his 'heresy', his 'unorthodoxy', his
'doubting', Savonarola was half strangled by the Roman Cath
olic church, and in that half-strangled condition, was burned
alive at the stake. But he reached the pinnacle. There, high up
where all can see, TRUTH, as Savonarola saw
it,
ever blazes
forth. But he paid the price of his 'unorthodoxy'.
"About four hundred years ago, John Calvin, the founder
of what
is
now known as Presbyterianism, ordered brutally
put to death one Dr. Michael Servetus for making
a
public
statement of mathematics, the truth of which every school-boy
knows today.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 51
"Calvinism claimed that three can be one and one can be
three. The most obtuse scholar knows full well that three
cannot be one nor can one be three. But the holy hands of
Calvin searched the 'scriptures' and there they found that,
according to those 'scriptures', Almighty God, the infinite
Creator of this universe, was three and one both at the same
time. Regardless of the correctness of the assertion, regard
less of its scientific truth or error, the 'scriptures' stated that
three could be one and one could be three.
"So sure was Dr. Servetus that three could not be one, and
one could not be three, that he wrote a treatise against this
impossible theory of God. Then, once more, 'holy hands' were
laid upon Dr. Servetus and his life, too, was declared forfeit
because he had chosen to disagree with the 'orthodox'.
"They burned him alive, in the name of God, I suppose, at
the stake, on orders of John Calvin, the founder of Presby-
terianism.
"Later a monument was erected to Servetus. But no number
of monuments could cause the life-blood to flow once more
through his veins. No amount of sorrow could restore that
God-illumined intellect, killed because, illumined by the True
Light which is ever-existent, he followed that Light. His
name is written in gold in history's scroll of martyrs who gave
their lives for the TRUTH."
• • •
The lights of the Cadillac were visible through the window
and the horn honked.
"Well, guess we'll be going, Barney and Hazel— see you
before we leave. If you get a chance, come up to Rocky
Point and we'll see what we can do."
CHAPTER FOUR
Rocky Point is known to fishermen all over America. Situated
on the west side of Klamath Lake, about thirty miles from
Klamath Falls, its sheer beauty of natural environment stuns
one when first seen. The road leading to the Point is a moun
tain trail, hardly worth the name road. It winds and meanders
through tall yellow pines. The whole area is one of indescriba
ble beauty.
The Point itself is a beauty spot. From the first faintest
glow of the morn until late eve, the air is literally filled with
the sounds of wild life. The United States Biological Survey
says there are more different kinds of wild bird life at Rocky
Point than at any other place in the United States.
It's a sort of a cove, back a little ways from the Lake itself.
A sheltered inlet, I suppose one would call it. Its shores are
dotted with summer cabins and the verdure is magnificent.
Quaking aspens, shimmering willows, pines, spruce, mesquite—
in fact, a variety of natural splendor hard to describe.
There are about sixteen cabins there, a general store which
is also the Post Office. A few fox farms surround the Point,
the main one being run by Jack Fallon, a one hundred percent
Irishman, down to the last brogue.
For several years Dr. Bannister and Alfred Bowers had spent
their summer vacation in this spot of unmatched beauty. They
occupied the cabin on the hill. There was always a mad
scramble for that cabin, for it is the only cabin with running
water and toilet facilities in it. It also boasts a mosquito gun,
a very necessary implement of protection. Mosquitoes there
are about three feet long— or they seem that long, sometimes.
The cabins and the store and dining room are in a little
hollow among the pines and directly on the shores of the
5*
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 53
inlet. A boat-house is there and boats, bait, fishing tackle may
be either bought or rented. Nels Nelson and Reuben Norling
soon became fast friends, both being Scandinavians. One a
Swede and the other a Norwegian.
They were joking one day with Dr. Bannister on the wharf.
"Well, that's a funny thing— a Swede and a Norwegian chin
ning together like old friends," said Bannister.
"Yah," said Nels, the Swede boatman, "Ay tank Ay talk
wit Norweyian ef nobody see me— can't be too particular out
in the sticks. Yah."
Turning to him, Reuben said in perfect Norwegian slang,
"Yah, now that we lost our contry, we get all the Swedes
and make Norweyians out of dem."
It was good natured repartee and it kept up the whole two
weeks the party was there.
Art Devitt, Mrs. Bannister's brother, was manager of Rocky
Point. He had held that position for more than twenty years
and was nearly as famous a landmark as Rocky Point itself.
Art came out to greet the new arrivals.
They shook hands all around.
"Cabin on the hill ready, Art?" asked Bannister.
"All ready, Bannie. Got your wire yesterday. I've got a
cabin for Norling next door to Nels— they might want to
discuss Hitler of an evening."
This brought a smile from Reuben, who said, "Well, I don't
mind too much living in the next cabin to a Swede, just so
long as you don't ask me to sleep with one."
Then he got busy carrying the grips into the cabin on the hill.
Art followed them in.
"Doc Himon's coming up next month, Howard. Have you
see him lately?"
"Yes, he was at All Souls with his wife a few Sundays ago
. . . told me he'd be here a bit later. Said he was going to
spend the summer in Medford on the pear orchard."
"I like Doc Himon. He was a good friend of the Devitt
family, certainly."
54 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"How are Bobbie and little Alfred, Art?"
"Just fine, Howard. Winnie, too— she's fine. She went to
Klamath Falls this morning to get some grub to feed youse
guys— she knows your appetites."
"I thought we passed her on the road. Some lady waved at
us, but it was so dusty we couldn't recognize her. Are they
catching many, Art?"
"Well, there were about forty groups up here Sunday and
they all caught the limit."
"What are they using, Art?" asked Dr. Bowers.
"Oh, some use a Doc Shelton, some an Andy Reeker, and
some a Wilson Wobbler. Don't seem to make much difference
what you use, Doc. If the fish are biting, they're biting, and if
they're not biting, they're not biting, and all hell won't make
'em bite when they don't want to," said Art knowingly.
"You always seem to get your share, though, Howard. Let's
see, how many times did you make the board last year— three,
wasn't it?"
"Yes, Art. I made the 'big fish' board three times and the
year before last I made the record catch of the season. You
were with me. Remember that?"
"Sure do, Bannie. Twenty-seven inches long and weighed
seventeen pounds. Took us about an hour to get that son-of-
a-gun into the boat."
"He sure put up a fight. Jack Fallon still round here, Art?"
"Yes, Jack's still here. Fox pelts are low and Jack's sort of
down in the mouth. He says that the fox business won't be
any good till the war's over and the Lord only knows when
that will be. Says women aren't buying luxuries these days."
"Well, that's too bad for Jack. Maybe he'll have to go to
work if the fox business blows up. He's a heck of a fine
fellow, though, Jack Fallon is. I've always liked him."
"I think there's some mail for you over at the store. Shall
I send Bobbie over with it?"
"No, Art, we'll get it after a while—nothing important, I
guess. Very few people know where I am and I want to forget
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 55
preaching and everything else while I'm up here—just want
to think, Art— think. Maybe I can think out a solution to this
war proposition."
"Well, by gad, Howard, it's about time someone got down
to brass tacks. If this guy, Hitler, aint stopped and stopped
soon, he'll be over here polluting these lake trout and I'd hate
to see that happen. He sure is a genius, though— fourteen coun
tries he's got already, and it don't look like he's going to be
stopped right away. Damned if I know what'U happen, How
ard—don't look too good."
"Well, I wouldn't worry too much if I were you, Art. This
isn't the first time some mad-man has attempted to take the
running of this universe out of the hands of the Creator. He'll
come to his end, and perhaps in a most unexpected manner.
Take that as the truth. We may have to go through hell and
high water first, but Hitler has the seeds of destruction in his
own philosophy. He may raise Cain for a while—in fact, he is
doing just that, but, Art, the philosophy of conquest by the
sword usually ends in the destruction of the would-be con
queror by the sword. It always has worked out that way and
perhaps it will again."
"Well, but Doc," said Art Devitt, "there never was a man
who has made as successful an attempt to rule the world as
Hitler, was there?"
"Oh lots of them, Art. Got a minute, or are y*ou in a terrible
hurry?"
"Lots of time, Howard. Nels is at the store gabbing with
Rube. I sure would like to get your reaction to this mess. Say-
last Sunday your radio hour was a peach. You didn't mind
telling the truth that day. Boy! I said to Winnie, Til bet the
Bishop gets after Howard for that sermon'."
Bannister smiled.
"Art, the Bishop doesn't mean very much to me. Fortu
nately, I'm not interested in either the Bishop or my Board
of Trustees. I'll preach the truth as I see it and if the Bishop
or the Board of Trustees don't like
it,
they can get someone
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
else. There's altogether too much crucifying of the truth these
days and I'll never do
it,
Art. Only the truth can save this
God-forsaken world from destruction— and no one seems to
know what truth really is."
"Tell me about those other Hitlers, Howard— that
is,
if
you
feel like talking."
"Well, Art, this state of world affairs
is
not new. Its ruth-
lessness and brutality have never before been witnessed so far
as we have history. But
a
study of the history of the past few
thousands of years discloses that in this world calamity, history
is
but repeating itself. The instruments of destruction are far
more perfect now than they ever were. Human beings can
be slaughtered faster now than in any other age. But the
spirit of destruction and personal power behind this mad
scene
is
not new.
It
is
something this world has witnessed
many times before.
"Go back,
if
you will, to ancient Chaldea, supposedly about
thirty-eight hundred years before the time of the Christian
era. There came one Sargon of the Arcadians,
a
Semitic king
of Agade, one of the early cities of that day. He was the first
organizer of the people who inhabited the Chaldean plains.
"While not in an accepted sense
a
warrior, he did subdue
the people and bring into existence
a
rule of authority. His
rule of authority. He has been called the Chaldean Solomon.
He had dreams of world conquest.
"About 2290 B.C. there came
a
king named Kudur-Nak-
hunta. He overran Chaldea, took all the cities founded by
Sargon and his successors. From the temples he bore off in
triumph to his palace, Susa, the statutes of the Chaldean gods,
and set up
a
dynasty which was known as the Elamite dynasty.
"Then, in about 625 B.C., came one Nebuchadnezzar, son
of Nabopolassar, whose oppressive wars rendered Babylon the
scourge of the ancient world. Jerusalem, the traditional city of
many systems of religion, was taken and wrecked. Vessels of
silver and gold were stripped from the temples and carried
away to Babylon. Then the temples were burned.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 57
"We see here, then, away back in history, the same con
suming spirit of destruction before which now, we of the
'civilized' portion of this world stand aghast and in horror.
"After having subdued Jerusalem, Nebuchadnezzar pushed
on and subdued and besieged the ancient city of Tyre, whose
investment had been commenced many years before. Chris
tians can look at Ezekiel 29; 18, and there they will read,
'Every head was made bald, every shoulder was peeled'. The
siege of Tyre lasted some fourteen years, and the authority of
Nebuchadnezzar was unchallenged in the Mediterranean, where
the present conflict seems also to be centering.
"War after war bathed these lands of Chaldea and the
Mediterranean area with blood. Then came another would-be
world conqueror. His name was Alexander. It would be beside
the point, Art, to give you in detail the conquests of this
pseudo-Hitler. Suffice it to say that his ambitions then were
equally as great as are the ambitions of the present German
monstrosity.
"Alexander started in young, for he was only twenty years
of age when he ascended his father's throne. He was some
what jealous of his conquering father, for he said, when news
of his father's victories came to him, 'Friends, my father will
possess himself of everything and leave nothing for us'.
"The difference between these past would-be conquerors
and despots is nil. The present monster, Hitler, intends to
conquer the entire world. They did, too, only the world as
they knew it was not as large as the world we know. The
intent was the same. Their ambitions were the same. The same
spirit of hate, war, death, and destruction was deeply im
bedded in their natures.
"After conquering Egypt, Alexander turned his avaricious
eyes to the Persian capital. He received offers of 'appeasement'
from King Darius, to which he replied, 'There cannot be two
suns in the same heaven'. So, pushing on, he crossed the Eu
phrates and the Tigris with little opposition. On the plains
of Arbela, however, he found Darius with a huge army. This
5« GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
battle was one of the most decisive in history. It marked the
end of a long struggle between the East and the West, between
Persia and Greece, and prepared the way for Hellenic civiliza
tion over all Western Asia.
"Then to India went Alexander. With the countries north
of the Kush subdued and settled, Alexander crossed the moun
tains again and led his army down upon the rich and crowded
plains of India. This was about 325 b.c.
"I shall omit further conquests of this despot, Alexander,
for, like his predecessor, Nebuchadnezzar, he came to his end.
All that can be said of his conquests is that they, to fill an
insane and inhuman desire for world power, bathed the earth
in blood, misery, horror and destruction.
"The same mad desires are doing the same thing today. Ever
since the human race began, history reveals one mad conquest
for world domination after another. They all left a trail of
human blood behind them. They all tried to conquer the
world. And they all failed, exactly as Hitler will fail. How
ever, they all did what Hitler is doing— they counted human
life as of little cost in order to prosecute their mad campaigns
and satisfy their lust for personal power and dominion.
"Then came Charlemagne. This fellow reigned for about
half a century and his entire regime was filled with military
expeditions and conquests. So extended were the boundaries
of his dominions that at his death they embraced the larger
part of Western Europe. He made fifty-two campaigns, the
chief of which were against the Lombards, the Saracens and
the Saxons. He crossed the Pyrenees and succeeded in wrest
ing from the Moslems all the northeastern corner of the
peninsula.
"There was one event of real moment in the career of
Charlemagne. Its influence upon succeeding affairs was very
great. Pope Leo the Third, having called upon Charlemagne
for aid against a hostile faction in Rome, the king soon ap
peared in person at the capital and punished summarily the
disturbers of the peace of the church. Here we have the
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 59
Roman Pope calling in a despotic leader to help in subduing
those who did not feel like agreeing with the religion of the
Pope.
"It is pertinent to these statements of mine to note that
religion, in some form or other, was at the very core of every
set of circumstances which surrounded every would-be 'world-
dictator'. It was the cause of the recent Spanish revolution.
It is the cause of the present struggle now going on through
out the world. Religion has always been in the very middle
of every major world calamity we have record of.
"Rudolf Hess, Hitler's deputy, recently proposed a prayer
for all Germans.
"Listen to this: 'ALMIGHTY GOD: YOU GAVE US THE
FUEHRER. YOU BLESSED HIS BATTLES WITH VAST
VICTORY. YOU GAVE HIM POWER TO CREATE
AND DEFEND A NEW, GREAT, FREE GERMANY.
NOW GIVE US POWER TO HELP HIM TO THE LIMIT
OF OUR ABILITIES BY FIGHTING AND WORKING
FOR AN EVERLASTING AND BEAUTIFUL GER
MANY AND GRANT THAT WE MAY BE WORTHY
OF YOUR blessings:
"Nebuchadnezzar, Alexander, Cyrus, Napoleon, Charle
magne, Ghenghis Khan, and Hitler— they all have called upon
God to sustain and give them victory. Those who believe not
in conquest by the sword, also call upon God to stop the wars.
Those who are fighting oppression and aggression, they, too,
call upon God for help. Thus, we have religion at the core
of all earth's mad conquests. We have the Roman Pope calling
on a despot for the use of his arms.
"Remember Julius Caesar and his conquests of Gaul and
Britain. He, too, revolved in his mind plans for seizing supreme
world power. Beyond the Alps he saw the Gallic and Ger
manic tribes in restless movement. He saw there a grand
theatre for his military exploits which, he thought, would give
him prestige and glory.
"In his campaigns in Gaul, Caesar had subjugated three
6o GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
hundred tribes and captured eight hundred cities. In addition
to that, he had murdered over one million human beings—
one-third of the entire population of that country. He had
taken another one-third prisoner. 'LET THE ALPS NOW
SINK', exclaimed Cicero, 'the gods raised them to shelter Italy
from the barbarians; they are now no longer needed.'
"The most important result of the Gallic wars was the
Romanizing of Gaul. The conquered country was opened to
Roman traders and settlers who carried with them the lan
guage, customs and arts of Italy. (An interesting side-light
on Italy at the present time is the fact that the present Pope,
according to an Associated Press dispatch, filed recently,
called upon his followers to stand behind old Musso and his
armies. This once more demonstrates religion in the very midst
of the present catastrophe in Europe. Rudolf Hess giving
the German people a prayer to pray for their victory and
the Pope of Rome calling upon his followers to stand by old
'back-stabber' Mussolini.)
"Art, let us look briefly at the military despotism of Na
poleon. This is more recent. About 1796 to 1810 a.d. Napoleon
was master of France. The first French Republic was at an
end. What we know as the French revolution was over.
History was then made. This surprising career of Napoleon,
the sun of which rose so brightly at Austerlitz and set forever
at Waterloo.
"One long bloody reign of conquest and terror. The same
insane ambition for world power. The same ruthless disregard
for human life. (It was ended and he was defeated by a snow-
flake.)
"Neither Austria nor England would acknowledge the
government of the First Consul as legitimate. In their view
Napoleon was a young upstart. He was a fortunate usurper.
The throne of France belonged, BY VIRTUE OF DIVINE
RIGHT, to the House of Bourbon. (Here we see 'divinity' or
'God' entering the picture again.)
"So Napoleon mustered his soldiers. His plan was to deal
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 61
Austria, his worst continental enemy, a double blow. A large
army was collected on the Rhine for an invasion of Germany.
This was intrusted to Moreau. Another, intended to operate
against the Austrians in Italy, was gathered at the foot of the
Alps. Napoleon himself assumed command of this latter force.
"In the spring of 1800 Napoleon made his memorable pas
sage of the Alps and astonished the Austrian generals by
suddenly appearing with an army of forty thousand men on
the plains of Italy. Upon the renowned field of Marengo, the
Austrian army, which outnumbered that of the French three
to one, was completely overwhelmed and Italy lay for a second
time at the feet of Napoleon. This on June the 14th, 1800.
"In 1802 Napoleon was made Consul of France for life.
This, as a reward for his vast services to France and also
that he might put his magnificent schemes of reform (a new
order in Europe) into effect. He was also given the right
to name his successor. Hitler has that same right.
"All was not easy sailing for despot Napoleon, however.
From his coronation in 1804 until his final and inevitable
downfall in 18 15, a tremendous struggle went on almost with
out intermission. It was a war of the giants. Europe was shaken
from end to end by such armies as the world had not seen to
date, or since the days of Xerxes.
"Napoleon, whose hands were upheld by a score of dis
tinguished generals and marshals, performed the miracle of
genius. His brilliant achievements still dazzle, while they amaze
the whole world.
"Recently Adolf went to the tomb of Napoleon and
ordered the casket to be tilted so that all may see it from the
surrounding balcony. Perhaps Adolf was thinking of the day,
soon to come, when he, too, shall He cold and clammy under
the sod. Unquestionably a big memorial tomb will be erected
to 'honor' his name. But, inevitably, the moving finger of
time and God writes and then moves on. As Gray wrote: 'The
boast of heraldry, the pomp of power and all that beauty, all
62 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
that wealth 'ere gave, await alike the inevitable hour; the paths
of glory [?] lead but to the grave'.
"It is pertinent here, Art, to note that Napoleon, too, called
upon God Almighty to give him assistance in his despotic,
devilish, cruel and brutal performances. And this brings us
religion once more at the very core of the Napoleonic wars,
in fact, of the whole life of Napoleon.
"His was a life, like Hitler's, which believed that God Al
mighty was the impelling power, the strength-giver in his
mad, inhuman destruction of an empire and of countless thou
sands of human souls. Religion again in the midst of war.
"Perhaps the greatest despot of them all up to the present
time was Ghenghis Khan. He held more of what he conquered
than did the rest of his ilk. He was the arch-murderer of all
murderers. Had he had the implements of warfare with their
diabolical skill, that are being used today, he would have con
quered the then known world.
"He was born in the year 1
156. His real name was Temujin,
and he was a fierce and utterly untamed Tartar. He was chief
of the Chinese Tartars. 'Universal Sovereign' he was called.
At the head of vast armies made up of murderous Turanian
hordes, he traversed with the sword and torch a great part
of Asia. Unquestionably he was the greatest scourge ever in
flicted upon the human race. (The present one excepted.)
"It is estimated that his enormous empire was built up at a
cost of fifty thousand cities and towns and five million lives—
a greater destruction, probably, then resulted from all the
Crusades.
"But, with unerring surety, he came to his end and was
planted below the surface of the earth in due time. Better had
he not been born. But he had successors who still further
embraced, enlarged and strengthened his territory and mon
archy, so that it finally embraced the best part of Asia and a
considerable portion of Europe as well.
"The empire founded by Ghenghis Khan, Art, soon fell
into disorder.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER «3
"But it was restored later by Tammerlane, or Timour the
Lame, about 1336 a.d. This tyrant, with his wild Mongolian
hordes traversed anew almost all the countries made desolate
by the bloody marches of his predecessors. The route of these
barbarians was everywhere marked by ruined fields, human
destruction and misery, just as the barbarian of today is leav
ing in his wake.
"The only difference between Hitler and these other world
despots lies in the fact that the instruments of murder are so
much more horrible now than they ever were. The human
race might very easily be destroyed, Art. Or, shall I say the
peace-loving peoples may be.
"The only point I am trying to make here, Art, is that as
far back as we have any history, there has always been some
mad-man to arise who believed he could conquer the world
by brute force. Never, however, has this world faced a more
dangerous crisis than it is facing now. I don't know, Art, but
I believe there is a solution. I believe the manifestation of
Hitler with the present danger to freedom-loving men and
women will automatically force a manifestation of a greater
spiritual power than this world has known to date. I see no
hope otherwise. I cannot see any single nation, or any com
bination of nations beating the huge military machine Hitler
has built. Yet I believe he can be brought to his end without
the firing of a single American shot, or the shedding of the
blood of one American boy."
This interesting discussion was ended by the ringing of the
dinner bell.
"Jesus Christopher!" said Art. "Noon already— have we been
here gabbing two hours? Well, I'll be a son-of-a-gun!"
After a wash, the two San Francisco guests filed into the
dining room which is perched upon a rocky knoll, or point,
directly over the water. Few meals are as tasty as those served
at Rocky Point and all hands fell to with a gusto which be-
spake good appetites to say the least.
CHAPTER FIVE
Towards the end of the meal, Art came out and sat at the
table with his brother-in-law and Dr. Bowers. Putting his
arm affectionately round the shoulders of Dr. Bannister, he
said, "Going out fishing this afternoon, Howard, or do you
want to sleep for a while?"
"Well, it's a beautiful day, not too hot. I believe we'll go
out and see what luck— what do you say, Alfred?"
Being perfectly agreeable to Dr. Bowers, Art said, "Okay,
then. Nels will have your boat ready. Same one you always
use. Got a new Seahorse motor in it this year. Had it all
painted up, too. I'll go down and tell him to get an extra
gallon of gas, a gaff -hook and some new plugs I want you to
try out."
"Okay. We'll be right down as soon as we go to the cabin
and get our poles. I believe I'll stick by the Andy Reeker—
always have pretty good luck with that, Art. That was the
lure you and I were using when we took that big one a couple
of years ago."
"I like the Wilson Wobbler," said Bowers. "It gets all
twisted up every once in a while, but I seem to have more luck
with that than with any other lure."
"What are the new plugs you want me to try, Art?" said
Bannister.
"Oh, they's some sort of shindig the bait company wants
me to try out. Looks like a frog— has luminous paint on it.
There was a preacher here from Modesto last week and he
had some pretty good luck with them. You don't have to use
them, though, not if you don't want to. As I said in the cabin,
if the fish are biting, they're biting, and if they're not biting,
64
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 65
they're not biting, and when they ain't biting you can use all
the lure you want to and still they won't bite."
Getting their poles, spinners, et cetera, together, Bannister
and Bowers made their way down to the dock. Nels already
had the boat's motor warming up and had an extra gallon of
gas in the rear compartment on the right of the boat. On the
left was another compartment where the fish were placed—
if they caught any.
"Ay tank maybe you get some purty good fissing today,
Howard," said the inimitable Nels. "It ain't too hot and it ain't
too cold and if you go up by the mouth of Crystal Creek, Ay
tank maybe you do purty good— some purty big fiss been
coming out of there last few days. But you know this lake
as well as I know 'em, guess Ay don'd need to tell you where
to go. All set?— Okay, sit down and I'll give you a shove."
They began to let out their one hundred and fifty feet of
line as they passed the old spring and pump-house. Before
they had been gone ten minutes Dr. Bowers felt a good big
tug at his line.
Stopping the motor, Bannister reeled in his line. He was
too good a fisherman to tell Bowers how to handle his catch.
Only novices do that.
As the big fish flipped itself out of the water, Bowers began
to reel it in.
"Sure is a big fellow, this one," he said. "Boy! look at the
scrap he's putting up. Guess I'll give him some more line-
play him along for a while. Boy! look at the size of that fish,
will you? He'll sure go on the board. Wouldn't I like to get a
bigger fish than the one you caught a few years ago—maybe
my luck's good— maybe this fellow will weigh more than
yours did."
Bannister was very happy that Bowers had had the first
strike. He was always happy when the other fellow caught
the fish. Some years before he had brought another friend to
Rocky Point, one Joe Zeb. So excited did Joe get when he had
a strike that he lost every fish that got on the hook. He had
66 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
not learned the secret of a taut line and playing the fish. He
said, when Bannister told him to let the line go but keep it
taut, "To heck with that—I came down here to get a fish into
the boat, not let them get away from it."
Bowers played his catch skillfully, while Bannister sat by
the motor smiling. He liked his little joke as well as anyone
did. As the fish was pulled closer to the little green boat, his
smile became broader.
Seeing him smiling, Bowers said, "What's the joke, Doc?
What are you smiling at?"
"Oh, nothing. But wait until you get that fish up to the
boat. I think you'll find it's a German Brown."
"A German Brown?" said Bowers. "What's a German
Brown?"
"You'll see when you get him in," said Howard Bannister.
"But I want to know now—looks to me like about a fifteen
pound lake trout."
Bannister continued to smile.
"See those big fins on him? Well, that brands him as a
German Brown— a sucker, in other words."
Finally the fish was brought alongside, and it was, as Ban
nister had said, a sucker.
Chagrined, Bowers said, "What shall I do with that thing?"
"Only one thing to do, Alfred— throw it away. Then watch
what happens."
Two pelicans were sailing majestically over the boat. Those
birds knew what sort of a catch Bowers had made. They knew
he would throw it away, too. So they manoeuvered to be in
the best position to grab the German Brown as soon as its
captor had thrown it back into the lake.
Sure enough, they both made a mad dash for the sucker
and one of them caught it. Throwing his huge bill straight
into the air, he tussled with the German Brown until finally
he had squeezed it into his capacious stomach.
"Boy! look at that," Bowers was astonished. "How do you
suppose he got away with that. And it's alive in his stomach.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 67
I'd rather him have that thing in his stomach than have it in
mine."
"That fish was dead a long time before it reached the
pelican's stomach, Alfred. Did you see him toss it into the
air and catch it again?"
"Yes, I saw him do that."
"Well, when that fish hit his bill it was a dead sucker the
moment the pelican's jaws clamped down on it. Wonderfully
strong a pelican's bill
is,
Alf," said Bannister.
"Well," continued Bannister, "I'll start the motor and we'll
go round by Harriman Creek and see what luck we have
there. You can be letting your line out again. There are not
many of those suckers in these waters. Once in
a
while you
snag one, but not very often."
Both lines were now out and the Seahorse was throttled
down as slow as
it
would go.
The mouth of Harriman Creek usually gives up
a
fish or
two and
it
was not long until Bannister had hooked
a
dandy.
Then he circled round once more and Bowers hooked one.
So they decided to fish round the mouth of Harriman Creek
until they had caught their limit. This was soon accomplished,
so both lines were reeled in.
"What do you say
if
we go up to the mouth of Crystal
Creek and lie down in the boat and just rest?" said Bowers.
"I have
a
better idea than that," said Bannister. "Let's go
right up the Creek and anchor among the water lilies and just
loaf. This
is
the most beautiful day
I
have ever seen at Rocky
Point."
The little boat chugged its way to Crystal Creek. Not
a
wave was on the lake.
It
was as still as the proverbial glass.
Pelican Mountain and Mount Pitt, together with the foliage
on the shore of the lake, were mirrored most beautifully in
the water. A haven of rest
if
there ever was one.
Pulling his pipe from his pocket, Bowers said, "Believe I'll
smoke for
a
while—that
is,
if
you don't object."
"Go ahead," said Bannister. "I like the smell of tobacco
68 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
smoke. Don't ever use it myself but I sure like to be in a crowd
which does. There's something soothing to the smell of a good
pipe burning."
"You know, Howard, I was very much interested in what
you were saying at Barney's last night. And I heartily agree
with you. I don't believe this world has ever known the true
Power of God Almighty, but I do believe that whatever
manifestation of that Power the world is to receive will come
and should come through the church, don't you?"
"No, Alf, I don't. When the staggering Power of the Spirit
of God is brought to this world, it will not be brought
through a dead organization. Nor will that Power have either
the time or the inclination to revitalize a dead church. It will
have a more important work to do. That Power will be
manifested on this earth by one man, who, through sweat
and blood has tackled the God proposition and has found the
correct answer to it. And that answer does exist. Remember
what I said— there is a solution to every problem, and the
solution to that problem lies right in the middle of the prob
lem? Remember— I said the correct solution would manifest
itself? Well, it will. The manifestation of Adolf Hitler on this
earth will automatically call for some man who will, in opposi
tion to Hitler, manifest the only Power which can stop Hitler.
"That Power is the Spirit of God."
"But, Howard— do you really think the Christian Church
is as dead as you make it out to be?"
"I think it's deader—if anything can be more dead than
death itself. Listen to me, Alfred, while I give you a few facts:
"You know, I've been keeping a file on church losses and
it will amaze you when I give you just a little bit of the
picture. Read this clipping."
Pulling the clipping which had just come to him in the mail
from his pocket, Bannister handed it to Bowers.
Here is the clipping. It was taken from the Oregon Journal
of May the first, 1941. This year.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 69
"BANKERS TAKE SEATTLE CHURCH
MORTGAGE IS FORECLOSED
SEATTLE, May 1
(AP) The largest Episcopal church on the
Western slope north of San Francisco— St. Marks cathedral-
was dark today and its congregation made plans to hold serv
ices next Sunday on the lawn of Volunteer city park from a
portable altar, weather permitting, or in a nearby school.
The stately edifice passed into the hands of St. Louis bankers
last night when church officials admitted they could find no
means to meet payments on a $266,316 mortgage, a year over
due.
The Rev. Dr. John D. McLauchlan, dean, turned over the
church keys to a representative of the mortgage holder with
one request, that the choir be permitted to hold one last
rehearsal tonight. The request was readily granted.
The bankers' action in claiming the church structure leaves
the Rev. S. Arthur Huston, bishop of the diocese of Olympia,
without a cathedral. He is expected to designate one of the
other Episcopal churches in this area as a pro-cathedral.
Representatives of the bankers indicate they are hopeful some
means will yet be found whereby the congregation can regain
its church."
Bowers took the clipping and read it interestedly. Then
he handed it back to Bannister who put it back in his pocket.
"Now let me ask you, Alf, how much of the Spirit of God
do you think is in that Seattle church? It can't even demon
strate enough of the Power of God to pay its bills, let alone
bring to this earth knowledge of the Power that can stop
Hitler. You see, Alf, my contention is that all systems of
religion today are just that. They are all founded on the
superstitions and traditions of the past. Their promoters live
in the past— thousands of years ago. They look to the past
for their inspiration, exactly where we are looking today for
our inspiration. And I don't believe we can do that. The
manifestation of Hitler calls for the manifestation of the
7° GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
Power of God, the only Power which can stop Hitler— and
no church which is so dead that it has to be sold for a mort
gage is qualified to teach anything to anyone concerning the
Power which created this universe and man. It took some
Power to do that, Bowers— yet here is this Seattle church,
claiming to represent Almighty God—sold for a mortgage.
Don't tell me there is any of God in that.
"But that isn't all. Let me tell you some more, then you'll
see why I am taking the stand I am beginning to take. Never
heard me talk like this before, did you? Now listen, Alf:
"On October, the 25th, 1939, the Right Reverend Bishop
Tucker, primate of the Protestant Episcopal church in America,
issued a frank warning that unless the Christian church de
veloped 'an enthusiasm for its work comparable to that of
Soviet Russia or warring Japan, THE CHRISTIAN CAUSE
MAY FAIL AND PASS OUT OF EXISTENCE:
"A student of history, the bishop from Virginia pointed to
the downfall of religions in the past as part of his warning
to the Christian church today. 'These dead religions', he said,
'have died because they lacked enthusiasm and aggressive pro
grams of expansion; because THEY DID NOT MEET THE
EMERGENCIES OF AGES JUST SUCH AS THE PRES
ENT:
"
'The enthusiasm of the world today lies largely outside
the sphere of organized religion', asserted Bishop Tucker in
what was considered his keynote message to the Protestant
Episcopal church throughout the world. 'There is much less
interest and enthusiasm in the Christian cause than in many
secular causes'.
"This statement by the head of a great Protestant denomina
tion bears me out in my claims that the 'God' of Protestantism
and Catholicism is NOT THE CREATOR OF THIS UNI
VERSE. It is another sort of a 'god'. And the world today is
witnessing the result of the operations of the organizations
which have followed after this 'strange god'.
"This is a very frank warning, Alfred. It should be heeded.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 7 1
I hope it will be. We can put a hundred thousand men and
women into a football stadium any time there is a game of
national importance. Let the churches try to do that.
"But let any church come to this world with the simple
plain revolutionary Power of the Spirit of God and you won't
be able to keep the people away from THAT message. It
will draw millions, not a few hundred thousands.
"You cannot, however, interest thinking Americans by ask
ing them to 'eat the flesh and drink the blood of a dead god'.
They cannot be interested in any system of theology which
predicates its whole structure on the 'death of the just for the
unjust*.
"Man did not ask to be put on this earth. If man is inher
ently bad, which I do not admit, IT IS GOD'S FAULT—
NOT MAN'S. Even the famous wholesale drowning was not
enough to make man 'good'. All man needs to make him 'good'
is the truth about God. That truth no church has brought
to the earth yet. Not even All Souls church of which I am
the pastor.
"Recently, Bishop J. Ralph Magee, of the Methodist Epis
copal Church (North), made this statement in Minneapolis
while addressing a Methodist convention. The Bishop was
trying to combat the slump in Sunday School attendance. He
said that during the past year the Methodist Episcopal
Church (North) LOST TWO THOUSAND EIGHT HUN
DRED FIFTY-NINE SUNDAY SCHOOLS AND SEVEN
HUNDRED THIRTY-TWO THOUSAND, TWO HUN
DRED SEVENTY-ONE SUNDAY SCHOOL SCHOLARS.
"The Bishop said that the cause of this slump was late hours
on Saturday night, the automobile, and 'other interests'. This,
then, is an admission by another church leader that an auto
mobile, late hours, 'other interests', have more pulling power
over the people than has God Almighty.
"This is but one more piece of evidence that the 'God' of
the Methodist CANNOT BE THE GOD OF THIS UNI
VERSE. A cursory investigation among church literature re
J2 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
veals this same story told in every denomination. Yet they
wonder why the world will not listen to their message. They
cannot understand why the world does not run to accept
the immutable truths and Power of Almighty God, the Great
Spirit of Creation, as taught by the Methodist church.
"If the message brought to the world by the Methodist, or
any other church, was true, this world would run to receive it.
Never has the desire for God been so insistent in the hearts
and minds of people as it is today. They attend these churches.
They find out just what they have to offer and, using their
God-inspired reason, they are not interested.
"Vox Populi is always Vox Dei, because man is a creation
of God. More of this line of thought later. Just let me say
that this world does not want the church—it wants God.
"Dr. Jean S. Milner is pastor of the Second Presbyterian
church in Indianapolis. That is Henry Ward Beecher's old
church. Recently Dr. Milner wrote a book. The book was
published by Bobbs-Merrill Company. The title of the book
is THE SKY IS RED\ The closing paragraph of this book
is very pertinent to what I am saying. In fact, it expresses the
very same sentiments I express here. Coming from such a
prominent churchman, we should pay attention to it. It adds
up beautifully with the statements I am making here to you.
My claim is that Almighty God has nothing whatsoever to do
with Jesus Christ, whom the Christian church claims was
Almighty God in person.
"I am endeavoring to clearly and intelligently prove that
the 'God' of the Christian church is not only not Almighty
God, but, even if he was, is utterly impotent to step into this
world's troubled picture and bring peace. This, of course,
because the entire Christian story is but pagan mythology,
tradition and superstition.
"Alfred, let me give you irrefutable evidence that the Chris
tian church itself repeatedly makes the statement that the
whole structure is dying, impotent and powerless. If its claims
to divinity of birth and origin are true and if the institution
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 73
really is 'the body of God', as it claims, it could be neither
dying, impotent, nor powerless. These continued admissions
of failure by church leaders are the strongest sort of evidence
that the whole theory of God advanced by them cannot be
true.
"Where God is there is LIFE. Where God
is,
there
is
ACTION. Where God
is,
there
is
PEACE. Where God
is,
there
is
UNITY. Where God
is,
there
is
SUCCESS IN
EVERY ENDEAVOR. The Christian church with its con
tinued calamitous cry of failure offers the best evidence ob
tainable that its 'God' cannot possibly be Almighty God,
Founder and Creator of this universe and all that the universe
contains. Let us see; first, in passing let me state that
I
am only
showing these statements of church leaders in order to help
the Christian church find God.
"If these moans of failure, impotence and near-death came
alone from me, they might not mean too much. But when
the heads of religious organizations themselves openly publish
such statements as
I
am telling you about, then they stand
condemned out of their own mouths. No further condemna
tion
is
necessary or pertinent. Here
is
what Dr. Milner has
to say in the closing of his very good book:
'WE ARE LIVING IN ONE OF THOSE RARE
PERIODS OF TIME FROM WHICH GREATNESS
CAN EMERGE THROUGH THE RENEWAL OF
THE HUMAN SPIRIT BY
A
MORE VITAL CON
TACT WITH THE GREAT SPIRIT. SUCH MO
MENTS, SO PREGNANT WITH TREMENDOUS
POSSIBILITIES, ARE NOT OFTEN VOUCHSAFED
TO MAN.
A
SWEEPING MOVEMENT UPWARD
TOWARD THE BUILDING OF THE WORLD OF
OUR DREAMS-OR-A SPIRAL DOWNWARD TO
WARD DISASTER, SEEMS TO LIE JUST BEYOND
THE BORDERS OF OUR DAY. ONE CANNOT
VIEW WITH SERENITY THE POSSIBILITY OF
OUR FAILING TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS
74 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
SUPREME MOMENT IN TIME. OUT OF SUCH
PERIOD MAGNIFICENCE COMES. THE CHRIS
TIAN CHURCH HAS AN OPPORTUNITY NOW,
WHICH, IF SHE LETS SLIP THROUGH HER
HANDS, SHE MAY NEVER HAVE AGAIN. SHE
MUST PROVE HERSELF WORTHY OF THE LEAD
ERSHIP DEMANDED OF HER. SHE WILL SERVE
THE WORLD WITH CHRISTIAN GREATNESS OR
BE REPUDIATED BY IT. THE SPIRIT OF CHRIST
(there he means the Spirit of God) WILL NOT LEAVE
THE EARTH, BUT HIS SPIRIT WILL LIVE IN IN
STITUTIONS OTHER THAN OUR OWN.'
"Seldom is such a dynamic statement published by a church
man as prominent as Dr. Milner. Yet we shall see that not
only the Presbyterian church, but every other church in this
fair land is having the same experience of defeat. They are
all earnest. They try, yet they know not what is wrong. But
the world knows. It knows that the philosophy of God which
the Christian church has embraced is not interesting enough
to warrant a second thought.
"The Christian church can tell men and women of this
thinking age that Jesus Christ was killed on a cross for their
sins till it is black in the face. It does this. Yet the attitude
of the general public seems to be: 'Well, maybe so, brother,
but I'm not interested'.
"A few months ago in Kansas City, Dr. William A. Eddy,
president of Hobart and William Smith colleges, made the
following statement to an Episcopal convention:
"'CHRISTIANS ARE SCATTERED. WE ARE LOST
AND DESPISED, WE LIVE IN A WORLD THAT IS
GIVEN OVER ENTIRELY TO POWER. AND WE
MUST PROVE THAT WE STAND FOR STRENGTH
AND NOT FOR WEAKNESS. BEING A CHRISTIAN
TODAY CALLS FOR MARTYRDOM IN A DAY
WHEN NATURALISM AND NATIONALISM ARE
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 75
THE EXCLUSIVE RELIGIONS OF THE BRUTALI-
TAR1ANS WHO HAVE ALL BUT CONQUERED
THE MODERN WORLD. THE CHURCH IS ACTU
ALLY NO BETTER OFF IN i94o THAN IT WAS IN
40 A.D.'
"It begins to add up. These statements, and I could quote
hundreds of them, are a definite signpost pointing to the fact
that at last, at long last, the day of pseudo-religions and false
gods is passing. Of course, those of us who are having a
definite part in that passing realize to the full the responsibility
which is ours.
"Alfred, to bring to this earth a True God, when millions
believe, or say they believe in a false god, is quite a responsi
bility. Personally, and regardless of how successful my efforts
may be, there will always be a definite sadness in my life. I
suppose there should be joy. But there is not. I realize, of
course, the full import of the results of this new conception
of God on the world. Yet, to tear from human beings their
religious idols, even when one knows those idols are ruining
them and bringing destruction and abomination to the nation,
is a heartbreaking thing to do.
"Yet I shall do it when I return to San Francisco.
"You may say: 'Well, but Dr. Bannister, why don't you let
people keep their religion as they believe it and then add to it
the good things you have to offer'? That would be well and
good if the world was not in as desperate a condition as it is.
So dangerous is the condition of this world and so much
human blood is being ruthlessly spilt that I cannot compromise
with erroneous teachings and preachments of God. I would
not if I could. I am not so constituted. I have compromised
now for too long.
"I realize as well as anyone the danger that exists. I know
as well as anyone what the false 'gods' of antiquity have done
to the human race. I also know that as men and women ex
change their false 'gods' for the True Spirit of God as that
76 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
Great Spirit exists, their lives are changed. Instead of weak
puny things, hoping against hope to find God after they die,
up in the sky somewhere, they can turn into dynamic, thrill
ing personalities, throbbing with the Power of the Spirit of
God. That, I think, is far better than to live a life of 'martyr
dom' as Dr. Eddy suggests.
"There never was any need for any to be a 'martyr' for
God. That is part of the pagan philosophy on which all the
world's great religions are founded. The only thing necessary
to bring peace, happiness, joy and love to this earth is to know
the true conception of God. When the churches know this,
if they ever do, the glory of the Spirit of God will cover the
earth as the waters cover the sea. But that condition can never
exist until we have found God, and the sublime truths God
Almighty stands for.
"Crucifying a man who was supposed to be God on a cross,
while the theory and the relating of it may be impressive,
does not contain in itself sufficient Power to rid this world
of wars and crime. Religious tradition, that is all it is. It is not
an experience. The Christian says he goes through an expe
rience called 'conversion'. That
is,
Christians used to call
it
that. But you hear little of 'conversion' any more.
"Whenever
a
man or an organization
is
in tune with the
Spirit of God, that's an experience.
It
is
not
a
mere repetition
of
a
story which has been handed down from father to son
for hundreds of years, without proof.
It
is
a
thrilling dynamic
experience in the life.
It
is
Power.
It
is
Peace.
It
is
Love.
It
is
Joy.
It
is
God Almighty in the human life. And when that
happens nationally and internationally you may imagine what
a
wonderful place this earth will be. That day
is
coming.
It
will come perhaps sooner than we realize.
"Dr. Eddy evidently does not want that day to come, unless
his system of religion predominates. Well, under no system
of religion
I
know anything about COULD such
a
day come.
You see, Bowers, under the Christian philosophy, unless we
repeat certain articles of 'faith' or 'belief, we are all lost.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 77
Only the very few who 'believe' in Jesus Christ are to be
rescued.
"Whether the story of Jesus Christ is true or whether it is
false does not seem to be taken into consideration by Dr.
Eddy and the rest of the preachers and priests. 'That's my
story and I'm going to stick to it' seems to be the order of the
day in religion.
"It was inevitable, though, that someone should come along
sooner or later who seriously questioned the truth of that
story. I don't believe there is a man or woman alive who has
tried to find God in the church harder than I have. But I failed
after many years of honest effort. Yet I knew the Creator of
this earth and man must exist. So, naturally, I have turned
elsewhere. And now that I am totally discarding everything
Christianity or any other religion has to offer, I am finding
God.
"This is what I'm going to tell All Souls when I get back.
"The experience I sought for so long and so vainly in the
church and through the church god is coming to me from
an entirely different direction. And none may say my life will
not be completely transformed and revitalized now that the
Spirit of God has come into it. This little life is too well
known throughout the world for people not to recognize the
change.
"Dr. Eddy states that we are living in a world that is given
over entirely to power. Well what greater Power can there
be in life than the Power of the Spirit which is God? And
it is true, Dr. Eddy realizes that there is no power in anything
his system of theology teaches. It is here I make my point.
If there is no power in any system of religion, regardless of
what it may be called, that system of religion is not teaching
God. It may be teaching its own conception of God, but it
most certainly is not teaching the God who created this uni
verse and the human race. For it took a REAL power to do
that.
"In the moment Dr. Eddy and the rest of the followers say
78 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
'Good-bye, Jesus', they will find God. But so long as they
choose to look upon 'the man Jesus Christ' as Almighty God,
then by no possibility can they find God. For Jesus Christ
and Almighty God are two different things. One is the true
Spirit which created this universe and all that is therein. The
other is but a figment of the religious imaginations and tradi
tions of dark age priests and preachers. The crucifixion theory
was born in paganism and is still believed by both pagan and
Christian alike.
"The American people should know that by this time.
Certainly they have seen Christianity in operation. Certainly
they see world conditions today. And just as certainly must
they know that there is none of Almighty God in either
church or world. The only logical thing then is to examine
the theory of God brought to us by religious organizations.
This it has been my duty to do. As a result of those examina
tions, I must pronounce the theory entirely false. All Chris
tianity
is,
is
a
copy of far older systems of religion which, of
course, the Christian church calls 'pagan'.
"Do you follow me, Bowers?"
"I certainly do."
"This
is
a
fact.
It
may be denied and will be denied by
churchmen, but
it
remains
a
fact, nevertheless. This funda
mental discovery, of course, led to the discovery of the True
Spirit of God, which Spirit the Christian church never has
known,
it
having been occupied quite fully with its own
'crucified god', Jesus Christ.
"From this hypothesis we have progressed until we are in
a
position to bring to this world, not
a
theory of God, but
the actual Power of God. That
is
what the world
is
waiting
for. That
is
what the church
is
supposed to do, but cannot
do simply because, instead of having knowledge of Almighty
God, all
it
has
is
a
tradition and an oft-repeated tradition of
God killed on
a
cross. In the case of the Christian, the god
was called Jesus Christ. In the case of the Hindoo, he was
called Chrishna. And so on. Thirty-two 'crucified gods' have
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 79
been offered to the world by various systems of religion and
the world has rejected them all, just as it has rejected Jesus
Christ and the Christian religion. With the total rejection,
this world will find GOD.
"I'll talk to you some more about these crucified gods before
we leave Rocky Point, Alf. Now let's continue:
"Speaking in Philadelphia on September the 16th, 1940, Dr.
Jacques Maritan, of the Catholic Institute of Paris, said:
"THE VERY IDEA OF A CHRISTIAN STATE
APPEARS TODAY AS SOMETHING VERY REMOTE
"I might ask why? Why, if all the Power of Almighty God
is in the Catholic Church, as it claims, why is the prospect
so remote? Surely the Roman Catholic church cannot have the
wrong God, can it? It certainly makes extravagant claims for
itself. It tells the world that its Pope is the Vice-Regent of
God. It tells the world that no one can ever know anything
about God except that knowledge be gained through the
ministerings of the Catholic Church itself. It says Protestantism
is 'heretic'.
"In my possession is a letter from a Catholic professor on
the staff of San Francisco University. He states in that letter
that 'Protestantism is a branch fallen off the tree—it is dead'.
That's not speaking too well for Catholicism, for Protestantism
is a direct child of Catholicism.
"At the same Philadelphia conference on the same date, the
Right Reverend Edward E. L. Strider, Episcopal coadjutor of
West Virginia, said:
" 'THE CHURCH MUST FACE THE REAL ISSUES OF
LIFE, AND MAKE A PRACTICAL DIFFERENCE IN
THE LIVES OF MEN AND WOMEN AND CHIL
DREN OR IT IS DOOMED TO BECOME A DIS
APPEARING AFFAIR.'
"He said further:
80 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"'THE CHURCH MUST BECOME A SOCIAL IN
STITUTION WORKING FOR THE KINGDOM OF
GOD HERE AND NOW:
"But how can the Christian Church make a practical differ
ence in the lives of men and women with the 'god' it has now?
It takes real Power to change human lives. The story of God
Almighty killed on a cross two thousand years ago won't do
it,
impressive as that story may be. IT WILL TAKE THE
LIVING, ACTUAL, VITAL, EVER-PRESENT POWER
OF GOD ALMIGHTY TO CHANGE HUMAN LIVES.
"No one knows better than the Christian church the failure
which has attended its efforts to transform lives and make
God real to the world. This
it
has never been able to do.
It
wonders why. And
I
think
it
suspects the truth. But
it
is
not
ready to say 'good-bye' to Jesus Christ and accept, in His
place, the Power of the Spirit of God. Until
it
is
ready to do
this,
it
will be
a
'disappearing thing'.
"I shall try to save
it,
Bowers.
"In October, 1940, the Southern California-Arizona Meth
odist conference, by
a
vote of two hundred fifty-five to one
hundred fifteen, adopted
a
resolution which reads in part:
" 'THAT WE DISCIPLINE OURSELVES IN THE RE
ALIZATION OF WORLD COMMUNITY AND RE
GARD NOBODY AS ALIENS BUT EVERYBODY AS
BROTHERS, SO THAT, IN THE EVENT OF IN
VASION, WE CAN TREAT THE INVADERS AS
BROTHERS AND NOT ENEMIES:
"This sounds to me something like Fifth Column activities.
Yet this resolution was passed by the Methodist church.
"Let me here give you
a
few figures on our Methodist church.
They add up with other things I'll tell you about later. The
same story can be told by all our churches.
"I have in my church study, the sad record of the failure
of the Methodist church in 1940. This record shows the
financial loss, the membership loss, and the figures are quite
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 81
startling. One would think that if Almighty God were in the
great Methodist church such a record as that could never
have been written.
"Summarizing a three year survey of three hundred thirty-
three American cities in the United States, Dr. Edward Thorn-
dyke, in March, 1940, rated 'civic godliness' as being far from
'civic goodness'. The noted psychiatrist of Columbia Univer
sity said that in cities where the general goodness of life for
good people is highest there were many artists, engineers,
musical teachers, but relatively few clergymen.
"
'Church-membership', he wrote in his book 'YOUR CITY',
'is in inverse ratio to the rating of communities for the general
goodness of life. Unless the better communities under-report
their church membership, or the worse communities over-
report theirs, we must suspect that the churches are CLUBS
OF ESTIMABLE PEOPLE AND MAINTAINERS OF
TRADITIONAL RITES AND CEREMONIES, RATHER
THAN POWERFUL FORCES FOR HUMAN BETTER
MENT.
"Evidently, according to Dr. Thorndyke's experiences and
investigations, the 'abundant life* IS NOT IN THE CHURCH
MEMBERS.
"It should be, certainly. If these good folks know all about
God, if they know so much about Almighty God that they
freely tell others that 'there is none other name given under
heaven among men whereby we may be saved', certainly,
with that assurance of the Power of God in them, they should
live the 'abundant life'. But the facts prove the contrary is true.
Their religion is but an old heathen tradition told again.
"On February the 8th, 1940, in Chicago, the existence of
hell as a real place was denied by sixty of each one hundred
Protestant ministers in answer to a Northwestern University
School of Education questionnaire that disclosed many modifi
cations of religious beliefs. 'There is no devil' said fifty-four
percent of these ministers. Five hundred ministers answered
the circular and only forty-eight percent said they would
82 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
teach junior high school pupils that Judgment Day is really
coming. The existence of 'heaven' was denied by forty-one
percent of their number, while thirty-eight percent said 'judg
ment day will never come to pass'. Only nineteen percent
believe that God keeps a record of our bad deeds in a big
book in the sky, while eighty-one percent disagreed. The deity
of Jesus Christ was upheld by only twenty-six percent. Think
of that! Only twenty-six percent! So don't blame me if I
challenge my own church.
"I believe this to be definite and tangible evidence that
priests and ministers who teach the Christian religion do not
believe it themselves. They are, therefore, hypocrites if they
teach it. Why they stay in the ministry, I don't know. What
I'm doing in the ministry, myself, I don't know.
"The significant thing about this is that it absolutely corrob
orates my contention that the Christian bible most certainly
is NOT the divinely inspired word of God, neither is the
Christian religion, which teaches Jesus Christ as God Al
mighty, a true religion.
"Church of all sorts and beliefs are honeycombed with
priests and preachers who certainly do not believe the doc
trines they are teaching and preaching. A few months ago I
was having lunch with a rather prominent Roman Catholic.
It was Friday, but he ate ham and eggs, nevertheless. Our
conversation was of the failure of the church to cope with
conditions in the world today.
"I called attention to the appalling loss of church member
ship in the Roman Catholic church to which my friend replied,
'Oh yes, Doctor, I know—but all denominations are losing.
But we did have a hell of a good time while the going was
good'.
"One incident like the above in itself proves nothing. But
the overwhelming mass of evidence available forces me to two
conclusions. First:—The entire story of the Christian bible is
a work of man, absolutely without 'divine inspiration' in it.
Second:— The 'god' of the Christian church is not the God
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 83
who created this universe, but is an old mythical pagan god,
copied from another and far older pagan 'god'.
"As a matter of fact, the whole structure of Christianity
is built upon a false god. A god who never did exist, save in
the imaginings of old superstitious church 'fathers'. Herein lies
the shameful hypocrisy and failure of all churches of all de
nominations. They have a false God. Their 'god' is Jesus
Christ. But no god who was born through the womb of an
other man's wife two thousand years ago is quite big enough
to bring peace to this world. Such a character may satisfy
the churches; indeed it does. But it will not satisfy a searching
critical world.
"And from now on, Dr. Bowers, it won't satisfy me. I'm
finding the truth. Soon the world will find that same truth.
"I could give you similar quotations and instances for a
month, Alf, but I have told you enough to demonstrate be
yond a shadow of doubt that there can be no power of any
sort, let alone the Power of the Spirit of God, in any system
of religion on this earth. If there were, it could be demon
strated. But no church can do that."
"Are you going to tell All Souls these things when you
return?"
"I'm going to tell my people more than that when I return.
Alfred, HOWARD BANNISTER IS BEING REBORN!
For the first time in his life he is discovering who and what
God is and more than that, he has the answer to the whole
God proposition. What will happen in San Francisco when
I return may make history. I believe I can start a movement,
either in the church or out of the church, which will bring
Hitler, Mussolini, Stalin and Matsuoka to their knees so fast
it will stagger humanity. I should like to do that inside the
church. But
if,
as
I
suspect, the church will have nothing to
do with any religion which
is
not based on the death and
resurrection of Jesus Christ, then
I
shall do
it
outside of the
church, but
I
shall do it."
•
• *
84 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
The shadows were beginning to fall on Crystal Creek.
"Let's stroll slowly back and fish our way to the Point,"
said Bannister as he started the motor.
Lines were thrown out and a couple more fish were caught,
even though they had their suspected limit. They had no
scales, however, on which to weigh the fish they had taken,
so they cannot be blamed for catching a couple more.
On arriving at the dock, lines were reeled in and Nels made
the boat fast. They went to the cabin and washed for supper
—a supper they could and would enjoy.
CHAPTER SIX
After supper that same evening, the group of fishermen made
their way to the little store and post office. There they lied
about the fish they had caught in days gone by and they lied
some more about the size of those which they didn't get.
Our two friends had come in with eight fine specimens
averaging in weight about seven pounds each. They had been
given to Nels who would smoke them in the smokehouse later
that evening.
The Johnstones had dropped in for their mail and the
Harris boys were there, also. 'Twas a good natured bunch of
fellows. Jack Fallon, the fox man, had dropped in for a couple
of loaves of bread and the mail.
Spotting Dr. Bannister he shook hands with him.
"Well, now, Howard, sure and it's good to me Irish eyes
to have them looking on ye again—how long is it that ye arr
a-goin' to be shtaying with us this thrip?"
"Well, Jack, it's awfully nice to see you again. I guess maybe
we'll stay the full two weeks, that
is,
providing those foxes
of yours don't make so much racket that we have to move."
"Niver ye be minding about those foxes of mine, Howard.
If ye could keep quiet as long as me foxes do, I'll be thinking
ye wouldn't be doin' so much harrm as ye arr afther a-doin'.
I
heeard ye over the raddio-machine lasht Sunday, and be-
gorra
I
ralely belave ye arr coming to your sinses. Ye sure arr
puttin' out some common sinse talks ivery onct in
a
while—
not often, mind ye, but jusht onct— maybe twict in
a
while."
"Well, Jack,
I
don't believe that there
is
anything
I
could
say which could have much effect on
a
hard-boiled Mick like
you," returned Bannister.
"No, Howard, sure and
I
don't belave there
is
that—maybe
85
86 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
yez moight thry yer luck on me foxes some time. But all
joking aside, Docther, things don't look so good, do they?"
"No, Jack, they don't. But cheer up, it's always darkest
just before the dawn, you know. And there will be a dawn.
Don't forget that."
"Well, I wisht that dawn would shtart in a-shinin' pretty
fasht, if it don't the fox businessh will be on the bum for
shure."
"Well, if that happens, Jack, I'll see if we can't find you a
job driving taxi in San Francisco."
Jack laughed.
"Shure, and itsh foine I would loike dhrivin' a taxi in San
Francisco. It's all I can do to pilot me boat a couple of milesh
down to Rocky Point."
"Did you have anny luck today, Howard?" asked Fallon.
"We got eight nice ones, Jack, if you call that luck."
"Shure and it musht of been luck if ye caught that many—
Oi think maybe Alf Bowers musht have done the catching."
"I'm pretty good on German Browns," said Dr. Bowers.
"Oh . . . he's pretty good on German Brown!" laughed
Jack Fallon. "Takes a damned good man to catch a German
Brown— why thim things ish the foinesht kind of fish—what
did ye do with it—throw it back into the wather agin?"
And so the good natured bandinage continued.
Bannister bought a round of drinks, beer for some of them
and orange crush for Bowers and himself.
Little Alfred was the center of attraction until Winnie
arrived from Klamath Falls. Then both kiddies were hustled
off to bed.
Bannister and Bowers left the store and took a seat on a
bench outside before the huge open fireplace where more
fish stories have been told than perhaps any other place on
earth.
Queenie, the Point's Chesapeake, seemed to remember How
ard Bannister. She brought pine cones and laid them at his
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 87
feet, saying as plainly as if she could talk: —"You throw it and
I'll go get it."
Bannister and Bowers threw the pine cones until Queenie
was tired and sat down by the end of a bench. The mosquitoes
were not out in full force, yet, but they would be before
long.
Our two characters swapped yarns with the boys in front
of the fire for perhaps an hour, then took themselves off to
their cabin on the hill, after bidding everyone a cheery "Good
night."
Queenie followed them up the hill to the cabin and was
rewarded by a gum drop which she ate ravenously, begging
for more. Bannister lighted the stove and removed his coat
and flannel shirt.
"Guess I'll read for a while, Alfred. What do you want
to do ... go to sleep, or read?"
"Maybe I'll think a bit, Howard. You certainly have given
me something to think about since we left San Francisco
Monday morning. I did not have the slightest idea your mind
was running along these channels. I knew something was
wrong with you. I knew you were not satisfied, and I knew
also that you really wanted to do something to help bring
peace to this war-torn world. But I did not suspect you were
looking for the answer in religion— or in finding fault with
religion."
"Alfred," replied Bannister, "you saw that dog, Queenie?"
"Queenie— the dog—why, of course, I saw Queenie. What
are you getting at?"
"Did you notice how many legs Queenie had?"
Dr. Bowers was silent. He did not understand the question
nor did he surmise what Bannister might be driving at. He did
know, however, that Bannister had a very graphic manner of
driving home a point when he wanted to.
"Did you ask me how many legs Queenie had?"
"I did," replied Bannister. "How many legs has any dog?
Let me put it that way."
88 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"Well, I don't know exactly what you are driving at— but
I'll bite. Every dog has four legs."
"Correct as can be. Every dog has four legs."
"Well— so what? Spit it out. There's something on your
mind," said Bowers.
"I was just thinking, Alfred. Do you know that the reason
there are four Gospels in the Christian Bible is because animals
have four legs?"
"Oh come now, Howard, you're not going to ask me to
believe that there are four Gospels in the Bible because ani
mals have four legs?"
"That's exactly what I am telling you and I think you will
believe me when I make that statement."
"But that seems incredible. Here I've been believing for
years that the Christian Bible is the divinely inspired Word of
God, absolutely true from cover to cover and now you come
along and tell me that there are four Gospels in the Bible
because animals have four legs. What sort of talk is that?"
"Pretty good sort of talk, Alfred. It happens to be true."
"Do you mean to tell me that the reason there are four
Gospels in the Testament is because animals have four legs?
Can you prove that?"
"If I couldn't prove that statement you know I should
never make
it,
don't you?"
"I surely do. But four Gospels in the New Testament be
cause animals have four legs—
it
seems preposterous."
"Well, it's not preposterous at all, Alf. The preposterous
thing about
it
is
that so few people have taken the trouble
to investigate and find out for themselves what the Bible
is
and especially what
it
is
not. That's one thing
I
never have
been able to understand. And yet, that
is
the reason so many
people belong to churches today. They have taken what
priests and preachers have told them as being absolutely true.
They have not taken the trouble to find out for themselves.
"For instance, did you ever hear
a
minister tell you, or
anyone else, that there are four Gospels in the Christian Bible
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 89
because animals have four legs? Of course you didn't. But
it is a fact, nevertheless. If the clergy had been honest with
the people who have trusted them so fully the answer to the
God proposition would have been discovered a long time ago.
As it is, we are confused. The whole world
is
floundering
about in
a
maze of religious theories and teachings, and while
this world
is
hungry for God, not
a
single religious organiza
tion can tell the world what God
is,
where God
is,
or how
the Power of God can be used against Hitler. Those are the
questions the world is asking the church. But
it
asks in vain.
The church never has been honest with the people. And until
it
is,
it
will never be able to lead the people. Now to come
back to the statement that there are four Gospels because ani
mals have four legs."
"Yes, please tell me about that, for
if
that statement
is
true,
you certainly have stumbled onto something," said Bowers.
"First, let me ask you another question. Let me ask you
how many corners this earth has?"
"How many corners the earth has? Well, it hasn't any cor
ners, it's supposed to be round,
is
it
not?"
"It
is
round.
It
has no corners, although as late as four
hundred years ago everybody thought
it
had four corners.
"Now, we'll come back to your question about the four
legs of animals . . . and, remember, there are many more things
I
shall perhaps say to you later, after you have recovered from
the shock of what
I
am about to say to you."
"Well, does anyone else besides you know the truth about
why the four Gospels are in the Bible— do the rest of the
ministers know
it
is
because animals have four legs?"
"They know
if
they have been in earnest about finding the
truth. Of course,
if
they have chosen to blindly believe what
their denominational theological seminary has told them to be
lieve as the truth, then, of course, they may not know it. But
the record
is
there.
It
can be read by anyone who cares to
read it.
"Now let me tell you how
it
happens that there are only
9° GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
four Gospels in the Christian Bible. It happened like this. You
will recall that until about four hundred years ago there
was no Protestant Church. It was all Catholic. Martin Luther,
when he tacked his resignation from the Catholic Church on
that famous door, started the Reformation. That was the birth
of Protestantism. In the year 1545 a.d., not four hundred years
ago yet, certain anonymous writings began to appear, always
in the hands of monks or priests of the Roman Catholic
church.
"No one knew who wrote these writings, nor does anyone
know where they came from. They are perfectly anonymous.
Their authors are positively unknown.
"I should have told you that these anonymous writings ap
peared over a period of years. They did not all appear in the
year 1545 a.d. But in that year, Irenaeus, who was the Catholic
Bishop of Lyons, decided that these anonymous writings
should be put into the canon of divinely inspired scripture—
namely, the Christian Bible.
"But there were too many of these writings to put them all
in. And again, some of these writings were so absolutely
foolish that they were left out on account of the impossibility
of their contents. However, Irenaeus called in one hundred
and eighty priests and bishops of the Catholic church.
"These priests and bishops were called together for the ex
press purpose of voting on the admission of a part of these
documents of absolutely unknown origin into what they called
'The Sacred Canon of Scripture'.
"Well, that was quite a gathering. The report I have on it
says that most of them got drunk. Fist fights were the order
of the day. When the conference got too hot, Irenaeus called
it to order, and insisted that a vote be taken on which of the
thirty or more anonymous writings should be made the 'Word
of God'.
"This is what he said in favor of only allowing four of these
anonymous writings to be voted into 'The Sacred Canon of
Scripture'—'Animals have four legs, the earth has four corners,
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 9'
and there are four great winds— so we must have four Gospels
—no more and no less, and if any man believe not these Gos
pels, let him be accursed.' In other words, let him be damned.
"And, Alfred, believe it or not, that is how the four Gospels,
Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, containing exclusively the
story of Jesus Christ, came to be in the Christian Bible. Their
titles were added later by the Roman church. But in attribut
ing these Gospels to Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, the
Catholics drew upon their imaginations for these writings were
completely anonymous."
Dr. Bowers was absolutely stunned. Yet he knew that Ban
nister would not make a statement like that unless he had
absolute proof of the truth of the statement. He sat there
in silence.
Finally he broke that silence with this remark:
"Well, Howard, does not that make the foundation of the
story of Jesus Christ a vote of the Roman Catholic bishops and
priests instead of divine inspiration?"
"It makes it just that, Alf. The whole story, therefore, rests
on thin air and is completely a product of one hundred and
eighty Roman Catholic bishops and priests. Most certainly
Almighty God had nothing to do with that story. Moreover,
if any church tells people that the story of Jesus Christ and
Him crucified has any connection with Almighty God, that
church lies."
"Well then, the whole Christian theory of God, insofar as
it attempts to claim Jesus Christ as God, is utterly and entirely
false—is that it?"
"That is exactly the truth— and that is what I am going to
tell All Souls when I return."
There is no question but what Dr. Bowers was profoundly
impressed. He had never heard this even intimated before. Yet
he knew that Bannister knew whereof he spoke. He knew
something else— he knew that if the story of Jesus Christ was
not of God, the whole Christian structure crumbles and the
truth must be looked for somewhere else. It must be noted
9* GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
here that Dr. Bannister did not say that everything Christianity
teaches is false. What he did say, and what he did prove was
that any attempt to connect Almighty God with the story
of Jesus Christ is fruitless and valueless. What Bannister was
trying to put over to Bowers was the fact that if the Christian
church would divest itself of the impossible story of Jesus
Christ, it would then be in a position to bring to the world
the actual truths of God. So long as Jesus Christ is worshipped
as God, it was Bannister's contention that the actual truths
of God could not be brought to the world by the Christian
church.
In other words, the whole world could go down under
Hitler and the Christian church could be absolutely powerless
to hinder. That was Bannister's theory.
"Well, what about the rest of the Bible?
"
asked Bowers.
"There is nothing in the Old Testament which bears the
slightest evidence of having been written by Almighty God.
That Old Testament, incidentally, is more recent than the
New. This world has a very wrong conception of all bibles
. . . and there are many of them. The Christian Bible, of
course, is sacred to the Christian only. But it means nothing
at all to the Hindoo. He thinks, with very good grounds,
that his bible, which by far antedates the Christian Bible, is
the only true Word of God. He claims, and can prove, by
the way, that the Hindoo bibles form the basis for the Chris
tian Bible.
"Listen to me, Alfred, every great religion has its sacred
book or books, which its adherents consider of more than
human origin and authority. The Brahman has his Vedas; the
Buddhist his Tripitaka; the Parsee his Avesta; the Moham
medan his Koran; the Hebrew his Scriptures, and the Christian
his Bible.
"On these sacred books the followers of these various re
ligions build their beliefs; by them they form their creeds;
from them they draw their inspiration. In many respects all
these sacred books are much alike. They all contain the high
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 93
est ideals, the purest morals, and the sublimest conceptions of
God and man that were known among the people with whom
these sacred writings originated. Likewise, all of them contain
much more that is neither edifying nor inspiring.
"Living in a land of Bibles we should know something about
the origin and reputed authority of this sacred book. Not only
should we know what the Bible says, but we should know
what the Bible is if we are to know why we believe what we
believe.
"Concerning the Bible, its origin and teachings, there are
two extreme views. There is the belief held by a great ma
jority of Christians that in some miraculous, indescribable,
unknowable way, God wrote the Bible, or caused it to be
written. To them it is a sacred revelation to be read, but not
to be questioned, a book to be believed, but not to be ana
lyzed.
"Like a fond, indulgent mother, who can see no evil in her
erring son, they close their eyes to those parts of the Bible
which are degrading to man and a blasphemy to God. They
judge the whole book from cover to cover to be absolutely
and literally the direct and infallible Word of God. With
them, when science and the Bible conflict, science is wrong;
when human experience and the Bible disagree, human ex
perience stands for naught; when reason and the Bible are op
posed, reason must go.
"Then there is another class. They know the history of the
Bible. They see the many absurdities and contradictions in its
pages. They hear how the laws of nature are set aside at the
request of human beings. They read how the sun in his eternal
rounds of night and day was even stopped at the command
of Joshua that the Chosen People might have more time to
complete their bloody slaughter. They read in the Twenty-first
and Twenty-second chapters of Deuteronomy that it was
God's command that a disobedient son and a fallen woman
should be stoned to death. In the Thirteenth chapter they
read: 'If thy brother, the son of thy mother, or thy daughter,
94 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
or the wife of thy bosom, or thy friend which is as thine own
soul, shall entice thee secretly, saying, Let us go and serve
other gods . . . thou shall surely kill him: thine hand shall
be the first upon him to put him to death.'
"In the Sixth chapter of Second Samuel they read how the
law of the Lord was kept in an ark which no man dare
touch, and how once when the ark was being moved on an
ox-cart, the oxen stumbled and the driver, Uzzah, put forth
his hand to steady the ark, lest it fall. 'And the anger of
Jehovah was kindled against Uzzah, and God smote him there
for his error and he died by the ark of God.'
"Again they read in First Samuel, the Sixth chapter, how
the people of Bethshemesh were curious concerning the ark
and looked inside it. For this the Lord 'smote of the men of
Bethshemesh, because they had looked into the ark of Jehovah,
he smote of the people seventy men and fifty thousand men'.
"This class reads these and hundreds of similar passages in
the Bible and their sense of justice and humanity cries out
against attributing such outrages to God. They judge the
whole by that which is bad and declare the Bible to be the
work of men and bad men, at that, who are trying to shoulder
the responsibility of their crimes and meanness upon an un-
protesting God.
"Neither of these conceptions of the Bible are acceptable
to the scientific mind, for neither of them are justified by the
evidence concerning it. But there is a conception of the Bible
which does no violence to truth, to reason, or to the funda
mental teachings of any true religion. This true and rational
conception, which is slowly but surely supplanting the old
superstitious belief, is arrived at by a study of the origin,
growth and character of the Bible.
"When one affirms that to be true which is contrary to
reason and human experience, he must offer positive evidence
of the truth of his claim before rational men are expected to
believe. If such evidence cannot be produced, then the claim
falls without being refuted.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 95
"For example, Joseph Smith, the founder of Mormonism,
says that an angel appeared to him and told him to dig in the
earth at a certain place. He says he did as commanded and
found a book with gold leaves, on which were writings in an
unknown tongue. With the book was a pair of spectacles,
by using which he was able to read and translate the writings
into English. As evidence of the truth of this wonderful story,
he offers us the translation he made which is called the Book of
Mormon.
"Do you believe this story? I do not. We are under no
obligation to believe it. Joseph Smith has offered no reliable
evidence of this wonderful tale and as his story is contrary
to reason and human experience, we must refuse to consider
the matter seriously. We are not called upon to disprove the
miraculous origin of this Mormon bible. The Mormons must
prove it.
"The same holds good with reference to the Christian Bible.
When anyone affirms that it is of more than human origin
and authority, we are not called upon to disprove their claim,
but they must offer some positive evidence of the truth of
their assertion. This they try to avoid by endeavoring to shift
the burden of proof upon the disbeliever. To do this, they
assert that ancient traditions and beliefs must be accepted as
true unless disproven. The assumption that the antiquity of a
tradition or belief is evidence of its truthfulness holds good
only when such traditions and beliefs are not contrary to
reason and human experience.
"If ancient traditions are to be accepted as true regardless
of their character or source, then we must accept the sacred
writings of the Brahmans, the Buddhists, the Parsees and
many others whose traditions of superhuman origin are far
more ancient than those of the Christian Bible. No, the burden
of proof cannot be shifted to the disbeliever.
"Let us examine some of the other evidence offered and see
if it is sufficient to establish a belief in the extraordinary
claims that are made for the Bible.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"First, we are told that the Bible itself claims to be of more
than human origin. This is a mistake. Nowhere does the Bible
claim to be the Word of God. There are certain passages in
the Bible, especially in the Old Testament, which do claim
to be the direct Word of God, though these passages are
comparatively few. But unless offered some reasonably certain
evidence that God really did say these things to these men,
we must refuse to accept these passages as literally true.
"We refuse to believe that God spoke to Joseph Smith, to
Buddha and to others and we can do no less with Moses,
Aaron or Isaiah; for there is no more evidence of the one
than the other.
"The closing verses of Revelation are often quoted by super
ficial readers as a Bible declaration that the entire Bible is
the infallible and unchanging Word of God. The Revised
Version reads: 'I testify unto every man that heareth the
words of the prophecy of this book, if any man adds unto
them, God shall add unto him the plagues which were written
in this book; and if any man shall take away from the words
of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part
from the tree of life, and out of the holy city, which are
written in this book'. A careful reading of these verses will
show that they refer only to the book of Revelation and not
to the entire sixty-six books of the Bible. Nor could these
passages mean otherwise, for the Bible, as we know
it,
was
not in existence when the book of Revelation was written.
"Again,
it
is
claimed that the Bible must be of more than
human origin because
it
is
more profound, more beautiful
and more inspiring than other books.
"Even
if
this claim of superior excellence were true,
it
would
certainly not imply that the whole or any part of the Bible
is
the superhuman Word of God. No other dramatist ever
wrote as did Shakespeare; no other poet ever wrote like
Homer; no other orator spoke like Demosthenes. Were these
men and their works, therefore, more than human? No. Supe
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 97
rior excellence cannot be accepted as evidence of superhuman
origin.
"Then, too, there is much in the Bible that is far from beauti
ful and inspiring. Take the book of Esther— it is but a tale of
vice and drunken debauchery; of crime and murder. Nowhere
does the name of God appear in the whole book. In it there
is but one decent character and she receives no word of
commendation from the writer, but is rather condemned.
"If the beauty and spirituality of some of the Bible passages
indicate that they are of God, then the book of Esther and
some of the other Old Testament passages would just as truly
indicate that they are of the devil.
"Another bit of testimony offered as to the superhuman
origin and authority of the Bible is that certain Bible char
acters prophesied or foretold certain events.
"Even if these reputed prophecies were genuine, it would
only indicate that those who made them were good judges
of the trend of human events or that they had extraordinary
powers of intuition. A few such prophecies would certainly
not indicate that all the books of the Bible are of superhuman
origin and authority. Reputed prophecies of future events
which later came true are found in other books, both sacred
and profane, yet these books are not on that account regarded
as of other than human origin.
"The last evidence offered as to the superhuman origin and
character of the Bible is what is called the evidence of the
spirit or spiritual insight. This so-called evidence is said to be
a sort of spiritual consciousness, which some believers claim
assures them that the Bible is the Word of God. This same
sort of evidence is offered by many as proof of other creeds
and doctrines. The average mortal can see little difference
between this spiritual insight and an ordinary belief based on
desire and imagination. Spiritual insight as reliable evidence is
open to two serious objections. First, it is evidence which
those of us not so gifted cannot verify, so it can be no evi
dence to us. Second, those gifted with spiritual insight do
98 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
not always agree in their testimony. They disagree among
themselves concerning matters where a little common sense
and reason and a little less spiritual insight would have caused
them to differ less. When those gifted with spiritual insight
cannot agree, ordinary mortals had best follow the dictates of
their reason.
"There has never been, nor can there be any evidence
offered for the superhuman origin and authority of the Bible
but what would apply equally well to other so-called sacred
books.
"If we accept the Bible as of human origin and authority,
we will expect it to partake of the natures of the men who
wrote it. We can then overlook the mistakes and excuse the
human weakness portrayed in the book. But if we accept the
Bible as a superhuman revelation from God, we must expect
it to be of the nature of God, perfect in every detail, free
from errors and contradictions, and infallible in every subject
of which it treats. That the Bible does not measure up to this
divine standard of perfection is well known to every Bible
scholar. Time will not permit my citing the numerous mis
takes and contradictions which are so prominent in the Bible.
Voltaire, Paine, Ingersoll and other writers have long em
phasized these imperfections. One writer has compiled a whole
book of Bible contradictions.
"Christian Bible scholars in general have now come to know
and admit these errors and contradictions. Dr. Briggs, Pro
fessor of Theology in the Union Theological Seminary in
New York, some years ago, in his famous inaugural address
said:
" 'It has been taught in recent years and is still taught by
some theologians that one proved error destroys the authority
of the Scriptures. I shall venture to affirm that, so far as I can
see, there are errors in the Scriptures that no one has been
able to explain away; and the theory that they are not in the
original text is sheer assumption upon which no mind can rest
with certainty. If such errors destroy the authority of the
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 99
Bible, it is already destroyed for historians. Men cannot shut
their eyes to truth and facts. But on what authority do these
theologians drive men from the Bible by their theory of
inerrancy? The Bible itself nowhere makes this claim. It is
a ghost of modern evangelicalism to frighten children.'
"For this statement Dr. Briggs was condemned by the
Presbyterian Church and excluded from fellowship.
"Dr. Gladden, a profound Bible scholar of the Congrega
tional church, says that the Bible is not infallible in the sense
in which it is popularly supposed to be. In
it,
he says, 'human
ignorance and error have been suffered to mingle with the
stream of living water throughout all its course;
if
our assur
ance of salvation was made to depend upon our knowledge
that every word in the Bible was of divine origin our hope
of eternal life would be altogether insecure.'
"He further says that the Bible
is
not infallible scientifically.
It
is
not infallible historically.
It
is
not infallible morally. And
he says, 'The attempt of any intelligent man to maintain the
theoretical and ideal infallibility of all parts of the writings
is
a
criminal blunder.'
"Likewise, the evidence of science
is
opposed to the in
fallibility of the Bible. This evidence may be summed up in
the words of Professor Huxley, who said that the order of
generation as demonstrated by geology cannot be harmonized
with the process of creation as told in Genesis, even though
the seven days of creation be considered as seven indefinite
periods of time.
"But the greatest of all testimony against the superhuman
origin and authority of the Bible
is
the history of the evolu
tion of the book itself and the formation of the canon. The
canon
is
those books which constitute the Bible.
"The Old Testament
is
a
collection of thirty-nine books,
written by various authors during
a
period of about one thou
sand years. The Hebrews divided
it
into three divisions. The
first division was called The Law.
It
consisted of the first five
books of the Bible. These five books contain the early tradi
IOO GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
tions, history and the laws of the Hebrew people up to about
1400 B.C.
"The second division of the Old Testament they called The
Prophets. It included twenty-three books. Generally speaking,
these twenty-three books are the records of the traditions,
history, and customs of the Hebrew people from where The
Law leaves off, or from about 1400 B.C., to about 400 b.c.
"The third group of the Hebrew Scriptures was called The
Writings. It consisted of eleven books of a varied character,
such as Psalms, Proverbs, Job, Daniel, Esther and others. The
Jews held The Law in high esteem. It was regarded by them
as more sacred and authoritative than The Prophets, while
The Prophets were held as more sacred than The Writings.
In fact, The Writings can hardly be said to have been re
garded as sacred at all.
"Before the Babylonian captivity, the Hebrews appear to
have had little knowledge or reverence for those records
which later came to be regarded as sacred. Just what part
of them were in existence at that time is not agreed upon by
Bible scholars. It is generally conceded, however, that at least
the Ten Commandments and perhaps a part of Deuteronomy
were written and were in the hands of the priests. When the
people returned from the Babylonian captivity about 536 B.C.
and began to build again their temples and renew their national
life, a new reverence for ancient traditions and laws seems
to have been kindled among them.
"In the fifth century b.c, Ezra, the scribe, and Nehemiah
came from Babylon to Jerusalem and brought with them a
certain Book of The Law. This book was doubtless substan
tially the same as we know it today. When, where and by
whom it was written is unknown. That it was not written by
Moses, to whom it is generally attributed, is conceded by
most Bible scholars.
"About 444 b.c, Ezra and Nehemiah called the people to
gether and read to them this new Book of The Law and bound
the people by a solemn covenant to accept and henceforth
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER IOI
obey it. The Encyclopedia Biblica, which represents the con
sensus of opinion of Bible scholarship, says this event took
place somewhat earlier than 400 B.C. and that by 400 b.c. the
canonization of The Law was completed.
"Dr. Davidson, who was probably the greatest authority on
this subject, says that the public authority which Ezra con
ferred upon The Law was the first step in the formation of
the Bible canon. In other words, about 400 B.C., the people
under the direction of Ezra, had decided that this Book of
The Law was of more than human origin and authority. By
what reason or spiritual insight they came to this conclusion,
we are not informed, but this event marked the beginning of
the Bible.
"At this date most of the other books of the Old Testament
were in existence, but they had not yet been gathered to
gether, nor were they then regarded as other than human
documents. With a sacred book or Bible once adopted, it was
but a matter of time until other writings were also adopted
as sacred. By about 200 b.c. the twenty-three books which are
grouped together as The Prophets, were accepted as sacred by
the Jews and were added to the canon. During the next
century, or by about 100 b.c, the third division of the Old
Testament, called The Writings, was also canonized and so
became a part of the sacred writings, or the Word of God.
"After the canonization of The Law, there was a complete
and final estrangement between the Jews and the Samaritans.
So, while both of these people accepted The Law as the Word
of God, the Samaritans never accepted The Prophets or The
Writings, which the Jews later added to the canon of the
Scriptures. The Sadducees, too, are said to have accepted only
The Law, though positive evidence of this is wanting.
"These additions to the Scriptures were not made by the
unanimous consent of the Jews. Some of these books were re
garded by many of the Palestine Jews as sacred, but their
right to this distinction was hotly disputed by others. On
this subject, the scholarly Professor Davidson says: 'The canon
102 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
(of the Old Testament) was not considered to be closed in
the first century before, and the first century after Christ.
There were doubts about some portions. The Book of Ezekiel
gave offense because some of the statements seemed to contra
dict The Law. Doubts about some of the others were of a more
serious nature— about Ecclesiastes, the Song of Solomon, Esther
and Proverbs. The first were impugned because it had contra
dictory passages and a heretical tendency; the second, because
of its worldliness and sensual tone; Esther, for its want of re
ligiousness; and Proverbs on account of its inconsistencies.'
"It was not until about 90 a.d. that a Jewish synod finally
decreed that The Writings were the Word of God. They were
accepted then, not unanimously, but by a majority vote.
"Practically all the Old Testament was originally in the
Hebrew language, a language which for centuries had been
falling into disuse. At the time of Jesus, Aramaic was the
language of the masses and Greek the language of the edu
cated. Naturally, there was a demand for the Hebrew Scrip
tures in the Greek language. By the second century b.c. they
were translated, probably by some of the Alexandrian Jews.
To this Greek translation there were added fourteen other
books and supplements by the translators. These additions
were originally written in Greek and were not accepted as
sacred by most of the Palestine Jews, although they were thus
regarded by the translators.
"This Greek translation, which was called the Septuagint,
was the version most in use during the time of Jesus and was
doubtless the text from which he and his disciples quoted.
"Thus, at the time of Jesus, there were three different sacred
Scriptures: 1.— The Samaritan Scriptures, consisting only of
The Law; 2.—The Hebrew Scriptures, consisting of The Law,
the Prophets and The Writings; and 3.—The Greek version of
the Hebrew Scriptures, consisting of The Law, the Prophets,
The Writings and fourteen other books and supplements.
"The history of the twenty-seven books that constitute the
New Testament is somewhat more definite than that of the
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER IO3
Old Testament. After the death of Jesus, certain documents
began to appear among the Christians. The first of these were
letters or epistles written by Paul to some of the churches
which he had organized and which needed his encouragement
and advice. Later other letters or epistles by other early
Christian writers came into circulation. Still later, various
gospels or short sketches of the life of Jesus and his disciples
were written.
"These early writings were very numerous. During the first
two centuries a.d. more than forty gospels were in use and a
much larger number of acts, epistles and revelations. We have
records of more than one hundred and thirty of these, many
of which were regarded as sacred in the early church. Some
were in the hands of one bishop or church and some were
in the possession of another.
"From this great number probably running into the hun
dreds, the twenty-seven books which now form the New
Testament were selected. This process of selection was slow
and occasioned much difference of opinion and not a little
hard feeling.
"The final collection of these writings of which we have a
record was made by one Marcion, a heretic, about 145 a.d.
His canon consisted of ten of the Epistles of Paul and one
gospel or story of Jesus. This gospel was not one of the Four
Gospels as we know them. I have already explained where
they came from.
"It was said by one of olden times: 'Prove all things; hold
fast that which is good.' This bit of good advice is no less
appropriate now than it was nineteen hundred years ago when
Paul, its reputed author, addressed it to the Thessalonians. Had
he told us by what process we should 'prove all things', by
what means we are to know what 'is good', what a lot of bad
mistakes his followers might have avoided. Perhaps he did
not think it necessary to give explicit directions as to so simple
a proposition. Perhaps he thought that all rational beings
would know that to prove anything requires the exercise of
104 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
their reason, that faculty which entitles them to be called
rational.
"Simple as seems the proposition that we should investigate
or prove all things by the process of reasoning and that we
should accept, believe or hold fast only that which to us seems
good or true, yet there are many who in laying the founda
tion for their belief would assign to this faculty of the human
mind a role of only secondary importance. Especially is this
true in religion in which many would place authority above
reason, forgetting that without reason there can be no au
thority.
"One who would found his beliefs on authority must first
determine what to him shall be authority. To do this, he must
exercise his reason. If the authority to be followed be a re
ligious one, then he must choose between the Christian Bible,
the Mohammedan Koran, the Buddhist Tripitaka, the Brah
man Vedas and other so-called books or authorities. To
'prove' these authorities and determine to which one he will
'hold fast' he must depend upon his reason. He may con
sciously or unconsciously reason that his ancestors, his friends
and his countrymen have for generations accepted the Bible as
authority and, therefore, that it must be the authority. Or he
may carefully read, study and compare all these sacred books
and then, by a more complex process of reasoning, may de
cide to accept the Bible or some other book; or he may reject
all of them.
"If he should accept the Bible as authority, then by further
reasoning, he must determine which of the various versions
of the book he will follow. In the same way, he must decide
if this authority is fallible or infallible; whether it is an au
thority on all subjects, or only on certain subjects. By some
process of reasoning, he must reconcile or explain away all the
apparent contradictions in this authoritative book; and by
reasoning he must determine the meaning of every sentence
in the book.
"Back of every decision, back of every belief is some kind
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
of reasoning, either conscious or unconscious, simple or com
plex, logical or illogical. No authority can be authority to
anyone until it has been accepted as such by that higher
authority, his reason—that authority which to each individual
is superior to all others. However crude, imperfect or un
reliable that higher authority may be, it is always the court
of last resort.
"As has been so ably pointed out by others, if a superhuman
revelation has ever really been given to man, it could be such
a revelation only to those who were the direct recipients of
it. To all others it is merely a human revelation, a matter of
human testimony. If gods or angels really did talk to Mo
hammed, their message was a superhuman revelation only to
him. To all others it is but a human revelation from Moham
med. The truth or falsity of this revelation, each person must
determine for himself by using his reason.
"When it is claimed that any person whomsoever is or has
been in more direct communication with the Infinite than
that possible to ordinary mortals, and when it is claimed that
such person has received a revelation from such source, the
evidence of such claim should be examined by each indi
vidual in the light of reason, and by that light must each
determine for himself if he will or will not accept the claim
as true. It matters not if the claimant be a Moses or a Mo
hammed, a Joshua or a Joseph Smith; the claim of each should
be subjected to the same scrutiny. Only thus can we hope to
learn the truth. Likewise, if we assume to have unusual or
more direct influence with the Supreme Ruler than that pos
sessed by humanity in general, these claims, too, must be
judged in the light of reason. It matters not if the claimant
be a fortune-telling mendicant, who for the price of a meal
will agree to change the decrees of fate, or if he be an infallible
pope, who, for other considerations, will presume to influence
the destiny of the soul of man; all such claims must be tried
alike before the bar of reason.
"Even beliefs that are founded on the testimony of others
io6 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
are really based on reason; for we must always use our reason
to determine the value of testimony. Hence, in the last anal
ysis, belief is always based on reason. A belief based on
insufficient or illogical reasoning we call prejudice or credu
lity. One based on unconscious reasoning by a specialized
process we call instinct. When we can demonstrate a belief to
be true, then it becomes knowledge or human experience.
"As rational beings, we may be justified in believing or
accepting as true certain theories which as yet we cannot
demonstrate. Reasoning from the things we know, or from
those we think we know, we may come to believe that there
is that in man which survives after the change we call death—
a something we call the soul. We can not demonstrate this to
be true and thus class it with facts, but as the belief does not
contradict human experience or knowledge, we are justified
in holding such belief if it does no violence to our reason.
"Naturally, human beliefs will vary much, because human
ability to reason logically varies much and because the premises
from which we start vary much. But as unreliable as is human
reason, and as uncertain as are the beliefs it leads us to, it is
the only evidence we have of those things of which we cannot
know. When we stray from the beaten path of knowledge,
reason is our safest guide; on the shoreless ocean of specula
tion, reason is our surest compass.
"How irrational then must be any belief based on authority.
How unjust any creed which would make reason subservient
to revelation. How absurd any plan of salvation which de
mands of all human beings a definite and uniform belief about
things unknown and unknowable.
"Imagine, if possible, an all-wise, all-just God creating man,
endowing him with reason to guide him, and then damning
him because that reason led him astray. If we must use our
reason whether we will or not, and if reason is our safest guide
in dealing with the unknown, why try to lay it aside? Why
not follow where it leads, especially in dealing with such
important subjects as God, the Bible, and religion?
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"In the light of reason, let us examine the foundation of our
faith. Let us 'prove' our beliefs and 'hold fast' only that which
is good— that which will stand the test of reason or experience.
Let us follow this heavenly light through, although it leads
us away from the flesh-pots of contentment, through the dead
sea of our cherished hopes, over the arid desert of disappoint
ment. Aye, let us follow though our friends forsake us and
our enemies make war upon us, and though famines of doubt
and pestilences of despair make us to grow sick at heart,
carefully, cheerfully, let us follow the light of reason, for
only thus may we hope to reach the promised land of truth."
It was well past midnight when Bannister and Bowers re
tired for the night. Once a conversation started, Bannister
hated to leave it until he had completely made his point.
In Dr. Bowers he had a listener to whom he could unburden
his soul, for Bowers and Bannister were very close to each
other.
Finally, the lights in the cabin were extinguished. Sleep
came to the two tired fishermen, a sleep undisturbed by
dreams, for both were beautifully, naturally tired.
CHAPTER SEVEN
After enjoying a restful night's sleep such as only the fresh
thin air of Rocky Point can bring, Bannister and Bowers were
awakened next morning by the ringing of the breakfast bell.
This bell, hanging outside the kitchen at the north end of the
long dining room, was formerly used on one of the logging
locomotives which used to zig-zag up and down Pelican
Mountain when the Pelican Bay Logging Company of Kla
math Falls was logging off that mountain.
A shave, shower and a hasty dress, and the two San Fran
cisco fishermen were in the dining room eating a breakfast
which consisted of orange juice, ham and eggs, hot cakes and
coffee, as only Winnie, the cook, could make them. Not satis
fied with two helpings, our friends sent the hot cake plates
back to the kitchen three times. Such is the effect of Rocky
Point on the appetite.
Dr. Bowers had asked for the use of the Cadillac, with Rube.
The Professor of Organ at the Overland Conservatory was
giving a recital in the Civic Auditorium in Portland and
Bowers was anxious to see and hear his old instructor once
more.
Howard Bannister readily loaned the car and the chauffeur
and decided to spend the day in quiet thought at the Point.
Bannister had important decisions to make. He was about
to throw over the teachings of a lifetime. He was about to
deny the very fundamentals of the Christian religion, and,
indeed, other systems of religion. He was sure of his ground
or he would not have made the choice he had made. For the
choice was already made.
Yet he wanted to be alone with himself and his Creator.
He wanted to think. Surely, in such indescribably beautiful
108
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
surroundings God would speak to him. Surely here, of all
places, the Spirit of God could and would commune with
the spirit of Howard Bannister, showing him very plainly the
way to take. Yet he felt that he wanted to talk to someone.
He wanted to confide in someone who knew and understood
him.
With Bowers away to Portland, he was wondering if there
was not someone else with whom he could discuss the perti
nent and epoch-making step he had decided to take. Whom
could he get?
The question answered itself.
After Dr. Bowers and Rube had left the Point for the Dallas-
California Highway and Portland, Art came to the cabin with
the suggestion that his brother-in-law and he go out on the
lake for an hour or so.
"Don't want to fish," said Art, "just want to talk a bit with
you, and 'Seahorse around'," as he put it.
"Nothing I would like better, Art— you and I have had
some good old talks on this lake, haven't we?"
"We sure have, Howard, and I don't get a chance to see you
or Pearl only when you come up here and you didn't bring
her this year, did you?"
"No. Sort of wanted to be alone to do a lot of thinking
and a bit of fishing, Art."
"When do you want to go, Howard? I have to fill the gas
tank at the electric plant and then I'll be ready any time."
The electric light system at Rocky Point is run by a gaso
line engine. When a switch anywhere in the system is turned
on, it automatically starts the generator. When the last switch
is turned off at night, the generator stops. An automatic affair.
"Go ahead and fill the tank, Art. I'll be waiting for you
on the dock. Maybe you'd better take the tackle along— might
get a notion to fish."
"Okay, Bannie. I'll be there pronto."
Walking to the Post Office to get whatever mail there might
be there, Bannister found three letters awaiting him. One was
I IO GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
from Mrs. Bannister, another from little Marge and the third
was from a clipping bureau he subscribed to. Sort of liked to
keep abreast of the times in the field of religion.
Then he made his way down the rickety walk to the dock
where the ever-faithful Nels had the motor of the kicker
turning over.
"Well, you lost your Norwegian pardner, Nels. How are
you going to get along without a Norwegian around?" said
Bannister.
"Veil— Ay got you round yet, Howard. Ay tank you make
purty good Norweyian yerself— only ting Ay don't lak about
you is you don'd drink whiskey."
"Well, Nels . . . even if I did, I wouldn't have much chance
with you round here, would I?"
"Not ef Ay got to 'em first, you vouldn't."
"Nels, you're hopeless," said Bannister.
"You not take your line and plugs with you, Doc? You
not going to catch some fiss?"
"Not today, Nels. Art and I are just going to drift around
the Lake and take in the scenery. Art is bringing some tackle
down, though. If a fish comes too close we might take a
notion to snag him."
"Done purty good sence you come up this time, Doc. Looks
lak vind him come up—maybe not— see dem clouds over dere—
dot look like vind— but maybe not."
Art finally arrived and the couple swung away from the
dock. Nels' foot gave them the initial shove.
"Which way, Howard?"
"Don't care, Art. Anywhere you want to go. I'll do the
steering and you be the engineer."
"What about Odessa Creek, Howard? It's beautiful this
early in the year."
"Okay, Art. I think Odessa Creek is absolutely the most
beautiful spot in these United States, bar none."
"Well, I knew it was a favorite of yours. That's the reason
I suggested it."
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER III
"Okay, big boy. Odessa Creek it is," said Bannister, swing
ing the boat's nose in the direction of the creek.
Odessa Creek really is beautiful. It was used by the Pelican
Bay Company years ago to float logs down to the main part
of Klamath Lake, but Pelican Mountain has been logged off
and the creek has not been used for logging for almost twenty
years.
Odessa Creek is about two miles long and say fifty feet wide.
Weeping willows line every foot of the banks on each side.
Bird life in such profusion that it is impossible to name the
different kinds of birds, which make their habitat up Odessa
Creek. Shrieking kern, hundreds of shitespokes, eagrets, peli
cans, seagulls, wild geese— these, and hundreds of other species
of wild life flood the entire creek with a melody of song
heard no other place in America.
There are no words in any man's vocabulary which can
adequately describe the sheer natural beauty of that entire
area. It is a United States Government game preserve and
fishing is the only sport allowed. In the fall, however, wild
geese and ducks may be legally hunted in season. Just a
beautiful spot. It shows what God Almighty can do if left
alone without man to interfere.
It takes perhaps an hour to reach the creek from Rocky
Point and not a word was spoken by either Art or Bannister
on that trip to the mouth of the creek, for Art is just as great
a nature-lover as his brother-in-law. They both drank in the
glory of that morning.
At last the mouth of the creek was reached and Bannister
steered the boat into it. As they slowly headed into the creek,
a trout, about a six-pounder, threw himself clear of the water.
"See that fellow?" asked Art. "Maybe we better get the
line out."
"Oh, let's not fish, Art. Let's just take in nature. Suppose
we go up as far as the old skidway, tie up the boat and sit
under the willows on the bank? How about that—does it appeal
to you?"
112 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"Sure does, boy. I get doggoned tired of selling bread, beer
and Coca-cola all day long and listening to a lot of lies about
fishing. Seems good, Howard, to get away from it all every
once in a while."
"It's always good to get away alone, Art, regardless of what
one's work is. When one is alone, he can at least absorb his own
thoughts without the thoughts of others being intruded. And,
you know, Art, if we can get alone with our thoughts reg
ularly, and if we can be in earnest, those thoughts of ours
invariably will lead us to the Author of all thought. I'm not
preaching to you. You know me better than that. But I'm
talking common sense. The trouble with this world today is
that man has not yet learned the secret of thinking God out."
"He hasn't learned the secret of thinking anything out,
Howard— it's all bluff—life is a great big bluff. The one who
can get the advantage over the other fellow—well, he's the
smart guy— ain't that so?"
"That may have been life, Art, but it is not going to be life
from now on. This world is standing on the verge of the most
momentous religious discovery it has ever made."
By this time the pair had reached the old skidway where
they tied up the little green flat-bottomed fishing boat. Then,
spreading their handkerchiefs on the ground under them,
they sat down.
"What did you mean, Howard, by that statement that the
world is on the verge of making the greatest discovery it has
ever made? What discovery do you mean?"
"Well, I mean this, Art— I mean that this world is finally
going to find out exactly who and what God is. Not only
that, it is going to find out where God
is,
which
is
much more
important— don't you think?"
"I don't quite get you Howard. Do you mean that there's
going to be
a
big church revival?"
"No. Far from that, Art. There
is
going to be the greatest
spiritual awakening this world has ever known—but
it
cannot
be
a
church revival."
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER "3
"How come? Isn't the church the only organization that
is supposed to know anything about God?"
"That is what the churches claim, Art. But the staggering
thing about this spiritual awakening is the fact that it will
come to this world, not through believing anything the
churches teach, but by denying most everything they have
taught. In other words, the world has looked to the church
for the truths of God. It has not been given those truths.
And the reason it has not been given those truths is because
no church on the face of the earth knows what the truths of
God really are. Not a single one of them."
"You mean to say that all this dope the churches put out
about Jesus Christ and the Virgin Mary and Heaven and Hell
and the crucifixion and the resurrection are not true? You
mean that God cannot be revealed to man through that stuff?"
"That's
it,
Art. And for that reason the spiritual illumina
tion this world
is
shortly to see will be such
a
shock to what
calls itself religion that
it
will hide its head in shame at the
senseless, impotent theories
it
has attributed to Almighty
God."
"Well, that
is
something! But, Howard,
if
God
is
not
known to the churches and
if
this dope they have been hand
ing out
is
not true, and no one believes
it
is,
where will God
be found and what sort of
a
demonstration
is
this world
about to witness?"
"You'll probably read about that in the papers, Art, after
I
have returned to San Francisco. I'm staking my reputation
on the existence of the Great Spirit— God—entirely outside of
what religion teaches. I'll stake my very life on that. Yes, I'll
go farther than that—I'll give to this world such
a
demonstra
tion of spiritual Power that the world will never again believe
what any church teaches. Either the churches will throw away
their traditions and their superstitions and find God, or they
will be wiped out here in America, as Hitler has wiped them
out in Europe."
"You figure Hitler can come over here and take us?"
II4 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"I don't know what Hitler can do, Art, and neither does
anyone else. What his true strength
is,
no one knows. We
know that he has not been stopped yet. It's quite possible
that
if
he succeeds in breaking Great Britain we shall fall, too.
I
shouldn't say that, though, Art. Let me say
it
this way.
Suppose for the sake of argument, Hitler does drop the
British Empire. Suppose England goes down, and suppose,
for the sake of argument only, that he starts his shenanigan
against the United States. And suppose further that he gets
the French fleet, the Russian fleet, the Italian fleet, and sup
pose the little yellow men in the Pacific join hands with him
also. Do you think the United States can beat that com
bination?
"Now don't get me wrong, Art. What
I
am trying to say
is—
it
is
not without the realm of possibility that Hitler and
his allies may take everything in sight. There exists no known
power on this earth in the Christian religion or in any other
religion which can bring him to his knees,
if
Britain and the
United States should be defeated. And
if
no such power exists,
and
it
does not exist, either one of two things must happen.
Either the United States goes down to serfdom like Czecho
slovakia and fourteen other nations have, or else the United
States will have to discover another Power which Americans
can use and against which Adolf Hitler cannot possibly
stand."
"In other words, Howard, you claim that
it
will take the
Power of God to stop Hitler
if
England and America can't
stop him, and you claim that no church and no known religion
can demonstrate the Power of God on the earth—
is
that it?"
"That's exactly
it,
Art."
"I think you're right. As
I
see
it,
preachers are the most
useless parasites in the world today. They mean all right, but
I
just hate to see them come round. They're always begging
for this and begging for that. It's always 'gimme' and
I
hate
to see them come to Rocky Point. Oh—they're not all that way
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER "5
—I have known some damned fine fellows who were preach
ers—but most of them are not worth powder enough to blow
them to hell."
"Well, I wouldn't say that, Art. Suppose you put it this
way . . . suppose you say that they are absolutely honest
when they advocate their theories of God but are quite mis
taken in those theories? Wouldn't that sound better?"
"Put it any way you like— you know what I mean."
"Yes, I know what you mean, Art, and it's a pity that what
you have said is true. Instead of religion being the Power that
can save this world and stop Hitler, religion as we know it is
hiding its head, folding its tent and, like the Arabs, stealing
away from the fight. God is at the very core of this brutal
fight, for it will be the Power of God which will stop Hitler.
I don't believe any other power can. And yet the church,
the very organization which claims to be representing God
is the most impotent thing I have ever seen.
"Take our own Methodist church. I heard a Methodist
preacher say from his pulpit recently— 'We didn't start this
war and we are not going to fight it—if any member of this
congregation wants to get out of military service, let him see
me after the sermon'."
"A guy like that ought to be put in the first line trenches,
Doc."
"I agree with you, Art. If the United States is not worth
fighting for it is not worth living in and if I had my way that
Methodist preacher and every other one like him would be put
on a boat and shipped to Germany. Maybe he'd like that for
a change."
"Well, Howard, what I don't understand is why such a
monster as Hitler should be allowed by God to throw this
world into such a chaos—are you sure there's a God?"
"Yes, I'm very sure, Art. Never was as sure in my life as I
have been since coming here to Rocky Point this year."
"Well, there may be— but I'll be dogged if I see why such
Il6 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
awful sufferings are allowed. What's the matter with God?
Where is God? Why doesn't God make himself known if
there is a God?"
"Art, it takes a crisis to solve many problems. Only when
we are up against a real crisis do we get scared enough to even
think about God. It might very easily be that it has taken
the present crisis to revolutionize religion, or rather what we
have been asked by the church to accept as religion. It may
have been necessary for Hitler to have been allowed to mani
fest his hellish power in order that the truths of God may be
manifested to the world.
"I believe that the manifestation of Adolf Hitler, the very
essence of everything brutal, ghastly and wrong, will make
possible the manifestation of the only Power that can not only
eliminate Hitler and all he stands for, but can bring to the
whole world, at long last, permanent surcease from the horrors
of war and, what is much more important, the actual truth
of who, what and where God really is. This world has never
been free from war. It has never been free from hate. There
has been one economic upset after another. God has never
been known on this earth in spite of the fact that there are
eleven major systems of religion operating on the earth. Let's
look at those systems of religion for a minute, Art, shall we?"
"Go right ahead, boy. I feel I'm fortunate to get a couple
of hours alone with you, Howard."
"Well, Art, don't look to me for too much. As Howard
Bannister, I don't amount to a thing. But as Howard Bannister,
plus the Power of the Spirit of God, I can do a whole lot
towards bringing to this world the true manifestation of the
true God."
"If anyone can, you can, Howard. What were you going
to say about there being eleven systems of religion?"
"Oh yes. Well, here they are, and please try to get the
world picture of religion as it exists, Art. Don't look from the
inside of one religion out, considering the rest all wrong but
yours. If you do, you won't get what I'm driving at. I want
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER II7
to look at religion as a whole as it exists on the earth today."
"Well, Doc, I thought the Christian religion was the only-
true religion— how come there is more than one religion true?"
"There isn't, Art. The words 'Christian religion' mean only
that those who belong to that religion believe that Jesus
Christ was Almighty God. They don't know that he was—
they can't prove that he was, and that's the reason it is called
the Christian 'faith'. It is purely and simply a 'faith' that Jesus
Christ was Almighty God. It's a 'belief that Jesus Christ was
Almighty God—and that's all it is. Of course, every system of
religion believes it is the only true religion. The Christian
religion calls the other ten big religions 'heathen' and they
in turn look upon the Christian religion as a 'heathen' religion.
But, Art— none of them know. Not one of them can prove
the truth of their 'faith' nor can they give a reason for it.
They just simply believe it and the reason they believe it is
because their fathers believed it before them. It's a tradition,
Art.
"Take your family. They're all Masons and Eastern Stars.
That means your parents were Masons. In any event, they
were members of the Christian 'faith'. Now take Jack Fallon.
He was born and raised a Catholic and his people before him
were Catholics. Had Jack been born a Hindoo, he would have
an entirely different 'faith'. He would think that Chrishna was
Almighty God. And so it goes. The one point I want you to
understand is that every system of religion on the earth is
nothing more nor less than a 'faith' or a 'belief that a certain
man was Almighty God.
"As a matter of fact, neither Jesus Christ, nor Buddha, nor
Chrishna, nor Mohammed, nor Prometheus nor any of the rest
of the world's 'crucified gods' actually was God Almighty.
They couldn't have been. For the Creator of this universe is
an invisible powerful creative spirit. At no time has anyone
ever seen God. These old pagans who promoted the Christian
religion and the rest of the religions couldn't just imagine
God being a spiritual, invisible Power. They had to have a
Il8 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
god they could see. And the churches of the early days, to
promote their different systems of religion, told those poor
saps that they would go to hell to roast and frizzle and fry
through all eternity if they didn't believe what their priests
or preachers told them to believe.
"Art, inversely to the remoteness of time has been man's
ascent toward the temple of knowledge. Truth has made its
ingress into the human mind in the ratio by which man has
attained the capacity to receive and appreciate it. Hence, as we
tread back the meandering pathway of human history, every
step in the receding process brings us to a lower plane of
intelligence and a state of mind more thoroughly encrusted
with ignorance and superstition. It
is,
therefore, no source of
surprise to learn, when we take
a
survey of the world two
or three thousand years in the past, that every religious writer
of that era committed errors on every subject involving
a
scientific principle which employed his pen.
"Hence, the Bible, or sacred book, to which he was
a
con
tributor,
is
now found to bear the mark of human imperfec
tion. For the temple of knowledge was but partially reared and
its chambers but dimly lighted up. The intellectual brain was
in
a
dark, feeble and dormant condition. Hence, the moral
and religious feelings were drifted about without
a
pilot on
the turbulent waves of superstition and finally stranded on
the shoals of bigotry.
"The Christian Bible, like other bibles, having been written
in an age when science was but budding into life, and phi
losophy had attained but
a
feeble growth, should be expected
to teach many things incompatible with the principles of
modern science. And, accordingly
it
is
found to contain, like
other bibles, numerous statements so obviously at war with
present established scientific truths that almost any schoolboy
at the present day can demonstrate their falsity.
"Now, you're beginning to see,
I
hope, just what
I
am driv
ing at. Every system of religion on the earth today
is
only
a
'belief that
a
certain man, who may or may not have lived,
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 1 1
9
was Almighty God and that every bible is the divinely in
spired Word of God. Now, let me tell you something. Every
one of these human conceptions of God is absolutely and
utterly false. Every last one of them."
"You include the Christian system of religion, too?"
"I mean the Christian religion, too, Art, for had there been
no Hindoo religion there could not have been a Christian re
ligion. The Christian religion is copied, fundamental for
fundamental, from the religion of the Hindoo. That religion
went back and it copied its religion from the old Egyptians.
Why, Art— religions were born in Arabia by the dozen. And
they advocated the craziest things to scare people into believ
ing them. Their bibles are a conglomeration of impossible
theories and traditions which are an insult to God, not a credit
to Him. And now, at this critical moment in world affairs, this
world will have brought to it the actual and literal truths of
God. These truths will blast out of existence every man-made
and every church-made system of religion on the face of the
earth. But— they will disclose Almighty God and His Power
to humanity and when that happens you just watch America
throw the Power of the True Spirit of God against Adolf
Hitler. Boy! He won't last long when this world finds out
who God really is."
"And you think you have the answer to that, Howard?"
"I don't think, Art. I know. I've been watching the Spirit
of God at work in certain lives ever since I went to All Souls
as its pastor. Art— I know."
"By God, Howard, I think you know what you're talking
about. But ain't you going to have a helluva time bucking all
the rest of the churches?"
"Art, I'm not interested in bucking any church or its theo
ries. We are living in perilous times. Unless someone brings
to the world the actual and literal truths of God, then all I
can say is 'God help humanity'. But someone will bring these
truths, Art, and, by the way, I sort of wish these truths had
been given to someone else to bring to the world— I don't
120 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
know whether I'm capable of handling such a stupendous job.
However, if it is my work, I'll do it. You see, Art, it's not
a case of bucking other religions, as you call it. It's a case of
bringing to this world knowledge of the only Power in the
universe which can stop Hitler. If America knew the truths
of God as I shall reveal those truths to the world when I
return to San Francisco, Hitler could be stopped dead in his
tracks without our firing a single shot or shedding the blood
of one American boy. I said that to Doc Bowers the other
day."
"Well, Howard, how is this Power going to be brought to
the earth? Where is it coming from?"
"It isn't going to be brought to the earth, Art, because it's
here already. All I am going to do is to tell men and women
where that Power exists, and I'm going to show them how to
use it.
"Art, that Power has always existed. You can use
it,
and so
can
I.
So can the whole world, for that matter. But religion
has come into the picture with its false theologies of God
and, naturally, the trusting superstitious followers of religion
have believed their priests, preachers and rabbis. They have
taken the false for the true. They have never taken the time
to even investigate the story their churches have brought to
them. They just exhibited what they call
a
'blind faith'. Now
it
turns out that their 'faith' has been placed in
a
wrong god.
Instead of the churches finding out and teaching the truth
about the present existence of the invisible Spirit which
is
God, they have come to the world and told
it
that two thou
sand years ago Almighty God came down from heaven to
die on
a
cross for the sins of the American people, and for
the sins of the whole world, for that matter. But, Art— this
world has been revolving in space much longer than two
thousand years. Men and women have been on this earth
much longer than two thousand years. And the theory of God
Almighty crucified on
a
cross two thousand years ago
is,
or
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 121
should be, an insult to the intelligence of every thinking
American."
"Well, I never believed
it,
Howard. As
a
Mason,
I
believe
in the existence of
a
Supreme Being— you have to believe that,
and any damned fool will admit that. But this Jesus stuff— well,
I've seen too much of those who profess to believe
it
to suit
me.
It
just can't be so, and even
if
it
was so, how come these
churches can't use the Power of Jesus to stop Hitler?"
"That's exactly what I'm driving at. However, take
it
from
me, when the world finds out who and what God really
is,
and when every man and woman discovers the staggering fact
that he or she can literally talk with God and use the Power
of God for anything right he or she can need—Boy!— That's
true religion, Art."
"Well, how about all these other religions, Howard? Will
they find out, too?"
"Of course they will. God
is
a
universal spirit. And every
man, black, white, brown or yellow was made by God. There
fore, every man on the face of the earth
is
capable of recogniz
ing God here and now because God lives in every one of them.
And in the moment the actual truths of God are brought to
this earth, believe you me— all men—because they are creations
of God, will instantly recognize God when He
is
presented
to the world as He will be very soon. As long as the Christian
claims that Jesus Christ
is
God, and the Hindoo claims that
Chrishna
is
God, and the Mohammedan claims that Mohammed
is
God, the poor befuddled world doesn't know what to be
lieve—and
I
don't blame it. But, remember this, Art— the mani
festation of Hitler has made necessary the manifestation of
God."
"Do you think Hitler
is
the cause of this war or the result
of world conditions?"
"That's
a
peach of
a
question, Art. Hitler
is
not the cause
of this world calamity— he
is
the direct result of world con
ditions. Hitler knows no god other than the god of military
122 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
might. And the reason Hitler knows no god is because no
religious organization on the face of the earth has been able
to demonstrate the Power of God. Therefore, listening to
what all religions have to say, Hitler sees the fallacy and use-
lessness of their theories and he makes the fatal mistake of
thinking that just because the god of the churches is impotent,
there is no other God. But that's where he is fooling himself.
No, Art, this world calamity is the most perfectly natural
thing I know. It's a perfect example of how far wrong the
world can go without God. And, in spite of false notions of
God—I might add that."
"Then you mean to say, Howard, that when the world rec
ognizes the present existence of an invisible Spiritual Power
which is God, it will be able to down Hitler's supposedly im
pregnable military might by using this invisible Power which
is God, against him?"
"That's exactly what I mean. You are beginning to see
what I am talking about."
"Well, it looks like to me there certainly should be such a
Power, but how do you explain the fact that the churches
have missed it all these years?"
"Well, Art, they missed it because the church leaders are
more interested in spreading their religions than they are in
discovering the truths of God. They are all failing, yet they
will not face the facts. The Christian church, for instance, will
hang on to the exploded fable of Jesus Christ, even if it leads
it down to its doom, which it is doing at the present moment.
It thinks more of its idol, Jesus, than it does of God. Take
my own denomination— the Methodist. All the Methodist
church is interested in is in spreading the doctrines of Meth
odism. All the Methodist churches are failing in that. But God?
—well, did not the old church fathers ages ago decide that
Jesus Christ was God—why change now? And so I say that
the Christian religion will hang on to its old unprovable falla
cies and theories of God—until it sees that the true God is not
manifesting in the church, but is manifesting in the lives of
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER "3
all who recognize that Great Presence, and this without
church affiliation of any kind."
"Tell me something about these other big religions— how
came they to be in existence?"
"Okay, Art. Let's take a look at them. It will help you to
get the picture of the muddled, confused condition of religion
as a whole in the world today. And it isn't a very nice picture.
It will, however, prove to you the truth of what I have been
saying to you."
"Just a minute, Howard. There's one question I want to ask
you before you tell me about those big systems of religion.
What do you think of prayer? Don't you suppose that if there
is a God, and I admit there
is,
well— that God can answer
the prayers of the people and stop this war that way?"
"I'm glad you asked that, Art. I'm asked that question in my
radio mail more often than
I
am asked any other question.
The idea of God answering prayer
is
an old one. It's part of
the old system of religion out of which the Christian religion
sprang.
It
has no basis in fact.
It
is
not scientific and
if
Chris
tians are expecting God to stop this war through prayer, they
are doomed to disappointment. For two thousand years Chris
tians have been praying by the millions. For three thousand
five hundred years Hindoos have been praying by the mil
lions—more millions than the Christians have. And every other
system of religion which has separated God from man and
put Him in the sky or some other place, has been praying for
this, that, and the other thing.
"It will take more than praying to stop this war. The idea
of prayer
is
not logical.
It
is
a
pagan idea. You see, Art— God
is
above the sky— He's everywhere but where he ought to be.
No one knows who or what God
is,
nor does anyone know
where God
is,
except— 'above the sky'. Now of what earthly
use
is
it
to pray to an unknown god, located heaven knows
where and whose power
is
an absolutely unknown quantity
on this earth? Just as long as systems of religion pray, and
ask their followers to pray, they are manifesting evidence that
I24 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
they do not have the slightest idea of who they are praying
to, where their 'god' is and how the results, if any, of those
prayers can reach the earth.
"Hitler cannot and will not be stopped by prayer. Nor has
prayer ever accomplished anything worth while on this earth.
Sometimes the attitude of prayer automatically throws the
existing Power of God into play— but that is never consciously
done. No system of religion on the face of this earth knows
how to intelligently direct the Power of God against undesira
ble conditions, whether personal or national. And that is the
only way this war will be stopped. Christians and others will
have to first learn the truth of who, what and where God is.
Then, that truth learned, there must be a willing, conscious
effort to direct that Great Spirit of Power which is God
against the things which are devastating this earth and blasting
millions of human lives into eternity. To pray as churches pray
today is a mockery of God. It is a stench in the nostrils of
God. In the first place it admits that we are powerless our
selves. In the second place it admits that 'our Father is in
Heaven' wherever that mythical place may be. In the third
place, it is an absolute admission that we are believing in an
unknown God, and that in turn means that we don't know
what we are believing or why we are believing at all.
"No, Art, our whole conception of God has to be changed.
We shall have to get God out of the sky and get Him down
here on earth where He belongs, if Hitler is to be stopped and
if peace, love, happiness, freedom and joy are to be restored
to this earth again. These things never really have existed, Art,
as you know. And the reason they have not existed is because
the actual truths plus the Power of the Spirit of God have
never been taught on this earth by any religious organization.
If they had been, how long do you think Hitler would have
been able to last against the absolute Power that created this
universe and Hitler, too? Don't you see what that mad-man
is doing? He is attempting to become a greater power than
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER "5
the Power which created him. And he can never do that,
certainly.
"Art, if there does not exist today, right here on this earth,
and in the lives of men and women, a spiritual Power which,
because it is God, can stop this war, then we are living in a
Godless world. Either there never was a Creator through
whose power and intelligence we live, move and have our
being, or that Creator has taken leave of humanity, leaving it
to shift for itself. That, neither you nor I can admit. If there
does not exist here and now on this earth and within the reach
of man, the Power that is God, then these dictator nations will
win,—for their combined strength is far greater than the com
bined material strength of England and America.
"I will go one step farther than that. I'll make the statement
to you that unless we, here in America, actually discover the
dynamic Power of the Spirit of God, and discover it rapidly,
we all may face annihilation.
"Not a pleasant prospect, but one which may happen. No
man alive can say with certainty that the dictators will not
be able to conquer the democracies. We all hope they don't,
and the Christians pray that they won't—but if they should,
then what? What power will there be left which can liberate
the world from the mad domination of Adolf Hitler? Hitler
will never see the day when he will rule the world. But there
is no known power on earth, today, that can stop him.
"Take note here, Art, I said no 'KNOWN' Power. And it
is for this reason that it has become necessary for some man-
any man—not necessarily I, to come, at long last, to this earth
with the actual and literal Power of the Spirit of God."
"And you believe that the world will recognize that Power
when it has it brought to its attention?"
"Art, if I offered you a thousand dollars as a gift, would
you take it?"
"Try me and see."
"Very well, then. Listen, Art, deep down in your soul, very
deep, perhaps, but there, nevertheless, is a consuming desire
126 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
to know the fullness of the Power of God. You want to be
happy. You want to be free. You want to be amply provided
for. You don't want to be ill. Well, God Almighty, the in
visible Spirit of Creation IS all of those things. And the reason
every normal human being longs for God is because he is part
of God. And, being part of God, all the resources and Power
of the Spirit of God are at his disposal at any hour of the day
or night ... do you see that?"
"Howard, seems to me I'm beginning to see a heck of a lot
since you came to Rocky Point. It seems all so simple, doesn't
it?"
"It is simple, Art. What a pity it is that religion, or what
calls itself religion ever had to come to this earth. It would
have been far better had man never heard of the false teach
ings of all of the eleven systems of religion, than to have had
them lead him so far away from the Truth which is God.
Had these pagan theories of God never been born, this world
automatically would know who and what God
is,
and would
be
a
paradise today. Guess we have to learn by our mistakes,
though. Isn't that it?
"You see, Art, man
is
the greatest thing on this earth. There
isn't too much difference between man and God. Now take
this war—
it
is
a
war of human beings,
is
it
not? But where
can God find human beings through whom He can work to
stop this war? Religions won't allow anyone to believe any
thing about God except what their denominations teach. And
if
it
should be that there
is
none of God in what they teach,
how
is
man ever going to find God? You see what organized
religion has done for this world ...
it
has very effectively
kept God from it.
"No, Art, we have to find some way to actually and literally
throw the Almighty Power of God against the inferior physi
cal power of Adolf Hitler.
It
is
my contention that no religion
on the face of the earth knows how to do that. They can
'pray' and that's all they can do. But, as
I
said before, prayers
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 127
to an unknown God are useless. They only hinder in that
they raise false hopes.
"In this world conquest, one of the two opposing forces will
win. Right or Might. The force of Right is many times more
powerful than the negative, destructive force of wrong. But,
if no one is using the Power of Right against the negative
power of destruction, how can the forces which stand for
God and the Right win?
"Diphtheria antitoxin is a sure cure for diphtheria— if used.
But if it stays in the druggist's ice-box the world around it
could die of diphtheria. It must be used. It must be injected
into the body of the sufferer. The same thing applies to the
Power of God. This world is full of the Power of God now-
only, it has not been used. And I say very earnestly, Art, that
unless the actual and literal Power of the Spirit of God is
deliberately and intelligently used against world despots, they
will win.
"How, then, is the Power of the Spirit of God to be applied
to world conditions? It will not be prayed into existence. All
of the eleven systems of religion on the earth today can stay
on their knees till the crack of doom, and unless they get hp
from those knees and actually use the Power of God, Hitler
will overtake them while they are on their knees.
"God Almighty did not create this universe and then take
His leave of it. He did not ever leave the creation He made.
But, because of man-made systems of theology,— because of
honest, though untrue church teachings, this world has not
known who or what God is.
"Therefore, the world cannot intelligently use the Power
of God until it knows by actual experience what that Power
is and how it operates. Praying can never demonstrate that."
# * »
Shadows from drifting clouds were beginning to fall on
Odessa Creek when Bannister, pulling out his watch, said, "Do
you know what time it is? We've been here nearly three
hours, Art!"
128 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"That means we can't talk about those other ten religions
this afternoon, I take it. We maybe can get together tomorrow
or some time before you leave, Howard."
"Come up to the cabin tonight. Bowers is still in Portland,
and maybe I'll get started on them then."
"Okay, Howard. Say, what do you say if we fish our
way in?"
"Fine. Was going to suggest that, myself."
The two brothers-in-law made their way to the old skidway
where their boat was anchored and, starting the Seahorse, they
made their way slowly out of Odessa Creek into the lake
proper. Lines were reeled out, Bannister using an Andy Reeker
and Art Devitt using a Wilson Wobbler.
Before they had gone two hundred yards from the mouth
of the creek, Bannister hooked a dandy. It went on the board
for it was over seven pounds.
Fishermen at Rocky Point have discovered that early in the
morning and late in the afternoon the fish seem to bite better.
During the middle of the day when the sun is shining brightly,
they keep to the bottom in the deep pools and shade. This is
not always so, however.
Then Art snagged one. A five-pounder which put up the
fight of a twenty-pounder.
Bannister connected with another one and still another one.
So Art changed his lure to a plug, but that did not work any
better than the Wilson Wobbler.
When they reached the Point, Nels was awaiting them.
"How many fiss did you get, Howard?"
Pulling four nice ones out of the fish compartment and
throwing them on the dock, Art said, "Not bad, Nels, for
one hour's fishing."
"Fort Klamath is calling for Dr. Bannister— Oakland on the
line."
Making his way to the little store, Bannister called Fort
Klamath. It was his assistant, Dr. Alan Fordyce, on the line.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER I29
He wanted to know whether Bannister would be back to
preach the Easter sermons, or should he take them, for next
Sunday was Easter Sunday— a big day in All Souls. Bannister
informed Fordyce that he was having a fine time fishing, but
would be back in time to preach twice on Easter Sunday.
"And, by the way, Alan, make the ads in the newspapers
three times their usual size and announce the subject promi
nently. Here it is: 'DID JESUS CHRIST RISE FROM THE
DEAD?' Have you got that?"
Dr. Fordyce assured Bannister that he had.
"Better call Doc Williams, of the Chronicle and the other
religious editors and have them give us a good bit of space—
the sermons next Sunday will make history, Alan."
This little chore out of the way, Art and Bannister drove
into Klamath Falls after eating lunch at the Point. The drive
into the Falls, although very dusty, was very beautiful. Art
had a COPCO Ford which was a "Leaping-Lena" if ever
there was one.
However, they arrived— as Fords usually do.
Barney greeted them as they drove in and inquired about
the 'fissing', as Nels called it. A Swede can't say 'fishing'.
"Got some beans ready, Hazel?" jokingly asked Bannister.
He liked to kid his sister-in-law about her cooking. Really
she is a good cook, but it had so happened that the last few
times Bannister had called on them Hazel had been quite
busy and had dished up a mess of beans, which, incidentally,
Bannister hated.
"Oh—you and your beans! I've got some nice cold chicken
in the ice-box if you want that."
"Who cooked it?"
"Barney cooked
it,
of course."
"Okay. Maybe
a
litde later I'll take
a
drum-stick—that
is,
if
you're sure you didn't cook it."
Disappearing into the house, Hazel soon returned with
a
plate of cold chicken and some slices of bread and butter
I30 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
which she placed on a table under an apple tree in the yard
in front of the house. Art, Barney, Hazel and Bannister
gathered round and began to nibble on the chicken.
"Doggone, Howard— you sure look cute in those high boots,
red flannel shirt and Stetson hat— having a pretty good time,
at that, though. But you sure don't look like the famous Dr.
Bannister," said Barney.
"Well, I'm not the famous Dr. Bannister, Barney. There's
nothing very famous about me. Whatever reputation I may
have has come to me— certainly I never went after
it,
and,
anyway,
a
reputation gained as
a
preacher
is
a
somewhat ques
tionable honor. A preacher
is
a
man who
is
supposed to lead
men and women to God— and that's something I've never been
able to do."
"Isn't that business of leading men and women to God rather
old-fashioned, Howard?" asked Hazel.
"Yes.
I
suppose
it
is," Bannister replied after
a
few moments
of thought. "But
it
shouldn't be, should it?"
"No,
it
shouldn't be. But who
is
there that knows anything
about God these days?" returned Hazel.
"That's the pity of
it
all, Hazel. That's the pity of
it
all.
Here on this earth there are one billion and
a
half human
beings who belong to some system of religion or other. Think
of that—one and
a
half billion people. There are eleven differ
ent major systems of religion of which this billion and
a
half
are members. And yet— there
is
not
a
single preacher, priest
or rabbi in that entire billion and
a
half who can prove that
there
is
a
God at all. And yet— here on this earth there exists
the Power which
is
God to such
a
degree that this invisible
Power
is
able to bring peace to the warring nations almost
instantaneously."
Art leaned forward in his chair.
"Is
it
your contention, Howard, that none of these systems
of religion know anything about God?"
"Remember what
I
told you this afternoon up Odessa
Creek?"
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"Yes, I'll never forget that. But what puzzles me is how all
these different systems of religion with their billion and a half
members came to be, if none of them know God."
"Well, do you know of anyone in your large circle of
friends who can say truthfully that he actually knows who
God
is,
what God
is,
or where God is? These millions of peo
ple want to know God. That's the reason they embrace re
ligion. But no religion on earth can disclose God to them."
"Not me, Howard. And
I
don't believe Barney or anyone
else does. Why, to say that
a
man actually and literally knows
God
is
something I've never heard before."
"Exactly. And in spite of the fact that there are eleven
major systems of religion operating on the earth today, let me
repeat what
I
just said— there
is
not
a
single soul among them
all who knows the first thing about God. Of course, these
eleven systems of religion are only 'beliefs' about God. They
cannot all be true for they are all different. Either one
is
true
and the rest false, or they are all false. The funny thing about
it
is
that each one of them claims to be the only true religion
and the rest all are false."
"How about running over that list, Howard?"
"Okay. And mind you, I'm only talking about living re
ligions now. There have been
a
couple of score more that
died
a
natural death just like this eleven will die
if
they don't
get busy and find God."
"If you ask me, all religion
is
a
graft," said Hazel.
"No,
I
don't think that, Hazel.
I
don't agree with you at
all. The trouble with religion
is
that the leaders of
it
are not
honest with the people. These leaders admit that they do not
really know anything about God. They admit that their
present theories of God are utterly useless when
it
comes to
an actual demonstration of the Power of God, and yet they
will not come clean with their membership.
"For instance, they will not tell their people that over
thirty-five hundred years ago Hindooism, which now has over
two hundred and fifty million followers, taught that Almighty
132 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
God came down from Heaven to die on a cross for the sins
of the world. They do not tell us that this 'god' was the
second part of a trinity. They do not tell us that this same
Hindoo 'god' was resurrected from the dead after three days
in a tomb. Nor do they tell us that he ascended into Heaven
where he now sits at the right hand of his father— God.
"There are many more things the Christian church does not
tell its members about the religion of the Hindoo. For instance,
they do not tell us that the Hindoo bibles are about fourteen
hundred years older than the Christian Bible, nor do they tell
their members that the story of Jesus Christ, using another
name, was known to these Hindoos fifteen hundred years be
fore either Jesus Christ or the Christian religion were ever
heard of. Do you think that's playing the game?"
"Why of course, it's playing the game— their game," said
Art.
"Yes. Their game. But it is not coming clean with the
citizenship of this nation."
"I think a bit less religion and a lot more honesty might
work better," said Barney.
"I agree with you, Barney. The Christian church might, for
instance, tell the world that besides the Hindoo god, Brahma,
fifteen hundred years before the supposed time of Christ, God
Almighty again sent his only begotten son, Buddha, into the
world 'that whosoever believeth on him might not perish but
have eternal life', as the Buddhist claims— and that was three
thousand five hundred years ago. This 'god' was born of a
virgin, also. Like Brahma, he was the second person of a sup
posed 'trinity of gods' exactly as Jesus Christ was the second
person of another 'trinity of gods'.
"Brahma, and Buddha both were crucified on a cross for the
sins of the world. They both were God's only begotten sons.
They both were, according to their respective religions, resur
rected from the tomb, and they both ascended into heaven
where, with Jesus of the Christian religion, they are, we are
told, sitting at the right hand of God. Soon, the followers
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER J33
of all three of these 'crucified gods' tell us, they will return
and smite the enemies of God.
"There may be some confusion, however, if they all take
a notion to come back at the same time. There would be about
thirty in all.
"That, however, is not all. For twelve hundred years before
the supposed time of Christ we find another system of religion.
This time it is Judaism. Its 'god' is Jehovah, which 'god', by
the way, is the God of the Christian. Yet Jehovah was the
Jewish god twelve hundred years before Christ's time. That
is four different systems of living religions.
"By the way, Buddhism has one hundred and fifty million
followers and Brahminism has two hundred and twenty-five
million followers. That is a lot of human beings for the Chris
tian God to cast into hell for not believing on Jesus Christ,
especially when they didn't have a chance to believe on him
for the simple reason that he wasn't born then.
"You see, folks, every religion condemns the rest of the
world to hell. If it doesn't believe what they ask it to believe,
well, there just simply is no hope for the world. With all
these varied gods and claims of divinity, no wonder a mud
dled world has turned completely away from religion and is
seeking for the truths of God elsewhere.
"In Japan we have another system of religion. It has eight
een million adherents and its 'bible' is called, Ko-ji-ki. Like
Christianity, this religion is a divinely inspired religion. God
spoke to the world through it. All other systems of religion
are false and they who believe in them are lost, of course.
This system of religion came into existence twelve hundred
years before Christ was ever heard of.
"Then six hundred and sixty years before the time of Chris
tianity, there came Zoroastrianism. Its God is called Ahura
and its bible is the Avesta. Almighty God saw fit to send His
son down to earth to save it from sin, and bring eternal life
to all who believed. This time the 'only begotten son of
God' was Zoroaster.
134 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"In China there are four hundred and fifty million human
beings— all of them created by the one Great Spirit of God—
and these millions of poor devils have a god called Lao-Tze.
Their bible is the Tao-Teh-King. Their 'god', of course, was
sent from Heaven to earth in the form of a man to save the
poor Chinese from sin.
"But there is another religion in China and this one has two
hundred and fifty million simple trusting followers who be
lieve every word their priests ask them to believe. This system
of religion is Confucianism and Confucius was another di
vinely begotten son of God who came down from Heaven
to save the world from sin.
"Surely, with so many saviours the world cannot, or should
not be lost. It is lost, however, in spite of them all. At the
birth of Confucius holy angels sang songs of praise to Al
mighty God, for there had been born a son whose name was
'Holy Redeemer', 'The Son of God', the 'Saviour of Man
kind'. These good Chinamen, whose number has been deci
mated to the tune of twenty millions by the cruel Japanese,
have a bible. They have many bibles— the Classics. Here we
see millions of Japanese who have a religion which they claim
to be 'the only true religion divinely inspired by God',
brutally murdering millions of innocent Chinese who, too,
have 'the only divinely inspired religion'. Horrible, isn't it?
"Then there is another major system of religion and this
one, by the way, is the fastest growing religion on the face
of the earth. Yet it did not come into existence until six
hundred years AFTER the supposed time of Christ. Its bible
is the Koran and two hundred and fifty million people, all
human beings, all creatures of the one Great Spirit— are trusting
in Mohammed, 'the only begotten son of God', for their
ultimate salvation.
"And so it goes. Eleven of them. All except one before the
time of Christ. All divinely inspired of God—what a blatant
mockery of God all religion is.
"There are several things worth noting in connection with
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 1
35
these pre-Christian systems of religion. We may include the
Christian system, also, by the way.
"The first thing I want you to note is that these religions
are only BELIEFS ABOUT GOD. Each believes that a certain
man was God. And they believe that because the promoters
of those religions, like the promoter of the Christian religion,
told them that Jesus Christ was actually God Almighty in
human form.
"It would be foolish, of course, to believe for one moment
that any of these religions know the first thing about God.
If they knew that, they would not be 'beliefs' about God.
They do not know who God
is,
where God
is
and most cer
tainly none of them can manifest the Power of the Spirit of
God on this earth. Hence, they are man-made theories of God
and 'beliefs' about God. The Christian religion stole every
thing
it
has from the religions of the Hindoo.
"Now all of these systems of religion cannot be true. One
is
true and the rest false, or they are all false. Probably the
latter. Then again, remember this—no one asked these re
ligions to come to this earth with their conceptions of God.
In each case, these religions were promoted by some efficient
religious promoter, and then they were offered to the general
public as having come directly from Heaven. Of course, no
proof of this was given— you either have to believe
it
or be
damned— as the Christian tells us.
"The Christian tells us that 'there
is
none other name given
under heaven whereby we may be saved' but that claim
is
counteracted by other systems of religion which existed on
this earth long before Christianity came and they make the
same claim.
"You see, folks, the weapon most used to propagate these
differing systems of religion was fear—IF YOU DON'T
BELIEVE IN MY GOD YOU LOSE YOUR SOULS-YOU
GO TO HELL AND ONLY OUR GOD CAN GET YOU
OUT OF IT. The Roman Catholic preaches that today. They
all taught
it
and, being ignorant and superstitious people,
i36 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
naturally these old religions, through fear, had quite a follow
ing.
"Many of them still have. But the point I make is this: In
spite of these differing religions with their claims to divinity—
and in spite of all their 'crucified gods', this world is closer
to annihilation today than it ever was. And not one of these
religions, nor their purported 'gods' can lift a finger to help.
That's what I'm saying to you people here under this apple
tree. And the Christian system of religion stands on exactly
the same insecure footing that the rest of them stand on.
"Therefore, none of these systems of religion know God.
None of them have ever brought to this earth the truths of
God. Therefore, GOD ALMIGHTY MUST EXIST EN
TIRELY OUTSIDE OF THE TEACHINGS OF ALL OF
THEM."
"That's pretty good logic, Howard," said Barney. "I think
you have something."
"I believe that it might be interesting if I gave you a rather
detailed description of some more gods, all of which were
crucified long ago . . . long before the Christian religion or its
Christ were every heard of. Would you like me to do that?"
"We sure would—that
is,
if
it
won't weary you, Bannie."
"It won't weary me. I'm after the truth about God, and
I
believe
I
have found it," replied Howard Bannister.
"The first of the sin-atoning gods to come down from
heaven and attempt to save this world from sin, descended
upon the plains of India. His name
is
Jeseus Chrishna, and the
time of his advent was about twelve or thirteen hundred years
before the time of Christ. Now,
I
want you to notice here
the similarity between the name Jesus Christ and the name
Jeseus Chrishna.
I
think
it
is
more than
a
coincidence.
I
think
it
is
much more than
a
coincidence. You see, they both were
supposed to be the Son of Almighty God. They both were
born on the 25th day of December. They both were born
of
a
virgin, called Mary. And the Christian religion contains
every fundamental of the teachings of the religion Chrishna
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 137
founded. So I should say, perhaps, that this fellow was the
most important and the most exalted character of the thirty-
five or forty gods who came down from the mystic realm
beyond the skies to save this world from sin. He led a far
more conspicuous life than Jesus Christ did, and he has today
many more followers. As a matter of fact, he commanded
then, and still commands, the most devout and universal hom
age of any of these many gods.
"I want you to note here that while some of the most in
carnate gods were invested with only a limited measure of
infinite deity, this chap, according to the teachings of the
Hindoo New Testament (the Ramazand) comprehended in
himself a full measure of the godhead bodily. The evidence of
his having been crucified is as conclusive as any other sacri
ficial or sin-atoning god whose name has been immortalized
in history or embalmed as a sacred idol in the memories of
his devout worshippers.
"I want you to remember here that there is much more evi
dence of the actual existence of this god than there ever was
of the existence of Jesus Christ. There are sculptures and
monuments which still exist and which represent Chrishna,
who is called 'The crucified God and Son of God, our Lord
and Saviour, Jeseus Chrishna'. Now here is the same identical
statement made about Jesus Christ, yet this statement concern
ing Chrishna was made fifteen hundred years before Chris
tianity or Christ were ever heard of. I think this god has done
more to convince me of the falsity of the Christian religion
than any of the rest of the crucified gods which came down
from heaven to suffer death upon the cross.
"This god is depicted with holes pierced in his feet and
hands and certainly that is intended to represent the nail holes
made by the act of crucifixion. Then again, there exist more
transcript drawings of this god which show him actually upon
a cross. These pictures are almost an exact duplicate of the
pictures we all have seen representing Jesus Christ, too, as
being killed on a cross. Altogether, about fifteen of these
i38 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
plates are in existence and I have copies of them in my posses
sion. One of these crucifixion pictures is ornamented with a
dove and a serpent and it is interesting to note that these are
both emblems of deity in the Christian Bible.
"Now, Barney, the thing I want to know and the question
I would like to drive into the innermost temple of the Chris
tian's conscience with the overwhelming force of the un
conquerable logic of history, is this: 'WHAT DOES ALL
THIS MEAN?' How does it happen that the Hindoo had the
complete story of the crucifixion of Almighty God fifteen
hundred years before Christianity had
it,
the name of each of
these crucified saviours being practically identical?
I
wish
Christianity would only let conviction have its perfect work
while answering this question.
I
wish
I
could destroy the
prejudices of
a
thousand years.
If
I can do that, all Christians
can rejoice in the discovery of an historical truth, calculated
to disenthrall their minds from the soul-cramping crucifixions
and bloody atonements.
I
don't think you can hang the salva
tion of this world on this type of tradition.
"Not very long ago the British Parliament sent to India
a
commission for the purpose of examining the sacred books and
monuments
I
am speaking of. The report of the commission
was left in the hands of
a
Christian bishop at Calcutta, with
instructions to forward
it
to England. On its arrival in Lon
don, however,
it
was found to be so horribly mutilated as to
be scarcely recognizable as the official report of this com
mission. The account of the crucifixion of Jeseus Chrishna
was gone.
It
had been physically removed from the report.
"The history of this crucified god
is
contained principally
in
the Baghavat Gita, the episode portion of the Mahabaret
Bible. This book, of course,
is
divinely inspired, like all other
bibles, and
it
has the antiquity of six thousand years.
It
happens
to be the oldest sacred writing in existence. The book recounts
that, like Christ, Chrishna was of humble origin, and like him,
had to encounter persecution and opposition. He seems, how
ever, to have been more successful than Jesus in the propaga
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 139
don of his doctrines; for it is declared 'He soon became sur
rounded by many earnest followers, and the people in vast
multitudes followed him, crying aloud, "This is indeed the
Redeemer, promised to our fathers" '.
"His pathway was literally strewn with miracles. He healed
the sick, he cured the lepers, he restored speech to the dumb,
hearing to the deaf, and eyesight to the blind. He raised the
dead, he aided the weak, he comforted the sorrow-stricken,
he relieved the oppressed, and he cast out devils. It seems to
me the Christian religion teaches all these things in its Bible
and yet six thousand years ago they all were taught in the
Hindoo Bible. In the time of Alexander the Great, 330 B.C.,
millions upon millions worshipped Chrishna as Almighty God
and the Son of God.
"Am I boring you too much with this recitation?"
Hazel spoke up quickly, "You certainly are not. This is the
most interesting and amazing thing I have ever listened to.
The preachers in this country tell the very same things that
you're talking about, and they offer them to this world as
original— yet were they not all written in a Bible written six
thousand years ago? How come?"
"All right, Hazel, let me tell you some more counterparts
of Chrishna to the story of Christ. As a matter of fact, these
stories are practically identical.
"Now listen. Here was a god miraculously born of a virgin
and fathered by the Holy Ghost. The mother and child were
visited by shepherds, wise men from the East and an angelic
host who joyously sang, 'In Thy delivery oh divinely favored
among women, all nations shall have cause to exalt'. You will
recall that in the Christian Bible we are given a monstrous
story of King Herod ordering all the first bom to be put to
death, but the Bible of Chrishna anticipated that by five thou
sand years. It, too, had a tyrant ruler by the name of Cansa,
and he, long before the time of Herod, ordered all the first
born to be put to death.
"Now this Hindoo Bible also recounts the miraculous escape
140 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
of the mother and child from the bloody decree of Cansa and
the recitation of this is very similar to the Christian story
of the Israelites passing through the Red Sea. In this instance,
the River Jumna parted its waves to permit the mother and
child to pass through on dry ground. When those who were
seeking the life of the young child got out into the middle
of the river, the walls of water fell on them, drowning them
all.
"You will recall that Jesus Christ retired early to a desert,
but so did Chrishna as recorded six thousand years ago. Christ,
you will recall, was baptized in the River Jordan and at his
baptism the Holy Ghost descended upon him. But Chrishna
had that experience in the River Ganges long before Christ or
Christianity were ever heard of.
"Jesus Christ, we are told, was transfigured on the Mount
and it is interesting to note that on the very same mountain
at Madura Jeseus Chrishna was also transfigured. At this
transfiguration Jesus Christ said, 'Lo, I am with you always,
even unto the end of the world'.
"Now listen to what Chrishna said, according to the Hindoo
Bible. 'Present or absent, I will always be with you'.
"You will recall that Jesus had a favorite disciple called
John and it may be interesting to note that Chrishna had a
favorite disciple, also, which he called Arjoon.
"Like Christ, Chrishna was anointed by women with oil.
You will recall the parable of the fishermen who couldn't
catch any fish and who were commanded to let down their
nets on the other side of the boat— well, you had the same
story told of Chrishna. You have practically a duplicate of
the Sermon on the Mount, and I think I can safely say to you
that it could hardly be possible that these two stories could
exist without one being copied from the other."
Art interrupted at this point and said, "You mean to tell
me that more people believe that story than believe the story
of Jesus Christ?"
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 141
"I mean to tell you this, Art. I mean to tell you that this
story had, and still has, about three times as many believers
as has the story of Jesus Christ. But listen to this:
"Here's another Hindoo god, and this fellow came into the
picture about seven hundred years before Christ. His name
is Sakya. I'll tell you, Art, these Hindoos had a lot of virgin
born gods in their time. The one I'm talking about now had
three names. He was known as Sakya, Buddha-Sakya, and
Sakya-Muni. The stories of this god run something like this.
He was crucified by an arrow being driven through his body
which fastened into a tree; the tree with the arrow thus pro
jecting at right angles formed the cross, emblematical of the
atoning sacrifice. One account of Sakya states that he was
crucified by his enemies for the humble act of plucking a
flower in a garden. You will recall that one of the accusations
brought against Christ was that of plucking ripened ears of
corn on the Sabbath. There is rather a remarkable coincidence
in that the pictures of Christian gods representing the virgin
Mary with the infant Jesus in her arms, either the child or
the mother is frequently represented holding a bunch of
flowers in the hand. Undoubtedly this comes from the legend
of the Hindoo god we are now talking about.
"Well, I won't waste too much time talking about our
friend, Buddha, any more than to point out that he was called
'The Saviour of the World', 'The Light of the World', 'The
Source of Life', etc.
"His mother was a very pure, refined, pious and devout virgin
woman who never indulged in any impure thoughts, words
or acts. She was so much esteemed for her virtues and for
being the mother of God that an escort of ladies attended
her wherever she went. The trees bowed down before her
as she passed through the forest, and flowers sprang up wher
ever her foot pressed the ground. She was saluted as 'The
Holy Virgin Queen of Heaven'. I wonder what some of my
good Catholic friends will think when they read this."
142 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"Well, Howard, don't you suppose that all these big Chris
tian church organizations know all about these things as well
as you do?"
"Of course, I believe that, but you couldn't expect the
Christian church to tell the man on the street that, could you?
Why, the Catholic church won't even let them read its own
Christian Bible, so certainly they are not going to tell 'the
faithful' that there had been a lot more virgins in this world
who were the mothers of God before— long before— the time
of their fabled Virgin Mary.
"But let's go back to this fellow, Buddha. I want to point
out just a couple more important analogies.
"Like Christ, Buddha began to preach his gospel and heal
the sick when he was about twenty-eight years of age. It is
declared 'The blind saw, the deaf heard, the dumb spake,
the lame danced, and the crooked became straight.' Where
have you heard that before, Barney? Seeing his many miracles,
the people declared, 'This is Almighty God.'
"In some ways, the Hindoo bibles are far more logical and
uplifting documents than is the Christian Bible. I can show
you passages in the Christian Bible that if they appeared in
any other book would not be allowed to go through the
United States mail. So absolutely filthy are they that I would
not allow my children to read them.
"There's one thing I'd like you to note, folks, about Bud
dhism. It is a very important point. It succeeded in converting
about three hundred and fifty million people, yet it was never
propagated by the sword and it never persecuted the disciples
of other religions. More people have been brutally slain on
the fields of battle and in the torture chambers of the Roman
Catholic church as a result of Christianity than have been
put to death by all the rest of the religions combined. That
is the reason that just a few months ago the Arch-bishop of
Canterbury threw up his hands in London and shouted: 'Chris
tianity is a bloody religion— it has failed'.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER '43
"Now, before I leave this god, you've heard about the Ten
Commandments of the Christian Bible, haven't you?"
"Sure, we've heard them all our lives," replied Hazel.
"All right, now the moral code of Buddha has only five
commandments; not ten. Here they are: '(0 Thou shalt not
kill. (2) Thou shalt not steal. (3) Thou shalt not commit
adultery or any impurity. (4) Thou shalt not lie. (5) Thou
shalt not intoxicate thyself.'
"So, you see, Barney, the Ten Commandments certainly are
not original with the Christian Bible, yet hundreds of thou
sands of Christian priests and ministers for hundreds of years
have told poor, believing people like you and me, that these
commandments were given by Moses. Nothing of the sort.
The oldest known reference to them is right here in the
Hindoo bible, which is at least six thousand years old.
"Now, let's take a look at the next god. This fellow was
called Tammuz. He was born and raised in Syria eleven
hundred and sixty years before the time of Christ. The most
complete history of this god was written four hundred years
before the time of Christ by a historian called Ctesias. Here's
a verse which appears in the writings of this author and what
at this very moment, with one word changed, is used in the
Methodist Hymnal:
'Trust ye saints your Lord restored
Trust ye in your reason Lord; for the
pains which Tammuz endured; our salvation
have procured^
"One of the statements in the history of this God is as
follows: 'Trust ye in God for out of his loins salvation has
come to us.' Another famous writer speaks of this God as
'Rising from the dead for the salvation of the world,' while
the Christian writer, Parkhurst, alludes to this saviour as being
long before the time of Christ and filling the same chapter
in sacred history.
144 GOD • • • AND DR. BANNISTER
"Now God number four appeared on the scene about 552
B.C. We have a very conclusive historical proof of the cru
cifixion of this heathen god. Mr. Higgins tells us, 'He is repre
sented in his history with nail-holes in his hands and the soles
of his feet. . . .' Nails, hammers and pincers are constantly
seen represented on his crucifixes and are objects of adoration
among his followers. And the iron crown of Lombardy has
within it a nail of what is claimed as his true original cross,
and is much admired and venerated on that account. The
worship of this crucified God prevails chiefly in the Travan-
core and other southern countries in the region of Madura.
"God number five was crucified six hundred twenty-two
years before Christ. With respect to the crucifixion of this
ancient saviour, we have this very definite and specific testi
mony that 'he was crucified on a tree in Nepal'. The name
of this incarnate God and Oriental saviour occurs frequently
in the holy bibles and sacred books of other countries. Some
suppose that Iao (often spelled Jao) is at the root of the name
of the Jewish God, Jehovah.
"We now come to another God, and this one, also has
practically the same name as Jesus. One is 'Jesus' and the other
is 'Hesus'. Mr. Higgins informs us that the Celtic Druids
represent their God Hesus as having been crucified with a
lamb on one side and an elephant on the other and that this
occurred long before the Christian era. Also, that a representa
tion of it may now be seen upon 'the fire-tower of Brechin'.
"In this symbolical representation of the crucifixion, the
elephant, being the largest animal known, was chosen to repre
sent the magnitude of the sins of the world, while the lamb,
from its proverbial innocent nature, was chosen to represent
the innocency of the victim (the God offered as a propitia
tory sacrifice). And thus we have the 'Lamb of God taking
away the sins of the world'— symbolical language used with
respect to the offering of Jesus Christ. And here is indicated
very clearly the origin of the figure. It is evidently borrowed
from the Druids. We have the statement of the above writer
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 145
that this legend was found amongst the Canutes of Gaul long
before Jesus Christ was known to history.
"Now, there is another God in Mexico who was crucified
about six hundred years before Christ and I am going to give
you a little insight into that fellow. Historical authority, rela
tive to the crucifixion of this Mexican God Quetzalcoatl, and
to his execution upon the cross as a propitiatory sacrifice for
the sins of mankind is explicit, unequivocal and ineffaceable.
The evidence is tangible and indelibly engraven upon steel
and metal plates. One of these plates represents him as having
been crucified on a mountain; another represents him as having
been crucified in the heavens, as St. Justin tells us Christ was.
According to another writer, he was sometimes represented
as having been nailed to a cross, and by other accounts as
hanging with a cross in his hand. The 'Mexican Antiquities'
says: 'Quetzalcoatl is represented in the painting of 'Codex
Borgianus' as nailed to the cross'. Sometimes two thieves are
represented as having been crucified with him.
"That the advent of this crucified saviour and Mexican God
was long anterior to the era of Christ is admitted by Christian
writers. In the work above named, 'Codex Borgianus', may
be found the account, not only of his crucifixion, but of his
death, burial, descent into hell and resurrection on the third
day. And another work, entitled 'Codex Vaticanus', contains
the story of his immaculate birth by a virgin mother by the
name of Chimalman.
"Many other incidents are found related of him in his sacred
biography, in which we find the most striking counterparts
to the more modern gospel story of Jesus Christ, such as his
forty days' temptation and fasting, his riding on an ass, his
purification in the temple, his baptism and regeneration by
water, his forgiving of sins, being anointed with oil, et cetera.
'All these things, and many more, found related of this Mexi
can God in their sacred books,' says Lord Kingsborough (a
Christian writer,) 'are curious and mysterious.'
"In the year 506 B.C., another virgin-born God appeared on
146 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
the scene, this time in Rome. His name was Quirinus. The
crucifixion of this Roman saviour is briefly noted by Mr.
Higgins, and is remarkable for presenting (like other crucified
Gods) several parallel features to that of the Judean Saviour,
not only in the circumstances related as attending his cruci
fixion, but also in a considerable portion of his antecedent fife.
"He is represented, like Christ: —
1. As having been conceived and brought forth by a virgin.
2. His life was sought by the reigning king (Amulius).
3. He was of royal blood, his mother being of kingly
descent.
4. He was 'put to death by wicked hands'—i.e., crucified.
5. At his mortal exit the whole earth is said to have been
enveloped in darkness, as in the case of Christ, Chrishna
and Prometheus.
6. And finally, he is resurrected and ascends back to heaven.
"Now we come to crucified God number nine, and this
fellow hung on the cross five hundred and forty-seven years
before Christ was supposed to have been born. In the account
of the crucifixion of Prometheus of Caucasus, as furnished by
Seneca, Hesiod, and other writers, it is stated that he was
nailed to an upright beam of timber to which were affixed
extended arms of wood and that this cross was situated near
the Caspian Straits.
"The modern story of this crucified God, which represents
him as having been bound to a rock for thirty years while
vultures preyed upon his vitals, Mr. Higgins pronounced as
an impious Christian fraud. 'For,' says this learned historical
writer, 'I have seen the account which declares he was nailed
to a cross with hammer and nails'. Confirmatory of this state
ment is the declaration of Mr. Southwell, that 'he exposed
himself to the wrath of God in his zeal to save mankind.'
"The poet, in portraying his propitiatory offering, says:
—
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 147
'Lo! streaming from the fatal tree
His all atoning blood,
Is this the Infinite?— Yes, 'tis he,
Prometheus, and a God!
'Well might the sun in darkness hide,
And veil his glories in,
When God, the great Prometheus, died
For man the creature's sin'
"The 'New American Cyclopedia' contains the following
significant declaration relative to this sin-atoning Oriental
saviour: 'It is doubtful whether there is to be found in the
whole range of Greek letters deeper pathos than that of the
divine woe of the beneficent demigod, Prometheus, crucified
on his Scythian crags for his love to mortals.' Here we have
first-class authority for the crucifixion of this god. (900.)
"In Lempriere's 'Classical Dictionary', Higgins' 'Ancalypsis',
and other works, may be found the following particulars rela
tive to the final exit of the God above named, viz:
1. That the whole frame of nature became convulsed.
2. That the earth shook, the rocks were rent, the graves
were opened, and in a storm, which seemed to threaten
the dissolution of the universe, the solemn scene forever
closed and 'Our Lord and Saviour' Prometheus gave up
the ghost.
"
'The cause for which he suffered,' says Mr. Southwell,
'was his love for the human race.' Mr. Taylor makes the state
ment in his 'Syntagma' that the whole story of Prometheus'
crucifixion, burial and resurrection was acted in pantomime
in Athens five hundred years before Christ, which proves its
great antiquity. Minutius Felix, one of the most popular Chris
tian writers of the second century thus addresses the people
of Rome: 'Your victorious trophies not only represent a simple
148 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
cross, but a cross with a man on it,' and this man St. Jerome
calls a God.
"These coincidences furnish still further proof that the tradi
tion of the crucifixion of gods has been very long prevalent
among the heathen.
"We go back now to seventeen hundred years before the
time of Christ, and we find another chap to join the long
parade of crucified Gods, who came from heaven to save
this world from sin. Thulis of Egypt, whence comes 'Ultima
Thule', died the death of the cross about thirty-five hundred
years ago.
"Ultima Thule was the island which marked the ultimate
bounds of the extensive empire of this legitimate descendant
of the gods.
"This Egyptian saviour appears also to have been known as
Zulis, and with this name—Mr. Wilkison tells us— 'his history
is curiously illustrated in the sculptures, made seventeen hun
dred years before Christ, of a small, retired chamber lying
nearly over the western adytum of the temple.'
"We are told twenty-eight lotus plants near his grave indi
cate the number of years he lived on the earth. After suffering
a violent death, he was buried, but rose again, ascended into
heaven and there became 'the judge of the dead,' or of souls in
a future state. Wilkison says he came down from heaven to
save mankind, and that he was said to be 'full of grace and
truth.'
"Seven hundred and twenty-five years before Christ, Indra
of Tibet thought he would try his hand at saving the world
from sin. The account of the crucifixion of the God and
saviour, Indra, may be found in Georgius, Thibetinum Alpha-
betum. In the work just referred to, may be found plates
representing this Thibetan saviour as having been nailed to
the cross. There are five wounds, representing the nail-holes
and the piercing of the side. The antiquity of the story is
beyond dispute.
"Marvelous stories are told of the birth of the Divine Re
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 149
deemer. His mother was a virgin of black complexion and
hence his complexion was of the ebony hue, as in the case
of Christ who was a Syrian Jew, therefore more dark than
light, and some other sin-atoning saviours. He descended from
heaven on a mission of benevolence and ascended back to the
heavenly mansion after his crucifixion. He led a life of strict
celibacy which, he taught, was essential to true holiness. He
inculcated great tenderness toward all living beings. He could
walk upon the water or upon the air; he could foretell future
events with great accuracy. He practiced the most devout
contemplation, severe discipline of the body and mind and
acquired the most complete subjection of his passions. He was
worshipped as a god who had existed as a spirit from all
eternity and his followers were called 'Heavenly Teachers'.
"Crucified God number twelve showed up about six hun
dred years before Christ. The 'English Classical Journal' fur
nishes us with the story of this crucified God, known as
Alcestis— a female god— or goddess; and, in this respect, it is
a novelty in sacred history, being the first, if not the only
example of a feminine god atoning for the sins of the world
upon the cross. The doctrine of the trinity and atoning offer
ing for sin was inculcated as a part of her religion.
"God number thirteen was crucified in the year 11 70 B.C.
Speaking of this crucified Messiah, the Anacalypsis informs us
that several histories are given of him, but all concur in repre
senting him as having been an atoning offering for sin. And
the Latin phrase 'suspensus lingo', found in his history, indi
cates the manner of his death. He was suspended on a tree,
crucified, buried and rose again.
"We now have a Chaldean God, who went to his doom
attempting to save the world in 1200 B.C. The Chaldeans, as
Mr. Higgins informs us, have noted in their sacred books the
account of the crucifixion of a god with the above name. He
was also known as 'the Redeemer', and was styled 'the Ever
Blessed Son of God'. And when Crite was offered up, both
heaven and earth were shaken to their foundations.
I50 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"God number fifteen went the way of the other Gods about
seven hundred and twenty-five years before Christ. We learn
by the Oriental books that in the district or country known
as Orissa, in Asia, they have a story of a crucified god, known
by several names, including Bali, all of which, we are told,
signify 'Lord Second' having reference to him as the second
person or second member of the trinity, as most of the cruci
fied Gods occupied that position in the triad of deities con
stituting the trinity, as indicated by the language, 'Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost,' the Son, in all cases being the atoning
offering, 'the crucified Redeemer,' and the second person of
the trinity. This god Bali was also called Baliu, and sometimes
Bel. The Anacalypsis informs us that monuments of this cruci
fied God, bearing great age, may be found amid the ruins
of the magnificent city of Mahabalipore, partially buried
amongst the figures of the temple.
"I'm not going to tell you about any more Gods, except
one, who is a rather important God in many respects. His
name is Mithra. This fellow was crucified six hundred years
before the time of Christ. This Persian God, according to Mr.
Higgins, was 'slain upon the cross to make atonement for
mankind, and to take away the sins of the world.'
"He was reputedly born on the twenty-fifth of December
and crucified on a tree. It is a remarkable circumstance that
two Christian writers, Mr. Faber and Mr. Bryant, both speak
of his 'being slain,' and yet both omit to speak of the manner
in which he was put to death. And the same policy has been
pursued with respect to other crucified gods of the pagans
as we have shown elsewhere.
"If I should be met here with the statement that the stories
of the ancient crucifixions of gods were mere myths or fables,
unwarrantable traditions saddled onto their histories as mere
romance, and have no foundation in fact, I reply—there is as
much ground for suspecting the same thing as being true of
Jesus Christ.
"One of the most celebrated and most frequently quoted
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
Christian writers of the ancient bishops, Irenaeus, declares
upon the authority of the martyr Polycarp, who claimed to
have got it from St. John and all the elders of Asia, that
Jesus Christ was not crucified, but lived to be about fifty
years old.
"We find there has always been a margin for doubt amongst
his own followers as to the fact of his crucifixion.
"Many of the early Christians and contemporary Jews and
Gentiles doubted it and some openly disputed its ever having
taken place. Others bestowed upon it a mere spiritual significa
tion, and not a few considered it symbolical of a 'holy life'.
One circumstance, calculated to lead to the entire discredit of
the story of the crucifixion of Christ, is the relation, in connec
tion with
it,
of
a
violent convulsion of nature, and the resur
rection of the long-buried saints— events not supported by
any authentic contemporaneous history, sacred or profane.
"And another important consideration arises here.
If
the
inhabitants of this planet required the murderous death of
a
God as an atonement,
I
must presume that the eighty-five
millions of inhabited worlds recently discovered by astron
omers are, or have been, in equal need of
a
divine atonement.
And this would require the crucifixion of eighty-five millions
of gods. Assuming one of these gods to be crucified every
minute, the whole would occupy
a
period of nearly twenty
years. This would be killing off gods at
a
rather rapid rate
and would make the work of the atonement and salvation
a
very murderous and bloody affair—
a
conception which brings
to the mind
a
series of very revolting reflections.
"The conception of gods, Barney, coming down from
heaven and being born of virgins and dying
a
violent death
for the moral blunders of the people originated in an age of
the world when man was
a
savage, and dwelt exclusively upon
the animal plane and blood was the requisition for every
offense. And
it
was an age when no world was known to exist
but the one we inhabit. The stars were then supposed to be
mere blazing tapers set in the azure vault to light this pygmy
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
planet, or peep-holes for gods to look out of heaven, to see
and learn what was going on below.
"Such conceptions are in perfect keeping with the doctrine
of the atoning crucifixion of gods which could never have
originated or been entertained for a moment by an astron
omer, with a knowledge of the existence of innumerable in
habited worlds. For as there is to the monotheistic Christian
but one God, or 'Son of God', to be offered, he must be
incarnated and crucified every day for a thousand years to
make a sin-offering for each of these worlds—a conception too
monstrous and preposterous to find a lodgment in a rational
mind."
Barney, Hazel and Art had listened to their brother-in-law
with rapt attention. Never had they heard these truths before.
They were amazed, as well they might be. All of these good
folks were loyal Americans. They were not criminals. They
wanted to know God just as much as the rest of the human
race wants to know God. As a result of Bannister's discourse
out on their front lawn, a faint ray of hope was kindled in
them.
If the preachers and priests had not told them the truth
regarding God, and if the whole structure of Christianity is
only another rendition of the pagan religions of the past,
certainly there is still hope for the world, in spite of Adolf
Hitler. Certainly there was a possibility of Bannister bringing
to this war-worn earth knowledge of a Power so great and
so dynamic that it can, by virtue of what it
is,
bring eternal
peace, eternal joy, and eternal life, perhaps, to
a
suffering
humanity here and now.
"Have you ever preached
a
sermon on what you've just told
us?" asked Hazel.
"No.
I
never have, but I'm going to, when
I
return to San
Francisco. You see, folks,
I
wanted to be absolutely sure of
my ground before
I
made
a
public statement on the discovery
of the True God. Now—I'm sure. Now—/ KNOW! Barney,
does what
I
have said to you appear logical? Do you think
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 1
53
men and women will listen to a new conception of God if I
bring one?"
"Why, don't be foolish, Howard. Of course, they'll listen.
If you have discovered who and what God really
is,
and
if
the Power of God can be made known to humanity here and
now, you'll go down in history as the greatest spiritual pioneer
this world has ever known. You will be the only man who
has brought to this earth what
it
is
dying for—the truths about
the existence of God."
"I'm glad to hear you say that, Barney. God lives— He must
live. And
if
He does, this war can be stopped and permanent
peace can be brought to both individuals and nations. Do you
think for
a
moment Hitler can stand up against the Power
of the Spirit of God?"
"If you have the answer, Howard, and
if
you can manifest
and prove the existence of God here on this earth, nothing
can stand against such
a
Power."
"Thanks, Art. That's what
I
wanted to hear you say."
The hour was getting late so Bannister piled into bed at
Barney's place and Art set out for Rocky Point.
CHAPTER EIGHT
All good things must come to an end sooner or later. That
includes our friends' vacation at Rocky Point, in Oregon. The
next Thursday saw them on their way back to their homes on
the Oakland side of the Bay.
The morning broke clear and cloudless. A hearty breakfast
was partaken of, the fishing gear packed and loaded into the
trunk of the big Cadillac. Art filled the car with gas at the little
one-horse pump, gave Howard Bannister a receipt for the bill,
and, after kissing Winnie and the kiddies 'Good-bye' and shak
ing hands with Nels— the Swede— they climbed into the car and
swung up over the steep hill which leads into the Point.
On the way out they met Jack Fallon and his Ford truck.
Both truck and Cadillac stopped, Bannister getting out to say
'Good-bye' to Jack.
"Oh, so and it's goin' to lave us ye are, Howard— sure an'
Oim sarry as sarry can be to see yez a-lavin'. But dhid you
have a gud time—and ye'll may be back agin this fall— yes?"
said Jack.
"Well, I don't know whether we'll be back this fall or not,
Jack. I'm going to try to bring Pearl up and the kiddies, too,
maybe. You know they love this place—all lazy men love
Rocky Point."
The inference was not lost on Jack Fallon, for, smiling all
over his Irish happy face, he said, "Shure and us lazy folk arr
nat the only ones what loves Rocky Point—by me sowl there's
ithers whot loikes
it,
too—and some of thim
is
awful lazy thim-
selves, but thim does not know it—shure."
"Okay, Jack.
I
get you. But it's been good to see you and
I
hope this war soon ends so that your fox business will be
«54
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER '55
good again. I can't imagine an Irishman raising foxes, though—
ought to be raisin' spuds, don't you think?"
"Shure and Oi hev some shpuds in me back yarrd," replied
Jack Fallon, after which they shook hands all around and went
their respective ways, Jack's "God bliss ye," ringing in their
ears.
"I like Jack Fallon— he's a real fellow," said Bannister, climb
ing into the car again and throwing the gears into mesh.
"Funny how an Irishman like him will hide himself away up
here, raising foxes."
"There must be pretty good money in the fox business when
an Irishman goes into that business," replied Dr. Bowers.
"I'm not so sure Fallon hasn't got the right philosophy of
life. Here he
is,
living in the most beautiful spot God ever cre
ated—his work
is
not hard, he makes more than
a
living, and
in the winter time he goes out with Nels trapping. I'm not so
sure that Jack Fallon
is
not
a
good deal closer to God than
either you or
I,
Bowers."
"Personally, though, that sort of life would grow mighty
tiresome and monotonous to me, I'm afraid."
"Maybe so— maybe so. We can't all raise foxes," replied
Bannister.
They crossed Rock Creek, Eagle Ridge, and were on the
steep hill down the Aspen Lake road. The Ed Berry bent-grass
farm lies at the bottom of the hill.
"There's the biggest bent-grass seed farm in the world,"
Bannister informed his friend. "Ed and
I
have been friends for
a
long time— maybe I'll drop in for
a
minute and see
if
Ed's
there. Sort of like to see him again before
I
go back."
They did not need to drive to the Berry home, though, for
Ed and George Weverson, his brother-in-law, were talking by
the barn alongside the road when Bannister spotted them.
Bringing the car to
a
halt, Bannister alighted and shook hands
with his old friends, Ed and George. They were all glad to
see each other again.
1
56 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"What do you think of this war, Howard?" asked Ed of
Bannister.
"Don't like to think about
it,
Ed. And
I
don't think about
it
any more than
I
have to. What I'm interested in
is
bringing
to men and women knowledge of
a
Power greater than
a
human power, which can bring such world disturbers as Hitler
to their knees.
It
seems
a
crime that such ungodly destruction
should be wrought upon the earth."
"Sure does, Howard. And
it
begins to look like Hitler will
go through the whole world—
I
don't believe anyone can stop
him— do you?"
"No, Ed,
I
don't believe any nation or any combination of
nations can stop him— but, he'll be stopped, all right. He'll go
just so far, and then some man will demonstrate on this earth
a
Spiritual Power so dynamic that Hitler and his ilk will be
glad to fade into nothingness before the dazzling brightness
and purity of this Power."
"Something, certainly, like that will have to happen— there
must be something somewhere that can stop him."
"There
is,
Ed.
I
wouldn't worry too much, if
I
were you.
It's always darkest just before the dawn. And this dawn will
be
a
dandy.
It
will be
a
permanent dawn, Ed."
They shook hands and the Cadillac was soon passing through
Klamath Falls on its way to Weed. They passed through
Worden, then MacDoel, and finally pulled up in front of the
Weed Hotel for lunch. The road from Weed to Redding
is
a
long, winding affair, though
a
very beautiful drive. Not much
time can be made on this road, though, so
it
was thought
advisable to pull up at Weed for lunch.
After lunch they filled the car with gas and oil and settled
down to enjoy the long drive over the Siskiyous to Redding.
Dr. Bowers began to fish through his vest pockets, evidently
trying to find something.
"I have
a
couple of clippings
I
cut out of the Oregonian in
Portland. Thought you might be interested in them,
if
I
can
find them."
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 157
"How was the recital? Did Boyster do a good job?" asked
Bannister.
"That boy always does a good job. He's a master if ever
there was one," replied Bowers. "Never heard an organist bring
the life out of an organ like he does. He had an old instrument
to work on, at that. Yet he brought down the house."
"Well, what did those clippings say?"
"Oh here they are; one says that Little Willie doesn't go to
Sunday School any more. Shall I read it to you?"
"Go ahead— let's hear about Little Willie and the Sunday
School."
"It's headed 'SUNDAY SCHOOLS LOSE ATTEND
ANCE' and here's what it says:
" 'Little Willie doesn't go to Sunday School any more— and
the Portland Council or Churches would like to know why.
Sunday School attendance has decreased at an alarming rate,
Dr. Henry B. MacFadden, chairman of the committee of
Christian education told fellow members of the council yes
terday at a meeting in the First Methodist church.
Only one in every five high school students attends Sunday
School and only one in every four grammar school students
attends. Within a week a drive will be started by the council
to remedy matters'."
"I wonder just what the council will do to remedy matters?"
asked Bannister. "You see, Alf, the high school boys of today
are not interested in Sunday School. The only ones who attend
are those whose parents make them attend. And why should
they attend? . . . They're not interested in being told that two
thousand years ago Almighty God came to earth in the form
of a man and was killed on a cross for their sins. Those boys
are not interested in what Almighty God did or did not do
two thousand years ago. They have more important things
to occupy their minds.
"If the churches, however, could tell our high school stu
158 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
dents that they can use the Power of the Spirit of God to bring
to them perfect happiness, perfect peace, perfect love and an
abundance of everything material and spiritual here and now,
why you couldn't keep those young Americans away from
Sunday School. But with the tripe being handed out by Sun
day School teachers today, I don't blame them for not going.
The wonder to me is that they went as long as they did."
"Wonder how the council is going to remedy that condi
tion?" asked Bowers.
"Well, they won't remedy it—they can't remedy it. There
isn't a thing they can do about it. And they won't try, either.
The secretary will make a record and the whole thing will
die a natural death. Yet if you went to that council of churches
and told them the trouble was with their religion, they'd chew
your head off. If any Methodist preacher got up in his pulpit
and told his congregation that Jesus Christ was a myth, they'd
have his head served on a platter before next Sunday morning,
I warrant you."
"I remember some years ago, that young son of mine back
in Overland used to attend Sunday School regularly. Then, all
of a sudden he stopped going. One day I asked him why.
Looking at me in a rather disgusted sort of way he said, 'Pop,
—
Blankety Blank goes to Sunday School, and the other evening
I saw that son-of-a-gun get up and pray at Epworth League.
If he can pray in Epworth League, I don't want to have any
thing to do with it.'
"And the boy's right, for I happen to know that young
Blankety-Blank is one of the biggest little crooks in town."
"Well, what is going to happen to religion as it exists today,
Howard?"
"It's going out. It will be replaced by the true religion—
that's what is going to happen. These old pagan ideas of God
have had their day. Let them go."
"Maybe you'd like to see this other clipping I cut out— I'll
read it— it's a peach."
Bowers opened up the second clipping and read as follows:
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 159
AUTOS ARE TO BE BLESSED
While special prayers are read by a priest clothed in surplice
and stole, the annual blessing of automobiles will be given
at St. Mary's church after the 8 and 10 o'clock masses
Sunday.
Each car will be sprinkled with holy water as it passes before
the church and will be dedicated to the safe keeping of St.
Christopher, the church's patron saint of transportation.
Practically every car in the parish has been blessed and sprin
kled in the last few years, an official said, and he invited the
parishioners to enjoy the blessing again next Sunday.
"Where did you get that one?" asked Howard Bannister.
"I cut it out of some Portland paper. What do you think
of it?"
"What do you think of it?"
"Well, I think it's the biggest bunch of bunk, Howard, I
have ever seen anywhere."
"It's worse than that, Alfred— it's hypocrisy and paganism of
the worst order. That is the very thing which is masquerading
as religion. Through such practices as that, Almighty God has
been made a laughing-stock all over the world. Yet millions
of people fall for such idolatry. This church should be finding
some way to throw the Power of God against Hitler. Instead
of that, it is dousing automobiles with holy water and telling
American men and women that is of God. You see there, Alf,
a perfect example of the traditions and rituals and idolatry
of the systems of religion which are operating on the earth
today. They know nothing whatsoever about God, nor do
they want to know anything about God. All they are inter
ested in is spreading the rituals, traditions, and paganism of
their church. They think it is true religion. And they're all
alike. Hitler, however, is not afraid of their holy water. If this
country falls, he'll make short work of such paganism as that.
There is only one duty lying ahead of all churches and all sys
tems of religion today— that one duty is to stop Hitler by the
i6o GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
Power of God. But, you see, these church organizations know
nothing whatsoever about the Power of God. They can
sprinkle apartment houses and automobiles with holy water—
they can take up collections— but as far as bringing the Power
of the Spirit of God to this world— they know nothing about
that. And yet, the idolatrous church which was pouring so-
called holy water over those cars, claims that its head, the
Pope, is the only man on the face of the earth authorized
to act and teach for God Almighty. Do you wonder Hitler
was able to do what he has done, with such a revolting thing
as that masquerading as being of God?"
"I guess it's fast dying out, though, Howard."
"It can't die too fast to suit me, brother. If this world had
never known that sort of thing— if it had never heard of either
Jesus Christ or the Virgin Mary, the crucifixion, or the atone
ment, the resurrection, or any of the rest of the insane Chris
tian theories, this world would know God today. But it can't
know God as long as such paganism masquerades as religion-
see that?"
"Of course, I see it. But, Boy! You're a changed man. Expect
any trouble when you get back?"
Bannister looked at Bowers inquiringly.
"Trouble— did you say?"
"Well, I just wondered what might happen if you start
preaching like that in All Souls."
"Me too," chipped in Rube from the back seat.
"I don't think anything will happen, Alf. I believe the con
gregation of All Souls is sick and tired of the hypocrisy and
sham and idolatry of present day religion. In any event—we'll
soon find out. But I'll bet you another trip to Rocky Point
that All Souls will welcome the actual truths of God as I shall
give those truths to it when I return."
"You may be right— they respect your honesty and ability
plenty."
"It's not a case of my honesty or my ability— it's a case of
continuing to preach pagan superstition or the actual truths
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
of God. And my mind is made up, Alf. That clipping you just
read to me about sprinkling automobiles with holy water in
the name of Almighty God is a bit too much. Think of it!
All this world has to stop Hitler is that sort of thing mas
querading under the garb of religion— no wonder a jackal like
Hitler can manifest. No wonder there is so little spirituality in
the world that this war-mad maniac cannot be stopped.
"Alf, the way to stop wrong is with right. For right is always
greater and more powerful than wrong—but right must have
someone through whom it can manifest and it must not be a
pseudo-right. I have said that before to Art— I say it again
to you.
"Alfred, I'm going to say to you that unless some manifesta
tion of the Power of God is brought to this earth AT ONCE,
civilization as we have known it here in America may fall.
Holy water won't save it. Sunday School won't save it. The
blood of Jesus Christ won't save it. Those things are all nega
tive. They are rituals and traditions, and they are totally and
completely powerless against such military might as Hitler
has at his command. I shall not say that the eleven systems of
religion on the earth are not honest— for I believe they are.
But I shall say that they cannot all be true. And I shall say
further that any system of religion based on the virgin birth
and crucifixion of Almighty God is a fallacy of the first water.
In what way can such a system of religion meet and defeat
Hitler? In what way can the power of such a religion manifest,
if there is any power in
it,
which there
is
not?
"Don't you see? ... A couple of score of crucified gods
have been presented to this world. Religion never has had any
other theory of God than that. Yet
I
ask you today what
have those theories ever done to bring God to the world?
Of course, the Catholic church boldly states that God ordained
it. But the Protestant church says 'no such thing'. And
if
we
go back to the other major systems of religion in other lands
they tell us that Almighty God ordained them, too.
"Now someone
is
making
a
mistake and these religions being
i6i GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
all fundamentally alike, I choose to believe that God Almighty
has had nothing to do with any of them. But I'm not afraid
to challenge the man Hitler with the Power of the Spirit which
is God."
"World conditions are worrying you, Howard. I can see
that."
"Of course they are worrying me. They are enough to
worry any man. What sort of a preacher would I be if they
did not worry me? Alfred Bowers, I believe in God. I believe
God lives. I believe and know that God lives now. If that is
true, God can stop this war and bring mad-man Hitler to his
knees in rapid-fire order . . . yet no church organization can
manifest enough of the Power of the Spirit of God to do it.
Therefore, someone else must. Fortunately, or perhaps unfor
tunately, God has laid this thing very heavily on my heart. I
can do no other than back my belief in the existence of God
with my very life.
"This I shall do. And if I am correct in my belief in the
present existence of Almighty God here and now, you will
see the greatest demonstration of the Power of God ever
known on this earth. In any event—I shall have fought a good
fight— and a good fight for God, with God with you, is always
a winning battle.
"I don't want to preach, Alf, and I'm not preaching. I'm
simply telling you how I feel about this whole thing. Oh, the
ghastly impotence of what calls itself religion, and what claims
to be the agent of God Almighty. Eleven systems of religion
... a billion and a half membership . . . yet Hitler appears on
the horizon and mocks every one of these religions and the
God they say they are teaching. Well, I believe I'll present
to this world a God Hitler will be afraid to mock. If he should
be so foolhardy, his extermination will come in rapid-fire
order. For God still lives. God is still the Creator of this uni
verse and man. And, if God can find but one man on the
face of the earth who actually believes in the Power of God—
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER I63
that man, plus God, is more than sufficient to stop Hitler.
And, oh, how I pity that poor fellow who actually believes
that the power of his military might is greater than the Power
of God."
The car was climbing the curves of the Siskiyous. Beautiful
country. The towns of Anderson and Cottonwood were
passed. Swinging over the Pit River Bridge, our two travellers
stopped at the little roadhouse on the south side of the bridge
for a cup of coffee and a sandwich. Seeing some canned rattle
snake piled on the counter, Bannister asked the German who
runs the roadhouse if he could make a sandwich of rattlesnake
meat.
"Oh, ya, ya, I can make dot rattlesnake meat sandwich for
you . . . ya ya."
Bowers was outside sitting on the running board of the Cad.
"All right, then, make two sandwiches— one ham and egg
sandwich for me and the other a rattlesnake sandwich for my
friend— but don't tell him what's in the sandwich. You can
serve them on the side porch, if you will please."
The German went to work on the sandwiches and coffee
and Bannister went out to keep Bowers company.
"I've ordered you a sandwich and coffee, and I'm having a
sandwich and coffee, too," said Bannister. "It'll be a few min
utes, I guess. They will be served on the side porch— we get a
nice view of the river below there."
After a little while the German proprietor called to his two
customers: "Chentlemen— your lunch iss ready— it is on the
side porch table."
Bowers looked his sandwich over, took a bite and said, "Boy!
That's good— what's in it?"
"I kind of thought you'd like
it,
Alf. They sell
a
lot of
them here."
Again Bowers asked what the contents of the sandwich
was, but Bannister turned the conversation cleverly away.
Soon, the German came in.
164 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"Iss everything all right, chentlemen?
"
he asked.
"Oh fine," said Bannister. "You might bring us some more
coffee, though."
Away went the German after the coffee and soon was
back with a percolator full of steaming hot coffee.
"Say, what sort of a sandwich was that I had? I believe I'll
take another," said Bowers.
"You like him?" asked the German.
"I sure did. What sort of sandwich was it?"
Looking over to Bannister the German proprietor said,
"Shall I tell him?"
"Sure. Tell him if you like," replied Bannister.
"Veil, dot vas a rattlesnake sandvich, mine vriendt."
"A what . . . ?"
"Vait, I show you," said the German, going into the little
store in front. Shortly he returned with a can of rattlesnake
meat.
"Dis iss vat you vas eat mit dot sandvich. Him goot, ya?"
Bowers looked at Bannister and smiled.
"So that's it. You eat a ham and egg sandwich and slip me
a canned rattlesnake sandwich— heck of a friend you are."
"Yes, but you didn't know the difference— you said it tasted
fine and ordered another one."
"Well, I don't want another one now," returned Bowers.
"Come on, let's get out of here and as far from that canned
rattlesnake as we can. I think that's a dirty Irish trick!"
Bannister roared as they climbed into the car and headed
for Redding, just a few miles away.
It is hard to find more beautiful scenery than on that road
from Pit River to Redding. Beautiful mesquite, winding hills
with their scrub oaks. A beautiful highway. The sun was
shining brightly as our two travellers enjoyed the wondrous
scenery of that drive.
"Seems too bad the civilization and wonderful countrysides
like this should be destroyed by those damnable Stuka dive
bombers and parachute troops, doesn't it?" said Dr. Bowers.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 1
65
Bannister thought for a moment before replying.
"Yes, it does. Certainly civilization is threatened today. But
when civilization is threatened it's a good plan to remain civ
ilized, don't you think?"
"Yes, but that may be pretty hard to do," replied Bowers.
"Oh, I don't know. It can be done. It should be done by
doing the very opposite to what is being done by those who
are threatening civilization. In this present world crisis, the
force that is threatening civilization is a mechanized murder
ing brute force. Hitler, the prime moving figure in the world
crisis, is convinced that if he can build tanks, dive-bombers,
flame-throwers and submarines faster than the rest of the world
can build them, he can conquer the world. He could, if there
existed no force superior to brute force. But it happens that
there is a Spiritual Power so great that all other powers and
forces fade into insignificance beside it.
"This poor confused world vaguely, yet instinctively be
lieves in the existence of such a force or Power. But it does
not know where to look for it. Deep down in the subcon
scious realm of everyone there lingers there the conviction
that there is a far greater force than the brutal mechanized
forces Hitler is using. And we all hope that in some strange
mysterious manner this force, whatever it may be, will take
control of this war-maddened world and bring it to peace.
But— as I say— while all men have that suspicion and that hope,
no one knows where to look for that Power."
"That is true, Bannister— absolutely true. But unless someone
discovers where this Power may be found and uses it pretty
quickly, what is happening in Europe may easily happen
here. You and I don't know just how long we shall be able
to travel over our beautiful highways as we are doing now.
Inside of thirty days the Shasta Dam we just passed may be
blown out by saboteurs— or perhaps by a Japanese or German
dive-bomber. Seems to me there isn't much time to lose in
finding and using such a Power as you speak of."
"Bowers, there is no time to lose. Not a single day. If such
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
a Power could be found and used, say, today, well England
and the rest of the nations which are being so sadly punished
would get relief. For whatever Power there is must be a quick-
acting Power. It must be able to make itself felt right now—
the minute it is used."
"And you believe religion can disclose such a Power?"
"Religion as we know it cannot disclose any such Power-
but true religion—knowledge of the true God most certainly
can disclose such Power. It must, if it is true religion. For true
religion must disclose God to man. If it can't do that it isn't
true religion no matter what claims it makes for itself. Seems
to me it is a very evident fact that no religion on the face of
the earth today can disclose such a Power. Therefore, regard
less of the creeds, dogmas, rituals and claims to divine author
ship, it is very evident that religion today is fooling itself. It
must have the wrong god."
"Seems funny, though, that none of the great religions of
today have the right conception of God. It's a remarkable
thing that eleven systems of religion are all untrue, does it
not?"
"Well, one thing is certain, Bowers— they can't all be true.
They can't all have the right God. Almighty God did not send
a score of His sons down to this earth to be crucified for the
sins of the world. That is one thing I'm absolutely positive
about. And I'm equally sure that Almighty God never sent
even one of His sons down—if God ever could have a Son in
the flesh, which I very much doubt.
"You see, Alf, there is nothing surprising about the fact
that these old systems of religion all have the wrong god. Look
at their origin. Look at the period of time when they came
into existence. It is not reasonable to think that the religious
conceptions of two or three thousand years ago fill the needs
of today. Man has progressed considerably since those dark
ages. You see, these old superstitions and superstitious religions
looked to the past for their inspiration. Then, because their
fathers before them held the same beliefs, they called them
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER .67
'sacred traditions' and what was presumed to be true thousands
of years ago is still presumed to be true today. But the facts
speak for themselves. No religion on the face of the earth
can stop Hitler. All religion knows how to successfully do is
to fight with other religion. I remember reading a book Art
loaned me the other night at the Point. It is called 'RED
EAGLES OF THE NORTHWEST'. It's an Indian yarn
written by Francis Haynes and the publishers, I believe, are
Binfords and Mort— you remember— they have published sev
eral of my books. Well in the story Chief Joseph was ap
proached by the white missionaries with the suggestion that
they build schools on the reservation.
"To which Chief Joseph replied:
"'WE DO NOT WANT SCHOOLS OR SCHOOL
HOUSES ON THE WALLOWA RESERVATION.
THEY WILL TEACH US TO HAVE CHURCHES. WE
DO NOT WANT CHURCHES. . . . THEY WILL
TEACH US TO QUARREL ABOUT GOD AS THE
CATHOLICS AND PROTESTANTS DO ON THE
RESERVATION AND OTHER PLACES. WE DO NOT
WANT TO LEARN THAT. WE MAY QUARREL
WITH MEN SOMETIMES ABOUT THINGS ON THE
EARTH, BUT WE NEVER QUARREL ABOUT GOD.
WE DO NOT WANT TO LEARN THAT:
"Thus, old Chief Joseph explained in council his antagonism
to the white man's education and his religions. The old Chief
had been an active Christian for twenty-seven years, from his
first contact with the Spauldings, until the betrayal of his
people at the treaty council in 1863. Much of his bitterness
toward the Christians and their teachings in the last years of
his life probably came from his great disappointment. The
religion he had hoped would serve as a shield for his people
had proved to be but a screen for the rapacious greed of his
enemies.
"So, you see, Alfred, there is little use in our looking to
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
anything in present day religions for the help this world needs.
Their seat of origin is wrong. They came out of the most
ignorant ages of the past. All they have ever done is to divide
and fight. You can't reform Europe or any other country with
the so-called religion of today. We should be maniacs if we
tried to. Why, we can't even reform ourselves, let alone
Europe.
"America today is engaged in building a defense for what
may come and what probably will come. Yet right in our own
Bay district, and in spite of our national emergency, men are
going out on strike and tying up the whole defense of our
nation. Not only on the Pacific slope, but in the East— the
coal mines and in the great automotive industries. In this, the
hour of America's greatest peril, these so-called Americans
are doing everything in their power to hamstring us by going
on strike. If I had my way, getting the wages these strikers
do, I'd make every one of them who went on strike join the
United States Army for twenty-one dollars a month as the
draftees get . . . talk about bringing civilization and morality
and Christianity to Europe . . . better make it work here at
home first.
"And there's another thing, Alf. You never heard of men
and women fighting over education— you never heard of men
and women killing each other for the sake of science. They
don't murder each other over art, or music, or mathematics.
Certainly not. But the trail of religion is a bloody trail, believe
you me. More blood has been shed on this earth over differ
ences of religious opinion than for all other causes combined.
Religion will make a man hate his father and mother. It will
separate husband and wife. It is what people do not know
that they are persecuting each other about.
"How many families do you know who have been sepa
rated because a Protestant married a Catholic, and vice versa?
Religion help us today in this emergency? Not any religion
on the earth today can do that."
"Then you do not think any religion, Catholic or Prot
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 169
estant or Jewish has in itself the power to make the slightest
effect for good in this world today?"
"Do you? Do you know of any system of religion which
can stop Hitler? Or do you know of any power possessed
by any system of religion which can do that?"
"No . . . not unless they possess a power they don't know
anything about."
"Well, even that wouldn't help— even if they did. Of what
use is a power if you don't know you have it? Certainly no
theory or preachment or ritual of any religion today can
stop Hitler. There is no merit in anything any church teaches,
nor does any church have either the power or the ability to
throw the power of its God against these mad world con
ditions. This, of course, is because their theories, creeds,
dogmas and so on, have no merit in them. Their gods are un
true. Their theories of Almighty God are worse than untrue.
They are an insult to the Supreme Intelligence that made
man."
"Suppose it might be that these religions did possess a power
they knew nothing about— might that not be the case?"
"I've just answered that, Bowers. You might go to a bank
and put five thousand dollars to my credit. But that could
not possibly do me any good until I knew of that fact and
began to write checks. The bank or you would have to notify
me that this sum was there awaiting my order.
"The same thing applies to these various religions. No, Alf,
if you think that any system of religion on the earth today
can stop Hitler and bring his mad orgy of wholesale murder
to an end, you are mistaken. You are deluding yourself."
"I didn't say they could— I'm just asking you for informa
tion."
"Listen, Alfred, the greatest challenge to God today is Adolf
Hitler. His is also the greatest challenge to the eleven major
systems of religion. Each claims their god to be the only true
God. Each says the other is damned if it doesn't believe what
it believes. Now the appearance of Hitler gives each and
170 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
every one of these systems of religion a wonderful opportu
nity to exchange words for action. It gives them a golden
opportunity to demonstrate any power their theology may
have. If any of these different gods can bring Hitler to his
knees, that is the true God. For this world conflict is nothing
more nor less than a battle royal between the powers and
forces of truth and the powers and forces of materialistic
error. You can talk about the cross of Jesus Christ and the
blood of Jesus Christ until you're black in the face. But if
that cross and that blood cannot stop Hitler, the theory is
false. Anyway— to use blood against blood seems to me to be
a rather ghastly way of doing things."
"What do you think of the theory that some day soon Jesus
Christ will return to the earth and with one fell swoop, destroy
his enemies?"
"Well, Alfred . . . the trouble with that theory is that if
Jesus Christ is to return, as the Christians claim, then there are
about thirty-five other sons of God about whom the same
claim has been made. If all of these sons decide to return at
the same time they'd probably start fighting among themselves
to decide which was the one and only true son of God. That
is what their followers have been doing since the beginning
of time. No, I'm afraid that is not the answer. The answer lies
in the actual existence of the Great Spirit of God here on
this earth . . . now. The answer lies in being able to throw the
Power of God against Hitler to such an extent that It will
bring his doom— here and now.
"Let's forget all about God being in the sky. Let's see if
we can't find enough of the invisible Power of the Spirit of
God right here on the earth to stop mad Adolf. For that will
eventually have to be done. There is no physical force, nor
any combination of physical forces which can stop him. And
unless someone brings to earth the actual knowledge of God,
and an actual demonstration of the Power of God, Hitler will
take the world.
"And something else, Alfred, while we are talking about
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
Jesus Christ or any other supposed god returning on the clouds
of Heaven. If that is true, why the delay? Every day the
Christian god delays his coming, the ruthless brutal Hitler is
laying waste more territory. He is snuffing out thousands of
human lives. He is causing hearts to bleed anew. Untold agony
multiplies every day the Christian god delays his coming— if
he is coming.
"That has been a nice theory. It is a wonderful escape
mechanism for those who are afraid to face the real issues of
the present world crisis. They, themselves, although divinely
inspired and appointed, can do nothing. But their god will
look after it all, at the proper time. Hitler can do his worst
in the meantime, upsetting this whole earth; but their god, one
of these fine days, will come back to the earth on the clouds
of heaven, and then brother Hitler had better look out.
"Oh, Alfred— away with such damnable trash as that. Let
us, for God's sake, and for the sake of a dying world, get busy
and throw the Power of God against this megalomaniac now.
"The Christian god failed this earth in the hour of its
direst need. Then let's try the God of all humanity. Alf, I'll
bet you that Hitler can be brought to his end within forty-
eight hours of the time Americans discard all church fallacies
about God and use their own God-given reason and the Power
they possess, against this ghastly inhuman murdering fiend."
Silence followed for three-quarters of an hour. The Cadillac
was just entering Corning, home of the olive groves.
"How about a cup of coffee here, Alf? Feel like having one
—perhaps a sandwich, too?"
"Okay. But no more rattlesnake sandwiches. Gosh— I feel
that I never want to eat another sandwich as long as I live."
"Well, I could have told you it was a hamburger sandwich
seasoned up and you wouldn't have known the difference. I
will admit, though, that it was a dirty Irish trick. Wait till I
tell Mrs. B. about your eating rattlesnakes."
Bannister pulled the car up in front of the Hotel Corning
172 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
and they had their coffee and sandwiches. Not rattlesnake
sandwiches, either, however.
Over then to the Standard Service station across the street
for a change of oil and a tank full of ethyl and the trio were
on their way once more.
"I think you're headed for a lot of trouble, Howard. Don't
you think there will be so much crystallized opposition on the
part of the churches to your new message that they'll make it
pretty hard for you? You won't be allowed to talk like you
have been talking to me, over the air."
"I don't know whether I told you or not, but the Catholics
have, for some time, been trying to get me off the air. To
date, however, they have not succeeded. They may, but I
doubt it. You see, these are desperate times. And they will
get very much more desperate before this war is over. In fact,
I expect them to get so desperate here in our own fair land
that anyone who offers a solution to this mad, bloodthirsty
revolution will be eagerly listened to. Blood will flow in our
streets, Alfred. Don't fool yourself it won't.
"And so far as anyone having me put off the air goes, well
... I sort of have an idea that if I am teaching the actual
truths of God, those truths will win out over any church
organization. They have failed, certainly. The American pub
lic has little use for any of their fantastic practices such as
blessing automobiles with holy water and sprinkling apartment
houses with the same sort of water. That thing is utterly
impotent to stop Hitler. It is pagan superstition, just as the
Protestant theory of God is pagan superstition.
"But in this, the darkest hour humanity has ever known, you
can be quite sure that the man in whom God has placed his
confidence, and has given the work of finally bringing to this
earth the actual truths of God—that man, Alfred, will be over
whelmingly successful. The world will make a beaten path
to his door. And the world will automatically know and rec
ognize the staggering Power of the Invisible Spirit of God
any time anyone brings that Power to this earth.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER '73
"No, our future is not going to be a bed of roses. Hitler
will carry everything before him up to a certain point. And
then . . . men and women here in America will throw over
board the pagan philosophies of God which the church has
offered and in their place men and women, all kinds of men
and women, will actually throw the unseen Power of the
Spirit of God into play and down will fall brother Hitler.
For Almighty God lives here on this earth. He exists in the
lives of men and women. They don't know that yet, but they
will find that out. And when they do, Hitler will be the first
one to know that at last a Power has been discovered which
any man who believes in the triumph of right over wrong can
use. For the Power of the Spirit of God is not some ethereal
thing living up in the sky— it is the motivating Power in every
life. It is the cause of life itself. It is life itself."
"Then you and I will live to see the day when Hitler and
all that he stands for falls before the superior Power of the
Spirit of God? Is that correct?"
"That is very correct. This war should be over in ninety
days at most. It all depends upon how much opposition the
churches throw against the Power of the Spirit of God. If
they admit their theories of God are false and if they fall
into line, the war should be over before that. But, of course,
if they do as they always have done, and oppose the truths
of God, if those truths do not jibe with what they teach, well,
it will take so much longer to educate the American people
to the actual existence of the Power of the True Spirit which
is Almighty God. That is something the future will reveal.
I'm of the opinion that when the churches actually see the
Power of God thrown into full operation, they will fall in
line. The Pope will have to take a back seat then. But I believe
he will be honest enough to do it. Matter of fact, he'll have
to do it. For the Pope is only a man, regardless of what
unprovable claims he makes— but God is God—the Creator of
us all."
"You've got me completely mystified, Howard. Yet you
'74 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
have me in complete accord with what you say. I have never
heard a more logical definition of God in my life. If you are
correct, and I'm positive you are, your name will go down
in history."
"I'm not interested in that, Alfred. I'm only doing what has
been given me to do. I possess no magic potion which gives
me any special insight into the Kingdom of God. All I am
doing is using my God-given reason. I am fearless enough to
challenge religion as it exists today. I love God to such an
extent that my life means nothing to me. As a matter of fact,
I don't care much about living, after I have brought to America
the actual truths of Almighty God. After that, those truths
will take control of this universe and the manifestation of an
other Hitler will be absolutely impossible. That's all I am
interested in . . . that's all I want to do . . . throw the Power
of the Spirit of God against Adolf Hitler. I know what the
result will be."
"How do you account for the fact that not until this age,
has humanity had an opportunity to know the True God as
you will reveal Him?"
"Religion and churches have been directly responsible for
this condition, Alf. I told you that all present day religion
is a result of dark age paganism. All present day theories of
God came out of the dark ages. They are the work of priests
and witchcraft workers. Under such systems of religion, Hitler
has manifested. The true manifestation of the True God will
put this old world where it would have been had there never
been religion as we know it today."
"Of course, Howard, the Christian church will answer you
by saying that Jesus Christ was the divine incarnation of Al
mighty God."
"Well, they won't get away with that. Listen, Alfred, the
incarnation of an infinite God is a shocking absurdity, and an
infinite impossibility. I ask in all solemn earnestness and in the
name of the intuitive monitions of an unshackled reason and
an unbiased conscience, can any man in his sober senses, who
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 175
has been in the habit of reflecting before he believes, entertain
for a moment the monstrous absurdity that the Almighty and
Infinite Maker of the universe was once reduced to a little
wailing infant, lying in a senseless and helpless weakness on
the lap of its mother, unable to walk a step, or lisp a word, or
do aught but cry with pain or for nourishment stored in the
mother's breast? What! Almighty God fallen from his bur
nished, dazzling throne in the lofty heavens, and reduced to
helpless, senseless babyhood! Omnipotence shorn of all power
but to breathe and cry and smile! What! that Omniscient
Being, who 'leads one world by day and ten thousand more
by night', becoming suddenly transformed into a human
bantling, which knows no higher enjoyment than that of
being 'pleased with a rattle and tickled with a straw!' Who
can believe it? Ay, who dare believe it,
if
he would escape the
charge of blasphemy? Then say not that 'the man Christ
Jesus,' though standing at the top of the ladder of moral man
hood, and high above the common plane of humanity, was
yet
a
God—'the Infinite Ruler of the Infinite universe'. Who
can believe that that Being, whose existence stretches to an
eternity beyond human conception, yea, whom 'the heaven
of heavens cannot contain,' was ever cooped up in
a
human
body, reduced so near to nothing in dimensions as to be
susceptible (as was Jesus) of being weighed in scales, and
measured with
a
yardstick?
"I ask again, Alfred, who, from the deepest depths of his
inmost, enlightened consciousness, can believe such revolting,
such atheistical doctrine as this? Or who will venture to de
scend still lower, and conceive of an Almighty, Omnipresent
Being, who fills all space above, around and beneath, 'from
infinity below to yon fixed star above,' and millions upon
millions of miles beyond
it,
sinking and dwindling to that
mere mite, speck or monad state and condition comprehended
in the initiatory step of embryonic existence?
"And then think of the Almighty, Omnipotent Creator of
the universe, lying in
a
manger with four-footed beasts and
176 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
creeping things, sleeping with oxen and asses in a stable. Next
he is seen an urchin on the street playing with marbles and
jack-knives, absorbed and forgetful of the world around him.
"Who can believe that awfully majestic Being, who is rep
resented by his own inspired book as being so transcendently
grand and awe-inspiring that 'no man can see him and live'
(Ex. xxxiii 20), was not only daily seen by hundreds and
thousands, but was on such familiar terms with men that they
regarded him as their companion, and equal, and even some
times coolly reprimanded him for supposed misdemeanors and
errors? Could they believe this to be Almighty God? Impos
sible! Impossible! And then who can believe that that infinite
Being, whom we have been taught to regard as absolutely
and eternally unchangeable, could become subject to hunger
and thirst (as did Jesus)? Or who can believe that the eter
nally and unceasingly watchful Omnipotent Deity, whose
eye, we are told, 'never slumbers', could sink into unconscious
sleep, become 'to dumb forgetfulness a prey' night after
night for thirty years, oblivious and unconscious of the world
around him?
"Think of a being of incomprehensible majesty, dignity and
power, able to 'shake the heavens and the earth also' being
unable to protect himself from insult, and was therefore de
rided and 'spit upon' and finally overcome by his enemies, as
is related of Jesus.
"Can any man believe, who has not made shipwreck of his
senses, or banished Reason from her courts, that God Al
mighty, who comprehends in himself the most absolute and
boundless perfection of goodness and wisdom, was tempted
by demons, devils and crawling serpents? Who can believe
that the Lord, who owns 'the cattle upon a thousand hills'
(Psalm 1. 10), and the countless hosts of worlds, besides, that
wheel their course through infinite space, had not 'where to
lay his head'?
"Who can believe that that was the all-wise, omnipotent and
omnipresent God, possessing all power in heaven above and
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 177
the earth beneath, who was betrayed by weak, finite mortals?
What! the Almighty Creator betrayed by a puny being of
his own creation into the hands of his disobedient and rebel
lious children? Why could he not, if possessing 'power to lay
down his life and take it up again' (John x 17), cause that all
these children of his (as we must assume they were, if he was
Almighty God, and hence the Father of all) should love him,
instead of hating him?
"Can any man believe that Jesus was possessed with om
nipotent power while standing to be whipped (scourged) by
Pontius Pilate, or that he possessed a power above that of
finite mortals while in the act of praying, with such extreme
ardor that the sweat dropped from his face, that the cup of
death might pass from his lips, or while calling for an angel
to support him in the hour of his mortal dissolution? Or that
He, 'by whom all things exist,' could cease himself to exist,
by dying upon the cross between malefactors?
"Think of this, Alfred, and think of the eternal Creator, the
infinite Deity, the omnipotent Jehovah, the Maker of worlds
as numberless as the sands upon the sea-shore for multitude,
fainting, bleeding, dying, and pouring out his own blood to
appease his own wrath; dying an ignominious death to satisfy
an implacable revenge!
"Away with such insulting mockery, such blasphemous
humbuggery! It can only find place in the dark chambers of
an unenlightened mind.
"Well has Watts said of Locke's skepticism, —
" 'Reason could scarcely sustain to see,
Or bear the infant Deity;
A ransomed world, a bleeding God,
And heaven appeased by flowing blood,
Were themes too painful to be understood?
"Yes, and too painful to be believed, too, Mr. Watts! Here
we have a 'bleeding God,' and 'infant Deity,' and a vengeful
1
78 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
God, appeased by murder and streams of 'flowing blood.'
Gracious heavens! Whose reason does not revolt at such a
picture? Whose soul does not sicken at the thought and
would not prefer, infinitely prefer, to sink to annihilation, if
not to perdition itself, to being thus saved by navigating a
river of blood?
"Dr. South hits off some of the absurdities involved in the
Christian doctrine of the incarnation so forcibly and so lucidly,
Alfred, that I cannot resist the temptation to subjoin here a
few extracts from his sermon on the subject. 'But now,' says
this Christian clergyman, 'was there ever any wonder com
parable to this, to behold the Lord (Jesus Christ) thus clothed
in flesh, the Creator of all things, humbled, not only to the
company, but also to the cognation, of his creatures? It is as
if one should imagine the whole world not only represented
upon, but also contained in, one of our own artificial globes,
or the body of the sun enveloped in a cloud as big as a man's
hand, all of which would be looked upon as astonishing im
possibilities, and yet is as short of the other as the finite is of
the infinite, between which the disparity is immeasurable. It
is,
as
it
were, to cancel the essential distances of things, to
remove the bounds of nature, to bring heaven and earth, and
what
is
more, both ends of the contradiction, together. Men
cannot persuade themselves that
a
Deity and infinity should
lie within so narrow
a
compass as the dimensions of
a
human
body; that omnipotence, omnipresence, should ever be wrapped
in swaddling clothes and debased to the homely usages of
a
stable and
a
manger; that the glorious Artificer of the whole
universe, who spread out the heaven like
a
curtain, and laid
the foundations of the earth, could ever turn carpenter, and
exercise an inglorious trade in
a
little cell. They cannot imagine
that He who once created and at present governs the world,
and shall hereafter judge the world, should be abased in all
his concerns and relations, be scourged, spit upon, mocked
and at last crucified. All which are passages which lie ex
tremely close to the notions of conceptions which reason has
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 179
made to itself of that high and impossible perfect that resided
in the divine Creator.'
"Dr. South admits that the doctrine of the divine incarna
tion involves many palpable absurdities and contradictions,
and lies directly across the path of reason. Fatal admission to
the doctrine of the deityship of Christ, but true, as his own
elucidation of the subject demonstrates. To me, since I first
subjected the question to a logical scrutiny and looked at it
with an unbiased mind, it presents difficulties insurmountable
and absurdities innumerable.
"I can imagine nothing more transcendently shocking, re
volting, and dwarfing to the mind, both morally and intellec
tually, than the thought of believing that a being born of and
suckled by a woman, and possessing the mere form and di
mensions of a man, can be regarded as the great Almighty
and Omnipotent God, the Creator of unnumbered worlds,
millions of which are larger than this planet, on which Jesus
was born.
"And then, Alf, look for a moment at some of the many
childish incongruities and logical difficulties this giant absurd
ity drags with it. It represents Almighty God as coming into
the world through the hands of a midwife, as passing through
the process of gestation and parturition. It insults our reason
with the idea that the great, infinite Jehovah could be molded
into the human form— a thought that is shocking to the moral
sense, and withering cramping and dwarfing to the intellectual
mind, and forbids its onward progress.
"Christians tell us that the human and the divine were united
in 'the man Christ Jesus'. But this is a monstrous absurdity,
which no truly rational and unbiased mind can accept for an
instant— that of hitching, splicing, tying or dovetailing to
gether finite man with the infinite Jehovah, that of amalgamat
ing and commingling human foibles with divine perfection.
Think of wedding mortal weakness to omnipotent power, local
man with the omnipresent Deity! This of compounding the
creature and the Creator in one and the same being! Think of
i8o GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
the omnipresent 7 anf whose illimitable existence stretches far
away throughout the expansive arena of a boundless universe,
occupying a dwelling within the narrow confines of the
human temple! As well essay to crowd the universe into your
pocket, or the Himalaya Mountains into a thimble. On the
other hand, think of a small compound of flesh, blood and
bones, a few feet in dimensions and weighing perhaps not
more than one hundred and fifty pounds avoirdupois, con
taining that infinite, omnipresent Being whom, we are told
(repeating the quotation) , 'the heaven of heavens cannot con
tain'!
"And more than that, Alfred, I ask you if you can accept
for a moment, without the immolation of your common
sense, and the trampling of your reason beneath your feet,
the monstrous thought that that mighty and almighty Archi
tect who created the countless myriads upon myriads of pon
derous worlds, which now roll in majestic order and eternal
rotation along the great cerulean causeway of heaven, that
mighty Architect who, from time beyond human computa
tion, has been rolling out orb after orb, world after world, if
not myriads at a time, ten thousand times, ten thousand of
which would dwindle our little pygmy, Lilliputian planet into
insignificance, if compared with it in size.
"I ask, and drive home the query to your inward conscious
ness, and the inmost temples of your sacred reason, can you
believe, after a moment's reflection, that a Being who is too
vast, infinitely too vast in power and ubiquity to be grasped
by the human understanding, did become (as did the finite
and humble Jesus) a helpless, senseless, unconscious human
infant; a suckling, crying squalling babe, powerless of speech,
and unable to walk?
"Ay, worse, more startling still, we are shocked with the
thought that this mighty World-builder, this infinite, omnipo
tent Creator, was reduced so near to the verge of nonentity,
so near to the last glimmering spark or speck of existence, and
the world so near without a God, as to become an inanimate
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER l8l
foetus, a monad in the matrix of a human virgin? Shocking
the thought! Blasphemous the doctrine!
"Believe it who will; believe it who can. I cannot. I would
not. I am infinitely beyond it. Such a belief may be deposited
by educational tradition in the affections, but to enter the
temple of Reason, it never did, it never can. She never un
barred her doors to admit such monstrous, such enormous
incongruities. And all these illogical absurdities, and a thou
sand more, grow legitimately out of the doctrine of the divine
incarnation— out of the postulate which would (following in
the line of the pagan superstitions) elevate the finite, humble,
mortal Jesus to the throne of heaven, the exclusive prerogative
of Almighty God.
"Let us get away from such disparaging, such dishonorable
views of the Deity, such blasphemous caricatures of Almighty
God. Come away from such morally darkening and such in
tellectually dwarfing superstitions, the moldering relics of
oriental mythology, the expiring embers of childish credulity
and tradition, which originated far back in the dark cradle of
human existence, in the infancy of an undeveloped age, ruled
by ignorance, superstition and priestcraft.
"Yet millions of people laying claim to sense and intelli
gence, even now profess to believe it! Talk not to me of the
infidelity or blasphemy of those who deny the divinity or
Godhead of Jesus Christ. The blasphemy lies in the other
direction. The infidelity is with the opposite party. It is with
those who thus make the dignity and character of Deity the
sport of childish baubles, the game of priestly tawdryism.
"And, be assured, Alf, that coming generations will make
the man who now worships 'the man Christ Jesus' as being
'very God' as an idolator, if not a blasphemer— for worshipping
a finite man for an infinite God, even though the motives for
such worship may be as pure as the pearly stream that issues
forth from the golden fount which rolls and sparkles beneath
the throne of Almighty God."
• • •
182 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
Soon the lights of Vallejo came into view.
The car sped across the Carquinez Bright, after paying the
toll, then on through Pinole, Olene and into Richmond.
Doctor Bannister drove Alfred Bowers to his home and
went in for a cup of hot coffee.
There he related to Mrs. Bowers what a cannibal her hus
band was. He had eaten a rattlesnake in a sandwich.
CHAPTER NINE
After leaving Dr. Bowers, Reuben took the wheel of the
Cadillac and Dr. Bannister climbed into the rear seat.
The drive to the Bannister home took about fifteen minutes
from the Bowers home and after passing through Berkeley
and Richmond the car finally swung into the Bannister drive
way. It was dark, but the outside porch light had been turned
on as Bannister had telegraphed his wife that he would be
home that evening.
The unloading of the car was left to the chauffeur, and
Dr. Bannister crossed the back lawn, ascended the patio steps
and entered his home through the large living room at the
north end of the house. Mrs. Bannister and little Margie were
awaiting him in the small living room.
As soon as the patio door opened, Bannister heard little
Marge say, "There's my Daddy!"
Like a shot out of a gun Marge came bounding toward her
daddy and literally leaped into his arms. Then she let loose
with a string of chatter which must have kept up for at least
five minutes. Something about a white monkey.
"Wait a minute, young lady, hold your horses. What's all
this talk about a white monkey?"
"I want a white monkey, Daddy. Pretty please, Daddy.
You have to get me a white monkey. It has to be white with
red legs and a black tail and a green nose, Daddy. They have
them in Africa and you're supposed to leave for Africa the
first thing in the morning and bring me back a white monkey.
Now you can't say 'no', Daddy, because Joyce Marnerson's
Mommy told her that white monkeys with red legs and black
tails and green noses grow in Africa, so, Daddy, I have to
183
184 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
have a white monkey and I want you to go to Africa and get
one right away."
"So you want a white monkey, young lady, do you? You
have a Siamese cat around here, a little brown dog, two ca
naries, and seventeen goldfish— and now you want a white
monkey."
"Yes, Daddy, and you can't tell me I can't have
it,
either.
Pretty please, Daddy. Promise me that you'll go to Africa and
get me
a
white monkey."
"Well, what do you say
if
we talk about the white monkey
in the morning? I'll admit I'm more interested in something
to eat now and besides,
Ihave one little white monkey around
here.
I
don't see why
I
should get another one."
"You haven't any white monkey around here, Daddy, and
you know it."
"Oh, but
I
have, and I'm holding
it
right in my arms now."
"Oh you! Daddy. I'm not
a
white monkey and besides,
I
don't have four red feet and
a
black tail and
a
green nose.
What are you talking about, Daddy?"
Mrs. Bannister was standing close by while this conversation
was going on. Finally Dr. Bannister got little Marge out of
his arms and his wife went into them, giving him the usual
kisses and embrace.
"Gee, it's good to have you back again, honey," said she.
"Well, it's good to be back and see you again.
I
know two
weeks at Rocky Point constitute
a
real vacation, but the best
part of any vacation
is
the return home again, especially when
you have
a
nice wife and
a
little white monkey awaiting you."
"I told you
I
wasn't
a
white monkey, Daddy."
Mrs. Bannister stopped the argument about the white mon
key by announcing that she had
a
nice meal of roast beef
and Yorkshire pudding in the oven and would serve
it
imme
diately.
Bannister went into his bedroom-study, discarded his fish
ing togs and put on
a
lounging suit after taking
a
cold shower.
Dinner was served, and little Marge kept the conversation
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER I85
hot by asking all about the little friends she had at Rocky
Point. For several years the Bannister family had spent their
vacation with their brother-in-law at Rocky Point and until
this year Bannister had taken his family with him. He intended
to make another trip up there later in the fall and if he did,
of course they would go with him.
It was about nine o'clock and the suggestion was made that
little Marge get ready for bed. Her face dropped a little as
she said, "I want to go to a show, Daddy."
"You want to go to a show at this time of night? Why,
it's nine o'clock and besides I have a good show that I'm going
to take you to tonight, anyway."
"Oh, I know, Daddy. It's a show that has sheets and blankets
and pillows in it. I don't want that kind of a show."
"Oh yes you do. You hustle off to bed now and we'll talk
about a show tomorrow night. Do you have any special show
in mind?"
"Yes, Daddy. Shirley Temple is at the Mayflower Theatre
and tomorrow night is her last night, so I want to see her,
Daddy."
"Okay, if I can't take you tomorrow night, I'll have Arlene
or your Mommy take you."
Arlene was one of the maids and on several occasions Dr.
and Mrs. Bannister allowed her to take little Margie to the
show when they were too busy to take her themselves.
Finally Margie was in bed and after calling out, "Good
night" several times from her bedroom, silence reigned. The
little thing had forgotten all about white monkeys and shows
for she soon was snoring away as she always did.
Dr. Bannister went into his bedroom-study to take a hasty
glance through the mail.
A few minutes later his wife entered and putting her arms
around his neck she said, "Did you have a good time, honey?
How about the fishing— did you catch many?"
"Well, both Bowers and I caught the limit every day we
fished. Say, I must tell you a joke I pulled on Dr. Bowers.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
You know that little German restaurant at the end of the Pit
River bridge? Well, we went in there to get a cup of coffee
and a sandwich. Bowers had told me to order a sandwich for him,
so I ordered a ham and egg sandwich for myself and a canned
rattlesnake sandwich for Bowers. You remember those cans of
rattlesnake meat they had in that little restaurant? Well, I had
the Dutchman fix up a rattlesnake sandwich."
"Did you do that, honey? I think that's about the worst
trick anyone can have played on them. How would you like
it if Dr. Bowers had ordered you a rattlesnake sandwich?"
"Well, Bowers took it in good part; as a matter of fact,
before he knew what the sandwich was he said he liked
it,
and
wanted to order another one."
"What did you decide about your future policy at All Souls
Church, Howard?"
"Well,
I
have decided, Pearl, to be true to myself, true to
my ministry and true to Almighty God as
I
believe God exists
today.
I
have given
a
lot of thought to what
I
am about to do
and am convinced beyond question of doubt that
it
is
the
proper thing to do.
"Certainly nothing offered to this world today in the name
of religion can do very much towards stopping the greatest
menace that has ever threatened civilization. All religions
claim, of course, to be divinely inspired. Each of them claims
its God to be the only true God the world has ever known.
Yet each of these Gods
is
different. One of the most significant
things about our own Christian religion
is
that its origin
is
surrounded by such
a
cloud of haze.
It
requires an unusual
amount of faith to accept the accounts of
it
which the
churches teach.
"Of course, this
is
what one might expect in the case of
a
natural religion. But Christianity claims to be
a
supernaturally
revealed religion. One would think that
if
God were going
to reveal himself to mankind he would do
it
in such an un
mistakable manner that no man could doubt the reality of
that revelation. Yet from the very beginning,
it
has been so
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER I87
obscure that only the most credulous have been able to accept
it. Christianity is supposed to have its origin in the person of
Jesus, yet it is exceedingly difficult to establish the fact that
such a person ever lived. Jesus, Himself, forms one of the most
controversial aspects of the whole question of religion and
one which bristles with special difficulty through the lack of
information accessible on the subject."
"What do you think about the actual existence of Jesus
Christ? Do you believe He lived or not?"
"Well, I'll tell you, honey. Practically all the information
available about this person is contained in four short anony
mous essays of unequal value, teeming with contradictions and
inconsistencies, and supplying Biblical students with a never-
ending theme for discussion as to what may be accepted as
authoritative and what is to be regarded as spurious.
"You see, these four essays or gospels, as the Christian
church calls them, were placed in the Christian Canon of
Scripture because animals have four legs."
"You say that the four gospels were put in the New Testa
ment because animals have four legs?" Mrs. Bannister inquired.
"Yes. I'll show you the authority for that statement one of
these days. The story is told that Irenaeus, Bishop of Lyons in
the year 1545 a.d., called together a group of a hundred and
eighty Roman Catholic priests and bishops. A large number of
anonymous essays had appeared about that time, always in
the hands of priests. To decide, therefore, which of these
essays should be introduced into the so-called 'holy writ' and
in order that it might be done authoritatively, this Catholic
bishop called his pow-wow.
"Well, it didn't take long for these holy men of God to get
into a drunken free-for-all brawl and quite a time was had
deciding which of these thirty or more essays should be voted
into the 'Sacred Canon of Scripture'. Here is what Irenaeus
said, 'The earth has four corners; there are four great winds;
animals have four legs, so we must have four gospels, no more
no less.'
"
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"Is that authentic, honey?"
"I will show you the quotation in the Catholic encyclo
pedia any time you care to see it. So, you see, the only place
where any reference to Jesus Christ was ever made is in four
absolutely anonymous essays which were voted into the Chris
tian Bible by a group of drunken priests, and they were voted
in there because animals have four legs."
"Are you going to tell your congregation at All Souls
Church these things?"
"Yes— I am. I am going to tell my congregation the complete
truth as I see it and I'm going to do that next Sunday."
"I notice your advertisements in the San Francisco papers
are much larger than they have been. I also note that the reli
gious editors of these papers have given you quite a write-up
and they seem to hint that your sermon on Sunday morning
may be rather sensational."
"Yes, I should not be in the least surprised if it did not turn
out to be very sensational. You see, honey, we must get at
the truth of God. If the eleven great religions of Christendom
have not brought those truths to this world, then it is high
time that someone did. Personally, I am convinced that there
exists on this earth now a Power so dynamic that all other
powers and forces fade into insignificance beside it. This Power
I believe to be God. I do not believe in the existence on this
earth as God, of Jesus Christ, Chrishna, Buddha, Mithra, or
any of the rest of the thirty-five gods who have received
divine honors and have been worshipped as gods or sons of
God and inaugurated as Christs, Saviours, Messiahs, or Medi
ators.
"You see, honey, all history ignores Jesus Christ. You can
not find one single record of that man anywhere outside of
these four anonymous essays, which were voted by drunken
priests into the Christian Bible because animals have four legs.
"The fact that all history, sacred or profane— that not one
of the three hundred histories of that age— makes the slightest
allusion to Christ, or any of the miraculous incidents ingrafted
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 189
into his life, certainly proves with a cogency that no logic can
overthrow, no sophistry can contradict, and no honest skepti
cism can resist, that there never was such a miraculously en
dowed being as his many orthodox disciples claim him to be.
The fact that Christ finds no place in the history of the era
in which he lived; that not one event of his life is recorded
by anybody but his own interested and prejudiced biograph
ers, settles the conclusion, beyond cavil or criticism, that the
Godlike achievements ascribed to him are naught but fable
or fiction. It not only proves that he was not miraculously
endowed, but it proves that he was not naturally endowed to
such an extraordinary degree as to make him an object of
general attention. It would be an historic anomaly without a
precedent, that Christ should have performed any of the
extraordinary acts attributed to him in the Gospels and no
Roman or Christian historian, neither Philo nor Josephus, both
writing in that age, and both living almost on the spot where
there are said to have been witnessed these events, and both
recording minutely all the religious events of that age and
country, make the slightest mention of them nor their reputed
author. Such a historical fact banishes the last shadow of faith
in their reality."
"Then, Howard, are you going to cut loose completely
from the traditions of the Christian religion, and are you going
to offer your congregation and the whole world the actual and
literal Power of God—is that it?"
"That's exactly what I am about to do. Would you have
me do otherwise?"
Putting her arms around her husband's neck, Mrs. Bannister
said, "Honey, I would have you be true to yourself, regard
less of the consequences. I am convinced that humanity has not
yet conceived of who or what God really is. I do not believe
that any nation or any civilization of any age or period of
time has known God."
"You are perfectly correct, Pearl. No system of religion in
any age has known or been able to teach the simple, though
190 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
dynamic truths of God as this present age will know those
truths before too long. First of all, the mad beast of Europe,
Hitler, must be brought to his end. In the second place, it
will take the mighty truths of God to bring him to his end,
for I do not believe the democracies can bring against him
enough military or naval power to crush him.
"Civilization, therefore, is standing today on the threshold
of either complete liberation or complete subjugation. If man
discovers once and for all who and what God is and where
God
is,
he will have conceived of an invisible spiritual Power
before which such world-disturbers as Adolf Hitler cannot
possibly last."
Bannister rose out of his chair, threw his lounging jacket
on the bed and said to his wife, "Let's go and sit in the big
room;
it
is
a
bit more comfortable there."
Mrs. Bannister followed him into the large living room
where he sat down in his favorite chair by the French win
dow. Pearl Bannister looked hard and interestedly at her hus
band for several moments. She knew he was
a
changed man.
She saw in his steel gray eyes
a
depth of power which had
never been there before. The smile he usually carried was
gone. His whole attitude was that of
a
man who has been
charged with
a
grave responsibility. No one knew what this
charge was any better than Howard Bannister's wife.
They continued to sit in silence. Each knew that the deci
sion the famous preacher had made was
a
momentous decision.
Each knew that Howard Bannister was either right or wrong
in this new conception of God. Mrs. Bannister had all the
faith in the world in her husband, for she had seen him fight
with his back to the wall, as very few men can fight for the
truth as he believed
it
to exist.
She was not underestimating the possible result of the stu
pendous decision her husband had made. Yet she knew that
he would be victorious. She knew that only one thing mat
tered in her husband's life, and that was the Power of the
Spirit of God. She knew that her husband was intensely in
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 191
earnest and as he sat there thinking, both hands clasped behind
his head, she went over to him and, kissing him on the fore
head, said, "Honey, I am sure you are right and I am sure
you will win; I envy you your task."
"Do you remember that sermon I preached some eight
years ago in which I suggested that the United States equip
an army of ten million men, build one hundred thousand
bombing planes and build also ten thousand submarines?"
"Yes, I remember that sermon well— if I remember correctly
it was preached on an Easter Sunday, was it not?"
"I don't recall the day I preached the sermon, but I do
remember very distinctly making that suggestion. You see,
for many years now, I have looked for and predicted the very
conditions which are manifesting on this earth today. I knew
that civilization could not last with its present conception of
God. I knew that conception is so fallacious that sooner or
later some would-be world dictator would arise, and, seeing
the utter lack of spiritual power on the earth, would make
the fatal mistake of thinking that he could, by the force of
arms, completely subdue and rule this earth. I knew that. So
as far back as eight years I suggested in that sermon which by
the way, was broadcast from coast to coast, that the United
States be prepared.
"I recall that for making that statement I was an alarmist.
I was a religious fanatic who could not possibly know any
thing about the future. Why, it was foolish to think that a
standing army of ten million men, with one hundred thousand
bombing planes and ten thousand submarines could ever be
needed. But if we had them now, we might feel a little more
secure than we do in the face of the threat of the greatest
despot this world has ever known.
"So, you see, Pearl, the decision I am making now has been
in the process of construction for many years. You will recall
that when I graduated from Theological Seminary, even then
I questioned the truth of the Christian conception of Almighty
God, and I think I've been questioning it ever since."
192 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"I should say, Howard, that this is no time to mince words,
nor is it any time to consider the feelings of any individual
or organization. As I see
it,
liberty
is
in peril. Our free way
of life
is
in peril. Our freedom and our very existence are
threatened by the marauding hordes of those who, through
the might of brute military force, are bringing to the earth
an abomination which
is
desolating every peace-loving land
which happens to stand in the way of this destructive force.
If, by presenting to this world, either the actual truth of the
old God, or perhaps a new God, you can bring this destructive
force to an end, thenI say more power to you!
I
shall give
you one hundred percent support. Regardless of what the
outcome of your decision may be, even
if
it
means we walk
the streets penniless, you will still find me by your side, with
our little Margie, and our Bruce back in Overland."
Bannister left his chair and went over and caressed his wife
very tenderly. Tears began to stream down his face as, kissing
her on the forehead, he said, "You always were true blue.
Somehow or other, though,
I
don't believe we're going to
have to walk the streets as
a
result of bringing to this earth
the truths of God. You know, honey,
I
think that All Souls
Church will welcome those truths.
I
think
it
is
entirely pos
sible for us to light such
a
flame of religious power that
it
will never be extinguished until every living soul has learned
of the superlative Power of the Great Spirit which
is
God,
here and now."
"You don't anticipate much trouble from the Bishop or the
Board of Trustees, then?"
"We'll handle that problem
if
it
should arise. Personally,
I
don't think
it
will arise, because, as
I
have said
a
few moments
ago,
if
this new work upon which
I
am embarking
is
of God,
no man can hinder
it;
if
it
is
not of God
it
will come to
naught and Howard Bannister will be the most colossal failure
this world has ever seen.
"Somehow or other,
I
cannot conceive of that happening.
You see, honey, we are facing
a
brutal murderous war, and
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER '93
war is never right. It cannot ever be right to send a bullet
crashing into the brain or the heart of a fellow human being,
regardless of what nationality he may be, and regardless of
who orders the bullet fired. All human beings, German,
French, Japanese, British, American are creatures of the one
Creator, regardless of their race or nationality.
"It cannot ever be right for one human being to drop
ghastly death-dealing bombs on the heads of other innocent
helpless peace-loving human beings, yet that is exactly what
is being done today. I think the reason this is being done is
because there exists no restraining influence in this world
higher than the philosophy that brute force is all powerful. If
no such restraining influence exists, it just simply means that
we are living in a godless world. Either that, or a world which
is full of the Power of God, yet completely unknown to the
inhabitants of this universe. I tell you, Pearl, I must rise up
and in the strength of the Power of the Spirit which is God.
I must challenge this ungodly thing which we now see in full
manifestation.
"And I'm not afraid to challenge
it,
either.
If
there exists
a
Creator, then this Creator must be first of all, invisible life
itself. My definition of God
is
'Life capable of existence with
out physical form'. In addition to this, that great life which
the Creator gave to all of us must embody in itself the infinite
of peace, love, wisdom, and everything else that would auto
matically go with
a
Power so great that
it
could create this
universe and the human beings which inhabit it. Now then,
the condition of this world today
is
evidence of the most im
pressive kind that the Power of the Creator, or, to put
it
in
other words, the Power of the Spirit of God,
is
absolutely an
unknown entity in this universe, our churches notwithstanding.
"Twenty million honest, harmless Chinese have been blasted
into eternity by the cruel bombs and machine guns of Japan.
Death— horrible suffering death—
is
being dealt out all over
this earth today and the answer to this horrible carnage must
lie somewhere. Someone must discover it. For
I
cannot con
194 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
ceive of the brute force of a Hitler permanently subduing a
creation with which he has nothing to do.
"If the combined religions of this earth today with one
billion and a half followers cannot find the answer to this
problem, perhaps I can. In any event, I would rather lose my
life, ruin my reputation, go down to defeat trying, than I
would to complacently sit by, drawing a salary of ten thou
sand dollars a year from All Souls Church and not make any
attempt to try to find the answer."
The hour was growing late and Mrs. Bannister suggested
that she make a cup of coffee and that they both retire for
the night.
"You mean make some colored water," said Howard Ban
nister. "At Rocky Point we had some good coffee for Winnie
knows how to make it."
"Well, I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll let you percolate the
coffee tonight, then you won't sleep."
This badinage over, Bannister made the coffee, nibbled on
the hunk of roast beef in the ice box and retired for the
night, Mrs. Bannister following him.
* • #
Bright and early next morning, Howard Bannister was in
his study in All Souls Church. Miss Johnston, his secretary,
was there already at work when he arrived. Bidding her a
cheery "Good-morning" he said, "Elaine, I wish you would
call up every member of the Board of Trustees and ask them
if they won't meet me here in my study tonight at eight
o'clock. Tell them it's very important."
"All right, Dr. Bannister, and if any of them should not be
able to be here I'll let you know."
While All Souls Church was a member of the Western
Methodist Conference, it had always been more or less of a
thorn in the side of that Conference. It was an extremely
wealthy church and more than once there had been talk of it
breaking away from the Methodist Conference completely
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER '95
and operating as an independent unit. On certain occasions the
presiding Bishop had seen fit to criticize some of the statements
made over the radio by Dr. Bannister. Delegations from the
Conference had called on him on several occasions and had
suggested that perhaps he might be preaching outside of the
scope of the dogma and traditions of the Methodist Church.
To all these approaches, however, Bannister had turned a
deaf ear. He had firmly but politely informed these delegations
that he was preaching the truths of God as those truths had
been revealed to him. He had given them to understand further
that no interference from any bishop or from the Western
Conference itself would be tolerated. On one occasion Bishop
Midas Bow had secretly met with the Board of Trustees of All
Souls Church in an attempt to undermine the standing of Dr.
Bannister. This attempt had met with signal failure and the
Methodist Conference knew that full well.
The attempt was never repeated.
All Souls Church was fortunate in having a representative
group of Trustees who stood completely behind Howard
Bannister. Most of them had been Trustees and Directors for
many years, and it was through their cooperation that All
Souls Church and its pastor had won world-wide reputations.
The Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Dr. Joseph Wilson,
was one of the Pacific slope's outstanding surgeons. He was on
the staff of many hospitals and was perhaps one of the most
outstanding orthopedic surgeons of the West. Dr. Wilson had
a very firm conviction that some intelligent power was behind
this universe. He put little stock in the theory that Almighty
God had been crucified on a cross, and, being a physician,
quite naturally he discounted one hundred percent the im
possible doctrine of the virgin birth. As he said to Dr. Bannister
on one occasion when they were discussing these old church
traditions, "Whenever a baby is born, Howard, you can be
perfectly sure that the male and female have come together."
On another occasion in an after dinner discussion in the
Bannister home, Howard was asking the noted surgeon if he
196 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
did not recognize some Power living in the physical body
which originates entirely outside of that body.
"For instance, Dr. Wilson, when someone fractures a bone,
there is a Power inherent in that person which heals that bone,
yet you cannot say that the intelligence which does the heal
ing is part of the bone, itself."
"Dr. Bannister, any physician or surgeon who does not
recognize the existence of an undefinable, intangible, super
human intelligence and power in the human body will not get
very far in the practice of medicine. The greatest physicians
and surgeons in this country and the most famous psychia
trists are paying more attention to investigating this power
which is life, than they have ever done before. I certainly owe
whatever success I may have achieved to the recognition of
the Life Principle which medical jurisprudence knows nothing
about, therefore cannot define."
Dr. Wilson had been a member of the Board of Trustees
ever since the church was built and for the past ten years had
been reelected every year as Chairman of that Board. He had
been a source of constant inspiration to Howard Bannister
and the friendship which existed between them was quite
deep.
The second member of the Board was Dr. Carl Seymour.
Dr. Seymour was an internationally known professor of
church history in one of the Methodist Theological schools.
Knowing considerable about the origin of all religions and
being well informed of the fact that no system of religion can
prove itself true, Dr. Seymour was looked upon as a broad-
thinking modernist. He, too, had discarded a long time ago
the story that Almighty God held a conversation in the Garden
of Eden with a talking snake. He also was too well educated
a man to believe that the Creator of this universe formed
man by spitting in the dirt, and he also resolutely refused to
believe that Almighty God had created the female of the
human species by causing a deep sleep to fall upon Adam and
then stealing a rib away from him. The theory that God Al
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 197
mighty had made a mistake when he created man and drowned
his entire creation like rats in a trap, with the exception of
one man, was, of course, completely discarded by Dr. Sey
mour. As a matter of fact, he never had believed the Biblical
story of creation.
"The Christian Bible gives two stories of creation and both
are completely different, so how am I to know which to be
lieve?" he had replied to Howard Bannister on one occasion
when he was being questioned regarding this Biblical creation
fable.
Moreover, Dr. Seymour knew that the Pentateuch, whose
authorship is usually attributed to Moses, was merely a copy
of a far older code of laws called the Hammurabi code. As a
deep student of comparative religions, Dr. Seymour knew
that the Hindoo bible contains almost word for word, the same
story of creation as found in the Christian Bible, the only
difference being that the Hindoo bible had this story fifteen
hundred years before either Jesus Christ or Christianity were
ever heard of.
He had repeatedly called attention to the fact, when in con
ference with Dr. Bannister, that the first created couple in the
Christian Bible were Adam and Eve, while in the Hindoo bible
they were Adimo and Heva. He had pointed out that a similar
flood story was told fifteen hundred years before in the Hindoo
bible. In that Hindoo bible the only man found righteous in
the sight of the Lord before the great watery destruction of
the entire human race was Noe. In the Christian Bible, how
ever, it was Noah.
According to the Christian Bible, Noah had three sons
whose names were Shem, Ham and Japheth, while in the
Hindoo bible the three sons of Noe were Sherma, Hama and
Jiapheta. It was also known to Dr. Seymour that the births of
Jeseus Chrishna of the Hindoo religion and Jesus Christ of the
Christian religion were both virginal births and both occurred
the same day, December 25.
Dr. Seymour had written two books which pointed out the
198 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
similarity between the stories of Jesus Christ and the story of
Jeseus Chrishna. The books created a sensation, but they did
point out the remarkable coincidence that the 'heathen' Hin
doo was in possession of every fundamental Christian tradition
fifteen hundred years before Christianity was ever heard of.
Being of an inquiring and logical turn of mind, Dr. Seymour
had been forced to repudiate both stories.
When two stories fundamentally disagree, either one of them
is wrong or both of them are wrong. They both cannot be
right.
The Theological Seminary in which Dr. Seymour was Head
of the Department of Church History, came as close to being
"atheistic" as any college can be and still retain the name "Chris
tian". However, the trend of most Christian universities today
is away from the old traditional ideas of God and Dr. Seymour
had been one of the leaders in this trend.
The next member of the Board of Trustees was Bernard
Heyneman, founder and directing head of the famous Heyne-
man Advertising Agency. Heyneman was born in San Fran
cisco, but lost his parents while still a child. The first job he
had secured when he was old enough to work, was that of
"barking" outside of a mercury-tube postcard photographic
establishment on the lower end of Market Street, opposite the
old Terminal Hotel. Heyneman was paid 20% of the money
received from all customers who came in as a result of his
sidewalk solicitations. The postcards sold at three for fifty
cents and that, of course, meant ten cents to little Bernard
every time he secured a customer.
Graduating from the sidewalks of south Market Street, Ber
nard secured a job for himself selling the old San Francisco
Call on the corner of Kearney and Pine. He sold more papers
on that corner than any other boy had been able to sell. At
the age of seventeen, he found himself with a job in the cir
culation department of the San Francisco Call. Later he started
a small advertising agency and, having a knack of being able
to graphically describe anything he wanted to describe, his
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 199
success was soon assured. Now his agency was the third largest
in the United States and the total volume of advertising written
each year was in the neighborhood of $100,000,000.
Heyneman was a deeply religious sort of chap. His early
years naturally had been without religious training. He had
never attended church nor had any church member ever
bothered his head about the little fellow who sold newspapers
on the corner of Kearney and Pine. Nevertheless, deep seated
in Heyneman was an overwhelming sense of the Presence of
God in his life. Where it came from he did not know, nor
did he care, and in his own blind way, he sort of struck up an
acquaintance with God, and his every action was performed
with the conscious realization of the Power of God in his life.
It is worth repeating here that this intuition of the Power of
God in his life had not been imparted to him by any church
or other religious organization. It had come from the skies,
if you will.
Heyneman handled all the advertising for All Souls Church
and his love for Dr. Bannister was almost a passion with him.
His ability and his keen insight into business problems had
proved of inestimable value to All Souls Methodist Church.
Bill Mortensen, an employee of a garage, was another mem
ber of the Board of Trustees of All Souls Church. One might
think it strange that an automobile mechanic should be a mem
ber of the Board of Trustees of this wealthy church. But in
spite of its wealth, the consuming desire of this church and its
Board of Directors and its pastor was that it might accomplish
something tangible and definite for the Kingdom of God on
this earth.
Bill Mortensen was a devout soul. He was not gifted with
too much ability, but his exceptional earnestness and depth of
character had won for him one of the largest votes any mem
ber of the Board of Trustees had ever received. Bill was a
married man, having four children. He lived on the other side
of the Bay in Marin County.
Everyone in San Francisco knows Inspector Eric Palmer of
200 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
the San Francisco Police Department. His name is a synonym
for honesty and integrity and has been that in San Francisco
for thirty-five years. One of the most brilliant detectives San
Francisco has ever possessed, the keen mind and peculiar under
standing of human nature had made Inspector Palmer one of
the foundation stones of San Francisco's civic life. Inspector
Palmer had been on the Police Department since his graduation
from college. He had always wanted to be a famous detective
and he had achieved his goal. Most of the major crimes com
mitted in the state of California came under the scrutinizing
eye of Inspector Palmer sooner or later. He had been voted
a member of the Board of Trustees just three years before.
All Souls, however, considered itself fortunate in having at its
disposal the keen, brilliant, analyzing mind of Inspector Palmer.
The financial power behind All Souls Church was William
P. Evers, one of San Francisco's millionaire bankers. He was
president of the huge Pacific Coast Banking Corporation,
which had branches in more than fifty Western cities. In fact,
the Pacific Coast Banking Corporation was the third largest
banking chain in the United States.
Like Trustee Heyneman, Bill Evers had come up from the
sidewalks of San Francisco. His first job was that of messenger
boy for the Wells-Fargo Express Company. One of the officials
of this company had taken a very deep liking to Bill Evers
and had made it possible for him to go through high school
and later the University of California.
From that point on, and by dint of hard work, plus frugal
living, Bill Evers had slowly and steadily climbed to his present
place of financial power in San Francisco. His purse was ever
open to the demands of the church and it was out of his
pocket the ten thousand dollars a year drawing account which
Howard Bannister was getting, came.
There were other bankers who held memberships in All
Souls, but none of them had the strength of character and
beautiful religious life of Bill Evers. To see him behind his
desk in the main offices of the Banking Corporation on Market
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 20I
Street one might gain the impression that he was a cold
blooded, money-grabbing Shylock, but underneath this out
ward appearance there beat a heart of true gold. More than
fifty prominent San Francisco business men could attribute
their success to the help given them by Bill Evers. From each
of them, before he helped them, he extracted a promise that
under no circumstances would they disclose who their finan
cial backer had been. Nor would he ever ask for one cent
of interest on the money he loaned these business men when
they were struggling to get a start.
That was Bill Evers, Vice-Chairman of the Board of Trus
tees of All Souls Church.
The last member of the Board was James Hoffman, member
of the firm of Hoffman, Wright and Hoffman, Architects.
Jim Hoffman, as he was affectionately called by all who knew
him, had been the designer of All Souls Church. It stood there
on the crest of a hill, overlooking Market Street, a monument
to the brilliance of the mind of Jimmy Hoffman who, inci
dentally, while All Souls was well able to pay him, donated
his services free of all cost.
When Howard Bannister argued with him that he should be
paid a fair sum for his architectural ability, Jimmy Hoffman
replied, "Dr. Bannister, I have made a success of life. I have
more money than I know what to do with, so I feel like giving
the very best in me to this church with the earnest hope that,
as a result of the building of the church, thousands of men
and women will come to know the Power of God."
Jim Hoffman's religious experience had been rather un
usual. Some twenty-five years before, he and a chum by the
name of Bill Blakely, had gone fishing in a little skiff on the
waters of San Francisco Bay. Clouds were hovering low when
they left, and it was against Jim's advice that they go fishing
at all that Saturday afternoon. His companion insisted, though,
so out they went.
Storms come up very fast on San Francisco Bay and as the
rain began to fall and the wind began to blow, Jimmy and his
202 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
young friend began to pull for the shore. The little boat, how
ever, could not stand the buffeting of the wind and the waves
and it capsized one hundred yards from shore. Not being able
to swim, it looked like certain death.
While struggling in the water with no hope of escaping
drowning, Jim Hoffman had uttered a prayer to whatever
God there might be. His companion had Jim in a death grip
and was dragging him down, so the prayer went up.
Here it is: "Oh God, I don't know anything about you, but
you made Bill and me and this is your ocean and that was
your boat and it is up to you to bring the pair of us safely to
shore."
As if in answer to that prayer, Jimmy heard the whistle of a
ferry very close. Struggling to release the hold of his friend,
and taking him by one hand, in some superhuman manner
Jimmy Hoffman pulled his friend to the surface where he was
seen by the passengers on this Alameda ferry.
Life belts were thrown out, the ferry was stopped, and both
boys were safely pulled aboard the ferry. Later they were
taken to the police emergency hospital where, after being
given first aid treatment, they were little worse off for their
experience.
This experience, however, made a deep and lasting impres
sion on Jimmy Hoffman, for while he never had much use
for the theory that Almighty God was crucified on a cross
for his sins, he did have an abundant faith in the Invisible
Spirit which had snatched him out of the very maws of a
seemingly inevitable death.
This, then, was the Board of Trustees of All Souls Church.
Bannister sat at his desk, planning his sermon for next Sun
day morning and evening. Much depended on that sermon.
Every fibre of his being thrilled with power as he dictated
to his secretary the main thoughts he wished to bring out.
Bannister never preached from notes. He got over that a long
time ago. In the early years of his ministry he would spend
hours and days elaborately planning a sermon and then when
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 203
he ascended the pulpit, would find himself preaching on an
entirely different subject.
The coming sermon, though, was to be different from any
sermon he had ever preached. He knew in a general way what
his topic would be and was so filled and thrilled by the power
he had recently discovered, that he decided only to have his
secretary jot down a few outstanding highlights of what the
sermon would be. This little task over, he turned to his secre
tary and asked, "Well, were you able to contact all the mem
bers of the Board of Trustees?"
"Yes, Dr. Bannister, they will all be in this study at eight
o'clock tonight."
Bannister left the church study late in the afternoon and
Reuben drove him to his home across the Bay where he ate
his dinner, returning to the church study in San Francisco
at about seven-thirty that same evening.
CHAPTER TEN
Bannister's study was an elaborate affair. There was a ma
hogany table, six by twelve feet, and twelve beautiful leather
upholstered mahogany chairs. A special chair was always at the
head of the table in which Bannister sat whenever the Board
of Trustees was in session. No expense had been spared in
building that church and certainly none had been spared in
equipping the pastor's study, and the room in which the Board
of Trustees met. A beautiful Kashan rug covered the complete
floor and concealed lighting gave a very soft mellow glow to
both the pastor's study and the Trustees' room.
One after another the Trustees arrived at the study and a
little while later they were all seated around the table. Of
course they were curious as to just why Howard Bannister
had called the Board of Trustees together only two days be
fore Easter. Usually the Trustees met in January and July,
except when unforeseen matters of business came up.
"How did you enjoy your vacation at Rocky Point?" asked
Dr. Seymour.
"Well, I had a fine time, caught lots of fish, but better than
that, I caught a new conception of God. If you gentlemen will
take your seats around the table, I will tell you why I have
called this special meeting of the Board of Trustees at this
time."
The Trustees took their seats, but instead of taking his place
at the head of the long table, Bannister walked to one of the
windows through which he could see the glittering, twinkling
lights of the famed city below. He stood there in silent thought
for a few moments and then, hands deep in his pockets, and
with head bent forward, he began slowly to pace up and down
the room.
204
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 205
"Gentlemen," Bannister began, "for fifteen years you have
honored me by making me pastor of this world-famous church.
For fifteen years I have given this church and its Trustees
everything that I have. Now I consider an emergency exists.
If you will bear with me, for a little while, I will try to make
myself clear.
"An event has come to pass in our day which is without
precedent in the known history of the world. There has arisen
on the international horizon, a man who, by the sheer power
of his ruthless military might, is not only challenging civiliza
tion, but is challenging Almighty God, too.
"While I was on vacation at Rocky Point I decided to
accept that challenge. I have called you together, gentlemen,
to find out whether or not All Souls Church wishes to join
me in accepting this challenge which has been thrust upon
the world, or whether you wish me to fight alone.
"We are supposed to be a Christian nation. That only means,
however, that the Christian faith is in the predominance here
in America as it is in Europe. It does not mean that we know
anything at all about God; all it means is that the Christian
nations of Europe have long indulged in the fond belief that
ours is the highest civilization to which man has attained. The
Christian faith and other major 'faiths' are nothing more nor
less than that. We believe our philosophy of God is true; we
think it is true, but we cannot prove that it is true. Yet we
have held the fond belief that we have in our keeping the only
religion which Almighty God has ever revealed to this world.
We believe that to us was given the very Son of God Himself
to instruct us in the true way of life and to make it possible
for us to attain the Kingdom of Heaven. We have prided
ourselves most of all upon this, our religion. So precious have
we considered
it,
and so necessary to the well-being of man,
that with unrivaled generosity we have deemed
it
our duty
to impart this—our treasure—to all mankind.
"We have sent out our choicest souls into the foreign
mission field, and we have spent millions of dollars to preach
206 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
this gospel of ours to those whom we have chosen to call 'the
heathen'. And we have been honest in all this. These good
souls whom we have sent to the foreign mission fields have
given their very lives in an attempt to change the religion of
the 'other fellow' to ours.
"So true did we consider our religion to be, that we have
done this without equivocation. We perhaps lost sight of the
fact that those to whom we sent our missionaries with our
religion, had their own religious faith, which they consider
equally as true as we consider ours. And they have had it
longer.
"Now all this, I repeat, has been in the utmost good faith.
This church here, of which I am pastor and you are Trustees,
stands at the head of the list of American churches for the
amounts contributed to foreign missions."
Bannister paused and removed his coat, as the evening was
rather warm.
"If any of you gentlemen feel like taking your coats off,
you do so, because we may be here for quite some time."
Several of the Trustees peeled their coats and hung them
upon hangers in the large clothes closet which was at the east
side of the room.
Then Bannister continued.
"It is my intention to look facts in the face. For those of
us who are trying so desperately to make God real to the
world, find our religious beliefs disintegrating. We find the
whole world in a strange state of disturbance and upheaval,
and much as we may hate to admit
it,
the conclusion
is
forced
upon us that our vaunted truth and exclusive Christian religion
is
utterly powerless in this world crisis. Christianity seems to
have lost its authority even in Christian America and Europe.
"Next Sunday only two people out of every hundred in the
United States will attend
a
church. The theatres will be full,
the baseball stands will be full, the night clubs will be full
and the streets will be crowded with American citizens who
are not in the slightest degree interested in the Christian
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 207
church and its beliefs, or in any other church, for that matter.
The sanctions of the church are gone; its foundations are
sapped; and the very springs of its existence are running dry.
"In addition to that, the people have discovered a thousand
and one new and vital interests which have displaced what
ever little interest they may have had in religion. Instead of
religion today being a major element in human life, it has
come to be a very minor element. Thinking people all over
the world are asking: 'What is wrong with the world'? and
'Is there a God'?
"Of course, in the deepest sense, there is nothing wrong with
God, although there is very much wrong with the world.
True religion must ever be an attempt to disclose the Great
Creator to humanity. If religion cannot do that, we might just
as well have no religion.
"Someone once said, 'Religions are many, but religion is
one'. What this really means is that religion constantly and
necessarily must adjust itself to its environment. Sometimes
these adjustments are so radical that they make the product
appear to be atheism, when in reality, what is called by the
Christian 'atheism' may be but the first faint glimmerings of
new gleams coming over the horizon of world history.
"I like to think of religion as being constantly reborn in
order to maintain itself. Look back, if you will, gentlemen, to
the time you were born. You will find that your life has
passed from one set of conditions into another. Your life be
tween the process of birth emerged from the darkness, the
silence, the restriction of the womb, into a world of light and
sound and freedom. All the circumstances of life are actually
changed, but the life itself goes on. Life can only continue thus
by passing from one state of environment to another. Dr. Wil
son will bear me out in this. If a child tarries too long in the
bosom of its mother, the child dies and the life of the mother
is in danger. So today, gentlemen, in spite of the horrible
conditions prevailing on this earth, I believe that religion here
in America is only now being born.
208 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"The whole religion of Europe and America was conceived
in the days of the Roman empire. Its life was the result of the
impregnation of Greco-Roman thought, coupled with the old
Jewish spirituality. It was born, flourished, and lived so long
as its environment was conducive to that type of religion. For
instance, in the Dark Ages, when the lightning struck and the
thunder roared, our forefathers took refuge in caves. God was
speaking— God was angry with this world— someone had done
something wrong and by that act had incurred the wrath of
Almighty God who was spewing out his anger in flashes of
destructive lightning and in the voice of the thunder clap.
"That type of religion, however, having outlived its useful
ness, faded into decay and death. It exists no more.
"The environment of this earth has changed so radically
that that kind of religion can no longer adapt itself. So it lapsed
into decay and death, while true religion was being reborn.
Just as the child when it is born must adapt itself to the entirely
new conditions of the outer world, so religion must adapt itself
to the entirely new and different modes of thought and con
duct which have arisen as the result of our changing civiliza
tion. The appearance on this world's horizon of the German
despot, Hitler, will call, not for a rebirth of any old system of
religion, but for the birth of true religion. That is something
which is positively unknown on this earth today.
"Those of us who have considered ourselves specially favored
by having the Son of God given into our exclusive hands, must
cast aside that theory. We must exchange the theological prem
ises of a dark and pagan past for the sublime truths of this
new and true religion, as it is being born on this earth today.
The disintegration among our churches, who thought they
were standing for the fullness of the sublime truths of God,
is pitiable to witness. Just as the religions of the pagan past
could not stand in this present crisis, our much vaunted exclu
sive religion with its exclusive Son of God, cannot stand, either.
There is nothing in the structure of it which can be faintly
suspected of fulfilling the spiritual needs of this earth today.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 209
"We find evidence of this if we look only superficially at
Christianity itself. In the beginning, it was rather a simple,
ethical religion of fear. It was used by priest and preacher to
secure submission to and on peculiar theories of God. How
ever, it soon assumed many different forms as it spread over
a world of different cultures.
"When it came into contact with Greek Mysticism, it took
on the color of the materials with which it worked, until it
finally emerged in all the speculative fantasies of the Greek
Orthodox Church.
"Later it came into contact with Roman Legalism. It reinter
preted again its doctrines and ceremonies until it developed
into the elaborate ecclesiasticism of the Roman Catholic
Church. Then it spread northward into the forests of the Teu
tonic peoples. It absorbed the principles of freedom and indi
vidualism and finally developed a new form of individual and
comparatively free religion in the Protestant reformation. This
is merely an illustration of the same religion adjusting itself
to minor changes in culture; that
is,
changing its form to meet
the requirements of different forms of civilization."
Bannister walked over to the sideboard and drank
a
glass
of cold water.
"If any of you gentlemen would like
a
drink
I
would be
glad to bring you one."
There evidently was no desire for
a
drink, the Board of
Trustees being too wrapped up in what their pastor was saying
to them.
It
was quite evident, though, that so far they were
in perfect accord with the statements he had made. Dr. Sey
mour's face began to smile as
if
he suspected what might be
coming.
Then Bannister continued.
"What
I
have said, gentlemen, so far has been by way of
introduction to what
I
want to discuss with you now.
I
want
you to try and comprehend what
is
actually happening to
what we know as religion today. Christianity has been carried
on for almost two thousand years by making adjustments to
2IO GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
different forms of essentially the same civilization. Today we
are in the midst of a change in our manner of life and mode
of thought, so radical as to give rise to a new form of civiliza
tion or new culture, comparable only to the drastic changes
which took place when the people turned from cavemen into
farmers.
"Every religious denomination in America today is dis
integrating. They have all lost faith in the fundamental pre
cepts of what they have been teaching. I believe, gentlemen
and friends, that this staggering change in world conditions
calls for an equally staggering change in religion.
"As I see
it,
the cause of all the bewilderment, the consterna
tion, the suffering and the horrible brutality on this planet
today,
is
a
complete lack of true religion. But what
is
true
religion? Has the Christian church demonstrated the truth of
its theory, that
it
was given exclusively the Son of God?
Does its record disclose that its theology
is
sufficient to meet
these horrible world conditions today? Or have we been
fooling ourselves?
"Gentlemen—
I
maintain to you that what we have been
teaching as the religion of Almighty God has been
a
cruel
hoax,
a
mockery of God, and
a
sham of the very first water.
If this
is
a
fact, we have been misled by those who told us that
all the truths of God Almighty were wrapped up in the Christian
religion and the Son of God, which we think was given exclu
sively into our hands.
If
God did give his only begotten Son
into the hands of the Christian church, the Christian church
has made the most dismal failure of that Supreme gift.
"There exists today, gentlemen, an actual conflict between
a
rapidly dying civilization and one that
is
surely emerging. This
confusion
is
caused mostly by the unawareness on the part of
the Christian church of what
is
actually happening. Of course,
the average man
is
aware that he
is
living in
a
period of social
change, but he does not sense its significance; neither does he
know whether this change
is
for good or evil. Least of all does
he know that the horrors and the ghastly brutalities in Europe
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 211
today are but the birth pangs of religion, not being born anew,
but being born for the first time.
"Religion, gentlemen, has not been born on this earth as yet.
I say this in spite of the claims of the Christian church and a
dozen other major systems of religion, all of which claim to be
bringing to this earth the sublime truths of God. These sys
tems of religion all claim, as we do, that Almighty God did
give to us 'the only revelation of his truth that ever was given
to anyone.' Yet, gentlemen, the appalling fact remains that,
with eleven major systems of religion with their one billion
and a half followers, not one of these systems of religion or all
of them combined, nor any individual member of them, can
reveal to this earth a Spiritual Power great enough to make
any effect whatsoever on the ghastly, murdering hordes which,
if not checked, will devastate the human race.
"We stand tonight, my friends, torn between two forces.
We are bewildered. We are confused. We ask ourselves 'Will
anything be left of the Christian religion when this war is
over?' You know, my friends, humanity is a funny thing.
It has qualities which are very startling. Perhaps the most star
tling quality it has is the one which permits us to be so sure
of the things we don't know and which make us so utterly
positive in our opinions and yet those opinions be so wrong.
"I was listening to the radio last Sunday. My dial was on
KFSO, the local Columbia outlet. The beautiful organ from
the Mormon Tabernacle was playing the Bach Prelude in A
Minor. Then the announcer made the following statement,
which I was very surprised to hear. So impressed was I by
this statement that I wrote to the Mormon Tabernacle in Salt
Lake City and asked them for a copy of the statement made
by the announcer. The statement was written by Richard L.
Evans, of the Salt Lake City Tabernacle, and I wrote Mr. Evans,
asking him for a copy of the statement. He kindly sent it to
me and I am going to pass it around among you. It is a copy
righted statement, of course, and full credit must be given to
its author, Mr. Richard L. Evans.
212 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"Here is the statement:
"
'One of the most startling things about humanity is that
quality which permits us to be so sure about things we don't
know—which permits us to be so utterly positive in our opin
ions, and yet be so wrong. History has given us many examples
of uncompromising declarations which the verdict of succeed
ing generations has found to be in error. Things which only
yesterday we were dogmatically taught in school, are being
replaced by other theories which today in some quarters are
taught with equal dogmatism, some of which will also later
be discarded. Constantly there are being challenged, discredited
and abandoned man-made doctrines and dogma that have here
tofore at some time or other, been pushed into our conscious
ness by the pointing of the professorial finger or the pounding
of pulpits. Theories are often the stepping stones to truth, but
they must be regarded with suspicion until greater light comes
to credit or discredit them conclusively. Some things, which to
question would once have been akin to heresy, have long since
fallen with their own unsupportable weight. Wisdom comes
when we learn to know how much we don't know, and when
we learn to remember how much that was accepted as dog
matic truth yesterday is not in the discard, and how many of
today's positive assertions will be discarded by those who fol
low us. And so, in all our searchings and in all our soundings
of the truths of life, before we become too positive in a wrong
direction, we could save ourselves a good deal of trouble to
remember that when two men fundamentally disagree in a mat
ter of belief, whether it be religious or scientific, or in any
other field of thought or learning, either one or the other of
them is wrong or both of them are wrong.'
"No one knows, gentlemen, how long the human race has
inhabited the earth. It is fairly well established that it was
inhabited by human beings at least fifty thousand years ago.
Of course, we know little of civilization that long ago, although
there is some evidence that it may have been, in some respects
at least, a better civilization than the one we now have. But
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
this thing that we call civilization is a very thin veneer. If evo
lution is at work, it is a very slow process certainly. Under this
thin veneer, we find the fighting, brutal, killing animal. What
outwardly appears peaceful, intelligent and educated, is found
to be barbarism under the surface.
"Throughout all nature, both human animal and flower, the
same spirit of ruthless destruction manifests. There are won
derful flowers and shrubs surrounding the grounds of my
home, as you know. There are earwigs, too. The earwigs ruin
the flowers and plants. They kill them. Then the birds come
along and eat up the earwigs. Then comes the cat and kills
the bird. Some day a big dog will come along and kill the cat
and someone will shoot the dog. Thus is nature today.
"The leopard stalks its prey throughout the forest. One
pounce and its cruel jaws crush the life out of the weaker
animal which has not power to protect itself against the supe
rior strength of the leopard. Yet the leopard has to eat. It has
been created by the Superior Intelligence which created all
things with the faculty to secure its livelihood by killing
weaker things.
"Taken as a whole, then, what we call civilization is a brutal,
selfish, murdering, cheating, immoral thing. Yet it must have
had an intelligent Creator. The creative power which caused
this earth to blossom as the rose must be a force far beyond
that which it created. But I cannot conceive of this creative
intelligence building, or otherwise making a creation whose
outstanding characteristic is the destruction of the weak by
the strong. Yet that is what has been happening throughout
all creation since time began. That is the philosophy of this
world today.
"It's a torn, sorrowing, bleeding, suffering world, gentlemen,
a sad monument to those of us who have boldly proclaimed
to the world that Almighty God gave his most treasured secret,
including His own Son, into our hands for safekeeping."
Bannister, by this time had taken his seat at the head of the
table. All eyes were fastened upon him. They had seen him in
2I4 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
fighting moods before, but they had never seen the power
which exuded from every fibre of his being as now.
"Gentlemen, there is something out of alignment between
this United States and our Creator. I believe our Creator lives.
I believe the misalignment lies in our conception of the Crea
tor and his relationship to us. I do not believe our Christian
theology is true. I think it is too small to embrace all mankind,
and most certainly it is self-evident that no conception of God
advanced today by Christianity can make the slightest particle
of difference to the war-mad dictator in Europe, whose sole
aim and ambition is to conquer the entire world and drive
every semblance of religion out of it.
"As I said earlier, gentlemen, I want to take up that chal
lenge of Adolf Hitler and I want you gentlemen to state now
whether you are for me or against me. I cannot go contrary
to the revelations which have come to me from the realm of
the Spirit of God, so what I want to do is tell this congrega
tion the truth of what I know about our own Christian
religion. What I want to know, first of all, though is this: —
Has the Board of Trustees of All Souls Church enough confi
dence in me to allow me to preach what I believe to be the
truths of God, or does this Board of Trustees insist that I stay
between the covers of the Christian Bible and advance Jesus
Christ as the only hope for this world?"
A silence you could cut with a knife came over that room.
Certainly this was something new. Here was the pastor of one
of America's most famous Christian churches asking its Board
of Trustees if it would allow him to preach the Power of God
entirely outside of the Christian Bible and Jesus Christ.
The silence continued.
One Trustee look at another.
Finally, Dr. Wilson, the Chairman of the Board of Trustees,
broke the silence.
"Howard, let me get this straight. Am I to understand that
you believe the Christian religion and its Bible are not big
enough to handle the problems which confront this world?
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 2l5
Am I to believe further that God has given you a revelation
of His truth, which you are convinced can bring peace and
good to this earth?"
Bannister replied, "Joe, that is exactly what I mean. I know
the history of the Christian church and I think I know the
impotence of religious theories to do one single thing toward
bringing Adolf Hitler to his knees. During the past ages the
Christian religion had its place, but now that the world faces
a crisis— now that Hitler has thrown out a challenge to Almighty
God, I see nothing in the Christian religion which can even
faintly be suspected of being able to combat the brutal mili
tary force of Hitler by a stronger spiritual force or Power,
which Power must be God. Personally, Joe, I believe so firmly
in the existence of the Great Spirit, which is God, on this
earth that I am convinced that neither Adolf Hitler nor any
other would-be world conqueror can stand against that Spirit
of God. But I am equally sure that the Great Spirit of God
does not manifest or operate in or through our Christian
religion. If it does, and if the Christian church possesses enough
power to bring this holocaust to an end by stopping Hitler,
then I have never seen that power nor do I know where the
Christian church keeps it. Does that answer your question,
Doctor?"
"Yes, it does, Howard, and I am in one hundred per cent
agreement with you."
"Well, thank you very much, Joe. I thought you would be."
"May I ask a question, Howard?" spoke up Dr. Seymour.
"I am here, gentlemen, to answer all your questions. If you
give me a go-ahead signal, I will promise you that I will bring
to the city of San Francisco and the whole world, for that
matter, through this church, so much of the Power of the
Spirit of God that such jackals as Hitler and the rest of his
breed cannot possibly stand against it. You see, gentlemen,
this whole proposition is quite simple. It is merely a case of a
conflict between two powers. The one Power is the Creative
Intelligence which put man on the earth. The flowers that
216 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
bloom in the front of this church are manifestations of that
Power. The seagulls and other beautiful birds that fly in the
air overhead are manifestations of the creative ability of that
Power which I call God.
"Opposed to this Power we find a physical, material brute
force whose sole object is to destroy what Almighty God, the
Creator, has made. In order to accomplish this, flame throw
ers, bombers, tanks and submarines are built, and in the first
two years of this war the destruction, not only of human
beings, but of natural creations, has been horrible.
"Now it is my contention that the Power which creates is
far greater than the power which destroys. But the power
which destroys operates completely through material, physi
cal means, while the Power which creates is a silent force.
Right here may he the reason why we have not believed in
the existence of this Invisible Power which is God, as we
should have.
"I think the time has come for a showdown, and I am ask
ing you to let me have a free hand in not only preaching the
Power of the Spirit of God in San Francisco, but in demon
strating that Power.
"Now, Carl, what question was it you wished to ask me?"
"Well, Howard, I have been watching you very closely.
The little talks we've had in your home and in mine convinced
me of just how your mind was running. I stand behind you
one hundred per cent. I will vote to give you a free hand.
If it would not be out of the way, I would like to ask you
how you are going to demonstrate the Power of the Spirit
of God on this earth and stop Hitler by using that Power
against him."
"Carl, the Power of the Spirit of God always demonstrates
and manifests itself. There is nothing I can do to assist the
Spirit of God Almighty in making its superlative power felt
on this earth. What I can do, though, is pull up the weeds
that the flowers may grow. I can tell our people here that
the theory of God brought to them by the Christian religion
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 217
is not sufficient. I can tell them that it has no inherent power
by which it can rise and challenge the great disturber of our
civilization. Then, after I have done that, I can point out to
them not only who God
is,
but where God
is
and how that
great Spirit may be thrown into actual operation against
Adolf Hitler.
"I can do that. But
I
must ask you to trust me until Easter
Sunday
is
over. I'm going to preach two sermons day after
tomorrow. In the morning sermon, I'm going to preach, as you
know, from the subject, 'DID JESUS CHRIST RISE FROM
THE DEAD?'
"In that sermon
I
expect to blast out of existence the very
foundations of our Christian religion.
"Then on Sunday night
I
intend to lead the whole member
ship of All Souls Church into an acquaintance with the actual
Spirit of God.
I
intend to show them how each one of them
can use the omnipotent Power of that Invisible Spirit of God
to bring Adolf Hitler completely to his knees."
Inspector Palmer spoke up.
"Howard,
if
you can do that you will render the United
States the greatest service any man ever could render it. Why,
your name will go down in history as the Saviour of the human
race. I'm all for letting you go ahead, for
I
know that under
no circumstances would you make the statements you've made
here this evening unless you knew that you could accomplish
exactly what you say you can. I'm all for you, Howard."
Addressing William Evers, Bannister said, "Bill, what's your
reaction to what
I
want to do? Understand, of course, that
it
will bring down the wrath of the Methodist Church on our
heads, and we may have to withdraw from the Methodist Con
ference, but are you willing to trust the Power of Almighty
God to bring Adolf Hitler to his knees?"
"Howard, you know what my religious philosophy is. You
know that
I
have an unshaken faith not only in the existence
of God, but in the power of God.
I
agree with you that the
Christian religion has miserably failed to give this earth one
218 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
constructive thought about the power of the great Spirit which
put us all here. For many years the virgin birth theory and
the immaculate conception and all that stuff has gone in one of
my ears and out of the other. Nevertheless, I never believed
more firmly in the present existence of the Spirit of God than
I believe now. So far as I'm concerned, I'm perfectly willing
to give you a free hand, for I believe that unquestionably
God Almighty has spoken to you and has given you a message
to bring to this earth."
"Heyneman, what is your reaction?" asked Bannister.
"I am absolutely taken off my feet by what you've said,
Howard, but it appears to me to be so logical that I stand
behind you to the limit. If it means pulling out of the Metho
dist Conference, let's pull out."
Both Bill Mortensen and Jim Hoffman agreed with the rest
of the Trustees.
Bannister went to the clothes closet, took out his coat, and,
putting it on, said, "I knew you would stand by me. Let me
promise you now that All Souls Church will witness the great
est spiritual awakening it has ever known, and as a result of
this awakening all America will know of the Power of God
and when they know that, it will not take this country long
to throw that Power against Adolf Hitler. Americans as a
whole are a very intelligent class."
"What will be the effect on the congregation, Howard?
How will they react?"
"Well, I'll tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to write
out my resignation as pastor of this church and after I've
preached my sermon on Sunday morning, I'm going to read
that resignation. It will become effective at one o'clock the day
after tomorrow. Then I'm going to call the Board of Trustees
to the platform and have them go into special executive session,
calling for a vote of the congregation to decide whether I
stay here or move on. I think that's the best way to make the
decision of the Trustees unanimous."
"That's a good idea, Howard," said Dr. Seymour, "and I'd
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 219
like to ask all the Trustees to be present Sunday morning and
suppose we gather in this room. We can hear Howard's ser
mon over the loud speaker, then at the proper time, when he
calls for us, we can go on the platform and call for a vote
of the congregation."
Every member of the Board of Trustees agreed to be present
in the ante-room on Sunday morning.
"Good-night's" were said all around and Bannister and his
Board of Trustees left the church after the most momentous
meeting of that Board All Souls had ever known.
CHAPTER ELEVEN
All nature seemed to be showering her choicest gifts upon
San Francisco that beautiful Easter Sunday morning. A few
fleecy clouds scattered across the sky, cast their ever-moving
shadows o'er the city. Market Street was like a fashion parade.
New hats, new suits, young men and women, older men with
their wives— even the oldest were out on parade each trying to
outdo the other in their Easter finery.
Little did these pleasure-loving men and women dream of
the momentous action which was about to take place in famed
All Souls Church, up there on the hill. There was a sort of
sadness, however, permeating the crowds, for the grim ghastly
spectre of impending imminent war, with all its horrors was
just around the corner.
What would happen before another Easter Sunday came
around? Would San Francisco see another free Easter, or would
the cruel hand of the oppressor and despot bathe the fair city
in the ghastly sticky human blood of these wonderful Ameri
cans who, on this Easter Sunday were enjoying freely the
bounteous gifts of all nature and of nature's God?
How long would it be before the deadly inhuman dive-
bombers of the world aggressors would soar over this lovely
city, dropping their death-dealing bombs on men, women and
children alike? How long would it be before the ghastly
hordes of murdering barbarians would leave young children
disemboweled on the sidewalks of Market Street? How long
would it be before Kearney and Pine would be a human
slaughterhouse, along with every famous street in the city of
San Francisco?
How long would it be before Japanese or German para
210
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 221
chute troops would be flying overhead, bathing this wonder
ful city with human blood? Or would these things be?
Under all the frivolity and apparent happiness of the Sunday
morning crowds, there was a feeling of pessimism. Mothers
thought of their young boys. Many of them even now were
in training camps. Fathers, too, thought of the boys and girls
their love had given life to. Brothers and sisters, hand in hand,
walking up and down the wide streets of the Bay City—how
long would they be able to do that unharmed?
Or would the ghastly spectre of dive-bombers strike terror
into their human hearts before another year, or perhaps month
rolled by? What did the future hold? The entire shipbuilding
industry was tied up by strikes. Seventeen hundred machinists
were keeping five large shipbuilding yards working on govern
ment contracts closed down.
Was it true that the Communist party controlled the ranks
of organized labor? The picket lines were thrown round these
shipbuilding yards, so vital to our national defense. Yet, in
spite of the very gravest national crisis, men and women already
making more than a dollar an hour, were deliberately tying
up the entire Pacific Coast's defense industry. Was this red
anarchy, in disguise? Was this a deliberate attempt to sabotage
our defense industries? Were the lumber strikes in the North
west, and the strikes in Detroit part of a Nazi or Communist
plot to stop the United States from delivering the sorely
needed ships to Great Britain?
These questions and many more were subconsciously in the
minds of most of the crowds that filled Market and other
streets that beautiful Sunday morning. Why do men have to
kill each other? What gets into a ruthless despot and tyrant
which makes him insanely desire to become master of the
whole civilized world? How come that one nation believes
itself to be a superior race? Why would it be trying with its
very life's blood to conquer all the rest of the human race and
bring it into slavery and serfdom? Why all these things? Is
there no Supreme Power which can take a hand, and deliver
222 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
the human race once and for all from the terrors that fly by
day and the abominations in the form of destruction that flieth
by night?
Perhaps civilization is completely corrupt. Perhaps there is
no power greater than the power of brute force. Perhaps there
is no God. Doesn't look like, certainly, thought many.
So this Easter Sunday, though outwardly calm, was throb
bing with apprehension of what the future might bring. Little
did these good honest American souls dream of the Power
that was shortly to be manifested on this earth. Little did they
dream that up yonder, on the hill, stood a church which, at
this very moment was paving the way for the permanent peace
all humanity has so eagerly longed for.
No. These good San Franciscans knew nothing about this.
Oh yes, they knew there were churches. But they were not
interested in them. In their childhood, of course, they had gone
to Sunday School, and perhaps then after they were married
they had attended church spasmodically. But church had
nothing to offer which was more beautiful than God's wonder
ful sunshine and breezes which laved San Francisco that Easter
morn. As far as finding God in these churches, well, hadn't
they attended, some of them for many years, and had they not
been disappointed when all they heard in those churches was
"sin," "salvation," "crucifixion," "the blood of Jesus," "the
virgin birth of Almighty God," "heaven and hell"?
No. Much as these good San Franciscans wanted to know
whether or not there exists a God, they preferred to walk up
and down Market Street, keeping away from all churches,
for they knew that what these churches taught and preached
about held little charm for them. And yet, every one of those
men and women who were showing off their Easter finery on
this Sunday morning would have broken their necks to get to
any place where they thought the actual truths of Almighty
God were being taught.
But the Christian churches? Well— these hundreds of thou
sands of Americans were not interested in them. They wanted
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER "3
God. They wanted to know something of the Power of God.
They were confused this Sunday morning as they pondered
over the imminent danger of the times. Oh yes, somewhere,
they knew there must be a God. But to expect to discover any
thing of God in a church? Well, it just simply wasn't done—
that's all.
The Salvation Army with its band was holding a street-
corner service outside the Hearst Building. A few stragglers
were listening to it. Once in a while a good-natured soul would
drop a nickel or a dime on the drum-head, and for that gift
would hear a "God bless you, brother," from the Captain or
whoever it was in charge of operations.
"OH YOU MUST BE A LOVER OF THE LORD
OR YOU CAN'T GO TO HEAVEN WHEN YOU DIE."
This was the song the good old Salvation Army was sing
ing. This was followed by another which went like this:
"OH THE LAMB-THE BLEEDING LAMB:
THE LAMB OF CALVARY,
THE LAMB THAT WAS SLAIN BUT LIVETH AGAIN,
TO INTERCEDE FOR ME."
Yes. San Francisco knew all about that. They had heard
about the bleeding lamb since their boyhood and girlhood
days. But what was bothering and disturbing the minds of
those San Franciscans was the question as to whether or not
Hitler would subdue the whole world, the United States,
included. They wanted to know whether San Francisco was
safe from air attack. They wondered if the British life-line
of ships was being slowly but ruthlessly strangled and broken.
If Great Britain went down—what would happen to America?
These were the questions uppermost in the minds of the good
Easter paraders. The blood of the lamb did not interest them.
They wanted to know God. They were not interested in being
224 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
a lover of the Lord in order to go to heaven when they died.
For they were up against the grim dangers of aggression—
NOW.
Heaven and hell didn't worry these good folks, but the
safety of America did. Yet, where was God to be found, if at
all? Surely not in a Salvation Army barracks. Surely not in any
church in San Francisco that they knew of. They had never
heard of any spiritual power that could stop Hitler. They did
not know or even suspect that such a Power was in existence.
They had never heard of it and, certainly, if any organization
possessed a Power so great that Hitler could be brought to
his knees through it—well, they'd like to know where such
a Power was to be found.
A very few blocks below the Army, and evidently in com
petition to them, was a group of the Volunteers of America.
They used to be a part of the Army but a fight developed
among the leaders and the Volunteers broke away and started
their own organization in opposition to the Army.
They were singing:
"WHAT A FRJEND WE HAVE IN JESUS, ALL OUR
SINS AND GRIEFS TO BEAR,
WHAT A PRIVILEGE TO CARRY, EVERYTHING TO
GOD IN PRAYER."
Yes, that was what San Francisco, the beautiful city by the
Golden Gate, wanted. It wanted, as every true American
wants, true knowledge of God. Instead, the churches had
spoiled everything by offering Jesus to the world in the place
of God. And this world just won't have Jesus. It will have
God, but no substitute will be accepted. And the American
people walking up Market Street that day knew the difference
between Jesus and God. You could not fool them. Man has
never been fooled in danger by a false god. And many such
"gods" have been offered to the world and they have all been
rejected, as the present one is being rejected.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER "5
On the hill overlooking San Francisco, All Souls Church
was packed to the doors half an hour before the regular preach
ing time. Dr. Williams, of the Chronicle, and the rest of the
church editors had given a special write-up to the Easter Sun
day services at the famous church. When All Souls increased
the size of its advertisements in the local papers, something
unusual must be taking place, and they had been quite free
with their press notices. Three of the newspapers ran a photo
graph of Dr. Bannister in their write-ups and, while All Souls
was always packed to the doors, it had been some time since
the huge auditorium had been packed at 10:30 instead of
1 1:00 A.M.
New hats and new dresses and new suits were the order of
the day in All Souls and as one looked over that vast audience
of more than two thousand souls, one saw a sea of color.
The huge organ, under the masterful touch of Dr. Bowers,
was pealing forth the last few bars of "FINLANDIA" as
Dr. Alan Fordyce, assistant to Dr. Bannister, entered the ros
trum. Every pipe in that huge organ was speaking. Never had
such volume been heard in All Souls before. For Dr. Bowers
knew what was coming. Bannister had told him, on the trip
back from Rocky Point, the substance of his discourse this
Easter Sunday.
It was unusual for Dr. Fordyce to ascend the rostrum alone
when Dr. Bannister was in the city. Usually Howard Bannister
preceded him, both taking seats together. Fordyce took the
preliminary part of the service while Bannister delivered the
sermon, usually. But this Sunday morning, Bannister was not
there.
He was in his study, on his knees before God, asking to be
given strength to deliver the epoch-making message which
Almighty God had given to him direct from the Realm of the
Spirit of God. Howard Bannister seldom got down on his
knees. In fact, he could not remember having done this for
many many years. Yet, this Easter morning, he felt like a little
child. He felt like his little Marge when she ran into trouble,
226 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
and took her troubles to her Daddy just as soon as they
happened.
And so felt Howard Bannister. So humble did he feel him
self to be that he was impelled, yes compelled to get down on
his knees before the staggering Power he was about to tell
his congregation about.
Both study doors were locked and only he had the key.
He wanted no interruption this Sunday morning. Shortly
before eleven he had called Dr. Fordyce to his study and said,
"Alan, won't you please take the preliminaries this morning?
I'd like to be alone with God for half an hour. Sing the usual
songs, make the usual announcements, and I'll turn on the
loud speaker and come into the pulpit at the proper time. And,
Alan—you know what my message is to be this morning-
please speak the word of Power into existence for me when
you lead in prayer— I need it."
"Do you feel perfectly O.K., Howard?" asked Alan For
dyce.
"I never felt better in my life, Alan. I'm as happy as a lark.
And yet I feel the tremendous responsibility of what I am
about to undertake. Yet—Alan—there can be nothing but vic
tory for Almighty God, this sin-cursed world, and All Souls,
so get in there, Alan, now, and leave me alone for a while
with the Spirit of God—will you?"
Dr. Fordyce was a very lovable character. He was very
close to Howard Bannister. He loved this great preacher as
if he were his own brother. Bannister always took Alan For
dyce into his confidence and this Easter Sunday morning Alan
knew exactly what the staggering message was to be.
So, in deference to Dr. Bannister's wishes, at the proper time,
and as the strains of "FINLANDIA" were dying away, he
entered the rostrum— alone.
In the locked study, Bannister was, as already stated, down
on his knees. His eyes open, a brilliant smile lighted up his
face as he looked up into the invisible face of Almighty God.
It was an awe-inspiring sight. Here was this great man who
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 227
had an international reputation as a world-famous preacher.
He could move an audience to tears one moment and bring
it back to laughter the next. The world had been good to
Howard Bannister. God had been good to him, too. And yet,
here was he, his handsome face wreathed with tears of joy, as
he poured out his heart and soul into the Realm of the Spirit
of God this beautiful Easter morning.
He brushed away the tears, for he knew the hour of his
great triumph was at hand. There he was—down on his knees-
opening up his very soul that the invisible Power of the Spirit
of God might fill him with spiritual strength to deliver his
message— the most momentous message this world had ever
heard.
Then he closed his eyes, and lifting them towards the skies,
he prayed:
"SPIRIT OF THE LIVING GOD-IN THIS, THE
GREATEST HOUR THIS WORLD HAS EVER
KNOWN, MAKE ME A BIG ENOUGH MAN TO
BRING TO A SUFFERING, BLEEDING HUMANITY,
YOUR POWER. FOR FIFTY YEARS I HAVE LOVED
YOU, PRECIOUS SPIRIT. FOR FIFTY YEARS I HAVE
BLINDLY TRUSTED YOU. I COULD NOT SEE THE
WAY. I BELIEVED IN JESUS CHRIST INSTEAD OF
BELIEVING IN YOU, GOD. BUT YOU, GOD, IN
YOUR INFINITE WISDOM AND POWER, WIPED
AWAY THE SCALES OF SUPERSTITION AND TRA
DITION FROM MY EYES AND NOW, GLORY BE TO
GOD, I HAVE SEEN AND KNOWN THE FULLNESS
OF THE POWER OF THE SPIRIT OF GOD IN MY
LIFE. I DON'T NEED TO PRAY TO YOU, GOD, BUT
I JUST WANT YOU TO KNOW THAT I KNEEL
HERE, HUMBLE, RESIGNED, AN EMPTY AND
BROKEN VESSEL MADE MEET FOR YOUR USE.
SPIRIT OF THE LIVING GOD, I GIVE MYSELF
ANEW TO THIS SERVICE AND WHOLLY SUR
RENDER EVERYTHING I AM AND EVER CAN BE,
THAT THIS WORLD MAY AT LONG LAST KNOW
228 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
THE SECRET OF THE ABIDING POWER OF THE
SPIRIT OF GOD. THANK YOU, PRECIOUS SPIRIT
FOR EVER MANIFESTING YOUR POWER TO ME.
THANK YOU FOR CHOOSING ME TO BE THE ONE
THROUGH WHOM THE FULLNESS OF THE
SPIRIT OF GOD WILL BE KNOWN TO THIS
WORLD. FM GOING TO GET UP FROM MY KNEES
NOW, MASTER, AND I GIVE TO YOU ALL HONOR,
POWER AND GLORY FOR WHAT SAN FRANCISCO
AND THE WHOLE WORLD WILL WITNESS THIS
DAY."
Rising from his knees, Howard Bannister sat in a chair and
turned on the loud speaker which was connected with the
speaker's pulpit and the main auditorium.
Alan Fordyce was speaking:
"Z AM GIVING YOU ALL A SPECIAL INVITATION
NOT TO LEAVE YOUR SEATS UNTIL REQUESTED
TO. AFTER THE SERMON THIS MORNING THERE
WILL BE A SPECIAL MEETING OF THE BOARD OF
TRUSTEES. YOU WILL ALL BE ASKED TO VOTE
ON A VERY IMPORTANT SUBJECT, WHICH WILL
BE REVEALED TO YOU IN DR. BANNISTER'S SER
MON. PLEASE NO ONE LEAVE, FOR SAN FRAN
CISCO WILL WITNESS TODAY SUCH A DEMON
STRATION OF THE POWER OF THE SPIRIT OF
GOD THAT NEITHER THIS NOR ANY CITY HAS
EVER SEEN BEFORE. YOU DOUBTLESS WONDER
WHERE DR. BANNISTER IS. I KNOW. HE IS IN HIS
STUDY DOWN ON HIS KNEES BEFORE GOD,
BREATHING IN THE COMPLETE FULLNESS OF
THE SPIRIT OF GOD, WHICH FULLNESS WILL BE
MANIFESTED TO YOU DURING THE SERMON."
Alan Fordyce sat down and the choir swung into an Easter
anthem which Bannister, in his study, was listening to.
After the anthem, the announcements were made, the offer
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 229
ing was taken up and the congregation rose to sing a hymn.
It was Dr. Bannister's favorite hymn. He had asked Bowers
to have it sung before the moment when he entered the pulpit.
"LEAD . . . KINDLY LIGHT, AMID TIT ENCIRCLING
GLOOM; LEAD THOU ME ON;
THE NIGHT IS DARK, AND I AM FAR FROM HOME;
LEAD THOU ME ON;
KEEP THOU MY FEET, I DO NOT ASK TO SEE THE
DISTANT SCENE; ONE STEP ENOUGH FOR ME."
As the congregation arose to sing to the full-organ accom
paniment of the great Skinner, tears again began to fall down
Howard Bannister's handsome face. But they were tears of
happiness and joy—not tears of sorrow. Closing his eyes once
more, standing head erect in the middle of his study, he
stretched both hands out as far as he could, and followed
the congregation in that hymn.
"OH YES, MASTER—THATS IT. YOU LEAD ME ON.
THE NIGHT IS DARK AND I AM FAR FROM HOME,
BUT MASTER, SPIRIT OF THE LIVING GOD . . .
YOU LEAD ME ON . . . THE GLOOM OF THIS SIN-
CURSED WORLD IS DEEPENING. THE SHADOWS
ARE FALLING . . . BUT YOU, GOD, LEAD ME. YES,
THE NIGHT IS DARK, AND I AM A LONG WAY
FROM MY HOME ...BUT, SPIRIT OF THE LIVING
GOD, YOU LEAD ME ON. YES, THAT WAS IT. KEEP
THOU MY FEET . . . I DO NOT ASK TO SEE THE
DISTANT SCENE . . . JUST ONE LITTLE STEP AT
A TIME . . . THAT WILL BE ENOUGH FOR ME,
MASTER."
Then came the second verse. The tears of joy and happi
ness increased and Bannister, taking out his handkerchief,
wiped them away. Yes— there it was—that second verse:
"I WAS NOT EVER THUS AND I DID NOT AL
WAYS PRAY THAT YOU, SPIRIT OF GOD,
2
3° GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
SHOULDSTT LEAD ME ON. OH NO. 1 LOVED TO
CHOOSE AND SEE MY PATH . . . BUT NOW . . .
WHY, MASTER ...YOU LEAD ME ON. MY HAND,
MY MIND, MY SPIRIT IS JOINED TO YOURS, AND
THROUGH MY SPIRIT, WHICH IS ACTUALLY
YOUR SPIRIT, YOU WILL SPEAK TO THIS PEOPLE
THIS MORNING. I SHALL NOT SPEAK . . . OH, NO
. . . I USED TO WANT TO GO THE WAY THE
BIBLE AND THE METHODIST CHURCH WANTED
ME TO GO ... BUT NOW? . . . WELL, MASTER . . .
YOU LEAD ME ON. I LOVED THE GARISH DAY,
AND, SPITE OF FEARS PRIDE RULED MY WILL . . .
BUT THEN, SPIRIT OF GOD, YOU WON'T REMEM
BER PAST YEARS . . . WILL YOU?"
The congregation was singing the last verse now. The tears
had stopped. Soon Howard Bannister would ascend that plat
form and deliver to this San Francisco audience a message
which would rock it to its very foundations. And he was
anxious to go. He was, like the old fire-horses we used to have,
champing at the bit. He was impatient, impatient to tell these
men and women about his discovery of the actual Presence
and Power of the Spirit of God . . . right here and now, in the
lives of them all. Then he listened to the last verse, and kept
company to it by continuing to pour out his soul to Almighty
God. For God and Dr. Bannister had become very close
friends now that Bannister really knew who God is.
Through the loud-speaker the last verse came:
"SO LONG THY POWER HATH BLEST ME . . .
SURE . . . OH, YES ... SO VERY SURE . . . IT STILL
WILL LEAD ME ON, O'ER MOOR AND FEN, O'ER
CRAG AND TORRENT . . . TILL THE NIGHT IS
GONE . . . OH, YES . . . THE NIGHT WILL SOON
BE GONE NOW . . . THE DARKNESS OF A NIGHT
WHICH, ALTHOUGH GOD LIVED IN THE MIDST
OF THAT DARKNESS, THE WORLD COULD NOT
SEE HIM, BECAUSE OF THE TRADITIONS OF THE
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
CHRISTIAN CHURCH. THEN, SPIRIT OF GOD,
WILL COME THE MORNING . . . AND WHAT A
MORNING THAT WILL BE. YES . . . THOSE AN
GELS' FACES, SPEAKING FIGURATIVELY, WILL
SMILE . ..WE SHALL KNOW THEN, MASTER, AS
WE ARE KNOWN, AND THAT MORNING IS NOW
HERE. WE SHALL KNOW BECAUSE WE SHALL,
FOR THE FIRST TIME, HAVE OUR CONSCIOUS
NESS AWAKENED TO THE FACT THAT AL
MIGHTY GOD . . . THE GREAT CREATIVE SPIRIT
OF GOD . . . ACTUALLY LIVES AND ABIDES IN
EACH ONE OF US NOW . . . WITH ALL THE SU
PERLATIVE POWER OF THE COMPLETE SPIRIT
OF GOD."
It was time for Howard Bannister to enter the auditorium,
so, opening the little side door which led into the large rostrum,
he quietly entered. His handkerchief was in his hand. His
proud, handsome face with its shaggy hair, was lighted up with
a smile that did not come from the sorrows of this earth.
The audience knew he had been crying. As he entered the
pulpit, a stillness like that of death swept over the congregation.
Still holding his handkerchief in his hand, Bannister stood
erect, and quite still, looking directly into the faces he knew
so well.
He loved them all. They had been good to him. Not one
thing had Bannister ever asked this audience to do that it
had not very cheerfully done. He knew, as he stood there
silently before them, that he was in the company of friends.
Not a member of that congregation but what would have given
his all for Howard Bannister. For they knew the earnestness
of the man. They knew his honesty of purpose. They knew
that they could depend upon him to play fair with them. If
Howard Bannister made a statement to them from the pulpit
it was because he honestly believed that statement to be true.
Expectancy hovered over that silent crowd. One could have
heard a pin drop, so deep was the silence. Still standing there,
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
Bannister laid his handkerchief on the pulpit. There was no
Bible there this morning. He had asked that it be removed.
Then, running his right hand through his shaggy hair, he took
a step forward, and as every ear was awaiting his message, he
began to speak:
"Beloved, there are mingled feelings of sorrow and joy in
my heart this morning. Sorrow is there because of the golden
opportunities I have missed during the past fifteen years in
which you have seen fit to allow me to be your pastor. If, by
giving my life, I could recall those opportunities, I should
gladly do so. But those golden opportunities are gone beyond
recall. They are lost—hopelessly lost. And the sorrow I feel as
I stand before you this Easter morning lies very deep. God
alone knows what fifteen wasted years have meant to you.
God alone knows the trust I have betrayed. I promise you
that never again shall I betray that trust. I give you my word
that my heart is almost breaking as I, your pastor, the one
you have trusted, realize how I have ruthlessly betrayed that
trust.
"Beloved, I am not fit to stand before you after what I have
done. There is a redeeming feature, however, which helps to
take the sting out of the sad realization of my perfidy. I was
honest with you. I shall be more honest from this moment
on, if it should be that you decide you still want me as your
minister, after the shameful manner in which I have used you.
"But there is joy, too, in my heart. And the joy is greater
than the sorrow. This joy is welling up and bubbling over
at this moment. For now I know that I shall be able to make
amends for the shameful manner in which I have wronged
every one of you.
"When you good people called me from my former pas
torate in New York fifteen years ago, I responded to that call
with eagerness. I remember the first sermon I preached to you
that Sunday morning, exactly fifteen years ago today. It was
a similar morning to this morning. All San Francisco was happy
in the delightful sunshine which comes from Almighty God,
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 233
just as it is happy, though confused, this Easter morning. In
that sermon of acceptance, I said this to you: 'JUST AS
LONG AS I AM PASTOR OF ALL SOULS CHURCH, I
SHALL BRING TO YOU THE TRUTHS OF GOD AS
THOSE TRUTHS HAVE BEEN REVEALED TO ME:
"I told you then that I should not allow myself to be influ
enced by creed, dogma, or by anything else which might
hinder my giving you the plain untarnished truths of God, as
I saw and understood those truths. I repeat that statement to
you now.
"And yet, never did a greater traitor to the cause of God
ever enter a pulpit, than I am. Never did a minister have more
golden opportunities to truly reveal God to his people than I
have had. Yet I have let you down most shamefully.
"For fifteen years you have sat in those seats. You have
drunk in every word I have uttered to you. You gave me hun
dreds of opportunities to make God real to you. And I flung
these opportunities back in your face. I dishonored God. I was
not true to you, and I was false to myself. All unknowing,
perhaps, but I have been false and untrue to you, nevertheless.
As your pastor, you came to me and looked for the truths of
Almighty God.
"Sunday after Sunday, week after week, month after month,
and year after year, you have offered yourselves to me, and
you gave me a thousand opportunities to tell you something
which would make God a living reality to you. Yet you went
away disappointed. But you did not leave this church. You
kept coming back. You kept giving me another chance. And
like a fool I could not see it.
"You asked me for the truths of God and instead of giving
you those truths, I gave you an old pagan superstition which
was hoary with age long before either Jesus Christ or the
Christian religion were ever heard of. You asked me for bread
—I gave you a stone. You asked me for a fish—and I gave you
a scorpion. You came to me that I might tell you the sublime
truths of God— and, instead, I told you a story which I now
234 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
know must be an insult to God and which certainly is blas
phemy against God.
"Tonight, if I am still your pastor, I shall bring to you, not
only the truths of God, but the Power, the whole Power of
the Spirit of God. That is not all—I shall show you how you
may use that Power for the achievement of every good thing
your hearts can desire. For it is in the province of God—yes
it is the pleasure of God, that every good thing you can desire
should be yours here and now.
"That is what you wanted me to tell you fifteen years ago.
You still want me to tell you that. Thank God I can tell you
that today, for my eyes have been opened by the Power of the
Spirit of God. More important than that, though, is the men
ace which has appeared upon the world's horizon. That menace
today is dealing out horrible death, suffering, pestilence, and
brutality. Yet there is not a single church or church member
in existence who knows enough about the Power of God to
do one single thing towards bringing that horrible despot
to his knees.
"Beloved— this man has challenged God. He has made the
fatal mistake of thinking that if he gets a great enough mili
tary force, he can take control of this earth out of the hands
of its Creator, and rule this earth himself by brute force.
And, let me repeat, there is not a single religious organization
on the face of the earth which knows enough about the Power
of God to stop him."
Bannister was warming up to his subject at this point. His
huge six feet of virile manhood was quivering. He was tense.
There seemed to be a strange Power which had taken com
plete possession of him. As his words fell upon the waiting
ears of that congregation he loved so well, they were eagerly
devoured.
"I said I had accepted the challenge of Adolf Hitler. I have.
But before I could accept that challenge, it was necessary that
I at least knew the true God. It was necessary that I become
possessed of a Power against which these brutal insane mur
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 235
derous forces cannot stand. That Power I now have. That
Power I did not get through either the Christian Bible or the
story of Jesus Christ.
"Beloved— the story of Jesus Christ is not true. It is one of
the greatest fables this world has ever had foisted upon it in
the name of God. Here is where I have grievously wronged
you. When you asked me for the truths of God—when you
came here so often, anxious and eager to hear those truths of
God— I gave you the story of Jesus Christ. While your hearts
were hungering for Spiritual Truth direct from the author of
all Truth, I told you that if you believed that Jesus Christ
was God, and if you believed that he was killed on a cross
for your sins, you would some day, beyond the sky, and after
you were dead, be rewarded for your deeds here and now.
I now retract every word I have ever told you about the
unique deity of Jesus Christ. For the story of Jesus Christ is
fiction. From now on I bring to you the Power of the Spirit
of God.
"The manifestation of Adolf Hitler calls for a more potent
Power than the relating of a mythical fable in the name of
God. This manifestation calls for the actual manifestation of
another Power, so much higher than the powers of the mili
tary might of the German war machine that, when this higher
Power is thrown against the power of brute force, that power
must fall.
"Ladies and gentlemen, the story of Jesus Christ and him
crucified contains no such power. It is not of God, nor does
it have any of the truths of God in it. It is an old heathen
tradition, known to millions long before either Christ or Chris
tianity were ever heard of.
"Therefore, the story of Jesus Christ being untrue, as long
as I am pastor of this church that name will never be uttered
in All Souls again. You will notice that the Bible, which usu
ally lies on this pulpit, is not here any more. You will never
see it again as long as I am your pastor. Instead, you and I
will learn the truths of Almighty God from Almighty God
236 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
direct. That will be far more effective than either the Bible
or Jesus Christ.
"Now, granting for the sake of argument, that the Christian
Bible is the word of God and the story of Jesus Christ is true-
let us grant that, for the sake of argument. Jesus Christ died
two thousand years ago and has never been heard from since.
There is no way, then, that you and I can contact Jesus Christ.
But if you and I can come into personal relationship with the
Spirit of God here and now, is not that far better than study
ing a book which is so full of contradictions and impossible
stories that nobody in his right mind can make head or tail
of it?
"Beloved— I have made a discovery. It is the greatest discov
ery man has ever made. I shall tell you about that discovery
tonight. What is it I have discovered? There are two things:
First, I have discovered that the Christian theory of God is
absolutely untrue. It
is,
I
repeat, an old pagan religion dressed
up in another form. With the theory of Jesus Christ as
Almighty God being entirely false, the Christian Bible falls
with that story.
"The second discovery
I
made
is
the most stupendous dis
covery this world can ever know. For
I
have discovered that
all the Powers of Almighty God are available to each and every
one of us, not above the skies, BUT HERE AND NOW.
What does that staggering statement mean?
It
means just this—
it
means that every member of this congregation has, at his
or her disposal, ALL THE POWERS OF ALMIGHTY GOD
-AND HAS THOSE POWERS HERE AND NOW.
"Now let me ask you ...
if
what
I
have just said
is
a
prov
able fact and unless
I
could prove
it
I
should not have said
it
...
is
it
not entirely possible for this church to stop Hitler
dead in his tracks?
If
we have, here and now, all the Power
of Almighty God at our disposal, and
if
we can use that
Power ...
is
there anything we cannot do? That, beloved,
is
the discovery
I
have made.
"I have talked with God.
I
have received the fullness of the
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 237
Power of God in my life. That Power you, too, have, but
you don't know that yet. You will see it in action in this
church tonight."
Wiping the perspiration from his forehead, Howard Ban
nister continued:
"My subject this morning, as you have seen advertised, is:
'DID JESUS CHRIST RISE FROM THE DEAD?'
"I shall answer that question now. You want to know
whether he did or not. You want the truth about God, even
if that truth is contrary to every Methodist dogma and doctrine
you have ever heard of. You know as well as I know that it will
take the true Power of God to straighten this world out, and
you know as well as I know that this church, nor any other
church of any denomination, possess no such Power as that.
Therefore, their conceptions of God must be untrue. Let me
tell you now whether Jesus Christ rose from the dead or not.
"The corner-stone of Christianity is the resurrection of Jesus
Christ. If Christ did not rise from the dead, Christianity crum
bles. Prove that Christ did not rise from the dead, and you
prove that Christianity is but a superstition— a superstition born
of ignorance and credulity, of piety and fraud, of weakness
and cunning, of priestcraft and persecution— a superstition that
must disappear as fast as its real character is found out.
"The doctrine of the resurrection from the dead is far older
than Christianity. Thousands of years before the preaching
peasant of Palestine was born, India, Egypt, Babylonia— all
the ancient countries, indeed— knew the story of the resur
rection. These countries, whose religions were of great antiq
uity, had numerous gods. They had virgin-born saviours who
were the sons of their gods. These saviours, while they lived,
preached and worked miracles, and after their death, they
arose from the dead and ascended into heaven.
"All the doctrines of Christianity are far older than Christ
and all that can be said in favor of the resurrection of Christ
can be said in favor of the resurrection of a dozen other
saviours.
238 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"About twelve centuries before Christ was born— and there
is no certainty that he was ever born— Chrishna, the crucified
Hindoo saviour, rose from the dead and ascended into heaven.
Attended by celestial spirits, amid the wondrous illumination
of heaven and earth, Chrishna, the saviour of men, slowly rose
from earth to Paradise, while witnesses exclaimed with joy:
'Lo, Chrishna's soul ascends its native skies.'
"Five centuries before Christ, the great Buddha, the founder
of Buddhism— a religion that now embraces one-third of the
human race—lay dead in India. From heaven's supreme God
came the command: 'Rise, Holy Love!' Then the shroud of
Buddha unrolled itself; by divine power the lid of his coffin
was removed; and Buddha, the Enlightened One, the saviour
of mankind, released from the grip of death, rose to heaven's
glory.
"Ancient Egypt worshipped the risen Osiris. Mr. Bonwick,
in his 'Egyptian Belief, says, 'It is astonishing to find that, at
least five thousand years ago, men trusted in Osiris as the
"risen saviour" and confidently hoped to rise, as he arose, from
the grave.' Among the Greeks, Aesculapius, the son of God,
the saviour, the divine healer—he who was called the 'Great
Physician'—after being put to death, rose in triumph from
the grave.
"The resurrection of gods was a fundamental idea in the
religions of all the nations by which the Jews were sur
rounded. With these religions, the Jews were familiar, and
from them they borrowed many ideas. For example, the wor
ship of Adonis, the virgin-born saviour of the Syrians, was
well known to the Jews long before the time of Christ. The
Jews themselves worshipped Adonis. This was a part of the
idolatry into which they were continually lapsing. In the He
brew, the word 'Adonis' means 'Our Lord' and this god had
an altar in the very temple of Jehovah at Jerusalem. The resur
rection of Adonis was annually celebrated in Judea— in Bethle
hem, indeed— even as late as 386 a.d.
"St. Jerome says: 'Over Bethlehem, the grove of Tammuz,
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
that
is,
of Adonis, was casting its shadow! And in the grotto
where formerly the infant Anointed, Christ Jesus, cried, the
lover of Venus was being mourned.'
"And observe the significance of this declaration. In the
grotto, the cave, where Jesus cried, Adonis, says this Christian
Father, was mourned. For centuries the church had
a
tradition
that Christ was born in
a
cave. Among the Fathers of the
church, who believed that tradition, was St. Jerome, the learned
ecclesiastic who translated the Latin Vulgate of the Bible and
thus gave the Christian world its 'Word of God.' This saint
tells us that nearly four hundred years after the birth of Christ,
the death and resurrection of Adonis, the mythical saviour of
the Syrians, were observed in the very cave where the Chris
tian saviour was believed to have been born.
"But there
is
another thing worth noting in connection
with the death and resurrection of Adonis, and that
is
that
according to the learned author of that masterpiece of schol
arship— 'Bible Myths and Their Parallels in Other Religions'—
the celebration of the resurrection of Adonis became the cele
bration of the resurrection of Jesus Christ.
Is
there any wonder
that orthodox churches are silent about the science of com
parative religions, when that science proves that our reputed
divine religion
is
but
a
pagan superstition under another name?
"I have preached to you, my friends, the uniqueness of the
deity of Jesus Christ.
I
have preached his resurrection.
I
here
and now retract every word of it.
"For
if
the story of the resurrection of
a
god who was the
son of
a
god
is
far older than Christianity,
if
thousands of
millions of people in India, Egypt, Babylonia, Persia, Greece
and Rome lived and died in the conviction that saviour gods
had risen from the dead in their behalf, and
if
these resurrec
tion stories were well known to the people among whom
Christianity arose, how can we be certain that the account of
Christ's resurrection
is
not the ancient myth told again?
"The worship of Osiris continued for about six thousand
years. During that time, thousands of millions of Egyptians
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
implicitly believed that he had risen from the dead. Christian
ity is less than two thousand years old; and the resurrection
of Christ is rejected today by nearly every human being who
has impartially examined its claims, just as it is being rejected
by me.
"By what criterion, then, shall we decide that the resurrec
tion of Osiris was a fable, while the resurrection of Christ
was a fact? Buddhism is at this hour the religion of five hun
dred million human beings. Christianity in all its forms cannot
number one million intelligent believers— people who know
what they believe, and why they believe
it;
people who have
examined the foundations of their faith, and are satisfied that
those foundations are sound.
"By what standard,
I
ask again, are we justified in deter
mining that the Buddhists are mistaken about the resurrection
of their saviour and that the Christian belief
is
founded upon
a
revelation from God?
Is
a
religion false merely because
it
happens to be another man's religion?
Is
my religion true
simply because
it
is
mine?
"Buddha, according to Buddhism, arose from the dead five
hundred years before Christ was born. Does that make the
story of his resurrection false? Buddhism
is
the religion of
more than twice as many people as seriously profess Christian
ity. Does that prove that Buddha did not rise from the dead,
but that Christ did?
"Why, my Christian friends, do you reject as false the
divine resurrections of the old religions, and accept as true
the resurrection story of the religion of yesterday?
"Will you answer by saying that Buddha was only
a
man,
and, therefore, could not rise from the dead; that Christ was
God, and as God, conquered the grave? Let me show you that
this
is
the position you must take;
I
shall also show you
that you can not maintain it.
If
Christ was only
a
man, his
death was only
a
human death, and therefore could not be an
atonement for the sins of the world. Christianity teaches that
Christ was God; that his sacrifice was divine and infinite; and
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 24I
that, as God, he rose from the dead. But if Christ was God,
how could he die? How could a few moments' suffering
destroy the infinite resources of a God's longevity? How
could a God's infinite hold on life be conquered by the frail
means used to overcome the life of a man? Nothing could be
more flagrantly absurd than the idea that a God was put to
death by piercing the hands and feet of a Jewish peasant.
"But let us suppose that God did die. Let us suppose that
the Creator of the universe threw his life away, and allowed
the crucifixion to reduce him to the cold, pathetic stillness
of death. God was dead! They buried him! God lay dead in
the tomb! Well, how did he come to life again? Who or what,
resurrected him? A dead God becomes a living God—by what
means? Could he thrill his nerves with the melody of life
when he was dead? Could he, in death, reanimate with infinite
designs the brain from which all consciousness had fled? If he
could not return himself to life, what in the universe could
restore him? There was no other God to resurrect him. He
was the only God, and he was dead!
"Think of the audacity of the superstition that would
attempt to paralyze our faculties and dwarf our minds, per
vert our emotions and benumb our powers of perception, by
having us believe that a God of infinite wisdom and power-
grand, wondrous and sublime in the wealth of his everlasting
mastery of a boundless universe— came down among the ancient
Jews; allowed them to nail him to a cross; threw away his life
with the recklessness of a gamester; was buried in a hole in
a rock just outside of Jerusalem; and there, while dead, infused
himself with life again; fled from the tomb and flew back to
heaven! No Arabian tale, no story ever invented to scare
children, could be more absurdly false than this fundamental
fable of Christianity. If Christ was a man, he did not rise from
the dead. If he was God, he could not and did not die, and
therefore, he could not and did not rise from the dead."
Howard Bannister stopped, mopped his forehead from per
242 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
spiration, and, reaching for the water pitcher which always
stood on the rostrum table, drank a cold refreshing drink.
All Souls had seen Bannister in action before. This church
had seen him pour out his very soul in their interests time
and time again. But they had never seen him in as deadly
earnest as he was this beautiful Easter morning.
Fire was flashing from his steel gray eyes. His handsome
face was transfigured with a determination to carry his point,
never seen by All Souls before. They knew that Howard Ban
nister had returned from his vacation a changed man. Always
powerful in his pulpit, this day he seemed to be imbued with
a Power from on high. His every motion, his every word went
directly home into the hearts of more than two thousand
anxious souls who hung on his every word.
These souls automatically knew that Howard Bannister was
speaking the truth— and that was what they wanted. That was
what they had been paying him ten thousand dollars a year
for. They didn't care whether he ripped Christianity to shreds
—just so long as he gave them the actual truth. For they knew,
as all should know, that there is no system of religion higher
than truth.
And then a strange thing happened. Something never before
witnessed in any church in America.
As Howard Bannister stood there catching his breath, spon
taneously that huge audience burst into applause. Bannister
was dumbfounded. The shouts and the hand-clapping made the
very rafters ring. Cheer drowned out cheer. Tears were roll
ing down the cheeks of Howard Bannister, for never in his
wildest moments had he ever dreamed that his Easter message
would bring such a demonstration. He had suspected that he
might be called before the bishop in charge of the diocese.
But he did not think of that now—for in the face of this
amazing demonstration no Methodist bishop could stop his
tongue. If the bishop interfered with Howard Bannister, the
Board of Trustees would remove All Souls from the Methodist
jurisdiction. Bannister knew that.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 243
The demonstration continued for fully five minutes, and
during those five minutes, history was made in All Souls
church. Yes— it was made throughout the whole Christian
world. For if the members of All Souls were this eager for the
truth and if this demonstration meant that they knew truth
when they heard
it,
every Christian church in America would
follow suit, in the moment these truths were given to their
respective congregations.
And Bannister's heart was glad. Tears continued to stream
down his handsome face as he held his hand aloft for silence.
Then he continued:
"There
is
another point
I
wish to bring before you. Suppose
that there was
a
Jewish reformer named Jesus two thousand
years ago; suppose his enemies succeeded in bringing him to
the cross; how can
it
be known that he died in the crucifixion?
According to the Gospel of Luke, Christ was on the cross
about three hours.
If
Mark
is
correct, he hung on the cross about
six hours.
It
is
altogether improbable that
a
man should have
died of crucifixion in that length of time. Crucifixion was
a
long-drawn-out agony. The victim died, not from the loss of
blood, but from the protracted nervous strain and from hun
ger. Frequently, the crucified lived on the cross for several
days. A Negro slave, crucified in Jamaica in 1760, lived on
the cross for two hundred and ten hours— nearly nine days.
In Kitto's 'Biblical Encyclopedia,'
a
standard orthodox work,
it
is
said that 'We may consider thirty-six hours to be the
earliest period at which crucifixion would occasion death in
a
healthy adult.'
"Now
if
a
healthy man would live at least thirty-six hours
on
a
cross, how shall we explain the death of Christ in three
or six hours? Was Christ
a
weakling? Did he lack average
health and endurance? Why did he die in so short
a
time?
"Again, we are told that the soldiers broke the legs of the
thieves, who were crucified with him, but his legs were not
broken. This makes
it
more difficult to believe that he should
have died so early; and quite reasonable to suppose that these
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
unbroken legs may have enabled him to get away later on!
"It is said, however, that he was speared in the side and that
blood and water came from the wound. But nothing is said as
to the seriousness of this wound. It was only in the side, and
there is no intimation that it touched any vital organ, or was
more than a slight flesh wound. Moreover, science, voicing its
conclusion in Dr. Schmiedcl's article on 'John, Son of Zebedee,'
in the 'Encyclopedia Biblica,' declares that, 'In spite of all
efforts, no one has yet been able to show that blood and water
actually do flow from a wound of this kind.' The Gospel
fabulist was not up in his physiology!
"When told that Christ was dead, Pilate marvelled that he
should have died in so short a time; and when the crucified
was taken from the cross, he was not examined by physicians
to ascertain whether he was really dead. No effort was made
to determine whether the last spark of life had fled. No re
storatives were administered. In view of these facts, who shall
say that Christ was dead? How can we know that he had not
swooned? How can we be sure that his disappointment and
his pain had not banished consciousness from her throne while
life remained? How can we be certain that he was not buried
alive, but unconscious? He was not buried in the earth. He
was laid in a sepulcher in a rock. Against the mouth of this
tomb a stone was rolled. If he was yet alive, he had air to
breathe, and in a few hours he may have recovered conscious
ness. Perhaps the stone that stood between him and freedom
was not too large for him to roll away; or his disciples, return
ing to the tomb in the night, may have heard his cry for
assistance, and helped him to make his escape.
"On the other hand, if he was dead, they may have stolen
away his body and buried it where none might find his grave.
Either of these suppositions is infinitely more probable than
that a dead man or a dead God rose from the dead. Men in
pain have swooned; men have been buried alive; dead men have
been stolen from their graves. These things are natural— within
human experience. But all experience denies that a dead man
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
ever became alive again; and the whole universe mocks the
superstition that a God could die!
"Do I hear some Christian say that the Roman soldiers
guarded Jesus' tomb and that, therefore, his disciples could
not have stolen his body? Matthew is the only writer who
mentions the Roman guard; and he assures us that the guard
was not placed at the tomb until the second night. During the
whole of the first night there was no guard at the grave. What
was there, then, to prevent Christ's escape, if he were alive,
or his body being taken away, if he were dead? Nothing!
Admitting, therefore, that soldiers were stationed at Jesus'
grave on the second night, as Matthew says; admitting also
that they sealed the tomb, and stood guard until they were
officially relieved of their watch, the story of the resurrection
gains nothing, for he may have escaped or been stolen away,
during the first night, when, as yet, there was no guard about.
In such a situation, we might reasonably suppose that the sol
diers arrived a day too late and that they guarded an empty
tomb.
"But there is something else to be said in connection with
the guard. Who went to Pilate and asked him to set a guard at
the sepulcher? The chief priests and Pharisees— the Jewish San
hedrim Why did they ask for a guard? Matthew says they
said to Pilate: 'Lest his disciples come by night and steal him
away, and say unto the people, he is risen from the dead.'
"Mark well this fact— the day after the crucifixion of Christ,
the idea of his being stolen from the grave was, according to
Matthew, in the minds of the Jewish leaders. Is not that sig
nificant? In assuring us that the Jews feared that the body of
Jesus would be stolen, the 'inspired' writer unwittingly sug
gests the solution of the empty tomb!
"But was there really a guard at the sepulcher? Matthew
alone says there was. The testimony of the other Gospels
proves that there was not. That testimony is negative, positive
and conclusive;— negative in that neither Mark, nor Luke, nor
John knows anything whatever of the guard— positive, in that,
246 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
according to Mark and Luke, the women brought spices to
anoint the body of Jesus, which they would not have done
had they known that Roman soldiers stood guard at his grave
—conclusive, in that the women on reaching the tomb, said
among themselves; 'who shall roll us away the stone from the
door of the sepulcher?' The women saw no soldiers at the
tomb, either to guard it or to roll from its portal the closing
stone, because there were none there.
"That the story of the watch is a myth is further proved
by Matthew's statement that the Jewish priests bribed the
soldiers to say that, 'His disciples came by night and stole him
away while we slept.' The Roman soldier's devotion to duty
has never been surpassed in the military annals of the world.
Moreover, under the inflexible discipline of Roman militarism,
the soldier who slept on duty was unceremoniously executed.
Yet Matthew would have us believe that for a bribe, Roman
soldiers not only sold out their honor, but exposed themselves
to the certainty of immediate and ignominious death! This is
not only a libel alike on the integrity and sanity of the martial
character of Rome; it is an insult to the common sense of the
world.
"If yet further testimony be required to prove that there
was no watch at the tomb, it is found in the fact that, accord
ing to the Gospels, nobody felt the need of one. Why? Because
the disciples believed that Christ was dead and that he would
remain dead— because they knew nothing of his resurrection,
and were not looking for it. Luke says that when the women
told the disciples of the resurrection, 'their words seemed to
them (the disciples) as idle tales and they believed them not'
"Why did the disciples refuse to believe? Let John answer:
'For as yet they knew not the Scripture that he must rise
again from the dead.' To whom is John referring particu
larly? To Peter and 'the disciples whom Jesus loved' and with
them all the disciples. According to the Synoptic Gospels,
Peter was the prince of the disciples; according to John, the
chief disciple was the disciple whom Jesus loved— that is to
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 247
say, John. These bosom companions of Jesus went and beheld
his empty tomb. They were amazed to find it empty. Why?
Because 'they'— the foremost disciples who must have under
stood the mission of their master's life— 'knew not the Scrip
ture that he must rise again from the dead.'
"Now let us ask: If the most intimate disciples of Christ,
those who knew him best and were most devoted to him—
those who had followed him throughout his whole career—if
these had never heard of his coming resurrection, where did
the Jewish priests get their suspicion that his disciples would
claim he had risen from the dead? Did Christ go and apprise
his enemies of a stupendous secret which he kept carefully
guarded from his friends? The ministry of Christ lasted for
one year— or for three— the Gospels are so full of contradic
tions that nothing definite can be learned from them— and dur
ing that time, according to John, his disciples never heard from
him that he was to rise from the dead. Yet the priests at
Jerusalem, whom he had scarcely seen, knew all about the
Christian doctrine of the resurrection! If the disciples were in
ignorance as to a proposed resurrection, nothing could be more
reasonably certain than that the priests and Pharisees had never
heard of
it;
and
if
these men of the Sanhedrin knew nothing
of Christ's teaching that he would rise from the dead, they
certainly did not ask Pilate to set
a
guard at the tomb.
"I am, of course, aware that, according to Matthew, Jesus
had said to the scribes and Pharisees: 'For as Jonas was three
days and three nights in the whale's belly, so shall the Son
of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the
earth.' But there are four decisive facts which prove the spuri
ous character of this supposed prophecy. These facts are, first,
that our knowledge of the origin of the Gospels makes
it
quite
unreasonable to rely upon anything they contain as being
the words of Christ; secondly, that this prophecy was un
known to the disciples, since, as the Gospels show, they did
not anticipate the resurrection; thirdly, that according to the
prophecy, Christ compared his prospective stay in the earth
248 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
with the myth of Jonas' sojourn in the whale— likened his
resurrection to an event that never happened; and fourthly,
that whereas, according to the prophecy, he was to be in the
earth three days and three nights, the Gospels represent him
to have been in the grave only one night and a few hours alike
of the preceding and of the following day— that is to say,
perhaps thirty hours in all.
"He was buried on Friday evening; his grave was empty at
sunrise on Sunday morning, if not, indeed, according to
Matthew, at the end of the Sabbath, on Saturday evening.
By no possibility, therefore, can his stay in the sepulcher be
harmonized with the duration of Jonas' alleged confinement in
the whale, since thirty hours or less cannot be made to cover
a period of three days and three nights.
"But the sleeping sentries suiciding for priestly gold to
spread the rumor that a grave was vacated, not by a risen
God, but by a stolen corpse, is but one of the fond fancies of
'The Gospel According to St. Matthew.' In his exuberant
imagination, the writer of this pious piece of priestly pap,
assures us that when Christ was crucified many unusual phe
nomena occurred. An earthquake rent the veil of the temple
in twain; rocks were torn asunder, and opened the graves of
sleeping saints. Thereupon, these saints 'arose', and standing
upright or sitting in their tombs, politely waited until Christ
had risen from the dead, when they left their graves, 'and
went into the holy city, and appeared unto many.'
"The resurrection of these 'saints' born from death into life
in the shattering rumble of an earthquake, stands on precisely
the same authority as the resurrection of Christ. So there was
not one resurrection only; there were many.
"But who were these resurrected saints so deferential to
Christ that they remained in their open graves from Friday
evening until Sunday morning? How long had they been dead?
Did they come from their tombs in their putrefying flesh?
In the bareness of their clattering bones? Or merely as un
substantial ghostly forms? Were they clothed or nude? And
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 249
who were the 'many' to whom they appeared? Did they die
again soon? If they came from a world of endless joy, why
did they not leave mankind some record of their appearance
there and their experience in the realm of the dead? Is it not
strange that the history of the time is silent about Matthew's
earthquake; that the Jews never heard of the rending of the
sacred temple's veil; and that the appearance in Jerusalem of
a band of resurrected saints— corpses infused with life for exhi
bition purposes— neither excited the slightest commotion, nor
drew from the pen of any writer of the time even the passing
notice of a single line? How shall we explain the fact that three
of the Gospels and the universal voice of history have abso
lutely ignored these stupendous miracles? Very simply. They
never happened except in Matthew's perfervid imagination!
"Let me say here, that in assuming that the Gospels were
written by the men whose names they bear, I do so merely
for convenience. As a matter of fact, nobody knows who
wrote a line of any of the Gospels. It is certain that they were
not written by the disciples of Christ, or by anybody ac
quainted with Christ or his immediate followers. They are not
the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, but Gospels
'according' to these persons.
"These superscriptions did not originally belong to the
Gospels; they were added by the church; and whether Mat
thew, Mark, Luke and John were ever more real than the
imaginary characters of fiction, nobody will ever know. Where
these Gospels were written and when, are matters of equal
uncertainty. There is no evidence, whatever, to show that
they were in existence during the first century after the sup
posed events they pretend to describe. Emerging from the
darkness of early Christian times, wholly anonymous in their
character, composed of myths and legends that had floated for
ages in the fancy of ignorance and credulity, selected from
a spurious mass of pious drivel, declared divine by supersti
tious priests and the votes of quarreling religious councils,
embellished with frauds by forging hands in the interest of the
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
church— such were and are the Gospels; and the doctrine that
they are the inspired word of God is a fond religious fiction
that rests on no authority whatever, but rests solely on the
lies of priests. But, for convenience, I assume that they were
written by those whose names they bear.
"The story of Christ's resurrection is proved to be hope
lessly false by the clamoring tongues of its many contradic
tions. Was Christ embalmed before he was buried? John tells
us he was. According to John, Joseph of Arimathea and Nico-
demus embalmed him with a mixture of 'myrrh and aloes of
about a hundred pounds weight'— enough to embalm a dozen
bodies!
"According to Matthew, he was not embalmed; and Luke's
story plainly shows that there was no embalmment. Luke says
he was wrapped in linen and laid in the sepulcher and that the
women who saw him so laid away, returned to prepare spices
and ointments which they brought to the tomb later. But why
should the women who, according to Luke, saw the body
laid away, prepare spices to embalm it if they knew that it was
already embalmed as elaborately as John describes? Accord
ing to Luke, the women prepared the embalming spices before
the Sabbath began—before sunset on Friday; according to
Mark, they did not buy them till after the Sabbath had ended
—after sunset of Saturday. Surely no one will ever accuse the
Scriptures of monotonous harmony!
"How many women came to the sepulcher? John says that
one came— Mary Magdalene. Matthew says there were two-
Mary Magdalene and the other Mary. Mark holds that there
were three— Mary Magdalene, Mary, the mother of James,
and Salome. And Luke insists that there were at least five—
'Mary Magdalene and Joanna, and Mary, the mother of James,
and other women that were with them'. Four inspired writers
yet not one of them can tell us how many women came to the
sepulcher of a risen God!
"At what time did the women come to the tomb? Matthew
says they came 'in the end of the Sabbath'— at sunset Saturday
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 25 1
evening. Mark says they came at sunrise on the first day of
the week— on Sunday morning.
"When the women came to the tomb they found it empty.
The stone had been rolled away. The grave clothes lay where
they had been cast. Jesus was no longer in the grave. How
long had the sepulcher been empty? Nobody knows. No writer
ventures the information that he was present when it hap
pened. The resurrection stands without a single witness. All
that the Gospels tell us is that when the women visited the
tomb Jesus was not there.
"When the women came to the sepulcher, whom did they
meet? Matthew says they met 'the angel.' Mark says they
met 'a young man'. Luke is certain that they met 'two men.'
You are all wrong, declares John; they met 'two angels.'
Matthew, where was the angel when the women met him?
'He was sitting on the stone outside the sepulcher.' Mark,
where was the young man? 'He was sitting in the sepulcher,
on the right side.' What did the women do when they were
told that Jesus had risen from the dead? Answer, Matthew.
'They departed quickly from the sepulcher with fear and
great joy and did run to bring his disciples word.' Mark, is
that what they did? It is not. Tell us, then, what they did.
'They went out quickly, and fled from the sepulcher, for they
trembled and were amazed, neither said they anything to any
man, for they were afraid.'
"These are the last words of the Gospel of Mark, as it existed
in the early centuries. The last twelve verses of that Gospel as
we have
it,
are acknowledged by Christian scholars to be
a
forgery. They are not found in the oldest manuscripts of the
Gospel. Yet
I
shall make use of these verses, for, though forged,
they are
a
part of the Bible.
"Note the last contradiction to which
I
called your atten
tion. Matthew says the women hurried from the tomb to tell
the disciples of the resurrection; Mark says they fled in fear
and for that reason said nothing about
it
to any man. Both of
these statements cannot be true.
252 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"As we are considering what is called the evidence for the
resurrection, let me tell you something about evidence in
general. It is a rule in the logic of evidence that the more
unusual, the more important, is the fact sought to be estab
lished, the greater in amount, the more precise and conclusive
in character, must be the evidence required to establish it. An
ordinary fact is established by ordinary evidence. An unusual
fact, a fact of vast significance, a fact involving life, liberty,
reputation, can be established only by a great amount of evi
dence—evidence of the best quality, evidence that will bear
scrutiny and analysis. A modest amount of evidence would be
sufficient to prove that a man in good health rose from his
bed and dressed himself this morning. Why? Because the fact
is one of the most common occurrence. But how much evi
dence do you suppose it would require to convince an intelli
gent court that man walked down the street on his ears, and
that he walked faster than a healthy athlete who followed him
could walk on his well-developed legs? Such a proposition
could not be proved at all. And why not? Because the thing
alleged is unnatural, unreasonable, impossible, and therefore,
false!
"A court could more easily believe that a hundred or a
thousand witnesses had been deceived by optical illusion, or
that they were lying, or that they were insane, than that a
man could walk a mile in a few minutes on his ears.
"If, moreover, in trying to establish such an unusual proposi
tion, the witnesses did not agree as to the facts; if they contra
dicted one another in vital essentials as to time, place and
circumstances; do you think the court would conclude that the
thing has actually happened? Such a case would be an ex
act parallel to the story of the resurrection of Jesus Christ.
The thing affirmed as a fact is unnatural, unreasonable, and,
according to every canon of human experience, impossible.
Therefore, no amount of human testimony can make it credi
ble. If all the writers of the New Testament were in absolute
agreement about
it,
that would not even tend to make
it
true;
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 253
and when we find the writers who deal with it contradicting
one another vitally, the story proves itself to be hopelessly
false.
"But there are other contradictions.
"Let us return to them. Where did Mary Magdalene first
meet Jesus after his resurrection? John says she met him at
the tomb. Matthew says she met him while on her way to tell
the disciples. Was she alone when she met him? According to
John she was. According to Matthew she was not. Did Mary
Magdalene know Jesus when she met him? Matthew tells us
that she did, that Jesus saluted her, saying, 'All hail!' John
assures us that she did not know him, that she thought he was
'the gardener.'
"Did Mary Magdalene touch Jesus when they met? Yes;
according to Matthew, she 'came and held him by the feet,
and worshipped him.' No, according to John. Jesus said to
her: 'Touch me not for I am not yet ascended to my Father.'
"Where did Jesus desire to meet his disciples after the resur
rection? Matthew declares he gave Mary Magdalene the follow
ing message: 'Go tell my brethren that they go into Galilee,
and there shall they see me.' Luke avers that the words of
Jesus to his disciples were, 'Tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem,
until ye be embued with power from on high.'
"Where, then, did Jesus first meet his disciples after his
rise from the dead? Matthew is certain that it was on a moun
tain in Galilee. Luke insists that it was in Jerusalem and John
adds that it was behind closed doors, where the disciples had
met for fear of the Jews. Galilee is at one end of Palestine,
and Jerusalem at the other. The two points— one in the North
and the other in the South— are separated by what was then
known as a three days' journey. Now as Luke and John de
clare that Jesus met the disciples on the evening of the day
of his resurrection, it is certain he could not have met them
in so short a time at a point so far away. If Luke and John are
correct, the meeting did not take place in Galilee; if Matthew
was well informed, it did not occur in Jerusalem. A little less
254 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
'inspiration' and a little more truth might have saved the
reputation of these writers.
"When the disciples saw Christ, were they agreed that it
was he? They were not. Matthew tells us that some doubted.
Here was a man with whom they had been associated for
one year— or for three years—a man with whose person, whose
voice, they were entirely familiar, a man whom they revered
as their teacher and leader and yet, when they saw him, they
were not satisfied that it was he; they looked on him, talked
with him— and doubted.
"There are Christians who contend that Christ did not retain
his physical body. They believe that he arose in spirit form
only. But the Gospels teach that he arose in his body of flesh
and blood. According to Luke, he said to his disciples: 'Behold
my hands and my feet, that it is I myself, handle me and see;
for a spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have.' And
did he not, according to John, invite doubting Thomas to feel
his several wounds? And does not Luke insist that he ate some
broiled fish and honey-comb just before his ascension? To
argue after all this that the resurrection was spiritual only is
to turn the Gospels into a wild burlesque.
"There remains the testimony of St. Paul.
"Paul tells us that Christ's first appearance was to Cephas,
that
is,
Peter. This
is
contradicted by all the Gospels. His
second appearance, according to Paul, was to the twelve disci
ples. But there were at that time only eleven disciples— Judas
had hanged himself. Of the treachery and suicide of Judas,
Paul
is
utterly ignorant. Paul says that Christ's third appear
ance was to 'above five hundred brethren at once.' But not
one of these gentlemen has anywhere testified that he saw the
resurrected Jesus; and of this appearance to the multitude, the
Gospels are wholly silent.
"To certify that Paul
is
quite mistaken here, we may observe
that there were not five hundred Christian brethren in the
world at that time. 'After that,' says Paul, 'he was seen of
James.' The Epistle of James knows nothing at all about the
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 255
resurrection; and no appearance to James is mentioned in the
Gospels. 'And last of all,' declares Paul, 'he was seen of me,
also.'
"It may be so, Paul, but you are the only witness in your
behalf. No other writer knows anything whatever about any
appearance to you.
"The testimony of Paul is in hopeless conflict with the four
Gospels. While the Gospels quarrel with one another, Paul
quarrels with them all.
"While the four Gospels teach that Christ rose from the
tomb in his body of flesh and blood, and while two of them
declare that with that body he ascended into heaven, Paul
challenges the Gospels with this positive pronouncement:
'flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God.' Very
well, Paul; but if this is so, will you be so good as to explain
to us what Christ did with his human body when he got
beyond the clouds?"
• • •
Howard Bannister had finished his sermon. Standing there
before those people he loved so well, one could sense victory
in his face. Perspiration was dripping from his forehead and
his shirt and collar were as limp as if he had fallen into the
water. Standing there, his massive frame quivered with tense
ness as he said, "For once in my life, I have told my people the
truth about Jesus Christ; now you know whether He rose
from the dead or not."
Opening his coat, he withdrew from the inner pocket a
long envelope and holding it in his hand, he said:
"This envelope contains my resignation as pastor of All
Souls Church. It is made effective at 12: 30, just fifteen minutes
from now. I'm going to ask the Board of Trustees to step
from the directors' room, where they are now gathered, onto
this platform. I shall then hand them this letter of resignation.
The members of this congregation will please remain seated,
for it will go into executive session with the Trustees and your
pastor at this time.
256 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"In making this momentous change— in bringing to you the
truths of God nude of fable and fiction—I want there to be
no question as to whether this church agrees or disagrees with
the stand I have taken. I have, therefore, asked the Trustees
to call this special executive session and you will be asked to
express your desires. The question is simple: do you want your
pastor to teach you the power of the Spirit of God in accord
ance with the sermon this morning, or do you want him to
continue preaching Jesus Christ as God, as he has done for
the past fifteen years?"
Hearing their pastor over the loud speaker, the Board of
Trustees were filing through the little door to the right of the
rostrum leading out of the directors' room. They took their
places on seven chairs seated in the middle of the rostrum.
Alan Fordyce, the assistant pastor, stayed in the pulpit, occu
pying a seat to the right of where Dr. Bannister had been
speaking.
With the resignation in his hand, Bannister walked out of
the pulpit, down onto the main platform. Approaching Dr.
Wilson, the Chairman of the Board of Trustees, he handed
him the long white envelope.
"As Chairman of the Board of Trustees, I am handing you
my resignation as pastor of All Souls Church. This resignation
takes effect almost immediately. As has been the custom in
this church on all matters of importance, an executive meeting
with the congregation has been called. I request, therefore,
that you call this meeting to order and we enter an executive
session at this time," said Dr. Bannister, as he took a seat to
the left of the Board of Trustees.
Dr. Wilson arose and, taking a few steps forward, faced the
audience and opened the letter of resignation.
"Ladies and gentlemen of All Souls Church," he began, "as
our pastor has informed us, I now hold in my hand his resigna
tion as pastor of All Souls Church. This meeting will please
consider itself in order while I read this letter of resignation."
Then he read:
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 257
"To the Board of Trustees of All Souls Methodist Church-
Gentlemen: For some time I have recognized that fact that
religion today is incompetent to deal with the momentous
problems with which this world is faced. I have tried to
discover the reason religion, which is supposed to be the
truths of God, is so utterly incapable of making any effect
whatsoever for good on this world, and I have carefully
thought and pondered the serious question of why, in the face
of the barbarous despotism of Adolf Hitler, the Christian
church can do nothing towards stopping the horrible slaughter
of human beings in Europe and in Asia.
"After long years of careful thought and much research,
I have decided that the fault lies in the conception of God
being brought to this world by the Christian church. I have
decided, further, that to offer Jesus Christ to this world as
Almighty God is to offer the world a pagan myth and an old
religious fable of the Dark Ages, and I can no longer preach
Jesus Christ and Him crucified in this or in any other church.
"There has been revealed to me, however, what I believe
to be the actual truths of God. Those truths came to me as a
blaze of illuminating light. Under those truths and through
the power of those truths it is possible to stop Hitler dead
in his tracks and to eliminate from this earth every last vestige
of hate, injustice, insecurity, and to replace these things with
infinite love and peace.
"I, therefore, request an expression of opinion from this
congregation and it must be unanimous. I want to know
whether this wonderful congregation wants me to discard the
Christian Bible, with the fable of Jesus Christ, and preach in
stead, the omnipotent truths of the Spirit of God as that
Great Spirit exists here and now on this earth. There is a
great Light shining in the darkness, but the darkness com
prehends not that Light. I should like to preach that Light.
"If this congregation is willing that I stay here as its pastor,
preaching the truths of the Spirit of God as those truths have
been revealed to me, I shall be happy to stay.
258 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"If, however, the congregation prefers the story of Jesus
Christ and the Christian Bible, it will have to secure another
pastor.
"Here, gentlemen, is my resignation. Take it and do with
it what you will."
Addressing the congregation once more, Dr. Wilson said,
"I should like to say to our people that on Friday your Board
of Trustees met in executive session with Dr. Bannister. He
laid all his cards on the table. He told us exactly how he felt
about the gospel of Jesus Christ and the Christian Bible and
the Christian religion. He told us the innermost convictions of
his soul, and he convinced the Board of Trustees that to con
tinue preaching the Christian Bible and Jesus Christ amounts
to spiritual suicide. The Trustees agreed with him and they
were unanimous in their decision that he discard if he felt
like
it,
any reference to Jesus Christ or the Christian Bible in
this church. All Souls Church
is
not dependent upon the dic
tates of any denomination. While
it
is
a
fact that we operate
under the Western Methodist Conference, we feel that All
Souls Church
is
a
body unto itself. This church is
only inter
ested in doing something to make God
a
living reality in this
world.
"The final decision, however, must lie with this congrega
tion.
It
is
my pleasure then, to submit to you the following
resolution and you can move its adoption or its nonadoption.
"The resolution your Board of Trustees has prepared reads
as follows:
" 7T IS HEREBY RESOLVED that the resignation of How
ard Bannister as pastor of All Souls Church be not accepted.
It
is
further moved that Howard Bannister be allowed to
preach the truths of the Spirit of God as those truths have
been revealed to him, without any reference to Jesus Christ
or the Christian Bible.'
"As
is
usual in matters of this kind, the congregation will
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 259
vote by standing to its feet. All in favor of rejecting the
resignation of Dr. Bannister, please rise."
There followed then a demonstration of unanimity seldom
accorded any pastor in any church. As one man, the vast con
gregation stood to its feet. Cheers rent the auditorium. Tears
were streaming down the faces of every member of All Souls
Church. Cries of "We want God; we want God" could be
heard above the din of the cheering and hand clapping.
In vain did the Chairman of the Board of Trustees attempt
to bring quiet. It was not until Howard Bannister, rising with
oustretched arms, appealed to his congregation, that quiet was
restored.
That the whole Board of Trustees was visibly moved was
very evident. Turning to the congregation once more, Dr.
Wilson said, "Those who are opposed to this resolution have
a right to be heard from. Will such members as are not in
favor of discarding the Christian Bible and the story of Jesus
Christ, please rise to your feet?"
Not a single soul in that audience arose. Once more the
tumultuous ovation broke out. It continued for fully thirty
minutes.
Rising to his feet, Howard Bannister once more stretched
his long arms aloft and requested quiet. Tears were streaming
down his face as he addressed his congregation.
"My friends, you can never know what this moment means
to me. You can never know the joy and the sorrow which I
feel at this amazing expression of confidence in me. You fully
realize what this means, of course. From now on this church
will preach the Power of the Spirit of God. Its members will
be required to live their lives in full recognition of the Power
of the Spirit of God. With a failing impotent Christianity all
around us, it is high time that some church discard completely
the pagan tradition which has brought death and decay to our
Christian church and in the place of that tradition, begin to
preach and live the actual presence of God.
260 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"As you probably know, my life is lived only for one pur
pose; that purpose is to make God a living reality to you. In
order to successfully do that, it is essential that my conscience
be clear. It is essential that I know by actual experience
whereof I speak when I preach to you.
"Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot conscientiously preach the
so-called gospel of Jesus Christ to you any longer, for I
am convinced beyond any shadow of doubt that the story is
not true. There are many wonderful things in the Christian
Bible. There are many wonderful lessons which can be learned
from the story of Jesus Christ, whether it be fact or fiction.
The beautiful Beatitudes of Luke,—they teach wonderful les
sons. The Psalms are beautiful writings, but neither the Beati
tudes of Luke or the Psalms of David in themselves possess
any power which can stop Adolf Hitler, and that is what I
am primarily interested in.
"If, then, the story of Jesus Christ cannot stop Hitler— if
that story cannot bring peace to this earth—there must be
somewhere a conception of God that can.
"When I say to you that the Light shines in the darkness
and the darkness comprehends it not, I am telling you an
absolute fact. Sad and horrible as world conditions are today,
there
is,
beloved, right at the heart of these world conditions,
a
Great Light. That Light
is
shining today. That Light has
always been shining. But because the darkness of religious
superstition and myth has been so great, this world has been
unable to see that great liberating Light, which
is
the Spirit
of God.
"Millions of earnest, God-fearing men and women have
asked our Christian denomination for the truth concerning
God and the Christian church. Being utterly unable to bring
those truths as offered to these earnest millions, the fable that
Almighty God was killed on
a
cross at Calvary two thousand
years ago was offered instead. Now
I
ask you as sensible
thinking Americans, can that theory of God bring peace to
this earth?
It
has been preached for two thousand years now.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 26l
Yet in spite of all that preaching, this world is closer to com
plete annihilation today than it ever was.
"Members of All Souls Church, I am not interested in any
religious philosophy which cannot demonstrate the Power of
God on this earth now. Nor am I interested in any religious
teaching which promises much after we die, but holds out
little hope here. I do not believe that those who know God
are to be considered pilgrims along a thorny road, weighed
down by the burdens of the sins of the earth, yet having no
Power in themselves to remedy those sins. Rather am I inter
ested in a philosophy of God which can prove itself on earth
and which possesses enough Power to drive every ungodly
force from the face of this earth.
"The congregation of All Souls Church has spoken. It has
been unanimously decided that my resignation be not accepted.
I accept the verdict. From now on, All Souls Church will
bring to this world the most revolutionary Power the world
has ever known. It will preach and demonstrate the Power
of the Spirit of God. As a result of your decision, this Easter
morning, the whole Christian structure of religion and all other
religions may be completely revolutionized.
"Instead of theories of God and traditions about God, this
world will know the actual Power of God. When that hap
pens, world marauders like Hitler, Mussolini, Stalin, and per
haps others, will be utterly unable to stand against the tran-
scendently beautiful Power of the Spirit of God.
"Tonight this church will make the first demonstration of
the Power of that great Spirit. I suggest that the congregation
be here quite early.
"Now there is just one more thing. Naturally, news of the
action of this church this morning will be flashed all over
the world. Members of the congregation will be subjected
to almost merciless questioning. Keep a smile on your faces
and tell your questioners that the pastor of All Souls Church
believes that the Power of God is greater than the military
262 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
might of Adolf Hitler, and we are going to bring Hitler to his
knees by the Power of that Great Spirit."
Turning around to the pulpit in which was seated Dr. For-
dyce, Bannister motioned him down to his side. Then he went
out through the little door leading into his study.
The momentous service was over.
CHAPTER TWELVE
Howard Bannister was correct when he stated that the
action of All Souls Church that morning would create a sensa
tion. The evening editions of the San Francisco papers carried
eight-column headlines which read something like this:
"BANNISTER SAYS CHRISTIAN RELIGION HOAX."
"ALL SOULS BREAKS FROM METHODIST
CHURCH?"
"BANNISTER KICKS BIBLE OUT OF CHURCH."
Then followed long articles describing the sensational serv
ice at All Souls Church that Easter morning.
At his home, the pastor was besieged by telegrams, long
distance calls, news agencies and press associations. Before two
o'clock every radio news service had broadcast the news of
that action of All Souls Church. Inside of a week, every paper
in the United States had featured the story.
Consternation, of course, reigned among the churches. Some
prominent ministers took issue with Bannister and the Meth
odist Church later sent a delegation of three bishops to meet
with Howard Bannister and the Board of Trustees. Being one
of the largest financial contributors to the parent body, the
Methodist Church naturally was dismayed at the prospect of
losing All Souls Church, yet they knew that Howard Ban
nister was fully supported by the Board of Trustees and by
the unanimous vote of that large congregation. They also
knew there would be no compromise between Bannister and
the parent church.
The investigating board of three bishops, after making a
telephone appointment with Howard Bannister in his home,
met in the church study before the evening service. They had
263
264 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
come by plane. When the secretary announced them, Howard
Bannister said, "Show them in."
Bannister met them at the door of his elaborately furnished
study, shook hands all around, and invited them to be seated.
He didn't give the bishops a chance to open the conversation,
however, but started the conversation going himself.
"I think I know what the object of this call
is,
gentlemen,
and to save any unpleasantness and argument, let me say to
you that this church
is
prepared to withdraw from the Meth
odist Conference at once. Whatever action
I
have taken has
been done after much thought, and the die has been cast irrev
ocably. Naturally,
I
am sorry to see this church break away
from the parent organization, yet no other step
is
possible."
One of the bishops, Henry Tomlinson, was
a
stout, well-
nourished individual with
a
very florid face.
"But, Dr. Bannister, do you realize what this means to the
Christian religion? Do you realize that you have disturbed the
faith of millions? Why, man, you have done irreparable dam
age already to the cause of Jesus Christ, which cause we be
lieve in, regardless of what you may say."
Howard Bannister rose to his feet.
"Bishop Tomlinson,
I
prefer that there be no discussion or
argument concerning the merits or demerits of Jesus Christ
and the Christian religion. By this time you know my stand
on that subject very well.
I
see no reason to continue this
interview. Our attorneys will draw up the necessary papers,
severing all connections with the Methodist Church, and from
this moment on, All Souls Church expects to operate as a
separate and distinct entity. Time will tell, gentlemen, which
of us
is
correct. In the meantime, may
I
bid you all
a
very
pleasant good-day."
There was no question but that this interview was at an
end, for Bannister pushed one of the desk buttons and as the
secretary entered, he said, "Miss Johnston, will you please
show these gentlemen out?"
Later
a
few church magazines and periodicals let loose
a
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 265
blast of vitriolic comment against Dr. Bannister, but most of
such periodicals came out in his favor. As a matter of fact,
he was absolutely amazed when he read the favorable com
ments coming in the wires of some of the brightest minds in
America. They honored him for his courage and for having
faith in his convictions. They freely admitted the absolute
inability of the Christian religion to cope with world condi
tions today. One prominent Methodist theological seminary
passed a resolution which had the effect, too, of completely
discarding the religion founded on the Christian Bible and the
story of Jesus Christ.
Certainly Howard Bannister had split the Christian religion
wide open. It began to look very much as if the cards were
stacked against those who insisted that the only way peace
could be brought to this earth was by believing in the cruci
fixion and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Altogether Bannister
was stunned when he saw the mass of evidence of religious
leaders who agreed with him one hundred percent. He had
expected criticism, but no praise. As it was, the praise by far
outweighed the criticism. It was instantaneous.
This heartened Howard Bannister very much. He argued
that if the majority of Christian ministers and churches were
behind him, then it should not take very long for America to
replace the pagan traditions of Jesus Christ with the actual
Power of the Spirit of God. Howard Bannister knew that once
that was done, this whole world would be revolutionized, for
Almighty God would live among men on the earth and every
individual and every nation would know to the very full what
the Power of the Spirit of God on this earth actually means.
That was all Howard Bannister wanted. That was all he had
ever lived for. That was why, in this moment of seeming de
feat, he had achieved his greatest triumph, and the foundation
stone had been laid for a new world religion which recognized
no crucified God, but which did recognize the Power of the
living Spirit of God, the Creator of this universe.
# • *
266 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
Mrs. Bannister was not much of a church goer. She was
active in church affairs, of course, but seldom did she attend
church herself on Sundays. She said she preferred to supervise
the cooking of the Sunday dinner. She was a good cook, too.
On this Easter Sunday morning after the stupendous morn
ing service, Bannister had invited Dr. Fordyce and his wife
to his home for dinner.
As Reuben drove the Cadillac across the Bay Bridge, Ban
nister turned to Alan Fordyce and said, "Do you suppose that
we can get a big picture of Adolf Hitler in time for the eve
ning service?"
"Why, I imagine we can, if we get busy right away— did
you say a picture of Adolf Hitler?"
"Yes, and I want a big one. I should say it should be about
eight feet wide by ten feet high. If you'll call up Larry Engle-
bright, I think he can arrange to have one made and have it
jset on a big easel in front of the pulpit where everyone
can see it in time for the evening service tonight."
Larry Englebright was connected with the art department
of one of the large San Francisco newspapers and had been a
member of All Souls Church for many years.
"I'll call Larry just as soon as we get to the house," said
Alan Fordyce.
"I have never seen or heard tell of such a demonstration as
we witnessed this morning, Howard," said Mrs. Fordyce.
"Yes, it was unusual, I'll admit, but it was just what I ex
pected. You see, Lucille, I think I have gauged public opinion
correctly. I think I know how hungry this world is for the
actual truths of God, and if I do, then the time most certainly
is ripe for humanity to discard all pagan traditions about God
and to accept in their place a sane, logical conception of Deity
which all thinking Americans will be glad to accept and use.
This business of telling men and women that they were born
in sin and shapen in iniquity, and doomed to hell when they
die, is very much passe today. Men and women have no use
for that philosophy because there is no justice in it. If men and
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 267
women are condemned to eternal punishment because of some
thing someone else did, before they were born, well, they
just don't want that kind of religion. But I think, Lucille, this
world is in such a desperate condition now that it recognizes
that it has to call upon some higher Power or it might very
easily be destroyed by the murdering, military might of the
greatest maniac this world has ever known.
Alan Fordyce was like a young lamb skipping about in the
meadows. He had been raised in a very orthodox Methodist
home. His father and mother were farmers in the state of
Nevada. They did not have very much of anything and it
had been a struggle for them to put their son through theologi
cal seminary. Somehow they had succeeded and Alan had left
this seminary full of old Methodist traditions and fervor.
All Souls Church had engaged him on the recommendation
of Howard Bannister, and perhaps once a month he had
preached the evening sermon. It did not take Alan Fordyce
very long, however, to discover that the farther he kept away
from Calvary's Cross and the blood of Jesus Christ, the better
off he would be. He was passionately fond of Howard Ban
nister and years of association with this famous preacher had
broadened his view considerably.
Finally, he had admitted that the narrow Christian concep
tion of deity was, in all probability, utterly false. Bannister
had watched him expand and a friendship had grown up be
tween them which was very deep.
About fifteen minutes later, Reuben brought the car to a
halt in front of the Bannister home and Dr. and Mrs. Fordyce,
with Bannister, went in. Of course, Mrs. Bannister was very
anxious to hear what had happened at the church that morn
ing. She knew, however, by the smile on her husband's face,
that all had gone well.
"They voted unanimously to throw out the Bible and all
reference to Jesus Christ, and they gave me such a demonstra
tion—well, if ever I wished you had been in church, it was
this morning. Alan will tell you about it after dinner. It was
268 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
the greatest expression of confidence in Almighty God I have
ever seen."
They sat in the large living room until dinner was announced,
and little Marge piled up on her Daddy's knee. The title "White
Monkey" had stuck to her and now she was Daddy's little
white monkey. She did not seem to object very much to this
because it seemed to make little difference what her Daddy
called her, just so long as he loved her as she knew he did.
The famous Bannister dinner of roast beef and Yorkshire
pudding was served, after which the Bannister family and its
guests went out to the patio and sat there discussing the mo
mentous Sunday morning service. Fordyce, in. the meantime,
had made arrangements with Larry Englebright, who had
assured him that he would have the Hitler picture framed and
on a large easel in front of the pulpit before seven-thirty that
night.
"My curiosity is getting the better of me, Howard. What
do you want with a huge portrait of Adolf Hitler in church
tonight?"
Bannister thought deeply for a moment. Then he replied,
"Isn't Adolf Hitler the greatest menace on the face of the earth
today?"
"Most certainly he
is,
Howard."
"Then,
if
we are to bring Adolf Hitler to his knees through
the Power of the Spirit of God,
I
should like to have Hitler in
person in All Souls Church tonight. That, however, will be
quite impossible, so we shall have to do the next best thing.
We shall have
a
photograph of him big enough to be seen
from the last row of pews."
"Do you suppose they'll accuse you of being
a
Nazi or any
thing like that?" asked Alan Fordyce.
"Well, they may wonder when they first enter the church
and see that big photograph, but before the service
is
over,
they'll have few ideas like that,
I
promise you," returned
Bannister.
"Don't be asking any questions about the service, Alan. This
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 269
is my surprise. I think when you see what I shall do tonight
you will admit that it is apt to be very effective."
They sat there on the patio. Then Bannister excused himself.
He wanted to be alone in his church study for a couple of
hours before the evening service. He also wanted to be in the
church to supervise the placing of the large picture of Adolf
Hitler. He was doing a daring thing, and he knew it. Yet this
daring thing he was doing proved to be the first step in a
movement which, before it was through, had completely elim
inated Hitler and brought permanent peace, prosperity and
happiness to this war-weary earth.
Arriving at his study, Bannister entered, took off his hat and
coat and sat down in his red leather upholstered chair. He
began to think. That was one thing that Howard Bannister
knew how to do. He knew how to think a problem through
to its logical conclusion. He never had been willing to accept
any premise advocated by anyone without thinking it through.
This was the technique he had used in discarding completely
from his ministry all reference to the Christian Bible or Jesus
Christ.
He thought it through. He thought it out. He could not
correlate the absence of God from a world which so badly
needs God. He argued that wherever there was a concentration
of brute force, with its accompanying misery and suffering,
there also should be a concentration of a superior spiritual
force. He tried hard to think through and discover where
such a spiritual power could come from. He carefully analyzed
his own Christian religion from its very hazy inception up to
the present day. He knew the record was one of complete and
abominable failure. That told Howard Bannister very plainly
that either one of two suppositions is true; either there is no
spiritual power in the Christian theology of Jesus Christ, or
there is a power there which the church has not been able to
discover.
Bannister leaned very heavily to the first theory. He re
counted the crucified gods of antiquity. He recalled that every
270 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
fundamental of the Christian religion was known to the pagan
religions thousands of years before Jesus Christ was ever
heard of. He knew the story of the flood was a second-hand
story. He knew, also, the origin of the four gospels, and why
they were in the Christian Bible. He knew well the complete
history of the Roman Catholic Church, which had given Chris
tianity to this world. Thinking these things through to their
logical conclusion, Howard Bannister had become absolutely
convinced that the entire Christian theory of God was nothing
more nor less than a pious fraud instituted by pagan priests
in the Dark Ages of a superstitious past.
As he sat there thinking in his study this Sunday afternoon,
he was more than ever convinced that he was correct. He
figured out that a Power great enough to create such a marvel
ous piece of mechanism as a human being, must live in that
mechanism. He decided it would be illogical to think that Al
mighty God created such a colossal scheme of things as the
celestial sphere above and the earth below, taking leave of this
earth and heavens above and leaving them to shift for them
selves.
In his thought he saw little children come into existence. He
watched them grow up. They married; they raised children of
their own. Was this haphazard? Howard Bannister did not think
so. His capacity for thinking things through to their logical
conclusion had brought him to the place where he believed in
the existence of the Creator in the creation. He did not believe
that this creation exists without the power of the Creator
being in it. Then, he argued, because of the false theories of
God, false religions, that
is,
the eyes of the human race might
have been completely blind to the existence of God, the
Creator, in each one of us and in each form of life which
manifests on this earth.
Howard Bannister figured that all life was involved in, arid
a
part of, one great ocean of life which he called God. Yet
he knew of no religious organization on the face of the earth,
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
certainly no denomination in the Christian religion, which
directed the thoughts of its followers to looking for God in
themselves. One system of religion told them to look to the
Cross of Calvary, while another great religion told them to
look to the Cross of Chrishna. Another one came along and
told them that Mohammed was the only begotten son of God.
Howard Bannister knew that thirty-five or more different
gods, saviours, and Messiahs had been offered to this world,
and he knew that everyone of them had been rejected as the
Christian Jesus had been rejected.
"Still," thought Howard Bannister, "God Almighty must
live. God Almighty must live in me. He must live in every
human being on the face of this earth."
If this be a fact, he figured, certainly humanity was in com
plete and utter ignorance of the presence of the creative spirit
of God in each member of that humanity. Something, he
figured, had taken men's eyes away from the true dwelling
place of God and directed them to a false dwelling place.
Looking through the windows of his study, he saw the
beautiful Chinese elm trees which were growing outside the
church. Rhododendrons, thousands of them, in the beautiful
gardens surrounding the church. Wild canaries flitting through
the air. Swallows building their nests in the eucalyptus trees.
"Oh yes— God lives and God lives here and now," said
Howard Bannister to himself.
Sitting there, he allowed his thoughts to concentrate on the
evening service. He had promised his congregation that in this
evening service tonight he would demonstrate the Power of
the Spirit of God over the military power of Adolf Hitler.
For nearly two years now, this marauding despot had ruth
lessly trod upon the individual and freedom and lands of other
nations. At this moment the Swastika was flying from the
capitols of sixteen nations which heretofore had been free to
govern themselves. This mad despot had ruthlessly overrun
these lands and seemed to be on a fair way to overrun the
272 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
whole earth. He had been able to accomplish these nefarious
ends only because he had built the greatest righting machine
in history.
Of course, to Bannister, it was a mathematical certainty that
Hitler could conquer the whole world, provided that he had
enough submarines, dive bombers, tanks and flame throwers.
That is— he could conquer the world if the power of brute
force is the greatest power on the earth. But suppose there
exists another Power, a Spiritual Power, a Power which is the
Spirit of God—then what?
Bannister was convinced that this Power existed. He was up
against the problem of how to call this Power to the attention
of his church and effectively put it into operation against the
brute physical power of Adolf Hitler. That was his problem.
He was absolutely convinced that it could be done, for the
simple reason that it took an Invisible Spiritual Power to create
life, whereas it only takes a human power to build a tank or a
submarine.
So, as he sat there in his study this Sunday afternoon, he had
one big problem to face.
But he had thought that out to its logical conclusion, too,
and he was very happy as he realized that nothing but ultimate
and complete success could possibly reward his efforts.
Otherwise, there is no God, he figured. If it is not possible
to stop the ravishing of the nations by a Power higher than
human power, then certainly the world might well forget all
about the existence of any Deity. But the flowers outside, the
little birds flitting around, the two thousand and more human
beings which would pack his church tonight, all bore eloquent
testimony to the fact that there does exist a far greater creative
power than the destructive human power of Hitler.
Bannister's problem was to show his congregation in just a
few hours, where that Power existed and how to throw it into
play.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 273
At seven-thirty All Souls Church was packed to the doors.
Thousands of people were sitting outside on the lawn where
loudspeakers had been installed. Three radio stations had asked
for the privilege of broadcasting that Sunday night sermon.
Word had leaked out that Howard Bannister was going to
bring to this earth the actual and literal Power of God, and
would demonstrate that Power in his church that evening.
Word had also gone out that he had ordered a huge framed
photograph of Adolf Hitler placed in front of the pulpit. One
major network, although it was Sunday evening, had can
celled its regular commercial program, in order that the people
of the United States might hear the message that this famous
preacher was about to deliver. Telegrams from all over the
United States continued to pour into his study.
Ministers in small cities; the heads of theological seminaries;
business executives; physicians; every conceivable type of
American citizenry had telegraphed to Howard Bannister con
gratulations on the new conception of God he was bringing to
this world. Most of the telegrams complimented him on his cour
age in telling the falsity of the story of Jesus Christ as Almighty
God. There were more than three thousand telegrams lying
on his desk before the evening service started at eight o'clock.
The response to his daring exploit was meeting with success
beyond his wildest dreams.
And now the hour of his final triumph was at hand. Dr.
Bowers had taken his seat at the organ one half hour earlier
and was treating the congregation to beautiful organ melodies
while it waited. Bannister had requested that the Board of
Trustees take their places on the rostrum for this one Sunday
evening. It would strengthen him and constantly remind him
that not only the directorate but the entire congregation of All
Souls Church stood one hundred percent behind him.
At eight o'clock sharp, Bannister came through the little
door of his study, followed by Dr. Alan Fordyce. They both
took their seats in the pulpit. The service opened with the
2
74 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
singing once more of Bannister's favorite hymn, "Lead, Kindly
Light."
During the singing of this hymn, and all through the pre
liminaries, he sat silent in his chair, while Dr. Fordyce carried
out these preliminaries. His head was resting on his left hand.
He was deep in thought. He had an opportunity now seldom
before given to any preacher. His was the task of bringing
to this sin-sodden earth the liberating Power which would
save it from itself.
The picture of Adolf Hitler in the front of the church, just
over the pulpit, was the topic of much conversation. What
did it mean? Howard Bannister was going to do something
sensational, but just what could it be? However, Bannister
knew, and the congregation knew that he knew.
The preliminaries, which had been cut short, were now out
of the way, and Dr. Fordyce had left the pulpit, taking his
place with the Board of Trustees on the rostrum just below
the pulpit.
Slowly Howard Bannister arose. There was a grim look on
his face. Fire flashed from his steel gray eyes. Those who knew
him best stated later that his whole personality seemed to be
illumined by a higher Power than this earth has ever known.
Then he did something unusual. He walked out of the pulpit,
down onto the rostrum and stood to one side of the huge
photograph of Adolf Hitler.
It was a strange sight, that. Here on the platform of one of
the most influential churches in America, stood a huge picture
of Adolf Hitler, and to one side of it stood the tall, gaunt
frame of the man who was endeavoring to throw the Power
of the Spirit of God against the instigator of the greatest
wave of crime and murder this world has ever known. The
audience had an opportunity to compare the faces of the two
men. On Hitler's face was depicted hate, rage and infamy,
coupled with an exaggerated egotism which he foolishly be
lieved was omnipotent. On the face of Howard Bannister was
a grim smile which reflected that infinite faith in the triumph
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 275
of right over wrong. One could not look at the grim, tall,
gaunt figure without instinctively knowing that all the Power
of the realm of the Spirit of God was centered in that man
that night.
The man in the photograph had attempted to drive the very
name of God from off the face of the earth. He was God.
He was the greatest man the world had ever known. The
German people were the master race. They were superior
to any other nation or race, and through the power of the
great military might of Germany, this insane leader would
subdue the whole world and then he would be God, actually
and literally.
Bannister was in a humble frame of mind as he stood there
about to prove that the invisible spiritual Power of God is a
far greater power than the brute force typified by the picture
on his left. This man did not consider himself to be God. He
considered all men equal. He had no tanks, no submarines, no
flame throwers, no bombing planes. In fact, he had no material
weapons of any sort. But he had a far more potent weapon.
He possessed the Power of the Creator of this universe— the
Spirit of God.
What All Souls was to witness this Easter Sunday evening
was an acceptance by Howard Bannister of the challenge
hurled at this world by Adolf Hitler. It was to be a battle
between the invisible Power of the Creator of this universe,
and the visible, material power of one man obsessed by the
insane idea that he was more powerful than Almighty God,
the Creator of this universe.
Standing there with the finger and thumb of his left hand
tucked in his watch pocket, Bannister began the sermon which
was to live and be remembered down through the ages. He
began the sermon which, for the first time in the history of the
human race, was to disclose to this world who and what God
really
is,
and how the Power of God can be used to dethrone
would-be world conquerors.
His words came slowly:
276 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
"Fellow Americans, members of All Souls Church, this
photograph to my left is a picture of a man who has chal
lenged God. Standing to the right of this photograph is a man
who challenges the man who has challenged God.
"There are but two forces or powers in this universe. One,
the power of wrong, the other the power of right. The spirit,
manifesting through the man whose photograph you are look
ing at, is the very antithesis of the Spirit I stand for. This man
on my left knows only hate, insane lust for power and brute
force. He loves to see horrible death-dealing bombs dropping
out of the sky and blasting into eternity hundreds of thousands
of his fellow human beings. He delights to see his submarines
send to the bottom of the ocean, ships of other nations with
their cargoes of human lives. This man, if you can call him
a man, delights in the suffering of his fellow human beings.
He is never happier than when his dive bombers are blasting
churches and other famous landmarks out of existence. For
some unexplained reason, this maniac at my left has delighted
his unbalanced mind by bringing to the Jewish people atroci
ties absolutely incredible and indescribable. There is nothing
good one can say about this human being. He is the consum
mation of the concentrated essence of murder, rape, lust,
brutality and physical death.
"This man, I say, has challenged Almighty God. He disputes
ownership of this earth with God. He did not make this earth
nor is he capable of creating a single thing. He cannot even
bring a baby into existence, yet this monster at whom I am
pointing, has the brazen audacity to state that through the
power of his military might, he will rule this universe and
leave Almighty God completely out of the picture."
It was a dramatic moment when Howard Bannister stepped
in front of the huge picture of Adolf Hitler. Pointing his fore
finger, with outstretched arm, directly at this photograph, he
said in a voice that made All Souls Church ring to the ceiling:
"Mr. Hitler, I challenge you!"
There was a brittle silence through All Souls Church and on
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 277
the lawn outside, and from coast to coast, as Howard Bannister
made this statement.
Then, taking his place to the right of the photograph, he
continued.
"My friends, there is no merit of any sort in Howard Ban
nister. There
is,
however,
a
Power on this earth, and in How
ard Bannister, which can make this individual to my left dis
appear as the snows on the Sierra Mountains disappear before
the summer sun. There
is
a
Power on this earth, ladies and
gentlemen, which
is
so dynamic in itself that all other powers
and forces fade into insignificance beside it.
It
is
because of
that Power
I
challenge Adolf Hitler, for that Power
is
the
Spirit of God.
"Unfortunately, this church, along with other Christian
churches, has offered to this world in the name of God, what
now proves to be only
a
religious superstition of the past and
which has no truth in
it
whatsoever.
I
allude to the generally
accepted theory of the Christian church that Almighty God,
the Creator of this universe, was put to death on
a
cross, some
two thousand years ago—and has never been heard from since.
"In my sermon this morning,
I
exploded sadly but very
effectively, that pet pagan theory of the Christian church.
I
do not desire to ever refer to
it
again.
It
has done too much
harm.
It
has kept the real truths of God from this pain-racked
earth and the crime of the Christian theory of God will never
be expiated. Had
it
not been for this theory of God, this man
whom you see to my left would never have dared to raise
his unholy head in defiance of the Creator of this universe.
The crime of Christianity lies in the fact that while
it
pre
tended to bring the truths of Almighty God to this earth,
it
presented no more nor less than an old religious fable, which
was known and taught to millions of people thousands of
years before Jesus Christ was ever heard of.
"In justice to the Christian church,
I
must say that the story
was honestly believed and honestly preached. The manifesta
tion of this madman to my left, however, calls for the mani
278 GOD . . • AND DR. BANNISTER
festation of the true Power of the great Creator of this uni
verse. The history of the Christian religion and other religions
very effectively prohibits our looking to any of them for a
power which can successfully challenge this madman whose
picture you see here on the rostrum of All Souls Church.
"Now, the question
is,
does such
a
Power exist? Of course,
I
shall not argue that point with you at all, because every
thinking American knows that somewhere there must exist
an invisible spirit of creation which not only created this uni
verse, but which gives life to each one of us every hour of the
day and night.
"It has been
a
distinct shock to this nation to discover that
its pet Christian theory of Almighty God
is
naught but an old
traditional religious fable told again. This, however, should
not cause too much sorrow to the Christian church, because
if
its philosophy of God
is
untrue, the true philosophy of God
still remains undiscovered. Once that philosophy
is
discovered,
and once the actual truths and Power of God are known on
this earth, then, of course, that Power can be successfully used
against this world disturber whose photograph you see here.
"Now,
if
the Christian theory of God and the theories of
the other major religions are not true, where, then,
is
God to
be found? This world has looked in every conceivable place for
God except in the one place where that great Spirit lives.
Christianity has told us that
it
is
now two thousand years,
almost, since Almighty God walked upon this earth. Let me
say to you, beloved, that Almighty God, as
a
man, never
walked upon this earth, but Almighty God, as
1
30,000,000 men
and women,
is
walking this earth here and now.
"Yes, you have guessed it. There
is
one sure place where the
Presence and Power of Almighty God
is
to be found and that
place
is
IN YOU.
"In other words, there exists in each one of us
a
Life Prin
ciple which
is
God. We have lived our lives all unconscious
of that fact. No one ever told us about it. The Christian
church told us that all the fullness of God was wrapped up
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 279
in Jesus Christ and no one could ever know God unless he
or she believed in Jesus Christ. He, however, if he ever lived,
died two thousand years ago, and has never been heard from
since.
"Let's look at the creation of a human body for just a few
moments, then you will know what I mean.
"One hundred years ago not one of us was in existence. We
had not been born. We had never been heard of. We just
simply did not exist. Then what happened? Our parents met,
they fell in love, they were legally married according to the
laws of the land, and shortly after it was discovered that you
and I were on the way. Now the philosophy that any human
being was born by the impregnation of a ghost, whether he be
a holy or an unholy ghost, is so foolish that it will not be
considered by me.
"In ancient Greece so many unmarried girls claimed a ghost,
usually a holy ghost, to be the father of their child, that a law
was passed prohibiting any unmarried woman from making
such a foolish claim, on pain of death.
"Let us come back. You and I were on the way. Let's ana
lyze what actually took place. In accordance with the law
governing child birth, your parents and mine, in their love for
each other, physically united themselves. By this act, which
was a physical act, they made it possible for two little germs
out of millions, to unite. The spermatozoa of the male and the
ovum of the female. Now let me point out that this is all our
parents could possibly do toward the building of a human
body. A physical connection was made whereby one physical
protoplasm, the male, was placed where it could unite with
another piece of physical protoplasm, the ovum of the female.
"I want you to grasp here the fact that when this had been
done— when these two germs had physically been placed in a
position where they could unite, your parents and mine could
not go one step farther than that. They had nothing whatso
ever to say about the building of that body. They did not
know, nor could they tell, whether a male or female child
28o GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
would be born. They had complied with the law of God, and
as a result of their compliance with this law, nine months later
there was born a human soul.
"Let us consider for a moment the amazing wonder of the
simple little example I have just given you. It is crude, I know,
but it is so simple that I may be able to explain to you through
it,
the existence of the Spirit of God in you.
I
am speaking
to you now in terms you can understand.
"Up to the time of the actual birth of that baby, when
the doctor cut the umbilical cord, that child derived its nour
ishment and sustenance from its mother.
It
was not
a
living
soul until after the doctor had spanked
it
on the back and
it
inhaled its first breath of air. With the first breath of air, or
life, that child became
a
living soul. When the last breath
of air, or life, goes out of that body,
it
becomes
a
dead thing,
fit for nothing but to be taken out and buried.
"In the translation of those two little germs from what they
were into
a
complete human body, many amazing things
happened.
"First, let me call your attention to the fact that after our
parents had done all that they physically could do toward
complying with the law governing child birth, there came into
the picture another Power. There stepped into the picture
at that point, an Intelligence so divine and so absolutely amaz
ing that
it
was able, without human hands to transform two
tiny germs in nine months' time into
a
living human soul.
"Let me ask you what sort of an Intelligence do you think
that must have been? Your parents had nothing whatsoever
to do with the building of that body, but some Creative In
telligence did have all to do with it. No scientist or physiol
ogist or biologist can explain the transition of two tiny pieces
of protoplasm into
a
human body. No chemical laboratory can
duplicate that amazing work.
It
took the actual and literal
power of God to form that child, with its bones, its muscles,
its inherent ability to think, to reason, and to see, and finally,
to bring
it
to manhood or womanhood.
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 28l
"Now, I want to ask you here if the invisible Creative
Power of the Spirit of God (for that is what this Power is),
after it had demonstrated its marvelous powers of creation
by changing two little germs into a human body, left that
body completely at birth?
"When the Spirit of God had brought life, human, physi
cal life, plus the invisible life of God, into that body, do you
think after the child was born, that Almighty God said to
your parents, "There is your baby— I made it for you, but it
will have to paddle its own canoe from now on'?
"That cannot be true, because the creative building pro
cesses—the marvelous intelligence of the Spirit which is God,
continued to operate and manifest in that body from that day
to this. Where is the baby of forty-five years ago? It does
not exist. It has changed completely into a full grown man
or woman, which is absolute, definite proof to me that the
invisible Power of the Spirit of God still lives in, and operates
in that body of ours from the cradle to the tomb. Yes, it
even operates in the physical body of this madman whose
picture you see before you.
"We have an accident. We break an arm or a leg. We call
a physician who makes a mechanical adjustment. He X-rays
the fracture, and by mechanical means manipulates the two
ends of the broken bone into a position as close to its natural
position as he can. And then what does he do? He does
nothing. He is not a physician of the Life Principle. He is a
physician or surgeon of a physical body in which the Life
Principle, or the Spirit of God, has taken up its existence.
The bone in itself has no thinking ability to repair itself, and
yet six weeks later the arm or the leg is repaired stronger
than it was before.
"Now let me ask you— did the attending physician bring
the healing Power into that body from his office? Did he get
it out of a bottle? Most assuredly not. The Power to heal
that broken bone is inherent in the body itself. Therefore,
this same Spirit of God which took those two little bugs
282 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
forty-five or fifty years before and transformed them into a
living soul, still is living in that physical body, or the bone
could not have knitted and been healed.
"I have not too much time this evening to elaborate, but
this simple illustration has brought home to you the fact, the
staggering fact, that as long as you live on this earth, the
Power of the Spirit of God—the life which is God— actually
lives and manifests in you, and if you do not use that life,
that Spirit of God, for the accomplishment of any right thing
you desire, you are not living as you should live, with all
the Power of the Spirit of God in you and behind you."
Stopping for a moment, Howard Bannister walked over to
the table and drank a glass of cold water which had been
placed there for his convenience. His handkerchief was still
in his right hand, and he continued to wipe the perspiration
from his face, for he was speaking in deadly earnest. Every
word of his message went home to the souls of his listening
audience and to the millions listening to him over the air.
This was an explanation of God they had looked for all their
lives. This explanation located God.
What Howard Bannister had done was this: He had ex
plained by a simple illustration how all the Power of the
great God of this universe lives in each human, physical body
through life.
Taking his place once more beside the picture of Adolf
Hitler, Bannister continued his sermon.
"Now, there
is,
somewhere in this universe, in fact
it
per
meates the universe, the Spirit of Life which must be the
Spirit of God. We have seen how this creative Spirit of God
not only brings
a
human being into existence, but takes up
its abode in that physical body. Now
is
that all there
is
to
God?
If
it
is,
it
is
abundantly sufficient to solve every problem
on this earth and to bring this maniac on my left to his knees.
For, beloved,
it
took an Infinite Intelligence to perform the
amazing chemical equations and problems which were per
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 283
formed in the evolution of two little germs into a human body.
It took an infinite wisdom. It took an infinite love, and, what's
more important, it took all the Power there is in the Creator
to do exactly what was done in your life. Truly, then, we all
may say the Power of the Spirit of God, with all that Power
implies, actually and literally lives in us.
"Now let us consider another phase of this question. We
know now very definitely that Almighty God, the Creator
of this universe, or at least a little part of Almighty God,
actually lives in us.
"Now, then, can we use all this wisdom, this Power which
is God, seeing that we possess it? It is at this point that the
Christian church went off at a tangent. It told us God was
every conceivable place except in a human life. But can we
use this Power? Can it be intelligently directed against the
brutal conditions which exist today? Can the Power of
Almighty God, for instance, be thrown against such a man
as that?"
At this point, Bannister looked at the picture of Adolf
Hiker and pointed his finger at it.
"It is my contention, ladies and gentlemen, that if you and
I possess in us any part of the Life that is God, we also pos
sess the infinite Power of God, too. It cannot be any other
way. Our bodies are actually and literally the dwelling place
of the Spirit of God. They are the individual homes in which
Almighty God has taken up his abode, and remember this;
just as long as you live, all the Power of the Spirit of God
lives in you and is subject to your call. As a matter of fact,
it exists in you for no other purpose than to bring to you an
infinite abundance of happiness, peace and love and material
as well as spiritual possessions.
"That to me is Almighty God. The Christian religion can
teach Almighty God on a cross at Calvary if it wants to; it
can eat the flesh and drink the blood of a dead God every
month, if it cares to. It can sprinkle holy water over automo
biles and apartment houses to its heart's content, if it wants
284 GOD • . . AND DR. BANNISTER
to. As for me, and my house, we will live with the present
consciousness of the Spirit of the Eternal God in us here
and now."
At this point Bannister stood silent for a moment. The
perspiration was still dropping from his face, so he removed
his long frock coat and handed it to one of the Board of
Trustees, who took it into his study, and then took his seat
again on the platform.
It was a strange sight to see Howard Bannister preaching as
he was, in fashionable All Souls Church in his shirt sleeves
and with a huge picture of Adolf Hitler standing beside him.
It was a sight never seen in that church before and it is
one that probably will not be seen again.
Bannister continued:
"We find ourselves, then, in this position: Every member
of this congregation and every member of our radio con
gregations, finds himself or herself entertaining a hereto un
recognized Guest. We find ourselves possessing all the Power
of the Spirit of the creative God in us here and now. Now,
the question is—how can we throw that Power into action?
How can we use the Power of the Spirit of God in us to
actually and physically demonstrate the things we need? I
am not talking about our own personal material problems now.
What you and I lack is a small matter compared to the greater
problem which confronts humanity. Here on my left is the
man who is threatening, through brute force, to annihilate
civilization. That man says there is no God outside of himself.
He knows nothing about the staggering Power of the Spirit
of God which lives in us. Possessing that Power, however, and
knowing that we possess
it,
there
is
only one problem con
fronting us this evening. How are we going to use the Power
of the Spirit of God in us to bring this creature to his knees?
"In other words, how can you and
I
draw upon the invisible
Power of God in us, and how can we use that Power against
Adolf Hitler so that his reign of terror will be stopped and
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 285
peace restored to this earth again? One of the easiest things
I know is how to actually use the inherent Power of the Spirit
of God. It is the most simple thing I know. Yet this world
has existed for thousands of years without knowledge of how
to do that.
"Christianity has told us to pray. If you get down on your
knees and ask Almighty God to stop this war, He may do it.
That is the Christian theory. But if Almighty God lives in
you and in me, are we not talking to ourselves in addressing
God in that manner?
"Religions have been praying for thousands of years, mil
lions of their followers have begged, coaxed and tried to
cajole Almighty God into granting their petitions. Yet all the
while, unknown to them, the God they vainly looked for in
the skies, was living in their very bodies and the skies re
mained silent.
"I said the easiest thing I know is how to literally use the
Power of the Spirit of God against undesirable conditions.
"Let me tell you how it is done.
"IT IS SPOKEN INTO EXISTENCE.
"Let me repeat that. THE POWER OF THE SPIRIT OF
GOD IN YOU CAN BE SPOKEN INTO EXISTENCE.
"In other words, your spoken word directs the Power of
the Spirit of God in you in any direction in which you want
to send it. In future sermons I will elaborate on this. I have
not the time tonight, for we have a far bigger job on our
hands.
"We are tonight going to throw the actual and literal
Power of God against this great world tyrant on my left. I am
going to ask this congregation to speak the Power of the
Spirit of God into existence against this person. In asking
you to join me in doing that, I do it with the positive knowl
edge that there is no power on this earth or on any other
earth which can stand against the Power of the Creator of
this universe— the Power of the Spirit of God.
"Now, in using the Power of the Spirit of God against
286 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
Adolf Hitler, we shall speak it into existence. Here is what
I want you to do. I want you to rise to your feet, point your
right fore-finger at this picture and repeat aloud with me
this statement:
"THE SPIRIT OF GOD WILL BRING YOUR SPEEDY
DOWNFALL.
"Will this audience please rise. Now, will you please point
at the picture of Adolf Hitler."
The audience rose to its feet and more than two thousand
arms were outstretched, pointing their fingers at the picture
of Adolf Hitler. Then in unison with Howard Bannister, they
repeated with a loud voice:
"THE SPIRIT OF GOD WILL BRING YOUR SPEEDY
DOWNFALL."
Bannister kept this up for a period of five minutes. In uni
son, and repeatedly, this statement, "THE SPIRIT OF GOD
WILL BRING YOUR SPEEDY DOWNFALL" was directed
against the picture of Adolf Hitler.
At the end of five minutes Bannister requested the congre
gation to be seated.
Addressing them, he said, "Instead of leaving this church
tonight as you usually do, I want the back row of the audi
ence to walk down the right aisle in front of this picture of
Hitler. And I want you to stop for just one moment, look
the picture straight in the eye, and pointing your finger at
this madman, repeat the statement I have just given you. It
will take a little time to do that, but I want every one of you
to do it. After the back row has come down the right aisle,
let the next row follow. You may leave the church through
the left aisle."
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
It was a strange sight All Souls Church was witnessing.
Complying with Bannister's request, the people seated in the
back row began to slowly walk down the right aisle toward
the front of the church. They ascended the platform, stopped
before the picture of Adolf Hitler, and with right arm out
stretched and finger pointing directly at him, they repeated
the statement Bannister had requested.
The amazing thing about this new innovation in religion
was the fact that most of the people in All Souls Church that
evening were not satisfied with pointing at Hitler and repeat
ing the statement once, they repeated it several times. And they
said it as if they meant
it,
too. There was no room for any
question as to the intentions and purposes of that congrega
tion that night. They saw the logic in Bannister's argument.
If
the Spirit of God was an invisible dynamic power living
in them and
if
they could speak this Power into action, they
certainly were doing
it
that night. What they acturally were
doing,
is
this: They were directing against Adolf Hitler and
all that he stands for, the greatest flow of Spiritual Power
which has ever gone out from any congregation in the history
of this world. Instead of closing their eyes and bowing their
heads while the preacher mumbled
a
short prayer asking the
Almighty to bless the sick at home and everyone else in
sight, this congregation was putting the Power of God to
work. They were translating the silent Power of God in them
into action by the spoken word. Those spoken words were
backed up by all the Power of the Great God of this uni
verse.
It
would be utterly impossible for this effort to fail.
The supreme Wisdom and Intelligence and Creative Genius
287
288 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
of Almighty God would know how to solve the problem
after they had spoken the word of God into existence.
This staggering spiritual Power had formed their bodies
from two tiny germs. It had grown those bodies from baby
hood to manhood and womanhood. Were it not for the Spirit
of Life in those bodies, none of them could have taken another
step.
Here was the first demonstration, the first attempt on the
part of any church to actually and literally manifest the
Power of God against world conditions which threaten to
embroil all humanity. Instead of petitioning some far away
unknown God in the skies, these people recognized through
the simple logic of Howard Bannister, just exactly where the
Spirit of God, which is the Spirit of Life, exists. The earnest
ness with which this statement was thrown against Adolf
Hitler and the Power behind the statement boded ill for Hitler
and his policies.
How long would it take to bring Hitler to his knees? These
good people of All Souls did not know nor did they care.
They knew that they had started a flow of Spiritual Power
against Hitler's inferior military power and they knew that
the end would be speedy and sure.
Two hours later the church was still packed to the doors.
The thousands who had listened to the sermon on the lawn
were entering the church and joining in this amazing demon
stration of the Power of God against Hitler. Those living in
the Bay area, who had heard the sermon over the radio, got
out their automobiles and drove to All Souls Church. They
wanted to have a part in this great work of God. Some of
them were church members. Many who were not church
members desired to have a part in
it,
too.
It
was
a
motley crowd—colored shoe-shiners, business men,
street car conductors, clerks working on soda fountains, every
conceivable type of humanity, made its way that Sunday eve
ning to All Souls Church. There they could actually and
literally do something to stop Adolf Hitler. In that church
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 289
they could throw all the Power of the Spirit of God in them
against this world tyrant. That is what they wanted to do.
For they knew, and knew full well, that if the Power of God
were actually and literally thrown against brother Hitler, there
would be no need of sending warships or bombing planes
over there to help the British. They did not want to see these
fair United States bathed in human blood. They saw no way
out, however, until Howard Bannister had pointed the way to
them this Sunday night.
As news of this amazing demonstration continued, more
crowds gathered at the church. The stream of participants
kept steadily increasing. Down the outside aisle of the church
they would walk, and, standing before this huge photograph
and looking it straight in the eye, they would point their finger
at this maniac and say: "THE SPIRIT OF GOD WILL
BRING YOUR SPEEDY DOWNFALL."
Then they would leave the church and tell someone else,
who, in turn joined the throng which was making its way
in ever increasing numbers, to All Souls Church. Soon the
news spread all over San Francisco and Oakland. It was get
ting out of their control. So, Bannister asked the Board of
Trustees to meet with him at once in his study.
Dr. Fordyce was left on the platform to keep an eye on
things.
Entering the study, the Trustees threw their arms around
each other, and with tears streaming down their faces, em
braced Howard Bannister, too.
"This is the happiest day in the history of All Souls Church,"
said Dr. Wilson.
"I have never seen anything like this in my life," said
banker Evers.
Bernard Heyneman, the advertising man, was beside him
self with joy. "Oh Boy! This means that Adolf Hitler and
his bunch of vultures will be out of the picture inside of one
week."
Bannister himself looked very tired. It was the moment of
290 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
his greatest triumph. Yet he was serious. A strange light shone
on the handsome face. Yet he seemed unusually quiet. His
face was pale.
Speaking up, he said to his Trustees, "Gentlemen, we have
witnessed here in this church tonight the coming of the
Spirit of God to this earth. Our Methodist friends have ex
pected Jesus Christ to return to this earth on the clouds of
heaven. They have expected him to demolish the might of
Adolf Hitler by bringing with him vast hosts of angels. They
are disappointed now. They have learned the lesson the whole
world will soon learn. That lesson is: All the ills, all the sin,
all the crime, all the undesirable conditions which exist on
this earth can be banished, not by the descent of Jesus Christ
on the clouds of heaven with a host of angels, but by the
Power of the Spirit of God which exists right here on this
earth and in every human life, SPOKEN INTO EXISTENCE.
"Gentlemen, I suggest that this church remain open day
and night until Hitler is brought to his knees. I think you
will find that other churches will be forced to throw over-
boards their pagan conceptions of God, and do exactly as
this church is doing. It will be hard work for them to do
that at first, but the weight of public opinion, plus this remark
able demonstration, will force them to do it. If they do not
do this, they will go out of existence, for this movement,
born in this church this night, will be joined by millions of
honest, straight-thinking American citizens who have no use
for churches of any sort.
"It is through them, the common people, that the Spirit of
God will operate. As this movement grows, and as the Power
of the Spirit of God becomes more and more manifest on this
earth, someone else will arise who will lead you, gentlemen,
much farther than I have been able to. I know very little about
the operations of the Spirit of God. All I have ever hoped
to do is to convince this world that that great Spirit of God
exists here and now. I think I have done this.
"I feel my work is over. Certainly such a demonstration
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 29I
as this cannot ever stop until the world knows at long last the
truth of the existence of the great God in its midst. After
Hitler is done, you will find men and women arbitrating
their quarrels. Strikes will be unknown. Poverty will be un
known. We shall have no need for prisons or lunatic asylums,
for the glory of the knowledge of the Spirit of God shall
cover this earth as the waters cover the sea.
"I want you to promise me that you will not close the doors
of this church as long as this demonstration continues. I want
you to promise me that All Souls Church will make it as easy
as it can for other denominations to exchange their impotent
theories of God for the actual and literal Power of God. Will
you promise me that?"
The members of the Board of Trustees looked at Howard
Bannister. Each one shook hands with him and gave him
his solemn promise that they would do everything in their
power. And they meant it.
"Now will you please leave me, gentlemen?" asked Dr.
Bannister. "I want to be alone."
Dr. Wilson looked carefully at his friend and after the rest
of the Trustees had gone, he returned to the study. Putting
his arms around the great preacher, he said, "Howard, do you
feel all right?"
A wan, tired smile lit up the face of the pastor of All Souls
Church.
"Yes, Joe, I feel all right. One always feel all right when his
work has been successfully completed. Good-bye, Joe. Good
bye. Please leave me now."
Dr. Wilson left, much against his better judgment, although
he knew there was nothing he could do for Howard Bannister.
• • •
They found him there two hours later in his study chair,
dead. The strain had been too much. His shaggy head was
resting on his arms, which were crossed on his desk. There
was a smile on his face even in death. 'Twas a hallowed smile,
292 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
'twas the smile of a man who had been faithful to his Creator
—even unto death.
Over his desk was a motto. It read: "Greater love hath no
man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends."
But Howard Bannister had laid down his life for the whole
world.
» # #
They buried him the following Wednesday. They couldn't
use All Souls Church because the throngs throwing the Power
of God against Adolf Hitler had multiplied. The procession
of Americans using the Power of God against Adolf Hitler
had grown and grown. The largest stores in San Francisco
and Oakland ordered huge pictures of the German tyrant
placed on every floor.
In the Ferry Building, large pictures of Hitler stood on
easels. The crowds crossing the Bay would stop in front of
these pictures, pause, and pointing their fingers at the picture,
would say in a loud voice, "THE SPIRIT OF GOD WILL
BRING YOUR SPEEDY DOWNFALL."
Bernard Heyneman had placards made for the street cars,
and paid for them out of his own pocket. On the front and
in the inside of the different street cars running all over the
city, a picture of Hitler with the Bannister statement could be
seen. All Souls Church had a stamping concern make one mil
lion buttons with a picture of Hitler on them, and the Ban
nister statement under the picture. These buttons were given
away at the church, in the banks, at the Heyneman Advertis
ing Agency and the call for those buttons exceeded the supply.
So, more were ordered, the crews of the stamping works
working twenty-four hours a day to supply them. No matter
where you went in the Bay District, the Hitler buttons were
in evidence.
Soon, billboards were seen carrying the same message. The
offices of the church were literally swamped with requests for
the buttons, and for information regarding this spontaneous
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 293
outbreak of the Spirit of God in San Francisco. The Move
ment spread like wildfire.
One enterprising member of All Souls bought a big Good
year balloon which carries passengers over the Bay area. A
long streamer carrying the Bannister statement was attached
to the balloon. Millions of circulars, each bearing the picture
of Adolf Hitler, were printed, and the now famous Bannister
statement appeared under the picture. The large balloon was
given permission to drop these circulars over the Bay District.
Hundreds of thousands of them could be seen floating down.
Then airplanes were engaged to cover the state of California
and inside of forty-eight hours every part of the United States
knew that this country had at last received a visitation from
God. It knew that at last, through human means, the Great
Spirit of God was manifesting its Power on the earth, through
the lives and activities of human beings.
America knew that at last Hitler and his allies were facing
a Power against which they could not possibly hope to stand.
Little did they dream, though, how short a space of time
would be required to bring this madman and all he stands for,
to his doom.
From every part of America came the response. America
had caught the vision. It was catching fire for God. And it
was doing that in a perfectly natural and normal way. Nothing
supernatural about all this. No Jesus descending on the clouds
from Heaven. No angels. No sign of Gabriel blasting away
on his trumpet. No signs of the dead coming back to life
again. The cemeteries were not disturbed. Those who had
died remained dead, as dead people usually do.
The vast significance of this outpouring of the Spirit of
God was soon grasped by the American people. If Hitler
could be brought to his knees through the Power of God
used against him by American men and women— could not
every other problem in life be settled in the same manner?
Could not the paralyzing strikes and the general labor unrest
be handled in the same manner?
294 GOD • • • AND DR. BANNISTER
In Washington, D. C, could not Congress adopt the same
means of bringing harmony out of this country's many dis
cords? Could not the President of the United States proclaim
a "Day of God"? Not a day of prayer— but a day on which
all men and women could actually and literally throw the stag
gering Power of Almighty God all over this earth?
Of course this could be done. It would be done. For the
most significant thing about this outpouring of the Spirit of
God on this earth was the rapid manner in which all men
and women, even young children, caught the idea.
In millions of American homes, pictures of Adolf Hitler
began to appear, and before and after every meal, instead of
asking a god who was in "heaven" to bless the food, the occu
pants of those homes stood for a moment in front of these
pictures, and helped bring Hitler to his knees by throwing
the Power of God—which was in them— against the German
despot.
Truly this was revelation of the Power of God to man. Just
as truly it had come from the most unexpected quarter, and
in the most unexpected manner. While religionists the world
over wondered as they saw what was happening, they finally
realized that their theories of Almighty God lying dead in a
tomb had been a blasphemy uttered in the name of Almighty
God. They were the last ones to join in this demonstration,
but as they appeared on Sunday morning to preach to empty
pews, the ministers and priests had decided that they, too,
had better climb on the band-wagon.
Of course, special permission from Rome, in Italy, was
required before the Catholics could officially join in the cele
bration of the coming of the Spirit of God to the earth. The
head of this Italian church did not give that permission, but
the same thing happened in the Catholic churches that hap
pened in the Protestant churches. No one appeared to cele
brate the "mass". "Mess", was the way one transformed Catholic
referred to it. And with their good churches as empty as the
Protestant churches were, this Italian system of religion was
GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER 295
finally brought into the fold. It finally threw away its pagan
ism and idolatry, and its members began to get acquainted
with the Power of Almighty God in the very same manner
the rest of the world was getting acquainted with it.
No special authority designated to the Pope through Peter
and Jesus now. No man-written book was considered the
"divinely-inspired word of God" now. For every true Ameri
can was talking with God, and not only that, was speaking
the Power of God into existence.
In the homes where poverty had reigned supreme, an abun
dance began to manifest. The unemployed began to find em
ployment.
The hospitals began to empty themselves, as the sick, finally
realizing that the only place Almighty God could be found
was right in themselves, began to speak the Power of God
into existence for their own health.
Prisons were emptied, as it became manifest that their in
mates really had found God in their lives. They would never
rob a bank again. There would be no more holdups or mur
ders. For men and women who know of the existence of the
Spirit of God in them never do anything which would hurt
anyone else. It was quite safe, therefore, to turn these caged
human beings loose. And this was done.
It would take too long to tell about the complete meta
morphosis. So we shall say it was very complete. There was
not a single civic, personal, or national problem which could
not be solved by the simple method of speaking the Spirit of
God into material manifestation by those whom these prob
lems confronted.
This was religion in action. This was the Spirit of God tak
ing complete charge of human lives and affairs. What a pity
someone long before Howard Bannister had not the simple,
yet sublime truths of God. What a pity that churches, with
their ministers and priests, had not given Almighty God credit
before, for being able to manifest His Power in human lives
296 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
right here on the earth, where the Power can be more appre
ciated and where it is most needed.
Of course, had the religious organizations preached that,
their existence would have been quite unnecessary. So, choos
ing to stick by their pagan philosophies and equally pagan
ideas of God, these churches had attempted to foist on
America an incomplete picture of God— as they thought God
should be, according to their own doctrines and dogma. Now,
they were reaping the only reward possible. They had dis
integrated. For the people had at last been brought to see that
Almighty God did not lose His life on a cross two thousand
years ago—
NO-NOT THAT-ALMIGHTY GOD STILL LIVES
WHERE HE EVER LIVED-RIGHT IN THE HEARTS
OF MEN AND WOMEN.
AS THE TRUTHS OF GOD WERE RECOGNIZED
ON THE EARTH-THE CHURCHES WENT OUT.
It would serve no good purpose to dwell on the sadness
which fell upon the whole country as the death of Howard
Bannister became known. The grief which overshadowed
little Marge and Bruce and his wife will never be known.
So, on Wednesday, they shipped his body to Rocky Point,
where he was accompanied by his family. There he lies,
guarded only by the tall, swaying, nodding, yellow pines.
Let us leave him there.
• • •
Reuben brought the Bannister family back to their home
on the Oakland side of the Bay. As this grief-stricken family
entered Richmond, they heard the newsboys shouting:
"WUXTRY! WUXTRY! HITLER COMMITS SUI
CIDE! HITLER COMMITS SUICIDE! WUXTRY!
WUXTRY! THE WAR IS OVER! HITLER COMMITS
SUICIDE! PAPER! PAPER! READ ALL ABOUT THE
FALL OF HITLER."
AUTHORS CLOSING NOTE.
On some of our American coins we find these words:—
"IN GOD WE TRUST". The author suspects that this trust
may have been rather a passive affair to date. Perhaps, in some
vague ethereal sort of way, some Americans may be able to
say that they trust in God. At best though, while the motive
which prompted this inscription undoubtedly was high and
noble, this trust does not seem to have taken a very tangible
form. It has been a passive, negative sort of thing.
While it is true that Congress opens with a prayer, that is
the only time the name of God is officially mentioned through
out the session. This prayer is a very formal affair at that.
America today has an opportunity to show whether or not
it actually trusts in God, and believes in the Power of God
to stop Adolf Hitler. It may— and again it may not. In any
event, Almighty God certainly is not taken into consideration
by our lawmakers nor the vast majority of our people.
If the United States Government means what it says on its
coins, if it really believes in the Power of God (right) over
the powers of hate and darkness, if it believes that Almighty
God is on its side— I make the following suggestion: Let the
American Government have made hundreds of thousands of
pictures of Adolf Hitler. Let them be the size Dr. Bannister
had on his platform. Let them be sent to the mayors of every
city in the United States, with a request that these pictures
be prominently displayed where the public may see them.
A copy of Dr. Bannister's statement: "THE POWER OF
GOD WILL BRING YOUR SPEEDY DOWNFALL" may
be printed on these large pictures, and instructions can be sent
to these mayors for using this statement of truth. Let one be
placed in every government office and in both Houses of
297
298 GOD . . . AND DR. BANNISTER
Congress. It may amaze this Government how rapidly the
American people will grasp the idea, and, if there be a God,
HITLER CANNOT HELP BUT FALL, for this would be
faith in action.
The vast majority of Americans are not interested in any
present system of religion. They are not interested in churches,
nor are they interested in what churches teach. They are,
however, interested in God. They believe in God. They be
lieve the Power of God exists here and now. If these millions
of good honest Americans are given an opportunity to actually
and literally throw the Power of God against Hitler without
the formality or necessity of church affiliation, they will be
more than happy to respond.
I suggest therefore, to the President of the United States,
that he, by following the method Dr. Bannister used, make
God a living reality here in these beloved United States. A
mental assent to the existence of God is not enough. Church
membership is not enough. Subscribing to present-day creeds,
rituals, and dogmas is not enough to stop Adolf Hitler. It will
take the literal Power of God to do that. But that Power
CAN do it. If the United States really believes in God, let it
prove that belief by action.
This would provide an outlet whereby those 98% of our
citizens who do not attend church, could use their own method
of throwing the Power of God against Hitler. Certainly, no
church organization could object to this method. If they did,
it would brand their own system of religion false and untrust
worthy.
The Author.
Moscow, Idaho
June 1st, 1
94 1
REFERENCES USED AND QUOTED FROM IN THIS BOOK
"The Evolution of Religion"
BY DR. HINCKLE
• • •
"The Anacalypsis"
BY SIR GODFREY HIGGINS
• • •
"Did Jesus Christ Rise from the Dead?"
BY MARSHALL GAUVIN
Dr. Bannister's Easter Sunday morning sermon
has been based, in part, on Mr. Gauvin's book.
• • •
"Crucified Gods Galore"
BY FRANK B. ROBINSON
The author acknowledges his indebtedness, and
gives his thanks to the authors of the first three
books listed above.
