{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1941__price___the_most_haunted_house_in_england.pdf","mytitle":"The Most Haunted House In England","mylang":"de"}
‘ THE MOST HAUNTED
HOUSE IN E N G L A N D ’
TEN YEARS’ INVESTIGATION
OF BORLEY RECTORY
By
H AR R Y PRICE
With Illustrations
L O N G M A N S , G R E E N A N D C O .
LONDON o NEW YORK TORONTO
LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO. LTD.
OF PATERNOSTER ROW
43 ALBERT DRIVE, LONDON, S.W.19
17 CHITTARANJAN AVENUE, CALCUTTA
NICOL ROAD, BOMBAY
36A MOUNT ROAD, MADRAS
LONGMANS, GREEN AND GO.
55 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK
221 EAST 20TH STREET, CHICAGO
88 TREMONT STREET, BOSTON
LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO.
2 15 VICTORIA STREET, TORONTO
Firstpublished 1940
Reprintedwith corrections March IQ41
Reprinted 1965 by Cedric Chivers Ltd., Portway, Bath,
to whom the copyright has been transferred, at the request of
the London & Home Counties Branch of the Library Association.
E CM - reprinted in Belgium by Jos. Adam
Frontispiece Above The twelfth-century Borley Church,
opposite Borley Rectory.
Below : The Rectory nestling amongst the trees,
photographed from the tower of Borley Church.
PREFACE
I
HAVE done little more than edit the remarkable records1
that constitute the major portion of this monograph. The
evidence for the haunting of Borley Rectory is mostly in
documentary form and, where possible, I hâve reproduced
Verbatim the oral and written testimony which, in nearly
every case, is first-hand. As I am merely the narrator of the
story, I cannot, of course, assume responsibility for the
validity of those incidents that did not corne within my own
personal expérience.
Without the kindly co-operation of a great number of
people, this book could never hâve been written. I desire
to put on record my sincere thanks to ail those who helped
me in compiling it. Especially, I am grateful to the following
persons : The Misses Bull, Mr. Walter Bull, and the Bull
family generally, for permission to print their expériences
and for their hospitality in many ways; the Rev. G. Eric
Smith2, the Rev. L. A. Foyster, the Rev. A. C. Henning
(successively Rectors of Borley), and their wives, for much
help and hospitality dtyring my ten years’ investigation. To
Mr. Foyster I am specially indebted for permission to repro­
duce extracts from his Diary. To Lady Whitehouse and her
nephew, Dom Richard Whitehouse, O.S.B., I am grateful
for contributing two of the most interesting and convincing
chapters in this work. By courtesy of the editors of The
Times, The Month, and the Daily Mirror, I hâve been able
to reproduce extracts from their journals ; and Dr. C. E. M.
Joad has kindly permitted me to quote his expériences as
1 Now deposited in the Harry Price Library of Magical Literature in the
University of London.
2 Who died as this book was going to press (Aug. 3, 1940).
V
VI P R E F A C E
originally related by him in Harper's Magazine. I am also
indebted to the many correspondents of The Times for per­
mission to include their respective letters on the bricking-up
of nuns.
Among those of my official observers to whom my thanks
are specially due are Mr. Sidney H. Glanville, Mr. Mark
Kerr-Pearse, and Lieut.-Colonel F. C. Westland. These
gentlemen took infinité pains in making plans of the Rectory,
taking photographs of the wall-writings, etc., and in render-
ing help in a hundred ways. That they were strangers to me
before my investigation began only adds to my indebtedness
to them. Finally, I must thank ail my official observers for
the expenditure of time, trouble, and money in visiting
Borley in the interests of science, and for the care and skill
in preparing their various reports and protocols. The fact
that a few of these records were négative, does not lessen my
indebtedness to them.
In conclusion, I must put on record my obligation to
Captain W. H. Gregson for permitting me to chronicle his
strange expériences, and for his assistance rendered both
before and after the fire that consumed the Rectory— an
event that so dramatically brought down the curtain on the
most extraordinary and best-documented case of haunting
in the annals of psychical research.
H. P.
CONTENTS
Page
Préfacé . . . . . . v
Chapter
I. L uncheon In ter lu d e . . . i
II. T he A dven tures of a J ourn alist . 2
III. T he R ecto r ’s St o r y . . . . 5
IV. T he St o r y of th e R e c t o r y . . 11
V. T he N un’s W a l k and the G ar d en . 24
V I. T he Br icked -up Nun and oth er L egends 27
V II. A n Exciting D a y . . . 35
V III. A M idnight Séan ce in the Blue R oom 4.1
IX . T he M isses Bu l l ’s St o r y . . . 44
X . T he Str an g e A dventures of E d w ard
C o o per . . . . . 53
X I. M r . Smith M oves O u t 59
X II. A N ight of ‘ M iracles ’ . . . 65
X III. L e AVES FROM THE FOYSTER D lA R Y . 74
X IV . Personal Expériences of Sir G eorge
a n d L a d y W hitehouse . . . 85
X V . W h at I saw a t Bo r le y R e c t o r y , b y
D om R ich ard W hitehouse, O .S.B . . 89
X V I. £
A R e c to r y fo r Sa l e — C h e a p ’ . . 102
X V II. I A cquire B o r le y R e c to r y . . 106
X V III. W e E stablish our Base-R oom— an d ar e
D isturbed . . . . . 1 1 0
X IX . En r o llin g th e O bservers . . . 116
X X . M a n y M ajor P henomena C onfirmed b y
O fficial O bservers . . . 120
vii
C O N T E N T S
viii
X X L M rs. W ilson’s E x tr ao r d in ar y Insect 132
X X II. W h at the M édiums Said . . . 137
X X III. ‘ M oving D a y ’ and a G olden A ppo r t . 14.0
X X IV . T he ‘ M a r ia n n e ’ M essages . . 144
X X V . ‘ T r y t h e Spirits ’ . . . . 153
X X V I. T he V oice of P lan ch ette . . 159
X X V II. ‘ Sunex A m ures’ s a y s H e w il l Burn t h e
R e c to r y . . . . . 1 6 3
X X V III. T he R e c t o r y ’s N e w O w n er . . 166
X X IX . T he R e c to r y D estroyed b y Fire . 169
X X X . T he G hosts Su r vive . . . . 1 7 4
X X X I. C an th e Phenomena be Ex p l a in e d ? . 182
X X X II. T he C ase fo r the J u r y . . . 186
A ppendix A .— O bservers’ D éclar atio n F orm . 193
A ppendix B.— T he Blue B ook (Instructions) . 194
A ppendix G.— D igest of O fficial O bservers’
R eports . . . . . . 1 9 7
A ppen d ix D .— A nalysis o f Phenomena . . 238
A ppendix E.— L ist of O fficial O bservers a n d
O thers . . . . . . . 244
A ppendix F .— C h ron ological R ecord of Prin ci­
p a l E vents . . . . . . 245
Index . . . . - . 251
LIST OF ILLU STR ATIO N S
Borley Church, and Borley Rectory from the Tower
ofBorley Church Frontispiece
Plate focingpage
I. The Rectory from the lawn; the large
Summer-House* ; the Nun’s Walk; and
the stream in the garden* . . . io
IL Front entrance to Rectory from Drive, show-
ing bricked-up dining-room window (left
of porch) ; one of the drive gates, by the
side of which Fred Cartwright saw the
‘ Nun’ ; bricked courtyard of Rectory,
showing yard bell; the summer-house in
the copse . . . . . . 26
III. Main staircase and iron stove in hall ; corner
of Base Room (study), showing observer
resting; the ‘ cold spot’ (marked by white
dise on floor) outside Blue Room; the
‘strange coat’ that appeared in Room 6 64
IV. Italian mantelpiece in dining-room, showing
marble busts recalling the monastic site
on which the Rectory stands; drawing-
room, showing Italian marble mantel­
piece ; Room 7, in which several members
of the Bull family died ; the Blue Room,
focus of psychic activity . . . 110
V . Main hall from foot of main staircase; pas­
sage (where ‘ Marianne’ messages hâve
appeared) leading to kitchen and back
stairs; kitchen passage from the kitchen;
the bathroom passage from Room 5 . 136
* By courtesy of the ‘ Daily Mirror’
IX
X L I S T OF I L L U S T R A T I O N S
facing page
VI. Wall-writings and ‘ Marianne’ messages . 152
V II. After thc fii e. Gutted Rcctory showing first
floor burnt out; brick gable-ends; the
‘ cold spot’ outside Blue Room; the
burnt-out Chapel . . . . 1 6 8
ILLU STR ATIO N S IN THE T E X T
Page
Key plan of Borley Rectory . . . . . xii
Plan of ground floor of Borley Rectory . . . 16
Plan of first floor of Borley Rectory . . . 22
Facsimile of a page from the Rev. L. A. Foyster’s
Diary . . . . . . . 76
Drawing of the ‘ strange insect’, by Miss Joyce
Mercer, from sketch supplied by Mrs. Margaret
E. Wilson . . . . . . 135
Wall-writing ‘ M a’ . . . . . . 1 4 5
Wall-writing ‘ Edwin’ . . . . . 1 4 6
Wall-writing ‘ Get light Mass and prayers here’ . 147
Wall-writing ‘ m ’ . . . . . . 1 4 8
CHAPTER I
LUNCHEON INTERLUDE
O
N Tuesday, June n , 1929, I was having lunch at a
friend’shouse in South Kensington when his téléphoné
bell rang. We had reached the coffee stage and I
remember we were discussing why Poltergeister, in spite of
their mischievous and annoying tricks, never appear to
harm anyone— they are merely playful and troublesome.
Before we had solved the problem a maid entered the room
and said I was wanted on the téléphoné.
Excusing myself, I walked into the hall to answer the
call. It was from the Editor of one of the London dailies,
and the matter was somewhat urgent. It appeared that
he had rung up my office, had spoken to my secretary, who
had given him my friend’s téléphoné riumber.
The Editor was rather excited. One of his staff, Mr.
V. C. Wall, was at that moment investigating the remark-
able incidents that were occurring at a rectory about sixty
miles from London. The rectory in question was that of
Borley, two and a half miles from Long Melford, Suffolk
(and the same distance from Sudbury), but just w’ithin the
Essex border. The most extraordinary things were hap­
pening at Borley Rectory, and the Editor asked me whether
I would care to visit the scene of these occurrences and take
charge of the case. I thanked him very much, and said I
would make immédiate arrangements to join his représen­
tative. I was told that the incumbent of Borley was the
Rev. G. E. Smith. As I replaced the receiver, I little dreamt
that there was ten years’ work ahead of me probing the
mystery of what was to become the best-authenticated case
of haunting in the annals of psychical research.
B 1
CHAPTER II
THE AD VENTURES OF A JO U R N ALIST
W
HEN I returned to my office after lunch, I saw that
the midday post had arrived and amongst my usual
delivery of Press cuttings, I found the clippings
from the Monday morning’s papers, giving an account of the
Borley happenings up to the previous Sunday night, which
Mr. Wall had telephoned to his paper.
Here is Mr. Wall’s report:1
‘ Ghostly figures of headless coachmen and a nun, an old-time
coach, drawn by two bay horses, which appears and vanishes
mysteriously, and dragging footsteps in empty rooms. Ail these
ingrédients of a first-class ghost story are awaiting investigation
by psychic experts near Long Melford, Suffolk.
‘The scene of the ghostly visitations is the Rectory at Borley,
a few miles from Long Melford. It is a building erected on the
part of the site of a great monastery which, in the Middle Ages,
was the scene of a gruesome tragedy. The présent rector, the
Rev. G. E. Smith, and his wife, made the Rectory their résidence
in the face of warnings by previous occupiers. Since their arrivai
they hâve been puzzled and startled by a sériés of peculiar hap­
penings which cannot be explained, and which confirm the
rumours they heard before moving in.
‘ The first untoward happening was the sound of slow, dragging
footsteps across the floor of an unoccupied room. Then one
night Mr. Smith, armed with a hockey stick, sat in the room
and waited for the noise. Once again it came-—-the sound of
feet in some kind of slippers treading on the bare boards. Mr.
Smith lashed out with his stick at the spot where the footsteps
seemed to be, but the stick whistled through the empty air, and
the steps continued across the room.
‘Then a servant girl brought from London, suddenly gave
notice after two days’ work, declaring emphatically that she had
1 Daily Mirror, June io, 192g.
2
A F R U S T R A T E D R O M A N C E 3
seen a nun walking in the wood at the back of thc house. Finally
cornes the remarkable story of an old-fashioned coach, seen twice
on the lawn by a servant, which remained in sight long enough
for the girl to distinguish the brown colour of the horses.
‘ This same servant also déclarés that she has seen a nun leaning
over a gâte near the house. The villagers dread the neighbour-
hood of the Rectory after dark, and will not pass it. Peculiarly
enough, ail these “ visitations” coincide with the details of a
tragedy which, according to legend, occurred at the monastery
which once stood on this spot.
‘A groom at the monastery fell in love with a nun at a near-by
convent, runs the legend, and they used to hold clandestine
meetings in the wood on to which the Rectory now backs. Then
one day they arranged to elope, and another groom had a coach
waiting in the road outside the wood, so that they could escape.
From this point the legend varies. Some say that the nun and
her lover quarrelled, and that he strangled her in the wood, and
was caught and beheaded, with the other groom, for his villainy.
The other version is that ail three were caught in the act by the
monks, and that the two grooms were beheaded, and the nun
buried alive in the walls of the monastery.
‘ The previous Rector of Borley, now dead, often spoke of the
remarkable expérience he had one night, when, walking along
the road outside the Rectory, he heard the clatter of hoofs.
Looking around, he saw to his horror an old-fashioned coach
lumbering along the road, driven by two headless men.’
Mr. Wall stayed at the Rectory over the week-end and
sent a further report1 of his adventures to London :
‘Long Melford, Monday.
‘With a photographer, I hâve just completed a vigil of several
hours in the “ haunted” wood at the back of Borley Rectory, a
few miles from Long Melford.
‘This wood, and the whole neighbourhood of the Rectory, is
supposed to be haunted by the ghosts of a groom and a nun who
attempted to elope one night several hundred years ago but were
apparently caught in the act.
‘Although we saw only one of the manifestations which hâve,
according to residents, occurred frequently in recent years, this
by itself was peculiar enough.
‘ It was the appearance of a mysterious light in a disused wing
of the building— an appearance which simply cannot be ex-
1 Ibid.,June n , 1929.
4 T H E MO ST H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
plained, because on investigation of the deserted wing it was
ascertained that there was no light inside— although the watchers
outside couli still see it shining through a window!
‘ When we saw the mysterious light shining through the trees
we suggested that somebody should go into the empty wing and
place a light in another window, for the sake of comparison . . .
the Rev. G. E. Smith, the Rector, who does not believe in ghosts,
volunteered to do it.
‘ Sure enough, the second light appeared and was visible next
to the other, although on approaching close to the building, this
disappeared, while the Rector’s lamp still burned. Then we were
left alone to probe the mysteries of the haunted wood.’
After reading Mr. Wall’s accounts of his adventures at
the Rectory, I sent a telegram to the Rev. G. E. Smith,
asking whether it would be convenient for my secretary and
me to visit the Rectory on the following day. In an hour
or so I received the necessary permission, with the added
invitation to arrive in time for lunch.
CHAPTER III
THE R E C T O R ’S STO R Y
N the following morning, Wednesday, June 12, 1929,
my secretary, Miss Lucie Kaye and I prepared for
our trip. In case the reader may wish to know what
a psychic investigator takes with him when engaged on an
important case, I will enumerate some of the items included
in a ghost-hunter’s kit.
Into a large suitcase are packed the following articles :
A pair of soft felt overshoes used for çreeping, unheard,
about the house in order that neither human beings nor
paranormal ‘ entities’ shall be disturbed when producing
‘ phenomena ’ ; Steel measuring tape for measuring rooms,
passages, testing the thickness of walls in looking for secret
chambers or hidey-holes ; Steel screw-eyes, lead post-office
seals, sealing tool, strong cord or tape, and adhesive surgical
tape, for sealing doors, windows or cupboards; a set of
tools, with wire, nails, etc. ; hank of electric flex, small
electric bells, dry batteries and switches (for secret electrical
contacts); 9 cm. by 12 cm. reflex caméra, film-packs and
flash-bulbs for indoor or outdoor photography; a small
portable téléphoné for communicating with assistant in
another part of building or garden; note book, red, blue
and black pencils; sketching block and case of drawing
instruments for making plans ; bandages, iodine and a flask
of brandy in case member of investigating staff or résident is
injured or faints; bail of string, stick of chalk, matches,
electric torch and candie; bowl of mercury for detecting
tremors in room or passage or for making silent electrical
mercury switches ; cinematograph caméra with remote
electrical control, and films ; a sensitive transmitting thermo-
5
6 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
graph, with charts, to measure the slightest variation in
température in supposed haunted rooms ; a packet of graphite
and soft brush for developing fînger-prints. For a long stay
in house with supply of electricity, I would take with me
infra-red fîlters, lamps, and ciné films sensitive to infra-red
rays, so that I could take photographs in almost complété
darkness.1 For spécial cases, as in my broadcast2 from the
‘ haunted manor’ at Meopham, Kent, I use an electric
signalling instrument which automatically reveals to the
investigator (who has no need to leave his base-room) a
movement of any object in any part of the house, or a change
in température in the ‘ controlled’ rooms.3
Speeding northwards I turned over in my mind the best
way to tackle the Borley problem, and by the time we
reached Ghelmsford, I had formulated a plan of campaign.
We got to Sudbury at midday and found we could no longer
continue our route unaided. We stopped and asked the way.
A dozen willing guides immediately put us on the right road
and even offered to accompany us. The ‘ Borley ghost’
was almost the sole topic of conversation for miles around
and the good people of Sudbury were consumed with
curiosity as to what we intended to do— and how we
intended to do it !
A mile or so out of Sudbury, on the Long Melford Road,
we saw a sign-post to Borley and in a few minutes our car
entered one of the drive gates leading to the Rectory. I was
astonished at the great size of the house.
We were welcomed by the Rev. G. E. Smith and his
wife, very charming and hospitable, and I should like to
take this opportunity of thanking them publicly for their
interest in my investigation and for the assistance they
rendered during my prolonged inquiries.
During lunch I heard the whole story of their adventures.
1 This kit is illustrated in my article ‘Psychical Research,’ Encyclopœdia
Britannica ïear Book, 1939.
- March 10, 1936.
3 This set-up is illustrated in Fifty Tears of Psychical Research, London, 1939,
Plate opposite p. 268.
S T R A N G E M A N I F E S T A T I O N S 7
It tallied with what Mr. Wall had printed in his paper.
But the following is a more detailed account, as it is the
epitome of a number of interviews with Mr. Smith, by one
of my helpers, Mr. S. H. Glanville, and myself.
The living of Borley had been offered to, and refused by
twelve clergy before Mr. Smith accepted the living. He
went into résidence at the latter part of 1928. He was not
informed that the Rectory was alleged to be haunted. The
house was found to be excessively cold1 and difficult to heat.
The water supply was quite inadéquate for their needs,
there being no pipe supply inside the house.2 Ail water had
to be obtained from a well. The house was so large that
some of the upstairs rooms were not needed and were
permanently closed. The place was depressing and Mrs.
Smith became ill.
Soon after Mr. Smith and his wife moved into the Rectory,
certain minor démonstrations of a supposed psychic nature
occurred. For example, one summer afternoon, when Mr.
Smith was alone in the house, he left his bedroom and upon
passing under the archway leading to the landing, heard
distinct sibilant whisperings over his head. He was at a
loss to account for this, and walked slowly across the landing,
followed by the sounds. As he passed under the archway
leading to the chapel (see Plan, page 22) the sounds instantly
ceased, as though a wireless set had been switched off,
though there was no radio instrument in the neighbourhood.
He returned across the landing, but nothing further was
heard. These sounds were heard several times afterwards,
though no words were distinguishable.
Upon another occasion, at dusk, when he was Crossing
the landing, he was startled at hearing a woman’s voice
again coming apparently from the centre of the arch leading
to the chapel. The voice started with a moaning sound,
gradually rising into a crescendo and ending with the words :
‘ Don’t, Carlos, don’t !’ dying away in a sort of muttering.
1A fact confirmée! by every one of my observers. See post.
'2I,ater installée!.
8 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
The volume of sound, at its highest pitch, was slightly
louder than would be used in ordinary conversadon.
‘ Carlos,’ by the way, was supposed to be the nickname by
which the builder of the Rectory was known, though this
is denied by surviving members of the family.
Other phenomena experienced at the Rectory included
mysterious bell-ringing, the slow and deliberate footsteps that
patrolled the passages and upper rooms and the apparitions
seen by the two maid-servants successively employed by
Mr. Smith.
When Mrs. Smith was returning from church one night,
after dark, and was entering the house by the back— or
scullery— door, she noticed that the window of the school
room (No. n on Plan, page 22) was lighted up, and pre-
sumed that the maid was there with a lamp. Upon entering
the house, she found the maid in the kitchen. The girl told
her mistress that she had not been upstairs at ail. They
therefore went up together, and found the room in darkness.
The same thing happened on a later occasion, when the
choir had just finished their evening practice. Mrs. Smith
took ail the members of the choir and showed them the
lighted window. Then they ail went up to the room, but
it was again in darkness.
Mrs. Smith also told us that when she has been in the
dairy in the evening, she often saw a figure leaning over one
of the drive gates. The figure was always dark and shadowy.
She several times went out to investigate, but never found
anyone there. This particular figure leaning over this
particular gâte has been seen by various people, who ail
speak of its strange and sudden disappearance.
One of the maids employed by the Smiths was quite
definite that she saw the traditional ‘ coach.’ One afternoon
she ran to Mrs. Smith with the news that she had seen
‘ such a funny old coach’ on the lawn. A Press photographer
took a picture1 of her pointing out the exact spot where it
disappeared and the girl herself told me the same story.
1Daily Mirror, June 10, 1929.
T H E S K U L L I N T H E C U P B O A R D 9
Another maid, the one they brought from London, saw a
figure dressed in black leaning over the gâte. It so frightened
her that she stayed only two days.
Very curiously, Mr. Smith heard many more strange
noises in the winter than in the summer. As to Poltergeist
phenomena, the most peculiar was the ‘ shooting’ from the
locks of their keys— found usually two or three feet away.
This happened periodically and I, too, witnessed this
phenomenon.
On another occasion, a vase that normally stood on the
mantelpiece of their bedroom was found smashed to pièces
at the foot of the main stairs. No one was in the house at
the time, the Smiths being in the garden. Curious sounds
in various parts of the house were heard from time to time,
but except for the figure leaning over the gâte, nothing was
seen that could not be accounted for.
During the first few weeks of their tenancy, before they
had actually moved in, Mrs. Smith was turning out the
various rooms when, in a cupboard in the library she found
a parcel neatly wrapped and tied with string. Upon
removing the wrappings, she was astonished to find the
skull of, apparently, a young woman. It was in perfect
condition, and the teeth were also perfect. Failing to find
any reason why the skull should be preserved in the library,
Mr. Srfiith and the sexton reverently buried it in the church-
yard in the présence of the churchwarden and the widow
of the previous Rector.
By the time we had finished lunch I had heard the whole
story of the manifestations, the history of the Rectory, the
various legends connected with the place and other informa­
tion which will be dealt with fully in subséquent chapters.
I found the Smiths very intelligent, delightful, and much-
travelled people who were, like myself, utterly sceptical as
regards ‘ spirits.’ They knew nothing about psychical
research, and the subject did not particularly interest them.
Though puzzled by what they had seen and heard they,
being God-fearing people, were not afraid that anything
10 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
would harm them. What finally drove them from the
Rectory was the lack of amenities there and not the ‘ghosts.’
But I am anticipating.1
1 Inspired by the traditions of Borley, and some incidents alleged to hâve
occurred at the Rectory, Mrs. Smith has written an entertaining novel, Murder
at the Parsonage, which she hopes to publish some day.
PLA TE I
Ri«ht :
l!iirley Rectory front
the lawn.
I lie large summer-
Imiise facing the
Nun’s Walk.
Above :
The stream in the
garden.
Left :
The Nun’s Walk,
facing large
summer-house.
CHAPTER IV
THE STO R Y OF THE R E C T O R Y
I
N order that the reader shall possess a proper orientation
of Borley Rectory, its history, lay-out, and grounds,
I now propose to give in some detail an account of the
building and its appurtenances. If he pleases, the reader
can skip this chapter and the next. If he is wise, he will
not do so, as it is important for him to visualize the back-
ground of the story ; and for him to hâve an exact conception
of the building and its surroundings is, I think, necessary.
Plans ofthe house (pages 16 and 22) hâve been carefully pre-
pared by Mr. Sidney H. Glanville, and these should be
consulted when reading the text.
The name Borley, in Essex, is the modem spelling of
the Anglo-Saxon Barlea (meaning ‘ boar’s clearing’ or
‘ boar’s pasture’) as written in Domesday Book, the record
of the great survey of England prepared (1086) for William
the Conqueror. The small village— or hamlet— lies on the
right (west) bank of the River Stour, which here divides
the counties of Essex and Sulfolk. Borley is fifteen miles
from Bury St. Edmunds, two and a half miles from Long
Melford, and about the same distance from Sudbury,
Suffolk, to the north-west of which it lies. Sudbury and
Long Melford, on the Great Eastern Railway, are the nearest
stations. Sudbury is 58^ miles by rail from Liverpool Street.
The population of Borley is 121, most of the villagers being
engaged in agricultural pursuits. The village is scattered,
picturesque, extremely quiet, and strangers are seldom seen.
The tower of the twelfth-century church (dedication un-
known), which faces the Rectory on the other side of the
road, is a landmark seen for many miles.
11
12 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E IN E N G L A N D
Borley Rectory, in the Diocese of Chelmsford, was built
in 1863 on the foundations of at least two— and probably
more— earlier dwellings. There is a persistent tradition that
a fourteenth-century monastery formerly occupied the site.
A number of persons interested in Borley hâve sought for
information concerning the early history of the place, with
little resuit. But Dom Richard Whitehouse, O.S.B.,1 was
fortunate in finding references to Borley in Sir William
Dugdale’s2 Monasticon Anglicanum,3 where it is stated :
‘ Edward III4 in the 36A year [i.e., 1362] of his reign gave
to the Prior and Community of Christ Church, Canterbury,
the Manor of Borley in the county of Essex in exchange for
the customs and revenues together with ail the rights which
the said Prior and Community could in any way hâve in
the town and port of Sandwich. . . .’ A later entry in the
time of Henry V III gives a certificate of valuation of Borley
Manor amounting to £32 141-. 4d. As Richard Whitehouse
observes, there is thus definite evidence that Borley Manor,
by Sudbury, wherever it was situated, became the property
of Bénédictine monks in the fourteenth century.
Thirteen years after Edward III gave Borley to the
Bénédictines, Simon of Sudbury was appointed Archbishop
of Canterbury— a further link between Borley and the
Benedicdnes. In July 1377, he crowncd Richard II. In
1380 Simon became Chancellor of England. Falling foui
of the peasants, who were in revoit, the Kentish insurgents
dragged Simon from the Tower of London and beheaded
him on Tower Hill on June 14, 1381. A suggestion has been
made that Simon still haunts Borley and the neighbourhood.
Simon was a great benefactor to his native town and rebuilt
part of the church of St. Gregory at Sudbury, and founded
a college there.
I think there is little doubt that the Manor House occupied
the site of the présent Rectory, the previous Rectory being
what is now Borley Place, a building nearly opposite. But
1 Sce Chapter XV. 2 1605-86.
3 Published during 1655, 1664 and 1673. 4 1312-77.
T H E W A L D E G R A V E F A M I L Y 13
according to some authorities, there was also another
Rectory on the site of the présent building, belonging to the
Herringham family. Memorials in the church opposite
appear to confirm this view.
What is quite certain is that the Waldegrave family
played a major part in Borley during some three hundred
years, according to Mr. J. M. Bull.1 The family held the
manor and were patrons of the church. A descendant of
Sir Richard Waldegrave,2 who was speaker in the House
of Commons in 1402, was Sir Edward Waldegrave,3 the
first member of this family connected with Borley. He was
imprisoned during the reign of Edward V I for his loyalty
to the princess, afterwards Queen Mary. By Mary he was
knighted, and he received from her the manor of Chewton
in Somerset. Chewton Priory, Bath, is now the seat of the
Waldegrave family.
Sir Edward Waldegrave was Member of Parliament for
Essex and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster. After
Mary’s decease he suffered a reverse of fortune, and he was
a prisoner in the Tower of London when he died on Sep-
tember 1, 1561. His tomb is at the east end of the nave of
Borley Church. He is buried with his wife, Frances, who
survived him for thirty-eight years. ‘ Their effigies lie side
by side, the man in armour and the wife in a tight-fitting
bodice and skirt with fiat cap on head and large ruffle
round neck.’4 Their six children are represented on the
sides of the tomb. There is a tablet on the north wall of the
chancel to the memory of a daughter, Magdala, who died
in 1598.
It is not quite clear where the Waldegraves’ résidence
was situated, but probably they lived at the Manor House
on the site of the présent Borley Rectory. A legendary
account of a castle near by is current. The story is that
Sir Edward and his family lived in the castle, the Manor
House being occupied by his chaplain. The castle itself is
1 A Short History of Borley and Liston Churches> 1937.
2 Died 1402. 3 c. 1517-61. 4J. M. Bull, op, cit.
14 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
said to hâve been destroyed by Cromwell’s troops. Nothing
appears to be known of any existing ruins of the castle.
For our purpose, it will be sufficient if I name theRectors
of Borley since the présent Rectory was built in 1863 by
the Rev. Henry Dawson Ellis Bull. He was born in 1833,
and died on May 2, 1892, aged fifty-nine years. He was
Rector of Borley from 1862 to 1892, a period of thirty years.
He will be referred to in this monograph as the Rev. Henry
Bull. He is buried in Borley churchyard.
He was succeeded by his son, the Rev. Henry (Harry)
Foyster Bull, who was born in 1862 and died on June 9,
1927, aged sixty-five. He was Rector of Borley from 1892
till 1927, a period of thirty-five years. He will be referred
to as the Rev. Harry Bull, as everyone called him. It will
be noted that the Rev. Henry Bull and his son were incum-
bents at Borley continuously for sixty-five years. Harry
Bull is also buried in the churchyard.
After the death of the Rev. Harry Bull in 1927, there was
difficulty in finding a successor, and the Rectory remained
empty for some time. However, as we hâve seen, in 1928
the living (the patrons of which were the Bull family) was
offered to the Rev. Guy Eric Smith who was inducted to
the living, October 2, 1928, remaining until Easter, 1930.
The living is worth £298 per year, with house.
When the Rev. G. E. Smith found it was not possible to
live in the place, the Bull family offered the bénéfice to a
relative, a cousin, the Rev. Lionel Algernon Foyster, who
resided at the Rectory from 1930 to 1935. It was then
decided by Queen Anne’s Bounty, or the Bishop, or both,
that, on account of the strange happenings in the house,
and the réputation it had acquired ; and on account of the
unsuitability of the place as a résidence for a small family,
no more Rectors should live there.
So in 1936 the livings of Borley and Liston, a neighbouring
village, were merged into one, the Rev. A. C. Henning being
appointed minister of both parishes. Mr. Henning lives at
the charming and comfortable Liston Rectory, a mile or so
H E N R Y B U L L ’ s L A R G E F A M I L Y 15
from Borley. And that is the présent position. Borley
Rectory was placed in the hands of house agents and towards
the end of 1938 was sold to Captain W. H. Gregson. Though
the édifice cost some thousands of pounds to build, it was
offered to me for £500. Soon after Captain Gregson pur-
chased it, the place was burnt down under curions circum-
stances, which the Captain will himself relate later in this
story.
As we hâve seen, the présent Borley Rectory, which
stands on a rise, sombre and gloomy in a large neglected
garden, and entirely surrounded by a belt of high trees,
was built in 1863 by the Rev. Henry Bull. Before, and
during building he lived at Borley Place, an old and pictur-
esque house on the opposite side of the road. With the
exception of Borley Place and two cottages a few hundred
yards away, the Rectory is completely isolated. When the
Rectory was completed, Henry Bull moved in. The original
building was, roughly, L-shaped, as can be seen from the
Ground Plan (page 16). As Mr. Bull’s family grew, he
found he needed more room, so he added (1875-6) a wing,
indicated on Ground Plan, making the building almost
rectangular, and almost completely enclosing an uncovered
bricked courtyard. This wing gave him a number of excel­
lent store houses, etc. on the ground level and three extra
bedrooms on the first floor. These are numbered 9, 10, 11,
on the First Floor Plan (page 22). That this extra accom­
modation was welcome is évident when I mention that the
Rev. Henry Bull had fourteen children, twelve of whom
survived. In addition, he had a large domestic staff.
Borley Rectory1 is a solid, unpicturesque, red-brick build­
ing of two stories, ground floor and first floor, with two bay
Windows on the side of the house overlooking the lawn.
These Windows are spanned, at the top, by a glass-roofed
véranda, under which, in the centre, are French Windows
opening out of the library or study (later our Base Room)
1 From notes taken before the fire which almost destroyed the place
early in 1939.
M Y S T E R Y OF T H E B R I C K E D - U P W I N D O W 17
to the lawn. Although situated at the side, as one enters
the house, this is really the front of the Rectory. The side
of the house in which are the front door and entrance porch
is separated from the road by a broad drive with gates at
either end. The porch, too, has a door, so that two doors,
both of which can be locked, hâve to be negotiated before
the house can be entered from the drive. Other ‘ orthodox’
entrances to the house include the French Windows already
mentioned; a back entrance leading from courtyard into
scullery; another door leading from kitchen passage into
courtyard; and a small door giving access from the garden
to the main hall. Ail these entrances are marked on the
Ground Plan. The ‘ unorthodox’ entrances to the house are,
of course, by the Windows, ail with good shutters or fasten-
ings, and the trap-door in the courtyard, by means of which
one can get into the cellar. It will be noticed that the
Windows of the domestic quarters are heavily barred (indi-
cated on Plan). This was not done to keep burglars out, but
was intended to keep the maids from surreptitiously slipping
out of a night when they ought to hâve been in bed. The
iron grids also had the effect of preventing ‘followers’
visiting the girls, unknown to their mistress.
Speaking of Windows, the first thing that a visitor notices
when he enters the carriage drive from the road is a large
bricked-up window to the left of the entrance porch (see
Ground Floor Plan and Plate II). The disfigurcment
quite spoils the appearance of this side of the house and one
immediately wonders why it should hâve been done. When
first I saw it, I at once suspected that the Window Tax was
the cause. But I recollected that this imposition was repealed
in 1851— twelve years before the place was built. The
window in question was let into the wall of the dining-room,
and was intended to iiluminate that apartment. Then why
block it up?
I began to make inqunies and from three different sources
learned that the window was bricked up because the spectral
‘ nun,’ of whom more anon, habitually peered into the room
c
l 8 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
from the drive, thus annoying the Rev. Henry Bull, who had
the window removed and the aperture bricked in.
Pursuing my inquiries, I then heard that the window was
not blocked up because of the too inquisitive ‘ nun,’ but
because people passing along the road could see the Bull
family having their meals. Candidly, I do not believe that
this was the reason at ail, because (a) very few people
use the road past the Rectory, and fewer must hâve used it at
the time when the window was removed; (b) the carriage
drive is so wide (as can be seen from the photograph), that
it must hâve been a sheer impossibility to see through the
window from the road, as I hâve proved for myself by
trying to peer through other Windows on this side of the
house; (c) the hedge and belt of trees separating the drive
from the road form an impénétrable screen that would
discourage anyone trying to peer in at the window, even if the
drive were not so wide. In any case, a light curtain or blind
would hâve prevented any person from seeing what was
going on in the room. That is, any normal person. But it
might hâve been thought that such a screen would not
prevent an entity such as the ‘ nun’ from peering into the
room. Whatever the reason, a drastic remedy was decided
upon, and the window of the principal living-room was
strongly and permanently bricked up, as it remains to-day,
completely spoiling this side of the house. The illumination
of the room by day is obtained only from the bay window
overlooking the lawn.
Borley Rectory is rather like a rabbit-warren, but a
rabbit-warren that can be effectively sealed if one does it
systematically. It contains ten rooms on the ground floor,
in addition to many cupboards, store-houses and cellars.
Some of these are not directly connected with the living-
rooms (see Plan). The principal rooms are the dining-
room, drawing-room, library, and Sewing-Room, together
with a large hall. Judging by the number and size of the
‘ usual domestic offices’ in the shape of kitchen, larder,
dairy, pantry, etc., both food and labour must hâve been
G R O U N D - F L O O R L A Y - O U T 19
cheap and plentiful— and the domestic staff exceptionally
swcet-tempered. To try to ‘ run’ such a house to-day
would break a woman’s heart, so badly designed and awk-
ward is the lay-out of the whole place. Neither gas, electric
light, nor mains water are available and there is no central
hcating. It is impossible to warm the place properly.
1 know, because I hâve tried.
The main ground-floor rooms are large, and the whole
place is strongly and well built. The Windows of the drawing-
room, dining-room, and library can be barred by very strong
Iblding burglar-proof shutters. Another question I asked
rnyself: ‘ Why such heavy shutters in a remote country
liamlet, well off the beaten track, where even a wandering
tramp must be something of a novelty?’ I hâve not yet
found the solution, but the shutters came in very useful
when sealing the house during our investigations.
The rooms themselves on the ground floor call for little
comment. As I hâve stated, they are large and lofty. A
word must be said about the mantelpieces in the dining-
room and drawing-room. Both (Plate IV) are of marble,
rather ornate, and came originally from Italy. They were
exhibited, I believe, at the Great Exhibition in London in
1851. The mantelpiece in the dining-room is adorned with
quaint marble busts of two monks, well carved, and symbolic
<
)f the traditions connected with the Rectory.
The cellars are most curious and of an extraordinary
shape. As can be seen from the Plan, the entrance to them
is by a staircase from the kitchen passage. They extend
under this passage, under the main hall, under three-parts
of the library, and under a corner of the dining-room.
A partition wall divides them. The area is indicated by the
hatching on the Ground Floor Plan. They are very solidly
built, with provision for storing a large quantity of wine, etc.,
though during the whole of my connection with the Rectory
lliey contained— to paraphrase a remark re Romeo’s apothe-
1ary— nothing more exciting than ‘ a beggarly account of
nnpty bottles.’ A shallow well, properly in the courtyard,
20 T H E MO S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
extcnds into the portion of the cellar under the kitchen
passage. It was covered in with some boards, rotten and
antique, and was ‘ discovered’ by one of our observers
literallv putting his foot in it, and nearly falling in. The
cellars are damp and the walls are slimy.
On November i, 1937, Mr. Sidney H. Glanville and
Mr. M. Kerr-Pearsc, thoroughly examined the cellars and
the foundations of the house generally, and made some
curious discoveries. The strange shape of the cellars is due,
apparentiv, to their partly conforming to the foundation
walls or footings of an ancient building that was previously
on the site. Mv friends noticed, as I had, that a part of the
cellar iloor had subsided. So they dug up this portion and
found what appeared to be the foundations of a much older
house, the bricks being the old-fashioned two-inch bricks.
The cellar wall, iudicated on Plan, that runs diagonally
under the library is composed of these bricks. Portions of
other walls in the cellar were found to be composed partly
of two-inch bricks, and partly of the modem type. The
foundations of the ancient building were traced more or less
satisfactorily, and this old site would face, roughly, south.
It is interesting to note that exaclly over the subsidence, and
where the old bricks were discovered, but outside the Blue
Room on the first-lloor landing, is the spot (marked -f- in
First Fioor Plan) where several observers ‘felt cold’ and
shivered, and other phenomena occurred. This became
known as the "cold spot'- and wdll be discussed later.
Littie need be said about the courtyard, the general
conformation of which can be seen from the Plan. Under
the covered cassage (iudicated) is the large and heavy hand-
wheet. the rotation of which pumps water into a large cistern
under the caves of the house, whence it is now led by pipes
through the building. The System, if archaic, is efficient,
and therc is a gooci supply of water which, I understand, is
decreasing in volume.
à word must iicre be said about the well itself. It is of
brick, and Mr. Glanville, bv means of a llare and sinker,
T H E H O L E I N T H E W E L L 21
ascertained that, from the ground surface to the water level,
lhe depth was 71 feet. The total depth of the well is 80 fcet.
At a depth of 61.9 feet Mr. Glanviile’s llarc and sinker vvere
suckcd or blown into a cavity on the house side of the well.
This suggests that there must be a passage or hole of some
sort leading out of the well side, nearly 62 feet below ground
level, but for what purpose is unknown. Perhaps it leads
into one of the subterranean passages. The well is covered
with a heavv iron plate.
Not structurally connected with the Rectory in any way
are sonie stables and garage, over which are rooms occupied
successively by groom-gardener, caretaker, etc. This de-
laclied unit is known as the 'cottage’ and plays little part in
the story of the Borley hauntings— wilh one outstanding
exception, which will emerge in due course.
Three stuircases lead from the ground level of the house
to the First floor. The main staircase leads from the hali to
lhe landing outside Room No. 6 (the ‘ Biue Room’). A
second staircase leads from the kitchen passage to the side
1if the bathroom ; and the ‘ back stairs ’ indicatcd on Ground
Plan lead from the kitchen quarters to near Room No. 2.
Most of these staircases hâve doors, which can be fastened
and sealed.
There are fourteen rooms on the first floor, including the
large lavatory, the larger bathroom (fcrmerly, I think, a
bcdroom), and the Chapel, which has altar rails (indicatcd).
As can be seen from the Plans, the Chapel is a structural
continuation of the porch, and is surmounted by a steeple-
shaped érection. The ‘ Blue Room’ and Room No. 7 are
lhe principal bedrooms, and in the former apartment both
Henry Bull and Harry Bull breathed their last. It has
always been associated with strange happenings and un-
eanny events. The Windows of ail the rooms are normal and
rail for no comment.
Between the lavatory and the bathroom are some stairs
leading to what, by compliment, hâve been called attics.
These stairs lead' merely to the joists and rafters under the
O L D - F A S H I O N E D B E L L S 23
roof. They give access to the water cistern, and from these
same rafters are anchored the wires that control the old-
fashioned System of bell-levers and bells that are hung in
the kitchen passage.
There is little more I need say here about the first floor,
cxcept that there are two arches over the landing passage on
cither side of the Blue Room; and that the Chapel has
imitation stained-glass Windows.
C H A P T E R V
TH E N UN ’S W ALK AND THE GARDEN
T
HE grounds of Borley Rectory were at one time of
considérable extent. Some nine acres formed the area
of the original gardens, etc., but most of this lias now
been let off for farming purposes. The présent garden
comprises about two acres, including the large lawn in front
of the main living-rooms.
The ‘ Nun’s Walk! (Plate I) is the name, acquired during
the lifc of the Rev. Henry Bull, of a long path that skirts the
lawn on the side farthest from the large summer-house. It is
completely visible from this summer-house, and partly
visible from the Windows of the principal living-rooms and
bedrooms.
The path acquired its name because, it is alleged, on many
occasions a sombre figure of a nun has been frequently seen
to walk or.glide along this path, usually at dusk, or a little
latcr, and always on July 28th of each year. Collating a
number of reports and traditions, I hâve discovered tw'o main
versions of the route that the nun is alleged to take. One,
is that she is seen to leave the path by the side of the Rectory
nearest the drawing-room, where the ‘walk’ begins. Keeping
an almost perfectly straight line the figure walks along the
path for the full length of the lawn, and disappears amongst
the trees thatoverhang a small stream that traverses thegarden.
A second version of how and where the nun walks is that
she is said to step over the low boundary wall that runs
parallel with the ‘ walk,’ on the far side of the lawn and near
the house. Having traversed the ‘ walk’ for half of its
length, she turns left, crosses the lawn at right angles to
the ‘ walk,’ enters the clump of old trees near the large
24
T H E C A T S * C E M E T E R Y 2 5
summer-house, passes through the hedge into the road— and
disappears.
The large octagonal summer-house (Plate I) situated
opposite the Nun’s Walk, was built by the Rev. Henry Bull
for the spécial purpose, I was told, of being able to watch,
in comfort, for any appearance of the nun. Whether this is
true or not, it is a fact, as can be seen by the photograph,
that two sides of the octagon are entirely open and free
from obstruction, and a third side is open for more than
half its height. This arrangement is idéal for observational
purposes as any person or persons within the structure can
obtain a very wide angle of view. The summer-house is well
and strongly built, and is still in good repair. The interior
seating is round the periphery of the house, and to the
centre pôle is attached a table. Both Henry Bull and his
son Harry spent much time in the summer-house.
There is a smaller summer-house (Plate II) in the
copse at the end of the garden, almost hidden by the trees
and brambles that hâve been allowed to grow there. This,
too, was built by the Rev. Henry Bull, and was erected at
about the same time. This retreat was also much used by
Henry Bull, who would often resort there in the early hours
of the morning in order to ‘ commune with the spirits.’ It
plays little part in our narrative.
Through the end of the garden runs a small stream (Plate
I) bordered by trees and bushes which are now much over-
grown. It is into this stream, according to one story, that
the figure of the nun disappears. It is crossed by a small
bridge. The stream empties itself into a pond, in which, it is
said, someone once drowned himself.
Much overgrown with brambles and in danger of being
altogether missed by a stranger exploring the garden, is a
collection of wooden headboards bearing the names of pet
cats that hâve been buried there from time to time. This
cats’ cemetery is at the end of the Nun’s Walk, near the
stream. Three headboards still remain and on them are
painted respectively the names ‘ Gem,’ ‘ Rollo,’ and ‘ Sandy.’
26 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D I I O U S E I N E N G L A N D
A very curious incident occurred in the cats’ cemetery,
which will be related later.
A portion of the garden of Borley Rectory is the site of the
burial place of some of the victims of the Great Plague which
ravaged England in 1654-5. Occasionally, a skull is turned
up by the spade and other remains hâve been found. These
gruesome relies are invariably reverently reinterred in the
churchyard opposite.
The remains of a portion of an underground tunnel can
be seen in the farmyard of Borley Rectory. Apparently it
had caved in at some period in the remote past. It is
impossible to trace it very far, and no one appears to know
for what distance it is blocked. Future investigators might
well make it their business to explore this tunnel. But
portions of the tunnel— or a tunnel— hâve been discovered
in various places in a direct line between Borley and Bures,
a township seven miles from Borley, on the River Stour, and
partly in Essex and partly in Suffolk. Bures is six miles
south-east of Sudbury and the remains of a nunnery or
similar religious foundation hâve been found there. The
story is that a secret passage or subterranean tunnel led
from Borley Monastcry or castle to the nunnery at Bures.
Whether this tunnel— of small, ancient bricks— was used as
a means of escape from some possible danger, or for some
military purpose; or whether it was constructed as a purely
domestic arrangement between the monastery and nunnery,
is a matter of conjecture.
I hâve been told that the entrance to a second tunnel, or
perhaps the entrance to a branch of the Borley-Bures tunnel,
is still extant in the farmyard of Borley Place, the ancient
house opposite the Rectory. A tunnel from Clare is supposed
to meet the one from Bures somewhere in the Rectory grounds.
I hâve now related ail that need be told here about the
Rectory and grounds. Other details will emerge during the
account of the strange happenings that hâve occurred there.
I will now detail the various legends, stories, traditions, and
phantasms connected with the Rectory.
Above left : Front entrance to Rectory from drive, showing p l a t e ii
bricked-up window on left of porch.
Above right : One of the drive gates, by the side of which Fred Cartwright
saw the “ nun ” four times.
Below left : The bricked courtyard of the Rectory.
Below right : The summer-house in the copse.
C H A P T E R VI
TH E BRICKED-UP NUN AND O TH ER LEGENDS
O
F the many stories and traditions connccted with
Borley Rectory, the one about the nun is the most
persistent and picturesque.
The ‘ nun’ legend has several variants, but the principal
one is that a beautiful young novice at the nunnery at Bures
fell in love with one of the lay brothers at Borley Monastery.
Or perhaps the lay brother fell in love with the novice.
There is no précisé information on this question. The lovers
arranged to elope and the novice met her sweetheart, by
appointment, in the woods that surrounded the Monastery.
Perhaps she traversed the seven miles from Bures to Borley
via the tunnel which I mentioned in the last chapter. The
lovers took into their confidence another lay brother, and
■— according to the story— the three escaped from Borley
in an ‘ old-fashioned coach’ drawn by a pair of bay horses.
They chose— rather foolishly— a bright moonlight night for
their escapade, were missed from their respective founda-
tions, and chased. History does not reveal by whom they
were chased, or in what they were chased. Probably on
horseback. But, as is usual in similar stories, they were
caught and taken back to their respective superiors— repen­
tant, I hope.
After, I imagine, a full and contrite confession, the novice
was adjudged guilty of having broken her vows— if she had
made any— and she was condemned to be bricked up alive,
in a convenient niche built in the convent wall— rather
hurriedly, I expect. So she was walled up accordingly,
with nothing but the traditional loaf of bread and a pitcher
of water— and her own sad thoughts. A big price to pay for
27
28 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
such a venial sin ! The lav brother, I mean the lover, was
just hanged. I do not know what happened to the driver
accomplice. Perhaps he turned king’s evidence— or iis
équivalent— and got off scot free. But the nun, the coach,
the bay horses, and the spectral driver hâve been careering
about the scène of the tragedy ever since, again according
to the story. It is a fact, however. that many people claim
to hâve seen the nun, the coach, and the coachmen. Some-
times these are headless.
Obviously, there are sevcral snags in the above charming
story of frustrated love. The first is, was a nun ever bricked
up alivc, anywhere, at any time?
On April 18, 1939, 1 gave a lantern talk1 to the London
Ghost Club, my subject being Borley Rectory, and of course
mentioned the walled-up nun. My lecture was duly reported
in The Times,'1and the account started a long and interesting
correspondence in the columns of this journal as to whether
nuns ever were bricked up alive. Dr. Letitia Fairfield,’
Senior Medical OfFicer of the London County Council,
opened the discussion in an amusing letter3in which she says :
‘ Mr. Price daims that the manifestations are caused by the
spirits of a nun and a lay brother who eloped together in a black
coach and pair, the nun being subsequently “ bricked up” and
the lay brother hanged. I fear that these unscrupulous phantoms
hâve been pulling Mr. Price’s leg. . . . Remember that these
déplorable events must hâve happened—if at ail— before the
Reformation. Where at this date could the guilty pair hâve
obtained a coach, as coaches were unknown in England till after
1550? Legal historians would, I think, be even more interested
to learn how the lay brother managed to get iiimself hanged.
‘ If he was in fact hanged, it must hâve been for the apportation
of the horses and not of the lady. Nor is it clear how the novice
could be “ bricked up,” as this punishment has been shown over
and over again to be rnythical. Can Mr. Price produce any
evidence for his legend or, indeed, any example of a capital
sentence being imposed in England on a monk or nun for a
breach of vows? Men hâve been hanged, drawn, and quartered
often enough for keeping their vows, but not for breaking them.
1 Ten Tears* Investigation of Borley Rectory. 2 April 20, 1939*
3 The Times, April 22, 1939.
W E R E N U N S B R I C K E D U P ? 29
(The farnous deacon who was burned for marrying a Jewess is
pcrhaps an exception.) One might add that, judging by their
subséquent spiteful conduct to well-meaning investigators, these
two young persons seem to hâve been singularly ill fitted for the
religious life.’
I answered1 Dr. Fairfield’s good-natured criticisms by
gentiy suggesting that she had been jumping to conclusions,
or had misread The Times report of rny lecture. I pointed
out that it was not ‘ my legend,’ but one that had been
current for fifty years. Also, I said that as a matter of fact,
I did not believe in the legend, and did not believe in ‘spirits.’
Dr. Fairfield is probably right about the bricking-up of
nuns, and undoubtedly right about there being no ‘ black
coaches’ at the time when Borley Monastery flourished.
Another correspondent, Mr. FI. J. Tarry, Verulam,
St. Thomas Drive, Hatch End, Middlesex, called attention
to Sir Walter Scott’s account of a bricked-up nun. He said :2
‘ Readers interested in this subject will find the story “ on those
the wall was to enclose alive, within the tomb” vividly described
in Sir Walter Scott’s Marmion, Canto Second— “ The Convent.”
In the appendix by the author appears: “ It is well known that
the religious, who broke their vows of chastity, were subject to
the same penalty as the Roman Vestals. A small niche was made
in the massive wall of the convent, and a slender pittance of food
and water placed therein, and the awful words Vade in Pace were
the signal to imraure. The remains of a female skeleton some
years ago in such a niche were discovered among the ruins of the
Abbey of Coldingham, Berwickshire. It is hardly likely, however,
that in latter times this punishment was often resorted to.” ’
The Rev. Walter Crick, of Eastbourne, called attention in
The Times3 to the fact that in classical times women were
bricked up as a punishment. He says :
‘There can be little doubt that the barbarous punishment
referred to by Sir Walter Scott was derived directly from ancient
Rome. Classical authors make frequent allusion to the grim
ritual which was followed when the punishment was inflicted
and the victim : Sanguine adhuc vivo terram subitura sacerdos was
1 The Times, Apri! 29, 1939. 2Ibid., May 3, 1939.
3 May 6, 1939.
30 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
taken out to the Campus Sceleratus near one of the city gates,1
to be buried alive ; and Pliny has a story ofa vestal named Tuccia,
who was falsely accused of broken vows, and appealed to the
goddess to vindicate her, with the happy resuit that she was able
to carry a sieve full of water from the Tiber to the temple. Only
a few years ago the grave of another vestal, as to whose name
and long term of honourable service there can be no doubt, was
discovered near Tivoli. The inscription says that her name
was Cossinnia, that she served as a vestal for 66 years, and was
honoured by a public funeral, “ m m populi delata” ; and on the
breast of the skeleton was found “ a doll (?) about a foot high,
ornamented with necklace, bracelet, and anklets of gold.” 5
The late Dr. J. H. Middleton, in an article2on the goddess
Vesta says that the vestals or virgin priestesses were not
unfrequently falsely accused of unchastity: ‘ Cases of un-
chastity and its punishment were rare ; and, as the evidence
against the vestal was usually that of slaves, given under
torture, it is probable that in many instances an innocent
vestal suffered this cruel death ’ of being buried alive.
The Times correspondence was concluded by Paymaster
Captain C. Tyers, R .N .,of The Plains, Ampton, Suffolk, who
pointed out3 that in Egypt, too, burial alive was the punish­
ment meted out to ‘ vestals’ of Isis who broke their vows.
He said : ‘ I saw in Cairo Muséum in 1913 the “ mummified”
body of a woman so punished who had obviously died of
suffocation while trying to move the lid of the sarcophagus
with hands and knees. The body was as well preserved as
any of the other mummies. When I inquired about it during
a visit a year or two later, I was told that it had been
removed to the muséum cellars as too gruesome for exhi­
bition.’
The reader has now before him the evidence, or some of it,
pro and con, for the bricking-up or burying alive of females
who had broken their religious vows. Apparently, this
practice was common in classical times, but it is extremely
doubtful if any woman was so immured in this country,
1The Porta Collina. H.P.
2 Encyclopccdia Britannica, Eleventh Edn., 1910, Vol. 27, p. 1055.
3 May 9, 1939.
W H E N C O A C H E S W E R E I N V E N T E E 3 1
and the reader is now able to assess the value of the ‘ bricking-
up’ portion of the Borley legend.
The late Father Herbert Thurston, S.J., carefully analysed
the ‘ evidence’ for the walling-up of nuns and others and
concluded that such a thing never happened. In a most
interesting summary of alleged cases, including that of
Coldingham Abbey, which he published in The Month1
for June 1892, he concludes: ‘ Perhaps such charges are to
be found, but I can only say that I hâve not yet heard of a
case, nor met any controversialist who pretended to quote
one.’ In The Month* for January 1894, he returns to the
subject and attacks Rider Haggard for printing in his novel,
Montezuma's Daughter, a sensational scene vvhere the nun,
Isabella de Siguenza, is immured alive in a coffin-shaped
niche in a convent wall.
As regards the ‘ black coach’ of the legend, it is also
doubtful whether any such vehicle that could be called a
coach was in common use in this country, at Borley or else-
where, in the thirteenth or fourteenth century. The word
‘ coach’ cornes from the Magyar kocsi, derived from the
place-name Kocs in Hungary, where a four-wheeled covered
carriage was in use in the fifteenth century.
According to Mr. J. A. M ’Naught,3 an authority on
carriages, coaches existed at the beginning of the fifteenth
century, but their use was confined to ladies of the first
rank. It was undignified for a man to ride in a coach.
When Richard II, at the end of the fourteenth century, was
fleeing before his rebellious subjects, he went on horseback,
while his mother used a coach. The first real coach in
England was made in 1555 for the Earl of Rutland, and no
trace of proper doors or glass Windows appeared before
1650. Springs on vehicles were not employed before 1804.
In 1550 there were only three carriages in Paris and in
l ‘Walled-up Alive,’ in The Month, June 1892, pp. 172-94.
2 ‘Mr. Rider Haggard and the Immuring of Nuns,’ in The Month, London,
January 1894, pp. 14-29.
3 See his article ‘Carriage,’ in the Encyclopœdia Britannica, Eleventh Edn.,
1910, Vol. 5, pp. 401-6.
32 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E IN E N G L A N D
1635 London could boast of only fifty public conveyances,
and their number was restricted because it was thought they
would ‘ break up the roads’ !
So I think that we can rule out any possibility of the Borley
lovers having used a coach for their elopement. If a phan-
tasmal coach has been seen, and there is evidence for this,
its original must hâve existed at a date much later than that
of the monastic foundation.
Another version of the nun-and-coach story tells how the
lovers fled in the coach, the lay brother himself driving. A
short distance from Borley the young people quarrelled,
and the lay brother, in a most unbrotherly fashion. strangled
the girl. A third variant says that the young monk rescued
his sweetheart by night from the nunnery at Bures, and that
during their escape by coach from the precincts, they were
seen, chased, captured, and at once put to death.
If we hâve disposed of the coach,1 so far as the lay
brother and monastery are concerned ; and hâve laid the
legend of the ‘ bricking-up,’ we certainly hâve not laid the
ghost of the nun, as readers will realize before they hâve
finished this story. The nun has been seen many times by
many people, and the evidence is incontrovertible. She has
been seen walking, standing under a tree, gliding along the
Nun’s Walk, and leaning over a gâte. She has been seen as a
typical Sister of Mercy, a sombre figure, a shadow, and as a
substantial young woman attired in typical nun’s clothing.
She has been seen by individuals singly, by two persons
together, and once by four persons simultaneously (the
daughters of the Rev. Henry Bull), proving that the figure
was objective. She has been seen to vanish spontaneously
and she has been watched out of sight. Not once, I think,
has she appeared suddenly to any observer. The evidence
will be submitted in due course. She has been seen in day-
light, by moonlight, and at dawn— four times by one man,
on different occasions.
1 For an interesting account of many other spectral vehicles, see ‘ The Lore
of the Phantom Coach’, by G. M. Mayhew, in the Occult Review for June, 1922.
T H E S C R E A M I N G G I R L 33
Another story connected with Borley is that of the
screaming girl. The legend has it that a few years after the
Rectory was built a young woman was seen clinging to the
window-sill of the Blue Room (Room No. 6 on Plan). She
was screaming at the top of her voice. Finally, unable to
continue her hold, she had perforce to let go, and she
crashed through the véranda roof and was killed. Her spirit
is alleged to haunt the place, but no evidence is forthcoming
to support this story. It is said that she was attacked in the
Blue Room by someone unnamed, and, via the window, made
her escape to her death. This legend was told to me by a
man I met during my many inquiries at Sudbury, and there
is not the slightest confirmation for any part of it— except
that the figure of a young woman dressed in white or blue
was seen leaning out of the Blue Room window— or rather
the aperture where the window once was— by two persons
simultaneously a week or so after the fire had reduced the
upper part of the house to ruins. The story of the clinging
girl is comparable with a similar legend associated with the
haunted house in Berkeley Square,1 London.
Other spectral actors in the Borley drama include the
apparition of the Rev. Harry Bull, and the figures seen
wandering at the scene of the fire by villagers and a local
policeman. Also, a few black ‘ shapes ’ were noted by various
persons.
In addition to the phantasms seen by various people, the
following phenomena hâve been recorded by visitors, rési­
dents, servants, and official observers : Poltergeist manifesta­
tions; the spontaneous displacement of objects (telekinesis) ;
the appearance and disappearance of objects within the
house; voices, footsteps, banging of doors and similar
noises; the spontaneous combustion of portions of the
house; mysterious wall-writings; paranormal bell-ringing;
inexplicable and sudden thermal variations; ‘touchings’
felt by observers ; singing, as if by a choir ; music, strange
lights ; rumbling sounds outside the building, as if made by
1See HauntedMajfair, bÿ Harry Price, a brochure issued by Maggs Bros., Ltd.
D
34 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
a heavy coach ; the galloping of horses when no horses were
near; the odour of scent and less pleasant smells; fright
caused to animais for no ascertainable reason; a column
of smoke seen in the garden; strange footsteps in the snow;1
raps, intelligently directed in response to questions ; fulfilled
prédiction through the Planchette, etc. Though most of
the above phenomena hâve been recorded during recent
years, manifestations hâve been known to occur at the
Rectory for at least half a century.
1 Compare similar phenomena in the snow in the case known as ‘The
Devil’s Hoof-marks,’ recorded by Rupert T. Gould in Oddities, London, 1928.
See also The Times, February 16, 1855, for original accounts of the phenomenon.
C H A P T E R V II
AN EX CITIN G DAY
I
F the reader has properly assimilated the information
contained in the last three chapters, he will be able to
visualize the background to the Borley mystery, with
its traditions of nuns and monks, stories of phantom coaches,
and the other ingrédients of which good ghost stories are
composed. He will also hâve a clear mental picture of the
Rectory itself, its successive inhabitants, the lay-out of its
many apartments, and the conformation of its grounds.
After lunch on June 12, 1929, my secretary and I began
a minute examination of the Rectory from rafters to cellars.
With yard-stick and Steel tape we measured every room,
passage and piece of furniture, and made a working plan of
them. We sounded the walls for possible cavities or hidey-
holes, examined ail cupboards, explored under stairways,
and, with powerful electric torches, crawled on our hands
and knees along the joists and rafters under the eaves. On
one of the rafters, to which the bell levers were anchored,
we discovered the following inscription in rough black
painted characters : ‘ Bells hung by S. Cracknell and Mercur,
1863.’ This positively fixes the exact âge of the house.
Dusty and slightly bruised, we scrambled back from the
‘ attics,’ and resumed our search. We sealed the door
behind us. As we came to a window, we sealed that, too.
We examined the chimneys and fireplaces, took more
measurements, and satisfied ourselves that at least the upper
portion of the house could not be invaded without our
knowing it.
Returning to the ground floor, we re-examined every
room and the domestic quarters, looked in ovens and
35
36 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
copper, tried to move the fïxed pièces of furniture, such as
dressers and shelves, and found everything normal. We
particularly examined the numerous bells in the passage,
traced each wire from its respective bell right through the
house up to the rafters. We tested each bell as we traced its
course through the house. Some of the wires were broken,
or had been eut, in order to stop the incessant ringing.
Torches in hand, we then descended to the cellars. We
found these dark and damp, floors and walls slimy, and
young frogs, toads and newts were hopping about on the
cellar floor. It was difficult to avoid treading on them. On
the walls I saw a number of lizards, of a dark green hue,
similar to the species known as Lacerta agilis. These reptiles
were very much alive and quickly slid off at our approach.
Scores of old— and empty— wine bottles were stacked in the
niches, and a lot of old rubbish was lying about. We
examined the place for secret entrances and found none.
Everything was normal. What we did not discover on this,
my first visit, was the old and rotten well cover which was
later found by one of our observers. This cover was flush
with the cellar floor, from which it was indistinguishable.
As we came up the cellar stairs into the kitchen passage we
sealed the door behind us.
After a good wash, I interviewed the gardener who had
helped to bury the skull found in the house, and cross-
examined Miss Mary Pearson, the Rectory maid, as to what
she said she saw and heard.
O f the two maids employed by the Rev. G. E. Smith,
the first, brought from London, stayed for two days only.
She was frightened by a nun, wearing a hood, that she had
seen at the gâte at the bottom of the garden. The second
maid, Mary Pearson, a very intelligent girl, not only saw
the nun, but saw the coach, too, and a headless man. I inter­
viewed Mary and could not shake her testimony. The
following information is taken from my original notes
(June 12, 1929) :
1Mary has seen a coach on the lawn, with two bay horses.
W H A T M A R Y P E A R S O N S A W 37
The first time she saw it, it was going down the garden ;
the second time, up the garden When she stopped to look,
the coach disappeared. First time she saw the coach was
at 12.30 p.m., three weeks ago. The second time, two days
later, from the road. Coach went through the trees. It was
“ like a big cab.” On both occasions it was the same coach,
with two brown horses. She saw no coachman. She also
saw a man, headless, behind a tree. She chased it into the
garden, where it disappeared. She had also heard scratch-
ings at the drawing-room window, which could not be
accounted for.’ There seems little doubt that Mary thought
she saw the objects she described to us. Young persons
(especially young girls) and adolescents are admittedly
good ‘ percipients.’
It will be remembered that on the night previous to my
arrivai, Mr. V. C. Wall had, with others, seen a strange
light in one of the upstairs rooms of the Rectory. This was
Room No. 7 on Plan, a room that was unfurnished and
unused. Immédiate investigation proved that no light was
there, although it was still seen from the garden while the
investigators were actually in the room, satisfying themselves
that there was no light in the room. A number of the Bull
family died in this room.
After tea on the first day of my visit, and after another
scarch of the house and grounds, Mr. Wall and I arranged
that, when it was dusk, we would take up our vigil in the
garden for a long observational period. So, soon after sunset
he and I made our way to the large summer-house to take
up our posts. It was decided that I was to keep my eyes
on the window of Room No. 7, while my companion kept
watch on the Nun’s Walk at the point exactly opposite the
summer-house, at the door of which we were standing,
smoking our pipes. Previous to the commencement of our
vigil, we had sealed up every door and window in the
Rectory with the exception of the French Windows of the
study, in which the Rev. G. E. Smith, his wife, and my
secretary were on guard. The maid servant had gone home.
38 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
We had been smoking in silence for more than an hour
when suddenly Wall gripped my arm and said ‘ There she
is !’ With that exclamadon he dashed across the lawn to
the Nun’s Walk. Taken by surprise, as I was intently
watching the window of the Rectory, it was a second or so
before I could direct my gaze to the spot indicated by Wall.
It was nearly dark, but against the darker background of
the trees I fancied I could discern a shadowy figure, blacker
than the background, gliding towards the end of the garden
and the little stream. But I was not certain. From expéri­
ence I know what tricks one’s eyes can play one when
seeing a ‘ ghost,’ and a subconscious élaboration of details,
plus imagination, is fiable to deceive. The night was still,
and there was no stir amongst the trees to mislead me into
thinking that I saw something move. So I am not certain
that I saw the npn : I merely record the fact that I thought
I saw something blacker than the trees move along the path.
When Mr. Wall returned to me, breathless and excited,
he told me his story. As he was gazing steadily at the Nun’s
Walk, he saw a portion of the dark background begin to
move. It was a shadowy figure moving towards the stream.
Here is his own story1 in a few words:
‘The first remarkable happening was the dark figure I saw in
the garden. We were standing in the summer-house at dusk
watching the lawn, when I saw the “ apparition” which so many
claim to hâve seen,,but owing to the deep shadows it was impos­
sible for one to discern any definite shape or attire. But something
certainly moved along the path on the other side of the lawn,
and although I immediately ran across to investigate, it had
vanished when I reached the spot.’2
Having discussed the figure, we decided we would remain
in the garden no longer as it was now quite dark. We
crossed the lawn towards the house with the intention of
entering the study via the French Windows. We had just
set foot on the path under the véranda and were about to
enter the room, when a terrifie crash was heard and one of
1 Daily Mirror, June 14, 1929.
2 Compare Mrs. Lloyd Williams’s account of seeing the ‘nun,’ page 219.
T H E F L Y I N G C A N D L E S T I C K 3 9
the thick glass panes from the roof fell in pièces at our feet
and splashed us with splinters. The hole can be seen to this
day. Very startled, we sought for a possible missile and
found a piece of brick or tile on the floor of the véranda.
It was not an ordinary tile, but looked more like a common
half-brick.
We entered the study and found that nothing untoward
had happened during our vigil. O f course, our friends had
heard the smash and were just as puzzled as ourselves.
Thinking that, in spite of our search, someone might hâve
been in one of the upper rooms and had played a trick on us,
we hurried upstairs and again made a search of the rooms
and Windows, especially those of the Blue Room (No. 6)
and the rooms overlooking the véranda. We found our seals
intact and everything in order. We descended by the main
staircase and had just reached the hall when another crash
was heard and we found that a red glass candlestick, one of
a pair we had just seen on the mantelpiece of the Blue
Room, had been hurled down the main stairs, had struck
the iron stove, and had finally disintegrated into a thousand
fragments on the hall floor. Both Mr. Wall and I saw the
candlestick hurtle past our heads. We at once again dashed
upstairs, made another search, and found nothing. We
returned to the hall. We turned out ail lights, and the
entire party sat on the stairs in complété darkness, just
waiting. A few minutes later we heard something corne
rattling down the stairs and Mr. Wall said he had been hit
on the hand. We then relighted the lamps and found it
was a mothball which, apparently, had followed the same
path as the candlestick.
In quick succession, and in full light, the following articles
came tumbling down the stairs : first of ail some common
seashore pebbles; then a piece of slate, then some more
pebbles.
During this eventful evening bells rang of their own
volition. The wires could be seen moving, and even the
pulls in some of the rooms could be seen swinging when we
40 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
visitcd them. The Rev. G. E. Smith had been troubled
with considérable bell-ringing, and had even eut some of the
wires in an attempt to stop the nuisance. After we had con-
sumed the excellent supper that the hospitable Mrs.
Smith had provided for us, a new phenomenon occurred.
The keys in the doors of the library and drawing-room fell
simultaneously on to the hall.floor. I carefully examined the
keys and the doors, and there was no sign of any thread,
wire or other apparatus that could hâve accounted for the
fall of the keys. Actually, it would require considérable
mechanism to duplicate this phenomenon normally. During
the occupation of the next Rector, the Rev. L. A. Foyster,
every key in the house disappeared!
After our supper— or dinner— it was suggested that we
should hold a séance in the Blue Room. Although it was so
late, I consented.
C H A P T E R VIII
A M IDNIGHT SÉANCE IN THE BLUE R O O M
HE séance began at about i a.m. During the latter
part of the evening, two of the Misses Bull (sisters of
Harry Bull) had corne over from Sudbury to see me.
So these ladies, Mr. and Mrs. Smith, Mr. Wall, my secretary
and I adjourned to the Blue Room (No. 6) and deposited
ourselves on chairs and bedsteads. A powerful duplex
paraffin oil lamp was burning. There was the ordinary
bedroom furniture in its usual places, including a dressing-
table in front of the window. On the dressing-table stood a
large, solid mahogany mirror, with a wooden back.
When we ascended to the Blue Room, we had no idea how
the séance would be started. There was no medium présent.
In order to open the proceedings, I said— speaking to the
four walls of the room— ‘ If any entity is présent here to-
night, will it please make itself known?’ I repeated this
request two or three times. Just as we were wondering
whether we were wasting our time, a faint— though sharp
and décisive— tap was heard coming from, apparently, the
window. We waited in silence for a few seconds and the tap
was repeated, a little louder this time. Ail of us left our
seats, and went over to the dressing-table, round which we
stood in a semi-circle. Again the tap sounded, still louder,
but this time it came unmistakably from the wooden back
of the mirror, which acted as a sort of sounding-board. We
drew our chairs up to the mirror, round which we sat as at a
regular séance. Then someone suggested that the light
should be extinguished. This was done, but as nothing
happened, we relit it.
Then came a succession of short, quick taps or raps,
42 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
and I made a little speech to the ‘ entity,’ thanking it for
revealing its presence to us that evening, and asking whether
it would answer certain questions which we would put to it.
I suggested that the time-honoured ‘ three taps for “ Yes,”
one tap for “ N o” and two taps if the answer were doubtful
or unknown’ should be employed. I asked the entity if it
understood. Immediately, three quick, loud taps were
heard from the mirror. We also suggested spelling out the
alphabet, asking the entity to give a single rap at such letters
as would spell cohérent answers to our perfectly plain and
simple questions. Again, I asked whether this was under­
stood, and if the idea was welcome. Three raps came in reply.
As it is important that as many witnesses as possible should
testify to the Borley phenomena, I will now quote Mr.
Wall’s words1 as to what took place next :
‘ Our first attempts were naturally to ascertain the identity of
the rapper. We asked if it were the nun in the old legend or one
of the grooms, and a single rap denoting “ no” was the reply.
‘Then I suggested to Mr. Price that he should ask whether it
were the Rev. H. Bull, the late Rector. I had hardly finished the
name when three hurried taps came on the mirror, which meant
an emphatic “ yes.”
‘The following dialogue then took place, sometimes with the
lamp lit, sometimes in darkness: “ Is it your footsteps one hears
in this house?”— “ Yes.”
‘ “ Do you wish to worry or annoy anybody here?”— “ No.”
‘ “ Du you merely wish to attract attention?”— “ Yes.”
‘ “ Are you worrying about something that you should hâve
done when you were alive?” —-
“ No.”
‘ “ If we had a medium here, do you think you could tell us
what is the matter?”— “ Yes.” ’
At this juncture I asked the Misses Bull and Mr. and Mrs.
Smith whether they would care to question the entity— the
alleged Harry Bull— as to certain private affairs of the
family. They said they would and for about an hour a string
of questions was put to the entity. By means of the raps on
the mirror, a perfectly sensible ‘Yes’ or ‘ N o’ was received,
but great difficulty was experienced in obtaining names or
1Daily Mirror, June 15, 1929.
T H E J U M P I N G S O A P 43
messages by spelling out the alphabet. At the best of times,
this method is laborious, slow, and cumbersome, and whatever
it was ‘ tapping,’ it did not appear to grasp the technique of
this system of ‘ communication.’ Obviously, the questions
asked by the Misses Bull cannot be printed here.
The séance lasted for about three hours, from i a.m. to
4 a.m., and about two o’clock in the morning we were ail
startled by the new cake of toilet soap jumping out of its dish,
striking the edge of the water ewer, and bouncing on the
floor. The washstand was at the far end of the room; no
one was near it, as were we seated round the mirror; the
wicks of the duplex lamp were raised to their full height
and the room was everywhere perfectly illuminated. Every-
one saw the phenomenon. Here is Mr. Wall’s recording1
of the incident, a perfect and typical Poltergeist mani­
festation :
‘From one o’clock until nearly four this morning ail of us,
including the Rector and his wife, actually questioned the spirit
or whatever it was and received at times the most emphatic
answers. Finally came the most astonishing event of the night.
A cake of soap on the washstand was lifted and thrown heavily
on to a china jug standing on the floor with such force that the
soap was deeply marked. Ail of us were at the other side of the
room when this happened.’
And so ended this very eventful June 12, 1929. A day to
be remembered, even by an experienced investigator.
Although I hâve investigated many haunted houses, before
and since, never hâve such phenomena so impressed me as
they did on this historié day. Sixteen hours of thrills !
In spite of Poltergeister, rapping mirrors, and the eerie
réputation of the Blue Room, I slept in this apartment in the
cosy bed Mrs. Smith had had prepared for me, and was
quite undisturbed. Haunted and haunters were at peace.
1 Daily Mirror, June 14, 1929.
C H A P T E R IX
THE MISSES BU LL’S STO R Y
I
H AVE mentioned that two of the Misses Bull attended
the very informai séance that we held in the Blue Room
in the early hours of June 13, 1929. Later in the same
day, after a good night’s rest, my secretary and I, at the
invitation of our new friends, visited them at their old-world
house, Chilton Lodge, Great Cornard, Sudbury. The Bull
family are— or were— the patrons of the living at Borley.
The Misses Ethel, Freda, and Constance Bull we found
very charming and cultured, and quite ready to give us any
information in their possession concerning the Rectory; and
willing to relate to us their personal expériences of the nun
and other phenomena. They are three of the surviving
sisters of the late Rev. Harry Bull, and the daughters of the
Rev. Henry Bull, who built the Rectory.
The following account is a composite report, from notes,
composed from information given to my secretary and me
on June 13, 1929; from another interview, over a cup of
tea, that Mr. Sidney H. Glanville and I had with the ladies
on Wednesday, March 29, 1939; and-from notes that Mr.
Glanville made when he met Miss Ethel Bull and her sister
at Pinner on June 25, 1938.
On July 28, 1900, the Misses Ethel, Freda, and Mabel1
were returning home from a garden party. It was quite
light, as the sun had not set. They entered their property
at the postern gâte at the end of the garden, in order to
proceed up the lawn to the house. Immediately they had
cleared the trees and shrubs and reached the open lawn,
ail three simultaneously saw a female figure, with bowed
1 Slie dicd in 1936.
44
T H E V A N I S H I N G N U N 45
head. She was dressed entirely in black, in the garb of a
nun. She appeared to be telling her beads, as her hands
were in front of her and appeared to be clasped. Without
knowing why, the three girls felt terrified. The figure was
slowly gliding— rather than walking-— along the Nun’s Walk
in the direction of the stream.
Something seemed to tell them that the nun was not
normal, as she neither behaved nor progressed along the
path in a normal manner. They stopped near the large
summer-house and watched her. She looked intensely sad
and ill. By this time they were really frightened at the
strangeness of what they now took to be an apparition, and
one of the girls ran into the house to fetch her sister, Miss
Elsie Bull (who married shortly afterwards). When she saw
the figure, she said ‘ A ghost? Oh, what nonsense, IT1go and
speak to it !’ With that, she began to run across the lawn,
but she had taken hardly two steps when the figure stopped
and turned towards her. She had an expression of intense
grief on her face. Miss Elsie stood on the lawn terrified—
and the figure vanished. The nun has been seen other years
on July 28, and this fact gave rise to the tradition that she is
seen every year on this date. I do not think this is correct.
In the November following the meeting of the nun by the
four sisters, Miss Ethel Bull again saw the figure and again
in the garden, but this time leaning over the garden gâte.
One of the maids (the cook) saw it too, simultaneously with
Miss Ethel. Later, a cousin who was staying at the house,
also saw it.
It is quite certain that this figure, seen first by four persons
collectively, and then by two other persons simultaneously,
was objective. It was solid, like a human being; not a subjective
image, a phantasm, or figment of the imagination.
Miss Ethel M. Bull, with her sisters— like everyone else
who has ever lived at Borley Rectory— has had some remark-
able expériences. One of the typical Poltergeist features of
the haunting is the paranormal bell-ringing. On one
occasion Miss Ethel was in the house, when ail the bells— of
46 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
which there were about twenty— suddenly started pealing
simultaneously. Immédiate investigation failed to solve the
mystery. This phenomenon was followed by the sound of
rushing water. No explanation. A sister who was sleeping
in one of the smaller bedrooms was awakened by something
slapping her face. No explanation. For a long period, quite
regularly every night and just before she retired to rest, a
sériés of sharp raps was heard on her bedroom door. Later,
many crashes were heard in the house. No explanation was
forthcoming.
On one occasion, when in one of the upper passages, Miss
Ethel saw a tall, dark man standing beside her. Before
she could recover from her surprise, he vanished. Once, an
uncle of the Misses Bull, who was on a visit to their home,
slept in one of the rooms. He refused to say what hap-
pened, but in no circumstances, he said, would he sleep
there again.
When the Misses Bull wjre young girls, they were leaning
over the feu.ce of their garden, looking across the fields. They
were with one of the maids. They saw some young friends
a few yards away, Crossing the field in front of them, evi-
dently taking a short eut to Long Melford Station, or going
to the river Stour. Just a little ahead of their friends was a
girl or young woman in white whom the sisters failed to
recognize as one of the villagers. The Bull sisters happened
to meet their friends in the evening and asked the name of
the girl whom they took to the river. The young people
denied that anyone had been with them; nor did they see
any stranger présent.
Another interesting sériés of phenomena occurred also
during their childhood days. Every night, about 10.30,
steps could be heard passing their bedroom door and upon
the landing outside their room, and always stopping outside
one of the night nurseries. When the sound of the footsteps
ceased, three taps— and three taps only— were always heard.
These footsteps and taps were heard at least a hundred times.
One night Miss Ethel awoke suddenly and found an old
T H E O L D M A N I N T H E B E D R O O M 4 7
man in dark, old-fashioned clothes, wearing a tall hat,
standing by her bed. On another occasion, the same figure
was seen sitting on the edge of the bed. This figure was seen
many times. The strange footsteps heard in the Rectory hâve
been recorded by every person who has ever resided in the
place for any length of time ; and, up to the period when the
house was burnt, they still persisted.
Another strange phenomenon was experienced over and
over again soon after the death of the Misses Bull’s father
(the Rev. Henry Bull) and especially when most of the
members of the family were at church and when only the
invalid mother and a daughter to keep her company were
at home. This manifestation took the shape of sounds as if
someone was entering the back door, but investigation always
proved that no one was there.
Striking and independent confirmation of Miss Ethel’s
story of the strange footsteps of her childhood days was
supplied in a letter from Mrs. E. Byford who, for a short
period, was a nursemaid at Borley Rectory. This was in
1886. The letter was received on June u , 1929. From her
testimony it is quite clear that strange phenomena at the
Rectory were quite openly discussed, both in the house
and neighbourhood, more than fifty years ago. Mrs. Byford,
writing from Parsonage Farm, Newport, Essex, says :
‘Much of my youth was spent in Borley and district, with my
grandparents, and it was common talk that the Rectory was
haunted. Many people declared that they had seen figures walk-
ing at the bottom of the garden. I once worked at the Rectory
forty-three years ago, as under-nursemaid, but I only stayed
there a month, because the place was so weird. The other ser­
vants told me my bedroom was haunted, but I took little notice
because I knew two of the ladies of the house had been sleeping
there before me. But when I had been there a fortnight, some-
thing awakened me in the dead of night. Someone was walking
down the passage towards the door of my room, and the Sound
they made suggested that they were wearing slippers. As the
head nurse always called me at six o’clock, I thought it must be
she, but nobody entered the room, and I suddenly thought of
the “ ghost.” The next morning I asked the other four maids
48 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
if they had corne to my room, and they ail said they had not,
and tried to laugh me out of it. But I was convinced that some-
body or something in slippers had been along that corridor, and
finally I became so nervous that I left. My grandparents would
never let me pass the building after dark, and I would never
venture into the garden or the wood at dusk.
(Signed) ‘ (Mrs.) E. Byford.’
If Mrs. Byford’s story was not supported by the testimony
of many others, I should feel inclined to think that the taies
of ghosts that were current in the household had frightened
the young girl, that she had become very nervous of remain-
ing in the house, and that suggestion had done the rest.
But the sounds of slippered footsteps in the passages outside
the bedrooms hâve been heard by everyone who ever lived
in the place, and Mrs. Byford’s letter is just one more piece
of evidence.
During my various interviews with Miss Ethel Bull and
her sisters, I learnt something of the expériences that their
brother, the Rev. Harry Bull, had had in the Rectory and
grounds. As we hâve seen, Harry Bull was Rector of Borley
from 1892 to 1927, having succeeded his father. For some
time he lived at the Rectory with his sisters, but upon his
marriage in 1911, he removed to Borley Place, near by.
Later, in 1920, the ladies went to live at Chilton Lodge, and
Harry returned to the Rectory with his wife.
During Harry Bull’s intimate connection wdth the Rectory,
where he lived most of his life, it is not surprising that he
experienced a number of extraordinary phenomena. He
made no secret of these strange manifestations, and related
his adventures to his sisters and others.1
One day Harry was in the garden with his retriever
‘Juvenal,’ when the dog suddenly started howling and
cowering with fright. Looking in the direction at which the
dog was ‘ pointing,’ the Rector saw' the legs of a figure, the
upper part of which was apparently hidden by some fruit
trees. The legs moved, and when they had cleared the
bushes, Harry Bull saw that they belonged to a man who
1 See letter from Mr. J. Harley, fiost, page 50.
T H E G H O S T O F ‘ O L D A M O S ’ 4 9
was headless. The figure went towards the postern gare—•
which plays a big part in the Borley drama— through which
it passed. This gâte was always kept locked. The figure
disappeared in the vegetable garden, where it was lost to
sight.
Upon another occasion Mr. Bull saw a little old man
standing on the lawn, with one arm pointing upwards and
the other down. As the Rector approached, the figure dis­
appeared. Inquiries as to who the figure could be elicited
the fact that the features were identical with those of an old
gardener named Amos whom the Bulls had employed some
two hundred years previously. Incidentally, the Bulls hâve
lived in the neighbourhood for more than three hundred
years. ‘ Old Amos’ was a wcll-known character in the Bull
Family, and his traditional story had been handed down.
Harry Bull was not afraid of ghosts. Neither was his father,
Henry Bull. In addition to being an athlete, he (Henryj was
also an amateur boxer, and hunted the surrounding country
regularly.
More than once, Harry Bull both saw and heard the
phantasmal coach with which the Borley story is so linked.
The coach was drawn by two horses, and driven by a
headless coachman. The whole turn-out disappeared while
still in view. One night Mr. Bull was returning to the
Rectory, and was in the road just outside the house. Sud-
denly, he heard a great clatter of hoofs on the roadway, and
the rumbling as of heavy wheels. Wondering who could
be in such a hurry in so deserted a spot, he stepped to the
side of the road in order to let the vehicle pass.1 The
sounds passed him, but that was ail. There was nothing
tangible to be seen, and the noise gradually diminished and
could be heard dying away in the distance. This account
of the galloping horses is comparable with the expérience of
Mr. H. Mayes, the Rev. A. C. Henning’s gardener, which
will be recorded later. Mr. Harry Bull died in the Blue
Room, in which apartment his mother and father breathed
xJüst as Mr. Mayes did, see page 175.
E
50 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
their last. He is said to stil] walk down the main stairs, on
his way to the library. He holds a small bag or manuscript
case.
Just as Mrs. Byford confirmed the early expériences of the
young Bull children, so we received a letter from a stranger,
Mr. J. Harley, of Nottingham Place, W .i, whose indepen-
dent testimony as to the beliefs of the Rev. Harry Bull like-
wise confirmed the information imparted to us by his sisters.
Mr. Harley’s letter is dated June 15, 1929, and he says:
‘ In 1922 I resided for some weeks at the Rectory with the
Rev. H. Bull, and I distinctly recall him assuring me that on
many occasions he had had personal communications with spirits.
In his opinion, the only way for a spirit, if ignored, to get into
touch with a living person, was by means of a manifestation
causing some violent physical reaction, such as the breaking of
glass or the shattering of other and similar material éléments.
TheRector also declared that on his death,ifhe were discontented
he would adopt this method of communicating with the inhabi­
tants of the Rectory.’
If there was anything in the suggestion that it was Harry
Bull ‘ communicating’ at our midnight séance in the Blue
Room, Mr. Harley’s evidence goes to support it. Harry
spent many hours in the large summer-house, hoping to see
the nun.
Other interesting incidents connected with the Borley
mystery were related to us by Miss Ethel Bull. Some of the
old coffins in the crypt of Borley Church hâve been found
moved from their prescribed positions. This has occurred
on several occasions and no explanation has been found for
the displacements. In this connection, one cannot help
recalling the famous case of the displaced coffins in the
‘ haunted vault’ at Barbados,1 and that of Stanton (or
Staunton) in Suffolk, a few miles from Borley, in 1810.1
Another story is that there is church plate buried some-
where in the vicinity of the churchyard. A dowser once
made an experimental investigation and, it is said, the
1 For a concise account of this repeated phenomenon, see Oddities, by Rupert
T. Gould, London, 1928.
T H E I N V I S I B L E W A L K E R S 51
whalebone ‘ twig’ or divining-rod broke in her hands.
Whether this reaction was due to water, or to a metallic Iode,
or if it really indicated the ‘ treasure’ was not, apparently,
ascertained. The Glanville family knew nothing about the
Tost’ treasure but, very strangely, during their Planchette
experiments, a perfect drawing of a chalice was produced.
Strange lights in certain rooms in the Rectory were
reported by various people over a long period, but investi­
gation invariably proved that no normal lights were présent.
It will be remembered that Mr. Wall saw one of these lights
in Room No. 7 on the evening ofjune 11, 1929. I hâve nevcr
seen them myself.
Many people hâve testified to hearing footsteps in the lane
outside the Rectory, when nothing tangible was visible.
Mr. Walter Bull, a brother of the late Harry Bull, supplies
sorae interesting information concerning this phenomenon.
I had the pleasure of meeting this gentleman when Mr.
Glanville and I called at Chilton Lodgc, Sudbury (where
he was living with his sisters) on March 29, 1939. Mr.
Glanville had previously met him when he (Mr. Bull)
called at the Rectory during an observational period when
Mr. Glanville was on duty, on November 20, 1937.
As Mr. Walter Bull has spent much of his life at sea, he
has had few opportunitics for investigating the Borley
mystery or witnessing many phenomena. Actually, he never
saw anything unusual in the Rectory during the time he was
living there, but noises were frequently heard, though they
were neither loud enough nor disturbing enough to excite
more than passing comment.
But, he told us, that when walking up the lane and
approaching the Rectory, he, at least fifty times, heard foot-
steps following him. He always turned round, but never
saw anyone, and could not account for them. Mr. Walter
Bull was born at the Rectory. He was at home when his
father died, but was away at the time of the death of his
brother, Harry.
I put one last question to Miss Ethel Bull before Mr.
52 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N O L A N D
Glanville and I left the hospitable Chilton Lodge. I asked
her whether, as a child, she and/or her sisters were frightened
at what they saw and heard in their Rectory home. Miss
Bull said they were not— they grew up with the ‘ phéno­
ménal of which they had little fear. But she added that
nothing would now induce her to sleep at the Rectory.
CH APTER X
THE STRANGE AD VENTURES OF
EDW ARD COOPER
TER my secretary and I had accomplished the purpose
of our visit to the Misses Bull on June 13, 192g, and
had heard their evidence, wevisited Mr. Edward Cooper
and his wife. Miss Ethel Bull kindly gave us their address.
Edward Cooper was for some years the groom-gardener at
the Rectory, and he is still, I believe, employed by the Bull
family in a similar capacity.
Mr. Cooper, o f ‘ Werneth,’ Broom Street, Great Cornard,
Sudbury, is of the sturdy yeoman type, intelligent, hard-
working, frank and downright. He and his wife live in a
snug little villa on the outskirts of Sudbury.
The following story was given to us in 1929, and my
secretary took copious notes, from which this report has
been compiled. But nearly ten years later, that is, on March
29, 1939, the Rev. A. C. Henning and I called upon the
Coopers and, for the second time, heard the account of their
adventures, which they kindly permitted me to include in
this monograph. When I returned home I compared the
two reports, and they do not vary by a hairsbreadth. This is
worthy of note, and further evidence of the integrity of the
Coopers and the veridical nature of their story.
Mr. Cooper joined the staff of the Rectory in April 1916,
when the Misses Bull were in résidence there. He, with his
wife, occupied the rooms in the cottage adjoining the
Rectory. Under these rooms are stables, etc.
For more than three years during his occupation of the
cottage, the Coopers, when in bed, were disturbed on most
nights by the sounds of pattering which appeared to corne
53
5 4 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
from the adjoining living-room. It was just as if a large dog
or small child had jumped from a height and was padding
round the room. Naturally, at first they were somewhat
concerned at what these noises could be and more than once
lit the candie and explored the contiguous rooms, without
success. Finally, they got used to the ‘ pad-pad-pad,’ which
usually began soon after they got into bed,’ between io and
11 o’clock, and thought nothing of it.
One night, about three years after the ‘ padding’ sounds
were first heard, and soon after the Coopers had retired to
rest, the ‘dog’ phenomenon was again experienced. They
heard the soft, but heavy pad-pad-pad in the next room
when suddenly there was a terrifie crash as if ail the china
on the kitchen dresser had fallen to the floor simultaneously.
Mr. Cooper leapt out of bed and lit a candie, quite expecting
to find part of his home demolished. To his astonishment,
not a thing in the cottage was displaced, and no damage
was done. From that night onwards they were never again
disturbed. The ‘ dog’ had gone for ever.
One early morning in 19x9, when it was just getting light,
the Coopers, as they lay in bed, saw a black shape, in the
form of a little man, running round their bedroom. Before
they could do anything about it, the form vanished. They
thought the ‘ devil was in the house.’
The Coopers hâve frequently seen the ‘ nun,’ or at least
a black shape resembling a hooded figure, Crossing the
courtyard which is overlooked by the cottage Windows.
On one occasion, from their window, they saw the figure
side-face, and it appeared to be the traditional nun. One
bright summer’s evening, about ten o’clock, when it was
barely dark, they saw the figure cross the courtyard and
walk towards the road. To do this in a direct line, it had to
step on the cover of an inspection chamber that was Bush
with the ground. This cover was loose, and any normal
person walking over it would rock it, thus making a clanking,
metallic sound. The ‘ nun’ stepped on the cover, but
no sound was heard. Mr. Cooper, at the time, called his wife’s
T H E G L I T T E R I N G C O A C H 5 5
attention to this fact. This figure, now seen more clearly,
was dressed as a Sister of Mercy. Mr. Cooper was so struck
by the life-like appearance of the nun that, next morning,
he made inquiries in the neighbourhood, and at the Rectory,
but no one had seen a figure such as he described.
Probably the most impressive sight that Mr. Cooper saw
was the black coach. One bright, moonlight night when he
and his wife were retiring to rest, he happcncd to look out
of the windovv, and in the meadow by the church opposite,
he saw some bright moving lights. Wondering why such
lights should be présent at such a time and place, he watched,
and realized that the lights were approaching. As they
neared the road he saw that the lights were really the head-
lamps attached to a large, old-fashioned black coach which
was rapidly sweeping across the hedge and road towards
him and the Rectory.
He gazed in astonishment. The whole turn-out was so
clear-cut that he could see the harness of the two horses
glittering in the light of the head-lamps and the moon.
On the box of the coach were two figures wearing high top
hats. In amazement, he shouted to his wife, but she was
just too late to see the extraordinary spectacle. She arrived
at the window as the coach swept into the farmyard and
disappeared. Mr. Cooper considers that the coach— or
rather lights— were visible from first to last for a period of
thirty seconds. No other person in the neighbourhood saw
the coach on this occasion as far as he knew. This is not
surprising when we consider the lateness of the hour, and
the few people likely to be about at such a time. In answer
to my question as to whether he heard anything, Mr. Cooper
said that there was absolutely no Sound at ail, and not even
a twig moved.
Mr. Cooper’s account of the coach tallies in some respects
with the story told to us by Mary Pearson. The two horses,
the black coach ‘ like a large cab,’ the passage through the
trees, etc. But Mary saw no coachmen.
Mr. Cooper informed me that the road outside the
5 6 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
Rectory sounds hollow when a heavy vehicle passes over it.
It is possible that one of the subterranean tunnels passes
beneath it at this spot. Mr. Cooper and his wife left the
Rectory in March 1920, when the Misses Bull went to
résidé at Chilton Lodge. Since leaving, he has experienced
no phenomena of any kind, anywhere.
About twelve months after my first interview with the
Coopers I spent a day in Sudbury in an attempt to discover
those persons— workmen, servants, tradesmen, etc.— who
had been in contact with the Rectory in some capacity or
other. My quest was not very successful— with one excep­
tion. It was rather in the nature of a wild-goose chase, and
I followed up a number of ‘ dues’ that eventually proved
valueless.
However, I did get on the track of one man, Mr. Fred
Cartwright. a journeyman carpenter, who told me a most
interesting story. Over a pint of ale at the ‘ White Horse’
I heard his account of having seen the nun— or a nun— four
times in two weeks.
Mr. Cartwright lived in lodgings in Sudbury, and he had
contracted to do some repair work to farm buildings at a
farm between Borley and Clare. He used to walk to his
work every morning, and the shortest eut was through
Borley, past the Rectory. This was in the early autumn of
1927. He believed that the Rectory was then unoccupied.
He started his first day’s work on the Monday morning,
and, leaving home soon after six o’clock, passed Borley
Rectory just before seven. It was then barely light. On the
next morning, Tuesday, he left home about the same time,
passing the Rectory about 6.45. As far as he could remember,
it was a fine morning. As he passed the drive gâte (Plate II)
nearest Sudbury (i.e., the gâte nearest the bricked-up dining-
room window), he saw a Sister of Mercy standing quite still
by the side of the gâte. She looked perfectly normal, but he
thought it strange that such a person should be standing at
such a place so early in the morning. He concluded that she
was waiting for some vehicle to pick her up (there were no
T H E W A I T I N G N U N 57
buses or public conveyances nearer than the main Sudbury-
Long Melford road). He thought that she may hâve been on
some errand of mercy, perhaps a case of illness, which had
detained her ail night. The matter passed from his mind.
Every day he passed the same spot at about the same
hour, within a few minutes, and saw nothing of the nun
until the following Friday morning. He passed the Rectory
as usual, and noticed that the same nun— apparently— was
at the identical spot, close up to the hedge by the drive gâte.
He again thought it curious that a Sister of Mercy should
hâve been there at such a time and, as he passed her, he
looked at her. She appeared perfectly normal, except that
she had her eyes closed. Again, the thought occurrcd to him
that she had been up ail night tending the sick, and that she
was tired. He imagined, as he had done on the previous
Tuesday, that she was waiting for some conveyance to pick
her up.
The next, and third, time he saw the Sister of Mercy was
on the following Wednesday morning at the same hour and
place. She was standing on the identical spot as previously.
As he passed her, he looked at her intently, and saw that
she seemed pale, tired and ill, but perfectly human. Her
eyes were closed, as if asleep.
Something seemed to tell Mr. Cartwright that both the
nun and her demeanour were very unusual and he was a
little frightened, principally for her sake. As he continued
walking he could not help wondering whether she needed
assistance. He decided to offer it. He turned to walk back
and found that the nun was nowhere in sight. As he had
heard no Sound of a vehicle on the road, he concluded that
she had turned into the Rectory. He therefore continued
towards Clare.
The fourth and last time that Mr. Cartwright saw the
nun was on the following Friday, at exactly the same place
and hour. It was barely light. The figure was in the
identical spot as on the three previous occasions— by the
side of the drive gâte. Immediately he saw her in the
58 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
distance, he made up his mind that he would at least say
‘ Good morning’ to her. But before he reached the drive,
the nun had gone. He did not see her vanish, but one
moment she was there; the next, she was not. Again he
concluded that she had passed into the Rectory or grounds.
But as he reached the drive gâte he found it was tightly
closed. Puzzled, and out of sheer curiosity, he opened the
gâte and walked the whole length of the drive from one gâte
to the other. Nothing was to be seen of her, and there was
no sign of life in the Rectory itsdf, which he believed was
empty— which indeed it was, as Cartwright’s adventure, as
we now know, occurred during the period between the
death of the Rev. Harry Bull and the coming of the Rev.
G. E. Smith.
When Mr. Cartwright reached home that evening, he
related his strange expérience to his landlord and others at
Sudbury. He then heard the story of Borley Rectory, its
nun, and its traditions, for the first time. Being a stranger
to this part of Suffolk, he knew very little about the neigh-
bourhood. He passed the Rectory several times during the
next year or so, both at night and by day, but saw nothing
further of the Sister of Mercy, though he was always on
the look-out for her.
CH APTER XI
MR. SM ITH M OVES O U T
TER my interviews with the Misses Bull and Edward
Cooper on this exciting June 13, 1929, I returned to
Borley with the conviction that the story of the Rectory
was one of the major problems of psychical research.
Thanks to the kindness of our hospitable friends, the
Rev. G. E. Smith and his wife, I was able to continue my
investigation of the Rectory for two more days on this, my
first visit. I stayed at the ‘ Bull,’ Long Melford, the pictur-
esque sixteenth-century inn, itself the scene of at least one
tragedy during the Civil War.1 I had to get back to London
on the following Friday, but my secretary remained at the
Rectory over the week-end, in order to report progress—
if any.
As a matter of fact, very little occurred during the next
few days. Some inexplicable and desultory bell-ringing was
recorded, but that was ail.
During the next few weeks I visited the Rectory two or
three times, with interesting results. One evening, a party
of us was présent when incessant bell-ringing occurred.
This was accompanied by the usual Poltergeist manifestations
consisting of the throwing of small pebbles, a shower of
several keys (which appear to hâve been collected by the
Geist and then projected into the hall) ; a small gilt medallion,
such as are presented to Roman Catholic children on their
Confirmation ; and another medallion or badge, dated
‘AN V III’ (i.e., a .d . 1799) issued in Paris after the French
Révolution. The origin of these medallions is not known,
1 Richard Evered, a Melford yeoman, was murdered in the entrance hall of
the ‘Bull,’ July, 1648.
59
60 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
and I will remark in passing that many of the phenomena at
Borley are connected in some way with Roman Catholicism :
the ‘ nun’ and monks; the medallions; France; the ‘ mes­
sages’ on the walls (of which I will speak later), and so on.
On July 28, 1929, the day of the year when the nun is
supposed alwajs to appear, a party of my friends (including
the late Hon. Richard Bethell) visited the Rectory and
stayed two days. Nothing of importance happened ; in fact,
the place seemed particularly peaceful.
Upon another visit an impressive phenomenon occurred.
We had ail assembled in the Blue Room, and someone
remarked: ‘ If they want to impress us, let them give us a
phenomenon nowl’ A few minutes later one of the bells
on the ground floor clanged out, the noise reverberating
through the house. We rushed downstairs, but could not
find even the bell that was rung. Experiment proved to us
that when any of these old-fashioned bells were rung, the
spring and clapper did not corne to rest for some minutes.
But we could not discover the least movement in either
spring or clapper, though we thought, from its tone, that
it was the drawing-room bell that had been disturbed.
I should mention that this incident occurred past midnight,
when the Rector and his household had retired to rest.
This ‘ phenomenon at request’ was repeated at least three
times during my investigation of the Rectory.
It was in July 1929, that the Rector and his wife thought
seriously of removing from the Rectory. It was not the
‘ghosts,’ in which they did not believe, but the general
unpleasantness of the place that prompted them to quit.
The sanitation was bad, the water supply difficult, and the
general management of the place was, as I hâve intimated
elsewhere, impossible for a woman with a cultured and
refined mind. As someone put it, trying to ‘ manage ’ Borley
Rectory was as difficult as it would be to make the Roman
catacombs comfortable! No, the ghosts did not frighten
them as they realized that the Bull family had ‘ lived’ with
them for about seventy years, and were not afraid.
G H O S T S P R E F E R C O M P A N Y 6 l
By July 15, 1929, the Rector and his wife had left Borley,
though they returned on July 28 for a few hours to welcome
our party. They moved to Long Melford but, of course,
Mr. Smith still did duty at Borley Church and looked after
the parish. It was thought that the matter could be arranged
in this way. The Smiths had been in résidence at the
Rectory for about eighteen months. However, it was found
impossible to continue this arrangement for very long and
in April the Rector and his wife moved to Sheringham,
Norfolk. Finally, Mr. Smith accepted a living in Kent,
where he and his wife are now living in peace, both mental
and physical.
One striking fact has emerged during my ten years’
investigation of the Borley mystery, and that is, the pheno-
mena are more frequent, more varied, more convincing,
more interesting, and stronger when the Rectory is occupied
than when the place is unfurnished with no family in
résidence. Perhaps the ‘ghosts’ like company; or perhaps
the entities, still in possession of some remnant of a persisting
and very human trait, like 'showing off.’ The fact remains
that ail the best phenomena hâve been recorded by families
actually living in the house and not by interested investigators.
After the Smiths had removed to Long Melford, I visited
the empty Rectory on two occasions. The resuit was almost
négative, except that on the first occasion we were rewarded
with a striking manifestation by one of the bells.
We first called on Mr. Smith at Long Melford and col-
lected the keys of the Rectory. My secretary, a friend and I
then made our way to Borley. We entered the building,
examined ail doors and Windows, which we fastened. We
established ourselves in the Blue Room, on an old form that
we discovered in the library, and awaited events. By the
light of a couple of candies, and that of our own pocket
torches, we began to munch the sandwiches we had brought
with us. Quite casually, my friend said: ‘ I do wish they
would do something !’ The words were hardly out of his
mouth when one of the bells went clang-clang-clang. We
62 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
dropped our sandwiches and rushed downstairs into the
hall. By the light of our pocket torches we saw that the bell
which was vibrating was the one formerly wired up to the
dining-room. However, the wire was broken— or had been
eut— so the bell itself must hâve received the attentions of
whatever it was responsible for the ringing. We immediately
examined the whole house, ail doors and Windows, and even
went out into the drive and looked up and down the road.
No one was about. The night was not a particularly dark
one, and we convinced ourselves that the motive power
responsible for ringing the bell came from within the house.
The bell and spring were still vibrating when we returned.
No further démonstrations occurred that night. We
remained until about 2 a.m. when, tired and rather excited,
we went to claim our beds at the Long Melford ‘ Bull,’ at
which hostelry we had previously engaged rooms.
It is not much fun investigating a large and cold haunted
house, with few amenities, in the winter months, unless one
lays oneself out for the job— as we did when I subsequently
rented the Rectory. So my visits to Borley became fewer
and fewer when Mr. and Mrs. Smith quitted the Rectory.
But I made arrangements for reports to be sent to me when
anything of interest happened and these letters are now
before me. When the Rector and his wife were packing up,
prior to leaving for Long Melford, I heard (July 2, 1929)
that the ‘ front door bell has taken to quietly ringing now
and again, but this may be due to small boys or rats.’
Anything is, of course, possible with small boys, but as a
matter of fact I hâve never seen one small boy in Borley
since my connection with the place. And as for rats or mice,
during my investigation of the Rectory, on no occasion
hâve I seen or heard the slightest indication of these rodents.
And never once has any observer, to my knowledge, men-
tioned rats. After ail, there was little to attract a rat— or
even a mouse— especially when the place was empty! And
I should like to see a rat on the ceiling violently ringing a bell.
On July 10, 1929, I had a note to the effect that the small
S T R A N G E A D V E N T U R E S Q F A F I R E P L A G E 63
table in the Blue Room ‘ had been hurled over from in front
of the fireplace to the washstand in the corner, and was
found lying on its side.’ A few days earlier ail the bells
rang simultaneously. This was before the Smiths had left
the Rectory, and after they had retired to rest. By this time,
there were no wires intact in any part of the back of the
house. In this same letter I heard that the Rectory was up
for sale, or would be let.
In a letter dated July 22, 1929, Mrs. Smith said that
although the Rectory was locked up, on the Sunday previous
it was discovered that ‘ the Windows had been unlocked from
within and one thrown up.’
On August 7, 1929, the report read: ‘ On going over to
Borley last Sunday morning, we discovered one of the
windows facing the roadway, to be ajar as if someone had
been peering out. This was perplexing, as on Saturday
we had gone over the Rectory Windows and shutters as
to their fastenings, upon hearing from your secretary that
on her last visit she noticed the schoolroom window open
or unfastened, on the other side of the building. This
window I mention is in the room in which Miss Bull experi-
enced ail those weird happenings and saw the black shape
on her bed.’1
At this period Borley quietened down a little, and I
heard no more until February 22, 1930. Mrs. Smith
stated: ‘ You will be surprised to hear that half a fireplace
has been deposited on the main staircase at Borley Rectory.
We went over there the other day, after an absence of over a
month, and discovered the above, while every shutter and
window was locked tight, as we had left them. The Rectory
is up for sale by private treaty at présent. Particulars from
Messrs. Protheroe and Morris, 67 and 68, Cheapside, E.C.2.’
On March 14, 1930, I heard: ‘ Funny things are continu-
ally occurring in the Rectory, and lumps of stone are on the
main stairs from whence we do not know, while some of the
sounds are more than weird. By the way, the villagers are
1 1 See ante, page 47.
64 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
emphatic that the window [of Room No. 7] still lights up at
night,’ though no onc was residing at the Rectory.
The next report, dated March 18, 1930, said : ‘ It is queer
to see what lumps of stone and broken glass are about the
place while, recently, on entering the Rectory just at about
full moon, we heard the most horrible sounds in the house.
Perplexities usually occur at full moon or in its last quarter.’
In the Journal1 of the American Society for Psychical
Research, of which I was then Foreign Research Officer,
I published a short account of the Borley phenomena.
I sent a copy of the report to Mr. and Mrs. Smith at Borley,
and the following, dated March 24, 1930, is the acknowledg-
ment: ‘ Warm thanks for issue of the Journal. . . . Things
are commencing again. The District Nurse had something
strange occur to her near the locality, which I would rather
tell you than write,2 and the villagers still see the “ light”
in the Rectory. There are other things, also.’
The above was the last report of the Borley manifestations
that I was destined to receive for exactly eighteen months.
The Smiths had moved to Sheringham, and a cousin of the
Misses Bull, the Rev. Lionel Algernon Foyster, M.A., had
been appointed to the living of Borley. Mr. Foyster entered
upon his new duties on October 16, 1930.
1 Vol. X X III, New York, August, 1929, pages 455-6.
2 I never heard what this expérience was.
Above left : Main staircase and iron stove in hall. p l a t .
Above right : Corner of Base Room (study) showing observer resting.
Below left : The “ Cold Spot ” (marked by white dise on floor)
outside Blue Room.
Below right : The “ Strange Coat ” that mysteriously appeared in Room 6.
CH APTER XII
A N IGH T OF ‘ M IR ACLES’
O
N September 29, 1931, I was sitting in my office at
Kensington, when two ladies were announced. They
were Miss Ethel Bull and her sister. As I rose to
welcome them, something told me that they had interesting
news of the Rectory, and so it turned out.
Miss Bull happened to be in Kensington and thought
that I would like to know that the Borley Poltergeister were
now excelling themselves, and had been ever since their
cousin, the Rev. L. A. Foyster, took over his duties in
October of the previous year.
The Misses Bull had an extraordinary story to tell. Not
only were ail the old and familiar manifestations being
experienced, but the phantasm of Harry Bull had been seen ;
Mrs. Foyster had been somewhat seriously injured by flying
missiles, and a number of remarkable— and painful—
incidents had occurred. She said she thought I would like
to know of these things.
I thanked her very much and said I would like to résumé
the investigation of the Rectory. I asked her whether she
would kindly approach Mr. Foyster on my behalf, for the
required permission to visit Borley again. She said she
would.
In a letter dated October 1, 1931, Mr. Foyster kindly
invited me to the Rectory, even suggesting that he would
put me up for the period of my visit. He also offered to send
me the detailed diary of events that he had carefully com-
piled from day to day. I replied that as I should not be
alone, it was préférable— in order to give him the minimum
of trouble— that my party should sleep at the ‘Bull,’ Long
F 65
6 6 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
Melford, as was our usual custom. I asked him to send me
bis diary, to date.
When I received the diary, a glance was enough to tell
me that the most extraordinary and unpleasant things were
happening in the Rectory, and I much sympathized with
him. In acknowledging the document, I fixed the evening
of October 13 for our first investigation.
With some impatience I awaited the day when I was
again to visit Borley, and in the interval studied the record
of events that Mr. Foyster had kindly sent me. It made
remarkable reading. Things in the Rectory had disappeared,
and some had reappeared. Others were lost for ever.
Objects vanished before their eyes; and articles, previously
unseen and unheard of, suddenly put in an appearance.
Mrs. Foyster had been locked in her room more than once;
keys had been lost ; and on one occasion the Rector and his
wife were locked out of their room, and had to sleep else-
where. The little girl Adelaide, aged 3I, whom they had
adopted, was locked in her room, to which there was no
key. It opened the next day after a ‘relie’ had been applied
to it. Windows were broken ; books were displaced ; voices
called out ‘ Marianne’ (Mrs. Foyster’s Christian name) ;
footsteps were heard in the hall, by different people; the
smell of lavender or similar faint perfume was experienced ;
Mrs. Foyster’s bracelet disappeared; Mrs. Foyster herself
was almost stunned by a blow in the eye, which bled, and
which gave her a black eye for some days, and so on.
It was very évident from Mr. Foyster’s diary to date that
things were becoming worse at the Rectory. The Polter-
geister were much more violent, and had started to injure
people— a very unusual occurrence, by the way. I became
still more impatient to see these things for myself.
We arrived at Borley on the night of October 13, 1931,
as arranged. My party consisted of Mrs. Henry Richards,
Mrs. A. Peel Goldney, and a Miss May Walker. The two
first-named ladies were on the Council of the National
Laboratory of Psychical Research, of which I was then
T H E R E C T O R Y R E V I S I T E D 67
Director. We had previously booked rooms at the ‘Bull,’
Long Melford, remarking in our letter to the landlord that
we might arrive ‘ any time’ during the night, and asking
him to make arrangements for our réception when we
did arrive.
We had left London soon after tea, and travelled into
Suffolk in Mrs. Richards’s big Packard car, driven by her
chauffeur James Ballantyne. We arrived at the Rectory just
as it struck eight. As our car swept into the drive, I wondered
what the evening had in store for us.
The clanging of the loud front door bell sounded very
familiar to me as I rang for admittance. The door was
opened by Mrs. Foyster herself, who made us welcome and
ushered us into the library where her husband was sitting.
We mutually introduced ourselves, and thanked our hosts
for their kindness in inviting us.
We had a long chat with Mr. Foyster, and heard in detail
a good deal of what had been happening there. It was an
amazing story. We found Mr. Foyster a delightful, typical,
cultured parson of the best type, a scholar, a Cambridge
(Pembroke College) M.A., and much travelled. I believe
he had done missionary work in Canada from 1910 to 1929.
His wife, Marianne, was younger than he, bright, vivacious,
and intelligent. It seemed strange that they should hâve
been the focus of such unpleasant incidents as had occurred
at the Rectory.
We learnt that considérable improvements had been
made at the Rectory since Mr. Smith and his wife vacated
it. The sanitation was better, the water System had been
remodelled and the place had been put into repair. Although
the amenities were now more in evidence, it was still, I
thought, a difficult place in which to feel really comfortable.
With our torches, we went over the house, visiting the
familiar spots, and examining ail doors, Windows, and
fastenings. I noticed that the room over the porch (see
First Floor Plan) had been turned into a Chapel, with
altar, altar-rail, and stained-glass window. This was origin-
68 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
ally the old bathroom. Everything appeared normal, and
the ‘ attics ’ were as dusty as ever, though I noticed that a
large water cistern had been installed. We found a little
girl, Adelaide, and a little boy sleeping in two of the upper
rooms. They were both aged 3\ years. The girl had been
adopted by the Foysters; the boy was, I think, a visitor.
I shone my torch on to the children’s beds, and this awoke
Adelaide who just smiled sweetly and promptly went to
sleep again. In Room No. 5, adjoining the Blue Room,
was sleeping the maidservant employed by the Foysters, a
young girl 14.J years old, who had been in the employ of the
Rector for about a fortnight.
Returning to the ground floor, we prepared for supper.
Though the Foysters had kindly prepared refreshments for
us, we did not want to impose on their good nature too much.
Mrs. Richards had generously provided a luncheon basket
full of good things, including a bottle of Burgundy and a
bottle of Sauterne. I asked for glasses and Mrs. Foyster
fetched these from the kitchen quarters. I drew the corks
of the two bottles, and handed the Burgundy to Mrs. Foyster,
who poured a quantity into a glass. Consternation! Our
beautiful ruby Chambertin had turned to jet-black ink!
Immédiate investigation proved that only the wine in the
glass had been affected; the remainder in the bottle still
possessed the bouquet it had acquired in the Côte d’Or— or
whatever district gave it birth.
At almost the same moment when Mrs. Foyster was
pouring out the Burgundy, Miss Walker was serving the
Sauterne. Suddenly she exclaimed: ‘ It smells like eau de
Cologne !’ And sure enough it did ! The proprietor of the
Château Peyraguey would never hâve recognized it as one
of his finest products, had he been présent !
We then gave both bottles of wine a minute scrutiny in an
effort to solve the mystery. We examined those glasses that
had not been used, and they were quite normal. In short,
the metamorphosis— the spirit conjuring trick, as it were—
must hâve taken place in the glasses and not in the bottles.
A B O T T L E P H E N O M E N O N 69
I made some experiments with the household ink, mixing it
with the Burgundy, and could not tell the différence between
my wine and ink mixture, and the concoction supplied by
the ‘ spirits.’ Obviously, the household ink had been used.
We asked for fresh glasses, resumed our supper, and drank
the health of the Poltergeister, asking these intangible beings
for further examples of their mischievous pranks. We had
not very long to wait for their reply.
Mrs. Foyster, I am sorry to say, suffers, I believe, with her
heart. Soon after the épisode of the wine that turned to
ink, Mrs. Foyster said that she felt unwell and would retire.
This was about 9.30 p.m. Mrs. Goldney, who is a trained
nurse, and Mr. Foyster assisted her up to bed. When they
returned to the library, my fellow council members and I
decided we would again examine the house. Just as we
reached the door of the study a crash was heard, and we
found that an empty claret bottle had been hurled down the
staircase well, had struck the iron stove—just as the glass
candlestick had struck it more than two years previously—
and had smashed to smithereens at our feet. First the glass
phenomenon, then the bottle phenomenon. At the same
time, one of the bells (the pull of which was in one of the
upstairs rooms) started to ring violently.
We ail rushed upstairs, Mr. Foyster leading. He was
anxious about his wife. Upon inquiry it was found that, of
course, she had heard the smash— with which incidents she
was only too familiar— and wondered what had happened.
But she was snug in bed and quite ail right, except for her
recent indisposition.
My friends and I then examined ail the upstairs rooms
and found everything apparently quite normal. We opened
the doors of the children’s rooms, and shone our torches on
their little faces as they lay in bed. Adelaide was wide
awake, and had heard the noise. The boy was Sound asleep.
The maidservant was fast asleep in Room No. 5.
We descended to the lower floor again via the back stair­
case that leads into the kitchen (see Ground Floor Plan).
70 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
Upon our arrivai at the Rectory, the chauffeur James
Ballantyne had ensconced himself on a chair by the kitchen
fire. As he was quietly reading the evening paper, he after-
wards informed us, he happened to look up. Perhaps some
Sound disturbed him. His eyes travelled towards the kitchen
door— the one near the dresser (see Plan)— and he was
mildly surprised to see a grisly black hand move slowly up
and down between the jamb and the door, and then dis-
appear. This occurred twice. Whatever was attached to
the hand, if it was attached to anything at ail, was hidden
by the door.
Ballantyne is a dour, unexcitable old Scotsman and a
hundred ‘ black hands’ would not move him. We asked him
if he were not afraid and he said ‘ No.’ He just went on
reading. He knew that our mission concerned a haunted
house, and he thought that the black hand was just pai^ of
the business. It never occurred to him to be frightened.
He, too, had heard the smash made by the falling bottle,
but his only comment was that he knew ‘it was them ghosts
larking about.’
When we ail returned once more to the study, there was
a further outbreak of bell-ringing and some small pebbles
rattled down the stairs. Then we heard the voice of Mrs.
Foyster calling out in alarm. We rushed upstairs, and found
that she had been locked in her bedroom (Blue Room, No. 6).
She said that first one door (leading into Room 5), and then
the other (opening on to landing) had suddenly locked
themselves. The keys to these rooms, with others, had dis-
appeared a long time previously.
The Rector was used to this phenomenon, and knew what
to do about it. He fetched a relie of the Curé d’Ars, and
said that he would recite a short reliquary prayer and asked
us whether we would care to join in. He and I then knelt
in the passage outside, his wife also kneeling on her side
of the door. He then very reverently recited a reliquary
prayer, after which we ail joined in saying the Lord’s Prayer.
We had hardly said ‘ Amen,’ when there was a most vigorous
A B E D R O O M C O U N C I L M E E T I N G 71
‘ click,’ denoting that the door had been ‘ miraculously’
unlocked!1 We found Mrs. Foyster a little nervous, naturally,
but otherwise none the worse for her adventure. Soon after
another glass object fell down the well of the stairs and was
smashed against that familiar target, the iron stove in the hall.
The stove and stairs are pictured in Plate III.
It was now nearly i a.m., and we decided we had better
get some sleep. We said good night to our hosts, thanked
them for the opportunity of witnessing the manifestations,
and made our way to the ‘ Bull’ for, we hoped, an undis-
turbed night’s rest.
Having arrived at our inn we then decided to hold an
informai ‘ council meeting.’ We adjourned to my bedroom
where the four of us sat on my bed and discussed the events
of the evening. The question was, of course, were the
phenomena genuine? If not, who or what caused them?
We could at once rule out the young maidservant— who was
not yet 15— and the two children, aged 3J years. The only
other person who could possibly hâve caused the manifesta­
tions, assuming they were not paranormal, was Mrs. Foyster.
Preposterous as it seemed, a careful analysis of the pheno­
mena proved that every incident— bell-ringing, throwing of
objects, etc.— occurred when the Rector’s wife was not
within our sight or under our control.
On the other hand, every phenomenon (with the excep­
tion of the wine incident) we had witnessed that night had
occurred scores of times previously, had been witnessed by
many people, and had been going on for years. Was it fair,
then, to our hospitable hostess to suspect her of such tricks?
And what could be the motive? But we decided that we
ought to tell Mr. Foyster of our doubts in the matter. We
visited his home for the purpose of an impartial investigation,
and we owed it to him to tell him what we thought. We
decided to call at the Rectory in the morning and break the
news as gently as possible.
1 Compare Dom Richard Whitehouse’s expériences with door-locking
phenomena and the use of a relie, pages 96, 97, 99.
72 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
It had been our intention to return to London early on
the next morriing, October 14, 1931. But, as we had decided
the previous night, we called on the Rector soon after
10 a.m. and, as gently as possible, informed him that his
wife could hâve produced normally the manifestations that
had so intrigued us. Mrs. Foyster was présent, and of course
stoutly denied that she was in any way responsible, and we
accepted her word. The Rector pointed out that every
occupant of the Rectory since the place was built had been
similarly accused— which was correct.
Mr. Foyster made the suggestion that we should spend
another night under their roof, confine the whole household
to one room, and see what happened. We agreed to do this.
So, instead of returning to London, we spent the day in
Cambridge, arriving at the ‘ Bull,’ Long Melford, in time
for an early dinner. At eight o’clock we duly presented
ourselves at the Rectory.
The young maidservant had been sent home (she lived in
the village), so we had no need to worry about her. With
screw-eyes, tapes, and seals I fastened ail doors and Windows
that would not lock. I locked and sealed the two young
children in their respective rooms, and even screw-eyed and
taped the Windows of their rooms. Ail exterior doors, and
that leading to the cellar, were locked and sealed. We
satisfied ourselves that we had the house under control.
By the time we had fïnished sealing the Rectory it was
nearly half-past nine. So I assembled the incarnate occu­
pants of the house in the kitchen (the children were, of
course, in bed), at the same time calling upon the discarnate
inhabitants to do their best. So our little party, consisting
of the Rector and his wife, Mrs. Richards, Mrs. Goldney,
Ballantyne and myself, sat round the kitchen fire and just
waited for something to happen. Miss Walker had returned
to London by train earlier in the day.
Everything seemed very quiet after the excitement of the
previous night and we thought that our control arrange­
ments had exorcised the Poltergeister for good and ail. But
M O R E B E L L - R I N G I N G 73
after an hour’s waiting, a bell in the hall passage suddenly
rang furiously. I ran out to see if I could identify it, and
found it was a bell connected with one of the upstairs rooms.
From the hall I could not tell which room so, with our torches,
we at once went to the first floor and explored. I opened
up room after room and when I entered Adelaide’s room,
I saw the remnant of the bell wire slowly swinging. This
then, was the room in which the bell-ringing had originated.
Adelaide was in bed, but awake. In any case, our entry into
the room, and the flashes from our torches, would hâve
awakened her. On a previous visit to the room I had
noticed that the wire of the bell-pull had been broken off
close to the ceiling, and it would hâve been a physical
impossibility, I think, for a 3-î-year-old child to hâve pulled
the wire, even if standing on a chair. And certainly I had
no right to suppose that an infant so immature in both
body and mind would play such a trick on us. But no other
mortal person could hâve entered the room without dis-
turbing our seals.
The ringing of the bell was the sum total of phenomena
we heard, saw, or felt that evening. A little later some
visitors arrived, which made further investigation impossible.
Mr. Foyster, in his diary, portions of which form the next
chapter, very fairly and accurately refers to our visit, our
doubts, and the phenomena.
We left Borley that night soon after eleven o’clock, and
even our journey back to London was by no means unevent-
ful. It was freezing hard; the car clutch burnt out near
Braintree ; and a police control, stopping ail cars, demanded
to see Ballantyne’s driving licence. Stone-cold, hungry,
sleepy, misérable, and crawling along at about four miles
an hour, we arrived at Regent’s Park at 4 o’clock in the
morning. We found a good meal awaiting us and after doing
justice to that, and to another bottle of Chambertin— which
did not turn to ink !— we concluded that ghost-hunting was
not so bad, after ail. And had we not added another colourful
chapter to the amazing story of ‘ the most haunted house ’ ?
CH APTER XIII
LEAVES FR O M THE FO YSTER D IAR Y
F
R O M the very first day when the Rev. L. A. Foyster
enter-ed upon his duties at Borley, he kept a diary of the
strange events that occurred there. O f course, he had
no intention of doing such a thing before he took the living
-
— but on this first day, October 16, 1930, such extraordinary
things happened that, having an orderly mind, he decided
to take careful and detailed notes of ail incidents that could
not be explained in terms of normality. Also, his relatives,
the members of the Bull family, were both curious and con-
cerned as to what was going on in the Rectory, and they ail
thought that such a record was worthy of préservation. It is
worth noting that not one of the Bull family, including the
Foysters, is concerned with psychical research or spiritualism,
or knows anything about the subject. But Mrs. Foyster is
said to corne from a ‘ psychic’ family.
After our last visit to Borley in October, 1931, I lost direct
contact with the place. I do not like invading the homes
and private lives of people even when they are the possessors
of an interesting ‘ ghost.’ Consequently, I did not again visit
the Rectory during Mr. Foyster’s occupation. But I was
kept informed from time to time as to what was happening
there, and it was very obvious that phenomena were of
almost daily occurrence in the Foyster household over a long
period of the Rector’s incumbency. Ail the old manifesta­
tions were witnessed over and over again, and a new one,
the scribbling of messages on walls and scraps of paper,
developed.
Mr. Foyster very assiduously kept a record of ail these
strange events, and his diary finally assumed gigantic pro-
74
MRS . F O Y S T E R S E E S ‘ H A R R Y B U L L ’ 75
portions. I believe that he has more than 180 typed quarto
sheets of notes recording the day-to-day activities of the
Poltergeister!
When I informed Mr. Foyster that I was compiling a
monograph on the haunting of Borley Rectory, he very
generously permitted me to reprint Verbatim selected por­
tions of his diary. These extracts he kindly selected himself,
and wrote them out in his own hand. They follow later.
Before the reader studies these diary extracts, it should be
emphasized that before taking up his résidence at Borley,
Mr. Foyster knew very little about the things that were
alleged to be happening there. It will be recalled that he
had spent several years in Canada. He knew, of course,
that the Rectory was supposed to be ‘ haunted,’ and that
was ail.
Mr. Foyster had been told, too, of the adventures at the
Rectory during Mr. Smith’s occupation, but he thought
that the taies he heard were probably exaggerated, as so
often happens in these cases.
When the Foysters first visited Borley, they looked at the
Rectory and another house that they could hâve lived in.
They decided to take up their résidence in the former
building. When going over the Rectory, neither Mr. nor
Mrs. Foyster felt there was anything particularly uncanny
about the place, or that it had a ‘ ghostly atmosphère.’ They
treated most of the stories they had heard as so much
nonsense.
Here, then, are the extracts from
T he Rev. L. A. Foyster’s Diary1
October 16, 1930. My wife, Marianne Foyster, a little girl
aged 2 years 7 months (referred to as Adelaide), and myself corne
into résidence. First expériences of anything out of the ordinary.
A voice calling Marianne’s name; footsteps heard by self,
Marianne, Adelaide, and man working in the house. ‘ Harry
Bull’ seen at different times by Marianne between study and
bedroom above. [Figure not wearing clérical dress, but a
1 Interpolations of my own are in square brackets. H.P.
W - i J L j u O. sH
î-t
^- H—v^- ttJrl^i A-crrw (urOix^. .
V —r^r-cx^-- ^ 1 ^
/ £jOn csvi- 'rr^nC 1^ r^ wre-^.----^ /x^UT <
n dùxj. OlH!L--r>^j -yJrL
rro- ^ 'r'M
' ■ ^ ^ IX^ îTc
m
^ V ouJ /.OÜ
vCk/v'-. r
dtrvJ. j^ti. r-v-JL
^C
»
.J-U
^
»
- i^»C-U
a>
, -k-ur*. -T"—. Â
i-a-oL.
-">
■ «• ° V Î ^ * f tU -
" ' k- — r.i (J , ; . r ^
13..7^'
^ 7 ^ lTKTlT t/nja'J r r ^ B
j 'H - ^ W s C c
Kdo, ^ l^x*- A^fohsLd. m
\ s^/i/vt^lobd. dent U. • ■ -■ -
' ' - f"I
f'L
c
A
-
i'J
-
t—
C
fetrv»"| Ov^C
(jdruJ'AoJ^
a ,
£
t
L7L
oJ<-^-£> (r
r Ct
/5* As> I C xm L ^ h ^ x ^ c
t
v
a
C Cl c
Lux^ . 0 u ^^t, ^ Ai I .,
/W fâU» <
j|f -c s r ^ r n H ^ . or ^
Ç
yO
'ta* L
rv
^ O
-C
.-
W
J
V
, Hj
l'V
ttb
-h
rt% O
./hû^
à
v /6 Th-*?
\
.
»l>
rv-- ---- ' ~ s *
ly *>yuTL/vv-w-J (Jxrj'CAs* Uj ?c k w - klU. u/vt-L.dâ cLtUj-
y\ % C£fY\Jj^rr'l~$ (J
- - ~t fxO
uJ^
i^
. ^ S e C
liH^iLc/ b
^
-O
Q
,S
&
X
V£-
i.'—--- b-d >syyv.
-drw.dL H-*. (jJ
V
C
T
rL
C
j tS
~
<
X
-K
y
,
s W û d ^
ka~-d •< CL I Ocrrvv^l -t^_
t - M -
-i_ J -
7
v -COJvuuu^
-QO
- P>-Cv*j cr^
JL
/
> f . -f J k
— H- ’
l/v£T7
>f't^
xC
I
c
T
V
N O
li~
~A
jL
ry
.
7^ ' A ^ - w oU aif-:'^ ^ /cvW> ■
-^ Jî Z I m . C k L s,w Sf ^ f^ *4
* .
^ Hoa^ T U J . tjX -> ahvJrhU -r^..
L (U/tlp. CU cxvJT i f W cn-^dj^ cJr> ^ L t _
,, îJS.'K 3-
. SU» (X ~nurr^fc«,it'tÿ (SAB-W lij U ^ (SH
jl^ en' (SMU, (rc^oAurv^)
7^0^ k h i * ^ dLnr-tr reutJU» Jlw sLn^dU^ oZH* /-<m « U /^A.
•• XC^3>
o.t~rr. S'u^.t
Ckjvlf H • SoJun cLo^, O
l
a
.
L7f
_ _
_ ua. 2
^0. L
ri.<
k/c /"i-vA
A
^ L
S
&
-&G. S«Vw-a^ ci-^rrv> crws^\'d-
'flX-yZ'j. QS-îy^h+tZ. ijdJzL t~L-i^ Ovxju -L^C GJ_/o r^jcrw t C ^ v v O - G /~
f‘t>Lxj Ù
t->~^Ji[A
^^0-9^ .
O-jr^d* Tru./|c. y>r^y> tx^xjrx^lxj i/yr^l^ty / Cx ervu Cu*q^
y>^o.lo. (Xfl\
X
.fita- ^Ltryw Oi/Vk O c t w k * l ^ c
>
^ * ' ^*^A‘ (ISLILl.U
$
1
<
X
*
j
i. SIÎT^ *-^ d t f c a oJ- /a» ci d. oiLCj— t - ni t cûjîTLi ^ L
s
k
c
^
c
U^\
aUx-d -rv^i^iU-, o-j. Hw>d_^ or n-wi. CU,~'vJ.Jijr / c^~d' ^ in.o-1
*
’Tu-r^i/f l cjr t-cflrL-L^ 0./>
/l~
o-6e~C<£lLj bfî.-r* s /IJ,.~n-. ul.
(b jïcxnfb t(j- kawig
K iO -'J. fl ^a-d /.a^ ^•w'~ v d fc-' o l 7 U k 'n .tj^ c 'r O . UrCn.Vv»^ -ïn^Lco!
FACSIMILE OF A PAGE FROM THE R E V. L . A . FOYSTER S D IAR Y, NOTING
APPEARAN CE OF ‘ H A R R Y B U L L ’ AND OTHER PHENOMENA.
A G H O S T D R A W S B L O O D 7 7
dressing-gown of peculiar colour. Garment recognized by vil-
lagers, from description by Mrs. Foyster.]
Jugs and other utensils disappearing and coming back. Pecu­
liar smells— especially one most nearly resembling lavender—
noticeable particularly in our bedroom [Elue Room, No. 6].
Bells rung. A bracelet detached from wrist-watch while Marianne
is in room only a few feet away, and no one else in the house,
besides Adelaide, who was in her own room. Bracelet was taken
and has never been seen since. Lavender bag, which no one has
seen before, discovered on mantelpiece of Marianne’s sewing-
room. [Next to kitchen, see Ground Floor Plan.] Lavender
bag disappears and again appears in my pocket : discovered
when putting on coat one morning.
F e b r u a r y 1931. Books found on window-sill ofw.c. [Next to
Chapel, see First Floor Plan.] As soon as one is taken away. it is
replaced by another. (These books had been left by the Bulls
and were stowed away on shelf in housemaid’s pantry.) [Butler’s
pantry on Plan.] Last of these had a torn cover, which was
thrown on floor.
F e b r u a r y 25. A big return of crockery [that had previously
unaccountably disappeared]. Marianne asks for a tea-pot: this
is also returned. At my suggestion, Marianne asks for return of
bracelet, but in very uncomplimentary language.
F e b r u a r y 26. Books found under our bed in the morning.
A consignment of hymn books, unknown of before, discovered
on the rack over the kitchen range in the afternoon. In the
evening Marianne is given a terrifie blow in the eye— a eut under
it; black eye next day— by an invisible assailant on the landing
outside bedroom [No. 6, Blue Room]. She was carrying a candie.
F e b r u a r y 2 7. Shortly after we had retired and light extin-
guished, first a cotton-reel and then a hammer-head with broken
handle attached were thrown across our bed. Lamp lit and
throwing discontinued.
F e b r u a r y 28. I write a letter on the subject [ofthe hauntings],
Directly afterwards (the room had been empty for only a few
minutes in between), two pins discovered with their points
sticking upwards. One was on seat of arm-chair; the other on
chair I had been sitting on. About an hour or so later an érection,
composed of an old lamp and saucepan (neither of them seen
before), was found outside my door. Later, the handle of a floor-
polisher is put across the passage I traversed on my way to
supper. Still later, a tin of bath salts placed just inside bathroom
door trips up Marianne.
M arlh 5. Two articles thrown after lights were put out in our
78 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
bedroom. Then, after an interval, I was aroused by a hairbrush
on my head.
M a r c h 6. The knob off a door thrown with some force from
just behind her, at Marianne as she cornes along bathroom passage.
M a r c h 7. Marianne thrown at in the afternoon. In the
evening, I attempt to exorcise spirits. Stone hits me on shoulder.
Books thrown out of shelves in Marianne’s sewing-room. Pictures
in hall and on staircase are taken down and laid on ground.
Things thrown in bedroom. (This night, window was closed.)
M a r c h 8. At night, after carefully looking under bed, both
doors in bedroom found locked. More throwing. (Window was
first opened a few inches at bottom ; then at top. The véranda
roof [the glass roof] outside would make it very difEcult for things
to be thrown from outside into the room.)
M a r c h g. Although plumber’s men were in the house thawing
out pipes, stones rolled down back stairs and odd things were
found in kitchen passage. In the afternoon a visitor inspects
attics and is satisfied that no one could be hiding there. Hears a
bell ring, and sees a big stone almost as it came to rest. We had
just previously heard the stone descending back stairs. Marianne
enters house just afterwards : evidence it was not she. Many
incidents that afternoon and evening, amongst them one in
which Marianne, hearing noise about three yards from the outside
of sewing-room door (which was shut) is touched on the hair by
a stone. The touch came from behind her. Later, coming again
from the kitchen, she sees piece of iron coming after her (but does
not see the being carrying it). It is thrown in behind her, just
inside the sewing-room door, as she hastily dashes in and pulls
the door to. As Marianne is making up fire in the kitchen, a stone
Aies out, crosses the room, and hits the door further from her,
just as I go behind it. Two duplex lamps were burning in the
room at the time.
M a r c h 10. A little pile of five stones found behind Marianne’s
pillow when she woke in the morning. More objecfs carried
into the house. A stone through a pane of glass in staircase
window. It was thrown from inside while Marianne, Adelaide
and myselfwere standing by hall stove. I think that on this night
a small tin travelling trunk (not seen before) suddenly noticed in
kitchen while we are sitting at supper there. This stayed in the
house for some time, but eventually disappeared. China powder-
box and wedding-ring discovered in bathroom. It [the ring]
disappeared during the following morning. Marianne stumbles
over brick placed outside bathroom door. Next mor ing two
stones found behind my pillow.
E X O R C I S I N G T H E S P I R I T S 79
March i i. Two Anglican priests go thoroughly over the house
with Marianne and myself, using incense, holy water, and
prayers. A ‘presence’ of some sort is felt, but no active démon­
stration. Later, a stone is thrown at a boy from the cottage.
I was out most of the remaining part of the day. After my
return, a stone was thrown at me. Then, as we three were
standing round the hall stove, another stone fell only a few inches
from my head.
March i2. Clean Iinen was taken out of the kitchen cupboard,
and trailed over the floor.
March 13. Marianne hit on the head, and hurt, by a piece of
métal thrown down back stairs. A piece of brick dropped on to
supper table, close to my plate, but without breaking or touching
any crockery.
March 15. As I am typing out a diary of events in the house,
first my collar (which I had taken off for comfort) is thrown at
me. Then a stick and a piece of coke were thrown across the
room.
March 16. Marianne in the early morning of this day finds
kitchen table upside down, and the contents of a store cupboard
partly inside, and partly scattered broadcast. In the evening,
bedroom window which had been left open was discovered closed
the wrong way round.
March 23. Marianne, while carrying a tray in one hand and
a lamp in the other, up the front stairs, has the inside of an iron
thrown at her from a few feet ahead of her. It breaks the lamp
chimney.
March 24. Small articles thrown at Marianne while she is
sweeping, etc. outside bedroom. ‘ Harry Bull’ seen again by
Marianne at night about this time ; and, probably, by cottage
tenant through stair window.
March 28. Marianne sees a monstrosity (seen by her and
others on other occasions) near kitchen door. It touches her
shoulder with iron-like touch.
March 29. Palm Sunday was still.
A p r i l 11. Saturday in Easter week. A small démonstration.
With this one exception, there was absolute quiet during Holy
Week and Easter week.
A p r i l . Milk jug is mysteriously found empty. I request a
clean one and made a rude remark about ‘drinking after ghosts.’
While we are sitting at tea in broad daylight with doors and
Windows closed, missiles are thrown at me. At night, I count
up 12 or 13 times I was thrown at, between approximately
6 p.m. and 11 p.m., in different parts of the house.
80 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
M a y . A bad half-hour in the kitchen one evening ended by
my going upstairs to get créosote with which we fumigate the
house. On my way up a lump of dried mortar hit me in the
neck. On the way down a métal spanner goes through my hair.
After fumigation, the trouble stops at once. Pepper, however,
dropped on us in bed. Some had previously been thrown into
Marianne’s face in the kitchen. Next evening, Marianne does
some fumigating, but is rather lenient with créosote. Bells ring;
stone thrown at her, and jam-jar crashes against the kitchen
door as she is returning. I go round with the créosote and
trouble ceases. On the next day (Monday) I collect six articles
thrown in the late afternoon and evening to show Sir George
and Lady Whitehouse (who arrived about g p.m.), to see if
anything was doing. While they are here, skirting board of
unused bedroom (not entered by anyone on that day as far as
we knew) discovered to be on fire.1 Some throwing after it had
been put out. We accept their invitation and stay a few days
with Whitehouse. One evening, when up at Borley, Marianne
sees paper in air ; it at once l'alls to the ground. It is discovered
to hâve some hardly decipherable writing on it. Next day when
we corne up, it has disappeared. Other pièces of paper with
‘Marianne1 written in a childish hand, were found about the
house from time to time.
J u n e 6. Worst outbreak begins with a stone being thrown.
J u n e 7. Stones thrown in the evening. A chair in spare
room (in which Marianne was lying in bed, very unwell) twice
thrown over. Strange noises heard on landing during the night :
bangs, taps on door, etc.
J u n e 8. Monday. Proceedings start soon after 10 a.m. These
include a variety of things. Books, stones, clothes, suit-case, and
a basket full of soiled linen were thrown over balustrade from
landing to stairs and hall. The soiled linen basket was thrown
twice. Marianne hears turmoil going on in what was usually our
bedroom [Blue Room, No. 6], She gets up from sick bed to see.
Noise at once stops, but room found to be in confusion. Bed
moved, furniture overturned. Doctor calls and witnesses some
throwing. Richard Whitehouse2 visits house and also witnesses
some throwing. Marianne turned out of bed three times during
the day, but each time when alone in the room. Lady White­
house,3coming up in the evening, hears more throwing. Matters
are so bad that she and Sir George insist on our going down to
1 See Lady Whitehouse’s account of the incident, page 87.
2 See his report, Chapter X V . He is a nephew of Lady Whitehouse.
3 See her report, Chapter X IV .
W H A T A R E L I C D I D 8l
their house for a time. [Mrs. Foyster does not return home
until July.] During the rest of the month of June, house is
empty at night except upon a few nights when I could get someone
else to sleep in the house as well. On one of these evenings,
when a friend was there, I heard a noise just before retiring.
I went to his room to see if it came from there. I found him
asleep, and an empty paint pot (which he said he knew nothing
about) had been placed close up against the door inside.
August. A medium and an investigator1 corne down and hold
a séance. Different spirits are tackled, among them one ‘Joe
Miles’ who, it was declared, was responsible for the disturbances.
However, it appeared subsequently that this was a mistake.
August (or perhaps September). Study attacked. Writing
desk thrown on its face ; chairs overturned ; books pushed out of
the shelves ; room in confusion.
September. We are locked out of our room one night.
Adelaide was locked inlo hers. (Ail doors unlocked with help of
relie of Curé d’Ars.)
On the kitchen being left empty for a few minutes, a saucepan
full of potatoes, left on the stove, was found to be empty. Wit-
nessed by Marianne and a maid. (N.B. We had no résident maid
in the house from the time we arrived till September 1931.)
About this time different things were moved about in the house
(or disappeared altogether) to a great extent. Amongst them was
a big pile of typewritten sheets, and a portable typewriter.
Though money was moved, we cannot be certain that it was
ever taken.
October 13. Visit of Mr. Harry Price and three members of
his council. On the first evening, the bell rang ; bottle crashed on
front stairs, and other things were thrown. Marianne (who, not
being well, had gone to bed) had first one, and then the other
door of her room locked. One came unlocked in answer to
prayer. Council met next day and declared their opinion that
Marianne was responsible for phenomena. She was put under
surveillance, but bell from bedroom rang while she was being
surveyed.2
October. I am awakened one morning by having a bedroom
water jug dropped on my head. I left it on the floor, and a little
time afterwards it is dropped on Marianne’s head.
October-November. The report that a shadowy form, said
by visitor to the house and by former occupants to be seen in
room over kitchen [Room 3] is true. The story has confirmation
11hâve no information concerning these people. H.P.
2See my account of this incident, ante, page 73. H.P.
a
82 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
from Adclaide. Being sent to lie down in that room one after-
noon, she came downstairs with a bruise under her eye. On being
asked how she got it, she answered : ‘A nasty thing by curtain
in my room gave it me.’ This same apparition said to hâve been
seen also early one morning, entering our bedroom. I was up,
and Marianne was still asleep, so neither of us saw it.
November 13. A rather serious démonstration occurred this
evening. It was witnessed also by Richard Whitehouse and our
maid.1 (I ceased keeping an exact diary of events in June last.
There were, therefore, various phenomena in the way of throwing,
doors being locked, etc. during these last months that are unre-
corded. But there was nothing I can think of that was very
different to what we had previously experienced, with one
exception : One evening, just after I came in, a pot of tea, appar-
ently freshly made, but which no one would own to having made,
was placed for me in the dining-room [see Ground Floor Plan],
However, I could not be quite sure about the history of
this.)
January 1932. One night, both doors of our room [Blue
Room, No. 6] were found locked. One door was locked from the
inside. The other door, communicating with dressing-room
[Room 5] had a chest of drawers pushed right up against it
from the inside. This showed the impossibility, therefore, of the
locking having been done by a human agent. Once more we
sought admission by means of prayer. But door was still found
locked. We went into the Ghapel [over porch] and while we were
there, a terrifie noise started up in the hall, which we found was
due to the cat having its claw caught in the rat trap.2 When we
returned to the Chapel, we found a key lying on the corner of the
altar. This turned out to be the key belonging to the door
between our bedroom and dressing-room.
We receive offer from Marks Tey spiritualist circle to rid the
house of ghosts for us. They corne and talk it over.
January 23-24. Finally the spiritualists corne with a medium
on January 23, and suggest spending the next night in the house.
Directly they came, throwing began, so I suggest their spending
that night, instead of the next, in the house. They go to get other
members of the circle, leaving medium with us. Great démon­
strations ! Bottles dashed down back stairs ; kitchen passage was
strewn with broken glass, etc. ; bells rang. Quieted down for a
time, but racket started again when rest of circle returned.
1 Mr. Foyster does not give details of this occurrence, but it is fully recorded
by Dom Richard Whitehouse, pages 97-99.
2 I hâve never seen any indications of rats. H.P.
THE FOYSTERS MOVE OUT 83
l’nrty stayed until 5 a.m., and then left with the belief that
trouble had been arrested. Next morning the house was entirely
different and (with two exceptions noted below) démonstrations
dcfinitely stopped until 1935.
May. Some members of the Marks Tey spiritualist circle corne
over one afternoon. According to what they say were orders
(rom ‘the other side,’ we sit in the study with room darkened
and gramophone playing. Marianne, who was not at ail well
that day, goes off into deep sleep from which she awakens very
much better. Just after this a stone is thrown down back stairs,
while friend and I are passing along kitchen passage. Spiritualists
attribute this to ‘a little spare power floating around unused.’
June. One evening two objects were thrown. On writing to
inform spiritualist circle, they reply that they were told there
might be some trouble in June, but that things would be quiet
alterwards. They corne over on three or four evenings during
this month. At one of these séances, while we are sitting in the
study, the spirit of well-known psychic researcher is seen by one
of the spiritualists, but by no one else.
June 1933. One evening I hear strange noises in the house
that I cannot account for, but nothing further follows.
1935. Some indications of a little trouble starting up again.
A few things disappear in unaccountable ways.
August 5. Bank Holiday. Marianne, Adelaide, self, and
friend were having tea on the study véranda when noises, like a
picture falling in the drawing-room, were heard. However,
investigation revealed nothing out of place. These noises con-
tinued at intervals, some appearing to corne from upstairs.
Altogether, we heard the bangs thirteen or fourteen times.
October. We moved out of the house.
The cause of Mr. Foyster’s leaving the Rectory was not
the ghosts, but ill-health. He is now living in retirement.
From some correspondence with Mr. Foyster we learned
that the phenomena occurred both by daylight and lamp-
light. The Rector was never seriously hurt, but his wife was.
The most severe period of frightfulness began in February
1931, and persisted until January 1932. June was un-
doubtedly the worst month of the year, and June 8, 1931
(the day before the anniversary of Harry Bull’s death) was
probably the worst day. During Church festivals the mani-
8 4 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
fcstations died down. Sunday was usually the quietest day
of thc week, and Monday the worst.
Neither Mr. nor Mrs. Foyster felt frightened during the
whole period of their résidence at the Rectory. If they
reccived any ‘impressions’ at ail, it was in the room [No. 3]
over the kitchen.
Mr. Foyster thinks that phenomena are more numerous
and more violent when a person possessing some psychic
faculty is in the house. Mrs. Foyster cornes from a psychic
family.
Although the extracts from Mr. Foyster’s diary quoted
in this chapter give some idea of the exciting times experi-
enced in the Rectory, properly to appreciate how strange
their adventures were, his complété and detailed record of
some 180 typed sheets should be studied. The Curé d’Ars,
whose relie was used by Mr. Foyster, was Jean Baptiste
Vianney (1786-1859). Fie led a life of extreme piety, and
built homes for destitute children and friendless women.
He preached that every good thing could be obtained by
faith and prayer, and practised what he preached. Ars, a
village near Villefranche (France), is now a pilgrim resort.
The village church is built over the tomb of the good Curé.
CHAPTER XIV
PERSONAL EXPERIENCES OF SIR GEORGE
AND LA D Y W HITEHOUSE
I
N Mr. Foyster’s diary the names of Sir George and
Lady Whitehouse are frequently mentioned. Their home,
Arthur Hall, Sudbury, is something over a mile from
Borley Rectory. For many years they were friendly with the
Bull Family and, successively, with the various occupants of
the Rectory.
When I heard that they had had personal expérience
of the manifestations at the Rectory, Mr. Glanville and I
callcd on Lady Whitehouse only to learn, with regret, that
Sir George had passed away. Our visit was on Wedncsday,
March 29, 1939.
Lady Whitehouse received us very kindly and told us sonie
of the curious things she and her husband had witncssed at
the Rectory. As both she and Mr. Foyster record, things
were so bad there— and appeared so dangerous— that Lady
Whitehouse insisted upon the Foysters leaving their home
for a little peace and quietness at Arthur Hall.
Richard Whitehouse is Lady Whitehouse’s nephew, and
Lis report is printed as Chapter X V of this monograph.
Lady Whitehouse promised to epitomize her expériences
in a short protocol and she was as good as her word. In a
letter dated April 2, 1939, she says: ‘ Herewith an account
of our personal expériences at Borley. They seemed very
thrilling and exciting at the time, but in the light of later
happenings, fade almost into insignifiance. But I do feel
rutiler pleased that we never questioned the truth of what
Mr. Bull and Mr. Foyster told us, and I think our sympathy
was a great help to the Foysters.’
85
86 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
Flere, then, is Lady Whitehouse’s story, in her own words :
L a d y W h it e h o u s e ’s S t o r y
Though we had often heard from Mr. Harry Bull of the
nun and the headless man, and knew that Mr. Smith and
his wife had been obliged to leave the Rectory owing to
unpleasant expériences;1 and had heard a great deal from
Mr. Foyster during the winter of 1931 of the terrible times
he and Mrs. Foyster were having, it was not till May 4,
1931, that we had any personal manifestation of the powers
at the Rectory. We went up to the Rectory on that date
to meet the Rural Dean on some church matters, and, after
he left, Mrs. Foyster asked me to corne out to the kitchen to
see what they had to put up with. The contents of the cup-
board were strewn ail over the place. While we were talking
and wondering what could be the cause, my. husband and
Mr. Foyster joined us and then the row of bells began
ringing and Mrs. Foyster said ‘ We are in for a bad time
to-night. It generally starts like that.’
As we knew they were even more troubled by the unbelief
in the neighbourhood than by the actual happenings, we
offered to go up after dinner and see them through the
evening. We arrived there about 9 o’clock. Besides Mr. and
Mrs. Foyster, there were only two small children of three
years old in the house, and they were both in bed and
asleep. We sat in the kitchen and listened to the Foysters’
weird expériences and Mr. Foyster showed us scraps of paper
with mysterious writing on them, asking ‘ Marianne’ (Mrs.
Foyster) for help. They had been left about ail over the
house.
After a time, Mr. Foyster and my husband started to
make a tour of the house and came back in a few minutes
to say there was a strange smell, and went out again, only
to return saying it was much stronger. So Mrs. Foyster and
I went out and she at once said ‘ It is a fire,’ and picked up
the lamp and we followed her upstairs and along the
1 The unpleasant expériences were due to the lack of amenities, rather than
to the présence of the Poltergeisler. H.P.
A T T E M P T T O B U R N T H E R E G T O R Y 8 7
passage to the right, where there was a strong smell of
burning. Mrs. Foyster started unlocking doors and, at the
third, clouds of smoke came out and we saw that a strip
of skirting board was charred, and there was a glowing
hole in the middle. We set off for the bathroom at the far
end of the opposite passage, filled jugs with water and came
back and poured them on to the glowing woodwork. We
were standing watching to see if the fire was thoroughly
out, when a flint about the size of a hen’s egg fell between
us: the window was shut and there were no holes in the
ceiling. My husband picked it up and put it in his pocket,
and being satisfied that the fire was out, we went down-
stairs. On the way, two more flints fell, one hitting Mr.
Foyster on the shoulder, but not with any force. We got
back to the kitchen and discussed what to do next.
I had brought with us a lot of dried lavender, and as the
Foysters said that sometimes incense and sweet smells
quietened things, I took the kitchen shovel with some glowing
embers and scattered some of the lavender on them and
Mr. Foyster and I started to fumigate the house. I thought
I would give their bedroom a thorough doing, and had just
walked slowly round the bed when there was a shower of
little stones ail round us. So we went back to the kitchen
and my husband and Mr. Foyster went out to inspect the
backyard, and the place under the room where we had
seen the fire. It was full of papers and packing cases, but
no sign of fire, only the water down the wall which we had
poured on the fire. As they came in, a large flint came down
the stairs by the back door. Then the bells started to ring
again and we decided it was quite unfit for anyone to spend
the night there and packed the whole party into our two-
seater and brought them down to Arthur Hall. It was then
11.30 p.m. They stayed for a few days and then bravely
went back.
My second expérience was in the summer. A nephew1
was staying with us who was very interested, and one morn-
1 Dom Richard Whitehouse, O.S.B.
8 8 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
ing1 about u o’clock a message came for him from Mr.
Foyster, who said: ‘ If you want to see things, corne at once.’
My nephew returned about 3 p.m., saying: ‘Auntie, you
must go and rescue those poor people. They are having a
most ghastly time!’ So we went up at once. As I opened
the front door, I could hear things falling, and the two little
children were crouching at the dining-room door, saying:
‘ We don’t like so many fings falling.’
I went straight up to Mrs. Foyster, who was in bed, ill,
and told her they must corne away again. After a little
persuasion, she agreed and I put my gloves and parasol
on her bed and went to collect some clothes for her and the
children. As I left the room, she called after me : ‘ Your things
are going !’ I went back to fmd my gloves and parasol
on the dressing-table. I then went to get her a cup of tea and,
as I came back, a small glass bottle seemed to start from the
middle of the room, and fell at my feet.
Next time I left the room, I heard a yell and found
Mrs. Foyster lying on the floor, the third time she had been
thrown out of bed that day. I made her as comfortable as I
could, and soon had her and the children in the car and
down at Arthur Hall again.
After that, though things were very active and horrible,
we had no more expériences though we were often at the
Rectory.
It will be noted that Lady Whitehouse’s testimony con-
firms the statements recorded in Mr. Foyster’s diary, and
the incidents referred to by Dom Richard Whitehouse,
O.S.B., whose moving story of his expériences at the Rectory
form the subject of the next chapter.
1June 8, 1931.
CHAPTER XV
W HAT I SAW A T BO R LEY R E C T O R Y
B y D o m R ic h a r d W h it e h o u s e , o .s.b .
[Dom Richard Whitehouse is a nephew of Lady Whitehouse and,
as he reveals in his narrative, has been in the closest touch witk
Mr. and Mrs. Foyster, the Rectory, and the manifestations. His
MS. is printedjust as received. H.P.]
I
N the latter part of May 1931, I received a letter from
a relative [Lady Whitehouse] in Suffolk, describing some
unusuaî occurrences that she and her husband had
witnessed in what has now corne to be known as the ‘ most
haunted house in England.’ As I was in need of a holiday,
I decided to pay them a visit and took the opportunity of
discussing the subject of Poltergeister with a well-known
Catholic authority1 before leaving London. He seemed
impressed by the evidence contained in the letter and asked
me to let him know the outcome of my proposed visit to
the Rectory. I had known this place since boyhood, and ail
its inmates (Captain Gregson excepted) I hâve got to know
at some time since 1912.
It was, therefore, not surprising that I should hâve felt
some eagerness to visit the place again. As I was also
contemplating giving up my work in London to try my
vocation as a priest, I realized that I would hâve some
months of comparative leisure ahead of me before circum-
stances would enable me to embark upon my future work.
1 The lateFather Herbert Thurston, S.J. He died November 3, 1939, aged 82.
He was particularly interested in Poltergeister. Almost the last words he wrote
(see the Month, November, 1939), were to the effect that he was sorry that
he had not heard the full story of the Borley mystery. H.P.
89
go T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
The kindness of the Rev. Lionel Foyster and his wife
made it possible for me to pay something like thirty visits
to Borley Rectory between June and December 1931. The
results of these visits I shall endeavour to describe as accur-
ately as possible in the course of the following account.
My first visit to Borley Rectory during the period in
question was on Saturday, June 6, 1931. I was introduced
to Mr. and Mrs. Foyster and was then told something of the
happenings in the house. There was no disturbance of any
kind that evening, so I returned to Sudbury. On Monday
morning, June 8, a boy brought a note down from Borley,
asking me to go up to the Rectory at once. I hurried off
and was met by Mr. Foyster at the front door. He invited
me in, waving his hand in the direction of the hall in a way
that suggested that this was not the first time that such
things had happened.
The scene that confronted me was one of extreme disorder.
Almost the entire contents of a bedroom, adjoining the Blue
Room and overlooking the lawn, were scattered on the main
staircase and lower floor. Shoes, bedclothes, brushes, clothes
of ail kinds and other odds and ends were lying about the
place higgledy-piggledy. I was made to understand that
there had been a loud noise and in a very short space of time
the things before me had been precipitated from the bedroom
in an unaccountable manner.
Needless to say, I was not going to allow this reported
incident to weigh one way or the other with me. I took note
of the situation, however, and while standing on the lower
flight of steps opposite the study, I engaged Mr. Foyster in
conversation. From this point of vantage I was able to watch
both floors fairly well. Mr. Foyster then told me that the
doctor had been in that morning to see his wife and had had
things thrown at him. This I verified later.
While standing here, barely five minutes after my entrance
into the house, my attention was suddenly diverted by
hearing something drop at my feet. It proved to be a small
case, apparently made to hold a watch. A minute or two
T H E F L I G H T OF A S T I L E T T O g i
later another object fell in the same manner. On picking
it up and examining it, I found it to be a small métal
book-rest with a picture of Abraham Lincoln engraved
upon it. Both objects seem to hâve corne from the direction
of the upper landing and were recognized as household
belongings. I paid no further attention to this incident.
Mr. Foyster then took me upstairs to see his wife who was
lying ill in bed in Room 7, looking, I thought, pale and
anxious.
She was lying on her back, her hands under the bed-
clothes, which were drawn up near her neck. Her voice
was rather weak and in order to hear her speak I sat at the
end of the bed on the side nearest the door. Mr. Foyster
then asked me if I would mind remaining with her for a
short time while he siipped across the road to the Church.
I could see ail round the room, which had very little furni-
ture, and there were Windows at my back and one to my
left, ail the latter a good distance from the bed, which had
its back to the door and was only a few feet from it.
I changed over to the opposite end of the bed, keeping my
eyes on Mrs. Foyster, who was still lying on her back with
her hands well under the bed-clothes. We had been talking
for perhaps ten minutes when I suddenly saw her start.
At the same time, I felt something land lightly on my lap,
coming apparently from behind me. I took hold of the
object. It was a brass stiletto about eight or nine inches in
length and weighing, I should imagine, not much less than
eight ounces. I was told that it was a paper knife belonging
to Mr. Foyster and was always kept in the study below.
Mrs. Foyster was still lying in the same position, her hands
under the bed-clothes, a point I particularly noticed. I felt
certain that by no possible means could she hâve got the
object on to my lap without my detecting it. When I asked
her why she started, she said that she saw the stiletto rise
up from the floor behind me and then do one or two curious
convolutions in the air before settling on my lap. I had no
reason to doubt the statement, for I felt sure that it could
92 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
not possibly havc been thrown from the Windows or through
(lie door without hurting me and there was something so
spontancous and genuinc in the alarm which showed itself
on Mrs. Foyster’s face, that I could not possibly believe she
had ‘ manufactured ’ the incident. That anybody could
hâve been hiding in the room or under the bed was out of
the question. I concluded that the object had been levi-
tated on to my lap in a supernormal manner and knowing
the extent to which these incidents were upsetting the house-
hold, I asked. if I might recite the Rosary and sprinlde this
and other rooms with holy water, believing this might hâve
some effect in stopping the phenomena.
Mrs. Foyster raised no objection and joined in the prayers.
I had hardly finished doing this when I heard the front door
open, and guessing it was Mr. Foyster, I moved out to the
landing to greet him. I had only just begun to descend the
staircase when I heard a piercing shriek and rushed back to
find Mrs. Foyster lying face downwards on the floor with
the bed-clothes and mattress on top of lier. The whole
thing must hâve happened in an instant, for I am quick on
my feet and I was no distance from the room when the
incident occurred. I lifted off the mattress and after a
couple of minutes Mr. Foyster and I raised her back into
bed. She looked very shaken and when able to get her
breath, said in reply to my question, that she had felt the
bed tilted and herself pushed out by something which, at
the same time, gave her a blow in the body.
Shortly after, I noticed something fly across the room,
which, on picking up, I found to be a small vanity case
belonging to Mrs. Foyster. It came from a part of the room
where nobody was standing and which was quite bare. So
much for this morning’s expériences. I then left the house
and went home to lunch.
It is perhaps worth recording that to-day, June 8, was
the fifth anniversary1 of the Rev. H. Bull’s death in the Blue
Room, the room, in fact, alongside which I hadjust witnessed
1 Mr. Harry Bull died on June g, 1927. H.P.
MRS . F O Y S T E R T F I R O W N O U T O F B E D 93
such startling phenomena. I hâve sometimes wondered
whether there was some unknown circumstance connected
with his life or death which is an exciting cause of the
phenomena. So far as I know, nothing in the nature of
what is commonly termed Potlcrgeist phenomena occurred
until after his decease. Mr. Harry Bull and other members
of his family oftcn declared they had seen ghosts, but such
manifestations can hardly be classed in the same category
as the more violent and concrète phenomena of a later date.
I returned in the afternoon to hear that Mrs. Foyster had
again been thrown out of the bed. In her weak State it
seemed inadvisable for her to remain at the Rectory, so my
aunt motored up at about five p.m. and took the family
down to Sudbury, where they remained with us until
Tuesday week. The Foysters had no servant at this period,
but there were two small children of three, a boy and a girl,
living in the Rectory. Fortunately, they were seldom
molested.
During the next nine days wliile the place was vacant,
I paid frequent visits to Borley, examining rooms, rafters
and every corner of the house. We found Mrs. Foyster’s
Christian name ‘ Marianne’ pencilled up on walls in the
kind of scrawl which characterized this writing, as also on
bits of newspaper which were lying about on the ground
floor. In some cases there was ‘please help’ added.
In my notes I hâve recorded the fact that on one of our
visits w&found a bed overturned. These observations, I repeat,
were made during the period when the house was empty.
The Foysters had now been in the house something like
nine months and there was little sign of the manifestations
abating. I suggested making a Novena1 to ask for spécial
guidance. We therefore récited the Rosary each day for
nine days, asking our Lord and the Blessed Virgin to assist
us. On the last day of the Novena, which was Tuesday,
June 16, Mrs. Foyster and I walked up to the Rectory from
1 A dévotion consisting of a prayer said on nine successive days, asking for
some spécial blessing. H.P.
94 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
Sudbury. We found some fresh writing on the wall in the
kitchen passage, making the same appeal to Mrs. Foyster
for hclp.
We then walked upstairs together and began to recite the
last Rosary of the Novena on the upper landing, near, but
not quite inside the small room overlooking the front
entrance, a room which Mrs. Foyster had converted into a
small chapel.
About half-way through the prayers a curious thing hap-
pened. The two of us became simultaneously aware of a
presence near us. I am now only stating what both of us
felt. If people conclude that this was a purely subjective
expérience, having no objective reality, I cannot possibly
contradict them. Ail I can say is that that is what I felt.
Mrs. Foyster seemed a bit perturbed, so I told her not to
worry and continued the Rosary to the end. Neither of us
could see or hear anything, although the presence seemed to
be behind Mrs. Foyster and near Room 7.
The Novena over, Mrs. Foyster walked back towards
Room 7 to investigate and I thought I would look at the
walls downstairs. I returned a couple of minutes later and
Mrs. Foyster joined me on the landing. We compared notes,
but neither of us had anything to report. Happening to turn
my eyes towards a bit of wall that jutted out from the
landing, a point directly opposite where we had been
kneeling, I was surprised to notice a fresh bit of writing on
an otherwise clean bit of wall. The message, which was
scribbled in pencil, but quite legible, ran as follows: !Get
light mass and prayers. M .’ 1 Corning at the very end of a
Novena asking for guidance, it did not fail to cause me some
astonishment. I should like to say that neither then nor at
any other time did I ever make any attempt of any kind
whatsoever to get into communication with spirits or with
whatever might be causing the manifestations; nor did I
in the least anticipate receiving a message of this kind and
in this way. One might argue that an individual concealed
1 See page 147.
A N A N S W E R T O A P R A Y E R 95
in one of the rooms could hâve written it or, for that matter,
that Mrs. Foyster or I had done so. To which I can only
reply that, so far as I know, this was not the case. I was
sorry afterwards that I did not hâve the writing photo-
graphed.1
The nature of the message perplexed me for I had had
several Masses offcred in connection with this house and
prayers had been asked for in several quarters. I hardly
knew what to make of the situation, so Mrs. Foyster and I
again knelt down and, addressing the Holy Trinity, I asked
where, if the message were genuine, the Mass was to be
offered. We then walked away, both of us pondering over
the strange occurrence.
A little later on, returning to the spot, the word ‘ here’
was written up quite clearly under the other writing. Not
knowing what to make of this, I referred the matter to a
Catholic priest. He was non-committal about it and gave
no particular encouragement to my request that a Mass
should be said in the house. Had I known at that dme that
certain priests, enjoying the privilège of a portable altar,
could say Mass in a private house, I might hâve pushed the
matter further. As it was, I let the matter drop and to my
knowledge no Mass has ever been said in the house by a
Roman Catholic priest. The place is now burnt down.
There has recently been some correspondence in The
Times2 regarding the manifestations at Borley. I should
like to say that I agréé with Dr. Letitia Fairfield in so far as
she maintains the point that there is no historical evidence
for the story of the walled-up nun and the lay brother, a
story that, furthermore, has nothing approaching contem-
porary evidence to recommend it and which obviously
sprang up after people began to see ghosts in the locality, a
matter of sixty years or so at the most. The bricked-up nun
story, I suggest, has been concocted by the local imagination
to supply a due to the ghostly appearances of more recent
times, but the proofs for supernormal phenomena do not
1 This was.done later. See pages 146,14g, 151. H.P. 2See ante, pages 28-30.
g6 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
rest upon any évidence connected with ghostly appearances,
even though one lias every reason to believe the phantasms
are genuine phenomena.
The foilowing translation from the Latin, an extract from
Dugdale’s Alonasticon Anglicamm (8 vols.) may be of interest
to those who, like myself, seek to know whether a monastery
ever existed at Borley : ‘ Edward III in the 36th year of his
reign gave to the Prior and community of Christ Church,
Canterbury, the Manor of Borley in the county of Essex in
exchange for the customs and revenues together with ail the
rights which the said Prior and Community could in any
way hâve in the town and port of Sandwich . . etc.
A later entry in the time of Henry V III gives a certificate
of valuation of Borley Manor amounting to £32 14.1. 4d.
There is thus definite evidence that Borley Manor, wherever
that may hâve been situated, became the property of
Bénédictine monks in the fourteenth century.
Shortly after the events described above, I returned to
London where I remained for some time. On my return,
I witnessed further phenomena. On one occasion, that I can
clcarly recall, the Foysters and myself went upstairs and
became aware of a smell of smoke. We looked around and,
opening the door of a room adjacent to the children’s bed-
room, were surprised to see smoke issuing from the skirting-
board. This room was quite bare and was never used. The
door was usually kept locked, though whether it was locked
on this occasion, is a detail I cannot recall. There was a
hole about the size of a child’s fist burnt into the skirting-
board and I was able to pull out some fluff and other
material which seemed to hâve been pushed into the aper-
ture. There was no sign of a flame. The room was No. 5.
I was often a witness of the door-locking incidents. It
made no différence whether you were inside or outside the
room. The doors would lock and unlock themselves quite
regardless of your convenience and in a manner for which
none of us could account.1 This sometimes happened to
1 See Mr. Kerr-Pearse’s expérience, page 210.
‘ r i n g o u t , w i l d b e l l s ’ 97
several doors at once, the keys often being removed quite
unexpectedly and as suddenly reappearing. This latter
phenomenon was often repeated with other objects, such as
kitchen utensils, etc.
Supernormal bell-ringing, a common feature of the Borley
manifestations, was another type of phenomenon we often
witnessed and, still more often, heard. More than once
I hâve stood in the kitchen passage and watched the bells
moving to and fro, the only people in the house often standing
alongside of me, witnessing the same performance. The
wires of these old-fashioned pull bells had ail been eut in
the Rev. G. E. Smith’s time, as Mr. Price and others will
testify. Mr. Smith was the first tenant to occupy the house
after Mr. Harry Bull’s death.
On other occasions, the large bell in the yard used to ring
out. There was no rope attached to it and as it was high
up, in an angle of the yard,1 I hardly knew how anybody
could hâve rung it in the daytime, without my seeing the
person climbing in or out of a window. After watching
these and similar manifestations over a space of six months,
I must confess that I, personally, never had any occasion to
suspect any member of the household of producing pheno-
mena artificially or fraudulently. Books in Mr. Foyster’s
study were often tampered with, and on one or two occasions,
we had to replace quite a number of volumes which had been
flung out of the shelves.
One of the most startling sériés of phenomena I ever
witnessed was on Friday, November 13. Mr. Foyster was
obliged to go up to London on business and had asked me
to stay up at the Rectory until his return late that evening.
I came up to Borley about 5.30 p.m., my arrivai being
greeted with a loud peal of bells in the kitchen passage. This
generally heralded the outbreak of further manifestations, so
we decided to put the children to bed and take refuge in the
kitchen, where we could spend the evening and hâve our
supper without being obliged to move about from room to
1 See photograph, Plate II.
H
g 8 T H E MOS T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
room. Therc was a young maid called Katie living in the
house at that time who, together with Mrs. Foyster and
myself, witnessed thc incidents I am about to describe.
Mrs. Foyster was sitting in a small easy-chair in one
corner of the kitchen. The Windows and both doors were
closed. Without warning of any kind, there was a sudden
crash right underneath her chair, a bottle bursting into
fragments on the stone floor beneath her. A quarter of an
hour or so later, precisely the same thing happened to me,
as I was drawing up a small chair to sit down to my supper.
Katie was kept busy sweeping up the broken glass and
looked quite mystified, having been in the house only a week
or so. Shortly after this, ail three of us witnessed another
extraordinary incident. We were standing in a row with our
backs to the lire, talking and looking out towards the
window. Suddenly, before our very eyes, a bottle poised
itself in mid-air within a foot or so of the kitchen ceiling.
It remained here for a second or two and then fell with a
crash on the floor before us. I repeat that ail three of us
witnessed this incident.
This was followed by another curious occurrence. One
of the kitchen doors, which was now just ajar, adjoined a
staircase leading up to the servants’ quarters. We heard a
noise that seemed to corne from the top of these stairs, as if
something was walking slowly down the steps towards us.
We waited. The, step got quicker and through the open
door a bottle rolled into the room, circling round the floor,
without breaking. There was nobody visible on the stairs
or in the servants’ quarters, which I examined carefully.
A few other objccts were thrown about and I can remember
a small bit of china striking my shoulder as I walked across
the kitchen floor. We had two lamps in use at the time.
I had, unfortunately, forgotten to bring along my large
electric torch.
Meanwhile, other phenomena began to occur outside the
kitchen. The bells in the passage were ringing again and
once or twice the large bell in the yard rang out sharply.
A R E L I C Q_U I E T E N S T H E B E L L S 99
I watched the pull bells on this occasion for quite a long
time. I had noticed that on some occasions when I touched
the bells and locked doors with the relie of St. John Vianney,
the Curé of Ars, the phenomena ceased, but this did not
always happen at once, and I must acknowledge that,
although manifestations seldom, if ever, occurred during
the récital of prayers, they invariably broke out soon after-
wards and usually with greater violence.
This confirms the opinion of a Catholic priest whom I
had consulted in the matter. He had recommended me to
say prayers and use holy water, but had added that in nearly
ail the recorded cases of Poltergeist phenomena, the mani­
festations had continued in spite of these measures. There
is one Indian case recorded, however, where a Novena to
St. Joseph ended the manifestations, but I hâve never read
of a case where Mass has been said in the house actually
disturbed by such phenomena.
Mr. Foyster was due back at Borley about 9.30 p.m., but
owing to a bad fog, the train was very late. I was just
beginning to hope I should soon be able to go home, when
Mrs. Foyster said that she was tired and wanted to go
upstairs to bed. It was now 11 p.m. Leaving Katie in the
kitchen with one of the lamps, Mrs. Foyster and I moved
off in the direction of the main staircase. She was carrying
the second lamp. We had only mounted a few steps when
the wick began to flicker. Looking at Mrs. Foyster, I noticed
that she was staggering. I was just able to grasp the
lamp in time. This went out, leaving us in complété dark-
ness. I put the lamp down as carefully as I could on the
staircase and lifting Mrs. Foyster up into my arms— she
had quite collapsed— I felt my way as best I could to the
top of the landing, where I laid her down outside one of
the bedrooms. To my intense relief, I then heard the front
door open. I called out to Mr. Foyster, who rcplicd, and
after briefly explaining what had happened, 1 left for
Sudbury, very glad for once to be out of this extraordinary
house.
100 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
On December 14, the day before I left for Sandringham,
on my way to Sheringham, in Norfolk, to see the Rev. G. E.
Smith and his wife in connection with their own expériences
at Borley in the early part of 19 2 9 , I witnessed further
phenomena at the Rectory. Mr. Foyster was ill in bed,
suffering from rheumatism. He was in the Blue Room,
the one which overlooks the lawn. Mrs. Foyster was standing
on one side of the bed, the side nearest the door, and I
was standing with my back to the window quite seven or
eight feet from either of them. A tumbler of the fragile
kind, usually to be found on any dinner table, suddenly
dropped near my feet, circling round me and coming to
rest without breaking. This certainly could not hâve
been thrown by the Foysters without damaging the
glass.
A loud noise on the ground floor, which sounded like
somebody jumping and stamping in the kitchen passage,
followed soon after the tumbler incident. There was nobody
in the house besides us three, who were ail together upstairs.
On going down below, I found a jam-jar reposing outside
Mr. Foyster’s study [i.e., the Base Room of later date] and
a small tin case, which nobody recognized, lying on the
floor. I hâve also recorded in my notes that there were two
glass bottles found broken in the kitchen passage. The bottle
phenomena were frequent at this period and bottles were
often found lying-about in odd places.
The last incident I recorded was on December 3 1 , 1 9 3 1 .
Mr. Foyster was in the study lying back in an arm-chair.
He asked for his medicine which his wife went off to fetch.
I was in the study at the time, and on her return heard her
make an unflattering remark about ‘ the beastly things’
which had removed the medicine. This form of practical
joke had become as wearisome as it was annoying. Without
thinking, I replied ‘ Perhaps if you speak nicely, they’ll
return.’ An hour or so later, near the level Crossing on the
way back to Sudbury, I put on my coat. The bottle of pills
was reposing in one of the pockets ! It is not necessary to add
A P S Y C H I C P R A G T I C A L J O K E 101
that this incident,1 in itself, is no proof of the supernormal,
but when one is not acting in the strictly scientific capacity
of a psychical research investigator, one does not feel obliged
to regard everybody in the house, at every moment of the
day, as a potential trickster. I had seen more than enough
to convince me that the phenomena at Borley Rectory were
preternatural and I agréé with Mr. Price in asserting that
this place, which is now a ruin, was once the most haunted
house in England.
In conclusion, as a contributor to this book, there is one
issue I should like to make clear. Although I am ready to
accept the findings of Mr. Price and his colleagues regarding
the manifestations, I should like it known that I do not
thereby identify myself with any théories which he and others
may put forward in this book to account for the phenomena.
I say this because I hâve not had the advantage of reading
the MS. of his book and wish to safeguard my frecdom of
viewf on the matter.
(Signed) D om R ic h a r d W h it e h o u s e , O.S.B.
1 Compare a similar incident that occurred to Dr. R. J. Tillyard, F.R.S.,
in his experiments with Eleonore Zugun : Proc., Nat. Lab. of Psychical Research,
Vol. I, Part i, London, 1927.
CHAPTER XVI
‘A R E C T O R Y FOR SALE— CEIEAP’
W
ITH the departurc of the Rev. L. A. Foyster
from ‘ the most haunted house,’ in October 1935,
Borley Rectory was destined never again to house
another parson under its not too friendly roof.
I kept contact with Borley during the years 1935-6-7 and
heard that the villagers occasionally saw the ‘ strange light’
in Room No. 7, though the place was empty and deserted.
Also, the rumble of an invisible coach and the clatter of
phantasmal horses sometimes frightened the rustic on his
homeward path along that stretch of hollow road between
the two Rectory gates. The inhabitants wondered what
would become of the strange building.
As a matter of fact, during the months that followed Mr.
Foyster’s retirement, Queen Anne’s Bounty was trying its
hardest to sell the Rectory, or even let it. Ten years pre-
viously, during the Rev. G. E. Smith’s time, the house was
also up for sale. I was told that I could buy the Rectory
‘for a song.’
When I heard of the persistent efforts to sell the Rectory,
I decided that I would make some inquiries as to the possi-
bility of acquiring the place. Not only did I wish to make a
prolonged investigation there, but the thought occurred to
me that the house might become a sort of permanent
‘ psychic trust ’ where researchers could spend a week or two
when they felt so inclined, making experiments or trying new
control apparatus.
I was even approached by a man who wanted to ‘go
halves’ with me in buying the Rectory with the idea of
turning it into a sort of ‘ Home of Rest for Decayed Médiums,’
102
m é d i u m s ’ h o m e o f r e s t 103
with board and lodging at so much a week, ‘ phenomena
included.’ I pointed out that such a project would cost a
fortune in order to make the place comfortable and furnish
it properly. And what housekeeper would stay in the
building for more than a couple of nights? As an example
of what it would cost to furnish, Mr. Glanville once worked
out how much cheap linoléum it would take to cover the
rooms and passages. I forget how many square yards—-
or acres—-would be required, but I remember that this fioor
covering alone would cost £80. So I turned down the
‘ Home of Rest’ idea.
But I was still anxious to control the place in order to
make some independent observations, so I decided I would
at least rent the Rectory, if possible. My idea was not only
to eliminate myself from the proposed scientific inquiry, but
also to exclude from the investigation anyone connectée! in
any way with the Bulls, the Smiths, or the Foysters. I wanted
first-hand information and evidence from intelligent and
competent persons whom I did not know, and who were
in no way connected with any previous occupant of the
Rectory. That is really why I wished to rent the house.
So my next move was to write to Miss Ethel Bull, asking
for the name of the proper person to w'hom I should apply
for particulars. In her reply (dated May 4, 1937) she sug-
gested my writing to the Rev. A. C. Henning, the new Rector
of Borley, who was living at Liston Rectory. By this time,
the livings of Borley and Liston had been amalgamated.
So I wrote to Mr. Henning and in his reply (May 7, 1937)
he not only expressed his willingness to lease me the Rectory
for an unspecified period, but very kindly invited me to
lunch to talk the matter over, and said he would meet me at
0
Sudbury Station with his car.
The lunch was arranged for Wednesday, May 19, 1937,
and, to the minute, Mr. Henning was waiting for me at
Sudbury. As I stepped from the train and grasped his hand,
a new and exciting chapter in the Borley mystery was
inaugurated.
104 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
The contrast between the ‘ atmosphère’ of Liston Rectory
and that of the ‘ haunted house’ was striking in the extreme.
As Mr. Henning showed me over his warm, cosy, convenient,
and comfortable home, presided over by his charming wife,
I could not help comparing it with the deathly coldness of
Borley Rectory. We visited the latter during the afternoon,
and it was like going out of the sunshine into a mausoleum.
During lunch I heard the latest news of Borley Rectory.
The situation was that the ecclesiastical authorities had
decided that the place was ‘ unsuitable’ ( !) for a Rector to
live in; was too large for the modem ‘ small family’ likely
to résidé there; was too expensive and difficult to manage
unless a Rector had private means to augment his stipend ;
that it was almost impossible to get servants; and that the
place had had far too much publicity during recent years.
As regards publicity, during the occupancy of Mr. Smith,
regular motor-coach excursions, ‘ to see the ghost,’ were run
from Chelmsford, Colchester, Bury St. Edmonds and other
local centres. A résident told me that there were so many
headlights and hand-torches going full blast in the lanes
round the Rectory one Saturday evening, that it reminded
him of the Great White Way!
I then asked Mr. Henning what he thought would be a
fair price for me to pay as regards rent. He said he would
lcave it to me. I hardly knew what price to put on the place.
I realized there would be some expenditure in the way of
furnishing at least one room for my observers. Then there
would be travelling expenses, and so on. I thought for a
moment and suggested £30 a year. Mr. Henning said that
this sum was quite satisfactory and added that he would
pay the rates. This was very generous of.him.
After lunch, my host drove me over to Borley— some two
miles away— and opened up the Rectory for my inspection.
The keys were in charge of Mr. L. Arbon who, with his
wife, occupied the cottage, for which they paid a small rent.
Mr. Arbon was a steam-roller driver and not at ail interesfed
in ‘ ghosts.’ His work took him away from home for long
T H E S O U N D L E S S R E C T O R Y IO5
periods. I asked him whether his wife was at ali nervous
when in their cottage at night by herself, but he said :No.’
I wondered whether they had heard Mr. Cooper’s story of
the pattering ‘ dog’ ! I did not enlighten them.
Mr. Henning and I made a minute examination of the
Rectory, opening up ail rooms, looking in the cupboards
and so on. I found the housê just as cold and still as on my
previous visits. I will add by way of parenthesis that Borley
Rectory is the quietest and coldest house I hâve ever been in.
Most houses, both old and new, émit some sounds : crépitation
of the wood; changes of température affecting window-
frames, joists and doors ; air currents through chimneys and
along passages, and so on. But every observer has remarked
upon the stillness and coldness of the Rectory, even in the
dead of night when sounds appear to be much amplified.
That ancient writer on psychic phenomena, Ludvig Lavater
(1527-86), when speaking of watching at midnight, recog-
nized this aurai illusion when he wroted ‘ If a worme which
fretteth wood, or that breadeth in trees chaunce to gnawe
a wall or wainscot, or other tymber, many [investigators]
will judge they heare one softly knocking uppon an andvill
with a sledge.’ In other words, sounds appear much magni-
fied in the still of the night, especially when one is intent
upon listening for them. But if the Rectory was cold and
soundless, it was also the driest house— with the exception
of the cellars— that I hâve ever been in.
During my examination of the Rectory, I discovered
nothing unusual. Mr. Henning had a number of wooden
forms and books stored there, and occasionally a room was
used for some parish meeting. But otherwise, the place was
kept locked and visitors to the house were infrequent. Before
we parted that afternoon, Mr. Henning handed to me the
keys of the place, and in return I gave him a chèque for £15,
six months’ rent of the house in advance. I thus became the
first lay tenant of Borley Rectory since it was built seventy-
four years previously.
1 O f Ghostes and Spirites Walking by Nyght . . . London, 1572.
CIIAPTER X V II
I ACQ U IR E BO RLEY R E C T O R Y
H
AVIN G acquired the haunted Rectory, I considered
how I could best carry out my plan of invcstigating
the alleged— if I can now use such a term— phenomena
that had troubled Borley for fifty years. I reiterate that I
wanted, as far as possible, to eliminate myself and my
friends, and ail previous occupiers, from taking any active
part in my proposed inquiry. I wanted independent evidence
from intelligent, competent, and cultured strangers who were
not spiritualists ; and, if they knew nothing about psychical
research, so much the better.
So I decided I would insert an advertisement in the
Personal Golumn of The Times and this duly appeared on
May 25, 1937. It read:
‘ Haunted House. Responsible persons of leisure and intel­
ligence, intrepid, critical, and unbiassed, are invited to join rota
of observers in a year’s night and day investigation of alleged
haunted house in Home Counties. Printed instructions supplied.
Scientific training or ability to operate simple instruments an
advantage. House situated in lonely hamlet, so own car is
essential. Write Box H.989, The Times, E.C.4.1
The resuit of this advertisement was phénoménal. I anti-
cipated replies from suitable people whose qualifications
conformed to the requirements plainly set out in The Times.
But I was not prepared for the spate of letters that I received
from persons as far removed in the social scale as charwomen
and countesses. Many of these letters were in direct answer
to my advertisement, but some had been sent in by friends
of the writers after the latter had communicated with me
and had already studied my reply. Altogetlier, from first
106
S T R A N G E ‘ I N V E S T I G A T O R S ’ I 0 7
to last, some 200 applications were received, directly or
indirectly, in answcr to my appeal.
Some of the replies sent in were amusing in the extreme ;
some were ironical; some were pathetic. A few ‘ society
women’ and ‘ Mayfair men ’ must hâve written for the ‘jo b ’
out of sheer boredom. One girl candidly admitted that
ghost-hunting would be ‘ a thrill,’ and she was sure she could
‘ get a kick out of it.’ Many of my correspondents hoped to
be paid for their services. One man modestly suggested a
salary of £10 a week as ‘ suitable rémunération.’ Half-pay
army officers offered to investigate ‘free of charge’ if ‘ ail
expenses were paid.’
Then there were the cranks and inventors with machines
to sell— pièces of apparatus guaranteed to detect a ghost a
mile off. Other people had ‘ systems’ that they wished tried
out. And médiums, amateur and professional, wanted to
hold séances in the house, and so did a few Pressmen and
journalists who wrote, scenting some good ‘ copy.’ Exorcisms
and prayers were numerous and one kind old lady— I fancy
she must hâve been old— said she would offer up a prayer
for me if I would tell her the exact times when I should be
in the house. A member of an occult society sent me a piece
of paper in the shape of a pentagram on which were written
some cabalistic characters which, if sewn in my clothing,
would afford ‘ protection’ from evil things. The aforesaid
correspondents, with the many who wished to ‘caretake’
the place, and one or two anonymous writers who showered
abuse on me, made up some 75 per cent of the 200 replies
that I received. Most of these letters were at once consigned
to the waste-paper basket.
But there were others. I received a sprinkling of replies
from the ‘ right’ sort of people: ’varsity graduâtes, scientists,
doctors of medicine, Consulting engineers, army men on the
active list, and so on— ail intelligent, ail educated, ail cul-
tured, ail trained, ail with a scientific interest in the proposed
investigation; and ail willing to give their skill, time and
money in the cause of psychical research. Not that I objected
I
108 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
to paying for services rendered. But that was not the sort
of testimony I required. I did not want to buy phenomena :
I wanted the candid and accurate observations of a number
of intelligent, independent, competent, and disinterested
men as to whether phenomena were still occurring at Borley
Rectory. I selected about forty people of the right type and
I will candidly admit that were it not for the assistance
these gentlemen subsequently gave me, it is very doubtful
whether this monograph would hâve got any farther than
one of my library manuscript cases.
Just by reading a letter and studying its composition I
could pretty well tell whether the writer was a suitable person
to take part in my inquiry. I selected a number of likely
applicants and invited them to call upon me. They were ail
complété strangers to me. Under no circumstances would
I give a person permission to visit the Rectory unless (a) I had
had a personal interview with him; and (é) until he had
signed the Déclaration Form1 which I very carefully drew up.
I had to protect myself against ail sorts of possible con-
tingencies. I had to make sure that observers would carry
out my instructions. I had to be certain that they were not
connected with the Press in any way and would not print or
circulate a prématuré or garbled report of the inquiry.
I had to prevent their taking unauthorized persons (i.e., those
who had not signed the Déclaration Form) to the Rectory.
It was important that I should extract a promise from them
that they would send in a written report of their expériences
— whether good, bad, or indifferent. There were other
minor matters that concerned both them and me, duly set
forth in the Déclaration Form, which should be studied.
In point of fact, as a legal document, I do not think the
Déclaration was worth the paper it was printed on. But it
was a sort of signed ‘gentleman’s agreement,’ and I am
happy to be able to State that in no single instance was my
confidence abused, or agreement violated.
For the first time in the history of psychical research, there
1 See Appendix A.
A G U I D E T O T H E G H O S T S IOQ
was printed a book of instructions, with a blue cover, for the
guidance of those investigating a particular haunted house.
This was the Blue Book1 that I had printed for the purpose
of giving official observers some indication as to their pro­
cedure under certain specified contingencies. It was a sort
of handbook to the ‘ ghosts ’ of Borley Rectory, in addition to
instructions how to deal with them. It was also intended to
indicate what an investigator would need in the way of such
equipment as was not available in the house itself.
Observers were told what to do if they heard paranormal
bell-ringing ; or heard footsteps, raps, or knocks, or saw forms
and apparitions. They were informed where they could get
a good night’s rest when ‘ off duty,’ a square meal, the
location of the nearest ‘ pub,’ and other necessary informa­
tion. A copy of the Blue Book was given to every official
observer, with strict injunctions not to part with it or convey
the information it contained to those who had not signed
the Déclaration Form. The book was considered by the
Monotype Corporation (whose type was used in the printing
of the brochure) to be such a novelty that they asked my
permission to place a copy in their muséum. O f course I
consented.
Having selected my observers, my next task was to visit
the Rectory and make arrangements for such comfort as I
could provide for them.
1See Appendix B.
CH APTER XVIII
WE ESTABLISH O U R BASE R O O M — AND
ARE DISTURBED
O
N June 2, 1937, I motored to Borley. I was accom-
panied by a young Oxford graduate friend of mine
named Ellic Howe. It was my intention to make a
survey of the house with a view to establishing a Base Room
or centre where my official observers could be comfortable,
keep their belongings, write their reports and'— occasionally
■—-take some rest.
We arrived at the Rectory just before 12 noon and I was
not long in deciding that I would choose the study or
library (see Ground Floor Plan) as our Base Room. It was
conveniently situated as regards the hall (where so many
strange occurrences hâve taken place) ; its French Windows
gave easy access to the lawn, summer-house, and Nun’s
Walk ; it was under the Blue Room, focal centre of scores of
phenomena; and it was a large, comfortable sort of place
— if I can possibly use the word ‘ comfortable’ in connection
with Borley— and was equipped with a large number of
shelves which were permanently fixed to the walls.
Having examined ail doors and Windows to satisfy our-
selves that they were securely fastened, we locked the two
front doors, jumped into our car and sped to Sudbury in
order to make the necessary purchases for equipping our
Base Room. Mr. Henning had given me the names of some
tradesmen in Sudbury who could probably supply us with
what we required.
What we purchased was really a camper’s outlit. We
bought a strong métal folding camp bed. with mattress,
pillows and blankets. We bought a powerful brass paraffin
110
mmn
Left :
The Blue Room, focus of ..... h
psychic activity.
Right :
Room 7. A glimpse of the
main staircase can be seen
ihrough the doorway.
Left :
Drawing - room with ornate
mantelpiece composed of inlaid
coloured marble.
PLA TE IV
Right :
Italian mantelpiece in Dining
room, showing marble busts
recalling the monastic site on
vvhich the Rectory is said to
stand.
A M Y S T E R I O U S C O A T I I I
table lamp, a two-gallon can of paraffin, a bottle of methy-
lated spirits, a packet of candies, some matches, and other
odds and ends. Mr. Howe had kindly presented— and had
brought along with him— a spirit kettle, knives, forks, spoons,
plates, cups, glasses, teapot, cleaning materials, glass cloths,
etc., with a supply of tea, sugar, condensed milk and so on.
I had packed in the car about twenty readable books— not
on psychical research!— which, I thought, would interest
observers at the Rectory when they were resting and ‘ off
duty.’
We had some difficulty in packing our purchases in Mr.
Howe’s small saloon car. But we managed it at last and,
after some lunch, went back to the Rectory to set out the
equipment.
Mr. Henning had told me that a large wooden table was
in the house. This we found, and installed it in the Base
Room. Then we discovered some long school forms in the
garage and these, too, we placed in the Base Room. We
erected our bed, arranged the crockery on the shelves, and
made the place a little comfortable, if not exactly home-like.
Some idea of the room can be seen from the photograph,
Plate III.
After we had made the Base Room ship-shape, Mr. Howe
and I began a tour of the Rectory and its many apartments.
We examined every room and cupboard, the cellars and,
with our powerful torches, explored the ‘ attics’ and every
hole and corner in the house. During our tour we ‘ ringed’
with coloured chalks every movable object in the house.
In addition, we placed a number of small objects about the
place: match-box, cigarette carton, and small odds and
ends. These we very carefully and accurately ringed in
order to inform us, or future observers, whether any fo rce-
normal or paranormal— had moved them.
When we came to the Blue Room, we entered and, to my
surprise, saw a long, dirty, mouldy, torn, rather moth-eaten
dark blue serge lady’s coat hanging on a peg behind the
door (see Plate III). That coat was not there when Mr.
I 12 T H E M O ST H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
Henning and I examined the Rectory on May i g, 1937—■
i.e., a fortnight previously. I wondered why the Rector
should hâve placed the coat in the house, after I had rented
it. It will be convenient here to give the resuit of my subsé­
quent inquiries concerning this garment.
I wrote to Mr. Henning, asking why the coat, apparently
a woman’s, was in the house ; to whom it belonged ; and if
there was a ‘ history’ attached to it. Mr. Henning informed
me that he knew nothing about the coat, had never seen it
at the Rectory, and had no idea how it could hâve ‘ appeared’
there. Furthermore, he made inquiries in the village, and
no one had lost a coat, or knew anything about it. Mr.
Henning was certain that the coat was not in the Rectory
previous to my renting it.
I, too, made some inquiries in Sudbury as to whether
anyone had lost a coat, or had bought an old coat, but could
gain no information concerning it. I also asked Mr. Arbon,
the tenant of the cottage, and he, too, knew nothing about it.
There was no maker’s name on the coat, and nothing to
identify it. And so the coat was left where I found it.
During my year’s tenancy of the Rectory, it disappeared
completely for one week, according to our observer’s report.
The taie of the coat is just one more mystery connected
with this extraordinary house.
We found nothing else of any note in our exploration of
the Rectory, and proceeded to examine the garden. We
inspected the summer-houses and fought our way through
the brambles to the stream and the cats’ cemetery. We again
read the names of deceased felines on the headboards and
the place appeared as if it had not been disturbed for years,
it was so overgrown and wild.
Reversing the order of things, as new tenant of the
Rectory, I next called on the owners of Borley Place, the old
house opposite the Rectory. Mr. Howe accompanied me.
Mr. Henning had given me an introduction to Mrs. Payne,
wife of the owner. This lady insisted upon our staying to tea.
We later met Mr. Payne and had a long chat about the
R A P S I N T H E P A S S A G E n 3
Rectory, the phenomena, and the various occupiers. We
found Borley Place a delightful and comfortable old house
No ‘ manifestations’ hâve been experienced there.
After tea we crossed over to the Rectory and again made a
complété examination of the house. Nothing appeared to
hâve happened since we left it a couple of hours previously.
We had been discussing whether we should stay the night
in the house, and we finally decided we would. It was a
warm June evening (though quite cold in the house) and,
after an hour’s vigil in the large summer-house opposite the
Nun’s Walk, we returned to the Base Room. Here we made
some tea and consumed some sandwiches we had brought
with us. Then we locked up the house and walked up the
village to the little licensed house where we purchased some
bottles of beer with which to stock our modest larder. We
returned to the Rectory and once more examined ail rooms,
doors, etc. We locked ail external doors, fastened the
Windows, ended our tour of inspection at the Base Room,
and prepared to settle down for the night. It was then just
after 8 o’clock and, of course, quite light. There was no
wind and it was a still, quiet night outside.
As I was tired, I stretched out full-length on the camp bed.
Ellic Howe sat at the table, near the door, and read. We
were not talking, and the house was deathly still. After
about forty minutes of absolute quietness, during which
period neither Howe nor I spoke a word, a sériés of short,
sharp taps was heard in quick succession. Apparently, the
sounds came from the passage just outside the door near
which Howe was sitting. He said 1What’s that?’ I jumped
off the bed and he and I went into the passage to investigate.
We found nothing. Ail the doors were as we left them, and
we saw nothing unusual.
We returned to the Base Room and, as it was now getting
somewhat dark in the house, we lit our newly acquired tablc-
lamp. I returned to my rest on the bed, and Howe continucd
his reading.
About fifteen minutes after we were first disturbcd we
i
I I 4 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E IN E N G L A N D
were again startled by hearing two loud ‘ thumps’ that left
nothing to the imagination. It was just as if someone had
first thrown one boot heavily to the floor, and then the other.
Before we had recovered from our surprise, we heard a door
slam somewhere in the house, apparently upstairs. With the
lamp and our torches we ran out of the Base Room and
hurried to the first floor. There was nothing to be seen,
though we once more examined ail rooms, doors and Win­
dows, and shone our torches ail over the attics. We found
nothing that could account for the noises we had heard.
None of the articles in the chalk rings had been moved.
Ail the external doors to the house were securely fastened,
just as we had left them, and the interior doors did not
appear to hâve been moved.
We returned to the Base Room, opened the French Win­
dows, and explored the grounds. We found nothing. We
watched the house from the garden for about half an hour,
but saw no ‘lights,’ ‘ nun,’ or anything unusual. Then we
went into the road. It was now getting dark and had turned
chilly. We had no firing or other means of heating the Base
Room, so we decided we would get back to London.
Before returning to the house, I saw Mr. and Mrs. Arbon
at the cottage, told them of my plans for investigating the
Rectory and arranged with them to take charge of one set
of keys. I said I would either write to Mr. Arbon, or his
wife, advising them of the arrivai of an observer ; or I would
give the person investigating a letter of introduction to him.
Under no circumstances were the keys of the Rectory to be
handed to any unauthorized person. This the Arbons
agreed to do. Mr. Arbon told me that he became tenant of
the Rectory cottage in February 1936.
After some more sandwiches and a bottle of beer, we
closed and locked the Rectory and returned to London.
We had had a most interesting and not uneventful day.
On June 16, 1937, Mr. Ellic Howe and I again visited
the Rectory and spent the night there. After carefully
locking ail doors and Windows, at 8.30 p.m. we went into
P H E N O M E N A IN T H E B L U E R O O M I 15
Sudbury for a meal. We returned at g. 15 p.m. and, during
our usual patrol of the house, found that, in the Blue Room,
while we had been absent, a tobacco tin had been moved
three inches from its chalked outline, and a small box was
seven feet from where we had left it. No explanation was
forthcoming, but as we were out of the building when these
movements occurred, I merely record the incident without
comment.
CHAPTER XIX
ENROLLING THE OBSERVERS
B
Y the time the Blue Book was ready for our observers,
some forty gentlemen— and one or two ladies— had
been accepted as official investigators. As I hâve stated,
they were ail complété strangers to me with the exception of
one B.B.C. official.
Verbal instructions were given them in addition to those
printed in the Blue Book and on the Déclaration Form. They
were informed how to get from London to Borley by the
quickest route. They were asked to ‘ring’ with chalk everv
portable object in the Rectory and to lock and seal ail doors
and Windows when they had established themselves in the
house. They were asked to complété their reports immedi-
ately after their observational period, from notes made while
they were on duty, and to let me hâve them without de-
lay, as they were to be used in the published report.
They were asked particularly to examine ail walls and
passages for pencil markings or ‘ messages’ and ring them.
Most of these messages were already on the walls when I
took over the Rectory, but other markings undoubtedly
appeared from time to time during the actual presence of
some observers. The ‘ messages’ to ‘ Marianne’ appeared
on the walls during Mr. Foyster’s occupation of the Rectory.
It says something for the observational powers of our investi­
gators that the ‘ Marianne’ messages were ail discovered,
though one might pass along the passages a thousand times
without seeing the faintly scribbled pencil ‘ appeals.’
If ail the official observers were strangers to me, they
were also strangers to one another, except when two friends
enrolled together. I rather encouraged this as two can
116
H U N T I N G IN C O U P L E S “ 7
‘ work’ a haunted house better than one, and they are com­
pany for each other. When two persons are on duty together,
one can snatch brief periods of rest while the other is keeping
watch, taking notes, etc. And sometimes it is désirable that
one person should be outside a building, watching for a
certain phenomenon, while his companion is inside, hoping
to observe the same manifestation from his angle, as in
the case of the strange light seen in the Windows of various
rooms.
Although ail the observers (except those who were already
friends) were strangers to one another at the outset of the
inquiry, they occasionally met when going on duty or
relieving one another, and they thus became acquainted.
Sometimes a friendship sprang up in this way and they after-
wards requested to be permitted to ‘ hunt’ together. When
this occurred, the reader will notice that the report of one
observer sometimes contains the name of, or reference to,
another official observer whose protocol is printed separately.
In other words, their respective reports sometimes over-
lap.
It has been impossible to reproduce the reports Verbatim.
The reader would find the minute-to-minute protocols irk-
some in the extreme. And I should require a volume twice
this size if I decided to print the reports in detail as set out
in the official records. But extensive Verbatim extracts from
the original reports hâve been made, while the remainder
hâve been paraphrased for economy of space. Some of the
reports are very long indeed. Unfortunately, because a
report is long and detailed, it does not necessarily follow that
it is a ‘ good’ one from a phénoménal point of view.
There were few entirely blank records handed in. It
would serve no useful purpose to print these négative reports,
so they are not included in this monograph. Some very
conscientious and painstaking observers, when they had had
a blank day or night wrote— very properly— pages of details
of their movements, times, weather reports, and so on. It
would be waste of paper to print such records. But they are
118 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
preserved1 in the vast dossier relating to Borley that I hâve
accumulated.
A very few observers, after a blank day or night, became
discouraged and dropped out. Others, with similar négative
results, persevered, and were at length rewarded by seeing
or hearing something, the resuit of paranormal action.
I hâve been to Borley several times without experiencing
any phenomena whatever. Especially, I was présent at the
Rectory on two occasions on July 28, and in neither year
did I see the ‘ nun’— who is supposed always to manifest
herself on this day— or any other phenomenon. No one can
become a good investigator unless he has unlimited patience.
I found it impracticable to install instruments at the
Rectory during my year’s tenancy. After a careful study of
the phenomena being witnessed by my observers, I came
to the conclusion that I should require the most elaborate
apparatus to record some of them (e.g., the small pencil
markings that appeared on the walls), and that would hâve
meant my residing in the house almost permanently. I was
not prepared to do this ; and, as I hâve stated, I wished to
eliminate myself from the inquiry as far as possible. How-
ever, one day early inJuly I did install a délicate transmitting
thermograph, which was in position for twenty-four hours
and it is interesting to note that the température (of the
dining-room) measured was almost 48° Fahrenheit during
practically the whole of this period. It did not vary 1.50
throughout the twenty-four hours, which proves (a) that
although it was a normal, warm July day outside, the house
itself was cold ; and (b) that very slight variations of tem­
pérature occur in the house. Simple instruments and pièces
of apparatus were used by various observers, some of whom
took photographs, made drawings, or prepared plans of the
Rectory.
The arrangement I hâve adopted for reproducing the
reports of our observers is as follows : When a person visited
1 In the Harry Price Library of Magical Literature in the University of
London.
A R R A N G E M E N T OF R E P O R T S 11Q
the Rectory more than once, ail his records are dealt with
as a group. When an observer sent in only one positive
report, of no great length, it has been grouped with others
in one section. A digest of ail the official observers’ reports
is printed as Appendix C.
Usually, each observer was given a letter of introduction to
Mr. Arbon, tenant of the cottage. This enabled him to
obtain the keys of the Rectory. When no such letter was
given, Mr. Arbon himself was advised of the impending
visit of the investigator, with name and time of arrivai.
CHAPTER XX
M ANY M AJOR PHENOM ENA CONFIRM ED
BY O FFICIAL OBSERVERS
,TH OUGH it has been found expédient to summar-
ize the reports of the official observers in the form of a
digest, printed as Appendix C, I will briefly describe,
in non-technical language, the phenomena heard, seen, felt
and smelt at Borley Rectory during the twelve months of my
tenancy. But I urge the reader, in his own interests, to study
the reports in greater detail as epitomized in the Appendix.
Forty-eight observers took part in our official investigation
and nearly ail reported the occurrence of phenomena. Some
of the manifestations were unspectacular, but there were a
few really dramatic incidents. As I hâve mentioned else-
where in this work, the really exciting happenings that
occurred at Borley invariably took place when the house
was occupied by a family. But it is only a question of degree.
The paranormal displacement of a match-box— to the
extent of only a single millimétré— is just as ‘ miraculous,5
and just as interesting, as the appearance of the ‘ nun’
herself. But to the layman the latter phenomenon would be
the more spectacular.
The official observers were very impressed with what they
saw and heard. Mr. S. H. Glanville and his son were the
first to do duty at the Rectory and on the evening of their
arrivai they heard soft taps that could not be explained.
These followed a curious sharp click or crack. A later
observer, who heard something similar, likened the sound
to that made by an electric light tumbler switch when it is
operated. But there is no electricity— and consequently no
switches— within miles of Borley.
120
A SA G K OF C O A L M O V E S l 8 I N C H E S 121
Mr. Glanville and his brother-in-law were also fortunate
enough to witness the appearance of those famous wall-
markings that make Borley unique in the annals of psychical
research. Certainly, they did not see the pencillings form
before their eyes. But happening to photograph one of
those heartrending ‘ Marianne’ messages, they noticed, an
hour or so later, that other pencillings hacl been added!
So they photographed the ‘ message’ a second time and
compared the négatives. In one picture only do the markings
appear! If this is not proof of paranormal activity, I do not
know the meaning of the word. The two gentlemen were
alone in a locked and sealed house and always kept together.
They also heard ‘ scrabbling’ noises outside the Blue Room.
Perhaps the entity was trying to Write some more.
One of the minor mysteries— it may even be a major
mystery if we could only appreciate its significance— was the
extraordinary discovery by Mr. Glanville that someone had
taken the trouble to tear his way through a bramble thicket
at the bottom of the Rectory garden and dig up a cat that
had been buried there for thirty years. But was it a cat the
intruder was after? The story should be read in detail.
The other phenomena recorded by Mr. Glanville and his
friends include thuds and bumps ; light, tripping footsteps ;
movements of objects; heavy muffled footsteps, and further
pencil markings. One of the most curious happenings was
the pendulatory movement of the Base Room blind, which
swung backwards and forwards as they watched it.
A most interesting report was sent in by Mr. M. Kerr-
Pearse, one of our proconsuls at Geneva. The complété
record of his many visits runs to nearly 10,000 words. Like
Mr. Glanville, he heard many raps, thumps, thuds, and
other sounds for which no normal explanation could be
found. His carefully-placed control objects were moved by
some invisible agency. And one of these objects was a bag of
coal weighingfifty pounds! There was no explanation, except
a paranormal one.
Kerr-Pearse also witnessed a number of new pencil marks
122 T H E MO ST H A U N T E D H O US E I N EN G L A N D
that appeared on the walls while he was actually in the
house which, as usual, was locked and sealed.
Very fcw séances were held in the house, but an informai
one which Kerr-Pearse and the Rev. A. C. Henning (the
présent Rector of Borley) arranged produced curious results.
Mr. and Mrs. Henning and Kerr-Pearse sat round the Base
Room table, on which they ‘rapped’ in the traditional
manner. After a few minutes a most curious thumping sound
was heard coming from the kitchen quarters. The thumps
then proceeded along the passage towards the Base Room.
Unfortunately, the little group stood up to get a better view
of the passage— and the ‘ thumps’ stopped dead. The slight
noise the sitters made must hâve frightened— what?
Things ‘ appeared’ while Kerr-Pearse was in the house,
and these included a lump of rotten touch-wood, and a
mummified frog which had been deposited in the passage.
It was never discovered where the frog came from, or how
it arrived.
Though Mr. Kerr-Pearse experienced no abnormal feeling
of cold in the Rectory, his cousin Mr. Rupert Haig, while
resting in the Base Room, was awakened by an icy cold
draught playing on his face. Ail doors and Windows were
closed ; a big lire was burning ; and the température of the
room measured 6o° Fahrenheit. Haig’s impressions are
printed in full in Appendix G.
The only really disturbing incident experienced by Kerr-
Pearse occurred while he was alone in the Rectory, as he
was very often. He was just finishing his modest supper in
the Base Room when he heard a faint but distinct ‘ click.’
He thought it was perhaps the draught shaking the door and
took little notice. When, a minute later, he proceeded to
take his supper things to the pantry, he found that he had
bcen lotkea in! What made the incident still more remarkable
was the fact that— fortunately— the key was on the inside
of the door. Had it been outside, he could hâve left the
room only by means of the French window. Who— or what
■—locked the door? Whatever it was, it must hâve been in
D O C T O R B E L L A M Y ’ S E X P E R I M E N T 123
the Base Room while Kerr-Pearse was having his supper,
and must hâve remained in the room after the door was
locked. Unless it vanished through the walls. No entity of
flesh and blood could hâve locked the Base Room on the
inside, and remained, unseen, in the room. And the house
was locked and sealed. Next day, a terrifie crash was heard
in the kitchen, as though a pile of pots and pans had been
thrown down. But inspection proved that nothing had been
disturbed. This same ‘ crashing’ noise had been heard in
the Rectory previously, by Herbert Mayes and others, and
Edward Cooper recorded something similar when he was
living in the Rectory cottage.
Another of our observers, Colonel F. C. Westland, had
some curious adventures in the Rectory. Fie and Mrs.
Westland found a round blue box, containing pins, which
had not been noticed on a previous inspection. Later, it
moved half an inch out of its chalked ring. No explanation.
Still later, a piece of wood, origin unknown, 1appeared ’ on
the stairs.
An interesting experiment with an electric bell contact-
breaker was made by Dr. H. F. Bellamy. This apparatus was
placed under a pile of books on the dining-room mantelpiece
which is supported by the two strange sculptures, recalling
the monastic site on which the Rectory stands. (See Plate
IV.) Having carefully set the apparatus Dr. Bellamy and
his friends patrolled the house, which was locked and sealed.
At 12.50 a.m., while they were resting in the Blue Room,
the bell started ringing. Before they could get to the dining-
room, the bell had ceased. A curious sight met their eyes.
Ail the books had been displaced, not one of them occupying
its original position, and the bottom one was right off the
contact-maker. At a later date, one of Dr. Bellamy’s friends
felt his hair ruffled, and another had his face touched by
something. They were in the dark.
Several members of the British Broadcasting Corporation
acted as observers at different times. Mr. de Lotbinière
was the first to visit the house, and this was the occasion of
124 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
one of my rare visits during my tenancy. A number of strange
incidents happened. For example, as we were in the Blue
Room, in the early hours of the morning, we heard a sharp
click that appeared to corne from the stairs. A few minutes
later, Mr. de Lotbinière ‘ challenged’ whatever it was and,
before he had finished speaking, an answering crack was
heard in the passage outside the Blue Room in which we
were standing. We had previously heard rustling or
‘ scrabbling’ noises coming from the Base Room.
Other members of the B.B.G. who visited the Rectory
included Mr. W. S. Hammond and his friends. After sealing
ail doors, etc., they patrolled the Rectory at hourly intervals.
Just before one of these patrols, they heard a door being
closed somewhere in the building. An hour and a half
later, they heard another door being gently closed. Still
later, at 3.15 a.m. they heard a door being closed for the
third time. Ail these incidents were investigated, without
resuit.
The famous ‘ nun’ put in one of her rare appearances
when two members of the B.B.C., and their wives, visited
Borley in February 1938. They took up their position in the
large summer-house— so well known to my observers— and
kept watch on the famous Nun’s Walk on the far side of the
lawn. The party consisted of Mr. and Mrs. C. Gordon
Glover and Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd Williams.
They had been watching for about an hour when Mrs.
Lloyd Williams ‘ distinctly saw a round, dark object,’ like a
short, stooping figure. The object appeared to move from a
tree near the Rectory to half-way up the lawn, where it
vanished. This view of the nun is comparable with what
happened when Mr. V. C. Wall and I were watching from
the same spot, nearly ten years previously.1 Some little time
before the vision of the nun, when the four observers were
patrolling the house, a door was heard to close quietly
somewhere in the building. ‘ It was a dead still afternoon,
and ail doors and Windows were shut.’
1 See page 38.
S P O N T A N E O U S W A L L M A R K I N G S I25
Later in the evening, when Mr. Glover and his wife were
quietly standing in the doorway of the Chapel, they both
heard a dull, heavy thud, followed by a short scuffle. The
noises came from below stairs. Mr. Lloyd Williams and his
wife were at the other end of the Chapel and heard nothing.
Just past midnight on this same evening the whole party
stationed themselves in the Blue Room and ail heard the
following sounds, which appeared to corne from the kitchen
quarters: Two heavy thuds, and a lighter thud; a kind of
vague shuffling, ‘ giving an impression of general activity of
some kind going on’ ; and a staccato and isolated crack like
an electric light switch being snapped on.
Mr. M. Savage, a B.B.C. télévision engineer, paid two
visits to the Rectory, accompanied by a friend on both
occasions. During his first stay little happened except that
some curious gluey substance suddenly appeared on the
Chapel floor, and an extremely heavy knock occurred in the
Base Room where he and his companion were resting.
On his second visit, Mr. Savage, like several other of our
observers, was fortunate enough to be able to record the
appearance of some of those strange wall pencillings. He
and his friend made a microscopie examination of ail the walls
of the Blue Room. Every visible mark was carefully ringed.
Suddenly, under their very eyes, a pencil mark appeared
when they were actually gazing at the wall. They ringed it.
Then another mark appeared, and they ringed that, too.
Still further marks appeared, which they ringed. Then the
‘ appearances ’ ceased. But in Room 5 (the Blue Room
dressing room), little drawings, like the ‘ Prince of Wales’s
feathers,’ were found on the walls, after a previous very
careful scrutiny. That ended their visit to this strange,
‘ enchanted’ Rectory. Mr. Savage was the last B.B.C.
official observer.
Psychical Research has always attracted members of the
British universities, and at the time of writing the Perrott
Studentship in Psychical Research has just been established
by Trinity College, Cambridge. My own efforts to found a
126 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
Department of Psychical Research in the University of
London and the sympathetic réception of the proposai by
the academie authorities, are well known.1
It was not surprising, then, that a number of graduâtes
and undergraduates were anxious to visit Borley for obser-
vational periods. Several of these gentlemen had interesting
expériences which are detailed in Appendix C. The appear-
ance of pencil markings was recorded by Mr. J. M. Bailey
and Mr. C. V. Wintour, who thought they saw the letter
‘ M 5grow in front of their eyes. Thinking it over afterwards,
they decided it might hâve been an optical illusion. Which
is not very surprising!
Four undergraduates from University College, Oxford,
visited the Rectory in February 1938, and one of them,
Mr. S. G. Welles, has recorded a phenomenon unique in the
Borley annals. His long account of this incident is printed
in full in Appendix C, but briefly a rectangular luminous
patch, as of a lambent flame, moved slowly to and fro
across the Blue Room ceiling while he was on duty there.
It lasted about a minute. Numerous experiments to duplicate
the phenomenon normally were afterwards made by the
four men, and they utterly failed. Their report should be
read in full. Later, just after midnight, the party heard
footsteps in the kitchen, and a sériés of faint noises at regular
short intervals. Other incidents which occurred that evening
included the ‘ appearance’ of a wooden lath, 42 inches long.
Mr. J. Burden and Mr. T. Stainton, two undergraduates
of Christ Church, Oxford, visited Borley, and heard shuffling
footsteps, swishing garments, faint whining or hooting, and
a continuous wailing sound coming from the Blue Room—
a sound so subtle and penetrating that it could be heard ail
over the house.
Do cats react to psychic influences? This question has
been much debated and so Burden and Stainton thought
they would try some experiments. Mr. Arbon loaned his
cat for the purpose, and the animal, tempted with condensed
1 See my Fifty Tears of Psychical Research, London, 1939, pages 63-4.
O D O U R S , P L E A S A N T A N D U N P L E A S A N T 127
milk, was gently led into the various fields of known psychic
activity. The moonlight on the floor frightened her; she
rubbed her back against the ‘ strange coat’1 as if recognizing
an old friend; and she seemed partïcularly interested in
Room 7. The other rooms did not appear to affect her.
Soon after midnight (it is worth noting how many of the
Borley phenomena occur at about this time— the traditional
‘ witching hour’), during Burden’s watch, a noise was heard
as if something were being dragged along the floor. The
sounds lasted for two seconds, and were repeated at two-
second intervals. The observers emphasize that the sounds
were much too loud to admit of their having been mistaken.
The sounds could not be accurately located, but they
appeared to emanate from one of the first-floor passages.
Later, fresh pencil marks were found.
Mr. Burden remained at Borley for twenty-four hours
after his companion left for home and, while in the house by
himself, found more new pencil marks. During his stay he
‘ had an uncanny sense of being watched in Room 2.’
Among the academie visitors to Borley was Dr. G. E. M.
Joad who spent an observational period in the house. He
was fortunate enough to witness the appearance of new wall
pencillings under good conditions. His complété report
should be read.
Odours, paranormally made manifëst (I do not suggest
that the odours themselves were paranormal) were not of
frequent occurrence at Borley. But certain observers
recorded such phenomena. For example, Mr. and Mrs.
Foyster speak of a pleasant scent, suggestive of lavender,
while Mr. Hammond mentions an unpleasant odour,
‘ suggestive of the lavatory.’ But the most remarkable smell
was, I think, the one recorded by the two flying offiteers,
E. Carter Jonas and Caunter. On their last visit to the
house they noticed an ‘ overpowering smell of incense.’ This
was the more remarkable as the Rectory was then perma-
nently shut up, my tenancy of the place having expired eight
1See page n i .
128 T H E MOS T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
months prcviously. They visited the place on the spur of
the moment, unannounced.
Speaking of remarkable phenomena, the one recorded
by Mrs. F. A. Mansbridge is almost the strangest. She had
the belt of her coat lifted and dropped again by an unseen
hand. The movement was quite definite.
One of the most interesting expériences was that of Mr.
A. P. Drinkwater and three friends who spent a night at the
Rectory in November 1937. They took extraordinary pains
to close the house against any outside invasion, and very
carefully examined and sealed or re-sealed ail doors and
Windows, and checked ail control objects in their ringed
positions. It was a fine night, and there was no wind. The
party divided themselves into two pairs, each couple taking
up a different station.
Five minutes after they had taken up their respective
positions, the observers in the Base Room heard two distinct
percussive knocks from the room above— that is, the Blue
Room. Two hours later, on their next patrol, they found
that the mysterious round box in the cupboard, originally
discovered by Colonel Westland, had moved one inch to the
left of its chalked ring. They ringed it in its new position.
In the early hours of the morning, while they were resting
in the Base Room, they heard a heavy thump overhead in
the Blue Room. They were dozing and the noise was loud
enough to awaken them to full consciousness. It was thought
that the thump was the last of several heavy steps across the
floor of the room above.
At 4 a.m. many new pencil marks were discovered and
the party used up ail their chalk in ringing them! On their
next inspection patrol, they found that the blue box had
again moved. Two paranormal displacements in one night!
Later, more pencillings were found. At 8 a.m. still more
wall-marks were discovered. They then went over the entire
house, checked ail seals, found that they were undisturbed,
and left for London.
In Appendix C will also be found Mr. Henning’s letter
W H A T IS E V I D E N C E ? 129
describing how the strange light was again noticed in the
window of the Rectory while the place was unoccupied.
It was seen by four people, including Mr. Henning’s man-
servant, Herbert Mayes, who also describes his own adven-
tures in the house. These included many strange noises and
the familiar ‘ crash’ of crockery or saucepans, a phenomenon
experienced by Mr. and Mrs. Foyster, Mr. and Mrs.
Edward Cooper, and Kerr-Pearse. How a clergyman heard
‘furniture bcing thrown about’ in the Rectory is also
described in Appendix C which, I reiterate, should be reacL in
full.
I think it will here be appropriate for me to say a few
words about the evidential value of our observers’ reports, and
the methods of précision employed in investigating the
phenomena.
What is evidence? The word (from the Latin evidentia,
evideri, ‘ to appear clearly’) has been defined as ‘ denoting
the facts presented to the mind of a person for the purpose
of enabling him to décidé a disputed question.’ Evidence
includes ail such facts. Evidence has also been defined as
‘ the testimony of others touching their observation and
expérience.’ And, as St. George Jackson Mivart, the
biologist, remarks in Nature and Thought,1 ‘ evidence is and
must be the test of truth, and is, I suppose, the ultimate
ground on which we believe anything.’
I submit that our forty-eight official observers and their
friends hâve furnished such evidence (as is defined in the
above explanations of the term) for paranormal happenings
in Borley Rectory. As regards the evidence itself, both in
quantity and quality it is far superior to any testimony ever
previously submitted in support of alleged supranormal
phenomena. That is partly why the Borley case is unique
in the annals of psychical research.
The evidence submitted by our witnesses for the haunting
of Borley Rectory would be acceptable in a court of law in
1 London, 1882, p. 133.
K
I30 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E IN E N G L A N D
considération of thcir number, their integrity, their unemo-
tionalism, their disinterestedness, and their skill. And
especially it is this disinterestedness that makes their testi-
mony more valuable— in a legal sense-— than those observers
(including myself) who, without being the least aware of
the fact, must be subconsciously exparte to a greater or lesser
extent. Ail those who hâve resided in the Rectory, or who
hâve been intimately connected with the place, were quickly
convinced of the abnormality of certain incidents that came
under their notice. A récurrence of these phenomena would
increase their belief in the certainty that the place was
haunted ; and the psychologists would insist that their later
expériences might be coloured by their earlier convictions.
I reiterate that this same argument can be applied to myself,
as I hâve been connected with the investigation for ten years.
That was the main reason why I decided to eliminate myself
as far as possible from the official inquiry.
But with the official observers it was different. They were
strangers to me; they were strangers to the Rectory and ail
of its occupants ; they were strangers to psychical research,
and they had never heard of the Borley mystery. And they
were sceptical. Some of our witnesses were even sceptical
as to the possibilité of such phenomena happening. And they
had no a priori convictions.
Another advantage our observers possessed was that they
were able to bring fresh minds and fresh methods to bear
on the mystery. And as each investigator or group used a
different method of investigation— at any rate in detail— the
cumulative effect of this varied and independent testimony
is of immense evidential value.
A still further advantage our witnesses had over the non-
official observers was that the former were able to view the
phenomena under conditions of control not possible with
residents and others connected with the house. O f course,
that is why they were enrolled. The systematic and scientific
methods employed by the visitors could not easily hâve
been applied by any of the Rectors or their households. Nor
M A N Y T Y P E S OF P H E N O M E N A 131
could these gentlemen hâve expended the time and care
necessary in preparing those exact protocols that are so vital
when dealing with the so-called ‘ supernatural.’ But our
own observers’ reports are merely complementary to the
extremely valuable evidence supplied by the Rectory rési­
dents and others. In fact, without this firm basis of what
I will call the ‘ local testimony,’ no outside or independent
investigation would hâve been possible.
The phenomena our observers were able to confirm
included footsteps and similar sounds ; raps, taps and
knockings; displacement of objects; ‘ clicks’ and ‘ cracks’ ;
sounds as of door closing; knocks, bumps, thuds, jumping or
stamping ; dragging noise ; wailing sounds ; rustling or
scrabbling noises ; ‘ metallic ’ sounds ; crashing, as of crockery
falling; wall-pencillings; ‘ appearance’ of objects; luminous
phenomenon; odours, pleasant and unpleasant; sensation
of coldness; tactual phenomena; sensation of a ‘ presence’ ;
and a fulfilled prédiction. One observer says she saw the
‘ nun.’ The complété list of those who experienced the above
phenomena is printed as Appendix D.
CHAPTER XXI
MRS. W ILSON’S EX TR AO R D IN A R Y INSECT
the dispassionate chronicler of the Borley drama,
romance, or mystery— call it what we will— it is my
duty to record any unusual incident that has been
reported to me by a responsible person. And certainly one
of the most ‘ unusual’■— if I can use such a mild term in this
connection— stories in the Borley dossier is that concerning
the strange ‘ insect’ that much alarmed a well-known artist.
Early in August 1938 I was rung up on the téléphoné by
a lady. She had read about Borley Rectory, and approached
me for permission to visit the place as she wished to paint
a picture of the house. She said her name was Mrs. Margaret
E. Wilson. Though I had never met the lady, or corres-
ponded with her, I knew Mrs. Wilson by repute as a painter
and exhibitor. She said she had no interest in Borley from
the ‘ psychic’ point of view. She was not a spiritualist ; she
knew nothing about psychical research or ‘ ghosts,’ and her
concern with the Rectory was purely artistic and æsthetic.
She was interested in painting old and picturesque houses, and
she was certain that Borley Rectory must be old andpicturesque.
I pointed out to Mrs. Wilson, as gently as I could, that
Borley Rectory was not old ; that it was ugly ; that it reminded
me of the red bricks of suburbia, and that it was as much
unlike the typical old country rectory, as chalk is to cheese.
Mrs. Wilson was disappointed, but still asked for permission
to paint the place as a documentary contribution to the
history of the Rectory, which I told her I was preparing.
I informed Mrs. Wilson that, as far as I was concerned,
she could paint the house, but that she would hâve to get
permission from the Rev. A. C. Henning, as my tenancy
132
I N V I S I B L E W A T C H E R S 133
of the Rectory was ended, and my authority had ceased.
I gave her Mr. Henning’s address. She duly wrote to this
gentleman, obtained the necessary sanction, and eventually
painted the Rectory. In the light of after events, it was very
fortunate she did this, as her oil painting of ‘ the most haunted
house’ cleverly and faithfully executed, is the only coloured
picture of the Rectory extant. It is now preserved with the
Borley records.
Armed with Mr. Henning’s authority, she visited Borley
on August 22, 1938. She arrived at Sudbury just before
midday and at once proceeded to the Rectory. She had no
occasion to enter the house— as she was not interested in the
phénoménal happenings there— so she did not apply for the
keys. She made straight for the garden, had a good look
at the exterior of the house from every angle, and decided
to paint the back—which is really the front— of the building,
the only élévation really worth painting. She took up her
position on the lawn, under one of the large Cedars of
Lebanon, near the summer-house (see Plate I), opposite
the Nun’s Walk. She erected her easel, unfolded her camp-
stool, and began to work. No one was about on this hot
August morning; the place was deadly quiet; and she
thought she could work in peace, undisturbed.
In her subséquent report Mrs. Wilson stated that: ‘As
the hours passed and I was quite alone, the forbidding silence
seemed to envelop everything with appréhension and I felt
conscious of time and invisible watchers near me and
around me. A neglected garden can présent a cheerful
appearance, but here one feels the very weeds do not wish
to flourish—-or cannot—-and lack thejoy which most growing
plants hâve. Or so it appeared to me in the Rectory grounds.’
The reader may think that these sombre thoughts were due
to auto-suggestion, as of course she knew a little of the
history of the place. But as I got to know Mrs. Wilson
better, I found her particularly unemotional and, if I may
say so, a very hard-headed business woman, in addition to
being an artist.
134 T H E M O S T h a u n t e d h o u s e i n e n g l a n d
Shc sat therc painting thc Rectory when she was disturbed
in a vcry curious manner. I will quote from her report :
‘ While I was painting, and about 3 o’clock in the afternoon,
I suddenly noticed a sound, such as of approaching wings or
rushing wind coming towards me. Looking up, I saw the
queerest object with impelling eyes advancing towards me at
about eye level. It seemed to be coming out of a mist. It was
accompanied by a wasp on its left, and this must hâve been the
wings I heard. I had just time to jump up and as they were
quite near my face, which seemed to be the objective, I struck at
it with my mahlstick, and seemed to hit the big object into the
grass. The wasp seemed to go off on its own. With alarm I
searched for the nameless object I had struck, as if I had not
killed it, I thought it was possible it might attack me. I searched,
but was unable to trace it and eventually gave up looking.
Gradually, the unusualness of the créature dawned upon me and
the more I thought of it. the less I could understand what it was.
‘ Certainly, I had never seen anything like it before, and
should describe it as being quite three inches in length, the body
entirely black and composed of sections enabling it to bend and
expand with ease. Its eyes were large and the colour of bloomy
black grapes. The object was flattish. It was so real, that in
jumping up, I had no time to put my palette down, and this
resulted in upsetting medium on my skirt and ruining it. I had
grasped the palette in my left hand.
‘As time elapsed I gathered myselftogether, mentally realizing
that I had to catch a trainand that it was useless to go on thinking
as every moment was precious if I hoped to obtain what I was
down here for— that is, to paint the Rectory— and I worked with
renewed speed to recover lost time.’
When Mrs. Wilson arrived home, she at once painted the
strange, articulated créature with large goggle eyes, while
its appearance was still fresh in her memory. Later, Mrs.
Wilson asked her friend, Miss Joyce Mercer, to re-draw the
créature in black and white, more suitable for reproduction.
This is printed on page 135.
No wonder Mrs. Wilson was startled! I hâve shown her
sketch to several naturalists and entomologists and they ail
déclaré that it is like ‘ nothing on earth’ ! Mrs. Wilson’s
testimony is valuable because she happens to be well
—
C
O P3
Pi U
S >
<
O
>
H
1
--3
ffl C
O
C
O
£ s
w
>
w
C
O «
£
C
O ► >
P3 >
>
< <
W Pi
Q
«
h
J
O {*
O Pi
O P
U
b
P3 P4
O Pi
{V
j
< !*
H
H w
h
J
fin
O
h «
Ph
O
h ' 2
:
O p3
w Q
co Ph
g <
O
w
P w
£
h
< H
Pi
H
g
co
Z
W O
co
K J
H
£
Ph
O W
£ H
c W
Ph
co
co
w
Pi
C
P
H
H
d
Pi
<j
là
S
H
&
W
g
5
£
H
H
H
p
$
w
H
P
h
<
CO
P
O
&
g
<
«
Q
<
S
fc
O
CO
h
J
?
C
O
g
s
î*
»
O
H
W
CO
<
O
Pi
Ph
Pi
w
O
Pi
g
S
1 3 6 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
acquainted with insects. She is well known for her studies
of insccts and still life, and spends much of her time out of
doors, painting such things. ‘ Impossible’ as this insect
appeared, it is just onc of the many ‘ impossible’ things that
hâve happened in this ‘ enchanfed’ Rectory.
Above left : The Hall. p l a t e v
Above right : The Kitchen passage and back stairs from the Dining-room.
Below left : Kitchen passage from the Kitchen.
Below right : The Bathroom passage from Room 5.
CH APTER XXII
W HAT THE M EDIUM S SAID
M
AN Y médiums, amateur and professional, tried their
hardest to solve the Borley mystery. In home and
public spiritualist circles the ‘ spirits ’ were asked to
give their version of the Rectory phenomena. Very few of
their ‘ answers’ hâve reached me, but I hâve records of a
few séances at which the Borley manifestations were dis-
cussed.
On Sunday, June 16, 1929, Mr. C. Glover Botham and
Mr. Harry Collard, two London médiums, held a séance in
the Rectory without resuit. They sat by lamplight, and also
in darkness, but the ‘ spirits’ were silent. Later, as we hâve
seen from the Rev. L. A. Foyster’s diary,1 the Marks Tey
spiritualist circle held some meetings in the Rectory, and
claimed to hâve quietened the entities—ut least for a time.
But an interesting— if not very successful— attempt to
throw light on the previous history of the Rectory was made
by ‘ Marion’ (i.e., Josef Kraus) the well-known vaudeville
telepathist, hyperæsthete, and psychometrist. As a hyper-
æsthete, Marion has been brilliantly successful. Mr. S. G.
Soal and I conducted many experiments with excellent
results.2
When Kerr-Pearse discovered the touchwood ‘ apport,’3
on July 18, 1937, he sent a portion of it to me. I happened
to show it to Mr. S. H. Glanville, who made the suggestion
that Marion should be allowed to psychometrize it. An
appointment was accordingly made with Marion, Mr.
1 Page 82.
2 See Preliminary Studies of a Vaudeville Telepathist, by S. G. Soal, London
1937. (Bulletin III, University of London Council for Psychical Investigation.)
3 See page 206.
137
13 8 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
Glanville conducting the inquiry. I was not présent. The
séance was held on November 9, 1938. It is important to
note that Marion had never met Mr. Glanville; knew
nothing of the history of the Rectory except what he might
hâve secn in the papcrs; did not know that Glanville was
in any way connected with me or the Rectory; and, when
liandcd the piece of rotten wood, did not know that it had
any connection with Borley. Mr. Glanville did not speak
during the first part of the séance. This is what Marion said :
!It does not corne from one place, but went through many
places: it goes rather far. It does not start in this country at ail;
it has been brought from another continent and later wandered
about. It went to different places. I do not know which place
to say at the outset, or how to describe the sort of country. It is
a place rather on its own without any surrounding. It is a sort
of old-fashioned building with small buildings adjoining. A small
island. The people who live here are coming and going. There
is no peace or rest. There is a sort of feud or quarrel between
two families— two sorts of ideas. They are not enemies, but hâve
a quarrel between each other, not for something but for ideas
or ideals. . . . Their lives did not touch.
‘ One of the last owners was a very tall man, he is dead.
He was a public man who played a big part in public life. . . .
He worked to a certain point and became very disappointed—
died a lonely man and not appreciated. They tried to blâme him
for many things and, during the last few years of his life, he
became very queer. He was disappointed with life and his work.’
At this point, Mr. Glanville gave Marion some general
information concerning the Rectory and its history. Marion
remarked that ‘ the building was connected with a church—
a general association with a church. But people in the
church were enemies to him.’
I hâve not reproduced ail that Marion said, as a great deal
of it was very wide of the mark. But there was more than a
germ of truth in some of his utterances. Unfortunately, as
there are many people living who might object to my
élucidation of Marion’s remarks, I must refrain.
Like a boit from the blue, a Major G. Huth, a man I do
not know, wrote me from Breslau, Germany, to the effect
I M P R E S S I O N S F R O M G E R M A N Y 139
that he had been having sittings with an ‘ apport’ medium
named Frau Sadler. In his letter he said that this woman
had been getting ‘ apports’ purporting to corne from Borley
Rectory ! He asked for a photograph of the Rectory, as that
might ‘ help’ the medium. I sent him a small picture.
In reply, Major Huth wrote (November i, 1938) : ‘ Thanks
for the photograph of the Rectory. Frau Sadler has already
got in touch with the entities causing the disturbances in
the place. Their number is 14 at the présent stage (13 men
and a spectacled woman), but their number seems to be
increasing, as it is rather a complicated affair. It takes a little
time. But you can assure the owner that there will be no
further disturbance in the place as soon as the cause of the
disturbance has been removed from the house.’
In a second letter, dated January 2, 1939, Major Huth
said: ‘ You would do me a great favour to write and tell me
whether a book Praise and Principle, by Mclntosh (London :
George Routledge & Sons) belongs to the library in the
Rectory. It has a grey mottled cover.’
I did not recognize the book, of which I had never heard.
It was not one of the books I placed in Borley library— none
of which was missing. I suggest that Frau Sadler had been
reading accounts of the Rectory in the German papers, and
claimed that one of her literary ‘ apports’ had corne from
that place.
I am afraid that the professional médiums threw little light
on the Borley drama. Mr. Glanville, his family, and friends
were much more successful— or at least more entertaining—
in their amateur table-tipping séances and Planchette
writing, accounts of which are printed in Chapters X X V ,
X X V I, and X X V II.
CIIAPTER XXIII
‘ M O VIN G D A Y ’— AND A GOLDEN APPO RT
M
Y tenancy of Borley Rectory expired on May 19,
1938. On May 9, 1938, I visitcd Borley officially for
the last time as tenant and handed over the keys of
the Rectory to Mr. Henning.
On this day Mr. Geoffrey H. Motion— a neighbour of
mine— and I travelled down by car, arriving at the Rectory
about four o’clock in the afternoon. We went in his car,
because it is a particularly large and roomy one and I
wanted to collect my belongings that I had installed at the
Rectory, tidy up the place, and so on. It was my first visit
for many weeks.
After a walk round the garden, examining ali the old
familiar spots such as the summer-houses, Nun’s Walk, the
cats’ cemetery, and the pond, we entered the Rectory and
inspected the place from top to bottom. We entered every
room, peered— with our torches— into ail the cupboards.
Noted that most of the portable objects-—but not ail— were
ringed in their familiar places, and scrutinized the walls.
We were sorry for the person who was to rent the Rectory
after me. The walls were simply covered with multi-
coloured chalk rings and squares, enclosing the large and
small penc.illings, and we wondered how much it would
cost to re-distemper them. Most of the marks had, in addi­
tion to their control rings, the date of finding, and the
initiais of the finders.
We chccked up ail the Marianne ‘ messages,’ found there
were no additions, and then climbed to the attics. Everything
was in order, and the place was as dusty as ever. We then
once more descended into the habitable portions of the
140
L A S T N I G H T A T T H E R E C T O R Y I4.I
house, again visited each room, and collccted most of the
odds and ends that various observers had left— and ringed
— there in order to tempt the ‘ entities.’
By the time we had reached the ground floor again, we
had an armful of oddments which we placed in the Base
Room. After some tea and sandwiches in the Base Room,
and a rest, we made another tour of the house, again
examining ail rooms, cupboards, walls and floors. For
example, our scrutiny was so complété that on the floor of
the Blue Room we found a solitary wooden match-stick that
someone had very carefully enclosed in its appropriate
chalked rectangle. Then we journeyed to the cellar and
examined it. There were the same old empty bottles and
other rubbish, but no live things. The frogs, toads, and
lizards had disappeared. The reason for this was, I think,
that during the repairs to the house, that had recently been
carried out, the cellar had received some attention from the
workmen and they, probably, had temporarily frightened
the animais away. I looked in the well, and that, too, was
devoid of livestock. We left the cellar, locking the door
behind us. It was then about 6.30 p.m. We then went to
Sudbury for some dinner, after very carefully locking the
place up. We returned to the Rectory about 7.30, found
everything normal and called at the cottage to see Arbon,
whom we heard pumping in the courtyard (the same pump
supplied both the Rectory and his cottage) and gave him a
bottle of beer. We heard the latest news of the village, and
learned that determined efforts were being made to sell the
Rectory.
At 8 p.m. we again made a complété tour of the house in
order to see whether anything had happened while we were
at dinner. Everything was as we had left it. We then
checked every seal and locked ail doors, except the front one.
Then we began packing up our belongings into Mr.
Motion’s car. The camp-bed, china, cutlery, books, stove,
coffee percolator, and the many odds and ends that had
accumulated were ail finally stowed away and we returned
142 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
to the Base Room to hâve another rest. It was now getting
dark, especially in the Rectory. We had refrained from
packing the paraffin lamp in the car as we intended staying
at the house until the early morning, and in any case I had
told Arbon that he could hâve it as a ‘ souvenir’ of our year’s
investigation.
At ten o’clock, we made another tour of the house: ail
was quiet and normal.
At midnight, or a few minutes before, we made another
tour of the house. I had the paraffin lamp in my hand,
Mr. Motion carried his powerful pocket torch. As we
entered the door of the Blue Room, our lights lit up some-
thing on the far side of the room, in the opening between the
Blue Room and the dressing-room (Room 5) adjoining.
Both Motion and I simultaneously saw the glint as we
entered the room. Motion ran across the room and picked
it up : it was a lady's 22-carat gold wedding-ring.
We had entered both Blue Room and dressing-room several
times during the evening, and it is unthinkable that we should
not hâve seen it or trodden on it. It will be remembered
that we found a solitary match-stick on the Blue Room floor,
so good was our search. So where did the ring corne from?
Upon our return to London early next day— or rather
the same day— I made inquiries about the ring and found
it was an ordinary wedding-ring, not very much worn and
made— according to the hall-mark— at Birmingham in
1864— the year after the Rectory was first occupied.
Another strangç coincidence! I could hâve found the
name of the maker of the ring, but as he must hâve turned
out thousands bearing the same mark, I thought it useless to
trouble myself in the matter. In any case, the maker himself
must be dead. It was— and is— if it has not disappeared
from my desk drawer!—just an ordinary wedding-ring.
I not only made inquiries about the ring, but I asked our
observers whether they had lost such an article ofjewellery.
I had heard of no such loss, and it is unlikely that a woman,
after losing her wedding-ring, would not make some inquiries
T H E R E T U R N OF T H E R I N G ? 143
about it. She would be very concerned. And very few
women had visited the Rectory, and it is unlikely that any
of our visitors would hâve worn such an old ring. But I
could find no one who had lost a ring, and heard nothing
further about it, in spite of some trouble I took in the matter.
But was that the first rime that this same ring had been
found in the Rectory? If the reader will glance at Mr.
Foyster’s diary,1 he will find that on March 10, 1931,
‘ a wedding-ring was discovered in the bathroom.’ The ring
disappeared the following morning (March 11, 1931) and was
never seen again. Is it possible that the ring that was
picked up by Mr. Motion was the same ring that Mr. Foyster
discovered? I am afraid that there is now no means of
finding out. One gold wedding-ring looks very like another
and it is very difficult to identify any particular specimen.
I should add that I knew nothing of Mr. Foyster finding a
ring until I read the selected extracts from his voluminous
diary which he sent me seven years later. O f course, it is
possible that the ring found its way into the Blue Room in a
perfectly normal manner.
Mr. Motion and I made another minute search for other
‘ apports,’ and found none. Actually, the house seemed
deadly still and quiet during my last night there. No
noises, no pencilled ‘ squiggles’— as Dr. Joad calls them— no
footsteps or banging of doors, no strange smells. The night
was parlicularly peaceful. Motion and I left Borley soon
after 4 a.m., arriving in London at about six o’clock. I little
thought that my next visit to the Rectory would be to
clamber over, at some risk to my personal safety, the
blackened and crumbling rafters of what once supported
the Blue Room, where we found our golden ‘ apport,’ and
the passages where the ‘ Marianne’ messages so mysteriously
appeared. It is now rime for me to say something about the
messages themselves.
1 See page 78 0f this work.
CHAPTER XXIV
THE ‘ M ARIAN N E’ MESSAGES
O
NE of the most striking— if not the most striking—
aspects of the haunting of Borley Rectory is the writing
on the walls. I think I am right in saying that this
phenomenon is unique in the annals of psychical research.
O f course, ‘ spirit writing’—-real or allégée!—is well known.
At séances, I hâve received written ‘ messages’ on slates or
papers, purporting to hâve been written by spirit entities.
I think it can safely be assumed that ail these writings were
produced by the médiums concerned. The slate messages
undoubtedly were. And this form of ‘ manifestation’ is no
longer fashionable— at least in this country. But the very
curious pencil markings that so many observers hâve recorded
at Borley over a period of years are in a class by themselves
and are one of the major puzzles connected with this extra-
ordinary case.
It is a fact that no messages appeared after the Rev. and
Mrs. Foyster left the Rectory. Those cryptic and rather
pathetic appeals that successive observers discovered on the
walls ail ‘ appeared’ during their occupation of the house.
Mr. Foyster, in his diary (Chapter X III of this monograph),
under date May 1931, mentions that messages were appearing
on pièces of paper, found lying about the house, though
one piece, bearing the word ‘ Marianne,’ was seen fluttering
in the air and was caught by Mrs. Foyster. ‘ Marianne’ is,
of course, Mrs. Foyster’s Christian name. The messages
seemed to be appeals directed to her, and to no one else. That
may hâve been because she was young and sympathetic.
and most likely to help— whoever wanted help.
Those markings that did appear after the Foysters left
144
A L E F T - H A N D E D E N T I T Y ? 145
were apparently meaningless. They hâve been described
as ‘jabs,’ scribbles, ‘ squiggles,’ etc. Occasionally, the
markings appeared to be in the form of the letter ‘ M .5 Ail
the messages had a Roman Catholic flavour. There were
references to ‘ Mass,’ prayers, lights, and so on. This sug­
gestion of the Roman Church is compatible with the early
tradition of a Bénédictine monastery on the site of the présent
Rectory, and fits in with the legend of the nun and the lay
brothers. It also fits in with the fact that the services at
Borley Church hâve, at least during recent years, been
‘ high.’ I will now describe the ‘ messages’ themselves.
I will take the ground floor first, and will number the
writings as they appear on the Ground Floor Plan (see
Page 16). I will first take message No. 4, which reads:
This message (see Plate VI) was on the wall of the
kitchen passage, opposite the Sewing-Room. It was 4 feet,
4 inches from the ground.
The second writing was merely the letters ‘ Ma ’ (repro-
duced herewith) :
and was found also in the kitchen passage, under the barred
window opposite cellar stairs. The word suggests that it
was merely the beginning of a message, or at least the begin-
ning of the word ‘ Marianne.’ Perhaps the writer was dis-
turbed when about to produce the complété word. It was
2 feet 6 inches from the floor, very scrawly, and looks as if
the entity were left-handed.
We will now mount to the upper storey of the Rectory,
where the messages were more numerous and more inter-
esting. The first writing, ‘ Marianne’ (marked No. 1 on
First Floor Plan) was found on the wall by the stairs leading
to the bathroom passage. It was 4^ inches in length, and
4 feet 6 inches from the floor. It is reproduced in Plate VI.
‘ M a r ia n n e L ig h t M ass P r a y e r s .’
L
14 6 TH F. M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
The next message we found was on the outside wall of
the bathroom (it is marked No. 2 on Plan) and reads :
‘ M a r ia n n e P l e a s e H e l p G e t . ’
I hâve reproduced it photographically in Plate V I. Its
height was 4 fcet 3 inches from the ground, and the length
of the message was 3§ inches, its total depth being if inches.
No. 3 message (see Plan) was the longest of them ail and
read :
‘ M a r ia n n e a t g e t H e l p
— E n t a n t B o t t o m M e .’
It was discovered on the outside wall of the bathroom,
near the door, 4 feet 7 inches from the ground. (See Plate
VI.) It is partly meaningless, and one word suggests
‘ repentant.’ Underneath the message is printed in capitals
‘ I cannot understand, tell me more.’ These words were
written by Mrs. Foyster, hoping that a second ‘ message’
would elucidate the first. An answer eventually appeared.
Mrs. Foyster has signed her request ‘ Marianne.’
The answering message (Plate VI) that appeared at
some period— not stated—-was written under the first ‘ appeal’
and Mrs. Foyster’s request. It was almost undecipherable,
but the following words or letters can be made out :
‘ L ig h t in * * * * W r it e P r a y e r a n d O * * * * . ’
Underneath this ‘ message’ Mr. Kerr-Pearse— emulating
Mrs. Foyster— wrote in capitals ‘ I still cannot understand.
Please tell me more.’ There was no answer to his request.
No. 6 marking on First Floor Plan is the solitary word
‘ Edwin,’ one inch long, reproduced herewith:
It was found on the exterior wall of the bathroom near
the staircase to the attics. ‘ Edwin,’ by the way, was a friend
of the Foysters.
The last, and one of the most interesting messages, was
i
TRACING OF A PENCILLED W ALL ‘ MESSAGE ’ THAT APPEARED
NEAR THE BLUE ROOM DURING THE PRESENCE OF MRS.
FOYSTER AND DOM RICHARD WHITEHOUSE, O.S.B., JUNE
16, 1931-
148 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
found on the landing archway near the Chapel, 4 feet
8 inches from the floor. It appeared during the presence
of Dom Richard Whitehouse and Mrs. Foyster.1 It is
marked No. 7 on Plan. It read:
‘ G e t L ig h t M ass a n d P r a y e r s H e r e .’
Underneath were some— apparently— meaningless letters
or symbols. The writing was too faint to photograph satis-
factorily for purposes of reproduction as a half-tone block,
so it was very carefully traced, and is illustrated on page 147
in facsimile.
I hâve now described and illustrated the principal mes­
sages and markings, but there were many more than are
mentioned above. For example, there was a large inverted
‘ M ’ on the foot of attic stairs; a ‘ W ’ (or inverted ‘ M ’) on
the wall of Room No. 2, 3 feet 10 inches from floor; a
similar marking, 2 feet 3 inches from floor, on the wall outside
Sewing-Room; another Tower-case’ ‘ m ’ (below) on passage
wall near kitchen, 2 feet 6 inches from floor; the letters
1Ma,’ 5 feet 1 inch from floor, on wall opposite Sewing-
Room; a spiral, 2 feet 6 inches from floor, on wall outside
seuilery; a similar mark, 4 feet 4 inches from floor, on the
wall of back staircase; and a letter like a ‘ G ’, 4 feet 2 inches
from floor, also by back staircase. In addition, there were
literally hundreds of marks, mostly small, scattered ail over
the rooms and passages. Some of these hâve been described
by our observers. Mr. S. H. Glanville, Colonel Westland,
and Mr. Kerr-Pearse spent an enormous amount of time
1 See page 94.
A N A L Y S I S OF T H E W R I T I N G S I49
and trouble in photographing, tracing, and recording the
Borley pencil markings.
The markings were made undoubtedly with some sub­
stance that cannot be distinguished from the ordinary Tead’
(i.e., graphite) used in a lead pencil. I took samples of the
markings and, under the microscope, compared them with
powdered graphite from an ordinary pencil. I could see
no différence between the samples. Some of the markings
are fine and some are coarse, and apparently both hard and
soft leads hâve been used. The grains were quite distinct
under the microscope.
Certain of the detached letters appear to hâve been made
by a left-handed person; or, more probably, by a right-
handed person using his left hand. The suggestion has been
made that a child did them. With the exception, perhaps,
of some of the jabs and ‘ squiggles,’ I am certain that this
was not the case. Those ‘ Marianne-get-Mass-prayer-light’
concepts never originated in the brain of a child.
And the height of the writings from the floor, mostly from
about 5 feet to 4 feet 2 inches, precludes any possibility of a
child having done them, unless a chair was used— whicli is
most unlikely. The one or two markings (mostly the letter
‘ M ’) that appeared about two feet or so above the floor,
might hâve been done by a child.
A man, 5 feet 11 inches in height, when normally writing
on a wall, and if standing, uses his pencil at a height of
5 feet 2^ inches from the ground, a little below eye level.
Only one marking, the letters ‘ Ma,’ was found above the
five-foot limit. The remainder of the wordings were at a
height of from 4 feet 2 inches to 4 feet 8 inches from the
floor. Taking the average, I consider that they were made
by a person about 5 feet 2 inches or 3 inches in height.
But I am sure that ail the 1messages ’ were not written by
the same hand. I hâve shown the photographs of the writings
to several people (including a bank manager) whose duty it
is to study hand-writings on documents, and they ail agréé
that at least two ‘ entities’ were operating. Some of the
150 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
scribbles (from 2 fcct 3 inches to 2 feet 6 inches) might hâve
been produced by a child.
The mcchanics and construction of the messages suggest
a forcign origin. The appeal ‘ Marianne please help get’
is the phrasing of a person who does not properly understand
the English language. I should probably make the same
blunders if I were trying to write a similar message in, say,
Italian. I think it is some proof of the authenticity of the
messages, and additional evidence for the theory that they
were written by a foreigner. But the calligraphy is entirely
British and entirely modem. It is ail very complicated!
Mr. S. J. de Lotbinière, in the report of his second visit
to the Rectory on December 14, 1937, mentions that he
found a number of small marks ‘ evidently made by someone
measuring up the walls, probably for some such purpose as
redecoration.’ I quite agréé. These marks were in straight
lines, rather like those on a graduated measure, and hâve
not been taken into account in this monograph. But similar
marks— hundreds of them— are peppered ail over the walls,
and they vary in length from one millimétré to several inches.
It can hardly be doubted that some of the marks, especially
the smaller ones, appeared paranormally. Many observers
hâve testified to this effect. For example, Mr. Kerr-Pearse,
at 7.25 p.m. on July 13, 1937, ‘ examined every inch’ of a
certain wall. At 8.30 p.m.— i.e., an hour later— he found
two small marks which were not there before. Many
other marks appeared while he was there. On July 18,
1937, during another visit, six marks appeared in the Chape!
after he had ‘ examined it very closely.’ Mr. M. Savage, of
the B.B.C. on May 7, 1938, found a new pencilling in the
Blue Room. He says : ‘ We are as definite as one can be that
it was not there on any of our previous inspections.’ A
moment later, another mark appeared four inches below the
fîrst one. Then other marks appeared! Another B.B.C.
official, Mr. C. Gordon Glover, also found a new mark
while he and his friends were in the house.
Mr. Glanville and his friends, on August 14, 1937,
C A N G H O ST S S H A R P E N P E N C I L S ? 15 1
photographed one of the ‘ Marianne’ messages. Although
the house was locked and sealed, another mark appeared by
the side of the message an hour or so later. The message
was again photographed, and the new mark can be seen
in one photograph, but not in the other. If this is not evidence
for a paranormal pencil mark, I do not know what is. Many
other marks were discovered in the same way.
Mr. Drinkwater found so many new marks that his chalk
was used up before he could ring them ail! This was on
December 14, 1937. During the visit of Mr. Bailey and
Mr. Wintour in July 1937, ‘ three circles’ appeared behind
a door at 11.23 a-m- after a thorough inspection of the wall.
‘ We are both certain that they were not there at 11.15 a.m.’
Then a new ‘ M ’ appeared and they ‘ thought they saw it
grow under their eyes.’ Dr. Joad, after examining the walls,
‘found another pencil squiggle’ which it was ‘inconceivable’
that he and his friend could hâve missed on their previous
inspection. I could go on multiplying such examples, but
the reader will find many similar ones scattered throughout
this monograph. And, as we know, a complété ‘ message’
appeared within a few yards of Mrs. Foyster and Dom
Richard Whitehouse, in answer to their Novena.
Both Dr. G. E. M. Joad and Mr. Elliot Smith raise the
question as to whether a ghost, a discarnate spirit, or a
‘ psychic factor’ can sharpen a lead pencil. But surely, using
a lead pencil— even using it intelligently— is not a more
wonderful phenomenon than Kerr-Pearse being locked in
the Base Room while he was having his supper ; or tï. e lifting
up of Mrs. Mansbridge’s coat belt ; or the filling of the room
with incense for Flight-Lieutenant Jonas’s délectation. If a
ghost can, in true Poltergeist fashion, pick up a glass candle-
stick and hurl it down the well of the stairs— and I saw tins
at Borley with my own eyes—-then it can pick up a lead-
pencil and use it. Mr. Elliot Smith says: ‘ Where does it
get the material lead?’ Well, lead pencils are plentiful,
and a Poltergeist would not hâve to go far in order to find one.
I do not suggest, that— assuming these markings are para-
152 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
normal— thc Geist would resharpen thc pencil it was using.
It would probably fînd another pencil! There was evidence
that more than one pencil was used in the scribblings.
I agréé with Dr. Joad that the idea of a Poltergeist ‘ apport-
ing’ a pencil from somewhere and then materializing fingers
with whicli to use it, is ‘ incrcdible.’ But everything is incred-
ible connected with Borley Rectory. My task has been to
collect and présent the evidence— of which there is more
than ample— for paranormal pencillings. And I do not
think that this evidence can be shaken. If the whole thing
had been a hoax from beginning to end, and if a number of
silly people had set out to fool us— and themselves— I think
these practical jokers would not hâve been content to make
mcre lines, dots, and half-formed letters on the walls. I
think they could not hâve resisted the temptation of writing
more messages, amusing or facetious. The fact that only
scrawly marks or lines appeared goes far, I think, to prove
their genuineness.
P L A TE VI
The pencilled wall “ appeals ” to
Marianne. The block letters in
bottom specimen were written by
Mrs. Foyster and Kerr-Pearse
respectively (see text).
V'Yt^^ywniL/
■
J
L C A A* A ' O “ T
~TëLL M £
Û f B'STP*N O
/v\o R £
ô/Uû/h/VU.
X
CHAPTER XXV
‘ T R Y THE SPIR ITS’
M
R. S. H. G LAN VILLE is neither a spiritualist nor a
‘ believer.’ He knows nothing about spiritualism and,
until he joined our official observers, took only an
academie interest in psychical research. His son, Mr. R. H.
Glanville, is likewise a sceptic, though he— like his father—■
has become convinced, through personal expérience, of the
paranormal happenings at Borley Rectory.
As the Rectory was supposed to be full of spirits, Mr.
Glanville thought that he would like to ‘ try thern.’ Inciden-
tally, he is a collateral descendant of the famous Joseph
Glanvill (of the ‘ Drummer of Tedworth’ famé), so perhaps
his interest in Poltergeister and the occult generally is slightly
inherited. Anyway, he thought he would organize a few
séances in the Rectory, which he did, with very curious
results. His records'— or protocols— are at least much more
interesting— if no more veridical— than those of the profes-
sional médiums who also tried their hancl at ‘ trying the
spirits.’
Mr. Glanville was sufficiently acquainted with séance
technique to know that for table-tipping or table-talking, a
table was the first requisite. So he built one specially— a very
light affair weighing two or three pounds. He took it to
Borley.
He was unable to be présent at the first séances, but his
son Roger, Mr. A. J. Cuthbert, and Mr. Kerr-Pearse started
the bail rolling as it were, and the extracts from the records
that form this chapter are taken Verbatim from the excellent
bound record-book of everything that took place at the
Rectory during Mr. Glanville’s investigations at the place.
153
154 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E IN E N G L A N D
The following informative extracts were obtained at a num-
ber of séances hcld at the Rectory between October 23 and
25, 1937. A great deal of the information dealt with private
matters connected with past Rectors and their living friends.
For obvious reasons, these intimate ‘révélations’ hâve not
been included. The séances were held in various parts of
the house : passages, kitchen, Base Room, etc.
At the fàrst séance on October 23, 1937, the table ‘felt
alive’ immediately they started, and within two minutes
was rocking backwards and forwards. During the sitting
‘ we ail experienced an ice-cold draught which was generally
most noticeable when the table was rocking violently.
A. J. Cuthbert noticed an icy draught behind his ears and
Kerr-Pearse got the impression that there was a presence
behind Cuthbert’s right shoulder. R. H. Glanville had the
feeling that we were being watched.’ The code used was:
one rock of the table for ‘ N o’ ; two for ‘ Uncertain’ ; and
three for ‘ Yes.’ When a word was to be spelled out the table
started rocking and the sitters went through the alphabet
in time with it, the table stopping at the letter to be indi-
cated. Almost without exception they went through the com­
plété alphabet once before arriving at the letter wanted, and
on some occasions, twice. This made the spelling of words a
slow and laborious procedure, as they found it was necessary
to check up continually. At times the rocking was slow and
deliberate and, at others, so fast that it was almost impossible
to keep pace with it. The table stood 2 feet 2 inches high,
and was 12 inches square.
Here are some of their records :
T h e S t o r y o f t h e N u n
Are you Harry Bull? Tes.
Did you Write the messages? No.
Does the ‘strange coat’ belong to someone you know? Tes.
To a woman? Tes.
To a friend ? Tes.
Is she alive? Tes.
Does she live near here? Tes.
Has she been in the house lately? No.
W H E R E T H E ‘ N U N ’ IS B U R I E D 155
Will she corne again? No.
Do you know the Rev. Henning? Tes.
Does he corne here? Tes.
Could he help you? Tes.
By saying and having ‘ light, Mass, prayers,’ etc.? Tes.
In your room? No.
In the passage here? No.
In the Chapel? No.
In the village church? No.
In the house? No.
In the kitchen? Tes.
Has the kitchen anything to do with your death? No.
Has the kitchen anything to do with the misfortune in this
house? Tes.
Has there been any other cause for the trouble? Tes.
Concerning yourself? Tes.
Concerning the story of the ‘ nun ’? No.
Did the ‘ nun’ die violently here? No.
Did the présent trouble start with your father? No.
Was it before his time? Tes.
Was it long before his time? No.
A previous Rector? Tes.
In a previous house? No.
In this house? Tes.
Did your father build this house? Tes.
This house is supposed to be haunted. Was it haunted before
your father’s time? [No reply.J
Was it haunted during his time? Tes.
Did your father see the ‘ nun ’? Tes.
Has the ‘ nun’ left here? No.
Is she happy now? No.
Can we help her? Tes.
By a service? No.
By a Christian burial? Tes.
Is she in the garden? Tes. [Very defmite.]
Shall we see her? No.
Is she near the house? Tes.
Is anyone buried in the garden? Tes. [Defmite.]
Was there a burial in the garden during your time? No.
Has anyone been buried in the garden? Tes.
Only the ‘ nun’? Tes.
No one else? No.
Is she buried under the house? No.
Near the house? Tes.
I 5 6 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
Could we find hcr? Tes.
Is she deeply buried? No.
Is she buried near the summer house? No.
On the east of the house? No.
On the north of the house? No.
On the south of the house? Tes.
On the west of the house? Tes.
On the south-west of the house? Tes. [Definite.]
Is she buried under trees? Tes.
Is she buried in a coffin? No.
Is she buried under a stone? No.
Is she buried under a cedar-tree? No.
Is she buried near the path by the south-west of the house?
Tes.
Is she buried near the path? Tes.
Has she ever been found? No.
Is she buried within two yards of the path? Tes.
Is she buried near the greenhouse? No.
Is she buried by the stables? No.
Is she buried by the small pond? No.
Is she buried under a tree within two yards of the path? Tes.
Is she buried under a large tree? Tes.
Can you spell the name of the tree? Tes.
Do you know the kind of tree? Tes.
Can you spell its name? Fi.
Is ‘ fir’ correct? Tes.
Within two yards of a fir-tree? Tes.
Is the fir-tree a large one? Tes.
Is the fir-tree near the vine by the corner of the house? Tes.
Are you certain? Tes. [Definite.]
Has it been eut down? [No reply.]
Would she like us to look for her? Tes.
If we look, can we find her? Tes.
Is she buried in the garden? Tes. [Definite.]
Is she buried fairly near the greenhouse? Tes.
Is she buried more than three feet deep? No.
Is she buried under a small stone with ‘B ’ on it in the path?
Tes.
Are you certain she is under the stone? Tes. [Definite.]
Is the house still haunted? Tes. [Definite.]
Is the movement of things part of the haunting? [No reply.]
Do you know what moves them? Tes.
Spell it. [No reply.]
Do you move things? Tes.
1
‘ F A T HE R E N O C H ’ 157
Did you move the tobacco tin from the drawing-room ? No.
Do you know when you move things? No.
Does cold interfère with your power? No.
Does light interfère with your power? JVo.
Does heat help you? Tes.
Would it help if we arranged for Mass to be sung in the
kitchen? Tes.
Can you spell the nun’s name? [No reply.]
Is it a Biblical name? [No reply.]
Do you know who wrote the wall messages? Tes.
Did you write them? JVo.
Did a human write them? JVo.
Did a man write them? JVo.
Did a woman write them? JVo.
Did a child write them? JVo.
Is it a type of being we do not understand? [Indefinite.]
Are you often in the house? Tes.
Are you often on the landing? Tes.
Do you go up and down the stairs? Tes.
In your library and old study? JVo.
Are you tired? Tes.
Shall we stop? Tes.
[Later, when another entity ‘ came through ’] :
•Is anyone buried in the garden? Tes.
Who is it? Fadenoch.
Was he a member of the monastery? Tes.
Was he prior? JVo.
Was he a lay brother? No.
Was he a monk? Tes.
Was he a novice? [No reply.]
Was he a friend of the nun? [No reply.]
Had the burial been made before your lifetime? Tes.
Is there evil in this house? No.
Was there evil in this house? Tes.
Is there now only good in this house? Tes.
Should the house be destroyed? No.
Are we wrong in asking these questions? No.
Do you know who wrote the messages on the walls? Tes.
Did you? No.
Will there be more messages? T'es.
Shall we see them? Tes.
So now the reader knows exactly where the ‘nun’ is
buried; who ‘ moved’ things in the Rectory; some informa-
158 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
tion about the ‘ messages’ ; and that a monk named ‘Fade-
noch’1 is also interred in the Rectory grounds. It is inter-
esting to note that some of the table-tipping answers corres-
ponded very closely with the replies given to the same
questions of a private nature that we asked when we had our
séance in the Blue Room in the early morning of June 13,
1929. (See Chapter VIII.) I hâve explained why this
intimate ‘ conversation’ cannot be given. I need hardly
warn the reader not to take this séance ‘ information’ too
seriously.
If the reader should think it strange that we did not
excavate the ground under the stone with ‘ B ’ on it in the
garden, I will explain that this is merely a boundary mark
between two properties, placed there in 1863 when the
Rectory was built. Séance ‘ communications ’ are notoriously
unreliable, and it would indeed be a phenomenon if this
stone should hâve been placed, in 1863, over the exact spot
where the remains of the nun were alleged to hâve been
interred in 1667. However, for the sake of completeness, it
might be worth while to do some digging under the stone.
1 Or perhaps ‘Father Enoch’ was meant.
CHAPTER XXVI
THE V O IC E OF PLANCH ETTE
F
R O M table-tipping Mr. Glanville turned bis attention
to Planchette writing. In his record book, he tells us :
‘ We had, some years ago, obtained a Planchette with
a view to carrying out some experiments. These did not
materialize, however, as the board persistently refused to
move, and at none of the sittings did it Write a single word.
It was stored away and not used again until it was taken to
Borley where it at once became extremely active.’
A ‘ Planchette’ is a heart-shaped piece ofwood at the apex
of which a sharpened lead pencil is inserted at right-angles.
At the other end of the board are two small pentagraph wheels
or castors in order that it can be made to move easily over a
sheet of paper when hands are rested lightly on it. It is
believed by some to write independently of the volition of
the person or persons touching it. Planchette writing is in
the same category as automatic writing. There is no doubt
that some of these ‘ automatisms’ are genuine, but are the
resuit of subconscious activity of the rnind, and nothing to do
with spirits. Many otherwise normal persons are auto-
matists. The Planchette, ouija board, and similar contri-
vances merely take the place of the hand in automatic
writing. If the reader is a spiritualist, he may think differ-
ently.
The first Planchette writings were produced (October 25,
I937) by Roger Glanville, Kerr-Pearse and A. J. Cuthbert.
The results were not very encouraging. Then Mr. Glanville
showed these scripts to his daughter (his children are, of
course, grown up), Miss Helen Glanville, who had never
used a Planchette.. Ab details of the previous writings had been
159
I ÔO T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
given her. Alone, Miss Glanville, at her Streatham home, on
October 28, 1937, produced a number of scripts, from which
the following are extracts. The ‘ questions’ were asked
aloud :
[No question asked, but the name Marianne was written.]
Is it someone using this name? [Indistinct.]
Could you tell me your own name? [Indistinct.]
Are you buried in the garden? Tes.
Can you tell us where? Der re Ind.
Do you mean under the fir-tree? No.
Near a tree? Tes.
Is there anything to tell us where? Stone.
Can you tell me the rest ofyour name? La.... [then indistinct.]
Are the first two letters ‘ L a’? irre.
Do you mean ‘ Lairre ’? Tes.
Can we help? Are you unhappy? Tes.
Can we do anything to help you? Mass.
[No question asked.] Prayers aness.
It is ‘ Mass,’ isn’t it? Tes.
Can you tell me, are you buried in the garden? Tes.
Do you want Mass said in the house? Tes.
In any spécial room? Mo.
Upstairs? [No reply.]
Downstairs? [No reply.]
Do you mean it does not matter where? Tes.
If you still want to talk, say ‘ yes.’ Tes.
Can you tell me the name of your nunnery? Larire.
Do you mean ‘ Lar’? arre.
Is it the name ofyour nunnery that you are trying to write? Tes.
Can you tell me how far away? Two miles or more? Tes.
Was it Bures? Tes.
Do you mean it was Bures? Tes.
It is your own name you are trying to write, isn’t it? Tes.
Can you tell me the name of the Monk? [Indistinct.]
Is he unhappy? Tes.
Can you tell me when you passed over? 1667.
The month? May.
The day? 17.
Can you tell us why you passed over? Tes.
Did they hurt you? Tes.
Was there something you wanted very much before you passed
over? W
ater.
‘ M A R Y L A I R R E 161
Do you mean water? Tes.
Gan you try to spell the name of the Nunnery? [After several
attempts Haiv was written.]
Is it ‘ Haiv ’? Tes.
Was it a closed order? Tes.
Do you want more questions? Tes.
Was the monk’s order that of St. Benedict? Tes.
Is the monk buried at Borley? Tes.
Do you know where? Tes.
In the garden or under the house? [No reply.]
(On October 31, 1937, at Streatham, Miss Helen Glan-
ville, Mr. S. H. Glanville and his son, and Mr. Kerr-Pearse
had a Planchette séance, the fingers of each person being
placed lightly on the board):
Who is there? [Indistinct, then] Mary.
What is your name? Mary Laine.
How old were you when you passed over? ig.
Were you a novice? Tes.
Why did you pass over? [No reply.]
Are you under the wall? No.
Are you at the end of the wall? Tes.
Where did you hear Mass? [Indistinct.]
Will you please spell each letter? B-o-r-l-e-y.
Did you know Father Enoch? [Indistinct.]
Will you repeat your last answer letter by letter? J-e-s-u-s.
Hâve you a message? Chant light Mass.
Do you want it for yourself? Tes.
Why? I am unha . . . [three letters indistinct.]
Is it your own fault? No.
Whose fault? Waldegrave.
Were you murdered? Tes.
When? i66y.
How? Stran . . . [last letters indistinct.]
Were you strangled? Tes.
Will our Mass be sufficient? No.
What Mass do you want? Requiem.
Must it be by a Roman Catholic priest? [Indistinct.]
Are you French? Tes.
Where did you corne from? Havre.
Is it ‘ Havre ’? Tes.
What was the name of your nunnery or convent? Bure,
Did Waldegrave take you from Bures? Tes.
M
16 2 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
Do you want burial as wcll as Mass? Tes.
Are we speaking to Mary Lairre? Tes.
Do you want water? Tes.
What kind of water? Holy.
What else do you want? Incense.
Are you ever in Borley house? Tes.
At the above and other Planchette séances, many private
questions were discussed, and the operating entities made
some startling ‘ disclosures’ concerning a number of tragic
incidents alleged to hâve occurred at Borley. These records
hâve been carefully preserved. The value of these Planchette
writings must be assessed by the reader himself. But they
are very interesting.
CHAPTER XXVII
‘ SUNEX AM U R E S’ SAYS HE W ILL BURN
THE R EG TO R Y
T
HOUGH the Planchette writings recorded in the last
chapter hâve a great interest— perhaps a psychological
one— for students of the Borley problem, they contain
little or nothing that can be easily proved or disproved ; no
prédictions that can be verified; and no very startling dis-
closures— even if the script statements are true. Certainly,
we might begin to dig up the Rectory lawn for the nun,
‘ Mary Lairre’, and ‘ Father Fadenoch’ the monk who,
Planchette says, are buried there. It is a fact that let into
the garden of the Rectory is a large stone with ‘ B ’ on it, and
it is under this stone that the nun is alleged to lie. Perhaps
some day it would be worth while digging for the remains
of the two lovers. And this thought suggests to me that the
molestation of the cats’ cemetery1 may hâve been the work
of someone who obtained a ‘ d u e’— perhaps at a séance—
as to where ‘ Mary Lairre’ was buried. The bones dug up
by Mr. Glanville certainly belonged to no nun!
But one startling piece of information or prédiction— ful-
filled to the letter— was obtained at a Planchette séance at
Streatham, under the following circumstances.
It will be remembered that Miss Helen Glanville had had
no previous expérience with the Planchette until her father
experimented with it, and her, in October 1937. Then the
family more or less forgot about it. But exactly five
months later— on March 27, 1938, to be précisé— somethjng
prompted Miss Glanville to get out the little heart-shaped
1See page 199.
163
164 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
contrivance and again try it. As her brother Roger hap-
pened to be at home, she invited him to join her.
They spread a piece of white paper on the table and
placed the tips of thcir fmgers lightly on the polished surface
of the Planchette. Miss Glanville said : ‘ Does anyone want
to speak to us?’ Immediately, the word ‘yes’ was written.
Then Miss Glanville said ‘ Who are you?’ She had hardly
finished speaking when Planchette wrote in a large scrawly
hand :
‘ Sunex Amures and one of his men [indistinct] m e a n t o b u r n
t h e r e c t o r y to-night at g 0'dock end of the haunting go to the
rectory andyou will be able to see us enter into our own and under
the ruins you will fmd bone of murdered [indistinct] wardens
[not clear] under the ruins meanyou to hâve proof of haunting of
the rectory at Borley [indistinct] the understanding of which
[indistinct] tells the story of murder which happened thered
Miss Glanville then asked : ‘ In which room will the fire
start?’ Immediately Planchette wrote: ‘ Over the hall. Tes
yesyou must go ifyou want proof
‘ Why cannot you give us proof here?’ was asked. ‘ We
wilV said Planchette. And that was ail. Other questions
were asked, but Planchette was dumb.
The above promise— or threat—-by ‘ Sunex Amures’ is
quite definite. He said he would ‘ Burn the rectory’— and
burnt it was! Eleven months later, to the day, Borley
Rectory was gutted by lire!
Not only did ‘ Sunex Amures’ say that the Rectory would
be burnt, but he said that it would start ‘ over the hall.’
That is exactly where it did start. The lamp that caused the
blaze was upset in the hall, but the fïrst part of the house
to burn was immediately over the hall—-exactly at midnight
on February 27, 1939.
I must emphasize that ail these Planchette scripts and
séance records were— and are—earefully preserved. Actu-
ally, the script bearing the threat to ‘ burn the rectory’ was
sent to my office at the time. Needless to say, neither Mr.
Glanville nor his family were greatly perturbed by the threat
‘ S U N E X ’ N O T T A K E N S E R X O U S L Y 165
to burn the Rectory, and did not travel to Borley on the night
of the séance in order to see ‘ Sunex Amures 5 and his merry
men start the blaze. In other worcls, they did not take the
threat seriously. Speaking of Planchette scripts, Mr. Glan-
ville and his friends used up so much paper that he finally
bought lengths of white wall-paper on which to record the
‘ messages.5
CHAPTER XXVin
THE R E C T O R Y ’S NEW OW NER
O
N November i, 1938, I broadcast from London on
haunted houses. I did not mention Borley Rectory
by name, but detailed certain incidents that had
occurred there, knowing that those of my hearers who knew
anything at ail about the !most haunted house’ would
recognize the place to which I was referring.
Amongst the letters from listeners that the British Broad-
casting Corporation forwarded to me after my talk was one
(dated November 2, 1938) from Captain W. H. Gregson,
R.E. (Ret.) of Maldon, Essex. He said: ‘ I was greatly
interested in hearing your broadcast talk on ghosts last night,
as I hâve recently purchased Borley Rectory wherein you
conducted some of the investigations of which you spoke.
I should be so very interested to hear from you concerning
your stay in Borley Rectory, as to any strange or inexplicable
occurrences which you noted during your stay. We shall
take up résidence at the Rectory early in December, and are
naturally very interested in the rumours concerning it—
though without, I must admit, any degree of nervousness
with regard to them.’
So Captain Gregson was the new owner! I knew from
the letter1 that Miss Ethel Bull sent to Mr. Glanville that
the Rectory had been sold, but it was a curious coincidence
that the new owner should reveal himself to me through my
wireless talk.
In my reply to Captain Gregson I mentioned that I was
preparing a monograph on the psychic history of the
Rectory and hoped he would let me know should any
1 See page 237.
166
‘ R U B B E R - N E C K S ’ A T B O R L E Y 167
untoward incident or inexplicable happening occur there.
I told him that there was nothing to be nervous about.
I also said that if I lived in Essex— as he did—instead of in
Sussex, I would hâve bought the house myself as a sort of
week-end place where I could do some occasional investi-
gating.
In his second letter to me, Captain Gregson mentioned
that curiosity concerning the place was drawing crowds of
people to the Rectory. These 1sight-seers ’ (though it is
difficult to imagine what they expected to see) were very
annoying. On one evening when the Captain happened to
be there, a whole string of cars was in the road— the occu­
pants of which had corne to see the ‘ haunted house.’ One
man was so very persistent that the Captain took compassion
on him, and invited him into the house and showed him
round.
The letter continues : ‘ In the library [our old Base Room]
he began to collapse, because of the malevolent influence
which he said existed just there. I certainly did not feel
anything myself, but I liked to think that there was really
something eerie. It adds charm to the place.’
The return of the ‘ rubber-necks ’ to Borley was curious,
as nothing like it had happened since the Rev. Eric Smith
was driven almost frantic by gangs of sightseers who invaded
the Rectory and grounds. I might hâve mentioned before
that during my tenancy only once (when I was not présent)
were our observers disturbed by strangers. The exception
was when a party of young fools of both sexes (who were
old enough, and presumably educated enough to know
better) from a house a few miles away drove over to Borley
one night and created a disturbance at the Rectory. I hope
they read what I think of them. During my tenancy I never
once saw even a single villager, and no one called on me.
Captain Gregson moved to Borley early in December
1938, and I heard indirectly that he had renamed the
Rectory ‘ Borley Priory.’ I believe there was some clause in
the conditions of sale that precluded his calling his house
168 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
Borlcy Rectory on account of possible confusion. I do not
know who suggested ‘ The Priory,’ but it was a very happy
choice and a most appropriate name.
I also learnt that Captain Gregson was living in the
Rectory cottage with his two young sons, Alan, aged
eighteen, and Andrew, aged fourteen, while he was gradu-
ally ‘ moving in5his furniture into the big house and getting
ship-shape at leisure: an excellent arrangement. I never
knew whether he was disturbed by the ‘ padding dog’ that
so troubled Edward Cooper. Probably not, or I sliould hâve
heard of it. Arbon, of course, had moved out of the Rectory
cottage, and was living in Brook Hall Lane, Borley.
I had no further occasion to correspond with Captain
Gregson during 1938, and waited patiently for news of any
‘ happenings.’ When next I did write, it was to commiserate
with him over the tragic disaster that had befallen him and
the Rectory.
Left :
Burnt-out brick gable-ends.
Below left :
The “ Cold Spot ” outside the
Blue Room (compare photo-
graph on Plate III).
Below righl :
Ail that remains of the burnt-
out Ghapel.
plate vu
Right :
After the fire. Gutted
Rectory showing first floor
burnt out. Photographed
from the lawn. Compare
with photograph on Plate I.
C H A P T E R X X IX
THE R E C T O R Y D ESTROYED BY FIRE
N the stroke of midnight, February 27, 1939, Borley
Rectory caught fïre, and in a few minutes was a
blazing inferno. (See Plate VII). Thus was the
prophecy, threat, or promise of ‘ Sunex Amures,’ Miss
Glanville’s Planchette entity, fulfilled!
By a strange coïncidence-—-everything connected with
Borley was strange!—-I learnt of the fïery end of the Rectory
in exactly the same way as, in 1929, I first heard of the
manifestations that were taking place there. On the after-
noon of Tuesday, February 28, 1939, the editor of one of
the great London dailies rang me up and broke the news.
The story he had received was to the effect that the fire had
started in some miraculous manner.
As my Press cuttings began to corne in, I saw such headings
as ‘ Most Haunted House on Fire,’ ‘ Rectory Ghost Goes
West,’ ‘ Ghosts Burnt Out,’ and so on, and the actual
account of the burning was appropriately dramatized. O f
the more serious reports of the fire, I take the following from
the Suffolk and Essex Free Press, in the issue of M ardi 2, 1939 :
‘ It appears that Captain Gregson was sorting out some books
when a paraffin lamp overturned and the room speedily caught
fire. Captain Gregson was in serious difïiculty, because water
had to be pumped before any could be had for use. The Sudbury
Fire Brigade was called about 12.15 a.m., and Second Officer
H. Rogers arrived at 12.30, with several firemen and the Merry-
weather pump. On arrivai they found that the roofhad collapsed
immediately over the room in which ghosts had been reputed to
appear. The interior of the upper room was well alight and
another part of the roof had caught, also the staircase. A plenti-
ful supply of water was obtained from a pond fifty yards away,
169
170 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
and the firemen, who promptly got to work, mastered the out-
brcak after an hour and a quarter’s work. They left about
8.15 a.m. after clearing the débris and making ail safe.’
Another account, from the East Anglian Daily Times
(March 1, 1939) says:
‘ Captain Gregson, with the aid of an oil-lamp, was sorting
out library books in the main hall when the lamp overturned and
burst. The burning oil spread among the packages and he rushed
to the cottage to rouse his sons. In a few minutes the hall was a
mass of fiâmes. Sudbury Fire Brigade arrived and found the
front ground-floor rooms, and the bedrooms above, already
involved. Before the Brigade had obtained control, a portion of
the roof fell in.5
From a witness who saw the fire, whom I subsequently
interviewed, I heard the following account. He said : ‘ I was
returning home late from Sudbury on Monday evening,
February 27, when, as I approached Borley Church, I saw a
red glow in the sky. Wondering what it could be, I hastened
my steps and, as I neared the Rectory, I found it was
ablaze. It was as light as day. A column of fiâmes and
sparks was shooting up into the sky and the top of the
Rectory reminded me of the blast furnaces I hâve seen in the
Midlands. Then I heard a crash as the roof fell in. The far
side of the house [i.e., the rooms overlooking the lawn,
including the Blue Room] seemed to be burning most
fiercely, and the fiâmes were streaming out of the Windows.
The firemen were pumping water on to the building. It was
the fiercest fire I hâve seen in these parts.’ Neither the cot­
tage nor outbuildings were damaged by fire or water.
O f course I wrote to Captain Gregson, sympathizing with
him in his loss, and hoping that the damage to his personal
property was not too great. I said I was not particularly
surprised that the place had been burnt down, as one or two
outbreaks of fire had occurred there in previous years. It
will be remembered that the Rev. L. A. Foyster speaks of
fire in his diary, and Lady Whitehouse actually saw the
skirting-board ablaze. Dom Richard Whitehouse also saw
‘ smoke issuing from the skirting-board’ on one occasion.
GA P T A I N G R E G S O N ’ S ST R A N G E S T O R Y 17I
In my letter to Captain Gregson I asked him to let me
know exactly how the fire started and what had taken place
at the Rectory since I last wrote him in the previous Novem-
ber. From a long and detailed reply (dated March 2, 1939)
which he kindly sent me, I will quote the following Verbatim :
‘Thank you so much for your kind letter of sympathy. You
will hâve seen in various papers an account of the fire, and so
far as I hâve studied the reports, they give the full account of
what occurred. We had not actually established ourselves in the
Rectory (which I hâve renamed The Priory) but were still
camping-out, so to speak, in the Cottage. But ail our stuff was
in the Rectory, and has been destroyed.
‘ The fire was caused through a big pile of books (which I was
dusting and sorting out in the Main Hall) falling over on to a
lamp and upsetting it. The only suggestion of any mysterious
influence lies in the fact that I had stacked the books quite care-
fully, and that in ordinary commonsense, they should hâve
remained in their stack without falling over at ail. The Sudbury
Brigade (which I got at once) were extremely good, very prompt,
and most efficient, but the place is practically ruined, and ail
my things (including my books, which I valued very greatly)
are destroyed.
‘During my ownership of the Rectory, one or two rather
unaccountable things hâve certainly happened. Of these, the
most curious was in connection with the well in the cellar.
It was open when we took possession, and sometimes the boys
used to go down the cellar to see how the toads were gctting on.
I was afraid that the boys might fall down the well, so I placed
a heavy hatch-cover over the top one afternoon, to safeguard
them. They had been a little nervous of the open well them-
selves, and appreciated it being securely covered up. But the
next morning, they went down the cellar and came rushing back
to ask me why I had removed the cover without letting them
know. The cover had been thrown off, and lay some distance
away on the floor. As the whole place had been securely locked,
and certainly no one had entered in the meanwhile, this has
struck us ail as definitely weird, and I cannot see any normal
explanation.
‘ Then, last week, while the boys and I were busy in the Hall
with book sorting, my elder boy was thirsty, and fetched a glass
of water from the cottage. He placed the glass (from which he
had taken only a sip) on the bracket table in the Hall, so as to
172 T H E M O S T I I A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
be handy when he wanted another drink. We were very busy
and interested over the books, and he forgot about his thirst.
Later on, we ail came in together to the cottage, leaving the glass
(practically still full of water) on the hall table. The following
morning, when I unlockcd the Rcctory and went in with my
elder son, we found the glass still on the corner of the hall table,
but in four or five pièces, quite dry, and not a trace of moisture
either on the table (which was a polished mahogany one) nor
on the floor beneath. Again, we know definitely that no one but
ourselves had been in the place.
‘Then (and this happened within a day or two of our first
taking possession of the Rectory), we lost our dog in a strange
way. He was a black cocker spaniel, and the most sane and
shrewd dog possible. I took him out with me one night to get
some water from the big wheel pump in the courtyard (which,
as you will remember, is a narrow passage between the two wings
of the Rectory), I distinctly heard footsteps at the far end of
the courtyard, as though something was treading over the
wooden trap-door leading down to the cellars. I paused, and
my dog stopped dead, and positively went mad. He shrieked,
and tore away, still shrieking, and we hâve not seen or heard of
him since. I searched the yard, but no one was there.
‘ Another day (this time in broad daylight, about two in the
afternoon), as I was in the courtyard, I heard most human-
sounding footsteps in the kitchen wing. So definite and real were
they that I called to my son, whom I supposed had gone in and
was walking about. But both the sons were in the cottage, and
the doors had not even been unlocked. I got the back-door key
instantly, and we ail went in and made a thorough search— with
no resuit.
‘ Numerous small things hâve been upset or moved. Usually
we hâve had family arguments as to who had been “ messing
about,” but generally wilhout Corning to any satisfactory con­
clusion.’
There were phenomena even while the Rectory was
blazing. During my last visit to Borley in June 1939, I met
two persons who said they saw ‘ figures moving amongst the
fiâmes, near the Blue Room window’ while the fire was at
its height. And a constable saw ‘ a woman in grey and a
man wearing a bowler hat’ in front of Captain Gregson as
he crossed the courtyard during the fire. This incident is
F I R E - P R O O F G H O S T S I 7 3
recorded by Captain Gregson in an interview1 he gave a
Pressman :
‘About four o’clock in the morning a police constable asked
me who were the lady and gentleman who had just preceded me
in passing over the courtyard. I told him there was no woman
on the premises.’
When next I saw Captain Gregson, he confirmed in greater
detail ail the strange incidents connected with his short
résidence at the Rectory that I hâve related above. He said
that the two figures seen coming out of the Rectory during
the fire were ‘ cloaked.’ There were no people in the house
when it caught alight : he was quite alone. There were two
figures seen at the upper Windows while the place was
blazing. One appeared to be that of a girl, the other was
merely a ‘formless figure.’ They were seen by several
villagers.
1 S
u
n
d
a
yG
raphie, M arch 5, 1939.
C H A P T E R X X X
THE GHOSTS SURVIVE
T
HE Borley ghosts are fire-proof. These psychic sala-
manders did not, apparently, perish under the incan­
descent ruins of the Rectory, but became if anything
more active.
On Saturday, April 15, 1939, Captain Gregson related
some of his expériences at the Rectory in the B.B.C. ‘ In Town
To-night! sériés. He told how he heard invisible footsteps
in the courtyard; how the well hatch-cover was thrown;
the story of the shattered glass and the disappearing water ;
and detailed how figures were scen wandering about the
fiâmes while the house was burning. The reader is acquainted
with these stories.
But one or two strange incidents related by Captain
Gregson I had not heard, as they apparently happened after
he wrote to me on March 2, 1939.
After he lost his cocker spaniel in December 1938 he pur-
chased another one. It, too, was a spaniel puppy. Going
through the courtyard one day with the animal, it behaved
exactly as its predecessor did. It saw something that Captain
Gregson could not see, began whining and shrieking— and
bolted. It has not been seen since.
One day Captain Gregson found a toad in the cellar. He
thought it was a pity to let it lie there, so he picked it up
and, making a bag out of a piece of cloth, placed it inside.
He took the four corners of the cloth and tied them into two
knots, very tightly, making it impossible for the toad to
escape. I am not sure whether he intended to put the toad
back into the cellar, or to place it in the garden. Anyway,
a minute later, when he went to remove the toad, it was
0 4
F O R M L E S S F O O T P R I N T S 1 7 5
gone! The knots were still tied tightly, and there was no
visible means of escape.
Another strange story related by Captain Gregson in his
broadcast described how he found some imprints in the
snow which were made neither by a human being nor by
any animal known to him. Corning down one morning, he
happened to go into the garden. Snow had been falling and
lay thick and white. Stretching diagonally from one corner
of the main lawn to the other was a sériés of impressions in
the snow. For a moment he wondered who could hâve been
trespassing during the night. Then he realized that they were
not a bit like imprints that could possibly hâve been made
by a human foot. Nor were they like the imprints of any
animal with which he was acquainted. They appeared to
be almost formless, and yet quite distinct. Moreover, the
track was in one direction only, and seemed to disappear
at the wall which runs parallel to the Nun’s Walk. They did
not return. The mystery was never solved. These footprints
are reminiscent of the famous ‘ Devil’s hoof-marks’ which
were found one morning stretching across Devonshire, from
Totnes to Exmouth, on February 8, 1855, aftcr a heavy fall
of snow. The tracks covered 100 miles, and the footprints
— unlike those of any animal known to naturalists—-were to
be seen even on the roofs of houses and the tops of high
walls, and on both sides of the estuary of the River Exe.
The mystery was never solved.1
One of the strangest stories told me after the Rectory fire
was by Herbert Mayes, chauffeur to the Rev. A. C. Henning.
The incident occurred to him while he was cycling home
from Borley on the night of Thursday, March 16, 1939,
exactly two weeks before I interviewed him. It was a dark
night, and there was no moon. As he was cycling past the
Rectory-—or rather the ruins of it, because it had by then
been gutted by lire— he heard what sounded like horses
stampeding. They appeared to be coming towards him.
1 See The Times, February 16, 1855, and lllustrated London News, February 24
and March 3, 1855.
1 7 6 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
The first thought that occurred to him was that the horses
belonged to Mr. Payne, of Borley Place, and that they had
broken loose.
As a safety mcasurc, Mayes jumped off his bicycle and,
with it, stood fiat against the fence and hedge in order to
allow the horses to pass him. Pie turned his lamp towards
the direction of the horses. The sounds came nearer and
nearer, and finally passed him. But there ivere no horses!
The galloping hoofs could still be heard dying away in the
distance, but never a sign of an animal— human or equine—
did he see. From first to last, he estimâtes that he heard the
‘ horses’ for three or four minutes. Mr. Mayes’s expérience
is comparable with that of Mr. Harry Bull and others who
also heard the clatter of hoofs on that hollow road outside
the Rectory. At the same time, Mr. Mayes also saw Tights,’
but it is possible that these came from the window of the
Rectory cottage, in which Captain Gregson and his two
sons were then residing.
If any further evidence is required for the haunting of
Borley Rectory— or its ruins— after the fire, it is supplied by
Mr. Charles Graham Browne, of Pound Flall, Melford;
and Miss Rosemary M. Williams, daughter of Captain
Williams, of Borley Lodge, near Sudbury.
Mr. Browne and some friends thought they would like
to see the burnt-out Rectory, so they visited the ruins on
Sunday night, March 26, 1939, a month after the conflag­
ration. It was a bright, clear starlight night and the moon
was in its first quarter. After inspecting the front of v/hat
remains of the building, they went on to the lawn and the
Nun’s Walk to get a better view of that side of the house
overlooking the lawn and summer-house. As they gazed at
the gable walls, ail that remains of the upper storey of the
Rectory, a girl in wliite suddenly appeared at the aperture
of the burnt-out window of the Blue Room. Her figure was
outlined in the moonlight. She appeared to be standing on
nothing; in fact, there was nothing to stand on except the
charred and crumbling rafters that once supported the Blue
T H E G I R L A T T H E W I N D O W 177
Room and other apartments on the first floor. The figure
appeared to be small, but quite distinct. The ‘ girl’ was
visible for several seconds and then fall back into the burnt
débris behind her, or vanished through the wall. Mr.
Browne saw her only as she disappeared from the window.
Mr. Browne, whom Mr. Henning and I interviewed on
March 29, 1939, kindly supplied the above particulars. He
was quite definite about the appearance of the figure. No
human being could hâve climbed up to that window, under
the existing conditions. When I visited Borley on March
28, 29 and 30, 1939, I tried to reach the burnt-through
rafters by climbing over the débris, but I could not reach
the Blue Room window aperture, becausé, as Miss Williams
emphasizes, there was nothing to stand on, and with every
step I took I was afraid of being precipitated into the rooms
below.
Miss Rosemary Williams had a better and longer view of
the figure, as she saw it before Mr. Browne did. She thought
the girl’s dress was light blue, but the moonlight might hâve
given it this tint. I wrote to Miss Williams and received the
following signed report :
M lSS W lL L IA M s’s STATEM ENT
‘ On the evening of Sunday, March 26, 1939, Captain Gregson
gave permission to a party of us to visit Borley Rectory. At
about 10.30 p.m. we ail met at the Rectory gates. It was a cold
night. The moon was only in its first quarter, but shone suffi-
ciently brightly to illuminate the ruined building.
‘ We were most anxious to investigate inside the house, but
Captain Gregson asked us not to walk among the wreckage, as
he would feel responsible should somp of the charred rafters fall
upon one of us and cause an injury.
‘For about half an hour we wandered round the house in
small groups. Someone had a caméra and hoped to get a photo
of the alleged “ nun.”
‘ It was while I was standing on the path [the Nun’s Walk]
that runs parallel with the large lawn, looking up at the house,
that I saw a small woman in the upstairs room (which you term
the Blue Room). I had the impression of someone in a light
buff-coloured coat, but as the figure approached the window,
N
1 7 8 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
I could sce that it was a woman clothed in blue. She remained
for several seconds and then turned towards the wall and, as it
seemed, walked through it.
11 will draw a diagram of lier movements :
------------ DOOR ------------
WINDOW
‘ None of the others would believe me when I called out that
I had seen her. Those near me admitted that they were not
looking up at the window at the time, except Mr. Browne, who
said he saw, for a flash, something resembling a figure of a woman
disappearing from the window.
‘ I was convinced I had seen her, while the others tried to prove
that it was a trick of the moon on a piece of glass or that someone
was actually in the building. The former suggestion was dis-
proved as ail the window panes had been smashed;1 and in the
latter case, we found that the floor boards were burned, so that
no human person could hâve been at the window.
‘ The most extraordinary part to me, was that the apparition
should seem so natural and unfrightening. I had often visited
Borley Rectory before, spending many hours watching and
listening.
[Signed\ ‘ [Miss] R o s e m a r y M. W i l l i a m s .’
When I was at Borley, exactly a month after the lire, I
made a thorough examination of the damage. I found that
the entire first floor and attics of the Rectory had been con-
sumed. The brick gable-ends were still standing and, if one
stood on the lawn and looked through the apertures formerly
containing the window-frames of the Blue Room and
Rooms Nos. 4, 5 and 7, one could see right through the house
to the trees bordering the roacl in front of the Rectory.
The chapel was a mass of charred woodwork and I could
not reach what was once the stained window because it had
1 The window-frame had been burnt right out, leaving the bare brick aper-
ture, as can be seen from the photographs (Plate VII), taken thirty-six hours
after Miss Williams’s visit.
T H E L A S T P H E N O M E N O N 179
been blown out. Also, the floor had been burnt away. The
‘ cold spot’ on the landing outside the Blue Room must hâve
become a very hot spot, as it no longer existed ! The ‘ tower ’
was gutted, as can be seen from the photographs that I took
on my visit. These are reproduced on Plate V II.
The lower portion of the house did not suffer so badly as
the first floor, but of course it was ruined. The main stair-
case—down which so many bottles, pebbles, and china
ornaments had been precipitated during the palmy days of
the haunting— had gone; in fact, it was the first to go. Ail
the Windows of the lower rooms had been blown out or burnt
out, and everywhere there was charred wood, désolation and
ruin. Some of the walls looked as if they might topple over
at any moment. In fact, notices had been put up warning
persons that they entered the ruins at their péril. Since I
took the photographs which are reproduced in this work,
portions of the walls hâve collapsed owing to the high winds.
The last Borley phenomenon— or alleged phenomenon—
brought to my notice related to, of ail things, a caméra.
Mr. W. Davey, of Whitton Church Lane, Ipswich, visited
Borley Rectory on Easter Monday, April 10, 1939, in order
to see the ruins. He took his caméra with him. When lie
got there (he tells me in a letter dated April 11, 1939), the
place seemed placid and peaceful enough. He went on to
the lawn to take a few photographs—-and then something
curious happened. He stood in front of the ruins and took a
photograph of them. Then he closed his caméra, which
‘immediately flew open with a smart click’— of course
spoiling the latent picture. Again, he took a picture of the
Rectory, and again the caméra flew open after he had pressed
the button. Mr. Davey mentioned that he had had the
caméra for five years, and never before had the caméra
behaved like it. He decided he would give up the photo­
graphie part of his visit as a bad job. He had just made this
mental resolution when he ‘ noticed something at the very
spot where Captain Gregson lost his dog.’ The ‘ something’
he could not define.
l8 o T H E MO ST H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
My next visit to Borley was on Wednesday, June 21, 1939.
The occasion was a ‘ psychic fête’ organized by the Rev.
A. C. Henning and his Church Council for raising fonds
for the restoration of Borley Church. I promised I would
take a number of the London Ghost Club members with
me.
The day— the longest day of the year, by the way— duly
arrived and we ail spent a jolly time on the Rectory lawn
and amongst the ruins over—-or through— which Captain
Gregson and his sons had arranged ‘ personally conducted
tours.5 On the lawn were skittles and clock-golf. A ‘white
éléphant5 stall and pig-pelting compétition spread itself
along the Nun’s Walk, and coco-nuts were flying hither and
thither. These unusual ‘ movements5 were not, however,
due to Poltergeist activity, but were the resuit of the well-
directcd shies of the local rustics who had assembled to make
merry. After a charming speech of welcome by Mrs. R. A.
Butler, the wife of the Under-Secretary of State for Foreign
Affairs, we ail had tea. ‘ Ghosts were our hosts,5as some one
said, but to quote the account of the fête that appeared in
The Times :
‘No ghosts were seen. No bricks were hurled at visitors, and
no one received a black eye. There were no psychic manifesta­
tions or strange phenomena. . . . Still, it was a pleasant day,
even for those enthusiasts who braved the stinging nettles and
briars and brambles to trace out the Nun’s Walk and find the
haunted pond almost hidden by an overgrowth of rank weeds.
Since this former rectory was gutted by fïre last February the
cellars hâve been open to daylight, so that this afternoon even
they offered little satisfaction to the inquiring Ghost Club.
There was therefore little to do but turn to the coconut-shy and
so replenish the fonds of Borley Church.51
Yes, it was a pleasant day, and I could not help wondering,
as I stood in the shelter of the summer-house and watched
the animated scene, whether my observers would ever again
keep their nightly vigil among the Cedars of Lebanon
1 The Times, June 22, 1939.
A P S Y C H I C F Ê T E 181
around which throngs of merry-makers were so joyfully
disporting themselves. As for myself, it would probably bc
my last visit to Borlcy Rectory. And it was exactly ten years
(less nine days) since first I set foot in what was subsequently
to become known as ‘ the most hauntcd house in England’
— a well-earned title indeed !
CHAPTER XXXI
GAN THE PHENOM ENA BE EXPLAINED?
I
S it possible, on any hypothesis, to explain the amazing
events that hâve occurred at Borley during the past
seventy years? Personally, I do not believe that any one
theory will cover ail the observed facts. Undoubtedly, the
major and most spectacular of the Borley phenomena
(excluding the appearances of the ‘nun’ and other phan-
tasms) were— or are— the work of Poltergeister, those mis-
chievous entities whose pranks are usually as noisy as they
are senseless. The throwing or displacement of articles are
common manifestations. The word Poltergeist cornes from
the German verb poltern, to rattle, and Geist, a spirit. The
term is a very appropriate one.
The evidence for Poltergeister in the annals of psychical
research is as impressive as it is voluminous, and very many
cases hâve been fully authenticated. To take a famous case
(and a rather appropriate one, as this monograph concerns
a rectory), that of the Parsonage at Epworth, the birthplace
ofjohn Wesley (1703-1791), is worth citing. The Poltergeist
disturbances in this house during the months of December
and January, 1716-17 were, until the record of the Borley
manifestations came to be written, the most fully authenti­
cated in the history of the subject. I will not describe this
most interesting case, but will refer the reader to Joseph
Priestly’s Original Letters by the Rev. John Wesley and his
Friends,1 where he will find the fullest account of the pheno­
mena.
But if the Borley stone-throwing, furniture-moving, bottle-
dropping, hair-rufïling, bell-ringing, belt-raising, soap-
1 London, 1791.
182
S O M E T H E O R I E S 183
pitching, and door-locking annoyances were due to Poller-
geister, as I am certain they were, I doubt if these playful
little fellows were responsible for the shufïlings, scrabblings,
thumps, thuds, footsteps, swishings of clothing, code-tapping,
wall-writings, and similar phenomena. I believe that they
were caused by the persisting remnants of the egos or per-
sonalities (the reader can call them spirits, if he pleases),
with some portions of intelligence still retained, of persons
who once were associated with the Rectory, or with some
building formerly on the same site. The Rectory I think is
— or was up to the time of its destruction by lire— saturated
with such émanations.
I do not prétend to understand the mechanism of how a
‘ persisting ego5 can so adjust its immaterial éléments as to
write a message on a wall or lean over a gâte in the guise of
a nun. Several years ago Professor G. D. Broad postulated
a theory1 that some part of us may survive the dissolution of
our body for a limited period. He termed this ‘ something5
the ‘ psychic factor5 which, under certain conditions, may
unité itself with another person and produce another minci,
the active portion of which belongs to the dead person.
I hâve tried to apply this hypothesis to the Borley pheno­
mena. But as these are mostly of a physical nature, I am
afraid that Dr. Broad’s theory does not help us much in our
présent inquiry.
The spirit hypothesis, that is, the continuity of personality
and the power to communicate after death, covers many of
the facts connected with Borley. The spirit hypothesis, plus
the assumption that Poltergeister are responsible for some of
the phenomena, cover most of the facts. The ‘forms,5 the
‘ nun,5the ‘ shadows,5and other figures seen at Borley by so
many people at different times perhaps once belonged to
living, incarnate beings. But if I am asked how I can
‘ explain5the coach, the noise of galloping hoofs, the appear-
ance of the bay horses, the ‘ glittering harness5 (seen by
Edward Cooper), the ‘light in the window5 (seen by many
1 See his The Mind and Its Place in Nature, London, 1925.
18 4 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
people), the odours, the sensation of an invisible presence,
thc fecling of coldness (which might hâve been only a
physiological reaction to some subconscious and repressed
fcar), and the many bizarre phenomena (e.g., the gluey
substance found on floor of Chapel), I can only say that
I do not know. But I will also add that no one knows.
The suggestion has been made that the various forms seen
at Borley are mere subjective hallucinations. But this argu­
ment will not stand the simplest analysis. The ‘nun,’ for
example, has been seen by the four Misses Bull at one and
the same time, and again by Mr. and Mrs. Edward Cooper
simultaneously. Undoubtedly, these phantasms were objec­
tive, were real external entities, and were visible to the
human eye. In the same category as the ‘ subjective hallu­
cination’ theory is the suggestion that living persons— with
certain powers— can telepathically convey apparitions of the
dead to other living persons.
Neither are the auditory phenomena recorded at Borley
hallucinatory in any sense of the word. For example, Mr.
Glover and his party heard two ‘ heavy thuds’ and then one
of a lighter character. Four persons heard it plainly, at one
and the same time. Again, the Rev. and Mrs. A. C. Hen-
ning, and Mr. Kerr-Pearse, at an informai séance, actually
induced a ‘ most extraordinary noise’ and they heard its pro-
gress down the kitchen passage. This was not hallucina­
tory!
Another suggested explanation of the phenomena is the
diabolic theory of the old Roman Catholic theologians. It is
useless to speculate about this until we know more about the
entities themselves and understand the meaning of the mani­
festations that they produce. One does not hear much these
days about evil spirits, devils, and ‘ elementals’ in connection
with psychical research. I think that the expérience of most
of the Borley investigators is that the entities concerned in
the haunting are benevolent, rather than malevolent.
Certainly, the Rev. L. A. Foyster had his head whacked
with a hair-brush as he lay in bed, and his wife once received
R E C U R R E N T P H E N O M E N A 1 8 5
a black eyc ; but these manifestations were probably the work
of a too-playful Poltergeist with an exubérance of spirits.
Although it would be irksome to the reader for me to
detail particulars here, a curious discovery I made during
an analysis of the Borley phenomena was to the effect that
they are-—or were— cyclic and récurrent. I found that in
very many cases, the manifestations had a definite and
determinable periodicity : that is, they recurred at definite
intervals. Not only did they recur at definite intervals of
time, but they became gradually weaker at each récurrence.
And the intervals may be long or short, though they are
always approximately the same.1 I hâve not been able to
verify that— according to the Borley legends, in which I do
not believe— the ‘nun’ always manifests herself on July 28
of each year. But I hâve found that she appears at definite
intervals, apparently earth-bound, as an objective entity
perceptible to the sensory organs.
To sum up, amongst the many suggested explanations,
some of which I hâve outlined above, the spirit hypothesis
is the one that best covers many of the observed phenomena
at Borley Rectory. If this^is admitted, then that hypothesis
is immensely strengthened by thèse phenomena, if they are
genuine.
11hâve developed this theory in my Fifty Tears of Psychical Research, Lone;-
mans, London, 1939.
C H A P T E R X X X II
THE CASE FOR THE JU R Y
R
EADERS of this monograph arc now in possession of
ail the evidence I hâve accumulated for the alleged
haunting of Borley Rectory, and it is for them to décidé
— as the jury— whether in fact the place is haunted, or not.
It is ail a question of evidence. As the dispassionate narrator
of the Borley story, I hâve been very careful not to make
overstatements, and I hâve avoided the dramatization of
incidents— not an easy matter when dealing with the
amazing happenings that hâve occurred there almost since
the place was built.
Most of the evidence for the haunting of Borley is not
only personal and first-hand, but it is also documentary, as
the reader has by now realized. And no case in the annals
of psychical research is sofully documented.
And who are our witnesses? They are, first of ail, every
person who has ever resided in the Rectory for any length of time.
They are the patrons of the living, five Rectors and their
families, and their servants. There is the testimony of the
présent owner of the R ectory— or the ruins'— Captain
Gregson ; there is the evidence of our official observers and
myself; and there is the confirmation of this evidence by
many complété strangers. My own observers were specially
chosen for their intelligence, ability, culture and indepen-
dence of thought. They included doctors, university men,
engineers, army officers, and level-headed business men—
none of whom had any bias towards psychical research or
spiritualism, and none of whom had ever heard of Borley
Rectory before they began their investigation.
In ail, there are no fewer than ioo witnesses, most of
186
O N E H U N D R E D W I T N E S S E S 18 7
whom are still living and available. If half the number of
these witnesses was eliminated, the evidence of the remainder
would still be sufficient, I think, to prove up to the hilt that
manifestations hâve occurred at Borley to which no laws
known to physical science can be applied. Take away
fifty per cent of the Rectory witnesses, and the Borley
mystery would still be the most remarkable in the history of
psychical research.
Can ail these ioo witnesses be mistaken? Is it possible
that ail these ioo people, over a period of sixty years, hâve
been the victims of visual and aurai illusions? Can ail hâve
been hallucinated? I do not think that this is possible.
‘ Suggestion’ could not account for most of the phenomena
seen and heard at Borley. When Mr. Kerr-Pearse was
having his supper and was locked in the Base Room, investi­
gation proved that the door was locked— although he was
alone in a house, every entrance to which was sealed. There
could be no suggestion about that. That door-locking pheno-
menon happened. When Mrs. Foyster, Dom Richard White-
house, and the maidservant were together in the kitchen,
with doors and Windows closed, and bottle after bottle
materialized and crashed under their very eyes, there could
be no suggestion about that! And it could not hâve been a
case of mal-observation. When the Misses Ethel, Freda,
Mabel, and Elsie Bull saw the ‘nun’ on their lawn on that
bright summer’s evening, they could not hâve been mistaken.
And they could not hâve been mistaken when the figure
vanished. Neither ‘ suggestion’ nor collective hallucination
could account for what these four young women saw. When
Mr. Motion and I picked up the gold ring off the Blue Room
floor on our last visit, after we had thoroughly searched the
room several times, that was an abnormality, not suggestion.
There is nothing abnormal in the ring itsclf, it was the
finding of it that was so strange.
O f course, it is possible that people said they saw or heard
things when they knew they did not. But would ail of our
100 witnesses lie? Would ioo people tell the same or similar
l 8 8 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
lie, in the same way, and with the same wealth of detail, over
a period of sixty years? I am quite certain they would not.
That would be a phenomenon as remarkable as any seen at
Borley, and of the greatest psychological importance. But
I am certain our witnesses were not lying, and that the
things they say they heard and saw really happened in the
way they say they did.
It has been seriously suggested that Borley is a sort of
enchanted village. The argument is that when a person
crosses its boundaries, he steps into a strange, new, four-
dimensional world, and that his normal sensory organs are
put out of gear, as it were. This theory is even more fan-
tastic than that ghosts inhabit the Rectory and that objects
move of their own volition. And yet it was put forward by
a mathematician who does not believe in ‘ghosts!!
The suggestion has also been made that a person must
be, if not exactly a medium, at least ‘ psychic’ to the extent
of being able to expérience and appreciate the strange
occurrences that take place at Borley Rectory and its
vicinity. If that indeed be the case, then the great majority
of those— including 95 per cent of our observers— who hâve
ever been to the Rectory are singularly gifted ‘ sensitives.’
O f course, the exact reverse is the case : the very worst results
hâve been achieved by the professional médiums. But because
a person is a professional medium, that is no guarantee that
he is gifted.
Another suggestion has been made that some person or
persons— unnamed— hâve encouraged the belief that Borley
Rectory was haunted in order to benefit themselves in some
way. There is not the slightest foundation for such an argu­
ment. Every person— including ail the Rectors— who was in
any way intimately connected with the house, has been put
to considérable annoyance, trouble, and pecuniary loss,
directly traceable to the manifestations. Not only did their
pockets suffer, but in some cases their health was also
affected. Every occupant of the Rectory during recent years
has had a misérable time there, and no one has made a
A N A L Y S I S OF P H E N O M E N A 18g
penny-piecc out of Borley, in any shape or form. Everyone
— including thc présent writer— has been put to considérable
expense in trying to solve the mystery.
An attempt has been made to analyse the phenomena and
to détermine the locations or areas affected, and the times of
occurrence. We hâve already seen1 that the Rev. L. A.
Foyster States delînitely that there was ‘ absolute quiet’ in
Holy Week and Easter Week. June was the worst month
of the year. Sunday was usually the quietest day of the
week, and Monday the worst.
Mr. S. H. Glanville made an analysis of the phenomena
that occurred at Borley during a period of less than twelve
months during Mr. Foyster’s occupancy of the Rectory.
O f the forty-five separate major manifestations, it was noted
that 80 per cent occurred during the hours of darkness.
On the ground floor, the great majority were observed within
an area covered by the Sewing-Room, the kitchen, the
passage between the Sewing-Room and the kitchen, and on
the back stairs. A considerably lesser number occurred in
the library [Base Room], On the first floor, phenomena
were confined to an équivalent area as observed on the
ground floor [see Plans, pages 16, 22].
During my own investigations, I found that the principal
focal centres of disturbance were in the kitchen passage,
kitchen, Sewing-Room, large cupboard, Base Room, and
hall. Upstairs, the phenomena were confined principally to
the Blue Room and landing outside (‘ cold spot’), and the
Chapel. Most of the appealing ‘ Marianne’ messages
appeared in the passage between Room 5 and the bathroom.
These writings, and the hundreds of small pencil marks that
appeared ail over the house, are of great interest to psychical
researchers. They are very unusual. Another unusual
feature, even for a haunted house, is that the place was so
soundless and cold.
I must say a word about those who visited the Rectory
and neither saw nor heard anything worth recording.
1 Page 7g.
190 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N G L A N D
Actually, only three such reports were received— a very
small percentage comparée! with the number of reports
sent in. The reports contained nothing of value—-just the
plain statements that nothing happened. Occasionally, a
friend would call at the Rectory to see whether anything
was occurring there. He would stay a short while and
would probably see nothing. I think it would hâve been
extraordinary had he done so. I, too, hâve paid several
visits to Borley without results worth mentioning. To be
impressed by the Borley phenomena, one has to stay at the
Rectory day after day—-or at least hour after hour, in perfect
quietness, and be prepared to keep watch both day and
night. In other words, one has to employ a certain tech­
nique, familiar to investigators, in order properly to carry
out a prolonged inquiry. A person might call at the Rectory
fifty times without seeing or hearing anything. One cannot,
I am afraid, walk into a haunted house and ask to see a
phenomenon, like going into a shop for a pound of tea.
One has to wait for it. But, as regards Borley, the phenomena
are stronger and more frequent when the place is occupied
by a family.
During the préparation of this work I received a number
of letters from persons who were interested in Borley Rectory
or its phenomena. One of these communications came from
Mr. W. S. Pennefather, of Walton-on-Thames. He says :
‘My father, a clergyman, rented this house [Borley Rectory]
for his six weeks’ holiday one summer, previous to 1896. To the
best of my knowledge, no incidents occurred during our stay,
and it is unlikely that the then incumbent said anything to my
father, as he was desirous of letting the house.’
In replying, I asked Mr. Pennefather whether he could fix
the exact year of his father’s visit. He could not, but his
father, he told me, was appointed Vicar of Kensington in
1896, and it was before that date that the Pennefather family
spent their vacation at Borley. If we assume that the year
of their visit was 1895, that would be during the incumbency
of the Rev. Plarry Bull, who succeeded his father as Rector
E X O R C I S X N G T H E G H O S T S i g i
in 1892. O f course, I do not for one moment question
Mr. Pennefather’s assertion that there were ‘ no incidents’
during their stay at Borley, but after forty-fîve years it would
be difHcuIt to remember trivial, but unusual happenings,
had they occurred.
Several attempts at exorcizing the ghosts at Borley hâve
been made by various people, with négative results. I
understand— though I hâve no first-hand evidence— that a
well-known bishop carried out a rite of exorcism at some
period in the history of Borley, without positive or lasting
results. The Rev. L. A. Foyster was more successful with his
créosote, and Dom Richard Whitehouse’s Novena produced
a ‘ message.’ One would hâve thought that the fire which so
completely gutted the Rectory would hâve been both
exorcism and purification in one— if the disturbing entities
are evil. But we hâve no evidence that they are evil. On the
contrary, ail the records go to prove rather that the ‘ spirits ’
— if they be spirits— are more troubled than troubling.
Speaking of exorcisms, a correspondent, the Rector of a
Hertfordshire parish, makes the interesting suggestion that if
some scandai connected with a religious really occurred at
the monastery at Borley, no matter how long ago, we ought
to communicate with the Mother Houses of the Order,
acquaint them with the facts, and ask them to undertake a
Novena of Réparation. It will be remembered that Dom
Richard Whitehouse made a Novena near the Ghapel in
the Rectory, with interesting results. As I hâve remarked
before in this monograph, there is a strong Roman Catholic
element in the Borley mystery.
I now corne to the point where I must ask my readers—
the ‘jury’— whether, on the evidence submitted, and the
evidence alone, the Rectory is haunted, or not. Hâve pheno-
mena occurred at Borley Rectory that cannot be explained
in terms of our known physical laws? In other words, are the
phenomena— or some of them—genuine? Are ail the 100
witnesses mad, lying, or were they hallucinated immediately
they crossed the ‘ enchanted boundary’ of Borley village?
i g 2 T H E M O S T H A U N T E D H O U S E I N E N O L A N D
I put it to that great tribunal, the public, is Borley Rectory
haunted, or is it not?
My answer to my own question is ‘ Yes, decidedly!’ It is
difficult to put into cold print the enthusiasm with which
I record my affirmation. But then the reader has not had a
glass candlestick hurled at liirn from above when he knew
there was no one above to hurl it! The reader has not seen
two keys fall from two doors simultaneously, when he was
looking at them, knowing that no mortal hand supplied the
energy. The reader has not interviewed about ioo people,
as I hâve, who hâve experienced similar manifestations.
So I will not ask him to share my enthusiasm. But I will ask
him to weigh very carefully ail the evidence submitted in this
monograph before he hastily gives his verdict.
For a hundred years a few scientists, rather half-heartedly,
hâve been trying to find out these things— without success.
Even the ‘ spirit hypothesis’ does not cover the ‘ appearance’
of a psychic coach-and-pair! These are things that we do
not understand, and Science, to its eternal shame, is making
little attempt to understand them. I trust that at least this
monograph will advance the time slightly when Orthodoxy
will be compelled, by force of public opinion, to do so.1 And
with that rather forlorn hope I will leave my jury to consider
their verdict.
1 Since the above was written, there has been established (January 1940)
at Trinity College, Cambridge, a Studentship in Psychical Research, out of a
bequest left to the College by Mr. Frank Duerdin Perrott as a memorial to
F. W. H. Myers. The value of the Studentship is £300 per annum, and is the
first of its kind in any British university. My twenty-years’ fight for academie
récognition is at last bearing fruit. H.P.
APPENDIX A
‘ HAUNTED HOUSE’— DECLARATION FORM
I, the Undersigned, in considération of having had my services
accepted as an Official Observer, make the following Déclaration :
1. I will fulfil ail conditions and instructions, verbal and
written, which are given me.
2. I will pay my own expenses connected with the investi­
gation.
3. I am not connected with the Press in any way.
4. I will not convey to any person the name or location of the
alleged Haunted House.
5. I will not Write, or cause to be written, any account of my
visit/s to the Haunted House, and will not lecture on my
expériences there.
6. I will not photograph or sketch any part of the Haunted
House or grounds without written permission.
7. I will not allow any person to accompany me on my
Investigation, who has not signed the Déclaration Form.
8. I will fulfil my obligations as regards Observational Periods,
at the times and on the dates as arranged.
9. I will furnish a Report after each Observational Period.
10. I will not use the Téléphoné1 installed in the Flouse except
for the purpose of reporting phenomena to the person or
persons whose names hâve been given me, or for requesting
assistance from those persons.
11. I will lock ail doors and fasten ail Windows on my leaving
the House, and will deposit key/s to person as directed.
Date.............................................. Signed....................................
1 The téléphoné was not installed, as originally intended.
O 193
APPENDIX B
THE BLUE BOOK
INSTRUCTIONS FOR OBSERVERS
PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL
1. Attend carefully to ail written and verbal instructions, and
carry out to the letter.
2. Each Observer should provide himself with the following
articles, in addition to night clothes, etc. : Note-block,
pencils, good watch with seconds hand, candie and matches,
pocket electric torch, brandy flask, sandwiches, etc. If he
possesses a caméra, this can be used. Rubber- or felt-soled
shoes should be worn.
3. When going on duty, search the house thoroughly, close
and fasten ail doors and Windows. If thought necessary,
these can be sealed.
4. Visit ail rooms, etc., at intervals of about one hour, unless
circumstances call for your presence in any particular part
of the house or grounds. Before going on duty at each
period, inspect grounds.
5. Occasionally extinguish ail lights, and wait in complété
darkness (varying your observation post), remaining per-
fectly quiet.
6. Make a point of taking meals at same times each day or
night. Départ from this rule if circumstances warrant.
7. Make the fullest notes of the slightest unusual sound or
occurrence.
8. Take exact times of ail sounds or happenings; also make
notes of your own movements, with exact times. Record
weather conditions.
9. Frequently examine grounds, and, occasionally, watch
W in d o w s of house from exterior of building.
10. If with companion, both he and you should act in unison
(in order to hâve a witness), unless circumstances détermine
otherwise. If several Observers présent, party can be
divided between house and grounds.
194
T H E B L U E B O O K
I 95
11. For one half-hour before, and half-hour after dusk, take up
position in Summer-house. Remain perfectly quiet, and
watch the ‘Nun’s Walk’ on far side of lawn. It is this path
that a black, draped figure is said to frequent.
12. If phenomena appear strong, or if experiencing a succession
of unusual events, immediately communicate with one of
the persons whose téléphoné numbers hâve been handed
to you. Detail exact happenings. Expert assistance, or
further instructions, will be sent you.
13. Establish your base in one room, and keep ail your equip-
ment, etc., at this post. This will prevent your hunting for
an article when wanted in an emergency.
14. Keep the electric torch inyour pocket always, whether in or
out of the house. Be careful with ail lights, matches, cigar­
ette ends, etc.
15. Should strangers call, be courteous to them. Do not permit
them to enter the house ; do not encourage them to remain ;
on no account give theminformation or opinions of any sort. This
applies to villagers, hôtel staff, etc., equally.
16. Re meals. You should corne provided each day with sand-
wiches, etc., and hot drinks in a vacuum flask. Rest can be
obtained on the camp bed provided, but excellent meals
and beds can be procured at ‘The Bull,’ L-----1 (2J miles),
or at S-----2 (2]- miles). It should be possible to obtain
sufficient rest during the 24. hours, but if two are on duty,
take turns at resting, and wake your companion if anything
unusual occurs. Leave your car in the appointed place,
screened from the road.
17. When asked to take charge of instruments, examine them
regularly with torch, and record readings and times in note
book. Garefully note anything which may appear unusual.
Change charts when necessary, marking on each the time
it was changed, and date.
18. Spend at least a portion of the day and night (in complété
darkness) in the Blue Room.
19. No Observer is permitted to take a friend to the house,
unless permission has been given, and the necessary Déclara­
tion Form signed.
20. Your report and notes should be posted to the Honorary
Secretary, University of London Council for Psychical
Investigation, 19 Berkeley Street, Mayfair, W.i, as soon as
possible after you hâve completed your ‘watch.’
1 [Long Melford.] 2 [Sudbury.]
A P P E N D I X B
196
Possible phenomena which may be experienced. There is
some evidence for ail of these alleged manifestations during the
past forty years.
B e l l -r in g in g . If a bell rings, immediately ascertain which
bell, and from what room or place the ‘pull’ was operated.
Note if bell-pull is in motion, and record duration of ringing,
and exact time.
M o v e m e n t o f O b je g t s. When going on duty, see that objects
are on chalked outlines, and check frequently. When an object
is heard to fall, immediately ascertain in which room object
bas fallen, and draw rough plan of room, showing the direction
of flight. Estimate approximate force expended, and, if object
seen in flight, note speed, course, force, and trajectory. Examine
object and restore to chalked outline.
F o o t s t e p s . If footsteps are heard, try to judge direction, note
duration, and record type (heavy, soft, pattering, shuffling, etc.),
and at what time they were heard.
F orm s o r A p p a r it io n s . If seen, do not m
ove and on no account
approach thefigure. Note exact method of appearance. Observe
figure carefully, watch ail movements, rate and manner of
progression, etc. Note duration of appearance, colour, form, size,
how dressed, and whether solid or transparent. If carrying caméra
with film ready for exposing, quietly ‘snap’ the figure, but make
no sound and do not move. If figure speaks, do not approach, but
ascertain name, âge, sex, origin, cause of visit, if in trouble, and
possible alleviation. Inquire if it is a spirit. Ask figure to return,
suggesting exact time and place. Do not move until figure
disappears. Note exact method of vanishing. If through an
open door, quietly follow. If through solid object (such as wall),
ascertain if still visible on other side. Make the very fullest notes
of the incident, The ‘nun’ is alleged to walk regularly along the
‘Nun’s Walk’ in grounds. (See Instruction No. 11.)
R a p s o r K n o c k s . Ascertain exact location and intensity, and
whether soft or percussive. Imitate knocks with knuckles or foot,
and note whether your signais are duplicated. If so, say aloud
that you would like a number of questions answered, and that the
‘ entity’ can reply by giving one rap for ‘yes’, two for ‘ no’, and
three for ‘ doubtful or unknown.’ Endeavour by these means to
ascertain name, âge, sex, condition, etc. Ask ‘ entity’ to knock
at a letter while you call over the alphabet. Information can thus
be conveyed, and intelligent sentences formed. Ask entity to
return, making definite appointment. It is alleged that knocks
can frequently be heard in the Blue Room. (See Instruction
No. 18.)
O B S E R V E R S ’ R E P O R T S
197
P e r f u m e s. If air becomes scented, try to identify perfume, and
ascertain whether it is general or localized. Look for any
dampncss.
L ig h t s . If lights are seen, note mode of appearance, judge
exact position inroom or grounds, size, shape, height from ground,
duration, colour, and whether lambent or percussive. If travel­
ling, direction and trajectory, and method of disappearance.
Note whether odour accompanies lights.
A p p o r t s . (Objects abnormally brought or precipitated into
house.) Note exact time of arrivai, if possible, and endeavour to
ascertain their origin. Carefully preserve and continue inquiries.
D is a p p e a r a n c e s . Note under what conditions the object
disappeared, exact time of disappearance, and if accompanied by
sounds of any sort. Search for object and note if, how, and when
it makes its reappearance.
T h e r m a l V a r ia t io n s . Transmitting thermographs are used
for recording changes of température. These should be read
frequently. (See Instruction No. 17.)
EXTERIOR OF HOUSE
The above suggestions apply equally in the case of phenomena
occurring outside the house. But Poltergeist phenomena (such as
stone-throwing) outside the house may be observed from within
the building. The fullest particulars concerning such phenomena
should be recorded.
IMPORTANT NOTE
Although some— or ail—of the above phenomena may be
observed, it is very important that the grcatcst effort should be
made to ascertain whether such manifestations are due to normal
causes, such as rats, small boys, the villagers, the wind, wood
shrinking, the Death Watch beetle, farm animais nosing the
doors, etc., trees brushing against the Windows, birds in the
chimney-stack or between double walls, etc.
APPENDIX G
DIGEST OF OFFICIAL OBSERVERS' REPORTS
M
R. SIDNEY H. GLANVILLE was our first official
observer. By profession he is a Consulting engineer, but
he is also a clever draftsman, photographer and inventor
of gadgets for trapping ghosts! And he is an idéal investigator.
A P P E N D I X G
198
Immediately my Times advertisement appeared, he wrote for an
interview, was gladly accepted, and his first observational period
began on June 19, 1937. His son, Mr. Roger H. Glanville,
accompanicd him.
In his first report, Mr. Glanville stated that'he made a minute
examination of the house and grounds, took full measurements
of ail the rooms, etc., and subsequently prepared the plans of the
Rectory which are reproduced in this volume. [Pages 16, 22.]
He also devised something that would hâve told us, had it
been used, of the path taken by any ghost curious enough to pick
up—literally and metaphorically— the idea.
The appliance in question was an aluminium container par-
tially filled with fine corundum grain. In the bottom of the
container was a tiny hole. This container or cup, weighing five
ounces, was placed on the sill of the Blue Room window, and
ringed with chalk. If any entity-—incarnate or discarnate—had
picked up or carried the container, a trail of corundum powder
would hâve informed us of the path taken. Alas! no ghost was
curious enough to interfère with it.
In his first report, Mr. Glanville says that ‘ the House is the
coldest and most silent I hâve ever experienced.’
Actually, the day was a quiet one. The Glanvilles arrived on
Saturday, June 19, at 9.35 a.m. and left the following morning
at 7.30 a.m. But they were able to record two incidents which
could not be explained in terms of normality. At 11.29 P-m-
‘ a short, clear, sharp click or crack was heard,’ but exact location
of Sound could not be determined. At 1.58 a.m. ‘ two soft taps
were heard.’ They came from the direction of the upper rooms.
Both sounds were investigated without resuit. It is interesting
to note that a ‘thuipp’ emanating from the same direction was
heard at almost the same time (1.41 a.m.) by Mr. A. P. Drink-
water and his friends on November 14, 1937.1
On Saturday, August 14, 1937, Mr. Glanville and his brother-
in-law, Captain H. G. Harrison visited the Rectory. Ail doors
and Windows were fastened and sealed. During their tours of
the house they photographed the ‘ Marianne get help’ message.2
An hour or so later, when on their next routine visit to the rooms,
several new markings were found. One of these was close to the
‘Marianne’ message they had previously photographed. This
message was again photographed and the two prints compared.
The new pencil markings are in one photograph only— proof
positive that they were added while they were in the house.
They were duly ringed. In a covering letter to his report, Mr.
1 See page 234. 2 See page 146.
W H O D I S T U R B E D T H E C A T S ? i g Q
Glanville says: ‘These pencil markings were well worth +
he
whole trip.’
The only unusual noises thaï: were heard included a sharp
‘ crack’ near the front door; and, while they were sitting in the
Blue Room in semi-darkness, they heard faint ‘scrabbling’
sounds outside.
I hâve already mentioned1 that there is a cats’ cemetery at the
end of the Nun’s Walk. It is much overgrown and difficult of
access owing to brambles, etc. The Glanvilles had, of course,
noticed the ‘ cemetery’ and the headboards on a previous visit.
During their tour of inspection of the garden on August 14,
Glanville noticed with surprise that the grave of the cat ‘ Gem’
had been considerably disturbed. The headboard had been flung
into a near-by bush, and an area, the size of a small room, had
been dug—-as if a large hole had been excavated and then filled
in, leaving a quantity of loose earth spread around.
When next he saw me, Mr. Glanville asked me whether I could
tell him who disturbed the cats, and for what purpose. I certainly
could not! The garden had not been touched since Mr. Foyster
left. And why should any person take the trouble to go to a
remote and overgrown part of the garden, and dig up a cat’s
grave that had remained unmolested for many years? But was it
really a cat buried there? The same idea occurred to both Mr.
Glanville and me that something else may hâve been buried
there, and that some person, for reasons best known to himself
had, through prudence or fear, decided to disinter it. What man
in his right senses would take the trouble to fight his way through
a thicket of brambles and spend time and energy in digging up a
cat’s grave? But that someone had done this was évident, and
had taken a considérable amount of trouble over it, too.
A fortnight later, on their next visit, Mr. Glanville and his son
took a couple of spades with them and decided to do a little dig­
ging themselves. They re-dug the cat’s grave over the same area
as was indicated by the freshly dug earth. After considérable
digging they turned up a lot of large bones that certainly never
formed part of the anatomy of a cat. They appeared to hâve
once belonged to the local butcher, but one or two of them they
could not identify. On my next visit to Borley I asked the tenant
of the cottage (Mr. Arbon) if he could throw any light on the
mystery of the cats’ cemetery. But he knew nothing about it.
So the mystery still remains : Who disturbed the cats, and why?
On Saturday, August 28r 1937, Mr. Glanville, his son, Captain
H. G. Harrison, and Squadron-Leader Horniman spent the night
1 See page 25.
200 A P P E N D I X C
at the Rectory. Between u p.m. and 4 a.m. (on the Sunday)
they ‘ail heard several light thuds or bumps,’ but could not
locate them. When Glanville and his son were out for a meal,
their colleagues, remaining on duty, ‘at 8.24 p.m. clearly heard
the Sound of light tripping footsteps coming down the main
stairs.’ Nothing was visible. Also, ‘ a few very small, light and
apparently new pencil marks hâve been made on some of the
walls.’
Mr. Glanville and his son visited the Rectory again on Sep-
tember 18 and October 2, 1937. The only phenomena heard
occurred on the former date : ‘At 10.30 p.m. a solitary tap was
heard, at 10.34 another single tap. Both these apparently came
from the dining-room wall.’ Every window and door in the
house (except those of the Base Room and front doors, near
which they were watching) had been sealed with thread and wax.
On September 24, 1937, Mr. Glanville received a letter from
his brother-in-law, Captain H. G. Harrison. His (Harrison’s)
friend, Squadron-Leader Horniman had been to the Rectory
on the previous Monday with a friend. Horniman made the
following report : ‘What is interesting is that, without any previous
information, this friend came over desperately cold in the
identical spot on the landing [outside Blue Room], where Kerr-
Pearse’s friend did.1 Kerr-Pearse [who was on duty at the
Rectory] felt his hands, and confirmed that they were much
below normal température.’
This ‘ cold spot’ outside the Blue Room [see Plate III and +
on First Floor Plan] is very interesting. At least three persons,
at different times, and complété strangers to one another, hâve
‘ corne over cold ’ on this identical spot, which is exactly above the
subsidence in the cpllar, already commented upon. Also, this is
the exact spot where the Rev. G. Eric Smith heard ‘sibilant
whisperings’ and Mrs. Foyster was given a black eye by an
invisible assailant on February 26, 1931. When Mr. Glanville
realized the importance of this position on the Blue Room landing,
he marked the spot by pencilling a tiny cross, almost invisible,
on the floor. Only he, his son Roger, and Dr. Bellamy knew
of this. On their next visit to the Rectory (on September 18,
1937), Mr. Glanville and his son discovered that a flat tobacco
tin that he, and other observers, had left as a ‘control’ on the
drawing-room mantelpiece, had been moved from its chalked
position and had been carried upstairs and placed, with mathe-
matical précision, exactly over the tiny pencilled cross. Mr. Kerr-
Pearse had been the last to visit the house, and had left the
1 See Kerr-Pearse’s testimony, post.
T H E S W I N G I N G B L I N D 201
tobacco tin within its prescribed markings. Mr. Arbon informed
Mr. Glanville that no one had been in tfye house since Kerr-
Pearse’s visit, and the keys had never left his possession.
The next report from Mr. Glanville is dated October 28, 1937.
He and his son Roger, and a friend named Alan Cuthbert,
visited the Rectory on the previous Saturday. Mr. Mark Kerr-
Pearse, whose expériences form the next section of this mono-
graph, was also on duty. Glanville says :
*At about 2 a.m. Cuthbert was Sound asleep in the Base Room.
Kerr-Pearse, Roger and I were sitting on the landing, in the dark,
when vue ail heard heavy muffledfootsteps walk across the hall, just
under us. They were quite distinct and no mistake was possible.
There were accompanying sounds of general movement of a
body. We went down almost immediately but found nothing
but Cuthbert, still soundly sleeping in the Base Room. During
the night there were sundry taps and thuds which I will leave to
Kerr-Pearse to report.1
On Saturday, November 20, 1937, Mr. Glanville, his son
Roger, Captain H. G. Harrison and Dr. H. F. Bellamy visited
the Rectory for an observational period. Their report says :
‘At 8.25 p.m. we were ail in the Base Room and noticed that
the blind, which had been lowered earlier in the evening, was
moving at the sides. The movement is not easy to dcscribe.
The edges of both sides were waving regularly, a sort of palpi-
tating action as though being blown. We ail watched closcly for
several moments and, thinking there must be a draught, applied
our eyes to the gap between the blind and the window frames,
but none could be traced. We then slowly released a cloud of
cigarette smoke directed to the narrow space between the blind
and the frame. This was not dispersed immediately as it would
hâve been, had it been a draught. The Base Room glass doors
and the doors of the hall were ail closed at the time. The
incident lasted about five minutes. We can offer no explanation.
At 7.30 a.m. on the next [Sunday] morning a single sharp rap
was heard, coming from the corner of the Base Room, over the
table.’
When Mr. Glanville and his party arrived on the Saturday
morning, they found the painters at work on the outside of the
house. I had given permission to the Chelmsford Diocesan
Dilapidations Board to make a survey under the Ecclesiastical
Dilapidation Measures, and the outside of the Rectory was being
redecorated.
The name of the foreman painter was Mr. Hardy. He was
1 See post, page 210.
202 A P P E N D I X G
born in Borley and has lived there ail his life. He has worked at
the Rectory on many occasions. Some years before his interview
with Mr. Glanville, Mr. Hardy was working in the Rectory. It
was on a bright summer’s afternoon. Suddenly a fellow workman
called him into the library and pointed to a column of smoke
rising vertically from the centre of the lawn. The phenomenon
lasted for one or two minutes. Immédiate investigation provjded
no due to the mystery and no explanati m was ever forthcoming.
About a fortnight before Mr. Glanville’s visit, Mr. Hardy’s son,
aged nineteen, when returning from work at night, heard singing
or chanting Corning from the church as he passed. The church
was closed at the time. He did not stop to investigate. Mr. Hardy
remarked that Borley Rectory had had the réputation of being
haunted as long as he could remember, and that some years ago
the villagers were afraid to pass it at night if they were alone.
Mr. Glanville and Alan Cuthbert paid another visit to the
Rectory on March 12, 1938. Mr. M. Savage and his friend, Mr.
Bridgewater, were also présent. After a thorough examination
of the house, they began their usual routine patrols. At ten
o’clock in the evening they found some fresh, dark sticky stains,
of the consistency of glycérine, on the floor of the chapel. They
were not there during previous patrols. They scraped up some
of the fluid, but could not obtain sufficient for purposes ofanalysis.
At 1.45 a.m. they ail heard a ‘sharp, hard sound sufficiently loud
to make us jump.’ It came from the top, middle shelf of the
bookcase in the Base Room. The thermometer on the bookcase
showed that the température had varied only 1° Fahrenheit
during the previous ten hours, so it could not hâve been due to
any crépitation of the wood. • Immediately preceding the sound
from the bookcase was heard another noise from the Blue Room
above. It was as if a chair leg had been scraped along the floor.
In addition to his reports, abstracts of which appear above,
Mr. Glanville and his friends made a number of experiments with
table-tipping and the Planchette, with curious results. They are
described in Chapters XXV, XXVI, and XXVII.
TH E ADVENTURES OF A PROCONSUL
Mr. Mark Kerr-Pearse is on the staff of the British Légation
at Geneva. In the latter part of 1937, he was on holiday in
England and, seeing my Times advertisement asking for obs rvers,
he ‘joined up’ early in June. He thought that ghost-hunting
would be a pleasant way of spending part of his vacation.
Actually, Mr. Kerr-Pearse spent more time at Borley Rectory
than any other official observer. Altogether, he was présent in
P H E N O M E N A I N T H E B A S E R O O M 203
the house for some weeks. Often he was alone ; sometimes he was
joined by a friend ; occasionally, other of our investigators spent
their observational periods while he was ‘residing’ in the house.
if the weather was fine, Mr. Kerr-Pearse would remove the
camp bed from the Base Room and place it in the large summer-
house, where he would spend part of the night. This intrepid
young man spent many such nights reclining on the bed, with
eyes fixed on the Nun’s Walk, hoping to see the figure before he
dropped off to sleep. If the weather was inclement, he would
rest in the Base Room. He was the only investigator who spent
any time in the house entirely by himself, with the exception of
Mr. J. W. Burden, who spent the night of December 18-19, 1937»
alone in the Rectory.1
Mr. Kerr-Pearse is a very shrewd observer and a model of what
a psychical researcher should be. His very long and detailed
routine reports were prepared with meticulous care, and occa­
sionally they are literally minute-by-minute records of what was
taking place in the house or grounds and his own actions at the
time, weather conditions, etc. His analyses of the phenomena
and conditions under which they were experienced were most
helpful.
Mr. Kerr-Pearse’s first visit to Borley was on June 26, 1937.
After a very careful examination of the place from cellars to
attics, and the sealing up of ail Windows and other entrances, he
began his watch, spending some time in each apartment.
At 7.50 p.m., when in the Blue Room, he ‘heard two distinct
raps in quick succession’ which appeared to corne from the
direction of the attic stairs. He at once investigated, but could
find no cause for the knocks. He then ‘ asked if anyone was
there ; or, if they wished to speak to me, to tap. No reply.’
After more routine patrols of the house, which occupied him
until nearly three o’clock the next morning, he took an hour’s rest
in the summer-house. At 4.30 a.m. he made another inspection
of the grounds, and at 5.50 a.m. made a thorough search of the
house. Everything was in order. Then he went into the garden
again. As he was passing the French Windows of the Base Room
(which, of course, were closed), he heard a ‘thump’ which
obviously came from inside the room. He immediately entered
and found that one of the books on the mantelpiece had fallen
down. No one was there. The book had been in position ail
night. He spent some time in the room, but nothing further
occurred.
He spent the whole of the next day and night in the Rectory,
1 See post.
204 A P P E N D I X G
sleeping in the summer-house for an hour or so during the small
hours. On the morning of June 28, at 11.40 a.m. he placed a
screw on the mantclpiece of the Base Room, very carefully
ringing it vvith chalk. At 11.45 he happened to glance at the
mantclpiece and found that the screw had been moved to one side
of the chalk ring. This must hâve occurred while he was actually
in the room, a few yards away from the screw.
His expériences, unexciting as thcy were, impressed and inter-
ested him, and a few days later (July 3 and 4) Kerr-Pearse again
visited the Rectory. Nothing whatever occurrcd to warrant
comment, except that under one of the ‘ Marianne’ messages
[see Plate VI] he added the words : ‘ I still cannot understand.
Please tell me more.’ This was a sort of supplementary request
to the one that Mrs. Foyster (Marianne) had previously written
under another message asking for help.
On July 10, 1937, Mr. Kerr-Pearse visited the Rectory and
remained there until the I9th, with the exception of July 12,
when he was away. During th]g long period he carried out a
microscopie scrutiny of the house, the walls, and everything
visible. He tabulated and numbered every portable object in
the rooms and noted, on paper, every pencil mark, however tiny,
on the walls and passages. He also made plans of the house,
marking on them the various objects that had been placed in the
rooms for control purposes. A complété inventory of these
articles was made.
Observers had been instructed to ring with chalk every pencil
mark seen on the walls, and to put a date against it— the date of
discovery. Mr. Kerr-Pearse checked these, marked others that
had not been so treated (the very tiny pencil marks), and made
a list of them.
And yet, in spite of his scientific control methods, pencil
markings appeared during his visit—almost under his eyes. For
example, at 7.25 p.m. on July 13 he checked up the marks on the
staircase. But ‘at 8.30 p.m. I found two more pencil marks,
which I chalked and numbered 1 and 2. These were not here
at 7.25, as I re-examined every inch of the wall’. At 8.35 a.m.
on July 14, he found another pencil mark on staircase wall, and
this he numbered 3. At the same time, the wicket gâte at the top of
the back stairs opened. He heard it open, investigated, and found
it ajar. It had been firmly latched. He reclosed it. No explana-
tion.
On this same day (at 7.15 p.m.) Mr. Kerr-Pearse discovered
a pencil line a foot long in passage under ‘Marianne-Light-Mass-
Prayers’ message. He also found various groups of markings on
P A R A N O R M A L P E N G I L M A R K S 205
the left-hand side of kitchen wall. They were not there earlier
in the day. He l'inged them with chalk.
On July 15 I visited Borley for a few hours in order to see if
everything was ail right. I arrived at 8.25 p.m. and left three
hours later at 11.25. Mr. Kerr-Pearse showed me the new marks
that had been found. During a routine examination of the house
we found five new marks in Room 2. One, which could not
possibly hâve been overlooked on previous examinations, was
very conspicuous.
On the next morning at g.45 a.m. Kerr-Pearse found more
marks. One was discovered in passage between butler’s pantry
and the small staircase. It was in the shape of the letter ‘c ’ and
was nine inches long. The second was six inches long and re-
sembled the letters ‘Ma.’ The third marking also resembled
‘ M a’— both pencillings suggestive of an attempt to write ‘Mari­
anne.’ Heavy pressure had been applied with, apparently, the
same soft pencil. The handwriting was similar to that of the
other ‘Marianne’ messages. These last two markings were near
the window in passage : one was two feet from the ground, under
window ; the other was five feet from the floor, by the side of the
window. The pencil with which the marks were made had,
Kerr-Pearse thought, broken while the letters were being formed.
He minutely searched the floor for a possible detached point,
without resuit.
On this same morning, July 16, at 11.30 a.m., the Rev. A. G.
Henning called on Mr. Kerr-Pearse. With him was his gardener,
Herbert Mayes. The subject of the ‘strange coat’1 was raised,
and Mayes confirmed the fact that when he went over the
Rectory on June 1 previously, the coat was not in the house, and
he knew nothing about it. He searched the place very carefully,
looking behind ail doors. As we hâve seen,2 the coat was there
when Mr. Ellic Howe and I visited the Rectory on June 2.
Therefore the coat must hâve ‘ appeared ’ in the Blue Room some
time between the afternoon ofJune 1 and that of June 2.
Kerr-Pearse’s protocol continues :
‘July 16, 7.5 p.m. Discovered a further small pencil mark in
same passage about one foot to right of scrawled “ Ma.” Made
with sharp, soft pencil. Definitely was not there this morn­
ing.’
Kerr-Pearse dined with the Hennings on the evening of this
day (July 16) and they ail returned to the Rectory at 9.30 p.m.
They thought they would try an interesting experiment, the
1 See page 111. 2 See page 111.
206 A P P E N D I X C
account of which I will quote Verbatim from Kerr-Pearse’s
report :
‘Rcturned with Rev. and Mrs. Henning. As an experiment
we hung up the coat1 in Blue Room, placed two night-lights in
Chapel and one in ground-floor passage opposite Sewing-Room.
We then sat in Base Room and rapped table. After about fourth
attempt, a m
ost extraordinary noise was heard as though comingfrom
the kitchen, and slowly moving down passage towards us. It lasted
fully a minute and ceased abruptly when we stood up— unfor-
tunately making a noise in doing so— to get a better view of
passage. We could not account for this noise, as the evening was
very quiet and the night-light burned without even a flicker. We
returned the coat to Room J.’
On July 17, two pencil lines were discovered at 5.45 p.m.
They were not there in the morning as Kerr-Pearse scrutinized
each wall morning and evening, ringing every new mark.
A piece of rotten wood, like touch-wood, was found on the
hearth in the Sewing Room at 9.45 a.m. on July 18. It was
roughly three feet square. It could not hâve fallen down chimney,
which needed cleaning very badly, as there was no soot on it.
The wood was not there the previous evening on his 11 o’clock
patrol, and Kerr-Pearse did not leave the house. Later in the
same day, at 6.20 p.m., he discovered two fresh pencil marks on
open door of scullery.
Still later in the day of July 18, more pencil marks appeared.
I will quote Verbatim from Kerr-Pearse’s log :
‘ 9.45 p.m. The following pencil marks hâve appeared since
my morning inspection : Six marks in chapel which I am certain
were not there previously as I had examined it very closely.
Also a mark by kitchcn door in passage opposite Sewing-Room
about two feet from floor. So much pressure had been applied
that the distemper and part of the plaster of wall had been
scratched away.’
Mr. Kerr-Pearse left for London at 9.50 the next morning,
July 19, 1937-
He returned to Borley on July 24, 1937, and stayed until
August 7. He was away on business in London for one day
(July 27). On the next day (July 28) he did not see the ‘ nun,’
as he should hâve done, according to tradition.
During his absence from Borley between July 19 and 24, other
observers had been in the house and had marked and ringed
some fine cracks in the wall plaster, obviously mistaking them for
1 The ‘strange coat.’
T H E P E T R I F X E D F R O G 207
pencil lines, or perhaps merely drawing attention to them. But
when Kerr-Pearse made his first inspection on July 24, the first
thing he noticed was an unringed ‘W ’— or inverted ‘M ’— on
window ledge in passage opposite Sewing-Room, and another
mark on staircase wall. These were duly ringed and dated.
After a quiet day or so, more pencillings appeared on wall of
kitchen. Nothing of importance happened for sorae days, so
Kerr-Pearse thought he would examine the two wells. He
cleared out the one in the cellar, and found that it was very
shallow with a smooth concrète bottom. It is really a tank, but
at one time it was a deep well, and was filled in for safety’s sake.
He cleaned it out, hoping for something interesting, but found
only some old tins, half a brick, a broken tumbler and so on.
It is possible to enter the cellar from the courtyard via this tank,
though it would be an unpleasant business. Observers were
warned against this and so kept cellar door (leading into house)
locked, or sealed, or both.
Kerr-Pearse next examined the main well in the courtyard1
and actually descended to the first platform, eight feet down, by
means of the supply pipe. However, this pipe was so slippery
that further descent would hâve been dangerous, if not fatal.
He found the platform very rotten and makes the suggestion
that the touch-wood found in the Sewing-Room came from the
well platform. Personally, I doubt this, as the piece I saw was as
dry as tinder. Anyway, the mystery as to how the wood got into
the Sewing-Room was not solved.
At 9.10 a.m. on August 5, Kerr-Pearse found a petrified frog,
with dust and fluff sticking to its hind legs, in the passage outside
the drawing-room. It was not there overnight, and every door
and window in the house was closed. He suggests that it was
due to Poltergeist activity. It is possible that a live frog— or a frog
that had just died— might hâve corne up from the cellar. But the
frog in the passage was dry, fiat, and petrified. How did it get
into the house?
Kerr-Pearse left for London on August 7, as no further inci­
dents occurred.
Kerr-Pearse was again at the Rectory from August 23 to 28.
No phenomena were noted, and the house appeared even quieter
than usual. But one day the Rev. A. G. Henning called at the
Rectory, accompanied by his wife and a Miss Reid. The following
is from the official report :
‘While inspecting the house with the Rev. and Mrs. Henning
1 See my account, page 21.
208 A P P E N D I X G
and their friend Miss Rcid, the latter had a curious expérience
outside the Blue Room. She had a feeling of terror, a sensation
of “ pins and needlcs” ail over, and felt very cold although it
was a warm evening. We felt her hands, which were indeed icy.
On leaving that part of the house, she became more at ease but,
when we returned about fifteen minutes later, the same thing
happened again. I would add, that no one else had any similar
feeling. Miss Reid is a very level-headed person and does not
in any way prétend to be psychic.’
This is the second person to be affected by the ‘cold spot’
outside the Blue Room [See Plate III]. It will be remembered
that the friend who accompanied Squadron-Leader Horniman
to the Rectory on September 20 was similarly affected.1
Mr. Kerr-Pearse did not again visit Borley until September 21,
1937. He was accompanied by his cousin, Mr. Rupert Haig,
aged about 33, a barrister-at-law in the Colonial Legal Service.
I will now quote Kerr-Pearse’s notes Verbatim :
‘ Sept. 21, 1 p.m. A single, but distinct rap on door of Base
Room. Went out, but neither saw nor heard anything.
‘ Sept. 2i, 8.30 p.m. While standing with my cousin on landing
outside Blue Room,.we heard a rustling noise below. This must
hâve been caused by the moving of a sack of coal (weighing about
go pounds) by about 18 biches. This sack was lying on its side against
Base Room wall in passage. I had noticed its position by a stain
on the floor.
‘ Sept. 22, 2.30 a.m. A single rap on window of Base Room.
(May hâve been a moth.)
‘ Sept. 22, 3.40 a.m. My cousin was awakened by icy draught
on his face. This was odd, as both doors and Windows were
closed and the fire had been burning for at least 12 hours. The
température of room was 6o° Fahrenheit by the thermometer.
‘ Sept. 22, 4.30 p.rti. Was sitting in Base Room, when I heard
a heavy “ thud” in Blue Room overhead as though a small
packing-case had been dropped. Went up, but found nothing.
Ail objects in marked places.’
When later Mr. Kerr-Pearse and I discussed the sack of coal
incident, he told me that the phenomenon was very impressive.
The weather was rather cold and they had bought a 56-lb. bag of
coal locally. About six pounds had been used on the Base Room
fire, and the bag placed outside the door. He had very carefully
noted its position by a stain on the floor. His cousin, too, noted
the position. No normal explanation was forthcoming for the
‘ telekinetic ’ movement of the bag. Both Kerr-Pearse and his
1 See page 200.
R U P E R T H A I G ’ S S T O R Y 20g
cousin heard the movement from their position outside the
Blue Room.
Mr. Haig left England shortly after his visit to Borley and,
later, sent his cousin the following letter :
‘ P. & O. Ranchi,
‘ (Posted Port Said),
‘October 2, 1937.
‘My dear Mark,
‘ If I did not enjoy my visit to your haunted house, I at least
found it most interesting. I entered it with a completely open
mind, but left it with the firm conviction that it is haunted.
‘You will recollect that I woke you up in the middle of the night
and offered no explanation. . . .
‘ Immediately before waking you, I had been awake for a
considérable time. I cannot say how long, but it must hâve been
at least half an hour. To begin with, I was certainly in a jumpy
State. I was expecting footsteps, thumps, knocks, and even to see
something, but as time went on and nothing happened I became
calmer. Everything was perfectly still and I saw and heard
nothing, but suddenly the air surrounding me became ice cold,
my hands became icy, and in fact I became cold ail over and my
hair stood on end. I was rigid, The sensation lasted as nearly
as I can judge about 20 seconds, and then passed off. It was so
unpleasant that . . . . I was compelled eventually to awake you.
‘You can make of that exactly what you plcase. It may well
hâve been nothing but nerves and fright. But of what was I
frightened? I had seen or heard nothing; and remember that
I had been awake for nearly half an hour; was quite calm and
was lying in a room which was occupicd by another person, and
was lighted by a lamp and a fire which still burned brightly only
a few feet from me. The sensation was completely sudden.
‘ I am myself convinced that the expérience was not natural;
but of course I do not in the least expect anybody else to be so.
I am sorry that I missed the dropping of the packing case in the
Blue Room. At 4.30 p.m., I think I could hâve stood that with
comparative equanimity. I am most interested in the house.
‘Yours affectionately,
(:Signed) ‘Rupert [Haig].’
Mr. Kerr-Pearse was due in Geneva in November 1937, and
he visited Borley for the last time from October 23 to November 1,
1937. During part of this period, Mr. S. H .Glanville, his son
Roger, and Mr. Alan Cuthbert, were at the Rectory.1
His last visit proved both interesting and exciting. On the
day he arrived, at 3.45 p.m., he heard a distinct rap in hall
corridor. A few minutes later a loud creak came from the back
1 See their report, ante, page 20t.
P
210 A P P E N D I X C
staircase ‘ as of a heavy footstep on a loose board.’ Next day, at
4.30 p.m., thc brass ring attached to shutter of Base Room
Windows rattled twice. Then, later, when he was in the Base
Room, lie heard a loud ‘ bump’ which emanated near the
Chapel. Later that day the heavy shutter in Base Room was heard
to move slightly by Mr. Glanville, Cuthbert, and Kerr-Pearse.
On October 25, at 2 o’clock in the morning, three of the
observers, who were keeping watch on the landing outside Blue
Room, heard ‘heavy shuffling footsteps outside Base Room. At
first we did not investigate, being certain they were made by
Cuthbert whom we had left asleep in that room. On descending,
we found him still sound asleep.n
At 3.40 a.m., while they were still in the Base Room, a distinct
thud was heard upstairs. Investigation revealed nothing unusual.
Readers will remember the extraordinary expériences which
Mr. Foyster and Dom Richard Whitehouse hâve so often
recorded concerning the spontaneous locking of doors. We were
présent2at one of these manifestations.
On October 26, while alone in the house (the Glanvilles and
friend had returned home), Kerr-Pearse witnessed a similar
phenomenon. I will let him relate the story :
‘ Oct. 26, 10.48 p.m. When sitting in Base Room, finishing
supper, I heard a small “ click” of which I did not take much
notice, thinking it was caused by a draught shaking the door.
A few seconds later, when going to the pantry to wash up,
Ifound that 1had been locked in the Base Room. Fortunately, the key
was on the inside of the door.’
Kerr-Pearse had only just previously entered the Base Room
from the pantry with his supper things. Whatever it was that
locked the door must hâve been in the room while he was having
his supper.
Next day (October 27) while he was in the Base Room, he
heard a ‘shuffling noise’ that appeared to corne from the w.c.
upstairs. It lasted about three seconds. When he mounted to the
upper floor he could find nothing to account for the noise.
A few hours later, when he was resting in the Base Room, he
‘heard from the kitchen a crash as though several saucepans
had fallen to the ground. On investigation found nothing.’
On October 28, I paid one of my rare visits to the Rectory to
see how Kerr-Pearse was getting on. I was accompanied by
three friends. I stayed a few hours, and during our first inspection
of the house we found a large pencil mark on a wall of the Base
Confirms Glanville’s account, page 201. 2 See page 70.
T H U D S A N D T H U M P S 211
Room. It was a new one. Then we ail (at about xi p.m.)
heard footsteps in the Blue Room above us. I rushed upstairs :
no one was there. We left the Rectory soon afterwards. Similar
footsteps, from the same direction, had been recorded by Kerr-
Pearse, at the same hour, on October 25, 26, and 27 : ‘At times
they appeared to be pacing up and down the room alongside
the wall dividing it from the passage.’
During this evening Kerr-Pearse had his coat pulled twice. The
interval between was about 15 seconds. No one was near him,
and the pull was quite definite.1
On October 30, someone— or something— unscrewed the
handle of the cupboard door in the hall. On this same day
Mr. Glanville and his son arrived and, when the three of them
made their next inspection of the house ‘ a large pencilled “ M ” ’
was discovered on the landing wall opposite w.c. Later, they
heard ‘ a succession of heavy metallic sounds in bathroom,
lasting some 20-30 seconds.’ They were then standing outside
the house, in the drive, immediately below the bathroom window.
Mr. Henning arrived later and when the whole party was outside
the kitchen, they ail heard a distinct ‘ thump’ in the hall. Two
minutes later a second ‘ thump’ was heard. Next morning, at
10.35, three distinct thuds came from the Blue Room while the
party was in the Base Room. These were followed by two more
thuds about ten seconds later. This was the last phenomenon
that Kerr-Pearse heard in Borley Rectory, as he left for London
•
—on his way to Geneva— the same day.
In sending me the account of his last week at Borley, Kerr-
Pearse says in a covering letter : ‘This is quite the most interesting
report.’ With which I agréé. If the phenomena witnessed by
him and his friends were the only manifestations ever recorded
at Borley, the Rectory would still be an outstanding example of a
really haunted house.
COLONEL W ESTLAND’s DISCOVERY
Among the many good observers who answered my call for
help in solving the mystery of Borley Rectory, some were parti-
cularly useful and skilful. Lieut.-Col. F. G. Westland was one
of them. He is not only a clever draftsman— he is attached to the
Royal Army Ordnance Corps—but he is also a very clever photo­
graphier and supplied us with perfect photographs of ail the wall
wricings that he found.
Being such a shrewd observer, he very soon discovered the
‘ Marianne ’ messages in the various parts of the house. These,
1 Compare similar expérience recorded by Mr. F. A. Mansbridge, page 233.
212 A P P E N D I X G
of course, ‘ appeared’ during Mr. Foyster’s occupation of the
Rcctory and are dealt with in Chapter XXIV.
Colonel and Mrs. Westland paid their first visit to Borley on
Friday, June 25, 1937, and stayed in the Rectory until the
following morning. He sent me his minute-by-minute log, with
ail incidents recorded, weather conditions, etc. As I hâve not
previously reproduced Verbatim any observer’s routine log,
I will print a short section of Colonel Westland’s report, in order
that the reader can assess with what care the investigation of the
Rectory was carried out. Here is the first page of Colonel
Westland’s log, begun on his arrivai at the house. It is dated
June 25, 1937 :
‘6.15 p.m. Arrived and briefly inspected house outside and
inside. Found ail objects on their chalk marks. Weather fair,
but overcast. Warm. No wind.
‘ 6.40. Unloaded car.
‘6.50. Went to Long Melford for supplies.
‘ 7.35. Returned and unpacked
‘8.0. Made a round of inside of house. Taped door on attic.
Ail objects in place. Shut ail Windows and doors with one or two
exceptions, locking those [interior doors] that had keys. Oiled
lock of cellar door and locked it.
‘ 8.45, Had supper.
‘ 9.22. Visited Blue Room.
‘ 9,50. Went to summer-house.
‘ 10.45. Left summer-house, having seen nothing. Made a
round of exterior of house. Weather fine. Sky clearer, some stars
showing. Moon was clear of mist on horizon.
‘ 11.5. Returned inside house and made coffee.
‘ 11.50-12,15 a.m. Made a round of inside of house, pausing
for ten minutes in the Blue Room in darkness. Ail objects
unmoved, but discovered a small, blue lacquered box containing
pins in the store-room [i.e., large cupboard] nearest the hall or
passage to garden door. We had not noticed the box on our
previous rounds at 8 o’clock, but it is possible that we overlooked
it. A chalk ring was drawn round it.’
And so it goes on— a good example of our observers’ records.
In a covering letter to his report, Colonel Westland said that
the blue box that he found at, midnight was three inches in
diameter and contained pins. It was a fiat box. It was found
on the lower shelf of the stack in the cupboard. At eight o’clock
when he and Mrs. Westland thoroughly examined the cupboards,
they used torches to look into ail corners, although it was not
yet dark.
I made inquiries concerning the blue box, but could not trace
T H E ‘ S T R A N G E C O A î ’ A G A I N 213
the ownership. Mr. Glanville was doing duty at the Rectory a
few days previously and it did not belong to him. The blue box
was just one of the many curions objects that appeared in the
Rectory in a curious way.
Colonel Westland and his wife next visited the Rectory on
Wednesday, July 7, 1937, and remained there until the following
Friday evening.
Here are extracts from his log :
‘ The phenomena which occurred during our stay were:
On our 4 a.m. round of the liouse on Tuesday, July 6, we found
the door of the dressing-room (i.e., the small room next the Blue
Room) [Room No. 5] unlocked and ajar. We certainly thought
we had shut and locked it on our 2 a.m. round, but may hâve
omitted to do so.
‘Whilst taking measurements of the rooms between 6 and 7
a,m. on Wednesday [July 7] I found a blue serge lady’s jacket
hanging behind the door of the S.E. bedroom [Room No. 7]
which we had not noticed before. The door opens to the lcft
against the wall and thejacket would not be seen unless one shut
the door after entering the room.
‘ On our 12 a.m. round on Thursday, July 8, we noticed a
cross in red chalk on the outside of the door of the room over the
kitchen. This again may hâve been overlooked on previous
rounds.
‘ On our 4.40 a.m. round on Friday, July 9, we found that the
Eucryl tin on the slate shelf of the larder had moved half an inch.
On the same round we found signs of writing on the wall of the
kitchen passage. It looked as if an attempt had becn made to
rub it out. It was illegible.
‘At 9.20 p.m., July 9, I found a piece of wood 3 inches by
1 inch by 1 inch on the stairs in the kitchen passage. Mrs. West­
land had noticed it at 6 p.m., but thought it was due to my
having been photographing in the passage and that it was
connected with my work. This was not the case, and I do not
remember having noticed it though I was using these stairs a
good deal.
‘ On Saturday morning . . . we found that the round blue box
in the store room [large cupboard] had moved half an inch. We
had left the door open the evening before.’
Whether the ‘strange coat’ was there before Colonel Westland
saw it, I cannot say. But he is such a very careful observer that
it seems incredible that he could hâve missed it on his patrols.
The same applies to the piece of wood.
During his stay, Colonel Westland made plans of every room
in the house, and took many photographs, some of which are
214 A P P E N D I X G
reproduced in this volume. He took with him on this visit his
Aberdeen terrier, which behaved quite normally— unlike Gaptain
Gregson’s two dogs, both of which disappeared.
Concerning the movement of the blue box in the cupboard,
it is interesting to note that Mr. Drinkwater, in his report,1 also
records the fact that on December 13 following, the box moved
one inch ofFits chalked ring while he and his friends were on guard
in the house. In fact, it moved twice.
When Colonel and Mrs. Westland visited the ‘ Psychic Fête’
at Borley Rectory on June 21, 1939, four months after the fire
that gutted the Rectory, they were amazed to find that the
‘ blue box’ that so strangely appeared at midnight, June 25,
1937, was still in its chalked ring in the cupboardwhere they originally
found it! They took it away with them as a souvenir.
DR. BELLAMY’ s EXPERIMENT
Among our official observers were Dr. H. F. Bellamy, engaged
in medical research, and his son, Mr. F. C. Bellamy. Accom-
panied by a friend, Mr. Hugh E. Fee-Smith, they visited Borley
Rectory on the night of October 16-17, I937-
Included amongst the ‘ gadgets’ and bits of apparatus was a
simple electric bell contact-breaker. It consisted of the contacts,
bell, and an electric battery, the whole kept steady by a pile of
books. If a book was disturbed or displaced, the circuit was
closed by two pièces of métal coming together. This indicator
had been made by Mr. S. H. Glanville and installed by him on
the marble mantelpiece of the dining-room.
At 12.20 a.m. on October 17, Dr. Bellamy and his friends were
quietly watching in the Blue Room. They were sitting on the
floor with their backs to the wall, and the moon was streaming
in at the window. They sat there until 12.50 a.m. when (to
quote their United signed report) :
‘ Electric bell in circuit with contact-breaker under pile of books
on marble mantelpiece in living-room, to right of main hall,
started ringing and continued to ring for the space of about a
minute, when it ceased abruptly. This apparatus had been
tested for delicacy of adjustment earlier in the evening and the
books replaced. Now, on our arrivai in the room, the books
were displaced, no book occupying its original position, and the bottom
one was right off the contact breaker. The window of the room
was found to be sealed. . . . Nothing else in the room was dis­
turbed. In view of the displacement of the books we are quite
unable to account for this phenomenon.’
1 Pages 234-5.
T H E B. B .C . IN V E S T I G A T E S 215
In sending the report, Mr. Francis Bellamy said in a covering
letter :
‘The ringing was a very startling expérience, occurring as it
did during our vigil in the Blue Room. Knowing something
about the vagaries of electrical contacts, I should not hâve
attached much importance to the incident had the books not
been so greatly displaced and the apparatus moved out of the
chalk marks. The faet that it ceased so suddenly also added to
our bewilderment. We hâve omitted to mention in the report
that we tested it before we left at 6 a.m. and we found that
everything was in working order.’
The house, after sealing and fastening of ail Windows and
external doors, was patrolled at 4.50 p.m., 9 p.m., 10.30 p.m.,
2.30 a.m., and 4.40 a.m.
Other phenomena experienced that night was ‘ a faint knock-
ing, from somewhere above Base Room.’ Duration about ten
seconds. Two strange pencil marks were also discovered on their
fourth tour of inspection at 2.30 a.m. One of these was on the
wall just outside the Chapel, the other over the mantelpiece in
Room 7. They ringed and dated them.
Dr. Bellamy— and his party— comments on the quietness of
the house. He says : ‘ One feature which impressed itself on ail
our minds was the extraordinary quietness of the house. There
never seemed to be a board creaking nor any sign of mice or
rats. In fact, the silence was almost uncanny.’
Dr. Bellamy and his party visited the Rectory in the following
spring, and in the report, dated May 26, 193O, sent me by Mr.
Francis C. Bellamy, it is stated :
‘About 1 a.m. we found and marked a pencil line in the room
[No. 7] next to the Blue Room. We also had a peculiar expéri­
ence which oddly enough made very little effect on us at the
time. When we first went round the house at about 7 p.m., we
were standing outside the two large cupboards, off the hall in
the short corridor which leads to the side door of garden, when
the friend we took down had a distinct feeling that someone had
rufîled his hair lightly. Again, about 1 o’clock we chose the same
place to stand in the dark, and Fee-Smith had the sensation of
someone touching his face. Was it not through this garden door
that the nun sometimes was seen to enter? Other than this, we
got much less “ feeling” in the house than on our previous visit.’
TH E B .B .C . INVESTIGATES
The British Broadcasting Corporation is nothing if not enter-
prising, and the Department of Outside Broadcasts is always
the first to investigate the possibilities of radiating anything of a
2 l 6 A P P E N D I X G
topical nature, if interesting enough to the general public. It
will be remembered that I broadcast from the ‘ haunted house’
at Meopham on March io, 1936, when the ghost-hunting
technique employed was very successfully relayed. Mr. S. J. de
Lotbinière was in charge of the transmission.
Mr. de Lotbinière was also interested in Borley Rectory and
wished to visit the place. Of course I agreed. I particularly
wanted him to visit the house by himself, or with friends, but he
insisted upon my accompanying him and Mr. H. Douglas-
Home, who was also interested.
We arrived at Borley on the afternoon of July 21, 1937, at
4 o’clock and found that our other official observers, Mr. J. M.
Bailey and Mr. G. V. Wintour,1 two undergraduates, who were
staying for some days, were still in possession. They left an hour
later, and slept out.
After a cursory tour of the house, Bailey and Wintour showed
us some new wall marks that had appeared during the previous
night.
I will now quote de Lotbinière’s report Verbatim, reserving
any comments until later :
‘ 6.0 p.m. Went into Sudbury for a meal, leaving ail doors
bolted on the inside, except the front door, which was locked and
had a piece of transparent paper stuck across the crack.
‘ 7.30 p.m. Returned to Borley and found everything intact.
‘ 8.15 p.m. Made a thorough examination of the house. Found
a certain number of small wall marks and ringed them with
chalk. Found that the clapper of the bell communicating with
the Blue Room had been tied up with a piece of silk material.
‘ 9.15 p.m. The Rev. A. C. and Mrs. Henning arrived and
came in through the garden door into the Base Room. In the
course of a cursory tour of the house, we found a long new pencil
mark on the wall next to the pantry.
‘9.30 p.m. Watched the garden from the summer-house. A
full moon came up. It was quite warm and there was very little
wind. No clouds.
‘ 10.30 p.m. Returned to house and did some “ challenging”
from the Base Room with light very low. No resuit.
‘ 11.0 p.m. Tour of house. Found a substantial new pencil
mark in each of the following rooms : The Chapel, Room 8,
and Room 3. We found other small. but apparently new pencil
marks in Room 7, the Blue Room and the room next door
[Room 5]. During this tour the five of us were together, but it
was not possible to watch everyone’s movements.
‘ 11.50 p.m. The Hennings left.
' 1 See their report, pages 222-4.
A P H E N O M E N O N A T R E Q U E S T 217
‘ 12.40-1.05 a m. Sat in the Blue Room in the dark. Both
doors were open. By now there was a considérable wind, but
there were no clouds. Heard prolonged rustling downstairs.
Not accounted for. Sounded like mice amongst paper.
‘ 1.10 a.m. Tour of house. Carton on chimney-piece in room
[No. 4] next to Chapel had been moved eighteen inches. Marked
new position with dotted line and replaced. Must hâve been
lifted as intervening dust unmarked. Found a number of small
pencil marks in room [No. 3] next bathroom.
‘ 1.46 a.m. Returned to Base Room for food and talked.
‘ 3-I5~3-5° a-m- Listened in Blue Room. Heard one “ click”
from stairs as we were settling down. “ Challenged” a few
minutes later and heard another sharp click before the sentence
was even finished! By now it was a good deal coolcr and this
might hâve .been contraction. But apart from this the house
was very silent.
‘4.45 a.m. Went for a walk.
‘5.15 a.m. Made another tour of house. Nothing to report.
‘5.45 a.m. Left for London.
‘Throughout the visit we did our best not to separate, but I
cannot say for certain that the “ manifestations” could not hâve
been donc by one or other of us. I am certain that no one could
hâve got into the house in the course of our visit. This report is
written onJuly 24, 1937, from notes made at the time of the visit.
[Typed signature] ‘ S. J. d e L o t b i n i è r e . ’
Mr. de Lotbinière’s report, which should be read in conjunc-
tion with the report of Bailey and Wintour, is accurate and agréés
with the notes I made during the visit. My only comments are
that the ‘rustling noise’ came from the Base Room immediately
below us and lasted for from 7 to 10 minutes. It was quite loud
and we discussed in whispers how the sounds might be caused.
I do not think they were caused by mice. No one suggested mice.
I reiterate that I hâve nevér seen signs of mice in the Rectory.
On the table in the Base Room were the remains of a box of
chocolatés, with the loose paper wrappings lying in the box.
I mentioned during the occurrence of the sounds that the ‘ ghost’
was a long time choosing one. It sounded exactly as if someone
was turning over the box and contents.
Though Mr. de Lotbinière does not emphasize the incident
(except by means of an exclamation mark), the ‘ click’ in the
passage was very striking. But it was more than a ‘click’— it was
a sharp ‘ crack.’ And I think it came from the passage outside
the Blue Room, in which we were standing. And, as Mr. de
Lotbinière observes, the ‘ crack’ which instantly answered our
challenge, was startling in the extreme. In fact, it made me
2 l 8 A P P E N D I X C
‘jump’ ! I think it was Mr. de Lotbinière who said ‘ If they want
to impress us, let them do something non;.’ Before he had finished
speaking, the ‘crack’ was heard. Mr. de Lotbinière, in his
report, suggests ‘ contraction,’ but that was impossible. It was
a sharp, hard knock— twice. And, as I hâve previously observed,
there was never a suspicion of crépitation in the house. It was the
most soundless place I hâve been in, and this is confirmed by
every observer.
In his concluding remarks Mr. de Lotbinière says that ‘ I can-
not say for certain that the “ manifestations” could not hâve been
done by one or other of us.’ This argument could not possibly
apply to the ‘rustling noise’ or the ‘cracks,’ as we were ail
together in the Blue Room while the alleged phenomena occurred
in the Base Room and passage (or stairs) respectively.
On December 14, 1937, Mr. de Lotbinière, Mr. John Snagge
and Mr. Home again visited the Rectory, but ‘ things seemed so
quiet and uneventful that we decided to return to London.’
On January 8, 1938, Mr. W. S. Hammond, a member of the
staff of the B.B.G., visited the Rectory. He was accompanied
by Mr. C. S. Taylor, Mr. G. J. Bell, and Mr. J. Thurley. After
a thorough inspection of the house, and the sealing of ail doors,
etc., they began their hourly patrols of the building.
I will now quote their report :
‘ 10 p.m. Another unproductive tour of the house. . . . Before
starting this tour and while standing in passage opposite the Base
Room, we heard a door being closed. But on investigation nothing
could be found to account for it.
‘ 12 p.m. Examined every room and stayed for a while in the
Blue Room in silence and complété darkness. Nothing occurred.
At 12.25 a.m., when coming down the main staircase there was
the sound of a door being gently closed, but careful investigation
failed to trace the origin.
‘ 2 a.m. Inspected grounds and outside of house. Nothing to
report. We then inspected every room carefully and found
everything in its place with the exception of a piece of zinc on
the floor in Room 10. This we had previously placed in the
centre of a chalk mark and it was now partly outside. A rather
unpleasant odour was noticed in Room 5, which somewhat
suggested the lavatory. The same kind of smell was afterwards
noticed in the Blue Room— Le., when we returned after com-
pleting the tour.
‘ 3.15 a.m. Tour of house, but nothing to report except the
sound of a door closing again, which was apparently outside and
might hâve been caused by the wind which had risen slightly.’
[The report is signed by ail four observers.]
T H E ‘ N U N ’ S E E N A G A I N 219
Another party froxn the B.B.G. visited Borley Rectory on
Friday, February 18, 1938. They were Mr. C. Gordon Glover
and Mr. Lloyd Williams (a Director of the B.B.G. Educational
Department), and their respective wives.
They arrived at 4.30 p.m., and closely examined the Rectory.
Then they ail adjourned to the garden and took up their position
in the famous summer-house in order to watch the Nun’s Walk.
I will now cite Mr. Glover’s report (dated February 26, 1938)
Verbatim :
‘ 5.45 p.m. My wife and I watched the open part of the walk
while Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd Williams kept their eyes fixed on the
line of trees at the Rectory end. At about 6.10 Mrs. Lloyd
Williams suddenly tensed. She said nothing for some ten
seconds, at the end of which time she declared that she had
distinctly seen “ a round, dark object.” This might, she said,
hâve been a short, stooping figure. It appeared to move from
the tree closest to the Rectory to the central fir-tree at which spot
it vanished. Mrs. Lloyd Williams told us that she had not seen
it actually progress, but it had somehow covered the distance
between the two trees. The light was bad, it being dcep twi-
light. The other three of us walked across the lawn and walked
in front of the trees to test whether or no we were visible from
her position in the summer-house. We were, she declared, just
visible, though we were clothed in light-coloured coats. So
much for the “ Nun.” One witness only whose faith that she saw
something is not to be shaken. We hâve since, as you know,
. ascertained that this “ Nun,” when seen, has always been
observed at this particular spot.
‘ I fînd that I omitted one point in connection with our first
inspection of the house between 4.30 and 5 o’clock. This was
that while standing outside the Chapel, my wife déclarés that
she heard a door downstairs quietly close. It was a dead still
afternoon, and ail doors and Windows were shut.’1
Mr. Glover continues :
‘Towards eleven o’clock we made another tour of the house.
We observed and chalk-marked a pencil mark by the Butler’s
Pantry. This, to the best of our knowledge, had not been there
on our previous tour. While in the scullery Mrs. Lloyd Williams
said she heard in the passage outside “ Six quick, young foot-
steps.” No one of the rest of the party heard these. It is our
opinion that these steps were imagined. When upstairs during
this same tour of inspection, my wife and I were standing in the
doorway of the Chapel, when both of us heard coming from
downstairs a dull, heavy thud followed by a short shuffle. The
1 Compare similar expériences by Mr. Hammond and his friends, page 218,
and other observers.
220 A P P E N D I X G
other two of the party were at the back of the Chapel and heard
nothing.’
Mr. Glover and his party spent the next hour and a half in
the Base Room and heard nothing, though the door was left
open. Then they went upstairs again. Mr. Glover continues :
‘At 12.30 a.m. we ail went upstairs again, closing the door of
the Base Room hehind us, and stationed ourselves in the Blue
Room. We remained here in darkness until 1 a.m. During this
period we are ail agreed on the following occurrences : This
was (a) two heavy thuds coming from downstairs and one of a
lighter character. A kind of vague shuffling was also heard,
giving an impression of “ general activity of some kind going on” ;
and (b) a staccato and isolated “ crack.”1 I described this as
being like the crack of a whip, while the others likened it to an
electric light switch— of which there are none— being snapped
on. It is unlikely that this was made by the fire in the Base
Room, since the Blue Room is some distance away and the door
of the former was closed. We returned to the Base Room, and
made a final tour of the house at about 2.15 a.m., during which
nothing of any kind occurred.’
That concluded the Glover report and the party returned
home.
The next B.B.C. observer to visit the Rectory was Mr. M.
Savage, an electrical engineer, of the Télévision Service, Alex­
andra Palace. He was accompanied by a friend, Mr. Bridge-
water. The date was Saturday, March 12, 1938. During this
week-end the Glanvilles and Mr. Cuthbert were also ‘observing’
at the house.2 Mr. Savage and the party inspected the house
and garden at intervals, and neither saw nor heard anything
with the exception of:
(1) ‘We made a second tour of the house and on visiting the
Chapel at about 10.20 p.m. we discovered on the floor some
curious gluey material, which we are ail practically certain, as
we should almost hâve been bound to hâve walked over it on our
previous tour, was not there before. It was not in such a position
where it could hâve fallen from the ceiling without leaving a mark
and it certainly did not appear to be due to any small stray
animais. As a matter of interest, Mr. Glanville photographed
this.’3
(2) ‘The only other occurrence which I can report was that
at 1.43 a.m one extremely heavy knock occurred while we were
1 Compare the ‘cracks’ that we heard (de Lotbinière report), ante, page 217.
2See their report, page 202.
3 From Mr. Savage’s letter. The discovery has already been mentioned in
this monograph, page 202.
T R A P S F O R T H E E N T I T I E S 22 r
ail sitting in the Base Room. This knock appeared to emanate
from the top of' the bookcase towards the left-hand end, and
appeared to be too heavy to be accounted for by normal house
movements caused by changes in température, but on the other
hand I should not like to say that this was not so.’
Mr. Savage again visited Borley Rectory on May 7, 1938, just
before my tenancy expired. He was accompanied by a friend,
Mr. Bowden. I cannot do better than quote Mr. Savage’s own
words, a policy of fîrst-hand written testimony that I hâve
adopted throughout this monograph, where possible. This is
what Mr. Savage says in his report, dated May 10, 1938:
‘We arrived at about 4.30 p.m., obtained the keys from
Mr. Arbon, and proceeded straight away to do a very thorough
inspection of every room in the house. Everything appeared to
be in order ; ail seals were intact on Windows and doors. During
the inspection, we noticed that a number of new marks had been
noted by observers on the night of Thursday, May 5, but over
and above these marks, we found a fair number of fresh pencil
marks on the walls in various places. As we could not be sure
of the origin of these, we merely ringed them and noted the date
in the usual manner.’
During their stay in the Rectory, Mr. Savage installed a
number of ‘electrical traps’ for the ‘entities,’ and ‘the alarm in
the kitchen was inadvertently tested by us on each of these tours
and was found in perfect order !’ A further alarm was fitted over
the ‘ cold spot’ on the landing outside the Blue Room. Mr.
Savage continues :
‘At about 9.0 p.m. another very thorough search was made.
As usual, the Blue Room was subjected to a microscopie examination,1
but nothing further was found. Once more, just before 11 o’clock,
we commenced a search through the house. Upon arriving in
the Blue Room at almost exactly 11 p.m., we noticed, above the
right-hand side of the fireplace, a small vertical pencil mark
about three-sixteenths of an inch long. It was obviously new,
and we are as definite as one can be that it was not there on any
of our previous inspections. We had hardly ringed this mark,
when we were surprised to see a second rather smaller mark
about four inches below it. This we also ringed. We then
transferred our attention along the top of the mantelpiece to the
left-hand side, but found nothing. We returned to the right-hand
side within about one or two minutes, and yet a further mark had
appeared an inch or two to the left of the first two marks. Once
more we examined the left-hand side of the mantelpiece, and this
time found a pencil mark similar to the others, at approximately
1 My italics. H.P.
222 A P P E N D I X C
the same height from the floor. The examination over the area
round the mantelpiece was continued backwards and forwards
for a further five minutes or so, but no further marks appeared.
I do not think we could hâve both missed these marks, either on
our earlier inspections of the house or on our first examination
during this particular inspection, and it therefore seems almost
certain that they must hâve been produced while we were actually
within a yard of the mantelpiece. Nothing further was observed
in the Blue Room throughout the night.
‘During this tour of the house, in Room 5 a number ofscratched
markings were observed about five feet above the ground to the
left of the window. These were obviously new and unringed, and
we had not noticed them during our earlier inspections. I hâve
endeavoured to sketch these markings at the bottom of this
report. In the corridor, within the rectangular “ ringing” of the
“ Marianne-please-help-get” message, two new pencil marks
were observed, one either end of the writing, and a third one
below it just outside the ringing. In Room 3, behind the door,
a number of very distinct markings were observed covering an
area of about two feet by just over one foot wide. Again, I hâve
tried to illustrate these roughly in the freehand drawing given
below. Throughout the whole night the housewas absolutelysilent.’
The two sets of drawings that Mr. Savage enclosed were
(1) a sériés of markings comparable with an attempt to draw the
‘ Prince of Wales’s feathers’ ; and (2) a long sériés of marks like
the letter ‘B.’ They were very curious.
And so ended the investigation by the various members of
the British Broadcasting Corporation. Their reports are inter-
esting and valuable.
ACADEMIC INQUIRIES
Among the many persons who answered my Times advertise-
ment for observers were a number of undergraduates from
Oxford and Cambridge universities. Some of their letters were
in a facetious vein, and were immediately consigned to the
waste-paper basket. But we had replies from a few young students
who were obviously deeply interested in psychical research, and
who took the matter seriously. These were duly appointed
official observers. I will now deal with their respective reports,
which are not in strict chronological order.
The first of the undergraduates to visit the house were Mr. J. M.
Bailey and Mr. C. V. Wintour. They arrived at 9 p.m. on
July 18, 1937. After a thorough inspection of house, during
which they ‘found a deeply scrawled “ M ” at the end of ground
floor passage,’1 they visited the garden and returned to the
1 1 am quoting from their detailed log.
M A N Y N E W M A R K I N G S 22.3
house. At 9.40 p.m., the Rev. A. C. Henning and Mr. Mark
Kerr-Pearse (who had been dining with him) arrived at the
Rectory. The party decided to hold a little séance: ‘We tried
some table rapping in the dining-room without any resuit.
Subsequently we went upstairs and knocked on the floor of the
Blue Room. We were answered by one small explosive sound,
not very loud. (Note. I am convinced this was not a natural
sound; we never heard another noise like it.)’
The Rev. Mr. Henning and Kerr-Pearse left at 10.26 p.m.
The house was again inspected and they went to bed at 11.30
p.m. At 9 a.m. the next morning (July 19) they again inspected
house. Then they went to Sudbury, locking ail doors. They
returned at 12.5 p.m. ‘ and discovered deep scratch or incision
on the ground floor passage wall near the pencilled “ M a” dis­
covered by Kerr-Pearse. The scratch, which was not there
before, was clearly artificial. The mark was in the form of an
arrow-shaft and its head.’
At 6 p.m. they ‘discovered one bow-shaped pencil mark in
downstairs passage near the end, and one small pencil mark in
the chapel bringing total to eight.’ Nothing occurred during the
evening and, before retiring to rest, they stretched black threads
across ail the doorways and passages. Wintour slept in the Base
Room, and Bailey in the Blue Room. They heard nothing.
They inspected house at 8 a.m. next morning (July 20) and
found nothing new. Their threads had not been disturbed. But
at 10 a.m. they discovered the letter ‘ G ’ opposite the stairs
leading to the attics.
At 11 a.m. they found a pencilled ‘ G ’ by the door of Room 8,
and a line behind it. At 11.15 a.m. they discovered several small
marks in Room 11. Then they returned to Room 8 ‘ and we
discovered (at 11.23) that three circles had been added behind
the door. We are both certain that these were not there at
11.15.’ Therefore, they must hâve appeared while they were in
Room 11, examining the other marks. Other small marks
appeared during the day.
As the reader knows, Mr. de Lotbinière and I visited the
Rectory next day, July 21 (at 4 p.m.). Mr. Bailey and his friend
slept out that night. When they returned at 11 a.m. the next
morning, July 22, they of course saw the pencillings that had
‘appeared’ during our visit, and confirmed that they were new.
Nothing of note occurred during this day until the evening.
At 10 o’clock they inspected the house, as usual, and when they
reached Room 3 . . . but I will quote from the report :
A P P E N D I X C
224
‘ iop.m. Inspect house on return from Long Melford. Nothing
ncw except a mark like the bcginning of' an “ M ” appears in
Room 3, above the kitchen, while we vvere in the room. Wintour
had looked at the wall there on entering the room and noted
nothing fresh, but flashing his torch on to the wall again a minute
or two later noticed this not very large mark. Both Bailey and
Wintour thought they saw it grow in front of their eyes, but are
now inclined to think it was an optical illusion. We ieft it for
ten minutes, but nothing more v/as added.’
Wintour slept in the Blue Room that night, and heard nothing.
Bailey slept in the summer-house and he, too, was undisturbed.
During the day ofJuly 23, the usual inspections were carried out,
but no new pencillings were recorded, and no other phenomena
were noted. On the evening of this day, Bailey slept in the Blue
Room, and neither saw nor heard anything unusual. They left
for home at 10.15 a-m- on July 24.
On the night of February 16-17, 1938, a party of four under-
graduates from the University of Oxford visited Borley Rectory.
They were Mr. S. G. Welles, Rhodes Scholar of University
College; Mr. R. Hawkin, Mr. Samuel J. Milberg, and Mr. M. P.
Knox. They were ail from University College. Mr. Welles
subsequently sent me a long and detailed report of the night’s
events; the others sent me very short comments, as Mr. Welles
had taken so much trouble in writing up his log. I will take
Mr. Welles’s account first, extracting from it any passages that
should be quoted Verbatim.
After having settled themselves in the Base Room, they made
the usual inspection: ‘We scanned every room and its contents
with minute attention, ringing bells, seeing whether objects were
within their chalked marks, etc.’ They tied threads across a few
doors and passages. After mentioning that at 8 o’clock the four
of them saw ‘ a small puddle of brownish water ’ on the passage
floor, which no one had noticed previously (though they had
traversed it repeatedly), Mr. Welles went up to the Blue Room
while his friends were preparing supper in the Base Room.
He tells us that he was in the Blue Room exactly 25 minutes
by his watch, from 8 to 8.25 p.m. He was alone in the darkness,
and saw a remarkable luminous phenomenon, which I will let
him describe himself:
‘ I had taken for my position the corner of the room between
the fireplace and the window, from which I was able to see the
entire room (as my eyes grew accustomed to the darkness) as
well as the four exits from it—two doors, fireplace, and window.
Standing there and looking at the corner diagonally opposite
L U M I N O U S P H E N O M E N O N I N B L U E R O O M 225
(between 8.15 and 8.20 p.m. I should judge, not being able to
read my watch though my eyes had by then clearly distinguished
the outlines of the room), I became aware of a luminous patch
of light on the ceiling, about six inches from the moulding that
ran round the top of the walls and opposite the centre of the
window. This luminous patch, a roughly rounded rectangle of
perhaps a foot by five inches, moved slowly about half-way
towards my corner from its original position (I was standing
five fèet from a point opposite the centre of the window, so that
it shifted some two or three feet), poised there a moment, moved
as slowly back, disappeared for an instant, again appeared just
where it had first done so, and moved forward and back exactly
as it had done before, and then disappeared a second and last
time at the spot where it had both appeared and disappeared.
This whole proceeding took not more than a minute.
‘ I may say at once that though I myself spent at least two
hours more in solitary darkness in the Blue Room during the
night, and each of my friends a shortcr pcriod, none of us again
saw anything remotely resembling this phenomenon. And it was
the only occurrence of our stay for which we were unable to
conceive a more or less logical explanation. It was definitely
not one of those patches or fines of white, one’s eyeballs, straining
into darkness, so often see. I saw many of these during that and
my other stays in the darkened Blue Room, and they in no way
resembled it. The light had none of the dim haziness, general
all-pervading sense over the vision for the moment, or swift
movement of these : it was clearly outlined and made its motions
in leisurely yet précisé fashion, and impinged itself' on my per­
ception not directly through my forward-seeing vision, but
gradually, through a feeling that something was shining down
on me. ï had ample time to turn my eyes upwards and follow its
movements; was near enough the window to be able to lean
forward noiselessly from where I stood, and perceived no outside
agency that could hâve been responsible for the light, though
headlights of passing cars and other outside disturbances had been
clearly visible.
‘We later conducted extensive experiments, I being in the
unlighted room while various sorts of lights (torches of varying
power, candies, matches, glowing cigarette ends, etc.—-I am a
non-smoker myself and of course fit no lights of any kind during
my periods of watch) were shone in at me, from under the
window, the foot of the garden, the hall, and the room adjacent.
None of these even remotely suggested what I felt I had seen.
What they tended to establish in my mind was :
‘ (1) That any light whatsoever coming in through the window
lit up a far greater area than that one luminous patch so close
(six inches, as I hâve said) to the window and yet only visible
on the ceiling.
Q
226 A P P E N D I X G
‘ (2) That ail lights entering through the window cast patches
of light (representing its panes) separated by narrow dark bars
(die sashes and frames).
‘ (3) That even the smallest pinprick of' illumination cast high-
lights and shadows in ail parts of the room, whereas during my
mémorable moment the whole room had been in a neutral dark-
ness save for this one patch.
‘ (4) Ail the lights we made cast into strong relief the métal
curtain-hanger projecting from the corner of the window between
me and the spot where the luminous patch had appeared, and
about opposite the point where it stopped its advance each time
and began to move back, whereas during the time of that
illumination I never noticed it, which seems possibly to indicate
that this patch, unlike any ordinary light shining in darkness,
cast no shadow of objects near it or contrasted itself with those
objects.
‘As I spent most of my remaining time during that and my
following visits to the Blue Room in thinking over this appearance
from every angle that I could, and hâve written this account
within twelve hours, I sincerely believe it to be as full and
accurate as I can make it.
‘After supper, Milberg and I at 9.15 began another round of
the house. . . . In the scullery we found on the floor a piece of
lath, 42 inches by 1 inch. We were both convinced we had not
seen it on our previous visit, and owing to its size and the fact
that one end of it was within 4! inches of a slightly crumpled
cigarette card we perfectly well remembered having seen, we
were rather startled. When Knox and Hawkin came in, we took
them to it and Hawkin, who had been with Milberg and me on
our previous round, also remembered the card well and the lath
not at ail. It had no chalk marks round it when first noticed,
which was in itself unusual, since every object of any size scattered
about the house did. We chalked it at once, Milberg doing so
while I held my light for him, and it had not moved when we
brought back Knox and Hawkin to see it ; nor did it move during
the rest of the night.
‘ On our next visit, at 10.20 p.m., when Hawkin and I were
making the rounds, we were still more startled to find a piece
of dried grass, 9 inches long, lying parallel to this lath— so close
as almost to be touching it—this at the opposite end from that
near the cigarette card. Again, none of us could remember
having seen this before, though as Hawkin and Knox had corne
straight from the long dry grasses of the summer-house path to
see the lath, it is quite possible that one of them tracked it in on
the sole of his shoe and left it there while examining the lath,
none of us happening to notice it until this next visit, though as
the blade was lying its full length parallel to and almost touching
the lath and no one set foot on the lath once Milberg had chalked
F O O T S T E P S 827
it in its position, it would seem difficult to hâve tracked uncon-
sciously to that particular position.
‘ I hâve discussed this and our other expériences thoroughly
with Joseph W. Burden, who spent four nights at the Rectory
just two months before we visited it. He clearly remembers a
lath of those dimensions being in the scullery. In his time it was
stretched diagonally across the lead sink of the pump there and
he chalked it into that position. He also remembers the slightly
crumpled cigarette card, the position of which was just under the
outside edge of this sink, about two feet from the wall. None of
us remember seeing the lath on the sink during our first visit,
any more than we remember seeing it in the position on the floor
where we observed it on our second visit.’
Mr. Welles neither heard nor saw anything further that night
that calls for comment. He slept on the floor of the Base Room
for an hour or so, visiting the Blue Room at half-hour intervals.
Between 11.40 p.m. and 12.20 a.m. the four investigators,
Welles, Knox, Milberg, and Hawkin, separated and took up
their positions respectively in the following rooms; No. g, the
Chapel, Blue Room, and Base Room. Mr. Welles, who says he is
slightly deaf, heard nothing during this vigil in complète dark-
ness. But his three companions heard footsteps which appeared
to corne from the kitchen. Welles continues: ‘The three of them
likewise heard a sériés of faint noises at regular short intervals
when we were ail having tea in the Base Room about 12.30 a.m.
I, who am slightly deaf, heard none of these.’
Mr. Samuel J. Milberg confirms Welles’s story of the footsteps
■—or some similar sound-—in the following signed report :
‘ From 11.45 P-m- to 12.20 a.m. I was in the Blue Room alone.
Nothing happened till 12.20, when I heard a noise, coming from
downstairs or the courtyard (I could not locate it). It was the
kind of noise produced when somebody is throwing things against
the floor carelessly. I thought at first that the noise was due to
the observer [Hawkin] who remained in the Base Room, but
when I went downstairs he declared he had made no noise.
About 12.30 a.m., we were ail having some tea, when three of us
heard a faint noise, repeated at intervals of a few seconds for
some moments. After it disappeared, nothing else worthy of note
happened during the remainder of the night.’
Mr. Hawkin read Mr. Welles’s report, and sent me the follow­
ing confirmation from University College:
‘ I confirm the report of Mr. Welles with whom I was most of
the night, making particular mention of (a) We clearly heard
footsteps at 12.17, when I was alone in the Base Room, and the
228 A P P E N D X X C
others in distant parts of the house. The footsteps appeared to
come from the kitchen, along the passage to the front hall, and
towards the drawing-room. I imagined at the time that it was
one of the other investigators and, therefore, did not leave the
Base Room; and (b) the peculiar thumping noise at 12.30 a.m.
(approx.), which could not be traced to any apparent cause.’
(Signed) ‘ R o b t . H a w k i n .’
After ‘making careful inspections of the house and grounds by
daylight,’ the party left Borley at 10.30 a.m. on Thursday,
February 17, 1938.
Between December 15 and 19, 1937, Mr. J. Burden and Mr. T.
Stainton, both of Christ Church, Oxford, visited Borley. After
a very thorough inspection of the house and grounds upon their
arrivai, and sealing of doors, etc., they set a trap of black thread
across the passage between Rooms 9 and 10. At 4.50 a.m., on
December 16, Burden spent five minutes in the Chapel, in the
dark : ‘ Chapel seemed to hâve evil atmosphère, but this probably
imagination,’ he noted.
At 4.15 p.m. on December 16, Mr. Burden sat in the summer-
house, watching the Nun’s Walk until 5 o’clock. His report says :
‘ Saw and heard nothing except wind and slight rain which
had then started to fall. . . . At 6.10, while sitting in Base Room,
heard sound of whining or hooting coming from direction of
courtyard (faint). Went to door of Base Room and listened in
silence without showing light. Noise had stopped (may easily
hâve been wind), but sound of shuffling footsteps heard coming
from direction of scullery. We stood listening and at approxi-
mately 6.25 heard sound of swishing garments as though someone
were walking in upstairs hall. (May hâve also been wind, but
by that time wind had momentarily died down to a slight
rustling in trees.)
‘ 8.30 p.m. Burden’s watch. House inspected. Wind and rain
coming in gusts at intervals. 9.00. Lit two candies in front of
Chapel window and hung little silver cross in between them.
After twenty minutes of silent watching in dark half-way up main
staircase, returned to Base Room at 9.40. . . . 1.30 a.m. [Decem­
ber 17]. Continuai wailing sound heard (higher and more con­
tinuons note than previous wailing). May hâve been the wind,
but that again had died down. The sound seemed to be coming
from the Blue Room, but seemed to penetrate everywhere as it
could be heard equally clearly in Base Room, hall, or kitchen
passage. At 1.42 wailing stops.
‘ Stainton’s watch. 10 p.m. Brought one of Arbon’s cats into
house to test reaction. She was extremely nervous and disliked
our lantern and torches. Also seemed to be frightened by moon-
light on floor and watched it suspiciously. Quieted her with
N O I S E O F D R A G G I N G 229
condensed mille and tried, with difficulty, to lead her around
house. Was disinclined to enter ail the eastern rooms containing
moonlight, but was finally tempted to enter them with offers of
milk and was then no longer nervous. When confronted with
coat “ apport” she merely rubbed her back against it. Was
alarmed by crackling fire downstairs. Seemed particularly
interested by Room 7, but was not frightened when led inside,
11.15 cat put out.’
At 12.10 a.m. (December 18) Burden says: ‘Noise heard (too
loud to be mistaken) of something being dragged along floor.
Two seconds duration, at two seconds intervals. Stainton was
standing opposite door of Room 8 and thinks he heard sounds
down lower north passage, but is not certain that that was correct
location.’
The report continues :
‘Burden’s watch. 4 a.m. House revealed several new (?)
pencil marks along passage and rooms, ground-floor front.
4.5 a.m. Found thread between Rooms 9 and 10 broken.
(Assumed this done by cat, but Stainton daims cat did not pass
it as he watched her during her tour.) ’
Stainton left for home early on the morning of December 19,
Burden remaining in the house by himself. At 6.10 on the
evening of this day, Burden says :
‘6.10 p.m. Heard talking and footsteps coming from direction
of main hall, while sitting in Base Room. Stood in hall and
listened but could not trace them and thought they must corne
from Arbon and wife (although could not see them from any
Windows. . . .) 8.35. Inspection of house with particular atten­
tion to ground floor where two new pencil marks were found.
(North passage.) 10.15 t0 IO-35- Last night inspection. Very
cold. Heavy frost again and iced Windows. Full moon and few
clouds. No wind. Heard slight short rattling sound iri dairy
near north window, but this probably window-bars.1 Uncanny
sense of being watched in Room 2. Retired 10.35 an(l slept
until 8.30 a.m. [December 19].’
Mr. Burden made a final inspection of house and found
nothing disturbed and no new pencil marks. He left for home
at 10.35 a-m-
In order to see the traditional ‘ nun’ on the night of her
traditional appearance, a number of observers visited Borley
Rectory on July 28, 1937. Among them were the Rev. A. G.
1 I think this is impossible. The bars were very thick and were screwed
solidly to window frame. Also, there was no wind. H.P.
230 A P P E N D I X C
Henning, and Mr. A. C. Elliot Smith, a master at Harrow School.
The visit of this party coincided with a period when Mr. Kerr-
Pearse was in ‘résidence’ at the Rectory. They waited in the
summer-house until 10.40, hoping to see the ‘ nun,’ and were
disappointed at not doing so.
In an interesting letter, dated July 29, 1937, Mr. Elliot Smith
says :
‘ I arrived about four in the afternoon, and almost immediately
went round the whole house with Kerr-Pearse. I expect you will
hâve thought of ail I am going to say long ago, but in case coming
fresh to it, any new idea may hâve corne to me, I will tabulate
my impressions :
‘ (1) Though some [pencil] marks (I hâve no particular one
in mind) may be fàkes or purely normal pencil marks, I find it
difficult to believe the whole lot are. Apart from the testimony
of a variety of people and the difficulty of always escaping
observation, because a faker would surely endeavour to be more
sensational and not content himself with mere jabs.
‘ (2) The majority seem either 4 fèet or 2 feet 6 inches from
the ground or just over a mantelpiece.
‘ (3) Hâve you ever shown the specimens to a handwriting
expert? I find it difficult to believe that the usual “ Marianne,”
the single “ Marianne” and “ Edwin” are ail by the same hand.
‘ (4) Accepting as an hypothesis a discarnate spirit or psychic
factor, where does it get the material lead? Gan it sharpen a
pencil?
‘ (5) I had no feeling of atmosphère.
Mr. Elliot Smith left for London the next morning, after a not
very exciting time. But as I hâve before observed in this mono-
graph, July 28, the traditional ‘day,’ has always been uneventful
according to my own expérience. The questions raised by Mr.
Elliot Smith concerning the pencil marks are dealt with in
Chapter XXIV.
Dr. G. E. M. Joad, head of the Department of Philosophy and
Psychology, Birkbeck College, University of London, also visited
Borley Rectory. Like many other observers, he did not see the
‘ nun,’ but was considerably intrigued with the various pen-
cillings. He, with the others, carefully searched the house and
garden, noting especially the pencil marks and dates on the
distempered walls. In an article1 on psychical research, Dr. Joad
gives us his expériences :
‘ On the evening on which I visited the house one observer
[Kerr-Pearse] had been staying there for some little time, sleeping
l ‘Adventures in Psychical Research,’ in Harper's Magazine, June and July,
1
9
3
8) PP- 3
5- 41. 202—
210.
D R . J O A D S T E S T I M O N Y 231
on a camp-bed, and cooking his meals on an oil stove in one of
the empty rooms [the Base Room], We were alone in the house,
and after carefully examining the garden, we had assured our-
selves that there was nobody there. We came in, made a tour
of ail the pencil marks visible on the white-washed walls, and
carefully noted their date and position. It was my first visit
and I was considerably intrigued by the mysterious marks. At
seven o’clock we retired to the room with the camp-bed and the
oil stove, securely locking ail the doors and Windows before we
did so, cooked some sausages and made some tea. We were
together in this room for the whole of the ensuing hour, and I am
positive that neither of us left it. I am also positive that if any-
body had entered the house, we should hâve heard him or her
moving about. . . . About eight o’clock we went out again, and
on the wall in the passage immediately outside the room in
which we had been eating there was another pencil squiggle.
I feel reasonably certain that that squiggle had not been there
before; it was, indeed, inconceivable that we should hâve
missed it. I am also reasonably certain that it was not made
by the other observer, who was in my company during the whole
of the period within which the mark rnust hâve been made.
I am sure that I did not make it myself and, as I hâve already
said, I do not see how anybody could hâve entered the house
without being heard.
‘ On the other hand, the hypothesis that Poltergeister materialize
lead péncils and fingers to use them seems to me to be totally
incredible; and the question of “ why” seems to be hardly less
difficult to answer than the question of “ how.” As so frequently
occurs when one is investigating so-called abnormal phenomena,
one finds it equally impossible to withhold credence from the
facts or to crédit any possible explanation of the facts. Either
the facts did not occur or, if they did, the universe must in some
important respects be totally other than what one is accustomed
10 suppose. In this particular case my inclination is to doubt the
facts; and yet, having reflected long and carefully upon that
squiggle, I did not and do not see how it could hâve been made
by normal means.’
M ANY OBSERVERS— M ANY THRILLS
Among our official observers at Borley Rectory were Flight-
Lieut. R. Carter Jonas, and Flight-Lieut. Caunter. They are
friends. Together, they visited the Rectory on the night of
June'29-30, 1937. During the usual inspection of the house and
garden, they found (3.15 p.m.) the circular blue box that, as the
reader knows, was discovered by Colonel Westland a day or so
before.1 It was in its chalked circle. But at 7 p.m., on another
1 See page 212.
232 A P P E N D I X C
round of inspection, they found a nail file that had not been
noticed by either of the officers. In his report, Jonas says :
‘Nothing of interest noticed except a nail-file in the pantry
[cupboard], which I do not remember seeing before. Otherwise,
no objects had been moved.’
Caunter confirms this incident in a separate report. He says :
‘Everything was as we had last seen it, except that in a cup­
board or small store room on the ground floor in which we had
previously noted a small circular blue box standing in a chalked
circle, we now noticed on one of the right-hand shelves a small
Steel nail file. About a quarter of the nail file was overhanging
the edge of the shelf.5
I never discovered the ownership of the file. It seems incon-
ceivable that two very alert young men, when actually looking
for objects, should both hâve missed the file on their first in­
spection.
They neither saw nor heard anything unusual during their
stay, though they were up ail night with the exception of two
hours’ rest in the Base Room.
Both officers comment upon the absolute stillness of the place,
though there was quite a wind during the whole duration of their
visit. Caunter says : ‘During the entire stay the house has been
very quiet. We both remarked that it was the quietest house we
had ever stayed in. We did not hear the usual creaks and noises
usually heard in ail houses during the night.’ Jonas confirms
this. He says : ‘ I hâve seldom stayed in a house at night, which
had less of the usual noises—such as wood cracking, etc.’
Flight-Lieut. Jonas and his friend again visited the Rectory
for two nights on March 16 and 17, 1938. In his report, Jonas
said that ‘absolutely nothing’ occurred. No fresh ‘messages’ or
pencil marks, and no movements of objects. He réitérâtes the
soundlessness of the place. Fie says : ‘The house and grounds at
night were as still as a vault.’
Caunter and Jonas paid one more visit to Borley Rectory in
November 1938, just after the place had been sold to Captain
Gregson, though before he had taken possession. Their visit
was, therefore ‘unofficial,’ as far as we were concerned, as I had
relinquished the house the previous May. They stayed one night
only, as they were just off to Egypt.
In a letter to me, dated December 12, 1938, and forwarded
from Ismailia, Egypt, Flight-Lieut. Jonas says: ‘Ail seemed to
be much the same as before, except in one place upstairs there
A B E L T - L I F T I N G P H E N O M E N O N 233
was an overpowering smell of incense, which we had not noticed on
previous visits.’
Among the many intelligent people who ‘observed ’ for us was
Mr. F. A. Mansbridge, an official of the Bank of England, and
his wife. They visited the Rectory on Sunday, September 5,
1937, and remained until Tuesday, September 7. Mr. Kerr-
Pearse was also on duty during this period, but as there was
nothing personal to record during his visit, he sent in no report.
What did happen concerned Mr. Mansbridge— and his wife—•
and the following is an extract from his log :
‘ Sept. 5. Arrived at the Rectory at 7.30 p.m. Met Mr. Kerr-
Pearse who kindly showed me round the house. No new marks
had appeared. . . . The only unusual thing that happened was
that as we (Kerr-Pearse, my wife and myself) stood talking on
the first-floor landing [by the “ cold spot”], m
y wije jelt the end
of the belt of her coat lifted and dropped again. The material is too
heavy to be lifted by any ordinary draught, and the movement
was so definite as to make her look down at it. I might also
mention that when we returned to our car, about half an hour
later, we found the door open, though we were quite sure we had
shut it. It was standing in the drive, out of sight from the road.
‘My wife stayed at the “ Bull,” Sudbury, and when I returned
later to the Rectory (11.15 p.m.), Kerr-Pearse and I made
another tour of the house, including loft [attics] and cellars.
On going outside, before finally turning in at 2.35 a.m. [Sept. 6],
I felt a tap on the shoulder as I stood on the lawn. The tap was
as heavy as the falling of a large rain drop, though above (I
looked up immediately) the night was clear and extremely
starry. I was clear of any trees. It might hâve been a very heavy
moth or drifting seed pod, or something dropped by a bird-
though no mark was to be found on the coat. The weather was
very cool and still. No noises were heard during the night,
though we slept with the door of the Base Room wide open.’
Mr. and Mrs. Mansbridge left the. Rectory on the early
morning of September 7.
There was a curious sequel to their visit. Mr. Mansbridge
took a number of photographs in the Rectory, but did not develop
them for some time afterwards. On January 9, 1938, he sent me
a letter containing some prints (and the négative) of the Blue
Room. In the recess to the right of the mantelpiece, in the
centre of the wall, and about 18 inches from the floor, can be
distinctly seen a ‘face’ on the distemper. Unfortunately, ‘faces’
can often be seen on surfaces, uneven or broken, such as walls,
backgrounds of trees, etc. In the same way, the pattern on a
234 A P P E N D I X G
carpet, or the glowing embers in a fire, often produce a ‘face’
of some sort. I am afraid that Mr. Mansbridge’s ‘spirit photo’
was due primarily to normal irregularities on the Blue Room
wall, plus a certain subconscious élaboration of details in the
mind of the person looking at the picture. This visual illusion
is not apparent when one looks at the wall itself.
On the night ofNovember 13-14, 1937, Mr. A. P. Drinkwater,
a member of the executive of Messrs. Longmans, Green & Co.,
Ltd., visited Borley Rectory with three friends. They arrived
at 2 p.m. on November 13, and proceeded to make a thorough
inspection of the house and grounds. They examined ail seals
and fastenings, and re-sealed those Windows and doors where
necessary. The weather ‘was clear and cold, température about
320 Fahrenheit, and no wind.’
Mr. Drinkwater arranged the following method of watching,
as stated in his report:
‘Decided to conduct watch in pairs (following instructions in
Blue Book), such as waiting in Room 6 (Blue Room) for 10-15
minutes. Ail seals, objects and walls to be examined. Patrol
of house to be followed by patrol of grounds by same watchers.
Ail remainder to stay in or near Blue Room during patrols : this
with the object of avoiding confusion. Inspection timed to take
45-50 minutes. One inspection per hour.’
They began their watch at 4.10 p.m. Two members of the
party remained in the house, and two stationed themselves near
the Nun’s Walk.
I will now quote the report:
‘4.15 p.m. Two distinct, percussive knocks heard by watchers
stationed in Base Room of house. Sounded as if from almost
immediately above. [i.e. Blue Room.] Investigation showed
nothing had moved.’
During the 6 p.m. inspection they found that ‘ the round tin
in small pantry [i.e. cupboard] had movedone inch to the leftd They
marked the new position with another chalked ring.
At 7 p.m. three of the party went to Long Melford to dinner,
leaving one on guard in the Rectory. He had nothing to report
upon their return.
The four of them inspected the house from top to bottom
(taking an hour over each patrol) at 8.30, 10, 11, 12 midnight
and at 1 a.m. Nothing of note recorded.
At 1.41 a.m. ‘a heavy thump nearly overhead of Base Room
[i.e. from the Blue Room], like one heavy step. Heard by ail
T H E B L U E B O X M O V E S A G A I N 235
members of party on duty. Believed to be the last of several steps
which woke them up. [That is, those who were not on duty,
but were resting in Base Room.] ’
The report continues :
‘4.0 a.m. Various light pencil marks discovered in various
parts of the house. Ail these, as far as we know, had appeared
after we had taken over the house. The marks we found on
dining-room right-hand wall ; near window of Blue Room and
left-hand side of door ; in Room 7 on either side of window ; and
on pillar between Blue Room and Room 7. Ail marks ringed as
far as possible, but chalk had fàiled. Tin in cnpboard referred to in
6p.m. inspection, again m
oved.
‘5.20 a.m. Inspection. Three more scratches on wall of
Room 3 noticed and dated. Inspection ended approximately at
6 a.m.
‘8 a.m. House re-examined. No seals found broken. Pencil
mark found in Servants’ Hall [i.e. Sewing-Room] and dated.
Marks also found just outside tde chalk ring enclosing message
about “ Light-Mass-Prayers” in long passage upstairs. Note:
Nearly ail the marks we found were of a very tentative nature
and seldom consisted of more than one stroke. However, judging
from the care with which previous observers marked similar
ones, they would seem to be of importance.’
At 9 a.m. the whole party went out for a meal, and returned
at 10.30 a.m. for a final look round. Nothing had altered since
their 6 a.m. inspection. An hour later they returned to
London.
Mr. Drinkwater and his friends had a most interesting evening,
and it should be noted that the box in the cupboard, first dis­
covered by Colonel Westland, moved twice during the night.
Mr. Drinkwater remarks that ‘ the house was remarkably quiet
for an empty house of some âge.’
I think the only other of our official observers whose expériences
I hâve to relate in this Appendix, were Dr. and Mrs. Joseph, who
visited the Rectory on July 30, 1937, when Mr. Kerr-Pearse was
on duty. In a letter which Mrs. Joseph sent me on August 1,
1937, she says: ‘The house struck me as repellent, but not
exactly sinister.’ They heard only two sounds which could not
be accounted for. One was ‘as of a twig snapping’ ; the other,
at 2 a.m., sounded ‘ as if some small winged insect— a beetle,
perhaps— had struck a pane of glass.’ Mrs. Joseph speaks of the
house as being ‘ absolutely silent.’
During my tenancy of the Rectory, the Rev. A. C. Henning
sent me the following letter, dated November 15, 1937 :
A P P E N D I X G
236
‘Dear Mr. Price,
‘ I thought you might be interested to know that a light has
been appearing in the Rectory, and so far we cannot account
for it. It was seen (a bright light) by Mr. and Mrs. Payne and
they say it was from the window on the wing looking south
[i.e. Room 11]. It looks out towards the fields and is at the
corner close to the garage covered way.
‘The light was also seen by our man Herbert Mayes on the
same night at a different window, the large one on the stairs.
This can only be seen at one point on the road opposite the
Tithe Barn at Borley Place.
‘ I hâve seen the Arbons and they say the place was ail locked
up on Monday night and no one there. . . . Our maid also saw
the light on Thursday night, but is rather vague about its position.
‘Yours sincerely,
(Signed) ‘A. G. H en n in g .’
It was, of course, the strange light in the Rectory window that
originally took me to Borley in June 1929. The reader will
remember that it was seen by Mr. V. C. Wall and others on
June 10, 1929.
I hâve consulted my diary and find that none of our observers
was at Borley on November 8, 1937, and Mr. Arbon’s testimony
confirms this fact. Also, there was no one connected with us at
the Rectory on November 11, when Mr. Henning’s maid saw the
light. Of the two sets of keys, one was always kept by Mr. Arbon
(except when he handed them to an observer), and the other set
was deposited in London.
When I was at Liston Rectory in March 1939, after my
second visit to Miss Ethel Bull and Mr. Edward Cooper, respec-
tively, I took the opportunity of interviewing Herbert Mayes,
who is gardener-chauffeur to the Rev. A. C. Henning. I first
questioned him about the light he saw in the window of Borley
Rectory on the night of November 8, 1937, and he was quite
definite about it. It was a bright light— bright enough to attract
his attention. He wondered whether any of our observers were
there. But Mr. Henning knew that I had sent no one, and
Mr. Arbon also knew that the place was locked up as he had the
keys, and happened to be at home on this night, working about
the place.
Herbert Mayes was, for a time, employed by the Foysters
during their occupation of the Rectory, and heard a number of
extraordinary sounds and noises for which no normal explanation
could be found. Once, he told me, when he was in the house
by himself, he heard footsteps on the landing. This phenomenon
occurred twice in forty-five minutes. He was in the hall. Investi-
‘ C R A S H I N G C R O C K E R Y ’ 237
gation proved that no one was there. On another occasion, he
was in the hall when he again heard footsteps on the landing at
the top of the hall stairs. Suddenly, a terrifie crash came from
the top of the stairs. Mayes said : ‘ It was just as if someone with
a tray full of crockery had dropped it and smashed the lot.’ But
no one was there. The reader will remember that Edward
Cooper heard1 a similar crash as if ail the china in the cottage
kitchen had fallen to the floor, and Mr. Kerr-Pearse records a
similar expérience.
Another ‘ thrill’ experienced outside the Rectory fell to the lot
of a parson. On October 27, 1938, Mr. S. H. Glanville received
a letter from Miss Ethel Bull, from her Sudbury home. In it
she says :
‘The Rectory has been sold. . . . I am very curious to know
what will happen when he takes up résidence there.2 He [Cap-
tain Gregson] knows ail about it, but says he does not mind.
Wait a bit, and see! A clergyman friend of ours who was staying
in the neighbourhood a few weeks ago, walked up to the Rectory
one evening and prowled round outside. He heard an awful
noise coming from the house as though a lot of furniture was
being thrown about. Nobody was in the house. He felt a bit
scared and took himself off.’
Little did Miss Bull dream that within a few weeks the place
would be a mass of smouldering ruins.
For the superstitious, I will record that shortly before I leased
the Rectory, a parish meeting was held there. It was one of
the rare occasions when Mr. Henning used the Rectory. During
the meeting, a picture suddenly dropped from its nail on the
wall and was smashed.
1 See Page 54.
2 Captain Gregson took up résidence at the Rectory early in December 1938.
APPENDIX D
ANALYSIS OF PHENOMENA
T
HE following is a list of the principal phenomena, or
alleged phenomena, and the names of those who observed
them.
MATERIALIZATIONS OF VARIOUS TYPES
The ‘ Nun' figure in its different forms:
Miss Ethel Bull The Misses Bull’s cousin
Miss Freda Bull Mrs. Lloyd Williams
Miss Mabel Bull Mr. Edward Cooper
Miss Elsie Bull Mrs. Edward Cooper
Rev. Harry Bull Mr. Fred Cartwright
Rev. Henry Bull Miss Mary Pearson
The Misses Bull’s cook Mr. V .C. Wall
‘ Harry Bull' Phantasm:
Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Headless Man or Men:
Miss Mary Pearson Rev. Harry Bull
T ail, Dark Man:
Miss Ethel Bull
‘ An Old Man':
Miss Ethel Bull' Mr. Edward Cooper
Rev. Harry Bull (‘ old Amos’) Mrs. Edward Cooper
Figure in Grey and Man wearing Bowler Hat:
A police-constable Some villagers
Girl in White {or Blue):
Three Misses Bull Mr. C. G. Browne
Miss Rosemary M. Williams
Shadowy Forms:
Miss Adelaide Foyster Captain W. H. Gregson
A Black Hand:
Mr. James Ballantyne
Vision of ‘ Horses’:
Miss Mary Pearson Mr. Edward Cooper
A Strange Insect:
Mrs. Margaret E. Wilson
238
A N A L Y S I S OF P H E N O M E N A 239
Appearance of Coach:
Miss Mary Pearson Mr. Edward Cooper
Rev. Harry Bull
AUDIBLE PHENOMENA
A Woman’s Voice:
Rev. G. E. Smith Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Rev. L. A. Foyster
Whisperings:
Rev. G. E. Smith
Sound of Horses Galloping:
Rev. Harry Bull Mr. Herbert Mayes
Dog Padding round Room:
Mr. Edward Cooper Mrs. Edward Cooper
Sound ofRolling Coach:
Rev. Harry Bull
Church Music:
‘Scratchings’:
Mr. Hardy, Junr.
Miss Mary Pearson
Bell-ringing:
Misses Bull
Mrs. Henry Richards
Mrs. A. Peel Goldney
Miss May Walker
Rev. G. E. Smith
Mr. Harry Price
Footsteps, and Similar Sounds:
Rev. G. E. Smith
The Misses Bull
Mrs. E. Byford
Rev. L. A. Foyster
Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Mr. Edward Cooper
Mrs. Edward Cooper
Mrs. Lloyd Williams
Captain W. H. Gregson
Mr. S. H. Glanville
Mr. Roger H. Glanville
Rev. L. A. Foyster
Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Sir George Whitehouse
Lady Whitehouse
Dom Richard Whitehouse,
[O.S.B.
Katie (the Foysters’ maid)
Mr. Mark Kerr-Pearse
Rev. A. C. Henning
Mrs. A. C. Henning
Mr. Herbert Mayes
Dom Richard Whitehouse,
[O.S.B.
Katie (the Foysters’ maid)
Mr. M. P. Knox
Mr. R. Hawkin
Mr. Samuel J. Milberg
Mr. J. Burden
Mr. T. Stainton
Raps, Taps, or Knockings:
The Misses Bull Mr. S. H. Glanville
Rev. G. E. Smith Mr. Roger H. Glanville
240 A P P E N D I X D
Mrs. G. E. Smith
Mr. V. G. Wall
Mr. Harry Price
Mr. Ellic Howe
Mr. Mark Kerr-Pearse
Dr. H. F. Bellamy
Mr. F. C. Bellamy
Mr. Hugh E. Fee-Smith
Displaced or Projected Objects: Phenomena of true Poltergeist Character.
Rev. G. E. Smith
Mrs. G. E. Smith
Mr. V. G. Wall
The Misses Bull
Mr. Harry Price
Mr. Mark Kerr-Pearse
Dr. H. F. Bellamy
Mr. F. C. Bellamy
Mr. Hugh E. Fee-Smith
Captain W. H. Gregson
Mr. W. S. Hammond
Mr. G. S. Taylor
Mrs. F. C. Westland
Lieut.-Col. F. G. Westland
‘ Clicks’ or 1Cracks’’:
Mr. S. J. de Lotbinière
Mr. Henry Douglas-Home
Mr. Harry Price
Mr. C. Gordon Glover
Sound of Door Closing:
Mr. Ellic Howe
Mr. Harry Price
Mr. W. S. Hammond
Mr. G. S. Taylor
Knocks, Bumps, Thuds, Jumping or
Mr. S. H. Glanville
Mr. Roger H. Glanville
Rev. A. G. Henning
Mr. G. Gordon Glover
Mrs. C. Gordon Glover
Squadron-Leader Florniman
Mr. Lloyd Williams
Mrs. Lloyd Williams
Mr. M. Savage
Mr. Bridgewater
Dragging’ Noise:
Mr. J. Burden
Mr. G. J. Bell
Mr. J. Thurley
Flight-Lieut. A. Carter Jonas
Flight-Lieut. Caunter
Mr. A. P. Drinkwater (and
Mr. S. J. de Lotbinière [party)
Misses Bull’s clérical friend
Rev. L. A. Foyster
Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Mrs. Henry Richards
Mrs. A. Peel Goldney
Miss May Walker [O.S.B.
Dom Richard Whitehouse,
Katie (the Foysters’ maid)
Mr. S. H. Glanville
Mrs. C. Gordon Glover
Mr. Lloyd Williams
Mrs. Lloyd Williams
Mr. M. Kerr-Pearse [wicket
Mr. G. J. Bell closing]
Mr. J. Thurley
Mrs. G. Gordon Glover
Stamping:
Mr. J. M. Bailey
Mr. C. V. Wintour
Mr. A. P. Drinkwater
(and party)
Rev. L. A. Foyster
Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Dom Richard Whitehouse,
O.S.B.
Mr. Mark Kerr-Pearse
Katie (the Foysters’ maid)
Mr. T. Stainton
A N A L Y S I S OF P H E N O M E N A 24.I
Mrs. A. Peel Goldney
Miss May Walker
Mr. Mark Kerr-Pearse
Mr. Harry Price
Mr. T. Stainton
Mr. S. J. de Lotbinière
Mr. Henry Douglas-Home
Mr. Harry Price
Door-locking Phenomena:
Rev. L. A. Foyster
Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Dom Richard Whitehouse,
O.S.B.
Mrs. Henry Richards
*Wailing’ Sounds:
Mr. J. Burden
Rustling or ‘ Scrabbling’ Noises:
Mr S. H. Glanville
Mr. Roger H. Glanville
Mr. Mark Kerr-Pearse
Mr. Rupert Haig
‘ Metallic’ Sounds:
Mr. Mark Kerr-Pearse and the Glanvilles
Sound of'Rushing Water’:
Miss Ethel Bull (and sisters)
‘ Crashingas of Falling Crockery:
The Misses Bull
Mr. Edward Cooper
Mrs. Edward Cooper
Breaking of Windows:
Rev. L. A. Foyster
Sounds o f‘ Persan entering Door’
The Misses Bull
Footstep's heard in Road:
Mr. Walter Bull
Various Noises in the Rectory:
Mr. Walter Bull
Mr. Herbert Mayes
Mr. Mark Kerr-Pearse
Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Mrs. Henry Bull
Rev. L. A. Foyster
Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Mr. Herbert Mayes
Sound of Moving Furniture:
Rev. G. E. Smith
Mrs. G. E. Smith
Rev. L. A. Foyster
Mr. M. P. Knox
Mr. R. Hawkin
Mr. Samuel J. Milberg
Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Miss Bull’s clérical friend
VISIBLE PHENOMENA
Wall and Paper-writings:
Rev. L. A. Foyster Mr. F. C. Bellamy
Mrs. L. A. Foyster Mr. Hugh E. Fee-Smith
Dom Richard Whitehouse, Mr. S. J. de Lotbinière
Dr. C. E. M. Joad [O.S.B. Mr. M. Savage
Mr. S. H. Glanville Mr. Bowden
R
242 A P P E N D I X D
Mr. Roger H. Glanville
Mr. Mark Kerr-Pearse
Rev. A. G. Henning
Mrs. A. G. Henning
Dr. H. F. Bellamy
The Light in the Window:
Rev. G. E. Smith
Mrs. G. E. Smith
(and choir boys)
Mr. Basil Payne
Mrs. Basil Payne
Keys Fallingfrom Lochs:
Rev. G. E. Smith
Mrs. G. E. Smith
The Swinging Blind:
Mr. S. H. Glanville
Mr. Roger H. Glanville
Fire Phenomena:
Rev. L. A. Foyster
Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Sir George Whitehouse
Wine into Ink, etc.:
Rev. L. A. Foyster
Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Mrs. Henry Richards
Personal Injuries:
Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Appearances, Disappearances, and Reappearances:
Mr. J. M. Bailey
Mr. G. V. Wintour
Mr. J. Burden
Mr. A. P. Drinkwater
(and party)
Mr. V. C. Wall
Mr. Herbert Mayes
The Hennings’ maid
Many unnamed villagers
Mr. Harry Price
Capt. H. G. Harrison
Dr. H. F. Bellamy
Lady Whitehouse
Dom Richard Whitehouse,
O.S.B.
Mrs. A. Peel Goldney
Miss May Walker
Mr. Harry Price
Adelaide Foyster
Mr. M. P. Knox
Mr. S. G. Welles
Flight-Lieut. R. Carter Jonas
Flight-Lieut. Caunter
Mr. Geoffrey Motion
Mr. Harry Price
Rev. L. A. Foyster
Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Lieut.-Col. F. C. Westland
Mrs. F. C. Westland
Mr. Mark Kerr-Pearse
Mr. Samuel J. Milberg
Mr. R. Hawkin
‘Smoking’ Phenomenon:
Mr. Hardy, Senior
Luminous Phenomenon:
Mr. S. G. Welles
‘ Matter-through-Matter’:
Captain W. H. Gregson [toad incident]
Alan Gregson do.
Anthony Gregson do.
A N A L Y S I S O F P H E N O M E N A 243
MISGELLANEOUS
Odours—Pleasant and Unpleasant:
Rev. L. A. Foyster
Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Dom Richard Whitehouse,
O.S.B.
Flight-Lieut. R. CarterJonas
Sensation of ‘ Coldness’:
Squadron-Leader Horni-
man’s friend
Miss Reid
Mr. Rupert Haig
Tactual Phenomena (‘ Touchings’):
Mr. F. A. Mansfield
Mrs. F. A. Mansfield
Mr. Mark Kerr-Pearse
Sensation of a ‘ Presence’:
Rev. L. A. Foyster
Mrs. L. A. Foyster
Mrs. Margaret E. Wilson
Dom Richard Whitehouse,
O.S.B..
Unidentified Footprints in the Snow:
Captain W. H. Gregson
Alan Gregson
Gluey Substance:
Mr. R. H. Glanville
Mr. Alan Guthbert
Face-Slapping in Bed:
PHENOMENA
Flight-Lieut. Gaunter
Mr. W. S. Hammond
Mr. C. S. Taylor
Mr. G. J. Bell
Mr. J. Thurley
Mr. R. H. Glanville
Mr. Mark Kerr-Pearse
Mr. Alan Cuthbert
Mr. Hugh E. Fee-Smith
Mr. Bellamy’s friend
Mr. Mark Kerr-Pearse
Mr. Roger H. Glanville
Mr. J. Burden
Captain Gregson’s visitor
Anthony Gregson
Mr. M. Savage
Mr. Bridgewater
Miss Bull
Rea'tion by Animais:
Rev. Harry Bull [recorded by]
Captain W. H. Gregson [recorded by]
Alan Gregson [recorded by]
Anthony Gregson [recorded by]
Mr. Joseph Burden [recorded by]
A Caméra Phe:wmenon:
Mr. W. Davey
Phenomenon in Church Vaul.ts:
Miss Ethel Bull [recorded by]
A Fulfilled Prédiction:
Miss Helen Glanville [Planchette prédiction of Rectory fire]
APPENDIX E
LIST OF OFFICIAL OBSERVERS AND OTHERS,
REFERRED TO IN THIS MONOGRAPH, WHO WIT-
NESSED PHENOMENA OR ALLEGED PHENOMENA
Bailey, Mr. J. M.
Ballantyne, Mr. James
Bell, Mr. G. J.
Bellamy, Mr. F. C.
Bellamy, Dr. H. F.
Bellamy’s friend, Mr. F. C.
Bridgewater, Mr.
Browne, Mr. C. G.
Bull, Miss Elsie
Bull, Miss Ethel
Bull, Miss Freda
Bull, Miss Mabel
Bull, Rev. H. D. E. [Henry]
Bull, Rev. H. F. [Flarry]
Bull, Mrs. H. D. E.
Bull, Mr. Walter
Bull’s clérical friend, Miss
Bull’s cousin, The Misses
Bull’s cook, The Misses
Burden, Mr. Joseph W.
Byford, Mrs. E.
Cartwright, Mr. Fred
Caunter, Flight-Lieut.
Cooper, Mr. Edward
Cooper, Mrs. Edward
Cuthbert, Mr. Alan
Davey, Mr. W.
Douglas-Home, Mr. Henry
Drinkwater, Mr. A. P. [and
party of 3 friends]
Fee-Smith, Mr. Hugh E.
Foyster, Miss Adelaide
Foyster, Rev. L. A.
Foyster, Mrs. L. A.
Glanville, Miss Helen
Glanville, Mr. Roger H.
Glanville, Mr. Sidney H.
Glover, Mr. C. Gordon
Glover, Mrs. G. Gordon
Goldney, Mrs. A. Peel
Gregson, Mr. Alan
Gregson, Mr. Anthony
Gregson, Captain W. FI.
Gregson’s visitor, Captain
Haig, Mr. Rupert
Hammond, Mr. W. S.
Hardy, Junior, Mr.
Hardy, Senior, Mr.
Harrison, Captain H. G.
Hawkin, Mr. R.
Henning, Rev. A. C.
Henning, Mrs. A. C.
Henning’s maid, Rev. A. C.
Horniman, Squadron-Leader
Horniman’s friend, Squadron-
Leader
Howe, Mr. Ellic
Joad, Dr. C. E. M.
Jonas, Flight-Lieut. A. Carter
Katie [Rev. L. H. Foyster’s
maid]
Kaye, Miss Lucie
Kerr-Pearse, Mr. Mark
Knox, Mr. M. P.
Lotbinière, Mr. S. J. de
Mansfield, Mr. F. A.
244
C I I R O N O L O G I C A L R E C O R D 245
Mansfield, Mrs. F. A.
Mayes, Mr. Herbert
Milbcrg, Mr. Samuel J.
Motion, Mr. G. H.
Payne, Mr. Basil
Payne, Mrs. Basil
Pearson, Miss Mary
Police-constable, A.
Price, Mr. Harry
Richards, Mrs. Plenry
Savage, Mr. M.
Smith, Rev. G. Eric
Smith, Mrs. G. Eric
Stainton, Mr. T.
Taylor, Mr. C. S.
Thurley, Mr. J.
Villagers of Borley
Walker, Miss May
Wall, Mr. V. C.
Wclles, Mr. S. G.
Westiand, Licut.-Colonel F. C.
Westland, Mrs. F. C.
Whitehouse, Sir George
Whitehouse, Lady
Whitehouse, O.S.B., Dom
Richard
Williams, Mr. Lloyd
Williams, Mrs. Lloyd
Williams, Miss Rosemary M.
Wilson, Mrs. Margaret E.
Wintour, Mr. G. V.
APPENDIX F
CHRONOLOGICAL RECORD OF PRINCIPAL EVENTS,
1362-1939
1362. Edward III gave Manor of Borley to Bcnedictine monks.
1375. Simon of Sudbury appointed Archbishop of Canterbury.
1381 (June 14), Simon of Sudbury murdered on Tower Hill.
c. 1500-1800. Borley Manor in possession of Waldegrave family.
1833 (Nov. 23). Rev. H. D. E. Bull born.
1862-1892. Rev. H. D. E. Bull Rector of Borley.
1862 (Jan. 24). Rev. H. F. Bull born.
1863. Rev. H. D. E. Bull built Borley Rectory.
1875-6. New wing added to Borley Rectory.
1886. Mrs. E. Byford left Rectory on account of ‘ghostly foot-
steps.’
1892 (May 2). Death of Rev. H. D. E. Bull.
1892-1927. Rev. H. F. Bull Rector of Borley.
1900 (July 28). The Misses Bull saw ‘ nun’ in daylight on
Rectory lawn.
1900 (Nov.). Miss E. Bull and a cook saw ‘ nun’ in garden.
1916 (April). Mr. and Mrs. Edward Cooper took up résidence
in Rectory cottage.
246 A P P E N D I X F
1916-19. The Coopers disturbed by 1padding dog ’ phenomenon
in cottage; saw ‘ nun’ many times; and Mr. Cooper
saw coach and horses ‘with glittering harness’ sweep
across Rectory grounds.
1919. Mr. and Mrs. Cooper saw ‘ black shape’ in their bedroom.
1920 (March). The Coopers left cottage.
1922. Rev. Harry Bull informed Mr. J. Harley about his
‘ communications with spirits.’
1927 (June 9). Death of Rev. H. F. Bull.
1927 (Autumn). Fred Cartwright four times saw ‘ nun’ standing
at gâte of Borley Rectory.
1928 (Oct. 2). Rev. G. Eric Smith inducted to living of Borley.
I929-
June 10. Borley hauntings first mentioned in Press. Mr. V. C.
Wall saw ‘mysterious light ’ in Rectory window.
June 11. Harry Price invited to investigate.
June 12. Harry Price paid first visit to Borley Rectory. Mr. Wall
saw ‘ nun.’ Various objects hurled at Wall and Price,
who was told story of the Rev. G. E. Smith’s expéri­
ences. Price interviewed Miss Mary Pearson, who
stated she saw coach and horses, etc.
June 12-13. Early morning séance in Blue Room, when Harry
Bull alleged to manifest himself. Soap jumped to floor.
June 13. Price interviewed the Misses Bull and Mr. and Mrs.
Cooper. Heard their respective expériences.
June 27. Price and party visited the Rectory. A Roman
Catholic medallion and other articles ‘ appeared.’
July 5. Ail Rectory bells rung simultaneously.
July 10. Small table in Blue Room hurled across room.
July 14. Rev. G. E. Smith and wife left Rectory.
August 7. Window in Rectory thrown up from within though
house was empty and doors locked.
I93°-
February 22. Half of one of the fireplaces in Rectory deposited
on main staircase, though place empty and locked.
February 22. Rectory was put up for sale.
March 4. Main staircase found covered with lumps of stone
and villagers saw ‘lights’ in the Rectory, though place
locked and unoccupied.
March 18. Stones and glass scattered about the Rectory, and
‘horrible sounds’ heard in the house at full moon.
March 24. ‘Light’ still seen in Rectory window.
April 20. Rev. G. E. Smith preached his farewell sermon at
Borley.
C I I R O N O L O G I C A L R E C O R D 247
October 16. The Rev. L. A. Foyster and his wife took up
résidence at Borley Rectory. A voice heard calling
‘ Marianne,’ and Mrs. Foyster saw phantasm o f‘ Fïarry
Bull’ in grey dressing-govvn.
October. Mrs. Foyster lost her bracelet mysteriously and a
lavender bag ‘ appeared.’
I93I-
February 25. Crockery, having previously unaccountably dis-
appeared, spontaneously reappeared.
February 26. Mrs. Foyster given a black eye.
February 27. A cotton-reel and hammer thrown at the Foysters
as they lay in bed.
March 7. Mr. Foyster exorcises the Borley spirits— is pelted with
stones.
March 8. Both doors ofBlue Room spontaneously locked.
March 10. Cabin trunk, china box and wedding ring, origin
unknown, spontaneously ‘ appeared.’ Ring disappeared
next morning.
March 11. Rectory again exorcised by two pricsts. 'Stones
thrown.
March 13. Mrs. Foyster hit on head with pièce of métal.
March 23. Flat-iron thrown at Mrs. Foyster.
March 24. Mrs. Foyster saw ‘ Harry Bull’ again.
May. Bells rung; pepper dropped on Foysters in lied; bouse
‘ exorcised’ with créosote; papers with ‘ Marianne’
written on them appeared about the bouse.
May 4. Ail bells rung; room on lire, which Lady Whitchouse
helped to put out. The Foysters lcl't the Rectory for a
few days’ peace.
June 8. Dom Richard Whitehouse, O.S.B., investigated. Found
things scattered ail over the housc. Mrs. Foyster thrown
out of bed three times. Objects preeipitated. Lady
Whitehouse’s parasol ‘movcd’ across the room.
June 8-16. Mrs. Foyster and Dom Whitehouse made a Novena
near Chapel for guidance. They bccame aware of a
‘presence’ and a message ‘ appeared’ 011 a wall.
June 12. A bed found overturned in the Rectory, though the
Foysters were staying with Lady Whitehouse, and the
house was locked.
August. Foysters held a séance.
September. More doors ‘miraculously’ locked: they were
opened with help of relie of Curé d’Ars. Study attacked,
and writing desk thrown on its face.
September 29. The Misses Bull called on Harry Price and told
248 A P P E N D I X F
him that manifestations at Borley Rectory were more
frequent, and more violent.
October. Rev. Foyster awakened by bedroom water-jug
dropped on his head.
October 13. Visit of Harry Price and party to Rectory. Wine
turned into ink, doors were locked, bottles were thrown,
etc.
October-November. Adelaide Foyster injured by a ‘ nasty
thing.’
November 13. Mrs. Foyster, Dom Richard Whitehouse, and
Katie the maid, were seated in kitchen with doors and
Windows closed, when bottle after bottle ‘materialized’
and crashed to floor. Bells rang of their own volition.
1932.
January. More door-locking : opened by help of relie. Spon-
taneous return of key on Chapel altar.
January 23-4. Great manifestations previous to holding séance.
Bottles flying, bells rang. Different ‘ atmosphère’
noticed after séance.
1933-
June. Strange noises heard in the house.
1935-
Manifestations began again, and more things disappeared.
Foysters heard many ‘ bangs’ in the Rectory.
October. The Foysters moved out of the Rectory.
1936 (March 13). Rev. A. C. Henning inducted to the combined
livings of Liston and Borley.
1937-
May 19. Flarry Price visited Borley Rectory and decided to
rent it for a year. Plis tenancy began on this day.
May 25. Price inserted advertisement in The Times and invited
persons tojoin a rota of investigators.
June 1-2. A ‘strange coat’ appeared in the Rectory.
June 2. Price visited Rectory with Ellic Flowe and both heard
‘ thumps ’ and a door being closed.
June 20. S. H. Glanville visited Rectory and heard ‘ cracks,’
‘ thumps,’ and new pencil markings were found.
June 25. Col. Westland found a blue box in Rectory cupboard.
June 26. Kerr-Pearse at Rectory and heard raps, ‘ thump,’
etc.
July 7. Col. Westland présent when ‘strange coat’ ‘ appeared’
again.
July 13. Kerr-Pearse at Rectory and more pencil-marks
appeared. Wicket gâte mysteriously opened.
C H R O N O L O G I C A L R E C O R D 249
July 16. More pencil marks discovered by Kerr-Pearse. Rev.
A. G. Henning and Kerr-Pearse held a séance and
‘ extraordinary noises were heard coming from the
kitchen.’
July 18. Kerr-Pearse found lump of touch-wood and more
pencil marks.
July 22. Mr. de Lotbinière and friends heard ‘rustlings’ in
Base Room, and a ‘sign’ was given when entities were
‘ challenged.’
July 28. Dr. C. E. M. Joad witnessed new pencil marks.
August 5. Kerr-Pearse found petrified frog.
August 14. Glanville found cats’ cemetery disturbed.
August 23. Miss Reid felt ‘icy cold’ outside Blue Room.
August 28. Glanville’s friends heard ‘light tripping footsteps’
on main stairs of Rectory.
September 5. Mrs. Mansfield had her belt lifted by an invisible
presence.
September 20. Squadron-Leader Horniman’s frictid ‘ came
over desperately cold ’ outside Blue Room.
September 21. Kerr-Pearse discovered that 50-pound bag of
coal had moved 18 inches of its own volition. Rupert
Haig became ‘icy cold’ in Base Room.
October 17. Dr. Bellamy and party heard electric bell
phenomenon.
October 23-25. Glanville and friends held séances in the
Rectory and tried Planchette writing.
October 26. Kerr-Pearse locked in Base Room while he was
having his supper, the key being on inside of door.
October 27. Kerr-Pearse heard ‘shufïling noise’ coming from
w.c.j and later a ‘ crash’ from kitchen. Footsteps were
heard.
October 28. Kerr-Pearse had his coat pulled twice.
October 31. The Glanville family tried more Planchette
writing and the name— ‘Mary Lairre’— of the ‘ nun’
was given. She was ‘strangled in 1667.’
November 8. Herbert Mayes saw light in upstairs window of
Rectory, when place was shut and unoccupied.
November 13-14. A. P. Drinkwater and friends found new
pencil marks and heard ‘ thumps.’
November 15. Report of ‘strange light’ in Rectory window.
1938.
Fcbruary 16. S. G. Welles saw luminous phenomenon on Blue
Room ceiling.
February 18. Mrs. Lloyd Williams saw ‘ nun’ on Nun’s Walk,
250 A P P E N D I X F
and Mr. C. G. Glover and party heard thuds, shuffles
and cracks.
March 12. Mr. Savage, Glanville and others found gluey sub­
stance on Chapel floor : could not be accounted for.
March 27. ‘ Sunex Amures’ threatened to burn down the
Rectory (vide Planchette ‘ message’).
May 7. Savage and friend recorded new pencil marks which
‘appeared’ while they actually watched the walls.
May 9. Price ‘moved out’ from Borley Rectory and Motion
and he found ‘golden apport.’
May 19. Price’s tenancy of Rectory ended.
August 12. Mrs. Margaret E. Wilson saw and painted ‘ strange
insect’ in Rectory garden.
October. Visiting clergyman heard ‘furniture being thrown
about’ at Rectory.
November 1. Price broadcast story of Borley Rectory and,
through it, became acquainted with its new owner,
Captain Gregson.
November. Caunter and Jonas visited Rectory and experienced
‘overpowering smell of incense.’
November 9. Marion psychometrized Rectory ‘ apport.’
December. Captain Gregson took possession of Borley Rectory,
which he renamed Borley Priory, and experienced many
strange phenomena.
r939-
February 27. Borley Rectory destroyed by fire at midnight, and
strange figures were seen walking in the fiâmes.
March 16. Herbert Mayes heard ‘horses,’ invisible to him,
stampeding in lane outside Rectory.
March 26. Miss Rosemary M. Williams and G. Graham Browne
saw ‘woman in white’ (or blue) at burnt-out Blue Room
window.
March 28-30. Price revisited Borley, examined ruins ofRectory,
and interviewed a number of witnesses.
March 30. Herbert Mayes related to Price story of footsteps at
the Rectory, and ‘ crashing crockery’ phenomenon.
April 10. Mr. Davey saw caméra ‘phenomenon.’
April 15. Captain Gregson broadcast in ‘ In Town To-night,’
and related his strange expériences.
June 21. ‘ Psychic fête’ amongst the ruins of Borley Rectory
and Harry Price’s last official visit.
1940.
August 3. Death of Rev. G. Eric Smith.
INDEX
The titles of books, articles, periodicals, manuscripts, lectures and society
publications are printed in italics. Appendices A, Ji, 1), E, and F hâve not
been indexed.
AdventuresinPsychicalResearch, 230/2.'i
American S.P.R., 64
‘Amos, Old,’ a spirit, 49
Ampton, Suffolk, 30
‘Apport,’ wedding-ring, 142-3
Arbon, L., 104, 112, 114, 119, 126,
168, 221, 228, 229, 236
Ars (France), Curé of (see Vianney,
Jean Baptiste).
Arthur Hall, Sudbury, Suffolk, 85,
87, 88
Bailey, J. M., 126, 151, 216, 222-4
Ballantyne, James, 67, 70
Bank of England, 233
Barbados, Haunted vault at, 50
Barlea (Borley), Essex, 11
Bell, G. J., 218
Bellamy, Dr. H. F., 123, 201, 214,
215
Bellamy, F. C., 214, 215
Benedict, Saint, 161
Bénédictine monks, 12, g6
Berkeley Square, London, 33
Bethell, The Hon. Richard, 60
Birkbeck College, London Univer-
sity, 230
Borley Castle, 13, 14
Borley Church, 11, 13, 50, 61, 91,
145. r7°> 180
Borley, Essex (dérivation), 11
Borley Lodge, Borley, 176
Borley Manor, 12, 13, 96
Borley Monastery, 26, 27, 29
Borley Place, 12, 15, 48, 112, 113,
176, 236
Borley Priory, 167, 168, 171
Botham, C. Glover, 137
Bowden, Mr., 221
Braintree, Essex, 73
Breslau, Germany, 138
Bricked-up nuns discussed, 3, 27-32
Bridgewater, Mr., 202, 220
British Broadcasting Corporation,
116, 123-5, 150, 174, 215-222
Broad, Prof. C. D., 183
Broadcast from haunted house, 6
Brook Hall Latte, Borley, Essex, 168
Browne, C. Grahatn, 176-8
‘Bull Inn,’ Long Melford, Suffolk,
59> 82, 65, 67, 72
‘Bull I1111,’ Sudbury, Suffolk, 233
Bull, J. M., 13, 13 n. 4
Bull, Misses v., 41 53, 59, 63-5,
103, 166, 184, 187, 236-7
Bull, Rev. H. D. li. (Henry), 14, 15,
18, 21, 25, 32, 44, 47, 49
Bull, Rev. II. F. (Harry), 14, 21, 33,
41, 42, 44, 48-51, 58, 65, 75,
76, 83, 85, 86, 92, 93, 97, 154.
176, igo
Bull, Walter, v, 51
Burden, Joseph W., 126, 127, 203,
227-9
Bures, Suffolk, 26, 160, 161
Burgundy wine, 68, 6g
Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk, 11, 104
Butler, Mrs. R. A., 180
Byford, Mrs. E., 47, 48, 50
Cairo, Egypt, 30
Cambridge, England, 67, 72, 125,
192 n. 1
Cambridge University, 222
Campus Sceleratus, Rome, 30
Canada, 67, 75
Canterbury, Archbishop of, 12
Canterbury, England, 12, 96
‘Carlos,’ 7, 8
Carriage, 31/03
Cartwright, Fred, 56-8
Cats’ Cemetery, The, 25, 112, 199
Cats’ reaction to psychic influences,
126, 127, 228, 229
Caunter, Flight-Lieut., 127, 231-3
Chambertin wine, 68, 73
Chancelier of England, 12
Château Peyraguey, France, 68
Chelmsford, Essex, 6, 12, 104, 201
Chewton, Somerset, 13
Christ Church, Canterbury, 12, 96
Christ Church, Oxford, 228
Civil War, the, 59
Clare, Suffolk, 56, 57
251
I N D E X
252
‘Coach, tlie glittering,’ 55
Coaches, history of, 31, 32
Colchester, Essex, 104
Coldingham Abbey, Berwickshire,
29. 31
Collard, Harry, 137
Colonial Legal Service, 208
Cornent, The, 29
Cooper, Mr. and Mrs. Edward,
53“ 6» 59. 105> 123. 129, 168,
183-4, 236-7
Cossinnia, Roman Vestal, 30
Côte d’Or, France, 68
Cracknell, S., 35
Crick, Rev. Walter, 29
Cromwell, Oliver, 14
Cuthbert, A. J., 153, 154, 159, 201,
202, 209-10, 220
Daily Mirror, v, 1, 2 n.i, 3 n.i, 4, 8
n. 1,38 n. 1,42 n. 1,43 n. 1
Davey, W., 179
Devil’s Hoof-marks, The, 34 n. 1, 175
‘Dog, the pattering,’ 53, 54
Dogs, reaction of, to Borley pheno-
mena, 48, 172, 174
Domesday Book 11
Door-locking phenomena, 70, 71,
81, 96, 99, 122, 187, 210
Douglas-Home, Henry, 217, 218
Drinkwater, A. P., 128, 151, 198,
214,234-5
‘Drummer ofTedworth,5 153
Dugdale, Sir William, 12, 96
East Anglian Daily Times, 170
Eastbourne, Sussex, 29
Eau de Cologne, 68
Edward III, of England, 12, 96
Edward VI, of England, 13
‘Edwin,’ wall-wridng, 146, 230
Egypt, 30
Encyclopcedia Britannica, 30 n. 2,31 n. 3
Encyclopcedia Britannica Tear Book,
6 n. 1
‘Enoch, Father’ (‘Fadenoch’), 158 n.
1,161
Epworth, Lincolnshire, 182
Essex, 12, 13, 26
Evered, Richard, 59 n 1.
Evidence, meaning of, 129
Exe river, Devon, 175
Exmouth, Devon, 175
‘Fadenoch’ (Father Enoch?), 157,
158, 163
Fairfield, Dr. Letitia, 28, 29, 95
Fee-Smith, Hugh E., 214, 215
Fifty Tears of PsychicalResearch, 6 n. 3,
126 n, 1, 185 n 1.
French Révolution, The, 59
Foyster, Miss Adelaide, 68, 71-3, 75,
78, 81, 83
Foyster, Rev. and Mrs. L. A., v, 14,
40, 64-102, 116, 127, 129, 137,
I43_I52. 170. '84, 187, 189,
ig i, 200, 204, 210
‘Gem,’ a cat, 25, rgg
Geneva, Switzerland, 121, 202, 211
Ghost Club, London, 28, 180
Ghost-hunter’s kit, 5, 6
Glanvill, Joseph, 153
Glanville, Miss Helen, 159-61, 163,
164, 169
Glanville, Roger H., 153, 154, 159-
61, 164, 197-202, 209-11
Glanville, Sidney H., vi, 7, il, 20,
21. 44. 5», 52. 85, 103, 120, 121,
137-9, 148, 150, 153, 154, 159-
61, 163-5, 189, 197-202, 209-
11, 210 n. 1, 213, 214, 220
Glover, Mr. and Mrs. C. Gordon,
124, 125, 150, 184, 219, 220
Goldney, Mrs. A. Peel, 66-73
Gould, Rupert T., 34 n. 1, 50 n 1.
Great Cornard, Sudbury, Suffolk,
44, 53
Great Eastern Railway, 11
Great Exhibition, London, 19
Great Plague, The, 26
‘Great White Way,’ New York, 104
Gregory, Saint, church of, Sudbury,
Suffolk, 12
Gregson, Alan, 168, 171-2
Gregson, Andrew, 168, 171-2
Gregson, Captain W. H., vi, 15, 89,
166-80, 186, 232, 237, 237 n. 2
Haggard, Rider, 31, 31 n. 2
Haig, Rupert, 122, 208, 209
Hammond, W. S., 124, 127, 218
Hardy, Mr. Junior, 202
Hardy, Mr., Senior, 201, 202
Harley, J., 48 n. 1, 50
Harper's Magazine, v, 230 n. 1
Harrison, Captain H. G., 198-201
Harrow School, England, 230
Harry Price Library of Magical
Literature, v. n. 1, n 8 n . 1
Hatch End, Middlesex, 29
Haunted Mayfair, 33 n. 1
Havre, France, 161
Flawkin, R., 224-8
Henning, Rev. and Mrs. A. C., v, 14,
49, 53, 103~5> 110-12, 122,
128-9, 132, 133, 140, 155, 175,
177, l80, 184, 205-7, 2
11» 2l6,
223,229-30,2 3 5 -7
Henry VIII, of England, 96
I N D E X 253
Herringham familv, 13
Hertfordshire, England, 191
‘Home of Rest for Decayed Médi­
ums,’ 102, 103
Horniman, Squadron-Leader, 200
House of Commons, London, 13
Howe, Ellic 110-15, 205
Hungary, 31
Huth, Major G., 138, 139
Illustrated London News, 175 n. 1.
‘In Town To-night,’ 174
Ipswich, Suffolk, 179
Isis, Vestals of, 30
Ismalia, Egypt, 232
‘Jésus Christ,’ 161
Joad, Dr. C. E. M., v, 127, 151-2,
230-1
Jonas, Flight-Lieutenant E. Carter,
127. 151. 23I_3
Joseph, Dr. and Mrs., 235
Joseph, Saint, 99
Journal of the American S.P.R, 64'
‘Juvenal,’ a dog, 48
Katie, a maid, 98, 99
Kaye, Miss Lucie, 5-9
Kensington, London, 190
Kent, England, 61
Kentish insurgents, 12
Kerr-Pearse, Mark, vi, 20, 96 n. 1,
121-3, 129, 137, 148, 150, 153,
159, 184, 187, 200, 200 n. 1,
201-11, 223, 230, 233, 235, 237
Knox, M. P., 224-8
Kocs, Hungary, 31
Kraus, Josef (see ‘Marion’)
‘Lairre, Mary’ (name of alleged
nun), 161, 162, 163
Lancaster, Duchy of, 13
Lavater, Ludvig, 105
Lincoln, Abraham, 91
Liston Rectory, Suffolk, 14, 103,
104, 236
Liverpool Street Station, London,
11
London County Council, 28
London, England, 2, 32, 59, 72-3,
143 . .
London Umversity, v n. 1, 118 n. 1,
126
Longmans, Green & Co., Ltd., 234
Long Melford, Suffolk, 1-3, 6, 11,
46. 59, 61-2, 65-6, 176, 234
Lord’s Prayer, récital of, 70
Loreof thePhantom Coach, The, 32 n. 1
Lotbinière, S. J., de, 123, 124, 150,
2i 6-8, 220 n.1, 223
Maggs Brothers, Ltd., 33 n. 1
Magyar language, 31
Maldon, Essex, 166
Mansbridge, Mr. and Mrs. F. A.,
128, 151, 211 n. 1, 233-4
‘Marianne’ (see Foyster, Mrs. L. A.)
‘Marion,’ 137, 138
Marks Tey, Essex, 82, 83, 137
Marmion, 29
Mary, Queen of England, 13
Mayes, Herbert, 49, 123, 129, 175,
176, 205, 236
‘Mayfair men,’ 107
Mayhew, G. M., 32 n. 1
Mclntosh, author, 139
Meopham, Kent, 6, 216
Mercer, Miss Joyce, 134, 135
Mercur, — , 35
Merryweather & Sons, Ltd., 169
Middleton, Dr. J. H., 30
Midlands, England, 170
Milberg, Samuel J., 224-8
‘Miles, Joe,’ a spirit, 81
Mini and Ils Place in Nature, 183 n. I
Mivart, St. G. Jackson, 129
McNaught, J. A., 31
Monasticon Anglicanum, 12, 96
Monotype Corporation, London,
109
Montezuma’s Daughter, 31
Month, The, 31,31 n. 1, 2, 89 n. 1
Motion, Geoffrey H., 140-3, 187
Air. Rider Haggard and the Immuring
of Nuns, 31 n. 2
Alurder at the Parsonage, 10 n. 1
Myers, F. W. H., 192 n. 1
National Laboratory of Psychical
Research, 66
Nature and Thought, 129
Newport, Essex, 47
New York, U.S.A., 64 n. 1
Nottingham Place, London, 50
Novena, making a, 93-5
‘Novena of Réparation,’ 191
Nuns, bricking-up of, 3, 27-32
Nun’s Walk, description of, 24
Occult Review, 32 n. 1
Oddities, 34 n. 1, 50 n. 1
O f Ghostes and Spirites Walking by
Nyght, 105 n. 1
Original Letters by the Rev. John
Wesley, 182
Oxford, England, 126, 224
Oxford University, 222, 224
Paris, France, 31, 59
Payne, Mr. and Mrs. Basil, 112, 176,
236
I N D E X
254
Pearson, Miss Mary, 36, 37, 55
Pembroke College, Cambridge, 67
Pennefather, W. S., 190-1
Perrott, Frank Duerdin, 125,192 n. 1
Perrott Studentsliip in Psychical
Research, 125, 192 n. 1
Planchette, 34, 5!, 159-65, 169
Pliny, 30
Poltergeist, meaning of word, 182
Port Said, Egypt, 209
Porta Collina, Rome, 30 n. !
Pound Hall, Long Melford, Suffolk,
!76 . . '
Praise and-Pnnciple, 139
Preliminary Studies of a Vaudeville
Telepathist, 137 n. 2
Price, Harry, 81, 97, 101
Priestly, Joseph, 182
‘Prince of Wales’s Feathers,’ 125
Proceedings, National Laboratory of
Psychical Research, 101 n. 1
Protheroe & Morris, 63
Psychical Research, 6 n. 1
Queen Anne’s Bounty, 14, 102
Ranchi, steamship, 209
Reformation, the, 28
Regent’s Park, London, 73
Reid, Miss, 207, 208
Rhodes Scholar, Oxford, 224
Richard II, of England, 12, 31
Richards, Mrs. Henry, 66-73
Rogers, H., 169
‘Rollo,’ a cat, 25
Roman Vestals, 29, 30, 31
Rome, Italy, 29, 30, 31
Romeo, 19
Routledge & Sons, George, 139
Royal Army Ordnance Corps, 211
‘Rubber-necks’ at Borley, 167
Rutland, Earl of, 31
Sadler, Frau, 139
Sandwich, Kent, 12, 96
‘Sandy,’ a cat, 25
Sauterne wine, 68
Savage, M., 125, 150, 202, 220,
220 n. 3, 221-2
Scott, Sir Walter, 29
Sheringham, Norfolk, 61, 64, 100
Short History of Borley and Liston
Churches, 13 n. 1
Siguenza, Isabella de, 31
Simon ofSudbury, 12
Skull in cupboard, 9
Smith, A. G. Elliot, 151, 230
Smith, Rev. and Mrs. G. Eric, v,
1-10, 14, 36-43, 58-64, 67, 97,
100, 104, 167, 200
Snagge, John, 218
Soal, S. G., 137, 137 n. 2
Soap phenomenon, 43
South Kensington, London, 1, 65
Stainton, T., 126-7, 228-9
Stanton (or Staunton), Suffolk, 50
Stour, river, Suffolk, 11, 26, 46
Streatham, London, 160
Sudbury, Suffolk, 1, 6, il, 12, 33,
44» 53» 56, 58, 85, 99, 103, 133,
141, 170, 216, 233, 237
Sudbury (Suffolk) Fire Brigade, 170
Suffolk and Essex Free Press, 169
Suffolk, England, 11,26
Summer houses described, 25
Sunday Graphie, 173 n. 1
‘Sunex Amures,’ 164-5, *69
Sussex, England, 167
Tarry, H. J., 29
Taylor, G. S., 218
Tedworth [Wilts], Drummer of, 153
T en Tears’ Investigation of Borley
Rectory, 28 n. 1
Thermal Variations in Borley Rec­
tory, 118
Thurley, J., 218
Thurston, S. J., Father Herbert, 31,
89 n- 1
Tiber, river, Rome, 30
Tillyard, Dr. R. J., 101 n. 1
Times, The, London, v, vi, 28-30,
34 «. 1, 95, 106, 175 n. 1, 180,
180 n. 1, 202, 222
Tivoli, Italy, 30
Totnes, Devon, 175
Tower Hill, London, 12
Tower of London, 12
Trinity College, Cambridge, 125,
192 n. 1
Tuccia, a Roman Vestal, 30
Tyers, Paymaster Captain C., 30
University College, Oxford, 126,
224, 227
University of London Council for
Psychical Investigation, 137 n. 2
Vesta, Roman goddess, 30
Vestals, Roman, 29, 30, 31
Vianney, Jean Baptiste, Curé d’Ars,
7 0 , 8 1 , 8 4 , 9 9
Villefranche, France, 84
‘Waldegrave,’ 161
Waldegrave, Frances, 13
Waldegrave, Magdala, 13
Waldegrave, Sir Edward, 13
Waldegrave, Sir Richard, 13
Walker, Miss May, 66-73
Wall, V. C., 1-3, 7, 37-43, 51, 124
Wall Writings, 144-52
Walled-up Alive, 31 n. 1
I N D E X
Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, 190
Wedding-ring ‘apport,’ 142-3
Well, a curious, 20, 21
Welles, S. G., 126, 224-8
Wesley, John, 182
Westland, Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. F.
C., vi, 123, 128, 148, 211-14,
231. 235
‘White Horse Inn,’ Sudbury, Suf-
folk, 56
Whitehouse, O.S.B., Dom Richard,
v, 12, 71 n. 1,80, 82, 82 n. 1, 85,
87 n. 1, 88-101, 147, 170, 187,
191, 210
Whitehouse, Sir George and Lady,
v, 80, 80 n. 1, 2, 85-9, 170
255
Whitton Church Lane, Ipswich,
Suffolk, 179
William the Conqueror (of Eng-
land), 11
Williams, Captain, 176
Williams, Miss Rosemary M., 176-8
Williams, Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd, 124,
125, 219-20
Wilson, Mrs. Margaret E., 132-6
Window Tax, 17
Wintour, C. V ., 126, 151, 216,
222-4
Zugun, Eleonore, iot n. 1
