{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1941__pelley___nostradamus.pdf","mytitle":"Nostradamus","mylang":"de"}
Quatrains that Apply to Today
NOSTRADAMUS
His Life and Prophecies
wmmmzmzzzzzm^mz^msszzrszzzzzzzizzzzzzzB&mz^^
IS A trait in universal human nature,
to want to know accurately what the fu­
ture may consist of. People may not
relish predictions of calamity, but they
will return again and again to the knees
of the seer who has proven his abilities
to foretell the imminent.
Three hundred and eighty-six years ago this coming au­
tumn, a queer-looking individual walked into the print-
shop of Bonhomme, the Publisher, in Lyons, France.
When Bonhomme, the Publisher, laid down his crude com­
posing-stick and came to the front of his shop to see
what the customer wanted, he saw a man 60 years old, in
the garb of a cleric of the period, with locks hanging to
his shoulders and a gleam in his eyes.
"I have a manuscript here,” said the customer in the
French of the time, "that I want to get published. It con­
tains eight hundred quatrains, or four-line verses, each one
containing a prophecy of some event to transpire in the
four hundred years ahead.”
1
La Bonhomme looked at the cascading ringlets, the ascetic
face, the veiled lambent eyes. He had heard of this man.
"You’re Nostradamus?” he asked.
"Yes, I’m Nostradamus. And I want to put into printed
form these eight hundred quatrains, dedicated to my son
Caesar, in order to leave for future generations a prophetic
record of what will occur in human society for the next
dozen generations.”
B
ONHOMME had heard plenty about Nostradamus.
He knew that the man was the grandson of the
physician to the French King, who had been educated as
a physician and mystic, married happily, had several sons,
lost them in the Black Plague that swept southern France
a generation before, gone wandering in his grief across the
Mediterranean countries, and finally come back to take
quarters in an attic in the vicinity, where he spent
his nights in seclusion "communing with familiar spirits”
as the superstitious citizens of the neighborhood whispered
among themselves.
Bonhomme knew other things. He knew that when this
man before him had first come back from his wanderings,
he had walked down a certain Lyons street one day when
a common parish priest approached him, striding between
two lay companions. Nostradamus had waited till the
priest got abreast of him, dropped to one knee in his path­
way, made the priest halt, and kissed the edge of his cas­
sock. The priest had demanded why the curious-looking
doctor had done such a thing. "I kiss the robe of the next
Pope!” the stranger had announced. The priest, not a little
2
his son Caesar, at that moment only a few weeks old,
progeny of the seer’s second wife.
In that introduction, Nostradamus had told bluntly and
candidly how he arrived at his unearthly predictions.
"A supernal Being from the higher octaves of Time and
Space materializes in my attic under proper conditions,”
was the substance of what Bonhomme read. "He tells me
what the future is to contain but leaves it to me to deter­
mine the precise time from my reckonings in Astrology.”
I T f T y j / y j ETAPHYSICIANS and all adept re-
’ a searchers in the profounder phases of
Psychics will understand without diffi­
culty what the seer-mystic, Nostra­
damus, was attempting to convey when
he indicated that after going through
certain formulas and incantations, he per­
fected contact with an extremely high order of Mentor—
whom he mentions as "the god”—and that this Personage
presented himself in quasi-materialized aspect in the seer’s
vicinity and aided him in exercising the prophetic traits
with which the man was born.
Arriving accurately at the time element for each prophecy,
or estimating the year, month or day when described
events were expected to happen, seems to have been achieved
by means of hundreds of numerological charts and astro­
nomical diagrams with which his attic premises were discov­
ered to be surfeited, following his death.
4
Interpreted, this seems to be the sense of the quatrain—■
"Being seated at night and wrapped in secret study, en­
tirely alone, I placed myself upon the brazen rod of proph­
ecy. A still, small flame came forth of solitude, helping
me to realize successfully what it will not prove vain to
have believed.”
WHAT we get here is curious, showing as it does that
the borderland of the unseen world was actually
contiguous with that of Nostradamus. They even over­
lapped, in his estimation, so as to form an intermediate
neutral territory like the marches in the North, where the
inhabitants of each district could meet and communicate.
In Century I, Quatrain I, Nostradamus writes—
"The rod in hand set in the midst of the Branches,
He moistens with water both the fringe and the foot;
Fear, and a Voice, make me quake in my sleeves.
Splendor divine! The God is seated near.”
It is easy to be positive that all this is illusive, supersti­
tious, even demoniacal. But even so, we do have to con­
cede that in some fashion or other it brought results whose
validity no one has been able to challenge to the present.
Another effect it undeniably produces. It unites man more
closely to the universe and less to the material world. It
makes death less strange and less cold, and furnishes to
the soul, and the things of the soul, more nutriment than
it exacts from modem life and the cult of the materialis­
tic.
6
Nostradamus seems to have been following out certain oc­
cult forms employed for establishing vaticinatory connec­
tion with the other world, or setting up the counter anal­
ogy between Mind and Spirit, according to that beautiful
esoteric verse in Ecclesiasticus: "All things are double, one
against the other; He hath made nothing imperfect.”
Were such things never to interlink, men might well say
—as they do now in the "wisdom” of Science—-that Spir­
it and Intellect are not doubles, and that no knowledge
can be reached save by physical experiment.
In this case there will be a particular link missing if Sci­
ence be right. The sage will earnestly desire that such
assumption will prove to be erroneous. He will readily
formulate with St. Paul that the invisible things from crea­
tion may be known from the visible, likewise that the vis­
ible things can never be understood but by the invisible.
The visible is not visible to the visible but to the invisible
alone.
The eye is the machine of sight, but not sight itself.
Who has seen the eye of the eye?
T
HE INTERPRETATION of M. le Pelletier to the
quatrain is as follows:
That Nostradamus, wand in hand, touched the branches
of the tripod, like the priests of Branchus, and invoked
his Genius-Mentor, which appeared to him in the vapour
floating above a basin of water. This he had consecrated
beforehand, according to prescribed esoteric rites, and in
which he dipped the fringe of his garment and his feet.
Thereat an involuntary shivering agitated his hand, when
8
upon that, whilst the water is undulating, certain weak and
peeping sounds whisper forth predictions about the future.
€J In the Latin translation of Psellus by Marsilius Finicus,
is this comment: "A spirit of this kind is vagrant every­
where, for it is endowed with the solar pass—so that our
terrestrial atmosphere lies everywhere open to it—and that
order of spirits, in the work appointed to it, speaks at all
times in a subdued voice, that by its indistinct obscurity it
may be less easy to seize the falsehoods that it utters.”
HISTORIAN of the fourth century, and a man of
"i. veracity, Marcellinus has given us curious details of
how prophetical tripods were considered by the Romans of
his day. It comes out quite naturally in the judicial proofs
investigating a conspiracy against the life of Valens the
Emperor—what today we would designate as a State Trial.
<J The conspirators were put to the torture and as an item
in the indictment the figure of a little table becomes
prominent, concerning which the accused were interrogated
by the judges.
At least one of them, Hillarius, broken with pain, re­
vealed the secret in these words—
"Honored judges, we constructed this unfortunate little
table that you see here after the fashion of the tripod—
or more strictly the cauldron—at Delphi, with dark in­
cantations, out of branches of laurel, and with impreca­
tions of secret song, and numerous ceremonies repeated
over daily. We consecrated it with magic rites, till at
last we put it in motion. When it reached this capacity
10
ting entity moved from letter to letter around the rim of
a bowl. However, to return to Nostradamus—
T
HE MAN implies in a score of places that he was
first of all born with a tendency toward natural Sec­
ond Sight—just as thousands of Scottish and Irish per­
sons are, at the present time. What this Second Sight
may be, is extraneous to our theme of the moment.
This natural trait toward clairvoyance was fostered and
developed by the metaphysical instruction received, while
a youth, from his grandfather, Pierre. In his early man­
hood, he lost his first family by plague, which threw him
into a lifelong mood of introspective melancholia. This
mood was conducive to the profoundest psychical research,
and somewhere along in his esoteric explorations he made
contact with a fourth-dimensional entity that provenly had
an infallible knowledge of all vicissitudes slated for hu­
man society up several hundred years of the future. In
considering all of it, we are confronted by this—
It would be easy to rationalize and say that Nostradamus
was simply lucky, in that he was able to secure the coopera­
tion of a higher-octave mentor who in turn was endowed
with a miraculous knowledge of the chart spread ahead
for society’s evolution.
For the Doctrine to be consistent, the two must have been
compatriots, but with one functioning in mortality and
the other out of it, that the combined effect of their ef­
forts might render some service to the human race, of
profit.
12
Like so many men of genius, he had no illusions about the
intelligence of the masses, and he well understood that
the general public would understand neither his proph­
ecies nor his motives in giving them to the world. Be­
cause he knew the hazards involved in embarking upon his
career, he gave the matter long and sober consideration and
conducted himself so expertly and discreetly that he was
able to carry through to a conclusion of his career with­
out suffering from the madness of the ignorant who are
likely to crucify those advanced human beings they fail
to understand.
Nostradamus knew, therefore, that men of sanity, sense
and knowledge were to constitute his audience. He did
not believe that the children of the cosmos were sufficient­
ly developed to soar in stratospheric regions of prophecy.
An amusing anecdote is related by Garencieres, one of
the interpreters of Nostradamus. In his capacity as phy­
sician he was called to attend Lord Florinville’s mother
at the Castle of Faim in Lorraine,. Lord Florinville took
Nostradamus for a stroll through the grounds. In one of
the yards were two small pigs, one white and the other
black. His lordship asked Nostradamus jestingly what
would happen to those pigs. "We shall eat the black one,
and the wolf shall eat the white,” he said.
Lord Florinville gave secret orders to the cook to prepare
the white one for supper. It was already spitted for roast­
ing when the cook was called out of the kitchen. While
he was absent, a young, tame wolf entered the kitchen,
ate part of it, and so generally messed it up that it was
unfit for roasting.
14
so long ago that it is no concern of ours, but when we see
that symbol of the communistic 1789 revolution flaunted
before our eyes by the WPA everywhere we go in our own
land, it’s obvious that we should come alive to realities,
for it reminds us that the descendants of the plotters and
planners in Europe during the eighteenth century are to­
day working "to make America over” in the same way
that they destroyed the then existing government in France.
B
EAR IN mind that Nostradamus’s book in entirety
was published in 1555. Almost the first quatrain it
contained was to lift the author into fame within four
years, for accuracy of his predictions. This was the
translation of the verse—
The young lion shall overcome the old
On the field of war in single combat;
He will pierce his eyes in a cage of gold;
This is the first of two loppings, then he dies
a cruel death!
The quatrain applied to Henry II, several years before
it happened, and Nostradamus even announced it as a pre­
diction to the monarch himself. The king seems to have
had every confidence in Nostradamus for he let the seer
draw the royal horoscope as well as that of his two chil­
dren in 1556.
Henry II proclaimed a tournament, it seems, in the Rue
St. Antoine, now site of the Bastille, but then open coun­
try, for July 1, 1559, in honor of the marriage of his
16
Normandy and was besieged in Domfront by a large force
under Marshal de Matignon, to which he was obliged to
surrender.
The terms of this surrender guaranteed him his life, but
by express command of Catherine he was arrested in his
own castle of Domfront on the night of May 27, 1574 by
six gentlemen of the royal army and carried to the Cha­
teau of Caen, thence to the Conciergerie at Paris, and
there immured, where the great tower still goes by his
name.
Nostradamus had thus accurately predicted an event
not to take place for 19 years. Combined with the proph­
ecy about the accident to Henry II, it definitely established
Nostradamus’s infallibility as a seer.
WE COULD go on for a score of pages narrating
similar accuracies of his predictions, having to do
with those medieval times, but not of great moment to
our distempers of today. Nostradamus foretold the ex­
tinction of the House of Valois, the Civil War of 1575-
1576, the murder of Henry III in 1589, the death of the
Guise in 1588, the burial at St. Denis of the last of the
Valois in 1610, and even the Massacre of St. Bartholo­
mew’s Day, August 24, 1572. The quatrain on the St.
Bartholomew slaughter was—
The savage king, when he shall have tried
His bloodstained hand with fire, sword, and bows,
All the people shall be terrified
To see the great hung by the neck and feet.
18
Cromwell became Protector January 30, 1649.
Restoration of Charles II (Stuart) on May 29, 1660.
William and Mary (Orange) succeeded Nov. 5, 1668.
George I began the Hanoverian succession May 21,
1714.
The Reform Bill of June 17, 1832, altered the British
Empire to a constitutional monarchy.
The batting average for accuracy here was exactly one
hundred percent.
r WAS concerning the French Revolu­
tion of the eighteenth century, however,
that Nostradamus really "went to town”
in showing what feats of well-nigh necro­
mancy an adept clairvoyant could per­
form. Seventy-three years was the time-
period calculated that France would be
in turmoil before the full effects of the Reign of Terror
should have been erased. Of the revolution itself, the fol­
lowing quatrains scarcely need comment—
When the litter is turned topsy-turvy by the typhoon
Men will mask their faces with the cloak of hypocrisy;
The republic will be troubled by new-risen men;
The white and red shall judge by contraries.
This means that the royalists, the Whites, and the repub­
licans, the Reds, would judge of everything from utterly
20
orders to have the captured monarch brought back. When
Louis had been returned to Paris, his head was decorated
with the tri-colored cockade or "mitre” and after a general
roughing-up at the hands of the mob, he was cast into
prison. Five hundred men did attack the Tuileries, just
as Nostradamus had predicted some 237 years before.
When Nostradamus wrote his predictions, the castle itself
had not even been thought of.
Nostradamus, in other words, knew by some higher-oc­
tave phenomenon, that 200 years later two men would be
born into life whose names were to be Narbonne and
Sauce, and that their life roles would include the betrayal
of their monarch. It stupefies one with wonder, conjec­
turing in turn if it is definitely known somewhere and
somehow at this moment what persons will be in life 200
days from today, what their individual names will be, and
what their lives will comprise . .
Only a gifted seer could possibly foretell proper names
of those who were later to figure in history. A partial
list of those he anticipated were Lord of Monluc; Cap­
tain Charry; Lord de la Mole, Admiral of the Galleys
to Henry II; Entragues, who was beheaded by Louis XIII;
Clarepegne; Sinan, who was the Pasha who brought de­
struction to Hungary; Clement, the murderer of Henry
III; the Attorney David and Captain Ampus; Rousseau,
the Mayor of Puy; Louis, Prince of Conde; Sixtus V:
Gabrielle d’Estree; Lord Mutonis; Anthony de Sourdis,
Lord Chancellor of France; Queen Louise; Antony of
Portugal; Narbonne, Minister of War; Sauce; Lethuille;
Cromwell; Montmorency; and Henry le Grand.
22
character for which the leaders of the French Revolution
were not distinguished.
The prophecy about the gold and silver Garencieres thinks
was fulfilled by the discovery of the Spanish-American
mines.
Another quatrain pertains to the religious situation dur­
ing the French Revolution and is rendered as follows:
Hear from the ground the voice of Halidom,
A human flame pretending light divine.
The blood of sisters stains the earth to red,
And holy temples the impure destroy.
It was at this time in French history that the Rights of
Man were offered as a substitute for faith and religion,
somewhat in the same spirit as the mythical Four Free­
doms and a fraudulent democracy are being presented to­
day. Rousseau’s gospel was compounded of sentimental­
ity and dirt, and the superficial Voltaire substituted wit
for wisdom. True leaders were laughed to scorn.
"Halidom” is equivalent to the English "holy” and "dome”
and as Nostradamus’s biographer Ward suggests, it may
have been written Halidame in reference to the Virgin
Mary. "The blood of sisters” came from wholesale
slaughter of women during the Revolution, which was re­
peated by Communists in the recent civil war in Spain. In
America today we are approaching the climax of identi­
cal pre-revolutionary conditions, so that it could happen
here!
The altars of the churches were desecrated with nude
women, and those lewd leaders of the French placed them
24
at a
been
OWEVER, it is Britain more than it is
France in which we Americans of the
moment are interested. Nostradamus,
being a Frenchman, did not overlike the
English. He did admit, all the same,
that Britain was to “rule the wave” for
three hundred years—and he predicted it
time when British sea power was nil, even had not
conceived. Here is the quatrain—
England the Pempotam will rule the great empire
For more than three hundred years.
Great armies will pass by sea and land;
The Portuguese will not be satisfied.
“Pempotam” is an expressive word compounded of the
Greek and Latin, and is translated as "all-powerful,”
showing how Nostradamus foresaw the might of the
“great empire” would dominate the world through con­
trol of the seas. History attests the truth of this trench­
ant prophecy. The line: "The Portuguese will not be
satisfied” lacked a clear meaning until the coming of the
days in which we are now living. Today Portugal is iso­
lated at a time when British naval power is waning and
apparently to be driven from the Mediterranean. That
means quite clearly that the Portuguese will be subject to
the forces operating on the European continent and it
seems entirely probable that Portugal will become a part of
26
to naval authorities, Great Britain had 370 warships of
all classes in February, 1941. In late May, Rep. Hamil­
ton Fish stated on the floor of the House that members
of the House Naval Affairs Committee had revealed to
him that the British had filed requests for the repair of
132 warships in American shipyards.
Presumably all, or nearly all, of the 132 ships mentioned
were damaged prior to May. Adding 75 warships sunk
or put out of action in May, to the 132 awaiting repairs,
shows that over half—or 207—of British naval vessels
are either sunk or out of commission.
Nostradamus knew, of course, that the British Empire
could maintain dominance of the seas only during the
Piscean Age, or Water Era. He knew also that the era
of the air—or the Aquarian Age—would succeed the Pis­
cean and that in due time the British dominance of the
oceans must come to an end.
B
U T Nostradamus goes further with his modern pre­
dicting than merely saying that British sea power is
to come to an end. The troubles of 1939-1941 overseas
are quite clearly indicated by his quatrains.
Already the great seer had noted the American War of
Independence. Commenting on the creation of the future
United States, Nostradamus had set down this-—
-
The West shall be free of the British Isles;
The discovered shall pass low, then high.
A Scottish pirate shall upon the sea rebel,
On a rainy and hot night.
28
exile, admitting that the entire gesture was a sentimental
mistake. Certainly the League did nothing to try to rem­
edy the brutalities of the Treaty of Versailles, out of
which grew World War Number Two.
In the year 1936, recorded Nostradamus, the period of
final turmoil would begin with a series of great strikes in
all industrial countries, but particularly in France. The
franc would devaluate. Simultaneously, in near-by Spain,
civil war would break out—
Between Bayonne and St. Jean de Luz,
Mars, God of War, will make his appearance.
By sea, the Red will take and buccaneer;
In this way will peace be menaced.
Refer to your maps and you will observe that Nostradamus
had pegged with necromantic accuracy where Franco’s
rebellion commenced.
Everywhere the peoples of the earth were going to square
off and the classifications are unmistakable that Nostra­
damus saw them as Christian Gentiles against Jewish
Communists.
"By sea, the Red will take, and buccaneer” can only re­
fer to the Mediterranean submarining that went on so
mysteriously during the closing days of the Spanish Civil
War, now known to have been conducted by Communist
Russia in the Luciferian gamble to draw reprisals of out­
side nations upon Franco and thus aid Bolshevia to over­
come him.
The development of the present conflict is interesting:
That Nostradamus foresaw the installation of the Nazi
30
many prior to the outbreak of the war. One of his first
acts upon succeeding to power was to put all classes and
sects of clergymen—priests, ministers, and even rabbis—-
on State salary, so that they would no more be required to
remain dependent on the slender purses of their congrega­
tions. But his stipulation was, that they forthwith cease
meddling in practical politics. Their realm was the realm
of the spirit, he declared, let the priests and parsons stay
in it, and leave the running of the State to the Nazis.
This sort of thing was unthinkable to certain classes of
clergymen forever playing around for temporal power,
principally at Jewish instigation, but it did resemble the
"primitive preeminence” of the church in such spiritual
functions.
That Great Britain is going down before this "new sect
of philosophers” is apparent from this verse—
On the rocks shall one see blood rain,
When the Sun is in the East and Saturn in the West:
Near Bouches-du-Rhone shall one see war, at Rome
great evil,
Ships cast away, and Neptune (England) taken.
Now we come to truly devastating and significant informa­
tion. Over and over again, in at least twenty or more
quatrains, Nostradamus definitely predicts the fall and
destruction of England!
Let American Lend-Leasers make of that what they will!
Over and over again the Nostradamus quatrains identi­
fy England by the term "Neptune” on account of her
sea empire and sea supremacy.
32
restoration of Edward, or in the event that King George
gave up and the seat of the British Empire were moved
overseas, Edward might make the attempt to reorganize
them on a basis not precisely hostile to the Nazis. This
quatrain, we might say, is not yet wholly fulfilled.
In the next quatrain, Nostradamus clearly has reference
to the seizure of Denmark or Holland, in that he says—
By fraud a kingdom and forces shall be despoiled,
The fleet besieged, passages made by the spy.
Two pretended friends shall come to be allied together,
A hatred for a long time asleep shall be awakened.
"The two pretended friends” are patently Britain and
France, for they certainly came to be allied together only
to arouse a hatred that had been asleep ever since the
close of the first World War, when Britain gave only a
fraction of the help she had promised to stem the tide
of the German Panzers. Today, in mid-1941, half of
France is openly allied with Germany and turning its
guns upon the British.
This would seem to be emphasized in the next quatrain
predicting the fall of Paris—
In the city into which the wolf shall enter,
Quite near there shall the enemies be:
A foreign force shall lay waste a great country,
To the walls and Alps the friends shall pass.
Again and again in medieval literature, one runs across
references to Paris as the City of the Wolf. "Quite near
there shall the enemies be,” indicates that Nostradamus
34
Within the Isles the children shall be transported,
Two out of seven shall be in despair:
Those of the land shall be supported by it,
The name "pelle” having been taken by the leagues,
hope flees.
The "long running spark” in the heavens can have only
the one meaning: that of the attacking bomber coming
from the East to spread death and destruction among
sleeping inhabitants:
After a great human exhaustion, a greater
Is made ready, the great motor renews the ages;
A plague of blood, milk, famine, iron and plague,
In the heavens shall be seen fire, a long running spark.
WE MAY safely consider that the next three quat­
rains refer definitely to the ultimate fall and van-
quishment of Britain. The first one is clear enough for
any child to understand, with the exception, perhaps, of
the terminating line—
The great Neptune (England?) from the depth of the sea,
Of Punic blood and Gallic blood mixed,
The Isles put to blood because of the slow rowing.
He shall annoy them more than the ill-concealed occult.
That the British Isles will be "put to blood” is indicative
of invasion, and the "slow rowing” could concern the
difficulty of the Germans getting across the Channel in
barges. The reference to "annoy” and "the ill-concealed
occult” leaves one wondering if Hitler’s alleged clairvoy-
36
There shall be left live fire, death hidden,
Horrible, frightful, inside the globes.
By night a city reduced to power by a fleet,
The city on fire, the enemy favorable.
Of the end of the war, Nostradamus provides in this wise:
Many shall come, and shall speak of peace,
Between monarchs and very powerful lords:
But it shall not be granted them so soon,
Unless they show themselves more obedient.
The armies shall fight in the air a long time,
The tree shall have fallen in the midst of the city,
Vermin, mange, sword, firebrand in face,
After the monarch of Adria (Italy) shall have
succumbed.
For a long time a grey bird shall be seen in the heavens,
Near Dole and the Tuscan land: holding in its beak
A green branch, soon a great one shall die
And the war shall end.
The conventional explanation to this last stanza would be
that the offer of peace that is finally acted upon, comes
from the direction of Italy, or something having to do
with Italy. "Near Dole and the Tuscan land” would in­
dicate that Italy is concerned in the first peace move,
although who "the great one” is who shall die, is nowhere
indicated.
Incidentally, nowhere can we find the slightest indication
of the Nazis attempting any western-world invasion, as
38
Then the prophet seems to add these lines as after-word,
though disturbing the quatrain composition—
The printed word will work terrible havoc,
The pointed steel driven home to the hilt!
Maybe this after-word—indeed this whole quatrain—is
concerned, not so much with our times as with the days
of the Reformation.
Anyhow, all over Europe in the course and wake of this
conflict, revolutions break out, throwing off the shackles
of the Jews and Jewish money-power. Perhaps some of
the Hitler conquests over countries outside of Germany
proper, have already fulfilled these prophecies.
The city of Lyons, in France, for which Nostradamus was
particularly writing, will be razed and pillaged. The war
will be in its second to third year when two fearful earth­
quakes will cause untold destruction of human life among
Orientals. One of these has already happened in Angora,
Turkey, though its severity was somewhat mantled by the
greater sensations of continental war. Nostradamus is of
the opinion that the second will come in the Far East,
and that it may easily leave the Gobi desert an inland sea.
ECAUSE she goes to war to preserve the Jewish finan­
cial influence—which, it seems, is cursed of God Al­
mighty—a bloody revolution will sweep the British Isles.
The seer sets the date for this as late in the summer of
1941. But before this gigantic purge of Jews occurs, the
English fleet will fight a major engagement in the Medi-
40
Hence this Henri V will fulfil the prophecy of "reigning
over three nations.”
For some reason written in the stars, the present Pope
will be succeeded by still another before 1945—a French­
man—who shall take the name of Gregory XVII. The
new King Henri shall ally himself with this pontiff and
a period of peace and prosperity spread across Europe
such as it has not known for hundreds of years. Indeed,
so great will be the benign sagacity of Henri that the
German Nazis, successful in their war against all Juda-
istic governments, will be guilty of no hesitancy in align­
ing themselves with him, and a coalition result that will
underwrite Europe’s peace for a score of generations.
H
ENRY V and Gregory XVII are the only historical
figures for this period whom Nostradamus specifi­
cally names. After 1947, Nostradamus skips a whole
batch of years and picks up the thread of his prophecy
in 1999. He states quite definitely that in that year—
A terrible monarch will sweep down from the sky.
He will speak a strange tongue, not derived from
Greek or Latin,
He will wield weapons of great devastation;
Reindeer will be with him.
Interpreters believe that these "reindeer” are symbolic of
certain northern tribes of Siberia or Mongolia, who may
undergo a great racial rejuvenation until they approxi­
mate the strength and virility of the invading Mongols of
the eleventh century under Genghis Khan.
42
"Here repose the bones of the most illustrious Michel
Nostradamus, alone, in the judgment of all mortals,
worthy of recording with pen almost divine, in accord
with stellar influences, the coming events of the en­
tire world.
After his burial, when relatives and friends came to clean
up his famous attic quarters, they found the floor littered
ankle-deep with thousands of discarded sheets of paper
on which the seer had worked out his numerological and
astrological time charts. Most of these are still in exis­
tence in France, where they have been guarded as part of
the State archives. Hundreds upon hundreds of them
have been reproduced.
HAT are we to make out of the whole of
it? Certainly only the bigoted or the
ignorant scoff at Clairvoyance as being
necromancy or lucky guessing. The peo­
ple of every age and culture that the
world has known have had their Seers
and Prophets, their Soothsayers and
Augurers. True, in decadent aspects, thousands of these
have been mere frauds and sorcerers. But that there has
been "something to” the acceptance of persons with gifts
of reading the future, is attested by our documented evi­
dence that monarchs and scholars up five thousand years
of history have accredited them and shown them every
confidence and respect.
44
coach—disguised—and restrain and return him into the
hands of the revolutionaries.
There is small chance for fraud or fabrication in these
incidents. We have Nostradamus’s quatrains, made into
a book by Bonhomme, the Lyons printer, and authenti­
cally dated in the middle of the sixteenth century. We
read the quatrain composed about 1550 regarding King
Louis’s fate, and the actual names of the men who were
to betray him, and we are now far enough forward in
time ourselves to see that what this occult scholar predicted
in 1550 came true in 1791 on the nail. Moreover, this
was merely one of several hundred prophecies that like­
wise have come true in the interim on the nail.
Coincidence, lucky guessing, imagination, cease to be sen­
sible explanation!
Are all events that ever are to be, already transpired, and
is the seer thus observing happenings that daily Con­
sciousness "has not yet caught up with”? Or must we be­
lieve that no program of social conduct, no personal act,
takes place in mortality that is not prearranged and cast
to a definite time-and-circumstance matrix from which
the least of us cannot escape?
In other words, is the whole drama of earth-life—from
the planet’s original integration in primordial ether till its
ultimate arrival at disintegration—foreordained and pre­
destined to its smallest particular, like a photoplay fixed
on celluloid, and is the present moment in eternity also a
"fixed” situation that cannot alter in the slightest particu­
lar, no matter how many times the reels are run through
the divine projector? Or is the matrix of event prescribed
46
this sketch of Nostradamus and his work is closed. That
is the following stanza which some moderns conjecture
might have had application to the recent escapade of Ru­
dolf Hess—
A captain of Great Germany shall come
Through pretended aid to the King of Kings;
Help of Hungary, so that his revolt
Shall cause great shedding of blood.
It is only the first two lines of this quatrain, of course,
that furnish cues that this verse may apply to Hess. "A
captain of Great Germany” would identify Hess in one
regard, and all Englishmen dearly love to refer to their
monarch as the King of Kings, in that he is the nominal
head of the greatest single empire on the globe’s surface.
But Hess didn’t fly to Scotland to solicit aid for Hun­
gary and it isn’t his revolt—personally—that now causes
great shedding of blood. The American newspapers of
late have given this quatrain wide publicity, but appar­
ently it means little more than a dramatic news para­
graph, alongside other quatrains of the seer’s whose effi­
cacy has been shown in the prophetic way beyond all
doubt. & <
5
*
48
Let Others Know
the Truth
BY DISTRIBUTING COPIES OF THIS BOOK
PRICE:
Single Copies, by mail prepaid—25 Cents
FIVE COPIES FOR ONE DOLLAR
60 COPIES $10.00
For Sale by
The Fellowship Press, Inc.,
Box 1477
INDIANAPOLIS INDIANA
