{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1941__kingsley___liberal_catholic_church_clergy_training_course.pdf","mytitle":"Liberal Catholic Church Clergy Training Course","mylang":"de"}
CLERGY TRAINING COURSE
by
The Rev. Bruce G. Kingsley, Ph.D.
~
Foreword
by
The Rt. Rev. Charles Hampton
- .
· ;I... ..
CE-2.1
FORElWORD
The Liberal Catholic Church has at present no college for the train-
ing of her priests . Such institutions are the growth of years, and have
to be built and supported with the expenditure of considerable sums of
money. A committee of the Provincial Clerical Synod has undertaken a
study of Clergy Culture and Education, but again it will take time to
work out a standard which is generally satisfactory and which will com-
mand the respect of the world. For .example, since the Liberal Catholic
approach to the Christian Religion is theosophical rather than primarily
theological, it will take months of discussion as to what is of value
and what is not worth studying in the field of Theology. The descriptive
word "theosophical" means knowledge of God ~direct . perception, a phrase
itself demanding vast elaboration, but which we cannot discuss further in
a mere foreword . Theology, on the other hand, does not mean as the dic-
tionary· puts it, the science of God, but rather the speculation of men 1 s
minds about God, since in Christendom there are three hundred and four
theologies, and in Hinduism over six hundred.
Religion should be a matter of first hand experience rather than
giving out at second or fourth hand the opinions of dead theologians;
yet the priest should know something of the 304 theologies of Christendom
in order to be able to meet all men on their own ground. Again, a man's
prayers and preaching will reflect his conception of God. A God who has
to be pleaded with, implored, begged or urged to change from anger to
gentleness and love, has no place in the Liberal Catholic mind. Conse-
quently, any prayers, psalms or bymns based on such a false conception
would scarcely be worth studying or using, except as a study of the prim-
itive minds of men .
The preface to our Liturgy should be read and re~read since the con-
ceptions of God there mentioned, in contrast to our own, are still current
in nearly all existing churches in crude or refined form. The liberal
Catholic Church exists, .for one reason, because it rejects many of the
miscalled "Christian" teachings of the established churches. One who
wishes to cling to such>~ ideas might not be happy in the Liberal Catholic
Church, although he may be a member in good standing. Usually, those who
do not honestly accept our Stat~ment of Principles, attempt to change or
modify those principles; but this they cannot do. We might paraphrase a
sentence from the Methodist Discipline: "And do not change our principles
but uphold them . 11
Dr. Bruce Gordon Kingsley, one of our priests, has worked out, with
my collaboration, a tentative course of self-training for candidates for
Orders, which follows the natural sequence of the Minor Orders, which in
turn are based upon the natural constitution of man -- physical, emotion-
al, mental, the will and the soul. The higher orders involve a still
more strenuous training wherein the priest is taught how to exercise his
inner powers in his actual sacerdotal work c A mere hint of this is given
in the following outline .
This present outline course of self-training is not intended to take
the pl.ace of a college education, or of any future course of seminary
studies . It will give the candidate a fuller understanding of our State-
ment of Principles , Summary of Doctrine, and Liturgy. No candidate would
be intellectually or spiritually honest who accepted any of the Minor or
Major Orders without first whole-heartedly accepting our Statement of
Principles. To accept these underlying principles, it is necessary to
study, and to meditate upon what we study. The outline that follows will
give the guidance necessary. Olergy are asked to put this course of
study before all candidates and to help them understand the terms used,
until such time as it is possible to translate the various theosophical
or nee-Platonic terms into modern Christian terminology; for we must re-
member that the Liberal Catholic Church has much in common with the neo-
Platonic philoSphy as it is so clearly set forth in the Statement of
Principles.
Text books giving this nee-Platonic approach to Christianity are
the great .meed of the Church, but it is obviously too young a movement
to have produced its own text books. In all universities, the production
of text books is a never ending process, since what passes for science
today must often be cast aside tomorrow as obsolete. The man who earned
a university degree, -- let us say in Psychology -- ten years ago, and
who has not kept up to date, has a degree that means very little. So it
is with Doctors of Divinity from the Roman, Baptist, Methodist, and other
seminaries. It mostly means that he has received training (not always
education) at a denominational institution, behind sectarian walls that
shut out wider knowledge. This is especially true of many of the men
and women calling themselves "Doctor" in the United States.
There is no logical reason wby mid-Victorian theology should hold
the field today against more advanced conceptions of evolution, man and
God, or that degrees bestowed in the name of Theology should be given
too much respect. The Liberal Catholic Church must work out its own
standards, which should be high, embracing a knowledge of world culture,
all religions, philosophies and science. In the meantime we may well be-
gin with the training and contre± o.f the human instrumen , the J3EH'BE>l'l- _______,_,...,
ality, as outlined in the following course of study.
Los Angeles,
Ascension,
1941.
+ CHARLES HAMPTON
Regionary Bishop for the
United States and Canada.
•
•.
THE PATH 'TO THE PRIESTHOOD
-'by-
The ·Rev. Bruce Gordon Kingsley
Ph . D. , Nus.• D.
CE-2.3
You are seeking admission to Holy Orders in our Liberal Catholic
Church. This step is so serious that none should contemplate it without
realizing all that is entailed. For it holds out the opportunity and al-
so the .obligation to enter upon a new life which, if followed with con-
stant l oyalty, zeal, unselfishness and understanding, should lead to the
feet of our Lord Christ Himself, so that, in however humble a way, the
aspirant may become an outpost of His consciousness and a dispenser of
His blessings far and wide. The world stands in need of faithful, conse-
crated servants of the Master who can feed the hungry with the bread of
the higher wisdom, bestow the sacramental gifts, advance the spirituality
of mankind, and lead the afflicted from earthly sorrow and pain to the
vale of rest and joy where dwells in utter fulness that love of God which,
like the peace of God, passeth understanding.
But to accomplish these far-reaching possibilities a period of train-
ing, intense and unremitting, is eminently necessary. Nothing should, and
nothing can, stand in the way, provided that the seeker be sufficiently
one-pointed in his determination to overcome all obst acles. 11
The daily
round., the common t ask , 11
-- everythi ng, sm
all or great, -- if done wi t h
perfection and loyalty, can be made a stepping-stone to our final achieve-
ment. Each person we meet may be looked upon as an opportunity for the
giving forth of that love which, as representatives of the Master, should
ever fill our hearts. With this method of life always followed, and
coupled with the necessary knowledge, we are bound to succeed, and ulti-
mately to become ourselves Christs in miniature.
Knowledge, yes, that too must be ours if we are to lead our flocks
aright. A great Teacher has remarked, 11
All knowledge is useful, and one
day you will have all knowledge; but while you have only part, take care
that it is the most useful part. God is Wisdom as well as Love; and the
more wisdom you have, the more you can manifest of Him. Study then, but
study first that which will most help you to help others. 11
With these wise words in mind we have selected a set of books which,
as a preliminary, will be well worth studying in preparation for the or-
dinations in our Church. Other literature may be added from time to time,
but these books at least will form a solid basis, and they should if pos-
sible be in the library of every one of our clergy. Their purchase will
involve a considerable expense, but it is taken for grantee that those
who wish to devote their lives to the service of Christ's Church expect
to make a good many sacrifices of money, time and strength.
The works to be used may be divided into three categories:-
(1) Books to be read carefully;
(2) Books to be studied in minute detail,
so that the student may be able to pass
an examina~ion in their contents and in
the inferences arising from them;
(3) Books to be used as guides to inner
life and spiritual unfoldment.
GE-2.4
The books in Class (1) may be borrowed from a library, if the stu-
dent cannot purchase them. An effort will be made to establish a Church
lending library from which they may be borrowed. Books in Class (2) and
(3) should be purchased for the student's own personal library. A cata-
log of the books and pamphlets for study, with prices and ordering infor-
mation, is given at the end of this outline.
It is hardly necessary to state that it is an essential preliminary
for anyone seeking Holy Orders in the Liberal Catholic Church, to care-
fully study the "Statement of Principles and Summary to Doctrine 11 and
the 11 Liturgy" -- especially the preface -- to assure himself that he can
honestly accept and teach the fundamental teachings therein set forth.
These two documents must therefore form the starting point in his study.
THE LIBERAL CATHOLIC .ORDERS .
The ordinations existing in our Church, which have been handed down
unbroken from the earliest times, are divided into two groups. First
come the Minor Orders, later the Major Orders. At the head of each di-
vision is what may be looked upon as a preliminary step.
MINOR ORDERS
Preliminary step: Cleric
1. Doorkeeper
2. Reader
3. Exorcist
4. Acolyte
MAJOR ORDERS
Preliminary step: Subdeacon
1. Deacon
2. Priest
3. Bishop
Before receiving each ordination the candidate is required to study
most carefully the remarks pertaining to it both in the Liturgy of the
Liberal Catholic Church and also in the monumental work, "The Science of
the Sacraments," by our late Presiding Bishop, C. W. Leadbeater. Especial-
ly should he study the Charges given in the several Orders, for these show
forth the character work which should engage the individual in each Order,
and the unfoldment of which it is one aim of this course to forward.
THE MINOR ORDERS
THE ORDER _
OF CLERIC -
This should mark the beginning of a definite dedication to the high-
er life. The ordinand is expected to have broken away from the enticements
of earth. While still in the world, he should not be of the world.
To prepare for this ordination we start from solid bedrock and there-
CE-2.5
for undertake the control of the lowest manifestation, the physical body,
which anchors us to earth. All artificiality must be avoided, - awkward
gestures, strange mannerisms, slovenly habits, exaggerated statements.
And in their place should arise a dignity and charm, a beauty of movement
and speech -- characteristics of the true spiritual nobleman.
This is the time to practice a careful purification of the physical
system, if this has not already been commenced. Nothing coarse, unclean
or poisonous should enter the body which has been called the temple of
the Holy Ghost. Therefore how could a self-respecting Cleric poison his
body with stupifying drugs, tobacco, alcohol, or the flesh of dead ani-
mals? One would think such habits to be impossible for any person of
finer type. Clearly they are out of keeping for a consecrated man of
God. How can a faithful follower of the Lord of Love disregard the com-
mand: 11 Thou shalt not kill", and debase himself by eating the corpse of
a murdered animal brother and then enter the presence of the blessed
Master of Compassion with a lie in his heart and with hands besmeared
with blood?
The following books are to be used in preparation for this Order of
Cleric:
CLERIC -- Physical --
(1) For Careful Reading:
The Hidden Side of Things, by C.W. Leadbeater.
Chapters 1 & 2 Introductory
Chapter 3 Planets
Chapter 4 The Sun
Chapter 5 Natural Surroundings
Chapter 8 Ceremonies
Chapter 9 Sounds
Chapter 14 Our Habits
Chapter 15 Physical Environment
Some Glimpses of Occultism, by C.W. Leadbeater.
Chapter on Vegetarianism.
Ways to Perfect Health, by Irving S. Cooper.
A continual guide to
physical well-being.
(2) For Detailed Study:
An. Outline of Theosophy, by C.W. Leadbeater.
Ceremonies of the Liberal Catholic Rite,
by Irving S. Cooper.
Part 1. The Sanctuary, etc.
Part 2 (A ppendix) The Server at Mass.
(3) Fortpi.ritual Unfoldment (Daily Reading &Meditation):
At the Feet of the Master, by J. Krishnamurti.
CE-2.6
- THE ORDER OF DOORKEEPER -
The training of the emotions is the special duty of the Doorkeeper.
This is something far more than a mere prevention of those emotions which
are undesirable. It is a definite, positive, fanning into flame of the
higher feelings, so that they shall form a constant background to the
nature, ever ready to spring into action when the energies of the man
are released from other occupations. It will be noted that all the finer
emotions lead to love. This may be the love for those more advanced than
ourselves, -- love for the blessed Christ, for the Master-Saints, for the
Holy Angels, -- a love returned by Them with added richness immediately
it is offered. · It may be love for our fellow travellers on life's path-
way, -- our family, our friends, our chance acquaintances, our brethren
in other lands and climes. It may be love for those at present lower than
we in the great march back to God, - love for our younger brothers, the
animals, the plants, even the things of the mineral kingdom - the objects
which we use, since they, too, have life which is seeking to transcend
those rigid encasements and reach a wider freedom. Think what it will
mean if this all-embracive love so fills our hearts that everything, from
the highest to the lowest, is included within its mighty span!
A remarkable investment, indeed, is Love. It adds to the love nature
of both the giver and the receiver. It binds more firmly the precious
link of love which should unite the worlds. Whenever a truly unselfish
love is felt it blesses all Nature, raising it an infinitessimal degree
on its upward journey.
Here is a list of books useful in preparation for the Order of Door-
keeper:
DOORKEEPER -- Emotional --
(1) For Careful Reading:
The Hidden Side
Chapter 10
Chapter 17
Chapter 18
Chapter 23
of Things,
Public Opinion
Our Amusements
What We Are
Our Relations to Lower Kingdoms
Some Glimpses of Occultism
(Remainder of the book)
The Inner Life, by C. W. Leadbeater.
(2) For Detailed Study:
A Textbook of Theosophy, by C.W. Leadbeater.
Ceremonies of the Liberal Catholic Rite,
Part II - The Holy Eucharist.
(3) For Spiritual Unfoldment (Daily Reading &Meditation)
I Promise, by C. Jinarajadasa.
In His Name, by C. Jinarajadasa.
The ConsecrE!:ted Life,. by Clara Qodd
- THE ORDER OF READER -
For this Order> the training of the mind is the especial obligation.
How truly does that great Hindu scripture, the Bhagavad Gita, speak of
this unruly member, the mind, as 11
hard to curb as the wind. 11
But by con-
stant practice it can be done.
As soon as we commence our efforts at mental concentration, there
comes the realization that this wandering mind is not our real self. It
is a gift from God bestowed upon us for use in the helping of our fellows.
A dull, feeble mind is not nearly so valuable for this purpose as a keen,
efficient mind. No thoughts should ever pass through our mind which are
not true, kind and helpful. By coromunicating perfectly the results of
our studies to others, we may so inspire them that they also will develop
their minds to fuller expression and so give out the Wisdom to ever-widen-
ing groups of people . And so an endless chain may be built which in re-
sults for good can long outlive our earthly usefulness and influence gen-
erations yet unborn. ·
Appropriate hooks t o be used in preparation for this Order of Reader
are as follows:
READER -- Mehta1
(1) For Careful Reading:
The Hidden. Side
Chapter 16
Chapter 19
Chapter 21
of Things,
Mental Conditions
What We Think
Collect i ve Thought
Thought Forms , by Dr. A:_ Besant and C.W. Lead-
beater.
(2) For Detailed Study :
Concentration: A Practical Course,
by Ernest Wood.
(Practice the exercises given therein)
Ceremonies of the Liberal Catholic Rite,
Part III , Other Services and Offices .
(3) For Spiritual Unfoldment:
Meditation for Beginners, by J . I .Wedgwood.
(For practice use the previous books . )
Note: During this period of preparation, the candidate for Reader should
m
ake certain that he is able to read aloud clearly and beautifully -- a
thing few people can really do. Get a good school teacher to give some
private tutoring evenings. In most cities one can find a recording studio
which will make a 11
transcription 11
record of one 1 s voice for about two
dollars. When one feels that one has attained suitable proficiency in
reading, such a record should be made, and one can learn a great deal from
it in regard to peculiarities of enunciation, tone of voice, clarity, etc.
OE-2.8
Reading books, magazines, etc. aloud to someone in the home is excellent
practice, and should be done frequently. One who is to minister to the
public cannot be too careful in these matters. The Church will be judged
by its ministers. Their culture and education will be judged very large-
ly by their speech.
If one can afford the cost (about $60) a small, home-recording out-
fit with microphone is a great help. Larger churches should have these
for use in training their clergy, as well as for other purposes.
0~2.19
APPENDIX
Catalog and Price List bf Recommended Books
NOTE: This list is divided into two se·ctions ;- Gl~ss (1) are books for
"careful reading" and may be borrowed or read at a library. Hoy/-
ever, it is highly recommend·ed that the prospe·ctive Priest obtain
as many of them as possible as a.·nucleus· for his future parish
library.. Class (2) and (3) are books for ·det ailed studjy and medi-
tation, and shotlld if at all possible be ownetl by the student•
.
It ·is probable that all the books listed .can be obtained thr·ough ·
the St.- Alban Press.· In the list the approximate prices.. are given.
Publishers are shown by initials in brackets,. (S.A.-P.) indic&ting ·
the St.. Alban P:ress,, (T.P.·) .the Theosophical Press,. (T.'.P·:H.) the
Theoso'phical .Publishing House.. Other publishers are gi:ven -
in :f'ulL
Concerning 1?-he author:S~j:· ·it should be noted that the J ..r. Wedgwood
listed is our first Presiding Bishop, C.W. Leadbeater the second,
and F~ W.· Pigott the third and present.. I. S. Couper is our late
Regionary, Geoffrey Hodson is q. Priest, ·I/r. Annie Besant wci:s, and
Mr. :C• Jinarajadasa is,. a great friend of the L c.o.,. as also Pro.f.
Ernest Wood.
The Hidden Side -
of Things - - - - - - -
Some Glimpses of Occultism
The Inner Life - - - - - - - - - - - - -
I nvisible Helpers - - - - - - -~
---~---~
Dreams: WMt They Are ·and How
They are Caused - - - - -
Man ..Visible and Invisible
Clairvoyance - - - - - - -
The Other Side of Death - - - - - - - -
Glimpse's of Masonic History - - - - - -
The Beginnings of the Sixth
Root Race
c.w.
II
II
II
II
II
II
II
II
II
II
Leadbeater (T•P.)
II II II
II II 11
II II 11
II II II
ll II II
II II II
II 11 II
II II 11
II II II
II 11 II
C.W. LEladbeater (T.f.)
The Masters and the Path - - -
Thought Forms,. Dr. A. Besant &
Ways to Perfect Health - -
fl\ysticism ... - - - - - - - - - -
A Study in Consciousness
- - ..'. - Irving s. Cooper (T.P.)
- - - - ~r. A. Besant (T.P.)
Four Great Religions,.- - - - - - -
The Angelic Hosts
The Inner Side of Church Worship -
fl'lvsticism - - - - - - - - - - - -
Varieties of Psychism, - - - - - - - - -
Art and .the Emotions
The Divine Vision - -
II II II II II
II II II II II
Geoffrey Hodson (T.P.)
II II II II II
Evelyn Underhill (T.P.)
J. I. Wedgwood (T.P·.)
C ~ Jinarajadasa (T.P.)
II II II · 11 II
The .Great Teachers - - - - - - - - - Herbert Whyte (+.P.)
The Decline and. Fall of the Roman
Empire, (2 Vols . ) Gibbon
(Modern Library Series,. at local bo0kse.ller s)
(about)
A Short History of the Jews - - - - - - Clement Wood {about)
(Haldeman Julius 11Blue Book" series)
,75
5.00
1.75
5.00
4.00
2.00
3.00
3.25
1.00
1.25
-
2.00
1.00
1.75
1.00
5.00
,.75
,35
1.00
,75
3.00
.10
•
CE-2.20
Religions and Philosophies in the U.S.A. - Julius A. Weber
(Wetzel Publishing Co., Inn., Los Angeles) (about) '
CLASS i3l_ AND _Lll BOOK LIST
An Outline of Theosophy - - - - - - c. w. Leadbeater (T. P.)
A Textbook of Theosophy - - - - - - - - II II II II II II
The Science of the Sacraments II II II II II II
The Christian Creed - - - - - II II II II II II
The Hidden Side of Christian
Festivals - - - - - - - 11 11 II II II
(S.A.P .)
Talks on the Path of Occultism
(3 Vols.)- - - - -Dr. A. Besant & C. W. Leadbeater
Thought -Power, Its Control and
Culture - - - - - - - - Dr. A. Besant
The Laws of the Higher Life - - - - - - 11 II II II
In the Outer Court - - - - - - - - 11 II II II
The Doctrine of the Heart - - - - - 11 II II II
The Ancient Wisdom II II II II
Esoteric Christianity - - - - - - 11 II II II
Ceremonies of the Liberal ..
(T .P.)
(T .P.)
II
II
II
II
II
Catholic Rite (loose-leaf) - - - - Irving S. Cooper (S.A.P.)
Meditation for Beginners - - - - - J. I. Wedgwood (T.P.)
Religion for Beginners - - - - - F. w. Pigott (T.P.H.)
The Parting of the Ways - - - - 11 11 11 11 11
I Promise - - --- - - C. Jinarajadasa (T.P.)
In His Name - - - 11 11 11 11 11
$3.00
.45
1.25
5.00
3.00
4.00
9.00
1.25
.25
1.00
,35
2.25
2.25
2.50
.35
1.75
1.25
,75
.50
oi.....;;;;..._________ The Law of. Christ - - - - _ 11 11 11
2.5c --"==------....-=:
1.25
Lecture Notes - - -
At the Feet of the Master -
The Consecrated Life
II II II II
- - - - J. Krishnamurti
- - - - - Clara M
. Codd
Ernest Wood
II II II
11
II
II
II
II
.50
,75
1.00
Concentration: A Practical Course
Memory Training - - - - - - - - -
The Imitation of Christ - - - - - St. Thomas a Kempis
1.25
??
(Any book store has or can get it)
Credo - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - W. H. Pitkin
Thus Have I Heard - - - - - - - - Geoffrey Hodson
Statement of Principles, Summary
of Doctrine, and Table of the
Apostolic Succession in the L.C.C.-
Liturgy of the L.C.C. (now out of print)
(S.A.P.)
(T.P.)
.15
1.25
(S.A.P.) .15
II 1.75
CE-2.9
- THE ORDER OF EXORCIST -
The ordinations of Cleric, Doorkeeper and Reader have been proceed-
.ing in an ascending series, being intended to act respectively on the
physical body, on the emotions and on the mind. Now we come to the or-
dination of Exorcist which is especially concerned with the will, and
which is intended to develop this will and to give the soul fuller control
of its lower self.
All those who enter the ranks of Christ's clergy will find it an ad-
vantage to know by actual experience, so far as may be, those things of
which they speak . They can then come into a closer personal comradeship
with the recipients of their advice. Example is always better than pre-
cept. If the clergy themselves have attained mastery over their lower
natures, how much more effective will be their sage words of counsel as
they stand side by side, in utmost brotherhood, with the aspiring members
of their flock. Therefore, the development of the will is of enormous
importance so that we can overcome our many frailties and help our brethren
the better to do the same. But in the giving of our wider knowledge let
there be never any coldness nor austerity, but always a heart filled with
sympathy and love.
Notice that at this ordination the Bishop hands the candidate a
sword, which is a symbol of the will. Compare this sword with the Sword
of the Spirit, mentioned in John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress and with the
Needful Sword of Siegfried in Richard Wagner's Ring of the Nibelung, a
work of deep inner significance. Before the conquering Sword of the Will,
difficulties should vanish as harshness is necessary, but rather the ir-
resistible warmth of an all-compelling Love guided by Wisdom. Such Wisdom
i s symbolized by the Book -- the other token bestowed at the hands of he
Bishop.
Here is a helpful course preparatory to this Order of Exorcist:
EXORCIST Will --
(1) For Careful Reading:
The Hidden Si&e of Things,
Chapter 6 ·. Nature Spirits
Chapter 7 Centers of Magnetism
Chapter 11 Occasi~nal Events
Chapter 12 Unseen Beings
Chapter 13 Our Attitude Towards These
Influences
Chapter 14 What We Do
Invisible Helpers, by C. W. Leadbeater.
Dreams , by C. W. Leadbeater.
The Angelic Hosts, by Geoffrey Hodson .
(2) For Detailed Study:
Thought Power, Its Control
and Culture, by Dr . A. Besant.
Memory Training, by Eltnest Wood.
Ceremonies of the Liberal Catholic Rite,
Part IV - The Liturgical Year.
(3) For Spiritual Unfoldment:
The Laws of the Higher JLife, by Dr. A• .Besant.
(For assimilation and practice. Con-
tinue meditation on previous books.)
CE-2.10
Note: During this period of preparation, the candidate for Exorcist
should add to his ability to read well aloud, the ability to speak well
in public. For this .it is recommended that he attend a public speaking
class, if one is available in evening sessions at a local school or Adult
Education project. There should be constant practice in marshalling one's
knowledge and one's thoughts in a logical manner and presenting them clear-
ly, concisely and 'beautifully, both in writing and vocally. One should
neglect no opportunity to address a gathering, for each such experience,
if approached with suitable preparation, will furnish most valuable prac-
tice. The remarks in the note to the Order of Reader apply with equal
force in the art of speaking or writing. Remember, almost any man with
good lungs can learn to harrangue an audience for an hour and a half,
keeping them entertained, - but with a speech every word of which will
be .. forgotten by the next day. It takes some real greatness to be able
to get across a message in a few well-chosen phrases, in a manner which
car ries conviction and which wi l l i m
press and stir one's hear ers and
move them to change their lives. Lincoln·' s Gettysburg ·Address i.s an out-
standing model for all time of the acme of public speaking.
The ordination to this Order is intended to stimulate the intuition.
This remarkable faculty is higher and more direct than the mind. Com-
pared with its rapidity of action, the ordinary mental processes seem
slow and cumbrous indeed. For when it has been perfected, after long and
persistent effort, its possessor is enabled infallibly and instantaneous-
ly to distinguish truth from error. Should he desire information upon
any subject, the answer will be immediately forthcoming. Every aspect of
the problem will be spread like an open book before his awakened gaze.
He will see at a glance the many ramifications arising from the causes
set at work, and with unerring vision he will note the inevitable conclu-
sion. Should he wish to help a fellow mortal and seek the most effective
means of so doing, he can enter into that person's very consciousness,
seeing things as he sees them, sensing his thoughts, sharing his sorrows
and limitations, entering into his joys. Such a magnificent perfection
of this faculty is very rare indeed, and takes many years, -- yes, many
lives -- to achieve. But it is worth all the effort expended since it
brings into controlled activity that which has been called "the Christ
Spirit" which seeks ever to pour itself forth unreservedly for the up-
lifting of the world. Great musicians, painters, inventors, philanthro-
pists sometimes get flashes of this great faculty, and then as qhickly
the inspiration is wont to vanish. However, we who are pledged to the
holy service of the Master, would do well to train ourselves with the
fixed determination to develop and hold this power, not for spasmodic
efforts but for a constant use whenever the need arises. Even though the
fulness of this power may not be attained in this life, we at least may
unfold the first stages ef its useful nature and so increa:s-e our ower·_,.,-.p...-..---....---
service manifold. Let us try to feel intense love for every person we
meet, to plumb the depths of his being with a view to giving our undivid-
ed sympathy and help. However poor, however old, however unattractive
our neighbor may be, let us shower him with a sustained affection and
understanding. Then some happy day the floodgates of this wtmdrous facul-
ty of the intuition will be opened. We shall know beyond a doubt that in
a marvellous way we are the same consciousness as our brother, be he human,
animal or any other form of existence . And we shall prove the sublime
truth that there is but One Life which is God.
Helpful reading for this Order of Acolyte is given as follows:
(1) For Careful Reading:
Mysticism, by Dr. A. Besant.
Mysticism, by Evelyn Underhill.
Varieties of Psychism, by J. I. Wedgwood.
Art and the Emotions, by C. Jinarajadasa.
The Divine Vision, by C. Jinarajadasa.
The Inner Side of Church Worship, by Geoffrey Hodson.
(2) For Detailed Study:
In the 01!lter Court, by Dr. A. Besant.
Ceremonies of the Liberal Catholic Rite,
Part V, Episcopal Functions;
(3) For Spiritual Unfoldment: (Daily reading &meditation)
·The Do.
ctrine of the Heart, by Dr. A. Besant.
The Law of Christ, by C. Jinarajadasa.
The Imitation of Christ, by St. Thomas a Kempis.
CE-2.12
CE-2.13
THE MAJOR ORDERS
- THE SUBDIACONATE -
We now come to the Major Orders which, with the exception of the
Subdiaconate, confer definite powers. The Subdeacon is, in a way, an
apprentice to the Deacon and it is his duty to prepare himself for that
higher ordination .to the Diaconate which should follow in the course of
time. ·The Bishop assists him in this task of preparation by widening
the eonnection between his soul or ego and his personality. This is a
wise procedure because at the Diaconate ordination a link will be made
between this very soul of the candidate and the Christ Himself. Thus
there must be an ample pathway al.ong which the precious influence may
pass.
The soul itself in its higher mental realm must also receive its
appropriate training. It is to be strengthened by lofty thoughts and
abstract .ideas. A serene and joyous attitude should invariably be main-
tained. By constant watchfulness over the lower nature, by the most el-
evated activity of the mind and by fervent sanctity of life it will read-
ily be seen that the Subdeacon will prepare himself to receive the maximum
benefit when at the next ordination the link is made with his Lord.
In his preparatory study for this order of Subdeacon, the candidate
should add considerably to his general knowledge by studying plentifully
such things as are requisite and necessary for the clergy of our Church.
Fdr by the time that the next ordination, that of the Deacon, is achieved
he should have completed a comprehensive survey of the wisdom side of
our Liberal Catholic phil.osophy, thus leaving the period between Diaconate
and Priesthood for research into cognate fields and for a detailed and
...-..;;;;;;....,..____._ -:
m
:-
ore far reaching application of the knowledge now obtained for the suc-
cessful building up of a parish, -- a project every priest is expected
to undertake.
The course of study which follows is recommended to the candidate
for Subdeacon, to help him to envisage the mission of Holy Orders as a
self-offering to the Christ:
('l) For CarefUl .Reading:
Man Visible and :Envi:sible, by Dr. A. Besant and
C. W. Leadbeater.
Olairvoyancie., by o. W. Leadbeater.
The Other Side of Death, by O. W. Leadbeater.
The Decline and Fall of the
Roman· Empire, by Gibbon.
Chapters 15, 16, 20, 21, 23,
28, 37, 45 (last 3 paragraphs
only), 47, 49 (first 9 para-
graphs only)', 54, 60 (first 2
paragraphs only)'- These portions
deal with the history of the
Christian Church down to the
Great Schism between the East
and the West .
.
.
The Hidden Side of Things,
Chapter 22 Our Relation to Children
Chapter 24 Th'.e Results of the Knowledge.
The Great Teachers.,. by Herbert Wlzy'te~
(2) For Detailed Stuczy:
The .Ancient Wisdom, by Dr. A. Besant.
The Science of the Sacraments, by o.w. Leadbeater.
Religion for Beginners, by F. W. Pigott.
Cll'edo, by William H.- Pitkin.
(3) For Spiritual Unfoldment: (Daily reading &meditation)
Thus Have I Heard, by Geoffrey Hodson.
Practice the Intent and Collect for the Week
throughout the Christian Year as given in the
Liturgy of the Liberal .Catholic Church.
C!f-2.14
CE-2.15
- THE DIACONATE -
At this ordination "the first drill is driven through the rock, and
a definite link is made, the intelligence being joined to the correspond-
ing principle in the Christ, so that the latter can influence the former,
and stir it into beneficent activity." Just what the Deacon will make of
this gift depends up'en himself alone. The opportunity is there, the pow-
er has descended. It is entirely up to him whether it shall lie fallow
or become a glorious foundation upon which to 'build for the yet higher
ordination of the Priesthood.
From this time onward .until ."the irrevocable act shall be accom-
plished," whi9h shall lay upon the Deacon "the sweet but heavy burden of
the priesthood 11 , it is incumbent th~t he gather up all his loose str~nqs
of our sublime Wisdom-Religion, making them into one splendid organism of
ever-ready knowledge which can be used instantly for the helping of the
world.
And so these books are given as· a minimum course of study to advance
such achievement, to assist the candidate for Deacon to become a true
Teacher and Preacher:
(1) For Careful Reading:
A Study in Consciousness, by Dr . A. Besant.
Four Great Religions, by Dr . A. Besant.
Glimpses of M
asonic Hist pcy_, b C.w. LeadbeateF._ __.==="----~_..;,...,,;:--"'
(for light on the Egyptian,
Jewish and Greek Religions)
Some good work on Christian History from
the Great Schism to the present day.
(yet to be selected)
History of the Liberal Catholic Church.
(published as yet only in serial form
in THE LIBERAL CATHOLIC)
A Short History of the Jews, by Clement Wood.
(one of the "Little Blue Book 11
series
of Haldeman-Julius)
The Beginnings of the :sixth Root Race,
by C. W. Leadbeater.
The Masters and the Path, by C. W. Leadbeater.
Reli'gions and Philosophies in the U.S . A ~ ,
by Julius A. W
eber.
(2) For Detail.
ed Study:
Esoteric Christianity, by Dr . A••Besant.
The Christian Creed, by C. W. Leadbeater.
The Hidden Side of Christian Festivals,
by C. W. Leadbeater.
The Statement of Principles, Summary
of Doctrine, and Table of the Apo-
stolic Succession in the L.C.C., - Official Document.
The Parting of the Ways, by F. W. Pigott,
The Liturgy of the Liberal Catholic Church.
(3) For Spiritual Unfoldment: (Daily reading &meditation)
Talks on the Path of Occultism,
(A commentary on "At the
Feet of the JVlaster 11
,
11
The
Voice of the Silence 11
, and
11 Light on the Path. 11
by Dr. A. Besant and
C. W. Leadbeater.
CE-2.16
I
CE-2.17
- THE PRIESTH00P -
Now at last comes the opportunity for which the ordinand has been
striving, -- the wondrous gift and priceless privilege of the Priesthood.
We will do well to ponder over the significance of this step to which
may well be attached the adjective 11 sublime 11
• It is a momentous happen-
ing in the life of any man to be placed in direct communication with his
Lord so that through a power not his own he may transmit in the act of
Blessing some of the happiness of the Christ; he may give to the "little
ones 11 of the Master, whether they be babes, children or adults, a virtual
rebirth by the Sacrament of Baptism with its powerful influence for good
and its gift of a guardian angel; he may 11
lift the heavy burden of the
sorrow and sin of the world by the grace of Absolution11
; he may by Holy
Unction assuage infirmities both of body and of mind; he may join by
Matrimony man and woman in a blessed union of souls; and he may celebrate
daily for the remainder of his life the marvels of the Eucharist, that
stupendous and holy down-pouring from on high when in the presence of
Angels and Archangels, yea; of the Christ Himself, humanity and all that
lives are raised yet a little htgher in their homeward way to God.
But to accomplish these results and give back to the world some of
the benefits he himself has received so abundantly, the Priest should
have those to whom he can minister even as he has been minist.ered unto.
He should form a parish. As mentioned before, this is expected of him.
It is but a small return for the precious gift which merely human hands
could never have bestowed. To show only the customary appreciation
measured by accepted standards among right-thinking men, his life from
now onward should be consecrated to the task of offering a hungry human-
~ ---::=--==-------i
-
· t
....l!
y
~
t
_
he blessings he has received. And so the prie_s e a .man-0.L----"""'=~~,
action, ever dispensing the sacerdotal powers and leading his brethren
nearer to God.
Never need he be idle. Every day, with the exceptions of Good
Friday and the Saturday which follows, the new Priest may celebrate the
Eucharist. This is a privilege not lightly to be turned aside. If
there be no oratory, make one. If there be lack of time, get out of bed
half an hour earlier each morning. If there be noise in the house,·
build an unpretentious room at the further end of the lot. But be loyal.
Mean business. Let it never be said that we have back-door priests who
slide out of their obligations and whose main object is to look sancti-
monious and strut around in vestments. An~ let us be sure to include in
our daily Eucharists those so often neglected by our brother organiza-
tions. Search the newspapers and give to the Angels the names of such
as are in need of help, whether they be church members or not, -- the
poor, the oppressed, the prisoners, the victims of sudden death, the ex-
ecuted criminals. Think what it will mean to the terrorizeq soul to
awaken in the land of the beyond in the presence of a beautious, compas-
sionate Angel.
In forming a parish one method is to start with a group of friends
who can make a reliable nucleus. Add to their number by giving a series
of well-planned talks on the glories of our philospl:zy'-religion. Explain
carefully, sentence by sentence, the several sacraments. And when suf-
ficient parishioners have been collected, purchase the land and build
the church. But try never to allow the faintest shadow of a debt to
impede progress and harrow the mind.
CE-2.18
We must needs be the leaders of our flocks in a comprehensive sense.
And so let there be developed- the qualifications of the executive, the
educator, the sacramentalist, the artist, and the spiritual helper.
Think in how many new and effective ways beauty can be introduced into
the church building. Plan many avenues of cultural advancement for the
parishioners in such subjects as the Christian Fathers and Saints, the
Fellowship of Faiths, Master Saints of Religions, the latest in modern
science in relation to man's spiritual nature, the spiritual influence
of the finest music, drama, poetry, architecture, painting·, sculpture,
and also the dance. -- for that at its best is one of the seven great
arts with a distinctive message to the world. Discover the strong points
of each parishioner and set him to work, for by work we gain enthusiasm.
Smooth out all difficulties by tact, by tolerance and by that love which
like the warmth of the sun shall comfovt every heart. Think carefully
of the value and methodization of committees . But do not be swept aside
by non-essentials. Remember that we are the representatives of none
other than the Christ, and that His purpose should dominate our thought.
And let us not forget that one of the most important duties of the
Priest is to train his congregation so that year by year and month by
month they will advance in spirituality and enter ere long that path
which leads to the "measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ 11
,
to the glories which await each human soul.
Before the ordination to the Priesthood you will be asked to submit
a carefully considered scheme for the building up of a parish which
should embrace your intended activities over a span of years. It should
contain ample evidence of original research and serve as a distinct
contribution to the work of our Church. Whatever books are consulted
shoi:il: be s.peGi~ieQ. as a complete b4.-bliography, g±-vi--ng attt-hor , d±ti-c-n-s, ~-------.
and the page numbers of extracts. This essay should be of considerable
length, preferably typewritten, double spaced. It should assume the
dignity of a university thesis for the degree of Master or Doctor. A
thesis also will be required prior to the Diaconate ordination. And for
this, particulars will be given on application, at the proper time.
Thus, my brothers, we have entered upon a mighty undertaking for
the greater glory of God. May we be strong and of a good courage,
realizing that in the power of the Christ and of our own eternal selves
success must assuredly be ours both now and in the years to come .
B. G. KINGSLEY.
c Avc!L!e,
Lo~ Ani-!f'l<'!s, Californiia
Printed matter
Rev. J. L. Hadaway.
P. o. Box 343,
~ .....
·0 San Francisco, Calif.
