{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1941__gaines___every_woman_a_food_scientist.pdf","mytitle":"Every Woman A Food Scientist","mylang":"de"}
Ervery Woman
a Food Scientist
By
THOMAS ROBERT GAINES
v .
Pioneer Official Breathing Instructor, New York City
Police Training School
Author of
THE MAGIC OF BREATH POWER
ffiGHER MENTAL ACTION, ETC.
Receipes Ananged and Proved by
CARENE VANDERSALL GAINES
Author of
SECRETS OF BEAUTY AND CHARM
CONCORD PRESS
458 North Edinburgh Avenue Hollywood, California
Cop:vright 1941 by
THOMAS ROBERT GAINES
'Thib. laoo~ i~ JJ~~n.eciati"eQ'I ~e&icate& to
FRANK MEYTHALER
One who daily strives to lift his fellow man
to highe1· levels of Healthful Living by
means of skilled service in the field of
Nutritional Science
PREFACE
A race horse with average speed never wins a race in com-
petition with horses of superior speed. The horse exerting con-
tinuous higher speed always arrives ahead of the other horses
in the race. This book is intended to give the reader a glimpse
of personal health that is far beyond the average grade that is
being expressed by millions of Americans.
Average health, or health just sufficient to keep out of the
hospital is not confined to the very poor or to the middle classes.
Rich people, too, are enjoying average health, which is far f1·om
being a sane or safe way to live. Complete health is of priceless
benefit to its possessor.
Like everything else in life excellent health must be earned.
Nothing for nothing is a cosmic principle. Health that is really
excellent can only be made' possible or maintained by one pro-
cedure-excellence of habits in eating. It is the eneTgy, vita-
mins and minerals in food that grant the necessary nutrition
for cells, blood, brain and nerves. Food must also be selected
to digest in the proper time, to be a bearer of life-force, to be
free from mucus-forming tendencies and to prevent irritation
of stomach membranes and intestinal epithelial tissues.
Truly has Brillat Savarin the French philosopher observed
more than one hundred years ago, "Tell me what you eat, and
I will tell you what you are."
The Author.
Table of Contents
Page
Food and Health..--------------------------------------------------------------- 7
Hints for Those Overweight..--------------------------------------------- 12
Live Longer and Better by Wise Eating...---------------------:------- 1S
Twenty-One Scientific Meals to Reduce Weight
Suitable for Fall and Winter·----------------------------------------- 13
Twenty-One Harmonized Meals to Reduce Weight
Suitable for Spring and Summer·-------------------------------------- 15
Twenty-One Scientific Meals to Increase Weight
Suitable for Fall and Winter..----------------------------------------- 17
Twenty-One Harmonized Meals to Increase Weight
Suitable for Spring and Summer..-------------------------------- 19
Twenty-One Scientific Meals to Maintain Present Weight,
Suitable for Fall and Winter..--------------------------------------- 21
Twenty-One Scientific Meals to Maintain Present Weight,
Suitable for Spring and Summer..------------------------------ 2S
Twenty-One Scientific Economy Meals,
Called War-Time Diet -------·---------------------·------------------- 25
Food Way to Health---·---·----··--------------··-·-----·------------·--- 26
New Science of Health.--------------------------------------·----------------- 27
The 20 Points of Eating for Beauty and Health._______________ 28
Food for Thought---------------------·---------------------------------·------ 35
Alcohol -----------------------------------------------------------------------·------- 37
Banish A.sthma --------------------------------------------------------------------- 39
Sunlight Is Food--------------------------------------------------------------- S9
Less Denatured Sweets for Your Children__________________________ 40
Is Bread the Staff of Life?---------------------------------------------------- 40
Food and Glands·------------------------------------------------------------- 41
What Is Old Age?--------------------------------------------------------- 41
Some Opinions ---------------------------------------------------------------- 42
Practice Healthful Habits.----------------------------------------------- 42
Raw Vegetable Juices..--------------------------------------------------- 42
Colds ------------------------------------------------------------------------- 43
Four Day Inner Cleansing Plan for Colitis____________________ 4S
Jams, Jellies and Preserves.------------------------------------------ 44
Lesson on Vitamins ---------------------------------------------------- 44
Vitamin A ··-------·---·--------·--------------------------------------- 45
Vitatnin B-1 ---------------------------------------------------------------- 46
Vitatnin C ------------------------------------------------------------- 48
Vitmnins D· and E----------------------------------------------------------- 49
Youth Preserved or Regained.-------------------------------------- 49
Alkaline Foods ---------------------------------------------------------- 51
Acid Reaction Foods---------------------------------------------------------· 51
Headaches-------------------------------------·- - - 51
Coffee mnts ---------------------------- 52
Tea Drinking -----------------------------------------------------------· 52
Cocoa -------------------------------------------------------------------------- 53
Take Thought with Your Food..---------------------------- 54
Minerals --------------------------------------------------------------------· 55
Digestion ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 56
Hannony --------------------------------------------------- 56
Nine Points in Nutritional Science
Digestion - Hannony - Starch - Grease - Irritation -
Selection- Utensils- Type- QuantitY------------------------ 57
Fifty Dietetic Suggestions ------------------------------------------------- 59
Recipes:
Thirty Soups ----------------------------------------------- 63
Delicious Desserts ------------------------------------------------------ 67
Special Desserts -------------------------------------- 68
Fresh Juices --------------------- 71
Beverages -------------------------------------------------------------------- 72
Salads ------------------------ 73
Salad Dressings ---------------------------------------------------------- 76
Vegetable and Meat Roasts 77
Meats ----------------------------- 80
Vegetables -------------------------------------------------------------- 84
Food for Children------------ _ 87
Breakfasts for Children --- 88
Luncheons for Children______________________ 89
Main Meals ------------------------------------------------------------ 89
Foods for Younger Children.---------------------------------- 89
Soybean Recipes and Facts----------------------------------------------- 90
Eight Special Recipes ------------------------------------------------------- 91
---·---
Many other indispensable dietetic features are
contained in this valuable volume
"EVERY WOMAN A FOOD SCIENTIST"
FOOD AND HEALTH
The most distressing fact that confronts us is the prevalence
of pain and disease. A large proportion of the people in every
nation are sick to some degree. Those who are ill are living
downward to their limited comprehension of life. Those who
are well are living upward to their potential health possibilities.
There are two roads in life-one may be termed frustration,
the low road, the other progress, the high road. Sickly, un-
happy, worried folks are that way because they have con-
sciously or unwittingly allowed their steps to tread the path of
frustration. They are depending on wishful thinking or hoping
that time will better their unhappy states. Hoping and wishing,
while useful sometimes, will not remove the cause of illness,
unhappiness and fear.
It is said that the last words of the dying Buddha were
"Work out you1· own Salvation." What greater earthly Salva-
tion can we enjoy than the radiance of abounding health, an
alert step, a perfect stomach, a young brain, mighty lungs, a
powerful heart, and a feeling of unconsciousness of body.
Where one is very old, it can hardly be hoped to possess the
maximum of these healthful states, but it is never too early or
too late to strive for these dynamic, essential assets of being.
There is really no mystery about healthful living. Health of
body invariably tends to follow healthful habits of eating. ·
In the year 1898, when I was mustered out of the United
States Army at the close of the war, various army and private
physicians shook their heads during their examination of my
pain bedeviled body and it was discreetly insinuated that in two
weeks, I would no longer be listed among the living.
It was due to this fact that I, a layman, dared to aspire to
find the cause of the degeneration of my body, and seek for a
remedy that was not possible in scientific, orthodox methods.
Someone had handed me a book on bee life, and as I glanced
through its pages, I found my fu·st awakening as to the part
that nutrition played in animal and human life.
My discovery was "Royal Food," the little vitamin essence
which the working bees supplied to certain embryonic working
bee cells. In due time, the cells fed on this different food pro-
'1
duced a different and more highly superior type of bee-the
Queen. Also I learned the Queen bee lives ten times longer than
the working bee.
As a last resort to save my life, I changed from my usual
diet of white bread, condiments, sweets, and dairy products.
An amazing change for the better took place within forty-
eight hours. I began to feel much improved. A few short
months later, my body that had represented physical degenera-
tion now began to display signs of returning health and
strength. In all the years that have ensued, I have had no oc-
casion to call in a physician for any ailment or pain.
I am convinced should I forsake my scientific habits of eat-
ing and breathing, ill health would again vis~t my body because
of the violation of the natural laws of life.
Naturally it takes will power to abstain from these alluringly
prepared but often disease forming foods that we find on almost
every American dining table, but remember, the resisting of
this food temptation will generally return the precious dividend
of "health always." Some folks labor under the delusion that
it is natural to be sick at times. Nothing could be more fan-
tastic or farther from the truth.
I have discovered in my reading and experience that health
is a principle and that disease is a condition. A condition that
may usually be banished when the power of proper eating is
leveled against it.
Consider life itself for a moment-what intelligence or
meaning would there be to create human beings so that suf-
fering would be their lot. Really I have found the meaning
back of life is health, happiness and progress but these condi-
tions can never be found as long as we are content to tread the
low or unscientific roadway of living.
Elephants in the jungle are not prone to insanity or sick-
ness. They eat natural elephant food-grasses, leaves and bam-
boo sprouts and they develop prodigious strength and live far
beyond the average life span of human beings which is less than
forty years throughout the entire earth.
Elephants in captivity are often improperly fed. In time
these foodstuffs inflame the brain and nerves of the elephant
8
I
I
I
with a toxic poison. Then the elephant goes on a killing ram-
page and must be destroyed, but the blame should not be at-
tributed to the elephant, but to the toxic reacting food it was
pennitted to eat.
Criminals are not really that way through choice or inherit-
ance, they are in the main just victims of parental ignorance of
food understanding. As the truth about food flashes forth into
the world from the laboratories of science, crime will lessen to a
tremendous degree, also sickness and insanity will become rare
happenings.
In ancient Egypt the priests taught that a skeleton should
be placed on every banquet table to be a symbol of the re-action
to the indulgence of too much food or drink.
It amazes me how pepple will pray and affirm for health not
only for days but often for weeks and years at a stretch. Pos-
sibly that is the reason the Good Book says, ''Ye receive not
because ye ask amiss."
Health is generally available as we reform our food habits.
Health is always "in us" but it is often submerged by mucus,
toxins and poisons resulting from improper habits of eating.
Right eating does not mean living on nuts and raw cabbage-
far from it. In our miracle age of scientific research we can
literally "feast our way'' back to health, if we have lost that
most precious of all possessions.
It is a sad commentary on the intelligence of the masses
when so many are willing to serve disease and death instead of
health and life. If I had a last word to give to humanity, it
would be "Get back to natural food." When animals are ill, do
you see them eating large quantities of food to keep up their
strength? Not at all, the contrary is the fact. They go out
into the back yards and fields and search for some vitamins
from the grass to help overcome their condition caused by past
unwise eating.
This is my ambition-to live long enough to know that
every woman in America is a "Food Scientist." Women may be
bread winners too, but primarily a woman first of all should be
a home maker. Home breaking men and women are to be com-
pared to the elephant in captivity improperly fed, therefore
9
toxic. That is the reason Christ prayed "Father, forgive them,
they know not what they do."
What an opportunity for women in this New Age to come
to the front and join hand in hand with science and endeavor
to rid the earth of its eight greatest evils:
Disease
Crime
Weakness
Insanity
War
Poverty
Senility
Ignorance
No form of intellectual education will accomplish this mir-
acle. The earth is filled with seats of learning and halls of cul-
ture but disease, crime, insanity, war, poverty and ignorance
still carry on in ever widening expression. Only TRUTH can
save the world and humanity and the truth is that improper or
devitalized food is the chief cause of all the suffering manifest-
ing in the world today. ·
In any year that we live we will find that ffigh Intelligence
yields High Rewards. High intelligence is based on natural
laws, not finite comprehension. As we select our daily food more
intelligently we will find much more happiness in living. How
we eagerly pray for our daily bread but the wrong kind or too
much of any kind may lay us low on a bed of Rain and sickness.
In order to ensure health always it is wise to study the basic
requirements of Food Science. First of all comes the wise selec-
tion, then follows the preparation. Then we must consider the
quantity. Finally the possible adverse reaction in our system.
Unless these four principles are observed and mastered, health
will never be found knocking at our door.
I have found during my feeding experience in my summer
schools from 1925 to 1931 inclusive that generally speaking
there are four types of people in the United States.
The first type is the lean type, men, women and children
with narrow faces, who find it most difficult to gain weight.
10
I
I
i
I
I
l
I
The second type is the obese or fat type people, usually with
round faces who put on poundage with the slightest dietetic
encouragement. I estimate 40,000,000 men, women and chil-
dren are injured by overweight in this country. The third
type is the individual who maintains his weight and that weight
is the normal poundage for his height and age. The fourth type
is the occasionally very large man or woman who has a huge
honey structure and looks and feels best when overweight. This
type may eat no more food than the lean type but the food
eaten is almost totally absorbed into the blood.
In the next chapter I present the various scientific meals I
found to work successfully in the reduction, increasing or main-
tenance of weight. It is my sincere conviction after forty-three
years of food research, experience and experiment that 99% of
people who are unduly obese are that way from improper selec-
tion of foods. To reduce one's weight by exercise is a heavy
burden on the heart and blood vessels. The sane and sensible
way to normalize one's weight is through the reformation of
eating habits. Consult you1· physician for verification of this
statement.
11
HINTS FOR THOSE OVERWEIGHT
I was invited by a noted physical trainer in New York City
to investigate his system of reducing obese women through the
medium of exercise. I found three score of these unhappy,
ponderous ladies sitting on stationary bicycles, pedaling away
for dear life for fully three quarters of an hour at a single
stretch. During the rest period, attendants provided a large
pitcher of cold water for each woman to consume. The copious
drinking of water put on almost all the weight they had just
sweated off and the unhappy women had to keep coming back
each day for more bicycle pedaling.
The scientific way to reduce weight safely and comfortably
is not by heavy exercise which might prove more dangerous
than the obesity. Weight reduction should be attempted by a
reduction in the intake of food, not by straining every part of
the body by unnecessary exercise which oftentimes endangers
the health of the heart.
A well regulated gymnasium may be attended for scientific
reducing exercis~ if enjoyed. It is wise to have the heart
checked by your doctor before embarking on a long series of
physical exercise. Always "a stitch in time saves nine."
When proper food is eaten, our teeth stop decaying, our
eyesight improves. The writer's eyesight steadily maintains its
normal power although used intensively without glasses ten to
twelve hours daily. Also signs of s~lity disappear, disease
ends, strength replaces weakness, and we postpone death. Truly
life rewards us when we practice intellig~ce in eating. The
New Age dentist will rarely extract a tooth. His job will be to
preserve om teeth, and his knowledge of food values will ac-
complish this most necessary and requisite health condition.
12
LIVE LONGER AND BETTER BY WISE EATING
At its best, life is no easy road to travel. The average life is
beset by problems, losses, troubles and sickness. Seemingly,
the sole compensation for having to endure life is to eat abun-
dantly of rich food. While we eat the rich food we thoroughly
enjoy it. But after a while a reaction sets in. Pain or disease
appears as the result of our eating indiscretions. On no,account
should we imagine that scientific eating is to half starve our-
selves or to try to live solely on nuts and raw foods.
However, we should take constant wholesome thought about
the kind of food we put into our stomachs, and endeavor to pro-
vide food that is pure and natural; thus will its excellent reac-
tion prevent pain and sickness.
Twenty-One Scientific Meals to Reduce Weight
Suitable for Fall and Winter Consumption
Sunday
Breakfast: Orange juice and boiled prunes, hot beverage.
Dinner: Vegetable soup, well roasted leg of lamb, no gravY,
steamed string beans and baked onions, raw lettuce and
celery, canned pears, hot beverage.
Supper: Vegetable soup, steamed string beans and steamed
radishes, raw celery and lettuce, baked apple, beverage.
Monday
Breakfast: Bowl of prunes, honey for sweetening, hot bever-
age.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, steamed spinach and turnips, hot
beverage. ·
Dinner: Well cooked steak, vegetable soup, steamed turnips and
carrots, raw celery, lettuce, apple sauce, hot beverage.
Tuesday
Breakfast: Melon or prunes, hot beverage.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, raw celery, tomatoes, steamed cauli-
flower, beverage.
Dinner: Well broiled lamb chops, steamed string beans, peas
and carrots, raw tomatoes, well washed canned peaches, hot
beverage.
18
Wednesday
Breakfast: Bowl of prunes or melon, hot beverage.
Luncheon: Tomato juice, fresh fruit salad, beverage.
Dinner: Vegetable soup, vegetable plate of steamed fresh veg-
etables, celery, apple sauce, beverage.
Thursday
Breakfast: Ripe bananas and prunes, hot beverage.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, steamed string beans, steamed car-
rots, apple, beverage.
Dinner: Vegetable soup, boiled ribs of beef, steamed string
beans, steamed radishes and beet tops, dates or dried
figs, beverage.
Friday
Breakfast: Prunes, wheat germ, hot beverage.
Luncheon: Tomato juice, baked potato with one pat of butter,
figs or dates and beverage.
Dinner: Vegetable soup, well broiled sea fish or well cooked
steak, no gravy, steamed carrots and cauliflower, raw let-
tuce and celery, baked apple, beverage.
Saturday
Breakfast: Prunes, whole wheat toast, bacon and hot beverage.
Luncheon: Large fresh fruit salad, celery and beverage.
Dinn~: Vegetable soup, large steamed vegetable plate, raw
celery, watercress, baked apple, beverage.
Use no oils or fats save in extreme moderation. If hungry
between meals, apples, pears, raw tomatoes, celery or prunes
only.
Drink glassful hot or cold water first thing in the morning.
Use toasted soya bean bread if bread is craved.
VITAMINS SHOULD BE TAKEN REGULARLY FOR
INCREASED PHYSICAL ENERGY.
Low-Calorie fruits are cantaloupe, strawberries, pineapple,
raspberries, peaches, apples, citric fruits.
Mushrooms, beet greens, endive, celery, string beans, okra,
cauliflower, spinach, watercress, cucumbers, turnips, lettuce,
radishes, are all filling but non-fattening foods.
14
{
I
I
I
}
I
J
r
CONCENTRATED MINERAL TABLETS ARE ADVISED
FOR NEEDED DAILY ESSENTIAL MINERAL REQUIRE-
MENTS.
HIGH POTENCY VIT.Al\IIIN B-1 TABLETS SUGGESTED
DAILY FOR ADDED NERVE ENERGY.
Use honey or raw sugar for sweetening purposes. Cottage
cheese may be used occasionally. Choose evaporated milk or
cream for hot beverages.
Twenty-One Harmonized Meals to Reduce Weight
Fm· Spring and Summer Consumption
Sunday
Breakfast: Orange juice and berries, hot beverage.
Dinner: Vegetable soup, well roasted leg of Jamb, no gravy,
steamed string beans and baked onions, raw lettuce and
tomatoes, melon, hot beverage.
Supper: Vegetable soup, steamed string beans and steamed
radishes, raw celery and tomatoes, melon, beverage.
Monday
Breakfast: Bowl of prunes, honey for sweetening, melon, hot
beverage.
Luncheon : Vegetable soup, steamed spinach and turnips, hot
beverage.
Dinner: Well cooked steak, vegetable soup, steamed string
beans and carrots, raw celery, tomatoes, apple sauce, hot
beverage.
Tuesday
Breakfast: Melon or prunes, hot beverage.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, raw celery, tomatoes, steamed caul-
iflower, beverage.
Dinner: Well broiled lamb chops, steamed string beans, peas
and carrots, raw tomatoes, well washed canned pears, hot
beverage.
Wednesday
Breakfast: Bowl of prunes or melon, hot beverage.
Luncheon: Tomato juice, fresh fruit salad, beverage.
16
Dinner: Vegetable soup, vegetable plate of steamed fresh veg-
etables, celery, apple sauce, beverage.
Thursday
Breakfast: Ripe bananas and melon, hot beverage.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, steamed string beans, steamed car-
rots, apple, beverage.
Dinner: Vegetable soup, boiled ribs of beef, steamed string
beans, steamed radishes and beet tops, melon or berries,
beverage.
Friday
Breakfast: Prunes, wheat germ, hot beverage.
Luncheon: Tomato juice, baked potato with one pat of butter,
grapes or applesauce and beverage.
Dinner: Vegetable soup, well broiled sea fish or well cooked
steak, no gravy, steamed carrots and cauliflower, raw
lettuce and celery, melon or grapes, beverage.
Saturday
Breakfast: Berries or prunes and hot beverage.
Luncheon: Large fresh fruit salad, celery and beverage.
Dinner: Vegetable soup, large steamed vegetable plate, raw
celery, watercress, melon with apple sauce, beverage.
Use no oils or fats save in extreme moderation. If hungry
between meals, berries, melon, pears, raw tomatoes, celery or
prunes only. Grapes are healthful but very high in caloric or
weight gaining energy.
Drink glassful hot or cold water first thing in the morning.
Use toasted soya bean bread if bread is craved.
COMBINATION VITAMINS SHOULD BE TAKEN REG-
ULARLY FOR INCREASED PHYSICAL ENERGY.
Low-Caloric fruits are cantaloupe, strawberries, prunes,
pineapple, raspberries, peaches, apples, citric fruits.
Mushrooms, beet greens, endive, celery, string beans, okra,
cauliflower, spinach, watercress, cucumbers, turnips, lettuce,
radishes, are all filling but non-fattening foods.
16 I
i
I
MINERAL TABLETS ARE ADVISED FOR NEEDED
DAILY ESSENTIAL MINERAL REQUIREMENT.
· HIGH POTENCY VITAMIN B-1 TABLETS SUGGESTED
·, -
D.A.ILY FOR ADDED NERVE ENERGY.
Use honey or raw sugar for sweetening purposes. Cottage
cheese may be used occasionally. Choose evaporated milk or
cream for hot beverages.
Twenty-One Scientific Meals to Increase Weight
Suitable for Fall and Winter Consumption
Sunday
Breakfast: Ripe sliced bananas with cream, baked apple with
honey.
Dinner: Pea soup, roast leg of lamb, raw celery and lettuce, peas
and ~rrots, dates for dessert.
Supper: Pea-or vegetable soup, steamed cauliflower, canned
peaches, dried figs with lettuce.
Monday
Breakfast: Boiled prunes with whole wheat cereal, honey and
prune juice.
Luncheon: Linla bean soup, raw celery, baked potato with salt,
·baked apple.
- ~~er: Well cooked steak, steamed carrots and spinach, lettuce
· and celery, sliced ripe bananas and canned pears.
Tut¥Jday
Breakfast: Ripe sliced bananas and cream, ripe pear or baked
apple with honey.
Luncheon: Potato soup, lettuce with cottage cheese, canned
peaches or ripe eating apple.
Dinner: Roast beef, raw celery and radishes, baked onion,
steamed string beans, baked apple with honey.
Wednesday
Breakfast: Whole wheat cereal with cream, boiled prunes with
honey.
Luncheon: Baked potato, avocado salad, canned or raw pears.
17
Dinner: Well broiled lamb chop8, baked parsnips and steamed
beets and beet tops, raw celery, dates and figs.
I
ThursJay
Breakfast: Orange juice with prunes.
Luncheon: Pea soup, steamed cauliflower, celery, raw apple.
Dinner: Roast beef or roast veal, raw celery and lett1,1ee,
steamed carrots and peas, rice pudding, figs. r
Friday
Breakfast: Ripe sliced bananas, wheat germ, fresh pears.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, baked potatoes with avocado, celery,
raisins.
Dinner: Pea soup, well broiled sea fish or vegetable plate, raw
celery and radishes, steamed beets and mashed yellow
turnips, ·canned pears or peaches.
Saturday
Breakfast: Baked apple with honey, wheat germ, dates.
Luneheon: Potato soup, raw celery, steamed cauliflower, can-
ned or fresh pears.
Dinner: Roast chicken or braised oxtail or boiled ribs of.beef,
steamed carrots and string beans, raw celery and lettuce,
dates and baked apple or apple pie.
Use raw tomatoes frequently when available.
Use coffee substitute beverage instead of much tea or cof-
fee. A hot or cold beverage may be taken with every meal.
Not more than 2 slices of whole wheat bread or 2 whole
wheat muffins each day.
Drink water only when thirsty.
For maximum mineral content of food take Concentrated
Mineral tablets after each meal.
USE VITAMINS WHEN ADDITIONAL VITAMINS ARE
NECESSARY.
During summer months, melons, grapes and fresh apricots
may be substituted· for apples, pears and dates.
18 /
I
!
Twenty-One Scientific, Harmonized Meals to Increase
Weight for Spring and Summer Consumption
Sunday
Breakfast: Ripe sliced bananas with cream, baked apple with
honey.
Dinner: Pea soup, roast leg of lamb, raw celery and lettuce, peas
and carrots, ice cream for dessert.
Supper: Pea or vegetable soup, steamed cauliflower and baked
potatoes, berries and canned pears with lettuce.
Monday
Breakfast: Boiled prunes with whole wheat cereal and honey.
Luncheon: Lima bean soup, raw celery, baked potato with salt,
baked apple.
Dinner: Well cooked steak, steamed carrots, corn on the cob,
lettuce and celery, sliced ripe bananas and canned pears.
Tuesday
Breakfast: Ripe sliced bananas and cream, ripe pear or melons.
!Juncheon: Potato soup, lettuce with cottage cheese, canned
~ peaches or grapes.
::.
Dinner: Broiled steak or braised oxtail, raw celery and radishes,
baked onion, steamed lima beans, baked apple with honey
or avocados.
Wednesday
Breakfast: Whole wheat cereal with cream, boiled prunes with
honey.
Luncheon: Baked potato, avocado salad, canned or fresh pears.
Dinner: Well broiled lamb chops, steamed string beans and
steamed beets and beet tops, raw celery, melons or grapes.
Thursday
Breakfast: Orange juice with prunes.
Luncheon: Pea soup, steamed cauliflower, celery, melons or
grapes.
Dinner: Steak or boiled beef, raw celery and lettuce, steamed
carrots arid peas, sliced ripe bananas.
19
Friday
Breakfast: Ripe sliced bananas, wheat germ, fresh pear.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, baked potatoes with avocado, celery,
melons.
Dinner: Vegetable soup, well broiled sea fish or vegetable plate,
raw celery and radishes, steamed beets and mashed yellow
turnips, fresh or canned pears or peaches.
Saturday
Breakfast: Baked apple or prunes with honey, wheat germ,
prune juice.
Luncheon: Potato soup, raw celery, steamed cauliflower, canned
or fresh pears.
Dinner: Roast chicken or lamb chops, steamed carrots and
string beans, raw celery and lettuce, baked apple, grapes
or raisin pie.
Use coffee substitute beve-rages instead of tea or coffee. A
hot beverage may be taken with every meal. Vegetable juices
are recommended.
Not more than 2 slices of whole wheat bread or 2 whole
wheat muffins each day.
Drink water when thirsty, occasionally water diluted or-
ange juice may be taken.
COMBINATION VITAMINS-ONE DARK AND ONE
LIGHT CAPSULE ADVISED DAILY FOR EXTRA ENERGY.
FOR ASSURANCE OF ESSENTIAL MINERAL CON-
TENT OF FOOD TAKE CONCENTRATED MINERAL TAB-
LETS AFrER EACH MEAL.
During summer months, melons, grapes and fresh apricots
may be substituted for apples, pears and dates.
Bl HIGH POTENCY VITAMIN TABLETS ARE SUG-
GESTED TO BE TAKEN DAILY FOR SUPER-NERVE
ENERGY.
20
Twenty-One Scientific Meals to Maintain Pt·esent
Weight Suitable for Fall and Winter Consumption
Sunday
Breakfast: Fresh grapefruit juice, baked apple or melon, hot
beverage.
Dinner: Well cooked roast leg of lamb, raw tomatoes and raw
celery, steamed carrots and string beans, ripe sliced ban-
anas, and dried figs, hot beverage.
Supper: Vegetable soup, lettuce, celery and radishes, fruit
salad, two slices whole wheat toast, hot beverage, canned
pears.
Monday
Breakfast: Whole wheat cereal with ripe bananas and cream;
baked apple, hot beverage.
Luncheon: Steamed cauliflower, raw tomatoes, raw celery, bran
muffin, beverage.
Dinner: Baked chopped round of beef, raw radishes, lettuce and
tomatoes, steamed carrots, canned pea1·s or fresh pears,
hot beverage.
Tuesday
Breakfast: Two or thre·
e slices of whole wheat b1·ead toasted
with butter, three slices of crisp, lean bacon, hot beverage.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, baked potato with cream, avocado
with raw celery, beverage.
Dinner: Vegetable plate, include boiled onions, raw tomatoes
and celery, fresh apples, peru·s or melons, ice c1·eam and
cookie, hot beverage.
Wednesday
Breakfast: Whole wheat cereal, ripe bananas, baked apple or
raw pears, hot beverage.
Luncheon: Steamed beets and beet tops, raw celery and raw
tomatoes, baked apple, dates or melon, beverage.
Dinner: Roast beef or boiled oxtail, steamed dry lima beans and
steamed spinach, raw celery, fresh fruit salad, hard roll,
hot beverage.
21
Thursday
Breakfast: Orange juice, baked apple, hot beverage.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, cottage cheese, celery, lettuce, raw
apple or melon, beverage.
Dinner: Roast lamb, steamed string beans and steamed par-
snips, raw celery, raw tomatoes and radishes, well washed
canned peaches, ripe sliced bananas, hot beverage.
Friday
Breakfast: Bowl of prunes, with baked apple, hot beverage.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, fruit salad, one muffin, beverage.
Dinner: Well broiled sea fish or lamb chops, steamed turnips
and turnip tops, steamed beets, raw celery, radishes, to-
matoes, canned pears or apricots well washed or melon or
prunes, hot beverage.
Saturday
Breakfast: Two or three slices toasted whole wheat bread, two
or three slices of crisp lean bacon, baked apple or melon,
hot beverage.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, baked potato with butter, raw cel-
ery, raw tomatoes, pears or melon, beverage. ·
Dinner: Well broiled steak or roast chicken, steamed carrots
and peas, raw lettuce and tomatoes, ice cream, hot bev-
erage.
Take Concentrated Mineral Tablets daily for assurance of
increased essential minerals.
VITAMINS RECOMMENDED WHEN EXTRA VITAMINS
ARE NECESSARY.
If hungry between meals consume grapefruit juice, or mel-
ons, or water, or ripe orange juice.
Pineapple juice or orange juice, or pineapple juice with
macerated avocado, only dressings to be used with salad. No
condiments, save salt. Use honey or raw sugar instead of
white sugar in hot beverages. Increase soups and vegetables if
you do not eat meat.
22
{I
/
Twenty-One Scientific Meals to Maintain Present
Weight Suitable for Spring and Summer Consumption
Sunday
Breakfast: Berries, sliced ripe bananas, beverage.
Dinner: Tomato juice, roast leg of lamb, steamed string beans
and carrots, raw celery and lettuce, melons or berries, bev-
erage.
Supper: Vegetable soup, fruit salad, celery, melon, beverage.
Monday
Breakfast: Orange juice, prunes, beverage.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, baked potato, celery, berries, bev-
erage.
Dinner: Tomato juice, well broiled steak, steamed carrots and
peas, raw celery, radishes and lettuce, melon or apple
sauce, beverage.
Tuesday
Breakfast: Ripe sliced bananas, wheat germ beverage.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, steamed cauliflower, celery, berries,
beverage.
Dinner: Well broiled lamb chop, steamed white onions in cream,
raw celery, radishes and lettuce, apple sauce or prune
whip, beverage.
Wednesday
Breakfast: Prunes, celery and ripe bananas, hot beverage.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, fruit salad, beverage.
Dinner: Boiled ribs of beef or braised ox tail, steamed carrots
and steamed parsnips, raw celery, lettuce and tomatoes,
melons or berries, beverage.
Thursday
Breakfast: Ripe sliced bananas, wheat germ with cream, bev-
erage.
Luncheon: Tomato juice, baked potato, celery, lettuce, grapes,
beverage.
Dinner: Vegetable soup, raw vegetables, steamed cauliflower,
canned pears, or berries, rice pudding with raisins, bev-
erage.
28
Friday
Breakfast: Whole grain cereal, prunes, beverage.
Luncheon: Tomato juice, steamed peas and cauliflower, grapes,
or berries, beverage.
Dinner: Vegetable soup, baked sea fish or well broiled steak,
steamed string beans and spinach, raw celery, lettuce and
tomatoes, melons and berries, beverage.
Saturday
Breakfast: Melon, prunes, wheat germ, beverage.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, baked potato, celery, berries or
watermelon, beverage.
Dinner: Roast chicken, steamed carrots and onions in cream,
raw celery and tomatoes, melons and berries, beverage.
CONCENTRATED VITAMINS RECOMMENDED DAILY.
REQUIREMENT, ONE DARK AND ONE LIGHT TABLET
EACH DAY.
Grain or fig beverages advised. Favor baked potatoes or
baked celery root instead of fried vegetables. Favor honey for
sweetening purposes. If hungry before retiring, drink water,
diluted orange juice or thin soup that will not cause gas dur-
ing sleep. Berries may be eaten between meals or before re-
tiring. All fruit should be chewed thoroughly. Remember fruit
juice is gold in the morning and lead at night, unless diluted.
Vegetable soup may be taken for breakfast instead of other
combinations.
CONCENTRATED MINERAL TABLETS CONTAINING
ESSENTIAL MINERAL ELEMENTS ARE ADVISED TO BE
REGULARLY USED AT ALL MEALS.
VITAMIN B-1, HIGH POTENCY TABLETS MAY BE
PROFITABLY TAKEN DAILY. QUANTITY ONE-HALF OR
ONE WHOLE TABLET EACH DAY, OR INCREASED
QUANTITY ON THE ADVICE OF A PHYSICIAN.
Well toasted whole wheat br~ad may be eaten in modera-
tion when fats or me'at are not served at same time. Plain or
fancy cake may be used for dessert occasionally.
24
!I
I
I
f
I
Twenty-One Scientific Economy Meals
This Might Also Be Called a War-Time Diet
Sunday
Breakfast: Stewed prunes, wheat germ, beverage.
Dinner: Pea soup, baked potato, shredded raw cabbage, raw
apple.
Supper: Potato and carrot top soup, steamed beets, celery,
brown 1ice pudding.
Monday
Breakfast: Vegetable soup, boiled whole wheat with raisins.
Luncheon: Steamed lima beans, shredded raw cabbage, raw
apple.
Dinner: Soup made from beef bones, potatoes and parsley,
whole wheat bread, prunes.
Tuesday
Breakfast: Boiled whole wheat, boiled prunes and prune juice.
Luncheon: Baked potato with cream, grated raw carrot, baked
apple or grapes.
Dinner: Soup made from dried peas, carrot tops and parsley,
steamed onions and cream, apple sauce.
Wednesday
Breakfast: Vegetable soup, raw apples.
Luncheon: Steamed canots and parsnips, prunes and prune
juice.
Dinner: Irish stew made from beef, turnips, potatoes and on-
ions, raw apple, prune juice.
Thursday
Breakfast: Boiled whole wheat with raisins, soya bean milk
with molasses.
Luncheon: Vegetable soup, celery, ripe banana.
Dinner: Pea soup, kidney beans, grated raw cabbage, raw
apple.
Friday
Breakfast: Stewed prunes, wheat germ, beverage.
25
Luncheon: Steamed dry lima beans with carrot tops, radishes,
raw apple.
Dinner: Fish chowder, whole wheat bread, grated raw cabbage
with raisins and apples, prunes and prune juice.
Saturday
Breakfast: Vegetable soup, bananas and prune juice.
Luncheon: Pea soup, baked potatoes, soya bean milk.
Dinner: Potato, onion and beef bones soup, steamed turnips
and onions, grated raw cabbage, raw apple, prune juice.
If hungry between meals, take soup or prunes. If coffee is
any hot beverage, raw sugar instead of white. Onions and tur-
craved, not more than 3 cups daily. Use evaporated milk for
nips may be used instead of other vegetables when found to be
cheaper. Vitamins A and Bl concentrates can be taken daily
at a cost not exceeding 1% cents per day. Cabbage, celery and
raw apples or melons provide a sufficiency of Vitamin C. Orange
juice in moderation a good source of Vitamin C. When feeding
children, a little pure molasses may be added to cereals and on
bread when used. A soup breakfast may be used if preferred
to other combinations. If food is scarce, soup may be used three
or more times daily.
THE FOOD WAY TO HEALTH
One should be too wise to tolerate the intolerable. Our
duty and privilege is to look our best, act our best, to serve our
best and live our best. This is quite a high program to follow
but it should be observed if but for one reason only. Each one
of us is an influence for others. How can we become an inspired
influence when we are sick and ailing? It is our duty to study
natural law and regain our health if we have lost it. The food
way is the safe, easy and natural plan of super health building.
Try it for yourself. ·
"Custom makes fools of us all" says Carlyle. The custom of
sending flowers and fruits to the sick is not a healthy one.
Rather should ailing people be informed that it requires no
education or brains to become ill. It is tragic to watch invalids
eat certain foods three or more times a day that keep them ill
and then expect the more intelligent members of the family to
work and worry about them.
26
Such a state of mind makes the sufferer more selfish and
harder to manage. What logic would there be in rewarding
people for their mistakes in the business world? Sick people
must be taught they are ill as a general thing because the food
they are eating is lacking in certain vitamins and minerals, they
are not receiving the proper food content. An ancient Hindoo
philosopher exclaims "Ho ye who suffer ye suffer from your-
selves."
THE NEW SCIENCE OF HEALTH
We have now arrived at the stage when practically all
health problems will be solved at the dining table. The pos-
session of health always will be the simplest thing in all the
world through the understanding and practice of food science.
Do not go on extended fasts to win health. It is better to eat
your way back to health than to attempt to fast disease out of
your system. I believe your doctor will corroborate this advice.
Incidentally, the new doctor of medicine will be first of all a
dietitian, a doctor of preventive medicine.
It is a tragedy to see men, women and children dying by
the thousands due to lack of food' understanding. Schools
should teach children the part that food plays in health and
disease. Churches should educate their members in health
through food science. This idea has been encouraged by Mr.
Henry Ford of Detroit. Look at the average meal served in our
American homes and you find the true cause back of the pain
and suffering of many millions of the American people. Food
is life or death.
The new science of health will not treat symptoms. It will
aim at the root of disease, the cause. The cause is almost in-
variably a deficiency of essential minerals or vitamins or the
excessive consumption of certain foods that create mucus and
toxins within the body which later break out as arthritis, can-
cer, tuberculosis, rheumatism, diabetes, deafness, insanity, skin
diseases and the like. Scientific names for diseases are becom-
ing outmoded. Soon the universal name for almost all diseases
will be "Faulty Nutrition."
Proper eating lifts your life to new levels. As you eat right,
brain and kidney inflammation end. Life is richer, sweeter,
more rewarding. It has taken me more than forty years of
research and study to present these twenty points in eating
for health. Try them and begin to live rejoicingly.
27
The 20 Points of Eating for Beauty and Health
POint 1-To. use salt only as a condiment. Practically all
other condiments prove irritating to the delicate membranes of
the stomach. A level teaspoonful is the maximum amount un-
less living in a very wann climate.
Point 2--To use whole wheat bread exclusively unless your
doctor orders otherwise. Whole wheat bread is richer in en-
ergy and protein content than any other kind. Moderation in
bread eating is considered a wise procedure by the food wise
physician. Soya bean flour can profitably be added to the whole
wheat flour.
Point 3-To cook all meats thoroughly. This dictum in-
eludes fish, steaks and chops. Nearly all meat has parasites of
some kind; otherWise, meat is a wholesome, perfect protein
food. Pork because of the possible presence of Trichina
Spiralis should be cooked at least five hours, hams should be
cooked very much longer, so as to prevent possible infestation
of the Trichinosis worm. Pork sausages and all pork products
require a thorough and extensive cooking. There is a source of
danger in underdone pork products, this includes pork chops.
I enjoy well broiled bacon, pigs feet and thoroughly cooked
ham as an occasional part of my diet.
Point 4-Raw sugar should be favored over the white kind.
Raw sugar is preferable to any other type. I never recommend
more than three teaspoonfuls a day. In a test with the fertiliz-
ing of plants with sugar reported by the New York Times, Sun-
day, November 24th, 1940, it was said that Vitamin B-6 con-
tained in brown sugar caused tomato plants to grow ten times
faster. Experiments with white sugar failed to improve growth
in plants. This it was explained was due to lack of vitamin B-6,
as none of this vitamin is present in highly purified or white
sugar. I favor for my students pure honey in preference to any
kind of sugar. Bennan says "The blood can only handle one
teaspoonful of sugar at any time, and this sugar is the fruit
kind, not cane sugar."
Point 5--To use whole wheat or whole grain cereals only,
above all to use them in moderation. Honey is advised for
sweetening. Cream in moderation may be used. Four large
tablespoonfuls of ho;ney may be consumed each day~
28
Point 6-To closely observe the reaction to cow's milk. Some
medical authorities recommend a quart of milk daily for chil-
dren on account of its calcium content. The wise parent will
study the reactions of her child to the drinking of milk, and if
it disagrees or causes colds or fevers, it should be prohibited
from the diet. No animal save man returns to drinking milk
after the weaning period. Dried milk powder is suggested as
the ideal way to use milk. Fresh goat milk is lower in fat con-
tent than cow milk, therefore more digestible.
Point 7-To be watchful of animal fats and oils. All
greasy food slows down digestion in the stomach and tends to
decrease the.normal flow of gastric juice. In the January 6th,
1941 edition of Time Magazine Dr. Paul Robert Cannon warns
physicians of oil pneumonia. Constant use of oily nose drops,
nightly doses of mineral oil for constipation, forced feedings of
children with cod liver oil or halibut liver oil all tend to cause
oil pneumonia. The combination of animal fats, butter, cream
and the like with grain starches such as bread and rolls will in
time be often found to lead to stomach upsets of great or lesser
severity. Animal fats are safer when used with meat, fowl,
eggs or fish. The silver fox never eats fat of any kind. Perhaps
that is the reason we say "As smart as a fox." The adolescent
pimples which disfigure the faces of countless thousands of
young Americans usually have their origin in fatty, starchy,
sugary combinations of food. "A word to the wise is sufficient."
Point 8-To use soup o1· carrot juice or orange juice or all
three one day each week, no other food to be eaten that special
day. This is a health maintaining suggestion, as the organs of
digestion and assimilation are rested and nerve energy usually
needed for digestion is employed to revitalize the cells, nerves,
blood and brain. Unless work is of a heavy physical nature, two
meals in every twenty-four hours will be found sufficient. One
of the chief reasons for sleep is to render us unconscious for
eight hours in each twenty-four so that we will not be able to
eat an additional meal.
Point 9-To consider the facts about tea and coffee. All
commercial caffeine is extracted from tea not from coffee. All
tea has caffeine. Many brands of coffee contains no caffeine.
The average cupful of tea contains one grain of caffeine. The
average cupful of coffee three grains. A medicinal dose is three
grains. Just imagine the condition of coffee and tea dlinkers
29
who use more than two or three cupfuls of tea or coffee daily.
Almost a positive sign of excessive caffeine intake is _a stiffness
and a tightening of the back of the neck. I always recommend
my students to substitute fig or grain beverages for tea and
coffee. If you are intrigued by tea or coffee use it as moderately
as you possibly can and use honey instead of sugar for sweeten-
ing. All coffee contains wax and oil.
Point 10-To understand the facts about soft drinks. It is
my opinion that American children go to excess in the con-
sumption of pop. A little is permissible but when over in-
dulged the sugar or caffeine content is bound to bring on
sooner or later some deleterious reaction against health. Par-
ents who are food wise are strict on this subject. This advice
also applies to soda fountain drinks.
Point 11-To discriminate in the use of fruit. Citric fruit
juice cannot be consumed immoderately without generally
causing some unpleasant after effects. Quite often a tender
skin, a skin rash, eczema or even rheumatism may result. Dr.
Paul Hanna points out that drinking a quart of orange juice
daily acquires so much citric acid that the body metabolism is
upset and colds may be the result. Orange and grapefruit juice
are wholesome and delectable, but many cannot take a large
quantity at one time. It is always recommended to take citric
fruits at the beginning of a meal. Apples, pears, melons and
the like may be taken at the end of a meal. Never forget the
safe advice of a past generation-"fruit in the morning is
golden, silver at noon, lead ·at night." I still believe that the
proper time to take citric fruit is in the morning and never
with starches or sugar.
Point 12-To favor two meals a day for the working man-
a good breakfast, a very light luncheon and the main meal at
night. That drowsy, dopey feeling after a hearty luncheon ad-
vertises the fact of faulty combinations or too much starch or
fat eaten. A prominent New York City lawyer once observed
"I have won cases in court I should have lost because the
opposing lawyer had eaten a hearty luncheon during court
recess, and was doped for several hours afterwards because the
blood that should have been in his brain helping him to think
was in his stomach instead endeavoring to digest his ill-com-
bined luncheon." I personally favor a no breakfast plan, a
good luncheon about 11:30 A.M. and the main meal about 6
30
o'clock P.M. Almost every person in the United States suffers
from starch poisoning. Omitting breakfast will remove that
threat. Breakfast is generally a gorging of starchy foods.
Fruits exclusively is ideal for breakfast. People who work hard
should take a hearty breakfast and a very light luncheon. The
chief meal should be eaten about 6 P.M.
Point 13--To avoid using greasy stock, cream, oil or butter
in soups and over vegetables. You make a hard task for the
processes of digestion to handle, when you use fats and grease.
Read the recipes for vegetable soups given on another page,
prepare them accordingly, and you will undoubtedly be thrilled
with the richness and flavor. Millions of men and women all
over America are unwieldy from obesity. Often this excess
poundage originates from the over consumption of fats and
oils. Try for awhile at least to like your baked potato with
avocado or salt only added. Try out the natural flavor of your
cooked or steamed vegetables devoid of any flavoring or sauce
save salt. Never use pork and beans when cooked together.
When animal fat is cooked into starch it is an almost impossible
job for the stomach to digest it properly. The presence of
phlegm in the throat signifies starch or grease poisoning.
Point 14-To favor salads without the usual type of acid
dressings. Turn to the page of salad recipes and learn how to
make salad dressings that are alkaline in reaction. Almost all
the accepted, customary salad dressings have an acid reaction.
Such dressings are prone to irritate the delicate stomach mem-
branes and later lead to even more serious stomach com-
plaints. It is tragic to notice even well educated people using
irritating salad dressings, and then "taking something" for the
indigestion often resulting. Always remember that pain is
friendly, a warning from the inner intelligence of the body that
the food you are eating is not wisely chosen. An old physician,
Dr. Hall, who practiced in Philadelphia more than a century
ago said in his book "The fool when he is sick takes something,
the wise man does something." The proper thing to do as I
see it, when pain is present, is to find out the food or the com-
bination of foods that produced it, and ever after abstain from
that dietetic error. It is authentically stated that nine out of
every ten adults in the United States suffer from indigestion to
a lesser or major degree.
81
Point 15-To abstain as much as possible from fried foods.
From the frying pan to the hospital and thence to the grave is
an old story. Never forget that it doubles the work of the di-
gestive system when animal fats and starches are cooked to-
gether and eaten. Wise Shakespeare observes "What may taste
sweet in the mouth often turns sour in the system." What we
do not protect we will lose in time. A perfect stomach is a price-
less gift. When we fill our stomachs with a conglomerate mass
of fat, sugar, gravies and starch we are not guarding the health
of our stomach and the future will be grim indeed and holding
the threat of dyspepsia and indigestion. Study my recipes and
use them for a perfect cancer-free stomach all through life.
Point 16-To avoid many acid-forming desserts. Pie, cake
and ice cream are all permissible at times. Unfortunately most
people have a "sweet tooth"-I have one myself, but when
sweets are used too freely the health of the stomach is always
endangered. For that reason I urge my students to favor
sweet fruits such as raisins, :figs, baked apples, canned fruits,
prunes, dates and persimmons for dessert. All pastries, pud-
dings, cakes and pies have an acid reaction in the system. The
sweet fruits have an alkaline reaction. Knowing this to be true
give your stomach and blood a chance to be normal by favor-
ing sugar fruits whenever you can for dessert. Baked apples,
prunes, canned peaches, pears and apricots are recommended
for desserts.
Point 17-To use glass, iron, stainless steel or fine granite-
ware in cooking utensils. Every metal gives off a distinct and
different vibration. The ancient Romans were aware of this
fact as they placed large silver coins in their cups of wine and
water. Silver cooking vessels would help to spray a definite
health vibration into the food they enclosed. What a wonderful
new use we would find for all the unused silver throughout the
world if we could afford to tum that metal into pots and skillets.
I believe heavy glassware will be the chief cooking vessel of the
future. Vegetables should be steamed, never boiled in water.
The less cooking the more mineral and vitamin content is as-
sured in the cooked vegetable.
Point 18-About serving liquor with meals. Beer is mildly
fattening. Cocktails are very high in calorie content. The
glowing reaction to liquor drinking is bought at a very high
price as far as future health is concerned. A carrot and celery
32
juice cocktail is a far wiser appetizer than any whiskey, beer or
gin concoction. If liquor is craved make it as occasional an
event as your urge permits. A glass of old wine is the safest in
liquors. Note, however, that all liquor has an acid reaction, and
if the blood should lose its alkaline edge death ensues at that
moment. The blood in health is slightly alkaline at all times.
Watch what you eat but in a wholesome way. See to it that
over 50% of the food you consume has an alkaline reaction.
However, never be a fanatic about food. It is said Louis Pasteur
became so fanatical over the germ idea that he had a micro-
scope placed on his dining table to examine each mouthful of
food he ate. In using beer, select the kind that is prepared
without sugar or syrup.
Point 19-Facts about meat eating. Biologically all animals
with eyes in front are potential meat eaters, as they have but
one stomach. The vegetarian animals have eyes on the side and
more than one stomach. From the biological standpoint, there-
fore, meat seems to be a natural food for human beings. I con-
sider meat the perfect protein for the brain and cells of the
body. Unless extensive physical work is undertaken I advise
meat eating not to exceed eight ounces in each twenty-four
hours. The body can handle that quantity very nicely.
Living on a vegetable diet the elephant is the strongest ani-
mal on earth. However, the elephant is not called the "King
of Beasts"-the lion is. The lion a strictly carnivorous animal
not one tenth as strong as the elephant can kill him by superior
strategy. The lion being shrewder, due to meat eating, climbs
up on a tree bordering on the elephant trail in the jungle. As
the elephant passes the lion leaps on his back, claws open a
blood vessel and the elephant presently sinks to the ground-
dead.
Some time in the dim future we will have a perfect protein
food developed by science. Then it will not be necessary to kill
any animal for its meat. Until that time art·ives I believe in meat
eating for the maintenance of mental and physical health.
All meat should be thoroughly cooked by boiling, roasting
or broiling. This suggestion includes fish and fowl also.
Avoid cooking fat pork with potatoes, beans or other starchy
vegetables. When animal fats and starches are cooked together,
the fat is driven into the starchy cell and later it wears out the
digestive powers of the stomach to digest this illy combined
combination.
33
SCIENCE PROVES A HUMAN BEING HAS TWENTY
FLESH GRINDING TEETH AND BUT TWELVE VEGET-
ABLE GRINDING TEETH. MEAT REQUIRES LITTLE
CHEWING; IN FACT, EXPERIMENT REVEALS MEAT DI-
GESTS PERFECTLY IN A NORMAL STOMACH EVEN
WHEN SWALLOWEDWITHOUT ANY EXTENSIVE CHEW-
ING. WELL COOKED MEAT, BAKED POTATO SKINS,
STEAMED STRING BEANS, RAW CELERY, RAW TOMA-
TOES AND AVOCADOS EATEN TWICE DAILY REPRE-
SENT AN INVINCIBLE COMBINATION AGAINST STO..
MACH GAS, CO~S, SYSTEMITC CATARRH, THROAT
MUCUS, ARTHRITIS AND ALL FORMS OF COLDS AND
RHEUMATISM.
Point 20-The question of quantity. It is one thing to be
alive and a much more important thing to be fully alive. Watch
your calorie intake if you are inclined to take on flesh. To be
overweight is not at all an asset from any intelligent stand-
point. A short woman needs about 1400 calories of food daily.
A tall woman about 1800 calories. An average size man doing
office or clerical work requires about 2000 calories each day. A
tall man needs about 2500 calories. A laborer or woodsman may
burn up calories running close to 5000 units in a day.
Fight fat by the use of our reducing diets if obesity threat-
ens. Being overweight is always a disadvantage, likewise, the
woman who is a victim of too much poundage inclines to lose
youth, beauty and glamour.
S4
.Food for ~ought
You are in charge of your own body~ therefore it is the es-
sence of wisdom to exercise wholesome thought and restraining
discretion at meal time. The old time cleric taught that disease
was a Divine visitation for past or present sins. Modem Nu-
tritional Science reveals that disease in man is founded at the
dining table, especially where over-indulgence in foodstuffs is
the rule.
Women who punish or persistently nag their children, men
who are dishonest, or husbands who beat their wives are very
often victims of food poisoning. At one time I was connected
with the New York City Police Training Academy. During the
years I spent there as an instructor of Cosmic Breathing, I
spoke to hundreds· of young men who were in the morning
"line up" for various crimes. I never encountered a single
young man who had heard of food harmony or the importance
of right eating. These budding criminals were in a terribly
toxic state from constantly eating acid-forming, sugary and
greasy foods.
I frequently conferred with parents of these unfortunate
boys, but they thought I was insane even to suggest that diet
had anything to do with stealing, maiming or murder, but it
certainly has, and far more than suspected. A nurse who was
a specialist in child care, addressing a group of "hill women" in
a certain state, was approached by a miner's wife at the eon-
elusion of the talk. "You can't tell me anything about children,"
she scolded, "I've buried eight of them."
We have just one person to make healthy, happy and rich-
that is ourself. When we radiate vibrant health and joy of liv-
ing, we unconsciously influence others to think and live in terms
of bodily wholeness and happiness. There is one attribute which
every person carries with him, that is the influence of his per-
sonality. No man liveth unto himself. Our influence is always
felt by others to some degree during our life.
Nature gives us, at birth, bodies with potential health and
the possibility for a century or more of youthful life. But alas,
almost 500,000 young children die in the United States every
twelve months. The fault is chiefly due to those who control
our sources of education. The people are not really to blame, as
until quite recently they had no place to turn to learn the truth
S5
that food is the main cause of disease, and that food knowledge
is of vastly greater importance th&n our present system of edu-
cation condescends to put upon it.
In the workshop of life we can learn anything we decide
we want to know. ·Then we should be on our guard to get abso-
lute truth, not mere speculations or superstitions relative to our
desired information. Above all we should develop power of will
to practice that which we discover to be wise, useful and good.
Thousands of ideas are abroad concerning food, many for
financial gain or because the author had "some axe to grind."
In this book are disclosed the truths I have found in my ex-
periences resulting from tests and observations made over
forty years in food preparation and scientific feeding of my
students at seven summer centers. You can safely use these
recipes given on later pages, also all the minor and major sug-
gestions; they are all based on results, not mere theories. All
that is necessary for you to do is to establish sufficient will-
power to practice these right habits of eating, which will help
you to maintain or regain health, youth and beauty. When we
eat what we want, there is little health-hope for us. Instead,
we must know the foods that are really good for us, and eat
those foods day by day. But without the will to stick to right
eating, the maintenance or regaining of health is a defeated
cause.
Says Seneca: "Man does not die; he kills himself." Truly
that is the status of humanity today. Almost everybody is eat-
ing himself into a life of worry, crime, insanity, sickness or an
untimely grave. Man is on the downhill unless doctors awaken
to the true cause of disease and warn the people before it is too
late.
Men and women are prone to select food that pleases the
eye and tickles the palate. People rarely inquire as to the
wholesomeness of the food that is placed before them. The
people are not to blame; they trust the doctors and the doctors
are educated to believe in genns and bugs as the causative
factor in disease. Worse than that they are taught to believe
in drugs, serums and operations to effect a cure for diseases de-
veloping from mineral and vitamin deficiency and the eating of
mucus reacting foods.
Men and women live life, but they rarely take time to study
life. As a consequence, they are quite trusting in their nature,
36
and whatever they are told by those in authority, they calmly
accept. Presently their belief in "that which is not so, occa-
sions disease or premature death, but never is false belief an-
nounced to be the cause for man's misfortunes.
So this tragic "set-up" has diseased, maimed marred and
killed countless thousands each year in the past. There is more
than a faint glimmer of hope that truth will eventually rise
from its crushed condition and assert in ringing tones that
faulty diet is the underlying cause of almost all the diseases of
civilization.
The African gorilla, living chiefly on vitamin-rich wild cel-
ery, has the strength of six ordinary men who consume the
foods of civilization. The immensely powerful baboon, living
mainly on the green tops of pineapples, also is a forceful ex-
ponent of the·value of green leaves so prolific in minerals and
vitamins.
Alcohol
Alcohol is not a lasting stimulant, it is really a depressant.
As soon as its exciting influence has evaporated, a let-down
reaction sets in. If liquor is craved, do not exceed a glassful or
two of good beer, ale or wine.
Liquor, however, is best left alone. If a craving for alco-
holic drink is present, choose the drink that does you the least
harm. Alcohol always affects the higher brain centers and the
nerves. Man, created in the image and likeness of his Creator,
prostitutes his divine inheritance when he indulges in exten-
sive liquor drinking. Gluttony is another form of dangerous
inebriation.
When Sir Walter Scott was handed a bill for five hundred
thousand dollars, the result of his father's failure in business,
he said, "My right hand shall be the instrument to earn the
money to pay off this debt." And it did through the medium of
the Waverly novels.
When we are neither food wise, nor food conscious, our right
hands become our arch enemies. Our right hand may convey
the food to our mouth which later helps to destroy our health
and prematurely end our lives.
S7
When our body shrieks with pain, know that food is the
usual cause behind the pain. When headaches torment, en-
deavor to trace their origin, it will generally be found in the
intestinal tract. When tonsils rot, when our eyesight dims,
when rheumatism attacks, when teeth decay, when colds an-
noy, realize that unwise eating habits are almost solely to
blame.
·A new medical light is dawning on the horizon of life. No
longer is the germ theory being pushed into an erroneous first
place as the cause of disease. Science is reluctantly placing
germs where they rightfully belong, in second place, and ad-
mitting that the germs may be present because of the presence
of the invitation of injurious acidified food particles floating
in the blood or lodged somewhere in the system.
That germs and Virus do exist and do cause some diseases
such as influenza and infantile paralysis is not to be denied, but
the vast majority of diseases attributed to germs will presently
be discovered to have developed at the dining table, not from
bacterial sources of infection.
A cold is a symptom of a cause, likewise is a diseased tonsil.
Tuberculosis is a symptom of a cause, so is a cataract, glaucoma
and indigestion. Rheumatism is not a disease in itself, neither
is dropsy, cancer or asthma, all are merely symptoms of under-
lying causes, chiefly dietetic.
Disease may originate from an injury to a bone or organ.
Disease may be of an occupational nature. Disease may be of
congenital origin; this is of rare occurrence. However, the para-
mount cause of disease goes back to faulty habits of eating,
consuming food without thought, rhyme, reason or scientific
study.
A human being is composed of the food he has eaten in the
past. Every atom of our body, including blood, nerves and brain,
is builded by the foods which we daily consume.
88
' '
i i
I
Banish Asthma
Asthma, like all other diseases of civilization, is most gen-
erally due to dietetic causes. Asthma among children is quite a
common occurrence. Those who suffer from asthma must look
to theil· diet as the first and most important step toward cor-
rection.
In asthma reduce to the lowest minimum or banish alto-
gether from the diet eggs, milk, white bread, sugar, cakes, pies,
cookies, cereals, crackers, fats, oils, butter, vinegar, mustard,
pepper, pickles, coffee, ice cream and candy. Simply let the
sufferer live on fruits, raw and cooked vegetables and lean
meat, well cooked, and an occasional baked potato. Ripe ba-
nanas will be found most advantageous, too.
A meat and steamed non-starchy vegetable diet for three
consecutive days will be found of inestimable benefit in reliev-
ing this pernicious, miserable and entirely unnecessary com-
plaint. All sufferers from asthma should learn and profitably
practice Cosmic Breathing as outlined in "Exhale and Grow
Young," published by the writer.
Sunlight Is Food
Whenever possible take advantage of sun bathing. The
rays of the sun are laden with life-affording energy charged
with the vitalizing power of Vitamin D. Always turn the top
of the head away from the sun during the process of your sun
bath.
The sushine in Arizona has a very high and healing potency
of heat waves. Likewise is the California sunshine more heat-
potent than many other states. The Hawaiian sunshine is dif-
fused and has little burning but more actinic healing power in
comparison to the sunshine of the United States.
In warm climates less food should be eaten, as sunlight is
actually a food. Favor meat in limited amounts and fruits and
vegetables abundantly when residing in California, Arizona,
Florida and Hawaii. It is unwise to expose the body for too
extended a period in the beginning of the practice of sun bath-
ing. Air bathing should be profitably combined with sun bath-
ing.
39
Babies who are so fortunate as to have food-wise and sun-
wise mothers stand a much better chance of living than do the
children of parents who are ignorant of these important health-
affording matters. The sun is always most heating when it is at
its extreme point overhead at noon.
Many babies receive bad sunburns when over-exposed to
sunlight. Under-exposure is more desirable than over-exposure
during your adventures in sun bathing.
·Nothing happens in the universe by chance; therefore, have
you not wondered why grass is green and le~ves are green? 1
Even the sea has been called green. Here is the true reason '
back of this phenomenon; green throws off a powerful radiation
totally different from all the other colors. The vibration of green
is called "Odic." It comprises two reverse circles and two re-
verse straight lines. This ray is of particular value, being life
sustaining; therefore, consume plenty of green leaves at your
two main meals. The green catalyst ray also has the power to
destroy invisible dangerous bacteria which otherwise might
consume all the vegetation upon the earth.
Mothers-Less Denatured Sweets for Your Children
Diabetes is increasing at an alarming rate among children.
Many mothers are not yet wise to the danger in dainties and
sweets. The "Art of Eating" is still in its infancy, and close
to half a million children under 16 years die every twelve
months in the United States chiefly because of parental food
ignorance.
Mothers, the odds are all against your young child living
beyond its sixteenth year unless you begin to study food science.
Encourage your children to enjoy nourishing soups, baked po-
tatoes, figs, dates, raisins, pure honey and ripe bananas. Train
your children to control their appetite and eat, in extreme
moderation, ice cream, soft drinks, candy, sugar, pies, crackers
and cakes. Explain to your children that these foods are acid
in reaction and life is perpetuated by maintaining an alkaline
blood supply. If the blood should develop one tenth of one per
cent acidity, death quickly ensues.
Is Bread the Staff of Life?
White bread is universally admitted to be inferior to whole
40
wheat bread. Thousands of convincing tests have proved be-
yond a doubt the authenticity of this belief. A few slices, say
not more than three, of well baked whole wheat bread daily
cannot do us very much harm; however all bread is acid in re-
action and a bread appetite like the tobacco or. liquor appetite,
makes us addicts to starchy foods. Bread is made more potent
by vitamin fortification. ·
Food and Glands
There is a chain of five ductless glands in our body situated
as follows: The Pineal, back in the region between the eyes.
The Pituitary, in the center of the skull at the base of the brain.
The Thyroid and Parathyroids, in the lower part of the neck
toward the right side. The Thymus, high up in the middle of
the breast. The Adrenals, situated astride the kidneys. Each
gland contains a secretion or honnone. These secretions are
chemically created from the food absorbed from the blood
stream.
When little or no attention is paid to the quality of the
food eaten the body weakens and disease attacks it. The hor-
mones of the body are weakened from poor foods and they can-
not make the proper fight to prolong life. Dr. Robert McCarri-
son says that the short span of life of the Hindu (23 years) is
due to weakness of the honnones of the ductless glands. The
quickest way to vitalize and renew the gland secretions is to
drink a quart of raw carrot juice for one day while resting in
bed or out of doors. The next day to drink four quarts of vege-
table soup. The third day two quarts of carrot juice. No other
food save raw celery and avocados should be taken. All the
water, hot or cold, desired may be drunk. Such a diet pro-
longed for 10 to 20 days will often help to eliminate that dire
enemy ARTHRITIS or CHRONIC RHEUMATISM.
What Is Old Age?
Old age is merely a shrinking of the glands due to food
ignorance, and the retention of dead cell wastes in the system.
A man of 25 has free-functioning normal glands. A man at 65
has inhibited, partially atrophied glands, the result of years.of
improper habitS of eating and living. Life should be a constant
quest toward perfect habits of thinking, eating and breathing.
41
Some Opinions
Elmer McCollum of Johns Hopkins University, says,
"The eating of soft food is the principal cause of the physical
deterioration of the American people.
Senator Royal Copeland, M.D. said "The only way that the
criminal can be reformed is through a balanced diet."
Dr. G. Hopkins, of Cambridge, says, "No nation has ever
been properly fed."
Dr. Paul Carton, former head of the Paris Hospital, says,
"I find all disease due to improper eating."
Practice Healthful Habits
In addition to right eating, we should practice hygienic
habits all along the line of living. We should learn to live more
in the out of doors. We should sleep in a well-ventilated cham-
ber. We should WALK at least one mile each day and practice
COSMIC or VITALIC breathing while we walk. We should
bathe our entire body in tepid water once or twice daily. The
toothbrush should be employed twice each day on the tongue,
gums, and teeth. We should also remember our thoughts af-
fect our health to quite a degree. When we worry we inhibit
digestion and worry also slows down our vital circulatory pro-
cesses. When the habits of optimism and courage are persis-
tently held such habits favor physical wholeness. There are
many other important health factors also to be considered.
Food, however, is of course the most vital, but breathing, walk-
ing, exercise, proper posture and happy thinking must supple-
ment proper diet. An erect posture has recently been declared
to be a preventive of high blood pressure.
Raw Vegetable ·Juices Are Nature's Healers
A Norwalk vegetable juicer should be in every home for
increased health promised for every member of the family. Sick
people often cannot eat vegetables, but they usually thoroughly
enjoy the THIRST assuaging liquid essences of raw vegetables.
Carrots, parsley and celery rank first in popularity as producing
the first health building juices. Cucumber, turnip and celery
juices rate very high as vitality builders. Tomatoes, cucumbers,
lettuce, and escarole also make excellent sources for healing
juices.
42
I
I I
i .
It is best to drink raw juices immediately after being
pressed. Juices should be stored in corked glass receptacles, as
metal containers may deleteriously alter the taste. Juices
should be cold when drunk.
Raw vegetable juices are most potent and should be taken
in small quantities, say a large glassful daily in the beginning.
When the system is accustomed to their use, up to one quart of
juice a day may be consumed. Watch particularly that vege-
table juices are prepared under sanitary conditions. The danger
of the colon bacillus is ever present when vegetables are not
thoroughly washed.
Get Rid of Colds
All food eaten leaves an acid or alkaline ash in the body.
When acid reacting food is consumed in excess of the alkaline
reacting food a condition of bodily or mental fatigue is almost
invru'iably present. Alkaline foods such as vegetables and
sweet fruits should comprise 60% of the food consumed daily.
Well cooked meat is the safest and best acid reacting food and
essential protein.
A dietetic condition known as colitis is assuming alarming
prevalency throughout the United States. Here is a recom-
mended eating plan to prevent such a deplorable and entirely
unnecessary inner state.
Four Day Inner Cleansing Plan for Colitis
Breakfast-Bake in oven or boil together apples, pears and
fresh or well washed canned pineapples in a little water with a
little pure honey added for sweetening about 30 minutes.
10:30 A.M.-Drink a cupful of Vegetable Bouillon Broth.
Recipe on soup recipe page.
Luncheon-About 6 ounces of well cooked lamb or steak.
Raw celery, raw tomatoes and half a ripe avocado. The broth
may also be taken as a beverage.
4:00 P.M.-One cupful of broth.
Dinner-As luncheon.
Before Retiring-Cupful of broth.
43
If you alternate soup only one day between above daily sug-
gestions for cleansing, the health of the body will be speeded up.
Siiriply eat inner cleansing diet first, third, fifth and seventh
days. Eat soups prepared from our recipes in the between days.
Eight days on this combination diet will truly effect a real
iilner cleansing.
Jams, Jellies and Preserves
Fruit. whether :uncooked or cooked tends toward an alkaline
reaction in the system. When fruit is liberally sweetened it has
an ACID reaction. Acid reacting foods are not at all taboo, but
they should be taken with thoughtful sparseness. The popular
meal of bread, jam and tea is an exceedingly acid fonning, fer-
menting combination and is far from being as healthful as is so
generally supposed.
Recently I met several members of a most cultured family
who complained of being bothered by constant boils and facial
eruptions. When we checked up on the cause, we found they
#ere absolutely food ignorant, as they had been consuming
marmalade and various jams three times daily. In a few months
eyery afilicted member of the family had lost all traces of their
boils and skin troubles. They continue to taste jam and marma-
lade at one daily meal only, so no return of their skin trouble is
expected.
Ifthe time should ever come that I would have the authority
to prescribe for the insane, I should abolish most of the food
that is now fed to these unfortunate victims of wrong eating.
In place of these improper foods I would prescribe diets based on
foods rich in vitamins and minerals, particularly calcium, iron
and magnesium. Insanity is chiefly caused by the presence of
dead parasites, such as embryonic tape wonns, in the brain.
Rarely is insanity present because of a mental shock or a
mental breakdown. Dementia Precox is indeed most often a
dietetic disease.
A Lesson on Vitamins
The mere act of eating is not all there is to food science.
Nutritional Scienee proves that unfortunate results happen if
your diet is deficient in vitamin content. The ordinary Ameri-
can diet, at present, is not founded on scientific nutritional
44
principles. The over-milling of grains, over-cooking of vege-
tables, lack of sunshine during the fall and winter seasons all
contribute to keep one's health below par. The unfoldment of
vitamin therapy is of quite recent origin. Lowland Hopkins of
England in 1912launched an important paper on some "dietary
factor" which prevented sailor's scuTvy and prevented rickets
in children. This "dietary factor" is now known as Vitamin A
Under the microscope, vitamin A is of light yellow color and
rod like in form.
The daily adult essential requirement of Vitamin A is un-
certain but it probably runs around 10,000 International Units.
Such a dosage in a span of twenty years would not use up more
than ten ounces of this vital element. When there is a de-
ficiency of Vitamin A in the diet, physical trouble of more or
less a serious nature is in the offing. Some of these potential
troubles are:
Night blindness or limited ability to read or see in dim light.
Bronchial disease and a bronchial cough.
Degeneration of "visual purple rods" found in the back of
the eye.
Trend toward tuberculosis and respiratory diseases.
The encom·agement of general systemic infection.
The shortening of life.
A trend toward loss of hair from men's heads.
A lowering of vitality.
Nutritionally approved best food sources for securing an
adequate ration of Vitamin A, given in preferred order:
Canned or fresh tomato juice.
Freshly made carrot juice.
Grated kale or raw cabbage.
Ripe bananas sliced or whole bananas baked.
Lettuce.
Steamed turnip greens.
Steamed string beans.
Spinach.
Other sources are:
Butter.
Cream
Cheese.
Milk.
Eggs.
Fish liver oils in capsules.
45
Raw green vegetables and steamed carrots and peas.
Melons.
Raspberries.
Squash.
Sweet potatoes.
Fresh and canned apricots.
Whole cornmeal.
Papaya.
Prunes.
The general public seems to be more conscious of Vitamin
B-1 because of its extensive radio advertising in recent years.
The other nine general types of Vitamins are known to the
layman, but at present Vitamin _B-1 is first in the field with
Vitamin A a close second. The Latin word for life is "vita."
The last half of the word vitamin means element, so it can be
considered that a vitamin is a life substance of a catalyst na-
ture.
Vitamin B-1 like all other vita.Il)ins is a chemical food ele-
ment. A tiny male and female cholera genn if left undisturbed
to breed could cover the entire earth with its progeny in a few
days time, and in so doing might decimate fifty per cent or more
of all the human beings living upon the face of the earth.
The absence of a tiny grain of Vitamin B-1 sand in one's
daily diet may cause a dire disturbance in bodily health. The
consumption of one quarter of a pennyweight each year in this
essential element is all that is necessary for the maintenance of
better health. Artificially manufactured Vitamins are claimed
to be as valuable as the vitamins obtained from sea weed, grains
or green plants which flourish in the gardens of America.
The mysterious inner intelligence of the body enables the
cells, nerves, blood and brain to recognize the presence of Vita-
mins in the food which floats in the blood and extracts these
precious catalyst energies to spark up the life processes of the
entire body. It takes the presence of vitamins to ensure the
ability of the body to utilize fully the food that passes through
the upper intestine and stomach walls. Possibly the first bene-
fit one will notice in consistently using a sufficiency of Vitamin
B-1 is the absence of stomach disorders. To feel pretty good
is not good enough for any sane person. To be gloriously well
should be our aspiration. Vitamin B-1 can help you to attain
this "unconsciousness of body" which spells maximum health.
46
Under the microscope Vitamin J3...1 is crystal-like in shape
and of a yellowish color. Its chemical name is Thiamin and
more is known of its action and nature than any other in the B
complex. When there is a deficiency of B-1 in the diet here
are some of the bodily symptoms which medical science declares
may manifest:
Slight appetites in children.
Slow and insufficient bodily growth.
Arthritis.
Dandruff.
Scabs and infection of the scalp.
Neuritis.
Bodily fatigue.
Weakness of the back.
Shortness of breath under slight exertion.
Tendency toward decay of teeth.
Here is a list of excellent food sources, containing Vitamin
B-1.
Wheat germ.
Whole rye flour.
Raw fresh milk.
Thoroughly cooked ham.
Calve's liver broiled.
Bananas.
Avocados.
Figs.
Orange Juice.
Peaches, fresh and canned.
Prunes, stewed (sun-dried).
Melons.
Artichokes.
Kidney and string beans.
Lima and soy beans.
Cauliflower and cabbage.
Corn and carrots.
Cucumbers, parsnips, peas.
Raw green peppers.
Irish potatoes.
Spinach, tomatoes, watercress.
Green tops of vegetables.
Peanut butter.
Lean beef.
47
Roast turkey.
Dried peas.
In addition to Vitamin B-1 there are five other designated
members in this group but the most important is B-1. The
other members of the B Complex are essential for health and
life and can be obtained at Health Food stores in tablet or
liquid form. ·
Vitamin Cis the next in the list. It is an essential vitamin
and its deficiency may result in:
Heart disease.
Scurvy.
Tendency to infection.
Bodily weakness.
Mental sluggishness.
Tooth decay.
Stomach ulcers.
The best food sources of Vitamin C are:
Tomato juice, fresh or canned.
Green peppers.
Bean sprouts.
Almost all green vegetables.
Fresh lima beans.
Dried black soya beans.
Brussel Sprouts (steamed).
Grated raw cabbage.
Beet tops (steamed).
Raw cucumbers.
Parsnips (steamed).
Parsley.
Peas, raw or steamed.
Baked white and sweet potatoes.
Radishes.
Spinach raw or steamed.
Watercress.
Cauliflower, raw or steamed.
Okra.
Carrot juice or raw carrots well chewed.
Orange and grapefruit juice.
Pineapple juice canned or fresh.
All fresh berries.
Papayas.
Avocados.
48
Bananas, sliced or baked.
Melon.
Calves liver.
Whole corn.
In the preparation of vegetables it is urged that baking
soda should not be used unless prescribed by a physician as its
presence is deleterious to the Vitamin C content of food.
Vitamin D, the bone building Vitamin is best found in sun-
light, and in fish oil in capsules at your health food or drug
store. During the winter months children may develop physical
lassitude and bodily weakness when there is a scarcity of Vita-
min D. Wise parents, if you want your child to have a straight
and strong bony structure, add a sufficiency of Vitamin D to
your child's meals, during the sun-scarce months of the year.
Vitamin E is labeled the anti-sterility vitamin. This vita-
min seems to be indispensable for women. The present best
source is cold pressed wheat germ oil. Soon it is promised a
synthetic Vitamin E will be placed on the market in tablet
form. Leafy vegetables-lettuce, kale, watercress and spinach
contain this vitamin.
By no means have we come into complete knowledge of
these elusive vitamins. The following excerpt is taken from
the Tucson Gazette, January 23rd, 1941 issue.
"Colonel Albert P. Cla1
·k, head of the Fort Lewis Washing-
ton Hospital says 'If I had the opportunity to personally select
5000 men from the 48,000 we expect to have in this area by
·spring and feed them a specially prepared diet which included
mineral and vitamin content, I would have a small army of
unbeatable men in six months. They would be supermen-they
would be superior mentally as well as physically' asserted
Colonel Clark."
A word of warning relative to vitamins is in order. The
wisest way to obtain vitamins is in concentrated form at your
health food store.
Youth Preserved or Regained
Pl·ogress in nutritional science is threefold. The preserva-
tion of health; the prevention of senility; the prolongation of
life. There is no scientific proof that death is caused by old
age. There is ample evidence that death may come from faulty
49
diet, emotional disturbance and inner retention of toxins and
unexpelled metabolism wastage.
Involution must be daily combatted as it is an enemy to
health and life. When the truth about death is known it will
be found that we do not die, that we are killed by our habits,
environment or bodily toxins. In the dim future, life in the
exultation of youth and health may go on indefinitely or cer-
tainly many times beyond our present span, so says J. B. S.
Haldane of London, England.
In 1941 it is estimated that 6% of the people of the United
States have reached the age of 65 years. Forty years ago the
percentage was only 4%. Sixty years from now we can look
forward to 10% of the people of the United States being beyond
the age of 65 years. This spells progress in healthful living.
Health and youth in old age are really possible. These posses-
sions are now being enjoyed by those who study food science
and practice Cosmic Breathing.
After fifty years of living, science shows that there is a
diminution of starch digesting ptyalin in the saliva. After
seventy this adverse condition has greatly increased. Conse-
quently it is a wise precaution to cut down on the consumption
of bread and cereals in middle life. Starch that is not fully
digested tends to change into mucus and phlegm and cause
colds and sinus infection.
Recent scientific data regarding pantothenic acid as a pre-
ventive of gray hair is extremely interesting. Rats and hu-
mans fed diet rich in panothenic acid foods soon lost their gray
hairs. When there is an abundance of iron, copper and manga-
nese in the diet the tendency toward graying hair is at an end.
Especially is this so when Cosmic Exhalation Breathing is prac-
ticed for twenty-four minutes each day.
A centurY ago Dr. Oliver Wendel Holmes was asked how to
attain a long life. It must be done before we are born, he ad-
vised. "Simply see to it that you choose your parents from long
lived families." However, modem science is not satisfied that
is the only method of guaranteeing a long span of life. Pro-
fessor L. A. Maynard and C. M. McCary of Cornell University
produce satisfactory evidence after the extensive feeding of
rats that life can be prolonged tremendously by scientific feed-
ing.
50
It is most essential if you want to live beyond the century
mark to develop emotional control and cultivate the spirit of
inner calm, and outer poise. Strenuous exercise, too, should be
avoided. Strong men or athletes rarely live to a ripe old age.
The onset of age must be fought with four cosmic weapons:
Cosmic Breathing, Right Eating, Proper Posture and a Positive
Serene Condition of Mind. When these four life principles are
set in scientific operation they will be found to be most effica-
cious in banishing the infirmity in old age. Thus will every one
of us be able to truthfully promise "Grow young along with me
the best is yet to be."
Alkaline Foods
All raw vegetables, baked Irish potatoes, bananas, fresh
milk, lima beans, soya and all types of green beans. All sugar
fruits, citric fruits when properly combined or eaten alone.
Acid Reaction Foods
All animal flesh, fish, fowl, eggs, grains, asparagus tips,
cereals, crackers, cranberries, cakes, sweets, sugar, candy,
syrups, lard, oils, condiments, cheese, commercial ice cream,
gravies, butter, cream, soft drinks, beer, liquor, customary
salad dressings, tea, cocoa, coffee, bread, gravy, cookies, cheese
and certain nuts tend toward an acid reaction in the system.
Citric fruits mixed with starchy or sugar foods remain acid.
LEARN FROM HEADACHES
Pain is the voice of the inner physician flashing us a warn-
ing message-- "You are abusing your body by your habits of
eating or emotional habits."
Many dim-eyed men and women, when they suffer from a
headache, pursue the path of ignorance and take something.
Thus the ingoing drug helps to paralyze the protective pain
signals from the nerves and people in their folly continue to
abuse their bodies until disease is attracted or premature death
puts an end to their foolish life.
Almost all headaches are caused by dietetic ignorance, such
as overeating, eating too much rich food, or consuming sugary
or starchy food in excessive amounts, or eating heavy food
before retiring. A wise dietetic plan is to avoid eating any
heavy food after 8 P.M.
51
Headaches that register on the temples or on the front part
of the head are not as significant as the persistent headache in
the back of the head.
Such a danger signal infers the approach of an acute or
chronic disease. For back of the head headaches or a stiff neck
the four day or eight day cleansing diet given on page 43
should be taken immediately, and thereafter observance of the
21 Harmonized Basic Meals should be religiously observed.
Coffee Hints for Nervous People
The more cream and hot water you mix with your coffee the
less dangerous effect it has upon your nerves and heart. When-
ever we take our coffee strong and black it may act as a club
to our heart and nerves. When we practice this coffee drinking
habit for quite an extended period our hea1·t unc nerves will
have to pay the penalty for our indiscretion. Not all coffee
contains caffeine, but all coffee contains oil and wax.
Do not hinder the future health and happiness of your
children if you have any, by tempting them with even water-
diluted coffee. Coffee is much more harmful to children than
to adults, besides children need to be nourished, not doped. The
organism of a child is not matured, consequently coffee is more
HARMFUL to a child than to the organism of a man or woman.
Children should drink goat milk, dried cow milk in modera-
tion, water, also vegetable juices, fruit juices, vegetable soups,
carrot juice and soya bean milk. Nursing mothers should heed
these facts and apply them to their own foods. It takes about
two cupfuls of strong coffee to cause a tremble in a man's hand,
but one cupful will often cause a woman's hand to tremble. The
average cup of coffee contains three grains of caffeine, a
medicinal dose.
How About Tea Drinking?
The action of tea and coffee in the stomach is about the
same. They may not hinder or forward the digestion of other
food taken with them. However, they display a decidedly in-
imical action in the nervous system after leaving the stomach.
The active drug principle of tea is ealled theine. It is exactly
the same as the active principle, caffeine, in coffee. The tea leaf
contains more CAFFEINE than is found in the coffee bean, but
52
the lesser quantity of tea used produces decidedly less caffeine
in a cupful of tea than is found in a cupful of caffeine-bearing
coffee.
Commercial caffeine is extracted from tea as a general rule,
not from coffee. Lemon juice in tea does not neutralize its
acidity. Favoring raw sugar or pure honey for sweetening tea
is always a practical health measure. Iced tea is just as stimu-
lating as hot tea, its effect is identical when it is absorbed
through the small intestine.
Of Course Yon Will Continue to Drink Tea, but
Prepare it this Better Way
To prepare four cupfuls of tea practically free from caffeine
and other acids proceed as follows: Place four teaspoonfuls of
tea in the tea ball container. Cover the container with boiling.
water for one minute. Throw the resulting liquor into the sink,
as it contains much of the theine found in the tea leaf. Now
cover the tea ball with four cupfuls of fresh boiling water and
steep for three to five minutes. The resulting brew will be
found pleasing to the taste and more healthful than the tea
prepared in the standardized manner.
Regarding the afternoon tea, the outstanding fact in favor
of this doubtful habit is that it helps to reduce the appetite for
heavier food. When tea is taken alone with cream and honey,
the tannic acid is neutralized to such a degree that it is not so
liable to injure the walls of the stomach and intestine. My
earnest advice to all tea drinkers is to use it in moderation if
you value the benefit of good health.
Is Cocoa Better than Tea or Coffee?
Cocoa does not digest as rapidly as tea or coffee due to its
high content of fat. Cocoa is a better beverage for children
than tea or coffee, but the cocoa must be served in a diluted
fonn. Cocoa is to be regarded more in the light of a FOOD
than that of a beverage. Thick cocoa, heavily creamed and
sugared may prove as indigestible as French fried potatoes,
thick gravy and pork chops.
Cocoa is a stimulant, as is tea and coffee, but to a lesser
degree. Tea and coffee leave the stomach rather quickly and
pass into the upper intestine ahead of other foods consumed
at the same time, and their action is more pronounced in the
53
nervous system than cocoa, which leaves the stomach with
the other foods on account of its slow digesting nature. Cocoa
has a lasting sustaining effect not found in tea or coffee. Favor
raw sugar or pure honey for sweetening cocoa. The drug con-
tained in cocoa is called.theobromine. It is as acid fonning as
theine or caffeine. It is the essence of health wisdom to end
the use of all stimulating beverages.
Take Thought with Your Food
Some years ago, at one.of my Summer Centers, a gentleman
visitor invited me to take a short automobile ride with him. He
explained he wanted to fill up his automobile tank with gas.
Presently we approached a gas station and I suggested that he
should stop and get himself the required fuel. He answered, "I
want a special high-power gas which is only available at a
station a mile or two from here."
Before we arrived at this anticipated service station we
passed two other places on the way. My friend's new car
needed special high-power fuel and so he was determined that
an inferior quality of gas should not be fed into his motor tank.
While the car was being checked, this particular gentleman
strayed in the direction of a wayside "hot dog stand" and re-
galed himself with a suspicious-looking hot dog, embedded on
a pale, anemic-appearing white flour roll. Worse than that, the
hot dog was liberally besmeared with mustard. This toxic re-
past was washed down with a glass of acid-reacting beverage.
I looked at this food-poisoned businessman in amazement.
He was still in his early forties but looked and acted like a
physical wreck. Truly he was on his way to the junk pile be-
cause of his corrupted appetite. Business statistics inform us
that nine business men out of every ten fail in business within
ten years from the time they launch their business enterprise.
Few men take time to think along dietetic lines. They are so
prone to imagine food is food and it makes little or no difference
what kind of food one eats. Frequently I am invited to lecture
before luncheon clubs. I always endeavor to slip in after their
unwise luncheon is served. If I must eat such a luncheon I
simply nibble the better food that is placed before me, but
generally leave one-ha.If of the food on my plate untouched.
54
The last cold I remember having contracted happened in
1898, so I certainly do not wish to contract another one by eat-
ing the improperly-harmonized food generally served at the
business luncheon clubs of America. Above the age of fifty
men are generally soft, flabby, and too ample around the mid-
riff. More than a score of years before the public I have never
been invited to a business luncheon or dinner where the food
served was predominantly alkaline or food that later would be
free from toxic fermentation.
Always and always do we find greasy soups, underdone
meats, greasy gravy, fried potatoes, over-cooked vegetables,
generally doped with baking soda, vinegar, bacon fat or pepper.
Even the sliver of lettuce o1· raw tomato is coated with acid re-
acting oil or acid-forming dressing compounded chiefly from
egg yolk or mustard.
I am constantly anticipating that some time, some day,
somewhere in the United States or Canada, I will find an in-
telligent luncheon club that will insist on being served with
well cooked meat and health building, steamed, not boiled,
vegetables, coupled with delicious raw salads without acid-
forming dressings or acid-forming cakes, candies, sweets or
pies.
Minel'als and Pl'ogl'ess
Much of the mineral content in food is lost due to modern
methods of preparing and refining foods. There are ten es-
sential food mineral elements necessary for the maintenance of
dynamic health of body. These minerals are--calcium, phos-
phorus, iron, silicon, iodine, sodium, magnesium, manganese,
copper and boron. (The other minerals are normally supplied
with these.)
The best sources for calcium are leafy vegetables, cauli-
flower, whole grains, cheese and milk. Children should eat
plenty of calcium bearing vegetables.
The best food sources for phosphorus are well cooked meat
and sea fish. The harmonized meals given in this book insure
an adequate daily intake of essential minerals. Concentrated
minerals in tablet form may be profitably used each day.
Many physicians, in my layman's estimation, have an er-
roneous concept as to the nature of disease. This misconcep-
tion as to the true cause of illness has come down in various
theories over the years.
55
The ancient Egyptians believed that disease was originated
by evil demons and they divided the body into a series of thirty-
six zones and named a different demon as inhabiting these vari-
ous zones.
When a sick man had a pain in any particular zone the doc-
tor-priest exorcised the special demon and also pounded that
special part with a wooden mallet. It was unfortunate for the
sufferer when he complained of a headache. The sound mallet-
ing of the patient's skull usually fractured it.
However, the doctor never was reproached, the demon al-
ways was the culprit who was blamed for the death of the
patient. Even in our advanced day do we not most frequently
read or hear, "The patient died but the operation was success-
ful."
Up to 1,500 years ago the demon idea still persisted but,
instead of a multiplicity of demons, the priest or doctors had
reduced them to a single demonical possession. The doctors
of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries discarded the idea
of demons as the causative factor in disease and placed the
blame on excess blood. Accordingly, those who were ill were
often times bled, with most unfortunate results for the patients.
The favorite surmise as to the cause of disease in the
nineteenth century was the supposition that night air was the
reason for illness. Accordingly, all over the world, windows
and doors were tightly closed at night to prevent the ingress of
the deadly night air.
Medical doctors were as sincere in this erroneous belief as
they had been in blood-letting and demoniacal obsessions. To-
day almost all doctors solemnly and implicitly contend.that dis-
ease is caused by the invasion of genns. However, this idea,
too, will pass away in due time. About 300 years ago, when
Dr. Harvey announced his discovery of the circulation of the
blood throughout the body no other physician believed in his
discovery. Always are we prone to disagree with anything that
upsets our held beliefs. That applies to truth as well as error.
The Nine Essential Points in Nutritional Science
Digestion
We have learned that the overeating of fats and oils causes
stomach digestion to slow down. On the other hand, the use of
baking soda unduly hastens digestion in the stomach and
56
causes the food to be forced into the upper intestine sometimes
in less than two hours. The average period of time used in
digesting food in the stomach is about three and one-half
hours. When food is improperly digested in the stomach, the
task of full digestion is thrown on the upper intestine, and
much ill health may result. Again I say, "A word to the wise
is enough."
Harmony
Study carefully the various lists of scientific meals given
in this book. Notice how the principle of food harmony is
maintained in every one of them. No citric fruits at starchy
meals, no grease save with meats or green vegetables, no sugar
with acid fruits, and so on. The observance of the harmonious
blending of foods will certainly prevent much future stomach
misery.
Starch
The overeating of bread and potatoes may cause an unwieldy
increase in body weight, thereby leaving the body open to the
invasion of dangerous bacteria. Too much starch in the diet
tends to the impairment of the pancreas thereby favoring the
development of diabetes. The overconsumption of starchy and
sugary foods may cause other conditions in the body inimical
to good health including destruction of the teeth. Moral, eat
bread and potatoes every second day, not every day, unless you
are gloriously well.
Grease
When oils, butter, or grease are consumed with starchy
foods they tend to delay stomach digestion. When this con-
dition goes on for some time, the formation of gastric juice may
be imperiled, or cease altogether. This will mean the formation
of constant stomach gas and indigestion, and much of the joy
of living will become a thing of the past. It is good sense there-
fore to use all forms of fat with sense and caution.
Irritation
The membranes of the stomach and intestines are exceed-
ingly delicate and tender. Somehow we seem to forget that
fact when we include strong condiments in our diet. Thous-
ands of Americans die every week from stomach ulcers and
cancer of the stomach. Again I emphasize, if you value stomach
health, eliminate all condiments save a little salt.
57
Selection
Food must be selected scientifically if you value your health.
Your daily food should contain vitamins, living force, minerals,
and roughage. Food should be tasty, appetizing, agreeable, and
satisfying. Healthful eating means eating almost any ordinary
kind of ordinary food, but in proper combinations and amounts.
Also avoid foods with a mucus reaction.
Utensils
Choose cooking utensils of glass, steel, iron, or fine granite-
ware. Favor quick steaming of vegetables, and an extended
cooking of all animal flesh, particularly pork which should be
thoroughly cooked so as to destroy possible Spirilla. All metals
throw off a distinct and different vibration. Gold and silver
have the highest health rate of vibration. Remember how your
mother stroked your eyelid with her wedding ring when you
had a "sty." The vibration of metal is indeed a scientific fact,
not just mere fiction. Moral, choose your cooking utensils
wisely.
Type
When you are inclined to be fat, eat the type of meals out-
lined in the reducing diet. When thin, follow the diet sugges-
tions given in the gaining diet lists. When weight is normal let
the basic diet lists be your guide. Fight fat, fat robs you of
your youth, beauty, personality and is always a life shortener.
Food when used intelligently can always normalize your weight
to right proportions.
Quantity
Every particle of food you eat has to be digested, circulated,
assimilated, and the wastes eliminated. All these processes re-
quire the use of extensive nerve energy that should be em-
ployed to renew your eyesight, or the spleen is forced to tum
its attention to handling the excessive intake of nutrition. As a
consequence, the brain and body cells are poisoned by food
toxins and wastes and inner soil accumulates favoring the
growth of dangerous bacteria and malignant growths. Please
do not use too many calories if you value your present and
future health.
58
Fifty Informative Suggestions Regarding Food
and Its Scientific Use.
Always wash spinach first in cold water and finish in hot
water. Hot water removes sand in spinach which cold water
often fails to do completely.
In the year 1838 Spruce beer was a popular health drink in
the United States. Spruce beer is prepared by brewing the tips
of young spruce. Children who are undernourished instinc-·
tively chew various kinds of twigs at every opportunity. These
young twigs supply essential vitamins and minerals absent in
badly planned diets.
Germinated wheat is the most economical form of a break-
fast cereal. Soak a cupful of wheat in water for two days.
Throw away water and place wheat on a damp cloth in the
kitchen or in the sunlight for an additional two days. By this
time the seed has sprouted and is richly endowed with Vitamin
B Complex. Simmer over a slow fire for ten minutes and serve
hot with honey for sweetening. Prune juice is a pleasing
beve1·age to use with this cereal.
The cheapest and best way to prepare an appetizing coffee
substitute is by roasting barley and grinding it through an
ordinary coffee grinder. A heaping tablespoonful to each cup-
ful of water is recommended. Boil for five minutes before serv-
ing as a hot beverage. Honey and cream may be added if de-
sired.
A superior cleansing diet is prepared as follows: For break-
fast fruit or fruit juices; luncheon, vegetable soup, raw veg-
etables with apple sauce on prunes dessert; dinner, well cooked
meat, steamed vegetables, raw vegetables, and a fruit dessert.
If hungry before retiring take vegetable soup. Water is prefer-
able to tea or coffee in a cleansing diet.
In all cases of sinus trouble, catarrh, or loss of smell, cease
using fats and oils, also white flour products and white sugar.
Usually in four days a correction of condition will take place
under this regime.
Flour should never be used to thicken soups or gravies.
Celery, prunes and apples are recommended as substitutes
for bread.
59
Raisin juice and honey are suggested instead of sugar in
the preparation of rice or home-made ice cream.
Raw tomato juice is considerably less acid in reaction than
canned tomato juice.
Mix cream with water but never mix cream and flour, this
is an indigestible and very acid combination.
The more soups, vegetables, and fruits eaten, the less the
need for the drinking of much water.
Lemon should not be added to tea at a meal where starches
are served.
If you must eat white rolls or bread use the crusts only.
Raw string beans well washed are excellent for growing
children. Raw fresh peas are highly nutritious for children
and adults.
Water diluted orange juice, plain water, vegetable soups, or
tomato juice, are the best foods to use if hungry between meals.
Never use sugar with acid fruits or acid fruit juices. Sugar
sweetened lemonade is taboo.
The typical American breakfast of cereal, cream, sugar,
orange juice, jam and coffee, is highly acid, and is certain to
cause stomach disorders if habitually used. Try vegetable soup
and fruit for your next breakfast.
The best foods to eat on a train are well cooked steaks or
chops with raw vegetables. Train chefs use entirely too much
butter and grease in the preparation of vegetables. Train pies
are usually over fatted and over sweetened. Canned vegetables
are recommended while traveling. Ice cream or canned figs are
suggested desserts for traveling.
A delicious vegetarian sandwich is prepared as follows:
Macerate half an avacado and mix with it finely chopped par-
sley, celery and apples. Spread on lettuce leaves and use rye
bread or heavy whole wheat bread buttered with slightly salted
macerated avocado.
On no account, unless under your doctor's orders, should
you eat more than three moderately sized meals in each twenty-
four hours. When food is consumed in excess of the actual
needs of the body, the surplus must be stored as fat; usually in
the abdominal region. Do not blame your glands if you are
overweight, place the blame where it rightfully belongs, on
your overconsumption of food.
60
A sweet stomach is in an unnatural condition. The stomach
should always be acid, otherwise stomach ulcers or cancer of
the stomach threatens. Baking soda sweetens the stomach,
so watch your use of this element.
Raw carrots and nuts require an extensive chewing. There
are no human digestive ferments sufficiently powerful to dis-
solve poorly chewed nuts or raw carrots.
Outside leaves of lettuce a1·e an excellent source of Vita-
minE.
Animal protein cannot be replaced by proteins derived from
vegetable sources. Animal proteins, not the vegetable kind, are
definitely essential to human physical fitness. Well cooked meat
should be eaten at least once every day.
Proper eating will in time, enable every person to be free
from pain and enable him to become unconscious of his body.
Eat for flavor as well as for good health. You can feast
your way through life and still remain physically fit. I do not
advocate fasts beyond twenty-four hours.
The last half of almost every person's life is a dying process
because of improper habits of eating and breathing during the
first half of life.
The new science of medicine t~ches that food is the cause
of disease. The new doctor removes causes instead of treating
symptoms of faulty diet.
There are four processes in the utilization of food: mastica-
tion, digestion, circulation, and cell nourishment.
Thin people can gain weight by eating high carbohydrates.
Some of these are dried lima beans, dlied green peas, dried
kidney beans, bread, potatoes, bananas, dates, persimmons,
and figs.
Vitamin and mineral concentrates are making proper eating
easier to accomplish. As long as the system gets its needed
supply, it matters little as to the source.
Thin people usually have a short intestine or suffer from
scanty metabolism. Concentrated foods are necessary to gain
weight unde1· these quite common conditions.
Food deficiency diseases it is said run up to as high as
ninety per cent of all human ailments. The doctor of the future
will be a combination doctor, cook, and dietitian.
61
After the age of forty, fully twenty per cent of the Ameri-
can women are deficient or entirely devoid of gastric juice. This
is a sad plight to be in considering it requires a full pint of gas-
tric juice to digest each ordinary meal. When there is a lack
of gastric juice, abstain from fats and oils of every kind. Also
greatly reduce your intake of citric fruits.
Calcium is one of the most needed minerals of the body.
Adults require twelve grains daily, growing children eighteen
grains. Symptoms of calcium lack are bleeding at the nose,
physical weakness, habitual headaches.
Cottage cheese or mild American cheese and dates make an
occasional practical dessert for children.
Tomatoes and tomato juice help to whiten the teeth. Celery
eases the nerves and watercress promotes vigor. Raw cabbage
tends to keep hair on your head all through life. Salt or salt
water rubbed into the scalp tends to promote the growth of
hair.
A glass of beer or ale contains about fifty calories. A cock-
tail contains several hundred calories. When a nursing mother
has an insufficient supply of milk an abundance can be supplied I
by macerating half an avocado into a bowl with a teaspoonful ; I
of honey, and adding a bottle of beer or ale. Mixing should be
done by means of fork or egg beater. This beverage should be
taken before retiring.
Thin people are happier and live longer than those who are
obese. Excessive sleep indicates over eating. Nature uses the
hours of unconsciousness to clear out the toxins of incomplete
digestion and faulty diet.
The four foods having a superacid reaction are oysters, liver,
eggs and lard.
Fresh apricots are richer in iron than spinach or eggs.
The sexual glands require phosphorus to keep them potent
and virile.
The plants that grow in water grow taller and larger than
plants that grow in the soil. The reason is, minerals and vita-
mins are more accessible in liquids. Another reason for con-
suming soup twice a day.
Drinking water with meals is excellent for very thin people.
Not so beneficial however for fat folks, as water with meals
promotes body fat.
62
~ways charge drinking water with the Cosmic Electricity
issuing from your eyes and finger tips. It takes from two to
sixteen minutes to vitalize water. Simply look into the water
and hold the fingers of both hands over the glass. The longer
the charging the more potent will the water become. A pint
of water thus charged taken each day will help to electrify and
renew the cells of body and brain.
Every type of cheese is acid in reaction. I favor but two
kinds of cheese, mild American or Canadian, also cottage
cheese.
Taking coffee after a meal retards the quick emptying of
the stomach. The aromatic oil of coffee is responsible.
For a quick luncheon I favor cottage cheese with canned or
fresh pears or apricots. Starches and grease for luncheon slows
down afternoon energy and promotes a drowsy condition after
the improperly selected foods eaten at noonday meal.
Meat and cheese are an incompatible combination, like-
wise is cheese and bread. Use cheese with fruit and raw green
vegetables only.
Careless cooking of vegetables may destroy all or nearly all
the vitamins contained in these vegetables. Steam vegetables
whenever possible.
Thirty Vitality Alkaline Soups
All Receipes Are Arranged and Proved by
Carene Vanderall Gaines
Special notice in the preparation of soups. When oil, grease,
butter or cream is added to soup stock, the result is a slow
digesting, acid reacting soup. Prepare your soups as directed
here for a cleansing, appetizing, alkaline reaction.
Quantity given for four portions.
Cucumber Soup
Into 2 quarts of boiling water place 2 good sized cucumbers,
a handful of parsley, 2 parsnips, 1 potato, a tablespoonful of
caraway seeds, if available. Cook in the boiling water for SO
minutes, add salt and serve. All vegetables to be cut into
small, thin pieces.
Spinach Soup
Into 2 quarts of boiling water place 2 cupfuls of finely
68
chopped spinach, 1 cupful of,cow's milk, a little salt, 2 finely
sliced carrots. A little macerated avocado may be placed on
top of each serving.
Okra Soup
·Place 2 cupfuls of finely sliced okra into 2 quarts of boiling
water. Also add a dozen radishes finely sliced and a handful of
parsley. Do not macerate okra soup. Salt only for seasoning.
Garden Life Soup
Chop finely S large carrots, handful of parsley, 1h pound of
fresh green peas. Place together in 2 quarts of boiling water
and boil vigorously for 15 minutes. Mash, strain and serve. Add
a little salt for flavor.
This is a nutritious, inner-cleansing and alkalizing soup.
Celery root, dried peas soaked in cold water over night, beets
and beet tops may be substitute vegetables.
Energy Soup
Provide a half pound of dried lima beans or two pounds of
fresh lima beans; add a large handful of parsley, a bunch of
radishes and a head of lettuce. Place the lima beans in 2 quarts
of boiling water and simmer for 60 minutes. Then add the
chopped parsley, radishes and lettuce and boil 20 minutes
longer, or until beans are thoroughly cooked. Add salt and
serve. Strain if puree is desired. Dried lentils, potatoes, car-
rots and carrot tops and the washed leaves and stalks of celery
may be substitute vegetables.
Farmer's Soup
Peel and slice thinly 8 large potatoes, add a handful of beet
tops and a medium sized handful of parsley. Beet tops and par-
sley to be chopped finely. Simmer all together for 12 minutes
in 8 pints of water. Add salt and serve as is, or strain and serve
as a puree. Fresh okra, celery, including leaves, 2 large to-
matoes, and finely sliced carrots may be substituted vegetables.
Vegetable Boullion
Chop coarsely the tops from 5 beets with the grated beets
added. Small handful parsley, head of lettuce, 4 celery stalks
and leaves, 1 green pepper, tops of 2 carrots, bunch of radishes.
Place in two quarts of water and simmer together for 20
minutes. Add salt. Mash thoroughly and £\train through fine
strainer before serving. Turnip tops, fresh peas, carrots and
cucumbers may be substitute vegetables.
64
Essence of Pea Soup
Provide a half pound of dried green peas. Place in 3 quarts
of water and boil for one hour. Add a handful of parsley, 1
bunch of radishes, 1f2 pound string beans and 1 head leafy
lettuce. These vegetables to be finely chopped and added to
pot after peas have cooked one hour. Simmer all together for
15 minutes longer. Add salt and serve as is. This is a satisfying
and economical soup for winter days. Dried lima or kidney
beans may be substituted for dried peas.
Potato and Leek Soup
Into 2 quarts of water, 1 cupful of leeks finely cut, 1 cupful
of diced raw potatoes, 1 cupful of celery including leaves cut
very fine. Boil for 15 minutes then add one cupful of milk and
boil3 minutes longer. Top with macerated avacado before serv-
ing.
Onion Soup
Cut finely 6 large onions and place in 2 quarts of boiling
water. Add handful of finely chopped parsley and a small
head of lettuce finely chopped. Also add 1 large potato finely
sliced, salt for seasoning. Boil for 20 minutes.
Indian Soup
Boil 1 cupful of brown rice until soft. Add 1 cupful of
chopped spinach and a cupful of tomato juice, boil 15 minutes
longer, add a little salt and serve without straining.
Fish Chowder
1% pounds of suitable fish, cod preferred, cut in small
pieces, 2 finely cut onions, 1 cupful of diced celery, 1 cupful of
milk, 1large potato. Cook fish for 1 hour in boiling water, then
add other ingredients and cook for 20 minutes longer, add salt
for seasoning.
Avocado Soup
Into llh quarts of boiling water place 2 large sliced potatoes,
handful of parsley and 8 radishes finely sliced, 1 small onion.
Boil for 12 minutes, mash and strain. Top with tablespoon
macerated avacado. Salt only for seasoning.
Tomato Soup
1 quart of tomato juice, handful of chopped parsley, 12
sliced radishes, salt for seasoning. Boil slowly for 15 minutes.
One pint of water may be added to the tomato juice.
65
Tomato Fruit Soup l:
Heat a quart can of tomato juice a~d adp a half a cupful of
heated orange juice. Pour into plates containing pieces of I:
chopped raw tomato or avocado.
Com Soup
Boil a cupful of. sweet corn in a quart of water for 20
ntinutes, add a cupful of cow's milk and a cupful of tomato juice,
boil 5 minutes longer. Salt slightly and serve.
Turnip Soup
Into 2 quarts of water place 2 finely sliced turnips including
green tops. Add 3 onions, 2 potatoes, 1 stalk of celery including
leaves, handful of parsley. Boil 15 minutes, then mash and salt
to taste.
Vegetable Chowder
Into 2 quarts of boiling water place 2 finely cut potatoes, 1
onion finely sliced, handful of parsley, lh cupful of finely chop-
ped mushrooms, boil 20 minutes, add lh cupful of cream, salt to
taste, and serve. Do not cook the cream.
Watercress Soup
Into 2 quarts of boiling water place 2 cupfuls of chopped
watercress. Add 1 chopped onion, 1 finely grated parsnip and
8 chopped raw tomatoes. Boil for 20 minutes, salt to taste and
serve. Macerated avocado may be mixed with the soup before
serving.
Lentil Soup
Soak a cupful of lentils over night and boil for 40 minutes.
Add handful of chopped parsley, chopped small head of lettuce,
and a dozen sliced radishes and boil for 15 minutes longer.
Grated nutmeg may be added if enjoyed.
Potato Soup
Into 2 quarts of boiling water slice 2 large potatoes, a cupful
of finely cut celery, a cupful of chopped parsley, a tablespoon-
ful of dried thyme leaves, two :finely sliced carrots. Cook for 15
minutes, season with salt only.
Beef Bone Broth
The only alkaline parts of an animal are its bones and blood.
Boil beef bones for two hours then remove bones and add to
liquor 2 sliced carrots, cupful of finely chopped celery, handful
of parsley, and a dozen sl~ced radishes, then boil for 15 minutes.
Strain and season with salt before serving.
66
Ox Tail Soup
The oxtails should be boiled 21h hours the evening previous
to serving so that the fat accumulating on top may be removed.
All animal fat is acid in reaction and delays the digestion of
all food in the stomach at the same time.
Into 2 quarts of fat-free oxtail liquor and meat, chop finely
2 potatoes, 2 onions, 2 carrots, cupful of finely sliced celery and
a handful of parsley. Boil 30 minutes, salt, and serve piping
hot.
Chicken soup may be prepared in the same manner.
Delicious Desserts
Fruit Bake
Boil or bake together apples with fresh or canned pine-
apple. Sweeten with honey or raw sugar. Top with macerated
avocado. Especially recommended for children.
Banana Bake
Bake bananas without the skin, one teaspoon grated orange
rind and Ys cup water should be added before placing in oven for
20 minutes in 350 degrees heat. Serve with fresh berries or
macerated pears or avocados, or delicious when eaten alone.
Pudding Supreme
2 cupfuls of whole wheat bread crumbs, 5 tablespoonfuls of
honey, 10 dried black or white figs finely chopped, grated rind
of 1 orange. Place these ingredients in one quart of cow's milk
in glass baking dish and bake in 350 degree oven for SO minutes.
Crushed grape juice can be served as a sauce. Ingredients suf-
ficient for three portions.
Orange Pudding
Juice of one orange with grated rind, 1 egg well beaten, S
tablespoonfuls of soya bean flour, 1 cup of milk, four table-
spoonfuls of honey or raw sugar, 8 dates finely cut. Mix the
sugar and flour thoroughly. Beat the egg into one-third of the
milk. Finally thoroughly mix all ingredients. Bake in 250
degree oven for 40 minutes. The addition of a few mint leaves
adds to the flavor.
Baked Custard Pudding
2 cupfuls of milk, half an orange peel finely grated, 4 table-
spoonfuls of honey, 3 eggs. Put the honey and grated orange
peel into the milk and soak for 30 minutes. Use egg beater on
67
eggs and pour milk and contents over them. Butter inside of
suitable size bowl and pour in all ingredients. Bake in slow oven
for 40 minutes. Sauce of pineapple juice and macerated avocado
is highly compatible with this pudding. Never heat avocado.
Baked Apple Custard
Peel and core 8 apples and boil them in a skillet containing
one glassful of water. When reduced to a pulp sweeten with 4
tablespoonfuls of honey and add the finely grated peel of half
a lemon. Whip together 1 pint of milk and 2 eggs. Place the
apple combination in a pie dish and pour over it the milk com-
bination. Sprinkle some grated nutmeg on top and bake half
an hour in a slow oven.
Baked Rice Pudding
1 teacup of brown rice, 3 tablespoonfuls of honey, 1 quart
of milk, 1;2 cupful of raisins, % cupful of diced apples, half a
level teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Mix thoroughly and bake
in a glass dish for 2 hours. If rice is boiled for one hour before
mixing with the other ingredients, baking time may be reduced
one-half.
SPECIAL DESSERTS
Rice Custard
1/3 cup brown sugar
%teaspoon nutmeg
%teaspoon salt
2 eggs, beaten
2cupsmilk
%cup boiled rice
% cup raisins
Add sugar, nutmeg, and salt to eggs. Gradually add milk,
mix well, add rice and raisins. Place in buttered baking dish
which is set into a pan of warm water. Bake in moderate oven
30minutes.
Pineapple and Rice
1 cup diced pineapple
1 cup cooked rice
%cup whipped cream
Gently throw together the rice and pineapple. Place in
sherbet glasses and top with whipped cream. A nut or cherry
may be added on top.
68
Apricot Gelatin
1 package gelatin
ljz cup hot water
ljz cup cold water
ljz cup fruit juice
2 teaspoons lime juice
2 cups canned apricots
Place package of gelatin in 1;2 cup cold water for 5 minutes.
Add ljz cup boiling water and stir. Add fruit juice, lime juice,
and quartered apricots. Place in molds. Allow to jell in ice box.
Strawberry, cherry or raspben-y may be used as a variation.
Bavarian Strawberry Cream
1 small package gelatin
ljz cup cold water
1/3 cup boiling water
4 tablespoons honey
1 cup fresh strawberry juice
2 cups whipping cream
Soak gelatin in cold water 3 minutes, add boiling water and
stir. Make strawberry juice by crushing fresh strawben·ies
through a sieve. Add the juice to the gelatin, also the honey,
and chill. Whip cream until stiff. When gelatin begins to
thicken gently fold it into the cream, but do not stir. Place
mixture in large mold and chill. Top with a spoonful of chopped
walnuts and one whole strawbeiTy. Raspberry, peach, or black
raspberry juice are good variations.
Prune Whip
2 cups cooked prunes
2 cups whipping cream
112 cup crushed black walnuts
1 tablespoon lemon juice
2 tablespoons honey
Boil 2 cups prunes until tender in %. cup boiling water.
Allow to cool. Remove stones and press through coarse sieve.
Add lemon juice and honey. Mix thoroughly and lastly fold in
the whipped cream and walnuts.
Deep Dish Apple Pie
6 cooking apples
4 tablespoons honey
ljz teaspoon grated lemon rind
1 tablespoon whole wheat flour
Water.
69
Wash and peel apples. Slice thin. Mix honey and flour and
stir into fruit. Place mixture into deep dish into the center of
which has been placed a tiny inve.rted cup. The small cup helps
to hold up crust as well as keeping juices toward the center
instead of flowing out and over the edges. Mound apples over
the inverted cup and wash over top of fruit enough water to
fill % of the dish. Place over top this pie crust.
Top Crust
1 cup sifted whole wheat flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 tablespoon brown sugar
~ teaspoon salt
1;2 cup butter (14 lb.)
1 tablespoon cold water
Mix dry ingredients and add small pieces of butter. Lightly
work lumps of butter into the flour with the fingers until it is
all completely flaked. Add the .water and combine into one
lump of dough. Dry outside by sprinkling a little sifted flour
over the entire lump. Sift ample amount of flour on board and
rolling pin. Roll dough into a round piece 1 inch larger than
pie tin. Even off the edge with knife and place rolling pin on
edge farthest from you. Holding edge with knife roll the dough
on the pin towards you. Then place roller over pie pan and unroll
and press border with fingers. Gently thrust fork into top of
dough to prevent bulging. Bake in hot oven 450 degrees for 10
minutes and reduce heat to 300 degrees for 30 minutes.
Variations: Use sliced peaches, fresh blue berries, pitted
fresh cherries, cooked apricots and cocoanut.
Dutch Apple Cake
11h cups sifted whole wheat flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
14 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons brown sugar
4 tablespoons butter
1 egg
% cupmilk
2 large cooking apples
Cinnamon, cocoanut
Sift together all dry ingredients, and with fingers thoroughly
pinch small lumps of butter into flour mixture. Add slightly
beaten egg and milk to dough. Pour into bottom of greased
pie pan to a thickness of %, of an inch. Petel apples and
slice thin. Lay so that apple pieces partially cover each other.
70
Sprinkle well with extra brown sugar and cinnamon, and a
few lumps of butter. Cocoanut may be added, or even peanut
butter may be·dotted over top.
Pumpkin Pie
1~ cups mashed pumpkin
1 cup milk
1h cup cream
%, cup brown sugar
2 eggs
2 tablespoons butter
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1;2 cup pecan nuts crushed
~ teaspoon ginger powder
~ teaspoon clove powder
% teaspoon salt
Place pieces of pumpkin in boiling water to nearly cover
and simmer 20 minutes or until tender. Press through large
sieve. Use egg beater and mix pumpkin pulp with all other
ingredients. Chill and pour over pie dough. Bake in hot oven
of 450 degrees for 10 minutes and reduce to about 300 degrees
until light brown. Test by gently cutting knife into center of
pumpkin. If knife comes out clean, then pie is done. If pumpkin
adheres to knife, bake an extra few minutes.
Aprioot Tapioca Cream Pudding
1 cup minute tapioca
1 can apricots
1;2 cup cream
2 egg whites
2 tablespoons brown sugar
Mix tapioca and apricot juice. Whip eggs, add to them
cream and sugar. Mix all together. Place in baking dishes.
Use four apricot halves for each individual ramekin. Put 2
pieces apricots in tapioca mixture and lay 2 halves on top.
Bake at 850 degrees for 10 minutes.
FRESH JUICES
Pineapple juice.
Pineapple and celery juice, half and half.
Top any of the following with 2 or 3 mint leaves:
One-third black raspberry, one-third pineapple and one-
third orange juices.
71
Lime, (juice of one-half lime), pineapple, apple, grape,
orange, equal parts.
Serve slice of lime with following juices:
Tomato juice
Strawberry juice
Melon juice (watermelon or honeydew).
Tomato and celery, equal parts.
Serve these plain:
Carrot and cocoanut equal parts.
One-fourth spinach, one-fourth watercress, one-half cocoa-
nut.
One-half fig, one-fourth melon, one-fourth cucumber.
Spinach, grapefruit, orange, equal parts~
Blueberry, orange, pineapple, equal parts.
Honeydew and pineapple, equal parts.
Watermelon, grapefruit, pineapple, equal parts.
Apricot, grape, cocoanut, equal parts.
Grape, raspberry, pineapple, equal parts.
Youngberry, pineapple, grape, equal parts.
Apple, cranberry, pineapple, fig, equal parts.
Papaya, fig, cocoanut, equal parts.
BEVERAGES
Ieed Spearmint Tea
lh bunch spearmint
llh quarts water
Juice of one lime
% cup orange juice or pineapple juice.
4 tablespoons honey
Ice cubes.
Place mint leaves in S cups cold water and bring to a boil.
Simmer on low flame 20 minutes. Add honey and cool. Add
orange and lime juices. Add 3 cups cold water, 6 or 8 ice cubes
and serve with a fresh mint leaf floating on top.
Caraway Drink
2 ounces caraway seeds
1 quart boiling water
4 tablespoons honey.
, Place caraway seeds in boiling water and boilS minutes; add
honey and boil 2 minutes longer. Allow to cool gradually.
Strain. Good for the elimination of stomach gas.
72
Salad Suggestions
In preparing crisp appetizers remember to stress eye appeal
as well as taste appeal. Grated or chopped raw vegetables are
more nutritious than the cold cooked ones. Pull any vegetable
out of the ground, grate or chop it and arrange with pineapple,
dates and nuts. You will presently have an endless number of
appetizing salads. Try it and have the satisfaction of creating
your own special combinations.
There are three different salad plans: The fruit cocktail, the
side salad plate, and the salad main course dish. The fruit
cocktail is a combination of fresh fruits in season usually top-
ped with a berry and mint leaf. The side salad plate may be
an all vegetable idea such as watercress, tomato, celery stalks
and slices of cucumber, or only head lettuce with or without
dressings. ·The main course may consist of a combination of raw
chopped vegetables and meat; or raw fruit thrown in with raw
vegetables.
SALADS
The main course salad is the most interesting and effective
one. Mystery, zest and color arrangement are points to con-
sider in salad preparation. Here you have full sweep in arrang-
ing several salad combinations in clusters around the edge of
the plate accenting one central idea. For example make fig
rosettes by stuffing them with red raspberry and minced celery
leaves. Place one of these figs in center of plate. Stretched from
it may be five honey dew melon spikes about 2 inches long and
2 inches wide, alternating with sections of large orange pulp.
At three points on the edge of the plate place 3 lettuce nests
into which put a different combination. In one chopped raw
peas, celery and strawberry; one can contain cottage cheese
mixed with grated cucumber and walnuts; and the other fill
with chicken diced mixed with green pepper and orange juice.
New ideas will surely pop into your head when you work for
flavor and beauty.
Chicken Champion
Lettuce cluster, cubed chicken, chopped celery, green pepper,
chopped parsley, sour cream. Two tablespoons each mix to-
gether. Top with a round slice of orange and small piece of
anise.
Grapefruit Swirl
Lay across leaf of romaine, alternate sections of grapefruit,
orange, lime and pineapple. Top with mashed avocado. (Mix a
73
few caraway seeds in mashed avocado. Squeeze through pastry
bag). Make zig-zag line over fruit. Three mint leaves in
rosette fonn with berry in center makes a de luxe topping.
Fruit de Luxe
1 ripe fresh pineapple, lh cup pecan nuts, 1h cup chopped
celery, 1;2 cup apricots fresh or canned chopped,~ cup whip-
ped cream, 1 tablespoon honey, 1;2 teaspoon vanilla. Add honey
and vanilla to whipped cream, mix well and fold in fruits, celery
and nuts. chop off both ends of pineapple. Save end with
leaves and wa8h well. Cut out the pineapple fruit carefully and
save the shell. Add 1 cup chopped pineapple to salad. Place
shell on platter (on which lettuce leaves have been laid). Stuff
the shell with the salad and place leaf end on top. Serve at the
table with meat course. Refill the shell with left over salad.
Potato Surprise
6 medium sized potatoes boiled in skins. (Peel, cool and
dice). 2 green onions chopped; % cup chopped almonds; 1;2 cup
minced parsley; 1 medium ripe avocado mashed; %cup pine-
minced parsley; 1 medium ripe avacado mashed; % cup pine-
apple juice or cold parsley broth. Parsley broth is made by
steeping lh bunch of parsley in boiling water for 10 minutes.
Add this parsley juice, or pineapple juice to the mashed avocado
and mix with all other ingredients. Serve this salad at a picnic
and its memory will linger.
Quickie Salad
1 can of pears, pineapple, or apricots. Lettuce, cottage
cheese. Place cottage cheese on lettuce and top with fruit. A
tablespoonful of grated carrot is a good finishing touch. 1 tea-
spoonful caraway seeds mixed in the cottage cheese gives addi-
tional zest.
Grape Grandiere
1lb. seedless grapes halved; 1 bunch watercress or escarole;
% cup pecans or pine nuts; 1 orange peeled and cut up; 1h cup
whipped cream; place watercress on platter, mix grapes, nuts,
orange and whipped cream together and place over cress.
Crunchy Carrot
3 medium carrots grated; 1;2 cup peanuts chopped or whole;
mix peanuts and carrots and serve on lettuce, cress, or endive.
Celery Rooti-Toot
1 celery root peeled, diced or grated; l;2 cup pineapple juice;
2 tablespoonfuls jelly, currant or grape; 2 pears canned or raw
diced. Place celery root in pineapple juice, add pears. Place on
romaine on platter with 4 tiny balls of jelly around edge.
74
Mello-Glow
1 honey dew melon peeled and cut in eighths; 1 sprig mint;
lh cup orange juice; 2 cups chopped red cabbage; place 2 slices
of honey dew on lettuce leaf. Mix cabbage, chopped mint leaves,
and orange juice. Sprinkle over honey dew slices which are
lying side by side.
Nutti-Fruiti-One Serving
4 melon balls, either watermelon or cantaloupe; 4 avocado
balls; 1 pineapple spear; lh cup walnuts finely chopped; 12 raw
peas; 1/
2 cup cold mint tea; 1 tablespoon sour cream; 1h tea-
spoon caraway seeds; lettuce or endive. Make mint tea by
brewing 2 sprigs spearmint in 2 cups boiling water 10 minutes.
Dip pineapple, and avocado balls in this tea and roll in nuts.
Arrange 4 little lettuce cups on salad plate; in one put the
peas, in another the avocado balls; in another the pineapple
spear, and in the other place the melon balls. Sour cream with
caraway seeds may be used as dressing.
Cabbage Date
2 cups finely shredded cabbage; ¥2 cup dates; 6 knife thin
slices candied citron chopped; 3 knife-thin slices candied gin-
ger; 2 tablespoons lime juice; lh cup whipped cream; 1 table-
spoon honey. Add. honey to whipped cream, stir gently and
gradually mix in all other ingredients.
Tomato Filling No.1
Remove skin of tomato by putting it on a fork and placing
it over a flame for a minute. Scoop out the center and mix
with a tablespoon each of chopped celery, nuts and apples.
Mix with a tablespoon sour cream and a few drops of lime juice
and place salad back into tomato shell. Serve on a bed of water-
cress.
Tomato Filling No. 2
Fill tomato shell with 1 tablespoon each diced cold chicken,
green pepper, celery, parsley, and add tablespoon of macerated
avocado.
Tomato Filling No. 3
Fill shell with tablespoon each minced cabbage, cucumber,
green-ripe olives and black walnuts mixed with sour cream and
a dash of caraway seeds.
Roguish Radish
Dice six medium radishes. Add 6 green-ripe olives chopped.
Serve on escarole or lettuce and top with a tablespoon sour
cream mixed with 1 teaspoon pineapple juice.
75
Handy Apple
Place apple slices in lime or pineapple juice. Lay in alternate
layers encircling the edge of the salad plate with slice orange, 1
slice apple, 1 small leaf spearmint or nasturtium flower. Place
a tablespoon cottage cheese in center.
Wheel of Life
Lay a flat leaf of lettuce on salad plate. In the center place
a small dipper of orange sherbet. Peel cantaloupe and cut in
8 spears. Lay the spears pointing from sherbet like the spikes
of a wheel. Mix lh cupful grated carrots and 2 tablespoons
cocoanut together. The outer rim of the wheel is made by en-
circling the carrot and cocoanut mixture around the edge.
SALAD DRESSINGS
Any of the following dressings will give a delightful zip to
your salads. Vinegar, eggs, and oil, are purposely omitted.
Mix:
Mashed banana with sweet cream.
Cottage cheese and chopped anise.
Mashed avocado, chopped parsley and 2 tablespoons lime
juice.
Cottage cheese and chopped cherries.
Cottage cheese and strawberries, with 1 teaspoonful
honey.
Cottage cheese and chopped seedless grapes.
Sour cream and caraway seeds.
Sour cream and chopped apricots.
Avocado mashed and broken nuts and honey.
Avocado diced and whipped cream and honey.
Avocado balls and mashed seedless grapes.
Whipped cream and crushed grapes.
Whipped cream and mashed bluebenies and honey.
Whipped cream, beet juice and honey.
Apple sauce.
Apricot sauce.
Any of the above make a tasty effect on plain head of lettuce
chopped or over tomatoes or fruits.
76
VEGETABLE AND MEAT ROASTS
Vegetable Loaf
1;2 cup diced turnips
1;2 cup diced carrots
1;2 cup brown rice
1 cup diced onion
112 cup black walnuts
112 cup tomato juice
1 egg
1;2 cup minced parsley
lf2 teaspoon salt
Finely dice all vegetables, mix and add tomato juice and
whipped egg. Put into well buttered pan and sprinkle top with
nut meats. Bake at 350 degrees for one hour or until quite firm.
Make a hot creole sauce of small can of tomato juice, chopped
green-ripe olives, onion, teaspoon of sugar and enough salt to
satisfy. PoUI· over loaf just before serving.
Cooked Soy Loaf
1 cup of cooked soybeans
4 cups boiling water
% teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon honey
1h cup sieved cooked dried apricots
1,4 cup bread crumbs or corn flakes
1 tablespoon minced bell pepper
1;2 cup minced onion
Boil soybeans in water until tender, about 21f2 hours. Mash
thoroughly and add other ingredients. Bake in loaf pan at 400
degrees for 30 minutes or until brown. Serve with tomato sauce
same as above. A few chopped almonds may be added to the
sauce.
Peanut Loaf
1 cup chopped peanuts
1 cup chopped watercress
1 cup finely chopped sbing beans
1 cup lima bean pulp strained
1 cup crushed shredded wheat
1 cup tomato juice.
1 finely chopped bell pepper
1 cup finely chopped celery
77
Mix thoroughly and bake SO minutes in medium oven. Top
with chopped parsley and sliced tomatoes. Place in oven 5
minutes more and serve.
Meat Loaf
1 lb. ground round steak
1 onion minced
% teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon chopped pimento
2 tablespoons chopped bell pepper
Ys cup tomato juice
Mix all ingredients into a loaf and place in hot broiler pan.
Broil SO minutes about S inches below the flame. Chopped
green-ripe olives may be mixed in as a variation.
Banana Meat Loaf
1 lb. chopped chuck or ground round.
1 large ripe banana mashed
_1 grated carrot
1 cup puffed rice
2 tablespoons cream
% teaspoon salt
% cup vegetable broth
3 slices pineapple
2 tablespoons brown sugar
Mix all ingredients excepting pineapple and brown sugar.
Bake the loaf in covered casserole one hour in oven at S50 de-
grees. The banana will burn if baked too fast. Place pineapple
on top and sprinkle with brown sugar. Broil for 8 minutes.
Cornmeal Casserole
1 cup cornmeal
2 cups boiling water
3 teaspoons salt
1 lb. cubed round steak browned 20 minutes
1 chopped green pepper
1 teaspoon herb mixtures, either fresh or dried
1 teaspoon thyme, either fresh or dried
1 cup broken tomatoes
1 cup chopped cooked string beans
1 cup corn
1 cup chopped watercress
% cup chopped onion
78
Into the boiling water put the salt. Then stir while slowly
pouring in the cornmeal. Keep stirring until it thickens and
cook about 30 minutes over low flame, stirring occasionally.
Brown the meat in a tablespoon of olive oil in skillet over hot
flame for 20 minutes, then mix in other ingredients. Line the
casserole dish with the cornmeal mush and fill the center with
the meat mixture. Bake 35 minutes in medium oven about 350
degrees.
Swiss Steak
1h cup minced celery leaves
1 cup rice
2 cups tomato juice
:tA cup vegetable broth
1 bay leaf
1 cup diced beets
1 onion chopped
1lf2 lbs. round steak well pounded
3 tablespoons flour, rice or potato flour preferred.
1 tablespoon olive oil or butter.
Pound flour and salt into the meat. Brown the meat 30
minutes in the hot oil or butter. Add the liquids to the rice.
Place the meat in baking dish and pour vegetables and rice over
it. Bake 1 hour and 15 minutes at 325 degrees.
Choice Chicken Pie
1 chicken cut up. Select either roasting chicken or
stewing hen of 4 or 5 lbs.
~4 cup sifted potato flour.
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons green pepper chopped
1 medium onion chopped
Boiling water
A roasting chicken cooks quicker and is usually preferred.
Ask butcher to clean and cut it. Singe over flame and remove
pin feathers. Wash pieces in cold water. Sift flour in good
sized bowl. Press flour into the chicken. Use large iron Dutch
oven if possible, otherwise a skillet and a stew pan will do.
Place iron pot over fire. Put water on to boil. Use one tables-
spoonful butter in the hot pot or skillet and into the sizzling
grease place pieces of floured chicken to cover bottom of pan.
Turn and brown top side of each piece. Remove these pieces
and add a little more of the butter and brown the rest of the
79
chicken. Put back into pot all the chicken, the chopped onion
and pepper. Add the boiling water to just cover chicken. Sea-
son with 1 small tablespoon salt and cover. Simmer at least two
hours. Cool and remove meat from the bones. Place into in-
dividual baking dishes. Chill before adding pie crust. Add salt
and dash of thyme.
Pie Crust-Sift 1 cup whole wheat flour, 1 teaspoon baking
powder and 1h teaspoon salt. Mix thoroughly and add % cup
butter cut into small pieces and rub with flour between fingers
and thumb. Add 1 tablespoon or so of cold water sufficient to
make ingredients stick together. Roll out lightly over sifted
flour. Cut out pieces size of dishes to be used. Lift to top of
each dish and press tightly around edges. Cut 3 small slits in
center to allow steam to escape. Bake in moderate oven until
crust is a golden brown.
MEATS
Lamb with Egg Plant
1 lb. ground shoulder of lamb
1 egg plant
1 teaspoon minced onion
2 tablespoons oil
1 tomato
1 teaspoon salt
Boil in salted water or steam egg plant until nearly tender,
about 15 minutes. Brown onion and chopped meat in the oil 20
minutes. Cut egg plant in half and make a small hoi~ in each,
insert the lamb and onion, place lh tomato on top of the meat,
skin side up. If you like, top with 1 teaspoon sour cream and
finely chopped celery or walnuts. Place in oven 350 degrees
about 20 minutes.
Curried Lamb
2 cups cooked rice
1 lb. diced lamb broiled % hour.
2 cups vegetable broth
1 tablespoon rice or soy flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon curry powder
2 tablespoons butter or oil
2 onions minced
3 tablespoons cocoanut
80
Mix together. Place in buttered casserole. Bake at 350 de-
grees for 30 minutes. Add cocoanut and bake 3 minutes longer.
Meat Loaf Balls
1 cup ground meat
1;2 mashed banana
1 tablespoon minced onion
2 tablespoon cornmeal mush
2 tablespoons cream
~ cup crushed shredded wheat
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons vegetable stock or water
Mix and shape into balls all ingredients excepting the water
or stock and shredded wheat. Roll the little balls in the
shredded wheat, place in skillet and saute in 2 tablespoons se-
same, oil, or peanut oil, until brown. Add the stock or water
and simmer 10 minutes. Serve with ~ cup sour cream mixed
with 2 tablespoons soy sauce. Sprinkle with minced parsley.
Cabbage Meat Rolls
~ lb. ground round steak
1 lb. fresh tomatoes peeled and quartered.
1 cup cooked brown rice
¥2 head cabbage
2 large onions
1 clove minced garlic
2 teaspoons salt
2 tablespoons soyabean oil.
~ cup cabbage water
Brown the onion in hot oil for 1 minute, add the meat
and cook 5 minutes. Add half the tomatoes, salt and rice
and mix. Parboil the cabbage leaves about 15 minutes. Fill
leaves with mixture. Roll each one and pin with a toothpick.
Place in pan and pour the rest of tomatoes and cabbage water
over the mixture. Simmer slowly for 45 minutes.
Chicken Goulash
3 lb. chlcken
1 can bamboo shoots
1 small can water chestnuts diced.
~ lb. mushrooms
2 tablespoons oil
~ teaspoon salt
81
8 tablespoons soy sauce
lh cup water
1 tablespoon rice flour
5 green onions chopped
lh cup shredded almonds
Ask butcher to bone chicken. Cut the meat and bamboo
shoots in %inch cubes. Dice mushrooms and chestnuts. Brown
chicken for one hour in the hot oil and add salt. Add water and
lh the soy sauce. Simmer SO minutes. Boil fresh mushrooms 15
minutes, add bamboo shoots, mushrooms, water chestnuts,
onions. Simmer with chicken another 30 minutes. Mix flour and
soy sauce until smooth, pour over chicken and bring to a boil.
Top with almonds and serve.
Lamb Stew
1 small bunch celery including leaves, all chopped
finely.
1 lb. dried lima beans
2 lbs. lamb shoulder or 4 Iamb shanks. Trim off all
fat.
1 bay leaf
2 teaspoons salt
% cup pineapple juice
lh bunch minced watercress
1 cup corn
1 onion
2 medium sized potatoes diced.
Start preparing this recipe the day before making. Soak
lima beans over night. Put lamb into water filled pot and simmer
one hour. Add bay leaf and simmer one-half hour longer. Allow
to stand over night and remove grease from the top. Cut meat
from bones. Drain Iimas and add them to the meat, also the
celery, salt, and chopped onion. Simmer one-half hour, adding
more water if needed. Add corn and watercress. Simmer 15
minutes longer and serve in tureen or individual large soup
bowls.
Beef Stew
2 lbs. top round defatted and diced. Use the steak
bone.
2 bay leaves
2 teaspoons salt
1 cup each, diced carrots, chopped onions, fresh lima
beans, chopped string beans, corn, mushrooms,
and chopped tomatoes.
82
Simmer the meat and bone in water filled large pot for 2Jh
hours. Add all other ingredients and simmer (do not boil) 45
minutes. Season with salt and serve.
Curried Sword Fish
With Cocoanut and Rice.
1 lb. sword fish, cut in pieces 1 inch square
Curry sauce
Cooked rice and cocoanut
Cook rice by sprinkling 1 cup rice into 2 quarts boiling
water to which 1 teaspoon salt has been added. Butter sides
of kettle 4 inches from top to keep rice from boiling over. Boil
about 45 minutes until tender. Place rice in wire strainer and
spray with plenty of cold water. Place strainer with rice in
pan of boiling water so that water does not touch rice. Use
fork and lightly lift rice from bottom of strainer once or twice
while it is steaming. As soon as rice is reheated place in but-
tered baking dishes (ramekins) and cover with fresh cocoanut.
Place pieces of swordfish carefully in collander. Lay collander
over a pot. Boil about 3 cups water with 1 teaspoon salt and
pour this water over fish allowing it to drain into pot. Cover
and place pot over fire, boil water ten minutes. Remove and lay
fish over rice.
Curry Sauce
2 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons whole wheat flour
1lh cups milk
~ teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons curry powder
2 tablespoons minced parsley
1 egg yolk
Melt butter in upper part double boiler, blend in flour, egg
yolk, salt, curry, and lastly milk. Cook 5 minutes. Pour over
swordfish and rice. Place in oven 10 minutes at 350 degrees.
Sprinkle with parsley and serve.
Chicken pieces may be used instead of swordfish for varia-
tion.
88
VEGETABLES
Sweet Potato and Orange
3 medium sized sweet potatoes
2 tablespoons honey
1 large orange
1 teaspoon butter
Boil or steam potatoes. Peel and quarter. Place in saucepan.
Grate entire part of orange peel over potatoes. Squeeze the
juice into cup, add honey ·and butter and mix. Pour over po-
tatoes and place in oven 15·minutes.
Variation: Mash potatoes and put mixture in orange shells,
made by scooping out orange pulp from 2 halved oranges. Bake
10 minutes.
Sweet Potato and Banana
2 medium sized sweet potatoes
2 tablespoons water
3 tablespoons brown sugar
1h tablespoon butter
1h teaspoon salt
1 ripe banana, mashed
Peel and mash the sweet potatoes. Make a sauce of the
sugar, water and butter in a small pan. Allow to cook 2 minutes.
Mix with the potatoes. Add mashed bananas. Place in buttered
pan and top with chopped dried figs. Place in moderate oven 15
minutes.
Sweet Potato and Fig Cones
2 cupfuls mashed sweet potatoes
1 egg, beaten
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons cream
1 cupful of cooked strained dried :figs.
To prepare figs: wash 1 lb. white dried figs. Cook in S cups
water about 25 minutes, or until soft. Mash through a sieve
or mill. Do not use the juice in mixture. It is better to drink
the juice or use it in a fruit juice cocktail. Whip together all
other ingredients. Arrange batter in cone or funnel shapes.
Place in oven 10 or 15 minutes.
Variations: Figs may be omitted and a ring of pineapple
used as base of cones. Use the mashed sweet potato mixture i~
alternate layers with apple and bananas. Top with a dash of
84
II
cinnamon or nutmeg. Mints dissolved in a tablespoon of warm
milk makes a tasty addition to the sweet potato.
Stuffeci Sweet Potatoes
2 good sized sweet potatoes baked
1 tablespoon cream
1 cup crushed or diced pineapple
1 tablespoon butter
Halve the potatoes. Remove pulp and mix it with the cream,
pineapple and butter. If more liquid is desired use 3 table-
spoons pineapple juice. Place mixture back in the skins and
dash with paprika or nutmeg. A half slice of pineapple rounded
side up in each potato as a final touch makes a unique vegetable.
Bake 10 minutes at 350 degrees.
Stuffed Irish Potatoes
2 large russet potatoes, baked
1h cup milk or cream
1
;2 lb. ground steak
14, cup minced parsley
1 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon butter
Brown the meat in the butter 15 minutes. Scoop out pulp
from halved potatoes. Mash and mix with meat, add cream,
salt and parsley. Place back in potato shells and bake 15 or 20
minutes until a light brown. Top with a little grated carrot.
Egg Plant Meat Sandwich
1 egg plant
1 lb. ground steak
2 onions
1 tablespoon soyabean oil.
1 teaspoon salt
Slice eggplant in 14, inch round slices. Place in oil. Allow to
stand 5 minutes. Chop onion and mix with meat. Add salt and
brown 20 minutes in thin patties. Brown egg plant over rather
high flame until tender (about 15 minutes or less). Place meat
in between slices of egg plant. Serve with 1 cupful hot tomato
juice to which 1 tablespoon minced onion has been added.
85
Creamed Com with Greens
1 egg beaten
% tablespoon brown sugar or honey
% teaspoon salt
%cup cream
1 cup corn
~ tablespoon butter
~ chopped green pepper
lh cup minced parsley or spinach
To the beaten egg gradually add all other ingredients; mix
well. Place in caSserole dish which is set in a pan of warm water.
Bake in moderate oven 1 hour.
Browned Banana
Peel 4 bananas and quarter, but slicing once lengthwise and
once across. Dip in soy or rice flour and then dip in slightly
beaten egg. Cover with crushed pecan nuts. Use a glass bak-
ing dish and place into it 6 tablespoons butter and put into
oven. Turn heat on to 400 degrees, and when butter is melted
place bananas into the melted butter and top with a few drops
of lemon juice. Bake 15 minutes at 350 degrees.
Steamed Green or Wax String Beans
Use an enamel or stainless steel steamer, either one is
recommended. A steamer is like a large double boiler. Put
vegetables in upper part of steamer, (add no water and no salt)
and place into it % cup boiling water. For variation, slice
string beans lengthwise and place either in steamer or stew
pan. Steam or stew ten minutes. Test for tenderness. If not
tender, steam 2 more minutes and add salt before serving. Do
not put any butter or bacon grease on beans. Serve them plain
and you will find they are full of flavor.
Steamed Broccoli
Cut stems 3 or 4 inches below flower. Use center stem, the
little sprouts and the leaves. Place whole stalks in boiling water
to which 1 teaspoonful of soda has been added. Boil broccoli
with soda one minute. This plan helps remove strong odor,
and aids in preYenting indigestion or gas. Pour off water and
place broccoli in steamer for 15 minutes or in stew pan 10
minutes. If using stew pan add% cup boiling water, and sim-
mer on very high flame 5 minutes and turn flame very low for
5 minutes. If using stainless steel or enamel steamer place
86
boiling water in lower compartment and the vegetables in
',_ upper part.
Steamed Cauli1lower
Buy cauliflower with the green leaves on it and make sure
the flower is quite firm. Allow the green leaves close to the
flower to remain on stalk. Prepare the same as for broccoli. If
soda is not desired use parsley, do not cut parsley but lay 4 good
sized sprigs on top of cauliflower and steam or stew as directed
in previous recipe for 10 minutes or until tender.
FOOD FOR CHILDREN
It is estimated that close to 500,000 children under the age
of 16 die each year in the United States. This dire condition
demonstrates the need for doctors and mothers to study the
cause of these deaths, and it will be found to be chiefly die-
tetic. Mothers and doctors take too much for granted and be-
lieve cow's milk and eggs are the best foods for children.
Personally I consider these foods, unless used in scientific mod-
eration, "danger foods" from the standpoint of health.
Undulant fever from milk has 12,000,000 victims alone in
the United States. Then how can doctors logically persist in
advising bewildered mothers to give more milk to their chil-
dren? Dried milk powder in my estimation is the only scien-
tific manner for providing safe milk for children. When chil-
dren eat eggs, the eggs should be boiled for 25 minutes to
destroy possible embryonic tapeworms or dangerous bacteria
in the eggs.
Unless the hens are properly housed and fed, the hens eat
prolifically from the manure piles on the farms, and every ma-
nure pile seethes with tapeworms; that is the reason eggs
should be boiled extensively. Many children are infested with
Trichina worms because parents provide them with underdone
pork hamburgers, hot dogs, sausages and the like. Animal fats,
save in great moderation, should be kept away from children.
87
Recommended Foods for Breakfasts for Children
Boiled prunes, mashed for younger children.
Ripe bananas, raw or baked.
Apple sauce.
Water-diluted orange juice
Baked apples.
Genninated wheat, cooked for 10 minutes.
Fresh tomato juice.
Prune juice.
Cocoa sweetened with honey.
Macerated pears and avocados.
Brown rice and baked apples.
Well broiled lean bacon and lettuce.
Wheat germ.
Milk prepared from milk powder.
Soya bean milk.
Toasted whole wheat raisin bread.
Japanese persimmons.
Canned fruits, syrups washed off.
Fresh toasted whole wheat raisin bread.
Fresh Japanese persimmons.
Figs, dried or fresh.
All kinds of melons.
Children should take concentrated mineral and vitamin tab.
lets each morning. "By their teeth ye shall know them." De-
cayed teeth reflect dietetic ignorance of doctor or parent.
88
I
,.,•jl
''·
·..:...
..,....,_ Recommended Foods for Children's Luncheons or
Main Meals
All kinds of alkaline vegetable soups.
Raw vegetables-recommended for extensive chewing.
Cooked vegetables-steamed, no butter please.
Thoroughly cooked meats, no fat.
Puddings occasionally for desserts.
Boiled brown rice.
Well cooked chicken and turkey.
Plenty of fresh tomato juice.
Fish chowders.
Nuts--must be well masticated.
Cottage cheese and honey or molasses.
Vegetable stews.
Cake and ice cream in great moderation.
Raw string beans and fresh raw peas.
...._.41
.....
_ __
Excellent Foods for Young Children
Whole wheat or soya bean crackers.
Soya bean bread toasted dry.
Avocados.
Fresh fruits.
Grapes.
Salads of all kinds.
Select your child's food from these lists and you will do
much to maintain your child's health and even better than that
you will help to prevent disease from attacking your child at
any future time. Ever remember, colds, coughs, diseased ton-
sils, poor eyesight, pimples, eczema and many other troubles
of childhood are created at the dining table. The doctors blame
germs today, but future doctors will know better.
Never refer to health foods in conversing with your chil-
dren. They take health for gt·anted. Simply p1·epare vital food
attractively and you will do your share to end most of these
unnecessary deaths of 500,000 little children in the United
States every year.
89
SOYABEAN RECIPES AND FACTS
The chief minerals derived from the soya bean are calcium,
phosphorus and iron. These minerals are present in both the
fresh and dry varieties.
Soya bean meal or flour also contains calcium, phosphorus
and iron.
Soya bean milk ranks lower in food value than cow's milk,
it has less calcium, less protein and less fat. However, there is
less danger in its use, as it is not so subject to bacterial invasion,
as is the case with cow's milk.
To tenderize soya beans boil them for two hours and place
in a thennos bottle overnight. Some authorities advise soaking
beans overnight in cold water and boiling next day for several
hours. The overnight soaking seems to flatten the usual nutty
taste of the soya bean. With a pressure cooker at 15 pounds .
pressure the cooking time is only a matter of 30 minutes or so,
depending on the variety of the bean.
Soya Bean Bread in a simple fonn may be made as follows-
Department of Agriculture fonnula:
2% cups of bread flour, 1h cup soya flour, 1 scant tablespoon-
ful of sugar, 1h yeast cake, 1 moderate teaspoonful of salt,
1~ ounces butter or shortening. It is suggested you use honey
instead of sugar.
Mix dry ingredients thoroughly, and rub in shortening (oil
or butter). Dissolve yeast in a little milk. Add sufficient water to
make a workable dough when combined with all ingredients.
Cover dough and let it rise to complete fulness. Work down
and let it rise again for 15 minutes. Shape into loaf and place
in baking pan. Cover with cloth and let it rise until it shows
above pan. Bake at about 357 degrees. Kitchen temperature
should be about 75 degrees.
Soya Bean Muffins
11h cups of flour, 2/3 cups of soya flour, flat tablespoonful
salt, 1 egg well beaten, 1 cupful of cold water, 2 tablespoonfuls
of raw sugar, 3 teaspoonfuls baking powder.
Mix all ingredients most thoroughly and place in oiled or
buttered muffin tins and bake in hot oven 20 minutes.
90
.---
·-
;"\
.........
Soya Bean Biscuit
%cupful soya bean flour, 1 cupful of bread flour,% cupful
of whole wheat flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful butter,
% cupful of milk, 2 teaspoonfuls of baking soda.
Sift dry ingredients, rub in butter or oil and add milk, mix-
ing thoroughly. Turn on a floured board and roll out 1 inch
thick. Cut in shape desired and bake in hot oven. Sprinkle
some milk on top for a brown crust.
Soya Bean Milk
2 quarts of water, 1 cupful of soya bean flour, 1 tablespoon-
ful honey. Pour 75% of the water into a glass or stainless steel
skillet. Pour balance of water over flour and proceed to beat
it into a thin paste. Add honey and mix well. Pour this mixture
into the water, stirring all the time. Bring to a boil, but do not
boil. Add tiny pinch of salt, cool, bottle and use as needed.
Roasted Soya Beans
In attempting to soften soya beans overnight, the addition
of a heaping teaspoonful of salt will hasten the desired process.
Place tenderized soya beans in a shallow pan. Roast in oven
about 400 degrees for 45 minutes or until brown. Sprinkle salt
lightly over top. Serve hot.
Soya Bean Loaf
1 cup tenderized soya beans, 4 cupfuls boiling water, %.
level teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of raw sugar, lf2 cup-
ful of boiled brown rice, % cupful of finely chopped parsley,
5 teaspoonfuls of finely chopped onion, 1 tablespoonful of dried
thyme leaves, 1 tablespoonful of finely chopped green pepper.
Mix thoroughly all these ingredients, place in a buttered or
oiled glass or steel baking dish. Bake in 400 degree oven heat
for 40 minutes. Serve with finely chopped parsley or finely chop-
ped carrot tops over the loaf. Use pineapple juice for sauce.
Soya Bean Ice Cream
2 cupfuls of soya bean milk, 4 tablespoonfuls of raw sugar or
honey, 1;2 level teaspoonful of salt, 3 tablespoonfuls of orange
juice, 2 cupfuls of macerated avocado. Dissolve the raw sugar
in heated soya bean milk, add the salt and beat together rapidly.
When cold add the avocado and mix thoroughly. Sufficient in-
&-redients for 6 portions.
91
SIX SPECIAL RECIPES
An Alkaline Stuffing for 12 Pound Turkey
Provide 5 large potatoes, 4 large onions, 2 stalks of celery, include
leaves, 1 cupful of chopped parsley, 6 ounces of caulifinwer, 4 tablespoon-
fuls of dried thyme leaves, 1 tablespoonful of salt. Place potatoes in boil-
ing water and boil rapidly or steam in jackets. Chop finely onions, cauli-
flower and celery. When potatoes are boiled peel and mash and mix all
ingredients mentioned in a large bowl. Stuff turkey and roast in oven
for 3 hours.
For Your Heart and Stomach's Sake
Chop finely equal quantity of okra and cauliflower. Steam in a little
water for 10 minutes add salt and serve. The minerals in these vege-
tables are indispensable for the perfect action of both the heart and
stomach. ,
Intriguing Way of Serving Beet Greens
Chop finely required quantity of beet tops and steam for 10 minutes.
Then add ¥.! cupful of raisins, more if craved, and steam both vegetable
and raisins for 5 minutes longer.
For a Hungry Boy or Girl
Mash several potatoes and mix with steamed white or red onions.
Both of these vegetables should be piping hot. Add finely chopped celery,
mix thoroughly, season with a little salt. This is a splendid vegetable dish
to be served with well cooked meat.
An Irish Dinner for 3 Servings
Provide 2 pounds of top round of beef, have fat and bones removed
and have butcher grind it twice. Add to it all the finely chopped parsley
it will hold. Make into 3 flat cakes and cover them with chopped parsley
and raw tomato slices. Put in a level teaspoonful of salt for seasoning.
Place in a dry frying pan or baking dish and cover securely. Bake in
oven for 30 to 35 minutes about 350 degrees. Serve with raw vegetables.
A Delicious Laxative Vegetable Dinner
For 3 person~slice finely 5 large potatoes, add 5 large finely sliced
onions, add cupful of finely chopped parsley, add 1 quart of cow's milk,
add 1 small teaspoonful of salt. Place all ingredients in a glass or steel
baking dish and bake in oven for 1 hour about 350 degrees. The combina-
tion of parsley, onions and potatoes produce a laxative effect on the
intestines. Well cooked meat or fish may be eaten with this bake.
REFERENCES
I am gratefully obliged for the ideas and information I have gleaned
from the thousands of books I have read on Health, Food, Metaphysics,
and Philosophy. Naturally( it would be impossible to list all of these
books and titles on these pages, but I desire to express my sincere ap-
preciation for the benefits I have derived from printed word of these
thousands of authors.
92
1
