{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1941__anson___truth_about_spiritualism.pdf","mytitle":"Truth About Spiritualism","mylang":"de"}
THE TRUTH
ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
By « /
H A R O L D A N S O N
I
Master of the Temple
Author o f : Looking F orw ard; A P ractical Faith ;
Thinking Aloud, etc.
STUDENT CHRISTIAN MOVEMENT PRESS
58 B l o o m s b u r y S t r e e t , L o n d o n , W.C.i
C 23
F irst PublishedA p ril 1941
Second Edition; August 1941
D istributed in Canada by our exclusive agents,
The Macmillan Company o f Canada L td.,
■jo Bond Street, Toronto.
Made and P rinted in G reat Britain by The Garden C ity Press L td.,
a t JLetcbworth, Hertfordshire
CO NTEN TS
PAGE
( C
H
A
P
T
E
R
Foreword - - 7
I I. Introductory - - - 'Jr - 9
II. Modern Evidence fo r S u rv iv a l| - ‘ 17
III. The Technique o f a Stance i 26
i v
IV. Physical Phenom ena - " \ ” 39
V. P oltergeists - - - \ - 46
VI. Is Spiritualism D angerous ? - -'m C2
"
S
V
VII. Im m ortality as U n d erstood by
Spiritualists - - 60
VIII. W hat is S urvival ? 7°
IX. Spiritualism as a R eligion - - 78
X. T he C h ristian D o ctrin e o f I m­
m o rta lity - - - - - 86
FO R E W O R D
This little book has been written at the request of
the late Canon Storr, who hoped that it might be
useful to the members of the Liberal Evangelical
Movement, and D r. Tissington Tatlow, who felt
that something of the kind was desired by students.
Neither of these two is in any way responsible for
the opinions expressed therein, but it would not have
been written but for their encouragement.
As a member of the Archbishop’s Committee on
Spiritualism which m et in my house, I learnt much
both from my colleagues and from the witnesses
whom we examined, but the opinions which I have
expressed are entirely my own.
My object has been to offer to those who are not
able to give time to more adequate study of the sub­
ject some idea of the present extent of our knowledge.
I want also to impress upon professing Christians
the importance of not pouring scorn upon evidences
and experiences which are in great part similar to
those upon which the events which formed the
foundation of the primitive gospel rest, and which
must always form the core of our Christian hope and
trust.
The tim e has not yet come, as I believe, when we
7
FOREWORD
can assess the value of psychical research in relation
to our general view of life, b u t it is high time that
the study of the evidence which it offers should be
taken much more seriously both by Religion and
Science, and that those who have evidence to offer
should not be ignored or scoffed at as though that
evidence were beneath the notice of serious men.
I hope that this little book may help to make for a
more serious study of an important aspect oflife.
H . A.
C H A PT E R I
Introductory
This little book is definitely not intended for two
classes of possible readers; for whom it will, as I
presume, have no interest.
Of these the former is that of the convinced
Spiritualists, who are so certain that communication
with discarnate spirits is a matter of everyday
occurrence, and that these phenomena are all that
theyclaimto be, without qualification and beyond all
doubt, that they resent all hesitation in accepting
their conclusions as manifestly true, and beyond the
reach of criticism.
The latter class is that of the dogmatic materialist,
who denies primafacie that non-material appearances
are possible, and would much prefer to deny all
validity to the testimony of Moses and the prophets
than to believe that it were possible that anyone
should rise from the dead. “ The attitude of the
‘orthodox * man of science,” says Dr. Walter
Matthews, “ is extraordinary. For the most part he
ignores the existence of the evidence ; when com­
pelled to recognize it he writes it down as a tissue
of error and deceit. Yet there are facts which appear
9
™ * T* yT» A*oy,‘ • wwtwau
to be well attested and which, jf f
* new light upon the nature of exiftencf" ^ r<
n
'
not believe that anything which I could m 1^
influence the belief of the hardshell d o ^ jv 0
'^
1
the scientific world, who, when even the ablet
their num\>er record experiences of a nulSHP
, , , . "
■*
*oup
»a-m
atcria!
order, shake their heads, and say ^orrfrwfully that
so-and-so is getting senile, or that he has lately j,J
his wife or child, and so has but his critical faculty
or that he is known to be, in spite of his eminence in
his own field, of a gullible character.
I his book is, then, intended primarily for the
Christian world, both for those who are convinced
believers in the Resurrection of Christ, which is the
central doctrine of primitive Christianity, and for
those v/ho, while they desire to be Christians, and
even occupy prominent positions as office-bearers
in the Christian society, yet feel constant doubt as
to the validity of the evidence on which one of the
chief dogmas of that faith is founded.
Christianity is a religion which offers to its
followers the gift of eternal life, a life, that is, which
is not a mere prolongation of our experience of time
and space, or of those activities which are conditioned
by our material organs of sense, but a life of union
with the Power which brought us into being, an
actual experience of that Love and Wisdom which
is the completion of those “ intimations of im­
mortality ” which we dimly discern now, and
look forward to as the only satisfying goal of
existence*
io
IN TR O D U C TO R Y
Thus Christians rightly say that the desire for
continuance of this life in another world is not a
Christian desire. We cannot rightly desire a life
which is not life in God, that is a life in which we
becomeincreasingly instruments of H is purpose, and
objects of His love. To desire to perpetuate for ever
thispresent life is a vulgar wish. “ Flesh and blood
cannotinherit the Kingdom of God, neither doth cor-
roptioninherit incorruption.’’ To be assured by Spiri­
tualists that our friends are going on for ever “ eating
anddrinking, marrying and giving in marriage’’would
not be good news, and would be rather a denial than
an enhancement of anything which could be called
the Christian hope.
Yet, while we remember all this, it is not un­
important to recollect that the first proclamation of
the Good News,” the gospel of Christ, was not
merely the statement that immortality is a true
theoretical basis of life, but something very much
more definite, and very much more challenging and
provocative. The gospel, as it was first preached, was
that Jesus had died, and was buried, and appeared
again on “ the third day,” then that H e was seen of
Cephas, then of the Twelve, then of more than five
hundred brethren at once, many of whom were still
alive, and last of all, and so far as its results were
concerned, of most vital importance, H e was seen
by Paul, in a vision which revolutionized the course
of the world’s history. Christianity, that is, began
with a definite, psychical, transcendental “ miracle,”
with an appearance of the dead, buried, but risen
11
THE TRUTH ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
Christ, a body materialized and dematerialized
will, visible to the eye, audible to the ear, tangity
to the hands, a portent more startling and dialled
ing than any recorded by psychical research in 0£
own day.
This, and nothing less than this, formed the
content of the first gospel, the gospel which led to
the foundation of the Christian Church. This post­
mortem appearance of a “ dead ” person, of a buried
human body, of a body now able to pass in and out
of a room with shut doors, this stupendous reversal
of ordinary experience, and nothing less than this,
is the basis on which the Church came into being,
Paul preached “ Jesus and the Resurrection.”
“ W hy should it be thought incredible by you that
God should raise the dead ? ” “ For the resurrection
of the dead am I called in question this day.” When
Judas died, it was thought essential to elect a new
apostle who was a witness of the resurrection.
Now we may well ask ourselves upon what
evidence we hold this belief. The evidence, from a
strictly critical point of view, is not overwhelmingly
convincing.
Our records of this miracle, it may be pointed out
to us, were written at least thirty years after the event,
and some of them forty or fifty years after. The only
first-hand witnesses are St. Paul and St. Peter. The
earliest, St. Paul, makes no mention of any rising
from the tomb. The accounts which have come down
to us vary very considerably in detail. The earliest
gospel account, that of St. Mark, records that the
12
introductory
fflen who went to the tomb saw aj young man
fothed in a long white garment, sitting on the right
hind of the tomb, and that they were frightened.
St. Luke says that they saw two men in white gar­
ments, and they bowed down their faces to the earth.
Inthefourthgospelwe read that Mary saw two angels,
one at the head and one at the foot, where the body
of Jesus had laid. St. Matthew tells us that many
bodies of the saints rose from their graves and
appeared to many, and that afterwards the women
felt an earthquake, and an angel came down from
heaven and rolled away the stone from the door of
the sepulchre and sat upon it. His countenance
was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow,
and for fear of him the keepers did shake, and
became as dead men.
It is interesting to notice how the account begins
with the young man in white, and, with the lapse
of a few years, perhaps twenty years, develops into
the terrifying angel, “ descending from heaven ”
with an earthquake, and with the addition of the
multiple resurrection of the saints.
If this were a modern story, undergoing investiga­
tion by a committee of the Society for Psychical
Research, it would be pointed out that (a) it is
unfortunate that no detailed account was written
down in the first place, (b) that there is no account
of any kind for thirty years, (c) that such accounts
as we have show a very clear tendency to add
miraculous appendages to the earlier and simpler
^counts. In fact, no modern account of an alleged
THE TRUTH ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
supra-normal happening would be accepted to-d
by any student or psychical research if it rested ^
no better authority than that of the resurrection 0f
Jesus.
Why then do we believe it ? Why do I myself
believe it, as I most certainly do ?
I believe that both those who accept, and those
. who deny, Christ’s resurrection are influenced, far
more than they usually suppose, by a preconception
(by what is, in the strict sense of the word, a pre­
judice) as to the likelihood of such a story being
true. To some people that story has in it so strong
an intrinsic suitability that the relative paucity of
the evidence is made up for by an intuitive certainty
that such a thing must have happened. The evidence
of St. Paul, the effect of that belief on his character
and upon his work, disposes us to believe that which
never could be demonstrated by such proofs as make
unbelief impossible. So, in like manner, if we start
with a strong prejudice against belief in any kind of
life which could survive the dissolution of the body,
we are not likely to find the story of Christ’s resur­
rection one which will overcome our materialistic
preconceptions.
It is indeed very evident that we should demand
a very much less searching quality of evidence for
an alleged happening which we regard as natural
and probable than for one which we regard as
exceedingly improbable. We should, on compara­
tively light evidence, believe anyone who told us that
he had seen King George VI riding in Windsor
14
i in tro d u cto ry
, butifanyone told us that he had seen Charles I
Q l -
m the Park with his head carried under his
^ it would be difficult to think of any kind of
evidence which would cause us to believe so improb­
ablea story.
There are, however, not a few Christians, who
iave every wish to believe the Resurrection of Christ
o be true, who find such a belief to be consonant
nth what they believe about God and 'man, and yet
esitate, or withhold their belief, because they cannot
:gard the evidence as sufficient to make them
jlieve a story which they would on all grounds
ish to believe. Their honesty makes them dis-
lievers. They feel that if life can transcend the
goes 80 far to confirm the faith of the Ch
there is a spiritual body which survives ^
carries on with it into a world beyond ti ^
space the experiences, whether good or bad^ ^
the spirit has garnered in its passage throu&h^
terrestrial life. %
16
CHAPTER II
*^i$
Modern Evidencefor Survival
The evidence for survival and for communication
with the spirit world, with which I propose that we
should here concern ourselves, is almost wholly
modern. This does not imply that there is no
evidence in previous centuries. The history of
religion is full of such stories, and that in every
generation saints and sinners alike saw visions and
heardvoices. But there was no encouragement for the
development of psychical research, but very much
the contrary. Joan of Arc was not by any means the
only person to be burnt for confessing that she was
guided by visions and voices from the other world.
The evidence for “ witchcraft ” is very strong, and
witches were very often only mediums who could
not help the fact that they were clairvoyant and
clairaudient, and had no one who could help them
to control their gifts and direct them into the right
channels.
The modern story of these phenomena begins with
the cases of Home and Stainton Moses in the decade
between 1865 and 1875. 1
Home was a remarkable medium whose case was
T H E T R U T H ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
carefully studied by Sir W. Crookes, F.R,$, jjyJ
Lord Crawford and Lord Dunraven. He wasindeed!
accused of fraud (notably by Robert Browning), but
M r. F. W . H . Myers and Sir William Barrett, w
ho
carefully investigated the whole case, were unable
to find that this charge was substantiated. Home was
able to bring messages, which could be afterwards
verified, from deceased persons unknown to those
taking part in the stance; he was able to make his
body appear and disappear, and to float in the air;
to materialize hands which did not belong to his
ordinary body, and to hold red-hot coals without
injuring his hand. Sir William Crookes was unable
to persuade the Royal Society even to investigate
these phenomena.
The further experiments of Sir William Crookes
with the medium. Miss F. Cook, through whom
an apparently distinct psychic personality, Katie
King,” gradually was built up, so as to be capable
o f being photographed and touched, and whose
body afterwards faded away, are difficult of belief,
not because they are not well attested but merely
because they seem to us so incredible. Sir William
Crookes said: “It was a common thing for the seven
or eight of us investigators to see Miss Cook and
*Katie 9 at the same time under the full blaze of
the electric light ” In 1916 Sir W , Crookes, at the
end o f his life, said: “ I adhere to my published
statements and have nothing to retract . . . they
point to the existence of another order of human life
continuous with this, and demonstrate the possibility
18
modern evidence for survival
under certain circumstances of communication be­
tw
een this world and the next.” (See Proceedings of
the Societyfor Psychical Research, vol. xxxi.)
The next notable case is that of the Rev. Stainton
Moses, a clergyman of irreproachable character,
w
ell known in his day as a master of University
College School, London. No one has fever suggested
thathe was not entirely honest and sincere. H is case
I also was very carefully investigated by competent
and critical authorities. Between 1873 and 1883
I Mr. Moses received through “ automatic writing ”
I avery large number of messages purporting to come
from exalted spirits in the other world of whom the
principal one signed himself “ Imperator.” They
► were given in a handwriting unlike that of M r.
Moses himself, and while he busied himself in read­
ing a book. They were accompanied by “ miracu­
lous displays, and by messages from persons
deceased, and unknown otherwise to M r. Moses,
which messages turned out to be true. These were,
it was stated, only given as proofs. It is the “ spirit
teachings ” to which value was primarily attached.
It is often urged against psychical messages that
they are wholly frivolous and unedifying, and that
it would be happier to believe in total extinction
than to believe that persons we have loved could
perpetuate such folly. This is, I think, quite true
of a very large proportion of so-called spirit writings.
But this could not be said of the “ spirit teachings ”
given through Stainton Moses. W e may agree or
disagree with them. I doubt whether they have any
THE TRUTH ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
very great value. I could never tell anyone that they
have missed a great deal by not reading them. (The
same could perhaps be said of almost all the sermons
written in the last few centuries.) But these “ teach-l
ings ” are serious and weighty, and did revolutionize K
the beliefs of Mr. Moses himself, although he had '
previously rebelled violently against their purport. ■
They may, indeed, be the outflow of M r. Moses’s
own subconscious revolt against his conscious
beliefs. That is a quite conceivable explanation, but
it is not one which seems to satisfy all the conditions ■
involved. K
The messages themselves are dignified and ■
serious. They profess, with a reiterated assurance, H
that their origin is from the other world, and there H
is nothing in their quality to suggest that this may
not be the case, yet it is almost incapable of disproof
that they might arise from some deeper and sub- I
merged level of Mr. Moses’s own consciousness ■
which was all the time in revolt against opinions
which he held in his ordinary consciousness. How,
indeed, are we ever to be sure that the work of any
prophets who say that they are speaking by divine 1
authority is not, in fact, merely the outcome of their
own subconscious brooding upon the deeper aspects
of life ? If we were asked, for instance, how we know
that the work of the second Isaiah comes from an
inspired external source, we should, perhaps, answer
that it is the quality of the utterance and not merely
the belief of the pj-ophet himself which causes us
to believe that it has a divine authority.
20
modern ev id en c e f o r s u r v iv a l
Even in the highest work of prophets and of
poets there isoften an element which is inferior to the
piain bulk of the literary product. In, for instance,
the poems of Wordsworth we find, in close juxta­
position, work of superhuman beauty and clarity
and also other matter fatuous and banal. T he
problem of deciding whether the “ spirit teachings”
from“ Imperator ” are indeed from a source external
to and superior to the mind of M r. Moses is the
same problem which we have to face in considering
the inspiration of all prophets and poets alike. It
has always to be remembered that those prophecies
andpoemswhich we count inspired, once formed part
ofagreat mass of other prophecies and poems whose
claim to inspiration was rejected because th e y sank
to a much lower level. In all prophecy th e re is a
great deal of dross and a very little gold, but the
presence of the dross must not make us indifferent
to the presence of the gold.
One of the chief sources of our knowledge of
modern psychical phenomena is the Society for
Psychical Research. This society was founded in
Cambridge in 1882, the founders being M r.
Edmund Gurney, M r. F. W . H . Myers, and Sir
William Barrett. For the first few years the president
was Professor H enry Sidgwick. H e and his brilliant
wife, who was a sister of A. J. Balfour, were singular
in that they combined a scientific scepticism with
sufficient imagination to be willing to investigate a
science which was at that time generally regarded as
beneath the consideration of serious people.
£u
Th
T tA ,T H A k W y in ."
• *«lf.pr.
▼
s
*V/f v
►
W
W;)Il y " ' ffjf. wre»v
O c//fi4i<i^ . ' *
•>ugn non-material meant, ha* ^ I
generally accepted. ****36
I^et a* consider iww some of the mean*. -
t w .' * _i~>■ ji ^ a . ^ ^ .* *■
^ >’
' *i r r v #
acuities which are called cxtra-seniorr
^aaHestecL Among these faculties are ckur/orar^
Oic faculty of seeing at a distance, clairaudience. 2
faculty of hearing at a distance; dowsing, tht
iacuity o f being able to discover the presence of
water th r o u g h sensitiveness of the muscles; anto-l
m atic w riting, the power of writing m
essages
protest:..g to come from an external source wane
the hand is moved without the will of the person tol
vsrs/m it belongs; mediumship, that is the power of
fah;r.g into a trance in which the normal conscious-
r^essts lost, and in which the personalityis apparently
taxer, possession of by an external mind. The
mecium y>er.tranced will show all the characteristics
of another mind apparently having access to a much
wider held of knowledge than in ordinary life, some-
time* speaking foreign languages unknown to the
medii?g% being able to read books and newspapers
which they have never seen. Crystal gazing, the
act of kxAing into a crystal glass, baS, or other
22
modern evidence fo r su r v iv a l
I reflecting surface, and seeing images which profess
I t0giveinformation otherwise unobtainable; psycho-
I ^etiy, that is the power of describing persons and
their doings by holding in the hand some object
f belonging to them.
The S.P.R. has diligently studied these and other
abnormal faculties for over sixty years. It does not
profess to come to any corporate conclusion. Its
I members hold, and have always held, different
theories as to the origin of these supra-normal
faculties, and as to their value in the scheme of life.
Many of the greatest men among them have come
to the definite conclusion that these phenomena
have given proof of survival and fcommunication
from the other world. Others have held, and still
hold, that there is no scientific proof of survival,
and that these faculties proceed merely from a
deeper layer of ordinary personality.
Among the most remarkable of the past presidents
of the S.P.R. are Professor H enry Sidgwick, Arthur
Earl Balfour, Professor William James, Sir William
Crookes, M r. F. W . H . Myers, Sir Oliver Lodge,
Sir William Barrett, Professor Richet, Gerald
Earl Balfour, M rs. H enry Sidgwick, Andrew Lang
and Professor Bergson. The present Lord Balfour
has said, “ I have the assurance of M rs. Sidgwick
that upon the evidence before her she herself is a
firm believer in survival, and in the reality of com­
munication between the living and the dead. T hat
statement still represents my own views.” This
statement made by the present Lord Balfour
*3
TH E T R U T H ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
represents the view of one of the ablest and m
ost
critical women of her day, as well as of a great
number of serious and scientific students who have
given much time and thought to the investigation
of these faculties.
Perhaps the S.P.R. has done its greatest service
to this science by having inspired the great work of
the la^e M r. F. W . H . Myers, Human Personality
and itk Survival of Bodily Heath. This great book
contains innumerable instances of the exercise of
those supranormal faculties which we have men­
tioned. The evidence of these hundreds of stories
has been carefully sifted by scientific investigators.
The stories, very often trivial in their details, have
built up an impressive mass of evidence for the
existence of these hitherto unstudied faculties. No
one who has not read this book can claim to be a
serious student of psychical research. It is by far
the greatest work that has ever been written on the
subject.
The great interest of this work is further added
to by the fact that, after Mr. Myers died, a great
mass of messages, purporting to come from him,
were given to several mediums. These messages
have been carefully and critically studied by men of
first-rate critical intelligence. A method of cross­
correspondence* was worked out and given to one of
the mediums who knew no language but English,
in an elaborate Latin statement written by Professor
* An excellent account of these cross-correspondences is given in
Comrades on the Homeward Way, by H. A . Dallas (Collins, Sons & Co )
24
m odern e v id e n c e f o r s u r v iv a l
V
errall of Cambridge. This statement suggested
^ the late Mr. Myers should give messages to
or three mediums, living in different parts of
the world, which should have no meaning when
studied apart, but only when they were afterwards
pieced together. Almost at once this experiment
began through three different mediums. The
messages were sometimes in Latin and sometimes
in Greek, neither language being known to the
mediums. Some of the quotations would only be
known by first-rate classical scholars. Considered
apart, they appeared to be frivolous and unmeaning,
but when put together they form one of the most
impressive proofs which could be imagined of the
survival of Mr. Myers, and of his power of giving
acharacteristic message which could have come from
no other person.
Those who knew the extremely critical and able
character of these Cambridge investigators who were
the founders of the S.P.R. will agree that the fact
that most of them came to believe in the reality of
survival and of communication, and that messages
were received after their deaths which convinced their
relations and friends of their survival, is one of the
most impressive facts in the history of modern
psychical research.
C H A P T E R III
The Technique o f a Seance
T o those who are unfamiliar with the procedure of
an ordinary stance with a medium it might %
interesting to give an account of what might be
usually expected to happen.
M edium s vary immensely in quality and charac­
ter. T here are some mediums who are definitely
fraudulent and who make a practice, for the sakeof
gain, o f pretending to have acquired from supra-1
norm al sources facts which they have either picked
up elsewhere, or cleverly extracted from the more
gullible kind of sitter. There is probably another
class o f m edium s who have begun by being entirely
honest, but seeing that mediumship is their only
source o f income, gradually accustom themselves to
pretending, almost w ithout realizing that they are
pretending, to give information as from the other
world, which is, in fact, nothing but their own un­
inspired commentary on the situation with which
they have to deal. They may be compared, perhaps,
to the clergyman who begins his professional life
by genuinely preaching the message which he
believes to have been given to him by God, but who,
21
THE TECHNIQUE OF A STANCE
r
j,en confronted with the legal necessity of making
*0ormore sermons every Sunday, very easily slips
intoa habit of rattling off totally uninspired utter­
ances which have little or no claim to be considered
as messages given to him from on high. The paid
clergyman and the paid medium suffer alike from
thenecessity of producing results which they might
findit difficult to reconcile with perfect sincerity.
But I will assume that we are dealing with a
perfectlyhonest medium such as, for instance, would
be provided by the London Spiritualist Alliance.
This would be a person who is vouched for as being
one of known probity of character. H e would,
indeed, like the clergyman, make his living by
giving messages from the world of spirit. It is
probable that in every case, even with the best
mediums, this message is profoundly influenced by
the medium's own character and, indeed, by his
state of health, and by the personality of the sitter.
The medium will be sitting in an arm-chair in a
partly darkened room (a bright light always seems
to interfere with the mediumistic trance). The sitter
is perhaps accompanied by a friend who takes short­
hand notes of the sitting. It is very probable that
the medium will first offer prayer. These prayers,
in the case of a good medium, would be obviously
genuine, dignified, and earnest. The subject of the
prayer will be that no spirit may approach who is
not in touch with the Divine Will, and that we may
be guarded against evil influences. In a few minutes,
after perhaps a few deep sighs and small muscular
27
TH E TR U TH ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
movements of the medium’s body, the medium w’li I
become entranced. Then a totally new voice I
emanate from the medium’s mouth.
It is curious that in many cases this control, as 1
it is called, appears to be of a childish and un­
educated mentality. These controls often have
childish names, very often they claim to be Red I
Indians, or South Sea Islanders, or Egyptian Priests.
It is thought by some students of psychical research
that the control is not, in fact, a separate individual,
as it claims to be, but is only a detached part of the
medium’s mind which is able to enter into relations
with some other mode of existence.
Be that as it may, the control will begin conversing
with the sitter with ease and familiarity, asking and
answering questions. Generally the conversation
will start by the control mentioning the names of
various people who are not recognizable, giving
descriptions which might easily apply to a great
variety of cases, as for instance, “ I see an old man.
His hair is white and rather sparse, he is short of
breath, he was very ill before he passed out, he is of
medium height, neither very tall nor very short,
he is nearly related to you, he is perhaps your
uncle or your father. You do not know him ?
‘ Never mind,’ he says, 4you may not have known
him but he knows you.’ ”
This is always the most unconvincing part of the
sitting. The medium will go on to ask whether you
know John, or Jim, or Mary, or Alice, and you begin
to be, if you are at all critical, highly suspicious of
28
THE TECHNIQUE OF A STANCE
I whole business. Then, if you are fortunate, the
f medium may possibly begin to describe people whom
youhave known in this life. In one sitting that I can
think of the control said, “ I will try and drive away
all these other spirits and shut the door and bring
along the spirits that want to talk to you.” Im m edi­
atelyafterwards I was given the initials of three men
that I have known intimately, then the name by
which they knew me, then the name of the place
where I was working. I had every reason to believe
that the medium could not have known who I was,
or who were my friends. There are very numerous
cases in which people have been given proofs which
they regard as absolutely convincing, that they have
conversed, through the medium, with people they
have known and loved on earth. Such an experience
is shared by thousands of men and women to-day.
The baffling and disappointing part of the
ordinary stance is that, even when we do feel con­
vinced that we have indeed come into communica­
tion with people whom we have known, the quality
of the communication is disappointingly meagre.
If we ask the best mediums why this is so, they will
reply that we m ust always remember that these
communications pass through an almost incredibly
difficult series of channels. O ur friend in the other
world has first of all to get into touch with the
control, the control very often having the mentality
of a young kitchen maid. The control then has to
try to impress the message upon the brain substance
of the vocal organs of the medium who is entranced,
29
TH E TR U TH ABOUT SPIRITUALISE
and this brain substance of the vocal organ >
try to make the message audible and compre'~ *
to you. W e may almost compare the process to \
highly educated men trying to send a message tor
another when both are at the mercy of an
J <UUiQCl'l
illiterate messenger. The one, perhaps, has tJ
transmit the message to an uneducated South s j
Islander. She, in turn, gives the message, we w
i>
]
say, to a schoolgirl, and the school girl then transmits
it to the friend. The message will reach its destina­
tion, probably ill-spelt and ungrammatical, and so
full of mistakes that the friend at one end will feel
great uncertainty as to whether it is a genuine
message, and, if it be genuine, will marvel that his
friend shows so little mental capacity as to have
almost forgotten how to speak grammatical English.
Most of these messages then are unsatisfying,
even when we feel persuaded that they are genuine.
People often complain that instead of informing us
about the life of the other world and giving us
messages which will be of aid to our religious or
philosophical interests, they merely recall to us, let
us say, the name of our friend’s pet dog or cat, or
some absurd incident which happened to us both
when we were in a punt on the river. I think we have
got to remember that, for purposes of identification,
a sermon or philosophical disquisition on the after
life would not be very good evidence of identity,
whereas the mention of some quite unimportant
incident, giving the pet name ofa person or an animal
or recalling some foolish accident, may be, for
30
t0
I
o
k
t h e t e c h n i q u e o f a s e a n c e
purposes of identification, far more convincing than
L reallyserious message. M y own opinion is that
it very seldom get much farther than receiving a
definite proof that such and such a person has
survived death, by relating some convincing inci­
dents of our past life, and we are wise if we do not
askfor more than this; but I must own that many
friends whose opinion I trust have been far more
successful than I have been in this respect, and have
constantly received messages which they regard as
not only genuine but informative and reassuring in
the highest degree.
The seance may go on for over an hour, the control
becoming chatty and loquacious. W e shall be told
details about our future health and prospects which
sometimes come true and sometimes do not (nearly
all mediums prophesied that there would be no war).
After about an hour the control will probably say
that the light or the power is failing, and will then
say good-bye with many expressions of goodwill.
After a few sighs the medium will then wake up and
will be totally ignorant as to what has happened,
whether there has been any success or none. It may
be well to say here that where a medium is carefully
looked after and not allowed to accept too many
engagements, there seems to be no reason to suppose
that the medium’s health suffers, any more than that
of any other professional person.
It must not be supposed that all communications
through entranced persons are as little satisfactory
as the one that I have outlined. There are a few
T H E T R U T H A B O U T SPIRITUALISE
(I should say very few) that contain very much
detailed evidence. I have already referred to
Stainton M oses’s “ spirit teachings.” We may r^l
M rs. W illett’s script professing to come from W
F . W . H . M yers, and commented on elaborated
by the present L ord Balfour in Proceedings O
ftit]
S.P.R.y P art 140. N o one could possibly say that
these messages are trifling or irrelevant, wherever!
they m ay come from. T hey are serious, important,
and detailed. T hey have convinced men like Lord
Balfour, Sir W illiam Barrett and Sir Oliver Lodge
th at they are genuine, that is to say they have come
from persons who have passed into the other world
and who can be identified as showing a consistent
personality and identity. Anyone who has not
studied the literature of psychical research, as for
instance in that great book we have mentioned,
Human Personality and its Survival of Bodily Death,
can have no idea how much evidence there is of
messages from persons who have passed into the
other world, how dignified, carefully weighed and
characteristic they are, and how carefully those
messages have been sifted by critics eminently
fitted for such a task.
The great difficulty remains that it is exceedingly
hard to devise any test which will make us certain
that what professes to be a message from our friend
in the other world may not be in fact the evocation
by the medium of recollections drawn from the sub­
conscious strata of our own memory. There is no
doubt, I think, that many of these “ messages 9
9do
th
T
?
t
32
the technique of a stance
jjavethis origin. The question remains as to whether
thisexplanation fits all of these so-called messages.
Is there any way of escaping this uncertainty ?
The only real proof of the identity of any person
professing to speak from the other world is whether
theygive a message the. content of which is unknown
tothe medium or the sitter and can only be after­
w
ardsverified. Where this is the case, I find it very
difficult to escape from the belief that I am receiving
amessage from an extra-mundane source, and that
itcomes from the person from whom it professes to
com
e. It has indeed been suggested that we all of
us may possibly, in our subconsciousness, have
access to all the information which there is in the
world, and that even if we do not consciously know
this information, we may know everything sub­
consciously. This really does seem to me to be press­
ing the theory of telepathy to absurd and incredible
extremes. I believe that if we are told some fact of
which we cannot have any knowledge, and never
have had any knowledge in our past life, and this
turns out on investigation to be true, then we may
well assume that this is a proof of the survival of the
conscious intelligence of the personality from which
the message purports to come. Now although nine-
tenths of the messages which come through even
a very good and successful sdance may have a
possible explanation in telepathy between the sitter
and the medium, there is a very definite residuum
of the satisfactory messages which cannot be
a c c o u n te d for by telepathy.
33
-
4
*
■
>
-
-
T H E T R U T H ABO UT SPIRITUAL/U,
The following is a typical instance of comm I
tion from the other world given by Henry
the novelist, in his Letters,volume two: h b i i
I have had from or through a medium in Amend
Boston a message purporting to come from my mSB
who died twenty-five years ago, and from
ostensibly proceeded during a stance at which mysister^
law, with two or three other persons, was present T>
point is that the message is an allusion to a matter Vrvnr
(so personal is it to myself) to no other individual inct
world but me—not possibly either to the medium orto
my sister-in-law, and an allusion so pertinent andinitiated
and tender and helpful, and yet so unhelped byanyactual
earthly knowledge on anyone’s part, that it quite astound?
as well as deeply touches me. If the subject ofthem
essage
had been conceivably in my sister-in-law’s mind it w
ould
have been an interesting but not infrequent case of
telepathy but, as I say, it could not thinkably have been:
and she only transmitted it to me, after the fact, not even
fully understanding it. So, I repeat, I amastounded.
Sir Oliver Lodge, speaking of the difficulties
which surround all these communications, remarks,
4
4The process of communication is sophisticated by
many influences, so that it is very difficult, perhaps
at present impossible, to disentangle and exhibit
clearly the part that each plays.”
Sir William Barrett, speaking of the result of
his investigations, says,4
4Certainly, for our own part,
we believe there is some active intelligence at work
behind, and apart from, the automatist, an intelli­
gence which is more like the deceased person it
professes to be than that of any other we can imagine.
t h e t e c h n i q u e o f a s t a n c e
*ndthough the intelligence is provokingly irritating
. (hewayit evades simple direct replies to questions,
yet it is difficult to find any other solution to the
problemof these scripts and cross-correspondences
than that there is an attempt at intelligent co­
operation between certain disembodied minds and
ourown. . . . Some of the evidence, indeed, seems
rather to indicate a more or less truncated personal­
ity, a fragment of earthly memories partly roused
by, and mainly connected with, those through and
to whom the communications come. . . . The
intelligent and characteristic messages, however,
suggest that the vague ones are due to the fading
and dissolving of earthly memories and ties, as the
departed become more absorbed in their new life,
the very nature of which we are in our present state
incapable of conceiving. Our own limitations, in
fact, make it impossible for the evidence to convey
the assurance that we are communicating with what
is best and noblest in those who have passed into
the unseen.”
There are also the so-called “ book tests,” when
a spirit purporting to speak through a medium
refers to some book in the sitter’s library or some
other library, mentioning, for example, that in the
fourth book from the right-hand end on the fifth
shelf, on page 321, the fifth line down, will be found
such and such a message. It may be a book which the
sitter has either never read or has never looked at
for many years. Though it is conceivable that our
subconscious may retain the memory of a passage
< 35
THE TRUTH ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
in a book which we have not read for years n
remembering also the page and the position jjfjM
page where the passage is to be found, this doJ
seem to me a very improbable explanation. If agajj
we are told the name of a person who was born inI
1721 and we are told where to find the baptismal I
register and where to look for his gravestone, this
being a person whom we have never heard of, it
seems to me to be unreasonably sceptical if we refuse
to accept this as a genuine proof of supra-normal
knowledge.
We have indeed to beware of supposing that,
even if such a genuine message is given, it neces­
sarily means that we must accept all the other
messages given from the same source as being either
valuable or necessarily true. Mr. Stainton Moses
was constantly reminded by his “ guides ” that they
were very far themselves from being infallible,
though they claimed to have access to a much
greater volume of knowledge than he could have in
this world, and he was also warned that these proofs
of identity had little value in themselves, and that
the sooner he could give up asking for signs and
wonders the better it would be for his spiritual
progress.
Now, as I am rather taking for granted in this
book that my readers are for the most part members
of the Christian Church, or at all events accept the
main facts of the Christian revelation, I am anxious
to point out once again (and I feel it is exceedingly
important that we should realize this) that die
36
the t e c h n i q u e o f a s t a n c e
fswhich we have of Our Lord’s miracles, and
CciaUy of Our Lord’s resurrection, are very far
frombeing such as would be accepted by men of
science to-day.
This thought leads us to ask ourselves on what
evidence we do accept or deny the report of supra-
norm
alhappenings in ancient records. W e no doubt
beginbyaccepting them because we are taught them
byauthorities whom we respect, our parents, our
school, the Church, or the Bible. But when we
com
e to a point, as we must all do, when we have
toask ourselves whether these authorities are to be
trusted or not, we are largely influenced by our
conception as to what we believe is consonant to our
ideas about the nature of the universe.
We are ready to accept the record of a man like
St. Paul, when he tells us of his vision of Christ on
the road to Damascus, and we accept also his
explanation of that experience because we feel that
the story bears a stamp of veracity and fits in to our
general belief in the constitution of the universe.
After all, our commonest and most everyday beliefs
are subject to a test of this kind. Our only assu­
rance that our everyday experiences are not dreams,
but do correspond to actual happenings in the
outside world, is due, not to any possibility of
conclusive proof, but to our belief that to accept
these occurrences as true makes life rational and
intelligible.
To sum up then, I believe there is a small residuum
of psychical facts which have happened in our own
37
T H E T R U T H A B O U T SPIRITUALISM
d a y , w hich, can only be explained on the theory ffl
c e rta in indiv id u als w ho have lived upon this earth
a re n o w alive, an d are able to communicate withtheir
frie n d s, a n d th a t if we reject this evidence we ought
also logically to reject the evidence upon which the
g re a t facts o f o u r C hristian faith are rounded.
CHAPTER IV
Physical ‘
Phenomena
Among the most hotly disputed of the phenonema
ofSpiritualism are those which are called physical.
They are disputed not because, in some cases, they
are not well attested, but rather because they go
against all our preconceived notions of what is
possible.
Among these are the so-called poltergeists, spirits
(apparently) who in certain houses move furniture
about, give loud raps on the walls, overturn tables,
and so on. These phenomena are supposed to be
carried out by spirits who are restless, and who can­
not tear themselves away from the scenes of their
unhappiness. Some otherwise eminently desirable
houses have become unsaleable owing to their being
subject to this annoyance.
Then we have levitation, where some people have
been seen to be raised up in the air, with no apparent
support. This has been often noted in the lives of
saints. Certain mediums have claimed to have
spirits attending them whose forms can be photo­
graphed. The evidence for this appears to be poor
and unconvincing.
I
THE TRUTH ABOUT SPIRITUALISM I
Transportation is the name given to the
ment by supranormal means of the m
edium
sM
one place to another. The late Lords C
raw
fordJ
Dunraven declared emphatically that they hads
e
e
the medium, Home, float out of a window in V
ictoria
Street, London, and return by another window. |
Lights are said to play over the heads of sitte
rs!
at a sdance like tongues of fire. Similar phenomena
have been noticed at religious revivals, notably at|
the great missions in the early part of this century
in Wales. At the same time an abnormal fall of
temperature has been noted.
The most remarkable portents are the materializa­
tion of the human form or some part of a form (a
face or hand) apparently coming out from the body
of the medium. The most arresting claim under the
head of physical phenomena is the materialization
of a complete human body which can be touched
and handled, and has all the appearance ofthe human
form.
This was, according to the testimony of Sir
William Crookes, seen in the case of Florrie Cook,
who produced the materialized form of “ Katie
King.” Sir W. Crookes never swerved to the end
of his life in his belief in this fact. An extraordinary
instance of this is recorded by Mr. Harry Price,
who has devoted himself to the exposure of fraudu­
lent mediums. It is the case of a family circle in the
London suburbs, apparently veryreliable and honest
and very averse from publicity and money-making!
To them appeared from time to time their little girl
40
PHYSICAL PH E N O M E N A
Prtsalie who had died when She WaS Six‘ M r*
v*cc visited the house, and, after m aking every
Caution known to the professional investigator to
eliminate possible fraud, sat in the circle w ith the
family. After some time the body of a little girl
appeared. Mr. Price was able to touch the whole of
the body, to feel the pulse and hear the breathing,
and the girl answered “ Yes ” when asked if she
loved her mother. To no other question did she
answer anything. The body then disappeared. If
this incident should prove to be authenticated, as
Mr. Price (a very sceptical investigator) thinks it is,
it is of extraordinary interest and im portance. T here
are numberless alleged instances of this m aterializa­
tion of bodies or parts of bodies, b u t m any have
been proved to be fakes, and many, seen and touched
by quite sensible and norm al people, have never
been submitted to skilled investigation.
It it were to be proved true that, in certain circum­
stances, solid human bodies can be for a time touched
and handled, consolidated, as these messages assert,
out of the matter provided by the sitters themselves,
it would indeed revolutionize the conceptions of
modern science, though it would not be surprising
to believers in traditional religion.
The power of the spirit to control and modify
matter is a truth accepted by religion, and somewhat
tentatively accepted by modern psychologists. The
creation of a temporary bodily form with, apparently,
all the semblance of vitality, goes infinitely beyond
anything which we should, in the present state of
4 i
THE TRUTH ABOUT *PIRITUAU#m
beliefofordinary modern men, bepreparedtor
Nevertheless, there seems to be good evidenced
this happening in a few eases, and, with letsexact'*
evidence, in a good many more. If this were t<
rovM
to be true, it would make it much easier for mat \
Christians to accept the stories of Our Iz^rdi
resurrection, which, with their modern outlook, and
with the uncriticized evidence on which they are
based, they have up to now tended to doubt.
We may perhaps ask why such stories cannot bel
carefully investigated by the Royal Society. The]
answer is that Sir William Crookes did invite the
Royal Society to investigate them, and the request
was refused because, as these learned men asserted,
such things could not have happened.
Flammarion, the French astronomer, relates that
hewas present when the French AcademyofSciences
investigated Edison’s phonograph. One learned
scientist seized Edison by the collar, erving
“ Wretch1we are not to be made dupes of by a
ventriloquist.” This was in 1878. The same man,
six months later, after having carefully examined
the phonograph, again declared that “ it was im­
possible to admit that mere vile metal could perform
the work of human phonation.” The phonograph,
according to his idea of it, was nothing but an
acousticillusion.
When the advisability of railways was being
discussed in Bavaria, the Royal College of Doctors,
having been consulted, declared that railways, if
they were constructed, would cause the greatest
42
PHYSICAL PHENOM ENA
trioration in the health of the public, because
rapid movement would cause brain trouble
^iong travellers, and vertigo among those who
lookedat moving trains. For this last reason it was
recommended that all tracks should be enclosed by
high board fences raised above the height of the
carsand engines. (Flammarion, L'inconnu, chap. I.)
Itseemsdoubtful whether the Royal Society could
beinduced, even to-day, to examine scientifically the
phenomena of materialization. Even, however, if
theywere willing, there is the further difficulty that
these phenomena will not always submit themselves
toan unsympathetic atmosphere. It is a rare thing
togetsogood a test as the “ Rosalie ” incident, simply
because it seems necessary to the occurrence of these
incidents that there should be a certain sympathy in
the group which witnesses them. If the “ spirits ”
are correct in what they assert, that the material out
ofwhichthesesolid forms are temporarily constructed
is derived from the aetheric bodies of the circle, this
is very intelligible. It is very doubtful whether a
Committee of the Royal Society would be able to
witness a materialization, as doubtful as it would be
that a committee of Pharisees could have seen Our
Lord’s risen form, if they had wished to verify the
evidence of Cephas, of the Twelve, or of St. Paul on
the way to Damascus.
Mr. Myers (Human Personality, vol. u, page 288)
writes as follows:
Jesus Christ “ brought life and immortality to light.”
By His appearance after bodily death. He proved the
43
THE TRUTH ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
deathlessness of the spirit. By His character and tt
teaching He testified to the Fatherhood of God. $ 3
then, as His unique message admitted of evidential suppo’
it is here supported. So far as He promised things^
provable, that promise is here renewed.
I venture now on a bold saying; for I predict that,^
consequence of the new evidence, all reasonable m
ena
century hence will believe the resurrection of C
hrist,
whereas, in default of the new evidence, no reasonablem
en
a century hence would have believed it. The groundo
f
this forecast is plain enough. Our evergrowing recognition
of the continuity, the uniformity of cosmic law hasgradu­
ally made of the alleged uniqueness of any incident its
almost inevitable refutation. . . . And especially asto
that central claim of the soul’s life manifested after the
body’s death it is plain that this can less and less be sup­
ported by remote tradition alone; that it must more and
more be tested by modern experience and inquiry. Suppose,
for instance, that we collect many such histories recorded
on first hand evidence in our critical age; and supposethat
all these narratives break down on analysis} that they can
all be traced to hallucination, misdescription and other
persistent sources of error, can we then expect reasonable
men to believe that this marvellous phenomenon, always
vanishing into nothingness when closely scrutinized in a
modern English scene, must yet compel adoring credence
when alleged to have occurred in an Oriental country, and
in a remote and superstitious age ? Had the results (in
short) of “ psychical research ” been purely negative,
would not Christian evidence—I do not say Christian
emotion, but Christian evidence—have received an over­
whelming blow ?
As a matter of fact— or, if you prefer the phrase, in my
own personal opinion— our research has led us to’results
r
44
PHYSICAL PH ENO M ENA
0
fi quite different type. They have not been negative
only,butlargely positive. We have shown that amid much
deception and self-deception, fraud and illusion, veritable
m
anifestations do reach us from beyond the grave. The
central claim of Christianity is thus confirmed as never
before. If our own friends, men like ourselves, can some­
tim
es return to tell us of love and hope, a mightier Spirit
m
ay well have used the eternal laws with a more com­
mandingpower. There is nothing to hinder the reverent
faith that, though we be all “ the children of the most
Highest,” He came nearer than we, by some space by us
immeasurable, to that which is infinitely far. There is
nothing to hinder the devout conviction that He of his
ownact “ took upon him the form of a servant,” and was
made flesh for our salvation, foreseeing the earthly travail
and the eternal crown. “ Surely before this descent into
generation,” says Plotinus, “ we existed in the intelligible
world; being other men than now we are, and some of us
Gods; clear souls and minds immixed with all existence;
parts of the Intelligible, nor severed thence 5 nor are we
severed even now.”
4S
C H A P T E R V
Poltergeists
P o ltergeists are on the very lowest level of psychic
phenomena. It may indeed seem th at they have little
or nothing to do with religion, yet I think that
though the study of poltergeists bring us among
trivial and even ridiculous happenings, the study in
itself is not unimportant to the cause in which w
e
are interested. The word “ poltergeist ” comes from
the German word “ poker,” which means “ a noise.”
The fact of these happenings is so well attested by
so many people, in so many countries, and on so
many different occasions, that it seems impossible
to deny them. W hat we find is that it has become
impossible for tenants to live in certain houses on
account of the annoying and frightening interferences
with the inhabitants, proceeding from no known
natural cause. People have found, for instance, that
their beds have been violently lifted up and thrown
to the ground, the bed-clothes have been stripped,
pillows have been taken away and put back, tables
and chairs have jumped about the room, doors
banged, windows violently opened and shut, showers
of stones thrown at the windows, matches lit and
46
POLTERGEISTS
about, fires started, violent noises like
J^der, writing on the wall, and other like irrational
ctf These things seem to have no meaning, they
childish and irrelevant. The Society for Psychical
Research and other learned and scientific investi­
gators have carefully examined the possibility of
fraud or delusion and have come to the conclusion
that there are very many cases in which both these
possibilities must be excluded.
I Those who are interested in these phenomena
I cannotdo better than read the volume on Poltergeists
I by Sacheverell Sitwell. Here can be found the
extraordinary stories of the most famous cases,
I “The Epworth Ghost ” told by John Wesley, “ The
Haunting of Willington Mill,” “ The Drummer of
I Tedworth,” “ The Haunting of Hintern Ampner,”
I The Amherst Mystery,” and so on.
/ Avery interesting story of poltergeists is contained
I in Mr. Harry Price’s The Most Haunted House in
I England. It gives the story of Borley Rectory, on
the border of Essex and Suffolk, where, under
carefully controlled conditions, beds and their
occupants were overturned, bottles smashed, bells
rung, doors locked and unlocked and their keys
removed, messages written in pencil on the walls,
sounds of heavy weights crashing on the floor, wine
turned into ink, the house rendered unsaleable, and
finally, after having been once or twice set on fire,
completely burnt. All these phenomena (except the
last) happened under careful control, without any
visible human agency. Dr. Joad, not a witness
47
T H E T R U T H A BO U T SPIRITUALISM
likely to err from an excessive leaning to IL
naturalism, sums up the events at Borley Recto®
after discussing the advent of some scribbling ;
the wall which occurred without any ostensil®
authorship— 4
4As so frequently occurs when one®
investigating so-called abnormal phenomena, onJ
finds it equally impossible to withhold credence frorJ
the facts or to credit any possible explanation ofth
eI
facts. Either the facts did not occur, or, if they did,I
the universe must in some important respect beI
totally other than what one is accustomed to suppose. I
In this particular case, my inclination is to doubt the I
facts; and yet, having reflected long and carefully I
upon that squiggle, I did not and do not see howit I
could have been made by normal means.” (The Most |
Haunted House in England\ p. 231.)
The bearing of such bizarre events upon religion
may not, at first sight, seem to be important, but,
always supposing that they did occur, and it is
very difficult to believe that they did not, then the
whole case against supernaturalism, in its more
serious and vital aspects, is immensely weakened.
If we ask what such mad happenings have to do
with religion I should answer that, though they are
in themselves somewhat ridiculous, yet they do
definitely prove that there are powers, energies,
spirits, whatever we may like to call them, who are
at work close beside us, exercising powers of which
we have no knowledge, and which obey no law of
which we are cognizant, and we are therefore forced
to realize and to acknowledge that we are living in
48
POLTERGEISTS
s% I rid which is governed by laws far more wonder-
J A&d awe-inspiring than those which the material-
£ o J ^ k n o w le d g e s .
s*b]e I Whether we like it or no, we must acknowledge,
le k f ifthese stories are true, and I think it is impossible
°jje I todeny them, that we are surrounded by a world of
°H) I spirits who differ in their character quite as much as
•he I those spirits clothed in flesh with whom we habitu-
d, I illy have to do. Religion has been apt to speak as
>
e I though we had to do only with righteous or wicked
\ I spirits, but apparently there are, as well, spirits
? I which are neither good nor bad, but are merely
I boisterous, ill-mannered and tormenting. They do
/ not do any great injury, yet they may well make life
/ unbearable by their tormenting tricks. This being
I so, it would become very much easier for many to
I believe in that non-material world which all religions
f accept as the foundation of the religious life.
^KkThere are two interesting facts connected with
Poltergeists which may claim our attention. It
! seems often the case that they are connected with
the presence in the house of the adolescent boy or
girl. For some reason or other, which we do not
understand, adolescence seems to give power to
these puckish spirits. The hauntings or apparitions
very often disappear when these young people
remove. The other interesting fact is that these
people, when hard pressed by critics, have sometimes
accused themselves of trickery, and yet there seems
every reason to believe that, though they may have
given way to trickery when they found their strange
49
THE TRUTH ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
kid
4 1
to trickeiy. One of th e g r e a t difficulties of y
investigation into S p ir itu a lis m is th a t piienomejI
which in the first p la c e w e r e g e n u in e and apparentlyI
supranormal, may afterwards b e re p e a te d dishonestly I
either from the fear o f lo s in g m o n e y , o r from vanity I
and desire to attract a tte n tio n . W e m ay com
pare I
this w ith w hat we fin d in all organ ised religion,
T im e after time m edium s, who have apparently I
been perfectly g e n u in e a n d above suspicion I
in their early days, have, w h en their gift is I
waning, and either their in c o m e o r th eir self-esteem I
is at stake, been found re so rtin g to fraud and I
trickery. This has very n a tu ra lly led m an y investi- I
gators to suppose that there n e v e r had been anything
genuinely supranormal. Yet I believe that those ^
who have had the lo n g e st experien ce o f these sub­
jects would not n ecessa rily believe th at the earlier
happenings were not gen u in e. W e are sometimes
apt to forget that the history of religion is not only
a record of m agn ificen t spiritu al achievem ent, but %
also of fraud, trickeiy, self-deception and delusion.
How often we have to d eplore th e failure and dis­
grace of some religious m o vem en t w hich seem ed in
its earlier days to bear w ith it the hopes o f mankind.
The same religion which tells us o f heroic martyr­
doms and magnificent witness to the cause of God,
also has to tell of the basest trickery and superstition
deliberately organized with the object o f money-
getting or to feed the vanity o f religious leaders. wm
So i
power was vanishing, there was noreason to
that the facts which called for investigation
POLTERGEISTS
5 I Yet when we read these extraordinary accounts of
1I meaningless activities of the Poltergeist we may
} #ell remind ourselves that religion does not consist
I 0fintercourse with the psychical world, for we shall
find in that world just as many childish, irrational,
and mischievous energies as we find in this w orld;
but religion consists of intercourse with God carried
out quite as often through fellowship with this
physical world in which we live as through inter-
I course with that world which lies beyond us. The
I cultivation of psychical gifts is just as likely to bring
I us into contact with these mischievous entities as it
/ iswith higher and more evolved spirits, and we may,
( from the study of the Poltergeist, not only learn that
there are in the universe many other laws besides
material laws, but also that the world of spirit is a
world which may very well lead astray those who
approach it without adequate moral and intellectual
preparation. The “ next ” world is inhabited by
many irrational, silly, mischievous beings as well
as by the spirits ofjust men made perfect, or grievous
sinners. If we need to choose our company here, we
shall have to exercise the same faculty hereafter.
People do not after death become saints or
sinners: some remain just childish and silly.
5 l
CHAPTER VI
Is Spiritualism Dangerous f I
M in ist e r s of religion and teachers are constantly!
being asked whether spiritualism is dangerous to the |
moral and religious life. It is a question to whichit ]
is not easy to give a direct answer. I
One is continually being asked whether an I
interest in Spiritualism does not often lead to
insanity, or to possession by evil spirits.
I have m yself never come across a person who j
becam e insane th r o u g h Spiritualism, and having
enquired from m any wise p e o p le w h o have more
intim ate acquaintance with Spiritualism than I have,
I find that their experience a g rees w ith m in e.
W e know indeed that a certain fraction o f the |
followers of all religions are more or less insane, and,
being already m e n ta lly unstable, th eir g ro w in g want
of balance expends its e lf in th e pursuit of the religion
of their choice. You will alw ays find a sm all percent­
a g e o f mad or semi-mad p e o p le attach ed to any
Cathedral or popular Church. The Churches which
are doing nothing will p ro b a b ly be e x e m p t from this
trial, but the active and alive C hurch w ill always ,
have a few p eo p le attach ed to it w h o are either
s*
IS SPIRITUALISM D A N G ER O U S ?
persuaded that they are in love with the clergyman,
or that they have had a message from heaven, or have
written a poem or painted a picture under direct
inspiration, or have been given first-hand knowledge
of the date o f the Judgment Day.
Every good clergyman is familiar with these
people, and it would be exceedingly unfair to deduce
fromthe presence of these unfortunate persons that
it is the teaching at that particular Church which
has overturned the mental balance of these unhappy
folk. In fact, if the Churches were dead or inactive,
these people would never become attached to the
Church. The problem of the mentally unstable is
one which all live forms of religion have to deal
with. Yet it is not to be doubted that some forms of
religion are more likely to increase this instability
than others.
There are some people who possess the power of
making contact with other worlds than ours in a
special degree, the clairvoyant, the clairaudient,
the psychometrist, and so on. They are not neces­
sarily better people than others, because they possess
these gifts: they may well be worse, but these gifts
need special treatment, which they are seldom able
to get. They may be treated as semi-insane, or
dishonest, or unreliable, when they are only peculi­
arly open to visions, good and bad, of a world of
which the ordinary person is wholly unconscious.
W hat these people need is skilled treatment from
persons who have a wide experience of these
abnormal gifts, of their uses and abuses.
53
TH E T R U T H ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
Let us take the case of a person who $$
believes that he has held converse with some I ^
friend who has passed into the other world. Tfc1
assurance is to him a tremendous fact It may I
change all his outlook on religion. Where hi
contact is spontaneous and immediate, it may be,%
I gj
I believe, of immense benefit. But such peoplew
S.I t!
very probably, not be content with this. They I x
want to have a sitting with a medium. Now medium 1 1
vary in quality as much as religious advisers ot I I
doctors vary. It needs a very large measure ofm
entai I
stability if people are not to be upset and deceivedby 1
mediums.
If they suppose that mediums are more likely to
give wise advice than good men living in the flesh,
they lay themselves open to deception and dis- r
appointment. Mediums, as we have seen, are ■
constantly incorrect in their forecasts and mistaken
in their opinions.
My own advice to a person wishing to get into
contact with those in the other world by means of a |
medium would be first to make very sure that their
motive is good and that they are strong enough
mentally to judge sanely of what they are told, and
then if they feel a call to do so to take pains to find
a medium who professes to be guided by the princi­
ples of the Christian faith. Such people may possibly I
get information which will help them. But a friend
who has large first-hand knowledge of mediums, and
of those who resort to them, says to me “ I feel I
have not spoken nearly strongly enough as to the
54
is SPIRITUALISM D A N G ER O U S ?
danger of resorting to m edium s. I sh o u ld w ish to
see the Church do everything to w arn p eo p le as to
the dangers which m ay aw ait th e m .”
What are the dangers ? F irst, th a t w h ereas w e
have been definitely sent into th is w o rld in o rd e r to
acquire experience of dealing w ith sp iritu al p ro b lem s
through the lim itations w hich in carn ate life im poses
upon us, we may be tem p ted to lose in terest in th e
relations and problem s of th is w orld, in an a tte m p t
to sidetrack this m undane life, an d acquire k now ­
ledge and relationships for w hich w e are n o t y e t
fitted.
Secondly, we m ay m ake th e terrib le m istake o f
supposing that the possession of psychic gifts dis­
penses us from th e sim ple and unspectacular
approach to G od by m eans o f hum ility, tru st an d
love.
Thirdly, we m ay, even from the very best
mediums, acquire com pletely incorrect inform ation,
and. be led into folly by acting upon it. T h is is
quite a real danger.
M y own experience w ould lead m e to th in k th at
little inform ation of value comes through m edium s,
beyond the assurance th at those we love are alive,
are near us, and can help us. Being assured of this,
we can get into closer touch w ith them , w ith m uch
less danger of deception, by m editation and prayer,
than by constant conversation, w hich passes through
the two very fallible interm ediaries of the control
and the m edium , before it reaches us.
H aving thus stressed the dangers of this form of
55
TH E T R U T H ABO UT SPIRITUALISM I
I
communication, I must also say that there do
perfectly honest, Christianly-minded, d ev ^ ^ ^ ^ B
mediums, who, having this power, do devote it ^ ^ ^ B
the help of the bereaved, and that some people ^
reason to be grateful for their help. If peo2 ^ ^ ^ |
recognize the dangers of this method of community ■ r a
tion, and are sufficiently strong-minded to use itI \m
only so far as it helps them, and then put it aside
I could not say that it is never lawful to try and get I
this help. I d
There are some good people who hold themselves I
bound by the laws of the Jews as set forth in the ■ c
Old Testament. They will quote: “ Regard not
them that have familiar spirits, neither seek after
wizards, to be defiled by them ” (Leviticus XIX, 31)
or 4
4There shall not be found among you any one I
that maketh his son or his daughter to pass through I
the fire, or that useth divination, or an observer of
times, or an enchanter, or a witch, or a charmer, ■
or a consulter with familiar spirits, or a wizard, or ■
a necromancer ” (Deuteronomy XVIII) or, finally, ■
4
4A man also or woman that hath a familiar spirit,
or that is a wizard, shall surely be put to death; they f
shall stone them with stones; their blood shall be
upon them ” (Leviticus XX, 27). It would indeed
be difficult to begin to-day to stone mediums, or
put to death people who picked up sticks or cooked r
their food on Saturdays, and the number of people
who, to-day, would ground their objection to the
cult of spiritualism on these grounds must be very 3
small, and rapidly diminishing. '
56 \
is SPIRITUALISM DANGEROUS ?
Xhe chief importance of these ordinances is that
^ W
ere taken over by the Christian Church, and
trere the cause of the most horrible cruelties per­
petrated upon those who exercised psychical gifts.
Xhe punishment of witches, by Protestants and
Catholics alike, forms one of the m ost terrible
indictments of historical Christianity. T he punish­
ment of witches went hand in hand with belief in
the crudest superstitions, provided that they re­
dounded to the credit of the Church.
When it is asked why psychical phenom ena have
only of late years been seriously studied, the answer
is that, until recent days, those who studied them
went in danger of being burnt, and this was not an
encouragement to the pursuit of this branch of
investigation 1 T here were plenty of psychics, but
the Church used them as illum inants in the crudest
sense1
We are not, perhaps, even now, able, with any
certainty, to say whether the phenomena investi­
gated by psychical research give us any promise of
a definite and useful knowledge of our next stage of
life, such as men like M yers and Lodge have hoped
for.
P ossibly w e shall never k now m u ch m ore th an we
know now . C ertain ly th e m arvels w hich th e cru d er
kinds o f S piritualism p ro p o u n d are n o t such as to
m ake u s desire to b e m ixed u p in such doubtful,
unlikely an d distasteful revelations o f the heaven
of th e cru d er k in d of Spiritualists.
'N evertheless, I believe th a t there is a pathw ay
57
THI TRUTH ABOUT f n U T V A li^
by which wc may know, and be know
®jL
whom we love and revere, and that */«tJ a
wrong to rule out, the P^iWtty ‘
may be intended to advance along they ,:C '*
# „ Ii IjM «
. I f ? ___ ^ # 4 < w ' M k
Vn^i
more lnteJiigent converse with the ritxt
we have, up to now, achieved. ' "*
]
One of the “ dangers Spiritualism ».
needs to be stressed, is the confusion btr**J
psychic gifts and spiritual gifts. Psychic gift*
as indeed is the case with physical gifts of bo$L
health and strength, given to us by God, and areor
no means to be despised. It is p ro b a b le that ^
Church has suffered from the neglect into
they have fallen, but they are not to be compute
to such purely spiritual gifts as faith, hope, and, 1
above all, love.
The emphasis laid upon contact with God through
psychical gifts, and the comparative failure to
emphasize the 4
4works o f the Spirit9
9 constitute a
real danger to those who become absorbed in the
cult of Spiritualism, as it is known to-day.
It cannot be too strongly emphasized that the
gifts o f the Spirit are “ love, joy, peace, long-
suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness,
self-controL” These are the signs o f being “ in the
spirit,” and there is no other approach but along
this path, to God* Clairvoyance, clairaudience,
mediumship, may be gifts having their own im­
portance when brought under the yoke o f Christ,
out, unless they are so consecrated, they are not
spiritual gifts and if they become a substitute for
m
V
?
U
0 a
•an
■
n
JS SPIRITUALISM DANGEROUS
*s ofthe Spirit they lead men on the sure road
^spiritual destruction. *7 '■ j ' '-
It is often asserted that Spiritualism leads men
(
0ij from Christianity. This may, in many cases,
,#
1
1be true, especially when Christianity has only
b
eenknown in one of its more debased forms. But
Ihaveknown many whose Christian faith has been
notably confirmed and deepened by psychical
experience.
The experience of the Rev. A. Webling in
Som
ething Beyond (Cambridge University Press)
w
here he relates how he had almost abandoned all
beliefin God, and was afterwards brought back to
a full belief in the Christian gospel by psychic
experience, is by no means peculiar. I know very
m
anymen and women who have been confirmed and
established in their faith through Spiritualism.
The danger which Spiritualism no doubt offers
ismainlyto those whose hold upon the unseen world
is either undeveloped or non-existent. Where the
Christian Faith offers a realized and tangible link
with the unseen world, and people are able to say,
“ I know that the spiritual world exists and that
the Communion of Saints is a reality,” the baser
forms of “ Spiritualism ” will offer no attraction.
59
C H A PT E R VII
Immortality as Understood by
Spiritualists
I t is not easy to find a wholly satisfactory definition
of spiritualism. If by “ spiritualist ” we understand
a person who believes in the survival of the personal­
ity after bodily death, and the possibility of holding |
communication with spirits departed this life, then |
all Christians are spiritualists. We all, by virtue
of our Christian creed, believe in the resurrectionof
the body, life everlasting, and the Communion of
Saints. But it is convenient to use some definitionof
the word spiritualist which would exclude the
average Christian who does not accept the common
doctrine of “ spiritualists.” We might then say
that a spiritualist is one who believes in the possi­
bility of holding habitual converse with the departed
by psychical means, such as trance mediumship,
automatic writing, clairvoyance, direct voice, and
so on.
It is, I think, important to emphasize the fact that,
in the wider sense, all Christians are spiritualists.
We all believe in survival, and we all believe that we
60
o r t a l it y a s u n d e r sto o d by s p ir it u a lis t s
I influence, and can be influenced by, the “ spirits
I ofjustmen made perfect,” and indeed by those who
I °Ja$yetfar from perfection.
As the result of messages, believed by “ spiritu-
I ilists”(inthe narrower sense) to have been received,
I there has grown up a creed founded upon these
I m
essages, which is by them commonly held, and
w
hich influences profoundly those who accept it.
This creed differs widely from that of popular
Christianity, but not necessarily so widely from
orthodox and official Christianity. We cannot
sufficiently remember that to the great majority of
people it is the Christianity of the hymn book and
the Sunday School which represents the Christian
faith, and by which that faith is judged. Very few
indeed have got further than this very crude and
inaccurate representation of the Christian Faith.
The spiritualist then, as the result of messages
believedby him to have been received from the other
world, holds that the human spirit has two bodies,
one the body of flesh and blood, the one with which
weare ordinarily familiar, and another, known as the
aetheric body, penetrating and informing the carnal
body, acting as the intermediary between the carnal
senses and the spiritual world. At death it is believed
that this aetheric body disentangles itself from the
carnal body, which then disintegrates, and which
has no further personal life. The aetheric body is
said to be connected with the carnal body, and has
been seen in the process of leaving it.
1 remember being told by the late Bishop Eden
61
THE TRUTH ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
that one of the most brilliant women he hadt I
had told him that she had once been so nn
°^I ^
death that the doctors had actually pronounced jL
to be dead. During that time she had felt an
ordinary sense of freedom and elation. She
look down and see her “ dead ” body lying onthtl 1
bed, while she herself was bending over it. A
fter*■
time she felt dragged back into a miserable p
riso
nI \
house, and then heard the doctor saying “ SheaI
coming round; she is not dead.” She told thebishop|
that she believed that she had then passed beyondI
death, and would never dread it again. S
uch Bg
experiences have often been recorded, and rest o
nI
good authority. . 1
The aetheric body is the receptacle of the experi- |
ences of this earthly life, and is the instrument by |
which the spirit expresses itself in the next stageof v
existence. Spiritualists, then, very much believe m p
the resurrection of the body, but not of the actual
particles which at the hour of death form the visible
body, and which are buried in the grave, and go to
form the bodies of trees and flowers and grass.
We may compare with this the saying of St.
Thomas Aquinas: “ In a man’s body, while he lives, ^
there are not always the same parts in respect of f
matter, but only in respect of species. In respect of
matter, there is a flux and reflux of parts. Still that
fact does not bar the man’s numerical unity from the
beginning to the end of his life. The form and
species of the several parts continues throughout
life, but the matter of the parts is dissolved by natural
6 2
(
orTALITY a s u n d ersto o d by s p ir itu a lis ts
andnewmatter accrues through nourishment.
fythe man is not numerically different by the
difference of his component parts at different ages,
although it is true that the material composition of
them
an at one stage of his life is not his material
com
position at another.”
This aetheric body then, so it is claimed, at once
enters into another world, in which, indeed, it has
alw
ays lived, though it has been partially veiled by
itsassociationwith the carnal body. It is not “ asleep
w
ithin the tomb,” waiting “ until the resurrection
morning.”
The life into which it enters is not essentially
different from this life, though infinitely wider in
scope, and apparently free from the illusions of time
and space. It has activities, experiences, pleasures,
corresponding to, though not identical with, those
which we enjoy here. It has been an occasion of
ridicule that those who purport to communicate
from the other world report that they enjoy eating
and drinking (and even smoking), that they love
their gardens and their concerts, though all these
experiences are not identical with those we know
here. I have never, for my own part, seen why these
messages should be an occasion for derision. In the
New Testament, the experiences of the next life
are described under forms taken from this life as
the Jews knew it. Jesus says that he will drink wine
with his disciples in the new kingdom. The Seer
savs that the blessed will share in the “ marriage
supper of the Lamb,” they will play on harps, they
T H E T R U T H A BO U T SPIRITUALISM
will walk in “ paradise,” which means a I I
pleasure ground. W e are not shocked ^ 5 ■ cP^
images, because they are consecrated to us w^* 1
usage, and by the sheer beauty of the language \ I
am not shocked when some departed spirit santdl ^
he enjoys something corresponding to a meal, or-1
garden, or a concert, or a voyage of discovery ore?%1
a cigar. It is certainly more convincing than the1 to
popular conception of the perpetual Sabbath, orthe1
never ceasing “ casting down their golden crow
ns 1 e,
upon the glassy sea,” or “ prostrate before Thy 1 ^
Throne to lie, and gaze and gaze on Thee.,, M
any
of these messages are no doubt vulgar. The majority 1 ,
of men who die no doubt had rudimentary concep- 11 >
tions of a pleasurable life, and we have no reason to H
suppose that they will change very suddenly. The H
heaven of the philosopher or the clergyman would H
be hell to the average heroic airman or able-bodied 1j
seafaring man. But these accounts of the nextlife I
are not by any means all vulgar. They give one an
idea of a life in which people naturally gravitate to
the type of living which they have enjoyed here.
There are cycles of heavens, opening up in glory as
the soul develops, and a real hell, which consists of
living in the purely carnal conceptions of life, and
knowing at last that this is the negation of genuine
living. The only escape from this hell is to see it
in its relation to true ideals of living.
The spiritualist believes that it is possible, but
by no means easy, for the emancipated spirit to re­
enter this life for an adequate cause, and to hold
64
aUTY as understood by spiritualists
at of I l*
*
0with this world. The spirits emphasize
b0J \ I < continually that to do so is exceedingly
1*0? I flijt, and ought only to be undertaken for an
ys t liquate reason. With the spirit-life of those still
> or** J imprisoned in this life they can and do continually
r eye9 I converse, speaking of such converse as though it
n n I w
e
rean exchange of visual vibrations (“ The light,
>
r I 1
Sstron8
>or weak> or waning ”), but to get
I kckintoconditions of space and time and matter is
Ihv / crtraorM difficult, and the intercourse liable
[
atiy 11°continual errors. It can generally only be done
vitv I temporarily making use of another mind
en- / voca^or£ans the so-called “ medium,” and
to I •• ^ 7 ers constantly remarked how difficult
he / 1
S*° Sure messages sent are the same as
Id / ^0S
e ^ a* are received.
j / ^ ose in the other life claim to be able to foretell
■ I future. There are a great many very well
I attested instances of people who have been saved
fromdanger by vivid dreams or detailed messages,
warning diem of danger, showing them the faces of
people hitherto unknown, who are contemplating
violence, and so on. It would seem that in some
sense what we call the future is already in existence,
though it does not follow that we cannot alter or
I modify it by our actions.
I Those in the other world do not claim any sort of
I infallibility. They say that as to the ultimate nature
I 0f reality or the nature of God they know very little
more than we do. They know enough to be sure
that they are being guided towards a progressive
65
E
TH E T R U TH ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
vision of reality, and they realize more than ^ 1
the nature of the soul, but there is no sort of^a » reT
I
that we pass catastrophically from earth to heav^l an-
from ignorance to infallibility, from imperfection
perfection. W e are told that people with $tror.i« .«§
prejudices and inhibitions only very gradually lo^l
them. The convinced and narrow-minded sectarian® e
will continue for some time after death to sh
ield
himself from any contact with those of another sect,I <
and these inhibitions give way only by degrees a
s I ^
further light is given.
There are *
*guardian angels,” spirits whose duty
it is to help those who come out of the experience
we call death, but which would, apparently, be m
uch K j|
more truly called birth. These guardians surround ■ j
us in this life, and pass us on to others as the soul |
progresses.
Sudden death is apparently analogous to a pre­
mature birth in this life. It is a shock to the spirit, ■
and necessitates a specialized kind of assistance from
the other world. Infants, and even stillborn infants,
grow up, and the experience which they missed in
this life is made up to them in the next.
There is some proof, if we are to accept the general
spiritualist position, that many of us have lived before
we entered into the restrictions of this world, having
come into this life in order to gain some particular
needful experience, or in order to put right mistakes
or sins committed before. Though in our earthly
memory we are ignorant of this previous life, in our
“ aetheric ” memory we have not forgotten, and we
66
/ iM
moktau« as understood by sp ir it u a l ist s
,<
Jo I H i that we entered into this life voluntarily
e? I “d for a definite purpose. This belief in pre-
'■
*
>
, I ^stence was, of course, held by the writer of
to I jjcclesiasticus, by Origen, and, in our own time,
& I (,yM’Taggart.*
e i It is interesting to note that the tremendous
1 ' em
phasis upon the sin of suicide, which is a part of
^ I theChristian tradition is, rather unexpectedly, borne
/ outbyspiritualism. The messages, believed to come
1 fromthe other world, stress the misery caused by
! theviolent voluntary ending of this life’s experience,
entailingupon him who commits this violence a long
I and terrible retribution in another sphere of living.
/ Person of Christ receives the greatest
| reverence in spirit messages. He is regarded as one
I who came from an inconceivably high sphere, of
I His own will, and in obedience to the love of God,
for us men and for our salvation,” but the position
f assigned by most spiritualists to Christ falls short of
the orthodox theology of the Incarnate Word, and
there is little or no teaching about the Triune nature
of the Divine Being. It would be quite untrue,
however, to suggest, as is often suggested in clerical
utterances, that the Name of Christ is ignored or
not treated with reverence. The beliefs of many
spiritualists are much more in accord with orthodox
belief than is commonly known. Sir Oliver Lodge,
who is deservedly held to be the principal exponent
*HU
man Immortality and Pre-existence by J. M’Taggart (Edward
Arnold).
67
THE TRUTH ABOUT SPIRITUALISM ■
of spiritistic belief, spoke of Our Lord in I
words: nHI
Our Master undoubtedly pre-existed as the etf. H
Christ, and is as living and active to-day as ever H e ^ B
having acquired the power of omnipresence and nZJI
other faculties of which we have no present bowled I
He lived on earth for a short time as Jesus ofNazareth I
and met with that rejection and contumely which awaitsI
all pioneers; but already He has influenced andredeemedI
the world to an amazing extent. A ll the meaning andI
consequences of that Incarnation we are not likely toI
know, from any arguments based on scientific procedure. I
We can be thankful that He has revealed to uspart ofthe I
nature ofthe Deity Whose power and majestyare revealed I
by science, but Who has other attributes, of love and I
simplicity and affection. These truly human attributes of I
God were revealed by Christ. He and the Father were I
one in plan and intention.
Spiritualists differ greatly in their attitude to the ■
Church. A large section of the spiritualist move- I
ment is violently opposed to the Church in all its
branches, holding it up on every occasion to
opprobrium, but this is by no means the case with
all spiritualists, many of whom would eagerly
welcome the possibility of a more sympathetic I
approach by the Church to spiritualist teaching.
The spiritualists believe that their emphasis upon |
the constant outflow of teaching from the spiritual
sphere, and the importance assigned to the seer or
clairvoyant, is characteristic of the early Christian
community. They may rightly remind us of the ]
68
p
IMMORTALITY as u n d e r s t o o d b y s p i r i t u a l i s t s
important place given in the early Church to
psychical gifts, to speaking “ in the Spirit,” to the
respect shown to prophets and prophetesses. They
areapt to forget that the experience of the Church
did not lead it to continue to assign this high
respect to the men who spoke in trance, or with
tongues.
We may well believe that real messages may be
given from time to time from higher spheres,
messages such as were given to Julian of Norwich
in Revelations of Divine Love, and yet believe that
aChurch, guided by such messages to the exclusion
ofthe reasoned thought of devout and learned men,
would bring upon itself the same evil which the
prominence of the prophet brought on the early
Christian community.
Yet I think it is tru e th a t if one com pares the
religion of the average Sunday School and the
ordinary hym n book w ith th e b etter brands of
messages about the other life w hich profess to com e
from the other w orld, the latter are often on a higher
plane, and come very often, as a gospel, as good news
to those who have been b ro u g h t up upon the m eagre
conceptions of the other w orld as expounded by
popular C hristianity.
69
C H A P T E R V III
W hat is Survival ? i
T h o s e who have studied the facts of psychical I
research are, as we have already noticed, divided I
som ew hat sharply in their conclusions. Some ofthemI
are completely satisfied that there is good evidence j
th at men survive the death of the body and are able
to m ake their presence known to us. These comprise,
as I believe, the majority of those who have made a |
prolonged study of this question, b u t there are some j
others who, after equally prolonged investigation,
rem ain exceedingly doubtful as to whether any of the
evidence leads us to any certain conclusion on this
subject. T he difference of opinion is, so far as my
own belief goes, due very largely to our preconcep­
tions. Those who reject the evidence for survival
would quite certainly also reject all the supranormal
facts upon which the great religions rest.
There is, however, a much deeper question in­
volved, and it is this. W hat do we mean by survival ?
This word is not so simple in its connotation as we
might at first suppose. W hat is the personality
which does, or does not, survive ? There is a strong
reason to suppose that the powers and experiences
70
WHAT IS SURVIVAL ?
I foureveryday life are only a fraction of our poten-
I d
al powers and experiences. It seems likely, as
Bergson pointed out, that the human brain is an
organ of inhibition rather than of manifestation.
Bythis we mean that just as you put blinkers over
adorse’s eyes because you want to keep them fixed
uponthe road so that he may not be terrified, or his
m
ind diverted, by looking at the way-side view, so
our brain and bodily organs are given to us so that
w
emay specialize on those particular and restricted
experiences which appertain to this terrestrial scene,
andmay not be put out of tune with the happenings
of this world by becoming conscious of the vastly
extended powers and experiences which would be
ours if it were not for the severe restrictions of our
sensuous nature.
There would appear to be good evidence that, at
all events in the case of some people, there are times
when the normal mind, which beholds the universe
as we all of us normally do, is superseded, and the
human personality can become conscious, if only in
a flash, of an inconceivably greater range of know­
ledge. The phenomena of the infant prodigy
suggests to us how little we really know about the
potential capacity of the human mind. Mr. Myers
has collected instances of the infant genius (Human
Personality^ section 309). He gives us there a list
of thirteen geniuses who were able, in their infancy,
to make almost any calculation however elaborate,
instantaneously, and without any ideahowthe process
was carried out. This power seems to vanish in
7i
T H E T R U T H ABOUT SPIRITtt* ..
*
almost every case when adult life begin
one instance. The child aged six says k
* -1
“ O n what day and at what hour was Tl ^1
H is father tells him. The child asks, “ Whatfv I
is it at present ? ” The father answers “ - ^ 1
1 I0
\\j
The child walks on a few hundred yards, ther ^ !
to his father and states the number of second* V.
lived. The father notes down the figures and o g j
the calculation when he gets home, telling the y\
he was 172,800 seconds wrong. The boy immd
atelv replies, “ Oh papal You have left out two darB
for the leap years,” which was the case. (Myers* I
Human Personality, section 310.)
In all these cases the child suddenly loses thh |
power of instantaneous knowledge of reconcile I
mathematical calculation and afterwards shows co 1
sign whatever of having a greater power than any j
other child. Archbishop Whateley gives the follow­
ing account of his own powers :
“ There was,” he says, “ certainly something
peculiar in my calculating faculty. It began to show
itself at between five and six, and lasted about three
years. I soon got to do the most difficult sums,
always in my head, for I knew nothing of figures
beyond numeration. I did these sums much quicker
than anyone could upon paper, and I never remember
committing the smallest error. When I went to
school, at which time the above wore off, I was a
perfect dunce at ciphering, and have continued so
ever since.”
Professor Safford when he was ten years old could
72
norl
sure
Vrt
tha
wb
co
of
as
P
v
fc
WHAT IS SURVIVAL ?
rk out in his head in one minute a multiplication
s'Tm whose answer consisted of thirty-six figures.
W
hen he lost this power he had no greater ability
than the ordinary man. M ozart began to compose
when he was three years old. H e saw an elaborate
composition as one whole, without any succession
of sounds in time. H e then gradually worked out
as a succession of sounds the idea which first
presented itself to his mind as a single complete
whole.
The poet Tennyson tells us that there were times
when, his whole being at rest, he had an extra­
ordinary conception of reality which was the deepest
reality that he ever knew. W ordsworth (T he
Prelude, Book 6) gives the account of this sudden
sense of overwhelming reality :
That awful power rose from the mind’s abyss.
Like an unfathomable vapour that enwraps
At once some lonely traveller. I was lost;
Halted without an effort to break through;
But to my conscious soul I now could say—
“ I recognize thy glory ” ; In such strength
Of usurpation, when the light of sense
Gives out, but with a flash that has revealed
The invisible world, doth greatness make abode.
There seems then to be a state of consciousness,
which comes very rarely and only to a few people,
in which the limitations of space and time com­
pletely break down, and the universe appears with
complete clarity, and without any of the limitations
which are forced upon us by our ordinary life. M r.
73
T H E T R U T H ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
Dunne has pointed out to us that if we take a I
record of our dreams, we shall find that a
able proportion of them refer not to the past 0
ni■ ^
present, but to the future. Mr. Myers, in Hum\
Personality^ gives us quite a long series of
attested accounts of people who have dreamed
experiences which afterwards actually happea^^^^^
and in some cases of great dangers which were, '^1 ^
fact, avoided, because the dream gave to therecipient * rai
a warning of what was about to occur. If weaccept | *
IS
as true this and similar experiences, it must lead m l. sc
to modify very considerably the ideas ^which w
eI c
have concerning the nature and limitations of 1 a
personality. <
It would appear then that during the passageof |
the spirit through this earthly life die power w
hich i ]
controls the universe has placed upon our minda I
veil which temporarily obstructs our view of reality. |
We can well believe that this is done for a w
ise X
purpose, in order that we shall keep our mind fixed ’
upon the temporary happenings which would, apart
from this veil, cease to interest us. Through the
choices which we make and interests which we form
while we are thus prevented from seeing the larger >
aspects of reality, while, to use the words of St. Paul,
“ w e see through a riddle in a mirror,” we are at j |
the same time progressing in our power of handling 1
the things of eternity. It would appear that the idea
of incarnation does not apply only to that supreme
instance of the Incarnation of the Son of God but
m some measure applies to all of us. ’
74
WHAT IS SURVIVAL ?
I If we now return to the idea of survival we see
/ thatwehave to ask ourselves a much more searching
I question than we may have imagined. It is not
likely that our very restricted earthly experience
survives in anything like the shape with which we
are now familiar. “ Flesh and blood,’* as St. Paul
says, “ cannot inherit the Kingdom of God; neither
I doth corruption inherit incorruption.” It would
I rather appear that the process which we call death
I is a removal of the veil which, during the spirit’s
I sojourn upon earth, has been placed over its highest
J capacities. In the innumerable instances of the
f appearance of persons either just before or just after
death, it would appear that the crisis which we call
death reveals quite suddenly to the person who
undergoes it astounding revelations of an enlarged
world, and enables them, either before or immedi­
ately after death, to communicate their presence to
those who are still under the disabilities of the
fleshly life. Communications with the departed
seem to be most frequent at the moment of death,
and generally to diminish rapidly in number and
cogency as the years go by.
The stories which we have of communication
would seem to suggest that the enfranchized spirit
quickly forgets the limitations which had held it
down during the present world. All those relation­
ships which were purely conventional and which
had to do only with the flesh, the relationships of
parenthood, ofmarriage, of neighbourhood, of nation­
ality, in so far as they did not rest upon underlying
75
•MKS,
and becomes
1£
%
ij
M T 7 *"ay. j* -
pparentljr m crea* * * '1
14
the personality to remember ra r^ '
pJaew. It is quite c o m p re h e n d ]e S '
so. The relationship of the Kberad n '
who are still upon earth k
of their own enlarge
on earth, and to
- solei**
F
9UUI1 :> i*.
communicate win
if
enclosed still in fleshly surroundiv&s j* ^
to prove a permanent or sarisfcctorr re>W?'
oe desired as a cc s
nor one to
experience.
J
T
W e shall, I think, now perhaps undents*: ^ ]
it is that communications, if we believe trtr. y >1
real, are so often jejune am a 9 ifj. ^
requires probably a great effort for d
spirit to put himself back into the cm
present, past, and future, together wit:
dons of space, have great importance. la re 1
communications of *
*Imperafcor 9
9with Mr. Sedrsic.
Moses, it is constantly emphasized that it is a »~xl
of immense difficulty to communicate with thii
present world. Mrs. Piper, one of the bes£-kne*r
mediums, seems to suggest that the inhabitant cc
the next world do not And us very pleasant, nor ocr
surroundings at all congenial.
The conclusion to which I think we shall come h
that there is a survival of that which existed previous
to the soul’s entry into flesh. It is not a survival of
all those relationships due to the temporary ImhtSr
tK>ns in which we now find ourselves entangled.
WHAT IS SURVIVAL ?
pr, Walter Matthews says, “ Personal survival
:s the hypothesis that the centre of consciousness
tfhich was in existence before death does not cease
tobeinexistence after death, and that the experience
of this centre after death has the same kind of
continuity with its experience before death as that
ofthe man who sleeps for a while and wakes again.
.. . One is sometimes tempted to believe that some
pow
er—whether beneficent or malevolent I do not
know
—has determined that we shall never reach
certainty on the subject of the life beyond, and that
to secure this it has sent a lying spirit into the
prophets. The records of psychical research are full
of deceit, fraud, and lies. But when one has dis­
counted all this there remains a residuum of estab­
lished facts which, prima facie, suggest the hypo­
thesis of survival; that at least is my opinion.” I
should myself go somewhat further, and say that the
facts make survival an assured truth, but that it is
a survival of something deeper and more funda­
mental than the personality with which we are
ordinarily familiar in the commerce of terrestrial life.
77
C H A P T E R IX
Spiritualism as a Religion 'I
I t is necessary to draw a distinction betw
ee*I
Psychical Research and Spiritualism consideredasit I
itself an adequate religion. It is possible to b
elieveI
that some very true and, indeed, important bow.'I
ledge is to be gained by psychical research andy
et
to hold that the pursuit of psychical knowledge I
offers an extremely poor substitute for religion. Y
et I
a very large, and probably growing, number of
people in our industrial towns, brought up in a crude I
materialism, or in an uncritical pietism, believe that
by cutting themselves off from the well-known
Churches, and concentrating round some supposed
entity of the other world, very often claiming to be
a Red Indian, or an Egyptian priest, singing hymns,
and listening to the demonstrations of a clairvoyant,
they can come into touch with the unseen Reality
in a way which will be superior to the way provided
by the orthodox Churches. This cult of spiritualism
does appear to be a very dismal travesty o f religion.
Though, no doubt, many people are in this way
convinced of survival, and of the reality of some­
thing beyond this material universe—and this, we
7*
SPIRITUALISM AS A RELIGION
j ught to admit, is a gain—yet the messages thus
received, for the most part, form a very thin and
I U
nnourishing diet for a human spirit to live and
growon. '
Spiritualism, considered as a religion, rests upon
a misconception that messages given through
mediums from the next stage of living are more
likely to give us a true approach to God than
messages given by men living in the flesh, and using
their minds as a vehicle of divine truth.
In the early Church, psychical gifts held a large
place (miracles, gifts of healing, prophecy, speaking
with tongues, and the interpretation of tongues).
St. Paul did not despise these gifts, nor regard them
as necessarily evil. He thanks God, indeed, that he
himself possessed these gifts. But he knew, by
experience, that reverence for these psychical gifts,
and trust in them as the principal way of approach
to God, was a profound delusion. “ Yet show I unto
you a more excellent way! ” The alternative way is
the way of Love. It is through growth in Love and
not in the growth of psychical gifts that we most
surely progress towards a knowledge of God. And
this growth of love comes to us through fellowship
with our friends here in the flesh much more
surely than through attempts at converse with
the other world through mediums. In the early
Church, the prophet, who nearly approached the
modern conception of a medium, had so great
a reputation that he alone was permitted to use
his own words in the celebration of the Liturgy.
79
T H l TZXJTH «„
But was the prophet identical ^
ftlAiftini r ‘ *
-
•
J>
<v 4] U>•! 0
Probably, at his best h* J
/ / w iJC /»
The true prophet was ^ %
* ^
MW P a J
This is probably what
*4 * ' - > - , IIW life L
The spirit of the prophet k s n i^ a lj
prophet* For G od is not the author (r (f~z
but of order.” The words of tiH H tfrifl
believed, indeed, to be not Ms own wer4. a.?j
words o f the Holy Spirit speaking throuas -
4 M
the prophetic gift passed th rou gh the cotsdc
of the prophet, and en a b led h im to dkb^I
between the inspiration of the Holr SdKf^
messages from unlawful, irresponsible, or
spirits. Ju st as people often complain to-car ^
many mediums are either lying or unco^sdcrjsr
deceiving, so, in th e early Church, we find oompirrs
of Iving prophets, and of those who use their
» • ___ < ■
» rp* *. *
with a view to m o n ey-m a k in g . 1nus, it is suggest
that a prophet who claimed hospitality for more tks
one night is to be discouraged, as being one ¥hs
prostituted his gift for evil ends.
The percentage of true prophets among die tea-
number of claimants to the gift, and the percentage
of writings of real inspirational value to the number
of writings claiming to be inspired was prohahh
always very small. Another difference, and it is 1
fundamental one, between the prophet and the
medium is that the modern medium cfeiires to
receive his message from a departed spirit^ but the
prophet's claim (not always, we gather, made good)
SPIRITUALISM AS A RELIGION
, that he spoke by the spirit of God. There is no
Option, either in the New Testament, or in
S Christianity, of anything like a modern seance,
jnw
hich the spirits of James or Stephen, much
lessthe spirit of the Lord himself, were invited or
questioned. The last appearance of Our Lord was
toSt.Paul, after which we hear of no others until we
com
e to medieval or modern times, and these
m
odern ones are, for the most part, not convinc­
ing or edifying. Specimens of such cases are
to be found in the “ Liber Specialis Gratiae ” of
S
t. Mechtilde and the “ Legatus Divinae Pietatis ”
ofSt. Gertrude.
Our Lord is represented as placing St. Mechtilde
m
ost tenderly over His Heart, and saying, “ accept
the whole of My Divine Heart.” And again, Our
Lordsays, “ as many as shall read this book or hear
about you and shall praise Me for what is given to
you, by singing the antiphon *Tibi Deus,’ or in any
othermanner, they shall sing to Me in heaven in the
presence of the ever adorable Trinity the same
number of sweet songs of love.”
When a certain wicked man was chosen Dean of
Magdeburg by the canons, Our Lord tells St.
Mechtilde, “ I have transferred him from his cell to
the seat of authority that he may be the food of
goats and the nourishment of the unclean.”
To St. Gertrude He says, “ I have truly honoured
her with these special privileges that anything
which anyone may hope to obtain by her help, he
shall without doubt, obtain, and whomsoever she
\
F
ra
j
<4
T H E T R U T H A BO U T SPIRITUALISM
shall judge worthy of communion, My Lo
t
?
kindness will never judge unworthy.”
O n one occasion, when St. Gertrude couldL
hear mass, O ur Lord Himself offered to sing m
asi"3
her, and said, “ W ould you like me, my dear, 1
sing mass to you ? ” and she said, “ Indeed I wouli
O joy of my heart; with all my heart I beg yoj
to do so.” “ And which mass,” said Our Lor^
“ would you like to hear ? ” “ Whichever youlike,”
she said.
Then said Our Lord, *
*Would you like th
e
mass for the third Sunday in Advent ?” “ N
o,”!
said she.
St. Gertrude then asks for the mass of Christinas
Eve, but the Lord finally says He will sing the m
ass
for the third Sunday in Advent, and gives her a
joyful understanding of each part in turn, and inthe
end turns to her, and says: “ the Lord be with you,
my dear,” and she answered, “ and may my spirit
be with Thee, my darling.” Then the Lord bowed
to the ground before her, and thanked her.
- These communications do not make us feel that
they add to our knowledge of Our Lord, or that we
lose by the absence of such supposed methods of
revelation.
We are struck with the fact that if the message
has any claims at all to be, in fact, what it claims to
be, it has become distorted by the medium through
which it has passed, and suggests that the author
had deteriorated in character in the passage to
another world. This is, of course, the difficulty
82
SPIRITUALISM AS A RELIGION
I trhich so many people feel about reputed m essages
I fromthe other world in m odern days. “ If they are
genuine at all,” people say, “ one can only view w ith
profound melancholy the deterioration w hich the
change to a new world has effected in the person that
w
e knew.” An instance of this is quoted by M r.
Harry Price in Fifty T ears of P sych ical R esearch ,
from a newspaper, The S p iritu a list N e w s . T his is
a message purporting to come from D r. H . R . L .
Sheppard, “ To all people who on earth do dwell—
1send greetings. M ay you all learn, and realize,
the Truth. I have been appointed to a position of
authority, and trust. I am responsible to God and to
His beloved Son Jesus Christ, whom I hope to serve
all the days of my life. I could not seek any greater
honour. For the peoples of the earth I have a
, wonderful message . . . there is no death 1” M r.
‘ Harry Price says, “ It would be interesting to learn
what the surviving relatives of Canon Sheppard
think about it all.” I am quite sure that both they
and all his friends will be filled with disgust, and, if
they believed it to be a true message, would pray
► that they might be delivered from such a terrible
deterioration of mind and spirit. In so far as the
religion of spiritualism consists of messages from
the other world, whether given through trance-
mediums, or through clairvoyants (and this is the
main core of spiritualism considered as a religion),
we may, I think, say that apart from the assurance
that there is another life, and that it is possible,
o n o cca sio n , to communicate with those on the
T H E T R O T H ABOUT fP lft;?
nL v* . S.J4
.A 'rs*j
X 4 #- «
il3T V i<
s
>
v iffyri
" —— ■■“
■■■ • • •» * }
*
■ J T jT ■ *
**
L
>4 . A' _ m -•
'-
UJC inajonty of * „
5 AliVlj in
« V / Y f C f l >
Lr^ /1 M U U #
It i;
| _ 1
1$ 1)H^lllwf*
>suppose to t corr.r
departed spirits is a substitute for co;
God in Christ. W e are not c
we may get comfort '**
J
Uti
«
H
I
<uiU
^
«*5
* te
pc* to ^ . .
C/'f4V fM
r / " .» ry» #r
t v l l i i r t l l U i l J i l
-g g| _. ^I
d i / U L i t %
J JEC^ J IC J U ' tU v « v*<iJv
mqoe of the seance, but t j m ^ M |M y
for it need not necessarily bring
God. It has not necessarily anymmg^^L™
**
_
w• - ■
0* » M
If we knew evervthicg that there is to hwr ty-c
the next world, if we could co
r_ fitrjt W 'rp T * .
«
S S^IT ''&
£**' '
<t* *y.
*
2
!*
^
jetar jes
poor w
•a
»
»
r
? ?
2
5
4... - ■~'s
r y i
'■
'V
* '-a
with departed saints, we might *
*
*
Jn rV laowScdge of God than some
prays daily to God, who is Hcd
courageous in her daily tasks,
knowledge o f fife in the next 1*tJ“ f*?*H
« -gX y**^ J - , - X w » Iff V ^l C
tr^nt tW we snaii see w w ami ^ —
T-trm through Christ.
The desire to know what will hai
death is not, I drink, necessarily **"*«L2*d
en » if it is possible for ns to nndersOn-
world wSl be Eke, it is certain tto tf » _
__ growth in the mind of Chnst and
iciparioo in H is Spirit . , . , _ B P (
e idea that it»
t we no*
«
v
%T*
IV ‘
*,
we can aio**^
onndves for mat die, an.
«r to sp ii it ** controls
to know God is in d e e d a iervous
■■s . t
. • ,
n
ttK
S
S
i-r
» i
n
rleai ig y«tn the wilderness. none xt*-
«4
SPIRITUALISM AS A RELIGION
knows Christ's way to God will want to tread that
path.
It is indeed a case in which Christ’s proverb is
very apt that, “ No man, having drunk old wine,
desireth straightway new, for he saith, ‘ The old is
better.* ”
CHAPTER X
The Christian ‘
Doctrine of Immortalit\
J I
T h e Christian belief in immortality rests, as we W*
already seen, upon a fact in history, the resurrection
of Jesus from the dead. This was the central sub]eel
of primitive teaching. St. Paul recognizes it as th
e
true cause of offence, when he is brought to trial!
and the eleven apostles felt that the chief reasonfo
r
electing a successor to Judas Iscariot was that “ok
must be ordained to be a witness with us of His
resurrection.*
1 St. Peter writes, “ Blessed be the
God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who hath
begotten us again unto a living hope by the resurrec­
tion of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance
incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not
away.”
Belief in an after-life was, indeed, a common, but
not universal, belief among Jews, subsequent to the
exile, derived, as many scholars believe, from
Zoroastrianism. The Pharisees, as we know, held
to this belief while the Sadducees rejected it. St.
Paul recognizes that belief in the after-life was a pre­
disposing factor in his readiness to accept the
resurrection of Jesus. “ If the dead rise not, then is
86
THE CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE OF IMMORTALITY
I chrl*
st not raised, and if Christ be not risen, then is
0
ur preaching vain, and your faith is also vain.”
«I ama Pharisee and the son of a Pharisee: of the
hope and resurrection of the dead I am called in
I question.” (It is interesting to notice here that the
/ Pharisees were prepared to acknowledge that St.
Paul might have received a spirit-message, “ If a
spirit or an angel hath spoken to him, let us not
fightagainst God.”)
St.Paul had indeed no doubt at all as to the reality
andtheobjectivity of the Lord’s appearances to him,
and to the other disciples. These objective appear­
ances(materializations as they would be called in the
language of psychical research) were the central
point of his teaching, yet he realizes that such a
beliefhad been prepared for and made antecedently
credible by belief in an after-life, held prior to his
knowledgeofJesus. Because he had been a Pharisee,
and so a believer in communications from the other
world, and the reality of a life after death, he found
the resurrection of Jesus germane to the rest of his
creed, and indeed its pre-ordained fulfilment. So
Jesus Himself appears to have taught: “ If they
believe not Moses and the prophets, neither will
they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead.”
This may mean that such people will find good
reasons for refusing belief in any resurrection how­
ever good the evidence ifthey have strong antecedent
prejudices against the reality of spirit.
The first generation of Christians believed that
Jesus would return in the clouds at almost any
87
THE TRUTH ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
moment. Those who had died in the interval
seem to have believed, were “ asleep in Jesu^’M
the coming of Jesus, these, together with those>1
were alive, would be caught up into the clouJl
to meet him in the air. “ The Lord himself s'
descend from heaven with a shout, with thevoicer;
the archangel, and with the trump of God; andtv
dead in Christ shall rise first; then we whichartI
alive and remain shall be caught up together wit*1
, them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air,and
so shall we ever be with the Lord.” This teaching,
so prominent in St. Paul’s earlier epistles, is gradu­
ally transmuted into the beliefthat the comingoftb
Spirit is the coming of Christ, and the experienceo
f
the Holy Spirit is the experience of an alreadyI
achieved immortality. This also is St. John s teach­
ing, “ We know that we havepassedfromdeathunto
life because we love the brethren.” Immortality
is the possession of the divine life, witnessed to by
the possession of the gifts of the spirit and fed by
participation in the life of Christ (“ eating his flesh
and drinking his blood”). Over against such a life
death has no dominion—it is only an incident in the
progress of the life of the spirit, die discarding ofan
instrument no longer necessary for the protection of
life.
Now it is true that traditional Christianity has
taught that our new spiritual body rises out of the
grave where our material body was buried; but it is
doubtful if many thoughtful Christians would
believe such a teaching to-day. The doctrine of the
88
T H E C H R I S T I A N DOCTRINE OF IMMORTALITY
I Church of England concerning immortality was
I elucidated by an attempted prosecution of the Rev,
H. D. A. Major, D.D., for heresy in 1921. D r.
Major distinctly taught that immortality meant for
I him “ the survival of death by a personality which
has shed its physical integument for ever.” It was
objected against him that the prevalent teaching in
all ages had been that “ the resurrection of the body ”
implied the resuscitation of the material remains
which were laid in the tomb. This Dr. M ajor denied.
The Bishop of Oxford, after consultation with
eminent Professors of Theology in the University
of Oxford, decided that there was no prima facie
evidence of heresy in Dr. M ajor’s statement, and
declined to take action against him. This decision
was confirmed on appeal to the Archbishop of
Canterbury,* The upshot of this very important
case is that it is lawful to hold (as in fact almost all
modern teachers of the Christian Faith hold) that
the resurrection of the body means not a resurrection
of all the material particles laid in the grave or
consumed in the crematorium, or dispersed in the
sea, or devoured by wild animals or birds, but the
survival of the personality together with an instru­
ment or body which shall contain all that is necessary
to the expression of personality, and shall be as real
and true an expression of the next stage of life as this
body of flesh and blood has been a true expression
of that personality in this present stage of existence.
* The D octrine o f the R esurrection o f the B ody, by the Right Rev. H. M.
Bulge. (Mowbrays.)
89
THE TRUTH ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
W h en it is clearly understood that at no ( I
its existence does the body which we can see I
any stability or perm anence of material struck I
being continuously broken down and dispersing, ^ I
as continuously renewed by addition from 1
anim al and vegetable sources, it becomes also cle^ I
th at there is no reason either to believe or to desire I
that the structure of the material body at any m
om
co* I
shall be carried on into the next stages of life it I
another world.
T h e true Christian belief is expressed by St Paul I
(II Corinthians V) in these words, “ if the earthir
house of our tabernacle (R.V. margin, bodily
frame ’) be dissolved we have a building from God,
a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.
N ot that we desire to be unclothed, but to be
clothed upon, that what is mortal may be swallowed
I up o f life.”
T h e point which the phrase (now no doubt
become somewhat misleading) “ resurrection of the
body ” is intended to express is that we do not go
after death to a dim, shadowy, life, empty of real
vigorous and vital content, in which we wander
aimlessly in a ghostly life, but to a life full and
complete, with enhanced, and not diminished,
powers of expression and of contact with reality.
This aspect of reality was emphasized for the first
Christians by their belief in Christ’s appearances
after his resurrection. Though H e appeared and
disappeared, g the doors being shut,” yet he had a
body visible and tangible, recognizable as having a
90
the CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE OF IMMORTALITY
true relationship with the body before death. T he
newbody of the Christ expressed also the happenings
of this present life. It bore the marks of the nails.
This meant that even our present bodily experiences
have their repercussions in eternity. No man m ust
say, ifhe dishonours the flesh by unlawful indulgence
“ this is only my temporary body which is defiled—
my spirit remains untouched.” The defilement of
this body means the defilement of the spirit itself,
and that defilement will be represented in the
spiritual body ” which persists after the dis­
integration for ever of this body of flesh and blood.
Though the first Christians would never have come
to have any assurance of immortality if they had not
had experience of the risen Christ, they had also to
learn, through the vision of what we now call
The Ascension,” the symbolic disappearance of
Christ once for all from this earthly scene into a life
invisible to us, that contact with H im was not
normally to be preserved by visions or “ appear­
ances,” but by spiritual contact maintained through
daily assimilation of H is life, until H is Spirit should
wholly possess them.
This identity of spirit was achieved and main­
tained not by stances or materializations (as it had
been originally after the resurrection) but through
the patient growth in spiritual gifts given by the
unseen but ever-present Christ to his people. St.
Paul felt this so deeply that he said, “ Yea, if I have
known Christ after the flesh, from henceforth know
I him no more.” H e had no further desire for contact
9i
TH E TRUTH ABOUT SPIRITUALISM ' ■
on this w orldly plane, and for the reason that I
obtained m ore direct and fruitful contact by * I
m union o f spirit, so that he could say, “ It is nonJ I
I, b u t C hrist th at dwelleth in me.” ' \
T h u s St. P aul could at the sam e time bear witne* |
to th e real visible and audible appearance of Christ I
to him on the road to Damascus, an appearance which H
was the turning point of his whole life and yet show j
no desire w hatever for such an appearance to be H
repeated. H e had arrived at a closer contact and 9
a m ore satisfying means of communion.
In the same way, as we have already seen, St ■
Paul could accept and honour psychical gifts, and I
claim to have possessed them himself, and yet be I
clear and positive in placing them on altogether a |
lower plane when compared to the transcendent i
gift of Love.
It is no part of the Christian faith to deny or to j
decry psychical phenomena. They had their part
to play in the founding of the Church. They may i
still have their share in providing evidence of
immortality. But it is part of the Christian faith to
proclaim their inferiority to the pathway of Love.
Christian immortality does not begin with death.
It begins when the soul is united to God in love. It
can grow as well by bodily acts— feeding the hungry,
clothing the naked— as by the ascetic life of vigil
and meditation. By acts of love to our brethren we
achieve contact with God, and gain assurance that
we have passed from death unto life, and bv that
at-one-ment with the Spirit of Christ which He calls
92
th e CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE OF IMMORTALITY
I eatingHis flesh and drinking His blood we achieve
I this c o n ta c t most of all. While there is no reason
to denythat messages from the other world may from
timeto time be given us, this is not the characteristic-
/ ally Christian way of achieving union with the
I Divine.
Far nearer that temper of mind in which alone
w
e can hope to come in contact with the Divine is
that of which Plotinus wrote :
So let the soul that is not unworthy of that vision
contemplate the Great Soul; freed from deceit and every
witchery, and collected into calm. Calmed be the body
for her in that hour, and the tumult of the flesh; ay, all
that is about her, calm; calm be the earth, the sea, the
air,andlet Heaven itselfbe still. Then let her feel how into
that silent heaven the Great Soul floweth in. . . . And so
may mans soul be sure of Vision when suddenly she is
filledwith light; for this light is from Him and is He j and
then surely shall one know His presence when, like a god
ofold time, He entered into the house of one that calleth
Him, and maketh it full of light (Quoted by F. W.
Myers in the epilogue to Human Personality.')
The Christian Faith does not teach an immortality
which consists of a gradual absorption into God
involving a loss of individual being. The resurrection
of Jesus witnessed to a very personal and individual
survival and that strongly marked individuality
which is characteristic of the higher forms of human
life and which every spiritual victory does so much
to emphasize cannot, we must surely believe, won
as it is at so great a cost, be doomed to extinction. If
93
TH E TRUTH ABOUT SPIRITUALISM
the struggle in nature, and especially in h
u
m
an
nature, be towards the production of strong!? |
marked, specialized personalities, we can scarcely
believe that these will attain to their perfection b
y
ceasing to be, and by being merged in undifferen­
tiated goodness.
The hope and the intuition o f the best ofm
ankind
is that we shall see God and one another in God and
yet be ten thousand times more ourselves.
“ I hope to see my pilot face to face ” is thehope
which has sustained great men in great affliction. In I
view of such a hope, messages from the other w
orld,
delivered to us in halting phrase and through obscure
channels, however much they m ay have helped usat
some stages of our spiritual ascent, seem meagre and
unimportant, set over against this incomparably
clearer vision of the final purpose of life, and this
hope is given to man:
To humbleness of mind descends
Thispresciencefromonhigh.
The faith which elevates thejust
Before and when they die.
And makes each separate soul a heaven, \
A court for Deity.
94
