{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1941__agarwal___mind_and_vision.pdf","mytitle":"Mind And Vision","mylang":"de"}
MIND AND VISION
A HANDBOOK FOR THE CURE OF IM PERFECT
SIGHT WITHOUT GLASSES
Dr. R. S. Agarwal. L.S.M.F.,
Eye Specialist.
DELHI
Dr. AGARWAL’S EYE INSTITUTE
1941
tVipy Right. Rs.
Published by Dr. Agarwal’s Eye Institute,
15, Daryaganj, Delhi.
First Published in 1935.
Printed at
The Hindustan Times Press, New Delhi India.
TH E FUNDAM ENTAL PRINCIPLE
by
Dr. W. H. BATES.
Do you read imperfectly ? Gan you observe
then that when you look at the first word, or the
first letter, of a sentence, you do not see best
where you are looking; that you see other words,
or other letters, just as well as or better than the
one you are looking at? Do you observe also that
the harder you try, to see, the worse you see ?
Now close your eyes and rest them, remember-
ing some colour, like black or white, that you can
remember perfectly. Keep them closed until they
feel rested, or until the feeling of sLrain has been
completely relieved Now open them and look at
the first word or letter of a sentence for a fraction
of a second, if you have been able to relax,
partially or completely, you will have a flash ot
improved or clear vision, and the area seen best
will be smaller.
After opening the eyes for this fraction of a
second, close them again quickly, still remembering
the colour, and keep them closed until they again
feel rested. Then again open them for a fraction
of a second. Continue this alternate resting of
the eyes and flashing of the letters for a time,
and you may sooi find that you can keep your
eyes open longer than a fraction of a second with­
out losing the improved vision.
If your trouble i3 with distant instead of near
vision, use the same method with distant letters.
VHl
Iii this way you can demonstrate for yourself
the fundamental principle of the cure of imperfect
sight by treatment without glasses.
If you fail, ask someone with perfect sight to
help you.
SEVEN TRLTH S OF NORMAL SIGHT
1 Normal Sight can always be demonstrated
in the normal eye, but only under favourable
conditions.
2 Central Fixation : The letter or part of the
letter regarded is always seen best.
3. Shifting : The point regarded changes rapidly
and continuously.
4. Swinging : When the shifting is slow, the
letters appear to move from side to side,
or in other direction with a pendulum
like motion.
5 Memory is perfect. The colour and the back­
ground of the letters or other objects seen
are remembered perfectly, instantaneously
and continuously.
6. Imagination is good. One may even see the
white part of letters whiter than it really
is, while the black is not altered by distance,
illumination, size or form of the letters.
7. Rest or relaxation of the eye and mind is
perfect and can always be demonstrated.
dVhen one of these seven fundamentals is perfect,
all are perfect.
MIND AND VISION
AT THE FEET OF THE MOTHER
’These Methods are Perfectly
Effective........ Sri Aurobindo.
ILLUSTRATIONS
Df. W
'. H. Bates
II. H. The AI war
H. H. The Maharaja of Nepal
H. E, Senior Commanding General Nepal
Eve-bah
Demonstration of Blind spot
Phe Eye and Camera
Retinoscopv
Accommodation
Experiment on rabbits
Images of Pnrkinji
Strain in Darkroom Examination
Strain
Blinking
Reading under electric lamp
Reading
Sewing
Cinema
postures
Spinning
Sun Treatment with closed eyes
Sun Treatment on everted lids
Between
99
99
7
9
99
99
9
9
99
99
»9
99
99
Frontispiece.
Frontispiece.
Frontispiece.
Frontispiece.
ii
H
28
32—33
32—33
32— 33
32— 33
32—33
32-33
48—45
48—45
48—45
48—45
48—45
48—45
5 6 - 5 7
56— 57
XIV
vjn Treatment in Dr. Agarwal’s
Eye Institute between 5<$—17
Sun Treatment of a group of patients 11 5 6 -5 7
Sun Treatment on the white portion
of the eye •1 56—57
Eve hath yy 56—57
Paimmt; >î 56— 57
Circles 78
Dots and Os 79
Om Chart 81
Dial Chart 82
C chart pocket size 85
Dot for Tratak 93
Central fixation on candle dame 97
Sun treatment with open eyes lo i
Long Swing with open eyes Between 112 — Ï13
Long Swing with closed eyes >
3 IIZ --I t 3
Variable Swing 3» 112 — I I 3
Short Swing 9» lia — 113
Swinging on Rocking Horse a tI2 -- ÎI3
Forehead Swing >
3 1 1 2---H J
Reading the eye chart with one eye ft I36— I37
E Chart Pockctsize ft I36— I37
Jaegar’s Reading Test Type *> I36— I37
Pot-Hook chart ii I36-- I37
XV
A Family Group between 1 7 6 — 1 7 7
Hvpermetropic Bov »
> 1 7 6 — 1 7 7
Astigmatic Doctor 5 » 1 7 6 — 1 7 7
Myopic Doctor 1 9 1 7 6 — 1 7 7
Sir G. Bewoor J 9
1 7 6 — 1 7 7
Sir A. G. Clow J1 1 7 6 — 1 7 7
Two blind boys 9 t
1 7 6 — 1 7 7
Circular Swing 91
1 7 6 — 1 7 7
Chin Swing 9 J 1 7 6 — 1 7 7
Letter in Air 99 1 7 6 — 1 7 7
Squint 19 2 2 4 — 2 2 5
Two children Swinging 99 2 2 4 — 2 2 5
Practice on Pot.hook Casd i)
2 2 4 — Z2y
Sir G. S. Bajpair 99 2 2 4 — 2 2 5
Dr. S. Sinha 99
2 2 4 — 2 2 5
Blind boy since birth »9 2 2 4 — 2 2 5
Satyawan i> 2 2 4 — 2 2 5
Double Vision 97 2 2 4 — 2 2 5
Optical Illusion Square 2 4 1
Optical Illusion Rings 2 4 2
CONTENTS
HAI'THK Page
Foreword . . . . *• 5
Introduction 15
I The Organ of Sight 19
The eye as a Camera 25
Accommodation .. 29
Glasses 39
11 The Cause and Cure of Errors of
Refraction 4 Z
Strain 43
Eye-lids .. 48
Blinking • • 49
Reading 52
Writing . . 52
Sewing 53
Spinning . . . 53
Cinema 53
Riding 54
Driving 54
How to look at objects 55
III Sun-treatment and Eye-bath 56
IV Palming 64
V Central Fixation 73
Practice on circles .. 78
Practice on dots • • 79
Practice on Om 80
X
Pt.iE
Practice on Dial CLart Si
Practice or. C Chart .. S3
Practice nr. White Line 86
Pract ce on Funimentals .. 88
Practice or. Psion Print 90
Central Fixation on a Dot .. 91
Central Fi nil on on a Flame 95
Central Fixation on Moon .. 98
Central Fixation on Sun 99
Shifting and Swinging .. 102
Long Swing .. 113
Universal Sving .. 114
Circular Swing .. 114
Memory S «
■ ing m
Variable S>vmg .. 116
Forehead Swing .. 117
Baby Swing .. 117
Memory and Imagination .. .. n 8
Letter in Air .. 124
Letter Imagination .. 126
F. 126
The Black Dot . . 127
Imagination Test .. 127
Practice on Om Chart 128
Treatment . . 129
Eye Test Card Practice .. tjo
Reading Test Type 153
The White Line .. 136
Om Chart
1
00
Comparisons • • 139
XI
C'hafter
Page
Routine Treatment 140
Benefit to Children and Adults .. M 3
No Glasses for Quick Results ■ ■ 144
Instructions lot Home Treatment • • 145
Correspondence Treatment 146
JX Eye Sight of School Children .. 147
Prevention of Myopia in Schools ■ • 149
X Diet and Exercise, • • 154
Constipation 162
Exercise .. 164
Myopia 167
X I Hypermelropia. and Presbyopia, .. 186
X II Astigmatism .. 198
X III Floating Specks 203
X IV Squint and Double Vision .. 208
X V Blindness .. 225
X V I Cataract ,. 230
X V II Detachment of Retina .. 236
X V III Retinitis Pigmentosa and Nystagmus • • 245
X IX Glaucoma and Eye Strain 247
X X Headache .. 254
X X I Questions and Answers .. 258
Dr W. H. Bates, M.D , (New York.)
Ophthalmologist and discovre: of the cure of imperfect
.sight by treatment without glasses.
H. H-. The A lw ar
"His Highness has been greatly benefited by
Dr. Agarwal’s methods of treatment, which
are very hj giemc and efficacious and it does
not require much time to prove their useful­
ness. ......................... 5
5
—P. Secy, to H. H. The Alwact-
H. H. The Mahaiaja of Nepal
"The skill and ability of Dr. Agarwal in treating case«
of eye defects were much appreciated.”
Sir Mohan Shumsher Jang Bahadur
Rana, K G.I E , Senior Commanding
General, Nepal:
“ M y heartfelt gratitude is due to Dr. Agarw al
who came to me as a messenger o f hope and
has brought me such an unexpected ielief.”
PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION
It is -with great pleasure that I bring about the second
edition of the present book. It may be added that this
book has been carefully and thoroughly revised, and
some new chapters on different eye diseases, namely
myopia, hypermetropia, astigmatism, presbyopia, squint,
floating specks, detachment of retina, retinitis pigmentosa,
cataract, etc., with case reports, have been added. I have
no doubt that these additions have tendered the book
more useful to laymen as well as doctors
R. S. Agarwal
FOREWORD
Of the ailments created by the highly artificial condi­
tions in which men are living on account of civilisation,
eye-troubles can be placed in the fore-front. Reading
and writing, painting, embroidering and other fine artistic
works, living in crowded cities full of dust and heat
as well as obstruction to the range of vision, continuous
physical and mental strain caused by the exacting condi­
tions of life have created a state o f things which affects
the eye-sight so much that, at the present day, it will
be no exaggeration to say that above ninety per cent,
people suffer from defective eye-sight. It is obvious
that all these cases are not due to some organic disease
in the eye. The remedy of glasses, the most popular
and most commonly used at the present day, is no
remedy at all. Glasses neither cure the defect nor
completely stop the progress of myopia or hypermetropia.
They are simply an aid to the eye, as crutches are to
the lame. Any one whohas ever worn glasses for
some time knows what a torture they are.It is almost
impossible to find the glasses which will exactly fit the
eyes; then there is the difficulty of keeping them in
the right position, of keeping them clean and transparent,
besides the constant danger of having them thrust
into the eyes by the slightest knock from the outside.
People accept glasses as something indispensable (I was
told by veteran eye-specialists that two pairs of glasses,
one for distant vision and another for near vision, were
as indispensable to me as food ; but thanks to the simple
methods described in this book, I have been able tO
’
4 M OD AND VISION
discard glasses permanently) and they are consoled by
the fact that they are being worn practically by all
people now-a-days, young or old; it has become so
much a fashion with educated men to wear spectacles
that it is almost regarded as a sign of respectability
and culture. But slavery to custom and fashion is one
of the worst forms of slavery standing in the way of
man’s progress.
Nature teaches us to use our faculties, to walk, to
speak, to use our teeth and eyes as well as to think
and reason; but it is well-known that by training man
can do all these natural functions much better, in a
much more effective, aesthetic and harmonious way,
insuring their healthy functioning and development; and
doing this is itself natural, as it is Nature that has
supplied man with intelligence and will so that he may
rise above the mechanical modes of the mere animal
life and evolve a higher rational and spiritual life. By
the exercise of his Buidhi, man can guide and control
the natural instincts and impulses, even discard them
when they are inimical to his upward evolution, and
form new habits which may become a “ second nature."
The history of human civilisation and culture is mostly
a formation of these habits. In this way, man has
evolved society and government, religion and science,
art and poetry; and has already risen considerably above
the primitive state of Nature. But as a sort of compen­
sation, he has lost the vital balance which keeps the
animals and primitive men in excellent bodily health.
Man must recover that balance now, not by going
back to the state of the cave-man as some people seem
to advocate, but by rising to a higher level, and Nature
EOKEWOBD i>
herself supplies the clues to such a higher harmony to
which humanity is destined. Though it is essential to
have a healthy and strong body for the development
of our higher possibilities, the health and animal joys
of the primitive life are certainly not worth having at
the cost of civilisation and culture. The natural instincts
and impulses are most effective so far as they go, but
they do not go very far. In order to rise to a higher
order of life, man must be able to adapt himself
consciously and intelligently to changed conditions, The
process of evolution in Nature has been inconscient; in
man, she has risen to an intelligent consciousness so
that she may achieve her last conquest by evolving a
body free from disease, old age and death, which will
be the vehicle of a spiritual divine life and Lhus realise
the goal of immortality on earth foreseen and predicted
by her prophets.
The real remedy of the eye troubles, from which so
many people are suffering to-day, is not wearing spectacles,
but to learn how to use the eyes properly. It is a
well-known fact, though often neglected in practice,
that the mind and the body require sufficient exercise
as well as rest in order to function healthily. That
wonderful vital organ, the heart, shows what amount
of work our organs can do if exercised properly.
Nature has put such rhythm into its action that, in the
midst of work, it recoups itself by rest and can go on
working indefinitely keeping the body alive. The eye
is another organ which has to act almost continually—
even in sleep the eye is working with the activity of
the mind and imagination—and Nature has provided
means so that it may get sufficient rest in the midst
6 MIND AND VISION
of continuous work. It is by ignorant neglect of
raking full advantage of these means that men suffer from
most of their eye troubles.
The first essential thing to learn about the eye is to
learn the use of the eye-lids. The eye gets rest whenever it
is closed and the eye-lids are there to give that rest
continually. The normal eye blinks or doses and opens
very frequently. See how the eye-lids work in a child who
has not yet lost its natural impulse and acquired the vicious
habit of staring. You do not see % thing better by
staring, as the eye soon gets tired and the vision becomes
blurred. We see things perfectly only when we blink
frequently; the natural, normal blinking is so swift and
gentle that the vision is not at all interrupted, but
that momentary closing of the eye effectively prevents
strain which is the root cause of eye troubles. In cases
of imperfect sight, this natural habit is lost and must
be regained by constant and deliberate practice.
Another essential thing to learn about the use of the
eyes is the way of giving relaxation to them when
they become tired. They should be given complete rest
for some time. Closing the eye always gives rest, but
that rest is not complete, as some light penetrates
through the closed eye-lids; so the closed eyes should
be covered with the palm of one or both hands so as
to cut off the light completely. Even then the eye
may not get complete rest, as the eye always works
with the mind, and if the mind is not restful and
relaxed, the eye also will not be relaxed, That is why
we often get up from bed in the morning with our
eyes tired, if not actually aching, sometimes accompanied
FOREWORD 7
by headache. To give the eyes complete rest and relaxa­
tion, we have to cover the closed eyes with the palm
of our hands and allow the mind to drift with pleasant
thoughts and images. This is such a wonderful method
of giving relaxation to the eyes that there is hardly any
case of eye trouble which is not substantially relieved
by it. Another effective method of relaxing the eye
is swinging. Nature has provided the eye with such a
delicate machinery that it can always move freely, and
it is only by doing so that it can remain healthy and
in good condition. The eye is strained whenever it
remains stationary, and is relieved when it moves with
the movement of the head and the body. The active
life of the primitive man in the open air and the sun
is very good for the eye as well as for general health,
and it is a movement in the right direction that people
now are trying to counteract the evil effects of artificial
living by taking as much free exercise in the open air
and the sun as possible. But the usefulness of these
things for the eye has not yet been fully realised and
requires explanation and emphasising.
The theory chat errors of refraction are due to
permanent defects of the lens or the eye-ball leads to
the use of glasses as the only means of counteracting
their effects. But it has been conclusively proved by
thousands o f experiments made by Dr. W. H. Bates, M.D.,
of America, that all abnormal actions of the externa]
muscles of the eye-ball are accompanied by a strain,
and that, with the relief of this strain, the action of
the muscles becomes normal and all errors of refraction
disappear. Most of the cases of defective eye-sight, for
which glasses are now being used, can be cured permanently
8 MIND AND VISION
by following a few simple exercises which relieve
the strain. This is a great discovery made by life-long
research work by Dr. Bates. Already sanatorinms have
been opened in Germany and America for popularising
his methods. In our country, his methods have been
thoroughly studied and tested in numerous cases by
Dr. R. S. Agarwal, L.S.M.F., of Delhi, whose book on
this subject I have now the honour of ushering into
publication.
Modern medical practice knows no method of improving
the eye-sight once it becomes defective through any
cause. It can only prescribe glasses to make up
for the defect and, as the sight grows poorer, it
prescribes stronger and stronger glasses until some people
become completely blind long before their death. If
this state of things is not remedied, the whole human
race will become blind in course of time and be wiped
out from the face of the earth. But the ancient people
knew a very effective cure for eye troubles, namely,
the sun. The rays of the sun have wonderful power
of giving strength to the tired and weakened optic
nerves and curing or relieving all kinds of eye diseases.
It is true that some people lose their sight for life
by gazing at the burning sun in the hope that they
will get supernatural powers. But that is a gross and
ignorant abuse of the great healing powers of the sun
which are being more and more recognised at the
present day. One should look at the sun for some
time with their eyes closed; then the eyes will not be
injured, but the rays that will pass through the eye-lids
will give health and strength to the eyes. As has been
lucidly described in this book, sun treatment combined
li'OBEWOED 9 '
with various methods of relaxation will restore normal
vision to most persons who are wearing spectacles for
some defect or other and making their eye-sight worse
and worse; all diseases of the eye also can be effectively
treated by this method. It is a very interesting discovery
of Dr. Agarwal, supported by documentary evidence,
described in this book, that the eye exercises devised
by Dr. Bates by up-to-date scientific researches were
known to the ancient Indians.
It is the experience of Dr. Agarwal that a person
who is almost blind is often cured more easily by this
method than one who can somehow manage to see with
his glasses; for the former will practise these methods
patiently, while the latter will prefer the wearing of glasses
throughout life to the trouble of learning a few simple
exercises and forming the correct habit of using the
eyes. This is said to be human nature; but it is really
the nature of stones and clods—once they are set
moving on a track, they will continue to move on unless
stopped or knocked away by some other force— the
well-known property of inertia in matter. The true nature
of man is to be fully conscious of his own condition
and to make intelligent effort to remedy his defects and
shortcomings and rise to a more perfect state. We can
confidently give the assurance that anyone who will give
a fair trial to these methods will find for himself how
efficacious they are. Apart from my own experience and
that of many of my friends, I have been assured by
an eminent physician and eye-specialist that these methods
ate quite rational and scientific and that they can possibly
do no harm. I have seen many people, who could not
read on account of old-age sight, were able to do so-
] 0 MIND AND VISION
after a few minutes only of sun treatment. Blinking
improves the eye-sight immediately. Palming gives great
relaxation, curing headache and other pains. These are
facts which any one can demonstrate for himself. But
against this, there is not only the “ tamas” or inertia of
man, his slowness to receive new truths and adopt new
modes of life and action, but also the weight of large vested
interests. Millions of pounds have been invested in the
trade of spectacles and there are thousands of medical
practitioners and others who earn money by prescribing
and selling them. All these people naturally be against
Dr, Bates’ simple methods, and ridicule the idea that
one can have perfect sight without glasses. On the
other hand, there are people who take to these methods
with great zeal and show surprising results. Dr. Bates
reports the case of a patient, an old man of 7o years,
who palmed for twenty hours in the course of one day
and got rid of his eye troubles. A great merit of this
treatment is that it costs practically nothing and is thus
eminently suited to a poor country like India. What­
ever be the obstacles created by ignorance, prejudice
and vested interests, Dr. Bates’ principles and methods
are bound to prevail as they are based on truth and
reason.
Any one, however old he may be, however long he
may have been using glasses for astigmatism, short-sight,
presbyopia or any other error of refraction, can hope
to discard them permanently and regain normal sight
by practising Bates’ methods with patience and per­
severance, though children and young people are benefited
very quickly. But prevention is always better than cure.
By taking a little care of the eyes at an early age, one
FOREWORD 11
can have perfect sight throughout life without ever
having the necessity of wearing glasses. This shows what
a tremendous responsibility lies on those persons who
control the educational policy and the educational insti­
tutions in the country. Education of the eye as well
as of the other organs of knowledge and action ought
to form an essential part of the education of boys and
girls, any institution which does not make sufficient
provision for this is guilty of a serious deriliction of duty.
The practice of memorising books and notes which
goes by the name of education in our country does
more harm than good, as they stunt the growth of
the natural faculties of observation, memory and imagina­
tion. Other countries are making enormous progress in
the matter of education by adopting new ideas and new
methods for the fullest culture of the mind and the
body, but India is still rotting in old holes. Dr. Bates’
principles clearly show that the education of the eye
is intimately connected with the education of the mind
and the will. One who has not got good memory and
good imagination can never have perfect eye-sight. Im­
perfect memory or imagination may even produce organic
changes in the eye-balls. One can, by imagining a letter
imperfectly, increase the hardness of the eye-ball which
is an important symptom of that serious eye disease,
Glaucoma. On the other hand, improving the memory
of letters and other objects improves the vision for
everytbing. We see only what we think we see, or what
we imagine. We can only imagine what we remember.
It ought to be an essential part of the education o f
every boy and girl to develop fully the faculties of
observation, memory and imagination, and as these powers
will grow, the eye-sight also will become perfect.
12 MIND AND VISION
Dr. Bates has formed a plan to check myopia in
schools on the principle that unfamiliar objects always
produce strain and familiar objects always relieve strain.
In schools, an eye chart should permanently be placed
upon the wall of each class-room and every day the
children should read silently the smallest letters they
can see from their seats. This takes no appreciable
time and is sufficient to improve the sight of all children
in one week and to cure defective eye-sight after some
months. Before beginning regular school work, the
students may also do palming for a few minutes.
When they close their eyes covering them with
the palm of their hands, the teacher can tell them
some interesting story to stimulate their imagination,
such as the adventures of an ant in its search
for honey in a rose plant; or the students themselves
may be asked to describe some interesting scene or
event they may have observed. The conscious control
of the muscles concerned in sight as required in the
exercises devised by Dr. Bates will develop the power
of will and of general self-control. All this is sufficient
to show that Dr. Bates’ methods have great educational
possibility and certainly deserve further investigation.
We hope that the Municipalities and the District Boards
in the country will introduce these simple eye-exercises
in their primary schools.
Dr. R. S. Agarwal has the zeal of a true missionary.
His great aspiration is to see a new generation rising
in India having perfect eye-sight without glasses. He
is ready to go to any part of the country to give
practical demonstration of his methods. We hope that
educational institutions and public bodies will readily take
FOREWORD 13
advantage of this generous offer. It is gratifying to
learn that Dr. Agarwal, has started an eye sanatorium
at Delhi, where, besides treating patients, he will give
training to a selected number of students in the principles
and methods of Dr. Bates.
Anilbaran Roy.
Sri Aurobindo Asram,
Pondicherry,
February zz, 1935.
MIND and VISION
INTRODUCTION
Practically every one in these days suffers from some
form of defective eye-sight. Statistics show that o f per­
sons over twenty-one, living under civilized conditions,
nine out of ten have imperfect sight, and the percentage
increases with age; at forty, it is almost impossible to-
find a person free from eye defects. Yet we are told that
there is no other cure of defective eye-sight than the use of
glasses. Is nature guilty? Even fifty years ago, the use of
glasses was very rare. It is well-known that in ancient
India medical science was highly developed and we
have elaborate medical books written in Sanskrit. We
do not find any mention of glasses in these books.
How is it then that the use of glasses has become
so common now, so much so that it has become a
general belief that once the eye becomes defective, there
exists no other remedy than the wearing of glasses?
Glasses simply neutralise the effects o f the various
conditions for which they are prescribed, but do not
cure them. Most of the cases get worse and require
higher and higher powers as time elapses. There are
many persons who have normal refraction, yet cannot
use their eyes without some discomfort. Some patients,
who have defective vision, recover spontaneously without
using glasses at all. We find differences in the prescrip­
tion of glasses for the same patient by different doctors.
Every ophthalmologist, who has some experience, must
have noticed that some patients of aphakia (after cataract
18 MIND AND VISION
it is almost impossible for the lay public to glean
from his voluminous writings his principles and
methods. In this book, I have endeavoured to summarise
his principles and methods so that they may be within
the easy reach of all in a single handy volume,
enabling even laymen to study and practise them. I
have not the least doubt that, as years roll on, there
will be established all over the world schools to teach
Dr. Bates’ Principles of “ perfect sight without glasses.”
Ayurvedic fundamental ideas as propounded by
Susbrutta—the son of the great sage Viswamitta of Ancient
India—for the treatment of eye diseases, are found out by
experience to be essentially true and efficacious. In fact,
they have enabled me to further perfect Bates’ methods
of eye treatment. The whole of my book is based
upon facts and experience and my labours will be amply-
awarded if people can derive some benefit from it.
R. S. AgarwaL
MIND AND VISION
CHAPTER I
TH E ORGAN OF SIGHT
The essential parts of the visual apparatus are the
eye, or eyeball, certain nerve cells in the hinder part
of the large brain, and necve fibres connecting the eye
with these cells. Vibrations of the ether, which are
known as light, produce images of the outside world
on the sensitive membrane, or retina at the back of
the eye, thus stimulating the ends of the optic nerve
whence impulse pass back to the brain and cause the
sensation of light.
The eye is contained in a bony cavity in front of
the skull known as the orbit, and is thus largely pro­
tected from external violence. Moreover, as the orbit
is a roomy space, the eye, which with its attached
muscles, is embedded in soft, fatty tissue, is afforded
a sufficiently free range of movement. In front of the
eye are the lids, with their lashes, which can close and
protect the eye, while in the outer part of the upper
lid is the tear-gland, which helps to keep the surface
of the eye moist.
The eye presents to view a circular clear transparent
window known as the cornea and beyond this, the white
of the eye. The latter represents the sclerotic coat, a
dense tough membrane, which, except for the corneal
surface, covers the eyeball. This is almost spherical, but
20 MIND AND VISION
if the eye is examined from the side, jt will be seen
that the cornea projects from the sclerotic part, just as
a concave watch glass would do were it applied to the
surface of a circular orange. The cornea has no blood­
vessels traversing it, but is plentifully supplied with
nerves and is very sensitive. Within the sclerotic coat
is the choroid, and inside this, the retina. The former
has a free supply of blood-vessels and many pigment
cells; it extends forward to near the junction of the
cornea with the scleiotic coat, where it forms a large
number of folds known as the ciliary processes, and
beyond these is continuous with the outer circumference
of the curtain of the eye, which is called the iris.
The iris may have a brown, blue or almost a
greenish tint in different people, and is perforated by
a central, circular opening, the pupil, which can vary
in size. This is because the iris contains two sets of
muscle fibres, some circling round it, which contract
the pupil and others radiating outwards, which dilate
it. The iris is covered behind by a layer of pigment
cells, which prevents light passing otherwise than through
the pupil.
Behind the iris is the crystalline lens of the eye
which resembles a magnifying glass in miniature. It is
enclosed in a capsule, and is supported all round its
circumference by a membrane, the suspensory ligament
of the lens, which, in turn, is attached to the ciliary
processes.
If a section were made through an eyeball, it would
be noted that the lens and the suspensory ligament
THE ORGAK OK SIGHT 21
divide the eye into a smaller front and a largely back
portion. The former is further divided into what are
called the anterior and the posterior chambers o f the
eye ; these are filled with aqueous, or watery, humour.
The space behind the lens is occupied by a clear, trans­
parent jelly, known as the vitreous humour. The aqueous
humour is secreted from the ciliary processes, and is
drained into the canal of Schlemm, a minute tube
passing round the eye in the sclerotic coat just behind
the junction of the latter with the cornea.
EYE-BALL.
C, cornea ; a. c, anterior chamber ; I, iris ; C. B.,
ciliary body ; P. C,, posterior chamber ; L., lens ;
V., vitreous ; Ch., choroid ; Sel., sclera ; f,, fovea
centralis ; O. N., optic nerve.
MIND AND VISION
AO
When the interior of the eye is examined with an
ophthalmoscope, the surface of the retina is spread out
to the view. It has a bright red colour and over it
arteries and veins aie coursing which are seen to emerge
irom a small round or oval area a little to the inner
or nasal side of the back of the eye. The area is
known as the optic disc, and is the place where the
fibres or the optic nerve, having penetrated the sclerotic
coat, spread out all over the retina.
This membtane has ten layers, but it will be sufficient
to note, in addition to the layer of nerve fibres, that which
is known as the layer of rods and cones and behind these
a layer of pigment cells. The other layers are merely
concerned with bringing the nerve fibres into relation
with rods and cones, which are the cells upon which
the light really acts. The names, rods and cones, are
applied to the cells on account of their shape.
These cells are marshalled together in a layer all over
the retina, except that there are none of them on the
optic disc, and consequently theie is no perception of
light here. At the centre of the back of the eye,
there is a little area which, from its colour, is called the
macula lutea, or the yellow spot. At its centre, there is
a little pit or depression, the fovea centralis, which repre­
sents the part of retina where visual perception is sharpest
in ordinary illumination. It is noteworthy that lining
this part, and close round it, there are only cones. On
the outlying parts of the retina, however, where vision
is the best in a subdued light, the rods form a great
majority.
Each optic nerve presses backwards and enters the skull
TH E ORUAN OR SIGHT 2 3
through an opening at the back of the orbit. Just after
doing so, the fibres, which supply the inner or nasal portion
of the ìetina cross to the other side, the band foitned
by these and other crossing fibres being known as the
optic commissure or chiasma.
From the commissure, the fibres pass back in the
optic tract on either side to flat projections on the base
of the brain called the corpora quadrigemina, in the
neighbourhood o f which are nerve cells forming relay
stations on the way to the back part of the brain and
which also act as reflex centres for the movements of
the pupil. Light, that is to say, falling on the retina,
produces a nerve impulse which is carried to these cells,
and an impulse comes back causing the pupil to contract.
From the relay stations fibres carry visual impressions
to the back parts of the occipital lobes of the brain, to
nerve cells in the cortex, or the superficial part of the brain
substance, where the sensation o f light is appreciated ;
from these cells, what are called associaiton fibre link
up with other cells farther forward on the brain concerned
with the storage of images and the other intellectual
aspects of vision.
When the eye is fixed on an object, the image of the
latter is formed about the centre of the retina, and it is
upside down ; it is the brain, therefore, which enables
us to see thing'-
, in their correct positions. If one eye is
covered, besides seeing the particular object looked at,
one sees more or less of its surroundings, and all that is
visible is called as the field of vision o f the eye. Although
one is not ordinarily aware of it, there is a small area
which is not seen. This corresponds to the optic disc,
and lies outside the object looked at. If left eye is closed
MIND AND VISION
3 «
If we compare the picture on the glass screen of the
camera when the camera is out of focus with the visual
impressions of the mind when the eye is out of focus,
there will be a great difference between them When
the camera is out of focus, it turns black into grey,
and blurs the outlines of the picture; but it produces
the results uniformly and constantly. On the screen of
the camera, an imperfect picture of a black object would
be equally imperfect in all parts, ard the same adjust­
ment of die focus would always produce the same
picture. But when the eye is out of focus, the imperfect
picture, which the patient sees, is always changing,
whether the focus changes or not. There will be more
grey on one part than on the other. Again, the black
may be changed into brown, yellow, green or even
red transmutations impossible to the camera.
When the camera is out of focus, the picture, which
it produces, of any object is always slightly larger than
the image produced when the focus is correct; but when
the eye is out of focus, the picture, which the mind sees,
may be either larger or smaller than it normally would be.
When the human eye is out of focus, the form of the
object regarded by the patient frequently appears to be
distorted. The image may be doubled, tripled or still
further multipled. The location of objects may also
appear to change. Nothing like this could happen when
the camera is out of focus.
These aberrations of vision are illusions, and not due
to the fault of the eyes. It is because we see very
largely with the mind and partly with the eyes. The
THE ORGAH OF SIGHT 2 7
phenomena of vision depends upon the minds interpreta­
tion of the impression upon the retina. What we see
is not that impression, but our own interpretation oi it.
The moon looks smaller at the zenith than it does at
the horizon, though the optical angle is the same and
the impression on the retina may be the same, as at
the horizon, the mind unconsciously compares the picture
with the pictures of the surrounding objects, while at
the zenith, there is nothing to compare it with.
Therefore, the act of seeing is passive. Things are seen
just as they are felt, or heard, or tasted, without effort
or volition on the part o f the subject. No two persons with
normal sight will get the same visual impressions from the
same object; for their interpretations of the retinal picture
will differ as much as their individualities differ. When
the sight is imperfect, the interpretation is far more vari­
able. Nothing like this happens in the case of two cameras.
In camera, the blurred image is brought to focus
by lengthening or shortening the body of the camera.
When the image in the eye is out of focus, the eye­
sight is said to be defective and one consciously or
unconsciously makes an effort to see objects and the mind
goes out of control. The muscles of the eye, which
lengthen or shorten the axis of the eyeball work under
the control of the mind. When the mind is at rest,
they work properly and the sight is normal. When
the mind is under strain, they work imperfectly,
and imperfect sight is the result. By the education
of the mind and the eyes through some exercises, the
muscles of the eye can be trained to bring the blurred
image to a focus.
2S MIND AND VISION
Object of vision A. B .—Object to be photographed
in the camera or the eye.
ab, image on the sensitive plate or retina,
a’b’, image in the hypermetropic eye.
a” b‘’, image in the myopic eye.
Diaphram D.—In the camera, the diaphram is made
of a circular overlapping plates of metal by means of
which the opening through which the rays of light
enter, the chamber can be enlarged or contracted.
In the eye, the iris acts as a diaphram and has a
natural capacity for dilating and contracting the opening
called the pupil of the eye.
Lens L.—The lens behind the diaphram, where the
light rays are refracted.
Sensitive Plate R.—The sensitive plate in the camera
or the retina of the eye, for receiving the image of the object.
ACCOMMODATION
The power of the eye to change its focus for vision
from distance to near is called accommodation. It is
generally believed (a) that the lens o f the eye under
the control of the ciliary muscle regulates the vision by
changing its convexity according to the distance of the
object from the eye; (b) that the removal of the lens
does away with the power of accommodation; and (c)
that the power o f accommodation decreases from the
age of forty and is completely lost after the age of
sixty.
This theory about accommodation had been based on
the images of Purkinji. If a small bright light, usually
a candle, is held in front of and a little to one side
of the eye, three images of the candle flame are seen:1
i. Bright and upright—comes from the cornea,
the transparent covering of the iris and pupil.
a. Large but less bright and upright— comes from
the front of the lens.
3. Small, bright and inverted— comes from the
back of the lens.
Langenbeck examined these images with the naked
eye and reached the conclusion that, during accommoda­
tion, the middle image, coming from the front lens,
became smaller than what it was when the eye at rest was
adjusted for distant vision. Since an image reflected from
a convex surface is diminished in proportion to the
convexity of that surface he concluded that the front of
the lens became more convex when the eye adjusted
MIND AND VISION
no
itself for near vision. Subsequently Helmholtz, working
independently, made a similar observation, but by a
somewhat different method. He found the image obtained
by the ordinary methods on the front of the lens very
unsatisfactory, and in his “ Hand-book of Physiological
Optics,” he describes it as being, “ usually so blurred
that the form of the flame cannot be definitely dis­
tinguished.” So he placed two lights, or one doubled
by reflection from a mirror, behind a screen in which
were two small rectangular openings, the whole being
so arranged that the lights shining through the openings
of the screen formed two images on each of the reflect­
ing surfaces. During accommodation, it seemed to him
that the two images at the front of the lens became
smaller and approached each other, while on the return
of the eye to a state of rest, they grew larger again
and separated. This change, he said, could be seen
“ easily and distinctly.” The observations of Helmholtz
regarding the behaviour of the lens in accommodation,
published about the middle of the last century, were
soon accepted as facts, and have ever since been stated
as such in every text-book dealing with the subject.
Dr. W. H. Bates, in the present century, repeated the
experiments of Helmholtz in the Physiological Laboratory
of the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia
University, New York, and the New York City Aquarium.
He was unable, however, by either of these methods,
to obtain images that were sufficiently clear or distinct
to be measured or photographed. With a thirty-watt
lamp, a fifty-watt lamp, a 250-watt-lamp and a 1,000-watt
lamp, there was no improvement. The light of the sun,
reflected from the front of the lens, produced an
ACCOMMODATION 3 1
image just as cloudy and uncertain as the reflections
fiotn other sources of illumination and just as variable
in shape, intensity and size. To sum it all up, he was
convinced that the anterior surface of the lens was a
very poor reflector o f light and that no reliable images
could be obtained by the means described.
After many failures and hard work, Dr. Bates be­
came able, with the aid of a strong light (i,ooo-watts),
a diaphram with a small opening and a condensor, to
obtain photographs of images reflected from the front
part of the lens both before and after accommodation.
The images were clear and distinct; and, moreover, lie
arranged an apparatus by which an observer could see
a clear image reflected from the cornea, the iris, the
front part of the lens and the front part of the sclera.
There was no change in the image reflected from the
front part of the lens during accommodation at different
distances. All his experiments in detail will be found
in his book “Perfect Sight Without Glasses.”
The corneal image was one of the easiest of the series
to produce and the experiment is one which almost
anyone can repeat, the only apparatus required being a
fifty candle-power lamp—an ordinary electric globe—and a
concave mirror fastened to a rod which moves back and
forth in a groove so that the distance o f mirror from
the eye can he altered at will. A plane mirror might
also be used ; but the concave glass is better, because
it magnifies the image. The mirror should be so arranged
that it reflects the image of the electric filament on the
cornea and so that the eye of subject can see this reflection
by looking straight ahead. The image in the mirror is
Diagram by which Helmholtz illustrated
his theory of accommodation
R is supposed to be the resting state of the
lens, in which it is adjusted for distant vision. In
A the suspensory ligament is supposed to have been
relaxed through the contraction of the ciliary muscle,
permitting the lens to bulge fonvatd by virtue of
its own elasticity.
Demonstration upon the eve of a rabbit that the
production of the refractive errors is dependent upon
the action of the external muscles. The string is
fastened to the insertion of the Superior Oblique and
Rectus Muscles.
No. i. Backward pull, Myopia is produced.
No. 2. Forward pull. Hypermetropia is produced.
No. 3. Upward pull in the plane of the iris. Mixed
astigmatism is produced.
0 0 0
*
■ ^ c it 5 c \ z' a * c
“Images of Purkinji”
No. i. Images of a candle : a, on the cornea;
b, on the front of the lens; c, on the back of the
lens. No. 2. Images of lights shining thiough
rectangular opening in a screen while the eye is at
res" (R) and during accommodation (A) ; a, on
the cornea ; b, on the front of the lens ; c, on the
back of the lens (after Helmholtz). Note that in
No. 2. A, the central in ages are smaller and have
approached each other, a change which, if actually
took place, would indicate an increase of curvature
in the ftont of the lens during accommodation.
Strain in Darkroom Examination
When the doctor Examines the eye in the darkroom
with the retinoscope to find out the error of refraction,
the patient generally keeps the eyes widely open and
stares.
STRAIN
1. Raising the eyelids.
2. Frowning.
j. Squeezing the lids.
4. Raising the eye lid and eye-ball.
5. Raising the lid, moving the eye in the direction
opposite to the head.
6. Lowering the lid, moving the eye to the light while
the face is in front.
7. Right position of the eye.
ACCOMMODATION 33
smaller than when the eye was at rest, again indicating
elongation o f the eye-ball and increased convexity of
the cornea, as in myopia.
SUM M ARY
These studies of the images reflected from the various
pails of the eye-ball demonstrate that:
1. The accommodation of the eye is affected by an
elongation of the eye-ball.
2. The lens is not a factor in accommodation.
3. Myopia is produced by a strain to see distant
objects.
4. Hypermetropia is produced by a strain to see
near objects.
With these results, Dr. Bates reached the conclusion
that the eye changes its focus by a change in its length,
brought about by the action o f the muscles on the out­
side of the eye-ball.
To prove his own theory, Dr. Bates made many
thousands of experiments on animals of all kinds, full
details of which may be found in the New York
Medical Journal for May 8, 1913. In these experiments,
Dr. Bates was able, by manipulation of the external
eye muscles, to produce and prevent accommodation
and errors of refraction at will.
3 4 MIND AND VISION
EXPERIM EN TAL OBSERVATIONS
i. (a) When two oblique muscles were present and
active, accommodation or myopic refraction
■was always produced by electric stimulation
of the eye-ball or of the nerves of accom­
modation near their origin in the brain.
(b) After one or both of the obliques had been
cut across, or after they had been paralysed
by the injection of atropine deep into the
orbit, accommodation or myopic refraction
could never be produced by electric stimula­
tion.
(c) After the effects of the atropine had passed
away, or a divided muscle had been sewed
together, accommodation followed electrical
stimulation as before.
2. (a) If one or both of the oblique muscles had
been cut, and two or more of the recti
were present and active, electrical stimulation
of the eye-ball or of the nerves of accom­
modation, always produced hypermetropia.
(b) The paralysing of the recti by atropine, or
cutting of them, prevented the production
of hypermetropia by electrical stimulation.
(c) After the effects of the atropine had passed
away or the divided muscles had been sewed
together, hypermetropia was produced as usual.
3. Experiments performed on the lensless eye also
showed the same results.
a c c o m m o d a t io n 3 5
In the text-books on physiology of the eye, it
is stated that accommodation is controlled
by the third nerve, but experiments show
that third and fourth nerves are equally
important in accommodation,
(a) When either nerve is stimulated at the point of
origin in the brain, accommodation or myopic
refraction is always produced in the normal
eye. When the origin is covered with a
small pad of cotton soaked in z per cent,
atropine solution, stimulation of that netve
produces no accommodation, while stimulation
of the unparaiysed nerve produces it.
(b) When the action of the oblique muscle is
prevented by dividing them, stimulation of
the third nerve produces no accommodation
but hypermetropia.
SUMMARY
Experiments on animals demonstrate that:
i. Neither the lens nor any muscle inside the eye­
ball has anything to do with accommodation, but the
process is entirely controlled by the action of the
muscles on the outside of the eye-ball.
a. Myopic refraction is always produced by a strain
of two obliques and is always prevented by relaxation
of these muscles by tenotomy (cutting),
3 6 MIND AND VISION
3. Hypermetropic refraction is always produced by
a strain of two or mote recti, and is always prevented
by relaxation of these muscles by tenotomy.
4. Atropine prevents, when injected deep into the
orbit, the experimental production ot errors of refraction.
5. All errors of refraction are caused by strain in
the muscles. The cure is accomplished by relaxation.
CLINICAL OBSERVATIONS
1. Many persons suffering from errors of refraction
often recover their vision spontaneously. Errors of
refraction disappear or change in their degree, after
having been carefully diagnosed under atropine. Every
ophthalmologist must have noted such cases. Different
doctors often prescribe glasses of different powers to
the same patient. If the eye-ball is more or less a
fixed organ and the error of refraction is a permanent
one, then why should such differences occur ?
2. In the case of disappearance or lessening of
hypermetropia, we are asked to believe that the eye
increases the curvature of the lens sufficiently to
compensate tor the flatness of the eye-ball, both at the near
point and at the distance. In the case of disappearance
or lessening of myopia, ciliary muscle is credited with
a capacity for getting into a more or less continuous
state of contraction, thus keeping the lens continuously
in a state of convexity. According to the theory, the
lens can increase its convexity only for vision at the
near-point and not for distance.
ACCOMMODATION 3 7
3. It is believed that the lens changes its shape in
moderate degrees of errors of refraction, and that only
during the early years of life. For the variations of
higher degrees, or those occuring after forty-five years
of age, when the lens is supposed to have lost its
elasticity to a greater or less degree, no plausible
explanation has ever been devised.
4. If children are born with short or long eyes,
then, why do they improve by Bates’ methods ?
j. If people who have had their lenses removed
through a cataract operation follow Bates’ methods,
they can read fine print only with their distant glasses
on at thirteen inches or even a less distance. Every
ophthalmologist must have noted that only a minority
of such cases can do the readtng work very well with
the distant glasses on.
In 1869 and 1870, respectively, Loring reported to
the New York Ophthalmological Society and the American
Ophthalmological Society “ the case o f a young woman
of eighteen who, without any change in her glasses,
read twenty feet line on the Snellen test card at twenty
feet and also read fine print at a distance of five to
twenty inches.”
On October 8, 1894, a patient of Dr. A. E. Davis,
who appeared to accommodate perfectly without a lens,
consented to go before the New York Ophthalmological
Society. “ The members,” Dr. Davis reported, “ were
divided tn thetr opinion as to how the patient was
able to accommodate for the near point with his distant
glasses on.”
3 8 MINJD AND VISION
These facts are offered as evidence that the lens is
not a factor in accommodation, because the eye can
change its focus within wide limits after the Jens has
been removed.
6. The cure of Presbyopia must also be added to
the clinical testimony against the accepted theory of
accommodation. In most of the cases, it can be easily
demonstrated within a few minutes that the patient
can read the finest print without glasses at a distance
of 6 to ia inches. On the theory that the lens is a
factor in accommodation, such cures would be manifestly
impossible when the lens is as hard as stone in old age.
A theory is strengthened by accumulation of facts.
The accepted theories of accommodation and of the
cause of errors of refraction do not accord with facts
and multitude of them have to be explained away.
During more than thirty years of clinical experience,
Dr. Bates did not observe a single fact that was not
in harmony with his view that the lens and the ciliary
muscle have nothing to do with accommodation, and
that the changes in the shape o f the eye-ball, upon
which errors of refraction depend, are not permanent.
C'inical observations are also sufficient to show how errors
of refraction can be produced at will, and how they
may be cured, temporarily, in a few minutes, and per­
manently by continued treatment.
GLASSES
It is a general belief that once the eye becomes
defective, there exists no means whereby the eye can
be brought to its normal condition; and for this, the
spectacles were introduced. Having furnished the patient
with suitable glasses, the eye specialist considers that
he has done every thing that lies within his power to
cope with the abnormal condition; but it is a fact
that the defect is not cured, it remains there and the
sufferer is put only in a state of false satisfaction.
The sufferer imagines that if he can see better, then
his eyes must be better, and it is only after wearing
spectacles for years, and having changed them more
and more frequently for stronger ones, that the truth
is borne in upon him that, instead of improving his
eyes, the constant wearing of spectacles has made, in
fact, the eyes worse, and will continue to do so.
It is true that all patients cannot attain normal
vision due to imperfect practices and other circumstances.
Therefore, to see clearly either for distance or near,
patient requires glasses. If the occulist, while prescribing
glasses, directs the patient to keep up blinking and take
sun treatment for a few minutes every day, at least
there would be no further deterioration of eye-sight.
Prescription of glasses has increased so much that
they are put on small children, and for little complaints.
In some cases, though the vision is quite good, they
are prescribed simply with the idea that there would
be no deterioration of eye-sight. Even if the patient
resists against the use of glasses, he is advised that
if he would begin to use spectacles, there would
be no further deterioration ; otherwise the eye-sight would
4 0 MIND AND VISION
go worse. The innocent patient is compelled to use
them by such suggestions. After some time, he finds the
truth that the doctor gave him wrong advice, his eye­
sight is deteriorating. This wrong prescription of
glasses has caused much harm to the eyes; so much so,
that the eyes are getting very weak.
Many patients can be much benefited by the methods
of relaxation, but if the glasses are to be prescribed,
they should be of lowest possible power, and their
use should be limited, that is, myopic patients may use
for distance and hypermetropic patients for near.
Constant use of glasses is harmful. When the patient
complains of headache, the occulist tries to fit on
glasses. Prescription of glasses in such cases often
does not relieve headache. When the headache is not
relieved, the patient runs from one doctor to the other
and collects a number of spectacles. The cause of the
headache is not defective sight but mental strain and
imroper use of the eyes- There are many who have
very defective sight, use no glasses, work for long
hours and still do not suffer from headache. There
are others who have very good eyes ; but often get
headache. A doctor patient, who suffered from pain in
the eye-balls while reading, was fitted with spectacles
fifteen times by the specialists. He was relieved of the pain
in a few minutes by the method prescribed in this book.
Important Points :—
i. Glasses for the correction of far-sightedness
(Hypermetropial may, and usually do, give the wearer the
imoression that objects are larger than they really are; while
ted patients, when wearing glasses, are impressed
ct that objects look smaller than they actually are.
GLASSES 4 1
a. Iq wearing glasses, it is necessary to look directly
through the centre of glasses in order to obtain maximum
vision. If one regards an object by looking in a slanting
direction through the glasses, its form and location are
changed.
3. The discomfort of glasses is very great with a
large percentage o f people who wear them. Frequently,
when they complainto their doctors, or to the
physicians who supplied glasses, they are advised that
by perseverance their eyes will become fitted to the glasses.
This does not seem quite satisfactory, because people
feel that the glasses should fit their eyes, and not they
should struggle along with all kinds of discomfort in
order to make their eyes fit the glasses.
4. Tinted glasses, red, yellow, blue, green or black,
when worn constantly, are usually felt comfortable by
the patient ; becausethe amount of light is lessened.
Constant wearing of such glassesis later followed by
sensitiveness to lightand the necessity of stronger
glasses to obtain sufficient amount of relief. Constant
protection o f the eyes by dark glasses, shades and
other measures often cause inflammation of the eyeball
and of the eye-lids, and poverty of vision.
5. Bifocal glasses sometimes cause discomfort to the
eyes. Upper glass is meant to see distant objects, while
the lower glass is meant for reading. One is not able
to see through the junction between the two glasses.
Hence one has to raise the eye-ball to see distant
objects and lower the eyeball to see the near objects. The
eye is forced to move up and down in an unnatural way*
This unnatural movement causes great strain on the eyes.
CHAPTER II
THE CAUSE AND CURE OF ERRORS OF
REFRACTION
How does the eye see?
The phenomena of seeing may be summarized as a
result o f three distinct processes:
1. Mechanical—the focussing action of the eye where­
by the light rays in the form of an image are focussed
on the sensitive film (the retina).
2. Nervous— the sensitivity of the retina in receiving
the light rays and transmitting them to the visual centre
in the brain.
3. Mental—the interpretation of the picture. Vision
is a process of mental interpretation. The picture,
which the mind sees, is not the impression on the
retina, but a mental interpretation of it. The act of
seeing is a passive one, and one sees involuntarily as
one hears or tastes or smells.
Look at the centre of ‘O’. The white centre of
the letter ‘O’ appears to be whiter than the margin. By
covering the black part of the ‘O’ with the screen,
which has an opening in the centre, the whiteness of
the centre of the ‘O’ appears to be of the same shade
of white as the rest of the card. Now, when the screen
is removed, the white centre flashes whiter. The setting
CAUSE ATTE CURE 4 3
sun usually appears to be much larger than it was when
overhead. Some scientists have demonstrated with the
aid of the photographic camera, that the sun is always
of the same size when viewed overhead as it is when
viewed on the horizon. All this is illusion. The white
centre of the letter 'O ’ is never seen whiter than the
rest of the card, it is only imagined. We are daily
making many mistakes when seeing objects. The object
is one thing and we imagine it to be something else.
A stick may be regarded as a snake, sand may be
regarded as water. Thus, whatever we see depends
largely upon imagination. If we imagine imperfectly,
we see imperfectly. Perfect imagination can be obtained
only when the mind is free from strain.
Strain as the Cause
The strain to see is a strain of the mind, and when
there is a strain of the mind, there is a loss o f mental
control. Under the conditions of civilized life, men’s
minds are under a continual strain. They have more
things to worry them than uncivilized man had, and they
are not obliged to keep cool and collected in order that
they may see and do other things upon which existence
depends. I f he allowed himself to get nervous,
primitive man was promptly eliminated; but civilized man
survives and transmits his mental characteristics to
posterity. The remedy is not to avoid either near work
or distant vision, but to get rid of the mental strain
which underlies the imperfect functioning of the eyes at
both points—near and distant. The idea that it rests
the eyes not to use them is erroneous. Tne eyes were
made to see with, and if, when they are open, they do
44- m in d AND VISION
not see, it is because they are under such a strain and
have such a great error of refraction that they cannot see.
The eye with normal sight never tries to see. If for
any reason, such as the dimness of the light, or the
distance of the object, it cannot see a particular point,
it shifts to another. It never tries to bring out the
point by staring at it, as the eye with imperfect sight
is constantly doing.
Myopia is always associated with a strain to see at
a distance; while hypermetropia is associated with a
strain to see at a near point. There is a different
strain for most abnormal conditions of the eye. The
strain that produces an error of refraction is not the
same as the strain that produces a squint, or glaucoma
or amblyopia or inflammation, etc. Even the pain that
so often accompanies errors of refraction is never caused
by the same strain that causes these errors. Some
myopes cannot read without pain or discomfort, but
most of them suffer no inconvenience. When the
hypermetrope regards an object at the distance, the
hypermetropia is lessened, but pain and discomfort may
be increased. While there are many strains however,
there is only one cure for all of them, namely,
relaxation.
What is Strain ?
To make an effort to see or to stare is called strain.
Look at the notch at the top of the big ‘C’ of the
Snellen test card at fifteen feet. Keep your eyes fixed
on the notch without closing and shifting the eyes to
CAUSE AND CURE 4 5
some other point. Make an effort to see it and increase
that effort as much as you possibly can. Notice that
it is difficult to keep your eyes and mind fixed on that
one point. Notice also that it is tiresome and it causes
pain in the eyes. If you continue it long enough,
your head begins to ache. If you look at some of the
letters on the lower lines which are much smaller than
the big ‘C’ they may appear so blurred that you are not
able to distinguish them. Trying to see these small
letters blurs them still more.
Look at the persons of normal eyes and of myopic
eyes while seeing distant objects. Myopic eyes state, do
not blink, keep the lids raised. They are more or less
fixed and do not shift from one point to another
frequently. While normal eyes blink frequently
and keep the lids downwards. They are moving frequently
from one point to another unconsciously.
Now compare normal eyes with hypermetropic or
presbyopic eyes while seeing at a near point as in reading or
writing etc. Hypermetropic or Presbyopic eyes do not
blink frequently, the eyes remain fixed on the black
letters; while normal eyes blink frequently and see the
white spaces in between the letters unconsciously.
Look at the black portion of the letters and note that
the blackness fades. Now look at the white space in
the letters and note that the letters become darker.
How do we Strain ?
The following conditions may contribute to the strain
to see :
MIND AND VISION
4 0
1. By wrong use of the eyelids, that is by raising
the upper lids and by stopping their gentle
movement called blinking.
2. By using the eyes in a wrong way while read­
ing, writing, sewing, seeing cinema etc..
3. By moving the eyeballs in the opposite direction
of the head and body, for example, if the head
moves to the right and the eyes to the left;
or if the chin is downwards and the eyes look
upwards.
4. By making an effort to see an object clearly,
and by staring. Many people are unable to
stare for any length of time; because staring
is painful, disagreeable and produces fatigue.
A boy, fourteen years of age, had practised
staring and had acquired much skill in it; he
was able to outstare any boy in his class-room.
He then went to other classes and challenged
each boy in those classes to a contest with
him in staring. After sometime his eyes became
inflamed and his vision became poor. Persons
who stare at a dot or some other object
without closing or shifting the eyes to practise
Toga usually suffer from myopia after sometime.
A Swami practised staring and became highly
myopic after sometime. It is a great mistake
to think that staring at an object improves the
mind or the sight.
5. By looking at unfamiliar objects, and by read­
ing or seeing uninteresting and unpleasant things.
CAUSE AND CURE 4 7
6. By going to the market or parties and trying
to see there many a things at a time.
7. By intimating those •who have defective eyesight
or those who strain while talking etc.
8. By fear, anxieties, worries, physical discomforts.
9. By imperfect imagination and distorted thoughts.
10. By excess of sexual appetite.
11. By using glasses unnecessarily.
12. By imagining unfamiliar and fearful dreams
during sleep.
13. By exposing the eyes to strong heat; dust and
smoke.
14. By using the eyes at the time when they re­
quire rest.
15. By insufficient nourishment.
Voluntary Production of Eye Tension A
Safeguard against Glaucoma
It is a good thing to know to inctease the tension
of the eyeball voluntarily, as this enables one to avoid
not only the strain that produces glaucoma; but other
kinds of strain also. To do this proceed as follows :
Put the fingers on the upper part of the eyeball
while looking downward, and note its softness. Then
do any one of the following things:
a. Try to see a letter, or other object, imperfectly,
or (with the eye either closed or open) to imagine it
imperfectly.
b. Try to see a letter, or a number of letters, all
alike at one time, or to imagine them in this way.
48 MIND AND VISION
c. Try to imagine that a letter, or mental picture
o f a letter is stationary.
d. Try to see a letter, or other object, double or
to imagine it double.
When successful, the eyeball will become harder in
proportion to the degree of strain, but, as it is very
difficult to see, imagine, or remember, things imperfectly,
all may not be able at first to demonstrate the facts.
Treatment of Strain
Relaxation is its treatment. If the mind of the patient
is relaxed, then his eyes (together with the muscles and
nerves connected with them) will become relaxed, and
similarly, if the eyes and their muscles and nerves can
be relaxed, then the brain, and consequently the mind
also, will become relaxed; so Bates’ method of treatment
aims at mental and physical relaxation, and it is only
when this condition of mind and body has been achieved
that perfect vision is possible. The succeeding chapters
will explain the methods how to relieve strain and gain
relexation.
It is most important to learn now to use the eyelids
and the eyes in the right way at all times. In the
cure of imperfect sight right use of the eyes plays an
important part. Here are few hints about the use of
the eyes.
1. Eyelids : The upper eyelid should remain down­
wards, keeping the eye half open. The diagrams will
clearly show the position of the lids. While looking
Blinking
1. Right position of the lid while not blinking.
2. While blinking upper lid comes a little down to
cover the pupil.
j. Blinking education on wrist-watch.
Reading under Electric Lamp.
Direct rays of the table-lamp falling on the book
cause strain on the eyes. One should keep the book
jittle away from the direct bright rays.
R EA D IN G
'Wrong way
The head and et es ate fKed to one side
R ight wav
Resting the back on a hlsth pillow, the head and eyes,
aie tiee to move.
Wrong way R ight w ay
The book it. in fiont 4 The bt ok Is at a lowet
of the e\es and the level and the lids
lids aie taised ate downwards
SEWING
Right way Wrong way
Eyes moving with the Eyes fixed on the cloth,
needle.
CIN EM A
. Wrong position of eye
lids.
. Wrong way o f seeing
cinema.
Right position o f eye
lids.
Right way of seeing
duenna.
S
P
I
N
N
I
N
G
In
c
o
rre
c
t
w
a
y
.
C
o
rr
e
c
t
w
a
y
.
g
h
t
fixed
on
the
spindle.
Sight
sh
iftin
g
with
the
cotton
p
iece.
CAUSE AND CURE 49
in front or upwards, the upper lid should not be raised;
but only the chin, that is, the position of the lids should
be at all times as at the time of reading.
It can be demonstrated that keeping the lids down­
wards relieves the strain. Look at the letter ‘C’ in the
chart at fifteen feet distance. Now raise the eyelids
as shown in the figure. Note that the blackness o f the
letter fades. Now raise the chin and bring the lids
downwards. Note that the blackness increases.
The wrong position of the lids is generally seen in
myopic patients and in those who use glasses and m
other cases of defective sight too. Even normal eyes
sometimes raise the lids Generally in cinemas people
sit in such a position thaL they keep the lids raised
and that is why many people suffer from discomforts
after seeing the cinema.
Lowering the lids gives rest, while raising the lids
causes strain. This is a fundamental factor in the cure
of most patients. If the patient can keep the lids down­
wards all the time then soon he is benefitted. It
is the first thing to understand and practice. Remember
that before beginning the practices of relaxation one
should make the position of the lids correct and try
to maintain it all the time. Do not squeeze the eyes;
it is very harmful. Generally myopic patients try to see
distant objects by squeezing their eyes.
2 . Blinking : Blinking is the next important funda­
mental. The normal eye blinks frequently; it is done so
rapidly and gently that we do not notice it. In blinking the
MIXD AND VISiON-
50
main part is played by the upper lid. The upper lid comes
a little downwards to cover the pupil and is again raised,
while the lower lid moves up with a little contraction
of the muscles. The blinking ot the normal eye is
different from the blinking of the eye with imperfect sight.
Blinking of the eye with imperfect sight is usually very
itregulac and jerky and is accompanied by a strain ot
the muscles of the eyelids. In cases of imperfect sight
an effort is always being made to hold the eye stationary
and to stop the blinking.
Blinking can only be done easily and gently when
the upper lid remains downwards. Blinking may be done
so rapidly that it does not become conspicuous. The
normal eye may blink three or four times in one second.
When the blinking is done properly, things are seen
continuously and they move with a quick jump. Regard­
ing the objects without blinking is an effort, a strain
which always lowers the vision.
It is interesting to observe the eyes of some people
when they ace asleep. One may note that the eyelids
are blinking which prevents the eyes from straining or
staring, although the persons are quite unconscious of it.
Blinking is a quick method of resting the eyes and
can be practised unconsciously all day long, regardless
of what one may be doing. Blinking is very simple,
and it will be found that a great deal more reading
can be done with blinking than without it, and also the
eyes will not be so tired.
Education -in Blinking i. Notice how gently a tiny baby
blinks. Now sit in a very comfortable chair. Gently close
CAUSE ANI) OU11E 51
the eyes and imagine that you ate watching a tiny baby
blinking. Then gently open the eyes keeping the sight
downwards and gently blink. Make frequent blinks without
any effort. Remember that the upper lids should not be
raised too high and there must not be any strain, other­
wise blinking will turn into winking which is as bad
as not blinking;.
z. Count the numbers irregularly (as q, i, 3, 6, 9, i j *
15 and so forth) and blink for each count. By con­
sciously blinking correctly, it will in time become an
unconscious habit
3. Place a mirror beior: you. Look to the right
eye and then to the left, blink on each side. It will
keep you aware of wrong blinking.
4. Place your folded ringers on your knees as in.
the diagram and keep the nails o f the hands upwards.
See the nails of the right hand and blink, then see the
nails of the left hand and blink; while doing so move
your head from side to s'de.
5. Take a wrist watch and put it near your eat.
Blink at each tick.
6. Walk and blink at each step.
7. Take two pencils one in eich hand. Keep one
at sis inches ana the other at one foot from the eyes
on the same line. Look at the top o f each pencil
altetaately you will notice that the lid is raised a little
while seeing the distant pencil and lowered while seeing
5 2 MIND A ifD VISION
the nearer pencil. Then close the eyes and imagine as
if you are moving your sight from one pencil to another.
Blinking Improves the Vision. Look at the letter ‘C’
in the chart at a distance of fifteen feet. Now stare and
stop blinking; note that the darkness of the letter fades.
Now begin to blink and note that the darkness reapears.
Take your book. Read without blinking and with blinking
and note the difference. You will note that if you do not
blink even for a second tbe letters become blurred, the
vision becomes defective, the eyes are strained; and when
you do not blink for hours, you will find that the strain
is very much increased. This continued strain causes
defective vision.
3. Reading : Keep the book at a lower level than
the chin so that the lids may not be raised. Then
blink twice at least in reading one line. Do not read
in the sun because the glare reflected from the paper
causes strain to the eyes. If one at all wants to read
in the sun; he should arrange the book in such a way
that the sun does not fall on the paper. Reading while
lying can also be done without any discomfort if one
keeps the head raised and blinks frequently. Reading
while lying to the side is harmful. Reading while resting
the chin and face on the palm of the hand causes strain.
It is a great mistake to stop blinking while reading.
4. Writing : While writing keep the sight on the
point of tbe pen and move the sight with its movement.
A common mistake is to write forward and at the same
time to look at the back letters. If one cannot shift the
sight according to the pen movement in the beginning,
CAUSE A3TD CUBE 53
one may draw first straight lines, then angular lines,
big letter and smaller letters. When writing is done
rightly, handwriting becomes decidedly better.
5. Sew ing : Many women suffer from eye strain
while sewing or doing needle-work. They generally feel
headache after working even for a short time. The
mistake they commit is that they keep their eyes fixed
on their work and blink at long intervals. They should
blink frequently and move the sight with the move­
ment of the needle. If the needle comes up, the sight
also should move up and when the needle goes down
to the cloth, the sight should shift to the cloth.
This shifting relieves the strain. In machine work
and in continuous stitching one should blink frequently.
6. Spinning : As you move the handle of the
spinning wheel in a circular way, move your body also
in a circular way gently, without any effort. In your
lett hand take the cotton piece. As you begin to spin,
move your eyes according to the movement of your
left hand. When the hand goes to the spindle move
your sight to the point of the spindle, and when you
remove the hand towards you, shift your sight towards
you. It is a general mistake to keep the sight fixed on
the spindle. Tttis stating stops blinking, causes headache
and dizziness. Spinning gives good relaxation if done
methodically.
7. Cinema : Cinematograph pictures are commonly
supposed to be very injurious to the eyes, and it is
a fact that they often cause much discomfort and the
lowering of vision. They can, however, be made a
54 AIlND AND VISION
means of improving the sight. When they hurt the
eyes, it is because the subject strains to see them. If
this tendency to strain can be overcome, the vision is
always improved and if the practice of viewing pictures is
continued long enough, many eye troubles are relieved.
HOW TO SEE A CINEMA PICTURE : Sit erect
comfortably, keep your upper lids down while raising
the chin and blink frequently.
The common mistake while seeing the cinema i-> to
keep the lids raised and stop blinking.
8. Riding : While travelling in a train or riding on
horse-back, move your body according to the movement
of the train or horse. Do not be stiff. Imagine that
the side objects appear to move backwards. To stop
this apparent movement of objects is impossible, and the
effort to do so may be very uncomfortable. The greatei
the effort, the greater the discomfort, and is the cause
of headache and nausea. When you ride in an elevator,
look at one part of the elevator, imagine that it is moving
backwards, avoid looking at the floor.
9. Driving: It is interesting to note that people who
drive motor cars suffer greatly from eye strain. Taxi
drivers are more or less under nervous strain. Many of
them, when they have an accident, believe that it was not
their fault. The remedy is to use the eyes in such a way
as not to produce a stare. Shift your sight from the
speedometer to the centre of the road and notice how the
distant load in front comes toward you and finally rolls,
as it were under the car. Keep up blinking and shifting
c a u s e a n d c u b e 55
flow the near point to the distance. Another way is to
imagine the neat side objects moving backwards, while
the distant side objects moving forward One should
keep up blinking frequently. Do not fix the sight on
distant objects.
10. How to look at Objects ? The eyes should see
as the ears hear without waking any effort. While looking
at an object, if it is not clear, do not try to make it dear,
but shift your sight to other objects. Remember to blink
frequently. It is good to shift the sight from one point to
the other of the object regarded. Trying to see objects
while moving fastly causes great strain. While in motion,
imagine side objects moving backwards. To keep up the
imagination of a dot or some other thing, while looking
at objects, is very helpful.
CHAPTER III.
SUN-TREATM ENT AND EYE-BATH
The sun is a wonderful help in relieving all sorts of dis­
comfort of the eyes. The sun is the best help and, in my
opiaion, no other method can take the place of the sun-
treatment. The sun is regarded as the god of the eyes by
the Hindus, and it is a truth that the sun works like a god
for the eyes. The eyes of some people become blind or
defective after seeing the solar eclipse ; chat is because they
stare at the sun. Any good method, when practised in a
wrong way, may cause harm. I advise every eye patient to
enjoy the sun both morning and evening. Our Rishis
have advised us to offer our prayers daily facing the
rising sun. It is also a Hindu rite of worship to throw
water on the ground while blinking towards the sun
after bath. By facing the sun in a proper manner, the
eyes become very bright and shining, attractive and
magnetic. The vitality of the eye is greatly increased
and no microbe is able to attack the eye. Inflammatory
conditions and other discomforts of the eyes are soon
cured. In fact, the sun is the “ elixir vitae” for eye.
The health of the eye is based on light as the health
of the lungs is based on air. The eye is the creation of
light. When life first appeared on this planet of ours,
it was in the form of protoplasmic cells which had no
specific sense organs. It was the action of the environ­
ment on the organism which in the course of time made
it evolve different organs for its transactions with the
SUIT-TREATMENT AND EYE-BATH 57
outer world. Thus, the light rays of the sun developed
theorganof sight, the vibrations of sound developed the
organs of hearing ¡rod so forth. It is for this reason
that wefind that not only light tays of the sun ate very
beneficial to the eyes, but they ate also indispensable
for their health and activity. Living beings, which usually
live underground like earth-worms, have no organs of
vision; even animals which possess eyes lose their vision
if they are confined for a sufficiently long time iu
darkness. Fishes living in dark caves become blind;
m
iners generally suffer from defective eyesight and other
inflammatory eye troubles. People, who live in the dark
and seldom see the sun, like miners, foe example, have
always something wrong with their eyes. In the houses
wherethe light is poor many children acquire a dislike
foe chosun-light. Some of them keep their eyes covered
with their hands, or hnry their faces in a pillow and do
all they possibly can to avoid the exposure of their eyes
toordinary light. Patting these children in a dark room
isa blunder. I obtained best results in the cute of these
cases by encouraging the patients tospend a good deal
of theit timeout of doors with their faces exposed to
thedirect rays of thesun. Not only is the sun beneficial
tochildren, but it is also beneficial to adults. /
it
Ofcourse after remaining in a dark room and suddenl^'le
going out into the bright light, one feels the chaq^ass)
and if one is at all nervous, the effect of the lighy1^ t^e
theeyes is magnified, exaggerated. W
hen such p' caution
arc afraid of the light or their eyes are hyperseosun whilc
light, they usually obtain immediate relief ¿th tlwe
discomfort by use of dark glasses or an eye-sj^Paft °f
relief is temporary, and very soon, darkens.
MIND AND VISION
.')S
needed. Eye patients who hive used eye-shades habitually,
are very difficult to cure. Sun treatment, when used
properly in all such cases, is often followed by quid,
results. Many persons really feel photophobia or glare
while going in the sun, although tneit eyes are quite
good. That happens because they keep their eye-iids raised
and stop blinking. This causes staring which is the
cause of the discomfort. Such patients are very easily
benefited simply by lowering the eye-lids and blinking
while going out.
i. Sun-treatm ent with Closed E y e s: Ask the
patient to sit comfortably facing the sun with eye-lids
closed. The body sways from side to side, gently and
lazily. The eye-balls appear to be moving according
to the movements of the body. If the eye-balls move
in the opposite direction (which can be seen through
the closed eye-lids), ask the patient to move them with the
movement of the head. At first there may be slight
discomfort which usually disappears in a few minutes.
Continue for ten to twenty minutes or longer. Now turn
the back to the sun or come in the shade, keep the eyes
closed and cover them with the palms for five minutes
or longer. Then open the eyes and you will notice the
relief at once. By repetition the benefit becomes greater
and more permanent. This is the safest sun treatment
which can be given to every eye patient without causing
any kind of discomfort. To sit in the hot sun for long
time causes, sometimes, headache or discomfort in the
body. One should at once stop the sun treatment as
soon as the sun causes discomfort in the body. It is
better to take sun treatment many times for short periods
SUN - TREATM ENT AND EYE-BA T H 59
than at one time for along period. Do not look at the
sun with open eyes.
2 . With closed eyes and sun-glass : When the
eyes become accustomed ro face the sun with closed
eye-lids, use the sun-glass. Focus the light on the closed
eye-lids, which at first is very disagreeable. The patient
continuously moves the body, head and eyes from side
to side. The focussed light seems to be moving in the
opposite direction. Do not focus the light at one point
for more than a second ; otherwise you may burn the part.
One should be very ciutious in giving this treatment.
If this treatment is given properly, one obtains greater
benefit than by merely facing the eyes with closed eye-lids.
This treatment is given only for about two minutes at
a time. One can give it for more time if the patient
does not feel any discomfort.
3 . Exposure treatm ent : Gently lift the upper
eye-lid towards the brow, exposing some of the white part
of the eye above the pupil. A.t first, it may be well to
shade the eyes from the sun until the patient acquires
sufficient control to look down easily, continuously and
without strain. With the eyes looking fat down, one
focusses the direct rays o f the sun on the exposed white
part of the eye, with a strong convex glass (sun-glass)
moving the glass from side to side quickly to avoid the
beat of the concentrated sun-light. One needs to caution
the patient to avoid looking directly at the sun while
the light is focussed on the eye. The length of time
devoted to focussing the light on the white part of the
eye should never be longer than a few seconds.
60 MIND AND VISION
The results obtained from this method have usually-
been very gratifying. When the eyes are inflamed from
disease of the eye-lids, the cornea, the iris, the retina, the
optic nerve, from glaucoma and other inflammations, the use
of the burning glass has been followed immediately by
a lessening of the redness and a decided improvement
in vision.
Direct sun-light focussed on white paU of the eye
is beneficial in many cases of blindness with hardening
of the eye-ball (glaucoma), or softening of the eye-ball
(eyelids), also in cases of cataract, and of opacities, of
cornea and in other parts of the eye.
4. With open eyes : Looking at the sun with eyes
open is also a very great help to the eyes and is the best
wav to enjoy the sun ; but one should not take this
treatment without a director. Defective eyes should not
enjoy this treatment unless they have become accustomed
to stand strong sun light with eyes closed. Begin this
treatment when the sun begins to rise, and then stronger
sun enjoved by and by. Never take this treatment when
the sun is hot or red.
Sway your body, head and eyes from side to side in
a gentle way while looking down. Blink frequently.
Then gently raise the chin bringing the eyes towards the
sun. Do not try to look directly at the sun. While
swaying, look to the sides of the sun and imagine that the
sun moves in the opposite direction. Another way to look
towards the sun is to imagine the nearer objecLs to be moving
in the opposite direction and the farther objects in the
same direction. The eyes may be closed every now and then.
SUN-TREATM EN T AND EYE-BA T H 61
It is very important to imagine the objects moving
in the opposite direction. If you stop this swing ot
do not feel, it means you ate staring.
5. Sun treatm ent for young children : Hold the
child in such a way that the rays of the sun fall on the
eyes, and move it continuously in slow, short easy curves,
instead of throwing the child rapidly, irregularly and
intermittently from side to side. The treatment may be
given for five minutes or more. Very useful in trachoma,
conjunctivitis and other eye discomforts o f the child’s
eyes.
6. Sun treatm ent while w alking : Keep the sight
on the ground and walk facing the sun. Imagine the
road and side objects moving backwards.
G E N E R A L D IR EC T IO N S A BO U T SUN-
T R E A T M E N T
1. Do not sit in the sun when it is hot. Momin« and
O
evening are the best times for sun treatment. In winter,
one can take the sun treatment (first method) at any time.
2. Begin sun treatment with the mild rays of the
sun, that is, the mornings and the evenings, and gradually
the strong rays of the sun may be taken.
3. Sun treatment, according to the first method
described before, can be taken by anybody without any
hesitation, but other kinds of sun treatment should not
be taken without the presence of an experienced director.
4. While moving the head from side to side, remember
62 mind and vision
that the eyes should move in the direction of the head.
Remember to blink while gazing at the sun.
5. When the sun is not shining, substitute a strong
electric light. A 1,000-watt electric light is preferable,
but requires special wiring ; however, a 200 to 300-watt
light can be used with benefit, and does not require special
wiring. Sit about six inches from the light, or as near
as yon can without discomfort from the heat, allowing it
to shine on your closed eye-lids as in the sun treatment.
6. After sun treatment it is good to wash the eyes
with cold water.
7. The vision should remain clear after taking sun
treatment. If there is dimness after sun treatment, it
indicates strain. Relieve it by palming and swinging.
8. If you face the sun for five minutes daily, it is
‘-ufficient to keep your eyes healthy.
9. All eye patients can take the sun treatment whether
they use any medicine or not.
10. Demonstrate that the sun treatment gives
immediate benefit in many diseases of the eye.
Before the treatment, take a record of your best visiun
on the Snellen test card or Reading test types with both
eyes together and each eye separately without the glasses.
Then sit in the sun with your eyes closed, slowly moving
your head a short distance from side to side, and allowing
the sun to shine directly on your closed eye-lids. Forget
about your eyes ; just think of something pleasant and
let your mind drift from one pleasant thought to another,
Then come to your former place. Before opening
your eyes, palm for a few minutes. Then test your vision
and note the improvement.
SUK-TRBATjUKNT AHD e y e -b a t h G3
Eye bath
Eye bath is very effective in toning up the eyes
.rad the surrounding tissues. It causes relaxation and
helps in improving the eye sight. Taken after sun
treatment, it adds to the relief and relaxation. Cold
water should be used for eye bath. A weak solution
of common salt or triphalri water, or Ophthalmo can
aiso be used.
Directions for taking eye bath
t. Fill the cup nearly to its brim and put it against
the eye gently. Keep the eyes downwards and go on
blinking with both the eyes. Wash each eye for two
minutes. Do not keep the eye cup against the eye for
too long a time, as that may produce suction which is
not desirable. It should be removed and reapplied several
times after every 20 or 30 seconds.
2. Whenever you take bath, before drying, dip your
hands in the bowl (palms upwards and cupped), and raise
them full of water to within two inches of your eyes.
Then splash the cold water on your eyes smartly, but
not violently. Repeat this about twenty times, then dry
the body and the eyes It is a very good thing to do
whenever the eyes feel tired.
3. Fill a basin with cold water. Dip your face. Keep
the eyes open and blink. Take out the face to breathe.
Repeat ten times or mote. After removing the face from
water each time, you may look at the sun with open
eyes for a few seconds and again dip the face in water.
The sun rays do not harm the eyes; because there is a
layer o f cold water in front of the eye and the heat rays
are soon absorbed by cold water.
CHAPTER IV
R E LA X A T IO N M ETHO DS FO R TH E CURE
OF IM P E R F E C T SIG H T
In the previous chapter, I have explained how to
use the eyes. Unless one is able to learn the right
ways, it would be impossible to get permanent cure
by relaxation methods.
PA LM IN G
Most patients are benefited by closing the eyes.
Every one must have noticed that when tne eyes are
tired, closing the eyes for a moment clears the vision
and a kind of relief is felt in the eyes. But as some
light still comes through the closed eye-lids (move your
hand before the closed eyes and you will notice the
movements of the hand), a still greater relief can be
obtained by excluding this light as well. This is done
by covering the closed eyes with the palms of the
hands (the fingers being crossed upon the forehead) in
such a way as to avoid pressure on the eye-balls. This
practice is called “ palming.” The diagrams show the
right and wrong ways of palming
But even with the eyes closed and covered in such
a way as to exclude all light, the mind thinks some
familiar or unfamiliar objects, interesting or uninteresting
stories, natural or un-natural, seen or unseen scenes.
Remember or imagine something perfectly black or
RELAXATION METHODS 65
something that has been seen perfectly or clearly, or
something pleasant such as a flower, a boat floating in
the river, clouds moving in the sky etc., and let the
mind drift from one thought to another. Some patients
like to remember the black letters of the chatt. Familiar
things seen frequently as a hammer by a carpenter, a
brush by an artist, a knife by a surgeon are better
remembered than letters. Little girls like to think of
their dollies. Mothers like to remember their babies.
How to Drift the Mind
Suppose, you imagine your pen. Move your thought
from one end to another. Do not try to imagine the
pen as a whole at a time. If youimagine a baby,
drift your thought from one eye to another, then to
the nose, the mouth and so forth; do not try to
imagine the face as a whole at one time. The same
method should be followed while imagining the scenes,
stories, etc. A general mistake is that people try to
imagine the object as a whole at one time. If you
imagine gS, drift your mind from one end, go through
it from one point to another and reach the other end.
Then imagine the half moon like this from one end
to the other and you will notice that the dot moves
in the opposite direction. If you think of the right
end, then the dot moves to the left, and if you think
of the left end, then the dot moves to the right.
Objects to be imagined
1/ Remember a white cat, dog or hare and imagine
that you are pouring black ink or black dye over it.
2. Imagine a black snake, drift your mind to right
and left according to the curves which it is making.
66 MIND AND VISION
You will feel that your eye-balls seem to be moving
right and left.
3. Imagine branches of tiees moving in the wind,
waves flowing in and out in the sea ; travelling in a
rapidly moving train and while looking out of the
window the scenery observed seems to be moving back­
wards. While driving a motor car, the driver imagines
the road moving towards the car. if one makes effort
to see things stationary, headache, eye pain or some
other discomfort may be felt.
4. Recall the face of your child, wife or friend,
a certain picture, the odour of a rose, 01 the tune of
some song you like. Imagine as if you are singing or
playing on an instrument or you are drawing a small
picture of a house or a dog.
5. Drill of F—There is a letter F on the test card
Imagine that F stands at attention like a soldiet and is
perfect black. Now, he starts his drill. His two arms
are pointed to the right when he begins, Imagine the
arms moving to the left and back. Then one arm is
pointed to the left and one to the right aud F becomes
a T ! Both arms are then stretched up forming a Y.
6. Hear some story, music or gramophone, etc. One
patient was benefited by heating the story of a black
ant while palming. This black ant came out of the
dark soil and climbed up the stem of a beautiful rose.
It was slow work with the ant, but it kept on climb­
ing, going on to, the extremity of the first branch and
then to another crawling to the extreme tip of every
leaf until finally it located the flower. It crawled with
great labour over the petals until it found deep down
k e la xa tio x methods 67
m the centre of the rose a little white cup filled with
honey. The patient could picture the ant carrying off
some of the honey, crawling to the top of the flower
and then down back to the stem, finally meeting another
ant on the ground, -with whom she had a short talk
with much gesticulating of heads and feet. Then the
second ant started off on the same journey. The patient,
while palming, listened very attentively to this talk,
which was drawn out for seven minutes.
7. Imagination of w hite:—Take your book in your
hand and look at the white spaces in between the
lines of letters. Now palm and imagine that theie is a
thin white line beneath each line ofletteis and that
it is whiter than the margin of the page ot the rest
of the white lines. Imagine that you have a pot o f
white paint and a fine pen and that you are drawing
a white line beneath each line o f letters or you are
drawing white lines on a black board.
8. Imagination of black—Regard a black spot on
a white wall or on a piece of papei or the chart.
It is easier and more helpful to regard a small black
spot. Now palm , and remember the spot. Do not
make an effort to look directly at it, but drift your
mind from its right to left and left to right, and imagine
it to be moving all the time. To remember the black
spot stationary is impossible. The attempt to make the
spot stationary always produces pain and lowers the
vision. Imagination of black objects causes a great
relaxation.
It is impossible to see perfect black unless the eye­
sight is perfect; but some patients without difficulty
68 MIND AND VISION
can have vision of black deep enough to improve their
eye-sight, and as the eye-sight improves, the deepness
o f the black increases. Patients, who fail to see even
approximate black when they palm, state that instead
of black they see floating clouds of grey and flashes
of different lights. In some cases the black will be
seen for a few seconds and then some other colours
will take its place.
Successful imagination of black in these more difficult
cases usually requires the practice of other methods for
improving the sight described in succeeding chapters.
Many patients may be benefited by the memory of a
black spot. They are directed to look at the black
spot at a distance at which the colour can be seen
best, then close the eyes and remember the colour.
Repeat until the memory image appears to be as vivid
as the seen. Then palm and remember the black.
9. Imagination of ‘O’ —A patient was asked to
imagine ‘O’ while palming; but while remembering ‘O ,’
he felt headache and when he removed the hands his
vision did not improve, I wondered why his sight
did not improve, but I understood when he said, “ I
did what you asked me to do. You told me to remem­
ber the letter ‘O’; I concentrated on it and tried hard
not to remember anything else.” “ You did not under­
stand me,” I said. “ I did not wish you to concentrate
on the letter ‘O’. I asked you to remember the black­
ness of it, and see or imagine one part best at a time,”
He tried again, covering his eyes with his hands, and
I said to him, “ Remember the letter ‘O’ as you saw
it, but first remember the top. Now what happens to
the bottom?’’ “ It fades from black to grey,” he said.
RELAXATIOH METHODS 69
Now imagine the bottom to be blacker than the top.
“ Now the top fades from black ro grey,” he said. In
a few minutes, I asked him to remove his hands from
his eyes, and to look at the card. He saw more lines
and the pain had ceased.
Practice of Palming with the Chart
x. Keep the Snellen’s eye testing chart at ten feet
distance. If you are unable to see any letter o f the
chart at this distance, then reduce it. Now test your
sight and read as much as you can.
Sit in a comfortable chair, rest your feet and legs
on a stool which is as high as the seat of your chair,
and tuck a pillow under each elbow. Gently close the
eyes and palm. Have a pleasant thought for five minutes.
Then remove the hands, raise the chin, keep the lids
downwards. Now open the eyes, blink, read the letters.
Note that the letters become blacker and more letters
can be read. When this clear vision begins to become
dim, dose the eyes again in the same way. Again, open
them and read the chart letters, blinking on each letter.
Keep this practice for half an hour or more. Practise
both morning and evening. Bad cases require practising
four or five times a day. Do not practise palming
while standing. Gradually increase the distance of the chart.
2. Palm comfortably for five minutes or more. Close
the eyes for a second or more after reading each letter.
3. After palming, open the eyes and look at the
space on the left side of the letter and note its
appearance; in the same manner, look at the right
side of the letter, then read it.
7 0 MIND AND VISION
4. If one eye has good sight and the other defective,
after palming, first read with the better eye and again
palm. Then, lead the test card with your worse eye
and then palm. If both the eyes are defective, piacti=e
with both eyes open.
5. Before palming, have sun treatment, then come
in the shadow and palm for five minutes or longer.
Then read the chart letters.
6. Sit on a chair, palm and rest the elbows on
the table. Or lie down, palm and tuck the pillow
below the elbows. Then practise on the chart. While
reading the letters, see the white background of the
letter and note the black portion, the letter will become
blacker itself. Read each letter in the same way.
7. Practise in the same way on the reading test
card if the near sight is defective.
Time for Palming
Palming may be practised at any time. To improve
the vision, morning time is the best ; but practise
palming four or five times in the course of the day
whether with the chart or without it. It will give
you relaxation for the whole of the day. Bad cases
require the practice of palming five to ten times a
day. Palming before going to bed induces sound sleep.
Whenever you feel your eyes tired or you are excited
or feel headache or want to remember something,
just palm for a few minutes. One should not practise
palming with the chart to improve his sight when there
is any disturbance of the mind or the body, such as
fatigue, noise, hunger, anger, worry, or depression. These
conditions make successful palming difficult.
RELAXATIO N METHODS 7 1
Children should practise before going to school, or
at the beginning of the school work. This will keep
their mind at rest and they will be able to follow the
lessons easily.
The longer you palm, the greater the benefit to
your vision. Palm for two minutes, then for four minutes,
sis and so on, until you have palmed for fifteen minutes.
Notice the improvement gained in fifteen minutes has
been greater than that in four minutes.
DEMONSTRATIONS
Palming im proves the s ig h t:—i. When both eyes
ate closed and covered with both hands in such a way
as to exclude all light, one does not see red, blue, green
or any other colour. In short, when palming is suc­
cessful, one does not see anything but black, and when
the eyes are open, the vision is always improved.
z. Imperfect memory prevents perfect palming and
the vision is lowered. Remember a letter ‘O’ imper­
fectly, a letter ‘O/ which has no white centre and is
covered by a grey cloud. Tt takes time; the effort is
considerable and, in spite of all that is done, the memory
of the imperfect ‘O’ is lost or forgotten for a time.
The whole field is a shade of grey or o f some other
colour, and when the hands are removed from the eyes,
the vision is lowered.
3. When a perfect letter cO’ is remembered, palming
is practised properly, continuously and easily and the
sight is always benefited.
4. When the imagination is not natural and perfect
and an effort is made to improve the imagination, the
72 MIK'D AND VISION
eyes are staring, straining, trying to see. When no
effort is made, the palming becomes successful and the
vision is benefited.
Practice with 3^6 C h art— 1. Place the chart at
five feet distance or from where you can see it best.
Sit comfortably and palm. Imagine the circle around
$0 and at the same time drift your mind from one
part of the circle to another.While remembering the
circle in this way, you will notice that as you move
your vision in a circle, ¿0 also appears moving. Do
not make any effort to visualise Let the imagina­
tion of come itself, without any effort.
2. On 3% there is a small arc above which there
is a circular dot ” . Shift your attention from one
corner of the arc to the other. When you will shift
the attention to the right corner, the circular dot will
be imagined to be moving to the left and vice versa.
Do not try to see the arc as a whole and at a time.
Let your mind drift from one corner to another.
Practise in this way for ten to fifteen minutes and
then notice that your sight improves, your eyes feel
restful and relieved. AH pain has subsided. But if you
feel any heaviness in the head or the eye-balls while
palming and practising the above methods, then it is a
definite proof that you are straining unconsciously and
consequently not practising properly. You may give up
the practice at that moment and try at some other
time.
CHAPTER V
METHODS OF RELAXATION
C EN T R A L FIXA TIO N
la Sanskrit, Central Fixation is called T R A T A K and
since the Vedic age, TrataJc is practised; but many
persons practising it develop defective sight and inflam­
mation of eye-ball. This is because central fixation is
done in a wrong way. Such persons fix up their sight
on one point of the object or in between the eye-brows
with strain and without blinking for a long time. Such
kind o f practice is the highest stage of central fixation,
which comes automatically without effort or strain when
the mind is highly developed or spiritualized. As some
patients feel difficulty in practising central fixation, I have
explained systemetic exercises from the very beginning,
and in such a way that the patients would feel central
fixation quite easy to practise.
GENERAL INFORMATION
Q. What is Central Fixation ?
A. When the normal eye sees a thing, it sees only
that part of the thing best on which it fixes itself
and the other parts not so well. This is called
Central Fixation. Central fixation when properly
used is a relaxation and a benefit. It is interesting
to observe that one can not have perfect
sight without central fixation. One should
not strain and make an effort to obtain central
7 4 z MIND AND VISION
fixation of a letter, or any object, as by so doing,
imperfect sight is very soon apparent. The normal
eye shifts unconsciously from one part of an object
to another, seeing the part regarded best and other
parts worse, and the eye with imperfect sight must
acquire this habit by practising it consciously
until it becomes an unconscious habit.
Central fixation should not be confused with
concentration, which is defined in dictionary to
mean an effort to keep the eyes continuously
on one point only till the object begins to
blur or fade.
0 . Why does the eye see best where it fixes
itself ?
A. The retina or the image receiving plate has a
point of maximum sensitiveness, and every other
part is less sensitive in proportion as it is
removed from that point. This point of maxi­
mum sensitiveness or o f best vision is called
central pit. It is through this spot that the
eye sees best where it is looking.
Q. How can one know that the eye is seeing
normally with central fixation ?
A. When the sight is normal, the sensitiveness of
the central pit is normal and the part seen
best is extremely small-—
a mathematical point
which has no area. When the sight is imper­
fect, from whatever cause, the sensitiveness of
the central pit is lowered, and the eye sees
equally well, or even better, the part where it
is not looking.
O BN TBAL FIX A T IO N 7 5
Q. What is the cause of this loss of function
in the centre of sight ?
A. Mental strain.
Q. How does central fixation help in defective
sight ?
A. In all cases of defective sight, sensitiveness o f
the central spot is more or less decreased, the
rays are distorted, and the eye is not able to
see best where it is looking. When the sensiti­
veness o f the central spot is improved by central
fixation exercises given in this book, the rays
are centred, the vision and the health of the
eye are improved.
0 . In what diseases is central fixation most
helpful ?
A. Very high myopia, where glasses do not improve
the vision and reading has become difficult.
Hypermetropia, Presbyopia or old age sight,
Astigmatism. Early glaucoma and early cataract.
Nystagmus and letinal diseases, choroiditis. All
cases who feel difficulty and discomfort in
reading. Acquired Nightblindness and Colour
blindness.
0- W hat is E ccen tric F ix a tio n ?
A. Eccentric Fixation is the opposite of “ central
fixation.” Patient sees best where he is not
looking. For example, if he sees R on the
chart B is seen better than R. This condi­
tion is sometimes so extreme that the patient
76 MIND AND VISION
may look as fat away from an object as it is
possible to see it, and yet see it just as well
as when looking directly at it.
Eccentric fixation is the result of staring and
is relieved as soon as central fixation is practised
correctly,
Q. What is the effect of Eccentric Fixation ?
A. Eccentric Fixation, even in its lesser degrees, is
so unnatural that great discomfort, or even pain,
can be produced in a few seconds by trying
to see every part of an area three or four
inches in extent at twenty feet, or an area of
an inch or less at the near point, equally well
at one time. This strain, when it is habitual,
leads to all sorts of abnormal conditions. The
discomfort and pain may be absent in the
chronic condition, and it is an encouraging
symptom when the patient begins to experience
them. In some cases of eccentric fixation, the
eye quickly tires and the eye-ball moves at
irregular intervals. When these movements are
extensive, they resemble nystagmus.
SUGGESTIONS
r. For all patients, it is good to have the following
programme of practices morning and evening :—
a. First have sun treatment. Sit facing the sun with
the eyes closed and head covered for io to 30
minutes. While sitting in the sun, move the
body gently from side to side, like a pendulum
C E N T SA L F IX A T IO N 77
b. Then come to the shade, wash the eyes and face
with cold water, and sit down comfortably for
j to io minutes to practise palming.
c. Then open the eyes gently; blink and practise
central fixation practices.
а. Keep the upper lids downwards and blink gently
and frequently.
3. Note that the part of the object regarded is
seen darker and clearer.
4, While shifting the sight from one object to
another, move the head also along with the sight.
j. Keep the book at such a distance from where
you see it best, and subsequently the distance may be
increased in myopic patients and decreased in hyper­
metropic and presbyopic patients.
б. Frequent palming helps central fixation.
7. Feeling of strain or discomfort indicates wrong
practice. Stop and practise palming or swinging.
8. Practise first with both eyes and then with each
eye separately, covering the other with the palm of
one hand, avoiding any pressure on the eye-ball.
9. Before beginning central fixation exercises, test
the sight of both eyes and each eye separately, on the
Reading Test Type (Fundamentals) at 9 or 12 inches
and keep the record.
7 8 MIND AND VISION
Practice No. 1.
Keep the sight on the white centre of the letter
“ O” Fig. i. Blink gently. Note that the white centre
seems to be whiter than the rest of the whole page.
Further, note that the blackness of the letter “ O” is
darker than the other “ O” (Fig. 2,) which is within the
field of vision. Close the eyes foL a second and imagine
“ O.’- Repeat till you note the facts. Then shift your
sight to “ O,” (Fig. 2.) and note that now its white
centre flashes whiter and its outline darker than the
other “ O,” (Fig. 1.) Close the eyes for a second and
repeat ten times.
O
Fig. 1. Fig. 2.
C EN T R A L F IX A T IO N 7 0
Practice N o. 2 .
Look at the first “ O” or dot and note that it is darker
and clearer than the “ O’' or dot which is placed by its
side. Close the eyes and note that the “ O” or dot is
clearer and darker than before.
Now look at the next "O ” or dot placed by the side
of the first one, and practise in a similar way.
Then practise on the smaller paiis. Should the bigger
dots and Os distract the mind, they may be covered.
o o
o o
o o
O o
o o
O o
Dots Os
80 MIND AND VISION
Practice No. 3.
Practice of central fixation on sS is very useful because
one does central fixation on thick and thin outline of the
character.
(a) Keep your sight at the point where €» begins and
note that this portion of 3S is seen darker than the rest
o f 3jo
. Move your sight gradually on rest of Si«, noting
all the time the portion of £5
° seen becomes darker, thus
making the whole character & of darker shade.
Close the eyes, imagine as you did with the eyes
open. Repeat ten times with both eyes opened and
closed.
(b) There are angular lines all around. Move your
sight from one end to the other of one line and note
that the line seen ia the darkest. Close the eyes and
imagine as instructed. Repeat the same with other lines.
(c) There is a small dot above on the arc v .
With each blink, shift your sight from one end of the arc
to the other end.
Note that the black dot seems to be moving in the
opposite direction. Close the eyes ; move your sight on
the arc in your imagination and note the movement of
the dot. Alternate with opened and closed eyes.
CENTRAL FIXATION 81
OM CH ART
This tfl chart for eye exercises was found on Bhojpatra
leaf in Kashmir.
82 MIND AND VISION
Practice No. 4.
This is the dial chart of central fixation. Look at one
letter and note that it is blacker and clearer than all the
other letters. Close the eyes for a moment, then open
the eyes and shift your sight to the next letter. Finish
all the letterSi
If you are able to imagine the letter darker in a
moment, you can shift your sight to the other letters
rapidly.
Dial Chart
*
D
$
O O
Q 3
Y C
3 V
4
H E
CENTRAL FIXATION 83-
Practice No. 5.
This small C chart is the pocket size of the full Snellen
Eye Testing Chart.
While practising central fixation, keep your sight on
the -white portion either inside the letter or at the side of
the letter.
i. Look at R and note that R seems to be darker
than B. Close the eyes and imagine R. Open the eyes
and note that R seems to be darker than before. Repeat
three times.
Then move your sight to B, and note that B seems
to be darker than R. Close the eyes and imagine B for
a moment. Open the eyes and repeat three times.
Similarly, practise on smaller letters, comparing one
with the side letter,
Practise at 9 or 12 inches, then gradually increase the
distance to two feet.
z. When the long sight is defective, take the Snellen
eye testing chart of full size and begin to practise at 2 feet
distance to 10 feet or more.
Look at the top of the letter C and See the bottom
of C worse. Then look at the bottom of C and see the
top of C worse. Close the eyes and imagine C in a
similar way. Then open the eyes and look at other
smaller letters in a similar way. The smaller the letter
84 MIND AND VISION
regarded in this way, the greater the relaxation and the
better the sight.
When it becomes possible to look at the bottom of
a letter and see the top worse, or to look at the top
and see the bottom worse, it becomes possible 'o see
the letter perfectly black and distinct. At first, such
vision may come in flashes. The letter will come out
distinctly for a moment and then disappear. But gradually
if the practice is continued, central fixation will become
habitual.
3. Place the big C chart at j to 3 ft. distance. Move
the sight on the black part of ‘C from one end to the
other. Note that the part of ‘C’ regarded seems to be
blacker than the rest of C. Close the eyes for a few seconds
and imagine C. Again open the eyes and practise in the
same way- Repeat 3 times.
Then look at the next letter R, moving the sight on
the vertical line of R from one end to the other, then on
the upper portion and so on, noting that the part o f R
regarded seems to be blacker or darxer than the rest part
of R. Close the eyes for a few seconds and then repeat
3 times. Similarly practise upto z, Q, O, G, D, E, C.
Gradually increase the distance of the chart 10 10 ft.
or more.
G
O FEET
R B
?(l FEET
T F P
IE. P F F T
5 C G O
4 K B E R
3 V
* FEET
Y F P T
2 0 c
4 rt£T
0 C D □ C
R Z 3 B
Ì FETT
8 S H K F 0
‘ T V V P
3 FEET
E C D O B R K E
Snellen Eye Testing Chart, Pocket size.
MIN'D AND VISION
$ 6
Practice No. 6. White Line.
The white space in between the lines of pant is
called white line.
(a) Keep the booklet upside down so that the eyes
may not try to read it. Move your sight from one end
to the other of the white line. Blink once or twice m
seeing each white line. Finish the whole page and
dose the eyes. Imagine as if you are moving your sight
on the white lines or as if you are painting white
lines on a black boaid with white paint and brush.
Again open the eyes and repeat 5 times.
(b) Keep the booklet in the right position. Ignore
reading. Move the sight on the white line and note
that the letters and words above the regarded white line
are darker and clearer than the rest. In this way, you
may imagine each letter or each word blacker than all
the other letters and words. Close the eyes for a
moment after finishing each line.
(c) Read the white line page with gentle blinking,
noting the word or letter regarded seems to be blacker
or darker. Close the eyes or a moment after reading
each line.
WHITE LINE
The im agin ation of w h ite lin e betw een the tines of
print helps in reliev in g m o st eye trou b les. It gives a
restful, pleasant feelin g to a ll th e nerves of th e body
when th e th in w h ite lin e is seen, rem em b ered or im agined.
A great m any people are very su sp icio u s of the im a g in a ­
tion of the w h ite line, and feel or b elieve that things
im agined are never true. T h e m ore ign oran t the patient,
the less resp ect h e h as for h is im agin ation .
The a b ility to im a g in e the w hite lin e is acquired by
the m em ory of w h ite snow , w h ite p ain t or any th in g
perfectly w h ite, w ith th e ey es closed for a p art o f a
m inute. Then, w hen th e eyes are opened for a second,
the w h ite-lin es are im a g in ed or seen m u ch w hiter than
before. One n eed s to b e careful n ot to m ake an effort
to regard th e black letters w h en th e w h ite line is
rem em bered.
When th e w h ite lin e is rem em bered w ith the eyes
closed and w ith th e eyes open, th e black letters are read
without effort or strain . T h e th in n er the w hite lin e is
im agined, the w h iter it becom es and m ore perfectly the
letters are read. Of course, the eyes have to sh ift from
the thin w h ite lin e to the letters in order to see them ,
but the sh iftin g is done so rapidly, so continuously, so
perfectly th at the reader does n ot n otice that he is
continuously sh iftin g.
W hile read in g, do not look at th e letters, but a t the
white lin e or w h ite sp aces betw een the letters and words-
It is a general b elief that w hen w e read w ear© looking
at the letters. W hen one reads w ith th e perfect sight, one
does n ot look at the letters, b u t at the w h ite spaces.
Look d irectly at a letter and concentrate your m ind and
eyes on one part of th e letter. You soon feel an effort
or strain and th e v isio n is low ered. And if th e v ision
is not low ered, th at m ean s that you are unable to keep
your atten tion fixed on the sam e part of a letter fo r a
continuous len gth of tim e. W hen one p lan s to look a t the
w hite sp aces and w h ile reading feels discom fort or pain,
it m eans th a t th e eyes are not directed on th e w hite
spaces as th e reader m ay im a g in e.
88 MIND AND VISION
Practice No. 7.
Reading of Fundamentals.
First move your sight on the white lines in between
the lines of fine print from No. 8 to 15. Now read
from No. 1, blink gently and frequently and move the
head a little along with the sight. Close the eyes for
a minute after reading each fundamental.
The enclosed card having a circular hole in it may
be used for reading. Hold it flat against the reading
matter and move it along quickly or slowly as may
suit the temperament of the reader.
Read it at a convenient distance, then gradually
decrease the distance to 6 inches if you are presbyopic
or hypermetropic and increase the distance to 9 or 12
inches if you are myopic.
Fundam entals
By
W , H . Bates, M . D.
1. G la s s e s d isc a r d e d p erm a ­
nently.
2. C entral Fixation is seeing
best w here you are look in g.
3. Favorable conditions: Light may
be bright or dim. The distance of the
print from the eyes, where seen best,
also varies with people.
4. Shifting: W ith normal sight the eyes are
moving all the time.
5. S w in gin g: W hen the eyes m ove slowly or rapidly
from side to side, stationary objects appear to m ove
in the opposite direction.
6 . L o n g S w in g : S ta n d with th e feet ab o u t o n e foot apart, tu r n
th e body to th e rig h t— at the sam e tim e liftin g th e heel of th e left
foot D o n ot m ove th e head o r eyes o r pay a n y atte n tio n to the
a p p a re n t m o v e m en t of s ta tio n a r y objects. N o w place the left heel
o n the floor, t u r n the b o d y to th e left, raising th e heel of the right
foot. A lte rn a te .
7- D r iftin g S w in g : W h en p racticin g th is swing, o n e pay s no>
a tte n tio n to th e clearness of statio n ary objects, which appear t o be
m oving. T h e eyes w a n d e r fro m p oint to p o in t slowly, easily, or
lazily, so th a t th e stare o r s tra in may b e avoided.
8 V a r ia b le S w in g 1 H o ld t h e f o r e f in g e r o f one h a n d s ix inch® « f r o m t h i H c h t e y e
■ m i a b o u t t h e on m e d ln ta n c a t o th e r i g h t , look s t r a i g h t a h e a d a n d m o v e th e h e a d a
a b o r t d is ta n c e f r o m a id e to s i d e . T h e A n g e r a p p e a r s to m o y e ,
9 . s t a t i o n a r y O b je c ts M o v in g . B y m o v in g th e h e a d a n d e y e s a s h o r t d is ta n c e fro m
a id s to s i d e , b e in ir s u r e to b li n k , on® c a n im a g in e s ta tio n a r y o b je c ts t o b e m o v in g
1 0 M e m o ry Im p r o v in g th o m e m o ry o f l e t t e r s a n d o th e r o b je c ts Im p ro v e s t h e v is io n
f o r e v e r y th in g
11 I m a g in a tio n W e s e e o n ly w h a t w e th in k w e s e e , o r w h a t w e Im a g in e . ’ "W e c a n
o n ly I m a g in e w h a t w e r e m e m b e r .
12 R e e l A ll c a s e s o f I m p e r f e c t e ig h t a r e Im p ro v e d b y c lo s in g th e e y e * a n d r e s t i n g
th e m .
15 P a lm in g * T h e c lo a e d e y e s r a a r b e c o v e r e d w i t h th e b a lm o f o n e o r b o th h a n d s .
14 B lin k in g T h e n o r m a l e y e b lin k s , o r c lo se s a n d o p e n s v a r y f r e q u e n tly .
IS . M e n ta l P ic tu r e s A i lo n g a s on® ts a w a k e o n e h a s a ll fclnda o f m e m o rie s o f m e n ta l
p ic tu r e s J f th e s e p ic tu r e s a r e r e m e m b e r e d e a s ily p e r f e c t l y , th o v is io n ¡a b e n e fite d «
Reading test type ‘Fundamentals
90 M IN’D A N D V IS IO N
Practice No. 8.
Reading of photo print
Fine print reading is a benefit to the eye. If you
read it daily, your near or reading sight will ever
letnain perfect and you will be saved from the evil
effects—cataract, glaucoma or other retinal diseases—of old
age.
If you feel any difficulty in reading it, first take sun
treatment for ten minutes, then wash the eyes with cold
water and palm for 5 minutes.
When one imagines the white spaces perfectly white,
the print becomes very black and legible, apparently
of its own volition.
e lAPTEB sni
MlHGtY IS A
HADJO m olt
PHOTO PRINT.
CENTRAL F I X A T I O N 9 1
CENTRAL FIXATION ON A DOT.
This practice is meant only for those who have
good memory and imagination. Its right practice makes
the eyesand mind magnetic. The vision, is gieatly
benefited. It is the last stage of Central Fixation, and
it is a mistake to practise it from the very beginning.
(a) Keep the dot at about one foot distance from
the eyes. Look at the centre of the dot for a few
seconds, then close the eyes and remember the dot for
a few seconds. Again, open the eyes and note that the dot
seems to be darker than before. Repeat till you are
able to remember ihe dot continuously.
(b) If you are able to remembei the dot perfectly,
you will note the following facts :
1. The memory of the dot is instantaneous. If a
few seconds or longer are necessary to remember it,
the memory is never perfect.
2. The memory of the dot is continuous.
3. In the memory, the dot makes short, gentle
movements from side to side or up and down.
Now, open the eyes and keep up the image of the
dot in your mind. Remember this dot and look at
diffeient objects.
(c) Look at the centre o f the dot in the picture
with blinking while keeping its image in your mind,
in other words, the mind is remembering it, though
MIND AND VISION
the sight is at the dot picture. When the mind will
be deeply absorbed in its memory, blinking will stop
automatically, the lines around the dot will fade and
disappear, and at times the dot will also fade and
disappear. At a certain stage, you will note as if the
dot picture and yourself are moving with a rapid speed.
Do not attempt to check this movement. It indicates
perfect practice.
o
Dot for Tratak,
CEN TRA L F IX A T IO N 93
CENTRAL FIXATION ON SHINING OBJECTS.
PRACTICE on FLAME
Practice of central fixation on the shining object-
flame improves eye-sight and mental faculties. In India,
it has been practised since long, and has been named
as “ Tratak” . To-day also some people practise it, but
generally in the wrong way, hence defective eye-sight,
inflammations of the eye-lids and eye-ball, headache, etc.
are the results. I have come across with several cases
who suffered from short sight (myopia) due to mal­
practice. It does not mean that the practice is harmful
but the wrong way of practising it.
In such cases, consciousness is spread out every­
where, dispersed, running in this or that direction,
after this subject and that object in multitude, at the
time o f practice, which is the chief cause of harmful
effects. When such a practice is to be done, one
should try to draw back all this dispersed consciousness
and concentrate. One, who fails to concentrate, does
not get good results ; on the other hand, one, who is
successful, makes the eyes and mind perfect and develops
ocult vision.
94 MIND AND VISION
G E N E R A L IN FO RM ATIO N
The flame has three zones—
i. First zone dim, blackish.
Second or middle zone very bright.
Third or the topmost zone less bright.
Eyesight is to be fixed on the second zone,
z. If the concentration is poor, do not practise Tratak
exercise No. 3 of the flame.
3. If concentration is poor and the tears begin to
flow while practising, think that some mistake is being
done in the practice, while practising.
4. The flame should be at one to two feet apart
from the eyes.
5. Practice should be done in a dark, silent and
ventilated room.
6. It is good to practise in the morning or bed
time.
7. While practising, keep the lids down and blink
gently and frequently. Do not stop blinking When
one does the practice with perfect concentration, blinking
stops unconsciously and then it is good.
8. Ghee flame is better than the oil flame or candle
flame.
9. Before practice, wash the eyes and face with
cold water.
10. The practice should not be done when there
is headache or any other physical discomfort.
C EN TRA L F IX A T IO N 95
E X E R C IS E No. 1. Sit comfortably on a stool or the
ground facing a swing stand. Place the .candle flame at
about i ft. or 2 ft. distance, The candle and the swing
stand are arranged in such a way that the candle
flame is seen through the swing stand. Keep the lids
down and blink gently.
Now move the body gently and slowly, without
jerk or effort, like a pendulum. The movement should
not be limited to the neck and head but to the whole
body above the hip. ShifL your sight from side to side
with the movement of the body on the background.
Note —
(a) that the bars of the swing-stand move in
the opposite direction; that is, when the
body moves to the right, the bars move
to the left and vice versa,.
(b) that the candle flame moves in the same
direction, that is, when the body moves
to the right, the flame moves to the right
and when the body moves to the left, the
flame moves to the left.
After every five or ten movements, close the eyes,
continue the body movement, and imagine the candle
flame moving with you. After a few days’ practice,
shorten the body movement to one quarter of an inch.
When the practice is perfect, one feels cooling sensation
in the eyes, or one begins to dose or sleep. Heaviness
in the eyes and headache or dimness in the vision
after the practice are the signs of wrong practice and
strain. Under such circumstances, it is better to stop the
practice and take the help from some one else.
96 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
Mistakes
(a) Sight may be fixed on the bars or the flame.
(b) Sight may move in the opposite direction
to that of the body, that is, -when the
body moves to the right, sight may move
to the left.
(cl One may keep the lids raised and stop
blinking.
(d) Imperfect imagination of the flame.
E X E R C IS E No. 2 . Remove the swing-stand and
bring the candle little closer. Move the body in one
inch, from side to side, moving the sight from one side
of the flame to the other. Imagine the flame to be
moving in the opposite direction. Close the eyes and
imagine the flame moving.
E X E R C IS E No. 3 . This is the practice which one
wants to practise from the very beginning. When it is
practised in a wrong way, it proves harmful; but can
be practised safely without any harmful effect by those
who can practise exercises No. i and i successfully.
One has not to fatigue oneself at first by long
concentration. It is only as the concentration becomes
normal that one goes on for a longer and longer time.
Sit before a candle flame as in No. z Move the
body in one quarter of an inch and gradually shorten
the movement to imperceptible one. The sight is fixed
on the second zone of the flame. Imagine the flame
burning at the heart centre or the centre between the
C EN TEA L FIX A TIO N 97
eye-brows, though the vision is on the flame. If you
are interested in an idea or word or name, imagine
that shining in the flame and subsequently imagine that
at the heart or brow centre.
W hen you are able to im agine the flame at either
centre, b lin k in g stops uncon sciou sly w ithout effort, sight
is fixed on the flam e, tears begin to flow . T h is is the
right and centred concentration.
98 MIND AND VISION
C EN T R A L FIX A T IO N ON MOON
Fixation of sight on the moon is also thought very
useful for the improvement of sight, but malpractices
have proved very harmful in many cases.
E X E R C IS E No 1. Stand facing the bright moon,
move your body gently from side to side, shifting the
sight from one side of the moon to the other. Imagine
the neater objects—trees, buildings, etc.—coming in the
field of vision, to be moving in the opposite direction
and the moon in the same direction.
Close the eyes at intervals and imagine the moon
shining and moving.
M is ta k e s :—
1. Fixing the sight on the moon.
2. Imagining the moon stationary.
3. Keeping the staring gaze.
4. Practice on dim moon.
E X E R C ISE No. 2 . Walk in the moon light facing
the moon. Imagine as if the moon is moving -with you
and the road and other objects are moving in the
opposite direction.
When there ate clouds, imagine the moon to be
running through clouds. It would be a mistake to stop
the movement of the moon.
E X E R C IS E No. 3. Stand or sit, move your body
in one quarter of an inch and shorten the movement
to imperceptible one. Fix the sight on the moon, blink
and imagine the moon shining at the heart centre at
the same time or imagine the Divine image in the moon.
When successful, it seems as if the moon is becoming
brighter and coming nearer and. nearer to you. Close
the eyes at intervals. Perfect practice gives cooling
sensation in the eyes.
CENTRAL FIXATION 99
C EN TR A L FIX A TIO N ON SU N
The sun plays an important part in improving the
vision both internally and externally. The Vedas and
the Upanishads regard the sun as the god o f the
eyes. Our Riahis tell us to face the sun morning and
evening for worship. By facing the sun, the eyes become
very bright and shining, attractive and magnetic. The
centre of vision becomes acute The vision becomes
perfect. Tne vitality of the eye is greatly increased and
no microbe is able to attach the eye. Inflammatory
conditions as trachoma, conjunctivas, etc. are soon cuted.
By extracting the light rays of sun through the eyes,
one can easily awake the Solar plexus (Suryachakra)
which is at the heart centre. Then the Suryachakra
enlarges and opens man’s dark and limited being into
a luminous and infinite consciousness. By the right use
of our nature, a luminous power proceeding from the
Father of all existence (Sun) one reveals in himself the
Divine Purusha, of whom all beings are manifestation.
The seer prays to Surya to cast the rays into right
order and relation and then draw them together into
the unity of revealed truth. The result of this inner
process is the perception of the oneness of all beings
in the Divine Soul of the Universe.
METHOD
In the beginning, practise for a few minutes and
then increase the time by and by according to the
progress.
Sit comfortably facing the morning sun when the sun
is not red. Keep the eyes open on the ground. Move the
100 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
body gently from side to side. Now raise the chin and
the eye-lids till your sight reaches the sky about one yard
below the sun. You should blink gently and frequently.
The eyes should not be opened widely. You will note the
following:
(a) The sun is constantly seen.
(b) The front objects as trees, buildings, etc.
move in the opposite direction, that is,
when you move to the right, the objects
appear to move to the left and vice versa.
This kind of imagination checks strains and
gives relaxation.
(c) The rays entering through your eyes and
reaching the heart centre.
What is not to be done ;
(a) Looking at the sun directly and staring.
(b) Eyes should not be opened widely.
(c) Movements of the objects should not be
forgotten till the mind is absorbed in
thoughts.
(d) Blinking should not be forgotten.
The vision should remain clear after taking the sun-
treatment. If it is dim or some colours come before
the eyes, practise relaxation methods after the sun
treatment to improve the defective vision.
If you want to improve the internal vision, recall the
image of your deity and imagine that face in the sun
CENTRAL KTXATION 101
shining brightly, and the rays falling on the heart centre.
If your imagination will be perfect and there will be
true aspiration, the rays will begin to awake the Surya-
chakrn and the eye will fix up on the sun automatically;
the movement of the body will be imperceptible. At
first, if will be faint, but gradually it will become brighter,
the rays will become shaiper and wider. You will begin
to feel the same deity in this Surynchakra also. Your
heart will be full of light, the tears of love will begin
to flow and the rays of joy will be effulgent. The more
the Suryachakra will be brighter, the more purification
will take place. To remove the defects, cast the rays
on the particular part.
CHAPTER VI
METHODS OF RELAXATION
III. SH IFT IN G AND SW IN GIN G
Shifting and swinging are intimately connected with
each other. They will be defined separately, but they
are included in the same practices.
Shifting : Moving the eyes from one point to
another is called shifting. If you move your hand from
one place to another, you are said to be shifting
your hand. In the same way, if you look at ‘C’ on
the chart and then see another letter, it means you are
shifting your eyes from one point to another. When
the normal eye has normal sight, it is always shifting
from one point to another. This is true o f the eyes
closed as well as of the eyes opened. Shifting with the
eyes open may be from side to side, from above down­
wards, or in any other direction. Horizontal shifting
is done more often than other forms of shifting. The
eye is never stationary. When the sight is imperfect,
the shifting also is imperfect, and may be jerky resulting
in discomfort of the head, of the eyes or of some other
part of the body.
In order to explain the proper way of shifting, which
keeps the sight continuously normal, it is helpful to
demonstrate the wrong way. Let the patient look
straight at one point or at one part of the smallest
letter on the chart which can be distinguished. When
S H IFT IN G A N D SW IN G IN G 10 3
he does this for a few seconds, he usually feels that
an effort is being made, and when the effort is continued
or increased, much discomfort is felt and the vision
is lowered. The patient should be made to find for
himself that concentration cannot be continued for long
and that it is impossible for the eyes or the mind to
see perfectly, remember or imigine perfectly, when an
effort is made to concentrate. When the eyes shift
from one point to another, a feeling o f relaxation soon
follows and the vision improves. When the eyes do not
shift from point to point, it can always be demonstrated
that the vision becomes worse and that the mind,
the eyes and all the nerves of the body feel uncomfortable
and may be conscious of an effort or strain.
To constantly stare at one point of a letter or any
other object is wrong, because it lowers the vision and
causes discomfort to the eyes. Perfect sight is not
possible unless the shifting is continuous. When the
eyes stare and do not move, or when an effort is made
to imagine letters or other objects to be stationary, the
shifting stops, and the vision always becomes imperfect.
It is necessary for those who have imperfect sight,
caused by a stare or strain or effort to see, to learn
to shift in such a way as to benefit their vision. When
shifting is practised rapidly, easily and continuously, the
symptoms of imperfect sight and other symptoms caused
by strain are relieved at once.
To shift rapidly, look up for a moment and then
look down quickly, rest the eyes by closing them for
part of a minute, then repeat looking up and down quickly.
When the eyes move up, the test card or other stationary
objects move down. When the eyes move down,
10 4 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
stationary objects or the test card move up. Many
people say that they can see a letter with normal vision
at fifteen feet or further distance without moving the
eyes, and without imagining the letter to be moving.
The movement of the eyes in such cases is so rapid
that it is not noticeable.
There are various ways of forming the habit of
shifting, and one has first to form a conscious habit.
According to the measure of the shift of the eyes, the
shifting may be long or short. In the long shift, the eyes
move an inch or more ; in the short shift, the eyes move
less than an inch. Shifting a long distance is readily
accomplished by moving the head in the same direction in
which the eyes move. By and by the long shift can be
shortened to one quarter of an inch or even less. Various
methods of shifting will be described with the practice
of swinging.
The short shift is more difficult, but when it is
successfully practised, one obtains greater amount of
relaxation than can be obtained from the long shift. A
very long shift—as much as three feet or more—is helpful
to those who cannot accomplish a shorter one. When
the patient is capable of a short shift, the long shift lowers
the vision. In a very short shift, it is not always easy
to be conscious that the eye really moves. When the
shifting is slow, short and easy, the best results in the
improvement of vision are obtained. Benefit can be
obtained from shifting while the patient is seated; but
more benefit will be obtained if shifting is practised while
the patient is standing and moving the head and shoulders,
rather the whole body, a very short distance from side
SH IFT IN G A N D SW IN G ING 105
to side. Shifting the whole body makes it easier to
shift a short distance and that may explain, why this
method is the best.
Wrong W ays of Shifting : i. To turn the head
and the body in a direction opposite to that o f the eyes,
that is, to turn the head to the right while the eyes are
turned to the left, or to turn the head to the left while
the eyes are turned to the right. Or to turn the body
to the right while the head and the eyes are turned to
the left, or to turn the body to the left while the head
and the eyes are turned to the right.
2. To keep the sight fixed on an object while the
head is moving.
3. To move the eyes more irregularly, that is, a
longer or shorter distance than the movement o f
the head.
4. To imagine that the stationary objects do not
move in the direction opposite to that of the eyes and
the head.
j. To imagine that all the objects or letters seen are
of equal clearness.
<
5. To stop blinking.
Right Way of Shifting : The right way to shift
is to move the eyes from one point to another slowly,
regularly, continuously, restfully, easily, without effort,
without trying to see. The normal eye with normal
sight has the habit of always moving or shifting, usually
an unconscious habit. When, by practice, the eye with
106 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
imperfect sight acquires the conscious habit of shifting,
the habit will become unconscious afterwards. It often
happens that, when one consciously or intentionally shifts
in the wrong way, a better knowledge of the right way
to shift may be acquired. When tbe eyes are moved to
the right, stationary objects should appear to move to
the left; and when the vision is good, all objects not
regarded are seen less distinctly than those regarded.
Blinking is very necessary with each shift.
SW IN GING
When the eyes move slowly or rapidly from side to
side, stationary objects appear to move in the direction
opposite to the movement of the head and the eyes.
This apparent movement of the objects is called swinging.
People with normal vision are not always conscious of
the swing. However, when their attention is drawn to
it, they can always realise it, and are always able to
imagine stationary objects to be moving. A simple
example of the swing is that experienced in a moving train.
When you travel in a train, which is moving fast, and look
out of the windows, you see the telegraph poles and other
objects moving in an opposite direction. With every shift,
the stationary objects appear to move in an opposite
direction. Even with each blink, the objects appear to
jump up and down.
It has been proved that the eye gets rest only when
it is moving ; and when it is moving, it imagines
consciously or unconsciously the stationary objects to be
moving in the opposite direction. Place your fingers
lightly on tbe closed eye-lids, you will feel the eyes to
be moving slowly or tapidly in all directions. The swing
S H IFT IN G A N D SW IN G IN G 107
is as essential to men as to animals. The tiger, the lion
and other animals more most of the time while they are
awake, and are in this way relaxed. The elephant sways
his bulky body from side to side, because it rests him.
It is always interesting to watch soldiers march, and
observe the sway of their bodies in unison with the
rhythm of music. A mother, who is busy with her
household work, is always grateful for the few minutes
of rest and relaxation which she gets when rocking the
baby. If the heart stops beating, which is really a sway
inside the body, the blood has no longer a chance to
flow nor the pulse to beat. If the pendulum of the clock
stops, the clock does not tell time.
As has already been said, there is no swing unless there
is an apparent movement of the objects seen in a
direction opposite to that of the movement o f the eyes.
Swinging is an evidence that the shifting is being done
properly, and when it occurs the vision is always improved.
It is possible to shift without improvement, but it is
impossible to produce the swing without improvement of
the sight. When the swing can be realised with a long
shift, the movement can gradually be shortened until the
patient can shift from the top to the bottom of the small est
letter in the Snellen test card and maintain the swing.
Shifting may be practised slowly or rapidly according
to the state of the vision of the patient. At the beginning,
he is likely to strain if he shifts too rapidly ; and there
will be no swing. The speed can be increased gradually.
It is usually impossible, however, to realize the swing
if the shifting is more rapid than two or three times
a second.
108 MIN'D A N D VISION
According to the distance of the movement, the swing
may he long or short. In the long swing, objects appear
to move an inch or more. In the short swing, objects
appear to move less than an inch. The long swing
relieves eye discomforts and helps one to obtain the short
swing. The short swing improves the vision.
Some people have difficulty in practising the swing
successfully. They cannot imagine stationary objects
to be moving, no matter how much swinging is
practised. They feel absolutely certain that the stationary
object is always stationary and cannot be expected to
move when the body sways from side to side in a long
or short movement. It is absolutely necessary that all
persons with imperfect sight should become able to
imagine stationary objects to be moving. When an effort
is made to imagine stationary objects to be stationary,
the eyes become fixed or stare at the objects and the
swing always fails. A very successful method of teaching
nervous people how to imagine stationary objects to be
moving is as following :
Let the patient look at the Snellen test card placed on
the wall about fifteen feet away from him. When he moves
his sight to a point about three feet to the right of the test
card, the card appears to move to the left. When the
patient is directed to regard a point to the left of the Snellen
test card, the card moves to the right side of the point
regarded. The greater the shift from one point to another,
the wider becomes the swing. By repetition, the patient
becomes able to realise that whenever the sight moves
to a point to the right side of the card, the card and
all other objects move to the left side of the point regarepd.
SH IFT IN G A N D SW IN G ING 109
This method often succeeds even when all other methods
fail in realising a swing.
You will fail to realise a swing—
1. When you feel absolutely certain that the stationary
object is always stationary and no movement can be
expected.
2. When you stare at the objects.
3. When you stop blinking or blink very rapidly.
4. When the background is not prominent. Suppose
you stand before a window and practise swinging. If the
background seen through the window is not prominent,
you may not be able to imagine the bars of the window
to be moving in the opposite direction.
5. A common mistake that is made is to turn the
head to one side and turn the eyes in the opposite direction
while swinging.
Hints For Successful Swing—
1. Do not stare at objects and.make no effort to see
them. Lazily shift your sight from one point to another
without having any idea that you are seeing the objects.
2. The background should be prominent.
3. If one eye is bad, practise first with the good eye.
4. Blink once on each side.
5. Imagine the movement of a. pendulum and sway
like that.
6. Move your head, eyes and body rhythmically from
side to side.
7. While practising swing with eyes open, close them
for a minute or two after every five minutes.
110 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
SH IFT IN G & SW IN GING P R A C T IC ES
These ate seven practic.es. It is better to begin from
the first exercise. Keep the lids and the chin in the
right position and blink frequently, while practising.
Practice No. 1. Stand with the feet about one foot
apart, facing a window having vertical bars or before
a swing stand. Take a long step to the right and note
that the bars have gone to the left. Now take a long
step to the left and note that the bars have gone to
the right. Repeat 50 times.
Practice No. 2 . Sit comfortably on a stool or a
chair without resting the arms or back before a swing
stand. Place two flower pots or some other small
objects 3 feet apart on each side about 6 feet away from
the eyes. Move your body gently from side to side
like a pendulum. When you move to the right, shift
your body to the right side flower pot and vice versa.
Note that the bars of the swing stand move in the
opposite direction. Practise ten swings with the eyes
open and ten swings with the eyes dosed several times.
Then gradually decrease the distance in between the
flower pots to 2 feet, 1 foot and six inches, while practising
as before.
Practice No. 3. Arrange swing stand and flower
pots as in No. 2. Place an eye chart in between the
flower pots. Move your body gently from side to side,
shifting the sight from one flower pot to the other.
Note that the bars move in the opposite direction and
the chart moves in the direction of your body move-
H IT T IN G A N SW IN G IN G 111
meat. Take care not to make any effort to see the
chart.
Practice No. 4 . Remove the flower pots. Place
the chart at a distance from where you can see 3 or 4
lines of the chart. Arrange the swing stand about 1
foot apart from the eyes in such a way that you can
see the chart through it. Sit comfortably and sway the
body. Move your sight on the white spaces iu between
the lines of letters, from one end to the other. Ignore
reading of the letter. Note that the bais move in the
opposite direction and the lines o f letters in the same
direction. Repeat with the open and closed eyes for 10
minutes or more.
Practice No. 5 . Same as No. 4. Move the sight
on the white space below each letter and note that few
bars of the swing stand move in the opposite direction
and the letter moves in the same direction. Body swing
will be according to the width of the letter. Then
swing with the closed eyes imagining the letter swing­
ing. Then move on the white space below the next
letter. Finish six or seven lines of the chart from 3
feet distance. Then gradually increase the distance o f
the chart to 10 or 20 feet by 3 or 4 inches each
time.
Exam ple. The chart is at 3 feet distance and
swing stand at 1 foot distance from you, and you are
able to read 4 lines of the chart ( 5, C, G, O ). Move
your sight on the white space below R of the second
line without trying to see it. Note R becomes darker
and moves a little in the same direction. Do 5 times,
then close the eyes and imagine it moving or swinging.
112 MIK'D A N D V IS IO N
Open the eyes and practise on B, and so on.
Now suppose, you are able to practise on the 5 or 6
lines, increase the distance of the chart by 3 inches
each time, practising on the 5th or 6th line. Other
upper lines may be covered.
Practice No. 6. Place the test card at a distance
where only the large letter C at the top of the card
can be distinguished. Stand with the feet about 9 inches
apart and sway the body from side to side. When the
body sways to the right, raise the left heel, put the
weight of the body on the right leg, and look to the
right of C about 4 inches away. When the body sways
to the left, raise the right heel, put the weight of the
body on the left leg and look to the left of C 4 inches
away. Note that C appears to be moving in the op­
posite direction. Now gradually shorten the sway and
look to the right and left of C, 4, 3, 1, i inch away,
noting all the time opposite movement of C. The letter
appears blacker when the movement is shorter. Repeat
with the open and closed eyes.
Practice No. 7 . Place the chart at a distance where
you are able to read j or 6 lines. Sit comfortably on
a stool or a chair without resting the arms and back.
Have a short movement of the body from side to side,
and look to the right and left of each letter as in
practice No. 6. Note that each letter becomes blacker
and appears to move in the opposite direction. Repeat
the practice on each letter with open and closed eyes.
The letter appears to pulsate. As the sight improves,
increase the distance of the chart. Do not try to make
the letters swing by effort. The swing should come of its
own accord when the shifting is normal.
Long Swing.
(wit'll open eyes before bars).
Mr. B . L. Rastogi M.L.A., is practising the long
swing before -the window bats. He suffeied from
'detachment of retina in the right eye and lost the
visual power. By the practice o f long swing for one
and a half months he gamed his lost sight.
Long Swing.
(w ith clo se d e \e s .)
Variable Swing
1. Head and eyes in front,, finger held m front and
to the side.
2. Right way— Head and eyes moving to the same
side and not looking at the finger.
3. Wrong way— Head moving to the left and ths
eyes moving to the right and looking at the
finger.
SH O R T SWING.
U p p er- Back o f o n e e je test card a t eiifht feet, face o f
o f th e second tesf ca td at ten feet place them
In such a w ay that there is a space of four
inches in b etw een them Page 127 N o 5.
L ow er— T h e S w in g stand i s a t o n e and a h a lf fe e t
distance in fro n t o f the patienr. T ne ey e
testin g card is at fiv e feet distance from the
patient, an d is placed in such a position th at
the patient is able to se e it th tou gh the
sw in g 9tand R ead th e exercise N o . 5 page 111,
Locking h o rse
This bov was blind with the right eye. He is sitting
the rocking horse. The demostrator directs the boy With
pointer to read ihe particular letter.
Forehead Swing
1. Eyes closed, head in front, fingers placed on the
forehead.
2. Right way—Moving the head to the side while
the fingers are stationary.
3. Wrong way—Moving the fingers to the side
while the head is stationary.
SH IFTIN G A N D SW IN G ING 1 1 3
DIFFERENT KINDS OF SWINGS
Any of the following swinging exercises may be
practised at the leisure times or during the course of
practices on the chart to get relaxation.
i. LONG SWING
A. Sim ple Long Swing : Stand with the feet about
one foot apart, facing one side of the room, or the
Snellen test card placed on the wall o f the room. Lift
the left heel a short distance from the floor while turn­
ing the shoulders, the head and the eyes to the right,
until the line of shoulders is parallel with the wall.
Now turn the body to the left after placing the left
heel upon the floor and raising the right heel. Alter­
nate, looking from the right wall to the left wall, being
careful to move the head and the eyes with the move­
ment of the shoulders. When practised easily, continuously,
without effort and without paying any attention to moving
objects, one soon feels that the long swing relaxes the
tension of the muscles and the nerves.
Stationary objects appear to move with varying degrees
of rapidity. Objects located almost directly in front of
you appear to move with express train speed and are
very much blurred. It is very important to make no
attempt to see clearly objects which seem to be moving
very rapidly.
B. Sky Long Swing: Stand facing the sky with the
feet about one foot apart. Sway the body from side to
side moving the sight on the sky without making any
effort to see anything. Note that nearer objects appear
1 1 4 M IE D A N D V ISIO N
to move in the opposite direction while farther objects
appear to move in the same direction. At intervals of
about two minutes close the eyes for a few seconds,
sway and imagine the objects moving. One may stretch
the arms to the sides like the wings of a bird and
then sway. Practise for about ten minutes.
z. UNIVERSAL SWING
Under the cover of a cloth, move the thumb on the
tip of your forefinger from side to side about one-
quarter of an inch, and move your body gently with
the thumb. Call ‘one’ when you move to the right,
and ‘two’ -when you move to the left. Close the eyes.
Imagine your legs swinging in the direction opposite to
your body. The floor on which the legs rest is also
swinging. The walls of the room also swing when the
floor swings. When one part of the building swings,
one can imagine the whole building to be swinging.
The ground on which the building stands is also swing­
ing. When the ground swings, other buildings connect­
ed with it swing. One can imagine the whole city to
be swinging, this continent and all other continents on
the earth can be imagined swinging. In short, one can
imagine not only that the whole world is moving, but
also the universe including the sun, the moon and stars.
If the direction is changed, strain results. To imagine
the universal swing is easy, and some patients soon
become able to do it with the eyes open.
3. CIRCULAR SWING
There is one objection to the universal swing, as at
the end of the movement of the forefinger to the right
SH IFT IN G A N D SW IN G IN G 1 1 5
or the left, one has a tendency to stop. This stoppage
of the swing can be corrected by the practice of the
circular swing, when all objects are imagined to move
continuously in a circle. The circular swing can be
realised with the eyes closed and differs from the other
swings in this that the Snellen test card or other
objects appear to move in a circular direction. In the
circular swing, the head and the eyes are moved in a
circular direction.
Circular swing realised by the movement of the
Snellen test card or other objects appear to complete
relaxation of the mind and the eyes. Place your thumb
on the tip of the forefinger and move it in a circle
having a diameter of less than one-quarter of an inch.
Move your body according to the movement of the
thumb. While doing it notice that the thumb moves
on the forefinger and the forefinger on the thumb,
each moving in a ditecdon opposite to that of the
other. When done correctly, you will feel your whole
body moving and everything about you will seem to
move. Practise both with open and closed eyes.
4. MEMORY SWING
The memory swing relieves strain and tension as do
the long or the short swings. It is done with the
eyes closed while one imagines himself to be looking
first over the right shoulder and then over the left
shoulder, while the head is moved from side to side.
The eyeballs may be seen through the closed eyelids to
move from side to side in the same direction as the
head is moved. When done properly, the memory swing
116 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
is just as efficient as the swing which is practised with
the eyes open, whether it is short or long.
The memory swing can be shortened by remembering
the swing of a small letter, a quarter of an inch or
less, when the eyes are closed.
The memory swing has given relief in many cases
of imperfect sight from myopia, astigmatism, and
inflammations of the outside of the eyeball as well as
inflammations of the inside of the eyeball. It is much
easier than the swing practised with the eyes open and
secures a greater amount of relaxation or rest than any
swing. It may be practised incorrectly, just as any
swing may be done wrongly, and then no benefit will
be obtained.
5. VARIABLE SWING
Some patients feel difficulty in imagining the front
objects moving in the opposite direction. For such persons
variable swing is a great help.
The forefinger or a pencil is held about six inches
in front of the face, and a short distance to one side.
By looking straight ahead, without trying to see the
finger, and moving the head from side to side, the
finger or the pencil appears to move. This movement
of the finger is greater than the movement of objects
at the distance. By practice, patients become able to
imagine not only the finger to be moving, but also
distant objects as well. Close the eyes and imagine the
movement of the finger while moving the head and the
eyes from side to side. Repeat with the eyes open
and closed.
SHIFTING AND SW1NGIST10N 119
6. F O R E H E A D S W IN G 'm s artist at
Place yout fingers lightly on th e forehead at
in the diagram . K e ep the eyes closed. M ove your-es that
and head from side to side, b u t let the fin g e rs’ so
stationary at one place and allow forehead to m oitn
freely beneath them. T h e fingers w ill appear to be
m oving in the opposite d irection w hile m o vin g the head
from side to side. The sw in g w hen practised in a righ t
w ay proves very efficacious in relievin g headache and
pain in and around the eyeballs.
7. B A B Y S W IN G
H old a b ab y and m ove it continuously in slow , short,
easy cu rves, instead o f throw ing the baby ra p id ly ,
irregu larly, interm ittently from side to side. T h is sw in g is
very helpful fo r babies w ho suffer from restlessness or
eye strain.
116
R VII
ELAXATIO N
IMAGINATION
eyes. The phenomena of vision depend upon the mind’s
interpretation of the impression upon the retina. What we
see is not that impression, but our own interpretation
of it.
x. The whiteness of the centre of “ O” in the test
card seems to be whiter than the margin of the card,
though it is really of the same shade.
2. The moon looks smaller at the zenith thaa it
does at the horizon.
3. When you see a large letter of the smaller test
card, the part regarded appears blacker than it really is.
4. A portrait painted by one painter may look
entirely different from a portrait of the same person
by some other artist.
5. A drawing may be made of a plaster cast which
may appear all right when first completed, but may
ILLUSTRATIONS
MEMORY A ND IM AGINATION 1 1 9
show many faults when studied by the same artist at
other times.
6. In a totally dark room, one often imagines that
he sees a white ghost. The imagination may be so
vivid that no amount of argument will convince him
that he did not see a ghost.
Thus, our sight depends upon our imagination or
the niiad’s interpretation of the retinal image. Persons
with normal vision use their memory and imagination
as aids to sight; and when the sight is imperfect, it
can be demonstrated not only that the eye itself is at
fault, but that the memory and imagination are impaired,
so that the mind adds imperfections to the imperfect
retinal image.
A familiar object is always more readily distinguished
than an unfamiliar one, and this is simply because
memory and imagination have come to our aid; the
image of the object has been impressed on our mind
through previous experience; and that helps us to pick
it out more easily than the object seen for the first
dme. Any one can test the truth of this for himself—
we can all distinguish friends among a group of people
more easily than a stranger.
When the mind is able to remember anything per­
fectly, it is always perfectly relaxed and the sight also
is normal; and when the eyes are closed and covered
so as to exclude all the light, one sees a perfectly
black field. The smaller the area of black which the
patient is able to remember, the greater is the degree
120 M IN D A N D V IS TON
of relaxation obtained; but some patients find it easier
to remember a somewhat large area, such as one of the
letters on the Snellen’s test card, with one part blacker
than the rest. They may begin with the big “ C” , then
proceed to the smaller letters and finally get to the
dot. It is then found that this smaller area is re­
membered more easily than the larger ones and its
blackness is more intense. Some patients find it easier
to remember the punctuation mark, a colon, with one
part blacker than other parts. As it is impossible for
the mind to think of one thing continuously, some
patients find it useful in the beginning to shift con­
sciously from one of these black areas to another, and
to realize the swing, or pulsation, produced by such
shifting. When the memory becomes perfect, one object
may be held continuously in the mind without conscious
shifting, while the swing is realised only when attention
is directed to the matter.
Although black, as a rule, is the best colour to
remember, some patients are bored or depressed by it,
and prefer to remember white, or some other colour.
One may have the perfect memory of a yellow butter­
cup, and another of the opal of the ring. Whatever
the patient finds easiest to remember is the best to
remember, because memory can never be perfect unless it
is easy.
When the memory of the black dot becomes
habitual, it is not only not a burden, but is a great help
to other mental processes. The mind when it remembers
one thing better than all other things possesses
central fixation, and its efficiency is thereby increased,
MEM ORY A N D IM A G IN A TIO N 121
just as the efficiency of the eye is increased by central
fixation.
When the memory and the imagination are perfect,
the eye at once becomes normal with normal vision.
Imperfect memory or imagination may even produce
organic changes in the eye-ball. Oae can, by imagining
a letter imperfectly, increase the hardness of the eye­
ball, which is an important symptom of Glaucoma.
Conversely, the imagination of a letter seen perfectly
softens the eye-ball in Glaucoma with great benefit to
the pain and the imperfect sight in this disease.
Imperfect imagination produces cloudiness of the
lens or increases the opacity of the lens in Cataract.
One can produce Myopia by imperfect imagination.
The imagination of imperfect sight for near objects always
lessens the length of the eye-ball, and produces or increases
Hypermetropia. All forms o f Astigmatism can be
produced or increased by the imagination of imperfect
sight. They are all cured temporarily or permanently
by the imagination o f perfect sight.
Wonderful cures of many eye-diseases have been
achieved by the proper use o f the imagination and the
memory, even when other methods have failed.
Imagination, when used properly, is the most satisfactory,
most accurate, most helpful method that we know to
obtain perfect sight. If our imagination of something
is as good at twenty feet or forty feet or sixty feet
or further, as it is at near point where we see it
perfectly, our vision is as good as our imagination.
122 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
TESTS TO MEASURE PERFECT MEMORY
1. When the memory of the dot or of any other
thing is perfect, it is instantaneous. If a few seconds
or longer are necessary to remember it, the memory
is never perfect.
2. A perfect memory is not only instantaneous,
but continuous.
3. When the memory is perfect, perfect sight
comes instantaneously. If good vision is obtained only
after a second or two, it can always be demonstrated
that the memory is imperfect also.
4. The memory of the dot is a test of relaxation.
It is the evidence by which the patient knows that
his eyes and mind ate at rest. It may be compared
to the steam gauge o f an engine, which has nothing
to do with the machinery, but it is of great importance
in giving information of the ability of the mechanism
to do its work. When the dot is black, one knows
that the engine of the eye is in good working order.
When the dot fades, or is lost, one knows that it is
out of order, and requires treatment.
DEMONSTRATION—
■i. That the smaller the object regarded, the easier
it is to remember.
Regard a capital letter. Note that it is easier to see
or remember the top of the letter best, and the bottom
of it less clearly than to remember the top and bottom
M EM ORY A N D IM A G IN A T IO N 123
perfectly and simultaneously. Now look directly at the
upper right cornet and imagine one-fourth o f the letter
best. Then cover the remaining three-quarters of the
letter with a piece of paper. It is possible to look
directly at the exposed part o f the letter and imagine
half of it best. Cover the part that- is not seen directly,
and demontrate that half of the exposed part of the
letter can be seen or imagined best, -while the rest
of it is not seen so clearly. With the aid of the
screen, an area as small as an ordinary dot may
finally be imagined.
2. That with the eyes closed, a small black dot
can be imagined blacker than one three inches in
diameter, If this fact cannot be readily demonstrated
with the eyes closed :
(а) Stand close to a wall of a room, at a distance
of three feet or less, and regard a small black spot
on the wall six feet from the floor. Note that you
cannot see a small black spot near the bottom of
the wall at the same time,
(б) Place your hand on the wall six feet froth the
floor, and note that you cannot see your hand clearly
when you look at the bottom of the wall.
WHY ONE FAILS TO HAVE PERFECT MEMORY
OR IM AGINATION?
1. When one imagines objects to be stationary.
2. When the mind or the eyes are under strain
on account of staring, partly closing the eyes, frown­
ing, etc.
12 4 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
3. When one tries to see all the letters of a line
equally well at one time or tries to remember too much
at once.
4. When the form of an object is imagined
imperfectly. For example, if the letter "O ” is a perfect
circle and is imagined to be an oval with long axis
vertical or horizontal, the imagination of the “ O” will
not be as perfect as when the “ O” is imagined to be
a circle.
5. When the size of an object is regarded much
larger or smaller than it really is, the imagination is
imperfect.
6. When one imagines the white background or the
spaces between the lines of print to be less white than
margin of the card.
7. Excitement of various kinds, unexpected noises
and unusual occurrences, worries, anxieties and physical
discomforts also affect the memory and the imagination.
8. Imagination of unknown letters or objects.
9. Speaking of or thinking about unpleasant things.
10. When one tries to stop the swing of the
object or when the swing is too short, too long, too
rapid or too slow, irregular and not continuous.
METHODS TO GET PERFECT IM AGINATION
1. Letter in the a i r : Take two similar Snellen
test cards. Place one at a distance of ten feet or less
where it cannot be readily distinguished and appears
blurred, and the other card at a distance of one foot
M EM ORY A R D IM A G IN A TIO N 125
or less, from where you can see it best. Now regard
a letter of the distant card, then look at the same letter
on the card at the near. Then close the eyes and
with your finger draw the same letter in the air as
well as you can remember it. Open your eyes and
continue to draw the imaginary letter with your finger
while looking for only a few seconds at the blurred
letter on the card at ten feet or less. Then close your
eyes again and remember the letter well enough to
draw the letter perfectly in your imagination with
your finger. Alternate drawing the letter at ten feet
in your imagination with your eyes closed as well as
you see it at one foot or nearer. When you can draw
the letter as perfectly as you remember it, you see
the letter on the distant card in flashes.
By repetition, you will become able not only to
imagine always the known letter correctly, but to see
it actually for a few seconds at a time. You cannot
see a letter perfectly unless you see one part best, that
is, by central fixation. Note that you obtain central
fixation while practising this method, i.e., you see one
part best. Drawing the letter with your finger in your
imagination enables you to follow the finger in forming
the letter, and with the help of your memory, you can
imagine each side of the letters best, in turn, as it is
formed. When the letters on the distant card become
distinct and clear, then increase the distance of the
distant card by two to six inches only. By and by
increase the distance to fifteen or twenty feet.
By this method, the memory and the imagination are
improved, and when the imagination becomes perfect,
12 4 m i n d a n d v i s i o n
3. When one tries to see all the letters of a line
equally well at one time or tries to remember too much
at once.
4. When the form of an object is imagined
imperfectly. For example, if the letter “ O” is a perfect
circle and is imagined to be an oval with long axis
vertical or horizontal, the imagination of the “ O” will
not be as perfect as when the “ O” is imagined to be
a circle.
5. When the size of an object is regarded much
larger or smaller than it really is, the imagination is
imperfect.
6. When one imagines the white background or the
spaces between the lines of print to be less white than
margin of the card.
7. Excitement of various kinds, unexpected noises
and unusual occurrences, worries, anxieties and physical
discomforts also affect the memory and the imagination.
8. Imagination of unknown letters or objects.
9. Speaking of or thinking about unpleasant things.
10. When one tries to stop the swing of the
object or when the swing is too short, too long, too
rapid or too slow, irregular and not continuous.
METHODS TO G ET PERFECT IM AGINATION
1, Letter in the a ir : Take two similar Snellen
test cards. Place one at a distance of ten feet or less
where it cannot be readily distinguished and appears
blurred, and the other card at a distance of one foot
MEM ORY A N D IM A G IN A TIO N 125
or less, from -where you can see it best. Now regard
a letter of the distant card, then look at the same letter
on the card at the near. Then close the eyes and
with your finger draw the same letter in the air as
well as you can remember it. Open your eyes and
continue to draw the imaginary letter with your finger
while looking for only a few seconds at the blurred
letter on the card at ten feet or less. Then close your
eyes again and remember the letter well enough to
draw the letter perfectly in your imagination with
your finger, Alternate drawing the letter at ten feet
in your imagination with your eyes closed as well as
you see it at one foot or nearer. When you can draw
the letter as perfectly as you remember it, you see
the letter on the distant card in flashes.
By repetition, you will become able not only to
imagine always the known letter correctly, but to see
it actually for a few seconds at a time. You cannot
see a letter perfectly unless you see one part best, that
is, by central fixation. Note that you obtain central
fixation while practising this method, i.e., you see one
part best. Drawing the letter with your finger in your
imagination enables you to follow the finger in forming
the letter, and with the help o f your memory, you can
imagine each side of the letters best, in turn, as it is
formed. When the letters on the distant card become
distinct and clear, then increase the distance of the
distant card by two to six inches only. By and by
increase the distance to fifteen or twenty feet.
By this method, the memory and the imagination are
improved, and when the imagination becomes perfect,
126 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
the sight is perfect. This method should be practised
at least for one hour, twice or thrice daily. You can
cure highest degrees of myopia, hypermetropia, astigma­
tism, optic atrophy, progressive cataract, glaucoma,
detachment of the retina and other diseases by this
method.
2. Letter im agination : If the patient is unable to
see letters on a certain line of the test card, he is told what
the first letter is and is directed to close his eyes and
imagine that letter for about ten seconds, then to open the
eyes and regard the letter. When the letter is imagined
perfectly enough, other letters on that line are seen.
Then imagine the first letter of the next line, and so
on. I f no letter is seen on a certain line, the patient
may come to the test card, see, go back and imagine.
By alternately regarding the letter with the eyes open
and closed, the imagination of the letter improves in
flashes.
By continuing to alternate, the flashes improve and
last longer and the vision becomes gradually improved.
3. F : If you do not get any improvement by
practising at fifteen feet distance, bring the card closer to
six feet or nearer. Hold another card in your hand
and look at the letter “ F ” of the ten feet line. See it
with a slow, short easy swinging with " F ” for a few
minutes. Then glance at the first letter of each line of
the Snellen’s card at the distance of six feet without
modifying or stopping the swing of your body. When
the vision is improved at six feet, increase the distance
by and by till you reach fifteen feet, practising in the
same way.
MEM ORY A N D IM A G IN A TIO N 1 2 7
4 . The black dot : Place the Snellen’s test card
on a white wall at ten feet distance or nearer. Now imagine
a black dot while looking little to one side of the test card,
say a foot or more ; then imagine it nearer to die card
and finally imagine it to be between the lines of letters
on the card. In this way, you will be able to see the
letters without losing the imagination of the black
dot; and when you can do this, you may look
directly at a letter without losing control of the imagi­
nation o f the dot. The next step is to note whether
the bottom of any letter is straight, curved, or open,
without losing the dot in the bottom. When you can do
this, do the same with the sides and the top of the
letter, still holding the dot in your imagination. Usually
when the parts can be observed separately in this
way, the whole letter can be seen without losing the
imagination of the black dot. It is very helpful if
the dot is imagined in the blackness of the bottom of
each letter.
5 . Im agination t e s t : Place the back o f the one
Snellen test card towards the patient ten feet away from
him, and the face of the second card towards him at
twelve feet. Both cards can be so arranged that the
patient can observe an open space between the two or
about four or five inches in width.
When the patient moves the head and eyes to the
left, the space between the two cards becomes less and
one can imagine the nearer card moving to the right,
while the more distant card with its letters appears
to move to the left.
When the head and eyes move to the right, the
128 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
nearer card appears to move to the left, the space
becomes larger between the two cards and the patient
can imagine the face of the more distant card moving
to the right.
Then close the eyes, swing and imagine the near
card to be moving in the opposite direction, while the
distant card in the same direction. Repeat. In some
cases of defective sight, the nearer card moves in the
opposite direction while the distant card may also move
in that opposite direction, or it may stop or move in
an irregular, jerky manner.
When the imagination of black dot or some object
is correct with the eyes closed, the swing of the mote
distant card becomes normal, the card moves from side
to side in the same direction as the head and eyes,
and moves slowly, easily and continuously. The converse
is also true, that when the distant card does not move
with the head and eyes, the imagination o f the object
is imperfect.
By the continued practice of this method, the flashes
of improved vision become frequent and last longer.
Some patients are benefited by practising this method
with the eyes closed for a longer time than with the
eyes open.
PRACTICE ON # CHART
i. Place the chart at a distance from where you
see it best and in good light. Look at aS by central
fixation. Then close the eyes and imagine 3S . While
imagining it, move your attention from the beginning
MEMORY AND IMAGINATION 129
oC & m o v in g th r o u g h th e w h o le o f it , p a rt b y p a rt. N o te
th at th e p a tt o f 35 re g a rd e d in im a g in a tio n is b la c k e r. I f
y o u r im a g in a tio n fa d es a w a y so o n , y o u s h o u ld o p e n th e
eyes an d a g a in lo o k a t a3 b y ce n tra l fix a tio n . R e p e a tin g
in this w a y , y o u w ill b e c o m e a b le to k e ep th e
p ic tu re o f 35 in y o u r im a g in a tio n fo r a su fficien t tim e.
D e v o te a b o u t 1 5 m in u te s a t le a st d a ily a n d it w ill
g iv e y o u g o o d r e la x a tio n . W h e n y o u b e c o m e a b le to
im agin e 35 e a sily , th e n y o u d o n o t r e q u ire the
p resen ce o f th e c h a rt b e fo re y o u .
2 . Im a g in e the b la c k d o t a b o v e th e a r c . I t w ill
be im a g in e d to b e m o v in g fr o m sid e to sid e o r u p
and d o w n . T h e m o v e m e n t w ill b e a c c o rd in g to th e siz e
o f th e d o t. N o w t r y to sto p the m o v e m e n t o f th e d o t.
Y o u w ill a t o n ce lo se th e m e m o ry o f th e d o t a n d w ill
feel d isc o m fo rt in y o u r e y e s. A g a in im a g in e it t o b e
m o v in g a n d y o u w ill b e a b le to im a g in e it e a s ily , w ith ­
o u t a n y e ffo rt o r stra in . T h e m e m o r y o f th is d o t
ch eck s m a n y e y e tro u b le s, su c h as, th e flo a tin g o f sp e c k s
b e fo re th e e y e s, d ip lo p ia , g la u c o m a , p r o g r e s s iv e c a ta r a c t,
etc.
3 . im a g in e th at y o u a te p a in tin g 35 w ith a b ru s h
a n d b lac k p a in t. N o w d ra w a b la c k c irc le all ro u n d
35. P a in t th is c ir c le se v e ra l tim es w ith b la c k p a in t.
N o w d r a w th e tria n g le s o n th e c ir c le an d p a in t th em
also w ith b lac k p a in t s e v e ra l tim e s.
A ft e r fin is h in g , b e g in to d ra w s m a lle r a n d sm a lle r
SS( circ le and tria n g le s. T h e s m a lle r th e s S d ra w n in
im a g in a tio n , th e b e tte r.
CHAPTER VIII
TREATM ENT
EYE TEST CARD PRACTICE
1. Every home should have a Snellen eye test card1
.
2. It is best to place a card permanently on the
wall in good light.
5. Each member of the family or household should
read the card every day.
4. It takes only a minute to test the sight with the
card. If you spend five minutes in the morning for
practising, it will be a great help during the day.
5. Place yourself ten feet from the test card and
read as far as you can without effort or strain. Over
each line of letters are small figures indicating the
distance at which the normal eye can read them. Over
the big “ C” at the top of the card is the figure zoo
the big *‘C” , therefore, should be read by the normal
eye at the distance of zoo feet. If you can read this
line at ten feet, your vision would be 10/200. The
numerator of the fraction is always the distance o f the
card from the eyes. The denominator always denotes
the number of the line read. If you can only read
the line marked 20, at ten feet, the vision is 10/20.
6. If you can only see down to the fourth line at
ten feet distance, for example, notice that the last letter
on that line is an “ O” . Now close yout eyes, cover
them with the palms of the hands and remember the “ O”.
TREATMENT 1 3 1
If you will remember the picture of “ O”, it will help
you to see the letter underneath the “ O” , which is “ R’\
7. If you stare at the letter “ R ” , you will notice
that all the letters on that line begin to blur. It is
beneficial to close your eyes quickly after you see the
“R” , open the eyes, and shift to the first figure on that
line which is 4. Then close your eyes and remember
the 4, you will become able to read all the letters on
that line by closing your eyes for each letter.
8. To see one letter of the card continuously, it is
necessary to shift from one part o f the letter to another.
By alternately moving the eyes from one side of the
letter to the other, it is possible to imagine the letter
to be moving in the opposite direction to the move­
ment of the eyes. This movement of the letter is called
a swing. When it is slow, easy, short, about one quarter
of an inch or less, maximum vision is obtained which
continues as long as the swing continues.
9. While reading the card, blink on each letter, and,
instead of fixing the sight on the black area, keep the
sight on the white portion or look to the right and the
left of the letter.
xo. Practising with a familiar card is one of the quickest
methods o f curing myopia temporarily or permanently.
The more perfectly the letters o f the card are remembered
or imagined, the more completely is the myopia relieved.
ir. In cases of nervous patients or children, point
to the first letter of each line by putting your finger
half an inch below each letter and tell the patient to
look in the direction of the finger tip and not at the letter.
132 MIND AND VISION
12. Stand and sway, of sit in a comfortable chair,
and rest your legs and feet on a stool which is as high
as the seat of your chair. Read the card lazily, and com­
fortably and gently blink as you read. Read the test
card with your better eye and then palm. Read the test
card with vour worse eye and then palm. Read the
test card with both eyes together and then palm.
Practise with the pot-hooks chart as follows :—Name or
indicate with the hand the direction in which the letter
points. Copy the chart, using white paper and black
pencil. Read it with the weaker eye, covering the
other with a pad.
13. When difficulty is experienced in reading certain
letters on the chart, one or more of the following
methods may be tried
(a) Palm, then remove the hands and swing,
read the chart, close the eyes after reading
each letter.
{b) Read the fine print as close to the eyes
as possible, avoiding strain, and then read
the chart.
(c) Close the eyes for a few seconds, and look
at the left side of the letter, report its
appearance ; repeat with the right side of the
letter, then read the letter.
(d) Walk up to the chart, read the letter, return
to the former position and read it.
14. Note from the diagrams how to keep your eye
covered while reading the chart.
15. Keep a record of each test in order to not?
your progress from day to day.
TREATMENT 1 3 3
READ IN G FIN E PR IN T (Reading Test Type)
1. The reading of large type in preference to finer
print is a bad habit. It requires more of an effort to
see a large letter than a small letter, strange as it
may seem. When you look at the big “ C” on the
Snellen test card, you don’t see it all at once. You
have to look at one part best. Some people think they
see the whole of it at the same time, but that is not
the case. Their eyes shift from one point to another
unconsciously.
2. Blink frequently, at least at the beginning and
at the end of each line of ordinary type.
3. Do not look at the letters, but at the white
spaces between them, and imagine them whiter than
the margin. It is a general belief that when we read,
we are looking at the letters. When one reads with
the perfect sight, one does not look at the letters, but
at the white spaces between the lines and imagines the
white centres of the letters to be whiter than they
really are. Look directly at a small letter o f the fine
print that can be read and concentrate your mind and
eyes on one part of the letter. You soon feel an effort
or strain and the vision is always lowered, If the vision
is not lowered, that means that you are unable to keep
your attention fixed on the same part o f a small letter
for a continuous length of time. When one plans to
look at the white spaces and, while trying to read
something, feels discomfort or pain, it means that the
eyes are not directed on the white spaces as the reader
may imagine.
334 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
4. " Move the head a little from side to side. Keep­
ing the head and the eyes stationary causes strain and
lowers the vision.
5. If your eyes feel strained and do not want to
read more, stop and palm for a few minutes. You
will notice that where it looked all blurred before
will appear clear and distinct now.
6. Read the fine print as close to the eyes as
possible both morning and evening. It will keep your
near sight strong and prevent eye troubles that generally
appear in old age.
7. Reading the familiar types is always more
beneficial than an unfamiliar one.
8. Before practising on the reading test type, have
sun treatment and it will help you a great deal. The
letters, which you were quiteunable to read, will
become distinct and dear. Frequent practices will make
that improvement permanent. Hold a card of fine print
(reading test type) about ten inches from the eyes.
Read as much as you can. Now face the sun with
dosed eye-lids for five minutes or more. Come to your
former seat, sit comfortably and cover the eyes with
the palms of your hands for two minutesor more.
Then read the test type while blinking frequently. You
will notice decided improvement in your sight.
9. When the imagination of the white spaces has
improved, it often hiDpens that one can see or imagine
that he sees a thin white line much whiter than the
T R E A T M E N T 135
white spaces, a line which extends from one side of
the page to the other, which is located between the
lines of print. The consciousness of this thin white
line is a wonderful help. The imagination of this line
is very important and I will deal with it in a separate
section.
io. Moving the finger nail or the point of the
pencil more or less rapidly close to the bottom of the
letters enables some patients to read the fine print
perfectly, continuously and rapidly.
it . Always keep the book or newspaper about six
inches or more below the level of eyes. Never raise
the book or paper to the level of the eyes. Some
people make a mistake by keeping the book even higher
than the level of the eyes. In this wrong position,
the lids are raised and cause strain. Such patients generally
suffer from hypermetropia or astigmatism.
12. Reading may be done while lying on bed, but
care should be taken that the lids are not raised, and
the head moves a little from side to side.
13 6 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
TH IN W H ITE LIN E
The imagination of a thin white line between the
lines of print helps in relieving most eye troubles.
Most people suffering from presbyopia and hypermetro-
pia (long sight) are cured when they become able to
imagine that they see this white line blighter and
clearer than the margin of the page. It gives a restful,
pleasant feeling to all the nerves of the body when
the thin, white line is seen, remembered or imagined.
In cases of inflammation, when one is able to imagine
the thin white line, pain in the eyes, head or other
parts of the body disappears as tnough by magic.
Patients with cataract who become able to imagine this
thin white line perfectly very soon become able to
read the finest print without effort or strain, and
the cataract always improves or becomes less. Patients
with astigmatism, squint,diseases of the retina and
optic nerve are benefited by the memory or the
imagination of the thin white line.
A great many people are very suspicious of the
imagination of the thin white line and feel or believe
that things imagined ate never true. The more ignorant
the patient, the less respect he has for his imagination. It
comes to them as a great shock to discover that the perfect
imagination of the thin white line improves the sight.
The ability to imagine the white line is acquired by
the memory of white snow, white paint or anything
perfectly white, with the eyes closed for a part o f a
minute. Some patients count thirty while remembering
some white object or some scene with the eyes closed.
Then, when the eyes are opened for a second, the
■ white lines are imagined, or seen much whiter than
Reading the eye Chart with one eye
Wrong methods.
1. Closing the eye with the ringers.
2. Covering the eye with the palm and raising the
upper ltd.
3. Closing the eye with the palm end.
Puight method.
4. Covering the eye with the palm, raising the chin
and lowering the upper lid.
F F
.
T O Z
L F E D
P E C F D
e d r c z p
D E F F O T E C
■ ■ 3
¡ L E F O D F C T
2
F D P I. T c E O
Snellen’s Eve Testing Chart R, Pocket siVe
a-aso
IM
S
' I.
Û.-075
N? 2-,
¡N?3.
:n94
L E K EL I » E L F T OT
c o s t o o e o » TOO
P 3ß E L E T E E L E L L
OOP C O S L OO J9 « C
D-I.OÖ
Î E U T O L L T J E X L
D O T E F O O L T O L D
F L B D L O L L ■ C E L T
• C O L » r o o e U 0 F -J*
Q-2O0
T O E O F T
D 0 D O D E
I
, 0 T F E D
’"°5- X j
D
.-600
B
D
-Ö
O
Ö
B
’■
i
>
»
I-
J c
<
0
lO
• a
i
&
Reading Test Type Jaegar.
Reading
Typa.
a u i
E 1 1 1 3
e a u i m
ui m e 3
S
U
1 3 E PI IH
U
J m E I
l
i3 E
e a m in li E ut
3
ÌI3 M U E ?
Fot-Hook Card Pocket Si?e for Children and illitrates»
TREATMENT 1 3 7
before. By remembering perfectly white with the eyes
closed and open'ng them for a few seconds, the vision
or the imagination of the white line improves. One
needs to be careful not to make an effort to regard
the black letters. When the white line is remembered
with the eyes closed and with the eyes open, the black
letters are read without effort or strain. Many people
discover that they can imagine a thin white line where
the bottom of the letters comes in contact with the
white line. The thinner the white line is imagined,
the whiter it becomes and more perfectly the letters are
read. O f course, the eyes have to shift from the thin
white line to the letters in order to see them, but the
shifting is done so rapidly, so continuously, so perfectly
that the reader does not notice that he is continuously
shifting. When the vision of the thin white line is
imperfect, the shifting is slow and imperfect, and the
vision for the letters is impaired.
How to Imagine the White Line
1. Hold the card in yout hand at ten inches. Move
your sight from one corner to the other of the white
lines, without trying to read. While moving the sight
keep a short swing of the body.
2. Blink at each end.
3. Imagine that the line moves in a direction
opposite to that of the swing of the body.
4. Now close the eyes, keep the swing, imagine the
white line or some other object,
5. Then open the eyes and look at the white lines.
Repeat.
I 3 ’3 M ISI) AND VISION
3* CHART
This &> chart drawn on Bhojapalm was found under
the ground in Kashmere. I was in search of some
Indian literature on the treatment of eyes and I got
this from a Sadlm. This chart is very scientifically
drawn. It contains different eye exercises which are
similar to those of Dr. Bates. Dr. Bates himself acknow­
ledges that India knows many secrets which are un­
known to the present scientists even now. Keep this
chart in your home. Practise on it daily for a few
minutes and it will keep the imagination of 3% in your
mind.
1. With the help of blinking, move your sight on
£0, drifting the mind from one part to another.
2. Stand at three to ten feet distance and sway a
little from side to side. Move your sight on the arc -
—>
from side to side. Imagine both the arc and the dot ( )
above the arc moving in the opposite direction.
3. Place the card at your height on the wall and
stand about three feet away. Keep the palms together
as when you do pranam. Bow your head down to the
hands and again raise the head. Repeat it several times.
Note that the chart or 3^ moves up and down in the
opposite direction. When you bow, it rises up, and
when you raise the head, it moves down.
While lowering or raising the head do not make
any effort to see 3S, otherwise you will lose the imagina­
tion of its movement. Remember to lower the lids
while bowing, and raising the lids while raising the head.
TEE-ATHEN T 139
COMPARISONS
In practising with the Snellen test card, when the
yision is imperfect, the blackness of the letters is
modified and the white spaces inside the letters are
also modified. By comparing the blackness of the
large letters with the blackness of the smaller ones
it can be demonstrated that the larger letters are
imperfectly seen.
When one notes the whiteness in the centre of a
large letter, seen indistinctly, it is usually possible to
compare the whiteness seen with the remembered white­
ness of something else. By alternately comparing the
whiteness in the centre of a letter with the r memory
of a better white, as the snow on the top of a
mountain, the whiteness of the letter usually improves.
In the same way, comparing the shade of black of
some other object may be also a benefit to the black.
Most persons with myopia are able to read fine
print at a near point quite perfectly. They see the
blackness and whiteness of the letters much better than
they are able to see the blackness of the larger letters
on the Snellen test card at 15 or zo feet. Alternately
reading the fine print and regarding the Snellen test
card, comparing the black and white of the small letters
with the black and white of the large letters, is often
times very beneficial. Some cases of myopia have been
cured very promptly by this method.
All persons with imperfect sight for reading ate
benefitted by comparing the whiteness o f the spaces
140 M IN D A N D V IS IO N
between the lines with the memory of objects which
are whiter. Many persons can remember white snow
with the eyes closed whiter than the spaces between
the lines. By alternately closing the eyes for a minute
or longer, remembering white snow, white starch; white
paint, a white cloud in the sky with the sun shining
on it, and flashing the white spaces without trying to
read, many persons have materially improved their sight
and been cured.
ROUTINE TREATMENT
Eor the improvement of distant sight
Remove glasses and test the vision of each eye
separately and then of both eyes together with the
aid of Snellen eye testing chart at twenty feet in good
light. If none of the letters can be seen at this
distance, the chart is placed at 10 ft., five feet or nearer.
Write the results in the form of a fraction.
Then close the eyes for about 10 minutes and either
sway or palm. Open the eyes and sit before a mirror.
Correct the position of your lids and learn to blink
gently and frequently. Maintain correct position of lids
and blinking all the time. Put your strong will on them.
In bad cases, it is good to sway the body, head and
the eyes gently while sitting or standing, with open
and closed eyes, imagining the bars or front objects
moving, for several days before beginning the following
programme—
After sleep in the morning: Practise long swing ioo
times or run in a circle or palm for 5 minutes.
TREATM ENT 1 41
A t th e t im e o f n a tu r e c a lls a n d d r e s s i n g :
R em em ber blinking.
W h ile w a lk in g : Im agine side objects m ovin g.
M o r n in g an d e v e n in g p r a c tic e s :
1. Take sun treatment with the eyes closed for io
to 50 minutes. It is better to apply honey or R esolvent
200 in each eye w ith a rod just before su n treatment.
2. Com e to the shade, w ash the eyes w ith cold
water or t r i p h a l a water or O phthalm o.
3. Sit com fortably, close the eyes and practise palm ­
ing or universal sw in g.
4. T h en open the eyes, blink gently and practise
on the chart in good ligh t w ith the help o f sw inging
or im agination exercises. A t intervals, central fixation
and palm ing m ay be practised. Som e patients are able
to im prove sim ply b y frequent palm ings.
A t leisure hours, practise palm ing or m em ory sw ing
or sw in gin g before bars.
A fte r m e a ls : Practise contact sw in g for a few
minutes.
G a m e t i m e : Play or see ping pong, badm inton,
tennis. Run on th e green grass frequently w ith bare feet.
B e d t im e : Practise palm ing or touch sw in g or fore­
head sw in g.
142 MIND AND VISION
FO R TH E IM PRO V EM EN T OF N EAR SIG H T
Near sight is generally defective in hypermetropia,
presbyopia, high myopia and astigmatism. Remove the
glasses and test the vision of each eye separately and then
of both eyes together, with the aid of Reading Test Type
at six inches, nine inches or twelve inches and keep
the record of your best vision. Learn to blink gently
and frequently and practise the following programme
morning and evening—
1. Sun treatment, eye-wash and palming as directed
before.
2. Open the eyes and practise central fixation
exercises. For some patients moving the sight
on the white line and reading the fundamental
card page 89 with or without card hole will
be sufficient. As the sight improves, myopic
eyes may gradually increase the distance of the
card, while hypermetropic and presbyopic eyes
may decrease the distance of the card.
Swinging before bars and palming at intervals are
very helpful.
If any method does not succeed, it should be
abandoned after one or two trials and something else tried.
It is a mistake to continue the practice of any method
which does not yield prompt results. The cause of the
failure is strain, and it does no good to continue the
strain.
TR EA TM EN T 143
Benefit To Children and Adults
Every family should obtain a Snellen test card and
place it on the wall of some room where it can be
seen and read every day by all the members o f the
family. Not only does the daily reading o f the card help
the sight of children, but it is a benefit to the eyes
of adults as well.
It is a well known fact that when most people arrive
at the age of forty or fifty years, they find that their
vision for reading or sewing is lowered. These people
believe that they must put on glasses to prevent eyestrain,
cataract, glaucoma, etc. Daily ptactice with the Snellen
tet card, together with the reading of fine print close to
the eyes will over come their difficulty. Reading fine
print close to the eyes, contrary to the benefit of many
ophthalmologists, is a benefit to the eyes of both children
and adults.
It has been repeatedly demonstrated, however, that
fine print cannot be read clearly or easily when an effort
is made. When the eyes look directly at the letters, an
effort is required, while looking at the white spaces bet­
ween the lines is a rest, and by practice in this way,
one can become able to see the letters clearly, without
looking directly at them. When a patient looks at the
white spaces between the lines of ordinary book type,
he can read for hours and no fatigue, pain or discomfort
is felt. When discomfort and pain in the eyes is felt
while reading, it is because the patient is looking directly
at the letters.
14 4 M IND A N D V ISIO N
No Glasses for Quick Results
Generally persons who have never worn glasses are
more easily cured than those who have, and glasses
should be discarded at the beginning of the treatment.
It is not always an easy thing to do, but it is best
for the patient. During the treatment when the glasses
are worn temporarily, even lor a short time, the vision
sometimes becomes worse and in most cases a relapse is
produced. When the patient has to continue his work
during the treatment and cannot do so without glasses,
their use may be permitted for a time, and the power of the
glasses can be reduced gradually, but this always delays
the cure.
Some people complain that no glasses fit their eyes
permanently. These cases are benefited by discarding their
glasses for a longer or shorter period while being treated.
The time required to effect a permanent cure varies
greatly with different individuals. In some cases five,
ten, or fifteen minutes are sufficient, and I believe the
time is coming when it will be possible to cure every
one quickly. It is only a question of accumulating more
facts, and presenting these facts in such a way that the
patient can grasp them quickly. In most cases, the
treatment must be continued for a few minutes every
day to prevent relapse, When a cure is complete, it is
always permanent. Even in such cases, the treatment
can be continued with benefit. It is not always easy to
treat the more severe cases. When the patient has been
under a strain for a length of time, it is sometimes difficult
to relieve the strain permanently in a short time. Patients
vary in their response to treatment. While some obtain
t r e a t m e n t 145
permanent relief within a short time, others find it
necessary to place themselves undec treatment for a
longer period.
Daily practice of the art of vision is also necessary
to prevent those visual lapses to which every eye is liable,
no matter how good its sight ordinarily be. The daily
reading of small, distant, familiar letters will do much
to lessen the tendency to strain when disturbing
circumstances arise.
Persons of all ages have been benefited by Bates’
methods of relaxation ; but children under twelve years
of age respond very quickly.
Instructions for Home Treatm ent: The most
important thing is to impress upon the patient the necessity
of discarding the glasses. He is told that when glasses
are used even temporarily, a relapse always follows and
the patient loses for a time, at least, everything that has
been gained. If it is impossible or unnecessary for the
patient to return at regular intervals for further treatment
and supervision, he is given instructions for home praticc
to suit his individual case, and is asked to report his
progress or difficulties at frequent intervals.
The importance of practising certain parts of the
routine treatment at all times, such as blinking, keeping
the lids lowered and imagining stationary objects to be
moving in the opposite direction, is stressed. The
normal eye does these things unconsciously and the
imperfect eye must at first practise them consciously until
it becomes an unconscious habit. Every patient is asked
to take the sun treatment daily.
146 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
Correspondence T reatm en t: Many letters are
received from people in various parts of India who find it
impossible to come to my office and also believe that
something might be done for them by correspondence
treatment. I do not advocate correspondence treatment
as a general rule, as the results are uncertain. There is
always the possibility that the patient will not practise
correctly the things which he is told to do. If the patient
had had one treatment at my office, it is possible to
treat that patient more intelligently through correspondence.
When this hook is read carefully, those things
which are not understood may be cleared up by intelligent
questions which I am always ready to answer. I do not
consider this regular correspondence treatment very useful.
No doubt, in certain cases very remarkable results
have been obtained by correspondence treatment. A boy
wearing glasses of—4.0 got instructions by correspondence
and in a week’s time he made his eye-sight normal at
different distances. Many other patients suffeiing from
different sorts of eye-defects have also been benefitted by
correspondence tieatment; but many a times it has been
noted that cases which did not improve by correspondence
were soon benefited after visiting my clinic,
CHAPTER IX
E Y E SIG H T OF SCHOOL CH ILDREN
Imperfect sight is found in the eyes of most school
children of India and other countries. It is a truth
that nearly all the cases of imperfct sight in school
children are acquired after they enter the school.
Their eyes are normal when they begin their school
life. After a few years, most of them acquire imperfect
sight, the average being about eighty per cent. O f
these, nearly all have acquired far-sightedness and astig­
matism. At the age often or twelve, near sightedness
appears, and far-sighted children become less. It is a
general belief that strain to see at the near point causes
short-sightedness (myopia); but, in the preceding chapter,
it has been clearly shown that a strain at the near
point always produces far-sightedness (hvpermetropia).
To check the strain at the near point, the authorities
laid down different rules as to the size of types to be
used in school books, amount and arrangement of light,
construction of desks, etc. The result of these preventing
measures was disappointing and the prevalence o f
myopia did not stop.
The truth is that the strain to see at a distance causes
near-sightedness or myopia. Why do some children strain
at the distance and gain myopia while others do not
strain at all and have perfect sight ? Experience shows
that all persons are not created equal. Some children
come to know that strain lowers the vision, but they
go on straining, because they do not know what else to do.
148 M IN D A N D V IS IO N
Children are great imitators. They learn to walk by
watching others walk. They learn to talk and play
from the examples of other children. Similarly, they
learn to strain the eyes from their teachers, parents,
friends and others. Parents and teachers, who use glasses
and strain their eyes affect the mind of the children.
Some children suffer so much from headache and other
troubles when attending school that they easily acquire
strain from others. Circumstances also affect the eye­
sight, for example :
1. Punishment either physical or mental.
2. Temperament of the people with whom the
child comes into contact.
3. Nervousness of the children.
4. Uninteresting subjects.
C u re: 1. Teachers should learn how to have nor­
mal sight without glasses.
2. Teachers should explain to the students how to
avoid strain by blinking, palming and swinging.
3. Daily practice on the Snellen test card for five
minutes in the school (see the scheme of preventing
myopia in schools),
4. Once a week, eye education should be given to
the children. It is an encouraging fact that children,
soon after they are cured without glasses, have a great
desire to help others, and the more they try to help others,
the greater the benefit to themselves.
5. Before you make up your mind to compel the child
to use glasses, ask the child to practise relaxation method.
E Y E SIG HT OE SCHOOL C H IL D R E N 149
PREVENTION OF MYOPIA IN SCHOOLS
Place the Snellen test card upon the wall o f each
class-room. Every day, the children should read silently
the smallest letters they can see from their seats, with
both eyes together and then with each eye separately,
the other eye being covered with the palm of hand,
avoiding any pressure upon the eye-ball
Appoint a period of five minutes for it in the
beginning of school work. It should be the duty of
the teachers to note that all children read the test
card with blinking. The practice of five minutes daily
is sufficient to improve the sight of all children in one
week and to cure defective eye-sight after some time.
Children with markedly defective vision should be
encouraged to read the chart more frequently and practise
palming at home. Children wearing glasses should not be
interfered with, as they are supposed to be under the care
of physicians and the practice will do them little or no
good while the glasses are worn.
Though not necessary, it is of a great advantage to
have records made of each pupil at the time when
the method is introduced, and thereafter at convenient
intervals annually or more frequently. This may be
done by the teachers. The records should include the
name and the age of the pupil, the vision of each eye
tested, and the date.
HOW TO TEST THE VISION ? Keep the Snellen
chart at twenty feet distance from the student and
ask him to read the chart with each eye separately, keeping
15 0 M IN D A N D V IS IO N
the other eye covered by the palm of the hand.
Write the result in the form of a fraction with the
distance at which the line of letters is read as the
numerator and distance at which the line ought to be
read as the denominator. The figures above the line
of letters on the test card indicate the distance at
which these letters should be read by persons with
norma] sight. Suppose, Mr. Mohanram, aged fifteen
reads at 20 feet distance the fifty feet line with
the right eye and at ten feet distance the 200 feet
line with the left eye, then write :—
Date. Nam e. age
1st teBt.
Date.
2 n d test.
Date.
3 r d test.
B.E. L.E. R .E. L.E. r .e .Jl . e .
1 . 9 . '4 0
s
cl
È g 1 5
2 0 1 0
1 .1 0 .M O
£ 0 2 0
O
T
t* 2 0 2 0
* &
1
5 0 2 0 0 4 0 1 0 0 2 0 3 0
A certain amount of supervision is absolutely necessary.
At least once a year, one who understands the
methods should visit each class-room for the purpose
of answering questions, encouraging the teachers to
continue the use of the method and making some kind of
report to the proper authorities. It is not necessary
that either the supervisor, the teacher or the children
should understand anything about the physiology of
the eye. This scheme will save many students from
becoming myopic and retardation. Try it in the schools
at least for a year and keep the record. Compare it
•with the results of the previous year, you will be
convinced of the fact.
E Y E SIG H T OE SCHOOL C H IL D R E N 15 1
Then why should our children be compelled to
suffer any more and wear glasses for want of this
simple measure of relief? Lots of money are spent in
spectacles every year. This system costs practically nothing.
Simply there is the need of a Snellen test card in each
class-room. No one would venture to suggest that this
scheme could possibly do any harm. Why, then, should
there be any delay about introducing it into schools ?
This plan for eye-sight conservation was followed
by the institutions o f Khurja. First, I delivered lectures
on the subject and visited each class-room and explained
the method clearly. Great care was taken to make
the reports accurate. The tests were made by the
class-room teachers. 820 eyes were examined and 249
were recorded defective at the beginning of the session.
During the year, the pupils were merely encouraged to
read the Snellen test card daily. At the close of the year
again, the eyes of the same students were examined.
99 out of 249 defective eyes had attained normal vision,
while 85 showed improvement.
Mr. Chunnilal Majumdar, Principal of the Khurja
College, writes :—
Dr. Raghubir Sharan Agatwal delivered lectures
in my college on the prevention o f myopia. The
scheme was explained with facts and I introduced it
in the classes. I took the results of the visions o f
students before beginning the scheme. I set apart a
period of about five minutes for the students to have
a daily practice. After six months, I secured the
results again and found a marvellous progress and improve­
ment in the cases of defective vision.
15 2 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
Q, What are the benefits of this chart reading
scheme ?
A. i. Improvement in eyesight.
z. Headaches or other discomforts arerelieved
or prevented.
3. Ability to study is improved.
4. Mental faculties are improved.
5. Truancy becomesless.
6. Mischievous and restless boys become model
pupils.
Q. If strain at distant objects causes myopia then,
why is it more prevalent in schools and colleges where
the students devote most of the time in reading ?
A. When one strains in reading, keeps up the
strain at other times too, and when he looks at dis­
tant objects under the strain, myopia is produced.
Q. Is it not that when the child reads the same
chart daily, he remembers it by heart and then read­
ing of the same chart will not be beneficial ?
A. Daily reading of the familiar chart is very
beneficial. The memory of the letters helps the children
to relax themselves, and they ean read more lines of
the chart.
Q. What is the most helpful exercise for children ?
A. Palming is generally most helpful.
E Y E SIG H T OE SCHOOL C H IL D R E N 153
PALM IN G CO M PO SITIO NS
1. Palming is one of the works that has helped me
in room six. While writing a story it would help me
in my imagination. When I first came to room six
Arithmetic was very hard for me to learn, but now it
is as easy as punk.
2. About a month ago I told my sister to start
palming. She has glasses and I would not like her to
have them any longer. She has started, and it looks
like she will soon have eyes that will not need glasses,
3. Palming and the Snellen Card did me a great
deal of good. It gave me mote strength in my imagi­
nation, and I can do my work much better everyday.
I am not sorry in knowing how to palm, because in
the beginning I did not like to put my hands over my
eyes.
4. I told my mother to palm, it would help her,
but she did not believe me. One day I said, Mother,
Palm. She said, All Right. Finally a week later she
could see clearly. She said, “ I am glad I did what
you told me.”
5. Palming is a wonderful treatmerft for the eyes.
It has done much during one and a half years. It has
strengthened our imagination, rested our eyes, and kept
them from wearing glasses.
6. We have a palming lesson four times a day. While
we are palming we have a little music to think of some­
thing pleasant. It has cured many headaches from some
of us. It is spreading everywhere, and we see lots of
people doing it now.
7. It is very good for me. It settled my mind.
I do not get so excited, and can add my columns easier.
I can palm, if I get nervous.
CHAPTER X
DIET AND EXERCISE
Unless the eyes are fully supplied with pure blood
and sufficient nerve force, the process of vision cannot
go on properly ; and so any factor capable of interfering
either with the blood vessels or the nerves of the
eyes is a possible cause of defective vision.
It has been known for sometime that such diseases
as diabetes and nephritis (kidney disease) have an effect
upon the eyes, and it is generally admitted by medical
men that some cases of cataract are diabetic in origin.
The remarkably intimate relationship that exists between
the eyes and every part of the body is as yet scarcely
realised, except by those with a knowledge o f the
science of Iridology. It has been the work of the
pioneers of Iridiagnosis to show that every change in
any organ or part of the body is reflected in the eyes
by a change o f colour in the portion of the iris which
is directly connected with that organ or part. Many
practitioners of Natural Therapy have discovered that
inflammatory conditions of the eyes such as conjunc­
tivitis, iritis and keratitis, are not to be looked upon
as diseases simply affecting the eyes, but as symptoms
o f a general catarrhal condition of the body due to
excessive starch and sugar ingestion mainly.
Blood is the stream of life. If we take suitable and
proper kind of food, we shall have good blood. W ith
bad materials, no one should expect to build a good
house. B y overeating or eating unbalanced food, the
surplus, which is not digested, clogs the intestines,
putrifies there and produces poisons, called “ Toxins,” which
D IE T A N D E X E I'C IS E 15 5
attack the liver, the kidneys, the lungs and other organs,
and consequently the muscles and blood-vessels surrounding
the eyes share in the clogging process set up all
over the body. Once the muscles and blood vessels
become clogged, proper drainage is impossible, and in time
the muscles, instead of being soft and pliable, become
hard and contracted. This eventually has the effect of
preventing perfect accommodation, and later the shape
of the eye is affected as a direct consequence.
The body requires certain articles, and each of them
in certain quantity, for its proper nourishment. Substi­
tution of one article by another can be done within
only certain well-defined limits. If the change is made
with indiscretion, ill-health is sure to follow. Granted
that proper food is taken, you will help it by proper
mastication, taking it in suitable quantity, and at suffi­
cient intervals. I will give the general principles and
every one can easily select the best food suited to his
constitution, by trying it for himself.
The chemical composition of blood and lymph depends
upon the chemical composition of food and drink, and
upon the normal or abnormal condition of the digestive
organs. The system of dietetics is based upon the
composition of M ILK, which is the only perfect natural
food combination in existence. In eye diseases, vegetarian
diet is prefered, and the change from a meat diet to
a non-meat ‘diet is of great benefit in the treatment of
chronic eye diseases as retinitis, choroiditis, optic atrophy,
high myopia, glaucoma, iritis, etc.
In the accompanying table, entitled "Dietetics in a
Nutshell,” we have divided all food materials into five
groups.
D
IE
T
E
T
IC
S
IN
A
N
U
T
S
H
E
L
L
15 6 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
G
O n
E §*
^ o .
ix
Oy
flj
^ « 2
g s
uL<
u
J3
U
G o
13
O
£
s ^
o ■*
»
>
o >>
G
a l
tL
d
Pi
p
G
G
15
a
S
o
o
o
' +
3
a
Gj ©
fl o —
s *c o .
.5 M f t j to .
T
3 ° 0
5
ffi a g ■
£
p e ^ 2
^ !
mJ « ..3
jjj _ ? ] CO
oO P H
W 6
?^ 5
a i>fc5
£
0^
s*1
3
a a
2 5 >
:
G . b
£
t li j-
a 5 O
2 ® a
PnHW
C
U
G
<
Dto
© Cfl I
¿5 .=
. c
sL
§ 5 «
£-§ •
S i n
" §*=
“ §0
f§P5O
K 03
H g *
§££
H K <
t>pc,Q
>*>
O
ffl “
^ 03
..«
¡tf s ®
■ g g .il
u xj s
o 5
eg
CW g
« h 8 ••
&g 3C
0
Co E
Ko £
S
h'G
?. a
^ G
*5 g
O rf
d o
© G
fiHH
13
O
0
P
m
1 .
f'll
J J
O
QW C
O
saxvaaAHoa^vo SNoaHvooHciAH
i anono ii anoao in aaoHO
Fats
and
Oils.
Producers
of
FRUITS
:
Olives.
Heat
and
D
A
IR
Y
PRODUCTS
:
Cream,
butter,
cheese.
Energy.
NUTS
:
Almonds,
walnuts,
coconnuta,
peanuts,
etc.
COMMERCIAL
FATS
:
Olive
oil,
vegetable-cooking
oils.
The
yolks
of
eggs.
D1ET AÏTD EXERCISE 157
I !
%î
1 -
ni
G
rG
œ
cd
j» 2 • ®
® rs fi ©rs
« -3 fi « g
3 c © 9, S
p. 5 ^ 'g
M à $ ° *
js d P ^ ’g
»
0 <
Dc -
t % S
c p . S k
S i» ^ =
3
i i . « O ■■ S i
3 ,P . W
0B Phs H S
C 43 *■, _ g
g a .. 3 g 3
►G fi H1* U
c H û53 G
7 “ ciOv
h
•• h n 0 AJ «
S * ^ . .
<
C»H ••b
nC
O
g cüHC<l
a H P < H
O >ZQ g
S S
i tn m
® O N d
® > © .3
t- 1>n¿j
l l l
©
*3 2 3
M 3 Oh
ta o 0
Æ
"§ § S »
ü c o n
O©3
h fcd
O>
S=
3
g»S
S* o
S
. O
en
"S*a
6 g
•3 *
^JS
o "3
T3^
l ^ . :
ta
.£ î
û«ê
2 «d i
ç M o
4
3 0
Î^
4
3 fl) 1
TÎÎ C
D
. f i g B 1
1 00 g
H *
rrj T! - •
© .. C vJ 0
3 „
’
■«'‘RÎSS
® P en <3 u ~ ,s
fi «j.s h a s .a
H m c
aa g- s -3
M&.3 &S fi
H W
O >
P
UE
X
S1 •
>
.<
34
3
s
g
ji
3
30
¡a
s
m
H
o
P
P
O
rt
■Ht
s m a io a i s iv a a u m dinvoho
a i ia o a o a a a o a o
158 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
As a general rule, let one-half of your food consist
of Group V, and the other half of a mixture of the
first four groups.
Good foods are :
D airy products : Milk, Buttermilk, skimmed milk,
cream, butter, fresh cottage cheese, curd. Cow’s milk
is rich in vitamin A, and proves very useful in retinal
and choroidal diseases.
Eggs : Either taw, soft-boiled or poached, not fried
or hard-boiled. One egg a day is sufficient. White of
egg is much easier to digest than the yolk. Therefore,
the white should only be used in cases of weak digestion.
Honey is a very valuable food and a natural laxative,
and is one of the best forms of sugar.
Cereal Foods, rice, wheat, barley, graham, etc., are
good when properly combined with fruits and vegetables
and with dairy products, Use preferably the whole
grain preparations. Avoid the use of white bread or
any other white flour products, especially pastry. Barley
flour is a very good food in chronic retinal diseases.
It may be taken alone or mixed with wheat flour.
A good substitute for bread is the following : Whole­
wheat preparation : Smash wheat into pieces (called Dalia)
and soak in cold water for about one hour and boiled
for about two hours. Eat with honey and milk, Add
raisins. This dish is very nutritious and one of the
finest laxative and easily digestible food. Oats porridge
may be sustituted.
D IE T A N D E X E R C ISE 159
Vegetables ; Peas and beans in the green state are
good vegetables. Lettuce, spinach, cabbage, watercress,
celery, parsley, Brussels-sprouts rank highest in organic
mineral salts. Next to these come tomatoes, cucumbers,
green pepers, radishes, onions, asparagus, cauliflower,
horse radish, pumpkins, squashes and melons. Strong
spices and condiments should be avoided in cooking
vegetables. Cook vegetables as long as is required to
make them soft enough for easy mastication. Do not
throw away a drop of water in which vegetables have
been cooked.
Fru its and B erries
Lemons, grape fruit, oranges, apples, plums, pears,
peaches, apricots, cherries are very beneficial.
Dried fru its—Piunes, dates, figs, raisins.
Bananas differ from the juicy fruits. They consist
almost entirely of starches, dextrines and sugars.
They should be used sparingly by people suffering from
intestinal indigestion. They are excellent food, especially
for children.
Fruits and vegetables may be mixed in the same meal.
First eat hard things as bread, then softer things
rice, etc. liquids in the last as milk, soups.
V ITA M IN A —Clinical and experimental evidence
indicates that Vitamin A is essential for normal function
of the retina and its use is helpful in myopia, retinal
and choroidal diseases.
Vitamin A is present in cow’s milk, carrot, cod-liver
160 M IN D A N D V IS IO N
oil, butter, pumpkin, spinach, tomatoe pineapple, peas
fresh, fish. Abidol, Nestrovic and Tirphala Ghirta are
good medicines.
The human body is made up of acid and alkaline
constituents (Pitta and Cough). In order to have normal
conditions and functions of tissues and organs, both
must be present in the right proportions. Groups No.
I, II, III and IV are generally acid forming and No. V
alkaline forming. When the intake of acid forming diet
becomes excessive or there is defective elimination of
waste material through faeces, urine and perspiration,
the amount of acid is increased beyond a certain limit.
The blood loses its power to dissolve it, and it forms
a sticky, glue-like, “ colloid” substance, which occludes
or blocks up the minute blood vessels (capillaries), so
that the blood cannot pass readily from the arterial
system into the venous circulation. This interference
with the normal circulation and distribution of the blood
interferes the normal functions of the eye. Diseases of
retina and choroid are generally due to defective
circulation of blood through the capillaries.
You may arrange your diet as under :
Morning about 6 to 7-30 Figs, dates, egg. apples,
raisins and milk. Porridge or dalia is a good thing.
Midday, II to 12-30—Whole wheat, or barley or gram
bread, dal, rice, cooked vegetables, both root and leafy,
such as carrot, cabbage, spinach (palak sag) or other
vegetation a little butter or ghee; any season fruit. Plantain
is not to be classed as a fruit, but as a starchy food. If
you like to take it, you must reduce the number of breads
D IE T A N D E X E R C ISE 101
or rice, calculating one small plantain equal to one chapali.
It is a mistake which people commit by taking plantain
atter a full meal, and then complain o f indigestion. Curd
can be taken in sufficient quantity.
Evening M eal—In bad cases, it is better to avoid
the whole-meal bread like that of midday. It is always
good to take green uncooked vegetables called salads,
made of lettuce leaves, onions, cabbage leaves, spinach
(palak) leaves, tomatoes, cucumber, carrots, cut fine and
dressed up with salt or honey to taste and lime juice.
With this, you can take nuts, and a cup of milk with
honey. No water is to be taken. Dalia or porridge
and milk prove very useful in most of the cases.
♦
Avoid all kinds of market sweetmeats.
Quantity 0f Food—No hard and fast general rule
can be laid down. You yourself are the best judge.
When you are satisfied, but not too full, stop. Fasting
for one day every week proves very useful. One may
clear the bowels by an enema once a week.
Im portance of Water, Water should not be taken
during a meal, because it hinders the secretion of saliva
and gastric juice. Besides any quantity of the juices
secreted will be diluted and made weaker. A few sips
may be taken if at all necessary.
Water should be taken between the meals. About
one seer o f water in winter and double the quantity
in summer months is quite necessary. I f you drink a
glass of water in the morning and one at the time of
going to bed, it helps in the movements of the bowels,
162 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
especially if the water is warm. Three hours after
meals or one hour before meals is a good interval to
drink. But do not drink too much even then; otherwise
you will be water logged and water-logging is very
harmful.
If you get over-thirsty, it means that your inside is
not correct and you require a short fast of a day or
two and an enema of simple warm water and lemon juice.
CONSTIPATION
Constipation is the root cause of many diseases.
People generally resort to purgatives and bed-pills at
intervals, and in some cases daily—but without any cure.
No purgative acts without producing irritation in the
stomach and intestines. This constant irritation goes on
producing chronic inflammation of these organs. Then
they can neither secrete normal digestive juices nor have
the capacity to absorb and assimilate in the natural way.
Worry, anxiety and want of proper exercise etc. also
help in producing constipation. Alcohol, tea and coffee and
condiments act just in the same way as do the purga­
tives in producing chronic inflammation of these very
important organs.
Treatment—
1. Fasting once a week.
2. Train the bowels to act. After rising early in
the morning, sit on the latrine, for at least i j minutes
every day and try to evacuate. For the first few days
or a week, you might fail ; but do not be disappointed.
D IE T A U D E X E R C ISE 163
By exercising your ' ‘ Will power” and taking proper diet,
vou are sure to succeed. Until the constipation is cured,
you should take enema with pure warm water every
day and stop them as soon as the bowels move freely.
You should avoid all strain but keep a strong will that
the bowels should move.
3. During all the time, from the beginning, sip a
glass of hot water with or without a squeeze of lime
in it, the first thing in the morning and the last thing
at bed time.
4. If you at all like to take a purgative, then senna
powder is the best, but it should not be taken in large
doses.
Senna powder is made of dried senna and rose leaves
and sugar mixed in equal parts, Keep it in a well-
corked bottle.
A teaspoonful morning and evening in a little milk
for a few days will serve the purpose.
Large doses irritate the bowels just as other pills
and medicines do.
Tirphata taken at bed time is a good laxative.
5. Enema once in one week or once in two weeks
is very useful in most of the patients. Take the juice
of 5 lemons (about one ounce) and mix it in a pints
of lukewarm water. Use this water for enema.
1G4 M X D A N D V ISIO N
EXERCISE
Excercise is very important. The best exercise for
every one is walking. About four or five miles a day
is quite sufficient. Gardening is also very good. One can
have some jeiking exercises for 10 or 15 minutes. When
walking or taking any other exercise, take deep breaths
at intervals. This will open all the smallest air cells in
the lungs which play an important part in purifying
the blood. For exercise, you should generally go to open
air and sunshine, which are very beneficial to health.
Stop exercise when feeling just tired. Let the muscles
work smoothly.
While performing any exercise, take care of the posi­
tion of the eye-lids. Do not open the eyes widely. Many
athletes take their exercises before a mirror. They arc
told to look at the muscle which they are exercising
in order to feel that it is growing in balk and strength.
Tnis leads them to fix their gaze on the patticulat
muscle in the mirror ; blinking is stopped. As the exer­
cise of that muscle may last many minutes, it leads to
staring which affects the eyes adversely.
What should be done then ? Blinking should not be
stopped and the sight should continually shift from one
part of the muscle to another part. Almost all the
exercises involve the movement of the body or parts of
it, either up and down or backwards and forwards.
The general tendency is to leave the eyes staring in the
front while the body moves, and this attitude is
wrong. Shift your sight according to the movement of
the body. At every movement of your body, imagine
that the stationary objects are moving in the opposite
D IE T A N D E X E R C ISE 165
direction. It you move forward as in the exercise, Dand,
the front objects and the ground should be imagined
to be moving backward, and when you move backward,
the objects should be imagined to be moving forward.
The same with exercise, Baithak, the objects seem to
be jumping up and down.
W alking:—While walking, running or riding, etc.,
imagine that the ground and side objects move back­
wards
Many people have complained that after walking a
short distance slowly, easily and without any special
effort, they become nervous, tired and their eyes feel
the symptoms and consequences o f strain. When they
were taught the correct way to use their eyes while
walking, the symptoms of fatigue or strain disappeared.
The fact can be demonstrated with the aid of a
straight line on the floor or the seam in the carpet.
Stand with the right foot to the right of the line
and the left foot to the lelf of the line. Now put your
right foot forward and look to the left of the line.
Then put your left foot forward and look to the right
of the line. Note that it is difficult to do this longer
than a few seconds without discomfort, pain headache,
dizziness or nausea.
Now, practice the right method of walking and using
the eyes. When the right foot moves forward, look to
the right ; and when the left foot moves forward, look
to the left. Note that the straight line seems to sway
in „the direction opposite to the movement o f the eyes
166 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
and foot, i.e., when the eyes and foot move to the right,
the line seems to move to the left. When the eyes and
foot move to the left, the line seems to move to the
right. Note that this is done easily, without any hesita­
tion or discomfort.
When you walk, you can imagine that you ate look­
ing at the right foot as you step forward with that
foot. When you step forward with the left foot, you
can imagine that you are looking at your left foot.
This can be done in a slow walk or quite rapidly
while running straight ahead or in a circle.
CHAPTER X
ERRORS OF REFRACTION
M YO PIA
Definition : Myopia has been called near-sightedness,
because, in this case, the vision is usually very good for
objects -which are seen at a near point, while very dim or
blurred for objects at ten feet or farther. The eyes are
habitually focussed for a point about twelve inches or
less. In high degrees of myopia, the eyes may be focussed
at less than twelve inches, ten, six, three inches or
nearer to the eyes. Some patients can read fine print
when held two to three inches. In myopia, the eye-ball
is elongated.
Acute M yo p ia: When myopia is acquired, it is
called acute myopia in the early stages. When treated at
this time, it is readily curable without glasses. The
practice of prescribing glasses in these cases leads to a
permanent use of them.
P rogressive Myopia : In these cases, the myopia
increases quite rapidly, and may be accompanied by much
discomfort, pain, fatigue and loss of vision. In advanced
cases, many become unable to see even with very strong
glasses, and can even see better without glasses.
Complicated M yo p ia: myopia may be corapli*
cated with cataract or other eye diseases.
168 M IN D -4N D V ISIO N
Myopia usually occurs ar about twelve years o f age.
It is rarely congenital. Some become myopic ad the age
of four, fifteen, seventy or any age, earlier or later. Some
children with normal vision may go through life without
even becoming myopic.
It is a popular belief that a habitual use of the eyes
for reading, sewing, or for any other use at a near point,
promotes the increase of myopia and that individuals who
use their eyes repeatedly lor distant vision suffer less
from myopia.
But simultaneous retinoscopy always demonstrates that
near use of the eyes—even under a strain in a poor
light—instead of producing myopia, always lessens it
or corrects it altogether ; and that a strain to see at a
distance always produces myopia.
It can be shown (i) that a strain to see at a distance
produces near-sightedness. Look at a Snellen test card
at twenty feet and read ic as well as you can. Now
strain or make an effort to see it better, and note that
the sight, instead of becoming better, becomes actually
worse. (2) That a strain to see at a near point does not
increase near-sightedness, but always lessens it. Look at
a card of fine print at six inches from your eyes and
read it as well as you can. Now make an effort to see
it better, and note that your vision for the near point
is lowered, while the ability to read the fine print at a
greater distance is improved.
CAUSE
Principal Cause : The principal cause of myopia is
staring or making an effort to see at distant objects.
M YO PIA 169
Contributing Causes : Teachers, parents or others,
who use glasses, are under a strain. This strain is
contagious, and the children under their care are more apt
to acquire myopia than those who are under the cate of
teachers with normal eyes and normal sight. Constant
use of glasses increases myopia. Common sense tells
us that as the sight of a myopic patient is good at the
near point, the use of glasses will naturally increase the
stain.
Treatm ent : Keep in yout mind a few facts and
practise as instructed in the preceding chapters.
i. All patients who desire to be cured of imperfect
sight should discard their glasses and never put them on
again for any emergencies.
z. Some cases are benefited after other methods have
failed by showing the patients how to make their sight
worse by staring, straining or making effort to see. When
the cause of the imperfect sight of myopia becomes
known, the vision often improves to a considerable degree.
When myopic patients learn by actual demonstration the
cause of their trouble, it becomes possible for them to
improve their sight.
3. Rest o f the eyes and mind is the cure for myopia.
Any effort to improve the vision always fails. Quite
frequently it is difficult for people with imperfect sight
to believe that perfect sight requires no effort and that
any effort to improve the sight is wrong. It causes habiLual
strain and it becomes difficult to improve such patients
within a short period.
170 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
4. Learn first blinking and keeping the lids lowered.
If you can make these two fundamentals perfect, then
it would be easy for you to improve the eye-sight.
5. Practising with a familiar Snellen Test Card is
one of the quickest methods of curing myopia temporarily
or permanently. The more perfectly the letters o f the
Snellen Test Card are remembered or imagined, the more
completely is the myopia relieved.
6. Children under twelve years of age who have never
worn glasses are usually temporarily cured by alternately
reading the Snellen Test Card and resting their eyes
by palming.
7. Encourage all myopic patients to read the finest
print by blinking and keeping the sight on the white
spaces. It is a mistake to stop their near work.
8. Some persons with imperfect sight have good
imagination, but still their sight is imperfect. Such
persons with imperfect sight who have good imagination
fail to use it perfectly all the time ; they suppress it and
imagine things imperfectly by an effort which of course
lowers their vision.
9. Myopia requires regular and faithful practice.
Even when the sight comes to a normal condition, one
should continue the practice for some time longer to
prevent a relapse. Then one should read the chart daily
and stop practice. This will keep him aware about his
sight. Whenever there will be any relapse, the patient will
correct it himself.
MYOPIA 1 7 1
CASE REPORTS
The following case reports are only specimens
of many more that are equally interesting.
i. On February 13th, 1934, Swami Arjun Deva aged
about thirty years, arrived at the Clinic from Hardwat.
The patient could not say ’whether he was actually born
short-sighted, it was discovered at the age o f five when
he found his distant vision defective. Time passed on
without any treatment. At the age of fifteen, he was
taken to Dr. Joshi at Nagpur and he was advised to
use glasses o f —3.0.
The patient continued to pay periodical visits to the
best available eye specialists in Agra, Lucknow, Lahore,
Ahmedabad, Bombay, Mogha, etc., and every two or
three years, he had to have his spectacles changed for
a stronger pair, until at the age of twenty, he was
prescribed glasses o f— 16.0 for both eyes.
The doctors were of opinion that he should discard his
studies and, eventually, he left studies altogether after
passing the matriculation.
At the age of twenty-two, he left his home in search
of some cure for his eyes, and wandered about from
place to place. His general health was affected by diabetes.
His sight was getting worse and worse. The flying flies
appeared before the eyes and this trouble was very annoying
to him. Somebody suggested to him to gaze at the sun with
open eyes. This increased the discomfort and a new trouble
arose. Whenever he stared at an object, the object became
distorted and tripled. In the room, everything seemed to
1 7 2 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
be covered with a veil. When he stared at a lamp ora
candle, the black and white streaks began to spread on all
sides. During this time, he paid visits to an eye specialist
of Lahore, and the doctor mads it clear to him that the
sight was getting worse and prescribed the glasses of
—20.0 at the age of thirty. But the glasses neither relieved
the troubles nor improved the vision sufficiently.
His sight was rapidly failing. It was a difficulty to
read or write anything, despite the enormously power­
ful glasses he was wearing. He had pains in the head
at the slightest attempt to look at anything clearly. ISIo
hope of improvement came from any side. Days like a
long endless night began to pass. The patient had no
further hopes and resigned himself to his fate and waited
for death to visit as soon as possible.
One day, the patient happened to see my article on
“ Throw away your glasses,” in the “ Hindustan Times.”
The article encouraged him and gave a ray of hope of
recovery.
His vision in both eyes was 5/200 without glasses
and 20/200 with glasses.
With each eye separately, he could not read any
letter because soon the letters became double and adopted
such a form that he could not distinguish them.
Treatment: The first thing I advised the patient was
to keep his eyes closed for the most of the time. The
position of the lids should always remain downwards ;
while seeing in front or upwards, the lids should not
be raised, but the chin, i.e,, the position of the lids
MYOPIA 1 7 3
should be all the time like that at the time of reading.
Now, I demonstrated its efficacy on the chart. When the
patient looked at the chart while raising the lids, the
letters became dim, but when he raised the chin, and
lowered the lids, the letters became clearer. Everybody
can demonstrate this fact. Keeping the lids raised is
generally seen in myopes and, unless this defect is
corrected, it is very difficult to give any benefit to the
patient. Lowering the lids gives rest to the eye, while
raising the lids causes strain.
The next thing and very important one was blinking.
For a week, I advised the patient to practise these
two fundamental secrets of the cure. After three days,
his neck muscles began to ache due to raising the chin
all the time. In a week’s time, the patient formed a
permanent habit, and this was really the secret of his
cure. Patients, who cannot obtain this habit of right
blinking and lowering the lids are not benefited
permanently.
The trouble of polyopia disappeared and the flying
spots appeared only when the patient saw towards a
bright light or when he unconsciously stopped blinking.
Second week : I find that myopic patients improve
their sight and are cured more quickly by standing near
a window and looking off in the distance at large signs
or background. The patient stands with the feet about
12 inches apart before the window and turns the body
to the right—at the same time lifting the heel of the
left foot. The head and the eyes move with the body.
The left heel is then placed on the floor ; the body
17 4 MIM'D AMD V ISIO N
is turned to the left as the patient raises the heel
of the right foot. I usually advise the patients to
do this right and left swing for sufficient time. In this
swing, the nearer objects appear to be moving in the
opposite direction, while the farther objects move in the
same direction. Some people have difficulty in practising
the swing successfully. They cannot imagine the
stationary objects to be moving, no matter how much
swing is practised. They feel absolutely certain that
the stationary object is always stationary and cannot be
expected to move when the body sways from side to
side in a long or short movement. My patient became
able to imagine the objects moving from the very begin­
ning and this helped him much in improving the sight.
At the end of the second week, I tested the sight
and the vision improved to 10/120, but soon the letters
became double. At once I asked him to close the eyes
and to the right of him I placed the test card on the
wall. I called the patient to come to ten feet distance
from the card. I directed him to blink as he moved
his body to the right and to flash the letter on the
test card that he could see without making an effort ot
any kind. I explained that the letters could be seen
best by looking a little above or below it, or a little
to the left or right of it. He said that he could see
the letters more clearly when he followed my suggestion,
and that the letters almost disappeared, or became double
■ when he looked directly at the letter. This method
taught him how to see the objects.
Now, from the third week : I gave him sun
treatment along with swinging. Both morning and evening,
M Y O PIA 1 7 5
he faced the sun with closed eye-lids and then move
the body from side to side, like a cobra for thirty
minutes each time. Just after sun treatment, he washed
the eyes with the lotion “ ophtbalmo” and then began
practising swinging. The sun proved to be a miracle
in his case. Daily the vision showed improvement and
at the end of the third week, the vision was 20/40 with­
out glasses.
Now, the patient had no difficulty in going about,
and seeking distant objects. He had grown anxious to
improve the reading sight at an early date. Swamiji was
a good writer. Seeing his interest in this direction, I
directed the methods to improve the near sight. For
distant sight, he continued the same practices till he
left the hospital on 2nd April, 1934.
To improve the near sight, I gave him the funda­
mental reading card and asked him to hold it at nine
inches and then move the head J inch from side to
side while looking at the white spaces in between the
lines of print, and at the same time to imagine the
white lines in between the lines of print to be moving
in the opposite direction. Blinking should be at least
twice on each line. He could easily do it and then
he practised on the books. Then, after three days, I
asked him to read the letters and words by blinking
on each word. To improve more, he took the help of
the sun and now he could read the fine print.
Writing was also difficult task for him. I asked him to
draw only lines like y a moving the sight up and down
with the point of the pen, blinking on each line. After a
few days’ practice, he could read and write very well.
I T O M IND AND VISION
2. His Excellency of Nepal began to use glasses of
— 5.0 from the age of 8 years, and paid periodical visits
to best available eye specialists in India and England, and
every now and then he had to have his spectacles
changed for a stronger pair until at the age of 48 he
was prescribed glasses of —S.o. The last doctor had
informed him that the vision was very poor even with
glasses; and, though the number of glasses came to — xz.c
yet the vision was the same with —8.a or w ith— iz.o,
hence he thought it better to prescribe the glasses of lower
power. The sight was rapidly failing in spite of the
constant use of glasses. No hope of improvement came
iron: any side
His Excellency came to know about me and my
system of treatment thiongh his relative and called me
at Nepal. The examination revealed the following facts :
Without glasses. With glasses.
Vision
Test Distant
Vision Near Vision
Distant
Vision Neat Vision
Both eyes 20
UuO J 3 at 9 inches. 20
70 J 1 at 9inches.
Right eye J 4 at 9 inches. 20 J z at 9 inches.
Left eye ink J 3 at 9 inches. 20
To J 1 at 9 inches.
Treatm ent : First I educated him blinking and
advised to keep the eyes closed all the time as far as
possible, and to open the eyes only slightly (half open) in
Photo taken from Dr. Bales’ hook.
Fam ily Group Strikingly Illustrating the Effect
of the Mind Upon the Vision.
No. i. Girl of four with normal eyes.
No. 2. The child’s mother with myopia.
No. 5. The same girl at nine with myopia. Note
that her expression has completely
changed, and now is exactly like her
mothers.
No, 4, 5, 6. The girl’s brother at two, six, and
eight. His eyes are normal in all three
pictures.
The girl has either inherited her mother’s disposition
to take things hard, or has been injuriously affected by
her personality o f strain. The boy has escaped both
influences. In view o f the prevailing theories about
the relation of heredity to myopia, this picture is
particularly interesting.
e
y
e
;
au
u
-o
i
i
\i
g
ii
i
e
y
e
;
uy
o
n
e
au
u
tim
e
a
h
a
lf
d
io
p
tr
e
s.
M
y
e
y
e
s
are
n
o
t
so
sensitive
to
glare
.................
z.
A
Doctor
patient
used
to
suffer
from
headache
and
Dr.
H.
D.
Dastu-e
Retd.
Civil
eye
strain
frequently,
changed
glasses
15
times.
By
right
rgeon,
Baroda.
education
of
the
eye
he
became
all
right.
*
“0 y
soundness
of
Dr
Agarwal’s
treatment
and
have
found
his
methods
scientific
and
by
his
disinterested
philanthropic
work.
1
helpful.
We
have
both
benefited
from
wish
him
all
success
in
the
new
venture
the
treatment
and
ate
continuing
it
”
eh
is
starting
..........
”
A.
G.
CLOW.
G.
BE.WOOR.
T w o n e a r l y b l i n d b o y s w e r e c u r e d b y s u n t r e a t m e n t a n d e y e
e x e r c i s e s
N m e t h e c o r r e c t p o s i t i o n o f t h e i r e y e l i d s a n d c h i n . T h e y a r e
p r a c t i s i n g c e n t r a l f i x a t i o n o n t h e e y e t e s t c a r d
Fig i Fig 2 Fig 5
Fig i. Circular Swing —Thumb moving in a
circle on the fingei.
Fig. 2. Chin Swing—Finger placed below the
chin and then moving the chin from side
to side.
Fig. 3. Lettei in air- Diawing the letter in the
air with the fingei (See page 124)
SU N T R E A T M E N T
Condensing the suntavs Facing the strong light
with sun-glass on the with the eyes closed,
plosed eye.
§un rays falling on the everted eye lids o f a tiachomft
patieqt ^
SUN-TREATMENT
Patients are enjoying Sun treatment at Dr. AgarwaP
Eye Institute.
SUN TREATMENT
Focussing the sun rays with a strong sun-glass
on the exposed white part of the eye, called sclera.
Read Exposure treatment page 59.
E Y E -B A T H
Wrong way—Raising the eyes and the eye
cup and moving the lids in it vigorously.
Right way—Lowering the lids and the eye
cup and moving the lids in it very gently
as in blinking.
PALMING
Wrong ways.
i. Closing the eyes by squeezing them.
i. Pressing the eyes with the fingers,
j. Covering the eyes with the pajm-heels.
Right way.
i. Closing the eyes gently, and covering the ey^si
with the palms.
(Fingers crossed on Forehead )
Palm ing
This boy was blind with one eye singe birth,
and was cured in a month’s time by Paim 'ng,
MYOPIA 1 7 7
case of necessity , and to keep the body swinging gently
from side to side all the time.
At bed time, little warm cow’s cream was applied
■on the eyes.
Morning and evening:
[a) Sun treatment and massage of forehead with
oleum. The patient faced the sun with the eyes closed
and moved the body gently from side to side for 15
minutes. At this time, I used to rub little oleum on
the forehead and then massage the forehead in the
following way :
Forehead Massage: Place the left hand gently on the
head and the right hand fingers (index, middle and ring
fingers) on the forehead. Ask the patient to keep the
ejes closed and move gently from side to side The
fingeis remain in position The patient feels the fingers
to be moving in the opposite direction At intervals,
the patient is asked to keep the imagination on the
fingeis. After a few minutes only, the patient feels
relaxed and begins to doze. All headache and strain are
relieved in no time.
M istakes : 1. Pressuie on the head may be much.
2. The patient may not keep the imagination on the
lingers but remember some other episodes.
3. There may be some noise or something else
which may disturb the patient’s mind.
4. The instructor may begin to move the fingers
with the movement of the patient.
178 MIND AND VISION
}. The patient my begin to move with Jerks and
strain.
This massage was given while H. E. took sun-
treatment.
(b) After finishing sun treatment and massage, the
eyes were washed with cold water and 20 drops of
Ophthalmo.
(c) After finishing the eye bath, H. E. practised
Touch Swing and swinging exercises before the bars
and chart. Right methods of reading and writing were
educated.
25th Nov. It was the last day of treatment. The
following directions were laid down for His Excellency :
Directions 1. Use of glasses only to see distant objects
when necessity arises.
2. Dark glasses should not be used. If it is too
bright, then Crooks A may be used.
3,. Near work should be done without glasses at
the convenient distance.
4. Remember three points to avoid the strain :
a. Upper lids should remain down.
b. Gentle blinking all the time.
c. Imagine stationary objects moving in the
opposite direction while walking or riding.
5. Whenever there is heaviness in the forehead or
eyes, close the eyes and practise touch swing for a
few minutes.
MYOPIA 1 7 9
6. Sun-treatment, eye wash and touch swing should
be practised daily morning and evening.
7. Write the condition of the eyes to the doctor
every fortnight.
Now, the record of vision was again taken. The
following are the results which were taken on 25th
March ’36.
B. E.
R. E.
L. E.
B. E.
R. E.
L. E.
Without Glasses.
D. V. N. V.
iIjV J 2 at 9 inches.
t
& u J 3 at 9 inches.
J 2 at 9 inches.
With Glasses.
J 1 at 9 inches.
J 1 at 9 inches.
J 1 at 9 inches.
Now, the vision was much better. The eyes could
open very well and could easily stand for the bright lights.
There was no difficulty in the daily routine without
glasses. The expression of the face looked brighter.
Others also could note that the eyes looked much better.
His Highness had remarked : “ Your eyes seem to have
much improved.”
After six months, I was again called to give another
course of treatment, for one month. In the morning,
I put him on sun—treatment, forehead massage, eye­
wash, palming and swinging exercise No. J. Gradually
180 MIND AND VISION
the vision of each eye went on improving and the
results were:—
After two years, His Excellency wrote that his vision
was so good that he could shoot at a long distance without
glasses. His Excellency wrote in his remark :
“ I was using glasses of—8 .0 ... .It is simply marvellous
that, within a short time, the visual power of my eyes
has wonderfully in creased....”
“ My daughter, who was using glasses of — 3.0 cylin­
drical, was able to discard the glasses and to gain
normal vision after 6 days’ treatment.” (Nov. 1955).
“ This time, the vision improved still further. From
20 ft, distance, I have been able to read 30 ft. line
without glasses, and 20 ft. line with glasses. The right
eye had very poor chances of its improvement, but it
has now improved to the level of the left eye. My
relative had blindness in his right eye, and was all
right in a week’s time.
“ In the interest of suffering humanity, I feel it my
duty to give expression to my deep sense of gratitude
to Dr. A g a rw a l....” (Ju ly, 1936).
3. A male patient, aged 18 o f—y j was able to
read only one letter of pocket eye testing chart E
Without Glasses
R. E.
L. E.
J 1 at 9 inches
J 1 at 9 inches
With Glasses
R. E.
L. E.
J x at 12 inches
J 1 at 12 inches
MYOPIA 181
without glasses, that is, his vision was First I demon­
strated how to blink, then gave sun-treatment for 15
minutes and asked him to practise palming for 10 minutes.
While palming, he could imagine perfectly. When he
opened his eyes, he began to read the next lines of
the chart. When he began to read the third line of
the chart, he began to stare, so I asked him to close
his eyes and palm again. After 5 minutes palming, he
began to read the chart again. I asked him to close
the eyes for a second after reading each letter and palm
for 2 minutes after reading each line. This checked his
staring. In half an hour’s practice, he was able to read five
feet line from five feet, vision became f-, that is, normal.
This improvement gave him great encouragement
and he continued the practices for several months but
was unable to make the improvement permanent. The
reason was that he could not keep the lids in right
position and could not blink frequently at other times.
He could relax perfectly only at the time of practice.
Then he wanted to give up the practices and use glasses.
So I advised him to use —3'© glass for distance only,
and practise sun-treatment and palming every morning
to check further deterioration.
4. A male patient, aged 23 began to use glasses
o f — i15 from the age of 13, and the number gradually
went on increasing to —7.0, in spite of constant use
o f spects. He stayed in the clinic for 10 days as an
indoor patient. From the first day, he kept the lids
down, did not try to look up or in front, and blinked
frequently just in the normal way. One day, his friend
came to see him. While talking, he looked at the ground
and not at his friend. He explained to his friend that
182 MIND AND VISION
this position of lids checks strain, helps in the improve.
went of vision and I should follow my doctor. The
patient wrote “ Blink Blink” on several pieces of card­
boards and put them on the table, walls and on his
coat. This helped him to blink all the time.
With closed eyes, his imagination was poor, so I put
him on swinging exercises. Glasses were discarded per­
manently. Vision began to improve and he was able
to read fifty feet line j , C, G, O at 10 ft. distance and
the vision was -Jg. After z years, he wrote, “ I had
been quite regular in my practices. Recently, I got my
eyes tested by the local doctor, who prescribed glasses
o f —2.5. As I am still unable to see distinctly at the
black-board in the college, I want to use glasses for
distance only, but 1 would not give up my practices.”
5. A college student, using glasses o f — 5.5, wanted
treatment. I used to attend him at his residence. I
advised him not to use glasses at all. His vision was
ims without glasses and Jg with glasses. By sun
treatment, palming and swinging, he was able to read
^g on the very first day and felt his head and eyes
very light. In the noon, he went to the college for
about an hour and could not check the temptation of
using glasses. When he returned home, he got severe
headache. Next day, when he described his story, I said
that it was a great mistake and it would be difficult
now to improve due to severe reaction. After five days’
trial, the patient did not show any good improvement
and the case was given up.
6. A girl had myopic astigmatism and was using
glasses of—3.0 cylindrical. She was able to imagine a
MYOPIA 18 3
black dot at varying distances. Game of ball "was a great
help. Sun-treatment relieved the glare. After six day’s
treatmeantj she gained normal vision and discarded the
glasses permanently. At times, specially in dim light,
she felt her distant sight defective, but she overcame
this defect by the imagination of “ O.”
Gam e of B all : Sit by the side of a table. Cover
the eyes with the left hand. R.oll a wooden ball on
the table to the opposite side. Someone helps from
the opposite side. Concentrate the mind on the sound
which is produced when the ball rolls. Catch the ball
when it comes to your side, by hearing its sound. After
playing for a few minutes, remove the left hand, read
the chart while still playing with the ball. Repeat
several times.
7. A school teacher was using glasses o f—2.5 and was
very anxious to discard them. His thoughts were
distorted and it was impossible for him to practise with
concentration. While palming or swinging, he had such
thoughts as one generally has in dreams. I changed
his exercises every now and then and he tried the treat­
ment for one month regularly, but did not show any
improvement. Improvement in such cases is generally
not possible due to lack of good imagination.
8. Amna, a lovely girl of 10 used to stare and
complained to her mother that she could not see the
letters on the biack-boatd in the class-room clearly. She
had myopia and was able to read thirty feet line at
ro ft. distance. When she read the chart, she did not
blink even once and bent her head forward.
First, I taught her blinking -and instructed her
18 4 MIND AND VISION
mother to put her under sun-treatment, palming and
chart reading. After one -week, her mother brought her
for an eye examination, but Arnna did not show any
improvement. I said to Amna, “ If you learn to blink
all the time, your eye-sight will be all right within a
■ week." Her mother said, “ Amna, you will get a prize
if you can learn blinking." Amna promised to learn
blinking. This time, I advised Amna to practise swing­
ing before bars for io minutes four times a day. This
exercise was like a game to her and she liked it much.
Amna did not come on the seventh day, as her mother
was very busy in other affairs. Then, I called Amna
on the telephone and enquired how she was. She re­
plied, “ I am all right now and can read io ft. line at
20 ft. distance. I said,) “ How did you improve so much
within a few days ?" She replied, “ Because now I blink.”
Since then, Amna blinks all the time and educates other
children to blink. Her mother was very grateful for
the benefit and presented a cheque of Rs, io i for the
Institute.
9. One student was wearing glasses of—4.0 and the
vision was He was ready to discard the glasses
permanently and practise faithfully. He could read finest
print at six inches, but central fixation was poor, that
is, he could not see each letter or word regarded
blacker than the rest. First, I put him on central fixation
series and improved his central fixation at six inches,
because at this distance, his vision was best,. Then I
placed a Snellen test card at 1 foot to practise central
fixation and gradually increased its distance to 10 feet
according to the progress in central fixation. Occasionally,
he practised palming and swinging. On the tenth day,
M YOPIA 18 5
his vision was J2. Then he went away home and
informed me after three months that he could read now
20 ft. line at 20 feet distance.
10. A student had myopia of about—3.0 in the right
eye and —3.5 in the left eye with little cylinder. The
vision was 0%
%in each eye. By sun-treatment and palm­
ing, he improved his sight tolg.
Then, I put the chart at three feet and asked him
to practise central fixation. When he looked at the top
of C, he noted the bottom of C worse, and vice-varsa.
By frequent palming, he could practise central fixation
on the seventh line (2, Q, C, O, G, D, E, C). Next step
was to imagine a black dot in the bottom part of each
letter. When he was able to imagine the dot, the letter
became blacker and began to pulsate up and down or
from side to side. Gradually, the distance of the chart
was increased to ten feet and the sight improved to
ig. Beyond this, he began to strain. I changed the
practice and asked him to read the photo print at
six inches and the big chart at 12 feet alternately,
or look at the tip of the finger at six inches and the
chart at 12 feet alternately.
During palming, he could not get good relaxation,
so I suggested to him, “ Imagine a black screen,
and place a white hankerchief on this black screen.
Place the letter T in the centre of the handkerchief and
imagine as if the letter T does drill. When it stretches
the arms up, it becomes Y , and then again assumes its
position of T. When it brings the right arm down and
stietches it to the left, it becomes F. He could perfectly
imagine like this, and the vision improved to or -gg.
CHAPTER XI
E R R O R S R E F R A C T IO N
H Y P E R M E T R O P I A A N D P R E S B Y O P I A
Sym ptom s : The vision at the near point is usually
poor. Hypermetropia may cause much pain, headache,
fatigue and other nervous troubles. In middle age,
serious eye diseases are caused by hypermetropia. Among
the most common are glaucoma, cataract and diseases
of the optic nerve and retina. In the early stages of
these serious diseases, they are more rapidly curable than
after they become chronic and more serious, because
the vision is only slightly affected and the treatment
■ which cures the hypermetropia is the treatment which
prevents serious eye diseases. It should be emphasized
that early treatment of hypermetropia yields quicker,
more permanent results than later treatment.
Treatm ent.—In studying hypermetropia, it is interesting
to consider the conclusions of well-known ophthalmologists.
One prominent doctor was asked this question, “ Is hyper­
metropia curable ?” He replied that it was not curable.
He was then asked, “ Why do you claim that no one can
cure hypermetropia ?” He answered, “ I know that it
cannot be cured because I was unable to succeed and if
I cannot succeed no one else can.”
Massage of the eye-lids has been recommended for
the cure of hypermetropia. Another doctor claimed
H Y PER M ETR O PIA 1 8 7
that he was able to cure a majority of cases o f hyper-
metropia, and that if the patient was not cured by
massage, no other doctor in the world could succeed.
Other physicians, however, did not believe that massage
was a cure of hypermetropia.
All measures, which prevent strain and promote relaxa­
tion, are always beneficial. A strain at a near point
always increases the amount of hypermetropia or produces
it in the normal eye while strain to see at a distance
lessens hypermetropia and the vision may improve and
continue to improve until myopia is produced, when
the vision is lowered. Some patients stare towards the
moon. Out of them, those who are hypermetropic
improve; but those who are myopic become more defective.
If distant sight is good, central fixation exercises will
be sufficient to improve the near sight. If distant sight
is also defective, first improve the distant vision by
swinging exercises and palming. Blinking on white
lines and reading of fine print card with a card hole
during the course of treatment prove very helpful.
Kite flying, shooting, tennis, running are good exercises.
Case Reports.
i. A boy of nine years had difficulty in reading his
book. An eye specialist prescribed glasses of -f-6'o for each
eye. The father did not like the idea o f putting spectacles
on the face of the young child, so he brought him to me
for treatment. I prescribed sun-treatment, palming and
reading of Snellen eye chart and reading test type. The
boy practised under the care of his father morning and
evening for half an hour. Within a month’s time, eye-sight
became normal both for distance and near.
188 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
2. A college student was wearing glasses of + 5 ’J
constantly. One of his doctor friends told him that he
might suffer from glaucoma in his old age. He came
for my opinion. I said, “ It may become true.” If you
would go under my treatment, you would improve
your eye-sight. Without glasses, his vision of each eye was
■§§ for distance, and No. i on fundamental card for near.
He attended the clinic daily for 20 days and repeated
the following programme every day :
1. Apply Resolvent 200 with a rod in each eye.
2. Sun-treatment for 15 minutes.
3. Eye-wash with cold water.
4. Palming for 5 minutes.
5. Swinging before bars with both eyes for 10 minutes.
6. Central fixation exercises for 20 minutes.
7. Reading of distant chart for 5 minutes.
8. Reading of reading test type and book for 10
minutes.
He repeated the same programme at his home.
After twenty days, his vision was —
R. E. fg, No. 6 of fundamental card
L. E. §§, No. 6 of fundamental card
The patient had to study for some competitive exami­
nation and wanted glasses, so glasses of + 2-5 for read­
ing only were prescribed and he was able to read
more easily than his former glasses. He continued
HY PER M ETR O PIA 18 9
sun-treatment, palming and reading of the fundamental
card daily for 20 minutes.
3. A young female patient complained to her doctor
that she felt pain in the eye-balls and heaviness in the
head while doing sewing and needle work. The doctor
prescribed glasses of + 0 7 5 for each eye; but she got
no relief. She again went to the doctor who advised
her to continue the same glasses for sometime. When
she found no benefit, she came to my clinic. The
examination revealed that she had normal sight both
for distance and near. Then I gave her a needle and
thread to sew in my presence. While sewing, she
neither blinked nor shifted her sight with the move­
ment of the needle, but stared continuously at the
stitches. I demonstrated the right method of sewing.
At first, she showed shyness and felt little difficulty, but
then soon brought it into her habit, and did sewing
for an hour without any discomfort. Since then, she
made no complaint about her eyes.
4. Mr. Gupta, a college student used to feel eye-strain
and headache in reading. Sometimes reading of a page
became difficult. He used glasses of 4-0*5 with little
cylinder under the advice of an eye specialist, for several
months. He could read 20 feet line at twenty feet distance,
and finest print at one foot distance. First, I taught
him to blink on the white lines in between the lines
of print and he repeated this exercise on 10 pages
several times a day. After 3 days, I gave him a pocket
C card to practise central fixation. On the sixth day,
I asked him to keep his sight on the white line just
below a word and imagine it blacker, and finish a pages
190 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
in this way. From the seventh day, he began reading
his book with a card hole. On the tenth day, he read
his book for hours together without any discomfort. He
put a question ;
Q. How is it I got eye-stiain while reading though
my sight was normal, and how did central fixation help
me so much ?
A. Your eyes tried to see many a word at a glance
and this caused strain. Central fixation taught your eyes
to see each word at a time.
5. A male patient used to get severe pain in his
right eye for 5 years. The pain usually increased in
reading to such an extent that even few minutes’ read­
ing was not possible. The doctors prescribed plus glasses
which could not stop the pain. The patient had to
discontinue his studies.
His vision was normal both for distance and near.
For a few days, I put him on swinging exercise, which
gave relief and the pain became much less. Then I
asked him to practise central fixation on “ C” chart, pocket
size, and blink on white lines imagining the letters above
the white line blacker. Then I gave a photoprint card
to read with both eyes and each eye separately. The
patient was totally relieved of the trouble and was
able to read for hours without feeling any strain.
The cause of severe pain in right eye was loss of
central fixation while reading. When the eye began to
see the letters with central fixation, the strain was
relieved.
P R E SB Y O P IA 1 9 1
P R E SB Y O P IA OR OLD A G E SIGH T
Presbyopia or old age sight occurs in people after
the age of forty. Although the sight may be good for
distant vision, it is always poor at a near point.
When a person with presbyopia tries to read fine
print and fails, the focus is always pushed farther away
than it was before the attempt was made, indicating
that the failure was caused by strain. Even the thought
of making such an effort will produce strain, so that
the refraction may be changed, and pain, discomfort
and fatigue produced, before the fine print is regarded.
Glasses, by neutralizing the effect of the imperfect
action of the muscles, may enable the patient to read;
but they cannot relieve any of these strains. On the
contrary, they usually make them worse, and it is a
matter of common experience that the vision declines
rapidly after the patient begins to wear the glasses.
When people put on glasses, because they cannot read
fine print, they often find that in a couple of weeks
they are unable to read without glasses the fine print
that was perfectly plain to them before.
Treatment : Presbyopia is cured just as any other
error of refraction is cured by rest. But there is a great
difference in the way patients respond to this treatment.
Some are cured very quickly, even in as short a time
as fifteen minutes; others are very slow; but as a rule,
relief is obtained within a reasonable period. While it
is sometimes very difficult to cure presbyopia, it is for­
tunately very easy to prevent it. Persons, whose sight
is beginning to fail at the near point, or who are
19 2 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
approaching the presbyopic age, can easily be cured simply
by leading the fine print daily both morning and evening
as close to the eyes as possible. Sun-treatment, palming,
blinking on white lines are a great help in curing pres­
byopia. Central fixation practices have proved very bene­
ficial. Alternate reading of distant chart and reading
test type prove very helpful. While reading, imagine as
if letters are written in dark black ink. Imagination of
black dot is an advantage. When a patient books at
the white spaces between the lines ordinary book type,
he can read for hours and no fatigue, pain or discomfort
is felt. When discomfort and pain in the eyes is felt
while reading, it is because the patient is looking directly
at the letters.
Causes of Failure
1. A very common cause of failure Is to look at
the black letters and to pay no attention to the white
spaces between the lines. Sometimes the imagination
of the white spaces may be improved sufficiently so that
one begins to read fine print, and almost immediately
the vision is lost, because of the great temptation to
look at the letters.
2. The patient stops blinking.
3. When people imagine the white spaces or white
line, they close their eyes for too short a time, and
when they open them, they are very apt to keep them
open too long a time. It is really remarkable how diffi­
cult it is for some people to close their eyes for part
of a minute and then open them for just a second.
4. Some patients while imagining the white line or
P R E S B Y O P IA 19 3
spaces, test their eye-sight. Testing the sight causes
strain which always lowers the vision.
5 After some of the tests, the patients ask questions
or make statements which show they pay no attention
whatever to the direction for avoiding strain. Such
patients are not benefited.
6. Many patients seem to be bewildered by all sorts
of things they have heard about presbyopia.
7. Others have a bad habit of outlining their own
plan of treatment.
Case Reports
1. One highly educated gentleman of fifty five-years
of age had worn glasses sincethe age of forty His
distant vision was normal, i o / io with each eye separately.
Then I gave him the reading test type. He held it
at arm’s length and began to read up to No. 5; but
when I asked him to bring it closer to twelve inches,
he could read only No. 1 and 2 without glasses. I told
him not to worry about the reading ; but to see only
the white lines in between the lines of fine print by
blinking. After finishing the white lines each time read
one line from above, After reading each line from above
he shifted to the white lines of the fine print. The
treatment lasted for about thirty-five minutes. Soon he
became able to read No. 6 at one foot distance. Then by
the help of sun-treatment and palming, he read the
fine print.
2. Another patient of about sixty years was wearing
glasses of plus five. His sight was tested on the test
196 M IN D A N D V IS IO N
sun-treatment and palming. The vision began to improve
rapidly both for distance and near. On the fifth day,
his vision was as follows :
Right eye = 10/20, No. 8 of fundamental card
Left eye ==10/30, No. 5 of fundamental card.
The gratitude of Mr. Sinha was profound and be
has since then proved a loyal friend to this treatment.
Very recently, he wrote to me in his letter that he
consulted the famous eye specialist of Patna who was of
opinion that the right eye was normal and the left eye
had cataract. Further, Mr. Sinha wrote that he could
read the finest print of the reading test type at one
foot distance without the aid of glasses, and the 10 ft.
line from 10 feet distance with his good eye. As he
had to do much reading work, it was difficult for him
to keep up the relaxation, so glasses of +2-5 were
prescribed for reading. Cataract developed in the left eye
because he neglected to practise with each eye separately.
4. A patient of fifty was using glasses of + i ‘5.
Distant sight was good. He could read No. 4 of
fundamental card at 12 inches without glasses. While
reading, some letters appeared in the form of many like a
penumbra. When he made the eye little open by squeezing
the lids or looked through a small hole made in the hand
or paper, he could read fine print clearly. He was under
the impression that the defect in his eye due to some
change in the lens was permanent and he put this question :
Q. Why do I see clearly through a small hole if
the decline in vision is permanent at my age ?
PRESBYO PIA 197
A. When you see through a small hole, the rays
are centred. If you can improve the sensitiveness of
macula lutea to that extent that it may not allow dis­
tortion of the rays, you will be able to read as clearly
as through a hole. The sensitiveness of macula lutea
is improved by central fixation.
Sun-treatment was not a help in his case, but he
used to take sun-treatment in the morning for a few
minutes. Frequent practices of central fixation enabled
him to read photo-print within a few months. At times,
during his office work, he used to relax his eyes by
looking at the sky or by reading a chart hanged in his
room at about fifteen feet.
C H A P T E R X l i
ERRORS OF REFRACTION
A ST IG M A T ISM
The study of astigmatism is important because of
its frequency and because so many serious eye diseases
are preceded by astigmatism. The eye doctors teli
their patients that in order to prevent serious eye
diseases, glasses should be worn constantly. Such
patients, accordingly, become much worried and are in
constant fear of serious eye trouble developing, and
probable blindness resulting. It is true that the glasses
prescribed may give temporary relief; but no patient
is benefited very much by the use of glasses.
Occurrence : Astigmatism is the most common
defect of the human eye. Most people with astigmatism
have had it since birth. In some cases, it may
increase, while in other cases, it may become less or
entiiely disappear. Astigmatism is usually combined with
hypermetropia or myopia. Some cases of astigmatism
are due to imperfect curvature of the lens, or less
frequently to a malformation of the eye-ball.
Sym ptom s : When a high degree of astigmatism
is present, the vision is appreciably lowered. Usually
when vertical lines are regarded, they may appear
more distinct than the horizontal lines, or the reverse
may be the case. This is, however, not a reliable test
because patients with normal vision do not always see
vertical or horizontal lines equally well.
ASTIGMATISM 199
Many patients with astigmatism complain of headaches
and pain in various parts of the head and eyes. Some
patients have said that when their eyes become tired
or when they feel uncomfortable in any way, they get
relief by removing the glasses. One patient after wear­
ing glasses for a few days, complained that every
morning, when he puthis glasses on, the painin his
head increased very much, and that, after wearing glasses
for a few hours, the pam was partially relieved. His
doctor told him that he needed to wear the glasses
several weeks before his eyes could get used to them.
The patient then told him that he had come to have
glasses fitted to his eyes, and not his eyes fitted to glasses.
Cause : Astigmatism is caused by mental strain or
an effort to see, either consciously or unconsciously.
It has been demonstrated that astigmatism can be pro­
duced by staring or straining to see. The normal eye
with normal sight, normal memory or normal imagina­
tion has no astigmatism, but when the normal eye
remembers or imagines imperfectly, the retinoscope shows
the presence of astigmatism.
Pain in the eyes and the head can always be
produced in the normal eye by straining or making an
effort to see. Such headaches disappear promptly when
relaxation methods are employed.
Treatm ent: Astigmatism is caused by mental strain
and can only be cured by complete relief of the strain.
Patients suffering from various forms of the astigmatism
are benefited by pratising central, fixation, swingin g,
improving memory and sun-treatment.
200 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
For the correction of astigmatism, we should consider
favourable conditions, which promote the best vision.
Some patients with astigmatism, perhaps the majority,
prefer bright light. They can see better in the strong
sunlight and the astigmatism becomes less than when
the light is dim. Other patients with astigmatism see
better, and the astigmatism becomes less or disappears
in a dim light, while it may be very much increased
in a bright light. Some patients give good results on
black chart while others on white chart. The patient
should practise on the chart on which he gets better
results. For the improvement of near sight, central
fixation series are very helpful and for distant sight
swinging generally is very beneficial.
C a s e R -eportS'
A>boy of sixteen was treated by me for the relief of eye
troubles, caused by compound hypermetropic astigmatism.
Sunlight caused great discomfort to him and he suffered1
from headache. H‘e also complained of seeing floating
specks. He was not able to read his books for any length
of time without pain and fatigue. Hds distant vision was
also imperfect. He went to different eye doctors for the
relief of the eye troubles. Each doctor prescribed a
different number for his glasses ; but no one could help
him in relieving the trouble.
1 tested his sight without glasses. The vision of
the right eye was 10/100 and the vision of the left
eye was 10/70. He could not read any print of the
reading test type, and as he- tried' to tead wrinkles'
appeared on his forehead and cheeks.
ASTIGM ATISM 201
The first treatment was to give him sun-treatment
in the early morning for lo to 30 minutes, add then
he palmed for to minutes continuously. After three
days practice he felt himself better. Then I enducated
him in blinking for about fifteen minutes. Distant
buildings seen through the Window appeared to move
slightly with him, while the window and its bars
moved rapidly opposite. Whenever he stopped blink^
ing to see the things better, the movement of objects
became less or stopped altogether and this Caused dis­
comfort. 1 told him to close the eyes at once for
a few minutes whenever he felt discomfort. He
continued this swaying practice daily for four or five
times. Swinging helped him very much in relieving
all kinds of his discomforts, the vision also improved
both for distance and near. Seven days later his vision
as noted by the test card had improved to 10/20 and
the letters were clearer and distinct. I gave him a
leading test type to hold in his hand. He could read
No. 5 o f fundamentals easily.
Along with the sway, he practised sun-treatment
and palming daily. Just after palming he -practised
on the leading test type. After a fortnight he
became able to read the fine print. Daily he was
advised to write the whole reading test type five times.
2. A girl of eighteen came'to me for treatment. She
began to use glasses from the age o f seven for slight
convergent squint in the left eye. At the age of
fifteen no squint was appreciable, but she could
produce- it' by effort. Her doctor, changed the glst-sses and
prescribed a lower number. Since then she was using
202 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
this number. She was using glasses of simple myopic
astigmatism.
I examined her thoroughly in the dark room and
on the test card; and found that she was suffering
from simple hypermetropic astigmatism and not with
simple myopic astigmatism. Her vision on the test
card was 10/5. and she could read only No. 5 of the
reading test type. She felt pain and headache when­
ever she read sometime.
I demonstrated blinking to her for some minutes
and then asked her to glance at the white spaces in
between the words for two days. During these two
days she finished about 100 pages, glancing at white
spaces and felt no trouble. Then on the third day I
gave her the test type, and she read the whole of it.
It was very pleasing to her. Then I gave the reduced
photographic type; she felt her eyes tired. I asked her
to palm for 10 minutes and the eyes became very
restful.
3. Another girl aged twelve, daughter of a civil
surgeon, was suffering from compound myopic astig­
matism. She was using glasses for five years. Her
vision was 10/100 with each eye separately and with
both eyes together. In every case blinking and lower­
ing the lids are the first instructions to be given. I
asked her to practise the sway before the window for
four days continuously four times a day each time
devoting half an hour. She practised the sway very
well both with closed, and open eyes. On the fifth
day I examined. her again on the. test card, her yision
jw;as'-10/40 this day. '• ‘ .■ w • •
ASTIGMATISM 203
Then I advised her to take the sun-treatment, be­
fore practising the sway. The sun helped her very
much. By the twelfth day her vision improved to 10/15.
4. A student aged seventeen wanted to be treated
for mixed astigmatism by correspondence. He had
studied my literature very well. I agreed to give him
the treatment by correspondence, because he was a boy
and could not come from Deccan to myoffice. He
had great faith in my treatment. The glasses that he
was using gave him pain. With the aid of palming,
swinging, and the use ofhis imagination, his vision
improved to normal. Each letter contained many pages,
full of questions. It is very unusual for such patients
to obtain such quick cure by correspondence.
5. A patient, a European girl of seventeen complain­
ed of feeling of dust and glare in the sun, dimness
before the eyes when she came from the light into the
shade, sight defective both for distance and near,
frequent headache and heaviness in the eyes. An eye
specialist had prescribed the following glasses:
Right eye.— -+
- 0.75 Spherical with + o.j Cylinderical
Left eye.— -f 2.5 Spherical with -f- 0.5 Cylinderical
After using these glasses for six months she threw
them away as they did not relieve her complaints and
disfigured the face.
On the advice of her friend, she attended my clinic on
January 2, 1940, with her father who is the primemjnister
in a state. The examination revealed the following facts ;
1, Distant Vision of right eye = ■§
§
■ Distant- Vision-of -left -eye - '• = ’ - ■ -■
204 MlNt) AND VISION
Near Vision of right eye at 9 inches = No. 7 of
Fundamental Card.
Near Vision of left eye at 9 inches = No. a of
Fundamental card.
a. No improvement with glasses.
3. Field of vision milch contracted in both eyes.
4. No deficiency of Vitamin A, as indicated by
Bio-Photometer.
5. No Organic defect.
I prescribed the following treatment which she daily
tarried out at home and in the clinic i
1. Sun-treatment with eye-Wash.
2. Palming for 5 minutes.
3. Swinging exercises.
4. Reading the Chart at 10 feet and reading test
type at 9 inches.
j . At times central fixation exercises and game of snap.
After 20 days’ treatment the right eye became' normal,
and the left eye improved to -jg. She was able td read
No. 7 of fundamental card with left eye. Field of
Vision became normal in each eye. All other complaints
disappeared.
The attention was concentrated» now, on the left
eye. 1 advised her to cover the good eye with an
eye-shield for most of the time, and continue the
exercises with the left eye. The improvement was steady,
and after two months treatment, left' eye' also became
normal'. She used to read photd-prin’t -with' each eye.
CHAPTER XITI
F L O A T I N G SPEC KS
M U S G A E V O L I T A N T E S
Floating specks or flying flies is a very common
phenomena of imperfect sight These floating specks
are usually strings o f black thread or small light-colour­
ed globules resembling tears. Floating specks may be
apparently a quarter of an inch or more in size and
they may be o f any shape. They move somewhat
rapidly, usually in curves, before the eyes. If one tries
to look at them directly, they seem to move a little
farther away. Hence their name, flying flies.
General Belief about its Causation
1. Due to presence o f dead cells or the debris of
cells in the vitreous humour.
2 . Might be caused by the passage of tears over
the cornea.
3 . Due to disturbances of blood circulation, diges­
tion and the kidneys.
True Cause,—The truth is that the cause o f the
floating specks is purely mental strain. When a patient
stares or strains to see, by looking at a light-colourel
surface, he may see, or imagine he sees, floating
specks. Imperfect memory causes floating specks before
the eyes. Persons with normal vision, who have never
206 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
been conscious of floating specks, can be taught how
to imagine them by straining—to imagine letters,
colours or other objects imperfectly.
The ability to see or imagine floating specks may
occur in children or in adults of any age. Floating
specks are so common in myopia that they are suppos­
ed to be one of the symptoms of this condition, al­
though they occur also with other errors of refraction,
as well as in eyes otherwise normal.
Treatm ent.— In the treatment of floating specks, it
is important to convince the patient thoroughly that
they are only imagined and not seen. It helps very
much to impress on the patient’s mind that to see
these floating specks requires a sufficient strain ; one
has to use a perfect imagination of all objects seen,
remembered or imagined at all times and in all places.
Blinking and swinging prove very beneficial. While
regarding any object move your sight from one part
to another. Several patients have been benefited simply
by blinking and lowering the lids and shifting rhe
sight from one part to another.
A patient came to me from Lucknow. He used to
see the objects distorted (metamorphopsia). The
floating specks remained before the eyes. The patient
was suffering from myopic astigmatism. He had con­
sulted many eye specialists about these discomforts.
Glasses improved the sight, but did not relieve the
discomforts. Blinking, lowering the lids, sun-treatment
and shifting helped him very much. It was a very
FLO A TIN G SPEC K S 2 0 7
interesting case to observe. Whenever he stopped
blinking and raised the lids and tried to stare, the
objects became distorted, the floating specks appeared
before the eyes ; but as soon as he continued blinking
and shifted his sight from one point to another, all
these troubles were relieved.
Another patient, aged about fifty-five years, suspected
cataract in his eyes. He used to see floating specks
before the eyes and it was very annoying to him. His
doctor had told him that it was due to cataract. I
examined his eyes thoroughly with the ophthalmoscope.
The patient had no cataract. It was simply a case of
strain. The relaxation methods cured him very quickly.
CHAPTER XIV
SQ UIN T AND D O U BLE V ISIO N
Since we have two eyes, it is obvious that in the
act of sight two pictures must be formed; and in order
that these two pictures shall be fused into one by
the mind, it is necessary that there shall be perfect
harmony of action between the two organs of vision.
In looking at a distant object the two visual axes must
be parallel, and in looking at an object at a less distance
than infinity, which for practical purposes is less than
twenty teet, they must converge to exactly the same
degree. The absence of this harmony of action is known
as “ Squint” or “ Strabismus” and is one of the most
distressing of eye defects, not only because of the lowering
of vision involved, but because the want of symmetry in
the most expressive feature of the face, which results
from it, has a most unpleasant effect upon the personal
appearance.
Divergent squint Eye turns out.
Convergent squint : Eye turns in.
Vertical sq u in t: Eye may look too high or too low
Alternating squint : When the above conditions
change from one eye to another, and sometimes the
character of the squint changes in the same eye,
Sometimes the patient is conscious of seemg two
images of the object regarded, and sometimes be is not.
SQUINT 209
Usually there is a lowering of vision in the deviating
eye which cannot be improved by glasses, and for which
no apparent or sufficient cause can be found. This
condition is known as amblyopia. It is very common,
and more prevalent among children than adults.
Cause,—There are many theories about squint described
in the test-books. They seem to fit some cases but
leave others un-explained, and all the methods of treat­
ment are admitted to be very uncettain in their results.
The idea that the squint is due to lack of harmony
in the strength of the eye muscles that turn the eyes
to various directions seems such a natural one that this
theory was almost universally accepted at one time.
Operations based upon it once had a great vogue; but
to-day they are advised by most authorities only as a
last resort.
The true cause of squint is a mental strain. Internal
squint is produced by a different strain from the one
which turns the eyes out, upward or downward. Double
vision is produced by a mental strain different from that
which lowers the vision or causes fatigue, pain or
dizziness. Normal eyes have been taught to produce
consciously all kinds of squint at will. This requires
an effort which is variable in its intensity.
The fact suggests that since squint in all its manifes­
tations can be produced at will, it should be considered
curable by eye education. It is a well-known fact that
many persons, including children, can learn how to pro­
duce squint and become able to relieve permanently all
210 M IND AN D VISION
the varied symptoms of squint. The success of tne
operative treatment is very uncertain.
Treatm ent of Young children.— i. Children of six
years, or younger, can usually be cured o f squint by
the use of atropine, a one per cent, solution being utilised
into one or both eyes twice a day for many months,
a year, or longer. The atropine makes it more difficult
for the child to see, and makes the sunlight dis­
agreeable. In order to overcome this handicap, it has
to practise relaxation, and relaxation cures the squint.
2. Mothers or nurses should cover the eyes of the
babies while milking them, because the babies move their
eyes in the opposite direction to the movement of their
heads. For example, when they lie to the left, they
move their eyes to the right in order to see something.
¿They should be milked from both the sides for it causes
equal balancing of the eyes.
3. Children should be kept apart from children or
other persons who have squint.
4. Sway the babies in a regular and gentle swing
from side to side.
5. The cradle is a good help.
6. The game of hide and seek is a very interesting
game for children and can be enjoyed for long periods
with great benefit.
7. Swinging the body in a circular direction (like
dancing) hastens the cure. Or the child may be held
strongly enough by an adult to lift his feet from the
SQUINT 211
floor and then swing the child in a circular way, and
at the same time, the child ts encouraged to look upward
as much as possible. The little patients always seem to
enjoy this form of exercise.
8. Games of all kinds have been practised with
much benefit to the squint in children. Different games
have been described in the cure of amblvopia.
9, Teaching the children with squint the names o f
the different colours at a near or greater distance is
of benefit. In the beginn ng, the size of the colours
may need to be large to help the memory, imagination
or sight. As the sight improves, the child becomes
able to distinguish the colours of very small objects.
One may need to spend half an hour or longer daily
for some weeks in order to improve the vision for
colours to the maximum.
10. Using the poor eye with squint for a period of
time each day while the good eye is covered with a
patch is of benefit to the poor eye and lessens the squint.
Children do not like to wear a patch, because no
one likes to have the good eye covered for a length
of time. At first the patch would be worn for five
minutes each day and then the time gradually increased
until the patient is able to wear the patch all day long.
11 . Numbers and letters of the alphabet can also be
taught to the child who has squint. Then every morn­
ing and evening the test card should be read with both
eyes together and then with the poor eye alone, having
the good eye covered with the palm or the patch.
212 MIND AND VISION
12. Blinking and palming prove very efficient. If the
child cannot palm himself, the mother may put her hand
or the child’s hands on the eyes and then talk about
pleasant things with the child.
13. Cases of squint should be kept under the super­
vision of one who has good sight. No one with
imperfect sight ought to try to help such cases at home
because it cannot be done successfully. The unconscious
strain which is evident when the sight is not perfect
always produces more strain in the squint cases which
are under treatment.
14. Swinging and palming to be combined in a swing­
ing game in which two children join hands and swing
with music. Children should look at the ceiling while
they swing. At times they disconnect their hands, stop
the swing, and palm. Beneficial for all the pupils.
15. Game with splints. Keep the E or ‘Pot-hook’
eye card hanging in the room. Have children sit at a
table 10 or 14 feet from this eye card, and facing it.
Request children to make a picture with splints of the
fourth line or any other line of characters on the card.
When reading this E card the child may indicate which
way each ‘E ’ points, by the splint or by finger.
F o r Grown up children and others
1. Blinking and Palming are very helpful in each
case.
2. Patch—Some patients are benefited by wearing a
patch over the good eye, so that the patient is compelled
to use the squinting eye for vision.
SQUINT 2 1 3
3. Swinging: All most all cases o f squint are bene-
fitted by swinging practice. They can be taught to
imagine, while good eye is covered, that stationary
objects are moving. In cases where the swing of stationary
object is not readily accomplished, any of the following
methods may be effective :
a. The forefinger is held about six inches in front
of the face, and a short distance to one side. By looking
straight ahead and moving the head side to side, the
finger appears to move. This movement of the finger is
greater than the movement of objects at the distance,
but, by practice, patients become able to imagine not
only the finger to be moving, but also distant objects
as well.
b. The patient may stand about two feet to one
side of a table on which an open book is placed. When
he steps one or two paces forward, the book and the
table appear to move backward. When he takes two or
more steps backward the table and the book appear to
move forward.
c. The patient stands in front of a window and looks
at the distant objects. By swinging the body from side
to side, the window and its bars may be imagined to
be moving from side to side, in the opposite direction
to the movement of the body, and the more distant
objects apper to move in the same direction in which
he moves his head and eyes.
d. The patient stands ten feet or less from the Snellen
test card and looks to the right side of the room, five
feet or more from the card. When he looks to the
2 1 4 MIND AND VISION
right, the card is always to the left of where he is
looking. When he looks to the Lft side of the room
the card is to the right of where he is looking. By
alternately looking from one side of the catd to the other,
the patient becomes able to imagine that when he looks
to the right everything in the room moves to the left.
When he looks to the left, everything in the room
appears to move to the right. After some practice,
he becomes able to imagine that the caid is moving in
the opposite direction to the movement of the eyes.
This movement can be shortened by shortening the move­
ment of the eyes from side to side.
4. Practice with a familiar card, or a card whose
letters are remembered, is one of the best methods known
for curing the imperfect sight of squint and the squint
itself.
5. Some patients of squint see best where they are
not looking. To cure this condition ^eccentric fixation)
central fixation practices should be practised. The patient
is told to look at the first letter on the line of the
Snellen test card at some distance, and to note that the
letters toward the right end of the line are blurred or
not seen at all. By alternately stiifting from the begin­
ning of the line to the end of the line and back again,
the vision is usually improved, because eccentric fixation
is lessened by this practice. Sometimes, it is necessary
for the instructor to stand behind the card and watch
the eyes of the patient. The instructor directs the
patient to look down when he sees that the patient is
looking too far up.
6. If the usual treatment of squint fails, it is well
SQUINT 2 1 5
to teach such cases to see double. In many cases of
squint the patient sees double images. These cases are
more readily cured. This suggests that the persons who
have squint may be taught how to produce double vision.
When the right eye turns in towards the nose and
the left eye is straight, the letter or other object seen
by the left or normal eye, is seen straight ahead, while
the image seen by the right or squinting eye is suppressed
by an effort and is not seen at all. To teach the patient
to see with both eyes at the same time requires much
time and patience. When double vision obtained, the
image seen by the right eye is to the right, while
image seen by the left eye is to tine left. We say that
the images are seen on the same side as the eye which
sees them. With the eyes closed, the patient is taught
to imagine a letter, object or a light to be double,
each imagined to be on the same side as the eye with
which the patient imagines he sees it. With an effort,
two images may be made to separate to any desired extent.
By repeatedly imagining the double images with the eye
closed, the patient becomes able, with the eyes open, to
imagine the double images to be separated a few inches
or less, a foot apart or further.
Patients become able not only to imagine images
with the eyes closed, apparently seen on the same side
as the eye which imagines them, but also to imagine
crossed images, that is the right eye image is imagined
to the left, while the left eye image is imagined to
the right. With one or both eyes turned in each of
the double images is imagined on the same side as the
eye which imagines it. When the images are crossed,
the divergent squint is corrected and the eyes turn in.
216 MIND AND VISION
It is well to practise the production and the control
of the crossed images in cases of divergent squint It
is interesting to observe how quickly two images can
be made to cross, to approach each other and form
one. By practising the production of crossed images fot
a considerable time each day, the crossed images become
consciously, habitually or permanently crossed when a
cure is obtained.
Imagination of the images on the same side is help­
ful in cases of convergent squint.
One can produce all forms of vertical, internal or
external squint, and this process helps in the cure of
squint. Direct the patient to close the eyes and place
the fingers lightly on the outside of the closed eyelids.
With the help o f the imigination of the candle images
one can move the right eye in, while the left eye
remains straight and vice versa- The right eye imagines
the image to the left while the left eye imagines the
image to the same side. The patient can produce every
imaginable form of squint with the eyes closed better
than the eyes open. With the eyes open, later, one
becomes able to produce squint in flashes or temporarily
and then more continuously. It is interesting to tell by
the sense of touch whether the eye was looking in,
out, down, up or straight.
7. Patients with internal squint can be cured by
teaching them how to practise divergent squint, either
with the eyes open or with the eyes closed.
8. Cases of divergent squint are benefited by look-
SQUINT 2 17
mg at the tip of the nose or point of the pencil held
at the nose.
9. As soon as the patient gains sufficient mental
control to remember a perfectly black dot, squint dis­
appears. Permanent cure is a matter of making this
temporary state permanent.
10. One of the best ways of gaining mental control
in cases of squint is to learn how to increase the squint,
or produce other kinds of squint, voluntarily.
Double Vision
When the eye regards two images of one object, it
is called double vision or diplopia.
Homonymous Diplopia : When the image seen by
the right eye is to the right of the image seen by the
left eye.
Crossed D iplopia: When the image seen by the
right eye is to the left of the other image. Generally,
convergent squint is present in such cases.
Cause: Eye strain, which is a mental phenomena,
is capable of producing in the eyes two images (diplopia),
many images (polyopia). The strain which causes double
vision is different from other strains. Even normal
eyes, if taught to produce double vision, can produce
double vision. This suggests that the strain is the cause
of the double vision and relaxation is its cure.
218 MIND AND VISION
How to Produce Double Vision
i. If one will press the lower lid of the eye with
the forefinger, while both eyes ate open, one can im­
mediately produce two objects where there is only one.
The harder the pressure against the lower lid, the
further away the one object moves from the other.
One is real and the other is, of course, an illusion.
It is a good practice to do consciously where one is
troubled with double vision. When double vision
becomes worse consciously, one is very likely to become
able to cure this defect sooner than is expected. One
can imagine how the patient must have strained his
eye in order to produce the double vision constantly,
not only while the patient was at work but at all
times while he was awake.
z. Imagine two lights, one directly above the other,
at an angle of 90 degrees. When the strain will be
sufficient, the two lights would be seen on the horizontal
plane. With the help of the strain, the two images
can be seen at an angle of 45 degrees, 60 degrees or
75 degrees. In short, one can produce double images
close together or double images farther apart and at
any angle.
3. To produce double images, one above the other,
look at a light about ten. feet away and strain to see
a small letter just below it at an angle of 90 degrees.
4. Look above a light, or a letter, and then try
to see it as well as when directly regarded. If the
strain is strong enough, you can p'roduce not only
S Q U IN T A N D D O U B L E V ISIO N 219
double images but an illusion of several lights, or letters
(polyopia), arranged vertically. If the strain is still great
enough, there may be as many as a dozen of them.
By looking to the side of the light or letter, or look­
ing away obliquely at any angle, the images can be
made to arrange themselves horizontally or obliquely at
any angle.
5. Most patients can see or imagine double vision
by practising with a lighted candle or other object.
When one is practising with a candle at twenty feet,
two candles can be imagined five feet apart or one foot
apart. If the objects are on the same level, they can
usually be controlled much better than when one is
higher than the other. In a case of convergent squint,
it is quite easy to imagine the two objects as they
should be imagined ; the image of the right eye should
be to the right, the image of the left eye should be
to the left. When the two images are on separate levels,
it is well to practise so as to attain two images on the
same level. This makes it easier to control the two
images in other directions.
By alternately regarding the images without effort
or strain, they will approach each ocher until they touch,
overlap or become fused into one object, Then more
practice should be done with the object of obtaining
control of the location. By forms of effort the image
of the right eye may be forced to the right. This
should be practised for half an hour or longer, forcing
the images seen by each eye to approach crossed. At
first, the images are not controlled, they may cross and
separate a wide distance, three feet or even sisfeet.
220 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
Treatment—Blinking is a good help, because, generally,
one or the other eye remains fixed.
2. Imagination of stationary objects to be moving is
very important. Long swing practised with both
eyes open, and then with the good eye covered, is very
helpful.
3. Patients should be educated how to see objects.
One should drift the sight from one point to ano her
of the object and imagine that to be moving in the
opposite direction.
4. Palming practised several times a day.
5. Other relaxation methods may also be tried with
benefit.
6. The good eye may be kept covered with a patch
for some time.
7. If the patient does not improve, educate him how
to produce double vision consciously and make the
condition worse.
8. If the patient sees the letters double while
reading, educate him in the correct way of reading and
writing.
9. In cases of squint, treat the squint.
.Case Reports
1. Mr. Brijmohanlal, a famous jeweller of Agra, while
returning from Europe, suffered from double vision.
When he reached India, the trouble increased. He
SQ U IN T AND D O U BLE VISIO N 221
consulted different eye-specialists in India. The doctors
thought that the double vision might be due to paresis
of external eye muscles; and that the paresis might be
due to some toxin in the body. They repotted the
vision to be normal. They gave twenty-seven injections
in the arm for the cure of double vision, but the disease
became worse. I examined him very thoroughly. The
vision was normal, but I marked that at certain time,
the eye changed into a different shape and became
blind. To know whether the double vision was due to
strain or not, I asked him to shift his eyes from one
side to the other and biink while seeing any object. I
placed my fountain pen before him. Now he shifted his
sight from the top to the bottom and from the bottom
to the top, and noticed that the pen jumped up and
down. I asked him whether he saw the pen double. He
said, “ No.”
“ Now stop blinking and stare towards the pen,” I
said. “ It is double now,” he replied.
On certain other things, I demonstrated the fact that
the cause of double vision was simply staring. He
ngreed with my view and knew it perfectly that the
cause of the disease was simply the wrong use of the
eyes and not the paresis of the muscles. Shifting and
swinging, sun treatment and palming helped him very
much. In a week’s time, he became much better. Later,
I received a letter from him that he had improved
still more and now rarely got double vision.
(a) Many persons complained that they see two moons
or more; and when they look at some objects for suf-
222 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
ficient time, it becomes double and pain is felt in the
eyes and head. Generally, the cause of this trouble is
that people stare at objects with the lids raised, and
do not blink at all. I have demonstrated this fact in
several cases. Recently, a patient consulted me about
double vision. He used to keep his lids raised all the
time. Blinking was altogether absent. I taugt him to
keep the lids lowered always and blink frequently. I
put the Snellen chart before him at 15 feet distance
and asked him to look at C by raising the lids and
by lowering the lids. Soon, he repotted that the letter
became double when he raised the lids but became
single when he lowered the lids. He learned soon the
secret of his cure, followed it sincerely and no more
trouble remained in his eyes.
3. A child of 1 1 yrs. had convergent squint in
both the eyes. By atropin drops and swinging games,
the child’s eyes became all right in i i years.
4. A baby of six months had convergent squint in
the right eye. I advised its father to drop atropin
in the left eye once a day. After a few days, the
father complained that the baby got fever and flushed
face after atropin drops. So I prescribed atropin
ointment. After six months, the baby’ s eye was all right.
5. Kanta, a girl of 13 years, suffered from small­
pox at the age of 10. Due to some eye trouble, her
left eye remained under bandage for a few months.
When the bandage was removed, squint was noticed
in the left eye.
Her father took the girl to the eye specialists and
SQ U IN T AND DOUBLE VISION 223
glasses were prescribed. But glasses caused more strain
and the squint increased.
Vision was in the right eye and ^ in the left eye.
The following treatment was prescribed :
Morning and evening :
a. Take sun treatment for 10 minutes, eye wash,
palming for 5 minutes, swinging before bars for 10 minutes
with each eye, and reading of the chart at 10 ft. with
each eye.
b. Cover the right eye with a patch for half an
hour three times a day.
c. Drop atropin |% in the right eye.
d. Stop reading or other near work
After a month, squint disappeared, but when she
was excited, squint appeared. The vision of right eye
was and of the left eye lg.
6. Sushila, a girl of 7, had squint and amblyopia
in the left eye. Game of hide and seek, running in
a circle, long swing, facing the chart with right eye
bandaged, central fixation on big chart with left eye
helped her much. The result was that in 10 days’
tíme, the squint disappeared completely and also the
vision improved.
7. A lady of 20 had high myopic astigmatism and
divergent squint in the right eye. The left eye had
little myopic astigmatism, The patient first discarded
2 2 4 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
the glasses permanently and then began to practise sun
treatment, palming, reading of photographic print,
imagination of crossed images of the candle. Staring
at distant objects was avoided.
During the course of treatment, the patient reported
that palming and over blinking caused strain, and
that she could see more letters on the white chart C than
on the black chart E. Sun treatment also caused
great strain and whenever she took sun treatment, the
squint increased. In swinging from side to side, she lost
her muscle balance ; but in swinging from up and down j
she always felt relief. Central fixation exercises were
really a great help to her in the cure of squint. At
times she took a pencil in hand at arm’s length and
brought it to the nose, while looking at the top end
of the pencil with left eye covered.
The treatment was continued for about z years.
The squint disappeared, but occasionally, when she was
excited or somebody began to talk from the right
side, the squint appeared.
Photo taken from Dr. Bates' book.
Case of Divergent Vertical Squint Cured
by Eye Education.
No. i. The right eye turns out and up, the left being
straight.
No. z. Ih e patient learns to look down and out with
the left eye while the right looks straight
No. 3. The patient learns to turn both eyes in by looking
at a pencil held over the bridge of the nose.
No. 4, The patient is permanently cured.
All four pictures were taken within fifteen minutes
of each other, the patient having learned to reproduce
the conditions represented at will.
Two
children
holding
their
hands
and
swinging
in
a
circle.
C H A P T E R X V
BLINDNESS
Brijmohan was tea years old when he first came to
me with his uncle who is a friend of mine. At the
age of eight years, it was noticed by the boy himself
while playing the game of hide and seek ( i l l ffR t a l)
that he was blind with his left eye. Although he was
immediately taken to eye-specialists of various places,
he could not be cured, and the case was left as
hopeless.
In May, 1 9 3 1 , the boy came to try this new treat­
ment. With the test card, the vision of his right eye
was 10/200, bnt the left eye had only light perception.
This is a copy of his prescription for glasses, which
he had worn during these two years :
R .E .-1.0 L.E.+1.0
I examined him with the ophthalmoscope and found
the eye ia normal state. The trouble was simply
amblyopia in the left eye. While the examination was
in progress, Brijoo’s uncle was sorry because he was
told by the doctors that Brijoo would always have to
wear glasses to save the right eye; that nothing more
could be done for the left eye. After the examination
was over, his uncle exclaimed breathlessly: “ Isn’t
there any hope at all, Doctor, Please ? Oh, say there
is.” I did not promise anything. I study each case
226 m in d a n d v is io n
that comes to me and help as much as I can. I ex-
plained the method of palming. By palming is meant
to close the eyes and cover them with palms of the
hands and shut out all the light; then to think of
something. When I asked Brijmohan what he re­
membered while palming, he said, “ I can remember
very well the black beard of my teacher.” At once
a roar of laughter came out from all present at that
time.
After palming for five minutes with the left eye,
he became able to see the big letter of the chart, but
as soon as the letter began to become dim, he closed
and covered his eyes. By repetition, he could see the
big letter at one foot distance on that day and left
the hospital with a smile. It was a matter of great
joy for me also, because a ray of hope appeared in a
hopeless case. Two days later, the boy came again and
with him came his unde, eager to hear more of the
miracle that happened to Btijoo. The same practice
was continued. The vision jumped from 1/200 to 2/200
in the left eye.
On May 13 th, the fifth day, Brijoo came with his
grandfather, who was anxious about him. His grand­
father stood by the side of his grandson and beamed
with happiness as he saw his little boy’s sight im­
prove. He was thankful to see the rapid progress
in Brijoo’s sight. This day, after an hour’s practice,
there was wonderful change in bis sight. The vision was
20/200 in left eye and 20/20 in right eye. Both went
away smiling.
The sixth day was the last day of Brijoo’s visit.
B L IN D N E S S
He was anxious to go home. This day, his vision be­
came 20/60 in left eye and 20/20 in the right eye.
After one month, I saw Brijoo again. His vision
was 20/30 after palming and he could read fine print.
(2) Another boy was blind with the right eye.
He came to know of this blindness at the time of
the medical examination of eyes in his school I sat
by his side and asked him to practise palming. His
power of imagination was perfect. Whatever he imagin­
ed, he explained perfectly. He began to improve and
after two hours’ practice, he read the twenty feet line
from twenty feet; and the fine print at nine inches
distance. Such cases ate very rare who respond to the
treatment so quickly.
(3) Later, two boys came for treatment from Dehra
Dun. Both of them were blind with one eye. Simply
palming did not help much. Sun treatment, swinging
and palming proved very beneficial in these cases.
After about two months, they could read and write
very well and had no difficulty in seeing distant objects
with the blind eye.
(4) Prasanna Kumar, aged ten .years, was medically
examined by the Health Officer and was found to have
slightly weak eye-sight. He was put under an eye
specialist who after examining him under atropin prescribed
glasses of +0.5, but the use of glasses made the condi­
tion worse. Frequent eye examinations under atropin
increased the strain and the boy became more or less
blind.
228 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
Having tested his sight, which was 3/60 or 10/200 for
distance and J 6 for reading. The Ophthalmoscope and
retinoscope revealed every thing normal. I explained to
the father that the blindness was simply functional due
to strain and he would gain his normal sight within
a short time by relaxation exercises.
The boy was taught first to correct the position of lids
and blinking. Every morning, tie practised sun treatment
and palming. I brought the Snellen test card near him,
and pointed to the letter “ O ” and asked him if he could
imagine the letter with the eyes closed.
“ Yes, I can imagine the letter ‘O ’, ” he said.
“ All right,” I said, “ Imagine as if ‘O ' is moving
away from you, and, as it moves, it becomes smaller and
smaller.”
“ Yes, it moves and it is a tiny ‘O’ at fifteen feet.
Now, it comes towards me and becomes bigger and
bigger,” he replied.
Next day, he could keep up the memory of tiny “ O”
while looking at different objects. Then, he imagined
the tiny “ O” on the top of each letter of the chart.
Then, I asked the boy to shift his sight from side to
side on the back-ground of each letter, and imagine
small “ O” on each side of the letter.
“ Yes, I am able to imagine small “ O” on each side
of the letter of the chart, but I note one thing quite
new. When I imagine ‘O ’ to the right of the letter,
the letter seems to be moving to the left and vice
versa,” he said.
BLINDNESS 229
Perfect imagination of “ O” and of cricket game proved
very beneficial in his case. On the fourteenth day, his
sight became normal both for distance and near. Hi
father took the boy to the same specialist who had
examined him before and found the boy having normal
sight.
(5) BLIN D BABY,—A baby of six months showed
an attitude of indifference to his parents when they looked
at him. He did not gaze at the toys or candle light.
The father, assuming that his eyes may be defective,
took him to many doctors who declared the baby to be
congenitally blind. The father came across to see my
small pamphlet “ Psycho-Solar Treatment for the Eye”
and got some hope of recovery. He got the baby admitted
in my hospital.
First, I got the baby treated fot indigestion by some
homeopathic doctor and then the following treatment
was tried:
1. Sun treatment as given to the babies.
a, Swinging the baby in the cradle having a toy
tied at the top of the cradle. Certain types of
toys, which made some sound, were placed by
his side.
3. In the night time, the candle was lighted in
front of his eyes, or the baby was moved
from side to side before one or two candle
lights.
After a few days, the child began to show signs of
improvement and, after twenty days, he began to behave
as a normal baby.
C H A P T E R X V I
C A T A R A C T
The opacity of the lens or cataract is caused by
strain in most of the cases. It is easy to cure or pre­
vent the trouble in the early stage. Some cases can be
benefited in the advanced stage also if the degenerative
changes have not taken place.
Treatment which brings about relaxation always cures
the cataract but after a considerable treatment which
may require several months or longer. There ate a
great many methods of treatment which bring about re­
laxation in the cure of cataract. The measures employed
are not injurious; in fact, there is no possibility of
making the condition of the eye worse. I do believe in
operations when necessary or when medical t-eatment
fails to correct the trouble. The operation should only
be performed when other measures fail because after all
the operation is never free from danger.
It is well to emphasize the fact that the same method of
treatment to obtain relaxation is not beneficial in all cases.
Rest.—Closing the eyes and resting them, or covering
the closed eyelids with the palm of one or both hands
without exerting any pressure on the eye-lids, has im­
proved many patients. Palming for five minutes hourly
is usually beneficial. With the eyes closed and covered,
it is well that the patient allows his thoughts to drift
from one thing to another without trying to remember
CATARACT 231
one thing in particular all the time By thinking of
pleasant things, it is often possible for the patient to
forget that he has eyes and in this way a large amount
of relaxation is obtained. Many people with cataract,
when they close their eyes, teel that they are doing
what they were told and cannot understand why they
obtain little benefit. Closing the eyes is not always
followed by relaxation and rest. In short, there are
many patients with cataract who strain their eyes more
when they are closed than they do when their eyes are
open. These patients ate directed to practise the uni­
versal swing, the long swing, the variable swing.
2. Swinging.—Swinging is very helpful in the cure of
the patients standing or sitting. Some patients have
practised the swing while sitting in a chair for many
hours during the day. When tired, they would
alternate with palming. When the swinging is done
correctly, it is restful and a benefit not only to cataract,
but to other conditions of the eye. By practising the
swinging exercises, many patients soon become able to
imagine stationary objects to be moving in the opposite
direction to the movement of the head and eyes. A
great benefit derived from the sway is that the stare, the
strain and concentration are prevented. Babies with cataracts
are benefitted when the mothers sway them in their arms.
3. Memory and Imagination.—Perfect memory is
a great help in the cure ot cataract. When the patient
remembers some letter as well with the eyes open as
with the eyes closed, the visison is improved, and the
cataract disappears. When the patient states, con­
centrates or makes an effort to see, the memory and
2 3 2 MIN'D A N D V IS IO N
»•he imagination always become worse. Patients who
cannot control the functions of the mind are difficult
to treat. The patient himself and others can feel with
the tips of their fingers lightly touching the closed upper
eye-lids that the eye-ball becomes harder when imperfect
sight is remembered. But when perfect sight is
remembered, the eye-ball becomes as soft as is the
case in the normal eye. Patients with a perfect memory,
consciously or unconsciously, remember letters, colours and
other objects continuously without any strain or fatigue.
These cases are favourable and recover from cataract.
4. Fine P rint —Some patients acquire the ability to
read without glasses very fine print held a few inches from
the face. When such patients are recommended to read
the fine print many houts daily, the cataract becomes
less and the vision improves.
5. Sun Treatm ent.—Patients with cataract seem to
improve more decidedly from the light treatment than
from any other kinds of treatment. Congenital cataract
or cataract present from birth, is benefited and often
cured in the same way. After cataract or cataract pro­
duced by an injury to the eye has improved and
occasionally been cured by sun treatment. So often the
light treatment benefited many kinds of cataract that the
use of the light has been strongly recommended in all cases.
When taking the snn treatment, it is best to let
the eyes become accustomed to the sun by mild treat­
ment at first. Have the patient sit in a chair with his
eyes closed and his face turned towards me sun. He
should slowly move his head a short distance from side to
side. The movement of the head prevents concentration
CATARACT 2 3 3
of the sun s rays on one part of theeye. After
some days of the treatment, or when the patient be­
comes more accustomed to the light, one may use the
sun-glass with added beneSt. Direct the patient to look
far down and while he does this, lifttheupperlid
gently, exposing to view the sclera or white part of the
eye. Now, with the aid of the sun-glass, focus the
sun-light on the forehead or the cheek, and then rapid­
ly pass the concentrated light over various parts of the
sclera. This requires less than a minute of time. It is
not good to be in a hurry. One should wait until the
patient becomes sufficiently accustomed to the sun to
permit the upper eye lid to be raised while he looks
down, exposing the sclera only. It is important that
the patient be cautioned not to look directly at the sun.
Sun treatment, palming and reading of fine print daily
have proved very beneficial in the prevention of cataract.
Senile Cataract : Mr. Shiam Lai, aged 66, of Delhi,
had cataract in both the eyes—mote in the right. The
famous eye-specialists of Delhi advised him to have the
right eye operated, and to wait for the left eye for
about a year. The patient was fearful of operation.
He came to me on the 20th January, 1935, to have my
opinion. After a thorough examination, I found that the
degenerative changes had not taken place in either eye.
I said to him : “ The left eye will become able to read
the finest print and see distant objects well, but the
right eye. will improve so much as to avoid the neces­
sity of operation.” At the beginning of the treatment
he could only perceive the movement of the fingers
with the right eye, and with the left eye, he could read
No. 4 of the Reading Test Type. In the beginning
2 3 4 M IN D A N D VISION
of the treatment, the imagination of white line helped
him much. Later on, sun treatment and palming proved
very efficacious. He was taught the ways of reading
and writing. His vision now is much better. He can
read the finest type of the Reading Test Type with
the. left eye and the seventh line z O C O G D C o f the
Snellen test card C, pocket size, with the righ eye. The
patient is still under treatment.
A patient of fifty had early cataract and high myopia.
Sun-treatment and central fixation exercises were a great
help in curing his cataract and in the improvement of
his sight.
After Cataract : A poor old man came to the
hospital for cataract operation in the tight eye. He had
mature cataract, which was removed on second day.
Unfortunately, a thin white layer, called capsule, remained
inside the eye. The eye was bandaged. On the seventh
day, the wound healed, the bandage was removed, but
the patient could not see anything. The whole pupil
was white. The patient felt very sorry. I asked him
to come again after two months for another operation.
At the same time, I gave him one medicine to be drop­
ped into the eye after taking sun treatment twice daily,
morning and evening. After one month, he returned.
He could see everything. The whole pupil was perfectly
black. He needed no operation. I was surprised to see
the wondertul cure of nature. I asked him what he had
done. He said: “ I used to sit in the sun for one hour
in the morning and for one hour in the eveaing, with
rinsed eyes, and used to move my head and body from
side as you said. Then I used to come to a
and drop the medicine that you gave. For
CATARACT 235
seven days, there was no improvement in the vision,
but after that, the vision improved little by little. I
began to enjoy the sun for one and a half hours each time.”
Another patient of the same type of after cataract was
treated on the same lines. That case also was benefited
and required no operation.
B lack C a ta ract: A young man of about 32 years
was blind in left eye. He came to the clinic. This was a
case tried by many doctors. I examincd“him in the dark
room thoroughly under atropine with the ophthalmoscope.
The pupil was quite dark and gave no red reflex. This
was a case of black cataract in the left eye. He suffered
from no other disease like diabetes or kidney troubles.
I had no hope o f his recovery without operation
and I explained everything to him clearly ; the patient
had great faith in me. He induced me to prescribe
some medicine for him. On his request, I gave him one
phial o f Resolvent A to use after taking sun treatment
both morning and evening. After one month, the patient
returned again and said : “ Doctor Saheb, I am very grate­
ful to you. Your medicine acted like a magic. I can
now read and write big letters. This medicine is finished,
kindly give me one phial more.”
I took out his ticket and was simply surprised to
know that a case of black cataract was giving me such
gratifying report. I examined him again and found that
the pupil was not black now and gave a red reflex,
Then I tested the vision. He could read 10/80.
The patient continued the treatment for some time
more. The whole cataract had dissolved and his blind
eye began once more to work very well.
C H A P T E R X V I I
D ETA C H M EN T OF R E T IN A
la detachment of retina, some part of the retina
becomes separated from the choroid to which it is normally
attached, resulting in loss of vision or distorted vision.
There are manyjaredisposing causes of tetinal detachment,
apart from an accidental blow or a growth, by far the
most common being that associated with high degree of
myopia. Mental or occular strain is the chief cause.
Treatm ent, The ordinary treatment usually resolves
itself into either prolonged rest in bed in the hope that the
redna may return to its place, or operation treatment by
puncturing through the outer coating of the eye (sclera)
behind the detachment. The most popular operation
is diathermy treatment. Ball in his ‘'Modern Ophthalmo­
logy” states :—
“ The treatment of retinal detachment is unsatisfactory-—
in fact, almost a hopeless task. Wnile in a few rare
instances, the retina has become reattached spontaneously,
and a few recoveries have followed prolonged rest on
the back, with hypodermic injections of pilocarpin and
the administration of saline purgatives, the majority of
successful results thus far reported have been attributed
to surgical intervention. All operations are dangerous.
In detachment following myopia, the prognosis is un­
favourable.’ 5
In the course of a life-time, most ophthalmologists
have seen one or more cases o f detachment which
DETACHM ENT OF RETINA 237
recovered spontaneously or without any treatment. This
fact suggests that if some patients recover without treat­
ment, detachment is curable under certain conditions.
Strain is the principal cause and relaxation is its
treatment. Course of relaxation treatment may be taken
in the following way :
First W eek:—(i) Keep the eyes closed all the time.
If necessary the good eye mty be opened slightly.
Avaid talking and worries. Care should be taken not
to stoop or to raise oneself with undue suddenness
or to lift heavy weights. It is better to remove one­
self to some cooi place if it is hot weather.
2. If the bowels are not clear, give saline purga-
gatives or preferably senna decoction with milk or an
enema
3. Morning and evening, massage the head with
oil—one pound of sweet oil and half a dram of menthol.
4. At bed time apply warm milk cream on the
closed eyes and bandage it.
5. Comfortably lie down in bed and palm.
6. While sitting, move your body gently and slowly
from side to side like a pendulum and commence at
the same time the practice of “ touch swing.” Rub first
finger and the thumb of one hand very lightly—
just
sufficient to te I the sense of touch one against the
other—for about a quarter of an inch stroke only.
Make this slight touch stroke of the finger and thumb,
keep rhythm with the swinging movement of the body
and be conscious that the thumb moves with the body
and the finger against it. There will now be two
senses operating at the same time in rhythm:
2 3 8 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
(a) the physical body-swaying movement.
(b) the sense of touch with finger and thumb.
When the two senses are under easy continuous
control together, the amount of the body movement
may be shortened to imperceptible one. The nearer
one can consciously atrain continuous, almost infinite­
simally small rhythm, sun the greater the relaxation, the
greater the benefit to the eyes.
Second W eek: All suggestions of the first week
to be continued and add to them :
i. In the morning, when the sun is not at all
hot, let the patient lie on the sun chair or sit on the
stool, with the eyes closed and facing the sun for io
to 30 minutes. At the same time, move the body or
head gently and slowly from side to side. Then come
to the shade with the eyes closed, wash and practise
palming for a few minutes.
(z) After palming, practise the long-swing before
the window bars.
Stand comfortably with the feet nine inches apart,
hands hanging loosely at the sides of the body, facing
the window bars. Keep the sight down on the back­
ground. The eyes are little open. Sway the whole
body sufficiently to one side (a few inches only) to
poise its whole weight on one foot. Let it easily sway
back until the whole weight is poised on the other
foot. The eye sight moves on the ground with the
movement of the body. There should be no effort to
see the window bars. There should be no bending of
the hips or neck. The head, shoulders and hips all
D ETA C H M EN T OE R ETIN A 239
move together. The time taken in swaying should not
be less than approximately i to 2 seconds each side.
Practise it for a few minutes and get the easy sense
of physical balance ; then practise the same movement
with the eyes closed until you can feel the same easy
balance whether the eyes ate open or closed, and note
the following facts :
1. The window bars seem to be moving in the
opposite direction, that is, when you move your body
to the right, the bars seem to be moving to the left
and vice versa.
2. The back-ground moves with the movement of
the body. If the window with bars is not avaiable,
one can have a stand with bars or a chair with
bars or an ordinary bed having bar-lilts rope arrangement.
Practise with both the eyes, and then with the bad
eye, covering the good eye with a bandage or eye shade,
and train the bad eye in the similar way. Alter every
few minutes, the eye should be opened and closed. If the
patient is not able to see the bars, the candles
or thick bars may be substituted in the beginning.
Repeat this swing every two hours for fifteen minutes
three or four times a day. It can be practised while
sitting on a stool also.
Third Week and Fourth Week: The whole pro­
gramme of the second week is to be continued. The
practice of the Snellen test card, preferably black, is
to be added in the swinging practice before the bars.
Generally the vision of the patient is better on a chart
having white letters on the black background. Place
such a chart behind the bars at 3 ft. or nearer. Practise
2 4 0 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
swinging as in the second week. Imagine the bars
moving in the opposite direction and the lines of the
chart in the same direction. First of all the sight moves
at the level of the first line of the chart and then at
the second line and so on, upto fifth or sixth line.
When the letters of fifth or sixth line become dear,
increase the distance of the chart by two inches gradually
to io ft. distance. Avoid to read the letters o f the
chart while practising. At times the letters will become
clear. At the end of the fourth week the sight is
generally much improved, the field of vision is
increased.
Cases which do not show good progress, indicate
that they could notpractise and relax the body and
mind perfectly. Such patients should continue the prac­
tices of the second or third week for longer periods
or should practise under the doctor.
Fifth Week and Sixth W eek: After sleep : Be­
fore opening the eyes cover them with the palms of
the hands for 5 to 10 minutes. Then open the eyes
slightly, the eyelids should not be raised, and blink
frequently all the time.
8 a.rn. 1, Sun treatment and swinging as usual.
Draw straight lines, angular lines circular lines,
write bold letters, small letters, composition. Practise with
each eye separately. Note that the sight should move with
the movement of the pen.
3. Take a book and hold it upside down, move
the sight on the white line in between the lines of
print for j to xo minutes. Blink at each end of the
line. After every two minutes close the eyes for a
DETA CH M EN T OP RETIN A 2 4 1
minute and imagine the white snow, white pillow or
white wash or as if you are painting the white lines
on the blackboard with white paint and brush.
2 p. m. Play the game of Snap cards. Or
Paint a coloured picture. Or
Prepare clay toys. Or
Be familiar with Optical illusions.
Walk on the green grass in the shade,
keeping the sight down and imagining
the grass and side objects moving in the
opposite direction.
Optical Illusion
The outline o f the square appears distorted. Prove
it is true square by slowly tilting the page backwards
almost to the horizontal, then try and appreciate it as
it really is, when looking direct.
242 MIND AND VISION
The drawing of a group of rings forming a hind
of skeleton tube. Attention focussed on either of the
end circles will suggest that the near end of the tube is
either on the right or the left as may be desired.
4 or 5 P.M. Repeat the practices o f 8 a.m. Close
both eyes or bad eye as soon as it becomes dark. At
bed time apply Resolvent zoo, palm and go to sleep.
When you are sleeping nobody should wake you up
suddenly.
Seventh Week and Eighth Week : After sleep
—palming and walking on the green grass or on the
garden road.
8 a.m. and j p.m Last week’s programme is to be
repeated. Add central fixation and reading. Hold a
pocket size Snellen test card at the convenient distance
6 inches to 12 inches. Look at each letter separately
and note that the letter regarded seems to be blacker
than the other letters. Close the eyes for a second
on each letter. When you are able to see the whole
DETACHMENT OP RETINA 243
card in this way, take the book having good type.
Keep your sight just below the line of letters or the
words on the white blank space. The word regarded
will seem to be blacker than the other words. Finish
a few pages in this way.
After the eighth week when you are all right,
continue sun treatment and swinging before the bars.
Similar treatment with some modifications has proved
efficacious in improving the sight of patients suffering
from retinitis, optic neuritis (papillitis) choroiditis and
optic atrophy if the patient has not become totally blind.
Case Reports
(1) Mr. P. D. Krishna, age 42, male. Since boy­
hood using glasses of about—4-0. In December 1936,
he consulted an eye specialist who prescribed bifocals—■
minus four for distance and—2-) for near—which the
patient used from 1st January ’37. A few days later
he began to note floating specks before the left eye.
About the 20th January ’37, noLed that the vision of
the left eye was getting weaker and sparks of light began
to come before ihe eye A dark speck existed at the
lower outer corner of the left eye. On 23rd January
tiiese symptoms increased suddenly aad the eye lost its
vision. The specialists of Shroff Eye Hospital diagnosed
“ Detachment of retina in the upper outer quadrant where
it is fairly deep. It is much shallower in the inner
side.” The doctors expressed their inability to cure the
disease either by medicine or operation, but suggested
diathermy operation, by the specialist of Bombay.
244 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
Somehow the patient attended my clinic on the 28th
January, and I put him under relaxation treatment.
From the first day he began to improve, the field
of vision became nearly normal and the vision much
improved. His vision in good light was—R. E. 3/12,
J 1 at 9 inches. L. E. 3/15, J 3 at 9 inches.
The patient was not satisfied with this improvement,
and went to Bombay to get some better treatment.
The doctor did not advise operation but put him on
sub-conjunctival injections. In due course of time all the
improvement faded and the retina assumed atrophied
condition.
(2) Mr, B. L. Rastogi b;gan to use glasses of
— ro since the tender age of thirteen. At the age of
forty the number of glasses was—i3 ‘o. On the 9th
October ’33, in the afternoon, all on a sudden, he felt
an absolute absence of visual power in the right eye
while reading a paper. He remained under the treat­
ment of two eye specialists of Patna for one month
with no good result. Both the specialists diagnosed
“ Detachment of retina with hemorrhage.” I put the
patient under the above-mentioned course of treatment
with some modifications. After a month the patient
gained his usual vision and became able to read the
finest print. With glasses the vision became normal.
The field of vision became equal to the good eye. Since
then the patient is practising sun treatment and
swinging and is quite all-tight.
C H A P T E R X V III
RETINITIS PIGMENTOSA AND NYSTAGMUS
Most cases of retinitis pigmentosa give a history of
poor sight from birth. In all cases the retina is covered,
more or less completely, with black area. The field of
vision is contracted, and, because they cannot see on
either side of them patients frequently stemble. One
characteristic of retinitis pigmentosa is that the vision
is always changing sometimes for the better, sometimes
fot night blindness. In some cases myopia is present
and it is o f a kind which is difficult to cure.
In nystagmus the eyes move conspicuously from side
to side, regularly or continuously. These movements occur
so frequently in connection with serious eye disease
that the presence of the symptom is an indication that
the eye will usually require much time and attention.
So seldom ate the eye diseases with nystagmus are
curable. Nystagmus is usually present in case of
retinitis pigmentosa. Cases with imperfect sight may not
have nystagmus but may acquire it at any age.
All patients with nystagmus and retinitis pigmentosa
can not be treated in the same way. Palming several
times a day, or the slow, short, easy swing are very
helpful. In some cases long swing and imagination of
‘O’ hasten the improvement. Sun treatment is generally
beneficial.
246 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
In November, 1938, Dinesh, aged thirteen was under
treatment for retinitis pigmentosa and nystagmus. At
ten feet from the card he could read the seventy line
with the right eve, and the thirty line with the left
eye. On the reading test type ( Jaegar chart) at eight
inches, he could read No 5 with tight eye and No. x
with left eye. Swinging exercises with some modifications
and game helped in the improvement o f sight. Particular
attention was paid to correct the position of eyelids and
blinking. For the improvement of general health, I
put him on enema, hip bath and whole body massage.
Diet was regulated and liver of goat was added to his
diet. His vision went on increising steadily, and after
four months his vision was 10/30 with the right eye,
and 10/10 with the left eye. On the reading test type
he was able to read No.3 With the right eye and No. 1
with the left eye. Nystagmus disappeared except at the
time when he raised the lids or stared at an object.
(2) Om Prakash aged twelve had retinitis pigmentosa
and nystagmus with myopia. His vision was 5/5° in
feet. On the reading test type he could read J4 at
nine inches. He had the habit of eccentric fixation and
the letters regarded were seen worse. Swinging exercises
with central fixation proved very help ;ul. His vision
improved to 5/20 for distance and J2 at nine inches for
the near. Nystagmus became much less.
(3) A patient suffered from progressive myopia,
and after sometime nystagmus developed The vision
became poor even with glasses. By following relaxation
exercises nystagmus disappeared and the vision improved
much. Glasses were prescribed only for distance.
C H A P T E R X I X
STRAIN AND GLAUCOMA
GLAUCOMA
Glaucoma is a serious disease of the eyes which,
some years ago, was considered incurable when chronic.
In most cases, the eye-ball was usually too hard and
this is the symptom which more than any other was
the strongest evidence we had that the eye was suffering
from glaucoma. The field of vision was contracted
on the nasal side and the pupil was usually more or
less dilated. One characteristic symptom was the
apparent appearance of colours around the flame of a
candle ot some other similar light.
Glaucoma is a disease of adult life and seldom
occurs in children. Its uncertainty is unusual. For
example, a person with normal eyes and normal sight
may retire perfectly comfortable. Sometime in the
middle of the night, he may be awakened by a very
intense pain, with total permanent blindness in both
eyes from glaucoma. In a limited number of cases,
the pain may be absent, although the vision may be
partially lowered. The sudden onset may not occur,
but one or both eyes may slowly, without pain, after
a long Lime, a year or longer, become totally blind.
The results of the various methods of treatment,
which were suggested and practised, have been so
248 MIND AND VISION
disappointing, that we hesitate to foretell what may happen
after any of them have been practised.
It was a very welcome discovery made by Dr. Bates
that the relief of eye-strain always lessens tension,
relieves pain and improves the vision. The discovery
that relaxation methods cared glaucoma suggested that
the cause was due to eyestrain. Experimental work
proved this to be true. All methods of treatment, which
promote relaxation, always benefit glaucoma.
Absolute glaucoma is a serious disease and the
state can become so great that a large amount of pain
and total blindness will be produced. The pain may
be so severe that many ophthalmologists feel justified
in removing the eye-ball to bring relief. While many
cases of absolute glaucoma obtained much relief from
pain after the removal of the eye-ball, there were too
many cases which still had severe trouble, even after
such an operation. A strain which produces absolute
glaucoma is really a mental strain and not a local one
entirely.
Glaucoma may be produced solely by the memory
of imperfect sight. If a person with normal eyes and
normal vision presses lightly on the eye-balls through
the closed eye-lids and remembers or imagines a letter
“ O” with a gray, blurred outline very imperfect, the
eye-ball can be felt to increase in hardness. When the
patient remembers a letter "O ” perfectly, the hardness of
the eye-hall disappears and the eyes become normal as they
were before. These experiments are offered as proof that the
memory of imperfect sight is a strain which may produce
GLAUCOMA 249
glaucoma, and the memory of perfect sight a relaxation,
which will relieve glaucoma.
Some of the best methods of producing relaxation
are the practice of tne long swing, the universal swing,
palming and sun-treatment. There are some people
who cannot practise a certain swing correctly until
after weeks of instruction. They ate full of excuses
and are quite ready to find fault with the method
rather their own lack of practising properly. The
memory o f letters and ocher objects seen by central
fixation becomes very much better in a short time.
Imagination of thin white line or a white centre o f a
letter “ O” whiter than the rest of the card is very
helpful. Frequent enemas, fasting, dropping of lemon
juice in the nose once or twice a week, regulation of
diet have proved beneficial in glaucoma patients.
Case Report
x. A man, aged thirty-five, was all right when he
went to bed. During the sleep, he got severe pain in
the right eye. Redness increased and watering continued.
The eye-ball became very sensitive. The vision was
lost. The doctor whom he consulted said that he was
suffering from glaucoma and iritis. The eye-ball was
hard. This sort of inflammation had taken place two
or three times before also and every time the inflamma­
tion continued for about two months.
The first thing that I did was that I gave a strong enema
which caused about ten or twelve motions and much mucus
passed with the fasces. Then I gave steam to the face for a
250 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
few minutes. Sun-treatment and relaxation exercises were
practised. The whole trouble subsided within twenty-
four hours, the eye-ball became soft, and the patient
became all right in a week’s time.
z. An old woman was suffering from glaucoma
without pain, the vision was 1/20 By the help of
enema, regulation o f diet, sun treatment and palming,
she began to read fine print of Hindi test type within
a fortnight.
3. Another old lady was suffering from inflammatory
glaucoma with severe pain in the temples. First few
drops of ginger powder mixed in milk were dropped
in the nose, which brought out much discharge through
the nose and mouth. This sort of treatment helped in
relieving the pain. At bed time, the patient took
purgative which caused about four motions. Sun-treatment
and swinging exercises were practised. The redness
subsided in a week’s time and the vision began to
improve. Since then, she did not get any attack of
glaucoma.
4. An old man had absolute glaucoma and the
vision was totally lost in the right eye and there was
perception of light in the left eye. He had gone under
operation when there was some vision in both the
eyes; but the vision gradually went on diminishing.
Such cases are incurable and no benefit is generally possible.
E Y E STRAIN
One strains in different ways and the ways of treat­
ing strains are different; but, generally, the patients suffer­
ing from simple eye-strain are benefited by the right
use o f the eyes, sun-treatment and reading of photoprint.
In some cases, symptoms of eye-strain are peculiar ; and
it seems as if the patient is suffering from granulations or
trachoma, and the treatment of granulations does little
or no good in such cases. Though relaxation exercises
relieve the strain, but, in certain cases, one feels strain
while practising them because the patient somehow is not
able to relax. Many people have asked for help in
choosing the best method of treatment of their particular
eye trouble. A woman, aged sixty, complained that she
had never been free of pain; pain was very decided in
her eyes and head. She also had continuous pain in
nearly all the nerves of the body. The long swing,
whea practised too times, gave her great relief from
pain. The relief was continuous without any relapse.
At the same time, a second woman of about the same
age complained of a similar pain which, like the first
patient, she had almost continuously. She was also re­
lieved by practising the long swing. The long swing
was practised by other people with a satisfactory result.
It seemed that the swing was indicated for pain; it
seemed to bring about better results than any other
treatment. Later on, however, some patients applied for
relief from pain which was not benefited by the long
swing. Evidently, one kind of treatment was not bene­
ficial in every case. A man suffering from tri-facial
neuralgia, which caused great agony in all parts of the
head, was not relieved at all by the long swing.
252 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
Palming seemed to be more successful in bringing about
relief. Furthermore, there ■ were patients who did not
obtain benefit after half an hour of palming, who did
obtain complete relief after palming for several hours.
The experience obtained by the use of relaxation
methods in the cure of obstinate eye troubles has proved
that what was good for one patient was not necessarily
a benefit to other patients suffering from the same trouble
and that various methods must be tried in each case in
order to determine which is the most beneficial for each
particular case.
(i) A student of iS years of age used to suffer from
headache and pain in the eye balls after reading for a
short time. Sometimes, the eyes had watering and itching
sensation, and sometimes the letters and words became
dim or overlapping. Sleep always helped him in relieving
the discomforts. The eye-sight was normal both for
distance and near vision. All relaxation exercises increased
the strain. Then, I suggested sun-treatment, walking and
reading of photoprint and he became all right within
a week;.
(i) A lady patient had a slight but persistent redness
in the eyes and a little swelling of her ltd margins
since childhood. It was not possible for her to come
out even in ordinary light without the aid of dark glasses.
She could not read without discomfort, though her
eye-sight was normal. For many years, she was treated
for trachoma. Glasses increased the trouble. She was
very doubtful if my treatment would help her at all.
Generally, patients having photophobia are greatly
E Y E ST R A IN 2 5 3
benefited b y sun-treatm ent, b u t it was unusual in her
case that sun-treatm ent helped her only a little. B link­
in g and sw in g in g before w in d ow bars proved verr
b eneficial, and w ith in tw en ty days, her eyes became
p erfectly all right.
(3) Another lady of a royal family suffered from
redness in the eyes, usually after sleep and after seeing
cinema. It was painful for her to read a page or to
write a letter. The doctors treated her for trachoma for
a sufficiently long time. Her eye-sight was normal,
Sun-treatment was a great benefit to her. She practised
swinging and central fixation exercises for a few minutes
every day after sun-treatment. She was educated in the
right way of reading, writing and seeing the cinema.
Within ten days, she became perfectly all right; and one
day, when she went to the cinema and got no redness
or strain, she was surprised to note the benefit.
C H A P T E R X X
HEADACHE
Q. Can the headache not be due to errors of re­
flection ?
A. No. It is due to strain. The strain of headache
is different from that of errors of refraction. Many
patients whether wearing glasses or not with very weak
eyesight, do not suffer from headaches. In many cases
even though the errors of refraction be fully corrected,
glasses have no effect in relieving them of their headaches.
Normal eyes can produce headache and pain in the
eyeballs.
a. Just look at a word in your book, note it
appears to be blacker than the other words.
Now try to see all the other words equally
well and black at the same time, you will have
discomfort and headache.
b. Look at ‘O’. Close the eyes and imagine it.
It seems to be moving a little ‘from side to
side or up and down in your imagination. Try
to stop the imagination of movement of ‘O’
and note that there is pain and heaviness in
the head, eyes and temples.
c. Look out of the window while moving in the
train or car. Gaze at some particular object
for sometime. You would soon feel headache
or dizziness.
HEADA CH E 255
Q. Then why are some patients relieved of headache
by using glasses ?
A. Because some patierts, after using glasses begin,
to see in the right way and make no effort in seeing
objects. Therefore it is necessary to learn how to use
eyes in the right way.
Q. Why do I get headache while walking in the
sun or looking at bright objects?
A. Because the glare reflected causes strain. Blink
frequently and lace the sun with eyes closed for about
ten minutes every morning.
Q. How is it, when I stare at any object, I soon
get headache and the object becomes double ?
A. Staring is the cause of headache and it makes
the object look double. Blink often.
Q. Why is headache generally present in fevers ?
A. Because the brain is congested and the nerves are
under strain. Relieve the congestion by massage.
Q. My wife has normal eyesight and does not suffer
from fever, but she suffers from severe headache from
sunrise to sunset. How can she be helped?
A. Drop lemon-juice in nostrils for a few days in
the morning. There will be discharge through the nose
and mouth and she will be all right very soon.
Q. The top o f my head remains hot and dull headache
is present all the time. That being so, my memory has
become week. What do you suggest ?
2 5 6 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
A. Relieve the constipation. Take an enema with one
ounce of lemon juice and three pints of lulce warm
water once a week; and a hip bath in cold water
for 15 minutes everyday. Regulate the diet. Massage
the head while keeping the eyes closed.
Q. Is Palming helpful for headache ?
A. Yes. It has a magic effect on children. Palming
does noc help if the patient is unable to have perfect
imagination. Sevete pain in a glaucomatous patient was
stopped by perfect imagination of a black dot in a few
minutes.
Q. I have normal eyesight and am quite healthy;
but after sleep in the morning and aftet seeing the cinema
I get headache which lasts usually for a stort time. Will
your relaxation treatment cute my headache ?
A. Yes. Headache after sleep indicates that you do not
get sound sleep and wander in dieams usually7 of peculiar
nature. Before going to bed run in a circleor close
the eyes and cover them with the palms and imagine
some black object or practise long swing. While seeing
the cinema keep the chin little raised and upper lids
down and blink frequently.
Q. I cured my headache and gained perfect eye-sight
by imagining a small black dot. How will you explain
this fact ;
The brain has many nerves. Part of these nerves
are called ganglion cells and originate in some particular
part of the brain. Each hag a function o f its own.
They are connected with other ganglion cells andwith
the aid of nerve fibres ate connected with others locate^
in various parts of the brain as well as in the spinal
HEADAPHE 257
cord, the eye the ear, the nerves o f smell, taste, and
the nerves of touch. The function of each ganglion
cell of the brain is different from that of all others.
When the ganglion cells are healthy, they function in a
normal manner.
The retina of the eye contains numerous ganglion
cells which regulate special things such as normal vision,
normal memory, norma! imagination and they do this
with a control more or less accurate of other ganglion
cells o f the whole body. The retina has a similar structure
to part of the brain. It is connected to the brain by
the optic nerve.
Many nerves from the ganglion cells of the retina
carry conscious and unconscious control of their ganglion
cells which are connected to other parts of the body.
When the ganglion cells ate diseased or at fault, the
functions of all parts of the body are not normally
maintained. In all cases of imperfect sight, it has been
repeatedly demonstrated that ganglion cells and nerves
of the brain are under a strain. When this strain is
corrected by treatment, the functions of the ganglion
and other cells become normal. The importance of the
mental treatment cannot be over-estimated.
A study of the facts has demonstrated that a disease
of some ganglion in any part of the body occurs in
a similar ganglion in the brain.
Brain tension of one or mote nerves always means
disease of the nerve ganglia. Treatment of the mind
with the aid of sight, memory and imagination has
cured headache and many cases of imperfect sight
without other treatment.
C H A P T E R X X I
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
1. Q. Some days I can read the Snellen test card
to the 15 ft. line, on others only to the 20 or 30 ft.
line.
A. When the eyestrain is less, the vision is always
improved. Continuous pratice will make the sight
perfect.
2. Q. How can one overcome the stare if it is
unconscious ?
A. Keep the upper lids lowered and blink consciously.
While Walking keep the sight on the ground and
avoid to see in the front at a long distance. Never
look at an object for more than a few seconds at a
time. Shift your gaze frequently.
3. Q. When I wake up in the morning, I suffer
from pain in the eyes and head. It becomes difficult
to open the eyes and sometimes the eye-lids are swollen.
A. Practise long swing before and after sleep for
15 minutes, or run in a small circle. Some patients
are beneSted by muscular exercises which may produce
sufficient muscular fatigue.
4. Q. Sometimes I feel before my eyes strings of
black thread or small circles. Doctors call them floating
specks. These floating specks are very annoying. How
should I get rid of them ?
QUESTIONS AND ANSW ERS 259
A. The cause of floating specks is simply mental
strain. Blinking and lowering the lids help much in
relieving them. Practise palming and swinging several
times a day.
5. Q. When I look towards an object even for a
very short time, I see two images. The lines of letters
become DOUBLE when I begin to read. Will you please
suggest some treatment for me ?
A. Blinking and lowering the lids will prove very
helpful. When you look towards any object imagine it
to be jumping with your blinking. Learn the methods
o f improving the near sight.
6. Q. How long does it take to cute an average
case of myopia ?
A. Some patients are cured more quickly than others.
The length of time is uncertain, as patients differ in their
response to treatment.
7. Q. Why is my vision worse on a rainy or cloudy
day than in broad light ?
A. Because you strain to see on a dark day.
8. Q, I am practising the methods to cure myopia
and astigmatism. Sometimes, for short periods, I see
perfectly, then things fade away. Can you explain this ?
A. This is what we call getting flashes of perfect
sight. With continued practice, these flashes will come
more frequently and eventually will become permanent.
Then you are cured.
9. Q. In case of illness when one is unable to
260 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
practise with the Snellen test card or stand up, what
method is used ?
A. Blink frequently and shift your eyes constantly
from one point to another. Turn your head slightly
from side to side on the pillow or close your eyes and
think of something pleasant.
io. Q I am short sighted (myopic) and can read
and write very easily without glasses; but my doctor
has advised me to use glasses all the time. lean see
all right at a distance but feel strain in near work with
glasses. What do you advise ?
A. Myopic patients should not use glasses for near
work as their reading sight is quite good.
n . Q. I had good eyesight in my young age but
somehow after sometime distant sight became defective.
The doctor prescribed glasses for constant use to check
further deterioration in eyesight. In spite of constant
use of glasses and freejuent consultation with the doctors,
my eyesight went on decreasing. Finally the doctor
advised me to discard reading and writing.
A. Your eyesight would not have deteriorated if the
doctor would have given you three suggestions along
with the use of glasses.
a. No glasses for near work.
ii. Avoid strain by frequent blinking.
c. Take sun treatment every morning.
Reading at a near point does not increase myopia,,
but always lessens it. Look at a card of fine print at
six inches from your eyes and read it as well as 3rou
QUESTIONS A N D ANSW ERS 261
can. Now make an effort to see it better and note
that your vision for the near point is lowered, while
the ability to read the fine print at a greater distance
is improved. j
12. Q. Being a high myopic patient can not see at
short distance even with glasses, Reading also is difficult.
You advise to discard glasses before beginning to practise,
How can I pull on work and treatment ?
A. Take leave from your work for a month or so
and improve your sight as much as you can. Then
you may take lowest power of glasses. Use them only
in necessity. Avoid their use in reading and writing.
Keep up your practices once a day at east.
If you are not able to take leave from your work
or are unable to discard glasses, learn blinking and
take sun treatment daily to check further deterioration.
i j . Q. My vision, after practice with the card, is
good, but I cannot sustain it. What means can I use
to have continuous vision ?
A. Acquire a continuous habit of imagining stationary
objects to be moving easily, until it becomes an un­
conscious habit. Make blinking and the position of the
lids perfect.
14. Q. I have improved my sight by palming, but
when I read for any length of time, the pain returns.
A. When you read and your eyes pain you, it means
that you are straining your eyes. Frequent blinking,
suntreatment and palming may help you.
15. Q. If the_arms get tired, is it all right to rest
262 M IN D A N D V IS IO N
the elbows on a desk or something like that while
palming ?
A. The elbows should rest on a desk or a table
or on a pillow placed in the lap.
16. Q. What treatment helps most people ?
A. Blinking, suntreatment and palming.
17. Q. My eyesight is normal but when I read I
get pain in the eyes and head. The doctor tried glasses
but they increased the trouble.
A. It is because you do not read with central fixation.
Your eyes try to see many a words at a time. Practise
central fixation exercises.
18. Q . What causes redness and smarting sensation
of the eye, even when plenty of suntreatment has been
given ? Should one continue with the suntreatment under
the circumstances ?
A. Take the suntreatment freqently for five or ten
minutes at a time daily, increasing the length of time
until the eyes become accustomed to the sun. The eyes
should always be benefited after the suntreatment, and
one should always feel relaxed. When done properly,
the redness and smarting should disappear soon. If
the eyes are not benefited, it is an indication that you
strain while taking the suntreatment. Alternate the sun­
treatment with palming or dosing the eyes to rest them.
19. Q. If I am reading in the sun I can see the
print perfectly and my eyes do not trouble me, but if
I raise my eyes and look at any other object, every
thing seems blurred and there are coloured spots before
Q U E STIO N S A N D A N SW E R S 263
my eyes. Is this caused by the sun or the manner in
■ which I read ?
A. The sun is beneficial to the eyes, but the glare
o f light on the white page produces a tension of the
nerves. The suntreatment should help you. Practise it
daily for ten to thirty minutes.
20. Q. Are the dark sun glasses harmful ?
A. Dark glasses are injurious to the eyes, but one
may use very light colour crooks A only when there
is much glare.
He was a very intelligent chauffeur, and very polite
and popular with most people. I enjoyed listening
to his experiences in driving various types of cars.
Nothing seemed to give him so much pleasure as to get
into a “ jam” and get out without suffering any injury
to his own car or without tearing the “ enemy” , as, he
explained, were the numerous other cars which were
driven by chauffeurs who did not understand their busi­
ness very well and who enjoyed teasiag the inexperienced
drivers.
One day, we were driving to the seashore. The sun
was very bright and the reflection of the light from the
sun on the water was very strong and made most of the
occupants of the car very uncomfortable. Personally, I
enjoyed the strong light of the sun. The chauffeur did
not wear glasses for the protection of his eyes from the
sun or dust and I asked him if he had ever worn them.
I-Ie very promptly answered me by saying that he had
worn them at one time, but discontinued wearing them
because he found that after wearing them for a few days,
264 M IN D A N D V IS IO N
his eyes became more sensitive to the light than they
were before. He said he could not understand why it
was that when he wore glasses to protect his eyes from
the dust, he accumulated more foreign bodies in his eyes
than ever before. This seemed srrange to the people
in the car and they asked him to explain. It was decided
that when the dust got into the eyes, the glasses preven­
ted the dust from going out.
The eyes need the light of the sun. "When the sun’s
rays are excluded from the eyes by datk glasses, the eyes
become very sensitive to the sun when the glasses are
removed. It is very beneficial to face the morning sun
for ten to thirty minutes with the eyes closed.
21. Q. If I am worried at night and lie awake, my
eyes burn and pain, and I have a feeling that a magnet
is drawing my eyes through my head. What causes
this and what is the cure ?
A. This is caued by the strain of the mind. Just
before retiring and just after rising in the morning,
practise the long swing.
22. Q. My eye sight is normal both for distance and
reading. What should I do to keep them perfect ?
A. Blink frequently. Take suntteatment for about
ten minutes daily in the morning. When you come
near forty years of age, read five print at six inches
distance with each eye daily.
23. Q. What causes my vision to become blurred
upon sudden confusion or when I have a number of
activities coming atonce ?
Q U ESTIO N S A N D A N SW ER S 2 6 5
A . The fact that your vision becomes blurred at such
times is proof of your eccentric fixation. Do not try
to see or do several things at once. Practise central
fixation, seeing the part regarded best and other parts
not so clearly, all day long,
24. Q. It is very hard for me to think in terms of
black and wnite Is there some other method which is
just as beneficial ?
A. Yes, letting your mind drift from one pleasant
memory to another will accomplish the same results,
25. Q. Would the reading of fine print at four inches
be helpful.
A. The reading of fine print at four inches is
usually helpful.
26. Q. I have attained normal vision, but after read­
ing for a while, my eyes feel strained. Would you still
consider I had normal sight ?
A. If your eyes feel strained you are not reading
with normal vision.
27. 0- It is difficult for me to find time enough
to gain perfect relaxation. What would you suggest ?
A. You have just as much time to relax as you
have to strain. Practise relaxation all day long.
Whenever you move your head or eyes, notice that
stationary objects move in the direction opposite to
the movement o f your head or eyes. Walking about
the, room, or on ' the street, the floor or pavement ap­
pears to come toward you, while objects on either side
26G m in d a n d v i s i o n
of you move in the direction opposite to the move­
ment of your body. Remember to blink frequently just
as the normal eye does. Constantly shift your sight
from one point to another seeing the point regarded
more clearly than all other parts. When talking with
any one do not stare. Look first at one eye and then
the other, remembering to blink.
28. Q. Why is it that I have perfect vision only in
flashes ? Can these flashes become permanent ?
A. You have not yet lost your unconscious habit
of straining. When relaxation methods are practised
faithfully at all times, the flashes of improved vision
become more frequent and last longer until the vision
becomes continuously good.
29. Q Can you explain why I see yellow and blue
spots after looking at the sun ?
A. You are sttaining Do not look directly at the
sun until jour eyes are more accustomed to it. Practice
sun treatment with the eyes closed.
30. Q. Is working or reading under electric light
harmful ?
A. It is not harmful to read by electric light if
the eyes are used properly and if there is not dazzling
light on the paper.
31. Q Why do some people see better by partly
closing the eyes ?
A. People with poor sight can see better by partly
closing the eyes, but when they have perfect sight, partly
Q U E ST IO N S A N D A N SW E R S 267
closing the eyes makes it ■ worse. This is a good test
for the vision o f ordinary objects.
32. Q. Please explain what you mean when you
say “ imperfect sight, imperfect memory.”
A. I f you see an object imperfectly, blurred or gray
instead of black, you cannot remember it perfectly. You
will remember it as you see it.
33. Q. If type can be seen more distinctly with the
eyes partly closed, is it advisable to read that way ?
A. No, it is not advisable to read that way because
it is a strain, and alters the shape of ihe eyeball.
34. Q. Can a patient while practising your method
carry on his daily work just the same ?
A. Yes, most patients continue their work just the
same without the use of their glasses even though they
find it difficult at the start.
35. Q. Can the vision be improved after the lens
has been removed for cataract ?
A. Yes.
36. Q. What causes styes ?
A. Infection, which is alway associated with eyestrain.
37. Q. Trying to make things move gives me a
headache. Palming gives me more relief. Why ?
A. Making an effort to do a tiling will not help you.
When you are walking on the street, the street should
go in the opposite direction without effort on your part.
268 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
Some people get mote relief from palming, while swing­
ing helps others more.
38. Q. Should one imagine a thin white line along
the top of a word or sentence or just at the bottom ?
A. If you can imagine it at the top as easily as
you can at the bottom, do so, otherwise imagine it
only at the bottom.
39. Q. If strain is the cause of imperfect sight, why
are not all affected in the same way. Why is it that
some have myopia, others astigmatism, etc.
A. Different people react in different ways to strain.
Some have mind strain some nrrve strain, some physical
strain, etc. All these tend to cause various aliments.
One’s temperament also has a great deal to do with it.
40. Q. Are moon rays in any way beneficial to the
eyes? The full moon gaze?
A. Yes. Read central fixation on moon.
41. Q. Is gazing on green grass turf or at blue sky
'beneficial to the eyes?
A. Yes, because there is nothing to stare.
42. Q. Is application of any antimony which dis­
charges watering from the eyes, beneficial ?
A. Yes.
43. Q. Is 1 Sirsasan” i. e. standing on the head with
feet above for a few minutes, which reverts the blood
circulation, good for the eyes ?
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS 269
A . Yes, but one should learn it first under the
teacher. It is important to note that the eyes should
remain closed while practising “ sirsasan” .
44. Q. Is putting of rose water drops or honey
beneficial to the eyes ?
A. Yes, but not in every case.
45. Q. Is occasional weeping benefical in any way?
A. Yes, but weeping in the love of the Lord is
highly beneficial.
46. Q.—Are bad health and bad sexual habits not
the cause of defective eyesight ?
A. Not necessarily. Many persons having bad health
or having bad sexual habits do not suffer from defec­
tive eyesight. There are many others who have very
good health and muscular body, but suffer from defec­
tive eyesight. These things can increase the strain if
it already exists in the person or can produce a tendency
to strain.
47. Q. By using glasses, why does the degree of
myopia remain the same in some persons, and goes on
increasing in many others, causing severe dimage some­
times ?
A. When the doctor prescribes glasses, he is not
able to distinguish whether in a particular case myopia
will increase. He prescribes glasses with the idea that
the progress of myopia will be prevented. In some
cases it does not increase because, somehow, the person
began to see the objects without effort; but in a
270 MIND AND VISION
majority of cases myopia goes on increasing because
the habit of straining is not relieved.
48. Q. Do you mean that all patients wearing glasses
can discard them ? Have glasses no room in the treat­
ment of errors of refraction ?
A. No, all patients can not discard the glasses,
Some can discard them, while others can be benefited
and can use the lower power of glasses at the same
time. Glasses have also their place, but their
prescription and use should be limited ; at the same
time one should practise eye exercises for a few minutes
every day to maintain the health of the eye.
49. Q. How can one give rest to maintain at least the
remaining vision when the eye sight is very defective ?
Is reading harmful ?
A. The eyes are meant to see. Their right use
should be learnt. Reading can be made a means of
great benefit to the eyes, if one reads in the right
way. Correct position of lids, sun-treatment, palming
and swinging are helpful means to give rest to
the eyes. Myopic patients strain more when they
discard reading and lceep on looking distant objects.
It is generally forgotten that myopia is caused by
straining to sec distant things and not near things.
50. Q. How is it, you have prescribed different
methods for the same disease ? How can one knowi the
right treatment for himself ?
A. The main object in the treatment is relaxation.
Whatever method will relax the mind of the patient
will be beneficial to biro. If some method does not
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS 2 7 1
bring good results, it should be discarded and some
other should be tried ; but in certain cases, practical
demonstrations by an experienced man are absolutely
necessary; because mistakes in the exercise are liable.
Moreover, intuition guides one to adopt particular lines
o f treatment.
51. Q. It is said that rubbing the eyes after meals
improves the eye-sight. If it is so, then why parti­
cularly after meals ?
A. It is right that rubbing the eyes after meals
improves the sight and helps in relieving headache
and other discomforts ; but rubbing the eyes in the
right way is useful and I cal! this method “ contact
swing” . Its practice is specially useful after meals
because the blood circulation in the hands is increased
and a sort of magnetism is developed. If one can
improve the blood circulation in the hands at other
times, contact swing will have the same useful effect.
Contact Swing .—Close the eyes and keep the palms
of the hands on them. Now move your face up and
down while the hands remain in position. You will
feel that hands move down when you move your face
up and vice versa. Practise for j minutes or more
several times a day. It is very helpful after the meals.
This contact swing relieves the strain, gives relaxa­
tion, and is very useful in headaches and defective
vision.
51. Q. Is it good to fix up the sight inbetween
the eye brows as is said by some persons ?
A. It is useful if one can concentrate in between
272 MIND AND VISION
the eye-brows through the internal eye and the external
eyes act simply as an expression of the inner eye.
It is harmful if one simply uses the external eyes to
fix up in between the eye brows.
53. Q. If a person with imperfect sight has a good
imagination, why is his sight imperfect %
A. One needs a perfect imagination at all times and
in all places to have perfect sight. Persons with im­
perfect sight, who have a good imagination, fail to use
it; they suppress it and imagine things imperfectly by
an effort which, of course, lowers their vision.
54. Q. What precautions should I take at the time of
medical test of my eyes ?
A. When you ate called for the eye examination,
remember three points.—
1. Cover one eye with the palm and not with the
fingers. The fingers cause pressure on the
eye ball, and consequently the sight becomes
defective. You are unable to read the smaller
letters with that covered eye.
2. Keep the chin little raised, and the lids down.
3. Blink gently on each letter.
5; Q. Have looking at beautiful things and at moon
any good effect op eye-sight ?
A. Yes, it is soothing and useful no doubt; but
one should take care not to stare. The following story
is a very interesting one:
QUESTIONS AND ANSWEKS 273
FA IRIES
A certain man had much money. One day, he gave
forty millions to charity, and had a lot left. He invited
me to spend an evening at his home. He asked me if
I would like to learn how7he made his money. I answered,
“ No.”
“ \Xhat would you like to talk about?’ Was his nest
question.
I replied, “ Although you seem to be well advanced
in years, your hair is not gray and your eyes seem good
because I notice that you are able to rend without glasses-
How have you been able to preserve your eye-sight ail
these years.”
He smiled and answered, “ I do' not know unless it
was due to the influence of New Year Fairies.” He
stopped and waited for me to say something.
All I said was: “ Tell me about it.”
He told me that he had many brothers and sisters. All
of them now dead. Christmas, one year, had been a
very sorry affair. They had very little to eat, and their
poverty was extreme.
New Year’s Eve, as he sat by the open fire, a sma 1
1
boy of ten, he felt very hungry, very despondent and
very unhappy. He watched the flames of the burning
wood, watched them grow larger, grow smaller, change
their colour, and, as he watched, a fairy appeared in
the light. She had the most beautiful eyes that he
had ever seen. They were so bright, clear, full o f
2 7 4 MIND AND VISION
sympathy and love that he could not look away from
them. She seemed to read bis mind, and spoke
encouraging words to him, which made him feel better.
Then another fairy, all dressed in blue, a very beautiful
blue, waved her hands to him, threw him a kiss and
started to dance. While she was dancing, other fairies
came out of the dark and began to dance with her. It
seemed to him that wr
herevei there was a spot of light,
there was fairy, many fairies, all of them with the same
sympathetic, a loving, blue eyes of the first fairy.
The memory of these eyes has never been lost.
He said that he could see them now just as clearly as
he did in the long ago. The memory of these eyes
brought with it a wonderful feeling of rest, relaxation
and comfort. It seemed to him that those fairies brought
a blessing which bad helped him to accomplish many
things which other people believed were impossible.
After he went to bed io the dark, h seemed that
he could still see the burning fire and all those fairies
with their sympathetic and loving eyes. When be awoke
next morning, his attitude of mind was entirely dif­
ferent. He ran to each member of the family, his
father, his mother, each sister and' brother, threw his
arms around them and wished them all a happy New
Year. He tried to dance as he had seen the fairies
dance, he tried to smile as he had seen them smile *
r
he tried to be as sympathetic and as kind to every
body as the fairies had been to him. He was all
eagerness to be busy. Formerly, he had shirked what
little work was expected from him, but now he had
an uncontrollable desire to- be busy, to do things. He
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS 275
had no feeling of fatigue, no matter how hard be
worked or how much he accomplished. His mother was
amazed to have him fly around the kitchen, and to
help here in as many ways as he possibly could. He
brought in more wood for the stove than could he
used in a week. He ran to the barn and started in
cleaning the house. It was the first time in his life
that he felt a desire to do something to help the
horses, the cows, and other animals. He got busy with
a few tools and fixed up the chicken-coop, stopped
all the cracks so that the cold air would not blow on
the chickens, and all the time he was thinking of those
eyes of New Year Fairies, because the memory of their
love did him so much good.
He felt a desire to go to the schoo', and tramped
through the deep snow two miles to go there. The
teacher was surprised to see him and asked him what
he desired.
“ I want to go to school. I want to learn things.
I want to be a big man. I want to make people
happy.”
The teacher smiled, gave him a desk, some paper, a
pencil and a few pages of the primer, and told
him to copy as much as he possibly could. He
used up a great deal of paper, and before was
out, he had done something very wonderful, be­
cause he had copied all the pages that had been given
to him.
He told me that his health was always good, and
as fat as his eyes were concerned, he never gave them
276 MIUI) AND VISION
a thought. He knew that he could see well, but he
was not conscious that he had eyes most of the time.
When he was forty-five, he had an attack of the
grippe, from which he soon recovered, but when he
tried to read the newspaper, he was very much alarmed
to discover that his sight was very poor. He at once
consulted an eye specialist, who told him that he needed
glasses because all persons in the middle life, passed
the age of forty, needed glasses. He had some business
to attend to which occupied his time for a few days.
During that time, he tried to rest the eyes by not
looking at the newspaper, \fter avoiding any use of
his eyes for reading for four days, they felt quite
comfortable. Later on, he picked up the newspaper,
and was surprised to find that he could read it for a
short time. When his eyes tired, he rested them, and
he discovered that by reading the paper and resting the
eyes, his vision improved to the normal. At subse­
quent periods in his career he had similar attacks of
being unable to read, which were always relieved by
rest. He felt that as long as he could improve his
sight by resting the eyes, it would be perfectly safe
for him not to wear glasses.
“ It may sound very queer to you7’, he said, “ but I
find that I can obtain perfect relief immediately when
I remember the sympathy and love in the eyes of
those New Year Fairies.”
56. Q. What should be the distance to practise with
the Snellen test card ?
A. The best distance to practise with the Snellen
test card varies widely. Generally the patients begin to
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS 277
practise at ten feet distance and gradually increase it to
twenty feet distance. If no improvement is manifest in
a few minutes, it is well to tty practising on one card
at a near point where the vision is good and to FLASH
the more distant card alternately.
One patient, a girl, aged 18, had myopia of—4.0.
Practising without her glasses at fifteen feet did not
improve her sight. The card was brought closer, to
six feet, where the vision was 6/70. She held another
card in her hand and practised looking at the first letter
of the 10 feet line, a letter F, at one foot where she
could see it quite perfectly with a slow, short, easy
swing, and at the same time imagine her body was
swinging with the F. This she became able to do by
moving her head and eyes. Later, she imagined the
swing of the F without having to move her head. She
alternately regarded the F at the neat point and imagined
her body was swinging with the F and then flashed the
first letter of each line of the Snellen card at six feet
without modifying or stopping the swing of the body.
Her vision rapidly improved so that she became able
to read the 10 feet line at six feet. The card was then
placed at fifteen feet and by practising in the same way,
she became able to read all the letters without stopping
the body swing. She then practised with card that she
had never seen before and was able to read the bottom
line as quickly on 'he strange card as she could on a
familiar one. When she looked at the large letters at
first, she unconsciously made an effort, stopped her swing
and failed to read them. By looking between the lines
o f letters and planning to test her swing without testing
her sight, she was able to maintain the swing of the
278 MIND AND VISION
letter F or the swing of her body, swinging with the
letter F, which improved her vision decidedly.
57. Q. I have imperfect eye-sight and have read your
book “ Mind and Vision,” but could not understand the
fundamental principles to cure my imperfect eye-sight.
A. If you learn the fundamental principles of perfect
sight and will consciously keep them in mind; your
defective vision will disappear.
Remember that all defective vision is due to strain
in some form, you can demonstrate to your own satis­
faction that strain lowers the vision, when you stare,
you strain. Look fixedly at a letter for five seconds or
longer. What happens ? The blackness and the white
back-ground of the letter blur. Also, your eyes are made
uncomfortable by this experiment. When you res! your
eyes for a few moments the vision is improved and
the discomfort relieved. Strain is relieved by relaxation.
The normal eye with perfect sight makes no effort
to see, like other sense oigans. It does all work
at rest. When the normal eye looks at a letter, it notes
three point.
a. The part of the letter regarded is seen best. This
is central fixation.
b. The letter makes short and gentle movements,
either from side to side or up and down. This is
swinging.
c. The back-ground of the letter flashes whiter than
the rest of the card. This is imagination.
QUESTIONS A N D ANSW ERS 279
In the eye with imperfect sight, these three facts
are lacking or absent. If one can produce these normal
facts, the vision is benefited.
To use the eyes correctly all day long, it is necessary
that you ■
1. Blink frequently,
2. Shift your glance constantly from one point to
another, seeing the part regarded best and other parts
not so clearly. That is, when you look at a chair, do
not try to see the whole object at once ; look first at
the back of it, seeing that part best and other parts
worse. Remember to blink as you quickly shift your
glance from the back to the seat and legs, seeing each
part best, in turn.
3. Your head and eyes are moving all day long.
Imagine that stationary objects are moving in the direc­
tion opposite to the movement of your head and eyes.
A woman, aged sixty, recently came to me for treat­
ment. She had worn glasses for more than thirty years
to improve her vision not only for distance, but also
for reading. Bifocals made her eyes feel worse and
produced a greater amount of discomfort than any other
glasses. Three years ago, the vision of the right eye was
good and she could read a newspaper with her glasses.
With the left eye, she could not read, even with glasses.
Her vision for distant objects was imperfect and was
not improved by glasses. Sometimes, the right eye had
good vision, while the vision of the left eye was much
less. On other occasions, the vision of the left eye was
good, while that of the right eye was very imperfect.
280 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
She had been to see a great many eye specialists for
treatment, bat none had been able to fit her properly
with glasses for distance or for reading. All these eye
specialists admitted that they did not know the cause
of her imperfect sight. She was fitted with many pairs
of eye glasses, no two of which were alike. Some
doctors prescribed eye drops, others internal medicines.
With the hope of giving her relief from the agony of
pain, which she suffered, various serums were administered.
Some eye specialists treated her for cataract, others for
diseases of the retina, optic nerve and other parts of
the interior of the eye-ball.
She was suffering from eye-strain or a mental strain,
which produced many different kinds of errors of refrac­
tion. When she strained her eyes, she produced a mal­
formation of the eye-balls which caused imperfect sight.
This condition had been temporarily improved by glasses.
In a few days or a week, however, the glasses had
caused her great discomfort and made her sight worse.
I made a very careful opthalmological examination, but
found no disease in any part of the eye. Her eyes were
normal, although the vision was imperfect. I emphasized
the fact that if she wished to be cured permanently,
it was necessary for her to discard her glasses and not
to put them on again for any purpose whatever. This
she consented to do.
The use of her memory and imagination helped to
improve her vision. She committed to memory the
various letters of the Snellen test card and with her
eyes open, regarding each letter, her memory or imagina­
tion of the letters was good. When she closed her eyes,
QUESTIONS AND ANSW ERS 2 3 1
not only could she remember or imagine each letter
perfectly black, but she also could remember the size
of the letter, its locution, its wnite centre and the white
halos which surrounded it. With her eyes closed, she
could remember the whiteness of the spaces between the
lines much better than she could imagine it with her
eyes open. With ihe aid of the retinoscope, I found that
when she imagined normal vision with her eyes open, there
was no myopia, hypermetropia, nor astigmatism present.
When she suffered from pain, however, the shape of the
eyeball was changed and her vision always became worse.
The patient demonstrated that the normal eye is
always normal when the memory or imagination is good.
When the memory or imagination is imperfect, the vision
o f the normal eye is always imperfect.
A Snellen test card with a large letter “ C” at the
top was placed about fifteen feet in front of her. To
one side was placed another Snellen test card with a
large letter “ L ” at the top. She was unable to distinguish
the large letter “ L” with either eye, but she could read
all the letters on the ljC” card, including the bottom
line, with the aid of her memory and imagination. With
a little encouragement, she became able to imagine the
large “ L” blacker than the large “ C” , although she could
not distinguish the “ L ” . In a few minutes, when she
imagined the “ L ” blacker than the big “ C” , she became
able to distinguish it. By the same methods, she became
able with the help of her memory and imagination to
imagine small letters on the large “ L ” catd to be as
black as the letters of the same size on the “ C” card.
By improving the blackness of the small letters on the
large “ L” catd, and imagining them perfectly black
282 M IN D A N D V ISIO N
alternately with her eves open and closed, the small letters
became visible and she was able to distinguish them.
When this patient looked fixedly at, or centred her
vision upon, one part of a large letter at six inches,
she found that it was difficult, and it required an effort,
to keep her eyes open, and to look intently at one
point. She also found that, by looking at other letters
and trying to see them all at once, or by making an
effort to see all the letters of one word simultaneously,
her vision was lowered. When she was advised to look
at the white spaces between the lines, she said that
it was a rest and that the white spaces seemed whiter,
and the black letters then seemed blacker, When she
avoided looking directly at the letters, she became able
to read some of the large print.
After she had imagined the white spaces between the
lines to be whiter than they really were, it was possible
for her to imagine the thin, white line. This line is
imagined along the bottom of a line of letters where
the black of the letters meets the white of the white
space. She was not always sure that she looked at the
white spaces, although she planned to do so. When she
tried to read and felt pain or discomfort, she was un­
consciously looking at the letters ; but when she looked
at the white spaces and succeeded in avoiding the letters,
she felt no discomfort and she was able to read almost
continuously without being conscious that she was look­
ing at the letters. When she practised relaxation methods,
did not stare, did not strain, nor tried to see, her vision
became normal.
I ND E X
A E
Accommodation 24, 29
Amblyopia 209, 225
Astigmatism 12 1,12 6 ,13 6 ,
142, 198
Atropine .. 210
Atrophy, Optic nerve 243
Aum Chart 81, 138
B
Bates 17» 25i 33
Blindness .. 225
Blind spot .. 24
Blinking 49, 140, 170, 184,
.. 279
Camera
Cataract
2 J
90, 1 2 1 , I 2 Ó , I 29,
136, 230
Central Fixation 73, 278
Choroid Choroiditis 20, 243
Ciliary muscle .. 25
Concentration .. 74
Cinema .. 53
Colour Blindness .. 75
Cornea .. 20
Correspondence treatment
146
D
Detachment of retina 126,236
Diet .. 154
Diplopia .. 217
Eccentric flxation .. 76
Errors of refraction 42, 167
186, 19S
Eye Ball .. 19
Eyebath .. 63
F
Far-sightedness (see
Hypermetropia)
Fine print 90, 153, 142, 232
Floating Specks 129, 205
Fovea centralis 22, 25
Fundamental’s 89
G
Glasses 39, 144,146,167, 279
Glaucoma 44, 47, 60,75, 121,
126, 129, 247
H
Headache I99> 255>
Helmholtz • • *5
Hypermetropia 32, 40.44,
12 1,12 6 , 13 6, 142, 186
Illusions
T
43, 24*
X
Images 31
Imagination 43, 118 279
Inflammation 44, H6
Iris .. 20
Iritis • • 249
L
Langenbeck .. 29
Lens 20,25, 29, 37, 230
Light * 3. 55
Loring •• 37
3 8 4 IN D E X
M R
Macula lutea .. 22
Memory 118, 231
Mental pictures .. 89
Mind 42, 48
Moving pictures .. 53
Muscae Voûtantes .. 203
Muscle, ciliary 25, 29
Muscles, external 24, 35
Myopia 33, 44, 49, 121, 126,
*39, *4Z> 149- i6 7
N
Near-sightedness (see
myopia)
Night blindness .. 7;
Nystagmus .. 245
O
Old age sight
Ophthalmoscope
Optic atrophy
Optic nerve
Optic disc
Orbit
58, 75. 191
.. 225
126, 243
.. 22
.. 22
.. 19
P
Pain 247, 251
Palming 62, 64, 77, 153,
185, 226, 230
Polyopia .. 217
Presbyopia 38,75,136,191
Pupil .. 28
Purkinje .. 29
Reading 4 4 , 5 2 , 7 5 , 1 3 3 ,
137, 142
Reading test type 88, 133
Relaxation 44, ,48, 64, 237
Retina 22, 26, 42, 236
Retinitis .. 243
Retinitis pigmentosa .. 245
Rods and cones .. 22
S
Schoolchildren .. 147
Sclera .. 19
Shifting .. 102
Snellen test card 85, 1 :2,
127. ' 3°. 139. M9
Specks, floating 129, 205
Squint 44, 208
Staring 44, 76
Strain 36,45,44,45,48,
145. 250, 280
Sun 56, 99
Sun treatment 58, 99, 232
Swinging 106, 231
T
Tear-gland .. 19
Tension 47- 247
Trachoma 61
V
Vision .. 149
Vitreous 21, 205
w
White line 86, 136, 240, 281
Y
Yellow spot 22
PREVENTION AND CURE OF
MYOPIA
WITHOUT GLASSES.
By Dr. R. S. Agarwal.
This is the latest and new book of the author.
The book presents that myopia is caused by
strain —and cured by rest and relaxation,
The complete method of treatment is described
in the form of questions and answers so dearly
that the reader can usually discard his glasses and
improve his vision.
For sale at this office and at leading book-stores.
Price Rs. *f/-
jStockists
DELHI
BOMBAY
MADRAS
CALCUTTA
LAHORE
1. Dr. Agarwal’s Eye Institute.
2. S. Cband, Chandni Ckowk.
Taraporewala & Sons,
210, Hornby Road, Fort.
Sri Aurobindo Library,
16, Sembudoss Stree
Thacker Spink & Co., Post Box 54.
Religious Book Society, Anarkali.
E V E R E M E D IE S
I. O P H T H A L M O — An eye-wash for defec­
tive eye sight, conjunctivitis, etc. Re 1 /-
z. R E S O L V E N T zoo—-Very efficacious in
opacity, cornea, cataract, floating specks, iritis,
myopia, retinal diseases, etc. Rs. |/S/
3 . R E S O L V E N T 5 0 0 — „ Rs. 1 0 /-
4 . S IG H T O X O C C U L O S E (S U R M A )—
V ety usefui in Trachoma, Opacity, Cornea,
Cataract, M yopia, etc. Rs. 2 /-
5 . E L IX I R O C C U L O S E — Useful in defec-
tive sight and to prevent Cataract Rs. 2/-
6 . O P H T H A L M O O L E U M — Very useful
for pain in head and eye-balls. Re.
7 . O P A C IT O X O C C U L O S E —-Very useful
in Opacity Cornea, Cataract and T rachoma
Rs. 3/®/
8 . Sw ing Stand Rs. 1 0 /-
9 . Palming Pillow Rs. 5/-
1 0 . Snellen Test Chart in Cobinet Rs. 4/‘
D r. A G A R W A L ’S E Y E IN S T IT U T E , D E L H I.
JJr. Aganm Vs Eye Institute, Delhi.
A'o.......... IMfe..........................
QUESTIONS TO ANSWER
N A M E ......................................................................................................
ADDRESS..............................................................................
OCCUPATION.............................................AGE................
1. Are your eyes naturally weak or strong 5..................
2. Are they small, medium or large?.........................
3. Are they prominent, sunken or natural5..............
4. Are the eves red 5 ...................................................
5. How long since your sight began to tail ?..............
6. How long have you worn glasses ?......................
7. What is the exact distance, in inches that vou
usually hold your book from the eyes, when
reading with glasses?..........Without glasses?...........
S. Can you read as well by ardticial light as by day­
light 5...........................................................................
9. Can you see well at a distance without glasses5. ...
10. What is the power of your glasses ?
Right eye.............................................................
Left eye.................................................................
11. Do your eyes pain you or tire quickly when reading
or at dose work ?.....................................................
12. Is there strabismus (squint) ?.................................
13. Does either eye involuntarily wander to the right
or left, up or down ? .............................................
*4■ Here state what you think ails your eyes...............
15. Have you had medical advice about your eyes;
if so what were you told ? .....................................
16. Have you any chronic, constitutional disease A ...
What ' ..............................................................................
17, Any other complaints...................................................
18 Test your vision on the Snellen’s Eye Testing
Chart for distance and on Reading Test type for
near at 9 inches. Fill the following table.
Without glasses With glasses
Distance Near Distance Near
Both eyes
Right eye
Left eye
Note'—If you want to use this leaf, cut it along the line,
fill up the blanks and return to Dr. Agarwal’s
Eye Institute, Delhi, with postal stamps.
