{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__underhill___house_of_the_soul.pdf","mytitle":"House Of The Soul","mylang":"de"}
THE HOUSE OF
THE SOUL
EVELYN UNDfiRHILL
METHUEN"& CO. LTD. LONDON
Tram ^liiHiti^ naf
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
BY THE SAME AUTHOR
MYSTICISM Twelfth Edition, Revised
THE LIFE OF THE SPIRIT AND THE LIFE OF
TO-DAY Seventh Edition
1
MAN AND THE SUPERNATURAL )
|
CONCERNING THE INNER LIFE Sixth Edition 1
THE GOLDEN SEQUENCE Third Edition I
I
MIXED PASTURE *
THE HOUSE
OF THE SOUL
By
EVELYN UNDERBILL
SECOND EDITION
METHUEN & CO. LTD.
36 ESSEX STREET W.C.
LONDON
First Published . . . October 3rd 1929
Second Edition . . .
1933
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
FOR
ROSA
WITH MY LOVE
PREFATORY NOTE
THIS
little book is in no sense a literary
work. It merely consists of the notes of
a series of informal addresses which were
given to a small group of like-minded people ;
and is intended rather to stimulate meditation
than to give information. Its readers are asked
of their charity to judge it from this point of
view.
E. U.
Feast of St. Mary Magdalen, 19.29
However great the breadth, the depth, the
height of our thought of the soul, we shall
not exceed the reality ; for its capacity is
far greater than we are able to conceive,
and the Sun which dwells in this house
penetrates to every corner of it.
ST. TERESA
I
WHEN
St. Paul described our mysterious
human nature as a "Temple of the
Holy Spirit" a created dwelling-place or
sanctuary of the uncreated and invisible
Divine Life he was stating in the strongest
possible terms a view of our status, our relation
to God, which has always been present in
Christianity; and is indeed implicit in the
Christian view of Reality. But that statement
as it stands seems far too strong for most of us.
We do not feel in the very least like the temples
of Creative Love. We are more at ease with
St. Teresa, when she describes the soul as an
"interior castle" a roomy mansion, with
various floors and apartments from the base-
ment upwards; not all devoted to exalted uses,
not always in a satisfactory state. And when,
in a more homely mood, she speaks of her own
spiritual life as "becoming solid like a house,"
we at last get something we can grasp.
The soul's house, that interior dwelling-
place which we all possess, for the upkeep of
which we are responsible a place in which we
can meet God, or from which in a sense we can
exclude God that is not too big an idea for us.
Though no imagery drawn from the life of
sense can ever be adequate to the strange and
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
delicate contacts, tensions, demands and bene-
dictions of the life that lies beyond sense :
though
the important part of every parable is that which
it fails to express: still, here is a conception
which can be made to cover many of the truths
that govern the interior life of prayer.
First, we are led to consider the position of
the house. However interesting and important
its peculiarities may seem to the tenant, it is not
as a matter of fact an unusually picturesque and
interesting mansion made to an original design,
and set in its own grounds with no other build-
ing in sight. Christian spirituality knows
nothing of this sort of individualism. It insists
that we do not inhabit detached residences, but
are parts of a vast spiritual organism ;
that even
the most hidden life is never lived for itself
alone. Our soul's house forms part of the vast
City of God. Though it
may not be an impor-
tant mansion with a frontage on the main
street, nevertheless it shares all the obligations
and advantages belonging to the city as a
whole. It gets its water from the main, and its
light from the general supply. The way we
maintain and use it must have reference to our
civic responsibilities.
It is true that God creates souls in a mar-
vellous liberty and variety. The ideals of the
building estate tell us nothing about the King-
dom of Heaven. It is true, also, that the
furnishing of our rooms and cultivation of our
garden is largely left to our personal industry
10
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
and good taste. Still, in a general way, we must
fall in with the city's plan; and consider,
when we hang some new and startling curtains,
how they will look from the street. However
intense the personal life of each soul may be,
that personal life has got out of proportion, if
it makes us forget our municipal obligations
and advantages; for our true significance is
more than personal, it is bound up with the
fact of our status as members of a supernatural
society. So into all the affairs of the little house
there should enter a certain sense of the city,
and beyond this of the infinite world in which
the city stands: some awestruck memory of
our double situation, at once so homely and
so mysterious. We must each maintain
unimpaired our unique relation with God; yet
without forgetting our intimate contact with
the rest of the city, or the mesh of invisible
life which binds all the inhabitants in one,
For it is on the unchanging Life of God, as
on a rock, that the whole city is founded. That
august and cherishing Spirit is the atmosphere
which bathes it, and fills each room of every
little house quickening, feeding and sus-
taining. He is the one Reality which makes
us real; and, equally, the other houses too.
"If I am not in Thee," said St. Augustine,
"then I am not at all." We are often urged to
think of the spiritual life as a personal adventure ,
a ceaseless hustle forward; with all its meaning
condensed in the "perfection" of the last stage.
II
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
But though progress, or rather growth, is
truly
in it, such growth in so far as it is real can only
arise from, and be conditioned by, a far more
fundamental relation the growing soul's
abidingness in God.
Next, what type of house does the soul live
in? It is a two-story house. The psycholo-
gist too often assumes that it is a one-roomed
cottage with a mud floor; and never even
attempts to go upstairs. The extreme tran-
scendentalist sometimes talks as though it were
perched in the air, like the lake dwellings of
our primitive ancestors, and had no ground
floor at all. A more humble attention to facts
suggests that neither of these simplifications is
true. We know that we have a ground floor,
a natural life biologically conditioned, with
animal instincts and affinities ;
and that this life
is very important, for it is the product of the
divine creativity its builder and maker is God.
But we know too that we have an upper floor, a
supernatural life, with supernatural possibilities,
a capacity for God; and that this, man's
peculiar prerogative, is more important still.
If we try to live on one floor alone we destroy
the mysterious beauty of our human vocation;
so utterly a part of the fugitive and creaturely
life of this planet and yet so deeply coloured
by Eternity ;
so entirely one with the world of
nature and yet, "in the Spirit," a habitation
of God. "Thou madest him lower than the
angels, to crown him with glory and worship."
12
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
We are created both in Time and in Eternity,
not truly one but truly two ; and every thought,
word and act must be subdued to the dignity of
that double situation in which Almighty God
has placed and companions the childish spirit
of man.
Therefore a full and wholesome spiritual life
can never consist in living upstairs, and for-
getting to consider the ground floor and its
homely uses and needs ;
thus ignoring the
humbling fact that those upper rooms are
entirely supported by it. Nor does it consist in
the constant, exasperated investigation of the
shortcomings of the basement. When St.
Teresa said that her prayer had become "solid
like a house" she meant that its foundations
now went down into the lowly but firm ground
of human nature, the concrete actualities of
the natural life :
and, on those solid foundations,
its wall rose up towards heaven. The strength
of the house consisted in that intimate welding
together of the divine and the human, which
she found in its perfection in the humanity of
Christ. There, in the common stuff of human
life which He blessed by His presence, the
saints have ever seen the homely foundations
of holiness. Since we are two-story creatures,
called to a natural and a supernatural status,
both sense and spirit must be rightly main-
tained, kept in order, consecrated to the pur-
poses of the city, if our full obligations are to be
I
fulfilled. The house is built for God; to reflect,
B
13
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
on each level, something of His unlimited
Perfection. Downstairs that general right-
ness of adjustment to all this-world obligations,
which the ancients called the quality of
Justice; and the homely virtues of Prudence,
Temperance and Fortitude reminding us of
our creatureliness, our limitations, and so
humbling and disciplining us. Upstairs, the
heavenly powers of Faith, Hope and Charity;
tending towards the Eternal, nourishing our
life towards God, and having no meaning
apart from God.
But the soul's house will never be a real
home unless the ground floor is as cared for
and as habitable as the beautiful rooms up-
stairs. We are required to live in the whole
of our premises, and are responsible ,
for the
condition of the whole of our premises. It is
useless to repaper the drawing-room if what
we really need is a new sink. In that secret
Divine purpose which is
drawing all life to-
wards perfection, the whole house is meant to
be beautiful and ought to be beautiful; for it
comes from God, and was made to His design.
Christ's soul when on earth lived in one of
these houses; had to use the same fitments,
make the same arrangements do. We cannot
excuse our own failures by attributing them to
the inconvenience of the premises, and the fact
that some very old-fashioned bits of apparatus
survive. Most of us have inherited some ugly
bits of furniture, or unfortunate family portraits
'
THE HOUSE OFTHE SOUL
which we can't get rid of, and which prevent
our rooms being quite a success. Nevertheless
the soul does not grow strong merely by
enjoying
its upstairs privileges and ignoring
downstairs disadvantages, problems and re-
sponsibilities ;
but only by tackling its real task
of total transformation. It is called to maintain
a house which shall be in its completeness "a
habitation of God in the Spirit" ;
subdued to
His purpose on all levels, manifesting His
glory in what we call natural life, as well as
in what we call spiritual life. For man is the
link between these two orders; truly created
a little lower than the angels, yet truly crowned
with glory and worship, because in this un-
perfected human nature the Absolute Life
itself has deigned to dwell.
That means, reduced to practice, that the
whole house with its manifold and graded
activities must be a house of prayer. It does
.not mean keeping a Quiet Room to which we
can retreat, with mystical pictures on the walls,
and curtains over the windows to temper the
| disconcerting intensity of the light; a room
i where we can forget the fact that there are
black beetles in the kitchen, and that the range
is not working very well. Once we admit any
violent contrast between the upper and lower
floor, the "instinctive" and "spiritual" life, or
feel a reluctance to investigate the humbling
realities of the basement, our life becomes less,
pot more, than human ;
and our position is
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
unsafe. Are we capable of the adventure of
courage which inspires the great prayer of St.
Augustine: "The house of my soul is
narrow;
do Thou enter in and enlarge it! It is
ruinous;
do Thou repair it"? Can we risk the visitation
of the mysterious Power that will go through all
our untidy rooms, showing up their shortcom-
ings and their possibilities; reproving by the
tranquillity of order the waste and muddle of
our inner life ? The mere hoarded rubbish that
ought to go into the dustbin; the things that
want mending and washing ;
the possessions we
have never taken the trouble to use ? Yet this is
the only condition on which man can participate
in that fullness of life for which he is made.
The Lord's Prayer, in which St. Teresa said
that she found the whole art of contemplation
from its simple beginning to its transcendent
goal, witnesses with a wonderful beauty and
completeness to this two-story character of the
soul's house ;
and yet its absolute unity. It
begins at the top, in the watch tower of faith,
with the sublime assertion of our supernatural
status the one relation, intimate yet incon-
ceivable, that governs all the rest "Our
Father who art in Heaven, hallowed be Thy
name." Whatever the downstairs muddle and
tension we have to deal with, however great
the difficulty of adjusting the claims of the
instincts that live in the basement and the
interests that clamour at the door, all these
demands, all this rich and testing experience, is
16
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
enfolded and transfused by the cherishing,
over-ruling life and power of God. We are lifted
clear of the psychological tangle in which the
life of our spirit too often seems enmeshed, into
the pure, serene light of Eternity ;
and shown
the whole various and disconcerting pageant of
creation as proceeding from God, and existing
only that it may glorify His name. Childlike
dependence and joyful adoration are placed
together as the twin characters of the soul's
relation to God.
Thence, step by step, this prayer brings us
downstairs, goes with us through the whole
louse; bringing the supernatural into the
natural, blessing and sanctifying, cleansing and
rectifying every aspect of the home. "Thy
Kingdom come!" Hope trustful expectation.
"
Thy will be done !" Charity the loving union
of our wills with the Infinite Will. Then the
ground floor. "Give us this day" that food
from beyond ourselves which nourishes and
sustains our life. Forgive all our little failures
and excesses, neutralize the corroding power
of our conflicts, disharmonies, rebellions, sins.
We can't deal with them alone. Teach us, as
towards our fellow citizens, to share that
generous tolerance of God. Lead us not into
situations where we are tried beyond our
strength; but meet us on the battlefield of
personality, and protect the weakness of the
adolescent spirit against the downward pull of
the inhabitants of the lower floor.
THEHOUSEOF THE SOUL
And then, the reason of all this ; bringing
together, in one supreme declaration of joy
and confidence, the soul's sense of that sup-
porting, holy, and eternal Reality who is the
Ruler and the Light of the city, and of every
room in every little house. Thine is the King-
dom, the Power and the Glory. If our interior
life be subdued to the spirit of this prayer, with
its rich sense of our mighty heritage and child-
like status, our total dependence on the Reality
of God, then the soul's house is
truly running
well. Its action is transfused by contemplation.
The door is
open between the upper and the
lower floors; the life of spirit and life of sense.
"Two cities," said St. Augustine, "have been
created by two loves: the earthly city by love of
self even to contempt of God, the heavenly
city by love of God even to contempt of self.
The one city glories in itself; the other city
glories in the Lord. The one city glories in its
own strength; the other city says to its God,
'I will love Thee, O Lord my strength.'
"
Perhaps there has never been a time in Chris-
tian history when that contrast has been more
sharply felt than it is now the contrast
between that view of man's situation and
meaning, in which the emphasis falls on human-
ity, its vast desires and wonderful achievements,
even to contempt of God ;
and the view in
which the emphasis falls on God's transcendent
action and over-ruling will, even to contempt of
self. St. Augustine saw, and still would see,
18
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
mankind ever at work building those two cities;
and every human soul as a potential citizen of
one or the other. And from this point of view,
that which we call the "interior life" is
just the
home life of those who inhabit the invisible City
of God ; realistically taking up their municipal
privileges and duties, and pursuing them "even
to contempt of self." It is the obligation and
the art of keeping the premises entrusted to us
in good order, having ever in view the welfare
of the city as a whole.
Some souls, like some people, can be shimmy
anywhere. There is always a raucous and un-
controlled voice ascending from the basement,
and a pail of dirty water at the foot of the stairs.
Others can achieve in the most impossible
situation a simple and beautiful life. The good
citizen must be able without reluctance to
open the door at all times, not only at the
week-end; must keep the windows clean
and taps running properly, that the light and
living water may come in. These free gifts of
the supernatural are offered to each house ;
and
only as free gifts can they be had. Our noisy
little engine will not produce the true light ;
nor
our most desperate digging a proper water
supply. Recognition of this fact, this entire
dependence of the creature, is essential if the
full benefits of our mysterious citizenship are
ever to be enjoyed by us. "I saw," said the poet
of the Apocalypse, "the holy city coming down
from God out of heaven . . . the glory of God
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
lit it ... the water of life proceeded out of the
throne of God." All is the free gift of the super-
natural ;
not the result of human growth and
effort. God's generous and life-giving work in
the world of souls ever goes before man's work
in God. So the main thing about the Invisible
City is not the industry and good character of
the inhabitants: they do not make it shine. It
is the tranquil operation of that perpetual
providence, which incites and supports their
small activities ;
the direct and childlike relation
in which they stand to the city's Ruler; the
generous light and air that bathe the little
houses; the unchanging rock of Eternity on
which their foundations stand.
20
II
WEcome back to examine more closely our
domestic responsibilities : the two floors
of the soul's house. We begin on the ground
floor; for until that is in decent order it is
useless to go upstairs. A well-ordered natural
life is the only safe basis of our supernatural
life: Christianity, which brought the ground
floor, with its powerful but unruly impulses,
within the area of God's grace, demands its sub-
limation and dedication to His purposes. We
are required to live in the whole of our house,
learning to go freely and constantly up and
down stairs, backwards and forwards, easily
and willingly, from one kind of life to the other ;
weaving together the higher and lower powers
of the soul, and using both for the glory of God.
No exclusive spirituality will serve the purposes
of man, called to be a link between two worlds.
There are days, months for some there
will be years when we look out of the window
of faith, and find that the view is hidden in
a mantle of fog: when we turn to the work-
shop of hope, and find the fog has made that
chill and gloomy too: when we resort to the
central heating, and find that is not working
very well. Then when Faith, Hope and
Charity all seem to fail us is the time to
21
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
remember the excellent advice which Mrs.
Berry gave to Richard Feverel's bride: "When
the parlour fire burns low, put on coals in the
kitchen." Accept your limitations, go down-
stairs, and attend to the life of the lower floor.
Our vocation requires of us an equal alertness
with the censer and the scrubbing brush.
When the door between the two stories is
open,
a flood of disconcerting light is shed upon that
lower floor and its condition; and our feeble
excuses for its muddled state fade into silence.
But if we face the facts in the right spirit we
shall find, like St. Teresa, the Presence we lost
upstairs walking among the pots and pans.
The disciplined use of the lower floor and all
the rich material it offers is therefore essential
to the peace and prosperity of the upper floor ;
we cannot merely shut the door at the top of
the basement stairs and hope for the best. The
loud voices of unmortified nature, saying "I
want! I will! I won't!" rising up from the
kitchen premises, will ruin the delicate music
of the upstairs wireless. Here is the source of all
the worst distractions in prayer, and the lair of
all the devils that tempt us most : our inclina-
tions to selfish choices, inordinate enjoyments,
claimful affection, self-centred worry, instinc-
tive avoidance of sacrifice and pain all the
downward drag of animal life. Here, as St.
Teresa says in The Interior Castley
we are
likely to find damp unpleasant corners; and
reptiles and other horrors lurking in them. If
22
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
the house is to be well run, we must begin by
cleaning the kitchen and the scullery; and
giving their energetic but unruly inhabitants
their jobs. The human power of choice must
be submitted to the rule of Prudence ;
human
impulse and desire to the rule of Temperance ;
our self-protecting mechanisms, sloth, softness,
nervous fears, to the bracing touch of Fortitude.
That threefold reordering and sublimation of
the ground floor drastic but unsensational
will test and purify the soul's realism, humility
and love, far more fully, will subdue it to the
mysterious Divine action far more completely,
than any hasty retreat upstairs can do. "Not
only a good way, but the best of ways," says
St. Teresa, "is to strive to enter first by the
room where humility is
practised, which is far
better than at once rushing on to the others."
It was no mere upstairs mystic, exclusively
absorbed in spiritual things, who uttered the
mysterious and haunting words "To me, to
live is Christ." It was St. Paul, wrestling with
his own difficult nature, and perpetually con-
scious of the conflict between sense and
spirit as he lived towards God. Here and now,
on the ground floor, to live with Prudence,
Temperance and Fortitude in the circumstances
given me, and with the temperament and
furniture given me because that ground floor
is crowned and blessed by the life of Faith,
Hope and Charity tending towards God this
"is Christ." There is not one landlord for
23
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
the lower floor, and another for the upstairs
flat.
Every soul, says that true psychologist
Augustine Baker, has two internal lights or
guides, the spirit of Nature and the Spirit of
God: and besides these "we neither have nor
can have, any other within us." We are
reminded of that familiar picture of the old-
fashioned nursery the child with a good angel
at the right hand and a bad angel at the left.
Like many other bits of childish mythology,
that picture points beyond itself to a deep
truth. The good angel is really there: Anima,
the soul's being when it ascends to its apex, as
the mystics say, stands in the watch tower of
faith, opens the window towards Eternity,
beholds the Light that is God. "The Supream
part of the Soul," says Peter Sterry, "which
is above Sensible Things, ever living in the
midst of Invisible Things this is each Man's
Angel." And the bad angel is really there too
this same complex and variable soul, when it
capitulates to the unfortunate influences of the
scullery. We know too well that, like the dog
who has been trained to the drawing-room,
there still remains something in us which takes
a sneaking interest in the dustbin and will drift
off in that direction if given a chance. The first
thing we realize when we achieve any genuine
self-knowledge is the existence of those two
levels or aspects of the soul's life : the natural
self subject to mutability, the secret and
24
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
essential self capable of reality, tending to God.
They often seem to pull different ways; the
unstable will can hardly keep its feet between
them. If we consider in this light the last
unfortunate episode which showed us up to
ourselves; when we make the second-best
choice, when a sudden tug at our elbow assured
us that this particular bit of magnanimity, that
renunciation, was really too much to expect
even though it shone with an unearthly
radiance, though Anima said "Follow me!"
then the force of the ancient Advent prayer
comes home to us. "O Wisdom proceeding out
of the mouth of the Most High, come and teach
me the way of Prudence" between the two
conflicting aspects of my double life.
Prudence, on the natural level so suggestive
of a self-centred carefulness, the miserable
policy of "safety first," only achieves dignity
and beauty when thus raised to the spiritual
status, and related to our life in God. Then it
is revealed as the virtue which governs and
sublimates all behaviour; as Temperance is the
virtue which governs and sublimates desire.
We owe to St. Thomas the noblest and deepest
of all definitions of Prudence. For him, all
virtues, all the soul's sources of energy, are
forms and expressions of one thing Love, the
self's will and desire, in the ascending degrees
of preference, interest, longing and devotedness,
set towards God and the will of God. And,
conversely, all sin is due to something gone
25
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
wrong with that same sacred power of energetic
love; its direction to wrong objectives. Sin is
"a withdrawal from the art of Divine Wisdom
and the order of Divine Love" : a wilful setting
of our own small lives, hopes and loves out of
line with the vast purposes of God. The right
ordering of its innate powers of love and will is
therefore all the soul has to do to actualize
its inheritance, make it fit for God. Ordina
quest' amore, o tu che m'ami. Then, the _soul's
house is ready for its guest. And Prudence,
says St. Thomas again, is this Love "choosing
between what helps and what hinders"
choosing what helps the fulfilment of God's
will, and leaving what hinders the fulfilment of
that will; because He is the soul's love. It is
the dedicated use of the great human power of
choice, its subjection to the rule of charity : the
right ordering of the natural life in the interests,
not of one's own preference or advancement,
but of the city and the city's King.
Thus Prudence is like a good housekeeper ;
not very attractive at first sight, but a valuable
sort of woman to put in charge if you want your
soul's house to be well run. With her eye on
efficiency, but always for love's sake, she will
use her resources in the best way, keep up the
premises, provide regular and suitable meals.
She will not serve devotional meringues for
breakfast, or try to make beautiful fluffy
omelettes full of fervour just when eggs are
scarce. Dealing with her situation as it
really is,
26
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
and not proceeding on the assumption that it
really ought to be something else, more inter-
esting, exalted and flattering to self-love, she
will be provident : not using up all her resources
at the beginning of the week, or making plans
she cannot carry out. She will refuse to trans-
late the words "called to be saints" into "called
to behave as if we were already saints." She
will balance prayer and action, never giving
out beyond her power, or forgetting to get in
fresh supplies: so that her spiritual store
cupboard is never bare. How mortified, free
from all spiritual fancifulness and extravagance,
is a life over which Prudence presides ;
love of
God, even to contempt of self, determining all
choices, purifying all motives, and maintaining
an orderly, disciplined life in the soul.
We find this science of behaviour operative
in both the great aspects of our human ex-
perience, the outward and the inward: our be-
haviour towards other souls, our behaviour to
ourselves. As regards others, it will mean the
loving and careful choice of all that helps and
does not hinder them. In the life of action, the
mortified use of our rightful initiative. In the
life of feeling, the custody of the heart, in the
interests of our neighbour's peace as well as our
own. In the life of thought, a humble avoidance
of comments on the crude and childish nature
of the symbols through which other souls reach
out to God; a discreet suppression of that
clever and interesting bit of up-to-date
27
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
theology, those startling ethical ideas, which
flatter our intelligence but may disturb more
tender-minded souls. Nothing is more marked
in the Gospels than the prudence with which
Christ gave spiritual truths from His infinite
store: always enlightening, but never over-
whelming the homely,
sense-conditioned human
creatures to whom He was sent. The Mind
which saw God, and all things displayed in the
light of the Divine Wisdom, and which longed
to give all men that great vision which is
beatitude, came down from nights of com-
munion with that Reality upon the mountain,
to teach with Prudence. "Without a parable
spake He not" and those parables were made
of the homeliest materials, with little to attract
a fastidious spirituality. Yet in them the secret
of the Kingdom was hid, so that only those who
were ready for the teaching received it. Perfect
Wisdom came with kindergarten methods to
men's kindergarten souls.
The mind awakened to spiritual reality often
needs much self-control, much prudence, if it is
to put the truth it has acquired usually very
little so generally and so genially that there is
no risk of giving anyone a spiritual shock, or
the chance of spiritual gastritis. All teachers
have to learn with St. Paul to subordinate their
own vision to their pupils' needs ; feeding babies
with milk because they need milk, whilst
suppressing the disheartening information that
there is a more complete diet in the cupboard.
28
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
Prudence proves her love as much by what she
withholds as by what she gives: humbly and
patiently adapting her method to the capacity
of each. She never bewilders, dazzles, little
growing
souls ;
never over-feeds or drags them
out of their depth. The cakes upon her tea-
table are suited to the digestion of the guests.
Prudence further requires the careful hand-
ling
of our own lives and capacities; instru-
ments given us by God, and destined to be
mirrors of His skill. It means choosing what
helps, and rejecting what hinders, the fulfilment
of that design, that vocation, which is
already
present in embryo in our souls. This subjection
of behaviour to the ultimate purpose of God
may mean on one hand conduct which seems
absurdly over-careful ; or, on the other, conduct
which seems imprudent to the last degree. The
truly prudent, love-impelled choices of the
saints are often in the eyes of the world the
extreme of foolishness. St. Simon Stylites,
making his pillar higher and higher in his quest
of that solitude to which he knew that he was
called ;
St. Francis, stripping off all that impeded
his love, even to his very clothes, and going
out to destitution; St. Catherine of Genoa,
forcing herself to repulsive duties because
they helped to kill fastidiousness, and make
her self-oblivious love more complete ;
Father
Damien, choosing the certitude of a leper's
death; Father Wainright, deliberately going
without a midday meal for years, because
C 29
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
love made him want to share the privations of
those he served all these are the actions of
celestial prudence. Prudence, not preference,
took St. Teresa to the convent. She did not
like the cloister, but she knew herself called by
God ;
and chose that which helped to fulfil His
will for her soul. Prudence locked the door of
Lady Julian's cell, but sent Mary Slessor from
the Scottish mill to the African jungle; took
Foucauld to the solitude of the Sahara, Living-
stone to Africa, Grenfell to Labrador.
Love chooses the work it can do, not the
work that it likes. Prudent love took St.
Thomas from contemplation and made him
the teacher of the schools. Prudent love does
not insist on being a philanthropist when it
lacks the warm outgoing temperament that is
needed, and is decisively called to the more
lonely but not less essential vocation of
studying the deep things of God. It uses the
material given it in the best possible way ;
and
thus doing, makes its appointed contribution to
that eternal plan which requires the perfect
active surrender of the willing creature, the
making of all choices and performance of all
tasks in subservience to that God Who is Pure
Act the total consecration of natural life. "We
are always," says De Caussade, "running after
some chimerical perfection, and losing sight of
the only rule of real perfection, which is the
will of God that infinitely wise and infinitely
gentle will, which if we make it our guide, will
3
TH HOUSE OF THE SOUL
show us near at hand at any moment, that which
we vainly and laboriously seek elsewhere."
In the Paradiso Dante, with his usual acute-
ness, makes Prudence love choosing rightly
the boundary between perfect and imperfect
beatitude. The Heaven of those active saints
through whom the Divine Wisdom is
imparted
to men is the Heaven of Prudence. Minds
widely separated in temper and outlook, but
united by their loving choice of God
Anselm and Chrysostom, Francis and Dominic,
Hugh of St. Victor and Thomas Aquinas
there dwell together. It is there that the music
of eternity first becomes audible by human
ears. And this is surely right ;
for it is only by
means of those costly, love-impelled choices
which are the essence of heavenly Prudence
that the natural creature can enter more and
more fully into the rhythm of the supernatural
life.
For in the governance of our natural lives, a
genuine choice .is left to us. We are neither
dummies, nor the slaves of circumstance. We
are living creatures possessed of a limited
freedom, a power of initiative, which increases
every time we use it the right way; we are
trained and developed by being confronted
with alternatives, on which tremendous issues
hang. It is
typical of the completeness with
which each essential factor of our human ex-
perience finds its rule and pattern in the
Gospels that this free choice between possible
THE HOUSE OF T H E SOUL
courses should form our Lord's actual pre-
paration for His public ministry. Enlightened
at baptism as to His divine Sonship, His
unique commission, He did not at once rush
off "in the power of the Spirit" to preach the
good news. "He who believeth shall not make
haste." Real power is the result of inner
harmony, and requires perfect accord between
the upper and lower floors ; impulse harnessed
to obedience. Therefore the Spirit of Wisdom
drove Him into the wilderness, to come to
terms with His own human nature. More than
one path lay open before Him. He might claim
the privileges of an exceptional spirit, in the
midst of a world which is not exceptional at all :
turn the material world to His own purpose,
transcend the common laws of nature, assume
the position of the Father's pet child. He might
follow the path disclosed by spiritual ambition,
leading to obvious power and success : the most
insidious of the three temptations, because it
suggested that His mission of redemption and
enlightenment could be fulfilled on a great
scale, by entering into alliance with the spirit
and methods of the world. People who think in
numbers always mistake this for a call from
God. Love, choosing what helped, rejected all
these opportunities, and elected the humble
career of a local prophet and evangelist: a
limited scope, unrewarded service, an un-
appreciative public, a narrow path leading to
the Cross.
32
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
The spiritual life constantly offers its neo-
phytes the equivalent of all these temptations.
There are those who think first of their own
spiritual hunger, and the imperative duty of
feeding their own souls: those for whom the
spiritual life means spiritual privilege who
defy common sense,, take foolish risks, and call
the proceeding trust in God : those who accept
methods of recommending religion which are
something less than spiritual, and call this
"dealing with the conditions of modern life."
All these courses in their different ways may
seem prudent ;
and all wilt away before the
selfless prudence of Christ. That picture, in
its austere majesty and loneliness, forces the
soul to consider how much disguised self-
interest, how much irresponsibility, how much
inclination to compromise, hang about its
ground floor and impede the purity of its
choice for God. For the inner spring which
governs all truly prudent choice is such a
generous, general and self-oblivious surrender
as overrules mere personal preference, can
envisage with equal calmness apparent failure
and apparent success, and ignores even its own
spiritual advantage. The New Testament
contains no single instance in which our
Lord sought or obtained a private spiritual
advantage : and the devout persons who do so
are at best only vegetable-fibre saints. Like
artificial silk, they look very glossy, but do not
stand much wear and tear.
33
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
Now Prudence is a positive, not a negative,
principle .of action. It requires behaviour, not
abstention from behaviour. It rejects the
lower, in order that it
may be free to accept
the higher choice. Thus our dominant attrac-
tion is in the eyes of Prudence as important as
our dominant temptation : it
may be the magnet
by which we are being drawn to the place we
have to fill. The creative method completes
detachment by attachment: "Leave all" re-
quires as its corollary "Follow me." It may
therefore be a work of Prudence to make tenta-
tive advances along a path which attracts us ;
whether of prayer, study, active work, human
love or renunciation. But when God, speaking
through circumstances, says "That way is
not open," then it is for us humbly to acquiesce,
whatever the cost. Love must learn by ex-
perience to recognize when the secret inward
pressure comes from God, and when it really
comes from self-will, and we persuade our-
selves that it is the push of God. Nothing is
more important than that we should faithfully
follow our own true spiritual attraction ; develop
and use the talent given into our care. But
it needs a humble and a prudent spirit to
discover what that is, and distinguish it from
the other more exciting kind of attraction
which is really rooted in self-love.
To do this is the work of Discretion, the
handmaid of Prudence : and the test that she
proposes is simple enough. "If God be thy love
34
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
and thy meaning, the choice and point of thy
heart," says the author of The Cloud of Un-
knowing, "it sufficeth to thee in this life."
There, in a phrase, is the heart of Heavenly
Prudence. It requires a total transformation of
our attitude towards existence; because the
choice and point of our heart is set towards the
Eternal, our love and our meaning is God, and
we are running our house for Him. If we
test by this standard the dubious choices we
have made, the chances we have missed, the
responsibilities we have dodged, we shall per-
ceive in each of them a virtual confession that
the Living Perfect and its interests were not
really the choice and point of our heart. Easy
paths taken, awkward paths left ;
a cowardly
inclination to take shelter behind circumstances.
In personal relationships, a quiet avoidance of
the uncongenial, a certain blindness to oppor-
tunities for -exercising generous love. In
religion, perverse insistence on particular
notions and practices ;
self-chosen adventures
in devotional regions to which we were not
decisively called. Prudence, remembering the
modest size of her own premises and the
sublimity of those experiences of God which
the mystics try with stammering tongues to
suggest, will always choose a simple type of
prayer suited to her capacity, and never
attempt that which is
beyond her powers; for
she has no spiritual ambition, beyond faithful
correspondence with God. How sober, morti-
35
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
fied, truly discreet is the prayer of the saints;
faithful, loyal, free from self-chosen peculi-
arities, keeping steadily on through darkness
and through light.
So too the detachment to which Prudence
will urge us will not merely consist in cutting
out those things and persons which attract us,
and are occasions of temptation and unrest:
thus eliminating the very material of self-
discipline from life. It will rather require the
practice of detachment in attachment: using
with love the educational toys in our cupboard,
but refusing to make them into idols or break
into angry howls when they are taken away.
Prudence requires love without claimfulness,
and service without self-will; cherishing and
studying the people placed within our radius,
but even here, never seeking our own along
the subtle paths of spiritual friendship. She
demands a life that is both world-embracing
and world-renouncing in its amplitude of sur-
rendered love. This means a constant and
difficult tension ; many falls, perhaps continu-
ous suffering, perpetual slaps to affection and
pride. Again and again the unruly lower
nature seems to be conquered ; again arid again
it catches us out. It is one thing to make
Love's choice, and quite another to stick to it.
Nevertheless this is the right way to handle the
ground-floor life ;
not eliminating its frictions,
but using its
capacities, and gradually purifying
the use of them from self-love. We can afford
36
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
to have a warm and well-furnished kitchen, and
even to take pride in it, so long as we remember
that it is a kitchen; and that all its activities
must be subservient to the interests of the
whole house, and its observance of the city's
law,
37
Ill
IF
it is the special work of Prudence to
manage our basement premises, so run the
domestic life of the soul that all its willed
choices, the trend of its behaviour, subserve the
purposes of God ;
it is the special work of
Temperance to harness and control the natural
instincts, and subdue them to the same end.
Temperance, says St. Thomas, is the Virtue of
the Beautiful, the virtue which tempers and
orders our vehement desires, and subjects even
our apparently spiritual cravings to the morti-
fying action of love : for moderation, proportion,
reverence for conditions, is the very secret of a
lasting beauty. To worship the Lord in the
beauty of holiness does not mean the unbridled
enthusiasm of the dervish, but the quiet and
steadfast loyalty of the saint.
Temperance, then, must preside over the
furnishing of the soul's house, if it is to be the
setting of a useful, ordered, peaceful interior
life. Much discipline, moderation, actual self-
denial are involved in wise furnishing. No
hurried purchase of the cheap or attractive,
without considering the size and shape of our
rooms; no copying of our neighbour's interest-
ing new curtains, oblivious of the fact that they
will never live with pur dear old rugs; no
38
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
frenzied efforts to get a grand piano into a two-
roomed flat. If the house is to be a success,
what we leave out will be quite as important as
what we put in. Abstine et sustine. At every
turn we are required to reconsider our first
notions, accept our limitations, mortify our
desires. It is useless to begin in a style that we
cannot keep up; or, when we see what it
involves, will want to keep up. We all know
rooms full of little vases, faded photographs,
plush elephants, and shabby books of verse;
relics of the owners' transient and uncontrolled
impulses. Those rooms lack all sense of
space, tranquillity and dignity ;
because Tem-
perance, the strong virtue of the Beautiful,
has not been called in. So too the furnishing
of the soul's house depends for its success
on a wise austerity. It requires a spirit of
renunciation; checking that love of what
is new, odd or startling, which so easily
kills the taste for quiet colour and simple
things,
(
that tendency to accumulate odds
and ends which swamps our few real treasures
in a dusty crowd of devotional knick-knacks.
The inner life does not consist in the abun-
dance and peculiarity of our spiritual posses-
sions. There is
nothing so foolish, snobbish,
and in the end so disastrous as trying to
furnish beyond our means; forgetting our
creaturely status, and the very moderate
position which our small house occupies in
the City of God.
39
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
Again, Temperance will lay a
restraining
hand on the speculative instinct, when it is
tempted to rush off to the horizons of thought
or make fatuous efforts to achieve a "concept
of God"; forgetting, in its immoderate craving
for sharper outlines or more light, the awful
disparity between the infinite mystery and the
useful but limited human mind, and the fact
that it is under human conditions, in a human
world, that God desires to maintain and
transfigure the soul. "The angels feed on Thee
fully," says the ancient prayer of the priest
before Mass: "let pilgrim man feed on Thee
according to his measure."
Christianity insists that all we need and can
assimilate will be given to us at home; the
Light of the human world coming to us here
and now, as the Bread of Life. But it takes a
temperate soul to savour all that lies hidden in
this saying its moderation, homeliness, per-
fect adaptation to our creaturely needs. True,
the
heavens declare the glory of the Lord ;
but we,
whirling along on our tiny bit of heaven, are
more overwhelmed than illuminated by that
majestic revelation. We remain merely dazzled
and bewildered till we consent to come off our
high horse, get our feet firmly on the earth, and
look here and now for the life-giving Reality
mediated through earthly things. "I am the
Son of man, that two-storied, half-made
creature. I do not despise the ground floor
and its needs. I am the Bread of his little -life,
40
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
the Light of his little world: yet I and My
Father are one."
Thus the characteristic mode of God's self-
giving
to the human soul is declared to be
something which we can best compare to our
ordinary necessary daily food; given to us
right
down in the common life, and satisfying a
fundamental need which is independent of feel-
ing and taste. Man lives on God, is "renewed
day by day by the Spirit"; by regular plain
meals, offered and deliberately taken here and
now, not by occasional moments of ecstatic
communion. By solid food, not spiritual
sweets. "He gave them bread from Heaven to
eat." Only a soul disciplined to temperance can
relish all that there is to be found in bread. Its
excursions and aspirations, its delightful ascents
to God, if
legitimate and wholesome, must
always bring it back to discover more savour
and meaning in this plain, homely Bread of Life.
"You seek," says De Caussade, "the secret
of union with God. There is no other secret
but to make use of the material God gives
us." That material is mixed, like the environ-
ment in which we find ourselves. Temperance
will teach us to accept it as it comes to us
not arrogantly ignoring the visible in our
search for the invisible, but remembering
that the life of the city enfolds and penetrates
both. Here the greatest mystics have been the
most temperate, and so most closely in touch
with the spirit of the New Testament. St.
1<
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
Francis finds in the difficulties and humiliLc
tions of normal existence the essence of perfeL
joy. St. Teresa "desires no other prayer thJjf
that which makes her a better woman." T|n
latest in time of her daughters, St. Therese L
Lisieux, esteems "one sacrifice better than ai]
ecstasy." Brother Lawrence is content to
his cooking in the Presence of God.
Francois de Sales, when St. Chantal tries
turn the conversation to spiritual channelh
directs her attention to the little tune the fooL
man is
singing outside the door. For all of the;
the landlord of the upper floor is the landlord
the ground floor too .
Temperance, then, is the teacher of th i
n
genial humility which is an essential of
spiritu^
health. It makes us realize that the norm c
and moderate course is the only one we cal
handle successfully in our own power: thst
extraordinary practices, penances, spiritu
efforts, with their corresponding graces, mu
never be deliberately sought. Some peop.
appear to think that the "spiritual life" is
peculiar condition mainly supported by creai
ices and corrected by powders. But the soli
norm of the spiritual life should be like that (
the natural life : a matter of porridge, bread an
butter, and a cut off the joint. The extremes c
joy, discipline, vision, are not in our hands, bi
in the Hand of God. We can maintain tfc
soul's house in order without any of these. .
is not the best housekeeper who has the mo,'
|
43
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
rocious spring-clean, or gets in things from
.e confectioner when she is expecting guests.
[f
any man open the door, I will come in to
m"; share his ordinary meal, and irradiate
s ordinary life. The demand for temperance
'
soul, for an acknowledgment of the sacred
liaracter of the normal, is based on that fact
central Christian fact of the humble
ntrance of God into our common human life,
he supernatural can and does seek and find
,
in and through our daily normal experience :
e invisible in the visible. There is no need to
:
peculiar in order to find God. The Magi
ere taught by the heavens to follow a star;
nd it
brought them, not to a paralysing
isclosure of the Transcendent, but to a little
oy on His Mother's knee.
So too we observe how moderate, humble,
ttuned to the scale of our daily life are all the
rucial events of the New Testament. Seen
om the outside, none could have guessed their
lattering and transfiguring power. The
pocalyptists looked for a superhuman being
coming in the clouds" they could not escape
rom the idea of,the abnormal but the real
vents which transformed the spiritual history
f man were startling only m their simplicity,
"he quiet routine of a childhood and working
jfe
in Nazareth; the wandering ministry of
Caching
and compassion, with the least possible
tress laid on supernatural powers ;
the homely
jttle triumph of Palm Sunday; the pitiful
43
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
sufferings of an arrest and execution too
commonplace to disturb the city's life. Christ
never based His claim on strangeness : it is
by
what He is, rather than by what He does, that
He awes, attracts, amazes.
In spite of its contrasts between the stern
and tender, how steadily temperate and central
in its emphasis is all His teaching : full of the
colour and quality of real life, free from the
merely startling, ever keeping close to our
normal experience. Sowing, reaping, bread-
making, keeping sheep; in these the secrets
of the Kingdom are hid. He does not ask
His disciples to speculate on the Divine
Nature, but to consider the lilies; it comes to
the same thing and is more suited to our
powers. He looks at and studies these simple
and natural things with the eyes of sympathetic
love; because for Him the supernatural
indwells and supports all natural things, not
merely abnormal or "religious" things. There-
fore each and all of these natural things, made
by God and kept by God, can become super-
natural revelations of His Spirit. We feel
our Lord's complete understanding of the
thing-world in all its richness, beauty and
pathos, His careful, reverent, tender observa-
tion of animals, birds and plants: yet, His
entire aloofness from its clutch, the deep
harmony of His Spirit with the very Spirit of
Creative Love. No cleavage here between the
two levels of man's life: the spirit of the upper
44
THEHOUSE OF THE SOUL
floor penetrates to every corner, and transfuses
alike the most sacred and homely activities.
The discourse in the 1 2th chapter of St.
Luke is full of this temperate genial attitude to
the natural, in its contrast with that intem-
perance
of soul which alternates between an
absolute and inhuman detachment and using
the world of things in a childish grasping way.
It is a long varied lesson in the true realism.
Consider that wonderful world of life in which
you are placed, and observe that its great
rhythms of birth, growth and death all the
things that really matter are not in your con-
trol. That unhurried process will go forward in
its
stately beauty, little affected by your anxious
fuss. Find out, then, where your treasure really
is. Discern substance from accident. Don't con-
fuse your meals with your life, and your
clothes with your body. Don't lose your head
over what perishes, Nearly everything does
perish: so face the facts, don't rush after the
transient and unreal. Maintain your soul in
tranquil dependence on God; don't worry;
don't mistake what you possess for what you
are. Accumulating things is useless. Both men-
tal and material avarice are merely silly in view
of the dread facts of life and death. The White
Knight would have done better had he left his
luggage at home. The simpler your house, the
easier it will be to run. The fewer the things
and the people you "simply must have," the
nearer you will be to the ideal of happiness
D 45
THE HO USE OF THE SOUL
"as having nothing, to possess all." We observe
how exquisitely the whole doctrine is
kept
within the boundaries of our natural experience ;
how it tends to deepen this given experience
rather than escape from it. Man is being taught
how to run that ground-floor life which he
cannot get rid of and must not ignore; yet
taught by one in whom the other life shines
with unmatched perfection, whose whole
personality radiates God.
If now we consider how we ourselves stand
in respect of this virtue of Temperance, we
discover that it must bring its sobering realism
into our social, personal, and spiritual life. Its
peaceful acceptance of facts must colour all our
relations with others, all our dealings with
ourselves, all our responses to God.
First, in relation to others Temperance
requires a quiet refusal to capitulate to feverish
and distracting emotions ;
intense attractions
and intense hostilities. It means a tempering
of ground-floor passions to the needs of the
upstairs life; that check upon vehement
impulse, that ordering of love, which involves
its absolute dissociation from claimfulness,
clutch and excess. The love which the Saints
pour out is a gentle and genial sunshine;
.never fierce, concentrated, intemperate. Those
who come to the soul's house should find it
nicely warmed all over; its inner chamber must
not be like one of those rooms which have a
fierce little
gas stove in one corner, and a
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
deadly chill everywhere else. Custodia cordis,
the secret of an ordered life, involves the
maintenance of an even temperature; and a
refusal to rush out upon a flood of inordinate
feeling towards certain persons, deeds and
things, instead of taking what comes to us
tranquilly, with a light hand.
Again, theological views, and political loyal-
ties, must all be subject to the rule of tem-
perance; killing presumption, intolerance and
the spirit of controversy, acknowledging at
each point the fragmentary and relative
character of all human knowledge and therefore
the peril and absurdity of absolute judgments
and scornful criticisms of the opinions of other
men. So too the restless, energetic desire to
get things done, the impetuous determination
to remodel the world nearer to our own hearts'
desire, the exaggerated importance we attribute
to our own action, the emphasis placed on
doing, to the detriment of being all this must
be mortified if calm and order are to rule the
lower floor. We shall never create a home-like
atmosphere unless we consent to spend some
time in our own home; and, were a better
balance struck between our inward life and our
outward activities, the result would at once be
seen in the improved quality of that outward
work. Like Peter's wife's mother, while the
fever is on us we cannot really serve our fellow
men.
I often think that when St. Paul wrote his
47
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
classic list of the fruits of the Spirit he gave us
unconsciously a wonderful account of his own
growth in this spiritual realism. We should
hardly think of the virtue of Temperance as
specially characteristic of St. Paul, and even to
the end ofhis days he probably found it difficult ;
yet in this he discovers the final proof of the
working of Creative Spirit in his soul. He
begins upon a note of convinced fervour. "The
fruit the harvest of the .
Spirit is Love, Joy,
Peace." No three words could better express
that rich beatitude which, in his holiest
moments, has flooded his soul. Then he pauses,
We seem to see him thinking : "After all, I don't
always feel like that. Things are often very try-
ing. I don't seem able to love ; peace and joy are
unobtainable ;
I feel another law in mymembers
warring against the law of my mind. Yet the
indwelling Spirit is still there: to live is Christ.
How does that Spirit act on my troubled spirit
in those less expansive moments? Surely in
the long-suffering, gentleness and kindness
which I know must control all my reactions to
the world of men." They were not the reactions
which St. Paul found specially easy. We see
the yoke being laid on his stormy instinctive
nature: the love that is easy on the upper
floor being brought downstairs, to prove itself
in the common life.
At last, at the very end, we reach those
unexpected characters which are the earnest
of his total transformation in the Spirit.
THE HOUSE OFTHE SOUL
Fidelity, Meekness, Moderation : an unsensa-
tional but unbroken loyalty to the infinite life
and purpose which had made him its own, an
acceptance of its gradual pace, a refusal, to
hurry, a restraining of the impetuous desire
to get everything possible out of those new
converts who were only babies still, and tell the
candid truth to those who had let him down
these are the real fruits of his subjection to God.
Paul, whose first idea had been to breathe fire
and slaughter upon the Christians, and whose
second idea had been to be "all out" for Christ
who was quite as obsessed as we are by the
vision of all that there was to do, and the sense
that he was called upon to do it learns that
the final gift of the Spirit is not intensity of life,
but Temperance. "The servant of the Lord
must not strive." Hurry, bustle, anxiety to
get things done ;
an immoderate demand for
perfection and consequent nervous wear and
tear ;
the wasteful use of the premises given us
by God, are all condemned.
Next, we are called to be temperate as
regards the standard by which we estimate
ourselves ;
which must neither be too degraded
nor too exalted for our status. We are neither
angels nor devils, but half-achieved, unstable
creatures ; alternately pulled towards the higher
and the lower life. Temperance, therefore, will
not take too ferocious a view of our inevitable
fluctuations. It will not judge the state of our
|
house by its ground floor alone or its upper
49
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
rooms alone ;
but by both. The ground floor,
to the very end, will partake of the imperfec-
tion of nature. It is
good and humbling that
this should be so : and we should bring a certain
genial patience to acceptance of the facts,
bearing evenly our own uneven performances.
Our part is to manage the household wisely,
without overstraining its resources ;
if we do, it
will have its revenge. So we are required to be
reasonable both in what we refuse to nature and
what we demand from it ; temperate in renun-
ciation as well as enjoyment, in supersensible
as well as sensible activities. The spiritual life
constantly draws upon the resources of the
natural life; much nervous energy is used in
prayer, especially absorbed or difficult prayer.
Therefore we should treat our limited powers
with reverence, avoiding wasteful overstrain.
Further, we should arrange our housework on a
reasonable plan ;
not letting ourselves in for a
whole day's scrubbing, and then in our desper-
ation resorting to strong soda and harsh soap,
After all, the interior life needs no sensational
measures. It requires only our gentle and
faithful collaboration with God, in fitting the
human nature He has given us for Him;
gradually making the whole house ready for
that Spirit which is tranquillity and peace.
Thus temperance in regard to ourselves
involves temperance as towards God; an
avoidance of the devotional strain and clutch
we sometimes mistake for fervour; a humble
50
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
recognition of our limits in respect of that
communion with Him which we can enjoy.
The beginning of all spiritual wisdom is a
realization of the moderate character of our
situation the vast distance between even the
most illuminated soul and those mysteries of
the Being of God on which the seraphs did not
dare to look. Temperance suggests to us how
awestruck and humble, how full of adoration
our demeanour should be, over against that
unsearchable Reality; how moderate and child-
like our choice of religious objectives and
practices. We are not to "ransack the Divine
Majesty" as the old mystics had it, but meekly
accept the revelation of Himself that He
gives us; never arrogantly seeking more light
than we can bear, or more food than we can
digest.
"Well, Sadie," said an American mother to
her little
girl, who was devouring everything
within reach, "I reckon you won't long have
the use of that breakfast." There are intem-
perate devotional meals to which the same risk
is attached. It is left to us to feed our souls
wisely and carefully not too many spiritual
sweets, not too much effervescent emotion. We
are to be content with the food we find suits us
strengthens us, makes us grow not make
wild efforts to get the food we like best. Nor
are we to be fastidious in our rejection of every-
thing we do not think "essential," until we
reach what we choose to regard as a "purely
Si
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
spiritual" type of prayer. Our ghostly insides
are much like our natural insides ; they need a
certain amountof what doctors call
' '
roughage,
' '
and seldom thrive on too refined a diet.
The homely mixed food, the routine meals,
of institutional religion, keep our digestions in
good order. Particularly at times when we are
drawn to fervour, or our spiritual sensibility
seems to transcend the average level, we need the
wholesome corrective of the common religious
diet, the average practice, with its rough and
ready adaptation to ordinary needs and limita-
tions, to remind us that we are hot pure spirits
yet. In that excellent parable, The History of
Sir John Sparrow, a logical insistence on the
reduction of his food to its essential constituents
at last left the hero face to face with a saucer of
canary seed. He had proved that it contained
all the human body needed ;
but somehow the
position was not a satisfactory one. Therefore
Temperance will restrain us from simplifying
or etherealizing our religious diet overmuch.
We are mixed feeders, and must do as our
fellows. Fastidious choices, special paths, look
rather ridiculous in the "perpetual bright
clearness of Eternity."
The light which bathes the paintings of the
Umbrian masters, and gives them their pro-
found tranquillity, is not a vivid illumination.
It reveals no distant detail, creates no violent
contrasts. Yet we feel that its gentle radiance,
softening all harsh outlines, comes from beyond
52
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
the world in its unearthly beauty ;
and quietens
everything on which it falls. It stills all passion
and intensity, reproves all haste: gives the
calm beauty of holiness even to the anguish
of the Cross. That is the light in which the
soul's life, world, prayer, should be bathed:
harmonizing nature and spirit in its lovely,
temperate radiance. The Heaven of Temper-
ance, says Dante, is the home of the con-
templative saints. In its soil the ladder is
planted on which they ascend to the Vision of
God. For Temperance, stilling those excesses
of desire, those self-actuated struggles, which
hinder the silent working of Creative Spirit in
the soul, finds its perfect work in that quietude,
humility and suppleness which are the only
preparation of prayer.
53
IV
WHAT
is the final need of our ground-
floor premises, if they are to bear the
weight of the upper story; the thrust and
pressure of the supernatural life ? The Saints
reply, with one voice: Fortitude, strength,
staying-power! To be "stablished, strength-
ened, settled" not etherealized, exalted,
illuminated is St. Peter's supreme desire for
his converts. It is^the sober ambition of a
realist who has known in his own person the
disasters that await a fervour based on feeling
rather than will. The perfect work of Prudence
and Temperance is to make our natural human-
ity "strong in the Lord" ;
so establish the soul's
house on the rock, and make its walls solid,
that it can carry those strange upper works
which are part of the builder's design.
The ground floor, rising up from the natural
order, is subject to its law of consequence ;
all
the vicissitudes of circumstance, health, oppor-
tunity, the ebb and flow of energy and inclin-
ation, the temperamental reaction of the souls
with whom we must live. Through these, God
reaches us, deals with us, trains us; and to
the uttermost. That living Spirit pressing so
insistently on our spirits, filling with its space-
less presence every room of the soul's house,
54
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
yet
comes to us in and through natural cir-
cumstance; and makes of this circumstance,
however homely, the instrument of its purifying
power. The touch of the eternal reaches us
most often through the things of sense. We
are called to endure this ceaseless divine action ;
not with a sullen stoicism, but With a living
grateful patience. The events by which we are
thus shaped and disciplined are often as much
as the natural creature can bear. God comes
to the soul in His working clothes, and brings
His tools with Him. We need fortitude if we
are to accept with quietness the sharp blows
and persistent sandpapering which bring our
half-finished fitments up to the standard re-
quired by the city's plan. But it is this steady
endurance, born of the humble sense that
everything which happens matters, yet only
matters because it mediates God, and offers a
never to be repeated opportunity of improving
our correspondence with God, which more and
more makes the house fit to be a habitation of
the Spirit. It is not a week-end cottage. It
must be planned and organized for life, the
whole of life, not for fine weather alone. Hence
strong walls and dry cellars matter more than
many balconies or interesting garden design.
The winds will blow and the floods come to
the very end; overwhelming events, wild gales
of feeling and impulse, will sweep round the
walls. The doors will bang and windows
rattle. The bitter, cold and penetrating waters
55
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
of disappointment and grief will rise. But the
little house will stand firm, if it is established
on the solid rock of spiritual realism ;
not the
soft easily-dug ground of spiritual sentiment.
Its foundations must go down into the invisible
world of prayer: something of the steadfastness
of the Unchanging must underlie our human
changefulness. The balance between the
different parts, with their compensating
thrusts and strains, must keep the walls true.
If one becomes excessive, and pushes too much,
the house may fall.
That the soul's self-giving prayer and work
should be really costly and difficult, should
call for the putting out of a definite degree of
effort, should involve a certain tension and
even pain all this is surely good. The job that
is done quite easily is seldom done quite well.
However we conceive it whether as pil-
grimage, or growth the spiritual life of man is
never without an element of conflict. Effort
and endurance must enter deeply into the
process by which our mixed being is harmon-
ized, simplified, expanded, and made fit to
be the instrument of God. For those in whom
there is a pronounced disharmony between
natural temperament and supernatural call,
the struggle may be bitter until the very end;
and it is better that it should so continue than
that we should harmonize ideal and achieve-
ment on a lower level than the best possible,
and so false to the city's building-law. We are
56
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
not to yield an inch to the bungalow-ideal of
human character. But this rightful interior
tension should never threaten our spiritual
equilibrium. When Fortitude begins to be
coloured by strain, and action tends to become
agitation,
we are approaching the danger zone
of the soul's life. That soul is
required to be
a "fixed abode for God through the Spirit";
and for this, something of the still peace of the
Eternal, "never changing state into the con-
trary" must toughen its fragility, temper its
restlessness. The paradox of peaceful striving
runs right through the New Testament.
Fortitude means the achievement, even on the
natural level, of an inward stability which
transcends the world of change. The small size
of our premises matters little, if the walls are
weather-proof and stand firm.
Such fortitude is not the virtue of the dashing
soldier. It means rather the virtue of the
keeper of the fortress; the inconspicuous
heroism that sits tight. And in the life of the
spirit there is a great deal of sitting tight ;
of
refusing to be frightened out of it or decoyed
away from it; of refusing to despair, waiting
till the weather improves, till business gets
brisker, day breaks, the shadows lift. We
must endure a mysterious pressure, which
operates more often and more purely in dark-
ness than in light. We cannot take up the
soul's privileges and responsibilities as a house-
holder of the Spiritual City, merely by paying
57
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
one instalment and getting immediate delivery
of all the goods we desire, with an insurance
policy protecting us from risk ;
so that there is
nothing to do but settle down cosily in our
freshly furnished rooms. That citizenship is
the beginning of a new life ;
a total sublimation
of experience, in which all life's tensions and
possibilities are raised to a higher term. More
demand on prudence and initiative, keener
struggle than before ;
a new capacity for joy,
but also a new capacity for pain. It means
incorporation in that Mystical Body, through
which the awful saving power of God is
poured
out on the world: and taking our small share
in filling up the measure of those sufferings
by which alone redeeming work is done. The
Holy City stands on a rock ;
but in the midst of
a world of sin and pain. And the price of
citizenship, as regards contact with that world,
is likely to include suffering and loneliness,
much misunderstanding, much self-giving with
little
apparent result. It may go further, and
require that entire and pure act of resignation,
that self-oblation even to the uttermost, which
was once accomplished in Gethsemane, and
remains the clue to the whole redeeming and
creative life. The soul needs Fortitude, if it is
to take up that great vocation.
Baron von Hiigel speaks gratefully in one of
his letters of "My little old life which God has
deigned to train by not a few trials." It is this
deeply grateful recognition of the Divine
58
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
action, as specially discovered in those dis-
ciplines
and sufferings, which teach Fortitude to
the soul, and toughen it to take its share in the
sacrificial action of the Body of Christ, which
distinguishes from the devotee the truly
awakened spirit, the living acting member of
the Communion of Saints. An uncalculating
surrender of our own premises to the general
purpose, losing all individual preferences and
reluctances in the vast outlines of God's
mysterious design, is the condition of that
membership : and to be able to make this willed
surrender is the most solemn dignity of the
human soul. It means a sober willingness to
renounce all spiritual enjoyments, in order to
take up the burden of the world's wrongness ;
put up in our own persons with the results. All
must suffer ;
the lesson of Christianity is what
can be done with suffering, when it is met with
self-oblivious courage and love.
"To him that overcometh is promised Angels'
Food: and to him that is overcome, much
misery," says Thomas a Kempis. The break-
ing of bread, without the cup of the Passion, is
only half the Eucharistic secret. We do not
understand that secret till we see the Eucharist
and the Cross as two aspects of one indivisible
act. The communicant is merely what St. John
of the Cross roughly calls a "spiritual glutton"
unless this rich mysterious action involves for
him a complete and sacrificial self-giving for
the saving purposes of God ;
unless he makes
59
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
his tiny contribution to that perfect work of
charity, which is the eternal act of Christ.
The supernatural food is given, the little
separate life fed and enhanced, that it
may be
gathered, itself a lively sacrifice, into the great
sacrificial movement of the Divine life. "He
that eateth dwelleth hi Me, and I in him." But
the energy thus received from beyond the world
must be met by the soul's self-oblivious for-
titude, its spirit of steadfast endurance, staying
power. Fervour is not enough. We need the
grit that puts things through in spite of
apparent failure or the shrinking horror of the
flesh : that achieves its victory by way of the
lonely darkness of the Garden, the more lonely
and terrible darkness which fell at midday
upon the Cross. Those whose courage and
fidelity failed at the first withering touch of the
Passion had just experienced in their own
persons the solemn and touching mystery on
which the Church lives still.
By it tneir spirits
were made willing; but their flesh was weak.
And however great the peace and joy that
welcome the soul when it elects for the spiritual
life, it will not be long before it, too, experiences
the fundamental need of Fortitude if it is to
be faithful to the supernatural call. Its true
initiation into the realities of that call comes
with the first secret stand-up fight with a
temptation, desire, or attachment that truly
attracts it; the first deliberate sacrificial death
to sin and self. That means deep suffering,
60
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
whatever form it takes : and included in it is
the temptation to abandon a job that seems
beyond our feeble powers.
The soul, said Coventry Patmore, "dies upon
the Cross every time it resists interior tempta-
tion even to despair." We must be crucified to
the world, the downward pull, not once, but
again and again ;
because the conflict between
the two lives persists in us till holiness is reached.
The Cross stands on the frontier between the
natural and supernatural worlds. Thus the
bracing of natural character is essential if we
are to bear the tensions of the supernatural
life. It is a stern business. It enters into
conflict, it goes on being in conflict, with all
in us that is turned toward the world. The
principles of Christianity are absolute; they
reflect Eternity. The principles of the world
may be judicious, amiable, beneficent. But
they are contingent: they arise from, and are
adapted to, a world of change. Christianity
looks beyond the world's flux to God, the
unchanging Reality. It seeks the increasing
incarnation of His Spirit ;
and for that sake
accepts a standard of purity, renunciation and
forgiveness alien to the interests of the world.
Thus, to live in the world and not of it and
this is the situation for which our house is made
requires much fortitude, a love that is loyal
and courageous rather than demonstrative:
"not worn out with labours, not daunted with
any difficulties."
E 61
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
We are committed to a swaying battle, not
an easy victory; and our worst enemies are
those of our own house. Again and again our
temperamental devils will be too much for us;
ingrained habits, inherited tendencies, will
fling us into the dungeon of impotent despair,
It is with our spiritual as with our physical
maladies. When we have faithfully used all
rightful means of healing, a certain residuum
may remain; some humiliating weakness, or
chronic malformation we cannot cure, but can
make an occasion of patience, courage, sur-
render. "Fear none of those things thou shalt
suffer." If our first experience of the life of
spirit comes with the lovely glow of victory
which rewards a bit of costly self-conquest;
perhaps the second, and more real experience
comes when we attempt a further struggle
with our unfortunate ground-floor conditions
in our own strength, and fail abjectly. For
then we are thrown back upon God, the only
source of strength ;
and abruptly reminded that
contempt of self is said to be the city's law.
"When I am weak, then I am strong." The
Miserere, the classic poem of penitence, is all
about this paradoxical power of the soul which
abides in its own nothingness; the abandon-
ment as it were of all trust in its own poor
individualized bit of moral energy, and the
receiving instead of a mysterious participation
in the Spirit of living strength.
Certainly our own preliminary effort and
62
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
struggle
are needed. Fortitude does not
merely consist in waiting about ;
but in a real
pacing of the will to courageous action. It is
to him that overcometh that the fruit of the
Tree of Life is given. "Will and grace rise and
all together." Ghostly strength is like one of
those funds to which the Government adds 1
for every pound subscribed voluntarily. It is
the reward of really trying to do or bear some-
thing for God; not of wanting to do or bear
something. As even the most impressive view
from the hotel terrace tells nothing of the real
secret of the mountains, which is only imparted
to those who will turn their backs on comfort,
take the risks; so the passive appreciation of
the spiritual landscape, the agreeable reading
of
mystical books fruit of the courage and
love of other souls, but making no demand on
ours gives us no genuine contact with the
things of God. We must put on our own boots,
face the early start and long slow plod through
the lower pastures, where the mountains are
seldom in view make a rule of life, and prac-
tise it in the teeth of reluctance and discourage-
ment if we want to share the life of the
mountaineer; know the strange rapture of
communion with the everlasting hills.
"No one can come to the sublime heights of
he Divinity," said the voice of the Eternal
Wisdom to Suso, "if they have not experienced
the bitterness and lowliness of My humanity."
That is the soul's testing ground. It is there,
63
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
under ordinary human conditions and subject
to their humbling limitations, that it gets its
training for the heights; purges its love of
comfort, learns patience, shows its grit. There
it discovers that fortitude does not mean any
spectacular display of gallantry; but sticking
it out in fog and storm, loneliness and disillusion
going on and on, in spite of the cuts and
bruises to affection, dignity and self-esteem,
never unnerved by the endless tumbles, the
dull fatigue, through which it must ascend
in heart and mind, accomplish the work oi
sacrifice and prayer. Fortitude means the cour-
age of the lonely soldier in an isolated corner
the courage of one whose friends deserted Hin
in the crisis ;
the courage of the naked will alonf
with the Will ofGod. Manhood is incomplete til
it has known the agony of spiritual isolation ir
a crowded world : endured with fortitude th<
desolation and helplessness of the soul ovei
against surrounding mystery. According ft
tradition our Lord fell three times under thi
weight of the Cross ;
but rose and went on, will
full knowledge that worse suffering, more bitte
humiliation, lay before Him.
We see again and again in the lives of thi
Saints how constant and definite is the demani
made on this courage and endurance ;
which i
the natural expression of their heroic, unlimited
supernatufal love. It is by way of the diffi
culties, sufferings and humiliations of tb
natural life that they cure the soft humai
THE HOUSE OFTHE SOUL
horror of the austere side of the spiritual life,
test and brace their growing spirits, make them
capable
of its full privileges and responsibilities.
Little quarter is
given to those in whom this
total transformation is begun. "His Majesty,"
says
the ever-valiant Teresa, "loves a courage-
ous soul"; and, old and very ill, struggling
in the teeth of circumstance to make her last
foundation at Burgos, she hears the inner voice
which has been the support of all her labours,
saying "Now, Teresa, be strong!" So too the
angel, who visited, Suso in the . hour of his
utmost trial >
did not offer him a devotional
aspirin; but merely made the astringent re-
mark "Behave like a man!" That was Suso's
immediate task; the way in which his soul was
cleansed and strengthened, and brought to "the
Upper School of Perfect Self-abandonment."
So our survey of the ground floor of the
soul's house brings us to the acceptance of this
ideal of a disciplined normal humanity, deep-
ened and organized, "stablished, strengthened,
settled," as the true basis of a spiritual life.
The peaceful, temperate and balanced employ-
ment in God of those natural faculties and
opportunities committed to us, choosing with
self-oblivious love what helps, remembering
that excess mogt often hinders, bearing and
enduring all that the choice of His interests
entails ;
this must bring order to our downstairs
life, if the home is ever to be fit for its guest.
"Peace," says St. Thomas Aquinas, "is the
65
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
tranquillity of order; disquiet diminishes as
sanctity increases." And if there is one
characteristic which marks a genuine spiritual
experience, that characteristic is surely the
deep
peace in which it places the soul. Thus a
certain slowing down and spacing out of our
ceaseless clockwork activities is a necessary
condition of the deepening and enrichment of
life. The spirit of Joy and the spirit of Hurry
cannot live in the same house. But Joy, not
Hurry, is an earnest of the Presence of God;
an attribute of the creative life.
Without the steadying influences of Pru-
dence, Temperance and Fortitude, without the
wise austerity of feeling, thought and will
which these require, who can hope to be quiet,
and so prepare a habitation for that serene Spirit
of Joy which is God ? Without these, we are per-
petually tormented by indecision, weakened by
excesses, discouraged by failures; the trials and
darkness which form part of the life of prayer
defeat instead of bracing us, the very richness oi
experience and opportunity through which God
moulds our characters, bewilders us. It is not
till the ground floor is in good order that we
acquire the priceless art of doing one thing a)
a time, and doing it with total dedication, whicl
is the foundation of an ordered life. The sensi
of cleavage between the duties of Mary an<
Martha, and a certain uneasy effort to combini
them, is responsible for much psychic untidi
ness, tension and weakening fuss. When th
66
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
whole house is devoted to one interest, and
a working harmony is established between
the upper and the lower floor, each action, how-
ever homely, has the quality of prayer; since
every corner and all that is done in it is informed
by God and tends to God. It is the work of
Prudence to discern and accept all that He
proposes; because however odd it seems, it is
the apt means of the soul's contact with Him.
It is the work of Temperance to resist the
temptation to bring in other things, crowd the
soul's life with loves, labours, or devotions not
truly proposed to it
by God. It is the work
of Fortitude to endure His moulding action
with tranquillity, and maintain our steadfast
correspondence with His will. In the secret
world of self-conquest, in all dealings with cir-
cumstance people, opportunities, trials, tasks
and in the most hidden experiences of the
spirit, it is on this triple foundation that the
soul's deep action must rest. Here is the solid
basis of that truly mortified and tranquil
character which can bear the stress and burden
of the supernatural life.
V
WEgo on to consider the upper floor of the
soul's house ;
the home of those faculties
which point beyond our here-and-now exist-
ence, which are capable of God, tend towards
God, and only find their full meaning in God.
We have seen what we have to do in the way of
transmuting the powers and instincts which
rule the natural life. Behaviour, Impulse, Endur-
ance aspects of our living correspondence
with the natural order must all be purified,
sublimated, if the house is to become a solid
habitation of the Spirit ;
if its walls are to bear
the thrust of the upper floor. But the life of
nature, even in its perfection, is not enough
in itself. It makes an admirable bungalow ;
but
the City of Mansoul is not a bungalow town.
Though it is based on the purification, the
transmutation of our common earthborn nature,
more than morality is needed for the purposes
of the spiritual life. That life requires the trans-
figuration in God of the upper floor and its
special powers the stuff of personality, the
"superior faculties of the soul," as the old
psychologists say : and this is the peculiar work
of Faith, Hope and Charity, the three "super-
natural virtues" which imply God, tend to God,
and take the soul beyond its own resources
into Him. By Faith we mean the lifting up into
68
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
God of our natural human power of under-
standing the world ; by Hope, the state in which
our whole mental content, our "apperceiving
mass" is penetrated and transmuted by our
confident expectation of Him ; by Charity, that
glowing friendship between Creator and
created, which merges our will in His will.
Thus all three are forms of one thirst for
ultimate Being, the drive of personality to-
wards God ;
and at their fullness merge into one
act or state ,
which lifts the soulup and out beyond
itself and the interests of its own small house,
and beyond all merely utilitarian and this-
world notions of goodness, to something more
a certain loving participation in Eternal Life.
For this, to make a home for the soul's ador-
ing vision, confidence, and love, the house of
humanity is built and kept in order. The
prudence, moderation, steadfast endurance
which control its domestic life, the constant
death to self which they entail, are worth while,
simply because they support this other life;
the life that flowers in Faith, Hope and Charity,
and thus incarnates something of the Eternal ;
the life which is in its fullest sense the life of
prayer. For real prayer is simply the expression
and the experience of Faith, Hope and Charity ;
each penetrating and enhancing the other, and
merging to form in us that state of energetic
and loving surrender, in which our spirits have
according to their measure communion with
the
Spirit of God.
69
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
Thus an outlook upon the world controlled
by Faith is the privilege of every house that is
established in the City of God. It means the
transcending of our limited anthropocentric
outlook; being lifted up to a certain partici-
pation in the universal Divine outlook. Those
who "in heart and mind thither ascend and
with Him continually dwell" change their
angle of vision ; see the world and all things in
it from His point of view. A tremendous change
from our ordinary way of seeing and thinking
takes place then. We gaze with cleansed sight on
the world we are placed in, and the life we are
privileged to lead in it; perceive its richness
and mystery, its utter dependence on God.
Faith often so cheaply equated with mere
belief is something far more than this. It is
the soul's watch-tower ;
a solitary place at the
top of a steep flight of stairs. Those stairs, for
some souls, have almost the character of the
Way of the Cross ;
so humbling are the falls, so
disconcerting the evidence of our human weak-
ness, so absolute the stripping, and so complete
the sacrifice which is asked as the price of the
ascent. Bit by bit, all the wrappings of sensitive
nature must be left behind. And even for those
to whom the way lies open, and ofwhom this
utter denudation is not asked, it is sometimes a
great effort to go up. The stairs are steep; we
are, or think that we are, very busy. We know
that if we do go, it must be with purified sight,
clear of prejudice and of distracting passions,
70
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
empty of our selves; for only in emptiness of
spirit,
as Ruysbroeck says, can we receive that
Incomprehensible Light which is "nothing
else but a fathomless gazing and seeing." With
so little leisure and so languid an inclination, it
seems better to mutter a few prayers whilst we
tidy the kitchen; content ourselves with the
basement view of the world, and rationalize
this interior laziness as humility of soul.
But if we do make the effort needed for that
ascent, what a revelation !
Busy on the ground
floor, we never realized that we had a place like
this ;
that our small house shot up so high into
Heaven. We find ourselves, as it were, in a little
room with a window on each side. There is no
guarantee as to what any one soul will see out of
those windows, for there is always far more to
see than we can apprehend. Nor is the view on
any one day equally good out of each window.
Sometimes it is the homely detail in the fore-
ground that we notice ;
seen now in new pro-
portion, from a fresh point of view. Sometimes
that is forgotten, and the eye is drawn to the
greatness and beauty of the distant hills. Some-
times the country lies before us hard and clear
as a map; at others, a delicate haze gives
mystery to the landscape of faith. The light,
too, is variable. Sometimes the heavenly sun-
shine streams in with overwhelming splendour.
We are warmed, dazzled, delighted ; though we
see nothing distinctly, the lovely radiance
brings its own assurance. Sometimes we go up,
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
to find a grey day. The view is there, but all
seems cheerless; there is no joy in our faith.
This does not mean that we had better go
downstairs. The upper room is more than a
devotional sun-trap. Faith seeks the enlighten-
ment of the understanding, whatever pain
comes with it; and shirks no truth, however
bewildering, which is shown to it by God. It
means a share in the outlook of one who re-
joiced in spirit, yet was sorrowful even unto
death ;
whose rich experience embraced spiri-
tual vision and spiritual darkness too. The
variations of the weather, then, should never
control our faith.
Though the landscape in which our watch-
tower stands is really continuous, the two
windows seem to us to look out on different
and contrasting worlds. The soul can never
peer round the corner, and see the point at
which they meet. Moreover, the windows
themselves are not always the same size. Some
have a great casement opening to the north,
which reveals vast expanses of sky. Others,
as St. Bernard says, only have narrow slits
through which the rays of the Eternal Light
come in ;
but these may have a big bow window
on the other side of the tower.
The northward view is a view of infinite
spaces a wild and solemn landscape over
against us, which seems without meaning for
the little lives of men a desert country full of
strange beauty, which leads the eye outward to
72
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
the horizon ;
and shows it, at an awful distance,
the peaks of great mountains hanging in
the air. Here the soul looks out with adora-
tion to the vast uncharted continent of the
Divine. For some, this is the window that exer-
cises a perpetual attraction ;
the view exhilarates
while it daunts them, the mystery in its in-
comparable majesty is friendly though august.
It is God Pure, the soul's country, the Tran-
scendent World in itself, that they crave for ;
not
the bit made over to the use of man. This it is
which wakes their awestruck and delighted
adoration, nourishes their souls. The stellar
radiance in which they see it is more desirable
than the sunny landscapes of earth. It lifts
them beyond all conflict, all self-occupation,
and fills them with a solemn joy. "Thou art!"
cries St. Augustine as he gazes from this win-
dow, "and art God and Lord of all that Thou
hast created; and in Thy sight stand fast the
causes of the transient, and the fountains of
the changeable abide unchanged!"
Even though the revelation comes seldom,
for this is the outlook which is most often
clouded, the souls who are possessed by this
thirst for the Unchanging are content to kneel
by the window, and know that the unspeakable
splendour of the Eternal is there. "Here," says
Ruysbroeck, "our reason abides with open eyes
in the darkness; that is, in an abysmal ignor-
ance. And in this darkness, the abysmal
Splendour remains covered and hid from us,
73
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
for its unsearchable infinitude blinds our rea-
son, but its simplicity and selfhood enfold and
transform us." Thus even those who have yet
seen nothing from this window should resist
the temptation to veil its gaunt outline in
curtains embroidered with symbolic designs.
As travellers who go up to Darjeeling and wait
for many days to see the majestic vision of the
Himalaya at dawn, a moment will come when,
if they wait long enough and look high enough,
they will see the mighty summits hanging in
the air; and, after that, the world will never be
the same to them again. "It is far better," says
Spinoza, "to know that God's Perfections are
infinite, than to persuade ourselves that we
know what those Perfections are." It was
surely for the refreshment of that vision, a
renewal of that still and joyous gazing on
Eternal Life, that our Lord went up alone into
the mountain to pray. Strength and patience,
a renewed sense of proportion, come from
communion with that wide horizon, that sky
of uncounted stars: a wholesome humbling
sense of the contrast between our tiny house
and the life it shelters, and the steadfast
mystery of the heavens with their unknown
worlds. "The utmost that we know of God,"
says St. Thomas, "is nothing in respect of that
which He is."
Such an outlook on the Unchanging redeems
our prayer from pettiness, discounts our
worries, brings a solemn selfless peace. Every-
74
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
thing drops away except awe, longing, and
humility. "Whom have I in heaven but thee?
and there is none upon earth that I desire
beside thee." The soul stands over against the
eternal reality of the Universe, and finds there
a friend and not a void. Dens metis! My God!
We have, in our creaturely weakness, a personal
hold upon Infinite Reality. The Psalms are
full of this exultant certitude. "O God, thou
art my God! early will I seek thee!" St.
Augustine is ever recurring to such thoughts:
isolating, gazing at, the Fact of God. Thus to
dwell upon the great key-words of religion gives
depth and width to human prayer ;
clarifies the
sight with which we look out upon the sky.
We turn to the window on the other side of
Faith's tower. That looks out upon our homely,
natural, changeful world. It shows us human
life, conditions, problems, from the angle of
faith; and the mystery of the Eternal self-
revealed in human ways. That too is a wonder-
ful and inspiring sight, enlightening the
understanding. Though clouds pass over that
landscape, storms come, seasons change, it is
yet seen to be full of God's glory. The same
unchanging light and life bathes the world we
see out of each window. Jungle and city,
church and market-place, the most homely and
the most mysterious aspects of creation, are
equally known as works of the Wisdom of God.
From this window the earth with its
intricate life is perceived in the light of the
75
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
Incarnation; God self-disclosed in and with
us, as well as God over against us. The depth
and mystery of Reality, its stern yet loving
action, are revealed within the limitations of
history, and in the here-and-now experience
of men. We pierce the disconcerting veil of
appearance, and discern that Holy Creativity,
making, rectifying, and drawing all
things to
itself. At times a lovely glint transfigures even
the smallest living things. We see the kitten
play in Paradise. The humble inhabitants of
the hedgerows suddenly reveal their origin,
their kinship with God. At other times a
deeper secret, the little golden rill of Holiness
welling up from beyond the world of visible
life, is
glimpsed by us in the most unexpected
situations. Yet there is no pink glass in this
window. It blurs none of the dread facts; the
ever-present evil, the baffling pain, the con-
flict and apparent failure and inequality of life.
But from the angle of Faith these are seen in
proportion, as material for the self-imparting of
God; and for man's self-giving to God truly
tabernacled among us. Through the clatter of
the world, Faith hears an insistent call to
purity and sweetness ;
and discerns in the tangle
of life the perpetual emergence of an other-
worldly beauty, which has its source and end in
Him alone.
Even from the ground-floor level, all persons
of goodwill can realize the moral beauty and
deep human pathos of the Gospels ;
the pattern
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
of behaviour put before us in Christ, and again
and again incarnate in the Saints. But Faith,
-
ascending in heart and mind, sees here the
Living Real self-revealed in human ways to
human creatures; and in every scene and
mystery of this life a natural and a super-
natural quality-^-light cast on the meaning of
our strange human experience, as the medium
of God's secret moulding action, and on His
way with the growing souls of men. By this
"living way" as the writer of Hebrews says,
and through the veil of this humanity, we pene-
trate to the Holiest. It is by going upstairs and
gazing out of that window that we regain poise,
courage and peace when our own human experi-
ence seems too much for us : for there we see it
lit
by a supernatural light, and one walking
through that earthly landscape in all
things
tempted as we are yet without sin, who humbles
and convicts us on the one hand strengthens
and refreshes us on the other hand. As a great
artist, taking from the natural world the form
and raw material of his picture, is loyal and
reverent in accepting the limits of that material,
subordinating his freedom to the stuff in which
he works, and only thus conveys the message of
his spirit ;
so God here gives man a picture
woven of the stuff of human history and
experience, which is a full and perfect revela-
tion of His eternal Spirit in human terms.
Faith lifts us to the level at which we can see
this, and more and more vividly as our eyes
.
F . 77
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
grow clearer: shows us the express image of
the Eternal Perfect revealed in a human life,
of which the various and serial action depends
on an unchanging contemplation of God.
Above all in the mysterious power and holiness
of sacrifice, the Cross, transfiguring and lifting
up the created soul though in utmost pain,
darkness and confusion to a share in the
creative work of God, it finds the one enduring
link between the natural and the supernatural
life.
Thus, to the eye of Faith the common life
of humanity, not any abnormal or unusual
experience, is material of God's redeeming
action. As ordinary food and water are the
stuff of the Christian sacraments, so it is in the
ordinary pain and joy, tension and self-oblivion,
sin and heroism of normal experience that His
moulding and transfiguring work is known.
The Palestinian glow which irradiates the
homely mysteries of the Gospel, and gives to
them the quality of eternal life, lights up for
Faith the slums and suburbs, the bustle, games
and industries, of the modern world, Then
the joys, sorrows, choices and renunciations,
the poor little efforts and tragedies, of the
ground-floor life, are seen to be shot through,
dignified and transfigured by the heavenly
radiance, the self-oblivious heroism, of the
upstairs life. Nor can we exclude from a share
in this transforming glory the mystery and
pathos of that animal creation from which our
78
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
natural lives emerge. Faith shows us each tiny
creature ringed round by the celestial light.
A deep reverence for our common existence,
with its struggles and faultiness, yet its
solemn implications, comes over us when we
realize all this; gratitude for the ceaseless
tensions and opportunities through which God
comes to us and we can draw a little nearer to
Him a divine economy in which the simplest
and weakest are given their part and lot in the
holy redemptive sacrifice of humanity, and
incorporated in the Mystical Body which
incarnates Eternal Life.
So in this upper room, this "spire-top of the
soul" as the mystics call it, we are offered a life
of prayer so full and rich that in it we can turn
to and even combine both the great aspects
of God's self-disclosure to man. If our prayer
is to be adequate to our vision, there must be a
place in it for the Transcendent Mystery and
the Incarnate Life ;
for adoration and sacrament,
awe and active love. But we have not finished
yet with all that the upper room has to give us.
There are days when we are not drawn to
either window; when it is dark outside, the
stars are hidden, and the landscape loses all
colour and significance. What is then left for
Faith? Perhaps the best thing of all: as the
best hours of human life are often those when
the home is closed from the outside world, the
curtains are drawn and the lamp lit.
When the curtains of Faith are drawn, we
79
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
find that we are not alone in the upper room.
A companion is there with us, and has always
been with us ;
whom we hardly noticed almost
took for granted when we were gazing at the
marvellous view. Now in the dimness we draw
near one another. As the mystics say, it is in
the Night of Faith that the soul draws nearest
to God ;
and discovers the indwelling Power
whose presence does not depend on vision and
feeling, but only on faithfulness. This is the
"wondrous familiarity of the blessed Presence
of God" of which they often speak. Here, as
Grou teaches, is that place of prayer which can
never fail us ;
the place where our bare, naked
being has contact in its ground with the Being
of God "created intelligence with Increate
Intelligence, without intervention of imagina-
tion or reason, or anything else but a very
simple attention of the mind and an equally
simple application of the will." Here, where
the mysterious Source of all beauty, truth and
love enters and obscurely touches our spirit,
the most secret and intimate experiences of
religion take place. Happy in her bareness and
poverty, the soul sits like the beggar maid at
Cophetua's feet. She has no desire to look out
of the window then. She is absorbed in that
general loving attention which is the essence
of contemplative prayer; an attention some-
times full of peace and joy, at others without
light or emotional gladness, but always con-
trolled by a gratitude, adoration, humble
80
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
affection, which exclude all thought even of
the needs of self. Such prayer, said one of the
mystics, "brings God and the soul into a little
room, where they speak much of love."
Through Faith, then, the soul, shut in its
little house, can receive these three disclosures
of God ;
and respond by its adoration, adher-
ence, humble collaboration with Him. But not
all three at once; or, as a rule, all three with
equal fullness and intensity. A baby may
experience the mother's breast, or from the
cradle gaze up at the mother's face, or clutch
for safety at the mother's dress. All three are
distinct and complementary experiences of the
same mother; and in the dim yet vivid baby
mind-, the great fact of the mother already
exceeds and unites all these separate experi-
ences. So it is with Faith's vivid yet obscure
experience of God : the Transcendent Mystery,
the Manifest Life, the Indwelling Guest.
Ascending to the "fine point of the spirit" the
soul everywhere finds Him, since there is no
place where He is not ;
and just because of her
discovery of all that is given in secret to the
depths within, can dare to stretch out towards
the heights above. But she must divide her
experience, if she is ever to express even the
fragment that can be told of it : and even so the
ultimate fact "incomprehensible yet compre-
hending all" escapes her. For the Divine action
exceeds, while it encloses and penetrates, all the
partial apprehensions of Faith. "What shall
81
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
any man say," cries St. Augustine, "when he
speaks of Thee?"
What then is this experience, in so far as the
limited mind of man can grasp it? It is an
experience of Trinity in Unity: of Eternal
Father, Manifest Son and Indwelling Spirit.
Yet in this experience the three are known to
be one : the unmeasured Light of the Godhead
is truly the Light of our world and the Inner
Light of each soul. Perhaps this approxima-
tion of theology and prayer will give the
traditional language of religion fresh depth,
quality, and meaning for us. "I confess to
God Almighty,
the Father, Son and Holy Spirit,
in the sight of the whole Company of Heaven !"
How overwhelming is the meaning carried by
this familiar phrase, for those who stand in
the watch-tower of Faith. The self-contempt
engendered by our own dingy domesticities is
unmeasurably deepened and purified, when the
soul thus finds itself over against the living
Perfection of God.
Thus Faith, and the prayer of Faith, as it
becomes more realistic, raises penitence to new
levels of contrition and love; and so doing,
opens the door wider to God. More than this,
it
operates a stern cleansing ^of our whole
understanding of existence; taking us back-
wards and forwards from the surrounding
mystery to the human necessity, from the vast
and dimly seen supernatural life to the divinely
supported natural life which trains us, and in-
82
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
ward to the soul's own secret life, divinely sup-
ported too. Three in one, all controlled and
used by God in His transcendent Majesty and
freedom, all subject to a vast purpose which is
far beyond our knowledge, and yet in which
we share. Queer little scraps of spirit, riding
with comparative ease on the bosom of Crea-
tivity, we think seldom of the mysterious
realities of our situation ;
more seldom of that
spiritual economy, of which our own growing
spirits must form part.
How then do we stand in respect of our use
of the watch-tower of Faith ? Are we so busy
on the ground floor that we take it for granted,
and seldom go upstairs ? It is true that those
stairs are dark and steep ;
but if we never make
the effort, never ascend to the soul's summit,
we remain something less than human. We
miss our most sacred privilege and source of
life; and our understanding of existence, our
reaction to circumstance, remain petty, earthy,
unpurified. Many things that look too hard to
be borne at the foot of the stairs are recognized
in the watch-tower as a privilege arid a joy.
So the first movement of prayer should always
be an ascent of that staircase, a lifting up of the
heart from basement levels; and the next
should be an opening of the window. The air
that comes in may be sharp, but it is healthy
and bracing. The stuffiness and clatter of the
kitchen, all Martha's worried self-important
fuss, fall away from us when we breathe that
83
THE H O U SE OF THE SOUL
air, look out on that landscape. We are stand-
ing at the apex of our spirit ;
and the childish
absurdity of our normal troubles and pre-
occupations is made plain to us. Our under-
standing, usually pinned down to the here-and-
now, and beset by the ceaseless succession of
demands and events, is being steadied and
purified by contact with the Unchanging. We
are lifted above the level of sense to wide
horizons; and see that sense-life in new pro-
portion, lit
by a new compassion and love.
Faith simplifies our sight and pacifies our
minds, by subordinating all things to the
Reality of God.
Certainly it
may take years for our faith
thus to become truly realistic. At first, we do
not understand that it is not realistic. Like
beginners in physical science, we live happily
among its symbols ;
unconscious of the hidden
universe with which these symbols deal. Only
as we emerge into realism do we see what
regions of broadening experience, of which we
did not even suspect the existence, still inter-
vene between us and that which St. John of
the Cross calls the "divine abyss of faith."
"God," says De Caussade, "is the Centre of
Faith; and all His words and works are like
the dark rays of a sun which to our sight is
darker still." Only those who live much in the
watch-tower can grasp the reality within such
words as these.
Those who do will realize how grotesque is
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
any alliance between spiritual self-occupation
and faith: how absurd is the situation of the
small creature gazing from its window at the
majestic spectacle of the Universe, or watching
the searching drama of the Cross, or shut in the
dimness with that presence whose love and
lowliness so unmeasurably exceed its own
whose only thought is: How can this help me?
We have to drop all that sort of thing, kill the
reflex action of our egoistic minds, achieve a
little loving self-oblivion, before we can look
with purity of sight upon the Real. Faith
requires of the soul an adoration of God, adher-
ence to God, collaboration with God, pursued
even to forgetfulness of self. We climb the
stairs obsessed by our own difficulties, pre-
judices and worries, weighing the pros and cons
of our little affairs ; secretly hoping that some
holy ointment may soothe the wounds to self-
importance, or repair a complexion roughened
by the friction of the world. And then we are
astonished because we find ourselves "dis-
tracted," and our eyes are not in focus for the
view. But if we desire to enter into our super-
natural inheritance, the deep tranquillity of
Faith, coming unto God we must be completely
absorbed in the fact that He is ;
and rewards in
such ways as we can endure them and them
only that diligently seek Him for His own
sake alone.
VI
'"TpHERE is a story told of an old woman
A who went into a shop and asked for a
quarter of a pound of 2/- tea. The grocer asked
her what sort of tea she expected to get. She
replied that she hoped for the best, but was
prepared for the worst. This, of course, was
not the virtue of Hope.
Hope, the second of those spiritual powers in
man which tend towards God, is a completely
confident expectation ; that sureness and certi-
tude with which the awakened soul aims at
God and rests in God. It is the source of that
living peace, that zestand alertness, that power
of carrying on, which give its special colour to
the genuine Christian life. Hope brings the
exalted vision of Faith into the wear and tear
of our daily life. When we descend from the
watch-tower, where we feel that we can do
all things or rather that in us all things can
be done and try to do the things, the first
result is usually disillusion. Unless Hope has
come downstairs with us to sweeten fortitude,
permeate the content of our minds, the last
result may be apathy and despair.
The old moralists said that Hope was the
virtue which purified the Memory and made
it fit for God ;
and by Memory they meant all
86
THE HOUSEOF THE SOUL
our funded experience, that hoarded past
tfhich we drag along with us, and which con-
ditions our whole outlook on life. In respect of
all this, Hope teaches us the art of wise for-
getting;
of dropping the superfluous, the out-
grown, the trivial. It cleanses the mind from
all those half-realities which impede the total
concentration of our love and will on God ;
and
lifts up all the rest of our experience into the
eternal light, saying, "Even though I do not
see the meaning, yet I know all this is con-
ditioning my growth, purifying my spirit,
taking me towards You; and nothing matters
bjitthat."
Hope finds all life penetrated by a signifi-
cance that points beyond itself, and has a
trustful expectation that the ceaseless stream
rf events, thoughts, joys, trials the whole
stuff of experience means something, con-
tributes to something; and only has value
because it points beyond itself to God, is an
earnest of rich fields of experience awaiting the
soul. Such Hope is the bright side of self-
ibandonment. Much so-called self-abandon-
ment is conceived in the spirit of the 2/- tea ;
but that real self-abandonment to God which
is the supreme expression of our human free-
dom should be a delighted act of Hope. "0.
God, my hope is in Thee," does not mean "I
have tried everything else first." It means that
the final achievement of His hidden purpose is
what we really care about, and that we entirely
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
depend on Him for the power of achieving our|
little bit of His plan.
Thus the pain and disappointment, the!
tragedy and frustration of existence, are trans-
figured when Hope purifies the mind. If Faith
enlarges and illuminates the understanding,
shows it the fields of experience that lie
beyond its span, Hope integrates Faith's vision
with the very texture of our common thoughts,
our mental life as a whole ; merging the interests
of that little life in the vast interests of the]
Divine love and will. "When I am in trouble,
I will think upon God," said the Psalmist;!
think about that mysterious and living love
pressing in on human history, and here and
there working through in the shimmer of
holiness, the sharp glint of sacrifice. I will
forget my personal discomfort, my unsteadiness
|
and anxieties, and anchor myself there. It is
true that my little boat rolls heavily on the
surface of the waves, and often makes me feel
very ill; but under those waves is the firm
ground of Reality, the Life of God. This sense
that beyond all appearance we depend utterly
on the Goodness of God, and can depend on it
this is Hope. "Thy goodness," says Thomas
a Kempis, "never ceases to do well by me."
Such Hope gives the spiritual life its staying
power. It is the necessary condition of keeping
things going and getting things done. The
struggles to which the ground floor of human
nature commits us will never be maintained,
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
unless that living, spirit presides upstairs. As
ife goes on, nothing but Hope, its supernatural
zest and adventurous temper, will preserve us
rom the insidious tendency to settle down into
making religious pot-boilers; reproducing our
old designs, instead of moving on to the things
that are before. It is the very soul of the life of
>rayer ;
whether that prayer be poured out for
he world's betterment, for the many short-
comings of our own premises and perform-
ances, or directed beyond all thought of self
and world to God its Home: for it is the
property of Hope, says St. Thomas, "to make
us tend to God, both as a good to be finally
attained, and as a helper strong to assist."
Thus Hope is supremely the virtue of the
incomplete; of the creature stretching out in
bve and prayer to the complete Reality of
God, the final object of Hope. In this double,
trustful tendency to Him, as at once our
Companion and our Goal, Faith achieves its
perfect work. God whose vast purposes may
be veiled from us, but whose personal, mould-
ing, cherishing action, whose urgent and
demanding Spirit, is felt at work within our
little homes. Such Hope inspires and upholds
the
prudence, temperance and fortitude re-
quired of us in our dealings with life and with
the peculiarities of our own basement. Even its
tiany falls are like the falls of eager children.
They are dreadful at the moment, and often
make us bruised and muddy. But we pick
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
ourselves up and go on ; forgetting that which
is behind, reaching forward to that which is
before, because there is something more at
stake than "Safety first."
Even on the psychological level we all
experience the creative power of Hope. Our
minds are so made that convinced assurance,
trustful expectation, always tends to realize
itself. It concentrates energy on the matter
in hand, creates a favourable psychic atmo-
sphere, encourages the will to flow undivided
along the path leading to fulfilment, and sets
going the appropriate mechanisms. Hence
those who ask with confidence are likely to
receive, and those who seek to find. Whether
in that corporate life of souls which we call
history ;
in the personal work of costly trans-
formation to which each separate soul is com-
mitted ;
or in that secret and most sacred flight
to God, in which the human spirit achieves its
goal, Hope is the living spirit of transcendence,
the pathfinder of life.
In history we see Hope as the spiritual
preparation of the future ;
and a preparation
which is left entirely in our hands. It is the way
in which the corporate soul of man stretches
out to lay hold upon the gifts of God. Did we
look with more loving attention at God's work
in history, it would help us to discern His secret
workings in the soul. History, even that which
we call secular history, always shows us Hope
going before, to make plain the path along
90
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
which the creative purpose shall move. It is
the growing point of life. Social justice, educa-
tion, child welfare, women's freedom all these
were hoped for long before they were achieved.
And now, looking towards the future, it is the
solemn duty of every awakened spirit to enlarge,
deepen and enrich this hope for mankind.
Every movement of pessimism is a betrayal
of the, purposes of God ;
a short-circuiting of
the spiritual energy that flows from Him
through living souls. The web of life is in-
finitely sensitive to the morbid activity of each
of its cells. There can hardly be a more lethal
weapon than the mind of a nation filled with
the thought that war must come, or that
society is running down hill ;
and some respon-
sibility for this corporate mind rests upon every
citizen. Thought is a great and sacred force
given to us by God ;
our share in the life that
lies behind appearance. It is a creative force
when filled with Hope ;
a destructive force when
it concentrates on the ground floor and its often
deplorable state, and calls this "facing reality."
Hence the building up of a public opinion full
of Hope, because it tends with confidence to
God and the things of God, is a spiritual duty
laid upon all Christians; who are bound to
believe in the continuous incarnation of His
Spirit in human life, and to make plain the
paths along which that Spirit can move. We
do nothing for the Kingdom by going into the
garden to eat political or ecclesiastical worms.
9*
THE- HOUSE OF THESOUL
The whole of Christian history really turns
upon the power of human hope : this absolute
hold upon the reality of God, His supernatural
energy and freedom, with the corresponding
conviction that He does and will act within the
human arena, intervene to save. "I am not a
God afar off: I am thy Maker and friend" a
Maker who has not finished His work, but is
making us all the time, whose capacity for
loving action is inexhaustible. The psycho-
logical landscape in which the greatest event
in man's spiritual history was prepared was
coloured by Expectation, Hope. Christ was
born among those who waited for the conso-
lation of Israel; who were sure, in spite of
baffling appearance, that the purpose of God
would be fulfilled. The Blessed Virgin, stand-
ing at the budding-point of Christian history,
meets her strange destiny with selfless confi-
dence. The same necessary condition runs
through the Gospels. Those are healed that
come hopefully; their confident expectation
is always approved. We are to expect that
God will give us good gifts, answer our prayers,
provide for our necessities. This note recurs
perpetually in all our Lord's teaching. If we
ask we get, if we seek we find, if we knock
hopefully on the door it will open. The un-
limited world of eternal life is here on the
threshold with its riches ;
it is for us to stretch
out to it with confidence. If we are not more
spiritually effective, it is because of our low
92
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
level of desire, our lack of initiative, of cour-
ageous expectation. The Spirit of God works
in and with the faithful, hopeful will that
expects, and waits upon, the supernatural
response. The lessons of psychology are lifted
up, and shown to us as shadows cast by the
laws of the spiritual world.
In His own prayer, our Lord rejoices be-
cause all happens and must happen according
to the mind of God ;
even though that fulfil-
ment is reached by paths which cut across our
human notions of success. In the events of Holy
Week He teaches by demonstration the lesson
of an unconquerable Hope; the anchoring of
the soul's trust, beyond all appearance, in the
infinite 'Life of God. From the poor little
triumph of Palm Sunday, through the gathering
cloud of foreboding, to the stress and agony of
Gethsemane and Calvary with an ever in-
creasing sense of isolation, forsakenness and
darkness, culminating in the utter helplessness
and ignominy of the Cross the soul of Christ
moves with a steadiness transcending human
agony: sure that in spite of appearances the
Will of God is holy, and that along these dark
paths, by utmost sacrifice and apparent failure,
the purposes of His Love must prevail. That
supernatural Hope transfigured even the awful
moment of dereliction, when He felt himself to
be abandoned by God, and tasted the horrors
of spiritual death. It was through this darkness
that He rose to the heights of self-abandoned
G 93
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
trust. "Father, into Thy hands I commend my
spirit" the evening prayer of every Jewish
child "I do not ask, know, or guess, what is
going to happen; Thou art my Hope!"
"Christ," said the poet Peguy, "was the Man
of Hope." He showed it in a heavenly splen-
dour only possible to those whose lives are lost
in God. Here we leave human fortitude and
courage, the mere Stoic power of sticking it
out, far behind; are caught in the mighty
current which sets from the natural to the
supernatural life, and learn that the very
anguish of the soul on these frontiers of ex-
perience is an earnest that the expectation of
the creature will be fulfilled. Devout persons
speak much of the Easter Hope; but it is
surely the Good Friday Hope, with its lesson
of self-oblivious confidence in life's blackest
moments, that speaks most clearly to the needs
of men. It is then that the Church, with true
instinct, exclaims, "Agios ischyros! Agios athan-
atos!" By that contemplation we are lifted
from all petty preoccupation with our own
reasons for despondency, taught to look on
wide horizons, depersonalize our prayer ;
con-
fident that in suffering and apparent failure we
contribute to the mysterious purposes of the
God we love.
We come down from this tremendous reve-
lation, to look at something a little nearer to our
average level, and consider the work of Hope in
the cleansing and re-ordering of our own soul's
94
THE HOUSE. OF THE SOUL
life. We remember how Dante places at the
beginning of the Purgatorio a wonderful picture
of the ship of souls, driven towards the puri-
fying mountain by the great wings of the Angel
of Hope. There they are, with all their human
imperfections, stains and limitations ;
and with
their faces set towards the infinite possibilities,
the unspeakable perfections of God. They
know that much suffering and difficult puri-
fication must be the path along which they will
reach Him ;
but hope of God, thirst for God,
overrules all fear of pain. As the ship comes
to shore, they fling themselves on the land
crying "Who will show us the way to the
cleansing mount?" There is no reluctance to
face the penalty of conduct, the working of
that law of consequence which burns out the
very root of man's self-love. They look beyond
all that to God, the soul's Patria, towards
which they. tend in hope.
We know, in our lucid moments, that we too
are committed to such a painful re-ordering of
our love; some cleansing discipline must set
our muddled lives in order, deal with the stains
and excesses we have accumulated during our
tenancy, if the creature is to be made fit for
God its Home. When the radiance of the Holy
shines on our defenceless souls, we shall know
ourselves for what we are. "Then said I, Woe
is me ! . . . for mine eyes have seen the King,
the Lord of Hosts." Then the measure of our
Faith, Hope and Charity will be the gladness
95
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
with which we welcome the humiliations which
must break our foolish pride, the lessons of
patience that must curb our childish anger, the
deprivations that will turn our possessive
instincts from unreal to real objectives. But
if this be so, how artificial, how, deficient in
realistic Hope, is that notion of God's action
on and in our spirits, which refers to an un-
known future the opportunity of purgation.
The cleansing touch is already completely
present in all the ups and downs, the trials,
sacrifices, humiliations of our personal and
professional life; in all those inequalities of
health, affection, opportunity, which mortify
self-will and self-esteem. It is the business of
Hope, tending here and now to God, to recog-
nize within these baffling accidents the oper-
ations of Creative Love, and its own duty of
collaboration ; looking fairly and squarely at all
that needs to be done to fit the soul for its
destiny, and then starting the work in perfect
confidence that the energy of God is with us
from the moment that we really take the
scrubbing-brush into our hands.
The house of the soul is properly furnished ;
the cleaning materials are all there. The
languors and difficulties of ill-health, the
friction of uncongenial temperaments, the hard
rubs of circumstance, can all leave us cleaner
than before. As there is nothing more destruc-
tive of serenity than unwilling endurance of a
spring-clean; so there is nothing more exhilar-
96
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
ating than the same process when we do some
of the work ourselves. If our own hands carry
the cherished bundle of rubbish to the dustbin,
if we acquiesce in the fact that the far too
comfortable sofa does crowd up our room too
much, and has got to go; if we put zest and
hope into the struggle to efface those black
marks from walls that were meant to be white
then even the most painful effort is trans-
formed by the knowledge that we are working
to make our house what it is meant to be and
can be : a habitation fit for the Spirit now. We
are creatures for whom the Beauty of Holiness
is a possibility ;
in so far as we place our confi-
dence in the perpetual operations of that Spirit
which "has marvellously made our human
nature, and still more,marvellously remakes it"
and accept with love and courage the method
by which the work is done centring our sense
of reality there, and letting all the rest drop
away.
For the true basis of the soul's hope of God
is God's hope for the soul. His confident inten-
tion; precedes and inspires ours, and gives all
its significance to our life. God's hope for souls
often seems to us to be thwarted ;
but it
begins
again in its power and freshness with every
baby born into the world. Each represents a
hope of God; a possibility of holiness, fullness
of life. He has made us for Himself; but the
fulfilment of that hope is partly in our own
hands. It requires our generous and courageous
97
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
response to the secret Divine incentive, our
peaceful acceptance of purification, our active
charity; the full and dedicated use of all the
resources of the upper floor. Our own reluct-
ance, cowardice, want of hope, keep us back.
"The weakest of sinners," said Peguy, "can
either frustrate or crown a hope of God." When
we think of this aspect of our freedom, of our
ever-growing, mobile, never finished lives
that there is one fragment of the Eternal pur-
pose which no one else can fulfil, one place in
the world where we and none other are meant
to transmit God's life and love, and so fulfil
His Hope then even in our timid souls there
is born a faint desire to give ourselves without
reserve to His purpose, whatever the cost.
There is work which God requires to be
done by each one of us, and which no one else
can do. Therefore our business is to get down
to it, checking the instinctive recoil to the
inferiority complex, the easy resort to "I'm
not up to it : there must be some mistake" ;
in
sure and certain hope that if we get the job we
shall get the authority it
requires. "He gave
power and authority to the twelve," says the
Gospel; not merely to the most spiritual and
enlightened. It does not appear that the
majority were very spiritual or very enlight-
ened ;
but they were free from the introspective
weakness which perpetually strokes its own
imperfections, and makes of them a reason for
its deprecating reluctance to serve. The Twelve
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
t
must have felt very odd when they were sent
out alone to teach and heal; but they went
with Hope, and they came back with Joy. And
the same thing has ever been true of the Saints,
and of countless souls far below the level of the
Saints, who have accepted in the spirit of Hope
an infinite variety of jobs. "I said to God that
it was His business I was about, and after that
I found it
very well performed," said Brother
Lawrence, when called from contemplation to
buy wine for his convent a business for which
he knew that he had no capacity.
Hope of that quality is the source of the gay
courage with which the real lover of God faces
the apparently impossible or the unknown:
and we observe that it is not merely an easy
and comfortable optimism. It means acting
upon our assurance, taking risks for it ; entering
upon a path of which we do not see the end. It
means "Go forward"; not "Wait and see," or
"Safety first." Forgetting the things which are
behind, this hope reaches forth with confidence
unto the things which are before ; stripping off
all that impedes it, refusing to be clogged by
old fears and prejudices, moribund ideas. It
believes in the God of the future, as well as the
God of the past. It knows how to combine a
living suppleness and freedom with an utter
self-abandonment, a humble self-knowledge
with a vigorous initiative. "What is my hope?
even Thou, O God !
Though I lost my temper
yesterday,youcanuse me to help a soul to-day."
99
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
"The self-satisfaction of the finite," says
Bernard Bosanquet, "is the portal where Hope
vanishes." But once the great principle of
doing nothing in our own strength is
grasped,
we shall find with surprise that our perform-
ance is not much affected by our own dreadful
mediocrity. Something else, a stronger, richer,
steadier life, supports, controls and acts
through us. The guest for whom We have made
room is
running the house. Hope means being
prepared for this, and trusting it, when we are
definitely given a job, placed in a situation,
which we feel to be beyond our powers; and
which, for that very reason, contributes to the
soul's growth by throwing it back upon God.
So Hope must preside over the soul's
cleansing and re-ordering of its premises, and
the work it has to do. But our supernatural
Hope has a dignity and a sanction far beyond
these here-and-now objectives ;
and asks of the
creature a courage and sacrifice commensurate
with its transcendental goal. We find its true
image in that natural order, where the Saints
have so often followed their model in looking
for the supernatural lessons of God: in the
autumn migrants, starting on their immense
journey along the invisible pathways of the
air, towards a summer home which they cannot
see, yet which draws them by an irresistible
power. Migration is not an easy or a pleasant
thing for a tiny bird to face. It must turn
deliberately from solid land, from food,
100
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
shelter, a certain measure of security, and fly
across an ocean unfriendly to its life, destitute
of everything it needs. We make much of the
heroism and endurance of our airmen and
explorers. Perhaps some day man will rival
the adventurous hope of the willow wren and
the chiff-chaff; an ounce and a half of living
courage, launching out with amazing confi-
dence to a prospect of storms, hardship,
exhaustion perhaps starvation and death.
Careful minds would hardly think the risk
was worth taking. But the tiny bird, before
conditions force it not driven by fear, but
drawn by Hope commits itself with perfect
confidence to that infinite ocean of air; where
all familiar landmarks will vanish, and if its
strength fails it must be lost. And the bird's
hope is justified. There is summer at the
other end of the perilous journey. The scrap
of valiant life obeys a true instinct when
it launches itself on the air. It is urged from
within towards a goal it can attain; and
may reckon the suffering of the moment not
worthy to be compared to the glory that shall
be revealed.
Our Lord found great significance in the
life of birds; in their freedom, their self-
abandoned trust, their release from mere care-
fulness. He held them precious to God, and
patterns for the faith and hope of man. I some-
times think that the divine gift of Hope that
confident tendency of the soul, that trust in
101
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
the invisible, and in a real goal, a Country,
truly awaiting us poured into man by God to
give meaning and buoyancy to his life : all this
was first, as it were, tried out in the birds. Long
ages before we appeared, the clouds of tiny
migrants swept over the face of this planet.
Incarnate scraps of hope, courage, determin-
ation, they were ready at a given moment to
leave all and follow the inward voice ; obeying
the instinct that called them in the teeth of
peril and difficulty, giving themselves trustfully
to the supporting air.
Nor does this exhaust their likeness to the
soul. If we ask why the bird is so utterly at
home what is the cause of this confidence,
this buoyancy, this easy, steady flight science
replies that it is itself partly a creature of air.
Its very bones are so made that the air pene-
trates and informs them. It is lifted from
within, as well as supported from without; the
invisible Kingdom to which it gives itself is
inseparably a part of its own life. Even so are
we both penetrated and supported by an ocean
of Love and Life, an infinite yet indwelling
Reality experienced though unseen: "God in
Himself as He is everywhere and at all times,"
as St. Thomas has it. "And now what is
my
hope? surely my hope is in Thee" as the
bird in the air, so we in the Being of God. As
the bird, we are called to another country, a
Patria. The courage which can face long effort,
vast and lonely distances, apparent emptiness,
102
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
may be the testing condition of our flight. Yet
the loneliness and emptiness are only apparent :
for in Him we live and move and have our
being, even while to Him we tend. He inspires
and supports the adventure of which He is the
goal. For Hope is Love, tending to God at
all costs; bearing all things, believing all
things, enduring all things, because sure that
He has made us for Himself, and our hearts
shall find their rest in Him alone.
103
VII
WEhave inspected both floors of the soul's
house; stood in its watch-tower, and
studied its domestic arrangements the dis-
advantages and possibilities of the double
situation in which we are placed. Yet there
still seems something lacking; something
which must fill the whole house from basement
to attic and bind in one both levels of life, if
its upkeep is to be worth while, if it is to be
anything more than a model dwelling without
the atmosphere of a home. What is it that is
wanting ?
Charity ;
the living Spirit of Creative
Love. To be a home, a dwelling-place in time
for that Spirit, the house has been swept and
garnished, the best loved bits of rubbish have
been sacrificed, the windows have been cleaned,
the table set. It is not intended to be a show-
place, but a real "habitation of God through
the Spirit"; and the name of the Spirit is
Charity. If Faith opened the eyes of the under-
standing on that threefold vision in which we
see that only God is fully real ;
and if Hope so
purified the mind's content that all
dropped
away but its trustful tendency to that unchang-
ing Reality ;
then Charity transforms in God the
very mainspring of character, the active will,
and thus completes the spiritualization of man.
104
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
So Charity, when it enters the soul's house,
swallows up and irradiates its Faith and Hope.
"God is Charity," says St. John, "who dwells
in Charity dwells in God" a saying which
might deliver us from much anthropomorphic
pietism, did we realize its depth and sweep. It
means that the Spirit of Creative Love is the
very character of the Infinite God. There is
no difference between saying God "comes" to
the soul in Himself, or "sends" -His love; for
in that love we receive, in a way that we can
bear, the impact of the ever-present Divine
life upon the creature it has made. When we
depart from that love we depart from Reality;
leave the vivid world of spiritual fact, and
enter the museum-like atmosphere of theology,
full of stuffed birds that once were living bits
of Faith and Hope. For the Charity of God
is, as it were, the air that bathes the city, the
sun that lights it, the heat that warms it; and,
as experienced in each little house, by each
separate soul, there is in it
something of all
these. If a spark from that fire burns on the
hearth of personality, the soul has become to
that extent a partaker of the Divine nature. She
shares in the very life of the Saints; receives
and distributes something of that radiant
warmth which fills the whole spiritual universe,
the "Love that makes all things fair." "We
have," says St. Teresa, "the Sun in our house" :
that Sun which is not the soul's self, but is the
soul's life, Like central heating, its influence is
105
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
felt everywhere, upstairs and downstairs too;
distributing an equable fostering warmth to
every corner, conditioning our growth into
fulness of personality.
Charity, then, means something which far
exceeds altruism. It is the human spirit's share
of the Divine life: there is, indeed, no other
way in which it can share that life. "Who
dwells in charity dwells in God"; is united
to God ; partakes of the creative point of view.
We are looking with awe at the approach
made by the human soul to the burning heart
of Reality an approach only made possible
by the prevenient action of God and, turning
to our own narrow hearts, our feverish and
claimful desires, unreal objectives, and fluc-
tuating love, we ask: Can these things be? In
our own strength, of course, they could not be;
but they can be, because the initiative lies with
the Divine life. As theology says: "We love
Him because He first loved us." Before the
stellar universe, before the first mysterious
beginnings of creation, the fire of Charity was
already lighted. Creation is an act of love;
love, as Julian of Norwich was taught in her
vision, is its "meaning" however much that
meaning has been overlaid and distorted by
the sins and confusions of life. No religious
system is worth accepting or imparting that
is not in harmony with this mysterious
truth: for life, the "more abundant life" of
the Eternal World which is offered by God
106
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
to men, can only be measured in terms of
love.
"O luce eterna plena d'amore!" cries Dante,
caught for one dazzling moment to a vision of
the Real. Unless our tendency to God brings
us ever nearer the point at which we see the
world and all things in it in this generous trans-
figuring light, it is not a reality; nor is any
spiritual experience valid, which fails to intro-
duce us into that Ocean of Creative Love.
"How could those books have taught me
Charity?" said St. Augustine, as he turned
from the alluring mysticism of the Neoplaton-
ists, with its tremendous appeal to his specu-
lative intellect, and capitulated to the Cross.
That was the final question for him; and still
must be so, for all genuine seekers after
Reality. It marks the boundary between
philosophy and religion, between the objectives
of the visionary and the saint. "Without the
exercise of love," says Ruysbroeck, "we can
never possess God; and whosoever thinks or
feels otherwise is deceived."
Charity is no easy emotion. It does not
merely consist in yielding to the unspeakable
attraction of God. We are often terrified and
always shamed when we see what its achieve-
ment involved for the Saints; what steady
endurance of darkness, what suffering and
courage, are the price of their love, joy and
peace. The fire of Charity, lit in the soul,
needs careful tending. The first tiny flame
107
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
must not be allowed to die down for lack of
fuel ;
and we may have to feed it with things we
should prefer to keep for ourselves. It will
only be developed and kept burning in a life
informed by prayer faithful, steady, mortified,
self-oblivious prayer, the humble, aspiration of
the spirit to its Source: indeed, the very object
of prayer is to increase and maintain Charity,
the loving friendship of the soul with God.
All other aspects of the inner life are sub-
sidiary to this: and only of value in so far as
they contribute to it. For the prayer of Charity
introduces us into the very atmosphere and
presence of God, that secret chamber of the
soul where He dwells ;
and shows us, obscurely
but intensely, God as the one object of this
soul's love and longing, and all
struggles and
sacrifices made in His interests as forms of
joy. It lifts the heavy cloud of self-occupation
from our spirits, transforms the mental and
moral problems that torture us; they all look
different in the light of that fire. "Love," says
Thomas a Kempis, "sees causes of fear and
feareth not; but as a quick brand or sparkle
of fire flameth ever upward." And it is this
constant desirous aspiration of the soul towards
the Beloved Perfection, with its utter forget-
fulness of personal dreads and risks, which
delivers it from evil. "Adam sinned when he
fell from contemplation" and the essence of
contemplation is the soul's loving attention to
God. "Were we always simple," says Ruys-
108
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
broeck, "and could we always contemplate
with the same recollection, we should always
have that same experience, which is our proper
resting-place,"
Within the prayer of Charity, too, we catch
a glimpse of our own small life in the light of
God, and of our own soul's house as it is meant
to be a habitation of the Creative Love. It is
a bracing and a humbling vision. We see our
vocation then, however prosaic, as a form of
Charity; simply a call to express the creative
love infused into us, in this or that way. For
Charity introduces the soul into a vast organ-
ism, built of all striving, loving spirits; an
organism which is destined to be possessed and
used by God, for creative and redemptive work
within the world.
Hence the only active works worth doing or
worth having are ultimately found to be those
that proceed from Charity : that are the work
of a soul adhering to God and acting as His
tool. This gives them what painters call
"quality." We know how the Dutch artists
could give quality to a heap of vegetables, or a
child's toy. If th$ quality of charity is in our
work, that work, however modest, will suffice.
If not, all its apparent devotedness, efficiency
and success will merely give out the correct but
unmusical noise of the gong, or the tinkle of the
bright and busy cymbal. Works of mercy done
by the Saints come out, as it were almost of
themselves, from a soul so utterly merged in the
H 109
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
love of God that He acts through it. Thus they
have an effect quite out of proportion to their
apparent scope. A real act of Charity is the
exact opposite of an act of philanthropy. It is
done wholly to, for and in God; for His sake,
as a contribution to His purpose, because we
see the situation from His point of view. It is
born of the First, not the Second Command-
ment: of supernatural, not of natural, love. So
too all religious acts and sacrifices more, all
sacred objects, symbols and devotions, even to
the loftiest degrees of mental prayer are only
of spiritual worth if soaked in Charity and used
with Charity: with a loving tendency of the
naked will through them to God. "Unless,"
says Maritain, "we direct very purely to God
alone our desire of contemplation itself and its
joys, which St. Bernard called 'the paradise of
interior delights,' we shall not truly advance
in the way of the Spirit.".
All the exercises of the devotional life fall
under this law. The use of the Crucifix,
meditation on Christ's Life and Passion, are
found to be of value to the soul because they
convey love and evoke love; and so feed the
fire at the heart of personality. The disciplines
and renunciations which give order and beauty
to the soul's house are only fruitful when
undertaken for the sake of Charity. The house
is meant to radiate that; our business is to take
away everything which interferes. This is the
principle which gives all valid asceticism its
no
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
meaning and worth. So the spirit of poverty,
deliberately loosening its clutch on possessions ;
the spirit of chastity, calling in all vagrant,
immoderate and distracting desires; the spirit
of obedience, subduing its will to the over-
ruling Divine Will, give health, strength and
order to the love that is intended to find its
goal in God: but only impoverish or sterilize
the soul that is seeking for self-fulfilment by
these paths. "Charity," says Augustine Baker,
"lives and grows according to the measure that
self-love is abated, and no further." We have
reached the "short point'* as the lawyers say;
the one thing needful, the all-sufficing rule by
which the house is to be run. And we find it to
be identical with the law of the city: "Love of
God even to contempt of self."
Thus in the last resort Christian perfection,
in fact the whole course of the spiritual life, is
found to be the same thing as Charity the
loving union of the human spirit with the
Eternal Spirit of God. Nothing but this love
will drive it to the heroic struggles, self-
stripping and purifications, maintain it
through
the long slow climb with many humbling falls,
whereby it is remade in the image of the
Absolute Love. The soul that plays for safety,
even spiritual safety, never becomes perfect.
"Real Charity," says St. John of the Cross, "is
not shown merely by tender feelings, but by a
strength, courage and endurance unknown to
other souls." The true lover, wholly given to
in
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
God and His interests, is released from all
carefulness about his own interests, safety and
comfort. Thus not Faith and Hope alone, but
Prudence, Temperance and Fortitude too, are
found in the last resort to be swallowed up in
Charity.
This, then, is the first point of Charity; that
pure thirst for God and complete self-giving
to God that return movement of the soul to
its origin which makes man a spiritual crea-
ture, and is the very substance of his eternal
life. We go on to the second point. St. Thomas
says, "Charity includes not only love of God,
but also a certain friendship with Him. It is a
sign of greater love if a man devotes himself to
others for his Friend's sake, than if he be will-
ing only to serve his Friend." That opens up
another aspect of the life of Charity, and links
the First with the Second Commandment
love of God Pure, and love of His creation for
His sake. Adoring love alone is not enough.
Charity requires us, beyond this, to place our
neighbours' rights and needs on an equality
with our own ;
because the generous love of God
is poured out upon the whole world, and our
love too must be perfect, complete, as that of
our Father and Origin is
perfect, complete.
The Cross is the supreme symbol of that
double movement of Charity ;
the pouring forth
of self-oblivious love, up towards God, out-
wards towards men, and surely downwards too,
to all the smaller children of God. Here we are
112
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
confronted by a Charity as rich, wide and deep
as Creation, entirely self-giving and entirely
undemanding, which loves God first, its fellows
next, itself not at all; the consummation of a
life in which prayer and work, teaching and
healing, joy and suffering, were simply the
different strings of an instrument on which was
played the only music of the Love of God.
And in those Saints who approach their model
most nearly, as did St. Francis, this wide-
spreading love is the very substance of per-
fection, and ultimate source of their life-giving
power. They are complete in their self-giving,
like God. "Because," says Ruysbroeck, "the
living fountain of the Holy Spirit, which is their
wealth, can never be spent," they are become
distributors of His creative and redeeming
energy. Their passionate identification with
His interests flows out in an endless variety of
expression to share His love and care for other
men: and it is this, more than any moral
correctness, any exemption from special faults
or failings, which is the earnest of their super-
natural life. .
So the soul's secret holy love for the One, its
adoring contemplation, will flow out if it be
genuine on waves of generous compassion to
the Many ;
and especially to those whom an
exact standard of merit might find unworthy of
pity and care. "To love the unlovely into
lovableness" has been called the perfect work
of Charity; for here we apply the Divine
IJ 3
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
method to those bits of His creation that most
need it : share His redeeming work.
Faith may release the mind from the tyranny
of the here-and-now, and Hope may seem to
concentrate the whole drive of our being upon
the Reality of God. Only Charity can thus
weave together both worlds, both levels of the
soul's life ; and, making our love of God and of
His creatures one, provides a habitation, a
gathering point for the Creative Love, and
opens a channel throughwhich it can be applied
to each detail of His unfinished world. Thus it
is, as the mystics say, that Charity makes God
and the soul "one thing." Some of the difficul-
ties surrounding the life of prayer, and particu-
larly of intercession, might vanish, did we
understand it as an application to particular
cases of the boundless Charity of God; an
application which is effected by means of our
will and love.
Science sees the universe in natural regard,
as a cosmic cloud of infinitely tenuous matter
filling all space; and the stars as special con-
densations of that universal substance, able to
radiate with peculiar intensity the energy we
know as light an energy which is
equally
present throughout space, though there unseen.
An apt parable of that supernatural universe
in which we live and have our being; truly
continuous too, and delicately luminous with
the Love of God. Within it we may think of
each separate soul as a special condensation of
114
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
spiritual life; able to receive and give again
that energetic Charity which is poured out on
all creation from the Heart of God. For each
soul the final question must be: how much
Charity can you receive and transmit? The
Saints glow like living suns. With every
aspiration towards God, the ardour of their
charity increases. Its radiance penetrates to
every corner of creation. It warms and vivifies
the chillier worlds, which equally depend on
their share in this generous and life-giving
life : this one mighty movement of the Divine
generosity, running right through the spiritual
world, and using as its agents the loving and
surrendered souls of men.
Beyond time, God loves and gives, in the
changeless perfection of His Charity ;
and the
terms on which His creatures receive is that
they should give again, heedless of self-interest
and personal considerations. Thus all prayers,
all sufferings, all deeds from the loftiest to the
most homely, given in Charity to the purposes
of God, become charged with His energy of
life and avail for the perfecting of the world. In
this universal sense, Charity puts us in line with
all the noblest aspects of Creation the generous
outpouring of sunshine, the uncalculating fer-
tility of the earth, the great life-giving mantle of
air; all those undemanding gifts which con-
dition our existence, and are reflected fragments
of that unlimited self-giving which is the funda-
mental character of God.
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
The New Testament is full of reminders of
the transcendent worth, the life-giving quality,
of this generous unlimited love : the love that
pours out the precious ointment, and then
breaks the vase and gives that too ; that throws
in the second mite after the first ;
that sets aside
as equally irrelevant personal desires, personal
failings, and personal achievements. The
Charity willing to feed the sheep and lambs,
and go on and on chopping the turnips and
tending the fold, for the sake of the Beloved:
adoration and penitence blossoming in homely
service. Not everyone who says "Lord, Lord!"
in accents of devotion enters the supernatural
world of Charity ;
but only those self given for
love's sake to the purposes of the Eternal Will.
Even when that Will must be carried through
by means of dreary, exacting, and unrewarding
labour; even where it means unlimited sacri-
fice for apparently unworthy ends complete
collaboration with the Divine redemptive
work.
The House of the Soul, then, must be an
open house for all who are sent to it; all for
whom there are things to be done ;
all who are
proposed to its fostering care. Its welcome
must be as wide as that Poverty which, empty
of itself, has room for all. Upstairs and down-
stairs, in work and in prayer, it must wholly
serve the creative purpose; mortifying the
desire of devotional sweetness, ignoring the
claims of spiritual comfort, and bringing all the
116
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
needs of the city, and of the vast desolate world
beyond the city, within the area of its wide-
spreading love. There must be room for more
than two chairs on the hearthrug. The Love
of God is a large generosity, not a number of
intense individual love affairs; and this is the
love which the living soul is called to pour out
on the world. Only when it is wholly made over
to His creative, saving and restoring purpose,
when all that it does is done in the power of
supernatural Charity, is the house indeed a
habitation of the Spirit, and doing the work for
which it was made. This is that union with
God to which the mystics look; a union that
is not consummated in feeling, but in will
and work.
The Parable of the Talents, into which we so
easily read a utilitarian meaning hardly accor-
dant with the mind of Christ, seems rather
designed to enforce the lesson of the soul's
responsibility in respect of this mysterious gift
of Charity; its share of the riches of God.
Those riches are given into its care, that they
may be increased and made fruitful. We are
not to wrap up our bit of love, in case it
might
be lost or damaged; dig a hole in the soul's
garden and hide it
away. We are to deal with
it in the world, with prudence and courage;
risk it, put it out. Those who venture their
Charity down in the rough and tumble of
existence, submit it to the alchemy of thought,
work with it
boldly, and thus increase the
117
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
living wealth of God these are approved. The
victims of a miserly, timid and unfruitful
spirituality are utterly condemned. At the end
of the story, it is to those who have most that
more is given: for these alone are able to
receive the riches of the Kingdom of God.
"When the evening of this life comes," says
St. John of the Cross, "you will be judged on
love." The only question asked about the soul's
use of its two-storied house and the gifts that
were made to it will be: "Have you loved
well?" All else will be resumed in this; all
thoughts, beliefs, desires, struggles and achieve-
ments, all the complex activities of the upper
and the lower floor. For Faith is
nothing
unless it be the obscure vision of a loved
Reality; and Hope is nothing, unless it be the
confidence of perfect love. So too with all the
persons, events, opportunities, conflicts and
choices proposed for the soul's purification and
growth. Was everything that was done, done
for love's sake? Were all the doors opened,
that the warmth of Charity might fill the whole
house; the windows cleaned, that they might
more and more radiate from within its mys-
terious divine light ? Is the separate life of the
house more and more merged in the mighty
current of the city's life? Is it more and more
adapted to the city's sacred purpose the
saving radiation of the Perfect within an
imperfect world? For this is
Charity; the
immense expansion of personality effected by
lio
THE HOUSE OF THE SOUL
the love of God, weaving together the natural
and the supernatural powers of the soul, and
filling them with its abundant life.
Overflowing
the barriers of preference, passing through all
contrary appearance, it mediates the Divine
pity and generosity to every mesh and corner
of creation; and rests at last in God, Who is
the life and love of every soul.
The Westminster Press
41 1 A Harrow Road
London, W.g
