{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__summers___a_gothic_bibliograpy.pdf","mytitle":"A Gothic Bibliograpy","mylang":"de"}
A GOTHIC
BIBLIOGRAPHY.
Les Anglais se montrent en general tres-respectueux
pour le genre gothique. Tout le monde se gothise.
Adolphe Blanqui. Voyage D’Un Jeune Frangais
En Angleterre Pendant L’Automne De 1823.
Chapitre Second.
MONTAGUE SUMMERS
THE FORTUNE PRESS
I 2 BUCKINGHAM PALACE ROAD
LONDON
LONGSWORD, EARL OF SALISBURY
Frontispiece, Vol. II, 1762
[Frontispiece
MADE AND PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
PREFACE
A Bibliography, unless confined to one particular author, to
one particular press, or circumscribed by one strictly limited
period—be it measured by time or by the activities of some
literary movement—is bound to appear arbitrary and even
capricious in its exclusion and inclusions of names and titles.
It has not been my aim, and it would be manifestly impossible
within the compass of one volume to attempt to cover nearly
two centuries, that is to say to catalogue the whole field of fiction
from 1728, the year of the earliest novel I list, Thievery-a-la-
Mode, to 1916, the date of Mary, my last entry. Selection is
inevitable, and selection can never be altogether satisfactory to
everyone.
Students then may ask, and ask with a very fair show of
reason, why such an author is not to be found when such an
other author is given in detail. There are many answers to
inquiries and criticism of this kind, but perhaps the most
practical (albeit not the best) rejoinder is to point out that, as
well as other economies, economies of space were prescribed,
hence something must needs go by the board.
Obviously those authors, for the most part the greater names,
of whom there already exist standard bibliographies, may be
pretermitted. None the less, since exceptions occur to every
rule, William Beckfcrd—to cite but one instance—will be found
in the Index of Authors, yet not of course without appropriate
reference to the fuller individual Bibliography and the recent
authoritative studies of this amazing writer.
For Sir Walter Scott, Lord Lytton, George Payne Rainsford
James, to mention but three other examples (and there are many
more), the student will surely expect to go to particular and
detailed monographs and memoirs of these masters of romance.
There is a distinction, and one which I am confident will be
easily appreciated and allowed, although I can quite well con-
ceive that at first flush the obvious query might be posed : Why
is Scott not included ? Why not Lytton ? Why not “ Solitary
Horseman” James?
Again, in spite of his essential importance and long-continued
influence it were impertinent to calendar all the works of Horace
Walpole. On the other hand the Plays, Poems, and Journals
vii
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
of Matthew Gregory Lewis could not be omitted, whilst under
Charles Robert Maturin even his Sermons must be recorded.
I am very well aware that full-dress Bibliographies of Lewis,
of Maturin, and (above all) of Mrs. Radcliffe are badly needed.
Meanwhile I believe this present Bibliography with all its short-
comings will be found to give something that has not been
attempted before, and thus it will in its measure fill a very-
sensible gap.
In this Bibliography, at least, will be found not a few names
of authors as well as titles of novels which have hitherto received
no notice whatsoever, and which are missing even from the
catalogues of our national libraries. Amongst other details I
have been able to identify several writers who have hitherto
lurked under anonymity; I have assigned a considerable parcel
of romances to their rightful authors, correcting erroneous
ascriptions and dates, and from time to time untangling in the
course of my research a deal of ambiguity and confusion. All
this helps to clear the ground.
The beginnings of this Bibliography I can trace to forty and
more years since when it was my habit to make lists with notes
of the various books which struck me in the course of my
reading. I gradually systematized (amongst other material) my
terrier of the romantic field of fiction, and so soon as I projected
a study of the Gothic Novel my collections became more and
more ordered and arranged, so that in a little time I had by
me a handy book of quick reference.
Originally, that is to say some fifteen years age, when pub-
lication was suggested it was intended—hence the name—to
concentrate upon a Bibliography of the Gothic Novel, but even
so in order to make the book of real service many romances
which foreshadowed and paved the way to the Gothic Novel
could not be ignored, whilst it proved even more important to
register the later romances which were written on the model
and showed the influence of the Gothic Novel, although the
parent stock was fallen from its high estate, demoded and out
of vogue.
This led me to chart a region altogether unexplored, wherein
it became (if possible) even harder to find the way. Here I do
not claim to have done more than point the direction to other
scholars, who as time goes on will be led to investigate in ampler
detail, far beyond the scope of a Bibliography, that enormous
school of sensational fiction which had its period of florescence
from roughly 1830 to 1880, or perhaps one might even venture
viii
PREFACE
on a later date. Admittedly this was popular fare. As Mr.
Michael Sadleir has well put it :
“ The Gothic Novel crashed,
and became the vulgar ‘
blood.’ The spirit of melodrama and
of terror (which is only in rousing guise the spirit of escape)
persisted unsubdued and persists to this day.” It would appear
indeed that at the present time of writing no form of fiction is
more widely read or more eagerly pursued. But there is one
great differentiating factor. The old sensation novel even at its
slummiest and worst is infinitely superior, is far better written,
far better contrived than the most recklessly puffed and
panegyrized “ thriller ” to-day.
This disposes of the objection that the Edward Lloyd school
of fiction has fallen into oblivion because it is unworthy of
attention. As works of imagination these sensation novels are
by no means negligible. To gain a complete understanding of
the grea^t romantic revival we must study it in all its expressions
and in every mood. Romance may be uplifted in ecstatic beauty
to the golden stars, but it may also be found to walk the crowded
streets and hide in darkest alley-ways.
It is hardly to be surprised at that when the work of so striking
figures as G. W. M. Reynolds and J. F. Smith has never received
adequate treatment—it would be true to say they have never
been seriously discussed at all—such authors as the prolific
Thomas Peckett Prest, Malcolm J. Rymer, Mrs. Elizabeth
Caroline Grey, James Lindridge, Edward Ellis, Thomas Frost,
remain almost if not entirely unknown. Yet those who for the
first time approach these minors—if indeed Prest and Rymer be
minors in their own realm—will be astonished to find what a
quality their chapters possess, how they can grip the reader’s
attention and hold him fast through endless adventures and
turns of fate.
A warning word is perhaps due to the student and may not
be inapposite here. The scarcity of the Gothic Novel and its
successors constitutes a very real difficulty, and is a practical
stumbling-block in the way of research. It is astonishing of
how many novels in the following Bibliography only a couple
of copies, or it may be only three copies, are at present known,
and often these are not available in our national libraries, but
are treasured in the hands of private collectors. In several
instances, so far as it is possible to locate, one solitary examplar
survives.
The most famous publishing house which issued Gothic
romances was beyond doubt the Minerva, although it must
IX
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
always be remembered (and it will, in fact, be amply evident
from the following bibliography) that William Lane together
with his partner and successor, Anthony King Newman, had no
monopoly in Gothic fiction. Thus in 1808 T. F. Hughes,
Wigmore-Street, Cavendish-Square, advertises amongst other
novels
—
Family Annals; a Novel, in 5 vols., 255., from the
chaste pen of Mrs. Hunter of Norwich, Author of Letitia,
Grubthorpe Family, Lady Palmerston’s Letters, &c. ;
The
Demon of Sicily; a Romance, 4 vols., 20L, by Edward Mon-
tague, Esq.; The Fugitive Countess; a Novel, 4 vols., i8r., by
Miss Wilkinson; Adelgitha; a Play, in 5 Acts, 3s. (3 d. edition)
by M. G. Lewis, Esq., as performed at Drury-Lane Theatre with
great applause; Feudal Tyrants; a Romance, 4 vols., 28L, by
the same author (3 d. edition); The Bravo of Venice; (5th
edition), a Romance, 1 vol., 6l, by the same; The Monk of
Udolpho; a Legendary Tale, 4 vols., 22s., by Mr. Horseley
Curties; Alphonsine
;
a Novel, in 4 vols., 22s., from the pen of
Madame Genlis; The Spanish Outlaw; a Tale, 4 vols., 22s.
;
Friar Hildargo
;
a Romance, 5 vols., 25J.; Count Eugenio;
or, Fatal Errors; a Tale, 2 vols., 12 s.; Moss Cliffe Abbey; a
Novel, 4 vols., i8r. (2nd edition) by the Author of “ A Summer
at Brighton”; The Kinsmen of Naples; a Novel, 4 vols., 18s.
(2nd edition) by the same ;
A Summer at Brighton; (5th edition
in 4 vols.), 2or. To this Edition is now first added the fourth
Volume, containing the Memoirs and Intrigues of the Modern
Lais, a well-known woman of rank and fashion. The fourth
volume is sold separate. Legends of a Nunnery; a romantic
Legend, in 4 vols., 20s.
;
Confessions of Constantia
;
a Tale, 3,
vols., 135. 6d. ;
The Three Germans; a Romance, 3 vols., I2£.
The printers in ordinary for J. F. Hughes were J. Dean, 57
Wardour Street, Soho; and D. N. Shury, Berwick Street, Soho.
The first superintendent of the Minerva printing office, John
Plummer, was followed by John Darling, who was succeeded
by his son, the name Darling actually persisting as late as 1859.
The Minerva Press, Lane, or Lane and Newman, did not
publish for Mrs. Radcliffe or Monk Lewis or Charlotte Dacre or
Maturin. (It is true that late editions of Mrs. Radcliffe appear
among Newman’s advertisements.) On the other hand they
published—yet not exclusively—for Mrs. Bennett, Mrs. Parsons,
Mrs. Roche, Mrs. Meeke, Francis Lathom. In their particular
field under the aegis of Minerva, Lane and Newman achieved an
eminence which has left behind a name and a tradition even
until to-day.
x
PREFACE
William Lane commenced bookseller about 1770, and pub-
lisher some four years later. It was not until 1790 that he
adopted the title Minerva, and in the following year “ at the
Minerva, Leadenhall Street ” begins to appear regularly on his
title-pages. Anthony King Newman, an apprentice of Lane,
was taken into partnership in 1801, and in 1802 the title-pages
carry “ Printed at the Minerva-Press, for Lane and Newman,
Leadenhall-Street.” In 1803 we have “Lane, Newman, and
Co.” In 1809 William Lane somewhat reluctantly—it is said
—
retired from business, and thus the title-pages now read “Printed
at the Minerva-Press, for A. K. Newman and Co. (Successors to
Lane, Newman, & Co.). William Lane died on Saturday, 29th
January, 1814, at his residence, No. 3 Gloucester Place,
Brighton. Timperley, Encyclopaedia of Literary and Typo-
graphical Anecdote, gives his age as seventy-six.
After 1820 Newman dropped “ Minerva Press” from his
title-pages, and during the thirties he was specializing in
“ Juvenile and Prize Books ” of which he issued glowing cata-
logues. His ware included such specimens as Angelina, or Con-
versations of A Little Girl with Her Doll with numerous cuts, at
half-a-crown ;
Miss Selwyn’s Fairy Tales, half bound in roan,
or cloth, lettered, with 40 plates at two shillings, which seems a
cheap handsel ;
and Miss Caroline Horwood’s Original Poetry
for Children, also costing but a florin. At this time too he was
issuing large numbers of the stories of that “ amiable and
ingenious writer of tales for young and old alike,” the admired
and eminently meritorious Mrs. Barbara Hofland (1770-1844).
Newman’s catalogue of 1838 includes no less than thirty of this
lady’s works. There are her tales, Decision, Energy, Fortitude,
Patience, Self-Denial, the evergreen Young Crusoe, or, The
Shipwrecked Boy, as well as her more distinctly educational
lucubrations, Africa Described, Including the Recent Dis-
coveries; A Panorama of Europe; The Illustrated Alphabet,
and many more. In their “ Elegant Embossed Bindings, With
Gilt Edges, And Lettered, Illustrated with Plates,” the Hofland
Tales are really charming little volumes.
The output of romances was sparser in these years, although
it had by no means ceased. In 1841, for example, Newman
published The Witch of Aysgarth in three volumes by Miss C. D.
Haynes.
Newman was also much occupied with remainder publishing.
Buying the sheets from other houses he printed a new title-page
carrying his own name, and thus in his catalogues we find titles
XI
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
of books which actually had already appeared bearing the
imprint of another firm. There is no indication, moreover, that
the Newman issue is not a genuine first.
In Notices to Correspondents, The London Journal, edited by
G. W. M. Reynolds; published Vickers, 28 Holywell Street,
Strand; Vol. I, No. 20, July 12th, 1845, p. 320, col. 3, R.S.L.
is informed :
“ Lord Byron did not write ‘
The Vampire,’
although it was for many years attributed to him. It can be
procured of Newman, Leadenhall Street.”
A. K. Newman retired in 1848. The stock was sold to Robert
S. Parry, also a remainder publisher, who continued business at
the Minerva for six years, until 1854.
Of Anthony King Newman, Le Fanu wrote in March, 1862 :
“ That patron of undeveloped fictional genius held on till within
the last score years, when he retired to take some rest at
Gravesend, at the ripe age of four score. From all that we can
learn, he was an estimable citizen, and possessed judgement in
his peculiar walk. Remnants of his stock, done up in cloth to
have a modem air, were sent to the great auction-rooms in
Dublin, Edinburgh, and other large towns, previous to handing
on his good-will to his successor. At this day there is no repre-
sentative of the old firm.” Forgotten Novels: Dublin
University Magazine, March, 1862; Vol. LIX, No. CCLI
(P- 349)-
The following Bibliography had been some little while in the
printer’s hands when there was issued The Minerva Press
iygo-i 820 By Dorothy Blakey, Ph.D. London Printed For The
Bibliographical Society At The University Press, Oxford 1939
(for 1935). Miss Blakey by concentrating upon a particular
press during a particular period has naturally been able to
handle her material in far greater detail than would be possible
in the case of a one volume Bibliography the scope of which
extends over nearly two hundred years, and hence is necessarily
set out on quite another plan. The industry of Miss Blakey’s
research is evident, and The Minerva Press iygo-1820
remains a valuable contribution to the Gothic library.
Whilst I have not attempted to include in this Bibliography
the “roman noir ” or the “ Schauerroman ” a few French
and German writers are admitted, either because their works
were frequently translated into English by our native novelists,
or else because they directly influenced the development of the
Gothic Novel in England. This I feel to be allowable, if only
for the one fact that such references, which for the most part
xii
PREFACE
cost a good deal of time and trouble to check up and trace, will
certainly prove grateful to scholars.
For the same reason I have drawn attention to various
dramatizations of Gothic Novels.
Of the ten plays of Henry Siddons there has been occasion to
list only one, The Sicilian Romance. For the rest the Biographia
Dramatica and Genest must be consulted. The Sicilian
Romance, however, is intrinsically important, as also is all the
dramatic work of Maturin.
None the less I would have it clearly understood that I did
not conceive any particular treatment of these parerga to lie
within my province.
This observation equally applies to the Gothic pataches, those
wee oberins the chapbooks which swarmed from the parasitic
presses of Houndsditch and the Borough and Finsbury Square,
from Tegg, Dean and Munday, Roe, Harrild, J. Ker, and Ann
Lemoine. I have (as I hope) sufficiently recognized the existence
of the sixpenny “ blue books ”—so called from their 36 pages
being roughly stitched into a cover of flimsy blue paper—without
attempting exhaustively to apprize their numbers.
It should perhaps be pointed out that there will be found
some entries under authors’ names in the Index of Authors
which have not been duplicated in detail in the body of the
Bibliography. The reason for this is that whilst in not a few
cases it seemed useful and even necessary to give a complete
list of an author’s work it was obviously not required to devote
to his every treatise or monograph, which had no connexion
with imaginative writing, such additional space and considera-
tion as must have swelled the Bibliography to a second volume
without any real profit or advantage. At the same time the
student is advised to consult in the course of his inquiries both
the Index of Authors and the Bibliography proper.
It is with very real regret that so long a list of Addenda
has been found necessary. I can only ask those who use this
Bibliography generously to bear in mind that the proofs were
corrected at a most unhappy time under the most untoward
and difficult conditions. Several libraries, for example, in which
I had planned important and extensive research circumstances
rendered impossible of access. It even became a question
whether publication should be indefinitely and quite indetermin-
ately postponed, or whether, as was in fine and I believe well
decided, the Bibliography should be issued in spite of so serious
lets and unavoidable mischance.
xiii
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
It is a pleasure to thank Mr. Michael Sadleir, a great votary
of the Gothic Novel, for the kindly interest he has shown in the
present Bibliography, and for the generous courtesy with which
he has replied to my frequent questions fabulis de Gothicis. I
am especially obliged to him for reading through and checking
the Miss Braddon section in the “ Index of Authors.” His
intimate knowledge and authority afforded me many valuable
suggestions.
Mr. Robert Black of the University of Virginia has not only
most generously spared neither time nor trouble in discussing
with me and disentangling many perplexed points concerning
Gothic romances and their authors, but has further entrusted
me with rare novels from his magnificent collection, sending
them from America to England. I am moreover indebted to
him for permitting me the full use of the Catalogue of his
Library to the very great and manifest advantage of my Title
Index.
To that eminent scholar Mr. Frederick Coykendall of New
York I owe particular thanks for much real and truly appre-
ciated encouragement during the progress of my work. This
took a very practical form, for he has been good enough to allow
me to print several important notes upon that important book
The Monk, as also upon Tales of Terror. Many another page
of my Bibliography has profited by his wide knowledge and
sympathy.
For their encouragement and for help so freely given in
various ways I am gratefully obliged to Mr. C. R. Dawes, who
read through and checked the de Sade section in the “ Index
of Authors,” and with whom I have to my advantage discussed
details not a few; to Mr. F. C. Francis; Sir Ambrose Heal;
Mons. Maurice Heine; the late Mr. C. A. Ransom; and Sir
John Squire. The article on Robert Huish appeared in Notes
and Queries, n February, 1939; Vol. 176, No. 6; whence it
is reprinted by kind permission of the Editor.
During the whole course of a long and laborious piece of
work I have been greatly aided by the practical assistance and
many valuable suggestions of Mr. Hector Stuart-Forbes, who
will (I trust) accept this very' inadequate recognition and
acknowledgement.
XIV
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
Numbers 14, the title-page of the American edition, Philadelphia, 1817,
of Mrs. Shedden’s The Hero; and 19, the title-page of A Tale of Mystery,
Or Celina, a Novel altered from the French of Francois Guillaume Ducray-
Duminil, by Mrs. Meeke, Minerva Press, 1803, are reproduced by kind
permission of Mr. Robert K. Black from the excessively rare, if not unique,
copies in his library.
The remainder of the Illustrations, nineteen in number, are from the
Author’s collection.
PLATE
Longsword, Earl of Salisbury. Frontispiece, S. Wade del. C.
Grignion sculp. Vol. II, First Edition, Two Volumes, 1762.
This historical romance is by Dr. Thomas Leland. The
episode represented is that when Lord Raymond attempts to
wed the Countess by force. The monk Reginhald is beginning
the holy office, and his brother the seneschal Grey attends
as witness—co-partners in villainy—but the lady swoons.
A moment later, a domestic pale and breathless with haste,
rushes in to announce the return of Earl William Frontispiece
PLATE FACING PAGE
I. Euphemie, ou Le Triomphe de la Religion. A drama in
three acts, and in verse by Francois Thomas de Baculard
D’Arnaud. Title-page of the First Edition. 1768. The
quotation from Job XV, 21, Sonitus terroris semper in auribus
is from the speech of Eliphaz the Temanite, A dreadful
sound of terror is alway in his ears ..... xx
II. Phedora; or, The Forest of Minski. A novel in four volumes
by Mary Charlton. Minerva Press, Lane, 1798. The Frontis-
piece to Volume I ........ 32
III. The Farmer of Inglewood Forest. In four volumes, by Mrs.
Elizabeth Helme. First edition, Minerva Press, Lane, 1796.
Illustration (at p. 282) from the Seventh Edition. Edwin
Godwin, the farmer’s son, visits the grave of Agnes Bernard,
died September 10, 17—. Aged 19. He has been pledged to
Agnes, forsaken her, and broken her heart. Agnes expired
in childbirth. The rustic assistant to the sexton tells Edwin
how Agnes “ went mad for love and died.” It may be
remarked that the text says Agnes died September 10, 17—
,
but the gravestone in the Illustration has Sepr. 10, 1817 . 48
IV. The Brothers; or, The Castle of Niolo. A romance by Robert
Huish. Two volumes, 1820. The Illustration is from Vol. I,
at p. 213. Mademoiselle Schlaffenhausen, the governess, in
order to hear the private conference between Rosenheim and
old Rupert conceals herself in a curtained recess. By a mala-
droit movement she sends a suit of armour crashing to the
ground. Rupert the Seneschal flies in terror, but Rosenheim,
determined to explore the cause of the noise, drew up the
curtain, and “ the governess stood before him in all her
charms ” .......... 96
xv
LIST OF ILLUSTRATION S COJlt.
PLATE FACING PAGE
V. The Death Grasp; or, A Father’s Curse. A Romance of
Startling Interest. By Thomas Prest, Author of “ Ela the
Outcast,” “ Angelina,” “ Ernnestine De Lacy,” “ Emily Fitz-
ormond,” “ Gallant Tom,” “ Mary Clifford,” “ Maniac
Father,” etc., etc.
“ I am a man
So wearied with disasters, tugged by fortune,
That I would set my life on any chance
To mend, or be rid on’t.”
Shakespeare [Macbeth
,
III, i],
London: Printed and Published by E. Lloyd, 231, High
Street, Shoreditch. Note, the Shakespearean quotation
verbally is slightly inexact. Frontispiece. The incident
portrayed occurs at the end of Chapter III, p. 14. Adolphe
de Floriville treacherously assassinates his lifelong friend
Eugene de Buoisson, since he recognizes in Eugene his rival
for the hand of the beauteous Laurette Chamont . . 112
VI. Euphemie, ou Le Triomphe de la Religion. A drama in
three acts, and in verse by Frangois Thomas de Baculard
D’Arnaud. Frontispiece of the Second Edition, 1768. The
last scene. Restout filius inv., Aug. de St. Aubin sculp.
Le theatre represente un caveau funeraire, tel qu’il en existe
encore dans nos anciennes eglises. Theotime sort precipitam-
ment. Euphemie, le suivant des yeux jusqu’a ce qu’elle ne
l’appergoive plus.
Je n’ai plus qu’ d. mourir.
Elle tombe les bras etendus sur une des pierres sepulchrales.
Euphemie expires in the arms of her mother, the Comtesse
D’Orce and the nun Melanie . . . . . .176
VII. The Mysteries of St. Clair; or, Mariette Mouline. By Mrs.
Catherine G. Ward, Authoress of the following popular Novels,
viz., The Mysterious Marriage—The Rose of Claremont
—
Orphan Boy—The Thorn—Family Portraits—Cottage on the
Cliff—Widow’s Choice, etc.
“ My history is slight ! I am the child
Of sorrow and of shame ! I can recal
Only a humble home, and but one parent
—
My solitary mother ! and she watch’d me.
And wore herself to sickness for my sake.”
London: Printed and Published by J. Jaques and W. Wright,
Eagle Office, Cross Street, Newington Butts. Sold also by
D. Jaques, Chelsea; and all other Booksellers. 1824.
The Illustration is facing p. 461. Ferdinand listening to the
voice of Antoinette. P. Rothwell del et sc. Published by
Jaques & Wright, Newington Butts. Ferdinand waits opposite
to the windows of the Lady Augustina’s apartments in the
Castle of St. Clair, and presently the Lady Augustina and
Antoinette appear at the lattice . . . . . .192
VIII. The Abbess. A Romance. By William Henry Ireland,
Author of Bruno, or the Sepulchral Summons; Gondez the
Monk; Rimualdo, or the Castle of Badajos; The Catholic,
etc., etc.
Let modest matrons at thy mention start,
And blushing virgins, when they read our annals,
Skip o’er the guilty page. Shakespeare.
xvi
LIST OF ILLUSTRATION S COTlt.
PLATE FACING
In Three Volumes. Title-page of the rare Second Edition,
A. K. Newman and Co. 1834.
First Edition, 4 vols., Earle and Hemet, 1799
IX. The Animated Skeleton. In Two Volumes.
“ I oft have sought,
“ With friendly tender of some worthier service
“ To win him from his temper, but he shuns
“All offers
“ Is there cause for this?
“For sin without temptation, calm cool villany
—
“ Deliberate mischief, unimpassioned lust,
“ And smiling murder ”
Gustavus Vasa.
Vol. I [-II]. London : Printed At The Minerva-Press, For
William Lane, Leadenhall-Street. 1798.
Title-page of the first (and only) edition of The Animated
Skeleton, an exceedingly rare novel.
Alternative half-title, Count Richard; or. The Animated
Skeleton. A parti-historical romance. The scene laid in
France, during the reign of Hugh Capet, 987-996. Vol. I,
Preface, pp. v-xi, pp. 1-152; Vol. II, pp. 1-176.
The quotation is from Gustavus Vasa, The Deliverer of his
Country, a tragedy by Henry Brooke, Act I. The first four
lines are from a speech of Arnoldus; the concluding four
lines, “Is there a cause for this? . .
.” from a speech of
Gustavus ..........
X. The Children of the Abbey. A Tale. In Four Volumes.
By Regina Maria Roche. Minerva Press. 1796. Illustration
from the Spanish translation by Don Enrique Villalpando de
Cardenas, Oscar T Amanda. Amor Y Virtud Triunfantes,
2 vols., Barcelona [1868]. The Illustration, which is coloured,
is in Vol. II, facing p. 368. The episode represented is when
in the old Gothic chapel of Dunreath Abbey the repentant
recluse, Lady Dunreath, leading Amanda to the altar draws
from its hiding-place the will so long concealed. Opening
an iron box Lady Dunreath “ took from thence a sealed
paper. ‘
Receive,’ said she presenting it to Amanda, ‘
receive
the will of your grandfather, a sacred deposit, entrusted to
your care for your brother, the rightful heir to the Earl of
Dunreath.’
” “ Daughter of Malvina, daughter of Murley,
receive from my hands my husband’s last will and testament.”
It should be remarked that the Spanish version para-
phrases rather than translates the original verbatim
XI. Ethelwina; or. The House of Fitz-Auburne. A Romance of
Former Times. In Three Volumes. By T. J. Horsley.
“ He is a very serpent in my way,
“ And wheresoe’er this foot of mine doth tread
“ He lies before me.”
Shakespeare [King John III, 3].
London: Printed At The Minerva-Press, For William Lane,
Leadenhall-Street. 1790.
Title-page of the First Edition of the first novel of T. J.
Horsley Curties .........
xvii
PAGE
224.
240.
272
288
LIST OF ILLUSTRATION S COHt.
plate facing page
XII. Fatherless Fanny. Frontispiece to the edition, one volume
published by G. Virtue, Panyer Alley, Paternoster Row.
During the Christmas vacation of 1798 Fanny, then about five
years old, is mysteriously left one evening by a lady at Miss
Bridewell’s seminary, Myrtle Grove. Only the senior
governess, Mrs. Dawson, and two young West Indian ladies,
the Misses Barlow, are in residence. On opening Fanny’s
trunk Mrs. Dawson discovers “ a bank post bill for two
hundred pounds. ‘
This ticket is not a blank at least,’
exclaimed she, holding open the note to the young ladies.” 312
XIII. Fatherless Fanny; or, A Young Lady’s First Entrance into
Life Being The Memoirs Of A Little Mendicant and Her
Benefactors
Vignette title, G. Virtue’s edition . . . . . .312
XIV. The Hero; or. The Adventures of a Night: A Romance.
Translated from the Arabic into Iroquese; from the Iroquese
into Hottentot ; from Hottentot into French; and from the
French into English.
A sad tale’s best for winter; I have one of ghosts and goblins.
Shakespeare [The Winter’s Tale II, 1].
The best and the wholesomest spirits of the night envelope
you.
Ibid [Measure for Measure, IV, 2].
(‘ Ghosts ’
in the first quotation should be ‘
sprites.’)
‘
The best and the wholesomest ’
in the second quotation
should read ‘
The best and wholesom’st.’
Three volumes. Colburn. 1815.
Title page of the American edition, two volumes in one,
Philadelphia, published by M. Carey & Son, corner of
Fourth and Chesnut Streets, 1817.
The Hero is a translation (originally made about 1800) by
Mrs. Sophia Elizabeth Shedden, nee Lewis and sister of
Matthew Gregory (‘ Monk ’) Lewis of a burlesque novel La
Nuit anglaise, 2 vols., Paris, 1 799, by Belin de La Liborliere,
who satirizes the Gothic romance, the “ roman noir ” and
“ radcliffades.” This title-page is reproduced by courtesy
of Mr. Robert K. Black ....... 368
XV. The Mysteries of Udolpho. A Romance Interspersed with
some Pieces of Poetry. By Ann Radcliffe, Author of the
Romance of the Forest, etc. In Four Volumes.
Fate site on these dark battlements, and frowns.
And, as the portals open to receive me,
Her voice, in sullen echoes through the courts,
Tells of a nameless deed.
London : Printed for G. G. and J. Robinson, Paternoster-Row,
1794. Title-page of the First Edition of The Mysteries of
Udolpho, probably the greatest of all Gothic novels . . 384
XVI. Netley Abbey: A Gothic Story.
“ Avaunt, and quit my sight ! Let the earth hide thee !
“ Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold
;
“ Thou hast no speculation in those eyes,
“ Which thou dost glare with.”
Macbeth [III, 4].
xviii
LIST OF ILLUSTRATION S COTlt.
plate facing page
In Two Volumes. Southampton : Printed for the Author,
by T. Skelton, and Sold by C. Law, Ave Mary Lane, London.
1 795 -
By the Rev. Richard Warner. Title-page of the first issue of
the First Edition. The second issue has, London : Printed
for William Lane, at the Minerva Press, Leadenhall-Street.
MDCCXCV 432
XVII. Rosalie; or, The Castle of Montalahretti. In Four Volumes.
“ Led through a sad variety of woes.”
Pope, Eloisa to Abelard, 1 . 36.
Richmond : Printed for Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, and
Brown, Paternoster Row, London. 1811.
Title-page of the First (and only) Edition. Printed by
Eling & Wall, Hill-Street, Richmond. An exceedingly rare
novel ........... 448
XVIII. St. Ostberg; or, The Carmelite Monk. A Romance. In Four
Volumes. London : Printed by J. Dean, 7 Wardour Street,
Soho. Published and Sold by M. Taylor and Co., 25 Dean
Street, Soho, and by All Booksellers. 1811. Title-page of
the First Edition.
By Miss Caroline Horwood, afterwards Mrs. Baker. Strictly
speaking the title is a misnomer, and should be The Carmelite
Friar, although it is true that “ Monk ” is often very loosely
used. Ambrosio who gives his name to the famous romance
of M. G. Lewis, The Monk, is not actually a monk but a
Capuchin friar. In the French versions, Le Moine, he is a
Dominican friar ......... 496
XIX. A Tale of Mystery; or, Celina. A Novel. In Four Volumes.
Altered from the French of Ducray-Duminil by Mrs. Meeke,
Author of Which is the Man, the Sicilian, etc., etc.
“ O passions des hommes !
”
London : Printed at the Minerva-Press for Lane and Newman,
Leadenhall-Street. 1803.
Title-page of the First Edition.
The original, Ccelina, ou VEnfant du Mystere, published in
1 798, 6 vols., Paris, was the most popular of all the romances
of Francois Guillaume Ducray-Duminil. It was reprinted in
at least twenty editions, and in 1800 was dramatized with
great success by Guilbert de Pixerecourt. This play, Ccelina,
was adapted for the English stage by Holcroft as A Tale of
Mystery: a melodrama, Covent Garden, Saturday, November
13th, 1802. Holcroft’s version for many years maintained
its place in the London and provincial repertories. This title-
page is reproduced by courtesy of Mr. Robert K. Black . 512
XX. Vesuvia; or, Anglesea Manor. A Novel. In Three Volumes.
By the Author of Valambrosa, and Forresti.
Quoth Sidrophel, it is no part
Of prudence to cry down an art.
And what it may perform, deny
Because you understand not why.
Do not the hist’ries of all ages
Relate miraculous presages
Of strange turns in the world’s affairs
Foreseen by astrologers?
xix
Hu dibras.
LIST OF ILLUSTRATION S COilt.
PLATE
XXI.
FACING PAGE
London : Printed at the Minerva-Press for Lane, Newman,
and Co., Leadenhall-Street. 1807.
Title-page of the First Edition. An exceedingly rare novel.
The quotation from Hudibras makes allusion to those episodes
in the story when the heroine disguises herself as a Neapolitan
seeress, Vesuvia ......... 544
Women As They Are. A Novel in Four Volumes, By Mrs.
Parsons. Author of Mysterious Warnings, etc. London:
Printed for William Lane, at the Minerva-Press, Leadenhall-
Street. MDCCXCVI. Frontispiece to the First Edition.
The Illustration represents a highly romantic episode in the
adventures of Mary Boyle and her father, who have been
compelled by adverse circumstances to retire to the remote
and lovelier parts of Scotland. When Mary Boyle in
company with her friend Miss Gordon are exploring a
romantically ruined castle near Elgin they meet a mysterious
recluse who has taken refuge there. This proves to be a
Captain Morgan, who in India, having seduced the wife
of Miss Gordon’s brother, killed the unhappy husband in a
duel. Overwhelmed with remorse Morgan fled, and
immured himself in the Mount, Elgin. When he hears Miss
Gordon’s name he falls, senseless with horror, to the ground
amid the broken walls, so injuring himself that a few days
later he expires. Miss Gordon swoons in the arms of Mary
Boyle, whose father together with Mr. Ross, minister of the
parish, are seen flying to their assistance. Women As They
Are is an epistolary novel, and the chief events in the story
are related by the heroine, Mary Boyle, in letters to her
former gouvernante, the amiable Mrs. Rowe.
Women As They Are is a work of exceptional merit and
interest. The varied characterization of the different writers
of the letters is admirably portrayed and maintained through-
out their correspondence ....... 560
xx
& D P ME MI E ,
O u
L E TRIO M P H P
DE LA RELIGION,
D R, A M E ,
,M TROIS ACT ICS EN ' i R ;
Par M. D’ A R N A U D.
A -hys Urroris fanper in cnnb:i>. Job. Lb
Chez Pp. AULT Fils ,
Quai de Conti , vis-a-vP
la deicente du Pont-Neuf , a la CharitC
M. DCC. L X V I 1
1
Appro ballon & Prh i le£c h
EUPHEMIE, OU LE TRIOMPHE DE LA RELIGION
Drama by Baculard D’Arnaud
Title page, First Edition, 1768
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
INDEX OF AUTHORS
A
ACTON, Mrs. Eugenia de
Essays on the Art of Being Happy, Addressed to a
Young Mother
A Tale Without A Title: Give It What You Please
The Nuns Of The Desert ; Or, The Woodland Witches
The Discarded Daughter
AGG, John
Edwy And Elgiva; An Historical Romance Of The
Tenth Century
AINSWORTH, William Harrison (1805-1882).
Many of Ainsworth’s novels are in the Gothic
tradition. Rookwood, 1834, he explicitly avows to be
“ a story in the bygone style of Mrs. Radcliffe.” There
is a very ample Ainsworth Bibliography in Vol. II of
William Harrison Ainsworth and His Friends by S. M.
Ellis, 1 9 1 1 . See also H. Locke’s Bibliographical Cata-
logue of the Published Novels of Wrn. Harrison
Ainsworth, 1925.
ALEXANDER, Gabriel
A very prolific miscellaneous writer and journalist.
Below are listed his five best known novels, and what
are probably his two most famous short stories.
Robert Bruce ; The Hero King of Scotland
Wallace ; or The Hero of Scotland
The Minister’s Story. Short story
The Bottle; or, The Drunkard’s Career
The Avenger. Short story
Lilias; or, The Milliner’s Apprentice
Adelaide; or, The Trials of a Governess
ALGERNON
The Royal Wanderer; or, The Exile of England
1803
1804
1805
1810
1811
1840
1848
1850
1850
1850
1851
i854
1815
I B
2 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
ALLENDALE, Alfred
The Man of Sorrows 1808
AMPHLETT, J.
Ned Bentley 1 809
ANDREWS, Charles
The Spectre 1789
ANDREWS, Dr.
Augusta; or, The Female Travellers 1788
ANN OF KENT
The Castle Of Villeroy; Or, The Bandit Chief 1827
ANN OF SWANSEA. Mrs. Julia Ann Curtis, nee
Kemble, and formerly Mrs. Ann Hatton (1764-1838)
Joseph Knight and other authorities state that this
lady was the fifth child of Roger Kemble, and the
sister of John Philip Kemble and Sarah Siddons.
Betrayed by a bigamous first marriage with Mr.
Hatton, she was left a widow by her second husband,
Mr. Curtis, with whom she had been compelled to
fly from America on account of the yellow fever. She
obtained considerable notoriety and greatly scandalized
her family by an attempt to poison herself in West-
minster Abbey. Eventually she settled at Swansea,
subsisting upon a small pension made up by Mrs.
Siddons and other relatives, since the hotel she opened,
the “ house of assembly,” the “ school of dancing and
deportment,” had all proved insufficient for her sup-
port. She is said to have been a mistress of Edmund
Kean and to have written a drama for him whilst he
was a member of Andrew Cherry’s company, whose
circuit included Swansea, Carmarthen and Haverford-
west in South Wales; Waterford and Clonmel in
Ireland. Kean acted with Cherry 1809-11. Mrs.
Curtis was a celebrated local figure, a favourite and
frequent contributor of verses to the Swansea news-
paper, Cambrian. Percy Fitzgerald, The Kembles
(1871), Vol. II. pp. 98-107, says that Mrs. Ann Curtis
proclaimed herself up and down the town as the
youngest sister of Mrs. Siddons and intensely annoyed
the famous tragedienne by her general behaviour and
proceedings. At length Mrs. Siddons paid the novelist
INDEX OF AUTHORS 3
twenty pounds a year on condition that she per-
manently resided not less than one hundred and fifty
miles from London. No doubt this or some similar
condition was attached to the annuity the Kembles
allowed their poor relation, but it seems highly im-
probable that if Mrs. Curtis had not been their sister
they would have contributed (however niggardly) to
her maintenance. With regard to her literary output
it must be acknowledged that the romances of the
prolific Mrs. Curtis are by no means lacking in quality,
and in its kind her talent is far from mediocre.
Cambrian Pictures; Or, Every One has Errors 1810
Poetic Trifles 1 8 1
1
Sicilian Mysteries ; Or, The Fortress Del Vechii 1812
Conviction ; Or, She is Innocent! 1814
Secret Avengers; Or, The Rock of Glotzden 1815
Chronicles of an Illustrious House ; Or, the Peer, the
Lawyer, and the Hunchback 1816
Gonzalo de Baldivia; or, A Widow’s Vow. A
romantic legend 1817
Secrets in Every Mansion; or, The Surgeon’s Mem-
orandum Book. A Scottish record. 1818
Cesario Rosalba; Or, The Oath of Vengeance 1819
Lovers and Friends ; or, Modern Attachments 1821
Guilty or Not Guilty; Or, A Lesson for Husbands 1822
Woman’s a Riddle, a Romantic Tale 1824
Deeds of the Olden Time 1826
Uncle Peregrine’s Heiress 1828
Gerald Fitzgerald ; An Irish Tale 1831
ANWYL, E. Trevor
Reginald Trevor; or, The Welch Loyalists, a Tale of
the Seventeenth Century 1829
The Youth of Edward Ellis 1830
Tales of Welshland and Welsherie 1831
ARMSTRONG, Leslie
The Anglo-Saxons ; or, The Court of Ethelwulph 1806
ARNOLD, Lieutenant
The British Admiral 1808
Lucky Escapes ; or, Systematic Villany 1809
The Irishmen 1810
1796
4 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
ARNOLD, Jun., Samuel James (1774-1852)
The Creole; or, The Haunted Island
Samuel James Arnold is the author of the popular
melodrama The Woodman's Hut, produced at Drury
Lane on 12th April, 1814, with music by C. E. Horn.
Arnold was a very prolific dramatist, who translated
from Pixerecourt, Charles the Bold ; or, The Siege of
Nantz, Drury Lane, June 15th, 1815, from Charles le
Temeraire, ou le siege de Nancy; from Caignier, The
Maid and the Magpye; or, Which is the Thief,
Lyceum, August 28th, 1815, from La pie voleuse, ou la
servante de Palaiseau; and adapted Scott, The
Wizard ; or, The Brown Man of the Moor, Lyceum
(then English Opera House) July 26th, 1817.
ASHE, Captain Thomas
The Charms of Dandyism 1819
ATKYNS, Samuel
Adeline; or, The Grave of the Forsaken. A drama,
adapted from the novel of the same name published by
E. Lloyd, 1841, and produced at the Royal Albert
Saloon, Shepherdess-walk, Britannia Fields, Hoxton,
on September 29th, 1849. Atkyns was house drama-
tist to the Albert Saloon, which opened in 1844 under
H. Brading, and here all his one-and-twenty dramas
were given. In August, 1844, a license was refused
to his The Thieves' House; or, The Murder Cellar
of Fleet Ditch. At the same time, August, 1844,
George Dibdin Pitt’s The Murder House; or, The
Cheats of Chick Lane (Britannia), and Thomas Prochis
Taylor’s George Barrington ; or, The Life of a Pick-
pocket (Garrick) were prohibited.
B
BACULARD D’ARNAUD, Francois Thomas De (1716-1805)
Les Epoux malheureux, ou Vhistoire de Monsieur et
de Madame de la Bedoyere 1745
Les Amans malheureux, ou le Comte de Comminge,
drame en trois actes . . . suivi des Memoires du comte
de Comminge 1764
Euphemie ; ou Le Triomphe De La Religion, drame
INDEX OF AUTHORS 5
en trois actes . . . suivi des Memories D’Euphemie.
Seconde Edition 1768
Selicourt, nouvelle (pp. 79) 1769
Anne Belle, histoire angloise (pp. 64) 1769
Epreuves du sentiment, romans, 6 tom. 1772-81
Nouvelles historiques 1774-84
Delassements de Vhomme sensible 1 783-93
The “ drames monacles ” and novels of Baculard
D’Amaud had a great influence on the development
of Gothic romance. His tone is often more than a little
morbid, and he reflects Young’s Night Thoughts, Her-
vey’s Meditations among the Tombs, and the sensibility
of Richardson. A large number of the stories (many
dealing with England) from his Collections were trans-
lated into English. Thus Sophia Lee translated
Varbeck (.Nouvelles historiques, Tome premier, seconde
nouvelle) as Warbeck, a pathetic Tale. There are also
English versions of The History of Sidney and Volsan,
Dublin, 1772; Fanny, or The Happy Repentance,
1777; The History of Count Gleichen, 1786;
Lorimon; or Man in Every Stage of Life, 1803 ;
and
other pieces by D’Arnaud.
The above is a fairly representative list of D’Amaud’s
work as influencing the Gothic romance, but it is by no
means complete.
BAGE, ROBERT (1728-1801)
Mount Flenneth 1781
Barham Downs 1784
The Fair Syrian 1787
James Wallace 1788
Man As He Is 1792
Hermsprong ; or, Man as he is not 1796
BALFOUR, FAIRFAX
Ida Lee; or, The Child of the Wreck 1863
Serialized in the London journal, commencing 1 6th
May, 1863.
Nelly; or, The Companions of the Chain 1864
Serialized in the London Journal, commencing 5th
March, 1864.
Three Women; or, The Fatal Passion 1865-6
Serialized in the London Journal, commencing gth
December, 1865.
6 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Fairfax Balfour was a well-known sensation novelist
of the day. The above are typical of his work, which
in its kind often reaches a high level.
BALL (FITZBALL). Edward (1792-1873)
The famous writer of melodramas.
The Black Robber; a romance 1819
BARHAM, Rev. Richard Harris (1788-1845)
Baldwin; or A miser’s heir. A serio-comic tale. “ By
an old bachelor ” 1820
Some Account of My Cousin Nicholas. By Thomas
Ingoldsby, Esq. Author of The Ingoldsby Legends,
to which is added The Rubber of Life 1841
My Cousin Nicholas was originally serialized in Black-
wood 1834. The Ingoldsby Legends which first ap-
peared in Bentley’s Miscellany, were collected in 3
series, First Series, 1840; Second Series, 1842; Third
Series, 1847. Barham contributed about one third of
the Lives to A General Biographical Dictionary by
John Gorton, new ed., 3 vols. 1847.
Martin’s Vagaries 1
843
Pub. A. H. Baily and Co.
Two etchings and a woodcut by G. Cruikshank.
Wrappers.
BALLIN, Miss Rossetta
The Statue Room; an Historical Tale 1790
BANNERMAN, Anne
Tales of Superstition And Chivalry (Gothic Poems) 1802
BARKER, Mary
A Welsh Story 1 798
BARNBY, Mrs.
The Rock; or, Alfred and Anna 1801
Kerwcdd Castle; or, Memoirs of the Marquis de
Solanges 1 804
From the French, Memoires du Marquis de Solanges,
by J. A. Jullien des Boulmiers, 2 pts., Amsterdam,
1766.
The American Savage 1808
BARRETT, Eaton Stannard (1786-1820)
noms de plume, Cervantes Hogg and Polypus
All The Talents, a satirical poem by Polypus 1807
INDEX OF AUTHORS 7
There were nineteen editions in the course of a year.
Sometimes erroneously ascribed to William Combe.
All The Talents’ Garland, including Elijah’s Mantle,
and other Poems of the same author 1807
James Sayers published anonymously, All The Talents’
Garland ; or, a few rockets [in verse] let off at a cele-
brated ministry. Second ed., 8vo. London, 1807.
The title-page of the First edition of the same year
slightly varies.
The Rising Sun 1807
The Second Titan War against Heaven; or, The
Talents buried under Portland Isle. A satirical poem 1807
The Comet, an opposition newspaper satirized 1808
The Miss-Led General, a Serio-Comic, Satiric, Mock-
Heroic Romance 1808
The Tarantula ; or, The Dance of Fools. A satirical
work 1809
The Setting Sun ; or, Devil amongst the Placemen. To
which is added a new musical Drama; being a Parody
on the Beggar’s Opera 1 809
8vo. A burlesque by Cervantes Hogg.
Woman. A Poem 1810
This poem contains the famous lines
:
Not she denied her God with recreant tongue,
Not she with traitrous kisses round Him clung
;
She, while Apostles shrank, could danger brave,
Last at His Cross and earliest at His grave.
It must be remembered that the author assiduously
revised and polished his Poem, therefore there are
variants of these lines.
The Metropolis ; or, A cure for gaming. Interspersed
with anecdotes of living characters in high life. By
Cervantes Hogg, Esq. 1 8 1
1
3 vols., Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman.
The Heroine; Or, Adventures Of A Fair Romance
Reader 1813
Third ed., 1815, The Heroine, Or Adventures of
Cherubina.
My Wife! What Wife
?
1815
Farce, produced at The Haymarket on July 17th,
1815.
The Talents run mad; or, Eighteen Hundred and
Sixteen 1816
8 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
A satirical poem.
Six Weeks At Long’s. By a late Resident 1817
For The Hero
;
A Novel, In Three Volumes, i\dvertised
in The Heroine, 1815, 3rd ed., as In the Press and
sometimes ascribed to Barrett, see under Mrs. Sophia
Shedden.
BARTHEZ DE MARMORIERES, Baron, Antoine
Elnathan; ou les ages de Vhomme. Traduit du
Chaldeen. Elnathan; or, The Ages of Man. English
translation 1811
BARTON, James
Honorina 1804
BASTIDE, Jean Francois De
Les Aventures de Victoire Ponty.
Mutual Attachment ; or, The Memoirs of Victoria de
Ponty. English translation 1784
BEAUCLERC, Amelia
Eva Of Cambria; or, The Fugitive Daughter 1810
Ora And Juliet; or, Influence of First Principles 1811
The Castle of Tariffa; or, The Self-Banished Man 1812
Alinda; or, The Child of Mystery 1812
Montreithe ; or The Peer of Scotland 1814
Husband Hunters! ! ! 1816
The Deserter 1817
Disorder And Order 1820
Ora And Juliet has been incorrectly ascribed by Miss
Dorothy Blakey ( The Minerva Press, p. 236 and p.
330, Bibliographical Society, 1939 for 1935) to Emma
De Lisle. Miss Blakey also incorrectly ascribes Eva of
Cambria ( Minerva Press, p. 330) to Emma De Lisle.
BEAUFORT, LL.D., John
The Daughter of Adoption; A Tale of Modern Tunes 1801
BECKFORD, William Thomas of Fonthill (1759-1844)
Biographical Memoirs of Extraordinary Painters.
Anon 1780
Dreams, Waking Thoughts, and Incidents. In a series
of Letters from various parts of Europe. Anon. 1 783
Suppressed ;
re-issued in a revised form as Vol. I. of
Italy ; with Sketches of Spain and Portugal, 1834.
An Arabian Tale, From an Unpublished Manuscript.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 9
Half-title, The History of the Caliph Vathek. Hen-
ley’s translation 1786
Vathek. (A Lausanne) (actually 1786) 1787
Vathek, Conte Arabe. (A Paris) 1 787
New revised version, London. 1815.
The Episodes of Vathek. With a translation by Sir
Frank T. Marzials 1912
Modern Novel Writing, Or The Elegant Enthusiast. A
Rhapsodical Romance ... By the Right Hon. Lady
Harriet Marlow 1796
Azemia: A Descriptive and Sentimental Novel ... By
Jacquetta Agncta Marian Jenks 1797
Epitaphs, some of which have appeared in the Literary
Gazette of March and April, 1823. Anon. N.D. [1825]
Italy: with Sketches of Spain and Portugal 1834
Recollections of an Excursion to the Monasteries of
Alcobaga and Balalha 1835
The Vision and Liber Veritatis 1930
Popular Tales of the Germans. Translated from the
German. Anon. 1791
Unpublished Tales.
Histoire d’Elouard Felkanaman et d’Ansel Hougioud
UEsplendente
Histoire de Darianoc, jeune homme du pays de Gou-
Gou.
Histoire de Ffinan et des trois Montagues.
It has been conclusively shown by Mr. J. W. Oliver
and Mr. Guy Chapman that The Story of Al Raoui, A
Tale from the Arabic, 1799, often attributed to Beck-
ford, is the work of the Rev. Samuel Henley.
The Beckford Papers contain many unpublished
MSS., some translations of Arabic tales, others original
stories.
For a detailed account of Beckford’s work consult A
Bibliography of William Beckford of Fonthill by Guy
Chapman in conjunction with John Hodgkin, London,
Constable, 1930.
See also, The Life of William Beckford of Fonthill,
1932, by J. W. Oliver, and Beckford, 1937, by Guy
Chapman.
BEDFORD, John H.
The Wanderings Of Childe Harold 1824
10 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
BENGER, Miss
The Heart and the Fancy; or, Valsinore 1813
BENNET, Elizabeth
Faith and Fiction; or, Shining Lights in a dark
gene-ration 1816
Emily; or, The Wife’s First Error: and Beauty &
Ugliness; or, The Fathers Prayer and the Mothers
prophecy 1819
BENNETT, Mrs. Agnes Maria (
-1808)
Mrs. Bennett died at Brighton, 13th February, 1808.
“ On Saturday morning, at her home on the South
Parade, Mrs. Bennett.” Sussex Weekly Advertiser,
15th February, 1808.
Anna; or Memoirs of a Welch Heiress. Interspersed
with Anecdotes of a Nabob 1785
Juvenile Indiscretions 1786
Agnes De-Courci. A Domestic Tale O89
Ellen, Countess of Castle Flowel 1794
The Beggar Girl and her Benefactors 1797
Vicissitudes abroad; or, the Ghost of my Father 1806
BENNETT, Mrs. Elizabeth
The Cottage Girl; or, The Marriage Day 1842
The Orphan Sisters; or, The Lover’s Secret c. 1843
The Gipsey Bride ; or, The Miser’s Daughter c. 1844
The Broken Heart; or, The Village Bridal 1844
Family Mysteries 1 853-4
Mrs. Bennett’s novels were for the most part published
without any date.
BENSON, Miss Maria
System and no System, or the Contrast 1815
Miss Benson also wrote Thoughts on Education.
BERNARDIN DE ST. PIERRE, Jacques Henri
(
i
737
' i8 i
4)
The Shipwreck ; Or, Paul And Mary. An Indian
Tale 1789
Translation of Paul et Virginie, 1787.
The Indian Cottage; Or, A Search After Truth 1791
Translation of La Chaumiere indienne, 1791.
Paul And Virginia 1 796
Translation of Paul et Virginie, 1787.
INDEX OF AUTHORS II
BIANCHI, Michael Angelo
Levity and Sorrow 1809
Translated from A. von Kotzebue’s Luise.
BICKNELL, Alexander ( -1796)
The Benevolent Man 1
7 7
5
The History of Lady Anne Neville 1776
Isabella: or, The Rewards of Good-Nature 1776
The History of Edward Prince of Wales, commonly
termed the Black Prince 1776
The Life of Alfred the Great, King of the Anglo-
Saxons 1
7 7 7
Prince Arthur : an allegorical romance 1778
An Apology for the Life of George Ann Bellamy 1785
5 vols., a famous theatrical work.
The Patriot King: or, Alfi'ed and Elvida. An historical
tragedy 1788
Doncaster Races; or, the History of Miss Maitland:
a Tale of Truth 178
9
Bicknell was a miscellaneous writer of verse, philo-
sophical prose, and upon grammar, The Grammatical
Wreath.
BIRCH, John Brereton
The Cousins of Schiras 1797
BIRD, John
The Castle of Hardayne 1795
The Mountain Boy, a metrical romance 1816
BLACKFORD, Mrs. Martha
The Eskdale Herd Boy 1 8 1
9
One vol., 1 2 mo, Harris. Price 5/-
The Scottish Orphans: a moral tale 1822
One vol., i2mo, Welter. Price 3/6
Arthur Monteith, a continuation of “ The Scottish
Orphans
”
1822
One vol., 121110, Hurst. Price 3/6
Annals of the Family of M’Roy 1823
3 vols., Wetton.
Tales of my Aunt Martha 1823
3 vols., A. K. Newman & Co.
The Young Artist 1825
One vol., Hurst.
12 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
William Montgomery ; or, The Young Artist 1828
One vol., Hurst.
BLANCHARD, EDWARD LEMAN or LAMAN
(1820-1889)
The Mysteries of London; or, Lights and Shadows of
London Life 1 849-50
When G. W. M. Reynolds severed his connexion with
George Vickers and transferred to a new publisher,
John Dicks, Vickers commissioned Thomas Miller to
write the Third Series, and E. L. Blanchard to write
the Fourth Series of The Mysteries of London, of
which the First and Second Series were the work of
Reynolds. It must be allowed that neither Miller nor
Blanchard can be considered as successful as Reynolds,
and the Third and Fourth Series fell far below the
original conception of the work. Blanchard was a very
busy miscellaneous writer and a leading dramatic critic.
His pantomimes were established favourites. For
further details see under his name in the Dictionary
of National Biography.
BLOUNT, Margaret
The Birthright i860
Serialized in Reynold’s Miscellany,
commencing
March 24th, i860.
Reprinted Dick’s English Novels, price sixpence, No.
65-
The Foster Sisters i860
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, commencing June
30th, i860.
In Spite of Themselves i860
A short story, Reynolds’s Miscellany, November 10th,
i860.
Maid, Wife, and Widow; or, The Story of Barbara
Flome 1861
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, commencing
January 26th, 1861.
Barbara Home, a novel, three volumes 1864
Lamia; or, The Dark House of Drerewater 1861
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, commencing May
25th, 1861, concluding October 5th, 1861.
Set in Gold. A Tale of the Times 1861
INDEX OF AUTHORS 13
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, commencing
October 5th, 1861.
Once Wooed, Twice Won: The Story of a Woman’s
Heart
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, commencing
November 30th, 1861.
Saturday Right: a Weekly Journal conducted by
Margaret Blount 186
The Orphan of Charnley
New York : Brady’s “ Mercury Stories.”
A Dangerous Woman: A Study from Life
New York: Brady’s “Mercury Stories,” 1864.
Sixpenny Volume Library, London, i 865 .
.4 Broken Life: a Domestic Story 1866
Sixpenny Volume Library, London.
Margaret Blount also wrote The Lady of Castle-Rose
(before 1861, reprinted Dicks’ English Novels, No. 63)
;
Mona Lisa; both before 1861 : Brent Hall (Dicks’
English Novels, No. 71). She was a very prolific and
popular writer. The above are typical of her work.
BLOWER, Miss Elizabeth (1763- )
The Parsonage House
George Bateman
Maria
Features from Life ; or, A Summer Visit
French translation (1788) : La Visite d’Ete ; ou Portrait
de Mosurs.
For Elizabeth Blower see The New Lady’s Magazine,
September, 1789, pp. 482-5.
BLUEMANTLE, Mrs. Bridget (pseudonym), also
Martha Homely (pseudonym), Mrs. E. Thomas.
The Three Old Maids of the House of Penruddock
The Husband And Wife ; or, The Matrimonial Martyr
Monte Video; or, The Officer’s Wife and Her Sister
Mortimer Hall; or, The Labourer’s Hire
The Vindictive Spirit
Always Happy; or, Anecdotes of Felix and His Sister
The Prison-House ; or, The World We Live In
The Baron of Falconberg ; or, Childe Harolde in Prose
Claudine ; or, Pertinacity
Purity of Heart; or, The Ancient Costume
Woman; or, Minor Maxims
1861
2, etc.
1864
1864
(1865)
1 780
1782
1
7 85
1788
1806
1807
1809
181
1
1812
1813
1814
1815
1817
1818
1818
*4 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Helena Egerton ; or, Traits of Female Character 1824
A ‘
new edition, revised and corrected,’ of Woman.
BOLEN, C. A.
The Mysterious Monk; or, The Wizard’s Tower 1826
Walter the Murderer ; or, The Mysteries of El Dorado 1827
BONHOTE, Mrs. Elizabeth (1744-1818)
The Rambles of Mr. Frankly, published by his sister 1773-6
The Fashionable Friend 1
776
Hortensia 077
Olivia; or, The Deserted Bride 1787
The Parental Monitor 1788
Darnley Vale; or, Emilia Fitzroy 1
789
Ellen Woodley 09°
Bungay Castle 1796
Feeling, a poem 1810
BOTTENS, Jeanne Isabelle Pauline De, Baroness
De Montolieu
Caroline 1786
Translated by Thomas Holcroft as Caroline of Ficht-
field 1786
Tableaux de famille. Translated by Mary Charlton
as The Reprobate 1802
Le Village de Fobenstein. Translated from the
German of August Lafontaine, Der Sonderling.
Madame de Montolicu’s version was translated into
English by Mrs. Meeke as Lobenstein Village 1804
BOS
Dickensian piracies and travesty.
The Sketch Book by Bos 1836
Nicholas Nicklebury 1838
The Posthumous Notes of the Pickwickian Club; or,
The Penny Pickwick, 2 vols. 1838-1839
The Fife and Adventures of Oliver Twiss, the Work-
house Boy 1839
Pickwick in America
,
edited by Bos 1839
Mr. Dumfries Clock 1840
All published by Edward Lloyd in penny weekly
numbers.
The “ Bos ” parodies and imitations of Dickens were
written in collaboration by Thomas Peckett Prest,
William Bayle Bernard, and Morris Barnett. Lloyd
INDEX OF AUTHORS
the publisher suggested the idea of travesties of the
popular Dickens, and he urged that the pen-name of
“ Boaz ” should be used. It was pointed out to him
that this was too biblical, whilst the letter “ z ” being
so nearly “ Boz ” might involve legal proceedings.
After some discussion “ Bos ” was fixed upon, and in
spite of protests from Charles Dickens and his pub-
lishers Lloyd issued “ Bos ” tales very successfully
for five or more years.
The illustrations to Pickwick in America are said to be
by George Cruickshank, and the book in the reprint of
1855 was assigned to G. YV. M. Reynolds, which seems
an erroneous attribution.
A similar Dickensian piracy is Dombey and Daughter,
by R. Nicholson, 1848.
BOUNDEN, Joseph
Fatal Curiosity; or, The Vision of Silvester. A Poem 1805
The Murderer; or, The Fait of Lecas 1808
The Deserted City: Eva: Electricity. Poems 1824
BOYS, Mrs. S.
The Coalition; or, Family Anecdotes 1785
BRADDON, Mary Elizabeth, Mrs. John Maxwell
(October 4th, 1837—February 4th, 1915)
See Time Gathered Autobiography (1937). By W. B.
Maxwell, Chapter XVII, “My Mother’’ for some
account of Miss Braddon and how she commenced
novelist.
Three Times Dead ; or, The Secret of the Heath 1854
When Miss Braddon was staying at a farmhouse near
Beverly, Yorkshire, Empson a Beverly printer who
had noticed many of her verses and sketches in local
papers commissioned her to write for him a story which
“ should combine the humour of Dickens with the
plot construction of G. W. M. Reynolds.” Three
Times Dead had just been issued in penny numbers
with fierce woodcuts of the E. Lloyd school of illustra-
tion when Empson failed. On the title page the main
imprint is “London : W. M. Clark, 16 and 17 Warwick
Lane.” Empson, Beverly, is much smaller. Mr.
Michael Sadleir writes to me :
“ I have a set of the
proof sheets of Three Times Dead, w'hich belonged to
1 6 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
James Mills, who, according to his statement written on
the fly-leaf, read the proofs for Empson. He says the
novel was published in penny numbers ‘
in the year
1854 or thereabouts.’” Three Times Dead was con-
siderably altered and appeared later as The Trail of the
Serpent, see below under this title. About 1858-9 Miss
Braddon came to London.
The Black Band ; or, The Mysteries of Midnight
The serial with which The Halfpenny journal “ started
cn its ambitious but brief career.”
Loves of Arcadia: a comedietta
Produced at the Royal Strand Theatre
The Trail of the Serpent ; or, The Secret of the Heath
Mr. Michael Sadleir writes to me :
“ The first appear-
ance of The Trail of the Serpent was, I believe, in one
vol. blue cloth, 1866; Ward, Lock & Tyler. This
edition contains a Publisher’s device dated July, 1866,
describing the book as a largely rewritten version of an
earlier (unnamed) tale, now making its first appearance.
I have a letter from Maxwell to Empson, dated 1865
stating that he owns an assignment of copyright in the
book, but will consider Empson’s claim (clearly a claim
to ownership) on a basis of documents. I incline to
think negotiations delayed publication till 1866 by
which time Maxwell was (I conclude from the evi-
dence) with Ward, Lock.”
As The Trail of the Serpent the book was published in
the popular yellow back edition, 1867, and included in
the “ autograph edition.” In a letter to myself, July
28th, 1907, Miss Braddon said: “The autograph
edition in cloth, of all my books, is better than the old-
fashioned yellow back.”
The American pirated edition, New York, Dick and
Fitzgerald, retains the title Three Times Dead; or, The
Secret of the Heath.
Preference books record an 1861 edition of The Trail
of the Serpent, but this has not hitherto been seen, and
it is strongly to be suspected that it is a ghost.
There is a translation from the French, Thrice Dead.
A Novel. In three volumes. By Paul Feval.
London: T. Cautley Newby, 1869.
Garibaldi, and\ other Poems
Published by Bosworth and Flarrison
i860
i860
1866
1861
INDEX OF AUTHORS *7
1863
Aurora Floyd
3 vols., Tinsley.
A serial in Temple Bar. Published by Tinsley Bros,
who had tied their new author for several successive
books.
Lady Audley’s Secret 1861
Commenced as a serial in Robin Goodfellow, a paper
edited by Charles Maclcay and issued from an office
of its own, 122 Fleet Street. The same address appears
on the earliest Maxwell publication, Henry Dunbar.
This ended after thirteen weeks (July 6—Sept. 28,
1861) and the unfinished serial began again in The
Sixpenny Magazine, commencing in Vol. II, No. 3.
March, 1862. Lady Audley’s Secret was “second
serialized” in The London Journal from March 21st
to August 15th, 1863.
Lady Audley’s Secret 1862
3 vols., Tinsley Bros.
Published October 1st, 1862, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th,
7th, and 8th editions, all 3 vols., 1862. See “ Notes on
‘Lady Audley’s Secret’” by Michael Sadleir, Times
Literary Supplement, May 1 ith, 1940.
Lady Lisle 1862
Pres, inscription dated October, 1862.
The Fourth Volume in Ward and Lock’s “ Shilling
Library of New Fiction.”
The Captain of the Vulture 1862
Commenced as a serial in Ward and Lock’s Sixpenny
Magazine, September, 1861. Published, when com-
plete, as Vol. XIV of their “ Shilling Library of New
Fiction.”
Ralph the Bailiff, and other Tales 1862
Eleanor’s Victory 1863
3 vols., Tinsley.
John Marchmont’s Legacy 1863
3 vols., Tinsley. 2nd edit. 3 vols., Dec., 1863.
The Outcasts 1863
By the Author of “ Lady Audley’s Secret, etc.”
Written expressly for The London Journal as a serial
commencing on September 12th, 1863, and conclud-
ing in 1864. The serial version of
Henry Dunbar, The Story of an Outcast 1864
3rd edit., 3 vols., May, 1864.
c
i8 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
3 vols., John Maxwell and Co. In America as The
Outcasts; or, The Brand of Society
The Doctor’s Wife 1864
3 vols., John Maxwell and Co. 2nd edit., 3 vols.,
October, 1864.
Only a Clod 1865
3 vols., John Maxwell and Co. 2nd edit., 3 vols.,
May, 1865.
Sir Jasper’s Tenant 1865
3 vols., John Maxwell and Co. 2nd edit., 3 vols.,
1865. 3rd edit., 3 vols., 1865. 4th edit., 3 vols., Oct.,
1865.
The firm of Maxwell appear to have been indebted
to Ward, Lock and Tyler, and Miss Braddon’s next
seven novels were claimed by Ward, Lock with whom
she was obliged to publish her work until the obliga-
tion had been met.
The Lady’s Mile 1866
3 vols., Ward, Lock and Tyler.
Rupert Godwin 1867
3 vols., Ward, Lock and Tyler.
The Fourth Edition, 3 vols., of Rupert Godwin is
advertised in Birds of Prey.
Birds of Prey 1867
3 vols., Ward, Lock and Tyler.
Run to Earth 1867
3 vols., Ward, Lock and Tyler.
Dead Sea Fruit 1868
3 vols., Ward, Lock and Tyler.
Charlotte’s Inheritance 1868
Pres, inscription dated February, 1868.
3 vols., Ward, Lock and Tyler.
My Sister Caroline. Belgravia 1870
Fenton’s Quest 1871
3 vols., Ward, Lock and Tyler.
The Lovels of Arden 1871
3 vols., John Maxwell.
A Presentation copy from Maxwell is dated ‘
Feb-
ruary, 1871
The Summer Tourist: a Book for Long and Short
Journeys 1871
Edited by Miss Braddon
Robert Ainsleigh 1872
INDEX OF AUTHORS 19
3 vols., John Maxwell.
To the Bitter End 1872
3 vols., John Maxwell.
Lucius Davoren 1873
3 vols., Maxwell.
Milly Darrell; And Other Tales 1
87
3
3 vols., Maxwell.
The contents of the First Edition, 3 vols., of Milly
Darrell are : —Vol. I. : Milly Darrell; Old Rudderford
Hall; The Splendid Stranger; Hugh Dame/s Last
Leger. Vol. II. : Hugh Darner (contd.); The Sins of
the Fathers; Mr. and Mrs. De Fontenoy; A Good
Hater; The Dreaded Guest; Colonel Benyon’s En-
tanglement. Vol. III.: Colonel Benyon (contd.);
The Zoophyte’s Revenge ; At Chrighton Abbey; Three
Times
;
and On the Brink.
In the yellow back uniform edition of Miss Braddon’s
novels the “ Other Tales ” accompanying Milly Darrell
were: Old Rudderford Hall; Hugh Darner’s Last
Leger ; The Sins of the Fathers {Belgravia) ; Air. and
Airs. De Fontenoy; A Good Hater; The Dreaded
Guest; Colonel Benyon’s Entanglement ; The Z00~
phyte’s Revenge ; At Chrighton Abbey; Three Times;
and On the Brink.
Strangers and Pilgrims 1
873
3 vols., Maxwell.
Griselda: a drama in four acts. Produced at the
Princess’s Theatre, November, 1873 1873
Lost for Love 1874
3 vols., Chatto & Windus.
Taken at the Flood 1874
3 vols., Maxwell.
In 1874 Miss Braddon married John Maxwell.
Hostages to Fortune 1875
3 vols., Maxwell.
A Strange World *875
3 vols., Maxwell.
Dead Aden’s Shoes 1876
3 vols., Maxwell.
Put to the Test, a novel [by A. Buisson], 2 vols. 1865
Put to the Test 1876
3 vols., Maxwell. Edited by Miss M. E. Braddon.
Joshua Haggard’s Daughter 1876
20 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
3 vols., Maxwell. Pres, inscription to Tinsley dated
October 16, 1876.
Weavers and Weft *877
3 vols., Maxwell. Pres, inscription dated March 2,
1877.
An Open Verdict 1878
3 vols., Maxwell.
The Mistletoe Bough 1878
Continued as an Annual until 1892.
The Cloven Foot [
1 879]
3 vols., Maxwell.
Vixen 1879
3 vols., Maxwell.
The Shadow in the Corner 1879
Summer number of All The Year Round.
The Story of Barbara; Her Splendid Misery, and Her
Gilded Cage 1880
3 vols., Maxwell.
Miss Braddon in her “ Explanation ” which prefaces
Vol. I, says that this novel was commenced in The
World under the title “ Splendid Miser)'.” A short
story of the same name which “ lay buried for years
”
in a halfpenny weekly journal caused the proprietor to
claim copyright and some litigation ensued. Miss
Braddon eventually adopted as her title The Story of
Barbara.
Just As I Am 1880
3 vols., Maxwell.
Aladdin; or, The Wonderful Lamp 1880
Revised by M.E.B.
Maxwell, 8vo., 1880.
The Missing Witness ; an original Drama in Four Acts. 1880
J. and R. Maxwell, 8vo., 1880. Another ed. 1882.
Boscastle, Cornwall, an English Engadine 1880
In The World, September 15th, 1880. Published
separately, 8vo., 1881, by W. S. Cater & Co.,
Launceston.
Asphodel 1881
3 vols., Maxwell.
Mount Royal 1882
3 vols., Maxwell.
Dross, or the Root of Evil, a comedy in four acts 1882
8vo., Maxwell.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 2 I
Marjorie Daw, a Household Idyll in Two Acts 1882
Suggested by a story written by T. B. Aldrich. 8vo.
Maxwell.
Married Beneath Him, a Comedy in Four Acts 1882
8vo., J. and R. Maxwell [1882].
The Golden Calf 1883
3 vols., Maxwell.
Married in Haste 1 883
3 vols., Maxwell.
Phantom Fortune 1883
3 vols., Maxwell.
Flower and Weed 1884
3 vols., Maxwell.
Ishmael [
1 884]
3 vols., Maxwell.
Wyllard’s Weird [1885]
3 vols., Maxwell.
Court Royal (Cornhill) 1885-6
One Thing Needfid 1886
3 vols., Maxwell.
Cut by the County 1886
8vo., pp. 192, Maxwell.
Mohawks [1886]
3 vols., Maxwell.
Under the Red Flag 1886
In the yellow back florin edition of Miss Braddon’s
novel with Under the Red Flag, No. 45, were included
Dross; or, The Root of Evil, a comedy (1882); Sir
Philip’s Wooing; Dorothy’s Rival ; At Daggers Drawn
;
A Great Ball and a Great Bear ; The Little Woman in
Black; Across the Footlights; My Wife’s Promise;
Marjorie Daw, in two acts (1882).
Like and Unlike 1887
3 vols., Spencer Blackett.
The Fatal Three 1888
3 vols., Simpkin Marshall.
The Day Will Come [
1 889]
3 vols., Simpkin, Marshall.
One Life, One Love 1890
3 vols., Simpkin, Marshall.
Gerard; or, The World, The Flesh, and The Devil 1891
3 vols., Simpkin, Marshall. Pres, inscription dated
October, 1891.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
2
The Venetians 1892
3 vols., Simpkin, Marshall. Pres, inscription dated
June, 1892.
All Along the River *893
3 vols., Simpkin, Marshall.
Volume I contains All Along the River.
Volume II contains Say the False Charge was True.
Volume III contains eight tales: One Fatal Moment
;
It is Easier for a Camel (reprinted from Printer’s Pie)
;
The Ghost’s Name; Stapylton’s Plot; His Oldest
Friends; If there be any of you; The Island of Old
Faces; and My Dream.
The Christmas Hirelings 1
893
In the Christmas Number of the Lady’s Pictorial,
written at her home, Annesley Bank, Lyndhurst, in the
autumn of 1893.
The Christmas Hirelings. By M. E. Braddon 1894
Reprinted in one vol., Simpkin, Marshall. Illustrated
by F. H. Townsend.
Thou Art the Man [
1 894.]
3 vols., Simpkin, Marshall.
My First Book 1
894
Contributed to a volume of experiences by well-known
authors.
Sons of Fire [
1
895]
3 vols., Simpkin, Marshall. Pres, inscription dated
September, 1895.
London Pride; or, When the World was Lounger 1896
1 vol., 8vo., Simpkin, Marshall.
Good Lady Ducayne 1896
In The Strand Magazine, February, 1896, Vol. XI,
PP- 185-199.
Under Love’s Rule. 1897
1 vol., Simpkin, Marshall.
In High Places 1808
1 vcl., 8vo., Hutchinson.
Rough Justice 1898
1 vol., 8vo., Simpkin, Marshall.
The Christmas Tree. Downey’s Annual 1898
Contains a contribution by Miss Braddon.
His Darling Sin [
1
899]
1 vol., 8vo., Simpkin, Marshall.
The Infidel. A Story of The Great Revival 1900
INDEX OF AUTHORS 23
i vol., Simpkin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent and Co.
The Conflict 1903
1 vol., 8vo., Simpkin, Marshall.
A Lost Eden 1904
1 vol., 8vo., Hutchinson.
Rose of Life 1905
1 vol., 8vo., Hutchinson.
The White House 1906
1 vol., 8vo., Hurst and Blackett.
Her Convict 1907
1 vol., 8vo., Hurst and Blackett.
Dead Love has Chains 1907
1 vol., 8vo., Hurst and Blackett.
During Her Majestfs Pleasure 1908
1 vol., 8vo., Hurst and Blackett.
Our Adversary 1909
1 vol., 8vo., Hutchinson.
Beyond These Voices 1910
1 vol., 8vo., Hutchinson.
The Green Curtain 19 11
1 vol., Hutchinson and Co.
Miranda 1913
1 vol., Hutchinson and Co.
Mary 1916
1 vol., Hutchinson and Co.
Miss Braddon during her long literary career did a vast
amount of miscellaneous work. In her earlier days she
contributed to the old Sporting Magazine under the
noms de plume of “ Gilbert Forrester ” and “ A
Member of the Burton Hunt.” For the Poet’s Corner
of provincial newspapers she composed not only songs
and sentimental verses, but parodies and even political
squibs. She conducted for many years various maga-
zines, amongst others Belgravia A London Magazine,
and herein were serialized a number of her novels.
A novel, Mirk Abbey, which has been ascribed to Miss
Braddon is the work of James Payn. It was published
anonymously. Mirk Abbey. By the author of Lost Sir
Massingberd, etc. 3 vols., 8vo. London, 1866.
Reprinted from “ Chambers Journal.”
Not a few of Miss Braddon’s novels were pirated in
New York during the sixties and seventies, sometimes
under the proper titles, sometimes with an altered
24 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
name. Thus Dick and Fitzgerald published Miss
Braddon’s “ Celebrated Novels,” including The Lady’s
Mile ; Lady Audle/s Secret; The Outcasts, or The
Brand of Society; Darrell Markham, or, The Captain
of the Vulture
;
and Dudley Carleon, or, The Brother’s
Secret, “ a tale of startling interest.”
Mr. Michael Sadleir has kindly obliged me with the
following note upon the American issues of Miss
Braddon.
1887. Married in Haste, “edited by Miss Braddon”
(small format). Geo. Munro. Seaside Library. New
York. Cr. 8vo. wrapper.
(1864.) The Lawyer’s Secret. Peterson. Philadelphia.
8vo. wrapper.
n.d. de Witt’s “Braddon Series.” de Witt. N.Y. 8vo.
wrapper.
The White Phantom or the Nameless Child.
The Lucky Girl or All is not Gold that Glitters.
The Black Band or the Mysteries of Midnight.
Oscar Bertrand or the Black Band Unmasked.
The Octoroon or the Lily of Louisiana.
Blue Band or a Story of a Woman’s Vengeance.
Leighton Grange or Who Killed Edith Woodville.
1884-8. The Leisure Hour Library. Trigg, etc.
N.Y. 4to. paper, contains the following novels bearing
Miss B’s name: —
Dudley Carleon. Ap. 20, 1884. Trigg.
Jasper Dane’s Secret. Feb. 20, 1885. Lupton.
The Fatal Marriage. June 30, 1886. Lupton.
His Second Wife. Sept. 4, 1886. Lupton.
The Lawyer’s Secret. May 28, 1887. Lupton.
George Caulfield’s Journey. July 21, 1888. Lupton.
American issues.
Munro’s Seaside Library. Large 4to format.
Darrell Markham. Nov. 5, 3878.
Only a Woman. Sept. 3, 3879.
BRETON, Marianne
The Wife of Fitzalice ; and The Caledonian Siren
BREWER, Esq., R. N., George
The History of Tom Weston, After the Manner of
Tom Jones
The Motto ; or, The History of Bill Woodcock
1817
091
•793
INDEX OF AUTHORS 25
BREWER, James Norris [c. 1777-1829)
The Mansion House * 79 ®
A Winter’s Tale !
799
Secrets made Public 1808
The Witch of Ravensworth 1808
Mountville Castle, a Village Story 1808
An Old Family Legend 1811
Sir Gilbert Easterling, a Romance 1813
Sir Ferdinand of England 1 ^ 1
3
The Fitiwalters, Barons of Chesterton ; or, Ancient
Times in England _
*829
Brewer also wrote many topographical and miscellane-
ous works.
BRISTED, John of the Inner Temple
Edward and Anna; or, A picture of human life 1806
BRODERICK, Miss
The Cumberland Cottager 1818
BROMLEY, Eliza Nugent
The Cave of Consenza. Altered from the Italian 1803
BROOKS, Indiana
Eliza Beaumont and Harriet Osborne; or, The Child
of Doubt 0^9
BROWN, Charles Brockden (1771-1810)
Bom Philadelphia, January 17th, 1771 ;
died February
19th, 1810
The Rhapsodist 1
7^9
A series of papers which appeared in The Columbian
Magazine, August—November, 1789.
Alcuin _
1
7 97
A dialogue on the rights of women, inspired by Godwin
and Mary Wollstonecraft.
Sky-Walk 1
797
A romance finished on December 31st, 1797 • The
MS. was lost before it could be printed, but Brown on
March 17th, 1798, announces his book in a letter to the
Weekly Magazine, signed “ Speratus.”
Wieland ; or, The Transformation x 79^
Written in the single month of August. London ed. 1811
Arthur Mervyn; or, Memoirs of the Tear 1793
Part I, 1799; Part II, 1800. 3 vols. London.
Minerva-Press, 1803.
26 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The first nine chapters appeared in The Philadelphia.
Weekly Magazine, June, 1798. Herein also were pub-
lished the first ten parts of Alcuin entitled The Rights
of Women.
Ormond; or, The Secret Witness. 1799. One vo'->
London, Minerva-Press. 1800.
Written in December, 1798. One chapter taken from
The Man at Home which he had contributed to The
Weekly Magazine.
Edgar Huntly; or, The Sleep Walker. 1799. Edgar
Huntly; or, Memoirs of a sleep-walker. 3 vols.,
London: Minerva-Press. 1803.
Jane Talbot 1801. 2 vols. London, Minerva-Press. 1804
Clara Howard 1801
Philip Stanley; or, the Enthusiasm of Love. 2 vols.
London: Minerva-Press. 1807
The English edition of Clara Ploward.
Carwin the Biloquist, and other American Tales
London: 1822
Collected editions of Brown’s Works, 7 vols., Boston,
1827; and 6 vols., Philadelphia, 1887. Biography by
Dunlap. In April, 1799, Brown began to edit The
Monthly Magazine; in 1803 at Philadelphia he
founded The Literary Magazine
;
and he was
responsible for practically the whole of The American
Register, 1807-1 1. He also wrote other miscellaneous
journalism.
BROWN, Elizabeth Cullen
The Sisters of St. Gothard 1819
BROWN, William Hill (
1 765- 1793)
To William Hill Brown is now ascribed the first
American novel, The Power of Sympathy. See under
Sarah Wentworth Morton. Brown “ turned out at
least one other novel, two plays, and a considerable
number of poems, essays, and sentimental tales.”
BPvYDGES, Sir Samuel Egerton (1762-1837)
Mary De-Clifford. A story. Interspersed with many
poems 1792
Arthur Fitz Albini 1 798
Le Forester. A novel 1802
Coningsby. A tragic tale 1819
INDEX OF AUTHORS 27
Tragic Tales. Coningsby and Lord Brokenhurst 1820
Sir Ralph Willoughby. An historical tale 1820
The Hall of Hellingsley. A tale 1821
BULLOCK, Mrs.
Susanna ; or, Traits of a Modern Miss 1
795
BUNTLINE, Ned
Pseudonym of Edward Z. C. Judson. See unaer this
name.
BURBURY, Edwina
The Ruling Passion; or, Struggle and Triumph 1860-61
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, commencing
BURKE, Mrs.
Ela; or, the Delusions of the Heart 0^7
Emilia de St. Aubigne O88
The Ward of the Castle, a comic opera N.P.
Produced at Covent Garden, Thursday, 24th October,
093
The Sorrows of Edith; or, The Hermitage of the
Cliffs 096
Adela Northington _
09^
Elliott; or, The Vicissitudes of Early Life 1800
The Secret of the Cavern i8o5
BURNEY, Miss Sarah Harriet
Niece of Fanny Burney, Madame D'Arblay
Clarentine *79^
Geraldine Fauconberg 1808
Traits of Nature 1812
Tales of Fancy 1816-20
The Romance of Private Life l8 39
BYERLEY, T.
The Catastrophe. A Tale founded on Facts 1805
From the French of the Chevalier De St. Aubigne.
BYRON, Elizabeth, afterwards Mrs. Strutt
Anti-Delphine 1806
Drelincourt and Rodcdvi ; or, Memoirs of Two Noble
Families 1 8o7
c8 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The Borderers 1812
Genevieve; or, The Orphan’s Visit 1818
BYRON, Miss Medora Gordon
The Englishwoman 1808
Honrs of Affluence and Days of Indigence 1809
Celia in Search of a Husband. By A Modern Antique 1809
The Modern Villa and Ancient Castle; or, The Peer
and the Alderman 1810
The Englishm an 1812
The English Expose; or, Men and Women ‘abroad’
and ‘at home’ 1814
By A Modem Antique.
The Bachelor’s Journal, inscribed ( without permission
)
to the Girls of England. Edited by Miss Byron 1815
The Spinster’s Journal. By A Modem Antique 1816
Miss Byron wrote several other pieces.
C
G.R.
Oriental Wanderings; or, The Fortunes of Felix. 1824
An Egyptian Romance.
GAMBON, J. J.
Clementine Bradford 1796
CAMPBELL, Miss D. P.
Harley Radingt on 1821
CAMPBELL, Margaret
The Midnight Wanderer ; or, A Legend of the Houses
of Altenberg and Lindendorf 1821
A translation by Mrs. Campbell of Alexina, “ roman
imite de 1’ anglais,” 1813, by Mme. Brayer de Saint-
Leon. The Midnight Wanderer was turned into
French by Henri Duval as Roses d’Altenberg, ou le
Spectre dans les mines, and by him. ascribed to Mrs.
Radcliffe.
Rose d’Altenberg, ou le Spectre dans les mines, “manu-
scrit trouve dans le portefeuille de feue Anne Rad-
cliffe,” par Henri Duval. Paris. 1830, 3 vols., in—12.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 2g
CANTON, John
Alvar and Seraphina; or, The Troubles of Mercia.
A Historical Romance 1 803
The English Gil Bias ; or, The Adventures of Gabriel
Tangent 1807
CAREY, David (1782-1824)
Pleasures of Nature, Poems 1 803
The Reign of Fancy, A Poem 1804
The Secrets of the Castle 1806
Poems, chiefly Amatory 1807
Craig Phadric, Visions of Sensibility, with Legendary
Tales and Occasional Pieces 1 8 1
1
Picturesque Scenes, or a Guide to the Highlands 1811
Lochiel; or, The Field of Culloden 1820
Frederick Moreland 1824
CARR, E. D.
Fears and Cares; or, an Uncle and his Nephew 1821
CARVER, Mrs.
Elizabeth 1797
The Horrors of Oakendale Abbey 1797
The Legacy 17 99
The Old Woman 1800
CAVENDISH, Lady Clara
The Court Page 1861
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, commencing
June 8th, 1861 ;
concluding November 30th, 1861.
Period 1811-20. A scandal novel of the Regency.
Illustrated by W. H. Thwaites. Lady Clara Cavendish
also wrote The Woman of the World, and The
Divorce.
CECIL, Henry Montague
The Mysterious Visitor ; or, Mary the Rose of Cumber-
land 1805
CHARLTON, Mary
The Parisian ; or, Genuine Anecdotes of Distinguished
and Noble Characters x
794
Andronica; or, The Fugitive Bride 1797
Ammorvin and gfallida 1 798
Phedora; or, The Forest of Minski 1*798
30 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Rosella; or, Modern Occurrences J799
The Pirate of Naples 1801
The Wife and the Mistress 1802
The Reprobate . . . translated from Augustus La
Fontaine 1802
The Philosophic Kidnapper, adapted from the French 1803
The Rake and the Misanthrope 1804
The Homicide. Taken from the Comedie di Goldoni 1805
Rosaura di Viralva; or, The Homicide 1813
Second edition of The Homicide.
Grandeur and Meanness; or, Domestic Persecution 1820
Past Events; or, The Treacherous Guide 1
830
CHASTENAY DE LANTY, Comtes se Louise Marie
Victorine
Les Mysteres d’Udolphe 1
797
This lady translated into French The Mysteries of
Udolphe as Les Mysteres d’Udolphe, 4 vols. in—12
and 6 vols. in—18, Paris, chez Maradan, 1797. In
her Memoires (edit. 1906, tom. I, pp. 299-305) she
speaks of this translation, and says, “ Le succes de mes
Mysteres d’Udolphe avait ete rapide.” Actually her
version cannot be accounted in all respects a very
faithful rendering of the original, but it had neverthe-
less great influence in its own day. Her Memoires
ijji-1815, publics par A. Roserot, 2 tom., Paris, 1896,
is a work of much interest.
CHATER, John
Bookseller and proprietor of a circulating library,
formerly an Independent Minister.
The History of Tom Rigby 1773
Described as “ a religious novel.
”
CHILCOT, Miss Harriet, of Bath (afterwards Mrs.
Meziere)
Ebman and Ethelinda, a legendary tale 1786
Moreton Abbey; or, The Fatal Mystery. A post-
humous romance [1800?]
CHOUDARD-DESFORGES, Pierre Jean Baptiste
Eugene et Eugenie. Translated (with alterations) as
Eugene and Eugenia; or, One Night’s Error 1805.
CLARK, Emily, grand-daughter of the late Colonel
Frederick
INDEX OF AUTHORS 31
lanthe; or, The Flower of Caernarvon 1798
Erminia Montrose; or, The Cottage of the Vale 1800?
The Banks of the Donro ; or, The Maid, of Portugal 1805
The Esquimaux ; or, Fidelity 1819
Miss Clark also wrote Tales at the Fireside, Poems
dedicated to Lady Lonsdale, etc.
CLARKE, Eliza of Liverpool
Narrative Poems 17 89
The Sword ; or, Father Bertrand’s History of His Own
Times I
79 I
A CLERGYMAN’S DAUGHTER ( -1804)
Jealousy; or, The Dreadful Mistake 1802?
The Castle of Santa Fe 1805
A posthumous romance.
CLIFFORD, Francis
The Ruins of Tivoli 1804
COATES, Henry
The Weird Woman of the Wraagh ; or, Burton and
le Moore 1830
Lucius Carey; or, The Mysterious Female of Mora’s
Dell 1831
An historical tale.
The Water Queen; or, The Mermaid of Loch Leene:
And other tales 1832
COLE, Rev. William, Vicar of Broadchalk, Wilts
The Contradiction 27 96
This author also published religious poetry.
COLPOYS, Mrs.
The Irish Excursion ; or, I Fear to Tell You 1801
CONOLLY, Luke Aylmer
The Friar’s Tale; or, Memoirs of the Chevalier Orsino 1805
CONTxANT D’Orville Andre Guillaume
Pauline ; or, The Victim of the Heart. English trans-
lation 1 794
COXE, Eliza A.
Liberality And Prejudice. A Tale 1813
32 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY'
CRAIK, Miss Helen
Julia De St. Pierre 1 796
Henry of Northumberland ; or, The Hermit’s Cell 1800
Adelaide De Narbonne, with Memoirs of Charlotte
De Cordet 1800
Stella of the North; or, The Foundling of the Ship 1802
The Nun and Her Daughter; or, Memoirs of the
Courville Family 1805
CRANDQLPH, Augustus Jacob
The Mysterious Hand; or, Subterranean Florrours! 1811
CRAWFURD, A.
Tales of My Grandmother 1825
CRESPIGNY, Mrs. M. Champion De, nee Clarke
The Poor Soldier, An American Tale 1789
The Pavilion 1 796
CROFFTS, Mrs.
Confessions of a Beauty 1798
Ankerwick Castle 1800
Salvador ; or, Baron De Montbelliard 1801
CRQOKENDEN, Isaac
The Silver Lock; or, Italian Banditti; an original
romance 1824
The Spectre of the Turret
Berinthia; or, The Fair Spaniard
Aza; or The Captive Bride. A German Tale
The Italian Banditti ; or, The Secret Flistory of Henry
and Matilda
The Revengeful Turk; or, Mystic Cavern
The Distressed Nun; or Sufferings of Herselia di
Brindoli of Florence
The Vindictive Monk; or, Fatal Ring
And many more.
From c. 1790
—
c. 1820 Isaac Crcokenden and other
writers published a vast number of chap books with
horrific titles, many being redactions and abridgements
of popular contemporary romances.
CROWE, Mrs. Catherine nee Stevens (1799-1800
—
1876)
Aristodemus (a closet drama) 1 838
y
% tSSmjB
/.
. : i 'v£§j
| v'Mf
f»
PHEDORA, OR, THE FOREST OF MINSKI
A Novel by Mary Charlton
Frontispiece, Vol. I, 1798
INDEX OF AUTHORS 33
Men and Women; or, Manorial Rights 1839
Adventures of Susan Hopley; or, Circumstantial
Evidence 1841
Later, and more generally as Susan Hopley; or, The
Adventures of a Maid Servant.
The Seeress of Provost 1845
A translation of Die Scherin von Prevorst by Justinus
Andreas Christian Komer (1786-1862)
The Story of Martha Guinnis and Pier Son 1845
In The Edinburgh Tales, conducted by Mrs. John-
stone, Vol. I
The Story of Lily Dawson 1847
The Night Side of Nature; or, Ghosts and Ghost Seers 1848
Mrs. Crowe’s most famous work. Often reprinted.
German translation Die Nachseite der Natur, oder
Geiste und Geisterseher, by C. Kolb, 1849. Vols. 7, 8,
of J. Scheible’s Bibliothek der gfauber-Geheimniss-und
Offenbarungs.
Pippie’s Warning; or, Mind Your Temper 1848
Light and Darkness ; or, Mysteries of Life 1850
Cruel Kindness, a romantic play 1852
Adventures of a Beauty 1852
Linny Lockwood 1853
Ghost Stories and Family Legends. A Volume for
Christmas 1 ^59 [^]
Spiritualism and The Age We Live In 1
859
The Story of Arthur Hunter and His First Shilling.
With other Tales 1861
The Adventures of a Monkey, an Interesting Narrative 1861
Mrs. Crowe abridged Uncle Tom’s Cabin for children,
and wrote a few minor miscellanea.
CULLEN, Miss Margaret, of Edinburgh
Home 1803
Mornton 1814
CULLEN, Stephen
The Haunted Priory; or, The Fortunes of the House
of Rayo 094
The Castle of Inchvally, a Tale alas! too true 1796
CURTIES, T. J. Horsley
Ethelwina; or, The House of Fitz-Auburne 099
Ancient Records ; or, The Abbey of St. Oswythe 1801
D
34 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The Scottish Legend; or, The Isle of St. Clothair 1802
The Watch Tower; or, The Sons of Ulthona 1804
St. Botolph’s Priory ; or, The Sable Mask 1806
The Monk of Udolpho 1807
CURTIS, Ann, tiee Kemble
See under Ann of Swansea.
CUTHBERTSON, Catherine
Romance of the Pyrenees 1803,
Santo Sebastiano ; or, The Young Protector 1806
Forest of Montalbano 1810
Adelaide; or, The Countercharm 1813
Rosabella; or, A Mother’s Marriage 1817
The Hut and the Castle. A Romance 1823
Sir Ethelbert 1830
D
DACRE, Charlotte (1782—d. before April, 1842)
Married William Pitt Byrne of The Morning Post,
and wrote as Rosa Matilda.
Hours of Solitude, Poems 1805
Confessions of the Nun of St. Omer 1805
gfofloya; or, The Moor 1806
The Libertine, a Novel 1807
The Passions, a Novel 18 11
George the Fourth, A Poem . . . to which are added
Lyrics 1822
Also “ many fugitive pieces in The Morning Post news-
paper.”
For a full account of Charlotte Dacre and her writings
see “ Byron’s ‘
Lovely Rosa
’
” in Essays in Petto (1928)
by Montague Summers.
DALLAS, Roeert Charles (1754-1824)
Perdual; or Nature Vindicated 1801
The Knights, Tales Illustrative of the Marvellous 1808
Sir Francis Darrell 1810
Felix Alvarez, a Spanish Tale 1818-
DALTON,
The Gentleman in Black 1830
INDEX OF AUTHORS 35
Illustrated by Cruikshank.
Chartley the Fatalist 1830
The Robber 1831
The Invisible Gentleman 1832
The Rival Demons 1836
DALTON, Miss Regina Maria
See Mrs Roche.
D’ARCY, Azile
Prejudice ; or, Physiognomy 1817
D'ARLINCOURT, Vicomte
The Renegade, a Romance
DARLING, Peter Middleton
The Romance of the Highlands 1810
Paternal Love; or, The Rewards of Friendship 1814
D’ARNAUD
See Baculard D’Arnaud
D’AUBIGNE, Frances
The Express 1819
DAVENPORT, Selina
The Sons of the Viscount, and the Daughters of the
Earl J813
A Novel depicting Scenes in Fashionable Life.
The Hypocrite ; or, The Modern Janus 1814
Donald Monteith, The Handsomest Man of the Age 1815
The Original of the Miniature 1816
Leap Year; or, Woman’s Privilege 1817
An Angel’s Form And A Devil’s Heart 1818
Preference 1824
Italian Vengance And English Forbearance 1828
The Queen’s Page 1831
The Unchanged 1832
Personation 1834
DE ACTON, Eugenia
See Acton.
DE LISLE, Emma
See Parker, Emma.
36 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
DE RENZY, Captain S. S.
The Faithful Irish Woman; or, The House of Dunder 1813
Marian de Brittoon 1822
DE VERGY, Pierre Henri Treyssac (1732-1776)
Les Usages (Paris) 1762
Une Lettre contre la Raison 1762 (?)
The Lovers; or, The Memoirs of Lady Sarah B
and the Countess P 1769
Published by Mr. Treyssac de Vergy, Counsellor of the
Parliament of Paris
The Mistakes of the Heart ; or, The Memoirs of Lady
Caroline Pelham, and Lady Victoria Nevil 176
9
Henrietta, Countess Osenvor ; a sentimental novel in a
series of letters 1770
The Scotchman ; or, The World as it Goes 1770
Authentic Memoirs of the Countess de Barre *
77 °
Published as by Sir Francis N .
The Palinode ; or, The Triumph of Virtue over Love.
A sentimental novel in which are painted to the life
the characters of some of the most celebrated Beauties
in England 1771
The Nun; or, The Adventures of the Marchioness de
Beauville 1772
Nature; or, The School for Demi-Repts 1772
The Lovers ; or, The Memoirs of Lady Mary Sc
and the Hon. Amelia B . Part II 1 7 7 C2
Memoirs of an Hermaphrodite 1772
The Mistakes of the Heart. Part II 1772
The Lovers. Part III I
773 (?)
Announced in 1772.
DES STRAELLA, Leonora
The English Baronet 1826
D’ISRAELI, Isaac (1766-1848)
Vaurien, a Sketch of the Times 1 797
Flim-Flams, or The Life of my Uncle 1797
Mejnoun and Leila, the Arabian Petrarch and Laura 1797
Romances 1799
Containing : —Mejnoun and Leila
Love and Humility
The Lovers,
and a Poetical Essay on Romance
INDEX OF AUTHORS 37
A second edition, 1801, of this Collection added a
fourth tale, The Daughter.
Despotism; or, the Fate of the Jesuits, a political
romance, illustrated by historical anecdotes 1 8 1
1
London ;
2 vols., 8vo. Pagination continuous.
DODD, D. D., Rev. William (1729-27111 June, 1777)
The Magdalen 1783
DOHERTY, Mrs. Ann, nee Holmes Hunter (1789- )
Ronaldsha 1808
The Castles of Wolfnorth and Monteagle 1812
DOHERTY, Esq., Hugh, late 23rd Light Dragoons
The Discovery; or, the late mysterious separation of
H.D., Esq., and Ann his wife 1807
A scandal novel retailing his domestic differences.
DRAKE, M. D., Nathan (1766-1836)
Literary Hours 1798
The first edition consists of 30 numbers; the second
edition, 2 vols., 1800, has nine new numbers and with
some re-arrangement lists 40 numbers ;
the third
edition, 3 vols., 1804, comprises 60 numbers.
DRALLOC, N.
A pseudonym of John Collard
Life and Extraordinary Adventures of James Moles-
worth 179 4
Life of I. M. Hobart, alias H. Griffin 094
Collard also wrote upon logic.
DRAPER, Mrs.
Memoirs of the Princess of ffi^ell 1 796
DUBOIS, Edward of the Inner Temple (1774-1850)
A Piece of Family Biography I
799
The Fairy of Misfortune ; or, The Loves of Octar and
gfuleima, an Italian tale, translated from the French
by the author of “A Piece of Family Biography” 1799
St. Godwin: a Tale of the Sixteenth, Seventeenth, and
Eighteenth Century 1800
An amusing satire on Godwin.
Old Nick. A satirical story 1801
Dubois was a well-known wit and litterateur of the
day. He edited The Monthly Mirror for a time,
revised with new annotations Francis’ edition of
3 8 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Horace, and was responsible for a new edition of the
Decameron (in English) to which he furnished a
preface. Most of his miscellaneous writing belongs to
his younger years. For fuller details of his life and sub-
sequent career see the Dictionary of National
Biography.
BUCRAY-DUMINIL, Francois Guillaume (1761-
1 8
1
9)
Alexis, ou la maisonette dans le bois, 4 vols., i2mo. 1788
Soirees de la chaumiere, 8 vols., i2ino. 1 794
Victor, ou l’Enfant de la foret, 4 vols., i2mo. 1796
Ccelina, ou VEnfant du Mystere, 5 vols., i2mo. 1 798
Paul, ou la Ferme abandonnee, 4 vols., i2mo. 1799
Les Petits Orphelins du Hameau, 4 vols., 121T10. 1800
Jules ou le Toit paternal, 4 vols., i2mo. 1804
Elmonde, ou la Fille de VHospice, 4 vols., i2mo. 1805
Lolotte et Fanfan, 4 vols., i8mo. 1807
Le Petit Carrilloneur, 4 vols., i2mo. 1809
La Fontaine de Sainte Catherine, 4 vols., i2mo. 1813
The above are the best known romances of Ducray-
Duminil. Bom at Paris in 1761, he died at Ville-
d’Avray in 1819. He wrote much miscellaneous work,
many songs and ballads. His Couplets sur le marriage
de Napoleon le Grand, 1810, were greatly applauded.
Many of his plays proved very successful, such as
La Femme au deux Maris
;
and Victor, Ccelina, both
of which are taken from his novels of the same name.
The principal English translations of his work were
:
Victor; or, The Child of the Forest (translated from
Victor, 1796) 1802
Celina; or, A Tale of Mystery (translated by Mrs.
Meeke from Ccelina, 1798) 1803
Julian; or, My Father’s House (translated by Mrs.
Meeke from Jules, 1804) 1807
The Novice of St. Ursula 1810
The Little Chimer (translated from Le Petit
Carrilloneur, 1809) 1812
L’Hermitage St. Jacques, i.e. The Hermitage of St.
James ; or, God, Our King, and Our Country 181 5
The Blind Beggar ; or, The Fountain of Saint Catherine
(translated from La Fontaine de Sainte Catherine,
1813) 1817
INDEX OF AUTHORS 39
The following plays by Rene-Charles Guilbert de
Pixerecourt (1773-1844) are founded on romances by
Ducray-Duminil
:
Alexis, ou la Maisonette dans le bois, comedie, 3 acts,
1794
Victor, ou. Venfant de la foret, drame, 3 acts, 1798
Ccelina, ou VEnfant du Mystere, melodrame, 3 acts,
1801
Le Pelerin blanc, ou les Orphelins du hameau, melo-
drame, 3 acts, 1801
Le Petit Carrilloneur, melodrame, 3 acts, 1812
DUDLEY, Francis
Amoroso, A Novel
E
EDGEWORTH, Esq., Theodore
The Shipwreck
EDRIDGE, Rebecca
The Highest Castle and the Lowest Cave
Mrs. Edridge also wrote The Lapse of Time, a Poem
for the New Year, 1803; and The Scrinium, 1822.
EGAN, Jun., Pierce (1814-1880)
Pierce Egan, Jun., commenced his career with mis-
cellaneous work, and drew the illustrations, woodcuts,
for his father’s The Pilgrims of the Thames, 1838.
Quintin Matsys, The Blacksmith of Antwerp
Recast 1851 ;
and 40 nos. E. Harrison, i860.
Robin Blood and Little John; or, The Merry Men of
Sherwood Forest
41 nos. Hextall & Wall. Re-issue, 1843. Re-issue,
Pierce, 1849. Re-issue 35 nos. E. Harrison, 1850.
One of the most popular of Egan’s romances and
several times re-issued. There were a very large
number of Robin Hood romances, most of which drew
to a greater or less extent upon Egan. Robin Hood,
And The Archers of Merrie Sherwood, by George
Emmett, Hogarth House, 38 nos. 1874, and re-issue
1810
18 1
1
1825
1839
1840
40 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
40 nos., and in 3 vols. at 1/- each, or complete in 1
vol. handsomely bound in cloth and gold, 3/6, is pro-
bably the best known.
Maid Marian, the Forest Queen 1840
The sequel to Robin Hood. 31 nos. George Pierce;
310 Strand, 1849. First number Wednesday, 28th
February.
IVat Tyler 1841
Re-issue, 55 nos., George Pierce, 1845. Re-issue 55
nos., George Pierce, 1850; and 64 nos., W. Johnson,
1851 ;
re-issue, 64 nos., Harrison; also published in 1
vol. cloth, gilt.
Paul Jones the Pirate, a Tale of the Sea 1842
2 vols. G. Purkess.
Re-issue in 66 penny nos., Purkess, 1849.
Adam Bell, Clym o’ the Clough and William of
Cloudeslie 1 842
An Historical Romance.
Re-issue in Penny Nos. as Adam Bell; or, The Archers
of Eaglewood Forest. G. Purkess 1 85
1
Fair Rosamond. An Historical Romance 1844
41 Penny nos., London, Barth.
To be distinguished from Thomas Miller’s romance of
the same title.
The Black Prince ; or, Feudal Days. Also as Edward,
the Black Prince 1848-9
Original issue, Pattie, 1 1 o Shoe Lane. Re-issue, 1851.
Also 36 nos., W. Johnson, 1855.
The Thirteenth ; or, The Fatal Number *849
14 nos. Vickers.
Harry Racket Scapegrace, The Spoiled Child. A Tale
for the Wilful 1850'
London : William Barth.
The Last of the Esmondes ; or, The Egyptian’s
Revenge. A Tale of the Sixteenth Century
The Mysterious Pilgrim; or, The Thirteen Rings
Eyloff of Ems ; or, The Fatal Battle of Sempach 1850
Three Tales. Barth.
The Old Oak Chest: Being a Careful and Choice
Selection of Short Poems, Aphorisms, and Opinions of
the Best Authors 1850
William Barth.
Re-issue 1861.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 4 *
The London Apprentice and the Goldsmith’s Daughter
of East Chepe 1850
Re-issue The London Apprentice, and the Goldsmith’s
Daughter of West Chepe, A Tale of the Times of Bluff
King Hal. gi nos., Johnson, 1852.
Clifton Grey; or, Love and War. A Tale of the
Crimea 1 854-5
The False Step; or, The Castle and the Cottage 1857
Reynolds’s Miscellany, February 21st—October 3rd,
1857. Separate publication, 1859
The Flower of the Flock 1857-8
London Journal, December 5th, 1857 —May 8th,
185 8 -
The Waits: A Christmas Story i8 57
London Journal, December, 1857.
The Snake in the Grass 1858
London Journal, May 8th, 1858—November 27th,
1858. Published separately, 1859.
The Love Test i8 59
London Journal, January 15th, 1859—May 28th,
1859-
Love Me, Leave Me Not i860
London Journal, concluding June 30th, i860.
The Wonder of Kingswood Chase 1860-61
London Journal, commencing October 6th, i860, con-
cluded July 6th, 1861.
Reprinted 1890.
Imogen; or, The Marble Heart 1861-2
London Journal, September 7th, 1861 —June 14th,
1862.
American edition, 1 vol., Dick & Fitzgerald, New York,
N.D. [c. 1870].
The Scarlet Flower 1862
London Journal, June 7th, 1862—November 15th, 1862.
American edition, 1 vol., Dick & Fitzgerald, New York.
N.D. [c. 1870].
The Poor Girl 1862-3
London Journal, November 1st, 1862—September 5th,
1863.
Re-issue, 32 nos., Bennett [1865]; reprinted, 1890.
American edition in 2 vols., as The Poor Girl; and
Hagar Lot; or, The Fate of the Poor Girl, Dick &
Fitzgerald, New York, N.D. [
c
.
1870].
42 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Such is Life 1864
London Journal
,
December 5th, 1863—July 2nd,
1864.
American edition, 1 vol., Dick & Fitzgerald, N.D.
[c. 1870].
Fair Lilias 1 865
London Journal, January 14th, 1865—December 1 6th,
1865.
Light of Love ; or, The Diamond and the Snowdrop 1866-67
London Journal, April 28th, 1866—February 16th
1867.
Eve; or, The Angel of Innocence 1867
London Journal, May 18th, 1867—December 21st,
1867.
The Blue-eyed Witch; or, Not a Friend in the
World 1868-69
London Journal, September 5th, 1868—May 8th,
1869.
My Love Kate; or, The Dreadful Secret 1869-70
London Journal, November 6th, 1869—May 7th, 1870
The Poor Boy 1870-71
London Journal, October 8th, 1870—April 8th, 1871
Mark Jarrett’s Daisy; or, The Wild Flowers of Hazel-
brook 1871-72
London Journal, November 25th, 1871 —May 25th,
1872.
Ever My Queen 1
873
London Journal, February 15th, 1873—July 5th, 1873.
Fler First Love 0874
London Journal, March 21st, 1874—August 8th, 1874.
False and Frail 1875
London Journal, February 13th, 1875
—
June 19th)
1875-
The Pride of Birth 1875-76
London Journal, November 20th, 1875—April 1st,
1876
Two Young Hearts 1876-77
London Journal, November 16th, 1876—April 14th,
1877.
His Sworn Bride 1877-78
London Journal, December 15th, 1877 —May 4th,
1878.
Loved in Secret 1878-79
INDEX OF AUTHORS 43
London Journal, November 2nd, 1878—March 29th,
1879.
A Shadow on the Threshold, A Shadow on the
Future 1879-80
London Journal, December 13th, 1879—March 6th,
1880.
ELLEN OF EXETER
See Mackenzie, Mrs. Anna Maria.
ELLIA, Felix
Norman Banditti; or, The Fortress of Coutance 1
799
ELLIOTT, Miss
The Masqued Weddings. A Novel in a Series of
Letters 1781
ELLIS, Edward
Ruth the Betrayer ; or, The Female Spy
The Felon’s Daughter
The Buccaneers
Rook the Robber
ELRINGTON, Esq., John Battersby
Confessions In Elysium; or, The Adventures of A
Platonic Philosopher 1804
Translated from the German of C. M. Wieland.
ELSON, Jane
The Romance of the Castle 1800
The Village Romance ; a Novel 1802
ENGLISH, John (Esq., of Blackwood Hall, Monmouth-
shire)
The Grey Friar, And The Black Spirit of the Wye.
A Romance 1810
ENNIS, Miss A. M.
Ireland, or the Montague Family 1820
The Contested Election; or, A Courtier’s Promises 1820
ERRYM, Malcolm J.
Pseudonym of Malcolm J. Rymer, also called Merry
Ada the Betrayed ; or, The Murder at the Old Smithy 1842
Also attributed to T. P. Prest.
Grace Rivers; or, The Merchant’s Daughter 1843
Woman’s Life; or, The Trials of the Heart 1844-5
[c. i860]
[c. i860]
[c. i860]
[c. i860]
44 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Jane Brightwell 1844
Don Caesar de Bazan. A Romance of Spain 1845
Gold; or, The Strangers of the Wreck. A Romance.
In Forty Numbers 1845
Miranda; or, The Heiress of the Grange 1848
Re-issued as Rankley Grange, the authorship then
being attributed to, or claimed by, Edward Viles.
The Mystery in Scarlet, in The London Miscellany 1850
Illustrated by Phiz.
The Wreckers of the Channel [*855?]
Sea Drift; or, The Wreckers of the Channel. A Tale
ashore and afloat [i860?]
American ed., pub : New York.
Edith the Captive ; or, The Robbers of Epping Forest i860
Edith Heron; or, The Earl and the Countess i860
A sequel to Edith the Captive.
The Young Shipwright ; A Tale of the Sea i860
The Treasures of St. Mark; A Tale of Venice i860
The Dark Woman; or, Plot and Passion i860
The Shadow; or, The Wife’s Devotion 1 860-1
Love the Leveller; or, Fenella’s Fortunes 1861
Secret Service: A Tale of the Sea 1861
Nightshade ; or, Claude Duval the Dashing Highway-
man 1863-4
The Dark Woman; or, the Days of Sixteen String
Jack 1864
104 nos.
Kate Chudleigh ; or, The Duchess of Kingston 1864
The Sepoys
Will O’ The Wisp
The Life Raft
The Incendiaries
True Blue
The Tempter
The Doge’s Daughter
Errym was an exceedingly prolific author. The last
seven titles are before 1861. In a re-issue John Dicks
claims George Barrington; or, Life in London A
Hundred Years Ago for Errym, but this romance
(1851) is actually the work of T. Frost.
EVANS, Robert
The Dream; or, Noble Cambrians 1801
INDEX OF AUTHORS 45
F
F., E. M., Mrs E. M. Foster
The Duke of Clarence. An Historical Novel 1795
Rebecca 1799
Emily of Lucerne 1800
Judith 1800
Miriam 1 800
Frederic and Caroline ; or, The Fitzmorris Family 1800
Concealment ; or, The Cascade of Llantwarryhn 1801
FARDELEY, William
Francis and, Josepha, A Tale from the German of
Huber 1807
FELL, Mrs.
The Peasant ; or, Female Philosopher 1792
FEMALE, An Unpatronized
Austenburn Castle. By an Unpatronized Female 1796
FENWICK, Mrs. E.
Secresy: A Novel 1795
Mrs. Fenwick, who was for many years a governess,
also wrote juveniles and educational books for children.
FIELDING, James Holroyd
Some account of myself, by Charles Earl of Erpingham 1815
Beauchamp ; or, The Wheel of Fortune 1817
FINGLASS, Miss Esther
The Recluse ; or, The History of Lady Gertrude Lesly 1790
FISHER, Joshua Bridges
The Hermitage 1796
FITZ-GEORGE, Esq., George
Montauban and the Monk Hilario. A legend of the
thirteenth century 1828
FITZJOHN, Matilda (pseudonym)
Joan!!! A Novel 1796
FLAMMENBERG, Lawrence
i.e., Karl Friedrich Kahlert. See under Kahlert.
46 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
FLETCHER, Grenville (1804- )
Rhodomaldi ; or, The Castle of Roveggiano 1823
Rosalviva ; or, The Demon Dwarf 1824
The Parricide’s Grave, and other Tales 1824
Vandeburg ; or, The Fatal Injunction !
834
FORTNUM, Mrs. Sophia, nee King
See under King, Sophia.
FOSTER, Mrs. E. M.
See under F., E. M.
FOSTER, Mrs. Hannah Webster (1759-1840)
The Coquette 1797
An American novel which in forty years ran through
thirteen editions.
FOX, Junior, Joseph
Tancred. A Tale of Ancient Times 1791
The Bastard of Normandy. A Tale 1793
Santa-Maria; or, The Mysterious Pregnancy 1797
FRANCIS, Miss Sophia L.
An Elegy on Colonel Robert Montgomery [
1 803]
Vivonio ; or, The Hour of Retribution 1806
Constance De Lindensdorf 1807
The Nun of Miserecordia ; or, The Eve of All Saints 1807
Angelo Guiccardini ; or, The Alpine Bandit 1809
In the Catalogue general des livres imprimes de la
Bibliotheque Nationale, Auteurs, Tome LIV, Paris
Impr. Nat., 1913, Colonne 433, we find an errone-
ous entry :
Frances (Sophie). Pseud, de Lathom (Francis).
Again, Ibid., Tome LXXXIX. Id. 1926, Col. 872-3
we have
:
Lathom (Francis), pseud, de Sophie Frances.
Under this heading are listed French translations of
four novels by Sophia L. Francis, Vivonio; Constance
de Lindensdorf ; The Nun of Miserecordia ; Angelo
Guiccardini.
Also, Lathom’s Mystic Events; and French transla-
tions of Lathom’s The Unknown (as LTnconnu), and
Italian Mysteries (as Les Mysteres italiens).
Also French translations of Thomas Gaspey’s The
Mystery; or, Forty Years Ago (as Le Mystere, ou
INDEX OF AUTHORS 47
II y a quarante ans), and Calthorpe, or, Fallen Fortunes
(as Calthorpe, ou les Revers de fortune).
Calthorpe, ou les Revers de fortune is expressly said
to be [par F. Lathom].
FRERE, Mr. B.
Rank and Fashion; or, The Mazes of Life 1821
Olympia: a tragedy. 8vo. 1821
FROST, Thomas
Sixteen String Jack 1845
Emma Mayfield ; or, The Rectors Daughter 1847-8
52 penny nos.
The Black Mask; or, The Mysterious Robber 1850
Paul the Poacher. Published in 60 Penny Weekly
Nos. 1850-1
Tears Ago 1851
In a re-issue of this romance by John Dicks it is attri-
buted to Malcolm J. Errym.
Frost wrote several other highly sensational novels.
FULLER, Anne
The Convent ; or, The History of Sophia Nelson
Alan Fitz-Osborne, an historical tale
The Son of Ethelwolf, an historical tale
1786
1786
1789
G
GABRIELLI
Pseudonym of Mrs. Mary Meeke. See under Meeke.
H.M.T. writing in Notes and Queries, February 16th,
1856, asks for “ an account of Mrs. Meeke who, about
the end of the last century, and the beginning of this,
published a great many novels, some under the name
of Gabrielle [should be Gabrielli] which had for a time
some success.” There is ample contemporary evidence
for the identity of Mrs. Meeke and Gabrielli.
Anecdotes of the Altamont Family, 4 vols., 1800, is
anon., but “ by the author of The Sicilian,” and on last
leaf of Vol. I advertises “ By the same author: The
Mysterious Wife.” The Mysterious Wife is by
48 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Gabrielli. Which Is The Man? 4 vols., 1801, is by
Mrs. Meeke, “ author of Anecdotes of the Altamont
Family, Ellesmere, etc.” The last leaf of Vol. I adver-
tises " Just published, By the same Author, Harcourt.”
Harcourt was published as by Gabrielli, i.e., By the
Author of The Mysterious Wife, etc., Celina; or, A
Tale of Mystery, 4 vols., 1803, is by Mrs. Meeke,
“ Author of The Sicilian
.”
The Mysterious Wife. A novel. By Gabrielli 1 797
Harcourt. A novel. By the author of The Mysterious
Wife, etc.
_
1799
The Mysterious Husband. A novel. By Gabrielli 1801
Independence. A novel. By Gabrielli 1802
Something Odd! 1804
Something Strange. By Gabrielli 1806
Laughton Priory. By Gabrielli 1809
Stratagems Defeated. A novel. By Gabrielli 18 11
GAMBLE, John
Society and Manners in Ireland in 1812 1813
Sarsfield; or, The Wanderings of Youth. An Irish
Tale 1814
Howard 1815
Society and Manners in Ireland in 1818 1819
Charlton; or, Scenes in the North of Ireland 1823
Sketches of history, politics, manners in Ireland in
1810 1826
GASPEY, Thomas (1788-1871)
The Mystery; or, Forty Years Ago 1820
Takings; or, The Life of a Collegian 1821
Calthorpe ; or, Fallen Fortunes 1821
The Lollards; A Tale founded on the Persecutions
which marked the Early Part of the Fifteenth Century 1822
Other Times; or, The Monks of Leadenhall 1823
The Witch Finder; or, The Wisdom of Our Ancestors 1824
The History of George Godfrey 1828
The Self-Condemned 1836
The Mystery; or, Forty Years Ago and Calthorpe were
translated into French by A. J. B. Defauconpret, “ le
traducteur des romans historiques de Walter Scott,” as
Le Mystere, ou II y a quarante ans, 4 vols., 1821, and
Calthorpe, ou les Revers de fortune, 4 vols., 1821,
respectively. In the Catalogue general des livres
THE FARMER OF INGLEWOOD FOREST
By Elizabeth Helme
1796. Illustration, p. 282, seventh edition
INDEX OF AUTHORS 49
imprimes de la Bibliotheque Rationale, Tome
LXXXIX, 1926, Col. 872-873, by a curious error these
two romances are ascribed to Francis Lathom,
probably owing to some initial confusion of Gaspey’s
The Mystery; or, Forty Years Ago (1820) with
Lathom’s Mystery ( 1 800). The Catalogue general also
has “ Lathom (Francis), pseud, de Sophie Francis.”
Again, Tome LIV (1913) Colonne 433, it enters
“ Frances (Sophie) Pseud, de Lathom (Francis)” Miss
Sophia L. Francis has been confused with Lathom.
See further under her name in this Index of Authors.
GERRANS, B.
Tales of a Parrot 1792
GIBSON, A.
The Life of a Recluse 1817
GLASSE, Francis
Ned Clinton 1828
Memoirs of Andrew Winpenny 1829
Belgic Pastorals, and Other Poems *829
Joe Oxford; or, The Runaway 1830
GODWIN, William (1756-1836)
Things as They Are; or, The Adventures of Caleb
Williams 1
794
St. Leon; A Tale of the Sixteenth Century 099
Fleetwood ; or, The New Man of Feeling 1805
Mandeville ; A Tale of the Seventeenth Century in
England 1817
Cloudsley 1 830
Deloraine 1833
St. Godwin: A Tale of the Sixteenth, Seventeenth, and
Eighteenth Century 1800
For this pleasant satire on Godwin see under Dubois,
Edward.
GOLLAND, Mrs. (see Haynes, Miss C. D.)
GOMERSALL, Mrs A., of Leeds
Eleonora, a novel 1789
E
5o A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The Citizen, a novel 179©
The Disappointed Heir; or, Memoirs of the Ormond
Family 1 796
GOOCH, Mrs. Elizabeth Sarah
Afterwards Mrs. Elizabeth Sarah Villa Real
Gooch
An Appeal to the Public on the Conduct of Mrs.
Gooch, Written by Herself 1788
New edition, 1788.
The Life of Mrs. Gooch, Written by Herself, dedicated
to the Public 1792
3 vols., London, Printed for the Authoress and Sold by
C. and G. Kearsley.
Poems 1793
Wanderings of the Imagination 17 96
The Beggar Boy. A Novel by Thomas Bellamy.
To which are prefixed Bibliographical particulars of
the Author by Mrs. Villa-Real Gooch 1801
Truth and Fiction 1801
Can We Doubt It? 1804
Sherwood Forest; or, Northern Adventures 1804
GORJY (GORGY), Jean Claude (1753-1795)
Louis and Nina (English translation) 1789
Blansay. A Tale of Incidents in Life (English transla-
tion) 1 790
A translation of Blanqay, 2 vols., i8mo., 1787.
Victorina. An Interesting and Incidental Tale.
(English translation) I
79 °‘
A translation of Victorine.
Lidora; an Ancient Chronicle. (English translation) 1791
A translation of Lidorie.
St. Alma. (English translation by Mrs. Helme) 1791:
A translation of Saint-Alme.
Jean Claude Gorjy, “ the First Wit in France,” was
bom at Fontainableau in 1753, and died at Pinceloup,
near Rambouillet in 1795. Flis first book Nouveau
voyage sentimental, 2 vols., had reached a sixth edition
in 1795. In 1787 he produced three plays at La Salle
de Beaujolais, Amour d’Arlequin el de Seraphinc
;
Torts apparents; and La Familie ameriquaine (sic.).
In Blanqay, 2 vols., i8mo., 1787, he is supposed to
have sketched his own life. His best known novels are.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 5 1
Victorine, 2 vols., i2mo. ;
Saint-Alme, 2 vols., i8mo.
;
and Lidorie, written as an old chronicle, 2 vols., i2mo.
His Tablettes sentimentales du bon Pamphile, 2 vols.,
was long popular. In Ann’quin Bredouille, ou le Petit
Cousin de Pristam Shandy, 6 vols., published as
“ oeuvre posthume de Jacqueline Lycurgue ” he
attacked the Revolution, and satirized Marat as
Tamar. He was not however guillotined, although
this is sometimes stated. In 1798 a collected edition
of his works appeared in Germany.
GOSLING, Jane
Ashdale Village 1
794
GRAGLIA, G. A.
The Castle of Eridan ; or, The entertaining and sur-
prising History of the Valiant Don Alvares, and the
Beautiful Eugenia, Duchess of Savoy 1800
The Labyrinth of Corcira; or, The most extraordinary
. . . History of . . . Don Fernando d’Avalo, Prince
of Salerno, and . . . Isidora, Duchess of Catania 1804.
GRANT, Mrs. Ann McVicar
Memoirs of an American Lady. (Third edition) 1817
GRAVES, Rev. Richard (1715-1804)
The Spiritual Quixote ; or, The Summer’s Ramble
of Mr. Geoffrey Wildgoose. A Comic Romance 1773
Columella; or, The Distressed Anchoret 1779
Eugenius ; or, Anecdotes of the Golden Vale 1785
Plexippus; or, The Aspiring Plebeian 1790
GREAVES, Rev. Thomas Berkeley
The Insurgent Chief; or, O’Halloran. An Irish
Historical Tale of 1798. By Solomon Secondsight 1824
The Spectre of the Forest 1826
GREEN, Mrs. Sarah
The Monthly Review, February 181 1, and again May,
1812 (Vol. LXVIII, p. 109) asserts that Mrs. Green is
a clever pseudonym concealing the pretended sex of
this writer.
Charles Henly; or, The Fugitive Restored 1790
Mental Improvement For A Young Lady On Her
Entrance into the World J
793
Court Intrigue; or, The Victim of Constancy 1799
£ O
U * A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The History of the Tankerville Family 1806
The Private History of the Court of England 1808
Tales of the Manor 1809
Romance Readers and Romance Writers 1810
The Festival of St. Jago 1810
The Reformist! ! ! 1810
Second ed., published by A. K. Newman, 1816, as
Percival Ellingford ; or, The Reformist
The Royal Exiles; or, Victims of Human Passions 1811
Good Men of Modern Date 1812
Raphael; or, Peaceful Life 1812
Translated from August Lafontaine
Deception 1813
The Fugitive; or, Family Incidents 1814
The Carthusian Friar; or, The Mysteries of Montan-
ville 1814
Who Is The Bridegroom? or, Nuptial Discoveries 1822
Gretna- Green Marriages; or, The Nieces 1823
Parents A?id Wives; or, Inconsistency And Mistakes 1824
In one edition with full-page engravings, 1837, of
Fatherless Fanny; or, A Young Lady’s First Entrance
Into Life, Being the Memoirs of a Little Mendicant
and Her Benefactors, this work, first published 1819, is
said to be by Miss Taylor, and “ edited ” by Mrs.
Sarah Green. But it has also been claimed for such
different writers as Clara Reeve and T. P. Prest.
GREEN, William Child
The Maniac of the Desert 1821
The Woodland Family; or, The Sons of Error and
Daughters of Simplicity 1824
The Fays of Loch Lomond 1824
The Sicilian Boy 1824
The Prophecy of Duncannon ; or, The Dwarf and the
Seer 1824
Abbot of Montserrat ; or, The Pool of Blood 1826
Alibeg the Tempter, A Tale wild and wonderful 1831
GREGORY, Dr. John
A Father’s Legacy to His Daughters 1
795
GREY, Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline, nee Duncan
(1798-1869)
This lady has been referred to as Mrs. Colonel Grey,
INDEX OF AUTHORS 53
but this appears to be an error. Elizabeth Caroline
Duncan was a niece of Miss Duncan, a favourite
actress of the earlier years of the eighteenth century.
In melodrama she was a charming heroine and created
such roles as Alexina, the Heroine of Montgatz, in
Theodore Edward Hook’s Tekeli; or, The Siege of
Montgatz (adapted from Pixerecourt’s Tekeli; ou le
siege de Montgatz, Paris, December 29th, 1803)
produced at Drury Lane with great success on Satur-
day, October 28th, 1806. Elizabeth Caroline Duncan
and her sister kept a school for girls in a side street
off the City Road, then a very genteel part of the town.
She married Grey, a reporter of the Morning
Chronicle, and for many years was general secretary
to Edward Lloyd, the publisher, and general editress
of his publications. In 1846 she won his One
Hundred Guinea Prize with Ordeal by Touch. Mrs.
Grey wrote a number of “ penny dreadfuls ” for Lloyd
as well as other more sober and restrained novels. A
number of ladies contributed to Lloyd’s stock, includ-
ing such famous names as Mrs. Gore and Mrs. Bray,
but they were careful to remain anonymous. Mrs.
Grey contributed to The London Journal and other
periodicals. Her nephew, Mr. Duncan, was a well-
known newspaper reporter, and his son, Walter
Duncan, a free-lance reporter, died in 1904. Mrs.
Grey died in 1869, being seventy-one years old. She
appears to have been in comfortable circumstances
after an industrious and active life.
De Lisle ; or, The Distrustful Man 1828
The Trials of Life 1829
The Way of the World 1830
Hyacinth; or, The Contrast 1835
The Duke 1 839
The Young Prima Donna: a romance of the Opera 1840
The Little Wife and the Baronet’s Daughter 1841
Gentleman Jack; or, Life on the Road 1842
The Belle of the Family 1843
The Dream of a Life 1843
The Gambler’s Wife 1844
The Old Dower House. A Tale of bygone days 1844
Alice Seymour 1845
The Bosom Friend 1845
54 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Sybil Lennard 1846
Ordeal by Touch 1846
Lloyd’s One Hundred Guinea Prize Romance.
The Iron Mask. A Romance 1846-7
The Daughter 1847
The Assassins of the Cavern 1848
Aline, an Old Friendship 1848
The Rectory Guest 1849
Vileroy; or, The Horrors of 4'indorf Castle. A
Romance 1850
The Gambler’s Wife ; or, Murder Will Out 1 850
Published by Edward Lloyd.
An Old Country House 1850
The Gipsy’s Daughter 1852
Mary Seaham 1852
The Young Husband 1854
Sibyl’s Little Daughter 1
854
A sequel to The Gipsy’s Daughter.
Cousin Harry 1858
Two Hearts 1 858
The Little Beauty i860
The Opera Singer’s Wife i860
One of the Family; or, The Ladies i860
The Autobiography of Frank, the happiest little dog
that ever lived 1861
Passages in the Life of a Fast Young Lady 1862
Good Society; or, Contrasts of Character 1 863
Lion Hearted 1864
GRIFFIN, James
The Freebooter of the Alps 1821
GRIFFITH, Elizabeth (1727-1793)
Memoirs of Ninon de I’Enclos, with her Letters, 1761
Translated from the French.
Amana, a dramatic poem
,
4to. 176
4
The Platonic Wife, a comedy 1765
8vo., 1765, and i2mo., 1765. Produced, Drury Lane,
Thursday, January 24th, 1765.
The Double Mistake, a comedy 1766
8vo., 1766, three editions. Produced, Covent Garden,
Thursday, January gth, 1766.
The School for Rakes, a comedy 1769
INDEX OF AUTHORS 55
8vo., 1769, three editions. Produced, Drury Lane,
Saturday, February 4th, 1769.
Memoirs, Anecdotes and Characters of the Court of
Lewis XIV 1 770
Translated from the French of Madame de Caylus.
The Shipwreck and Adventures of Monsieur Pierre
Viaud 1771
Translated from the French.
The History of Lady Barton, a novel in letters 1771
A Wife in the Right, a comedy 1772
8vo., 1772. Produced, Covent Garden, Thursday,
March 5th, 1772.
The Morality of Shakespeare’s Drama Illustrated 1775
The Barber of Seville; or, The Useless Precaution 1776
Translated from the French. 8vo.
The Story of Lady Juliana Harley. A Novel. In
Letters *776
A Letter from Monsieur Desenfans to Mrs. Montagu 1777
Translated from the French.
A Collection of Novels, selected and revised, 2 vols.
(G. Kearsley) 1777
The Times, a Comedy, 8vo. 1780
Produced, Drury Lane, Thursday, December 2nd,
1
7 79 -
gfayde. A translation from de Segrais, revised and
corrected by Mrs. Griffith 1780
The Princess of Cleves. An Historical Novel 1780
Translated from the French of Mme. de Lafayette
Essays addressed to Young Married Women 1782
GRIFFITH, Richard (1715-1781)
An Extract of the History and Genealogy of the Noble
Families of the Earl and Countess of Northumberland 1764
The Triumvirate; or, The Authentic Memoirs of
A \ndrews\, B[elville], and C\arewe\ 1764
Posthumous Works of a Late Celebrated Genius 1770
With a second title-page: The Koran; or, The Life,
Character and Sentiments of Tria Juncta in Uno,
M.N.A., or Master of No Arts
Something New 1772
Variety, a comedy 1782 [bis]
Produced at Drury Lane, Monday, February 25th,
1782.
56 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
GRIFFITH, Richard and Elizabeth
A Series of Genuine Letters between Henry and
Frances
Vols. I, II, 1757; Vols. Ill, IV, 1766; Vols. V, VI,
1770.
Two Novels in Letters. By the Authors of Henry and
Frances 1769
Vols. I and II, The Delicate Distress by Frances.
Vols. Ill and IV, The Gordian Knot by Henry.
Both Richard and Elizabeth Griffith had some share
in a translation of Voltaire’s works, 1779-81.
Notes and Queries, Vol. VII, p. 66, 1883, printed a
set of verses addressed by Richard Griffith to his wife,
and written on the fly-leaf of a copy of her Morality
of Shakespeare’s Drama Illustrated. For a detailed
study of Richard and Elizabeth Griffith see The Polite
Marriage (1938) by Miss J. M. S. Tompkins.
GRIFFITH, Sophia
She Would be a Heroine 1816
GRIFFITHS Ap Griffiths, Esq.
Sons of St. David, a Cambro-British Historical
Romance 1820
GROSETT, Emilia
The Spirit of the Grotto; or, The Castle of St.
George c. 1799
GROSSE, Karl
Self-styled Marquis of Pharnusa, a writer who pub-
lished several romances between 1790 and 1805.
The Dagger. Translated from Grosse’s Der Dolch 1795
The Genius; or, The Mysterious Adventures of Don
Carlos de Grandez Translated by Joseph Trapp from
Der Genius 1
79^
Horrid Mysteries. A Story from the German [Der
Genius] of the Marquis of Grosse. By P. Will. 1796
GUENARD, Elisabeth, Baronne De Mere (1751-1829)
Le Souterrain, ou Matilde 1 787
A translation of The Recess, 1783-5, by Sophia Lee.
Lise et Valcour, ou le Benedictin 1799
Les Forges Mysterieuses 1800
Les Capucins, ou le Secret du Cabinet Noir 1801
INDEX OF AUTHORS 57
Irma; ou les Alalheurs d’une jeune Orpheline 1801
Pauline de Ferriere 1801
Les Trois Moines 1802
Helene et Robert, ou les Deux Peres 1802
L’Enfant du Prieure, ou la Chanoinesse de Metz 1802
Le Captif de Florence, ou les Derniers Moments de
Pie VI 1802
Blanche de Raney, ou Histoire de deux jeunes
Frangaises dans les deserts et chez les Sauvages 1802
Histoire de Mme. Elisabeth de France, sceur de Louis
XVI 1802
Memoires d’Athcndis, comtesse d’Ormont 1805
Memoires historiques de Mme. la Princesse de
Lamballe 1804
Laure et Ermance, ou la victime de la com de Savoie 1804.
Le Diable ermite 1804
Achille, pis de Roberville, ou le jeune homme sans
projets 1 805
L’Abbaye de Saint-Remy, ou la pile du I’abbesse 1807
Mysteres sur mysteres, ou les onze chevaliers 1807
Agathe d’Entragues, roman historique 1807
Memoires historiques de Mile. A'isse 1807
Les Matinees du hameau, ou Contes d’un grand-
pere a ses petits enfants 1808
Antonine de Chatillon 1808
Chrysostome, pere de Jerome 1808
Les deux piles naturelles, ou Malheur et Bonheur 1808
Eleonore, ou la Belle blanchisseuse 1809
Emilie de Valb run, ou les Malheurs du divorce 1809
Memoires de Mme. la duchesse de Mazarin, ecrits par
elle-meme 1810
Mme. Billy, ou les Bourgeois de Paris 1810
Isaure et Elvire 1810
La Latiere de Bercy, anecdote du siecle de Louis XIV 181
1
Le Chateau de Vauvert, ou le chariot de feu de la rue
d’Enfer 1812
Les Repadres du crime 1812
La Duchesse de Kingston 1813
Cecile de Chatenay, ou le Pouvoir et les charmes de
Vharmonie 1814
Eugene de Nerval, ou le Tuteur inpdele 1814
Lucien de Murcy, ou le jeune homme d’aujourd’hui 1816
Malediction paternelle, ou la Perpdie d’une belle-mere 1816
58 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Meline, ou les horreurs de la jalousie 1816
Mine. Bloc, ou ITntrigante 1817
Le Charpentier de Saardam, anecdote du regne de
Pierre le Grand 1817
Charles le Mauvais, ou la Cour de Navarre, roman
historique 1817
Les Augustes Victimes du Temple 1818
Saint Vincent de Paul 1818
La Tour infernale 1 8 1 9
Therese de Wolmar 1821
Vie du due de Penthieure 1821
Le Ministre de Westbury 1822
UAbbaye d’Hartfort, ou Lise et Amedee 1822
Les Souterrains de Birmingham, ou Henrietta Herefort 1822
Albano, ou les Horreurs de I’abime 1824
Contes a nos enfants 1824
The Baronne de Mere was so prolific a writer that the
above fifty-two titles do not exhaust the list of her
works. When she published under her own name the
sentiment is generally decorous, she does not offend
piety, and her politics are sound. In romances which
she gave the world under such pseudonyms as de
Boissy, Geller, de Faverolles, and which were supposed
to come from the pen of a man she is often very
obscene, and what is far worse even profane. The
pages of Les Capucins, Les Trois Moines, Le Diable
ermite are unblushingly licentious. On the other hand,
in her later life she wrote works beyond reproach such
as Contes a nos enfants, and devotional biographies.
Her Saint Vincent de Paul may be read with much
profit.
Les Trois Moines was translated by J H. Sarratt as
The Three Monks! ! ! 2 vols., Crosby, 1803.
See also The Gothic Quest (1938) by Montague
Summers, pp. 246-8.
GUNNING, Elizabeth, afterwards Mrs. Plunkett
(1769-1823)
The Packet 094
Lord Fitzhenry 094
The Foresters, altered from the French 1796
The Orphans of Snowdon 1
797
The Gipsey Countess T
799
INDEX OF AUTHORS 59
The Village Library 1802
The Farmer’s Boy 1802
Family Stories; or, Evenings at My Grandmother’s 1802
A Sequel to Family Stories 1802
The Exile of Erin i 8o3
Dangers Through Life 1812
The Man of Fashion; a Tale of Modern Times 1815
Miss Gunning also translated from the French :
Memoirs of Madame de Barneveldt 1795
The Wife with Two Husbands, a tragi-comedy in
three acts from R. G. Guilbert de Pixerecourt, La
Femme a deux mans, melodrame, 3 acts 1803
The Plurality of Worlds from Fontenelle 1808
Malvina, by Madame Cottin 1809
GUY, Henry
Angelina; or, Mystic Captives. A chapbook c. 1800
H
H., E. H.
The Highlander ; or, A Tale of My Landlady 1819
HALE, Mrs. Sarah J.
Sidney Romelee. A Tale of New England 1827
The Book of Flowers 1836
HALES, Esq., I. M. H.
The Astrologer ; or, The Eve of St. Sebastian 1821
De Willenburg ; or, The Talisman. A Tale of
Mystery 1821
HAMILTON, Miss Ann Mary
The Forest of St. Bernardo 1806
The Irishwoman in London. A Modern Novel 1810
The Adventures of a Seven Shilling Piece 181
1
Montalva ; or, Annals of Guilt 181
1
HAMILTON, Elizabeth
Memoirs of the Life of Agrippina, The Wife of
Germanicus 1811
HAMILTON, Miss Emma
Education ; or, A Journal of Errors 1809
Co A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The Betrothed Cousins. A Tale 1810
A Winter at St. James; or, Modern Manners 1811
The Maiden Wife 1812
I Can’t Afford It 1813
HANWAY, Mrs. Mary Ann
Ellinor; or, The World as it is 1 798
Andrew Stuart ; or, The Northern Wanderer 1800
Falconbridge Abbey, a Devonshire Story 1809
Christabelle, the Maid of Rouen. A novel founded on
facts 1814
HARDING, Mrs A. Raikes
Correction 1818
Decision 1819
Realities 1825
Dissipation 1827
Experience 1828
HARDY, Elizabeth (1794—9th May, 1854)
Michael Cassidy ; or, The Cottage Gardener 1845
Owen Glendower ; or, The Prince of Wales. An
historical romance 1849
The Confessor: A Jesuit Tale of The Times 1854
Since Elizabeth Hardy’s works were published anony-
mously there are possibly other productions to be
ascribed to her pen.
HARLEY, Mrs. (afterwards Mrs. Hugill)
St. Bernard’s Priory. An Old English Tale 1786
The Castle of Mowbray. An English Romance 1788
The Countess of Iiennebon. An Historical Novel 1789
Juliana Ormiston; or, The Fraternal Victim 1793
The Prince of Leon 1795
Isadora of Gallicia 1797
HARRIS, Catherine
Edwardina: A Novel 1800
HARVEY, Jane
Minerva Castle 1 802
Warkfield Castle 1802
The Castle of Tynemouth: A Tale 1806
The Governor of Belleville 1807
Memoirs of An Author 1810
Ethelia 1810
INDEX OF AUTHORS 6l
Auberry Stanhope; or Memoirs of An Author 1813
Records of a Noble Family 1814
Brougham Castle 1816
Ceraline 1821
Singularity 1822
Mountalyth : A Tale 1823
The Ambassador’s Secretary: A Tale 1828
Jane Harvey also wrote : A Sentimental Tour Through
Newcastle, By a Young Lady, 1794; Sacred Hymns,
1820; and three volumes of Poems, 1797, 1818, and
1841.
HARWOOD, Miss Caroline
The Castle of Vivaldi ; or, The Mysterious Injunction 1810
Reprinted as
The Castle of Vivaldi; or, The Mysterious Casket 1840
HASWORTH, H. H.
The Lady of the Cave ; or, Mystenes of the Fourteenth
Century 1802
HAYLEY, William
The Young Widow; or, The History of Cornelia
Sedley 1789
HAYNES, Miss C. D. (afterwards Mrs. Golland)
The Foundling of Devonshire ; or, Who Is She? 1818
Augustus And Adelina; or, The Monk of St. Barnar-
dine 1819
Eleanor ; or, The Spectre of St. Michael’s, A Romantic
Tale 1821
The Ruins of Ruthvale Abbey 1827
The Maid of Padua; or, Past Tunes. A Venetian
Tale 1835
The Witch of Aysgarth 1841
HAYNES, D. F. (father of Miss C. D. Haynes)
Pierre And Adeline; or, The Romance of the Castle 1814
HAYS, Mary (1761-1843)
The Memoirs of Emma Courtney 1796
The Victim of Prejudice 1 799
Harry Clinton; A Tale of Youth 1804
A reworking of Henry Brooke’s The Fool of Quality
{1766).
62 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
For Mary Hays see the study “ Mary Hays,
Philosophess,” in The Polite Marriage (1938) by
J. M. S. Tompkins.
HAZEL, Harry (pseudonym of j. Jones)
This j. Jones is presumably not the same writer as the
author of Hawthorn Cottage; or, The Two Cupids,
2 vols., Asperne, 1815.
The Corsair: The Foundling of the Sea. A Romance 1847
6 nos. published by E. Lloyd.
Yankee Jack ; or, The Perils of a Privateersman 1852
8vo. New York.
The Flying Artillerist ; or, The Child of the Battlefield.
A Tale of Mexican Treachery 1853
8vo. New York.
The Light Dragoon; or, The Rancheros of the
Poisoned Lance. A Tale of the battle fields of Mexico 1864
8vo. New York.
Another ed., 8vo., pp. 1 16. Ward and Lock, London.
The Flying Yankee; or, The Cruise of the Clippers.
A Tale of privateering in the War of “ 1812 ” to
“ 1815
”
1870
Philadelphia. Paterson’s Popular Series of 50 Cent
Novels.
Harry Hazel (Jones) wrote many other stories, Naval
and Military Yams. The above are fairly representa-
tive of his line of work.
HEAD, Miss Catharine
Rybrent De Cruce 1829
Miss Head also tranlated into verse Books I-VIII of
Klopstock’s Messiah, 2 vols., Longmans, 1826; and
published Sketches in Prose and Poetry, 1837.
HEDGE, Miss Mary Anne
The Retreat 1820
Life ; or, Fashion And Feeling 1822
Man; or, Anecdotes National And Individual 1822
The Flatterer; or, False Friendship 1822
And other works, educational and poetical.
HEDGELAND, Isabella (see Mrs. Kelly)
HELME, Mrs. Elizabeth (
-1813)
Louisa; or, The Cottage on the Moor 1787
INDEX OF AUTHORS 63
Clara and Emmeline ; or, The Maternal Benediction 1788
St. Alma. Translated from the French of J. C. Gorgy 1791
Duncan and Peggy: A Scottish Tale 1
794-
The Farmer Of Inglewood Forest 1796
Albert; or, The Wilds Of Strathnavern 1799
St. Margaret’s Cave; or, The Nun’s Story. An
Ancient Legend 1801
St. Clair of the Isles; or, The Outlaws of Barra. A
Scottish Tradition 1803
Pilgrims of the Cross; or, The Chronicles of Christa-
belle De Mowbray. An Ancient Legend 1805
Magdalen; Or, The Penitent Of Godstow. An His-
torical Novel 1812
Modern Times; or, The Age We Live In. (A post-
humous novel) 1814
Mrs. Helme, the wife of William Helme, a well-
known Brentford schoolmaster, who wrote Evenings
Rationally Employed, 1803, pub. Norbury (Brentford)
and Hurst, was an ardent educationalist and very
prolific with her pen, translating both from French and
German, and publishing a considerable number of
moral and educational works which had a great vogue
in their day. Among her translations are Travels from
the Cape of Good Hope into the ulterior parts of
Africa, 2 vols., William Lane, 1790, from the French
of Le Vaillant. From the German of Joachim Flein-
rich Campe she translated Columbus ; or, The Dis-
covery of America, 2 vols., 1799; Cortez; or, The
Conquest of Mexico, 2 vols., 1799; Pizurro ; or, The
Conquest of Peru, 2 vols., 1799. Very popular were
her version of Plutarch’s Lives, abridged, 1795;
Instructive Rambles in London and the adjacent
Villages, 2 vols., 1798; Maternal Instruction; or
Family Conversations on novel and entertaining
Subjects, 1802 ;
The History of England, related by a
Father in familiar conversation to his Children, 1805;
The History of Scotland, related by a Father in
familiar conversation to his Children, 1806; Fruits of
Reflection, or moral remembrances on various subjects,
2 vols., 1809; and her posthumous A Preparatory
Exercise; or, The Road leading to the Land of
Learning, 1816. Most of these, and other similar
works, ran into three and more editions. Of her ten
64 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
novels, three at least, Louisa, The Farmer of Inglewood
Forest, and St. Clair were steadily reprinted until the
end of the nineteenth century.
HELME, Miss Elizabeth
Daughter of Mrs. Helme. She followed her mother as
Headmistress of the Brentford School.
James Manners, Little John, and Their Dog Bluff 1
799
A delightful and very popular juvenile, many times
reprinted. Has been erroneously given to Mrs. Helme.
HELME, William
A well-known Brentford schoolmaster. Husband of
the famous novelist, Mrs. Elizabeth Helme, and father
of Miss Elizabeth Helme.
Henry Stukely; or, The Effects of Dissipation 1
794
Evenings Rationally Employed *803
William Helme wrote other educational works.
HENRY, Esq., Alexander
Rolando: A Romance 1821
HERBERT, William
The Spanish Outlaw 1807
Ella Rosenberg 1808
HERNON, G. D.
Louisa; or, The Black Tower 1805
HERON, Mr.
The Conflict: A Sentimental Tale 1
793
HERON, Mrs.
Conversation ; or, Shades of Difference 1821
HERVEY, Elizabeth, nee Marsh
Melissa and Marcia; or, The Sisters 1788
Louisa; or, The Reward of an Affectionate Daughter 1790
The History of Ned Evans 179
6
The Church of Saint Siffrid 17 97
The Mourtray Family 1800
Amabel; or, Memoirs of a Woman of Fashion 1814
Aubrey Stanhope; or, Memoirs of an Author 1815
William Beckford’s half-sister. She married May 5th,
1774, Thomas Hervey, a natural son of the Hon.
Thomas Hervey and Lady Hanmer. Mrs. Hervey had
two sons. Thomas Hervey died, 1781.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 65
HESELTINE, William
The Last of the Plantagenets, an Historical
Romance *829
HEWETSON, Captain William B.
The Blind Boy 1808
The Fallen Minister; and Other Tales, 2 vols. 1809
From the German of Christian Heinrich Speiss.
These two volumes contain The Murder ; The Revenue
Collector; The Fallen Minister; Vanity, or, The Mer-
chant; Charles; Paulina, A Tale of Truth; and
Jealousy, or, The Curate.
HEY, Esq., Richard
Edington 1 796
HILDITCH, Ann
See Ann Howell
HILL, Miss
The Forest of Comalva. A Novel containing Sketches
of Portugal, Spain, and Part of France 1809
Anselmo ; or, The Day of Trial 1813
HINCKLEY, Esq., F. S. A. John
The People’s Answer to the Bishop of Llandaff 1 797
The History of Rinaldo Rinaldini ; Captain of Banditti 1800
Translated from the German of Vulpius. Christian
August Vulpius, 1762-1827.
On Monday, April 6th, 1801, was produced at the
Royal Circus, St. George’s Fields, Rinaldo Rinaldini;
or, The Secret Avenger, a ballet by James C. Cross,
music by Reeve. On Thursday, April 9th, the title
was changed to Rinaldo Rinaldini; or, The Black
Tribunal. The Songs and Choruses were printed,
8vo., 1801 ;
in Circusiana, 2 vols., 8vo., 1809; and in
The Dramatic Works of J. C. Cross, 8vo., 1812.
Rinaldo Rinaldini; or, The Great Banditti. A tragedy
in five acts New York. Printed for the author. 12 mo.
1810. This is a closer adaptation from Hinckley.
Rinaldo Rinaldini; or, The Brigand and the Black-
smith! A Romantic Drama in two acts by T. E.
Wilks was produced at Sadler’s Wells, January 4th,
1835, and published by French (Lacy), No. 1743.
Travels in Portugal, from the German of Link 1801
F
66 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Ludwig Friedrich Link, 1767-1851.
Travels in Spain, from the German of Fischer 1802
Christian August Fischer, 1771-1829
An Account of the Fall of the Republic of Venice 1808
From the Italian.
Emancipation. A Poem 1812
HIRST, Miss Augusta Ann
Helen. A novel 1807
HITCHENER, William Henry (of the Surrey Theatre)
Love in the Desert. An Entertainment. 8vo. 1802
The Humorous Convocation, alias The Barber’s Shop.
An Ode 1804
Ivor ; or, The Sighs of Vila. A Tragedy. 8vo. 1808
Acted at Henley-on-Thames in 1808.
St. Leonard’s Forest; or, The Child of Chance. A
Novel 1813
The Towers of Ravenswold ; or, The Days of Ironside.
A Romance 1814
HOLCROFT, Thomas (1745-1809)
Atwyn; or, The Gentleman Comedian 1780
Tales of the Castle; or, Stories of Instruction and
Delight 1785
From Madame de Genlis, Les Veillees du Chateau.
An Amorous Tale of the Chaste Loves of Peter the
Long 1786
Imitated from the French. Negligible.
Caroline of Lichtfield 1786
From the Baroness de Montolieu, Caroline de Licht-
field.
Anna St. Ives: A Novel 1792
The Adventures of Hugh Trevor WQdil?
Vols. I-III, 1794; Vols. IV-VI, 1797.
A Tale of Mystery; a melodrame 1802
Produced, Covent Garden, November 13th, 1802. An
important piece as adapted from Pixcrecourt’s Ccelina,
ou l’Enfant du Mystere, acted at Paris, 1800; 8vo.,
1801 ;
which is founded on Ducray-Duminil’s novel of
the same name. A Tale of Mystery, printed 8vo.,
1802.
Memoirs of Bryan Perdue *805,
There is in the British Museum, Egerton MS. 2429,
INDEX OF AUTHORS 67
a letter addressed by Holcroft, dated Clipstone Street,
30 Fitzroy Square, November 8th, 1808, to Cadell
and Davies the publishers, offering them an original
novel in 3 vols., of which two are ready and the third
will be ready before Christmas. The latter is marked
on the margin “ Declined.” It has been conjectured
that this refers to Memoirs of Bryan Perdue, but this
is impossible, as the work had been published by Long-
man, Hurst, three years before. It can only be
supposed that the novel in question was never printed.
It is possible (but hardly probable) that the manu-
script still exists. The Memoirs of the late Thomas
Holcroft, written by Himself, first edition, 3 vols.,
1816, and several times reprinted is a work of great
importance, but Holcroft was an avowr
ed atheist.
There is a very ample and detailed Bibliography of
Thomas Holcroft by Elbridge Colby, Columbia Uni-
versity, Notes and Queries, 11th Series, Volume X,
commencing July 4th, 1914, and continuing until
March 27th, 1915, nth Series, Volume XI. This
was printed, New York, 1922, and is the standard
authority.
For Holcroft’s knowledge of German see letters in The
Times Literary Supplement,” January 23rd, 1937,
from V. R. Stallbaumer, and reply from Oskar Teich-
man.
HOLFORD, Mrs. Margaret, of Chester
Fanny; or. The Deserted Daughter 1792
Selima; or, The Village Tale [N.D.] 1793
Gresford Vale 094
Calaf. A Persian Tale 094
First Impressions ; or, The Portrait 1800
HOLFORD, Miss Margaret afterwards Mrs. Hobson
(1778-1852)
Wallace; or, The Fight of Falkirk. A Metrical
Romance 1809
1 vol., quarto.
Warbeck of Wolfstein 1820
Italian Stories. Translated by Miss Holford 1823
HOLSTEIN, Anthony Frederick (pseudonym?)
Sir Owen Glendowr, And Other Tales 1808
68 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The Assassin of St. Glenroy; or, The Axis of Life 1810
Love, Mystery, Arid Misery! 1810
The Miseries of an Heiress 1810
The Inhabitants of the Earth; or, The Follies of
Woman 1811
Isadora of Milan 1 8 1
1
Bouverie ; or, The Pupil of the World 1812
The Modern Kate; or, The Husband Perplexed 1812
Lady Durnevor ; or, My Father’s Wife 1813
The Scotchwoman 1814
The Discontented Man; or, Love and Reason 1815
HOLSTEIN, Esther
Ernestina: A Novel 1801
Miranda; or, The Mysterious Stranger 1803
HOOK, Sarah Anne
The Widowed Bride; or, Celina. A Novel 1802
Secret Machinations. A Novel 1804
HOOLE, Innes
Scenes at Brighton; or, “How Much?” A satirical
novel 1821
Society and Solitude 1821
Hearts versus Heads; or, Diamond Cut Diamond 1823
HORWOOD, Miss Caroline (later Mrs. Baker)
St. Ostberg; or, The Carmelite Monk 1811
Miss Horwood wrote educational and instructive books,
many of which proved exceedingly popular. Thus
her Instructive Amusements for Young Minds reached
a sixth edition in 1835. She also published Original
Moral Tales for Children, and (1820) Drawing Room
Tales, Historical and Traditional. In A. K. Newman’s
list of Juvenile and Prize Books, 1838, there appear
Mrs. Baker’s Emily and her Cousins, and also Miss
Horwood’s Original Poetry for Children.
HOUGHTON, Miss Mary
The Mysteries of the Forest 1810
The Border Chieftains ; or, Love and Chivalry 1813
Emelia Of Lindenau ; or, The Field of Leipsic. A
Poem 1816
HOWARD, Miss
Married Life; or, Faults on all Sides 1811
INDEX OF AUTHORS
HOWELL, Mrs. Ann, nee Hilditcii
Miss Hilditch married Mr. Howell at some date
between 1790 and 1796.
Rosa De Montmorien. A novel 1787
Mount Pelham. A novel 1788
Rosenberg. A legendary tale 1789
Georgina; or, The Advantages of Grand Connexions.
A novel 1796
Anzoletta gfadoski. A novel 1796
The Spoiled Child. A novel 097
HUGHES, Mrs. Ann
Caroline ; or, The Diversities of Fortune. A novel 1787
Henry and Isabella; or, A Traite Through Life 1788
Moral Dramas Intended for Private Representation 1790
Three tragedies: Cordelia; Constantia ; and Aspacia.
1 vol., 8vo. Price 3s. served.
£oriada; or, Village Annals. A novel 1
793
Jemima. A novel 1795
HUISH, Robert (1777-1850)
The suggestion of Mr. Askew ( Notes and Queries,
clxxv 172, 446) that Robert Lluish was a Catholic is
extremely interesting, and it were very much to be
wished that we could ascertain something definite on
this point. Contra, I can only offer internal evidence
and internal evidence is notoriously tricky and incon-
clusive. Yet it is difficult to see how a Catholic author
could have written some of the passages which occur in
Huish’s two romances The Sorcerer, 1795, and The
Brothers ; or, The Castle of Niolo, 1820. The Sorcerer,
for example, commences with a violent and wildly un-
historical diatribe against the ages of “ monkish sway
”
and when “ brother Hilario,” a most saintly old
priest, makes his appearance we are at once told that he
alone of the whole fraternity stripped “ Religion of the
fantastic ornaments in which Fanaticism and Priest-
craft had enveloped her.” This is practically the
tone throughout the tale, although it may be argued
that The Sorcerer is a translation from the German,
and therefore Huish is not responsible for the expres-
sion of the original, which it was his business to render
faithfully.
The period of The Brothers is also the centuries of
7 ° A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
“ monkish sway ”—this actual phrase occurs in both
romances—and almost without exception “ the whole
cowled tribe ” are presented in the most lurid light.
Such blunders as “ a Franciscan monk ” and “ a
Carmelite monk ” are perhaps not to be surprised at,
but Huish shows himself very much at sea when
speaking of Catholic emblems, whilst his ignorance of
quite elementary details of belief and practice is such
that a child’s catechism would have set him right.
It is this ignorance which leads him to write of a
doctrine he clearly does not in the least understand as
“ farcical, not to say impious.” His monks of Arien-
heim keep up the crusted old tradition, that is to say
they “ carouse over their glasses and laugh at the
credulity ” of the simple devotees who load their house
with gifts. Very delightful are their appeals to their
“ holy patron, St. Benedictine ” ! Perhaps I should
observe that one of the blackest villains—and there
are not a few—in the romance, is “ Sazzano the
atheist,” who is described as “ a consummate fiend.”
Any mention of nuns in The Brothers is in the very
vein of Matthew Gregory Lewis. One of Huish’s
later romances, The Nun of Gnadenzell, 1846, is
highly sensational, and was in fact published by the
most famous and popular purveyor of “ bloods ” and
“dreadfuls,” Edward Lloyd, 231, High Street, Shore-
ditch.
It seems almost certain that Robert Huish the
author was in some way connected with—he may have
been a nephew of—the Robert Huish of Nottingham
whose daughter Mary married Sir Robert Bewicke of
Closehouse. It is significant, as Mr. Askew has so
rightly emphasized, that this lady died in a convent
at Pontoise, c. 1779.
Robert Huish the author, son of Mark Huish of
Nottingham, was born in that city anno 1777. Whilst
yet in his teens he entered as a student at the Uni-
versity of Frankfort-on-the-Main, thus acquiring an
exceptionally good knowledge of the German language
and literature. At a rather later date he was for
some time resident in Russia, presumably in a tutorial
capacity. Most of his life was spent in London,
and he died in Camberwell in April, 1850.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 7 1
In spite of a few faults of taste and some foolish-
ness in his writings, it cannot be denied that Robert
Huish was possessed of considerable talent. The
bitter sneer of the Quarterly Review which spoke of
him as “ an obscure and unscrupulous scribbler ” is
unmerited and untrue. In his role of novelist Huish
could tell his tale well ;
his complicated plots are gener-
ally knit with care and neatly enough unravelled.
Myself, I have been chiefly concerned with this author
as a Gothic romancist, and as such he is an interesting
link, his first fiction appearing in the year before Mrs.
Radcliffe’s The Italian, and his last being published
when Dickens was engaged upon David Copperfield
and Thackeray was midway with Pendennis.
Huish was a very prolific miscellaneous writer, and the
following list of his works with a few accompanying
details may prove useful.
The Sorcerer: A Tale. From the German of Veit
Weber, 1795. A translation of Die Teufelsbesch-
worung. Veit Weber is a pseudonym of the historian,
dramatist and novelist Georg Philipp Ludwig Leon-
hard Wachter; Nov. 25, 1762—Jan. 8, 1835.
Select Tales from the German of Wieland. By
the translator of The Sorcerer 1 796
Solomon, a Sacred Drama. Translated by R. Huish 1809
From the German of Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock,
1724-1803.
The Mysteries of Ferney Castle. A romance 1 809
A Treatise on the Mature, Economy and practical
Management of Bees 1815
Second ed., 1817. A new edition, i2mo., 1844.
Huish was a recognized apian authority.
The Peruvians. A poem 1816
Memoirs of the Princess Charlotte of Saxe Coburg.
By Robert Huish, Esq. London ;
Printed for Thomas
Kelly, Paternoster-Row, 1818. The engraved tide-
page has “ Published . . . Deer. 13, 1817. A vigorous
and vivid book. The description of the Princess
Charlotte’s funeral is very picturesque.
A Sacred Memorial of Her late Royal Highness
Charlotte Augusta, Princess of Wales. Extracts from
120 funeral sermons selected by R. Huish 1818
See pp. 632-628 of the Memoirs.
72 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Instructions for using the Huish hive from which the
combs are extracted without killing the bees 1819
The Cottagers Manual for the Management of Bees.
Second ed. 1820
The Brothers ; or, The Castle of Niolo. A Romance.
By Robert Huish Esqre. London : Published by
William Emans, No. 7, London Road. 1820. The
engraved title-page has :
“ London. Published by W.
Emans, No. 2, Peacock Street, Newington.” Two
volumes. A fine specimen of Gothic romance. This
is a very uncommon book. Including the frontispieces
there should be eight plates. The frontispiece to Vol.
II is a portrait of the author, “ Robert Huish, Esq.
F.A.S.” Painted by Rose Emma Drummond. En-
graved by R. Page 1820
The Public and Private Life of George III. Engraved
title-page has Memoirs of George III. 2 vols. 1821
An Authentic History of the Coronation of George
IV 1821
Memoirs of Caroline, Queen of Great Britain, 2 vols.,
T. Kelly 1821
The Sabbath 1823
Edwin and Henry; or, The Week's Holidays 1825
A prim and pious juvenile.
Authentic Memoirs of .. . Frederick Duke of York
and Albany 1827
Picart’s Religious Ceremonies Abridged by Robert
Huish 1828
A translation and abridgement of Bernard Picart’s
famous Ceremonies . . Religieuses De Tous les Peuples
du Monde. The Paris ed., 1707-10, is in 12 vols.,
folio.
Memoirs of George the Fourth. 2 vols. 1830
The Historical Gallery of celebrated men of every age
and nation. First series. 1830
No more was published.
The Wonders of the Animal Kingdom 1830
Fitzcdlan. By a Blue 1832
Fatherless Rosa: or, The Dangers of The Female
Life. A Romance 1834
The Last Voyage of Capt. Sir J. Ross . . . to the Arctic
Regions in i 8sg-gg. London 1835,
With a portrait of Sir John Ross. The Quarterly
INDEX OF AUTHORS 73
Review, liv., 1-39, has a venomous and spiteful attack
upon this book.
The History of the Private and Political Life of Henry
Hunt, Esq., 2 vols. 1836.
The engraved title-page carries date 1835.
Morning Devotions for every day in the Year.
Translated from the German of Christoph Christian
Sturm, 1740-86 1836
The Travels of Richard and John Lander . . . into
the hitherto unexplored countries of Africa 1836
A Narrative of the Voyages ... of Capt. Beechey
... to the Pacific and Behring’s Straits 1 836
Memoirs of William Cobbett, Esq., 2 vols. 1836
The Memoirs, private and political, of Daniel
O’Connell, Esq., M.P. 1836
The History of the life and reign of William the
Fourth 1837
Evening Devotions, translated from the German by
R.H. 1838
From C. C. Sturm.
The Nun of Gnadenzell. A Romance. 17 nos. E.
Lloyd 1 846
Our Grandmamma’s Clock. A series of tales 1848
The Progress of Crime ; or, The Authentic Memoirs of
Maria Manning 1849
A romance based on notorious crimes. The book con-
tains a letter from Dickens on public executions.
Our Grandpapa’s Chest. A Series of Tales 1850
There is reason to believe that from about 1840 to
1850 Huish was working for E. Lloyd, but this pub-
lisher issued so many romances without any author’s
name that it might be very difficult, if not impossible,
to identify Huish’s novels.
HUME, Miss Grace Stuart
Alice, or Infidelity; The Trifier; and My Aunt Anne.
Three Tales 1823
HUNT, Rev. J. P.
The Iron Mask; or, The Adventures of a Father and
Son 1809
HUNTER, Maria
Fitzroy; or, The Impulse of the Moment 1792
Ella; or, He’s Always in the Way 1 798
74 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
HUNTER, Mrs. Rachel, of Norwich ( -1813)
Letitia; or, The Castle Without a Spectre 1801
The History of the Grubthorpe Family; or, The Old
Bachelor and his Sister Penelope 1802
Poems 1 802
Letters from Mrs. Palmerstone to her Daughter,
inculcating Morality by entertaining Narratives 1803
The Unexpected Legacy 1804
The Sports of the Genii 1805
Lady Maclain, the Victim of Villainy 1806
Family Annals; or, Worldly Wisdom 1807
The Schoolmistress, a moral tale for young ladies 1811
HUTCHISON, Miss A. A. (afterwards Mrs. Sarrazin)
Miss Hutchinson married General Sarrazin in 1814
Exhibitions of The Ileart 1799
Friends Unmasked ; or, Scenes In Real Life 1812
HUTTON, Miss Catherine, of Birmingham (1756-
1846)
The Miser Married 1813
The Welsh Mountaineer 1817
Oakwood Hall 1819
Miss Hutton wrote other miscellaneous works, of which
probably the best known is the life of her father, the
famous William Hutton of Birmingham. This was
published in 1816.
HUTTON, George
Amantus and Elmira 1794
I
ILIFFE (ILIFF), Edward Henry, late of the Theatre
Royal, Haymarket
Iliffe was a clergyman’s son, his father being curate
of St. Clement Danes. When a boy he went to sea
as a midshipman, and on his return obtained a clerk’s
post in the India House. His first appearance on the
stage was at the Brighton Theatre where he played as
Mr. Williams. He married (at Sheffield) a young
actress of the Brighton company, Miss Palmer.
Angelo ; a Novel founded on Melancholy Facts 1 796
INDEX OF AUTHORS 75
ILIFFE (ILIFF), Mrs., nee Palmer
Of the Brighton, Sheffield, and Edinburgh Theatres.
She sang at Vauxhall, whence (in 1789) she obtained
an engagement at the Haymarket. This lady was
daughter to Mrs. Palmer, housekeeper to the famous
tragedienne, Mrs. Crawford, afterwards Mrs. Barry.
Poems
The Prior Claim
IMLAY, George
The Emigrants; or, The History of an Expatriated
Family
Written in America.
INCHBALD, Mrs. Elizabeth, nee Simpson (i 753
~
1821)
A Simple Story
Mature and Art
IRELAND, William Henry (i 777
' i8 3 d)
Miscellaneous Papers and legal Instruments under the
hand and seal of William Shakespeare, including the
tragedy of King Lear and a small fragment of Hamlet
from the original MSS. in the possession of Samuel
Ireland. London
The Shakespearean forgeries by William Henry
Ireland.
An Authentic Account of the Shakespearian Manu-
scripts
Debrett, 8vo. Price is. W. H. Ireland’s acknowledge-
ment of his forgeries.
Vortigern
8vo. The supposed Shakespearean tragedy.
Henry the Second, An Historical Drama
8vo. “ Supposed to be written by the Author of
Vortigem.”
The Abbess. A Romance
Die Priorin. German translation. Brunswick
Rimualdo ; or, The Castle of Badajos. A Romance
Mutius Scaevola; or, The Roman Patriot
8vo. A tragedy.
A Ballade wrotten on the Feastynge and Merrimentes
of Easter Maundy laste Paste. By Paul Persius. 8vo.
London
1808
1813
1793
W9 1
!7 96
1796
1796
1799
W99
1799
1824
1800
1801
1802
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
76
Rhapsodies
Poems “ by the Author of the Shakesperian MSS.,”
published, London.
The Woman of Feeling
A novel. 4 vols., ismo. London. Signed Paul
Persius.
Bruno; or, The Sepulchral Summons. A Romance
4 vols. London.
The Angler. A didactic poem by Charles Clifford
[;i.e., W. H. Ireland]
Fscp. 8vo., pp. VIII and 23. London.
Gondez The Monk; A Romance of the Thirteenth
Century
4 vols., London.
The Confessions of William-Henry Ireland, containing
the Particulars of his Fabrication of the Shakespeare
Manuscripts ; together with Anecdotes and Opinions
(hitherto unpublished) of many distinguished Persons
in the Literary, Political and Theatrical World
Stultifera navis qua omnium mortalium narratur
stultitia. The Modern Ship of Fools cere perennius
8vo., pp. XXIV and 295. Published, London.
The Modern Ship of Fools
All the blocks! or an antidote to “All the Talents.”
A satirical poem in three Dialogues by Flagellum
[W. H. Ireland]
8vo., pp. XIX and 76. Published, London.
Eaton Stannard Barrett’s All the Talents, a satirical
poem by Polypus ran through nineteen editions in the
course of one year, 1807.
The Catholic; or, Acts and Deeds of the Popish
Church. A Tale of English History.
A pseudo-historical romance. 3 vols., published,
London.
The Fisher Boy, A Poem comprising his several avoca-
tions during the Four Seasons of the Year. By H. C.,
Esq.
By William Henry Ireland. i2mo. Published,
London.
Effusions of love from Chatelar to Mary, Queen of
Scotland, translated from a Gallic manuscript in the
Scotch College at Paris, interspersed with Songs,
Sonnets, and Notes Explanatory by the translator, to
1803
1804
1804
1804
1803
1805
1807
1807
1807
1807
1808
INDEX OF AUTHORS 77
which is added Historical fragments, poetry and
remains of the amours of the unfortunate Princess
8vo., pp. X and 223. Published, London.
The Sailor Boy, A Poem in Four Cantos illustrative
of the Navy of Great Britain. By PI. C. Esq., author
of The Fisher Boy
i2mo. Published, London.
The Cottage Girl [A Poem]
comprising her several
avocations during the Four Seasons of the Year. By
H.C.
8vo. Published, Bath.
Jack Junk: or, The Sailor’s cruise on Shore. A
humorous poem in four cantos with a glossary. By the
author of The Sailor Boy, etc.
i2mo. Published, London.
T. P. Prest has a novel Jack Junk ; or, The Tar for all
Weathers. A romance of the sea. 1840.
Chaleographimania ; or, The Portrait-Collector and
Printsellers Chronicle with infatuations of every
description; a humorous poem in four books with
copious notes explanatory. By Satiricus Sculptor
8vo. Published, London.
An attack upon James Caulfield’s Caleographicum, the
PrintsellePs Chronicle and Collector’s Guide which
had been published the same year, 1814. Samuel
Ireland the father had been an enthusiast for old prints
and a collector.
Scribbleomania ; or, the Printer’s Devil’s Polichronicon.
A sublime poem edited by Anser Pen-drag-on, Esq.
8vo., pp. VIII and 341. Published, London.
The Maid of Orleans. Translated into English verse
by W. PI. I [reland]
8vo. Published, London.
A version of Voltaire’s La Pucelle d’Orleans.
Memoirs of a Young Greek Lady; or, Madame Pauline
Adelaide Alexandre Panam, versus His Most Serene
Highness The Reigning Prince of Saxe-Coburg
8vo. Published Sherwood, London.
Memoirs of Jeanne d’Arc surnamed la Pucelle
d’Orleans with the history of her times
2 vols. Published, London.
Memoirs of Henry the Great, and of the Court of
France during his reign
1808
1809
1810
1814
1814
1815
1822
1823
1824
1824
78 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
2 vols., 8vo. Published, London.
The Universal Chronologist from the Creation to 1823.
By Henry Boyle
8vo. Published, London.
The Eventful Life of Napoleon Bonaparte, by Baron
Karlo Excellmaus
4 vols., 8 vo. Published, London.
Rizzio ; or, Scenes in Europe during the Sixteenth
Century
By the late Mr. Ireland. Edited by G. P. R. James,
Esq.
William Henry Ireland. “ His name, if his father is
to be credited, is Samuel William Henry Ireland,”
Monthly Mirror, Dec. 1796, p. 490. The contem-
porary MS. annotator of a copy, British Museum,
of An Authentic Account of the Shakesperian MSS.,
1796, writes: “I amj informed that his baptism is
registered that year (1777) in the parish of St. Clement
Danes by the name of William Henry Irwyn, accord-
ing to his mother’s name, who was then a married
woman, living with Mr. Ireland, separated from her
husband.”
William Henry Ireland is famous for his amazing
forgery, the pseudo-Shakespearean Vortigern, which
was produced at Drury Lane on 2nd April, 1796.
Vortigern was published 8vo, 1799. Henry the Second,
An Historical Drama which, had Ireland succeeded,
was also to have been presented as by Shakespeare,
was similarly issued, 8vo, 1799.
After the collapse of Vortigern Ireland acknowledged
his forgeries in An Authentic Account of the Shakes-
perian Manuscripts, published by Debrett, 8vo, at a
shilling. “A Triumphant avowal of the Forgery of
which so much has lately been said and written,”
Monthly Mirror, December, 1796, p. 481. This
Authentic Account in 1805 was expanded into The
Confessions of William and Henry Ireland, containing
the Particulars of his Fabrication of the Shakespeare
Manuscripts ... In spite of the fact that the
Authentic Account had been pirated it had become so
scarce that within a few years the shilling pamphlet
fetched a guinea at public auction. Hence there was
a great demand for the Confessions. Ireland became
1826
1828
1849
INDEX OF AUTHORS 79
a very busy miscellaneous writer. For further details
of his romances, see Montague Summers The Gothic
Quest, where a portrait is given.
ISAACS, Mrs.
Ariel; Or, The Invisible Monitor 1801
Glenmore Abbey; Or, The Lady of the Rock 1805
Ella St. Laurence; Or, The Village of Selwood and
its Inhabitants 1809
Wanderings of Fancy, miscellaneous prose and verse 1812
The Wood Nymph. A Novel 1813
Tales of To-Day 1816
Earl Osric; Or, The Legend of Rosamond 1820
ISDELL, Sarah
The Irish Recluse; Or, A Breakfast at the Rotunda 1809
1
J—N, Esq., S—L.
Husband Hunting; or, The Mother and Daughters 1825
By Samuel John.
JAMES, J. H.
The Banks of the Wye; or, Two Summers at Clifton 3808
JAMIESON, Alexander
The Cavern of Roseville; or, The Two Sisters. A
Tale 1817
A translation of Le Souterrain, ou les Deux Soeurs of
Madame Herbster.
Placide, a Spanish Tale 1817
A translation of Les Battuecas of Madame de Genlis.
Alexander Jamieson wrote many educational works.
JAMIESON, Mrs. Frances, nee Thurtle
Ashford Rectory; or, The Spoiled Child Reformed 1820
The House of Ravenspur. A Romance 1822
JOHNSON, Mrs.
Francis The Philanthropist : An Unfashionable Tale 1786
Juliana. A novel 1786
The Platonic Guardian; Or, The History Of An
Orphan 1787
8o A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
It is uncertain whether this Mrs. Johnson is to be
identified with Mrs. D. Johnson who wrote The
Brothers in High Life (see below).
JOHNSON, Mrs. Anna Maria. See under Mackenzie
JOHNSON, Arthur
Dinan: A Romance 1821
JOHNSON, Mrs. D.
The Brothers in High Life ; or, The North of Ireland.
A Romance 1813
JOHNSON, Theophilus, Prompter at Sadler’s Wells
Phantoms ; Or, The Adventures of a Gold-Headed
Cane 1783
JOHNSTON, Mary
The Lairds of Glenfern; or, Highlanders of the Nine-
teenth Century 1816
Domestic Tales 1822
JONES, Ernest Charles (1819-1868)
The Wood Spirit, a novel 1841
Another edition of which two numbers only, 1 and 2,
appeared, was commenced in 1855.
Beldagan Church 1853
Lord Lindsay 1853
The Painter of Florence 1854
The Maid of Warsaw, or, the Tyrant Czar. A tale of
the last Polish Insurrection 1855
Woman’s Wrongs. A series of tales 1855
The Lass and the Lady 1855
Jones, who was an extreme democrat, wrote sensation
novels, and various political pamphlets of a violently
revolutionary kind.
JONES, E. H. St. Pierre
Rockhaven. A Tale of the Thirteenth Century 1827
JONES, Hannah Maria, afterwards Mrs. Lowndes
(
-1858-9?)
Gretna Green 1820
The British Officer 1821
The Wedding Ring ; or Married and Single 1824
The Victim of Fashion; or, A Treacherous Friend 1825
INDEX OF AUTHORS 8l
Rosaline Woodbndge ; or, The Midnight Visit. A
Romantic tale 1827
The Strangers of the Glen 1828
Emily Moreland; or, The Maid of the Valley 1829
The Pride of the Village ; or, The Farmer's Daughter 1830
The Scottish Chieftains ; or, The Perils of Love and
War 1831
Village Scandal; or, The Gossip’s Tale. A picture
of real life 1835
The Gipsey Mother; or, The Miseries of Enforced
Marriage 1
835
The Child of Mystery; or, The Cottager’s Daughter.
A tale of fashionable life 1837
The Outlaw’s Bride. A Romantic Tale 1838
Jane Shore; or, The Goldsmith’s Wife 1839
Rose of England; or, The Adventures of a Prince 1840
The Gipsey Chief; or, The Haunted Oak, a tale of
other days 1841
The Gipsey Girl; or, The Heir of Hazel Dell. A
Romantic Tale 1842
The Love Token; or, the Mistress and her Guardian.
A domestic story 1844
The Peasant Girl: a Domestic Story 1844
Family Faults ; or, a Mother’s Errors 1845
The Ruined Cottage ; or, The Farmer’s Maid 1846
The Shipwrecked Stranger, a sequel to the Ruined
Cottage 1848
The Trials of Love; or, Woman’s Reward 1849
Katherine Beresford ; or, The Shade and Sunshine of
a Woman’s Life 1850
Since many of Hannah Maria Jones’ novels were pub-
lished without a date the actual year of issue is in
several cases extremely difficult to fix with any preci-
sion. In the address (from 62 Mount Street, Grosvenor
Square), “ To The Reader ” before The Gipsey Chief,
she says “ More than twenty years have ‘
dragged
their slow length along,’ since the authoress of the
Gipsey Chief launched her light and frail bark on the
troubled sea of literature.” She complains of the
cruel wrong ” she has suffered from “ pirates and
robbers.” Thus her bibliography is made especially
intricate and obscured on account of the plagiarisms,
the unauthorized reprints and spurious editions of her
G
82 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
work which swarmed even during her lifetime. Her
popularity was enormous, and continued so that until
the end of the nineteenth century many of her
romances were appearing in cheapest guise with crudest
woodcuts, generally without date or printer’s name.
J. S. Pratt of Stokesley, Yorkshire, in his “ Pocket
Series ” (c. 1840-50) ;
Milner & Co., Paternoster Row ;
W. Nicholson and Sons of Halifax (later of Wakefield)
;
S. D. Ewins & Co., Paternoster Row; were all prolific
purveyors of Hannah Maria Jones’ novels in a more
respectable but strictly economical format. In Feb-
ruary, 1854, John Lofts, 262 Strand, advertised an
edition of The Gipsy Mother by Hannah Maria Jones.
“ The publisher having purchased the copyrights of
the most celebrated works of the above talented and
popular authoress (who is still living) begs respectfully
to inform the public that they will be reprinted in a
handsome form, and profusely illustrated with beautiful
wood-carvings, at a price hitherto unattempted.”
JONES, Miss Harriet of Maidstone
Belmont Lodge. A Novel 099
The Family of Santraile ; or, The Heir of Montault.
A romance 1809
The Poetical Travels of Eugenius and Antonina 1820
From the French of Madame de Genlis.
JONES, J.
Hawthorn Cottage; or, The Two Cupids 1815
JONES, J.
See under the pseudonym Harr)' Hazel. This J. Jones
is presumably not the same author as the J. Jones who
wrote Hawthorn Cottage.
JUDSON, Edward Zane Carroll (1823-1886)
E. Z. C. Judson who wrote and is best known under
the pseudonym Ned Buntline, was bom Philadelphia,
Pa. 1823, and died Stamford, Delaware, New York,
1886. As a boy he ran away from home to sea, and
his life is full of almost melodramatic incident and
escape. His first published piece was a story of adven-
ture contributed to the Knickerbocker Magazine in
1838. In 1848 he was established as the proprietor of
a newspaper Ned Buntline’s Own. As Ned Buntline he
INDEX OF AUTHORS 83
wrote a large number of sensational stories which were
immensely popular.
The King of the Sea. A tale of the fearless and free 1848
London published.
The G’hals of New York: a novel by Ned Buntime 1850
New York. 8vo.
Mysteries and Miseries of New York by Ned Buntline 1851
8vo. Five parts. New York. Often reprinted, per-
haps Judson’s most popular novel.
Ella Adams ; or, the Demon of Fire. A Tale of the
Charleston Conflagration 1861
8vo. New York. Mercury Stories.
The Rattlesnake ; or, The Rebel Privateer 1862
8vo. New York. Mercury Stories.
Thayendanegea the scourge ; or, the war-eagle of the
Mohawks 1862
London. Beadle’s Sixpenny Novels.
The White Wizard ; or, The Great Prophet of the
Siminoles 1862
London. Beadle’s American Library.
Life in the Saddle; or, The Cavalry Scout 1864
3vo. New York. Brady’s Mercury Stories.
Sadia: a heroine of the rebellion 1864
8vo. New York. Brady’s Mercury Stories.
The Grossbeak Mansion. A mystery of New York 1864
8vo. New York. Brady’s Mercury Stories.
The Volunteer ; or, the Adaid of Monterey. A story
of the Mexican War by Ned Buntline 1864
i6mo. Boston [Mass]. Ten Cent Novelettes.
The Parricides ; or, the Doom of the assassins, the
authors of a nation’s loss 1865
ovo. New York.
Clarence Rhett ; or, The Cruise of a Privateer. An
American Sea Story 1866
8vo. New York.
For details of Judson’s life and adventures see under his
name in The Dictionary of American Biography, Vol.
x> PP- 237-
9 -
JUVENIS (pseudonym)
Adary and Fanny 1816
84 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
K
KAHLERT, KARL FRIEDRICH
Who used the pseudonyms Lorenz Flammenberg and
Bernhard Stein.
Der Geisterbanner, eine Wundergeschichte aus mund-
lichen und schrijtlichen Traditionen gesammelt, 1792;
and second edition, 1799, with sub-title Eine Geschichte
aus den Papieren eines Ddnen.
The Necromancer : or The Tale of the Black Forest:
Founded on Facts: Translated from the German of
Lawrence Flammenberg, by Peter Teuthold 17 94
KEATE, George (1729-1797)
Sketches from Nature; Taken and Coloured, in a
Journey to Margate 1779
A work of importance and influence, in the vein of
Sterne.
KEIR, Mrs. James
Interesting Memoirs 1785
The History of Miss Greville 1 787
KELLETT, Esq., Alexander
The Mental Novelist 1783
KELLEY, Mrs. Frances
Domestic Comforts, a Tale Founded on Facts 1808
KELLY, Mrs. Isabella, afterwards Mrs. FIedgeland
A Collection of Poems and Fables 1794
Madeleine ; or, The Castle of Montgomery 1794
The Abbey of Saint Asaph 1795
The Ruins of Avondale Priory 1796
Joscelina ; or, The Rewards of Benevolence 1 797
Eva ; A Novel 1799
French translation by M. D. G., 3 vols., Paris, 1803.
Ruthinglenne ; or, The Cntical Moment 1801
The Baron’s Daughter, A Gothic Romance 1802
A Modern Incident in Domestic Life 1802
The Secret: A Novel 1805
Poems and Fables on Several Occasions 1805
Second edition, 1807
INDEXOFAUTHORS 85
The Child’s French Grammar, intended as an Intro-
duction to the practical French Grammar of N.
Wanostrocht 1805
Literary Information, consisting of Anecdotes,, Ex-
planations and Derivations 18 1
1
Jane de Dunstanville ; or, Characters as they Are 1813
Instructive Anecdotes for Youth 1819
KELLY, Hugh
Memoirs of a Magdalen; or, the History of Louisa
Mildmay 1767
KELLY, Mrs. of Ireland
The Matron of Erin. A national tale 1816
The Fatalists; or, Records of 1814 and 1815 1821
KELLY, Esq., R. N.
De Renzey; or The Man of Sorrow 1821
Frederick Dornton ; or The Brothers 1822
KELTY, Mary Ann (1789-1873)
The Favourite of Nature 1 82
1
French translation as Eliza Rivers, 1823.
Osmond 1822
The Story of Isabel 1826
After the death of her parents in 1822 Miss Kelty came
under the influence of Charles Simeon, and began to
lead a very retired life. She then wrote many miscel-
laneous works of a pietistic kind.
KENDALL, A.
The Castle on the Rock; or Memoirs of the Elder-
land Family 1798
Derwent Priory 1 798
Tales of the Abbey, founded on Historical facts 1800
Tales and Poems 1804
KENDALL, Mrs.
Essays addressed to young Women 1804
Moreland Manor; or, Who is the Heir? 1806
KENNEDY, Grace (1782-1825)
The Decision 1821
Profession is not Principle ; or, the Name of Christian
is not Christianity 1822
Jerry Allan, the Lame Girl... 1822
86 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Father Clement. A Roman Catholic Story 1823
Anna Ross, the Orphan of Waterloo 1823
Andrew Campbell’s Visit to his Irish Cousins 1824
Dunallan ; or, Know What you Judge 1824
Philip Colville ; a Covenanting Story 1824
Willoughby ; or Reformation 1823
Mrs. Kennedy, Mrs. Hemans, Miss Mitford and other
writers contributed to The Sister’s Budget a collection
of original tales in prose and verse. 2 vols. 1831.
KER, Mrs. Ann
The Heiress di Montalde; or, The Castle of Bezanto 1799
Adeline St. Julian; or, The Midnight Hour 1799
Emmeline ; or, The Happy Discovery 1801
The Mysterious Count; or, Montville Castle 1803
Modern Faults; a novel founded on facts 1804
Edric the Forester; or, The Mysteries of the Haunted
Chamber 1818
KIDDERSLAW, Johanson
Swedish Mysteries; or, The Hero of the Mines 1801
“ Translated from a Swedish manuscript by Johanson
Kidderslaw.” Actually, a romance by Mrs. Mackenzie.
KIDGELL, Rev. John
The Card 1755
KIMBER, Edward (1719-1769)
The Life and Adventures of Joe Thompson *
75 °
KING, Sophia (afterwards Mrs. Fortnum)
Trifles from Helicon 1797
Waldorf; or, the Dangers of Philosophy. A Philo-
sophical Tale 1 798
Cordelia; or, The Romance of Real Life *799
The Victim of Friendship 1800
The Fatal Secret ; or, Unknown Warrior. A Romance
of the Twelfth Century 1801
Victor Allen: a novel 1802
Miss King says she was nineteen years old in 1801, the
date of publication of The Fatal Secret.
KNIGGE, Adolf Franz Friedrich Ludwig, freiherr
von (1752-1796)
The German Gil Bias ; or, the Adventures of Peter
Claus 1793
INDEX OF AUTHORS 87
Practical Philosophy oj social life; or, the art of
conversing with men 1 799
Translated by the Rev. P. Will.
KNIGHT, Miss Ellis Cornelia (1757-1837)
Dinarbas. A Pale. Being a Continuation of Rasselas,
Prince of Abissinia 1 790
Marcus Flaminins 1792
A Description of Latium 1805
The Roman Nights at the Tomb of the Scipios, trans-
lated from Verri 1825
Sir Guy De Lusignan: A Romance 1833
Autobiography (posthumously published) 1861
KOTZEBUE, August Friedrich Ferdinand von
(1761-1819)
Ildegerte, Queen of Norway 1798
The History of My Father, A Romance 1798
The Constant Lover; or, William and Jeanette, a
tale from the German (Geprilfte Liebe) 1799
The Sufferings of the Family of Ortenberg. A Novel 1799
Translated by the Rev. P. Will
The Most Remarkable Year in the Life of August
von Kotzebue 1802
Translated from the German by the Rev. Benjamin
Beresford.
(Das merkwurdigste Jahr meines Lebens
)
The Guardian Angel. A narrative 1802
The Pigeon. A tale. Translated by a Philadelphian 1802
(Die Taube). Published, Philadelphia.
gfaida; or, the dethronement of Muhamed IV. A
novel founded on historical facts.
Translated by Charles Smith. Published, New York 1803
The Pastor's Daughter, with other romances from the
German 1806
Novelettes 1807
Levity and Sorrow: A German Story. (A translation
of Luise)
1 809
The History and surprising Adventures of Joseph
Pignata 1821
Translated by George Beech
KRAMER, Professor von
A pseudonym of Christiane Benedicte Eugenie
88 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Naubert, nee Hebenstreit (1756-1819). The works
of this very prolific lady, who used several pseudonyms,
number more than 80 volumes. The most notable
English versions of her romances were
:
Herman of Unna 1794
From Hermann von Unna, 1788.
Alf von Deuhnen I
794
From Alf von Dulmen.
Walter De Monbar
y
1803
From Walt her von Montbarrn, 1786.
Lindorf and Caroline 1803
Translated by Miss Mary Julia Young from Lindorf
und Caroline 1792.
Feudal Tyrants 1806
Translated by Matthew Gregory Lewis from Elisabeth,
Erbin von Toggenburg, 1789.
The Mantle. In Specimens of German Romance.
Translated by George Soane 1826
L
LA FAYETTE, Marie-Madeleine Pioche De La
Vergne, Comtesse De (1634-93)
£ayde,
a Spanish history, written originally in French,
by Monsieur de Segrais. Rather by Mme. De La
Fayette. English adaptation by Mrs. Griffith 1780
gfa'ide, 1670.
The earliest English translation is 8vo. 1677. Zayde,
An Excellent New Romance. Term Catalogues, Nov.
(Michaelmas), 1677.
The Princess of Cleves, an historical ?iovel, revised and
corrected by Mrs. Griffith 1780
La Princesse de Cleves, 1678
The earliest English translation is 8vo. 1679. The
Princess of Cleves. The most fam’d romance. Written
in French by the greatest wits of France. Englished
by a Person of Quality at the request of some friends.
Term Catalogues, May (Easter), 1679.
It has been said that perhaps Mme. De La Fayette
was helped in the writing of these novels by Jean
Rcynaud de Segrais.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 89
LAFONTAINE, August Heinrich Julius (1758-1831)
Clara Duplessis and Clairant. The History of a
Family of French Emigrants 1797
Saint Julien; or, Memoirs of a Father (one vol., Bell) 1798
Saint Julien, “From the German,” (2 vols., Lane) 1799
The Family of Halden 1799
Rosaura 1 800
Romulus, A Tale of Ancient Times 1801
Odd enough, to be sure! or, Emilius in the world 1802
The Reprobate 1802
The Village Pastor and His Children 1 803
The Intrigue. A Tale 1803
Love and Gratitude 1804
Lobenstein Village 1804
The Rake and the Misanthrope 1804
Henrietta Bellman ; or, the New Family Picture 1804
Baron De Fleming; Or, The Rage of Nobility 1804
Baron de Fleming, the son; or, the Rage of Systems 1804
Dolgorucki and Menzikoff. A Russian tale 1 805
Also as Maria Menzikoff and Fedor Dolgoruchi.
A Russian tale founded on fact.
Rodolphus of Werdenberg. A Play 1805
Herman and Emilia 1805
The Monk of Dissentis 1806
The Village of Friedewalde ; or, The Enthusiast 1806
Love and Madness 1807
Edward and Annette. A moral tale 1807
The Man of Nature ; or, Nature and Love 1807
The New Arcadia 1810
Elise 1810
Family Quarrels. A novel 1811
Raphael; or, peaceful life 1812
Age and Youth; or, The Families of Abenstedt 1813
The Haunted Castle 1829
In Tales of Humour and Romance, translated by R.
Holcraft, 1829.
Family Pictures, or the life of a poor village pastor and
his children 1849
A new version of The Village Pastor.
Family Portraiture ; or, the history of a German
country pastor and his family 1857
Another version through the French of Mme. de
Montolicu.
<)0 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
LAMB, Lady Caroline (1785-1828)
A new Canto i8iy
Glenarvon 1816
Reprinted, 1865, as The Fatal Passion.
Graham Hamilton 1822
Ada Reis 1823
Some of Lady Caroline Lamb’s verses are in Isaac
Nathan’s Fugitive Pieces and Reminiscences of Lord
Byi'on, 1829. Lady Caroline furnished a curious em-
blematic frontispiece in stipple to Frances Arabella
Rowden’s A Christian Wreath for the Pagan Deities,
or an Introduction to Pagan Mythology, 8vo, 1820,
an odd enough attempt at “ contrasting the truths of
Christianity with errors of Pagan superstition.”
LA MARTELIERE, Jean Henri Ferdinand
The Three Gil Bias; or, Follies of Youth 1804
A novel from the French of La Marteliere.
This prolific dramatist wrote a striking melodrama Le
Testament, ou les Mysteres d’Udolphe, 1798, founded
on The Mysteries of Udolpho.
LANCASTER, Agnes
The A.bbess of Valtiera ; or, The Sorrows of a
Falsehood 1816
LANSDELL, Miss Sarah, of Tenterden
Manfredi, Baron St. Osmund. An Old English
Romance 1796
LATHOM, Francis (1777-1832)
The Castle of Ollada 1 794
All In A Bustle: a comedy in five acts 1795
Pub. 8vo, Norwich. Acted at Norwich.
The Midnight Bell 1 798
La Cloche de Minuit, trad, de l’anglais 3 tom., Paris,
2X1 vn [
1
799]
Orlando and Seraphina ; or, The Funeral Pile I
799
An Heroic Drama. Also with second title The Funeral
Pyre.
Men and Manners 1 799
Mystery 1 800
The Dash of the Day: a comedy 1800
Acted Norwich, 1800. Printed Nonvich 8vo, 1800
[bis]
INDEX OF AUTHORS
Holiday Time; or, The Schoolboy s Frolic : a jarce 1800
Acted Norwich, 1800. As The Dash; or, Who but
he? produced at Drury Lane on Saturday, October
20th, 1804. Also under title of The Denouement. The
London production was slightly varied from the
original.
Curiosity, a comedy. Acted Norwich. Printed 8vo
Norwich 1 80
1
Astonishment! !
!
1802
The Wife of a Million, a comedy. A.cted Norwich,
1802. Printed i2mo, Norwich 1803
The Castle of the Thuilienes . . . translated from the
French 1 803
Very Strange but Very True, or, The History of an
Old Man's Young Wife 1803
Ernestine, a tale from the French, with additions and
alterations 1 803
The Impenetrable Secret, Find it Out 1805
The Mysterious Freebooter ; or, the Days of Queen
Bess 1 806
Human Beings. (Pub. Nov. 1806) 1807
The Fatal Vow; or, St. Michael's Monastery 1807
The Unknown; or, The Northern Gallery 1808
L'Inconnu, ou la Galcrie mysterieuse, trad, de l’anglais
par Mme. de Viteme, 5 vols. Paris, 1810.
London; or, Truth without Treason. (Pub. Dec.
1808) 1809
The Romance of the Hebrides; or, Wonders never
Cease 1 809
Italian Mysteries; or, More Secrets than One 1820
Les Mysteres Italiens, ou le Chateau della Torrida,
trad, de 1 ’anglais, par Jules Saladin, 4 vols. Paris, 1823.
A letter from the author, Francis Lathom, who was
then in America, to the publisher, A. K. Newman,
accompanied the manuscript of Italian Mysteries and
was printed following the title-page of Volume I. “ In
consequence of the communication made to me by our
mutual friend J.B. on his return from England last
summer, respecting the liberal terms which you were
prepared to offer me for a Romance, I have trans-
mitted to you the three volumes which accompany
this. A very handsome offer had already been made
me for the manuscript, by a publisher in this country
;
92 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
but, in consequence of your application, I found my-
self not less bound, than inclined to continue to move
under the auspices of an old friend, to whose liberal
and gentlemanly conduct I with pleasure embrace this
opportunity of confessing myself to have owed many
advantages.”
The One Pound Note, and other Tales. The One
Pound Note ; The Wife, the Mistress, and the Friend
;
The Prophecy 1820
Puzzled and Pleased, or, The Two Old Soldiers, and
other Tales 1821
Live and Learn ; or, The First John Brown, His
Friends, Enemies, and Acquaintance in Town and
Country 1823
The Polish Bandit ; or, Who is My Bride? and other
Tales 1824
Young John Bull; or, Born Abroad and Bred at
Home 1828
Fashionable Mysteries; or, The Rival Duchesses, and
Other Tales:
A Month in the Highlands
Poor Mary Ann; or, The County Election 1829
Mystic Events; or, The Vision of the Tapestry 1830
LATHY, Thomas Pike (1771- )
Reparation ; or, The School for Libertines. A
dramatic piece (Boston) 1800
The Paraclete: A Novel 1805
Usurpation; Or, The Inflexible Uncle 1805
The Invisible Enemy ; Or, The Alines of Wielitska. A
Polish Legendary Romance 1806
Gabriel Forrester; Or, The Deserted Son 1807
Love, Hatred, and Revenge. A Swiss Romance 1809
Alemoirs of the Court of Louis XIV 1819
The Angler, a Poem in ten cantos, with notes, etc., by
Piscator 1819
Almost wholly plagiarized from Dr. Thomas Scott’s
The Anglers, Eight Dialogues in Verse: 1758.
LAUDER, Bart., Sir Thomas Dick (1784-1848)
Lochandhu. A Tale of the Eighteenth Century 1825
Wolfe of Badenoch. A Romance 1827
Highland Rambles ; and Long Legends to shorten the
way 1829
INDEX OF AUTHORS 93
Legendary Tales of the Highlands. A sequel to High-
land Rambles 1 83
1
Story of Farquharson Of Inverey 1845
In The Edinburgh Tales
,
“conducted by Mrs. John-
stone,” Vol. I, p. 403
Donald Lamont, The Braemar Drover 1846
In The Edinburgh Tales, Vol. Ill, p. 70.
LAVALLEE (or LA VALLEE) Joseph, Marquis De
Bois- Robert (1747-1816)
Cecile, file d’Ackmet III Empereur des Turcs 1788
1 2 mo, Paris.
English translation : Maria Cecilia; or, The Life and
Adventures of the Daughter of Achmet III, Emperor
of the Turks. London: W. Lane, 1788.
Les Dangers de ITntrigue 1790
1 2 mo. Paris.
Manlius Torquatus. A tragedy 1795
Produced at the Theatre des Arts.
La Nature et les Societes; Nature And Society, or,
Ariana And Walter 1815
Bom near Dieppe in 1747, Joseph La Vallee died in
1816 at London whither he had retired on account of
his political sympathies and activity. He wrote poems,
much miscellanea, and several semi-historical works,
the names of which it is perhaps hardly worth while to
enumerate here.
LAWRENCE, James
The Empire of the Nairs; or the Rights of Women.
An Utopian Romance 1811
LAYTON, Mrs. Frederick, formerly Miss Jemima
Plumptre
Spanish Tales 1816
Hulme Abbey 1820
LEE, Harriet (1756-1851)
The Errors of Innocence, a Novel 1786
The New Peerage; or, Our Eyes may deceive us, a
comedy produced at Drury Lane, November 10th,
1787.
The Canterbury Tales. Five volumes 1797-1805
Sophia Lee wrote the Introduction ;
The Young
Lady’s Tale, The Two Emilys
;
and The Clergyman’s
94 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Tale, Pembroke. The rest of the work is by Harriet
Lee. The Two Emilys was later published by A. K.
Newman & Co. as a separate novel, 2 vols., and trans-
lated into French. Other of the tales were also
separately reprinted.
Clara Lennox, a novel 1797
French translation : Clara Lennox ; ou la veuve
infortunee, Paris: an vi [1798]
The Mysterious Marriage; or, The Heirship of
Roselva. A play. Unacted. 1826
The Three Strangers. A Play produced at Covent
Garden, December 10th, 1825. 1826
Founded on Kruitzner, The German’s Tale, from The
Canterbury Tales. Byron’s Werner, 1822, derives its
plot from the same story.
LEE, Sophia (1750-1824)
The Chapter of Accidents, a comedy produced at the
Haymarket, August 5th, 1780. 1780
The Recess, A Tale of Other Times 1783-85
French translation : Le Souterrain, ou Matilde . . .
Traduit de l’Anglois sur la deuxieme edition par Mme.
de Mere. 3 tom. Paris, 1787.
Warbeck, a Pathetic Tale 1786
Translated from Varbeck, one of the Nouvelle his-
toriques (1774-1784) of Baculard d’Amaud.
A Hermit's Tale. A Poem 1787
Almeyda, Queen of Granada. A Tragedy, produced at
Drury Lane, April 20th, 1796. 1796
The Life of A Lover. In a Series of Letters 1804
The Assignation: A Comedy, produced at Drury
Lane, January 28th, 1807.
LE FANU, Alicia
Both aunt and niece, bearing the same name, were
writers.
Thomas Sheridan = Frances
Alicia — Joseph Le Fanu Richard Brinsley Ann Elizabeth —
the elder Henry Le Fanu
Thomas Philip
1
Joseph Sheridan
(novelist)
Alicia
(author of Rosara
»
Strathallan, etc.)
INDEX OF AUTHORS 95
The Indian Voyage, a novel 1804
Rosara’s Chain; or, the Choice of Life, a poem 1812
Strathallan 1816
Helen Monteagle 1818
Leolin Abbey 1819
Tales of a Tourist, including The Outlaws and
Fashionable Connexions 1823
Don Juan de la Sierras ; or, El Empecinado 1823
Memoirs of Mrs. Francis Sheridan 1824
Henry the Fourth of France, a Romance 1826
Alicia Le Fanu, the elder (the aunt of the author of
Strathallan) wrote The Flowers; or, The Sylphid
Queen, a Fairy Tale ,
1810.
LEGGE, F.
The Spectre Chief; or, The Bloodstained Banner. An
Ancient Romance. And Baron Fitzalan. A Baronial
Romance c. 1800
Of chapbook quality.
LELAND, DD., Thomas, Fellow of Trinity College,
Dublin (1722-1785)
Longsword, Earl of Salisbury. An Historical Romance 1762
LE MAISTRE, F.
Frederic Latimer ; or, The History of a Young Man
of Fashion 1 799
LENNOX, Charles
The Duchess de la Valliere, an historical novel, trans-
lated from the French of Mme. de Genlis. 1804
LE NOIR, Mrs. Elizabeth Anne, of Reading
Daughter of Christopher Smart and the daughter-in-
law of John Newberry, the bookseller.
Village Annals; or Scenes in Domestic Life 1803
Village Anecdotes 1804
Victorine’s Excursions 1804
Clara and Montfier, a moral tale 1809
Conversations interspersed with Poems for the Instruc-
tion of Youth 1812
Mrs. Le Noir also contributed to The Monthly
Magazine.
Mile, le Noir translated into French Victorine’s Excur-
sions as Les Promenades de Victorine 1804.
i8oi
-96 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
LESLIE, Mrs.
A Plain Story
Fireside Stories ; Plain Tales of Aunt Deborah And
Her Friends 1806
LEWIS, Esq., L.
Lord Walford 1 789
LEWIS, Matthew Gregory (1775-1818)
The Effusions of Sensibility, burlesque novel, un-
finished [ 1 79 1
]
See below, Life and Correspondence of M. G. Lewis.
The Monk (March) 1796
Village Virtues, a Dramatic Satire (October) 1796
The Minister, a Tragedy 1797
The Castle Spectre, a Drama 1798
Roila ; or, The Peruvian Piero, a Tragedy 1 799
The Twins; or, Is it He or his Brother 099
Not Printed. Produced at Drury Lane 8 April, 1799.
The Love of Gain, a Poem 1799
An Apology for Tales Of Terror 1799
With Sir Walter Scott, Southey, &c.
Privately printed (12 copies by James Ballantyne)
The Four Facardins, a tale 1799
The East Indian, A Comedy 1800
Rivers; or, The East Indian (Dublin) 1800
Tales Of Wonder, 2 vcls., super royal 8vo. 1801
Tales Of Wonder, second ed., 8vo. 1801
Adelmorn, the Outlaw, a Romantic Drama 1801
Alfonso, King of Castile, a Tragedy 1801
The Bravo of Venice 1804
Alonzo the Brave and the Fair Imogine, a ballad
(From The Monk. Separate edition, i2mo, n.d. This
ballad was often separately reprinted) 1804?
Rugantino ; or The Bravo of Venice, melodrama 1805
Adelgitha; or The Fruits of a Single Error, a Tragedy 1806
Feudal Tyrants; or The Counts of Carlsheim and
Sargans 1806
The Wood Daemon; or, The Clock has Struck, melo-
drama produced at Drury Lane, 1st April 1807
Romantic Tales 1808
Venoni; or, The Novice of St. Mark’s, a Drama 1809
Monody on the Death of Sir John Moore 1809
Timour the Tartar, a Romantic Drama 18 1
1
THE BROTHERS, OR THE CASTLE OF NIOLO
A Romance by Robert Huish
1820. Illustration, Vol. I, 213
INDEX OF AUTHORS 97
One o’clock! or the Knight and the Wood Daemon,
a Grand Operatic Romance, an alteration of The
Wood Daemon 1811
Poems 1812
Rich and Poor, an Opera
(adapted from The East Indian)
1812
Crazy Jane, a Song, i2mo
(Printed in the Poems) 1825?
The Isle of Devils, a historical tale (verse), printed
Kingston, Jamaica, at the Advertiser Office 1827
The Isle of Devils was written by Lewis in November,
1815, on shipboard during his first journey to Jamaica.
It is printed, pp. 261-289, in the Journal of A West
India Proprietor, as The Isle Of Devils. A Metrical
Tale.
Journal of a West India Proprietor 1834
The Life and Correspondence of M. G. Lewis 1839
Edited by Mrs. Baron-Wilson.
This work reprints a large number of occasional pieces
by Lewis. At the end of Volume II are Miscellaneous
Poems and Translations, as well as the commencement
of an early burlesque novel by Lewis, The Effusions
of Sensibility, left unfinished.
In the “ Remarks ” introductory to Oxberry’s edition
of The Castle Spectre, 1819 The Twins, a Farce, and
The Harper’s Daughter, a tragedy, are listed. The
Twins; or, Is it he, or his brother (from the French)
was played once at Drury Lane for Bannister’s
benefit, 8th April, 1799. The Harpeds Daughter was
the title given to The Minister (from Schiller’s Cabale
and Liebe) when produced at Covent Garden on 4th
May, 1803. There is an American edition, Phila-
delphia, 1813, as The Harper’s Daughter: or Love
and ambition. A tragedy. With alterations. A
pencil note in a copy of T. Rea’s Schiller’s Dramas and
Poems in England, 1906, University of Wisconsin
Library, says that The Robbers was “ Tr. M. G. Lewis
in 1794, while attache at the Hague.”
The Castle of Lindenberg ; or The History of Ray-
mond and Agnes. A Romance. Fisher [1799]. The
editor in his preface seeks to imply that this abridge-
ment of The Monk is due to Lewis himself. For these
piracies from The Monk, and chapbooks, such as
98 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Almagro and Claude; or, Monastic Murder, 1803,,
and Father Innocent, Abbot of the Capuchins, 1803,
see under The Monk.
Tales of Superstition and Chivalry, London, 1802, has
sometimes, but without warrant, been attributed to M.
G. Lewis.
Koenigsmark the Robber ; or, The Terror of Bohemia:
in which is included, The Affecting History of Rosen-
berg and Adelaide, and their Orphan Daughter. By
M. G. Lewis, Esq., M.P., Author of “ The Monk,”
“ Raymond and Agnes,” “ Bravo of Venice,” etc.
Dean and Munday. N.D. [
c
.
1808] is a spurious piece.
Koenigsmark the Robber; or, The Terror of
Bohemia, was adapted by J. H. Sarratt from the Ger-
man of Rudolf Erich Raspe, 1801.
Les Orphelines de Werdemberg, roman que Lewis
avait lui-mcme traduit de l’allemand. trad, en frangais
par R. G. Durdent. 4 vols. i2mo. Paris, 1809.
A spurious attribution. Probably Durdent is the
author.
Les Mysteres de la Tour Saint-Jean. Par le baron de
La Mothe-Houdancourt, plus tard de La Mothe-
Langon. 4 vols. i2mo., Paris, 1818. A spurious
attribution to Lewis.
The New Monk. A Romance by R. S. Esq. 1798.
A parody on The Monk.
A parody upon the poem of Alonzo the Brave and the
Fair Imogene [by M. G. Lewis]. Being a juvenile
attempt at poetry. [By Charles Few]. With an engrav-
ing, folio broadsheet. Laurie and Whittle. London.
1
799 -
An Epistle hi Rhyme to M. G. Lewis, Esq., Author
of the Monk. With other Verses, including Stanzas
addressed to Mrs. Jordan. By — Soame, Esq., late of
Trinity College, Cambridge. 8vo. pp. 24. 6d.
Lunn.
Moonshine, More Wonders, an heroic epistle to M. G.
Lewis. London, 1801. By Mauritius.
Tales of the Devil. From the Original Gibberish of
Professor Lumpwitz, S.U.S. and C.A.C. in the Univer-
sity of Snoringberg. 1801.
A Parody on Tales of Terror and Tales of Wonder.
The R — L Spectres! or the P — e in a Panic. A
INDEX OF AUTHORS 99
Tale of Wonder. By Monk Lewis, Esquire, London.
8vo. 1813. A squib in verse satirically published under
Lewis’ name, attacking the Prince Regent.
The Island Spectres. A Poem, written in imitation of
Monk Lewis’s Tales. London. 1840.
By Rossendale.
LEWIS, Miss M. G.
Ambition, a novel 5825
LINDRIDGE, James
Lenbridge is an incorrect spelling of the name.
Tales o’ Shipwreck 184.6
Tyburn Tree ; or The Mysteries of the Past 1848
De Lisle 1849
Jack Rann; alias Sixteen-String Jack 1850
The Merry Wives of London 1850
Pseudo-pornography.
LINLEY, William (
brother-in-law of Sheridan
)
Forbidden Apartments 1800
LINWOOD, Miss Mary
Leicestershire Tales 1809
LISLE, Emma De
A Soldier’s Offspring 1810
Fitz-Edward ; or, The Cambrians 1811
LITTLEJOHN, P.
The Cypher; Or, The World as it goes 1791
Henry 1793
LLEWELYN, Mrs.
Read it, and give it a name 1813
LONEY, T. C.
Sebastian and Isabel; or, The Invisible Sword. A
Romance 1 8 1
1
LOWNDES, Mrs.
See Jones, Hannah Maria
LUCAS, Rev. Charles (1769-1854)
A Descriptive Account in Blank Verse of the old
Serpentine Temple of the Druids at Avebury 095
Free Thoughts on a General Reform 1796
100 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The Castle of Saint Donats ; Or, The History of Jack
Smith 1798
The Infernal Quixote. A Tale of the Day 1801
LTnfernal Don Quichotte, Histoire a I’Ordre du Jour,
Traduit de l’Anglais de Charles Lucas. Paris 3 tom.
An ix—1801.
God and Man, our duty united. A Sermon 1804
The Abissinian Reformer; or, the Bible and the Sabre,
a novel 1808
Joseph, a religious poem. Historical, Patriarchal and
Typicul 1810
Gwelygordd ; or, The Child of Sin, a Tale of Welsh
Origin 1820
By the Author of “ The Infernal Quixote.”
LUCE, Joan De
Curiosity, a novel 1822
LYTTLETON, Mr.
The Follies of Fashion 1801
Isabel; or The Orphan of Valdarno 1802
The Lottery of Life; or The Romance of a Summer 1802
La Belle Sauvage, or A Progress through the Beau-
Monde 1803
Peregrine, Or The Fool of Fortune 1803
The German Sorceress 1803
Fiasco, Count of Lavagne 1805
M
M’ARTHUR, Joseph D.
The Northumbrian Chieftain; Or, The Spectre Of
The Abbey 1803
M’CHRONICLE, Ronald
Legends of Scotland. Three Series 1822-28
MACDERMOT, Martin
The Mystery Developed. A novel 1825
Macdermot was a busy miscellaneous writer. Probably
his best known work is The History of Ireland, 4 vols.,
London and Dublin, 1820-23.
INDEX OF AUTHORS IOI
MACFARLANE, Esq., Charles ( -1858)
The Armenians ; A Tale of Constantinople 1830
The Lives and Exploits of Banditti and Robbers in all
Parts of the World 1833
The Camp of Refuge, a tale of the Conquest of Ely 1844
A Legend of Reading Abbey 1845
The Dutch in the Medway 1845
The three English historical tales were published to-
gether as “ Old England Novelettes,” 4 vols., 1846-7.
Macfarlane was a prolific miscellaneous writer
M’GENNIS, Alicia
Strathbogie ; or, The Recluse of Glenmorris 1817
MACKENZIE, Mrs. Anna Maria, of Exeter
Nee Wight; first Mrs. Cox, en secondes noces Mrs.
Johnson, then Mrs. Mackenzie. Nom de plume
Ellen of Exeter.
Burton Wood 1784
Retribution 1785
The Gamesters 1786
Calista 1789
Monmouth: A Tale founded on Historic Facts 1790
The Danish Massacre, An Historical Fact 1791
Orlando and Lavinia 1792
Slavery; Or, The Times 1792
Mysteries Elucidated 1 795
The Neapolitan ; or, Test of Integrity 1796
Dusseldorf ; or, The Fratricide 1
798
Dusseldorf ; ou le fratricide. Traduit de l’anglais par
L. A. Marquand. 3 tom. Paris, an vii [1799]
Feudal Events; or, Days of Yore 1800
Swedish Mysteries; or, The Flero of the Mines of
Dalecarlia. A tale. Translated from a Swedish manu-
script by Johanson Kidderslaw 1801
Rather an original romance by Mrs. Mackenzie.
Martin and Mansfeldt; or, The Romance of
Franconia 1802
The story based on Schiller’s Die Rduber.
The Irish Guardian; or, Errors of Eccentricity 1809
Almeira D’Aviero 18 11
M’LEOD, Miss
Tales of Ton (Three Series) 1821-22
102 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Principle 1824
Geraldine Murray, a Tale of Fashionable Life 1826
M’NALLY, Mrs.
Eccentricity 1822
MALDEN, Miriam
Jessica Mandeville ; or, The Woman of Fortune 1805
Hope; or, Judge without Prejudice 1813
MANNERS, Captain
The Boor 1810
MANNERS, Mrs., nee Pollok, afterwards Lady
Stepney (1785-1845)
Castle Nuovier; Or, Henry and Adelaide 1806
The Lords of Erith 1809
The New Road to Ruin 1833
The Heir Presumptive 1835
The Courtier’s Daughter 1838
The Three Peers 1 84
1
MARCHANT, M. A.
Rudolph & Adelaide; Or, The Fort of St. Fernandos 1811
MARSHALL, A. M., Rev. Edmund
Edmund and Eleanora 1 797
MARSHALL, Thomas H. (An actor of Covent Garden
Theatre)
A Poem on the Death of Lord Nelson 1806
The Irish Necromancer, or Deer Park. A Novel 1823
MARTIN, H.
Helen of Glenross 1802
Remarks on ... J. Kemble’s performance of Hamlet
and Richard the Third 1802
Lives of the Most Celebrated Actors and Actresses.
Portraits by John Gilbert. Pub. Appleyard 1847
MARTIN, Mrs.
Deloraine, A Domestic Tale *798
Melbourne *798
Reginald ; Or, The House of Mirandola 1799
Jeannette 1800
The Enchantress ; Or, Where shall I find her? 1801
INDEX OF AUTHORS IO3
MATHEWS, Mrs. Of the Theatres Royal, York and
Hull. ( -1823)
Perplexities ; or, The Fortunate Elopement 179
4
The Phantom; or, Mysteries of the Castle. A Tale of
Other Times (posthumous) 1825
MATHEWS, Mrs. Charlotte
Simple Facts; Or, The History of an Orphan 1 793
Introspection ; Or, A Peep At Real Characters 1801
Anecdotes of the Clairville Family, to which is added
the History of Emily Wilmot 1802
Poems 1803
Griffith Abbey; Or, The Memoirs of Eugenia 1807
MATTHEW, Esq. (or Mathew), Richard
Courtly Annals ; Or, Independence the True Nobility 1814
MATURIN, Rev. Charles Robert (1780-1824)
The Fatal Revenge; or, The Family of Montorio 1807
The Wild Irish Boy 1 808
The Milesian Chief 1812
Lines on the Battle of Waterloo, a Trinity College,
Dublin, prize poem 1816
Bertram ; or The Castle of St. Aldobrand. A Tragedy 1816
Manuel. A Tragedy 1817
Women; or, Pour et Contre 1818
Sermons 1819
Sermons, second edition 1821
Fredolfo. A Tragedy 1819
Melmoth the Wanderer 1820
The Universe. A Poem 1821
Five Sermons, on the Errors of the Roman Catholic
Church 1824
Five Sermons, second edition 1826
The Albigenses 1824
Leixlip Castle 1825
The Sybil’s Prophecy. A Dramatic Fragment 1826
The Siege of Salerno, a completed tragedy, is stated to
have been found among Maturin’s papers after his
death. Extracts from this play were published in the
Irish Quarterly Review, 1852. It is presumably
identical with a tragedy, Osmyn, which Maturin sub-
mitted to Edmund Kean. Maturin’s correspondence
and several unpublished manuscripts are said to have
104 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
been destroyed by his son, the Rev. William Basil
Maturin.
MAXWELL, Mrs. Caroline
Lionel; or, The Impenetrable Command 1808
Alfred of Normandy; or, The Ruby Cross. An His-
torical Romance 1808
The Actress; or, Countess and no Countess 1809
The Earl of Desmond ; or, O’Brien’s Cottage, an Irish
Story 1810
Feudal Tales, being a collection of romantic narratives,
and other Poems 1810
Laura; or The Invisible Lover 18 11
Beauties of antient English and Scottish History 1824
The History of the Holy Bible 1827
The Juvenile Shakespeare 1828
MEEKE, Mrs. Mary
See also under Gabrielli.
Count St. Blancard ; or The Prejudiced Judge 1
793
The Abbey of Clugny 1795
Palmira and Ermance 17 97
The Mysterious Wife (as by Gabrielli) 1
797
The Siclian (as by Gabrielli) 1 79S
Ellesmere 1799
Harcourt (as by Gabrielli) 1799
Anecdotes of the Altamont Family 1800
The Mysterious Husband (as by Gabrielli) 1801
Which is the Man? 1801
Midnight Weddings 1802
Independence (as by Gabrielli) 1802
A Tale of Mystery; or Celina 1803
From Ducray-Duminil, Ccclina, ou VEnfant du
Mystere, 1798.
Lobenstein Village 1804
A translation from Lafontaine through a French ver-
sion by Mmc. de Montolieu.
Amazement! 1804
Murray House 1804
Also, and more correctly, attributed to Mrs. Parsons.
The Nine Days Wonder 1804
Something Odd (as by Gabrielli) 1804
The Old Wife And Young Husband 1804
INDEX OF AUTHORS 105
The Wonder of the Village 1805
Something Strange (as by Gabrielli) 1806
Ellen, Heiress of the Castle 1807
Julian ; or My Father’s House 1807
A translation of Jules, ou le Toit paternal, 1804, by
Ducray-Duminil.
There Is A Secret, Find It Out! 1808
Laughton Priory (as by Gabrielli) 1809
Stratagems Defeated (as by Gabrielli) 18 1
1
Matrimony! The Height of Bliss or the Extreme of
Misery 1812
Elizabeth ; or The Exiles of Siberia 1814
From the French of Madame de Cottin.
Conscience 1814
The Spanish Campaign ; or, The Jew 1815
The Veiled Protectress ; or, The Mysterious Mother 1818
What shall be, shall be 1823,
Mrs. Meeke translated The Unpublished Correspon-
dence of Madame du Deffand, 2 vols., 1810; and in
1 81 1 she completed Mrs. Collyer’s version of Klop-
stock’s Messiah, Books 1 —16 by Mrs. Collyer, remain-
der by Mrs. Meeke, London, J. Walker, 2 vols. 1811.
(Mrs. Collyer’s Messiah, commenced by Mary Collyer,
first ed. 1763). Allibone, Vol. II., p. 1260, says that
“ Mrs. Meeke published about fifty volumes of novels
of her own and translated several of other persons.”
The above list, exclusive of her translations from
Lafontaine and Ducray-Duminil, and romances issued
as by Gabrielli, comprises considerably more than sixty
volumes. For Mrs. Meeke’s pseudonym Gabrielli see
under that name.
MELVILLE, Theodore
The White Knight; or, The Monastery of Marne 1802
The Benevolent Monk; or, the Castle of Olalla 1807
The Irish Chieftain and his Family 1809
MERE, Elisabeth Guenard, Baronne de (1751-1829)
See under Guenard.
MERLE, William Henry
Glenloney; Or, The Dcemon Friend 1825
Costanca, a poem 1828
Odds And Ends, In verse and prose 1831
io6 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Illustrated by George Cruikshank from designs by the
author.
MILES, E.
Violet Hill; Or, Memoirs of Corvelia, a fair foundling 1791
MILES, Henry Downes
The Life of Joseph Grimaldi 1838
Dick Turpin the Highwayman 1839
4th ed., 1845.
Will Watch, the Bold Smuggler. A Tale of the Coast c. 1840
Claude Du Val. A Romance of the Days of Charles
the Second 1849
The Sportsman’s Companion 1863-4
Pugilistica : being one hundred and forty years of the
history of British Boxing 1864
Tom Sayers . . . his life and pugilistic career 1866
The above titles only represent a tithe of H. D. Miles’
work. He was a very prolific writer and journalist.
Miles shows himself to have been a scholar and a man
of wide reading in English literature.
MILLER, Thomas (1809-1874)
Royston Gower, or The Days of King John 1838
Fair Rosamond, or The Days of King Henry II 1839
Lady Jane Grey, an Historical Romance 1840
Gideon Giles the Roper 1840
Godfrey Malvern; or, The Life of an Author 1842
Fortune and Fortitude ; a Tale exemplified in the lives
of Jack Hardy and Augustus Errantdale 1848
A Tale of Old England 1849
The Mysteries of London, or Lights and Shadows of
London Life 1849
Our Old Town, a Tale 1857
Langley on the Lea; or Love and Duty i860
Dorothy Dovedale’s Trials 1864
Jack-of-All-Trades. A Tale 1867
The Gaboon 1868
Watch the End 1869
The Old Park Road 1871
Thomas Miller wrote a large number of books descrip-
tive of country life, verses, juveniles, historical and
miscellaneous works, and contributed copiously to
magazines and current literature.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 107
MILL!KIN, Anna
Plantaganet ; or Secrets of the House of Anjou 1802
The Rival Chiefs, or the Battle of Mere 1 805
MINIFIE, Miss Margaret
The Histories of Lady Frances A and Lady
S 1763
By the Misses Minifies.
The Picture. A Novel 1766
By Miss Minifie of Fairwater in Somersetshire.
The Cottage. A Novel in a Series of Letters 1768
By the Misses Minifies.
The Count De Poland 1780
The Union 1804
MINIFIE, Susannah, afterwards Mrs. Gunning (1740-
1800)
The Histories of Lady Frances A and Lady
Caroline S 1763
As above.
The Picture. A Novel. As above 1766
Barford Abbey. A Novel in a Series of Letters 1768
The Cottage. As above 1768
Coombe Wood 1783
Anecdotes of the Delborough Family 1792
Virginius and Virginia: a poem 1 792
Memoirs of Mary. A Novel 1793
Delves. A Welch Tale 1 796
Love at First Sight. A novel from the French, with
alterations and additions 1797
Fashionable Involvements 1800
The Heir Apparent 1802
Revised and augmented by her daughter, Elizabeth
Gunning.
MITCPIELL, Isaac
The Asylum 18 1
1
An American romance
A MODERN ANTIQUE. See BYRON, Miss
Medora Gordon.
MONTAGUE, Edward
The Citizen; A Hudibrastic Poem, in Five Cantos, to
which is added Nelson’s Ghost, a Poem in two parts 1806
io8 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The Castle of Berry Pomeroy, a novel 1806
Legends of a Nunnery: a romantic legend 1807
Friar Hildargo, a romance 1807
The Demon of Sicily, a romance 1807
Modern Characters, a novel 1807
MONTALBION, Kate
The Spanish Lady and the Norman Knight, A
Romance of the Eleventh Century 1810
MOORE, Esq., Edward
Sir Ralph De Bigod. A Romance of the Nineteenth
Century. Interspersed with Anecdotes of Real Life 18 1
1
The Mysteries of Hungary; a Romantic Story of the
Fifteenth Century 1816
MOORE, Esq., George
Society and Manners 1
7 79
Grasville Abbey. A Romance 17 97
“ This novel first appeared in the Lady’s Magazine.”
The Monthly Mirror, December, 1797; Vol. IV, p.
346. A French translation, UAbbaye de Grasville,
1798 (reprinted 1810) by Ducas erroneously, and per-
haps purposely, attributes this romance to Mrs.
Radcliffe.
Theodosius De Spulvin, The Monk of Madrid: A
Spanish Tale Delineating Various Traits of the
Human Mind 1802-
Montbar; or The Buccaneer, A tragedy 1804
Tales of the Passions: Vol. I 1808
Tales of the Passions: Vol. II 1811
MOORE, Miss Marian
Lascelles. Interspersed with Characteristic Sketches
from Nature 1802
Ariana and Maude 1803
MORAL, Matthew (pseudonym)
A pseudonym of Mrs. Mary Pilkington.
MORELAND, Olivia, i.e. Captain Thomas Ashe
The Charms of Dandyism 1819
MORGAN, Lady, Sydney Owenson (1776-1859)
St. Clair, or the Heiress of Desmond 1803
The Novice of St. Dominick 1806
The Wild Dish Girl 1806
INDEX OF AUTHORS IO9
Woman, or Ida of Athens 1809
The Missionary ; an Indian Tale 18 n
O’Donnel, a National Tale 1814
Florence Macarthay ; an Irish Tale 1818
The O’Briens and the O’Flahertys 1827
The Princess; or, the Beguine 1835
Luxima the Prophetess : a tale of India 1859
A revision of The Missionary.
There is a separate study of Lady Morgan, The Wild
Irish Girl, 1936, by Lionel Stevenson. Written in a
readable lively style the work is entertaining, but unfor-
tunately falls into many errors. The account of the
Roman authorities is mere caricatura, whilst to allude
to Cardinal Wiseman as “ the obscure professor ” is
ridiculous.
MORIARTY, Mrs. Henrietta Maria (married Colonel
Moriarty)
Brighton in an Uproar 1811
Crim-Con., a novel, founded on facts 1812
A Hero of Salamanca 1813
MORLAND, Esq., Henry
The Citizen and his Daughter 1808
MORLEY, G. T.
Deeds of Darkness; or, The Unnatural Uncle 1805
MORRINGTON, J.
The Cottage of Merlin Vale 1 809
MORTON, Mrs. Sarah Wentworth (1759-1846)
The Power of Sympathy: or, The Triumph of Nature 1789
The first American novel. An epistolary novel. Mrs.
Morton wrote as “ A Lady of Boston,” and was also
known as “ Philenia,” a Della Cruscan poetess. F. S.
Drake assigns The Power of Sympathy to Mrs.
Morton, but it is now claimed that the author was
William Hill Brown. See Emily Pendleton and Milton
Ellis, Philenia, the Life and Works of Sarah Went-
worth Morton, University of Maine Studies, 1931,
and Milton Ellis, “ The Authorship of the First
American Novel,” in American Literature, January,
1933-
I 10 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
MOSER, Joseph (1748-1819)
The Biographia Dramatica, 1812, Vol. I, pp. 527-8,
gives a list of twenty-three plays by Moser. Cephisa
is dated 1804; the last Adelfrid, i2mo, 1811. Most
are slight enough, such as additional scenes to
Murphy’s The Upholsterer, 1807; to Vanbrugh’s
TEsop, 1808; Scenes in Imitation of the Rehearsal,
1809; An Additional Scene to As You Like It, 1809;
An Additional Scene to the Alchymist, 1809; and a
shoddy linsey-woolsey melodrama, Nourmahal Empress
of Hindostan, 1808, founded upon Aureng-gfebe, for
which see Dryden The Dramatic Works, edited by
Montague Summers, Vol. I (1931), Introduction,
pp. xcvii—XCVIII.
Turkish Tales
The Hermit of Caucasus. An Oriental Romance
Tales And Romances, of Ancient and Modern Times
MOSSE, Mrs. See Rouviere, Miss Henrietta
MOWER, Dr. Arthur, of Edinburgh
The Welch Mountaineers
The White Cottage : A Tale
gydneida: A Tale of Sicily
Dr. Mower also wrote Dissertaiio medica inauguralis
de delirio trementi, Edinburgh 1819; and published in
1838 a short study Vocal Music considered as a branch
of National Education.
MOZEEN, Thomas, actor and dramatist ( -1768)
Young Scarron
MUDFORD, William (1782-1848)
Augustus And Mary; Or, The Maid of Butlermere
MURGATROYD, Captain Matthew, of the Ninth
Continentals in the Revolutionary War
The Refugee
MURPHY, Dennis Jasper, i.e. C. R. Maturin
Under this pseudonym The Fatal Revenge; or, The
Family of Montorio was originally published, 1807.
MURRAY, Hugh
The Swiss Emigrants. A Tale
The Morality of Fiction. An Inquiry
094
1796
1800
181
1
1817
1837
052
1802
1825
1804
1805
INDEX OF AUTHORS I I I
Corasmen ; Or, The Minister. A Romance 1814
MURRAY, Mrs.
Henry, Count De Kolinski: A Polish Tale 1810
MUSGRAVE, Agnes
Cicely; or The Rose of Raby. An Historical Novel 1795
Edmund of the Forest. An Historical Novel 1797
The Solemn Injunction 1798
The Confession 1801
William de Montfort ; or The Sicilian Heiresses 1808
N
Nx\UBERT, Christiane Benedigte Eugenie (1756-
1819), daughter of Dr. Hebenstreit of Leipzig, married
Johann Ernst Naubert. Born at Leipzig, 13th Sep-
tember, 1756, she died 12th January, 1819.
Her works, including translations from the English,
number more than 80 volumes. She made use of
several pseudonyms, and issued her famous Hermann
von Unna, 2 vols, 1788, as Professor Kramer, which
led to confusion with Karl Gottlob Cramer (1758-
1817), author of Der deutsche Alcibiades, 3 vols., 1790
(reprinted 1814, etc.), to whom Hermann von Unna
is often mistakenly ascribed. See, for example,
Bayard Quincy Morgan, Bibliography of German
Literature in English Translation, Univ. of Wisconsin
Studies in Language and Literature, No. 16 ;
Madison,
1922 ;
p. 80, under Cramer, Number 551. For English
translations from Eugenie Naubert see under Kramer.
It may be remarked that K. G. Cramer himself em-
ployed more than one pseudonym : Heinse ;
Mullers
;
Milbillers. Among Christiane Naubert’s best-known
romances are :
Walther von Montbarry. 2 vols. 1786
Geschichte der Grafin Thekla von Thurn, 2 vols. 1788
Hermann von Unna, 2 vols. 1788
Konradin von Schwaben, 2 vols. 1788
Elisabeth, Erbin von Toggenburg 1789
Warner Graf Bernburg, 2 vols. 1790
i 12 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Konrad und Siegfried von Feuchtwanger, 2 vols. 1792
Rosalba, 2 vols. 1817
NARES, Edward (1762-1841)
Thinks-I-To-Myself. A Serio-Ludicro, Tragico-Comico
Tale, Written by Thinks-I-To-Myself Who? 1811
Sometimes erroneously ascribed to Beresford.
I Says, Says I
:
A Novel. By Thinks-I-To-Myself 1812
NATHAN, Eliza, Mrs.
Elvington 1822
Langreath. A tale 1822
NEAL, John (1793-1854)
Logan, the Mingo Chief 1823
Seventy-Six. By the Author of Logan.
Baltimore : Printed London : Reprinted for G. and
W. B. Whittaker, (Thus the first English edition) 1823
Neal, an American writer, was in England 1823-27.
He describes Seventy-Six as “ quite a faithful history
of the old American War.”
Brother Jonathan : or the New Englanders 1825
A Tale of Salem witchcraft. Written during the
author’s stay in England.
NEALE, William Johnson (1812-1893)
Cavendish ; or, the Patrician at Sea 1831
The Port Admiral; A Tale of the Sea *833
Will Watch, from the autobiography of a British
officer 1834
The Priors of Prague 1836
Gentleman Jack. A naval story 1837
The Flying Dutchman: a legend of the High Seas 1839
The Naval Surgeon 1841
Paul Periwinkle ; or, The Pressgang 1841
The Captain’s Wife 1842
History of the Mutiny at Spithead and the Nore, 1842
8vo.
The Lost Ship; or, the Atlantic Steamer 1845
The Scapegrace at Sea! or, Soldiers afloat and Sailors
ashore 1847
NERI, Mary Anne
The Eve Of San-Pietro 1804
The Hour of Trial 1808
Hear me, murderer! mark the words of thy dying victim ! My spirit shall
'et more be with thee—my bleeding form shall be thy constant object, and a?
;, ymg I clutch thee now, so thus in life and death shall my cold, clammv ham
^rasp thecal”
THE DEATH GRASP; OR, A FATHER'S CURSE
A Romance bv Thomas Prest
Frontispiece
INDEX OF AUTHORS I 1
3
NEWTON, J. H.
William Tell, The Hero of Switzerland. An Historical
Romance 1841
Hofer, The Patriot of the Tyrol. An Historical
Romance 1845
NICHOLSON, Mr.
Orlando And Seraphina: A Turkish Story 1787
The Village Of Martindale 1 787
Catherine ; Or, The Wood Of Llewellyn. A descrip-
tive tale 1788
The Solitary Castle, A Romance of the Eighteenth
Century 1789
NICHOLSON, R.
Dombey and Daughter 1848
NIXON, Captain
The Ramble of Philo, And His Man Sturdy 1788
NOBLE, Thomas
yfelomer, A Romance. Translated from the French of
M. de Vinde 1801
The Dawn of Peace. An Ode 1801
Blackheath, and Other Poems 1809
Noble also published other collections of his Poems.
NORMAN, Mrs. Elizabeth
The Child of Woe 1789
NORRIS, Miss
Second Love; or, The Way to be Happy 1805
The Stranger ; or the New Man of Feeling 1806
Olivia and Marcella 1807
Julia of England 1808
Euphrasia; or, The Captive 1810
NOTT, M.D., JOHN
Sappho. After a Greek Romance 1803
O
O’DRISCOL
Adventures ; or Scenes in Ireland in the Days of
Queen Elizabeth 1829
I
O’KEEFE, Miss Adelaide (1776-1855?)
Patriarchal Times 1811
gfenobia,
Queen of Palmyra 1814
OPIE, nee Alderson, Amelia (1769-1853)
The Dangers of Coquetry I
79°'
The Father and Daughter 1801
Dramatized by W. T. Moncrieff as The Lear of
Private Life, or, Father and Daughter, Coburg, April
27th, 1820.
Adeline Mowbray; or The Mother and Daughter 1804
Simple Tales 1 806
Temper ; or Domestic Scenes 1812
Tales of Real Life 1813
Valentine’s Eve 1816
New Tales 1818
Tales of the Heart 1820
Madeleine 1822
Tales of the Pemberton Family, for the use of
Children 1 825
Illustrations of Lying, in all its branches 1825
Detraction Displayed 1828
A Wife’s Duty. A Tale 1
847
A novel, The Painter and His Wife, was unfinished.
ORLANDO (pseudonym)
A Summer by the Sea 1807
The Chamber of Death; or, The Fate of Rosario 1810
ORMSBY, Mrs. Anne
Memoirs of a Family in Switzerland 1809
The Soldier’s Family ; or, Guardian Genii 1810
OWENSON, Sydney, see Morgan, Lady
P
P., F. H.
The Castle of Caithness. A romance of the thirteenth
century 1802
PALMER, Alicia Tyndal (grand-daughter of Mrs.
Pritchard, the famous tragedienne)
The Husband and the Lover, a romance 1809
The Daughters of Isenberg, a Bavarian romance 1810
INDEX OF AUTHORS II5
The Sons of Altringham, a novel 1 8 1
1
Authentic Memoirs of the Life of John Sobieski, King
of Poland 1815
PALMER, Miss Charlotte
Female Stability; or the History of Miss Belville 1780
It is and it is not, a novel 1792
Integrity and Content, an allegory 1792
Letters on several Subjects from a Preceptress to her
Pupils 1797
PALMER, Jun., John (1771-1810)
Actor. Eldest son of the famous actor, John Palmer.
The Haunted Cavern. A Caledonian Tale 1796
The Mystery of the Black Tower 1796
The World as It goes 1800
The Mystic Sepulchre ; or Such Things have been. A
Spanish romance 1807
Le Tombeau mysterieux, ou les families de Henares
ct d’Almanza. Roman espagnol . . . traduit de
Fanglais par R. J. Dardent. Paris. 1810.
Like Master Like Man. A Novel ... By the Late
John Palmer, of the Theatre Royal, in the Haymarket 1 8 1
1
Upcott incorrectly ascribes to John Palmer, Jun., a
poem The Creation and Fall of Man, 410. 1801, which
is the work of John Palmer, a literary schoolmaster who
resided at 4 Chapel-court, Bath (
ob
.
1810) and with
whom John Palmer, Jun., the actor has been confused.
PANACHE, Madame
Manners, a Novel 1817
A Year and a Day, a Novel 1818
PARKER, Emma, of Fairfield House, Denbeighshire
A Soldier’s Offspring; or, The Sisters 1810
Elfrida, The Heiress of Belgrove 18 11
Fitz-Edward ; Or, The Cambrians 1 8 1
1
Virginia; Or, The Peace of Amiens 18 11
Aretas: A Novel 1813
The Guerilla Chief 1815
Self-Deception 1816
Important Trifles, chiefly appropriate to females on
their entrance into Society. One vol., i2mo, pub. T.
Egerton 1817
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
I 16
PARKER, Mary Elizabeth
Orwell Manor !
795
Alfred ; Or, The Knight of the Castle 1802
PARLANTE, Priscilla
Pseudonym of The Hon. Mary Ann Cavendish
Bradshaw.
Memoirs of Maria Countess d’Alva 1808
Ferdinand And Ordella, a Russian Story, with
Authentic Anecdotes of the Russian Court after the
demise of Peter the Great 1810
PARNELL, William (
-1821)
Grandfather of Charles Stewart Parnell.
Maurice and Berghetta, or the Guest of Rahery. A
Tale 1819
PARRY, Catherine
Eden Vale 1784
PARSONS, Mrs. Eliza, nee Phelp (1748-1811)
The History of Miss Meredith; A Novel 1 790
The Errors of Education 1791
The Intrigues of a Morning; or an Hour in Paris.
In two acts 1792
A farce, adapted from Moliere’s Monsieur de Pour-
ceaugnac, and produced at Covent Garden, 18 April,
1792. Printed, 8vo, the same year for William Lane,
at the Minerva.
Woman As She Should Be, or Memoirs of Mrs.
Menville 1
793
Ellen and Julia 1
793
Castle of Wolfenbach : A German Story 1793
Lucy 1794
The Voluntary Exile 1795
The Mysterious Warning, A German Tale 1796
Women As They Are 1796
An Old Friend With A New Face: A Novel 1
797
The Girl of The Mountains 1
797
Anecdotes of Two Well-Known Families 1798
Written by a Descendant; and Dedicated to the First
Female Pen in England. Prepared for the Press by
Mrs. Parsons.
The Peasant of Ardenne Forest 1799
The Miser and his Family 1800
INDEX OF AUTHORS 117
The Valley of St. Gothard 1801
The Mysterious Visit: A Novel founded on Facts 1802
Murray House (also attributed to Mrs. Meeke) 1804
Love and Gratitude; or, Traits of the Human Heart 1804
The Convict; or, Navy Lieutenant 1807
Stephen Jones ascribes to Mrs. Parsons two undated
novels, The Wise Ones Bubbled ; or, Lovers Trium-
phant, 2 vols., and Rosetta.
PATRICK, Mrs. F. C.
The Irish Heiress 1797
More Ghosts! 1
79^
The Jesuit ; or, The History of Anthony Babington,
Esq. 1799
PAYNTER, D. W.
Godfrey Ranger 1819
PEARSON, Susanna
Poems j 790
The Medallion, a novel 1
794
PECK, Mrs.
Napoleon: or, the Mysteries of the hundred days, a
novel 1826
PECK, Mrs. Frances
The Maid of Avon. A novel, for the haut ton 1807
The Welch Peasant Boy 1808
The Young Rosiniere ; or, Sketches of the World 1809
The Bard Of The West: an Irish historical romance 1818
PEREGRINE, Peter
Matilda Montford. A Romantic Novel 1809
PHILLIPS, Esq., Charles
The Loves of Celestine And St. Aubert, a romantic
tale 1 8 1
1
The Emerald Isle, a Poem 1812
This author wrote several other poems, as well as
miscellanea.
PHILLIPS, Mrs. Lucius
Heaven’s Best Gift. A novel 1 797
PHILLIPS, Phebe
The Woman of the Town; or, Authentic Memoirs of
Phebe Phillips. Written by herself 1801
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
I 18
PHILLIPS, Richard
The Mysterious Protector 1 805
PICKARD, M.
The Castle Of Roviego; Or, Retribution 1805
PICKERING, Ellen ( -1843)
The Secret Foe. An Historical Novel 1841
PICKERSGILL, Junior, Joshua
The Three Brothers 1803
PICQUENARD, Jean Baptiste (
-1826)
Adonis, ou le bon negre (Paris) 1798
£oflora, ou la bonne negresse 1
799
2 vols., 1 8mo. Paris.
i^oflora; Or The Generous Negro Girl. A Colonial
Story. English translation 1804
Montbars I’Exterminateur, ou le Dernier Chef des
Filibustiers ; Anecdote de Nouveau Monde 1807
3 vols., Paris.
Campagne de I’abbe Paulet en Espagne pendant les
annees i8og-ii 1816
5 vols., i2mo. Paris.
Victoires et conquetes des Grecs modernes >825
2 vols., i8mo. Paris.
Picquenard in his youth had lived in the colonies and
uses much local colour in his romances. He returned
to Paris, and became known as a politician. Here he
died in 1826.
PIGAULT-LEBRUN
Charles-Antoine-Guillaume Pigault De L’Epiney
Lebrun (i 753" i8 35)
Charles et Caroline,
given at the Theatre Francais 1778
L’Enfant du Carnaval 1792
His first novel.
Les Barons de Felsheim 1
798
Angelique et Jeanneton 1799
Mon oncle Thomas 1799
La Folie espagnole *799
Les Cent vingt Jours, ou les quatre Nouvelles 1799
4
vols., Paris, chez Barba.
M. de Kinglin 1800
INDEX OF AUTHORS I ig
Theodore 1 800
Metusko 1800
Monsieur Botte 1802
Jerome 1804
4 vcls., Paris, chez Barba.
La Famille Luceval, ou Memoires d’une Femme qui
n’etait pas jolie 1806
4 vols., Paris, chez Barba.
UHomme a projets 1807
Une Macedonia 18 11
Tableau de la Societe 1813
Adelaide de Mevan 1 8 1
5
Le Gargon sans souci 1816
With Rene Perrin.
M. de Roberville 1818
L'Officieux 1818
Nous le sommes tons 1819
UObservateur 1820
La Sainte Ligue, ou la Mouche, roman historique 1829
Contes a mon petit fils, 2 vols. 1831
The above are the best-known romances of Pigault-
Lebrun, but these titles do not exhaust the list. When
collected 1822-24, eleven years before his death and
whilst he was still busy, his Oeuvres completes ran to
twenty volumes. Born at Calais on 8th April, 1753,
he died at La Celle-Saint-Cloud, Seine-et-Oise, on 24th
July, 1835. A dramatic trifle II faut croire a sa femme
having been received with some favour encouraged
him to write a more regular comedy, Charles et
Caroline, w'hich was given at the Comede Fran^aise
in 1778. This is said to be founded on incidents in
his own life. He followed it up with other plays, such
as Les Rivaux d’eux memes in the same year ;
La
Mere rivale de sa fille ; Le Pessimiste. Pigault-
Lebrun produced much miscellaneous work, but his
novels established his reputation. Of these the eccen-
tric Les Barons de Felsheim and Monsieur Botte are.
generally considered the best.
Those of his novels which were published in English
proved very popular, and the following—all save one
title from the Minerva Press-—had a wide circulation :
The Shrove-tide Child; or, The Son of a Monk r
7 97
A translation of L’Enfant du Carnaval.
120 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
In 1825 another version was published by Wilton
and Son under the more lubrique title The Amour of
a Friar.
The Monk Of The Grotto ; Or, Eugenio and Virginia 1800
My Uncle Thomas 1801
Monsieur Botte 1803
The Barons of Felsheim 1804
Brick Bolding; Or What is Life 1804
The First Night Of My Wedding 1804
The History Of a Dog, Written by Himself, And
Published by a Gentleman of Flis Acquaintance 1804
Papa Brick; Or, What is Death? Being a Suite of
Brick Bolding 1804
The Polanders, the Lying Family, and the Life of My
Uncle, with his Portfolio 1805
PILE, Ann
Female Art; Or, True and False. A Tale 1807
PILKINGTON, Miss
Delia, a pathetic and interesting tale 1790
Rosina, a novel *793
The Subterranean Cavern ; Or, Memoirs of Antoinette
de Monflorance 1 79B
The Accusing Spirit; or, De Courcy and Eglantine.
A Romance 1802
PILKINGTON, Mrs. Mary
Crime And Character; Or, The New Foundling 1805
Fitzherbert : A Novel 1808
Sinclair; Or, The Mysterious Orphan 1 809
Ellen, Heiress Of The Castle 1810
The History Of The Rockinghams. Interspersed with
a Description of the Inhabitants of Russia, and a
Variety of interesting Anecdotes of Peter the Great 1812
The Novice; Or, The Heir of Montgomery Castle.
By Matthew Moral, Esq. [Mrs. Pilkington] 1814
Celebrity ; Or, The Unfortunate Choice 1815
PINCHARD, Mrs., of Taunton
The Blind Child 1796
The Two Cousins. A Moral Story for the Use of
Young Persons 1 798
Mystery and Confidence. A Tale founded on fact 1814
INDEX OF AUTHORS 121
The Ward of Delamere 1815
The Young Countess: A Tale for Youth 1820
POLIDORI, John William (1795-1821)
An Essay on the Source of Positive Pleasure 1818
The Vampyre 1819
There were two issues of the first edition.
Ernestus Berchtold ; Or, The Modern CEdipus. A
Tale 1819
The Wreath, and other Poems 1819
Ximenes, “ a dramatic action ” in five acts 1819
PORTER, Anna Maria (1780-1832)
Artless Tales 1793
Octavia 1798
Tales of Pity 1800
The Fair Fugitives 1 803
A musical drama, music by Busby, produced at
Covent Garden, Monday, May 16th, 1803.
The Lake of Killarney 1804
A Sailor’s Friendship and a Soldier’s Love 1805
The Hungarian Brothers 1807
Don Sebastian; or, The House of Braganza 1809
Ballads 18 11
The Recluse of Norway 1814
The Knight of Saint John. A romance 1817
The Fast of St. Magdalen. A romance 1818
Switzerland. A Tragedy 1819
Produced at Drury Lane, February 15th, 1819.
The Village of Manendorpt. A Tale 1821
Roche-Blanche ; or, The Flunters of the Pyrenees. A
Romance 1822
Honor O’Hara. A Novel 1826
Tales Round a Winter’s Hearth 1826
By Jane and Anna Maria Porter. The younger sister
contributed three stories. Jane Porter wrote the
remainder.
Coming Out 1828
The Barony 1830
The Tuileries, an historical romance 1831
Walsh Colville 1833
The French translator of 1829, J. Cohen, has
erroneously ascribed Gilmour ; or, the Last Lockinge,
122 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
anon., 1824, to Miss Anne Maria Porter. See under
Gilmour.
PORTER, Jane (1776-1850)
Thaddeus of Warsaw 1802
The Scottish Chiefs 1810
The Pastor’s Fire-Side 1817
Duke Christian of Luneburg ; or, Traditions of the
Hartz 1824
Tales Round A Winter Hearth 1826
Three tales by Anna Maria Porter ;
the rest by Jane
Porter.
The Field of Forty Footsteps 1828
Sir Edward Seaward’s narrative of his shipwreck 1 83
1
Edited by Miss J. Porter.
PORTER, Esq., Rippen
Love, Rashness, and Revenge 1816
POTTER, Mr.
Frederic; or, the Libertine ; including Memoirs of the
Family of Montague 1 790
POTTER, M.D., John
Olivia; or, The Nymph of the Valley 1813
POTTER, Matilda
Matilda, an Irish tale 1813
Mount Erin, an Irish tale 1813
POTTER, T. ( -1784)
Novellettes, Moral and Sentimental. Partly original
and partly compiled by the late T. Potter, Surgeon at
North Shields near Newcastle-upon-Tyne 1 785
POWELL, James, of the Custom House
The Narcotic and Private Theatricals, Two Dramatic
Pieces, 8vo. [ 1 787]
The Venetian Outlaw, his Country’s Friend, 8vo, 1805 1805
Never acted. Translated from L’Homme a Trois
Masques.
Wolf ; or the Tribunal of Blood 1806
Translated from Veit Weber, i.e. Georg Philipp
Ludwig Leonhard Wachter.
The Village of Friedewalde ; or the Enthusiast. A
novel 1806
INDEX OF AUTHORS 123
Translated from Lafontaine.
The Monk of Dissentis 1806
Translated from Lafontaine.
POWER, Miss Marguerite A. (1815?- 1867)
Miss Power was a niece of the Countess of Blessington.
There is some account of this lady in the Dictionary
of National Biography.
Memoirs of the Countess of Blessington 1850
Prefixed to the Countess’ novel, Country Quarters,
1850.
The Keepsake 1851-7
Edited by Marguerite A. Power.
Evelyn Forester, A Woman’s Story 1856
The Forsters, a Novel 1858
Two volumes.
Too Late, a Novel 1858-9
Serialized in The London Journal; commencing
November 27th, 1858; concluding May 14th, 1859.
Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert.
Nelly Carew, a Novel 1859
Two volumes.
Virginia’s Hand. A Poem. 8vo. i860
Sweethearts and Wives. A Novel i860
Three vcls., Second ed., 1861.
Arabian Days and Nights; or, Rays from the East,
8vo. 1863
POWER, William Grattan Tyrone (1797-1841)
The Lost Heir; and The Prediction 1830
As Cauth Malowney; or, The Lost Heir 1847
The Gipsy of the Abruzzo 1831
The King’s Secret 1831
Le Secret du Roi . . . traduit de Fanglais par M. A. J.
— B. Defauconpret. 2 tom., Paris, 1832.
Married Lovers. A Comedy. Covent Garden,
February 2nd, 1831. 8vo 1831
Born to Good Luck; or, An Irishman’s Fortune.
Covent Garden, March 17th, 1832 1832
Lacy’s Acting Edition, Vol. II ;
Dicks’ Standard
Plays. No. 784.
St. Patrick’s Eve ; or, The Order of the Day. Drury
Lane, Nov. 24th, 1832 1832
124 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Acting Nat. Drama, Vol. II; Dicks, No. 518. Music
by T. Cooke.
Paddy Cary, the Boy of Clogkeen. A Farce. Covent
Garden. May 29th, 1822
Lacy, Vol. XXVI.
O’Flannigan and the Fairies; or, A Midsummer
Night’s Dreatn ( not Shakespeare’s), Musical Entertain-
ment. Covent Garden, April 24th, 1836
Etiquette ; or, A Wife for a Blunder. A Comedy.
Covent Garden, May 16th, 1836
How to Pay the Rent. Interlude. Haymarket, April
2nd, 1840
Dicks, No. 407 ;
Acting Nat. Drama, Vol. IX ;
Mod.
Eng. Comic Theatre, Vol. I.
POYNET, Quintin
The Wizard Priest and the Witch. A Romance
POZ
Posthumous Papers of the Wonderful Discovery
Club, edited by Poz
PRATT, Samuel Jackson; otherwise Courtney Mel-
moth (1749-1814)
Liberal Opinions upon Animals, Man, and Providence.
In which are introduced Anecdotes of a Gentleman, by
Courtney Melmoth. Also as Liberal Opinions, or the
History of Benignus, written by Himself. Vols. I and
II, 1775; Vol. Ill and IV, 1776; Vols. V and VI,
1777
Second ed ,
enlarged, 6 vols., 1777. A new and
Corrected Edition, 4 vols., 1783.
The Pupil of Pleasure; or, The New System
Illustrated
New edition, 2 vols., 1783. French translation by
Lemierre dWrgy, Paris: 1787. German translation:
1790.
Travels for the Heart. Written in France
Imitative of Sterne. German translation, Leipzig,
1778.
The Tutor of Truth
3 vols., Anon.
Shenstone Green; or, The New Paradise Lost, Being
a History of Human Nature
183a*
1836
1836
1840
1822
1839
I775"7
1776
1777
1779
1779
INDEX OF AUTHORS
3 vols., German translation, Mannheim, 1780.
Emma Corbett; or The Miseries of Civil War.
Founded on some recent circumstances which hap-
pened in America
Ninth ed., 2 vols., 1789.
There are French translations by J. N. Jcuin dc
Sauseuil, 1783; and by another hand, 1789.
Emilie Corbett, ou les malheurs de la guerre civile,
i2mo., 1799.
Family Secrets, Literary And Domestic. By Mr.
Pratt. In Five Volumes. Vol. I. (-II, -III, -IV, -V).
Concerning those things wherein men’s lives, and their
persons, are most conversant. Bacon. London
:
Printed for T. N. Longman, Paternoster-Row
Second ed., 1798.
French translation by Madame Mary Gay-Allart.
The Sorrows of Werter, A new translation “by Dr.
Pratt,” i6mo, 1809; 8vo [1813]; i6mo, 1823; is
sometimes ascribed to S. J. Pratt, who was a prolific
miscellaneous writer, a poet and a dramatist.
PREST, Thomas Peckett ( c
.
1810-1879)
Prest was a relative of the Right Rev. Edward Prest,
Archdeacon of Durham during the eighteen sixties,
and he prepared for the printers not a few of this
divine’s theological treatises and sermons. Prest com-
menced his career by adapting farces and melodramas
from the French. At one time he supplied many
dramatic pieces to the Britannia Theatre (or Saloon),
High Street, Hoxton, which from 1841 to 1849 was
managed by Mr. Lane. Such scripts were never
printed, and never intended for publication.
Prest, moreover, was a talented musician and writer of
songs, and under various pen-names he composed
both words and music for more than one popular
success of George Leybourne, “ the Great Vance,” and
other famous music-hall artists of the day.
He further busied himself with a quantity of miscel-
lanea, and contributed to The Hornet and to several
other contemporary humorous or scandalous journals.
His favourite house-of-call was for many years The
White Swan in Salisbury Court, Fleet Street, E.G.,
hard by the offices of his publisher, Edward Lloyd.
!25
1780
1
797
126 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Prest died of lung trouble in an infirmary near London
in the late seventies, probably 1878-9.
For his Dickensian plagiaries see under “ Bos.”
There is no notice of Prest in the Dictionary of
National Biography where he was certainly entitled to
a place.
The New Historical Note Book; or, Soldiers’ and
Seamen’s Recorder 1835
The Singer’s Penny Magazine And Reciter’s Album 1835-6
The Calendar Of Horrors. Edited by Prest 1835-6
The Magazine Of Curiosity And Wonder
Vol. I, Nos. 1-30. From 5th November, 1835—26th
May, 1836 1835-6
The Penny Play Book: or, Library of Dramatic
Romance 1836
id. weekly. Tales founded on popular contemporary
dramas.
Tales Of Enchantment ; or, The Book Of Fairies 1836
Twelve Stories.
The Horrors Of War. Authentic narratives, edited by
T. P. Prest 1836
The Sketch-Book by “ Bos ” 1836
The Penny Pickwick 1838-9
1 18 nos. See under “Bos.”
The Life and Adventures of Oliver Twiss, the Work-
house Boy . 1839
78 nos. Edited by “ Bos.”
Gallant Tom ; or, the Perils of a Sailor Ashore and
Afloat 1840
Jack Junk; or, the Tar for all weathers. A romance
of the sea 1840
Reprinted as by the Author of Richard Parker [1857]
For the humorous poem Jack Junk, 1814, see under
W. H. Ireland.
Angelina; or, The Mystery of St. Mark’s Abbey 1841
Mary Clifford ; or, the Foundling Apprentice Girl 1841
Ela the Outcast; or, The Gipsy of Rosemary Dell 1841
Emily Fitzormond. A Tale of Mystery 1841
The Flebrew Maiden; or, The Lost Diamond. A
Tale of Chivalry 1841
Fatherless Fanny; or, The Mysterious Orphan 1841
The Maniac Father; or, The Victim of Seduction 1842
Ernnestine De Lacy; or, The Robber’s Foundling 1842
INDEX OF AUTHORS 1 27
The Death Grasp; or, A Father’s Curse 1842
Almira’s Curse; or, The Black Tower of Bransdorf 1842
Emily Percy 1842
May Grayson; or, Love and Treachery 1842
Kathleen; or, The Secret Marriage 1842
Gertrude of the Rock 1842
The Skeleton Clutch; or, The Goblet of Gore 1842
Phoebe, the Miller’s Daughter 1842
The Wife’s Dream ; or, A Profligate’s Lesson [n.d. 1843?]
Crime; or, The Gamester’s Daughter [n.d. 1843?]
Geraldine ; or, The Secret Assassins of the Old Stone
Cross 1
844
Manuscripts fro?7i the Diary of a Physician 1844
Two series.
Paul Clifford 1
844
The Black Monk; or, The Secret of the Grey Turret 1844
Also attributed to Malcolm J. Errym ;
and to G. W.
M. Reynolds who denied the authorship.
Theresa; or, The Orphan of Geneva 1844
Founded on the English dramatic versions of the cele-
brated Therese, ou I’Orpheline de Geneve, melodrame
en trcis actes, by Henri Joseph Brahain Ducange
Victor.
Sarah S. Wilkinson w'rote a slighter fiction Therese;
or, The Orphan of Geneva [
1 8 1
1 ]
founded on the
same play.
Martha Willis ; or, The Maid, the Proflgate, and the
Felon 1844
Mariette; or. The Forger’s Wife and the Child of
Destiny 1 844-5
The Lone Cottage; or, Who’s the Stranger? 1845
Don Ccesar de Bazan 1845
32 nos.
The Death Ship; or, The Pirate’s Bride and the
Maniac of the Deep 1846
The Old House of West Street; or, Lo7idon in the
Last Century 1846
The Apparition 1846
There is an earlier novel of the same name, 2 vols.,
“By a Lady.” 1788.
Jonathan Bradford; or, The Murder at the Roadside
Inn 1846
Adventures by Night 1846
J28 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The Convict 1846
The First False Step; or, The Path of Crime 1846
The Gipsy Boy. A Romance of the Woods and the
Wilds 1847
The Divorce; or, The Mystery of the Wreck 1847
Varney the Vampire ; or, The Feast of Blood 1847
Newgate 1
847
Ranger of the Tomb; or, The Gipsy’s Prophecy 1847
The Rivals; or, The Spectre at the Hall 1847
The Milleds Maid 1 847
Blanche; or, The Mystery of the Doomed House 1847
The Love Child 1847
The String of Pearls; or, The Sailor’s Gift. 1 847-9
Macfarren and Prest. See under Sweeney Todd in the
Title Index.
The Royal Twins; or, The Sisters of Mystery 1848
Ethelinde; or, The Fatal Vow 1848
The Child of Two Fathers; or, The Mysteries of the
Days of Old 1848
Rosalie; or, The Vagrant’s Daughter 1848
Pedlar’s Acre; or, The Murderess of Seven Husbands 1848
From the popular melodrama.
Agnes the Unknown; or, the Beggar’s Secret 1849
Retribution ; or, The Murder at the Old Dyke 1849
My Poll and My Partner Joe 1849?
The Miser of Shoreditch ; or, The Curse of Avarice.
An original historical legendary romance of the fif-
teenth century 1849
Widow Mortimer; or The Marriage in the Dark 1850
Mazeppa; or, The Wild Florse of the Ukraine 1850
The Blighted Heart; or, the Murder in the Old
Priory Ruins 1851
Sawney Bean, the Alan Eater of Midlothian 1851
Richard Parker; or, The Mutiny at the Nore 1851
In connexion with the mutiny at the Nore, Richard
Parker (of whom there is some account in The Dic-
tionary of National Biography
)
was hanged on board
the Sandwich, 30th June, 1797.
The Black Mantle ; or, The Murder at the Old Ferry 1851
Blanche Heriot ; or, The Chertsey Curfew 1851
This romance is founded by Prest on Albert Smith’s
first play, Blanche Heriot ; or, The Chertsey Curfew, a
domestic and historical drama in two acts, in prose.
INDEX OF AUTHORS I2g
Produced at the Surrey Theatre on 26th September,
1842. Smith’s Blanche Iieriot is printed in Lacy’s
Acting Edition of Plays, No. 1083. Dicks, 586.
The Brigand; or, The Mountain Chief 1851
The Miller And His Aden; or, The Secret Robbers of
Bohemia 1852
Founded on the popular melodrama.
The Harvest Home. A domestic romance 1852
Grace Walter *853
Schamyl, The Sultan, Warrior and Prophet of the
Caucasus 1854
Vice and Its Victim; or, Phoebe, the Peasant’s
Daughter 1854
A Romantic Tale of Real Life. 72 nos.
The Miser of Shoreditch. An original romantic
drama 1
854
Produced at the Royal Standard Theatre, Shoreditch,
2nd November, 1854. Adapted by Prest from his
romance of the same title.
The Miser of Shoreditch. A drama by Angelina.
Published New York 1857
To Prest has been attributed the plagiarism of Mrs.
Crowe’s famous novel Adventures of Susan Hopley;
or, Circumstantial Evidence, 1841, as Susan Plopely,
1842.
Since many of Prest’s romances were published with-
out a date and in penny numbers, and many also are
anonymous, the date of issue in several cases can only
be arrived at by some accidental detail or circumstance.
So great also is the confusion concerning Prest’s author-
ship that the British Museum Catalogue assigns
Kathleen; or, The Secret Marriage, 1842, and Blanche
Heriot; or, The Chertsey Curfew, 1851, to Clara
Reeve, who died in 1807.
PRICKETT, Miss, of Leamington
Warwick Castle, an historical novel 1815
PROBY, W. C.
The Mysterious Seal 1 799
The Spirit of the Castle 1802
PURBECK, Misses
Raynsford Park 1 800
Neville Castle; or, the Generous Cambrians 1802
K
130 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
PURCELL, Mrs.
The Orientalist ; or, a Season in Ireland
Also with sub-title Electioneering in Ireland.
o
PUTNEY, Mrs. Charlotte
Cora, the Nabob’s Granddaughter
The Brazen Mask
PYE, Mrs. Hampden
Theodosius And Arabella. A novel. In a series of
letters
By the late Mrs. Hampden Pye.
PYE, Henry James, poet laureate (1745-1813)
The Democrat: Interspersed with Anecdotes of Well-
known Characters
The Aristocrat
PURKESS’S PENNY LIBRARY OF ROMANCE
Advertised in 1853.
Black Hugh the Outlaw ( Black Hugh the Outlaw ; or,
The White Boys of Ireland
;
melodrama, Sadler’s
Wells, May 2nd, 1836)
The Haunted Forest (Melodrama founded on Der
Freischutz. For the opera see under this title).
Massaniello (Masaniello ; or The Dumb Girl of Por-
tici. By H. M. Milner. Coburg, May 4th, 1829.
Adapted from Auber’s opera. In this one year, 1829,
there were five versions played).
Joan of Naples (suggested at least by Reynolds’
romance, The Coral Island).
Martha the Gipsy ( Martha the Gipsy; melodrama,
Surrey, June 14th, 1824).
Rugantino ; or, The Bravo of Venice (Lewis, The
Bravo of Venice, for Rugantino see under Bravo of
Venice and Lewis, Index of Authors).
The Rover’s Bride (The Rover’s Bride ; or The
Bittern’s Swamp, melodrama by George Almar. Sur-
rey, October 30th, 1830).
Nell Gwynne (Jerrold’s play of this title was produced
at Covent Garden, January 9th, 1833).
The Charcoal Burner (The Charcoal Burner ; or, The
Dropping Well of Knaresborough. Drama by George
Almar; Surrey, December 26th, 1832).
1820
1824
1826
1786
095
099
INDEX OF AUTHORS 135
Luke the Labourer (Luke the Labourer ; or The Lost
Son. Melodrama by Buckstone. Adelphi, October
17th, 1826).
Ben the Boatswain (Nautical drama by T. E. Wilks,
Surrey, August 19th, 1839).
Gilderoy the Bonnie Boy (Scotch melodrama by
William Barrymore, Coburg, June 25th, 1822).
Paul the Pilot ( Paul the Pilot ; or The Wreck of the
Raven in i 6g2 . Melodrama by Thomas Greenwood.
Sadler’s Wells, September 9th, 1839).
Grace Grayton ( Grace Gayton. Melodrama, produced
Surrey, September 9th, 1846).
Alice Grey (Melodrama produced at English Opera
House, Lyceum in 1833, also Alice Grey, The Sus-
pected One, or the Moral Brand by J. T. Haines,
Surrey, May 20th, 1839).
Starlight Bess. A “ Dick Turpin ” melodrama.
Beiphegor the Mountebank (Adaptation from French
by J. Courtney, Surrey, January 20th, 1851).
Ambrose Gwynette (Melodrama, Douglas Jerrola,
Coburg, October 6th, 1828).
The Flying Dutchman ( The Flying Dutchman; or
The Phantom Ship. Melodrama. Fitzball. Adelphi.
1st January, 1827).
Marco Spada; or, The Brigand’s Daughter (Play by
J. Palgrave Simpson, founded on Scribe’s libretto of
Auber’s opera. Produced Princess’s, March 28th,
1853. At once pirated by Purkess).
Faustus (
Faustus ; or, The Demon’s Victim. Melo-
drama. Coburg, June 7th, 1824. Also Faust; or,
The Demon of the Drackenfels, romantic drama by
H. P. Grattan, Sadler’s Wells, September 5th, 1842.
H. P. Grattan is Henry Willoughby' Grattan Plunkett).
Suil Dhuv the Coiner (Suil Dhuv the Coiner, a melo-
dramatic romance in two acts by Thomas John Dibdin.
Sadler’s Wells, 1827; revised same theatre, January
14th, 1828).
William Tell (James Sheridan Knowles’ William Tell,
Drury Lane, May nth, 1825).
Cataract of the Ganges (William Thomas Moncrieff’s
The Cataract of the Ganges! or, The Rajah’s
Daughter, Drury Lane, October 27th, 1823).
The Vampyre (James Robinson Planche’s The Vam-
132 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
pire ; or, The Bride of the Isles, English Opera House,
August 9th, 1820).
Schinderhannes (George Almar’s melodrama The
Robber of the Rhine ; or, Schinderhannes of the Owl
Forest, Royal Pavilion, April 22nd, 1833; and at
Sadler’s Wells on the following April 29th as Schinder-
hannes! the Robber of the Rhine).
Eugene Aram (W. T. Moncrieff’s Melodrama, Eugene
Aram; or, St. Robert’s Cave. Surrey, February 8th,
1832).
Herne the Hunter (Thomas Prochis Taylor’s romantic
drama Herne the Hunter; or, The Royal Stag Hunt
of Windsor Forest, Royal Amphitheatre, Astley’s, June
5th, 1843).
The Grave of the Broken Heart. (A Drama by
Samuel Atkyns, Adeline; or, The Grave of the For-
saken. Produced at the Royal Albert Saloon,
Shepherdess-walk, Britannia Fields, Hoxtcn, on
September 29th, 1849. The drama by Atkyns is
founded on a romance of the same title, 52 nos., pub-
lished by E. Lloyd, 1841. See Title Index under
Adeline; or, The Grave of the Forsaken.)
Susan Hopley; or, The Vicissitudes of a Servant Girl
(George Dibdin Pitt’s domestic drama Susan Hopley;
or, The Vicissitudes of a Servant Girl, Royal Victoria
Theatre, May 31st, 1841).
Each tale is complete in one number, containing six-
teen closely printed pages and a splendid illustration.
Complete for One Penny. London : George Purkess,
Compton Street, Soho, 1853. These Penny Romances
were the direct descendants of the Gothic bluebooks.
For the most part they were merely the story of popular
melodramas (some of which I have noted) resolved into
fiction for Purkess’ Library. Very often the melodrama
itself was the dramatization of a famous novel. Thus
Eugene Aram is Lord Lytton’s romance; Herne the
Hunter is Ainsworth’s Windsor Castle; and Susan
Hopley Mrs. Crowe’s novel of the same name.
PURKESS’S PICTORIAL PENNY PLAYS
The Greatest Novelty of the Age.
A complete Play for One Penny. Each embellished
with a Coloured Engraving. Advertised in 1852.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 133
Jack Sheppard (eight dramatic versions of Ainsworth’s
novels were produced almost simultaneously in the
autumn of 1839).
Oliver Twist (C. Z. Barnett’s dramatization of
Dickens was produced at the Royal Pavilion, May 2 1st,
1838. There are several other versions).
Turpin’s Ride to fork (Equestrian Drama by H. M.
Milner. Astley’s Whit Monday, 1836; Surrey,
August 30th, 1841).
Dornbey and Son (several dramatizations. Thomas
Prochis Taylor’s Dornbey and Son, Strand, August
8th, 1847).
Don Ccesar de Bazan (Gilbert Abbott A’ Beckett and
Mark Lemon, Princess Theatre, October 8th, 1844.
Also by C. Z. Barnett. Surrey, October 21st, 1844).
Mazeppa ; or, The Wild Horse of Tartary (Drama:
H. M. Milner. Astley’s, April 4th, 1831).
The Blood Red Knight (Spectacle by J. H. Amhurst.
Astley’s, April 23rd, 1810).
The Dumb Man of Manchester (Drama by Barnabas
F. Rayner. The Factory Assassin; or, The Dumb
Boy of Manchester, Astley’s, September 25th, 1837.
Afterwards only sub-title used and called The Dumb
Man of Manchester. Printed Dicks Plays No. 368
;
Lacy, vol. XXVI).
The Miller and his Men (Pocock, Covent Garden,
November 21st, 1813).
The Vicar of Wakefield (Joseph Stirling Coyne.
Three act play, Strand, March 4th, 1850. Previously
a piece of this name had been given as a “ Pastoral
Opera” at the Haymarket on September 27th, 1823.
There are many—and some famous—later adaptations
of Goldsmith’s novel for the stage).
Obi; or, Three-fingered Jack (Fawcett’s play of this
name, Haymarket, July 2nd, 1800. Music by Arnold).
Black Beard the Pirate (Melodrama. John C. Cross.
Royal Circus, 1798).
The Maid and the Magpie (Pocock, Covent Garden,
September 15th, 1815).
The Red Rover (Melodrama by Fitzball, from Cooper’s
novel. Adelphi. February 9th, 1829).
Black-eyed Susan (Jcrrold. Surrey, June 8th, 1829).
*34 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The Corsican Brothers (Adaptation from French
drama, produced Princess’s, February 24th, 1852).
Minnigrey; or The Gipsies of Dingley Forest, a
melodrama in 3 acts. (J. F. Smith's famous novel
1851-2, almost simultaneously dramatized).
The Forty Thieves; or Ali Baba the Woodman, a
melodramatic romance in 2 acts. (Colman. Music,
Kelly. Drury Lane, April 8th, 1806).
Uncle Tom’s Cabin. Harriet Beecher Stowe’s Uncle
Tom’s Cabin; or, Life among the Lowly, ran as a
serial from 5th June, 1851, to 1st April, 1852, in the
National Era, a Washington Abolitionist paper. It was
published, 2 vols., on the 20th March, 1852. In Eng-
land, it has been said, Uncle Tom’s Cabin was “a
triumph of pirated editions,” and the book was at once
dramatized both in America and in England. The
play, one version of which was promptly printed by
Purkess, immediately established itself as a popular
favourite, and was to be seen at practically every
Minor Theatre in London.
Azazel the Prodigal. Auber’s grand opera L’Enfant
Prodigue, five acts, libretto by Scribe, was first given at
the Academie, Paris, on 6th December, 1850. It was
produced in English, at Drury Lane, on 19th February,
1851, as Azazel the Prodigal, and on account of the
great success forthwith pirated and adapted as a
melodrama or a “ melodramatic spectacle ” for the
Minor Theatres.
Ada the Betrayed. A melodrama founded upon
Malcolm J. Errym’s popular romance (also attributed
to T. P. Prest) Ada the Betrayed ; or, The Murder at
The Old Smithy. 1842.
Blue Beard. Colman’s Blue Beard; or, Female
Curiosity. Music by Kelly, Produced “ with extra-
ordinary success” at Drury Lane, January, 1798, and
long popular.
The Will and the Way; or, The Mysteries of the
Abbey. A drama in two acts. J. F. Smith’s famous
novel, London Journal, 1852-3, almost simultaneously
dramatized.
INDEX OF AUTHORS *35
R
R., G.
Castle fffittaw, a German Tale *794
RADCLIFFE, nee Ward, Ann (1764-1823)
The Castles of Athlin and Dunbayne
A Sicilian Romance
The Romance of the Forest
The Mysteries of Udolpho
A Journey Made in the Summer of 1 /Q4,
through
Holland and the Western Frontier of Germany with a
Return down the Rhine: to which are added Obser-
vations during a Tour to the Lakes of Lancashire,
Westmoreland and Cumberland
The Italian; Or, The Confessional of The Black
Penitents
The Poems of Mrs. Ann Radcliffe
Gaston De Blondeville ; Or The Court of Henry III.
Keeping Festival in Ardenne, A Romance. St.
Alban’s Abbey; A Metrical Tale; With Some Poetical
Pieces. By Anne Radcliffe ... To Which Is Prefixed
A Memoir Of The Author With Extracts From Her
Journals
Poetical Works of Ann Radcliffe
Poems
Many chapbooks were abridgements and unauthorized
redactions of Mrs. Radcliffe’s romances. Such are
The Veiled Picture; or, The Mysteries of Gorgono,
the Appenine Castle of Signor Androssi, 1802, from
The Mysteries of Udolpho
;
and The Midnight Assas-
sin; or, Confession of the Monk Rinaldi, 1802, from
The Italian.
The Monthly Review, March, 1811, Vol. XLIV, p.
313, comments upon a trick by which the names of
approved authors are assumed, or almost precisely
similar names adopted by inferior writers to impose
upon the public. In particular the names of Hamilton,
Radcliffe, Burney and Edgeworth have been thus
“ unwarrantably employed.”
The Fate Of Velina De Guidova. By Mrs. Ann
Radcliffe
W89
1790
1791
1794
W95
1797
1816
1826
1834
1845
1790
136 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Radzivil, A Romance. Translated from the Russ of
the celebrated M. Wocklow. By Mrs. Ann Radcliffe 1790
Both these are the work of Mrs. Mary Ann Radcliffe.
Manfrone ; or, The One-handed Monk, published by
T. F. Hughes, Wigmore Street, 4 vols., 1809, by Mrs.
Mary Ann Radcliffe, was more than once reprinted,
perhaps mistakenly, perhaps of intent, as the work of
the famous Mrs. Ann Radcliffe.
Other spurious attributions to Ann Radcliffe include :
L’Abbaye de Grasville, traduit en frangais par Ducas.
2 vols., Paris: 1798. A version of George Moore’s
Grasville Abbey, 1797.
Le Tombeau, “ ouvrage posthume d’Anne Radcliffe,”
traduit par H. Chaussier et Bizet. Paris: 1799. The
supposed translators are the real authors.
Die Einsiedlerin am Vesuv. Translated by Konrad
Adolf Hartleben, who is probably the author. Leipzig,
1801.
Les Visions du Chateau des Pyrenees, “ traduites sur
l’edition imprimee a Londres en 1803,” par. G.
Gamier et Mile. Zimmcrmann. (This must be care-
fully distinguished from Frederic Soulie’s Le Chateau
des Pyrenees, 5 vols., Paris, 1843.)
Le Convent de Sainte-Catherine, ou les Moeurs du
Xllle siecle, roman historique, actually by the
Baroness Caroline d’Aufdiener, nee Wuiet. Paris.
1810.
La Foret de Montalbana, traduit en frangais. The
translator published this romance as “ un ouvrage par
1’ auteur Les Visions des Pyrenees
”
Paris, 1813. It is a
version of Catharine Cuthbertson’s The Forest of
Montabano
,
1810.
L’Hermite de la Tombe mysterieuse, ou le Fantome
du Vieux Chateau “ anecdote extraite des Annales du
Xllle siecle par Mme. Anne Radcliffe et traduit sur
le manuscrit anglais “ par le baron de La Mothe-
Houdancourt, Paris. 1816. 2 vols., with frontispieces.
Der Eremit am schwarzen Grabmahle, oder das
Gespenst im alter Schlosse. Wien. 1817. German
translation of the above.
De Albigenzen of de Kluizenaar in hat bosch van
Caillavel. J. C. van Kesteren. Amsterdam. 1817.
Die Erscheinungen im Schlosse der Pyrenaen. Bruns-
INDEX OF AUTHORS 137
wick. 1818. German translation of Les Visions da
Chateau des Pyrenees.
Barbarinski, ou les Brigands du chateau de Wissegrade.
Imite de l’anglais d’Anne Radcliffe. Par Madame la
Comtesse de Nardouet. Paris. 1818.
De Verse higningen op het kasteel der Alpen. J.
Nathan, Zalt-Bommel. 1820. A Dutch version of
Les Visions du Chateau des Pyrenees.
Le Panache rouge ; ou le Spectre de Feu. Imite de
l’anglais d’Anne Radcliff, par Madame la Comtesse
de Nardouet. Paris, 1824.
Die Priorin. Brunswick. 1824.
A translation of W. PI. Ireland’s The Abbess, 1799.
Angelina, oder die Abentheuer im Waide von Mont-
albano. Brunswick. 1828. A translation of The
Forest of Montalbano, 1810.
Der Thurra von Aosta, oder Grossmuth im Tode.
Brunswick. 1829.
Das Schwarze Schloss, oder der Sturm der Leiden-
schaften. Brunswick. 1829. A translation of G. D.
Hemon’s Louisa, or The Black Tower. 1805.
Die Todeswette. Translated by Gustav Seller. Pesth.
1830.
Rose d’Altenberg, ou le Spectre dans les ruines:
“ Manuscrit trouve dans le portefeuille de feue Anne
Radcliffe,” par Henri Duval. Paris, 1830. Alexina
“ imite de l’anglais ” par Mme. Brayer de Saint-Leon,”
Paris, 1813, was translated into English by Margaret
Campbell as The Midnight Wanderer; or, A Legend
of the Houses of Altenberg and Lindendorf, 1821,
which romance was re-translated nine years later by
Henri Duval as Rose d’Altenberg, and ascribed to Mrs.
Radcliffe.
By a curious error “ two works, both dated 1790, have
been assigned to Mrs. Radcliffe . . . They are : The
Fate of Velina De Guidova; and Radzivil.” Godfrey
Frank Singer, The Epistolary Novel, University of
Philadelphia Press, 1933, p. 127. These are the work
of Mrs. Mary Ann Radcliffe, whose Manfrone ; or,
The One-Handed Monk was so frequently ascribed to
the authoress of The Mysteries of Udolpho. I do not
find that The Fate of Velina De Guidova and
Radzivil are given to Mrs. Ann Radcliffe (nee Ward)
138 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
by any contemporary or indeed by later evidence of
any value, and I am inclined to suppose that Mr.
Singer remarking that these two novels are by Mrs.
Ann Radcliffe has himself presumed an erroneous
ascription, not knowing that there were two ladies of
the same name.
Fate of Velina De Guidova, The, 3 vols. Lane.
Radzivil, a Romance. Trans, from the Russ of the
celebrated M. Wocklow. 3 vols. Lane.
French, German, and other translations of Mrs.
Radcliffe’s romances.
THE CASTLES OF ATHLIN AND DUNBAYNE :
1789
Les Chateaux d’Athlin et de Dunbayne, trad, par
1’auteur des Memoires de Cromwell, 2 vols. Paris,
Plancher, 1819.
A SICILIAN ROMANCE : 1790
Julia, ou les Souterrains du Chateau de Mazzini, trad,
de l’anglais sur la seconde edition par Moylin. Paris.
Forget 1798.
2 vol. 12
0
avec gravures et musique; 2 vol. 18
0
Ibid. 1801.
Ibid. 1819. 2 vol. Paris, Maradan.
Ibid. 1858. Paris, impr. veuve Dondey-Dupre ;
libr.
G. Havard, gr. 8°, vignettes, bibl. illustree pour tous.
Ibid. i860, libr. G. Havard.
Ibid. 1867. trad, nouvelle par Fournier. Paris.
Michel Levy freres. gr. 18
0
Die Nachtliche Erscheinung im Schlosse Mazzine. 2
vols., Hannover. 1792. Translated by Dorothea
Margarethe Liebeskind.
I Sotteranei di Mazzini. Con illustrazioni. Simonetti,
Milano. 1883. Price one lira.
Giulia; o i Sotteranei del Castello di Mazzini. Bib-
lioteca Romantica Tascabile. Sonzogno, Milano.
1889. Price 50 centesimi.
Julia o Los Subterraneos del Castillo de Mazzini.
Novela escrita en ingles par Mad. de Radcliff. Tradui-
cida del frances al Castellano. Par I.M.P. Valencia.
1819.
THE ROMANCE OF THE FOREST : 1791.
La Foret, ou VAbbaye de Saint Clair, trad, par
1
79°
1790
INDEX OF AUTHORS x
39
Soules. Paris, Maradan, 1800. 2 vcl., 12
0
;
and 4
vol. 8°.
Ibid. 1802. 2 vcl. 12
0
. Maradan.
Ibid. 1819. 2 vol. 12
0
. Maradan.
Ibid. 1831. 3 vol. 12
0
. Lecointe et Pougin.
Ibid. 1869. trad, nouvelle par Fournier. Paris.
Michel Levy freres. gr. 18
0
.
Adeline, oder das Abenteuer im Wdlde. 3 vois.
Leipzig, Bohme, 1793. Translated by Dorothea Mar-
garethe Liebeskind.
Gli Assassini di Ercolano. Romanzo . . . traduzione del
Francese. Edizione ricorretta e splendidamente
illustrata. Milano. 1871. Translated from Four-
nier’s version of 1869 of The Romance of the Forest.
THE MYSTERIES OF UDOLPHO :
1794
Les Mysteres d’Udolphe, trad, de l’anglais par Mme.
Victorine de Chastenay. Paris, Maradan, 1797, 4
vol. 12
0
avec figures, and 6 vol. 18
0
avec figures.
Ibid. 1808, Maradan. 4 vol. 12
0
Ibid. 1819, Maradan. 4 vol. 12
0
Ibid. 1827, Grimvert. 4 vol. 12
0
Ibid. 1839, Pougin. 6 vol. 12
0
Ibid. 1840, Pougin. 6 vol. 12
0
Ibid. 1849. bibl. illustree pour tous.
Les Mysteres da Chateau d’Udolphe. trad, nouvelle
par Fournier. Paris. Michel Levy freres, 2 vol. 12
0
.
1864.
Ibid. 1874. Michel Levy' freres. 2 vol. 18
0
Les Mysteres d’Udolphe : edition illustree par. J.—A.
Beauce, impr. Toinon. Paris. Libr. rue Visconti, 1869.
4
°
Udolphos Geheimnisse. 4 vols. Riga, Hartknock.
1795. Translated by Dorothea Margarethe Liebeskind.
A JOURNEY MADE IN THE SUMMER OF 1794:
1795
Voyage fait dans I’ete de i/Q4 en Hollande et sur la
frontiere d’Allemagne, avec des observations faites dans
une tournee pres des lacs de Lancashire, Westmore-
land, et Cumberland, 1795. Seconded. 1799. Trans-
lated by Cantwel.
140 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
THE ITALIAN; OR, THE CONFESSIONAL OF
THE BLACK PENITENTS: 1797
Eleonore de Rosalba, ou le Confessional des Penitents
noirs, trad, par Mary Gay Allard. Paris, Lepetit,
1 797- 7 vol. 18
0
avec figures.
L’ltalien, ou le Confessional des penitents noirs, trad,
de 1’anglais par A. M. (Andre Morellet). Paris,
Denne, 1797, 3 vol. 12" and 4 vol. 18
0
avec trois (et
quatre) gravures, nonsignees, une a chaque volume.
Ibid, an VI (1798), Paris, Maradan, 4 vol. 18
0
,
avec
gravures.
Eleonore de Rosalba . . . trad, par Mary Gay Allard.
Paris. Lepetit. An VIII. (1799). 7 vol. 18
0
avec
figures.
L’ltalien . . . trad, de 1 ’anglais par A.M. (ikndre
Morellet) 1819, Maradan, 3 vol. 12
0
.
Ibid. 1857, impr. Dondey-Dupre ;
libr. G. Havard,
4
0
,
bibl. illustree pour tous.
Ibid. 1858, impr. Lacour; libr. Havard, 4
0
,
bibl.
illustree pour tous.
Ibid. 1 858, impr. Gaittet ;
libr. Havard, 4
0
,
bibl.
illustree pour tous.
Ibid. 1861, Lecrivain et Toubon, 8°, bibl, illustree
pour tous.
Ibid. 1863, Lecrivain et Toubon, 8°, bibl, illustree
pour tous.
Ibid. 1864, trad, nouvelle par Fournier. Michel Levy
freres. 18".
Die Italienerin, oder der Beichtstull der Schwarzen
Bussenden. Konigsberg. Nicolovius. 3 vols. 1797.
Translated by Dorothea Margarethe Liebeskind.
Ellena„ die Italienerin, oder die Warnungen in den
Ruinen von Paluzzi Leipzig and Prague. 3 vols.
1801.
GASTON DE BLONDEVILLE, OR, THE COURT
OF HENRY III KEEPING FESTIVAL IN
ARDENNE: 1826.
Gaston de Blondeville, ou Henri III tenant son Cour a
Kenilworth en Ardennes. Roman . . . traduit de
Fanglais par le traducteur des romans de Sir W.
Scott [A. J. B. Defauconpret] 3 vol. Paris. 1826.
INDEX OF AUTHORS H1
PLAYS FOUNDED UPON MRS. RADCLIFFE’S
NOVELS.
The Castles of Athlin and Dunbayne.
Edgar, or Caledonian Feuds, a tragedy in five acts by
George Manners. Produced at Covent Garden, 9
May, 1806, for the benefit of Miss Smith. 8°, 1806.
Halloween ; or The Castles Of Athlin and Dunbayne,
“ a New Grand Scotch Spectacle” by J. C. Cross. In
Circusiana. 1809.
A Sicilian Romance.
The Sicilian Romance; or, The Apparition of the
Cliffs, An Opera by Henry Siddons. According to
Genest “ most vilely ” done. Produced at Covent
Garden, Wednesday, 28 May, 1794, with success.
Julia, ou les Souterrains de Mazzini, “ piece a grand
spectacle en trois actes,” produced at the theatre des
Jeunes-Artistes, 12 frimaire, an VII, (November, 1798).
8°, 1799 -
The Romance of the Forest.
Dramatized by James Boaden as Fontainville Forest in
five acts. Produced at Covent Garden, Tuesday, 25
March, 1794. Marquis of Montault, Farren;
Lamotte, Pope ;
Madame Lamotte, Miss Morris
;
Adeline, Mrs. Pope. Published 8vo. 1794. At
Covent Garden, 8 January, 1796, the play was revived
as “ compressed into 4 acts by the author.” Also a
melodrama produced at the Surrey on Tuesday,
March 9th, 1824, Fontainville Abbey; or, The
Phantom of the Forest.
The Mysteries of Udolpho.
The Mysteries of the Castle. An opera by Miles Peter
Andrews, who was assisted by Frederick Reynolds.
Produced at Covent Garden, 1 January, 1795. Mon-
toni is from The Mysteries of Udolpho, and there are
hints from A Sicilian Romance.
Le Testament, ou les Mysteres d’Udolphe, a drama in
five acts by Larmarteliere, produced at the theatre
Louvois, 22 messidor, 1798 (June, 1798). Actually it
might be argued that only one or two incidents are
directly drawn from Mrs. Radcliffe, although her style
and decor are copied wholesale throughout.
Montoni, ou le Chateau d’Udolphe, a drama in five
142 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
acts by Alexandre Duval, produced at the theatre de la
Cite, 29 July, 1798. 8°, 1798.
Le Chateau des Apennins, ou le Fantome Vivant,
drame en cinq actes. By Rene-Charles Guilbert de
Pixerecourt. Produced at the Ambigu comique, 19
frimaire, an VII (9 December, 1799). 8°, 1799.
This was translated into English by John Baylis as
The Mysteries of Udolpho; or The Phantom of the
Castle, i2mo. 1804. Not acted.
Leon, ou le Chateau de Montenero, a drama in 3 acts
by Fr. Hoffman and Dalagrac. Produced at the
theatre de la rue Favant, 29 frimaire, an VII (1799).
8°, 1799. A melodrama based on The Mysteries of
Udolpho.
The Castle of Udolpho, a Dramatic Opera, was
printed, 8vo. 1808, in The Dramatic Apellant, a quar-
terly publication which only reached three numbers.
This work was designed to publish such pieces as had
not been accepted by the managers, or else were not
intended for production.
The Italian.
The Italian Monk. A play in Three Acts. By James
Boaden. Produced at the Theatre Royal, Haymarket,
Tuesday, 15 August, 1797. Palmer, Schedoni
;
Charles Kemble, Vivaldi ;
Miss De Camp, Ellena.
8° (2 editions) 1797.
Lleonore de Rosalba, ou les Ruines de Paluzzi, drama
en 4 actes. By Pujos and Dabaytua. Produced at the
theatre de la Cite, 5 June, 1798. 8°, 1798.
Gaston De Blondeville.
Dramatized by Miss Mitford, “ because I thought,
and still think, that the story, taken from Mrs.
Radcliffe’s posthumous romance, would be very effec-
tive as mere spectacle—a play to look at—upon the
stage.” Introduction to the Dramatic Works of Mary
Russell Mitford, ed. 1854.
RADCLIFFE, Mrs. Mary Ann
of Kennington Cross, and later of Wimbledon in
Surrey. Characterized by Upcott as “ One of the
Wollstonecraft school.”
The Fate Of Velina De Guidova 1790
INDEX OF AUTHORS
Radzivil, A Romance. Trans, from the Russ of the
celebrated M. Wocklow 1790
The Female Advocate, or an attempt to recover the
rights of women from male usurpation 1
799
Manfrone ; or, The One-handed Monk 1809
The Memoirs of Mrs. M. A. Radcliffe in familiar
letters to her female friend 1810
Radcliff’s New Novelist’s Pocket Magazine, or Enter-
tainment of Delight, containing an elegant and chaste
collection of Original Novels, Tales, Romances, Lives,
Memoirs, Voyages, Travels, etc. Together with a
judicious selection from the Writings of those Authors,
whose works have in any Degree excited public
Notoriety. The whole written, adjusted and compiled
solely for this Work by Mrs. Mary Anne Radcliffe,
of Wimbledon, in Surrey.
No. 1. The Adventures of Captain Duncan
No. 2. Monkish Mysteries [1820?]
Mrs. Mary Ann Radcliffe, (the name is indifferently
spelled Mary Anne or Mary-Anne ;
the surname
Radcliffe or Radcliff) later in the nineteenth century
was continually and perhaps designedly confused with
the famous Mrs. Ann Radcliffe. Thus Manfrone was
more than once reprinted in cheap editions as the
work of the authoress of The Mysteries of Udolpho.
As early as 1832 A. K. Newman & Co. advertise
“ Manfrone, or the One-handed Monk, by Mrs.
Radcliffe, 3rd edition, 4 vols . . . £1. o. o,” which
although strictly correct is apt to mislead, and has in
fact proved a source of error. In 1884 N. Bruce of
Peterborough Court, Fleet Street, reprinted Manfrone
A Romance By Mary Anne Radcliffe, Author of “ The
Italian,” etc.
Ann Sophia Radcliffe wrote The Ladies Elegant
Jester; or, Fun for the Female Sex.
RATCLIFFE, Mrs. Eliza
The Mysterious Baron 1808
This name is sometimes (perhaps designedly) spelled
Radcliffe.
RANDOLPH, A. J.
The Mysterious Hand ; or, Subterranean Horrors. A
romance 1 8 1
1
i
44 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
RAYNER, W. H.
Virtue and Vice, a novel 1805
REEVE, Miss Clara (1729-1807)
Original Poems on Several Occasions *769
The Phoenix 1772
The Champion of Virtue 1777
The Old English Baron ; a Gothic Story *778
A reprint of The Champion of Virtue.
The Two Mentors *783
The Progress of Romance *785
The Exiles; or, Memoirs of the Count de Cronstadt 1788
The School for Widows 1 7g 1
Plans of Education 1792
Memoirs of Sir Roger de Clarendon 1 793
Destination : or, Memoirs of A. Private Family 1 799
Castle Connor—an Irish Story of the supernatural,
was lost from the London coach in May, 1787, and
never recovered.
Fatherless Fanny (1819) although mere than once
ascribed to Clara Reeve, is not her work. In 1799
Carpenter & Co. advertise The Fair Impostor, a novel
by Clara Reeve.
REEVE, Miss Sophia
The Mysterious Wanderer 1807
Stanmore ; or The Monk, and The Merchant’s Widow 1824
REGNAULT-WARIN, Jean Baptiste Joseph Inno-
cent Philadelphe (1775-1844)
La Caverne de Strozzi 1798
One vol., 8vo. English translation The Cavern of
Strozzi, A Venetian Tale.
One vol., Minerva-Press, Lane, 1800. There is also a
Spanish translation.
Romeo et Juliette. Roman historique 1799
2 vols. 1 2 mo.
Le Cimitiere de la Madeleine 1800
4 vols. Spanish translation by D. Salva.
Les Prisonniers du Temple. Suite du Cimitiere 1802
3 vols, i2mo.
Le Paquebot de Calais a Douvres. Roman politique
et moral 1802
INDEX OF AUTHORS 145
Spinalba, ou les Revelations de la Rose-Croix 1803
4 vols., 1 2 mo.
L’Homme au masque de jer 1804
4 vols., 1 2 mo.
La Diligence de Bordeaux, ou le Manage en poste 1804
2 vols., 1 2 mo.
Henri II, due de Montmorency, marechal de France.
Roman historique 1816
8vo.
Carbonari, ou le livre du sang 1820
2 vols., 1 2 mo.
Rosario, ou les trois Espagnoles. Memoires historiques 1821
3 vols., 1 2 mo.
Regnault-Warin sometimes wrote as Saint-Edme. The
above are the best-known and most representative of
his romances. Born at Bar le Due in 1775, he died at
Paris in 1844. He wrote Memoirs, Biographies, and a
vast deal of miscellaneous work. He was for some
time, in his younger days, rather unwisely mixed up
with politics, and the appearance of Le Cimitiere de la
Madeleine would have been followed by a prosecution
and serious results to the writer had it not been for the
intervention of Josephine. Regnault-Warin admired
her devotedly, and in 1819 published, 2 vols., 8vo,
Memoires et correspondance de Vimperatrice Jose-
phine. Eugenie Beauhamais, whilst thanking the
author warmly for his championship of her mother,
was bound to disavow the authenticity of the many
elegant letters contained in these two volumes.
RENOU, Sarah
Village Conversations ; or, the Vicars Fireside 1815-16
A popular work, Second ed. 1817 ;
Third ed. 1822.
The Temple of Truth, a poem in five cantos 1818
Sherwood. Subsequent editions (with variant title-
pages) appeared in 1821 and 1822.
The Ionian; or, Woman in the Nineteenth Century 1824
Delineations . . . exemplifying the philosophy of
Christianity 1838
REYNOLDS, Susannah Frances
Mrs. G. W. M. Reynolds.
Gretna Green; or, All for Love 1847-8
Wealth and Poverty 1848
146 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
REYNOLDS, George William Macarthur
(1814-1879)
There is extant a note in Reynolds’ own handwriting
which states that he was born at Sandwich, Kent, on
July 23rd, 1814. His father, Sir George Reynolds,
who had been a post captain of some celebrity in the
royal navy, intended him for the army and he entered
at Sandhurst in 1828. Sir George, however, died
before his son had finished his course leaving him a.
fortune of £120,000, whilst Lady Reynolds only sur-
vived her husband a few months. Thereupon, in
1830, he left Sandhurst, recollections of which he has
used in his novels, and travelled on the continent,
settling in Paris. Reynolds himself said that he com-
menced author at the age of twenty, and upon his
majority in 1835 he established himself a proprietor
of the Librairie des Etrangers, 55 rue Neuve—St.
Augustin, at the same time issuing a daily English poli-
tical newspaper The London and Paris Courier.
Upon the failure of these literary ventures which
absorbed a large part of his capital, he returned to
London and became editor of The Old Monthly Maga-
zine, 1837 and 1838. It was during this time that he
commenced Pickwick Abroad which met with great
success. It has been shrew'dly surmised, although it
cannot be certainly known, that in these earlier years
he supplied Edward Lloyd, the well-known publisher,
with not a few anonymous romances. His study The
Modern Literature of France, 2 vols., has much merit
and was highly esteemed. In 1839 Robert Macaire
followed and proved very successful, whilst Master
Timothy’s Bookcase ran through five editions in less
than four years. As editor of The London Journal ,
No. 1, March 1st, 1845, Reynolds achieved fame and
fortune, and it was in the pages of the Journal that
many of his best known works first appeared, serials on
a similar plan continuing in Reynolds’s Miscellany
after his difference with George Stiff, George Vickers,
and Abraham Reynolds.
Faust ran in The London Journal from October 4th,
1845, to July 1 8th, 1846, and enormously increased
the circulation of this periodical. The Mysteries of
London which Reynolds had commenced early in
INDEX OF AUTHORS 147
1845, and which with its sequel (or continuation) The
Mysteries of the Court of London was issued in penny
weekly numbers over eleven years, until 1856,, estab-
lished him as the most popular writer of the day, the
only possible rival being J. F. Smith.
From 1840 Reynolds was in charge of the foreign intel-
ligence department of the London Dispatch, but any
discussion of his political activities for all that they
played so important a part in his life, and the founda-
tion of Reynolds’s Weekly Newspaper, No. 1, Sunday,
May 5th, lie entirely outside our scope.
In 1848 he was living at Cleasby Villa, Tollington
Park, Hornsey. About the year 1844 Reynolds mar-
ried, and his wife Mrs. Susannah Frances Reynolds
enjoyed no small reputation as a novelist, two at least
of her works, Gretna Green 1847-8, and Wealth and
Poverty, 1848, attaining great popularity and running
into several editions. Their eldest son, George Edward
Reynolds, died very early when he was scarcely seven
years old, (before 1852), and in the old churchyard
of Herne where he was buried there is a monument to
his memory.
Reynolds was the author of a very large number of
works, the last collected edition by John Dicks com-
prising 28 titles and 36 volumes. To these we can add
at least a dozen more names, and yet the tale is by no
means complete.
Owing to the serialization of many of his romances
in popular journals and the fact that others were pub-
lished in weekly penny numbers and constantly being
most actively set in circulation, reissue following hard
on reissue, and edition edition, the Bibliography of
G. W. M. Reynolds proves intricate and complicated
to the last degree.
Towards the end of his life Reynolds’s political views
underwent considerable modification. The famous
author and once prominent publicist drew further and
further into retirement, and I have been given to
understand that latterly he had a very deep sense and
consciousness of religion. He died on June 17th, 1879.
Reynolds left one surviving son, whom I have heard
spoken of with affection and respect by men of letters
who had enjoyed his friendship. Mr. George Reynolds
148 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
died, I believe, about the year 1922, or perhaps rather
earlier, being between seventy and eighty years old.
The Youthful Impostor, a novel 1835
afterwards reprinted The Parracide ; or, A Youth's
Career of Crime.
Songs of Twilight. Paris 1836
Translated from Victor Hugo’s Les Chants du
Crepuscule. Songs of Twilight. i2mo. pp. xvi, 128.
Pickwick Abroad 1839
Grace Darling ; or The Heroine of the Fern Islands 1839
Modern Literature of France. 2 vols. 1839
Robert Macaire in England. 3 vols. 1839
Reprinted as Robert Macaire, or The French Bandit in
London.
Pickwick Married 1840
The Last Day of a Condemned Man. London 1840
Translated from Victor Hugo’s Le Dernier Jour d’un
Condamne.
Sister Anne, a Novel 1840
Translated from Charles Paul de Kock.
Alfred; or, The Adventures of a French Gentleman 1840
(.Alfred de Rosann)
The Drunkard’s Progress, A tale 1841
Master Timothy’s Bookcase 1842
A Sequel to Don Juan 1843
The French Self-Instructor 1846
The Mysteries of the Inquisition 1845
Freely adapted from the French of Mons. de. Ferreal.
Believed to be the work of Reynolds, although not
signed by him.
Mysteries of London, The 1845-1850
Published by George Vickers, 334 Strand.
Four Series of two volumes each. The Work was
published in Weekly Penny Numbers, or Monthly
Parts, price Sixpence. Reynolds wrote the First and
Second Series, four volumes. The London Journal,
Vol. I, No. 1, March 1st, 1845, advertised The Mys-
teries of London, “ Published in Weekly Penny Num-
bers, and Monthly Sixpenny Parts beautifully Illus-
trated ” by G. W. M. Reynolds, with laudatory notices
from the papers :
“ The author has entered upon his
subject well,” Weekly Dispatch; “Among the
INDEX OF AUTHORS H9
novelties we have a new work from the pen of Mr. G.
W. M. Reynolds ...” Bell’s Life.
No. 52 completed Vol. I., and each volume was fur-
nished with a title-page and Index, forming a Supple-
mentary Number, price id. Vol. I., “beautifully
bound,” complete was issued on October 23rd, 1845.
No. 53 (the first no. of Vol. II) was issued at the end
of September, 1845. Vol. II and The First Series
were completed with No. 105, published on September
19th, 1846. Vol. II was almost immediately issued,
“ beautifully bound,” price 6s. 6d.
The Second Series, Vol. Ill, introducing a new and
original tale, commenced with No. 1 ,
issued on October
3rd, 1846, and continued through 52 weekly nos.
Vol. Ill, the First of the Second Series, was advertised
on 9th October, 1847, complete, “Now Ready,
Beautifully Bound in Red Cloth, Gilt Back and Let-
tered, Price Six Shillings and Sixpence.” George
Vickers, London ;
A. and W. Galignani, Brussels
;
Wahlen, Leipzig, Jugel. No. 1 of the Second Volume
of the Second Series (Vol. IV), and continued in 52
nos., until 1848.
Reynolds had a difference with George Stiff, the pro-
prietor of the London Journal, and George Vickers the
publishers, and severed his connexion with that paper.
None the less (see his Address to the Public) Reynolds’s
Miscellany, No. 10, p. 160, Vol. I, New Series, Sep-
tember 1 6th, 1848, he completed the Second Series of
The Mysteries of London in 104 Nos. according to
his agreement with Mr. Stiff.
The Third Series (two volumes) of The Mysteries of
London was entrusted by Stiff to Thomas Miller,
whose Godfrey Malvern was being serialized in The
London Journal, commencing March, 1849. Godfrey
Malvern concluded on August 1 8th, 1849. Fortu-
nately for the paper J. F. Smith had now been secured
as principal writer, and Stanfield Hall had commenced
on May 19th, 1849.
The first number of the Third Series of The Mysteries
of London, the work of Miller, was published on Wed-
nesday, September 20th, 1848, and ran into the
uniform 104 nos., two vols. of 52 nos. each.
G. W. M. Reynolds had now associated himself with
I50 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
John Dicks, and issued Reynolds’s Miscellany (First
Series). Reynolds’s Miscellany, No. 1, New Series, ap-
peared on Saturday, July 15th, 1848. Reynolds
strongly protested against a spurious work, Reynolds’s
Magazine, which was to be imposed upon the public
in lieu of Reynolds’s Miscellany. Legal proceedings
were instituted in consequence of the “ scandalous
opposition got up by Mr. Stiff, George Vickers, and
Abraham Reynolds, through the medium of Reynolds’s
Magazine.” Miller’s Third Series (2 vols.) is not as
well written as Reynolds’ First and Second Series, and
there was felt to be a distinct falling-off, which caused
the proprietor of The London Journal to commission
the Fourth Series of The Mysteries of London (2 vols.)
from Edward Leman Blanchard, who thus wrote The
Mysteries of London; or, Lights and Shadows of
London Life, 2 vols., 52 penny nos. each, 1849-50,
number 1 being published on Saturday, September
22nd, 1849.
Blanchard’s work falls far below Reynolds.
The Mysteries of London was frequently re-issued
both by George Vickers, and (Series I and II, Rey-
nolds’ work) by John Dicks. A new edition, 2 vols.,
bound in red cloth. Each series 13s., the two series
£1 6s.; single volumes 6s. 6d. W. M. Clark, Pater-
noster Row. 1854.
Dicks (c. 1890) advertises, First and Second Series,
each series of 2 vols., complete in itself, price 13$.
An American edition de luxe with new illustrations
was issued in six volumes about 1900.
A melodrama, The Mysteries of London, founded upon
Reynolds’s romance (to date) was produced at the
Marylebone Theatre, London, on May 1 8th, 1846.
Faust a Romance 1845-6
Serialized in The London Journal, October 4th,
1845—July 1 8th, 1846.
Faust: A Romance of the Secret Tribunals 1847
Separate issue, several times reprinted, John Dicks.
Wagner, the Wehr-Wolf 1847
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, original series.
Practical Receipts 1847
The Days of Hogarth; or, The Mysteries of Old
London 1847-48
INDEX OF AUTHORS
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, original series.
Separate issue Penny nos., February—October, 1850.
Reynolds’s Miscellany, Old Series was in three
Volumes. Vol. I, 4s.; Vol. II, %s. 6d.; Vol. Ill, 41-.
These contained as serials Wagner and the Days of
Hogarth.
The Mysteries of the Court of London 1848-56
Published by John Dicks.
Reynolds had prepared a vast amount of matter for a
Third Series of The Mysteries of London and this he
utilized under another Title, The Mysteries of the
Court of London. Thus the First Series, 2 vols., of
The Mysteries of the Court of London is precisely the
same tale which it had been his intention to give as
the Third Series of The Mysteries of London. Rey-
nolds’s Miscellany, No. 10, Vol. I (p. 160) New Series,
September 1 6th, 1848.
The Mysteries of the Court of London, illustrated by
Henry Anelay, weekly Penny Numbers, Monthly Six-
penny Parts, commenced (No. 1) in September, 1848.
The work ran into Four Series of 2 volumes each. At
the end of Vol. VIII (the second volume of the Fourth
Series), No. 102, Reynolds has a Postscript in which he
says that “ Every week, without a single intermission
during a period of eight years, has a Number under
this title been issued to the public. Its precensor The
Mysteries of London ranged over four years. [He does
not, of course, recognize Miller and Blanchard’s work.]
For twelve years, therefore, have I hebdomadally
issued to the world a fragmentary portion of that
which, as one vast whole, may be termed an
Encyclopaedia of Tales. This Encyclopaedia consists
of twelve volumes, comprising six hundred and twenty-
four weekly Numbers. Each Number has occupied
me upon an average seven hours in the composition
. . . four thousand three hundred and sixty-eight
hours.” He adds that his regularity of routine “ will
account to the public for the facility with which I
have been enabled to write so many other works
during the same period, and yet to allow myself ample
leisure for recreation and for healthful exercise.”
In the Third and Fourth Series of The Mysteries
of the Court of London the incidents have little or
152 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
no reference to the British Court. Yet, Reynolds
argues that the title cannot be regarded as a misnomer,
since the Royal Court in the proper acceptance of the
term is not limited to the circle of the Sovereign but
includes the aristocracy, and these tales deal with
persons of highest quality if not actually with royalty
itself.
The Mysteries of the Court1
of London was several
times re-issued by John Dicks. The first re-
issue (in penny nos.) of the First Series commenced on
Saturday, February 22nd, 1851. Dicks (c. 1890)
advertises The Mysteries of the Court of London.
First, Second, Third and Fourth Series. Series of 2
vols. Each complete in itself, price 13s.
The Coral Island; or, The Hereditary Curse 1848-9
Commenced, Reynolds’s Miscellany (New Series),
No. 1, Vol. I, July 15th, 1848; concluded, March 31st,
1849. I n Penny Nos. and Sixpenny Weekly Parts,
1853. “The Neapolitan Romance.” Pirated as
Mysteries of the Court of Naples.
The Pixy; or, The Unbaptized Child 1848
A Christmas Tale, published in December.
The Bronze Statue; or, The Virgin’s Kiss 1
849
Commenced, Reynold’s Miscellany, March 31st, 1849.
The Steam Packet: A Tale of the River and the
Ocean 1850
The Greek Maiden; or, The Banquet of Blood 1850
Short story.
The Seamstress : A Domestic Tale 1850
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, concluding August
10th, 1850.
In Penny Weekly Numbers ;
Monthly Sixpenny Parts ;
Nos. 1 and 2 issued on March 25th, 1853.
Also as, The Seamstress ; or, The White Slaves of
England.
Pope Joan; or, The Female Pontiff 1850-51
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, commencing
August 10th, 1850; concluding January 25th, 1851
The Janizary; or, The Massacre of the Christians 1850
Short story, published in November.
The Prophecy; or, The Lost Son 1850
3 parts, published in December.
Kenneth: A Romance of the Highlands 1851
INDEX OF AUTHORS 153
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, commencing
January 25th, 1851 ;
concluding December 27th, 1851.
The Necromancer
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, concluding July
31st, 1852.
Mary Price ; or, The Memoirs of a Servant Maid
Published in Penny Numbers; Monthly Sixpenny
Parts. Separate issue in two volumes. Vol. II was
published in September, 1853.
The Massacre of Glencoe, A Historical Tale
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, commencing
July 3 1st, 1852; concluding June 18th, 1853.
The Soldier’s Wife
Published in Penny Numbers ;
Monthly Sixpenny
Parts. Nos. 1 and 2 (in an Illustrated Wrapper)
issued on Friday, November 12th, 1852. 60,000
copies of Nos. 1 and 2 were sold on the day of publica-
tion. Afterwards with sub-title The Cat-O’-Nine Tails,
complete in one vol., price 2 s. 6d., June, 1853. Re-
issue in Penny Parts, Nos. 1 and 2, September 16th,
i 853-
Joseph Wilmot ; or, The Memoirs of a Man-Servant
Issued in Penny Numbers. Nos. 1 and 2 published on
Friday, July 29th, 1853. In two volumes, 1855.
Rosa Lambert; or, The Memoirs of an Unfortunate
Woman
In Weekly Penny Nos., Nos. 1 and 2 issued on Friday,
November 4th, 1853. Monthly Sixpenny Parts. 52
Penny Numbers.
In 1862 re-issued as Rosa Lambert ; or, The Memoirs
of a Clergyman’s Daughter.
Rosa Lambert is sometimes said to have been sup-
pressed under its first sub-title The Memoirs of an Un-
fortunate Woman.
Rose Somerville ; or, A Husband’s Mystery
The First False Step; or, The Path of Crime
“ To the People of the United States. I appeal to you
against an atrocious imposture just perpetrated by
Stringer and Townsend, Booksellers, of No. 222
Broadway, New York. These unprincipled scoundrels
have printed and published two books respectively
entitled Rose Somerville ; or, A Husband’s Mystery and
The First False Step; or, The Path of Crime. Both
1851-2
1851-
2
1852-
3
1852-
3
i 853*4
1 8
53-
4
1853
i853
154 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
these works are represented as being written by me,
and have my name on the title-page. I declare
solemnly that I never wrote them : I never saw them
until now: I never heard of them until now. . . .
The names of Stringer and Townsend should be
gibbeted as those of men who are infinitely worse than
mere pirates: they are downright rogues, imposters,
and forgers . . . George W. M. Reynolds.” From
Reynolds’s Miscellany, Saturday, July 23rd, 1853.
Reynolds’s works were long shamelessly pirated in
America editions, and more, there wr
ere freely circu-
lated in the United States a large number of spurious
fictions (as above) bearing his name.
Rose Summerville ; or, A Husband’s Mystery and a
Wife’s Devotion, first edition, 1847, is the work of
Ellen T .
The First False Step ; or, The Path of Crime, first
edition, 1846, is by Thomas Peckett Prest.
The Rye House Plot; or, Ruth the Conspirator
s
Daughter 1853-4
Commenced as a Serial in Reynolds’s Miscellany, on
Saturday, June 18th, 1853, concluding 1854.
Agnes; or, Beauty and Pleasure. 104 penny nos. 1854-5
Repiolds’s Diagram of the Steam Engine, with
popular Description 1
854
Ellen Percy; or, The Memoirs of an Actress 1854-5
104 Penny Weekly Nos.; Sixpenny Monthly Pails.
The Loves of the Harem: A Tale of Constantinople 1855
The Young Duchess; or, Memoirs of a Woman of
Quality 1856
In Weekly Penny Numbers. Sixpenny Monthly Parts.
No. 1 presented Gratis with No. 4.70 of Reynolds’s
Miscellany. 52 weekly nos.
Margaret; or, The Discarded Queen 1 856-7
Commenced in Vol. XVI of Reynolds’s Miscellany.
Concluded, chapter 89, on p. 381 of Vol. XVIII.
Canonbury House 1857-8
Commenced in Vol. XVIII of Reynolds’s Miscellany.
Issued separately in seven monthly parts. Pirated
American ed., as Mysteries of the Court of Queen
Elizabeth, one vol.; Ada Arundel; or, The Secret
Corridor, one vol.; Olivia; or, The Maid of Honor,
one vol. These three volumes make up the complete
INDEX OF AUTHORS 155
Canonbury House. They were published, 50 cents a
piece, in “ The Stein Co.’s Library of Classics,”
Chicago, 1895.
Also as Canonbury House ; or, The Queen’s Prophecy.
The Empress Eugenie’s Boudoir
Tke Two Christmas Days
The Young Fisherman ; or, The Spirits of the Lake
The Baroness of Grandmanoir
The Warriors Love
The Odalisque
The Broken Statue
The Gipsy Boy
Worries of Mr. Chickpick
The Dangers of Circumstantial Evidence
Mary Stuart, Queen of Scotland
Leila; or, The Star of Mingrelia
Omar, A Tale of the Crimean War
May Middleton: A Tale of a Fortune
For these four last romances see under the John Dicks
Collected Edition of Reynolds.
The Young Fisherman ; The Two Christmas Days;
The Baroness of Grandmanoir ; The Warrior’s Love
;
The Odalisque ; The Broken Statue ; The Gipsy Boy;
Worries of Mr. Chickpick
;
and The Dangers of
Circumstantial Evidence were reprinted in one volume.
I have thought it of interest to reprint this extract from
The Bookseller, but it should be remarked that the list
is very inexact. This serves to show that even during
his lifetime it was difficult to catalogue the genuine
work of Reynolds. It may be noted that The Book-
seller attributes to him novels by his wife Susannah
Frances Reynolds, Gretna Green; by Hannah Maria
Jones, The Gipsey Chief; by Gabriel Alexander,
Robert Bruce and Wallace; as also by other writers.
Mysteries of the Court of Naples is probably “ The
Neapolitan Romance,” The Coral Island; or, The
Hereditary Curse, although this has been duly recorded
under its proper title.
In a similar way in certain American reprints Canon-
Bury House becomes Mysteries of the Court of Queen
Elizabeth.
Extract From The Bookseller of July ist, 1868.
Page 448, column 1.
1858-9
1860
1861
156 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The following is, so far as we can give it, a List of
Mr. G. W. M. Reynolds’ Novels, most of which have
appeared in Penny Numbers, illustrated with Engrav-
ings of the exciting incidents described in the text: —
Agnes; or, Beauty and Pleasure
Agnes Evelyn
Alfred de Rosaun
Banker’s Daughter
Bronze Statue ; or, The Virgin’s Kiss
Canonbury House ; or, The Queen’s Prophecy
Caroline of Brunswick
Catherine Volman; or, A Father’s Revenge
Coral Island; or, The Hereditary Curse
Count Christoval
Countess of Lascelles
Duke of Marchmont.
Ellen Percy
Edgar Montrose
Eustace Quentin.
Faust; A Romance of the Secret Tribunal
Gipsey Chief
Grace Darling
Gretna Green; or, All for Love
Isabella Vincent
Joseph Wilmot
Kararnan; or, The Bandit Chief
Kenneth; A Romance of the Highlands
Lord Saxondale
Loves of the Harem
Life in Paris
Mary Price
Massacre of Glencoe
Master Timothy’s Bookcase
Mary Middleton
Modern Literature of France
Mysteries of the Court of London
Mysteries of the Court of Naples
Mysteries of London
Necromancer
Omar Pasha; or, The Vizier’s Daughter
Parricide
Pickwick Abroad; or, Tour in France
Robert Macaire in England
INDEX OF AUTHORS 157
Rose Foster
Rosa Lambert
Rye House Plot
Robert Bruce
Seamstress, The
Sequel to Don Juan
Soldier’s Wife
Steam Packet ; A Tale of the River and Ocean
Vivian Bertram
Venetian Trelawney
Wallace, The Hero of Scotland
White Lady, The ; A Romance of Love and War
Youthful Impostor
In 1861 John Dicks, 25 Wellington Street, Strand,
advertised the following “ Complete Volumes ” of
Reynolds’ Works
:
The Mysteries of the Court of London. First Series.
Two Volumes. 104 Wood-Engravings. 13^.
The Mysteries of the Court of London. Second Series.
Two Volumes. 104 Wood-Engravings. I35.
The Mysteries of the Court of London. Third Series.
Two Volumes. 104 Wood-Engravings. i35\
The Mysteries of the Court of London. Fourth Series.
Two Volumes. 104 Wood-Engravings. 13^.
The Soldier’s Wife. 25 Wood-Engravings. 2 s. 6d.
Rosa Lambert. One Volume. 52 Wood-Engravings.
6s. 6d.
Robert Macaire; or, The French Bandit of England.
20 Wood-Engravings. 2s.
Joseph Wilmot; or, The Memoirs of a Man-Servant.
Two Volumes. 104 Wood-Engravings. 13s.
Mary Price; or, The Memoirs of a Servant-Maid.
Two Volumes. 104 Wood-Engravings. 135.
Other volumes were issued, and about 1884-5 Dicks
published a uniform edition of 28 of Reynolds’ work
comprising in all 42 volumes.
1. The Mysteries of London. Illustrated. First and
Second Series. Each series of 2 vols., complete in itself.
13*.
2. The Mysteries of the Court of London. First,
Second, Third, and Fourth Series. (Illustrated.) Each
series of 2 vols., complete in itself. 135’.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
158
3. Rosa Lambert. One vol., 52 Wood-Engravings.
6^. 6d.
4. Robert Macaire; or, The French Bandit in
England. One vol., 20 W'ood-Engravings. 35'.
5. Joseph Wilmot; or, The Memoirs of a Man-
Servant. Two vols., 104 Wood-Engravings. 135-.
6. Mary Price ; or, The Memoirs of a Servant-Maid.
Two vols., 104 Wood-Engravings. 13.L
7. The Bronze Statue; or, The Virgin’s Kiss. One
vol., splendidly illustrated. 55'. 6d.
8. The Coral Island ; or, The Hereditary Curse. One
vol., 37 Wood-Engravings. 5s.
g. Kenneth; A Romance of the Highlands. One
vol., splendidly illustrated. 5.L 6d.
10. The Loves of the Harem: A Tale of Constanti-
nople. One vol., 41 illustrations. 5L
11. The Massacre of Glencoe. A Historical Tale.
One vol., Illustrated by E. Corbould, Esq. 5.L 6 d.
12. Wagner, The Wehr-Wolf. A Romance. One
vol., 24 Wood-Engravings. 3s. 6d.
13. Ellen Percy: A Tale of the Stage. Two vols.,
104 Wood-Engravings. 13L
14. The Empress Eugenie’s Boudoir. One vol., Illus-
trated. 55.
15. Agnes ; or, Beauty and Pleasure. Two vols., 104
Wood-Engravings. 135.
16. The Young Duchess; or, Memoirs of a Lady of
Quality. One vol., 53 Wood-Engravings. 6s. 6d.
17. The Rye House Plot; or, Ruth the Conspirator’s
Daughter. One vol., Illustrated by E. Corbould, Esq.
6s. 6d.
18. The Days of Hogarth; or. Old London. One
vol., 37 Illustrations. 4s.
19. Canonbury House. One vol., 51 Illustrations.
M
20. The Soldiefs Wife. One vol., 25 Illustrations.
3*. 6d.
21. The Parricide; or, A Youth’s Career of Crime.
One vol., 22 Illustrations. y.
22. The Necromancer. One vol., 29 Illustrations.
¥
23. May Middleton. One vol., 8 Illustrations.
2s. 4d.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 159
24. The Seamstress : A Domestic Story. One vol.,
15 Illustrations. 2 s.
4d.
25. Omar, A Tale of the War. One vol., 40 Wood-
Engravings. 5E 6d.
26. Margaret ; or, The Discarded Queen. One vol.,
43 Wccd-Engravings. 5E 6d.
27. Mary Stuart, Queen of Scotland. One vol., 14
Wood-Engravings. 2 s.
4d.
28. Leila; or, The Star of Mingrelia. One vol., 25
Wood-Engravings. 35. 6d.
Pickwick Abroad, Grace Darling, Master Timothy’s
Bookcase, Faust, Pope Joan, and several of Reynolds’
lesser known works were not included in this uniform
edition. Most of Reynolds’ romances were reprinted
in Dicks’ English Novels, price 6d. each. No. 13,
Mary Stuart; 17, Wagner; 94, Faust; 95, The
Soldier’s Wife; 97, Robert Macaire; 102, The
Seamstress
;
103, The Necromancer
;
104, 105, The
Bronze Statue, Two Parts; 107 and 108, Rye House
Plot, Two Parts; 118 and 119, Rosa Lambert, Two
Parts; 120, Canonbury House
;
123, May Middleton ;
126 and 127, Massacre of Glencoe, Two Parts; 130,
Leila; 132 and 133, Coral Island, Two Parts; 135 and
136, Loves of the Harem, Two Parts; 138 and 139,
Kenneth, Two Parts; 141 and 142, Margaret, Two
Parts; 144 and 145, The Young Duchess, Two Parts;
147 and 148, Omar, Two Parts; 150 and 151, Empress
Eugenie’s Boudoir, Two Parts; 154, 155, 156, 157,
Mary Price, Four Parts; 159, 160, 1 6 1 , 162, Joseph
Wilmot, Four Parts. Old London (The Days of
Hogarth) ; Pope Joan ; Agnes, Four Parts ;
and Master
Timothy’s Bookcase, were issued as later numbers in
Dicks’ English Novels.
RICE, Mrs.
The Deserted Wife. A Tale of Much Truth 1 803
Monteith, a Novel founded on Scottish History 1806
The Nabob, a moral tale 1807
RICHARDSON, Mrs. Caroline
The Exile of Poland; or, The Vow of Celibacy 1819
From the French.
The Soldier’s Child 1821
i6o A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
RICKMAN, Thomas Clio
An eccentric bookseller of Upper Mary-le-bone Street,
London. He became entirely unbalanced. In addition
to the following tale he wrote several foolish copies of
verse and miscellaneous scraps.
The Evening Walk, a Tale, 8vo. 1796
RITCHIE, Leitch (1800-1865)
For Leitch Ritchie see the Dictionary of National
Biography. He was a miscellaneous writer and editor
of varied activities and no inconsiderable merit. His
contributions to volumes of artistic travel are highly
and justly esteemed. The following titles fairly repre-
sent his work in romantic fiction.
The Game of Life 1830
London Nights Entertainments 1833
Schinderhannes, The Robber of the Rhine 1833
The Library of Romance, 75 volumes 1833-35
Edited by Leitch Ritchie.
The Magician x
Wearyfoot Common 1855
The New Shilling
^57
The Midnight Journey W71
With tales of Mrs. Crowe and others. Reprinted from
Chambers’ Journal.
ROBERTS, Edwin F.
For many years a constant contributor to Reynolds’s
Miscellany, and a most prolific miscellaneous writer.
His residence was 27 Tavistock Street, Covent Garden.
The following are but a few of his very many works.
The Road to Transportation : in Six Steps
The Road to Happiness : in Six Steps
The Life of a Labourer ; or, Six Episodes of Emigra-
tion
The Earl and the Maiden, short story
The Six Stages of Punishment ; or, The Victim of a
Vitiated Society
The Gamester’s Progress: in Six Stages
The Painter’s Model, short story
The Last Chamois Hunt, short story
George Washington. A biography
Napoleon. A biography
The Gipsy. A Tradition of Norwood
1848
1848
1848
1849
1849
1849
1849
1849
1849
*849
1850
INDEX OF AU THORS 1 6 1
The Poisoners of Norfolk 1850
The Vampyre Bride 1850
The Short Shrift; or, The Vengeance of the Lady
Alice 1 85
1
Bertha Gray, The Parish Apprentice-Girl; or, Six
Illustrations of Cruelty 1851
The Forgotten Troth-Plight 1851
Gerald Carew: A Domestic Story 1851
The Ashes on the Hearth: A Story of the Irish
Evictions 1852
The “ United Service ”; or, The Twin Brothers. A
Tale of Liverpool and the Last War 1853
In September, 1852, was advertised Athanese : A
Dramatic Poem. Price One Shilling. By Edwin F.
Roberts, Author of “ Dawn and Darkness,” “ Bertha
Gray,” “ The Count of Orisons,” etc., etc. Pub. W. E.
Painter, Strand.
The above list which is by no means complete even for
the six years, 1848-53, will at any rate serve to show
the immense literary activity of E. F. Roberts.
ROBINSON, Miss Emma (1814-1890)
Daughter of Joseph Robinson, a bookseller, who lived
until 1856 at 309 Oxford Street. When advanced in
years she lost her wits, and died at the London County
Lunatic Asylum, Norwood, on December 18th, 1890.
Whitefriars ; or, The Days of Charles the Second 1844
Richelieu in Love ; or, The Youth of Charles I, a
comedy 1
844
The Merry Wives of Stamboul. By the Author of
“Richelieu in Love” 1845
Ainsworth’s Magazine. Vol. VIII.
Whitehall ; or, The Days of Charles I 1845
The Dahra Massacre. A Poem 1846
Caesar Borgia 1846
Owen Tudor 1849
The Maid of Orleans 1849
The Gold Worshippers ; or, The Days We Live In.
A future historical novel 1851
Westminster Abbey; or, The Days of the Reformation 1854
The Star in the Dark (seemingly unfinished) 1856
The City Banker ; or, Love and Money 1856
Commenced in The London Journal by J. F. Smith,
M
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
162
and concluded by Emma Robinson when he severed
his connexion with that periodical.
See Masks and Faces.
Maulevreds Divorce: A Story of Woman’s Wrongs 1858
Which Wins,
Love or Money? 1862
Cynthia Thorold 1862
Epithaiamium in Honour of the Marriage of Their
Royal Highnesses the Prince and Princess of Wales 1863
Christmas at Old Court 1864
Madeleine Graham 1864
Dorothy Firebrace ; or, The Armoureds Daughter of
Birmingham 1865
The Hidden Million; or, The Nabob’s Revenge 1867
The Matrimonial Vanity Fair 1868
ROBINSON, John
“ Remarkable for the murderous catastrophe of his
pieces.”
Sydney St. Aubyn 1794
Audley Fortescue ; or, The Victim of Frailty. A novel. 1795
Sensibility, with other Poems 1806
John Robinson had published Love Fragments, an
earlier book of poems.
ROBINSON, Mrs. Mary nee Darby, “ Perdita
”
(1758-1800)
Vancenza ; or, The Dangers of Credulity 1792
The Widow; or, A Picture of Modern Times 17 94
Angelina, a novel 1796
Hubert de Sevrac : a Romance of the Eighteenth
Century 1796
Walsingham ; or, The Pupil of Nature 1 798
The False Friend: A Domestic Story I
799
The Natural Daughter: With Portraits of the Leaden-
head Family 1 799
Jasper: A Fragment 1801
This unfinished novel is printed in Vol. Ill of Memoirs
of the late Mrs. Robinson, Written by Herself, With
Some Posthumous Pieces. 4 vols., 1801.
ROBINSON, Miss Maria Elizabeth
Daughter of Mrs. Perdita Robinson.
The Shrine of Bertha, a novel 094
The Wild Wreath 1805,
INDEX OF AUTHORS 1 63
The Poetical Works of the late Mrs. Robinson, now
first collected 1806
ROCHE, Captain J. Hamilton, of Sudbury
A Suffolk Tale; or, The Perfidious Guardian 1810
Salamanca, a poem 1812
Russia, a heroic poem 1 8 1
3
France, a heroic poem 1814
Captain Roche wrote miscellanea and other verses, the
most interesting among which is
The Sudburiad ; or, Poems from the Cottage [1813]
It will be remembered that Sudbury was regarded as
an important literary writer, and the high culture of
local society was satirized by Dickens in his picture of
the lions of Eatanswill.
ROCHE, Regina Maria, nee Dalton (1773-1845)
Mrs. Roche died at her residence on The Mall, Water-
ford, May 17th, 1845.
The Vicar of Lansdown ; or, Country Quarters 17 89
The Maid of the Flamlet. A Tale 1 793
The Children of the Abbey 09®
Clermont. A Tale 1798
The Nocturnal Visit. A Tale 1800
Alvondown Vicarage. A Novel 1807
The Discarded Son; or, Haunt of the Banditti. A Tale 1807
The Houses of Osma and Almeria; or, The Convent of
St. Ildefonso 1810
The Monastery of St. Columb ; or, The Atonement.
A Novel 1813
Trecothick Bower ; or, The Lady of the West Country.
A Tale 1814
London Tales 1814
Anna ; or, Edinburgh. A Novel 1814
The Munster Cottage Boy. A Tale 1820
Bridal of Dunamore ; and Lost and Won. Two Tales 1823
The Tradition of the Castle; or, Scenes in the Emerald
Isle 1824
The Castle Chapel 1825
Contrast 1828
The Nun’s Picture 1834
Eliza; or, The Pattern of Women. A moral romance 1802
A spurious attribution to Mrs. Roche. Published,
Lancaster, Pa., U.S.A.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
164
ROGERS, John Benjamin
The Days of Harold. A metrical tale 1816
ROSE, Edward H., Seaman
Trifles in Verse and Prose 1811
Pub. Roach, Plymouth Dock. Second ed., 1818.
The Sea-Devil; or, The Son of a Bellows-Mender 1811
Pub. Roach, Plymouth Dock. In 1812 advertised by
Newman, who handled the London sales.
ROSE, A. M., Rev. John, Rector of St. Martin,
Outwich, London.
Caernarvon Castle; or, The Birth of the Prince of
Wales: an Opera in two acts. Dedicated, by permis-
sion, to His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales,
39 pp., 8 vo. Lane, Minerva-Press. ‘
Price one
shilling.’ 1793
Produced at the Theatre Royal, Haymarket, 12th
August, 1793.
Sermons [ 1 796]
One vol., 8vo. Dedication dated 1796.
ROSS, Mrs.
The Cousins; or, A Woman’s Promise and a Lover’s
Vow 1 8 1
1
The Strangers of Lindenfeldt ; or, Who is My Father? 1813
The Modern Calypso; or, Widow’s Captivation 1 8 1
3
The Marchioness! ! ! or, “ The Matured Enchantress
”
1813
Paired—not Matched; or, Matrimony in the Nine-
teenth Century 1815
France And England 1815
The Balance of Comfort; or, The Old Maid and
Married Woman 1816
ROUVIERE, Miss Henrietta
Afterwards Mrs. Rouviere Mosse.
Miss Rouviere, who was Irish, married Mr. Mosse,
1815-16.
Lussington Abbey 1804
The Heirs of Villeroy 1805
A Peep At Our Ancestors. An historical romance 1807
The Old Irish Baronet; or, Manners of My Country 1808
Arrivals From India ; or, Time’s a Great Master 1812
Craig Melrose Abbey 1816
INDEX OF AUTHORS 1
65
A Bride And No Wife 1817
A Father’s Love and A Woman’s Friendship ; or, The
Widow and Her Daughters 1825
Gratitude; and Other Tales 1826
Intrigue; or, Woman’s Wit and Man’s Wisdom 1827
The Blandfords ; or, Fate and Fortune 1829
ROWSON, Mrs. Susanna Haswell (1762-21101 March,
1824)
Victoria, a Novel; The Characters taken from Real
Life, and calculated to improve the morals of the
female sex by impressing them with a just sense of the
merits of female piety 1786
The Inquisitor ; or, Invisible Rambler 1788
Poems 1788
A Trip to Parnassus (verse) 1788
Mary; or, The Test of Honour *789
Charlotte. A tale of truth 1791
American edition, published by M. Casey, Phila-
delphia, 2 vols., 1794. Francis W. Halsey, who edited
a reprint of 1905, lists 104 editions issued during a
century, “ with many editions still missing.”
Charlotte was generally reprinted as Charlotte Temple.
Mentoria; or, The Young Lady’s Friend 1791
The Fille De Chambre 1792
Reprinted in 1814 as Rebecca; or, The Fille de
Chambre.
Slaves in Algiers 1
794
Produced at the Philadelphia Theatre, June 30th,
x 794-
The Volunteers
;
a musical farce 1795
Produced at the Philadelphia Theatre, January 21st,
1 795-
The Female Patriot. (Altered from Massinger’s The
Bondman) 1795
Produced at the Philadelphia Theatre, June 19th,
*7?5-
Trials of the Human Heart 1795
Americans in England (later as The Columbian
Daughter
)
1797
Produced at the Boston Theatre, April 19th, 1797.
Reuben And Rachel ; or, Tales of Old Times. A novel 1799
Sincerity. A serial which ran through the Boston
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
s 66
Weekly Magazine edited by Mrs. Rowson 1802-5
Miscellaneous Poems 1804
Sarah, The Exemplary Wife 1813
Sincerity reprinted under this title.
Charlotte’s Daughter ; or, The Three Orphans. A
sequel to Charlotte 1828
This sequel was published posthumously with a
Memoir by Samuel L. Knapp.
The latest study, furnished with an ample Bibliography
of Mrs. Rowson is R. W. G. Vail’s Susanna Haswell
Rowson the Author of Charlotte Temple, 1933.
There is also a Memoir by Elias Nason, published
Albany, 1870.
RUBDIMAN, Jacob
Ruddiman’s Tales and Sketches 1828
RUSSEL, Miss
A Sketch of Her Own Circle 1823
RUSSELL, John Earl (1792-1878)
The Nun of Arronca. A Tale 1822
RYLEY, Samuel William, of Manchester
He left business in 1794 and turned actor.
The Itinerant; or, Memoirs of an Actor 1808-27
In Nine Volumes.
Ryley also wrote Roderick Random, a Comic Opera.
The Civilians, a Musical Farce, from his pen was pub-
lished 8vo., c. 1797.
RYMER, M.
The Spaniard ; or, Pride of Birth 1806
RYVES, Elizabeth (1750-1797)
The Hermit of Snowdon; or, Memoirs of Albert and
Lavinia 1793
“ Faithfully taken from the Original Manuscript,
found in the Hermitage.”
S
S., M.
Frances ; or, The Two Mothers. A Tale 1819
INDEX OF AUTHORS
S., Esq., R.
The New Monk
SADE, Donatien Alphonse Francois, Marquis (more
strictly Comte) De (1740-1814)
Les Infortunes de la Vertu
The original version of Justine, first printed 1930,
texte etabli sur le manuscrit original autographe et
publie pour la premiere fois. Paris. Editions Fourcade,
in—16. 1930. The original version of Justine was
written in the Bastille, 1787-8, but never published
until 1930
—“ avec une introduction par Maurice
Heine,” pp. liv, and 206.
Justine, ou Les Malheurs de la Vertu
“ O men ami ! la presperite du crime est comme la
foudre, dent les feux trompeurs n’embellissent un
instant l’atmosphere, que pour precipiter dans les
abimes de la mort, le malheureux qu’ils ont ebloui.”
En Hollande, chez les Libraires associes [Paris], 2
vols., 8vo. 1791. Vol. I, 283 pp., Vol. II, 19 1 pp.
The frontispiece by Chery, sculp. Carree, is symbolical
This is the first edition of Justine, which was after-
wards so curiously amplified, and it is the text followed
in the sole English translation Opus Sadicum a philo-
sophical Romance For the First Time Translated From
the Original French (Holland, iygi). With an
engraved frontispiece Paris Isidore Liseux ig, Passage
Choiseul i88g. This version betrays an extremely
inadequate knowledge of English, and many passages
of the work (admittedly most difficult to render) are
even grotesque in their barbarisms and distortion.
Justine, ou les Malheurs de la Vertu
Text as the first edition. Ibid. 2 vols. i2mo.
Justine, ou les Malheurs de la Vertu
2 vols., i6mo. A Londres [Paris]. With additional
episodes.
Justine, ou les Malheurs de la Vertu
3me edition. A Philadelphie [Paris]. 2 vols., i8mo.
Justine, ou les Malheurs de la Vertu
A Londres [Paris] 4 vols., i8mo. Amplified with yet
further episodes.
Justine, ou les Malheurs de la Vertu
Troisieme edition. Corrigee et augmentee. 4 vols.
167
j 798
1787
*
79 *
1791
1792
1794
1797
1800
1 68 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
i8mo. En Hollande, an 1800. [Paris.] Vol. I, ix, +
136 pp. ;
Vol. II, 136 pp. ;
Vol. Ill, 135 pp. ;
Vol.
IV, 132 pp. No illustrations.
In spite of “ Troisieme edition ” this is actually the
Sixth Edition. Although published after the issue of
the Nouvelle Justine and Juliette, the text is altogether
different from the definitive edition of 1797, and is
with some few very slight modifications that of the First
Edition, 2 vols., 8vo., 1791.
Juliette, ou la suite de Justine
4 vols., 8vo. No place of publication, but certainly
Paris.
La Nouvelle Justine, ou Les Malheurs de la Vertu,
suirie de VHistoire de Juliette, sa soeur
Ouvrage orne d’un frontispiece et de cent sujets graves
avec soin.
On n’est point crimince pour faire la peinture
Des bizarres penchants qu’inspire la nature.
En Hollande [Paris], 10 vols., i8mo. The publisher
was Bertrandet. Justine occupies 4 vols., Vol. I, viii +
347 PP- 5
Vol. II, 351 pp. ;
Vol. Ill, 356 pp. ;
Vol. IV,
366 pp. ;
with 40 illustrations, and Frontispiece to the
whole work.
Juliette occupies 6 vols., Vol. V, 371 pp. ;
Vol. VI,
360 pp. ;
Vol. VII, 357 pp. ;
Vol. VIII, 371 pp.
;
Vol. IX, 370 pp. ;
and Vol. X, 352 pp. ;
with 60
illustrations. A later issue of this edition is said to
contain 104 illustrations. This is the complete and
definitive edition of Justine and Juliette, and it is this
which has been frequently reprinted.
Aline et Valcour, ou Le Roman philosophique, Ecrit
a la Bastille un an avant la Revolution de France. 14
gravures. Par le citoyen S . A Paris, chez
Girouard, Libraire, rue du Bout-de-Monde, No. 47.
8 parts in 4 vols., i8mo.
Aline et Valcour, ou Le Roman Philosophique. Ecrit
a la Bastille un an avant la Revolution de France.
Ome de seize gravures. A Paris, chez la veuve Girou-
ard, libraire, maison Egalite, Galerie de Bois, No. 196.
4 vols., i2mo. There is another issue with varying
title-page of the same year. Aline et Valcour has been
frequently reprinted.
Valmor et Lydia, ou Voyage autour du Monde de
1796
1
797
1
793
1795
INDEX OF AUTHORS 169
deux amants qui se cherchent. Paris : Pigoreau. An
VII [1799]- 3 vols., i2mo.
An abridged and pirated edition of Aline et Valcour.
The names are changed.
Alzonde et Koradin. Paris : Cerioux et Moutardier.
2 vols., i2mo.
An abridged and pirated edition of Aline et Valcour.
The names are changed.
La Philosophie dans le Boudoir, ouvrage posthume de
Vauteur de Justine. “ La mere en prescrira la lecture
a sa fille.” A Londres [Paris]. Aux depens de la
Compagnie. MDCCXCXV [jz'c]
2 vols., i8mo. Vol. I, 180 pp. ;
Vol. II, 214 pp.
Frontispiece, and 4 illustrations, 2 in each volume.
Posthume was intentional, in order to mislead.
La Philosophie dans le Boudoir consists of seven
dialogues, the interlocutors expressing in detail de
Sade’s theories and ideas. The book has frequently
been reprinted. A good edition is Londres [Paris],
MDCCXCXV, actually about 1835, two parts in one
vol., i8mo., “ avec 10 lithos libres,” in which the
persons are dressed in the mode of 1830.
Oxtiern, ou les Malheurs du Libertinage
;
drame en
3 actes et on prose, par D.A.F.S. A Versailles
:
Blaizot. 8vo. An VIII.
Produced at the Theatre Moliere, Rue Saint-Martin,
October 22nd, 1791. Originally called Le Comte
Oxtiern, ou les Effets du Libertinage.
Les Crimes de VAmour, ou le Delire des Passions.
Nouvelles historiques et tragiques, precedess d’une
Idee sur les Romans, par D. A. F. Sade, auteur
d’Aline et Valcour. A Paris : chez Masse. An VIII
4 vols., i2mo. ;
and 2 vols., 8vo. With 4 illustrations.
There are various modem reprints of isolated items
from Les Crimes de VAmour with illustrations by
modem artists.
The essay Idee sur les Romans, 47 pages, is of great
importance, and it has been reprinted separately by
Octave Uzanne, i2mo., Paris, E. Rouveyre, 1878.
De Sade has a rapid survey of the History of Fiction
—M. G. Lewis and Mrs. Radcliffe are mentioned
—
and he defines the novel, discussing the qualifications
for a good novelist. His quotations from Young’s
1799
1
799
095
1800
180a
170 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Night Thoughts in Les Crimes de’ PAmour should be
remarked.
The Nouvelles historiques et tragiques are eleven in
number
:
Juliette et Raunai, ou la Conspiration d’Amboise
La Double Epreuve
Miss Henriette Stralson, ou les Effets du Desespoir.
Nouvelle Anglaise
Faxelange, ou les Torts de VAmbition
Florville et Courval, ou le Faialisme
Rodrigue, ou la Tour Enchantee. Conte allegorique
Laurence et Antonio. Nouvelle Italienne
Ernestine. Nouvelle Suedoise. (The plot is much the
same as that of Oxtiern)
Dorgeville, ou le Criminal par Vertu
La Comtesse de Sancerre, ou la Rivale de Sa Fille.
Anecdote de la Cour de Bourgogne
Eugenic de Franval. Written in March, 1788.
Mons Maurice Heine in his CEuvres Choisies et Pages
Magistrales du Marquis de Sade, Paris, M.CM.
XXXIII, Tome I, has included La Double Epreuve
and Eugenie de Franval, with Emilie de Tourville and
II y a Place pour deux which he has printed from the
Contes et Fabliaux.
Zoloc et ses deux Acolytes, ou Quelques decades de
la vie de Trois Jolies femmes, Histoire veritable du
siecle dernier, par Un Contempcrain. A Turin; se
trouve a Paris, chez tous les marchands de nouveautes.
De Fimprimerie de l’auteur, Messidor, an VIII 1800
One vol., i2mo., xii + 142 pp. ;
frontispiece, Lepagelet
sc. Published July, 1800. There are at least two re-
prints of the same year, has been reprinted
several times and there are editions with free illustra-
tions. A political roman a clef Josephine [Zoloe],
Madame Tallien [Laureda], Madame Visconti
[Volsange], Bonaparte [d’Orsec], and other important
figures of the time. This libertine libel on the First
Consul and his circle caused a terrific scandal, and led
to De Sade’s final imprisonment.
Les 120 Journees de Sodome, ou PEcole du Liber-
tinage 1785 [1904]
par le Marquis de Sade. Public pour le premiere
fois d’apres le manuscrit original, avec des annotations
INDEX OF AUTHORS
scientifiques par le Dr. Eugene Duhren. Paris : Club
des Bibliophiles. Imperial 8vo., 1904. 200 copies.
Written in 1785. Another ed., Paris, 3 vols., edited
by Maurice Heine, Stendhal et Ccmpagnie, 4to.,
I
93 I "35- Definitive edition originally planned as
Vols. II and III of the issue of De Sade’s works by
the “ Societe du Roman Philosophique.” But see
below.
Dorci, ou la Bizarrerie du sort; conte inedit par le
Marquis de Sade, publie sur le manuscrit, avec une
notice sur l’auteur. i2mo. Paris: Charavay freres 1881
269 copies. The Notice sur l’auteur, signed A.F. is by
Anatole France.
An English translation, A Dialogue between a Priest
and a Dying Man, was published in 1927. “ From an
unpublished manuscript, Edited with an Introduction
and Notes by Maurice Heine. Translated by Samuel
Putnam.” Chicago: Covici, publisher. 4to., pp. 52.
Limited to 650 copies.
Dialogue entre un pretre et un moribond. Written in
1782.
Discours prononce a la Fete decernee par la Section des
Piques . . . par Sade. 8vo. 8 pp., Paris 1793
Petition de la Section des Piques aux Represcntants du
peuple Frangais. 8vo. Paris 1793
UAuteur des Crimes de VAmour a Villeterque,
folliculaire. i2mo. Paris: Masse. An IX 1801
A pamphlet of 19 pages. Villeterque in the Journal
de Paris, October 22nd, 1800, had sharply attacked
the publication of Les Crimes de VAmour.
Couplets chantes a Son Eminence le Cardinal Maury,
le 6 Octobre 1812, a la maison de sante pres de
Charenton 1812
Published in the Revue Retrospective, Vol. I, p. 262,
Paris: 1833.
A definitive edition of De Sade was projected by the
Societe du Roman Philosophique. To date three
volumes have been issued. The arrangements were
:
I, Historiettes, Contes et Fabliaux (from the original
MSS.). II and III, Les 120 Journees de Sodome. It
was intended that there should have been two volumes
of the text. A third volume would have been in the
nature of a critical supplement, with an excursus,
172 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
textual notes, and a general commentary. Three
volumes were actually published, as noted above, 1931-
35. One volume was issued in 1931. The two follow-
ing volumes were both issued in 1935. On the failure
of the publishers, the text was completed as promised
to their subscribers, but the critical supplement, etc.,
as announced never appeared. The three volumes
therefore are all text, and the third volume is only
about half the thickness of each of the first two.
IV, Lettres inedites. Unpublished. However, in 1929
was issued Correspondence inedite du Marquis de
Sade, “ de ses proches et de ses familiers, publiee avec
une introduction des annales et des notes par Paul
Bourdin.” Paris: Libraire de France. 1 10 Boulevard
Saint-Germain. 1929. 4to., pp. xlix and 450.
For further details of the Bibliography of De Sade the
authoritative and particular studies of this author must
be consulted. In French there is the work of Mons.
Maurice Heine. In English the standard work on De
Sade is The Marquis De Sade His Life and Works by
C. R. Dawes, 1927. This is furnished with a valuable
bibliography.
De Sade left a vast number of manuscripts, and among
this material arc many romances. Three or four lines
traced upon the cover of the twentieth and last note
book containing his autograph MSS. state that he com-
posed fifty novels, stories, and romances. Of these,
sixteen, short tales were to be collected as Historiettes
and are put together under a general title le Portefeuille
d’un homme de lettres. Thirty more, classed as “ gaies
ou sombres ” and introduced by an Avertissement
were intended to make up four volumes of Contes et
Fabliaux du XVIIIe siecle par un troubadour
provenqal. Of the four that remain one was to be
utilized as a supplement, Les Filous
;
a second, Les In
fortunes de la Vertu was to be amplified, and is
actually the first draft of Justine; two, Seide, conte
moral et philosophique and L’Epoux complaisant the
author was inclined to withdraw. All these were
written at the Bastille in 1787 and 1788, and are con-
tained in twenty note books of 48 pages apiece. De
Sade’s writing is extremely minute. Eighteen of these
note books are now preserved at the Bibliotheque
INDEX OF AUTHORS 173
Nationale, Paris. Nos. II and VII are missing. In
these lost cahiers were six historiettes, la Liste du
Suisse ; la Messe trop chere ; Vhonnete Ivrogne; M’y
allez jamais sans lumiere ; le Justice venetienne ; and
Adelaide de Miramas, ou le Fanatisme protestant.
There were also five contes, la fine Mouche ; I’heureux
Exchange ; la Foyer du sang; les Reliques ; le Cure de
Prato. The conclusion of la Marquise de Taleme is
also lacking.
Among the romances which De Sade left in MS. may
be further particularized :
Isabelle de Baviere, reine de France. Roman
historique. 3 vols.
Adelaide de Brunswick, princesse de Saxe. Roman. 2
vols.
Conrad. An historical romance of the Albigenses.
Marcel: Roman.
Pholoe et gjenocrate
:
An epistolary novel. Unfinished.
Les Journees de Florbelle, ou la Mature devoilee, suivies
des Memoires de Vabbe de Modore et des Aventures
d’Emilie de Volnange, etc. De Sade commenced this
romance on March 5th, 1806, and completed the first
volume on the following July 10th. It was then
named Memoires d’Emilie de Valrose ou les Egaremens
du libertinage. Later, as a variant, he considered Le
Triomphe du Vice, ou la veritable Histoire de Modore.
On April 25th, 1807, he decided upon Les Journees
de Florbelle, etc., and wrote that this title was now
“ adopte invariablement.” The romance was to be in
10 volumes, the last four of which occupy no less than
72 note books.
There are in existence other sketches, for the most part
very fragmentary, for romances and shorter tales in the
minuscular handwriting of De Sade.
De Sade’s work was certainly known to M. G. Lewis,
Francis Lathom, and other English Gothic novelists.
With regard to Lewis Mons. Maurice Heine has a
passage which to my mind puts the matter beyond a
doubt even if there were not other ample evidence that
“ The Monk ” was very well acquainted with De Sade.
Commenting upon the suggestion that Lewis drew from
Diderot, which is to say the least very far-fetched,
Mons. Heine writes :
“ S’il nous est permis, a notre
174 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
tour d’emettre une hypothese, nous voyons mieux ce
jeune homme de seize ans, a la faveur du voyage qu’il
fit a Paris en 1792, acquerant un exemplaire de
Justine, dont la troisieme edition venait alors de
paraitre dans la celebre collection de Cazin.”
For the connexion between De Sade and the Gothic
Novel Mons. Maurice Heine, Le Marquis De Sade et
Le Roman Noir, Paris, 1933 (originally in La
Nouvelle Revue Francaise)
should be consulted.
Although brief, this is an important essay. It is true
that the note on p. 6 which urges a sharp distinction
between the roman gothique and the roman noir is
debatable, but this is an intricate point, and I fear
Mons. Heine does Walpole less than justice. It is rash,
for example, to say “ rien de viable n’est issu en droite
ligne du Chateau d’Otrante” On the other hand,
there has been much tiresome exaggeration in the other
direction.
Promenade a travers le Roman noir, by Mons. Heine
which appeared in Minotaure, No. 5, 1934, makes
some interesting points which should not be overlooked.
ST. ANN (pseudonym?)
The Castles of Wolfnorth and Monteagle 1812
ST. CLAIR, Rosalia
The Blind Beggar; or, The Fountain of Saint
Catherine 1817
Translated from F. G. Ducray Duminil, La Fontaine
de Ste Catherine, 4 vols., i2mo. 1813.
The Son of O’Donnell. A novel 1819
The Highland Castle and the Lowland Cottage 1820
Clavering Tower, a Tale 1822
The Banker’s Daughter of Bristol ; or, Compliance and
Decision 1823
The First and Last Tears of Wedded Life 1826
Fashionables and Unfashionables 1827
Ulrica of Saxony 1828
Eleanor Ogilvie; The Maid of the Tweed 1 829
The Sailor Boy. A novel 1830
The Soldier Boy; or, The Last of the Lyalls 1831
The Doomed One; or, They Met at Glenlyon 1832
The Pauper Boy 1834
The Sailor Boy, 1830; and The Soldier Boy, 1831, by
INDEX OF AUTHORS 175,
Rosalia St. Clair must be distinguished from two earlier
novels of the same names: The Sailor Boy, 1800;
and The Soldier Boy, 1801.
ST. JOHN, Andrew
Tales of Former Times 1808
ST. LEGER, Esq., Barry ( -1830)
Some Account of the Life of the late Gilbert Earle,
Esq. 1824
“ Written by himself.”
Tales of Passion. Lord Lovel’s Daughter; The
Bohemian
;
and Second Love 1829
Stories from Froissart 1832
By the late Barry St. Leger, Esq.
ST. VENANT, Madame De
Leopold de Circe; or, The Effects of Atheism 1807
Translated by J[ohn] S[cott] Bryerley.
ST. VICTOR, Helen
The Ruins of Rigonda; or, The Homicidal Father 1808
SANDHAM, Miss Elizabeth
The Twin Sisters; or, The Effects of Education. A
Novel in a Series of Letters. By A Lady *789
The Adventures of Poor Puss 1809
Lucilla; or, The Reconciliation 1819
SARRATT, Esq., J. H. (
-1820)
A New Survey of London 1800
Koenigsmark the Robber; or, The Terror of Bohemia 1801
From the German of Rudolf Erich Raspe, 1737-94.
The Three Monks!! ! From the French 1803
From Les Trois Moines, 1802, by Elisabeth Guenard,
baronne de Mere.
The Life of Buonaparte 1803
A Treatise on the Game of Chess 1808
The Works of Damiano, Ruy Lopez, and Salvio on the
Game of Chess, translated and arranged; with
Remarks, Observations, and Copious Notes on the
Games. Containing, also, several original Games and
Situations by the Editor. To which are added, the
Elements of the Art of Playing without seeing the
176 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Board. By J. H. Sarratt, Author of a Treatise on
Chess, etc., and Professor of the Game. 8vo., pp. 382.
1 2 s. Boards. Boosey
The Works of Gianutio and Gustavus Selenus on Chess.
2 vols., Ebers
A New Treatise on the Game of Chess
A posthumous publication. William Lewis edited the
MS. and saw it through the press.
The Encyclopaedia Britannica, Ninth Ed., 1876, Vol.
V, p. 601, says :
“ The English school of chess com-
menced about the beginning of the present [nineteenth]
century, and Sarratt was its first leader. He flourished
from 1808 to 1821 and was followed by his great pupil,
W. Lewis.”
J. H. Sarratt is a famous name in the annals of
British Chess. The date of his birth is not known,
but in 1807 he was established in London as a school-
master, and enjoyed some reputation as an elegant
Latin scholar and a literary man. He married an
actress, Camilla Dufour. This lady, who was much
admired as a dancer and who was long a favourite at
the minor theatres, had herself published (1803) a novel
Aurora; or, The Mysterious Beauty, translated from
the French. She also contributed to various periodical
publications. In the Chess world J. H. Sarratt came
into prominence as a member of the London Chess
Club, which was organized in 1807 at Tom’s Coffee
House, Comhill. Sarratt was one of the earliest
members. At the “ Chess Club ” or “ Parsloe’s ” in St.
James Street, a French expert, Verdoni, has been
engaged to succeed the famous Francois Andre
Damian Philidor, who died in 1795, and it has been
said that Verdoni had a share in the creation of an
English School of Chess owing to his influence on the
first Englishman to become a master, J. H. Sarratt.
In 1808 Sarratt published A Treatise on the Game of
Chess, 2 vols., 8vo. With the exception of a small
volume, “ Sold only at Slaughter’s Coffee House,” The
Noble Game of Chess, 1735, by Captain Joseph
Bertin, Sarratt’s Treatise is the first original work on
Chess in English. It is dedicated to a wealthy Chess
amateur, Abraham Samuda, Esq. Sarratt already
styles himself “ Professor of Chess,” and he is spoken
1813
1817
1821
EUPHEMIE, OU LE TRIOMPHE DE LA RELIGION
Drama by Baculard D'Arnaud
Frontispiece, Second Edition, 1768
INDEX OF AUTHORS 177
of as “ the great J. H. Sarratt, whose fee was a guinea
a lesson.”
In 1813 Sarratt produced a second book on Chess,
The Works of Damiano, Ruy Lopez, and Salvio, one
vol., 8vo. Dedicated to “ the Right Hon. the Lord
Viscount Pollington, M.R.” He added a commentary
of his own on the conduct of the various games, and
also included a game from a rare treatise on Chess by
Dr. Ercole del Rio, published at Modena in 1769.
In 1817 Sarratt brought out his The Works of
Gianutio and Gustavus Selenus on Chess,
2 vols., in
which he included as those of “ an eminent player in
the beginning of the eighteenth century ” thirteen of
Berlin’s games from The Noble Game of Chess, 1735.
When he died, 1820, Sarratt was engaged upon an
original work A New Treatise on the Game of Chess
which was published, 2 vols., 396 pages in all, in 1821
as by “ J. H. Sarratt, Professor of Chess, and Author
of Several Publications on this Game.” It was
dedicated to Sir Frederick Gustavus Fowke, Bt., of
Lowesby Hall, Leicestershire. Sarratt’s chief pupil,
William Lewis (1787-1870) edited the MS. and saw it
through the press. Lewis had by now left the office
which he entered when he came to London about
1812, and made the game of Chess his principal means
of livelihood. As a frequenter of Tom’s Coffee House
he met Sarratt among whose pupils he was soon
enrolled.
In 1822 Lewis edited a Second Edition of the New
Treatise, “Revised and Improved, with additional
notes and remarks by W. Lewis, Teacher of Chess.”
The two volumes have become one of 352 pp., there
are a good many alterations and modifications in the
text, diagrams are substituted for long and detailed
descriptions of the positions of the pieces, and the price
was notably reduced.
Upon Sarratt’s death Lewis was the acknowledged
leader of London Chess.
There is no account of J. H. Sarratt in the Dictionary
of National Biography where he should have had a
place.
SARRATT, Mrs. J. H. [Camilla Sarratt] nee Dufour
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
I
7 8
Aurora ; or, The Mysterious Beauty 1803
Translated from the French.
Mrs. Sarratt also contributed to periodical publications.
SAVILLE, F.
The Heads of the Headless 1847
SCARGILL, William Pitt
Truth 1800
SCOTT, Caroline
Hermione; or, The Defaulter 1816
SCOTT, M. D., Helenus (1760-1821)
The Adventures of a Rupee 1782
SCOTT, Honoria
A Winter in Edinburgh ; or, The Russian Brothers.
A novel 1810
Amatory Tales of Spain, France, Switzerland, and the
Mediterranean; containing The Fair Andalusian;
Rosalia of Palermo ; and The Maltese Portrait 1810
A Sketch of the Life and Character of the Princess
Amelia 1810
The Vale of Clyde. A Tale 1811
The Castle of Strathmay. A Tale 1814
SCOTT, Sarah ( -1795)
The History of Cornelia Oh0
Agreeable Ugliness; or, The Triumph of the Graces 17 54
A Journey Through Every Stage of Life 1754
A Description of Millenium Flail 1762
Written with Lady Barbara Montagu.
The Man of Real Sensibility; or, The History of Sir
George Ellison 1766
SEBRIGHT, Paul
Coincidence ; or, The Soothsayer. A Novel 1820
Adele ; or, The Tomb of My Mother. A Romance 1824
SEDGWICK, Catharine Maria
Clarence; or, A Tale of Our Own Times 1830
SEGRAIS, Jean Regnaud De (1624-1701)
iodide. 1670'
i^ayde, An Excellent New Romance. 8vo. 1677.
Term Catalogues, November (Michaelmas), 1677.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 179
Translated as gfayde, a Spanish history, written origin-
ally in French, by Monsieur de Segrais [but more
correcdy perhaps by Mme. de La Fayette], 1777, and
reissue 1780.
De Segrais is said to have given Mme. de La Fayette
some help with La Princesse de Cleves, 1678.
The Princess of Cleves. The most fam’d romance.
Written in French by the greatest wits of France.
Englished by a Person of Quality, at the request of
some friends. 8vo. 1679. Term Catalogues, Easter
(May), 1679.
SELDEN, Catharine
The Count De Santerre. A Romance. By A Lady 1797
The Sailors 1
797
The English Nun. A Novel 1797
Serena. A Novel 1800
German Letters. Translated into English by Catharine
Selden 1804
Cork edition, 1804. London, Minerva Press, 1805.
Villa Nova; or, The Ruined Castle. A romance 1805
Villasantelle ; or, The Curious Impertinent. A
romance 1817
SEMLER, Johann Immanuel Augustus
Semler, a Tale of Marriage N.D. [1821?]
SEMPLE, Robert
Charles Ellis; or, The Friends 1805
SENATE, M.D., E.
Family Pride and Humble Merit. A Novel, founded
on facts and partly taken from the French 1810
Dr. Senate who sometimes employed the pseudonym
Dr. Venel, wrote upon medicine, and was for a time
connected with the management of The Critical
Review.
SERRES, Mrs. Olivia, nee Wilmot (1775- )
St. Julian. In a series of letters 1805
This lady in 1793 married the marine painter John
Thomas Serres. She herself was landscape painter to
the Prince Regent. She wrote Poems ; The Castle of
Avala, an opera ;
and many miscellaneous works
including a life of her uncle the Rev. James Wilmot,
l8o A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
D.D., of Trinity College, Oxford. This was published,
8vo. 1813.
SEXTON BLAKE
The names of Sexton Blake the detective, his assistant
Tinker, and the bloodhound Pedro, are so famous in
the annals of sensational fiction that a brief note may
be not unacceptable.
The first Sexton Blake story, Sexton Blake, Detective
appeared on May 4th, 1894, in the second number
of a recently established halfpenny paper, The Union
Jack. At first little notice was attracted, and for some
months Sexton Blake was ignored. Later, however,
when a second and a third story were published Sexton
Blake speedily became so great a favourite that every
week for thirty-nine years The Union Jack printed an
episode of Sexton Blake. In February, 1933, the paper
was renamed The Detective Weekly with Blake as the
principal figure.
In 1915 began to appear the Sexton Blake Library,
originally published at 3d., but afterwards at 4d.
Sexton Blake stories and series of stories also appeared
in various magazines.
In 1938 The Sexton Blake Library had reached its one
thousand and second number. A Sexton Blake Annual,
coloured wrappers, was published in 1938, and this
advertises “ Further Adventures of Sexton Blake appear
every month in Sexton Blake Library, Price 4d., and
every Thursday in Detective Weekly, Price 2d.”
Naturally so many thousands of stories, the work of a
a large number of authors, and the incidents, one and
all, centring round Sexton Blake, cannot maintain an
equal level, but it is only fair to say that the best of
the tales are written with great spirit and vigour and
often unravel a most ingenious plot. Nor is it untrue
to add that the mediocre and indifferent specimens are
very few and far between.
SHEBBEARE, John (1709-1788)
The Marriage Act: A Novel, containing a Series of
Interesting Adventures
Lydia ; or, Filial Piety. A Novel
J
754
1755
INDEX OF AUTHORS 1 8
1
SHEDDEN, Mrs. Sophia Elizabeth, nee Lewis
(Sister of Matthew Gregory (“ Monk ”) Lewis.)
Matthew Lewis, Under-Secretary of War, married
Anna Maria, daughter of Sir Thomas Sewell, and had
issue
Matthew Gregory
Frances (Fanny) Maria
Sophia Elizabeth
Barrington, who died young.
John, third son of Robert Shedden, Colonel in the
Army, of Eastonton and Efford, Hants, married 1802
Sophia Elizabeth, daughter of Matthew Lewis, Under-
secretary of War, and co-heir (with her sister Fanny
Maria, Lady Lushington) of M. G. Lewis, M.P. (died
1818). See Burke’s Landed Gentry.
Mathew Gregory Lewis left his mother £ 1 ,000 a year,
and the rest of his estate, inherited from his father
Matthew Lewis, was bequeathed in two equal portions
to his two sisters.
John (Colonel) Shedden and his lady had issue two
sons
Lewis (1803-1844)
Goodrich (1805-1884).
The Hero; or, The Adventures of a Night. A
Romance. Translated from the Arabic into Iroguese;
from the Iroguese into Hottentot ; from the Hottentot
into French; and from the French into English 1815
Advertised in The Heroine, 1815, 3rd ed., as In the
Press.
The Hero was originally written c. 1800. It is some-
times erroneously ascribed to Eaton Stannard Barrett.
SHELLEY, Mary Wollstonegraft, nee Godwin
(1 797- 1-
85O
Frankenstein 1818
Valperga; or, The Life and Adventures of Castruccio,
Prince of Lucca 1823
The Last Man 1826
The Fortunes of Perkin Warbeck 1830
Lodore 1 S35
Falkner. A Novel 1837
Tales and Short Stories (from The Keepsake)
by M. W.
Shelley were collected with an Introduction by R.
i8a A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Garnett, one vol., William Paterson & Co., 1891.
The Heir of Mondolfo, a short story by Mrs. Shelley
was printed for the first time in Appleton’s Journal,
New York, new series, Vol. II, January, 1877, pp.
12-23. The MS. is preserved in the Keats Museum,
Hampstead.
SHELLEY, Percy Bysshe (1792-1822)
£astrozzi, A Romance 1810
St. Irvyne ; or, The Rosicrucian. A Romance 1811
The Assassins. A fragment of a romance, written 1814
The Coliseum. A fragment of a romance, written 1818-19
SHOWES, Mrs.
Interesting Tales. Selected and Translated from the
German 1 797
Statira; or, The Mother 1798
The Restless Matron. A Legentary Tale 1 799
Agnes De Lilien. A Novel from the German 1801
SICKELMORE, Jun., Richard, of Brighton
Edgar; or, The Phantom, of the Castle 1 798
Agnes and Leonora, a novel 1 799
Mary Jane, a novel 1800
Raymond, a novel 1801
Rashleigh Abbey; or, The Ruin on the Rock 1805
Osrick; or, Modern Horrors, a romance 1809
The two Sickelmores, father and son, were printers and
publishers at Brighton. Richard Sickelmore, Sen.,
issued for the most part works of local interest, such as
Attree’s Topography of Brighton, Brighton Herald
Printing Office, North Street, 1809; a second edition,
1810, and subsequent editions. Richard Sickelmore,
Jun., was well known as a busy miscellaneous writer.
In addition to his novels he wrote a number of plays
for which see below, and of which there is some notice
in The Gothic Quest by Montague Summers, pp. 363-
4. Several of these slight pieces were performed at the
Brighton Theatre. Originally the Sickelmores lived in
North Street, and Mrs. Sickelmore let lodgings. At the
trial of John Motherhill (who was acquited) for a rape
on the body of Miss Catharine Wade, Assize holden at
East Grinstead, County of Sussex, on Tuesday, March
2 1st, 1786, before Judge Ashhurst, the house of Mr.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 1
83
Sickelmore in North Street, Brighton, was mentioned,
since Mr. Wade lodged here. Mrs. Ann Sickelmore
gave evidence that the said Mr. Wade, Master of
Ceremonies, lodged in her house. See The Cuckold’s
Chronicle, 1793, Vol. I, p. 50 and p. 80. In 1823
R. Sickelmore, Jun. and Co. had a printing and pub-
lishing office in Gleaner Street, Brighton. The follow-
ing year he was in Cavendish Street, St. James Street.
In 1827 he issued Views of Brighton from 26 King’s
Road.
The dramatic work of Richard Sickelmore comprises
:
The Dream. A Serio-Dramatic Piece. Acted,
Theatre Royal, Brighton, August 23rd, 1796, 8vo.
Lewes, 1797.
Quarter Day. An Interlude. Acted at Dover, 1797.
8vo., Lewes, 1798.
Saltimbanco ; or, The Disagreeable Surprise. An
Opera, Music, Prince. Acted, Brighton, Saturday,
August 5th, 1797. 8vo., Lewes, 1798.
The Cottage Maid ; or, Customs of the Castle. Acted,
Brighton, Tuesday, October 2nd, 1798.
Aboukir Bay; or, The Glorious First of August. A
Musical Drama. Given at Brighton in 1799. 8vo.,
Lewes, 1799. The battle of the Nile (or Aboukir Bay)
took place, August 1st, 1798.
Sketches from Life. A Comedy. Acted at Brighton
in 1802.
A Birthday Tribute. An Interlude. Given at Brighton
on August 1 2th, 1805.
The Prince of Wales, afterwards George IV, was bom
August 1 2th, 1762.
SIDDONS, Henry (1774-1814)
William Wallace ; or, The Highland Hero. A tale
founded on facts
Leon. A Spartan story
Somerset; or, The Dangers of Greatness. A tale
founded on historic truths
Reginald De Torby and the Twelve Robbers. A
romance
Maid, Wife, and Widow
The Son of the Storm
Henry Siddons was the eldest child of the famous
tragedienne. He was himself a finished actor and a
1791
09 1
1792
1803
1806
1809
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
184
dramatist of no mediocre talent. His opera, with
music by W. Reeve, The Sicilian Romance; or, The
Apparition of the Cliffs founded upon Mrs. Radcliffe’s
A Sicilian Romance, produced at Covent Garden,
Wednesday, May 28th, 1794, proved very successful,
although according to Genest, “ Most vilely ” done.
His wife, Mrs. Henry Siddons, was a favourite
romantic actress. For the ten plays of Henry Siddons
consult the Biographia Dramatica, and further Genest.
SIMPSON, Captain John
Ricardo, the Outlaw. A Romance 1823:
SIMS, H. C.
Marie Anne Lais, the Courtezan ; or, Certain Illustra-
tions. A Romance 1812
SIMS, O.
Memoirs of a Princess ; or, First Love 1812
SINCLAIR, Harvey
A Peep at the World ; or, The Children of Providence.
A Novel 1 804.
SINGER, Mr.
The Wanderer of the Alps; or, Alphonso. A romance 1796
The Mystic Castle; or, Orphan Heir. A romance 1 796
Edwin; or, The Heir of /Ella. An historical romance 1803
SKINN, Mrs. nee Masterman, of York
The Old Maid; or, History of Miss Ravensworth 1771
SLEATH, Mrs. Eleanor
The Orphan of the Rhine. A romance 1798
Who’s the Murderer? or, The Mystery of the Forest.
A novel 1802
The Bristol Heiress; or, The Errors of Education.
A tale 1809
The Nocturnal Minstrel; or, The Spirit of the Wood.
A romance 1810
Pyrenean Banditti. A romance 18 11
Glenoven ; or, The Fairy Palace 1815
SMITH, Mrs. Catharine, an actress at the Haymarket
Theatre
The Misanthropic Father ; or, The Guarded Secret 1807
INDEX OF AUTHORS 185
The Caledonian Bandit ; or, The Heir of Dunccethel.
A romance of the thirteenth century
The Banditti of the Forest
The Castle of Aragon
Barozzi ',
or, The Venetian Sorceress. A romance of
the sixteenth century
Barozzi, ou les Sorciers venitiens, chronique du quin-
zieme siecle. Par Mistriss Charlotte Smith. 2 vols.,
Paris, 1817. The ascription of this French translation
to the more famous novelist may be in error or of
design.
SMITH, Mrs. Charlotte, nee Turner (1749-1806)
Elegiac Sonnets and Other Essays 1 784
Manon Lescaut (translation from Prevost) 1 785
The Romance of Real Life. 3 vols. 1787 [6]
Emmeline, The Orphan of the Castle 4 vols. 1788
Ethelinde ; or, The Recluse of the Lake. 5 vols. 1789
Celestina. 4 vols. 1791
Desmond. 3 vols. 1792
The Old Manor House. 4 vols. 1793
The Emigrants, a Poem in Two Books 1793
The Banished Man. 4 vols. 1794
The Wanderings of Warwick. 1 vol. 1 794
Montalbert. 3 vols. 1795
Rural Walks, in dialogues . . . for Young Persons 1 795
Marchmont. 4 vols. 1796
Darcy 1796
Rambles Farther, A Continuation of Rural Walks 1 796
A Narrative of the loss of Catharine, Venus and Pied-
mont transports . . . near Weymouth . . . November
iSth [7795] _
1796
The Young Philosopher. 4 vols. 1 798
Minor Morals interspersed with Sketches of Natural
History. 2 vols. 1798
Letters of a Solitary Wanderer. 3 vols. 1798-1801
What is She? A comedy 1 799
Produced at Covent Garden, April 27th, 1799.
Conversations, introducing Poetry for the use of
Children. 2 vols. 1804
A History of England, 3 vols. 1806
Beachy Head, with Other Poems. 1 vol. 1807
The Natural History of Birds, intended for Young
1811
1812
1813
1815
i86 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Persons. Edited by T.C. 1807
Mrs. Smith was a contributor to The Gentleman’s
Magazine. A very pleasing edition of Mrs. Smith’s
Elegiac Sonnets was made up of two volumes. Elegiac
Sonnets and Other Poems, by Charlotte Smith. Vol. i.
The Ninth Edition. London: Printed for T. Cadell,
Jun. And W. Davies, in the Strand. 1800. R. Noble,
Printer, Old Bailey. Dedication to William Hayley,
Esq. 6^. in boards. Portrait frontispiece, and five
plates. Each plate carries: Publish’d Jany. 1, 1789,
by T. Cadell, Strand. Elegiac Sonnets, and Other
Poems, by Charlotte Smith. Vol. II. Third Edition.
Non t’appressar ove sia riso e canto
Canzone mio, no, ma pianto
:
Non fa per te di star con gente allegra
Vedova sconsolata, in vesta nigra.
Petrarcha.
London: Printed for T. Cadell, and W. Davies,
Strand. 1806. W. Flint, Printer, Old Bailey. Four
plates: Published May 15th, 1797, by Cadell and
Davies, Strand. Heading the list of advertisements is
:
Elegiac Sonnets, and Other Poems, by Charlotte
Smith. Vol. I. 9th Edition.
SMITH, Miss Charlotte
The Republican’s Mistress 1821
This novel is sometimes ascribed to Mrs. Charlotte
Smith, but it does not appear to be by the author of
The Old Manor House.
SMITH, John Frederick (1803-1890)
John Frederick Smith was the son of George Smith,
manager of the Norwich circuit. George Smith, who
was also in the theatrical profession (a brother, not as
sometimes been supposed the father of the novelist)
died aged 78 at Grimsby, on December 19th, 1877.
It may be remembered that Francis Lathom belonged
to the Norwich Theatre. Smith whilst in his teens
wrote several dramas of which there seems to be
nothing more than a local record and which probably
were never printed, The Idiot; Deaf and Dumb (a
plagiarism for his father’s theatre of Holcroft’s famous
play); The Hoaxing Trio, a farce; and others. His
INDEX OF AUTHORS i8 7
first published piece appears to be The Siege of
Colchester
,
1824. Smith resided for some years in
Rome, where he was known to and in some degree a
protege of the powerful Cardinal Fesch. He was
educated by the Jesuits, and was himself (it is said)
a member of the Society of Jesus. That he was in
after life created a Papal Count by Gregory XVI is a
mere canard. It is incidentally recorded that in 1830
the “ heavy man ” of the Theatre Royal, Norwich, was
the manager’s son, J. F. Smith. Two years later he
was living in London, at Augustus Square, Regent’s
Park. He now devoted himself wholly to literature
and was working (not exclusively) for Edward Lloyd,
the publisher, then of Broad Street, Bloomsbury. In
1849 Smith had joined the staff of The London
Journal, and proved the mainstay of this popular
paper for half-a-dozen years. At the end of 1855
he left George Vickers, the proprietor of The London
Journal somewhat abruptly, and become a contributor
to (Mr. John) Cassell’s Illustrated Family Paper, a
position he had been induced to accept by no incon-
siderable fees. Ten years later (1865) he took himself
back to The London Journal, whilst the copyright of
the stories he had written for Cassell were purchased
by Vickers for £ 1 ,000, in those days a very large sum.
His popularity long undiminished, although owing to
his too ample charities and generosity he was largely
imposed upon, and his fortune wasted. The late Mr.
Frank Jay, a great authority, says that Smith was
always “ a pure Bohemian,” but that he lived even
whilst at the height of his popularity in a very retired
way in a boarding-house at Bloomsbury, his increasing
deafness precluding him from intimacy with his fellow-
authors. With Vol. VII (New Series) of The London
Journal, No. 363, November 25th, 1890, was presented
a large sheet pictorial almanac depicting a number of
favourite actresses and society beauties, Miss Winifred
Emery, Miss Ellen Terry, Miss Mary Anderson,
Madame Albani, Adeline Patti, Lady Brooke, Lady
Dunlo, Nikita ( ?), the Countess of Zetland, and Lady
Randolph Churchill, all encircling a centre portrait of
John Frederick Smith.
Smith crossed to America where he re-published
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
1 88
many of his old tales and wrote some new romances
the titles of which it is baffling to trace. Dick and
Fitzgerald of 18 Ann Street, New York, issued in
paper covers at 75 cents and a dollar a very lengthy
series of “ J. F. Smith’s Celebrated Novels.” Here the
longer fictions are often in two volumes and have
been re-named. Thus Phases of Life; or, A Peep
Behind the Scenes (1856) becomes Harold Tracy; or,
Phases of Life and Bella Trelawney ; or, Time Works
Wonders.
The actual day of Smith’s death in New York is
uncertain, but it occurred early in March, 1890, and
the famous writer passed away in obscurity, if not
indeed in actual want. Of English newspapers only
two recorded his decease, the London Star, and The
Athenceum, March 19th, 1890.
A portrait of Smith was published in Cassell’s
Illustrated Family Paper, May 22nd, 1858.
The Siege of Colchester in the year 1648
(Colchester published) 1824
An historical drama in two acts, by the author of The
Idiot, Deaf and Dumb, The Hoaxing Trio. A prose
drama.
Creon the Patriot. A drama, acted at the Theatre
Royal, Norwich, May 12th, 1828 1828
Ralph de Bigort, Earl of Norwich 1829
This drama was acted at the Theatre Royal, Norwich,
in 1829.
Songs of the Ocean, poetry by I. F. Smith, Esq., music
by C. N. Mueller 1832
The Jesuit. A novel 1832
3 vols., London, Saunders and Otley. Dedicated by
Smith to Lieutenant-Colonel Rusbrooke.
This novel has been confused with and must be care-
fully distinguished from The Jesuit, translated from
the German of Karl Spindler, English version published
one vol., i2mo., Smith and Elder, 1824.
The two are in every way entirely distinct and separate
works.
Sir Roger de Coverley. A Burletta 1836
Produced, Adelphi, Monday, November 17th, 1836.
Printed in Duncombe’s Edition, Vol. XXIV. Another
play of this name had been licensed in 1834.
INDEX OF AU THORS 1
89
A Lesson for Gentlemen ; or, The City Wives. A
Burletta 1839
Produced at the Strand, Monday, April 1st, 1839.
Licensed, October 4th, 1838. Printed in Duncombe’s
Edition, Vol. XLVIII. Also in Ludwig Hilsenberg’s
Modern English Comic Theatre, No. 61, edited with
notes in German by J. A. Diezemany. Leipsic, 1843,
etc.
The Prelate, a Tale of the Church 1840
2 vols., Boone.
Another ed., yellow back, Ward and Lock, i860.
Wolsey; or, The Secret Witness. A Drama 1
845
Produced at the Surrey, Monday, January 27th, 1845.
Buncombe, Vol. LIV.
Robin Goodfellow, an Opera 1848
Mariamne, a Tale of the Temple 1849
A short story. The London Journal, May 12th, 1849.
It may be noted that until the number for May 8th,
1858, The London Journal was dated nearly a fort-
night in advance. Mariamne is Smith’s first contribu-
tion to The London Journal.
The Mother and Uncle of Napoleon 1849
The London Journal, August 4th, 1849.
Personal reminiscences of Rome.
Erin’s Prayer to the Queen 1849
The London Journal, September 1st, 1849.
A poem of considerable merit upon the visit of Queen
Victoria and Prince Albert to Ireland.
The Plague of London 1849
The London Journal, October 13th, 1849.
Stanfield Hall 1849-50
The London Journal, a serial.
Book I. The Chronicle of Ulrich the Saxon (period,
William Rufus, Henry I) commenced May 19th, 1849 ;
concluding October 27th, 1849.
Book II. Chronicle of the Heiress (period, Henry
VIII—Queen Mary) commenced November 3rd,
1849; concluding May 4th, 1850.
Book III. The Third and Last Chronicle of Stanfield
Hall. Cromwell ; or, The Protector’s Oath, com-
menced May 1 ith, 1850; concluding November 16th,
1 850-
Smith’s drama The Protector of which I know only the
igO A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
title was possibly founded on Book III of Stanfield
Hall, and therefore may tentatively be dated 1851-2.
On the other hand it may be an earlier, even a Norwich
piece.
Amy Lawrence, The Freemason's Daughter 1851
The London Journal, commencing January 25th,
1851, concluding October 4th, 1851.
Minnigrey 1851-2
The London Journal, commencing October nth,
1851, concluding October 9th, 1852.
Rochester ; or, The Merry Days of Merry England 1852
29 penny weekly numbers, E. Lloyd. As a serial,
illustrated by C. Bonner, but only 38 chapters instead
of 49, The Halfpenny Gazette, commencing No. 46,
January 1 6th, 1864.
The Will and the Way 1852-53
The London Journal, commencing October 9th, 1852,
concluding September 3rd, 1853.
Lives of the Queens of England 1 853-54
Elizabeth, Queen Regnant of England.
The London Journal, commencing March 12th, 1853,
concluding February 4th, 1854.
Woman and Her Master 1 853-54
The London Journal, commencing September 3rd,
1853, concluding September 9th, 1854.
Temptation 1 854-55
The London Journal, commencing September 9th,
1854, concluding March 3rd, 1855.
The Soldier of Fortune, a Tale of the War 1
855
Cassell's Illustrated Family Paper
Masks and Faces 1855-56
The London Journal, commencing June 23rd, 1855,
concluding March 15th, 1856.
When J. F. Smith who had commenced this story left
The London Journal towards the end of 1855, the
current serial was continued by Emma Robinson, and
in 1856 published under her name in book form as
The City Banker ; or, Love and Money, 1856.
Dick Tarleton; or, Lessons of Life 1856
Cassell’s Illustrated Family Paper, commencing No.
106 January 5th, 1856.
Towards the end of 1855 Smith had abruptly left
The London Journal and joined Cassell’s.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 191
Phases of Life ; or, A Peep Behind the Scenes 1856-7
Cassell’s, commencing No. 147, October 18th, 1856.
The Young Pretender ; or, a Hundred Years Ago 1857
Cassell’s, commencing No. 186, July 18th, 1857.
Smiles and Tears ; a Tale of Our Own Times 1857-8
Cassell’s Illustrated Paper (new series), commencing
No. 1, December 5th, 1857.
Cassell’s History of England 1857-62
Publication, 1857; 1858, 2 vols. ;
i860; 1861; and
1862.
Mr. John Cassell offered J. F. Smith a contract to
write The History of England on account of the vivid
style and historical research shown in his Lives of the
Queens of England, and Smith agreed to undertake the
work. However, he did not proceed further than the
sixtieth chapter of Vol. I, which brings the history
down to the end of the reign of Edward I.
The Substance and the Shadow 1 858-9
Cassell’s, commencing No. 53, December 4th, 1858.
Milly Moyne; or, Broken at Last 1859
Cassell’s, commencing No. 79, June 4th, 1859.
Who is to Win? or, The Stepmother i860
Cassell’s, commencing No. 136, July 7th, i860.
Smith had been travelling abroad between the publica-
tion of his last two books.
Sowing and Gathering 1861
Cassell’s, commencing No. 183, January 1st, 1861.
Warp and Weft; or, The Cotton Famine 1862-3
Cassell’s, commencing No. 263, December 13th, 1862.
Black Bess; or, The Knight of the Road 1863-8
254 penny weekly numbers, 2,028 pages.
E. Harrison, Salisbury Court, Fleet Street. The Pre-
face to the first completed issue is dated 1868. The
book was fathered and signed by Edward Viles, but
was written for him by J. F. Smith at (it is said) a fee
of £3 1 os. per number.
False Steps 1864
Cassell’s, commencing No. 326, February 27th, 1864.
In 1865 Smith rejoined The London Journal.
Sir Bernard Gaston ; or, The Secret of Moultree Hall 1867
Published, New York.
During his later years Smith, who had made his home
192 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
in New York, wrote and published a number of
romances, of which several seem to have been little
more than adaptations of his earlier work.
In 1863-64 The London Journal was publishing every
week in Supplementary Numbers J. F. Smith’s “ Best
Tales ” with the original Illustrations by John Gilbert,
Esq., “ To be had with or without the current number.
Price id. Monthly Parts, price 6d.” The Will and
the Way; Woman and Her Master ; Temptation
;
Stanfield Hall; Amy Lawrence; were all re-issued in
this form. In 1862-3 'The Guide was published, Vol. I
“ containing the popular tale of ‘
Minnigrey ’
complete,
price 4s. 6d.”
J. F. Smith’s Celebrated Novels
as advertised by Dick & Fitzgerald, No. 18 Ann Street,
New York.
The Banker’s Secret; or, Sowing and Reaping
.
8vo.
75 cents.
f Milly Moyne ; or, Broken at Last. Large 8vo. 75
J cents.
|
Phillip Blandford ; or, How to V/in a Sweetheart.
I Large 8vo. 75 cents.
Milly Moyne (see above) in two parts,
f Prince Charles ; or, The Young Pretender. Large 8vo.
J 75 cents.
]
Alice Arran; or, One Hundred Years Ago. Large 8vo.
1 25 cents.
The Young Pretender (see above) in two parts,
f Dick Markham; or, Smiles and Tears. Large 8vo.
__J 75 cents.
j
Lilian; or, The Adventures of an Heiress. Large 8vo.
L 1 dollar.
Smiles and Tears (see above) in two parts,
f Harold Tracy; or, Phases of Life. Large 8vo. 75
J cents.
]
Bella Trelawney ; or, Time Works Wonders. Large
18vo. 75 cents.
Phases of Life (see above) in two parts.
Charles Vavasseur ; or, The Outcast Heir. Large 8vo.
75 cents.
Henry de-la Tour ; or, The Comrades in Arms. Large
8vo. 75 cents.
THE MYSTERIES OF ST. CLAIR
By Mrs. Catherine G. Ward
1824. Illustration p. 461
INDEX OF AUTHORS 193
f Dick Tarleton; or, The Last of his Race. Large 8vo.
J 25 cents.
]
Marion Barnard ; or, Lessons of Life. Large 8vo.
L 7 5 cents.
Dick Tarleton (see above) in two parts.
Fred Graham; or, Masks and Faces. Large 8vo.,
224 pp. 75 cents.
Masks and Faces (see above).
The Virgin Queen; or, The Romance of Royalty.
8vo., 225 pp. 75 cents.
f Woman and Her Master. A Novel containing 228
J Octavo pp. 75 cents.
|
Fred Vernon; or, The Victim of Avarice, 325 Octavo
l pp. 1 dollar.
Woman and Her Master (see above) in two parts.
f Harry Ashton; or, The Will and the Way. 8vo. 75
J cents.
1 Ellen de Vere ; or, The Way of the Will. 8vo. 75
l cents.
The Will and the Way (see above) in two parts.
Fred Arden; or, The Jesuit’s Revenge. 200 Octavo
pp. 75 cents.
f Minnie Grey ; or, Who is the Heir? 215 Octavo pp.
J 75 cents.
|
Gus Howard; or, How to Win a Wife. 210 Octavo
Lpp. 75 cents.
Minnigrey (see above) in two parts.
Rochester; or, The Merry Days of England. Illus-
trated. 75 cents.
Temptation ; or, The Unknown Heiress. Large
Octavo. 75 cents.
Amy Lawrence; or, The Freemason’s Daughter. 75
cents.
Beautifully illustrated; 170 large pages.
Stanfield Hall. A Romantic Historical Novel. 432
closely printed large 8vo. pages. 16 engravings. 1
dollar, 50 cents.
Romantic Incidents in the Lives of the Queens of
England. i2mo., cloth gilt. 1 dollar, 50 cents.
SMITH, Julia
The Prison of Montauban ; or, Times of Terror. A
o
J
94 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Reflective Tale i8ig»
“ By the Editor of Letters of the Swedish Court.”
SMITH, Maria Lavinia
The Fugitive of the Forest. A Romance i8ot
SMITH, Mr.
The Family Story. A novel 1
797
The Runaway; or, The Seat of Benevolence 1800
Trevanion ; or, Matrimonial Errors. A novel 1800
Horatio ; or, Sketches of the Davenport Family. A
novel 1807
SMYTHIES, Miss, of Colchester
The Stage Coach 1753
The History of Lucy Wellers 1754
The Brothers 1
7 5^
It is uncertain whether this lady was Susan Smythies
(bom 1720); Ann (b. 1724); or Elizabeth (b. 1727).
See Mr. Frank Gees Black in The Essex Review, July,
1934; and also letter to The Times Literary Supple-
ment, September 26th, 1935.
SMYTHIES, Mrs. Gordon
Our Mary; or, Murder Will Out 1861
Serialized in The London Journal, commencing Febru-
ary 2nd, 1861.
The Girl We Leave Behind Us 1816
Serialized in The London Journal, commencing July
13th, 1861.
The Woman in Black; or, Buried Alive 1862-3
Serialized in The London Journal, concluding April
1 ith, 1863.
The Man in Grey 1863-4
Serialized in The London Journal, commencing
August 22nd, 1863, and concluding February 27th,
1864.
The Sleep-Walker ; or, Lady Theresa’s Trials 1865,
Serialized in The London Journal, commencing April
15th, 1865, and concluding November 4th, 1865.
Before 1861 Mrs. Gordon Smythies had written Cousin
Geoffrey, The Jilt, Lovers and Fortune-hunters, and
The Life of a Beauty. As a sensation novelist she was
very popular, and her work always has a quality.
INDEX OF AUTHORS
SOUTHWORTH, Mrs. Emma Dorothy Eliza
Nevitte
Bom at Washington, December 26th, 1819. Died at
Washington, June 30th, 1899. Mrs. Southworth pub-
lished more than 60 novels. The uniform edition of
her works, Philadelphia 1872, collected to that date 42
stories, and even so is not complete. She taught in a
school from 1844-49, during which years she contri-
buted to The Irish Refugee, The Baltimore Saturday
Visitor, and other papers. Her first novel Retribution,
written for The National Era, grew from a short story
to a full-length fiction, and was published separately,
New York, 1849. Her last novel was The Fatal
Secret.
Retribution; or, The Maiden's Dower: A Tale of
Passion (New York) 1849
Reprinted, i860.
The Deserted Wife (New York) 1851
London ed., 1856. Another English ed., Milner, 1878.
Shannondale (New York) 1851
As, Winny Darling; or, The Three Beauties of
Shannondale, London, 1857.
The Mother-in-Law ; or, Isle of Rays (London) 1853
Mark Sutherland ; or, Power and Principle (London) 1853
The Curse of Clifton: a tale of expiation and redemp-
tion 1853
2 vols., Philadelphia, 1853; London, 1853; Milner
(price ir. 6d.), 1878.
Old Neighbourhoods and New Settlements ; or,
Chnstmas Evening Legends 1853
Philadelphia, 1853. London, 1853.
The Tree and False Heiress 1
835
Serialized in The London Journal, commencing March
3rd, and concluding June 23rd, 1855.
The Lost Heiress 1855
Philadelphia, 1855. London ed., Milner, 1878.
The True and The False Heiress and The Lost Heiress
are the same tale, but with many variations. The first
version has an English setting. The second is
American. Chapter I of the first commences :
“ It was
the flat, waste coast of Arundel,” and later, Chapter
XII, there is an excursion down the Thames. In the
second version we begin :
“ It was the flat, waste coast
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
196
of A 1 county, on the Chesapeahe,’
sion is through a “ bay miscalled S-
and the excur-
-n River.” In
1858
1859
1859
to
the English version the negrces Big Len, Little Len,
Aunt Moll, Little Moll, lose their individuality and
become rather commonplace. The President’s recep-
tion in The Lost Heiress is changed to a large London
ball. These variants in Mrs. Southworth’s novels, the
different names of her characters, the alteration of
titles, make her bibliography if attempted in detail,
very intricate, difficult, and diffuse.
The Island Princess; or, Double Marriage
The Masked Mother ; or, The Hidden Hand
London ed., 1859.
Brandon of Brandon. A Tale of Love and Pride
Serialized in The London Journal, July 30th, 1859
December 17th, 1859.
The Fatal Marriage
Serialized in The London Journal, December 24th
1859. to April 14th, i860.
Love’s Labour Won
Anon., London Journal, April 14th to July 7th, i860.
Philadelphia ed., 1862.
Laura Etheridge
Serialized, London Journal, May 26th, i860, to
September 29th, i860.
The Gipsy’s Prophecy ; or, The Bride of an Evening 1 860-1
Serialized, London Journal, September 15th, i860, to
February 2nd, 1861. Philadelphia ed., 1861.
The Lost Bride, a tale of Luckenough Hall
London ed., i860.
The Two Sisters
London ed., i860. A later ed., as Virginia and
Magdalene ; or, The Foster Sisters, Philadelphia, 1871.
Adela
Anon., London Journal, July 7th to September 8th,
1860.
Self-Made
Eudora
Serialized London Journal, June 29th to October 12th,
1861.
Astrea; or, The Bridal Day. Part I
London, 1862.
Astrea; or, The Bridal Day. Part II
1859-60
i860
i860
i860
i860
i860
1861
1861
1862
1862
INDEX OF AUTHORS 197
London, 1862.
Captain Rock’s Pet 1863
Sylvia; or, The Shadow of Crime 1864
Serialized, London Journal, April 30th to June 4th,
1864.
The Bridal Eve (Philadelphia) 1864
Left Alone 1864-5
Written expressly for London Journal, and serialized in
this paper from July 2nd, 1864, to July 15th, 1865.
Allworth Abbey (Philadelphia) 1865
The Man-Hater 1865-6
Serialized, London Journal,
commencing October 21st,
1865.
The Fortune-Seeker (Philadelphia) 1866
English ed., Milner, 1878.
The Bride of Llewellyn (Philadelphia) 1866
The Widow’s Son (Philadelphia) 1867
Fallen Pride; or, The Mountain Girl’s Love (Phila-
delphia) 1 868
Fair Play; or, The Test of the Lone Island 1868
How He Won Her: a sequel to Fair Play 1869
Philadelphia, 1869; London, 1869.
Cruel As the Grave 1869
The Changed Brides (Philadelphia) 1869
The Bride’s Fate: A Sequel to the Changed Brides 1870
Tried for Her Life: A Sequel to Cruel as the Grave
(Philadelphia) 1 87
1
The Missing Bride ; or, Miriam the Avenger 1872
Beatrice ; The Forsaken Daughter 1872
The Unknown 1874
Gloria 1877
The Trail of the Serpent 1879
To be distinguished from Miss Braddon’s earlier novel
(1861) of the same name.
Nearest and Dearest 1881
Mother’s Secret 1883
An Exile’s Bride 1 887
Mrs. Southworth’s last novel was The Fatal Secret.
In latter years she contributed many serials to The New
York Ledger. The above list cannot be reckoned as
complete. Mrs. Southworth demands a separate and
detailed study, nor has it been possible for me to do
more than list such of her novels and such editions as
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
198
were accessible to me. Milner & Co., London and
Halifax, advertised the following by Mrs. Southworth
in their Popular Novels, The One Shilling Red and
Blue Library. Foolscap, 8vo.
Beatrice ; or, The Forsaken Daughter
The Bridal Eve
The Bride of an Evening; or, The Gipsy’s Prophecy
The Bride’s Fate. A sequel to Changed Brides
The Changed Brides
The Curse of Clifton
Fair Play; or, The Test of the Lone Island
The Fatal Marriage
Hagar; or, The Deserted Wife
The Hidden Hand ; or, Capitola the Madcap
How He Won Her. A sequel to Fair Play
Ishmael; or, The Bride Elect (Miss Braddon has a
novel, Ishmael, 1884)
The Lost Heiress
The Missing Bride
Self-Raised. A sequel to Ishmael.
SOANE, George (1790-1860)
The Eve of St. Marco 1812
The Knight Dcemon and Robber Chief 1812
Undine. Translated from de la Motte-Fouque 1818
Minstrel-Love. Translated from de la Motte-Fouque 1821
The Outcasts. A romance. Translated from de
Motte-Fouque 1824
Freischutz; or. The Seventh Bullet. Adapted by
Soane 1825
Specimens of German Romance. Translated by
George Soane 1826
Soane also translated Selections from Faust, in all 576
lines, to accompany the plates by Retzsch. 4to.
London. Bohte. 1820.
SOUTHWOOD, T.
Delworth; or, Elevated Generosity 1808
SPENCE, Miss Elizabeth Isabella
Helen Sinclair
The Nobility of the Pleart
The Wedding Day
099
1804
1807
INDEX OF AUTHORS 1
99
Summer Excursions through part of England and
IVales 1 809
Sketches of the Present Manners, Customs, and
Scenery of Scotland 1 8 1
1
Commemorative Feelings 1812
The Curate And His Daughter, A Cornish Tale 1812
The Spanish Guitar, a tale 1815
Old Stories 1822
Dame Rebecca Berry; or, Court Scenes in the Reign
of Charles the Second 1827
How to be Rid of a Wife; and, Lily of Annandale 1834
SPENCER, Sarah Emma
Memoirs of the Miss Holmsbys 1788
SPENSER, Arthur
Iskander ; or, The Hero of Epirus. A romance 1819
STANHOPE, Louisa Sidney
Montbrasil Abbey; or, Maternal Trials 1806
The Bandit’s Bride; or, The Maid of Saxony. A
romance 1 807
Striking Likenesses; or, The Votaries of Fashion. A
novel 1 808
The Age We Live In 1809
Di Montranzo; or, The Novice of Corpus Domini.
A romance 1810
The Confessional of Valombre. A romance 1812
Madelina. A tale founded on facts 1814
Treachery ; or, The Grave of Antoinette. A romance
interspersed with poetry 1815
The Nun of Santa Maria Di Tindaro. A tale 1818
The Crusaders. An historical romance, of the twelfth
century 1820
The Siege of Kenilworth. A romance 1820
The Festival of Mora, an Historical Romance 1821
The Seer of Tiviotdale. A romance 1827
The Corsair’s Bride. A Legend of the Sixteenth
Century 1830
STEPHENS, Nella
De Mowbray; or, The Stranger Knight. A romance 1823
The Robber Chieftain; or, Dinas Linn. A romance 1825
200 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
STERNDALE, Mrs. Mary
The Panorama of Youth
The Life of a Boy
Vignettes of Derbyshire
STRATTON, Jemima Maria
The Maid of the Castle. A legendary tale. In three
cantos
STREET, Miss
The Lake of Winander Mere
A novel. By the editor of Maria.
The Recluse of the Appenines [sic], a tale
Theodore : A Domestic Tale
STRUTT, Mrs. See Byron, Elizabeth
STRUTT, Joseph (1749-1802)
The Royal and Ecclesiastical Antiquities of England
Manners, Customs, Arms, Habits, etc., of the People
of England (Horda Angel-cynnan)
Chronicle of England to the Conquest
2 vols., 4to.
A Biographical Dictionary of Engravers
2 vols.
Dress and Habits of the People of England
2 vols.
Sports and Pastimes of the People of England (Glig-
Gamena Angel-Deod)
Queenho Hall, a romance; and Ancient Times, a
drama. 4 vols.
The MS. was sent by John Murray to Sir Walter Scot,
who added the last chapter.
Queenho Hall, built in the fifteenth century is an
ancient manor house at Tewin, near Bramfield, Herts.
The Test of Guilt, and The Bumpkin’s Disaster
These two incomplete poems which were left by Strutt
were published posthumously in one volume.
STUART, Agusta Amelia
The Exile of Portugal
Ludovico’s Tale; or, The Black Banner of Castle
Douglas
The Cava of Toledo; or, The Gothic Princess. An
historical romance
1806
182
1
1824
094
U9 1
1792
1792
073
1775-6
1777-8
1785-6
1796-9
1801
1808
1808
1806
1807
1812
INDEX OF AUTHORS 201
STYLES, Rev. John
A dissenting minister of Brighton, formerly of Cowes.
He published many volumes of Sermons and similar
pamphlets.
Miranda. A Novel 1
797
SULLIVAN, Mary Ann
Late of the Theatre Royal, Liverpool, Manchester,
Newcastle, Birmingham, and Norwich.
Owen Castle; or, Which Is The Heroine? A Novel 1816
SUMMERSETT, Henry
The Offspring of Russell. A novel 1 794
The Fate of Sedley. A novel 1795
Probable Incidents; or, Scenes In Life 1
797
The Mad Man of the Mountain. A tale 1799
Leopold Warndorf. A novel 1800
Martyn of Penrose; or, The Wizard and His Sword.
A romance 1801
Maurice the Rustic, and Other Poems 1805
All Sorts of Lovers; or, Indiscretion, Truth, and
Perfidy 1805
SURR, Thomas Skinner (1770-1847)
Consequences. A novel 1796
George Barnwell 1 798
Splendid Misery 1801
A Winter in London 1806
The Magic of Wealth 1815
Richmond, Scenes in the Life of a Bow Street Officer 1827
The Reign of Fashion 1830
SUTHERLAND, Alexander
Redmond the Rebel; or, They Met at Waterloo.
A novel 1819
St. Kathleen; or, The Rock of Dunnismoyle. A novel 1820-
Cospatrick of Raymondsholm, a Westland Tale 1821
A Summer Ramble in the Northern Highlands 1825
Achievements of the Knights of Malta 1831
2 vols., Nos. 63 and 64 in Constable’s Miscellany.
SYKES, Mrs. S., afterwards Lady
Margiana; or, Widdrington Tower. A Tale of the
Fifteenth Century 1800
Sir William Dorien: a domestic story 1812
202 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Stories of the Four Nations, containing Montargis, a
French story; My Aunt Patty, an English Story; Lillias
de Lara, a Spanish Story; The Calabrian, an Italian
Story. 1 8 1
3
Lady Sykes was a poetess and in 1815 published
Hymns.
SYLVIANA PASTORELLA (pseudonym)
The Cottage of Friendship 1788
T
T ,
Ellen
Emily Percy; or, The Heiress of Sackville. A
Romance c. 1845
Ravensdale. A Romance 1847
Rose Summerville ; or, A Husband’s Mystery and a
Wife’s Devotion 1 847
TAYLOR, Esq. B.
Fortitude; or, Euphemia 1816
TAYLOR, — Miss
Josephine. A novel. By an incognita 1799
Rosalind. A novel 099
The Nobleman And His Steward ; or, Memoirs of the
Albany Family 1802
The Heiress of Avonmore 1804
Father and Son; or, Claremont. A desultory tale 1806
TAYLOR, Eliza
Education ; or, Elizabeth, her lover and husband. A
tale of 181J 1817
TEMPLE, Mrs.
Ferdinand Fitgormond ; or, The Fool of Nature 1805
TENNEY, Mrs. Tabitha Gilman (April 7th, 1762-
May 2nd, 1837)
The Pleasing Instructor 099
An elegant anthology advertised in the Newburyport
Herald, Mass., on May 7th, 1799.
Female Quixotism Exhibited in the Romantic Opinions
and Extravagant Adventures of Dorcasina Sheldon 1801
INDEX OF AUTHORS 203
An American satire on romance suggested by The
Female Quixote of Mrs. Lennox.
TEUTHOLD, Peter
The Necromancer ; or, The Tale of the Black Forest 1794
Translated by Peter Teuthold from Der Geisterbanner,
eine Wundergeschichte aus mundlichen und schrift-
lichen Traditionen gesammelt, 1792, a romance by
Lorenz Flammenberg, a pseudonym of Karl Friedrick
Kahlert, who also called himself Bernhard Stein.
THARMOTT, Maria
Sans Souci Park; or, The Melange. A novel 1806
THICKNESSE, Anne, nee Ford (1737- )
A Letter from Miss F[or]d, addressed to a Person of
Distinction 1761
Sketches of the Lives and Writings of the Principal
Literary Ladies in France 1 778
The School for Fashion 1800
THOMAS, Francis Tracy 1800
Comet in the East and West Lothian Light Dragoons.
Monk-Wood Priory 099
THOMPSON, Junior, Benjamin
Ildegerte, Queen of Norway 1 798
Translated from Kotzebue. Thompson also trans-
lated The Stranger and other of Kotzebue’s work.
THOMPSON, Rev. James, of Westmoreland
The Denial; or, The Happy Retreat I 79°
Major Piper; or, The Adventures of a Musical Drone 1793
Winifred ; a Tale of Wonder 1 803
THOMSON, Mrs.
The second wife of William Thomson (1746-1817),
the well-known miscellaneous writer.
Excessive Sensibility; or, The History of Lady St.
Laurence 1 787
Fatal Follies 1788
The Labyrinths of Life 1791
The Pride of Ancestry; or, Who Is She
?
1804
Laurette ; or, The Caprices of Fortune 1807
204 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
THROTTLE, Obadiah (pseudonym)
The Life and Surprising Adventures of Jack Shepperd 1840
TICKEN, William
Professor of mathematic, history and geography at the
Royal Military College, Marlow.
An English Grammar 1806
A Statistical Synopsis of the Strength of the Chief
Powers of Europe 181a
An Historical Chart of the Annals of England 1810
Santos De Montenos ; or, Annals of a Patriot Family 1811
An Historical Chart of the Reign of George III 1811
Ticken wrote some minor educational essays, now
forgotten.
TIMBURY, Jane
Author-bookseller, of Petty France, Westminster.
The Male-Coquette ; or, The History of the Hon.
Edward Astell 1770
The Story of Le Fevre, put into verse 1787
From Sterne’s Tnstram Shandy.
The History of Tobit, with other poems 1
787
The Triumph of Friendship 1789
The Philanthropic Rambler 1790
The Philanthropic Rambler. Second Part 1791
TODD, Miss Elizabeth
The History of Lady Caroline Rivers 1788
TOMLINS, Elizabeth Sophia
Tributes of Affection. By a Lady and Her Brother 097
The Victim of Fancy 1797
Rosalind de Tracy 1798
Conquests of the Heart 1800 ?
She also translated from the French of A. M. Rochon
A Voyage to Madagascar.
TORRENS, Major Robert, of the Royal Marines
Ccelibia Choosing a Husband, a Modern Novel 1810
The Victim of Intolerance ; or, The Hermit 0}
Killarney. A Catholic Tale 1814
It is possible, but I think extremely unlikely, that R.
Torrens who wrote Ccelibia is a different person from
the author of The Victim of Intolerance. The scant
contemporary notices are conflicting.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 205
TRAPP, Rev. Joseph
A Picture of Italy, from the German of Archenholtz 1791
England und Italien by Johann Wilhelm Archenholtz.
The Crimes of the Kings of France. From the French 1791
Proceedings of the National Convention of the Trial of
Louis XVI 1793
The Life of Charles Linnceus, from the German of
Stcever 1794
The Genius; or, The Mysterious Adventures of Don
Carlos de Grandez 1796
Der Genius of Karl Grosse, self-styled Marquis, also
translated by P. Will as Horrid Mysteries, 1796.
The Sprite of the Nunnery: a tale from the Spanish 1796
TROLLOP, Sir Francis
Pseudonym of Paul Henri-Corentin Feval, 1817-87.
Under this name Feval wrote :
Les Mysteres de Londres 1844
Paris, 1 1 vols. This romance first appeared in the
Courrier frangais, 1844.
TROLLOPE, Bart., Sir John
Under this name was published, J. and R. Maxwell,
1886, an abridged translation of Les Mysteres de
Londres, by Sir Francis Trollop, i.e., Paul Feval.
The Mysteries of Modern London. A Novel 1886
TRUSLER, John (1735-1820)
Modern Times; or, The Adventures of Gabriel Out-
cast. Supposed to be written by Himself. In Imita-
tion of Gil Bias 1785
TSCHINK, Cajetan
The Victim of Magical Delusion; or, The Mystery of
the Revolution of P—L. A Magico-Political Tale.
Translated from the German of Cajetan Tschink by
P. Will. 1795
TUCKETT, Esq., T. R.
Urbino ; or, The Vaults of Lepanto. A Romance 1813
TURNER, Mrs. Margaret
Infatuation ; or, Sketches from Nature 1810
Mrs. Turner also wrote poems on country life, in-
spired by rural and botanical themes.
206 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
V
VAN DYK, Henry Stoe (1798-1828)
Theatrical Portraits; With Other Poems. By Harry
Stoe Van Dyk 1822
Portraits (23), pp. 1-74; Miscellanies, pp. 79-151.
Batavian Anthology; or, Specimens of the Dutch
Poets 1824
With Sir John Bowring.
The Gondola 1827
VANZEE, Maria
Fate ; or, Spong Castle 1803
VENTUM, Mrs. Harriet
Justina; or, The History of a Young Lady 1801
Surveys of Nature, a Sequel to Mrs. Trimmer’s Intro-
duction 1802
Interesting Traits of Character in Youth of Both Sexes 1804
Tales for Domestic Instruction ; containing the histories
of Ben Hallyard; Hannah Jenkins, etc. 1806
The Dangers of Infidelity 1812
The Good Aunt 1813
Mrs. Ventum also wrote The Amiable Tutoress and
other educational works for juveniles.
VERE, Horace
Guiscard ; or, The Mysterious Accusation. A romance 1809
There seem no grounds for supposing “ Horace Vere
”
to be a pseudonym.
VERRI, Count Alessandro (1741-1816)
The Roman Nights at the Tomb of the Scipios 1825
Translated by Miss Cornelia Ellis Knight from the
Italian of Verri, Le Notte Romane al sepolcro dc’
Scipioni. There is a French version, 1812. A famous
work of Verri is : Le Avventure di Safjo poetessa di
Mitilene, traduzione dal Greco originale nuovamenie
scopert0. [Rather an original romance in Italian by
Verri.] 188 pp., 8vo., Vercelli, 1780, and 1804.
Also: Le Avventure di Safifio poetessa di Mitilene, e
la Faoniade [by G. V. Imperiale] inni ed odi, tradu-
zioni del greco. 241110., Paris, 1790.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 20"]
VICTOR, Benjamin ( -1778)
The Widow of the Wood 1755
VILES, Edward
Black Bess; or The Knight of the Road 1863-68
The Black Highwayman (second series of Black
Bess) 1866-68
Blueskin 1866-67
The Illustrated London Novelist. 24 nos. 1864
Gentleman Clifford; or, The Lady’s Highway. 35
nos. 1865
Will Scarlett; or, The Outlaw of Sherwood, 40 nos. 1865
Actually the famous Black Bess was the work of J. F.
Smith. Viles fathered the book, and many other sensa-
tional romances. He is said to have written little
or nothing himself, but he was always most generous
to his “ ghosts,” and notwithstanding his one weakness
to pose as an author there was no kinder-hearted man,
none more ready to help and relieve. Mr. Edgar
Lee, who died in December, 1908, and who acted for
about two years as secretary to Viles had many stories
of his charities, as humbly hidden as they were tender
and unfailing. Robert Louis Stevenson offered Viles
the MS. of Treasure Island. A week later, Viles
replied that he did not think much of the stuff, but he
would purchase the tale to be re-written by a more
competent hand. Stevenson called for the return of the
MS., and soon after sought an interview with Edward
Viles.
VILLIERS, Henry
The Stranger’s Grave 1845
VINCENT, Henry
The Irish Assassin; or, The Misfortunes of the Family
of O’Donnell N.D. [c. 1800]
An Original Tale. A chapbook.
W
WADDINGTON, Julia Rattray
Misrepresentation ; or, Scenes in Real Life 1838
208 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Janet; or, Glances at Human Nature 1839
The Monk and The Married Man 1840
Newstoke Priors 1 842
WALKER, George (1772-1847)
The Romance of the Cavern; or, The History of
Fitz-Henry and James 1792
The Haunted Castle: A Norman Romance 1794
The House of Tynian 1795
Theodore Cyphon; or, The Benevolent Jew 1796
Cinthelia; or, A Woman of Ten Thousand 1797
The Vagabond 1799
The Three Spaniards 1800
Poems 1801
Don Raphael: A Romance 1803
Two Girls of Eighteen 1806
The Travels of Sylvester Tramper in Africa 1813
The Adventures of Timothy Thoughtless ; or, The
Misfortunes of a Little Boy who ran away from
boarding-school 1813
The Battle of Waterloo. A Poem 1815
WALKER, Lady Mary
Munster Village 1788
WALPOLE, Horace, Earl of Orford (17 17- 1797)
The Castle of Otranto 1765
This romance actually was published on December
24th, 1764.
The Mysterious Mother. A Tragedy 1768
WALSH, Miss. Daughter of Captain Walsh, R.N.
The Officer’s Daughter; or, A Visit to Ireland
WALTER, William Joseph (c. 1790-1855)
The Two Martyrs; or, The Triumph of the Christian
Religion 1812
Translated from Les Martyrs (1809) of Chateaubriand.
William Joseph Walter was an alumnus of S.
Edmund’s College, St. Omer. An interesting literary
figure, he turned into English the libretti of several
operas, Otello, Medea in Corinte, Tancredi, Der
ffiauberflote, and other. He also wrote works upon the
Mass, a study of the Catholic poet the Bl. Robert
Southwell, and a life of S. Thomas More. There is no
INDEX OF AUTHORS 209
account of Walter in the Catholic Encyclopaedia,
where his name ought to occur.
WARD, Mrs. Catherine George, afterwards Mrs.
Mason (1787- )
There seems no foundation for the suggestion that
Mrs. Ward was an American. This appears to have
arisen owing to the fact that many, if indeed not all,
of her novels were promptly pirated. Thus we have
The Cottage on the Cliff, Philadelphia, 1823, and
The Mysterious Marriage, New York, 1869. It was
erroneously supposed that this latter was Mrs. Ward’s
last work, and that New York, 1869, was the original
edition, which actually is London, Virtue, 1821.
Poems 5805
The Daughter of St. Omar 1810
Poems 1812
A Bachelor’s Heiress 1812
My Native Land; or, The Test of Heroism 1813
Tales of the Glen 1813
The Son and the Nephew ; or, More Secrets than One 1815
The Dandy Family; or, The Pleasures of a Ball Night
(verse) 1815
The Primrose Girl 1816
Tales of My Grandmother 1816
A Tributary Poem on the Death of the Princess
Charlotte of Saxe-Coburg [1817]
Caroline Augusta Charlotte of Saxe-Coburg died
November 6th, 1817.
Robertina; or, The Sacred Deposit 1818
The Thorn; or, Doubtful Property 1819
Miscellaneous Poems 1820
The Rose of Claremont; or, Daughter, Wife, and
Mother 1820
The Mysterious Marriage ; or, The Will of My Father 1821
Family Portraits ; or, Descendants of Trelawney 1822
The Orphan Boy; or, Test of Innocence 1822
The Widow’s Choice; or, One, Two, Three 1823
The Cottage on the Cliff, a Sea-side Story 5823
The Mysteries of St. Clair; or, Mariette Mouline 1824
The Fisher’s Daughter ; or, The Wanderings of Wolf
and the Fortunes of Alfred 1827
The Sequel to The Cottage on the Cliff.
p
2 10 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The Knight of the White Banner; or, The Scouts of
the Castle
The Eve of St. Agnes
Alice Gray: a domestic novel
Mrs. Ward was very prolific, and I fear that the above
list cannot be regarded as complete. I am apprehen-
sive that some of her novels have eluded my research.
At the same several works of fiction were attributed
to this popular authoress and piratically appeared
under her name which certainly were not from her pen.
WARNER, Miss Ellen Rebecca, of Bath ( -1833)
Daughter of the Rev. Richard Warner.
Herbert-Lodge. A New-Forest Story 1808
WARNER, Rev. Richard, of Bath (1763-1857)
Netley Abbey, A Gothic Story 1795
The Rev. Richard Warner wrote copiously in many
and varied departments of literature.
WARREN, Caroline Matilda
Conrade ; or, The Gamesters 1806
WEEKS, Harriet Waller
Memoirs of the Villars Family; or, The Philanthropist 1815
WEIMAR, Miss
Alzylia; or, The Trial of Virtue 1808
WELLS, Helena, afterwards Mrs. Whitford
The Step-Mother, a domestic tale from real life. By
a Lady 1798
Letters on Subjects of Importance to the Happiness of
Young Females 1799
Constantia Neville; or, The West Indian 1800
Thoughts on Establishing an Institution for the Support
and Education of Impoverished Females 1809
WELLS, Mrs. Sarah Wilmot
Tales, Mournful, Mirthful, and Marvellous 1827
WENNINGTON, William
The Man of Nature ; or, Nature and Love, from the
German of August Heinrich Julius Lafontaine 1799.
New edition, enlarged 1807
A Series of Tales from the German i8it
1827
1831
1833
INDEX OF AUTHORS 211
WENTWORTH, Zara
The Recluse of Albyn Hall 1819
The Hermit’s Cave; or, The Fugitive’s Retreat, an
historical romance 1821
The Uncles; or, Selfishness and Liberality 1822
De Santillana; or, The Force of Bigotry 1825
WEST, George
The Chieftain of the Vale 1820
WEST, Mrs. Jane, of Northamptonshire (1758-1852)
Pseudonym, Prudentia Homespun.
Miscellaneous Poems 1780
Miscellaneous Poetry 1786
The Humours of Bright helmstone, a poem 1788
Edmund: a tragedy 1791
The Advantages of Education; or, The History of
Maria Williams. A tale for misses and their mammas 1793
A Gossip’s Story. A Novel 1 796
Elegy on the Death of the Rt. Hon. Edmund Burke 1797
Burke died July 8th, 1797.
A Tale of the Times 17 99
Poems and Plays. Vols. I and II 099
Letters to a Young Man on His First Entrance into
Life 1801
Sixth ed., 1818.
The Infidel Father: A Novel 1802
Poems and Plays. Vols. Ill and IV 1805
Letters to a Young Lady, wherein the Duties and
Characters of Women are considered 1806
The Mother. A poem 1809
The Refusal. A Novel 1810
The Loyalists. An Historical Novel 1812
A Select Translation of the Beauties of Massillon 1812
Scriptural Essays adapted to the Holydays of the
Church of England 1816
Alicia De Lacy. A71 Historical Romance 1814
Ringrove ; or, Old Fashioned Notions 1827
Mrs. Jane West was bom in London on April 30th,
1758. When she was a child her family moved to
Desborough, Northamptonshire. She married a
yeoman farmer, Thomas West, who died on December
23rd, 1823. In 1800 she wrote to Bishop Percy, who
interested himself in her work and proved an unfailing
212 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
friend. He told her on one occasion that her novels
were greatly in demand at the three circulating
libraries in Brighton. ( Gent Mag., 1852, ii, p. 100).
After a lapse of more than ten years, Mrs. West’s last
work was her novel, Ringrove. She died at Little
Bowden on March 25th, 1852. For further details
see under her name in The Dictionary of National
Biography.
WESTON, Anna Marla
Pleasure and Pain; or, The Fate of Ellen 1814
WHITE, James ( -099)
The Orations of Marcus Tullius Cicero against Caius
Cornelius Verres 178
7
Translated with annotations.
Hints for a Specific Plan for an Abolition of the Slave-
Trade and for Relief of the Negroes in the British
West Indies 1788
Earl Strongbow ; or, The History of Richard de Clare
and the Beautiful Gcralda 17%
French translation of this novel, 1789; German trans.,
1790.
Conway Castle ; a Poem. To which are added Verses
to the Memory of the late Lord Chatham ; and the
Moon, a simile for the fashionable world 1789
The Adventures of John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster 1790
The Adventures of King Richard Cceur de Lion 1791
Speeches of M. de Mirabeau the Elder. ... To which
is prefixed a sketch of his life and character. Trans-
lated from the French edition of M. Mefan 1 792
The History of the Revolution in France. Translated
from the French of J. P. Rabaut 092
The obituaries of White, European Magazine, April,
1799; Monthly Magazine, May, 099 5
refer to
another work Letters to Lord Camden, but the date
( 1 798 has been hazarded) and even the authorship are
doubtful.
In The Polite Marriage (1938), Miss J. M. S.
Tompkins has an essay upon White, “ Clio in Motley.”
WHITFIELD, Henry
Villeroy ; or, The Fatal Moment 09 1
Sigismar 1 799
INDEX OF AUTHORS 213
Geraldwood 1801
A Picture from Life; or, The History of Emma
Tankerville and Sir Henry Moreton 1804
Leopold; or, The Bastard 1804
But Which? or, Domestic Grievances of the Wolmore
Family 1807
Early Feuds; or, Fortune’s Frolics. A Novel 1816
WHYTE, Alexander, barrister-at-law
Velina, a moral tale 1812
WIGLEY, Miss Sarah, of Barnes Terrace
Glencarron, a Scottish Tale 1811
WIELAND, Christoph Martin (1783-1813)
Reason Triumphant Over Fancy; Exemplified in the
Singular Adventures of Don Sylvio de Rosalva. A
History in which every marvellous Event occurs
Naturally 1773
A translation of Der Sieg der Natur ilber die Schawr-
merey, oder die Abentheuer des Don Sylvio von
Rosalva, 1764. This work is often referred to as Don
Sylvio de Rosalva.
The History of Agathon 1773
A translation of Der Geschichte des Agathon, 1766-7.
Select-Tales from the German of Wieland 17 96
By the Translator of The Sorcerer, i.e. Robert Huish.
Confessions in Elysium; or, The Adventures of a
Platonic Philosopher 1804
A version of Geheime Geschichte des Philosophen
Peregrinus Proteus, 1791.
WILKINS, John H.
The Rich and the Poor; or, Friends and Their
Shadows; and The Last of the Old English Gentle-
men. Illustrated on Wood by Henry Saunders. Pub-
listed, Weekly Penny Nos., Monthly Parts, Sixpence,
by E. Dipple, 42 Holywell Street, Strand 1851
Among Wilkins’ many other works are Leola, The
Green Hills of the Far West, The Prophet.
WILKINSON, Sarah S.
The Subterraneous Passage; or, Gothic Cell 1803
The Chateau de Montville 1803
214 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Lilly of Navarre; or, Banditti of the Forest 1804
The Wife of Two Husbands; or, Fritz the Outlaw 1804
The Thatched Cottage; or, The Sorrows of Eugenia 1805
The Fugitive Countess; or, The Convent of St. Ursula 1807
Lord Gowen; or, The Forester's Daughter. To which
is added The Barons of Old [1808 ?]
The Mysterious Novice; or, Convent of the Grey
Penitents: Including the Memoirs of Augustus and
Wilhelmina 1 809
The Convent of Grey Penitents; or, The Apostate Nun 1810
The Deformed Mendicant ; or, English Exiles: Being
the History of Sir Everard Mortimer and His Daughter
Margaret [1810]
Therese; or, The Orphan of Geneva. From the
French of M. Victor. [1811]
Founded on the celebrated Therese, ou I’Orpheline de
Geneve, melodrame en trois actes, by Henri Joseph
Brahain Ducange Victor.
The Pastor’s Fireside; or, Memoirs of the Athelstan
Family. Abridged from the popular novel [by Jane
Porter] [1819]
The Castle Spectre, Founded on the . . . drama of
M. G. Lewis 1820
Lanmere Abbey 1820
The Tragical History of Miss Jane Arnold, commonly
called Crazy Jane, and Mr. Id. Percival. Founded on
Facts. (Stirling printed) 1820
The Tragical History of Crazy Jane and Young Henry.
Founded on Facts (Edinburgh printed) 1820
Hodgson’s Universal Valentine written for the current
year 1820
Love and Hymen; or, The Gentleman’s and Ladies’
polite and original Valentine writer [1821 ?]
From c. 1800-1825, and perhaps longer, Sarah
Wilkinson was responsible for a very large number of
short romantic Tales, as well as condensations and
abridgements of popular novels. Her work was mostly
published in bluebook, that is to say chapbook form,
by Harrild, Dean and Munday, Ann Lemoine, and
the smaller printing-houses who specialized in this
popular ware.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 215
WILL, Rev. Peter
Lutheran Minister of the German Chapel in the Savoy.
The Victim of Magical Delusion; or The Mystery of
the Revolution of P 1 1795
From the German of Cajetan Tschink.
The Secret Journal of a self-observer ; or, Confessions
and familiar letters of 1795
From the German of Johann Kaspar Lavater.
Horrid Mysteries. A Story from the German [Der
Genius] of the Marquis of Grosse 1796
The Sufferings of the family of Ortenberg. A novel 1799
From the German of August Friedrich Ferdinand
Kotzebue.
Practical Philosophy of social life; or, the art of con-
versing with men 17 99
From the German of Adolf Franz Friedrich Ludwig,
freiherr von Knigge.
Romulus, a Tale of ancient Times 1801
Translated from the German of Augustus Lafontaine.
On the nature, excellence, and necessity of faith 1805
Translated from the German of Lavater.
The Spirit of the Times. Parts I and II 1808
From the German of Ernst Moritz Arndt.
Guide on a Voyage on the Rhine 1809
From the German of Aloys Wilhelm Schreiber.
Traditions of the Countries of the Rhine 1811
From the German of Schreiber.
WILLIAMS, Helen Maria
Letters between an English Lady and her Friend at
Paris, In which are contained the Memoirs of Mrs.
Williams 1770
Anecdotes of a Convent 1771
Julia: A Novel; Interspersed with some Poetical
Pieces 1 790
Letters Written in France in the Summer of iygo, to
a Friend in England; containing Various Anecdotes
relative to the French Revolution, and the Memoirs of
Mons. and Madame De F 1790
Volume II 1792
Paul and Virginia. Translated from the French of
Bemardin St. Pierre 1796
2l6 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
WILLIAMS, William Frederic
Sketches Of Modern Life 1800
Fitzmaurice 1800
Tales Of An Exile 1803
The World We Live In 1804
The Witcheries Of Craig Isaf 1804
The Young Father 1803
WILLIAMSON, Captain T., of the East India
Company
The Dominican, a romance 1 810-
Captain Williamson wrote on Mathematics and on
subjects connected with India, such works as Sports of
India, 1807; Mathematics Simplified, 1807; Indian
Vade Mecum, 1810. He contributed a Preface and
Descriptions to Charles Doyley’s The European in
India from a Collection -of Drawings by him
,
1813.
WILLIS, Hal [Charles Robert Forrester]
Sir Roland: A Romance 1822
Castle Baynard 1824
WILMOT, R. H.
Scenes in Feudal Times: A Romance 1809
WILSON, C. H.
The Irish Valet 18 ii
WILSON, Miss. Daughter of Serjeant Wilson
Lady Geraldine Beaufort: a novel 1802
A Brief Compendium of Juvenile Instruction 1803
A Short Epitome of the History of the Holy Bible 1807
Letters on Ancient History 1809
The Two Brothers: a novel 1810
Scotch Law-Suits, or, A Tale of the Eighteenth and
Nineteenth Centuries 1812
WINSTANLEY, Mrs. Eliza
An actress, whose novels frequently have theatrical life
as their theme.
Shifting Scenes in theatrical life 1859
Margaret Falconer; or, The Steward’s Daughter i860
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, commencing June
23rd, i860.
Fiction for Family Reading. Edited by Mrs.
Winstanley 1866
INDEX OF AUTHORS 217
In 6 vols., illustrated by F. Gilbert, etc.
Mrs. Winstanley wrote other novels including
Anstrutha, For Her Natural Life, and Entrances
and Exits.
For Her Natural Life was included in Dicks’ English
Novels, 6d. each, No. 73. Entrances and Exits
appeared in the same series, originally as a double
volume, No. 8, price one shilling, and later being
listed as two volumes, Nos. 98 and 99. It was adver-
tised as “ A Pathetic Story of Theatrical Life, with
Graphic Descriptions of the Trials and Vicissitudes of
a Struggling Actor.” It is often spoken of as Mrs.
Winstanley’s best work.
WINTER, L. F.
Castle Harcourt; or the Days of King Richard the
Third 1825
WOLFE, P.
Red Ralph, or The Daughter of Night [N.D. c. 1855]
WOLLSTONECRAFT, Mary (1759-1797)
Mary, A Fiction 1788
Original Stories from Real Life 1788
The Wrongs of Women ; or, Maria. A Fragment
In Posthumous Works of the Author of a Vindication
of the Rights of Women, four volumes 1798
WOODFALL, Sophia, afterwards Mrs. McGibbon,
actress of Covent Garden Theatre
Frederich Montravers ; or, The Adopted So?i 1802
Rosa; or, The Child of the Abbey 1804
WOODFIN, Mrs. A.
Northern Memoirs; or, the History of a Scotch
Family [
1
757]
WOODTHORPE, Augusta
The Hour of Two, a novel 1809
WRIGHT, Esq., J.
Solyman and Fatima; or the Sceptic convinced. An
Eastern Tale 1791
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
2l8
Y
YEARSLEY, nee Cromartie, Ant
n (1752-1806)
Poems, on Several Occasions 1 7 85
Poems, on various Subjects 1787
A Poem on the Inhumanity of the Slave-trade 1788
Stanzas of Woe 1790
Earl Goodwin, an Historical Play 1791
Reflections on the Death of Louis XVI, a poem 1793
Sequel to the Reflections, a poem 1793
An Elegy of Marie Antoinette 1793 [4?]
The Royal Captives; a Fragment of Secret History.
Copied from an Old Manuscript 1795
The Rural Lyre 1796
There is a study of Ann Yearsley, “ The Bristol Milk-
woman ” in Miss J. M. S. Tompkins’ The Polite
Marriage, 1938, which see for references to the various
scattered poems, the unpublished play and biographical
data.
YEATES, Mrs.
Eliza, a novel 1800
YORKE, Mrs. R. M. P.
The Valley Of Collares ; or, The Cavern Of Horrors
The Romance Of Smyrna; or, The Prediction
Fidfilled
The Haunted Palace; or, The Horrors Of Ventoliene
My Master’s Secret; or, The Troublesome Stranger
YOUNG, Mary Julia (1760- )
Horatio and Amanda, a poem. By a Young Lady 1777
Innocence. An allegorical poem *
79°
Genius and fancy ; or, dramatic sketches. By a Lady 1791
The Family Party 1791
Adelaide and Antonine ; or, The Emigrants. A Tale
(in verse) 1793
Genius and Fancy ; or, dramatic sketches, With Other
Poems on various subjects 1 795
Lenora. From the French of Berthier 1796
Rosemount Castle; or, False Report. A novel 1 798
Poems 1798
The East Indian; Or, Clifford Priory 1799
1800
1801
1801
1804
INDEX OF AUTHORS 2ig
The Metrical Museum. Part I [1801]
This is the Poems, 1798, with a new title-page, and
plate dated 1801.
Lindorf and Caroline; or, The Dangers of Credulity 1803
From the German of Cramer (Benedicte Naubert).
Right and Wrong; Or, The Kinsmen of Naples: a
romantic story 1803
Moss Cliff Abbey; Or, The Sepulchral Harmonist 1803
The Mother and Daughter. A pathetic tale 1804
Donalda; Or, The Witches of denshire 1805
Voltairiana. Selected and Translated from the French 1803
Memoirs of Mrs. Crouch. Including A Retrospect of
The Stage During The Tears She Performed 1806
A Summer At Brighton 1807
The Heir of Drumcondra, or Family Pride 1810
Z
ZIEGENHIRT, Mrs. Sophia F.
An Abridgement of the Roman History. 2 vols. 1807
A History of London 1810
Seabrook Village and Its Inhabitants. A Tale for
Youth 1 8 1
1
The Orphan Of Tintern Abbey 1816
Mrs. Ziegenhirt wrote and compiled several other
educational works, including a well-reputed Epitome
of the History of England.
TITLE INDEX
A
L’Abbaye de Saint-Remy, ou la fille de Vabbesse. 4 tom.
Paris 1807. By Elisabeth Guenard, baronne de Mere.
Abbess, The, A Romance. By W[illiam] H[enry] Ireland
4 vols., Earle and Hemet, 1799. Second ed., 3 vols.,
by W. H. Ireland, Author of Bruno, Or the Sepulchral
Summons ;
Gondez The Monk ;
Rimualdo, Or The Castle
of Badajos; The Catholic, etc., etc. A. K. Newman & Co.,.
1834.
Abbess, The. A Romance. By the Author of the “ Domestic
Manners of the Americans,” etc. [Mrs. Frances Trollope]..
3 vols., Whittaker, Treacher, & Co., Ave Maria Lane, 1833.
Abbess of St. Hilda; The, a dismal, dreadful, horrid story
!
Chapbook. c. 1800.
Abbess of Valtiera ; or, The Sorrows of A Falsehood. By Agnes.
Lancaster. 4 vols., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1816.
Second ed., 1825.
Abbey of Clagny, The. By Mrs. Meeke, Author of Count
St. Blancard. 3 vols., Lane. Minerva Press. MDCCXCV.
Abbey of Innismoyle, The. By — Bunbury. One vol., Orr.
1828.
Abbey of Saint Asaph, The. By the Author of “ Madeleine;
or, The Castle of Montgomery,” [Mrs. Isabella Kelly]. 3
vols., Lane. Minerva Press. 1795.
Abbey of Weyhill, The. 2 vols., Minerva-Press, Lane and
Newman. 1804.
Abbot of Montserrat ; or, The Pool of Blood. A Romance.
By William Child Green. Author of The Fays of Loch
Lomond, Sicilian Boy, The Prophecy of Duncannon, etc.,
etc. 2 vols., A. K. Newman. 1826.
Abdalla the Moor; or, The Spanish Knight. A Romance of
Mexico. 158 pp. 1839. By Dr. Bird. Another ed. 10
nos., E. Lloyd. London, 1845.
220
TITLE INDEX 22 I
Abissinian Reformer; Or, The Bible And The Sabre, The. A
Novel. By The Rev. Charles Lucas. 3 vols., Richards, 1808.
Acceptance, The. By the Author of “ Caroline Ormsby.” 3
vols., Booth. 1810.
Accomplished Hypocrite; Or, Brass glitters more than Gold,
The. A novel. By A. D., 2 vols., A. K. Newman. 1821.
Accusing Spirit, or, De Courcy and Eglantine, The. A romance.
4 vols., Lane and Newman, Minerva-Press, 1802. With a
frontispiece. By Miss Pilkington.
Actress; Or, Countess And No Countess, The. By Caroline
Maxwell. 3 vols., Sherwood. 1809.
Actress Of The Present Day, The. 3 vols., James Harper. 1817.
Ada Arundel; or, The Secret Corridor. “The Stein Co’s
Library of Classics,” Chicago, 1895. Price, 50 cents. A
piracy of a part of Canonbury House by G. W. M. Reynolds.
See under this title.
Ada Reis. A Tale. 3 vols., John Murray. 1823. [By Lady
Caroline Lamb.]
Ada Reis. A Tale. By Lady Caroline Lamb. 2 vols., Paris :
A. and W. Galignani. 1824.
Ada the Betrayed; or, The Murder at The Old Smithy. By
Malcolm J. Errym. 56 nos., E. Lloyd. 1842. Re-issue, 1847.
Also attributed to T. P. Prest.
Adela Northington. A Novel. [By Mrs. Burke]. 3 vols.,
Cawthome, 1796.
Adelaide; or, Conjugal Affection. From the French. One
vol., Lane, Leadenhall-street, 1785.
Adelaide: or, The Countercharm. A Novel. [By Catherine
Cuthbertson]. 5 vols., G. and G. Robinson, Cradock and
Joy. 1813. Also 5 vols. A. K. Newman & Co., Minerva
Press, 1818.
Adelaide ; or, The Trials of a Governess. By Gabriel
Alexander. In Monthly Sixpenny Parts, and in Weekly
Penny Nos., “ A new Domestic Tale.” Nos. 1 and 2, Friday,
February 3rd, 1854. Illustrated by Thwaits. Re-issue, 20
222 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
nos., John Dicks, 1 86 1 . Later ed., One vol., John Dicks,
c. 1883. Price 2 s.
Adelaide de Narbonne. With Memoirs Of Charlotte de
Cordet. By the Author of “ Henry of Northumberland.” 4
vols., Lane. Minerva-Press. 1800. By Miss Helen Craik.
Adele ; Or, The Tomb Of My Mother. A Romance. By Paul
Sebright, Author of “ Coincidence ;
or, the Soothsayer.” 4
vols., A. K. Newman. 1824.
Adeline; Or, The Orphan. A novel. 3 vols., London. W.
Lane, Leadenhall-street. MDCCXC. [By the author of
Frederic and Louisa.]
Adeline; or, The Grave of the Forsaken. 52 nos., E. Lloyd.
1841.
Adeline; or, The Grave of the Forsaken. A Drama by Samuel
Atkyns. Produced at the Royal Albert Saloon, Shepherdess-
walk, Britannia Fields, Hoxton, on September 29th, 1849.
Adeline; or, The Victim of Seduction. A melodrama by John
Howard Payne. Produced at Drury Lane on February 9th,
1822. Adapted from Pixerecourt, Valentine ; ou la Seduc-
tion. Paris. 1822.
Adeline de Courcy. 2 vols., Cadell jun. & Davis. 1797.
Adeline St. Julian; Or, The Midnight Hour. By Mrs. Anne
Ker. 2 vols., London. 1804.
Adolphe De Dulmen. French translation, 1810, of Alf von
Dulmen. See below under Alf von Deulmen.
Adonia, a desultory story. [By a lady]. 4 vols., Black and Co.,
1801.
Adrift on the Spanish Main. Hogarth House, n.d.
Adultress ; Or, Anecdotes Of Two Noble Families, The. A
Tale by an Englishwoman. 4 vols. Printed for the Author.
Sherwood. 1810.
Advantages of Education, The, Or, The History of Maria
Williams. A Tale for Misses and their Mammas. By
Prudentia Homespun. [Mrs. Jane West]. 2 vols., Lane.
Minerva Press. 1793- Second ed., 1803.
TITLE INDEX 223
Adventures ; Or, Scenes in Ireland in the Days of Queen
Elizabeth. By O’Driscol. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1829.
Adventures By Night. By The Author of “ Newgate ” [T. P.
Prest]. 22 nos., E. Lloyd. 1846.
Adventures of a Bank-note, The. By Thomas Bridges. 2 vols.,
T. Davies. 1770. Vols. 3 and 4, T. Davies. 1771.
Adventures of a Dramatist, on a Journey to The London
Managers, The. 2 vols., Lackington and Co., 1813.
Adventures of a Jesuit: Interspersed with Several Remarkable
Characters, and Scenes in Real Life, The. 2 vols., London :
Printed by George Bigg, for G. Riley (Successor to Mr. Cooke)
at His Circulating Library in Queen-Street, Berkeley Square.
1
77 1 -
Adventures Of A Kidnapped Orphan, The. One vol., 121110.
London. M. Thrush. 1747. Many scenes of this novel are
laid in India.
Adventures Of An Ostrich Feather Of Quality, The. One vol.,
Sherwood and Co. 1812.
Adventures of a Pin. Supposed to be related by himself, her-
self, or itself. One vol., Lee, 1796. One vol., Lane and
Newman, Minerva-Press, 1803.
Adventures Of A Rupee, The. Wherein are interspersed various
Anecdotes, Asiatic and European. [By Helenus Scott, M.D.]
i2mo., London, D. Murray, 1782. A new ed., 1783. Irish
ed., Dublin, 1782.
Adventures Of A Seven-Shilling Piece, The. By Ann Mary
Hamilton. 2 vols., 1811.
Adventures Of A Vagabond, The. A Romance. 16 nos.
London, E. Lloyd, c. 1842.
Adventures Of A Valet, The, Written by Himself. 2 vols., J.
Robinson. 1752.
Adventures Of A Watch, The. One vol., i2mo. G. Kearsley.
1788.
Adventures of Anthony Varnish; or, A peep at the manners of
society, The. By an adept. 3 vols. William Lane.
MDCCLXXXVI. [By Charles Johnston.]
12 24 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Adventures of Dick Distick, The. 3 vols., Effingham Wilson.
1812. By George Daniel. A novel suggested by Tristram
Shandy.
Adventures of Dick Hazard, The. One vol. W. Reeve. 1755.
This might almost be termed an early “ sporting novel.”
Adventures of Hugh Trevor, The. By Thomas Holcroft. Vols.
I-III, Shepperson and Reynolds. No. 137, Oxford-street.
1794. Vols. IV-VI. G. G. and J. Robinson, Patemoster-
row ;
and Shepperson and Reynolds. No. 137, Oxford-
street. 1797.
Adventures of Hugh Trevor, The. By Thomas Holcroft. The
Third Edition. 4 vols., G. G. and J. Robinson. 1801. There
may have been a Second Edition between 1799 and 1801,
but it seems more probable that the publishers (Robinson)
assumed that Vols IV-VI, 1797, might stand as a separate
(and a Second) Edition, hence actually the Third Edition so-
called, 1801, is the Second Edition of the complete work. The
Bodleian Library catalogues a Second Edition, but this is only
Vols. I-III, The Adventures of Hugh Trevor. By Thomas
Holcroft. The Second Edition. 3 vols., i2mo. Shepperson
and Reynolds. 1794. (Bodleian, Shelfmark 249. S. 315).
This Second Edition, identical with the First Edition, was
almost certainly a new issue to accompany Vols. IV.-VI, 1797.
It is then only partially a “ Second Edition.”
Les Aventures de Hugues Trevor, ou Le Gilblas Anglais, par
Thomas Holcroft. Traduit de l’anglais par le Cit. Cantwell.
4 vols., i2mo., each having a frontispiece. A Paris. Chez
Maradan. An VII—1798.
C. G. Kayser in his Voilstandiges Bucher-Lcxicon, Leipzig,
1835, records a German translation of Hugh Trevor: Hugo
Trevor, sein Leben und Schicksaal. 8. Leipz . . . Breitkopf.
Adventures of Jack Smart, The. One vol., S. Crowder and
H. Woodgate. 1756.
Adventures of John Of Gaunt, Duke Of Lancaster, The. By
James White, Esq. Author of Earl Strongbow, Conway
Castle, &c. 3 vols., S. Crowder, &c. 1790.
Adventures of King Richard Coeur-de-Lion, The. To which
is added, The Death of Lord Falkland: a poem. 3 vols.,
i2mo. Crowder. London. 1791. By James White.
THE A BEES S.
A ROMANCE.
By W. H. IRELAND,
author oy
niti'Nil, OK THE SEPULC1IHAE summons; OOXDEX TI1L monk
MMUALDO, OK THE CASTLE OF KAHAJOS ;
THE CATHOLIC, Ac. &C.
Let mo.lt st j natron, at thy mention start.
Anti blushing virgins, when they read uuraimais,
Skip o'er the guilty page. Shakstearf.
IN THREE V O L U M E S.
VOL. 1.
SECOND EDITION.
LONDON
:
PRINTED FOR A. K. NEWMAN AND CD.
1834.
THE ABBESS
By W. H. Ireland
Title page. Second Edition, 1834
TITLE INDEX 225
Adventures of Marmaduke Midge, The Pickwickian Legatee,
The. io nos. London. G. Vickers. N.D. (c. 1848).
Adventures of Mr. Loveill, Interspers’d with many Real Amours
of The Modern Polite World. The. One vol., M. Cooper.
i75°-
Affected Indifference, The. A novel. 2 vols., London. 1771.
Agatha; or, A Narrative of Recent Events. A Novel. 3 vols.,
Dilly. 1796. The “ Recent Events” are the French Revolu-
tion, which catastrophe is very truly and strikingly described.
Age and Youth; or, The Families of Abendstedt. From the
German of Augustus Lafontaine. 4 vols. Minerva-Press. A.
K. Newman. 1813.
Age We Live In, The. A Novel. By Louisa Sidney Stanhope.
3 vols., A. K. Newman. Minerva-Press. 1809.
Agitation; Or, Memoirs of George Woodford and Lady Emma
Melvill. 3 vols., Barker. 1788. A new edition, 3 vols.
Barker, 1790.
Agnes. A novel. By the author of Frederica Risberg. 3 vols..
Lane, Minerva-Press. 1801.
Agnes ; or, Beauty and Pleasure. 104 nos. 1854. By G. W. M.
Reynolds. See Index of Authors under Reynolds.
Agnes and Leonora. A novel. By Richard Sickelmore, jun.
2 vols., Lane. Minerva-Press. 1799.
Agnes De-Courci, A Domestic Tale. In Four Volumes. By
Mrs. Bennett, Author Of The Welch Heiress, and Juvenile
Indiscretions. Bath : Printed and Sold, for the Author, By
S. Hazard : Sold also by G. G. J. and J. Robinson, Paternoster-
Row, and T. Hookman, [«c]. New Bond-Street, London
:
Shiercliff, Bristol ;
and all other Booksellers. MDCCLXXXIX.
4 vols., 1789. Second ed., Lane, Minerva-Press, 1 797
-
Agnes de Lilien: a novel from the German. 3 vols. Lane.
Minerva-Press. 1801. By Mrs. Showers.
Agnes the Unknown ; or, The Beggar’s Secret. By T. P. Prest.
24 penny nos. E. Lloyd. 1849.
Agreeable Ugliness; Or, The Triumphs of the Graces. Exem-
plified in the Real Life and Fortunes of a young Lady of
Q
226 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
some Distinction. One vol., Dodsley. 1754. (By Sarah
Scott.)
Agrippina. 3 vols. New ed. advertised by A. K. Newman;,
Minerva Press: 1816.
Alan Fitz-Osborne : an historical tale. By Miss [Anne] Fuller.
2 vols. Robinson. 1786. Dublin ed., 2 vols., P. Byrne. 1786.
Albani ; Or, The Murderer of his Child. Containing the
Different Views of His Character, as a Libertine in Palermo,
An Officer in the Spanish Service, A Planter in the Island of
Cuba, etc. With a frontispiece. i2mo. London. Tegg.
1803. A Gothic chapbook.
Albany. A novel. By the author of Beau monde, etc., etc., etc .
3 vols. A. K. Newman & Co. Minerva Press. 1 8 1 g.
Albert; Or, The Wilds Of Strathnavern. By Elizabeth Helrne,
Author of Louisa ;
or, The Cottage on the Moor, etc., etc.,
etc. 4 vols., Sampson Low. 1799. Second ed., 4 vols.,
A. K. Newman. 1823. Reprinted in a cheap edition c. 1850.
Albert de Nordenshild ; Or, The Modern Alcibiades. A Novel
translated from the German [of Karl Gottlob Cramer], 2 vols.,
Robinson. 1796.
Translation of Der deutsche Alcibiades, 3 vols., 1790. Second
ed., 1814. Karl Gottlob Cramer, born Poedelitz, March 3rd,
1758: died, June 7th, 1817.
Albertina: A Novel. 2 vols., 1789.
Albigenses, The. A Romance. By the Author of “ Bertram,’*
a Tragedy ;
“ Woman ;
or, Pour et Contre,” etc. [Charles
Robert Maturin]. 4 vols., London; Hurst, Robinson, and
Co.; Constable, Edinburgh. 1824.
Les Albigeois, avec une notice biographique. 4 vols., Paris.
1825. (Maturin died October 30th, 1824.)
La Chambre la Chatelaine. Imitation de Maturin. A para-
phrase in verse by Mme. Amable Testu of an episode from
The Albigenses. In Poemes par Madame Testu. Paris.
1826. Also in. Poesies completes (page 78), Mme. A. Testu,
Paris. 1858.
Albina. A Novel in a Series of Letters. 2 vols., William Lane,
Leadenhall-street. MDCCLXXXVI.
TITLE INDEX 227
Aldine Claude Duval Library, The. 48 nos.
Aldine Dick Turpin Library, The. 182 nos.
Aldine Jack Sheppard Library, The. 24 nos.
Aldine Spring Heeled Jack Library, The. 12 nos.
Alexena; or The Castle of Santa Marco. A romance. 3 vols.,
embellished with engravings. A. K. Newman & Co., Minerva
Press. 1817. Irish ed., 3 vols., Dublin: Printed by Brett
Smith, Mary Street. 1817.
Alexina. 4 vols., Paris. 1813: “ imite de l’anglais par Mme.
Brayer de Saint-Leon.” See under The Midnight Wanderer
.
Alexis; or, The Young Adventurer. A novel. Folio, Edin-
burgh. A. Scott, 1746. 8vo. pp. 30. London. T. Cooper.
1746. The adventures of Prince Charles Edward after
Culloden.
Alexis, ou la maisonette dans les bois. Par 1’ auteur de Lolotte
et Fanfan. [F. G. Ducray-Duminil]. 2 tom. Liege. 1790.
Albano, ou les Horreurs de I’abime. 4 tom. Paris. 1824. By
Elisabeth Guenard, baronne de Mere.
Alexis, The Tyrant of The East. A Persian Tale. One vol.,
Colburn. 1811. Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman and Co.
1813. Alexis is by William Hart.
Alf von Deulmen. Translated from the German by Miss A. E.
Booth. 8vo. London. 1794- Translated from Alf von
Diilmen by Christiane Benedicte Eugenie Naubert.
Adolphe De Dulmen, Traduit de l’Allemand. 5 tomes. A
Paris. A la Librairie Economique. Rue de la Harpe. No.
94. 1810.
Alfred; Or, The Knight of The Castle. By Mary Elizabeth
Parker. 3 vols., 1802.
Alfred; or, The Adventures of a French Gentleman. (Alfred
De Rosann.) By G. W. M. Reynolds. 1840.
Alfred and Cassandra. A Romantic Tale. By the author of
The school of virtue. 2 vols., W. Lane. 1788.
Alfred De Rosann; or, The Adventures Of A French Gentle-
man. By George W. M. Reynolds, Author of “ Pickwick
228 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Abroad,” etc. Illustrated with Fourteen Steel Engrav-
ings. London: T. W. Southgate, Library, 164, Strand.
MDCCCXXXIX.
London: Printed by J. Wertheimer and Co., Circus Place,
Finsbury Circus. Boards.
The illustrations are signed J. Phillips feet. A copy (there
may be others) is known with coloured illustrations.
Subsequently Alfred De Rosann was named Alfred; or, The
Adventures Of A French Gentleman.
Alfred of England. By Brenchley Beaumont (pseudonym of
Walter Viles). The Boy’s World, Vol. I. (No. 1. April 14th,
1879)-
Alfred of Normandy ; Or, The Ruby Cross. An Historical
Romance. By Caroline Maxwell. 2 vols., Seale. 1808.
Alibeg the Tempter, a Tale wild and wonderful. By William
Child Green. 4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1831.
Alice, Or Infidelity ; TheTrifler; And My Aunt Anne. Three
Tales. By Grace Stuart Hume. 5 vols., A. K. Newman.
1823.
Alice; or, The Adventures of an English Girl in Persia. One
vol. Price 6d. Edwin J. Brett, Ltd.
Alice Gray: a domestic novel. By Mrs. Mason, late Catherine
George Ward. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1833.
Alice Leighton ; or, The Murder at the Druid Stones. 50 penny
nos. London. William Caffyn, 31 Oxford Street, Mile End.
1847-8. Re-issue, W. Clarke. 1850.
Alice Seymour. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey. One vol.,
Newby. 1845.
Alicia de Lacy. A Historical Romance. By the Author of the
“ Loyalists,” etc., etc. [Mrs. Jane West], 4 vols., Longman,
Hurst, Rees, Orme and Brown. 1814.
Alinda; Or, The Child of Mystery. By the Author of “Ora
and Juliet,” “ The Castle of Tariffa,” etc. 4 vols., Crosby,
1 8 "2. [By Amelia Beauclerc.]
Aline, An Old Friendship. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey.
2 vols., Newby. 1848.
TITLE INDEX 229
All In A Bustle; A Comedy In Five Acts. Written by The
Author of The Castle Of Ollada. Norwich: R. Beatniffe
;
Mrs. Crocket. 8vo. 1795. Price Two Shillings. Francis
Lathom’s first comedy. The Monthly Review; or, Literary
Journal, Vol. XIX, January, 1796, ranks All In A Bustle
with “ Ravenscroft’s upper-gallery-performance The London
Cuckolds ” !
All Sorts of Lovers; Or, Indiscretion, Truth, And Perfidy. By
Henry Summersett. Author of The Mad Man of the Moun-
tains, etc. 3 vols., Minerva-Press, Lane and Newman. 1805.
Allan M’Dougal ; Or, Scenes In The Peninsula. A Tale. By
A Military Officer. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1831.
All’s Well. By George Emmett. Hogarth House. One shilling.
All’s Well That Ends Well; Or, Alvaro And Ximenes. A
Spanish Tale. Translated from the German of Dr. Charles
Frederic Bahrdt. 2 vols., Crosby. 1797.
Almeira D’Aviero. In Three Volumes. By Anna Maria
Mackenzie. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1811. Mrs.
Anna Maria Mackenzie of Exeter, nee Wight. Mrs. Cox
;
en secondes noces Mrs. Johnson ;
then Mrs. Mackenzie.
Pseudonym, Ellen of Exeter.
Almeira Belmore. By a Lady. One vol., Robinson. 1789.
Almeira’s Curse; Or, The Black Tower of Bransdorf. A
Romance. [By T. P. Prest]. 25 penny nos. E. Lloyd.
N.D. [1842].
Alone In The Pirates’ Lair. By Charles Stevens. Serialized in
Boys of England, E. J. Brett, Vol. I, No. 1. Tuesday,
November 27th, 1866.
1
Alphonso And Elinor; Or, The Mysterious Discovery. With
a frontispiece. London. Ker. N.D. [1799]. A Gothic
chapbook.
Alphonso; or, The natural son. By Madame Genlis. 3 vols.
Colburn. 1809. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman and Co.
1813.
Alphonso; Or, The Wanderer of the Alps. 2 vols., Lane.
Minerva-Press. 1796.
230 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Alpine Wanderers, The. Chapbook, n.d. [c. 1800].
Alurodus, Knight of Malta. A romance. 3 vols. (boards).
1800.
Always Happy; Or, Anecdotes of Felix and his Sister. One
vol., i8mo. Grant. 1813. By Mrs. Bridget Bluemantle.
[Mrs. E. Thomas]
Alwyn; Or, The Gentleman Comedian. By Thomas Holcroft.
2 vols. Fielding and Walker. 1780. William Nicholson
(
1
753
“ 1 8 1 5) gave Holcroft some slight assistance in writing
this novel. See Holcroft’s Memoirs.
Alvar And Seraphina; Or, The Troubles Of Murcia. A His-
torical Romance. By John Canton. 2 vols., Lane, Newman
& Co. Minerva-Press. 1803.
Alvondown Vicarage. A novel. 2 vols. Lane, Newman & Co.
Minerva-Press. 1807. By Mrs. Regina Maria Roche.
Amabel; Or* Memoirs of a Woman of Fashion. [By Mrs.
Elizabeth Hervey]. 4 vols., Colburn. 1814. Second edition
(remainder issue with new title-page), 4 vols. A. K. Newman
& Co. 1818.
Les Amatis malheureux, ou le Comte de Comminge, drame en
trois actes et en vers. Precede d’un discours preliminaire et
suivi des Memoires du comte de Comminge. 8vo. pp. 215.
Paris. 1764. Second ed., 1765 (Amsterdam). Third ed.,
1768. Fourth ed., 1769.
The most famous of Baculard D’Arnaud’s dramas. It was
acted once, in 1790. At the time, however, it had an
immense vogue. The play and the Memoires were widely
read, and notably influenced Gothic romance.
There is at least one German translation, and there are two
Italian versions.
Die ungluckselign Verliebten oder Begebenheiten des Grafen
von Comminge, ein Schauspiel. Glogau. 1767.
Gli amanti sventurati os sia il Conte di Commingia, dramma
tradotta del francese del Signor Marchese Ercole Rondinelli.
Venezia. 1767. Another Italian translation “in versi sciolti
dal Marchese F. Albergati Capacelli. Verona. 1767.
Amantus And Elmira: Or, Ingratitude Exemplified in the
Character of Ingratus. By George Hutton. One vol., 12010.
pp. 173. Crosby. 1794.
TITLE INDEX 231
Amatonda: A Tale from the German of Anton Wall. One
vol., ismo. 288 pp. Longman and Co., 1811.
Translated by Henry Crabb Robinson. Anton Wall is the
pseudonym of Christian Leberecht Heyne, a Professor at
Gottingen.
Amasina: or, American foundling. 2 vols. Lane, Newman,
and Co. Minerva-Press. 1804.
Amatory Tales Of Spain, France, Switzerland, And The
Mediterranean ; containing The Fair Andalusian ; Rosolia of
Palermo ; and The Maltese Portrait: interspersed with pieces
of original poetry. By Honoria Scott. 4 vols., J. Dick. 1810.
Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman and Co. 1812.
Amazement. A Novel. By Mrs. Meeke. 3 vols., Lane, New-
man & Co. Minerva-Press. 1804.
Ambassador’s Secretary, The. By Jane Harvey. 4 vols., A. K.
Newman. 1828.
Ambition. A novel. By Miss M. G. Lewis. 3 vols. Cadell.
1825. Advertised 1828, as “Recently Published by A. K.
Newman and Co.”
American Savage, The. 2 vols. By Mrs. Barnby. Maidstone.
1808.
Ammorvin And gfallida. A novel. 2 vols. W. Lane, Minerva-
Press. 1798. By Mary Charlton.
Amoroso, a Novel. By Francis Dudley. 2 vols. A. K. Newman.
Minerva-Press. 1810.
Amour of a Friar, The. In “The French Novelist,” Weekly
nos., 2d. Wilton and Son. 245 High Holbom, 1825.
A translation of L’Enfant du Carnaval by Pigault Lebrun.
In 1792 the earlier English version was called The Shrove-
tide Child.
An amorous Tale of the chaste loves of Peter the Long and his
most honoured Dame Blanche Bazu, his Feal Friend, Blaise
Bazu, and the History of the Lovers’ Well. Imitated from
the French. By Thomas Holcroft. 8vo. G.G.J. and J.
Robinson. MDCCLXXXVI.
A negligible piece.
232 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Amy; or, Love and Madness. A Romance. 54 nos. E. Lloyd.
London. 1847.
Amy Lawrence, The Freemason’s Daughter. By J. F. Smith.
Serialized London Journal, 1851. For details see J. F. Smith,
Index of Authors. Separate publication, 4to, London. H.
Lea, 1870. Another ed., 3 vols. London, 1879. Another
ed., Beautifully illustrated. One vol. Dick and Fitzgerald.
New York. Price 75 cents. N.D. [c. 1880].
Ancient Records, Or, The Abbey Of Saint Oswytlie. A
Romance. In Four Volumes. By T. J. Horsley Curties,
Author of Ethelwina, Or The House Of Fitz-Auburne.
Minerva-Press. William Lane. 1801.
With a frontispiece, which was reproduced in The Gothic
Quest (p. 82), by Montague Summers. Ancient Records, Or,
The Abbey Of St. Oswythe. A Romance. By T. J. Horsley
Curties, Esq., Author of Ethelwina, Or The House of Fitz-
Auburne ;
Scottish Legend; Watch Tower, Or The Sons
Of Ulthona, etc., etc. 4 vols., Second Edition. A. K.
Newman and Co., 1832. No frontispiece.
L’Abbaye de Saint-Oswythe. Traduit de l’anglais par Madame
* * * 2 tom., Paris. 1813.
Andrew Stuart; Or, The northern wanderer. By Mary Ann
Flanway. 4 vols., Lane, Minerva-Press. 1800.
Andronica; Or, The fugitive bride. A Novel. By Mary
Charlton. 2 vols., Lane. Minerva-Press. 1797. There was
a French translation in 1799.
Anecdotes of a Convent. By the Author of Memoirs of Mrs.
Williams. [Helen Maria Williams]. 3 vols., T. Becket and
T. A. de Hondt. 1771. A boy is brought up in a convent
as a girl, and believes himself to be of the female sex. The
tale is said to be strictly true.
Anecdotes of the Altamont Family. By the author of The
Sicilian, etc. [Mrs. Mary Meeke]. 4 vols. W. Lane.
Minerva-Press. 1800.
Anecdotes of the Delborough Family. A novel. By Mrs. Gun-
ning. 5 vols., W. Lane. Minerva-Press. 1792.
Anecdotes Of Two Well-Known Families. Written By A
Descendant ; And Dedicated To The First Female Pen in
TITLE INDEX 233
England. Prepared For The Press By Mrs. Parsons, Author
of “ An Old Friend with a New Face,” etc., etc. 3 vols.,
London: T. N. Longman. 1798.
Angelina. By Mrs. Alary Robinson. 3 vols. Hookham and
Carpenter. 1796. New edition. Third edition. 3 vols.
A. K. Newman. Minerva-Press. 1813.
Angelina; or, Mystic Captives. By Henry Guy. Chapbook.
c. 1800.
Angelina; or, The Mystery of St. Mark’s Abbey. A Romance.
[By T. P. Prest]. 25 nos. E. Lloyd. 1841. Re-issued, 1849.
Angelina; Or, Sketches from Nature. A Novel. 3 vols., Kerby
Lindsell and King. 1 794.
An Angel’s Form And A Devil’s Heart. By Selina Davenport.
4 vols., A. K. Newman. Minerva Press. 1818.
Angelo; a Novel founded on Melancholy Facts. By Edward
Henry Iliff (late of the Theatre Royal, Haymarket). 2 vols.,.
Allen and West. 1796.
Angelo Guiccardini; Or, The Alpine Bandit. By Sophia L.
Francis. 4 vols., Lane, Newman, And Co. Minerva-Press.
1809.
Angelo Guiccardini, ou le Bandit des Alpes, traduit de l’anglais
de Mme. Sophie Francis. Paris: J. —G. Dentu, 6 vol., 1817.
In the Catalogue general des livres imprimis de la Bib-
liotheque Nationale, Tome LIV, Paris, Impr. Nat. 1913,
colonne 413, there is an erroneous entry: Frances, Sophie.
Pseud, de Lathom, Francis. Ibid. Tome LXXXIX. Id.
1926, colonnes 872-3 we have : Lathom, Francis, pseud, de
Sophie Frances, under which entry is listed Angelo Guiccar-
dini, ou le Bandit des Alpes.
Anglo-Saxons ; Or, The court of Ethelwidph, The. A romance.
By Leslie Armstrong, Esq. 4 vols. Minerva-Press. Lane,
Newman, And Co. 1806.
Animated Skeleton, The. 2 vols. W. Lane, Minerva-Press.
1798. French translation, 1799, by Cantwell as Le Chateau
d’Albert. See under this title.
Ankerwick Castle. A Novel. By Mrs. Croffts. 4 vols., W..
Lane. Minerva-Press. 1800.
234 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Anna; Or, Edinburgh. A Novel. By Regina Maria Roche.
2 vols., Hill. 1814.
Anna; Or Memoirs Of A Welch Heiress. Interspersed With
Anecdotes Of A Nabob. In Four Volumes. London : Printed
For William Lane, Leadenhall Street. MDCCLXXXV. [By
Mrs. Agnes Maria Bennett]. Second ed., 1786. Third ed.,
1787. Fourth ed., 1788. There were also later reprints.
Anna, ou I’Heritiere galloise. Traduite de l’anglois sur la
quatrieme edition [by J. G. Dubois Fontanelle]. 4 tom.,
1788.
Anna Melvil. A Novel. In Two Volumes. London : Printed
For William Lane, At The Minerva-Press, Leadenhall-Street.
MDCCXCII.
Anna St. Ives: a novel. By Thomas Holcroft. 7 vols. Lon-
don : Printed for Shepperson and Reynolds, No. 137, Oxford-
street. 1792. Another ed., 5 vols. 1800.
Annals of Crime; or, The Highwaymen of Old. 59 nos.
London: Wm. Clark. 1837.
Anne of Britanny. An Historical Romance. 3 vols. Cradock
and Joy. 1810.
Anselmo ; Or, The Day Of Trial. By Miss Hill. 4 vols. A. K.
Newman And Co. Minerva-Press. 1813.
Anti-Delphine. By Mrs. Byron. 2 vols., Mawman. 1806.
Second ed. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman and Co. 1818.
Antoinette. A novel. 2 vols., W. Lane, Minerva Press. 1796.
Anzoletta Zadoski
.
A novel. By Mrs. Howell. 2 vols., W.
Lane. Minerva-Press. 1796.
An Apology for Tales of Terror. James Ballantyne. 12 copies
printed, 1799. There are four unmutilated copies extant.
See W. Ruff, Bibliography of the Poetical Works of Sir Walter
Scott, Ijg6-i8g2. Edinburgh Bibliographical Society Trans-
actions, Vol. I, 1938; pp. 99-240; and 277-81.
Yale University Library has a copy of An Apology for Tales
of Terror, 1799, which is a duplicate save for the title-page.
This carries Tales of Terror, 1799.
The Apology for Tales of Terror contains nine ballads, three
by Scott; three by M. G. Lewis; two by Southey; and one
TITLE INDEX 235
which is anonymous. See also under Tales of Terror, and
Tales of Wonder.
Apparition , The. A Novel. By a Lady. 2 vols., Hcokham.
1788.
Apparition, The. By the Author of Newgate. [T. P. Prest].
22 nos, E. Lloyd. 1846.
Appointed Hour; or, The Murderers of Venice, The. 20 nos.
E. Lloyd. 1845.
Arab Jack ; or, A London Boy in the Soudan. Hogarth House,
n.d. [
c . 1887].
An Arabian Tale; From An Unpublished Manuscript With
Notes Critical and Explanation. One vol., London, j.
Johnson. 1786.
Henley’s translation of Vathek, published June 7th, 1786. See
under Vathek.
Aretas. By Emma Parker. Author of “ Elfrida, Heiress of
Belgrave ” and “ Virginia ;
or. The Peace of Amiens.” 4
vcls. Crosby and Co. 1813.
Argal; Or the Silver Devil, being the Adventures of an Evil
Spirit, comprising a Series of Interesting Anecdotes in public
and private Life, with which the Demon became acquainted
in various Parts of the World during his Confinement in the
Metallic Substance to which he was condemned. Related
by himself. 2 vols., Vernor. 1793. Irish ed., One vol., 8vo.
Dublin, Jackson. 1794.
Argentum: Or Adventures of a Shilling. 1 vol., i2mo. pp. 167.
Nichols. 1794.
Argus: The House-Dog at Eadlip. Memoirs in a Family
Correspondence. By the Author of Constance and the
Pharos. 3 vols., Hookham. 1789.
Ariana and Maud. A novel. By Marian Moore. 3 vols.
Lane and Newman. Minerva-Press. 1803.
Ariel; Or A Picture Of The Human Heart. By Thomas
Dutton, Esq. Roach. 1796. A short story of 81 pages.
Ariel, Or The Invisible Monitor. In Four Volumes. " Hie Et
Ubique.” London. Minerva-Press. William Lane. 1801.
By Mrs. Isaacs.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
236
Aristocrat, The. By the author of The democrat. 2 vols., Low,
Law, etc., 1799. Minerva-Press. Lane and Newman, 1803.
By H. J. Pye.
Armenians, The. A Tale of Constantinople. By Charles Mac-
farlane, Esq. 3 vols. A. K. Newman, and Saunders & Ottley.
1830.
Armourer's Daughter; Or, The Border Riders, The. A novel.
3 vols. London. T. C. Newby. 1850. To be distinguished
from Emma Robinson’s Dorothy Firebrace ; or, The
Armourer’s Daughter of Birmingham (see under this title),
1865.
Armourer’s Son; or, the Mysteries of the Tower of London,
The. An Historical Story. One vol., 6d. Edwin J. Brett,
Ltd.
Arnold Zulig.' A Swiss Story. By the Author of Constance.
1790.
Arpasia; Or, The Wanderer. A novel by the author of The
Nabob. 3 vols., W. Lane. MDCCLXXXVI.
Arrivals From India; or, Time’s a great master. A Novel. By
Henrietta Rouviere Mosse. 4 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K.
Newman. 1812.
Arthur and Mary. Chapbook. 1803.
Arthur Fitz-Albini. By Sir (Samuel) Egerton Brydges, Bart.
2 vols. 1798. Second ed., 1799. Third ed., Minerva-Press,
A. K. Newman and Co., 1810.
Arthur Mervyn; or, Memoirs of the year 1793. By Charles
Brockden Brown. Published in part in the Weekly Maga-
zine, June, 1798. This Magazine ceased in August. Arthur
Mervyn was issued in two parts: Part I, Philadelphia, 1799.
Part II, New York, 1800. Arthur Mervyn. A tale. 3 vols.
By C. B. Brown. Minerva-Press, Lane & Newman. 1803.
Arthur Mervyn. A Tale. 3 vols. London. A. K. Newman.
1821.
Arthur Seymour. 2 vols. London. Longman. 1824.
Arulia; or, The victim of sensibility. A novel. By a young
lady. 2 vols. W. Lane. 1790.
TITLE INDEX 237
Arvitte Castle. An historical romance. 2 vols. Crosby. 1796.
Ashdale Village: A Moral Work Of Fancy. By Jane Gosling.
2 vols. Robinsons. 1794.
Ashford Rectory; Or, The Spoiled Child Reformed. By Mrs.
Jamieson. One vol., i2mo. With a frontispiece. Whittaker.
1820.
Ashton Priory. A Novel. 3 vols. Law. 1793. Second ed.,
1803. Advertised by W. Lane in 1793.
Assassin Of St. Glenroy; Or, The axis of life, The. By
Anthony Frederick Holstein. 4 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K.
Newman. 1810.
Assassins, The. A Fragment of a Romance by Percy Bysshe
Shelley. 1814. First printed in Essays, Letters from Abroad,
1840, by Mrs. Shelley.
Assassins of the Cavern, The. A romance. London. E. Lloyd.
[c. 1848]. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey.
Assignation, The. A sentimental novel, in a Series of Letters.
2 vols., Noble. 1774.
Astonishment! Or, A Romance Of A Century Ago. By
Francis Lathom. 3 vols. Longman & Rees. 1802. Second
ed., 3 vols. A. K. Newman. 1825.
Astrologer ; Or, The Eve Of St. Sebastian, The. A Romance.
By I. M. H. Hales, Esq. 3 vols. A. K. Newman. 1821.
Astrologer, The. A Legend of the Black Forest. 2 vols.
Saunders and Otley. 1846.
Atrocities of a Convent; Or, The Necessity of Thinking for
ourselves, exemplified in the History of a Nun, The. By “ A
Citizen of the World.” 3 vols., 1808.
Auberry Stanhope ; Or, Memoirs Of An Author. 3 vols.
Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman & Co. 1813. [By Jane
Harvey].
Aubrey. By R. C. Dallas. 4 vols., Longman; 1804.
Auction, The. A Modern Novel. 2 vols. T. Lownds. 1760.
Audley Fortescue; or, The victim of frailty. By Mr. [John]
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
238
Robinson. Author of Sydney St. Aubyn, etc. 2 vols. Lane.
Minerva-Press. MDCCXCV.
Augusta; or, The female travellers. A novel. [By Dr.
Andrews]. 3 vols. W. Lane, 1788. 3 vols. Dulau & Co.,.
1798.
Augusta Denbigh. A Novel. 3 vols. Lane, Minerva-Press.
1795. Irish ed., Dublin, Wogan. 1 795.
Augustus & Adelina ; Or, The Monk Of St. Barnardine, a
Romance. By Miss C. D. Haynes. 4 vols. Minerva Press.
A. K. Newman and Co. 1819.
Augustus And Mary ; Or, The Maid of Buttermere. A
Domestic Tale. By William Mudford. One vol. Jones.
1803.
Aunt And The Niece, The. A novel. 2 vols., Minerva-Press..
Lane, Newman and Co. 1804.
Aurora; Or, The Mysterious Beauty. Altered from the French.
By Camilla Dufour. 2 vols. B. Crosby and Co. 1803.
Camilla Dufour was a favourite singer at Drury Lane, and
after her marriage at Astley’s and at other theatres and places
of entertainment. She married J. H. Sarratt. (See under
his name, Index of Authors). She contributed short stories
to various magazines. See Mary Julia Young, Memoirs of
Mrs. Crouch, 1806, Vol. II, p. 312.
Austenburn Castle. By an unpatronized Female. 2 vols.
Minerva-Press. W. Lane. 1796.
Authentic and Interesting Memoirs of Miss Ann Sheldon; ( now
Mrs. Archer:) A Lady who figured, during several years, in
the highest Line of public Life, and in whose History will be
found, all the Vicissitudes, which so constantly attend on
Women of her Description. Written by Herself. Four vols..
For the Authoress. 1787.
Ann Sheldon was a fashionable courtezan.
Authentic and Interesting History of Miss Moreton, and the
Faithful Cottager, The. 2 vols. W. Suffield and Co.,
Birmingham. N.D. [c. 1810].
Author And The Two Comedians ; Or, The Adopted Child,
The. One vol. Allen. 1802.
TITLE INDEX 239
Autobiography of Frank, the happiest little dog that ever lived,
The. By the author of “The Gipsy’s Daughter.” [Mrs.
Elizabeth Caroline Grey]. 8vo. London. N.D. [1861].
Avenger, The. 3 vols., 1810.
Awfid Disclosures Of Maria Monk, As Exhibited In A
Narrative Of Her Sufferings During A Residence Of Five
Years As A Novice, And Two Years As A Black Nun, In
The Hotel Dieu Nunnery At Montreal.
“ Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of
her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues.”—Rev. xviii,
4. New-York : Published by Howe & Bates, No. 68, Chatham-
St. [rule]. 1836.
[Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1836, by
P. Gordon, in the Clerk’s Office of the District Court of
Massachusetts.]
Preface, pp. 1-16, signed Maria Monk, New York, 1 ith
January, 1836. Chapter I, p. 19, with continuous pagination.
Twenty chapters, pp. 231.
The editio princeps of this notorious anti-clerical romance.
Azalais And Aimar. A Provengal history of the thirteenth
century, from an ancient manuscript. 3 vols. Minerva-Press,
Lane, 1799. French translation, 1800.
Azemia: A Descriptive and Sentimental Novel Interspersed
with Pieces of Poetry. By Jacquetta Agneta Mariana Jenks,
of Bellgrove Priory in Wales. Dedicated to The Right
Honourable Lady Harriet Marlow. To which are added
Criticisms Anticipated. 2 vols., Sampson Low. 1797. By
William Beckford.
Azemia, A Novel: Containing Imitations of the Manner, Both
in Prose and Verse, of Many of the Authors of the Present
Day; with Political Strictures. By J. A. M. Jenks. [William
Beckford]. In Two Volumes. The Second Edition. Samp-
son Low. 1798.
Arnold et La Belle Musulmane. Par J. A. M. Jenks. Traduit
de l’Anglais par F. Soules. Paris. Frechet. 1808.
Immediately after the conclusion of the second portion of the
Beckford sale at Sotheby’s, December nth-23rd, 1882, an
article appeared in the Saturday Review, December 30th,
1882, under the title “Nothing Like Leather.” The
240 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
journalist remarked :
“ Two quite forgotten novels, Azemia
and The Elegant Enthusiast, which had been presented to
Mr. Beckford by “ the divine authoress,” as he wrote on the
fly-leaf, were sold for more than five pounds. Who wants
to read Azemia or The Elegant Enthusiast ? Probably they
were valued for their very uninteresting green morocco
covers.” These were Beckford’s own copies of his own novels.
They were most charmingly bound in green morocco with
delicate tooling and pink silk linings.
B
Bachelor, The. A Novel. By Thomas George Moore. 3 vols.
Henry Colburn. 1809.
Bachelor’s Heiress, The. By Catherine G. Ward. 3 vols.
Baldwin. 1813..
Bachelor And The Married Man; Or, The Equilibrium of the
Balance of Comfort, The. 3 vols. Longman, Hurst. 1817.
See below, under The Balance Of Comfort.
Bachelor’s Journal, The. Edited by Miss B. [Medora Gordon
Byron], 2 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1815.
Inscribed (without permission) to the girls of England.
Bachelor’s Miseries! ! ! By an old maid of distinction. 4 vols.
Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1815.
Baird of Snowdon And His Daughter, The. 2 vols. Hughes.
1808.
Bal Masque ou Edouard, Le. Par Auguste Lafontaine ;
Traduit
de l’Allemand par J.-J.-M. Duperche. Traducteur de
Jeannette et Guillaume, de Rinaldo Rinaldini, etc., etc. 3
tom. A. Paris. Chez Lerouge. 1817. Lafontaine’s Eduard,
oder Der Maskenball.
Balance Of Comfort ; Or The Old Maid and Married Woman,
The. A Novel. In Three Volumes. By Mrs. Ross, Author
of The Marchioness, The Cousins, Family Estate, Modem
Calypso, Paired—Not Matched, Strangers of Lindenfeldt,
France And England, etc. 3 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K.
Newman. 1816. Second ed., 1816. Third ed., 1817.
THE
Uf&
Jm.
ANIMATED
SKELETON.
—
—
IN TWO VOLUMES.
11 I ofc have fought,
“ With friendl y tender of feme worthier fervice,
“ To win him from hi s temper, but he fhuns
“ All offers—
—
“ Is there caufe for this ?
“ For fin without temptation, calm cool villany—
“ Deliberate mifehief, unimp3itIoned lull,
“ And fmiling murder
”
GUSTAV US VASA.
VOL. I.
LONPONi
mN T E D A, T THE
f0inertoa«lE>re&,
VOR. WILLIAM LANE, LEADENHALL-STREET.
1798.
THE ANIMATED SKELETON
Title page, First Edition, 1798
TITLE INDEX 24I
Fourth ed., 1818. A farce, The Balance of Comfort, by-
Richard John Raymond, was produced at the Adelphi on
February 22nd, 1836. As The Balance of Comfort; or,
Bachelors and Married Men it is printed in Duncombe’s
Edition of Plays, vol. xxxi.
Baldwin; or A miser’s heir. A serio-comic tale. 2 vols. By
an old bachelor. Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1820. The
first novel of Richard Flarris Barham, Ingoldsby. See his
Memoir.
Balloon; Or Aerostatic Spy, The. A Novel, containing a Series
of Adventures of an Aerial Traveller; Including a Variety
of Histories and Characters in Real Life. 2 vols., with a
frontispiece. William Lane. MDCCLXXXVI.
The frontispiece depicts the ascent of Vincent Lunardi,
September 15th, 1784. The Balloon gives a summary of all
the ascents in England to date, and is extraordinarily
prophetic concerning the use of aerial machines in war, etc.
The Monthly Review, December, 1785, notices this novel as:
The Aerostatic Spy; Or Excursions with a Balloon. Exhibit-
ing a View of various Countries in different Parts of the
World, and a Variety of Characters in real Life. By an aerial
Traveller. Published by Symonds, 1785.
Bandit Chief ; Or, Lords Of Urvino, The. A Romance. 4
vols., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman And Co. 1818.
Second ed., as “ By The Author Of Eustace Fitz-Richard,
Latham House, In The Days Of John Of Gaunt, etc., etc.
4 vols. London : Printed for A. K. Newman And Co., 1828.
Bandit’s Bride ; Or, The Maid of Saxony, The. A Romance
By Louisa Sidney Stanhope. 4 vols. Minerva-Press. Lane,
Newman and Co. 1807. Second ed., 4 vols., Newman, 1818.
Third ed., 4 vols., Newman, 1827.
Banditti Of The Forest, The. A Romance. By Mrs.
[Catharine] Smith. 4 vols., Colburn. 18 11. See under The
Castle of Arragon.
The Bangwell Boys. By E. Harcourt Burrage.
A sequel to Hardyboy James, or Chums and Chappies.
Banished Man: The. A Novel. By Charlotte Smith. 4 vols.
T. Cadell, Jun., And W. Davies. 1794. Second ed., ibid.
095-
R
242 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Banks Of The Douro ; Or, The Maid of Portugal, The. By
Emily Clark. 3 vols. Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman. 1805.
Banks Of The Wye ; Or, Two Summers At Clifton, The. By
J. H. James. 4 vols. Crosby. 1808.
Banker’s Daughters Of Bristol; Or, Compliance And Decision,
The. By Rosalia St. Clair. 3 vols. A. K. Newman. 1823.
Bannockburn. A Novel. 3 vols. Warren. 1821.
Barbara Markham; Or, The Profligate Requited. 2 vols.
Richardson. 1803.
Bard ; or, The towers of Morvin, The. By E. Jones. One vol.
Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1811.
Bard Of The West, The. An Irish Historical Romance. By
Mrs. Frances Peck. 3 vols. Baldwin. 1818.
Barford Abbey, A Novel: In a Series of Letters. 2 vols., i2mo.
London. T. Cadell & J. Payne. 1768. By Susannah
Minifie, afterwards Mrs. Gunning.
Baron De Courcy; or, Reading Abbey. A legendary tale. 2
vols. 1807.
Baron De Falkenheim. A tale. 2 vols. Minerva-Press. Lane,
Newman, and Co. 1807.
Baron De Fleming; or, The Rage of Nobility. By Augustus
Lafontaine. 3 vols. Minerva-Press, Lane, Newman, and
Co. 1804.
Baron De Fleming, The Son; or, The Rage of Systems. A
novel. From the German of Augustus La Fontaine. 3 vols.
Minerva Press, Lane, Newman and Co. 1804. Translated
from August Lafontaine, Leben und Thaten der Freiherrn
Quinctius Ileymeran von Flaming, 1795-6. Published under
the pseudonym Gustaf Freier.
Baron Of Falconberg ; Or, Childe Harold in prose, The. By
Mrs. Bridget Bluemantle. [Mrs. E. Thomas]. 3 vols.
Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1815.
Baron of Manstow, The. A novel. From the German. 2 vols.
W. Lane at the Minerva. MDCCXC.
Baroness Of Beaumont, The. By A Lady. A Narrative founded
TITLE INDEX 243
on Observation. The object of it is a perfect Acquiescence in
the Will of the Great Disposer of Events : whilst it shews
Virtue in different Characters, it will, it is hoped, not be found
destitute of Amusement and Originality. 2 vols. Robinsons.
I
792 -
Les Barons De Felsheirn. Histoire Allemande Qui N’Est Pas
Tiree Da L’Allernand
;
Par Pigault-Lebrun, Auteur de
VEnfant du Carnaval, etc. 4 tom. A Paris. Chez Barba,
libraire, palais du Tribunal, galerie derriere le theatre
Frangais, No. 51. 1798. Ouatrieme Edition. Ibid. 1806.
More than one play was founded upon this eccentric but
vastly popular romance. The two best known are : Le Baron
de Felsheirn, melodrame by A. Bernos, 181 1 ;
and Le Hussar
d
de Felsheirn, 8vo, 1827, an(A 8vo, 1828.
Barons Of Felsheirn, The, translated from the French of Pigault-
Lebrun. 3 vols. Minerva-Press, Lane, Newman And Co.,
1804.
Barons of Old; or, The Robbers of the Rhine, The. 24 nos.
Edwin J. Brett, Ltd. 1870.
Baron’s Daughter, The. A Gothic Romance. By Isabella Kelly.
4 vols. Bell. 1802. Second ed., 4 vols., Minerva-Press, A. K.
Newman. 1812.
Barony, The. A Romance. By Anna Maria Porter. 3 vols.
Longman, Rees, etc. 1830.
Barozzi / Or, The Venetian Sorceress. A romance of the six-
teenth century. By Mrs. [Catharine] Smith. 2 vols. Minerva-
Press. A. K. Newman. 1815.
Barozzi, ou les Sorciers venitiens, chronique du quinzieme
siecle. Par Mistriss Charlotte Smith. 2 tom., Paris. 1817.
The ascription in the French translation to the more famous
novelist may be an error, or intentional.
Bastard ; Or The History Of Mr. Greville, The. 2 vols., Hook-
ham. 1789.
Bastard Of Normandy, The. A Tale. By the Author of
Tancred [Joseph Fox, junior]. 2 vols. Minerva-Press, Lane.
*
793-
Bastile : Or History Of Charles Townly. A man of the world.
4 vols., London: William Lane. 1789.
244 A GOTHIC bibliography
Bath And London; or Scenes in each. A novel. 4 vols.
Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman and Co. 1811.
Battleridge. By Mrs. Cooke. 2 vols., 1799.
Beatrice; Or, The inconstant ; A tragic novel. 2 vols. William
Lane. 1788.
Beatrice ; Or, The Wycherly Family. By Mary White. 4 vols.
A. K. Newman. 1824.
Beatrice; or the Unknown Relatives by Catherine Sinclair was
published, 3 vols., Bentley, on September 25th, 1852, and
very frequently reprinted. Since it has been said that Miss
Sinclair’s Beatrice originally appeared in green cloth, it may
be remarked that the book was issued at least simultaneously
in both green and blue, and there is in fact reason to think
that the blue cloth is the earlier.
Beatrice by Sir Rider Haggard was published in 1 890 ;
4th
ed. 1892; and frequently reprinted.
Beau Monde ; or Scenes in fashionable life, The. 3 vols. A. K.
Newman and Co. 1809. By the same author, Albany, 1819.
Beau-Philosopher ; Or, The History Of The Chevalier de
Mainvilliers, The. Translated from the French Original. One
vol. 12 mo. Freeman. 1751.
On the back of the half-title is printed : The public may be
assured that this work is not a Romance, but the genuine
Memoirs of a person now residing in London, and very well
known to the polite world.
Beauchamp ; Or, The wheel of fortune. A novel. 4 vols.
Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1817. By James Holroyd
Fielding.
Beggar Boy, The. A Novel. By Thomas Bellamy. To which
are prefixed, Biographical particulars of the Author by Mrs.
Villa-Real Gooch. 3 vols. [With a portrait]. Earle and
Hemet. 1801.
Beggar Girl And tier Benefactors, The. By Mrs. [Agnes Maria]
Bennett, Author of Welch Heiress, Juvenile Indiscretions,
Agnes De-Courci, And Ellen, Countess Of Castle Howell. 5
vols., Minerva-Press. William Lane. 1797. Second ed., ibid.
1799. Third ed., ibid. 1799. First Dublin ed., 1797 ;
Second
TITLE INDEX 245
Dublin ed., 1798. Third ed. (so called), Minerva-Press, A. K.
Newman and Co., 1813.
Beldagan Church. By Ernest Charles Jones. London. 1853.
Belinda; Or, The Fair Fugitive. A Novel. By Mrs. C——
.
2 vols., London, Allen. 1789.
Belle of the Family, The. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey. 3
vols. Newby, 1843. A new edition. One vol. J. and C.
Brown. 1857. Price is. 6d.
La Belle Sauvage, or A progress through the beau-monde. A
novel. 2 vols. By Mr. Lyttleton. Minerva-Press, Lane and
Newman. 1803.
Belleville Lodge. A novel. 2 vols., William Lane, Minerva-
Press. 1793-
Bellgrove Castle; or, The horrid spectre. 4 vols., White and
Jee, 1803. 4 vols. Minerva-Press, William Lane. 1803. By
T. H. White.
Bellgrove Castle; or The Hour of Retribution. 16 penny nos.
Without publisher’s name. No date. c. 1840. (Reprint.)
Belmont Grove; or, The discovery. A novel in a series of
letters, by a lady. 2 vols. W. Lane. 1785.
Belmont Lodge. A Novel. 2 vols., Lor the Author [Miss
Harriet Jones of Maidstone] at the Minerva-Press, And Sold
by William Lane. 1 799.
Belmour. A Novel. 3 vols. J. Johnson. 1801.
Belville House. A Novel. 2 vols. Chappie. 1805.
Ben Braveall. By Philander Jackson [Pseudonym of Alfred
Burrage]. Serial, commenced in No. 1, first week in May,
1887, of The Boys’ Half Holiday, which on 23rd July, 1887,
was incorporated with No. 153 of The Boys’ Leisure Hour.
Benedicta. A novel. In two volumes. [Two quotations]. In
two volumes [sic]. London : Printed for William Lane, at
the Minerva, Leadenhall Street. MDCCXLI [aw error for
MDCCXCI]. An epistolary novel. The same author wrote
Powis Castle, 1788; Ashton Priory, 1792; and Mariamne,
W93-
246 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Benevolent Man; Or, The History Of Mr. Belville, The. In
which is introduced the remarkable Adventures of Captain
Maclean the hermit. Dedicated to the Earl of Dartmouth.
2 vols. J. Lewis. 1775. By Alexander Bicknell.
Benevolent Monk; Or, The Castle of Olalla, The. By
Theodore Melville. 3 vols., Crosby. 1810.
Berkeley Castle, An Historical Romance. By the Hon. Grantley
F. Berkeley, M.P. In Three Volumes. Vol. I. (-II, -III).
London : Richard Bentley, New Burlington Street. 1836.
Bertram, Or The Castle Of St. Aldobrand. A Tragedy in Five
Acts by Charles Robert Maturin. Murray, 1816. Second
ed., do. Third ed., do. Fourth ed., do. Fifth ed., do. Sixth
ed., do. Seventh ed., do. Eighth ed., 1817. Reprinted in
J. Cumberland’s British Theatre, Vol. xliii, 1829, etc. ;
in The
British Drama, Illustrated. Vol. Ill, 1865; and in Dicks’
Standard Plays, No. 61, 1884. Produced at Drury Lane on
Thursday, May 9th, 1816. Music by Thomas Cooke.
Bertram, Or The Castle Of St. Aldobrand. English; and
French prose translation. No. 5 of Glashin and Robertson’s
English Theatre. Paris. 1830? [An acting edition].
Bertram, ou le Chateau de St. Aldobrand, tragedic en cinq actes
traduite librement de l’anglais, par M. M. Taylor et Charles
Nodier. Paris, 1821.
Count Bertram. Printed by Mason. 6d. N.D. [A chapbook
about 1820]. The libretto by Romani of Bellini’s opera 11
Pirata, produced at the Scala Milan, October 27th, 1827, is
founded on Bertram. 11 Pirata was given in London, Hay-
market, April 17th, 1830; Paris, Theatre Italien, February
1st, 1832. In a review of Maturin’s Women; Or, Pour Et
Contre which appeared in the Edinburgh Review, November,
1818, Vol. XXX, p. 274, Sir Walter Scott printed certain
passages of Bertram that had upon his advice been expunged
from the tragedy.
Bertrand; or, Memoirs of a Northumbrian nobleman in the
seventeenth century; written by himself. 3 vols. Minerva-
Press, Lane, Newman, and Co. 1808.
In the Bodleian exemplar a MS. note on the fly-leaf of Vol.
I has “ Presented to me by the author Henry Savile de Starck,
TITLE INDEX 247
W.B.” [W. Beckford]. A writer in Notes and Queries,
clxiii.
80, names Mrs. F. Layton as the authoress of Bertrand.
Betrothed Cousins. The, A tale. Printed for the Author. [Miss
Emma Hamilton). 1810.
Bicycle Bob; or, Who’ll Win? A Story of Romance and
Adventure. Edwin J. Brett, Ltd., Harkaway House (late,
173 Fleet Street), London.
Bigotry; Or, The Warning Voice. A Novel. 4 vols. London :
A. K. Newman And Co. 1821.
Les Bijoux Indiscrets; Or, The Indiscreet Toys. Translated
from the Congese Tongue. Printed at Monomotapa. 2 vols.
Adorned with copperplates. Tobago : Re-printed for
Pierrob Ragout, 1749, and sold by R. Freeman.
First English translation of Diderot’s tale.
Biography Of A Spaniel. To which is annexed, The idiot, a
tale. One vol. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman and Co.,
1816. With a frontispiece. Price 2 s.
Birmingham Counterfeit ; Or, Invisible Spectator, The. A
Sentimental Romance. 2 vols. London. Bladon. 1772.
A favourite theme. The adventures of an inanimate object.
There is a play on words in the title. A Brummager was a
cant term for a counterfeit coin, and hence by extension for
anything false. A sham.
Black Banner ; or, The Siege Of Clagenfurth, The. A Romantic
Tale by the Author of The baron de Falkenheim, Mystery
upon Mystery, etc., etc. 4 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K.
Newman and Co., 1811.
Black Bess; or, The Knight of the Road. 3 vols., royal 8vo.
[1863]. 254 penny nos. 1,136 chapters. 2,026 pages.
Black Castle; Or, The Spectre Of The Forest, The. An His-
torical Romance. And The Fate Of Isabella; Or, Sacrifice
To Superstition. London. Dean and Munday. N.D. [r.
1808]. A Gothic chapbook.
Black Cavalier ; or, The Banner of England, The. An Histori-
cal Story. Price 6d. Edwin J. Brett, Ltd.
Black Convent; or, A Tale Of Feudal Times, The. 2 vols.,
Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1819.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
248
Black Eyed Susan; or, Pirates Ashore. 52 penny nos. Temple
Publishing Co. 1868. As by George Emmett. 12 penny
nos. Hogarth House.
Black Eyed Susan; or, The Sailor’s Bride. 25 nos. E. Lloyd.
1845.
Black Forest; or, the Cavern of Horrors, The. A Gothic
Romance. i2mo. Lemoine. 1802. With a frontispiece.
Chapbook.
Black Highwayman, The. 86 nos. [1864 ?] By the author
of Blueskin and Black Bess.
Black Knights, The. A Tale of the Eighth Century. One vol.,
i8mo. Neale (Somers Town). Price one shilling. 1803.
Black Mantle; or, The Murder at the Old Ferry, The. [By
T. P. Prest], 53 nos. E. Lloyd. 1851. Re-issue, 1857.
Black Mask; or, The Mysterious Robber, The. By T. Frost.
George Purkess. 1850.
Black Monk; or, The Secret of the Grey Turret, The. A
Romance. 52 nos. E. Lloyd. 1844.
This romance has been claimed both for T. P. Prest and
Malcolm J. Errym. It was also more than once attributed
to G. W. M. Reynolds, who denied the authorship.
Black Monk’s Curse : A Tale of Justice, The. Sixpenny Volume
Library. 8vo. London. 1865.
Black Pirate; or, The Phantom Ship, The. A romance. E.
Lloyd. 1848.
Black Prince; or, Feudal Days, The. A romance by Pierce
Egan the Younger. London: Pattie, 110 Shoe Lane.
1848-9.
Black Robber, The. A Romance. By Edward Ball (Fitzball).
3 vols. A. K. Newman & Co. 1819. Printed by Booth and
Ball, Norwich. Edward Fitzball, the famous dramatist.
Black Rock House; Or, Dear bought Repentance. 3 vols.
Crosby. 1810. By Mrs. Bayfield.
Black Rollo the Pirate; or, The Dark Woman of the Deep.
90 nos. George Howe. c. i860.
TITLE INDEX 249
Black Valley, The. A Tale. From the German of Veit Weber
[Georg Philipp Ludwig Leonhard Wachter], author of The
Sorcerer. Johnson. 1796.
Black Vulture; or, The Rival Brothers, The. A Romance of
Passion. Seven penny nos. London. E. Lloyd. N.D. (c.
1841).
Blandfords ; Or, Fate and Fortune, The. By Mrs. Mosse. 4
vols. A. K. Newman. 1829. Mrs. Henrietta Mosse, nee
Rouviere.
Blanche ; or, The Mystery of the Doomed House. A romance.
By T. P. Prest. E. Lloyd. 1847.
Blanche Heriot ; or, The Chertsey Curfew. 18 nos. E. Lloyd.
1843. By T. P. Prest.
From the drama of the same name by Albert Richard Smith,
produced at the Surrey Theatre, on Monday, September 26th,
1842. Printed, Dicks Standard Plays, No. 586; and Lacy’s
Acting Edition, No. 1083.
Blansay. A tale of incidents in life. From the French. By the
author of Victorina, Louis and Nina, etc. 2 vols. Lane,
MDCCXC. A translation of Blanqay by J. C. Gorgy, who
also wrote Victorine, Louis et Nine, etc.
Blighted Heart; or, Murder in the Old Priory Ruins, The. By
T. P. Prest. 34 nos. E. Lloyd. 1851.
Blind Beggar; or, The Fountain of Saint Catherine, The. A
novel. 4 vols. Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1817.
Translated by Rosalia St. Clair from F. G. Ducray-Duminil,
La Fontaine Le Sainte Catherine, 1813. See under this title.
Blind Beggar of Bethnal Green and Pretty Bessy, The. 8vo.
1848. Woodcuts.
Blind Boy, The, A romance. By [Captain] W. B. Hewetson.
Minerva-Press; Lane, Newman. 1808.
A romance from the celebrated melodrama of the same name
by James Kenny, which was originally produced at Covent
Garden, December 1st, 1807.
Bloody Hand, The. Chapbook, n.d.
Blount’s MSS.; Or, The Papers Of A Man Of The World.
250 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
By the Author of Gilbert Earle. 2 vols., Knight. 1826.
Second ed., 2 vols., A. K. Newman. 1829.
Blue Dwarf, The. The original “Gentleman George” version.
60 nos. E. Harrison. 1861.
Blue Dwarf, The. A Tale Of Love, Mystery, And Crime.
Introducing Many Startling Incidents In The Life Of That
Celebrated Highwayman, Dick Turpin. By Percy B. St.
John. London : Hogarth House, Bouverie Street, Fleet
Street, E.G. 26 penny weekly nos. 2 Volumes, one shilling
each. N.D. [c. 1870].
Percy Bolingbroke St. John, 1821-89, was an immensely
prolific contributor to many magazines and to the daily press.
He translated about thirty of Gustave Aimard’s Indian tales
into English, and is the author of a large number of original
romances. For further details see under his name in the
D.N.B.
Blue Mountains ; a West-Indian Tale, The. By the Author of
My Old Cousin, etc. 3 vols. A. K. Newman. 1822.
Bluecap the Bushranger; or, The Australian Dick Turpin.
Hogarth House, Bouverie Street, London, E.C.
Blueskin. 158 nos. 1866-7. By Edward Viles. See under
this writer’s name in the Index of Authors.
Boadicea. By Brenchley Beaumont (pseudonym of Walter
Viles). The Bo/s World. Vol. II. 1880.
Bonnie Jean; or the Power of Love. A novel. Price 2 s.
Edwin J. Brett, Ltd., Harkaway House, 6 West Harding
Street, Fetter Lane, London.
Border Chieftains ; Or, Love And Chivalry, The. By Miss
Houghton, Author Of “ The Mysteries Of The Forest.” 3
vols. Robinsons. 1813. Second ed., 3 vols., Minerva-Press,
A. K. Newman, 1815. Historical Gothic; period Edward
III.
Borderers, The. An Historical Romance, Illustrative Of The
Fourteenth Century. By Mrs. Elizabeth Byron. 3 vols.
Mawman. 1812. Printed at the Minerva-Press, A. K.
Newman. 1812.
Bosom Friend, The. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline-Grey. 3 vols.
TITLE INDEX 25I
Newby. 1845. A new ed., one vol., J. & C. Brown. 1858.
Price 2 s.
Bottle; or, The First Step to Crime, The. A romance based
upon George Cruikshank’s series of pictures “ The Bottle.”
12 nos. E. Lloyd. 1845.
A different work from Gabriel Alexander’s The Bottle.
Drunkard’s Career, The. A sequel to The Bottle. 8 nos. E.
Lloyd. 1846.
Bottle ; or, The Drunkard’s Career, The. By Gabriel Alexander
and Edwin F. Roberts. 19 penny nos. John Dicks. 1850.
Re-issue in Penny Weekly Nos. and Sixpenny Monthly Parts,
commencing November 30th, 1851. A later ed., Dicks, c.
1880.
Bouverie ; Or, The Pupil Of The World. By Anthony
Frederich Holstein. Author of “ The Assassin Of St.
Glenroy,” etc., 5 vols. Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1812.
Boy Actor, or Struggles for Bread, The. 28 nos. H. Lea, 1864.
Boy Detective ; or, the Crimes of London, The. A Romance of
Modern Times. In nos. and parts with engravings and wood-
cuts. London: 1865-66.
Boy Pirate, The. Newsagents Publishing Co., c. 1866. The
sequel to Confessions of a Ticket of Leave Man.
Boy Sailor, The. 33 nos. Newsagents Publishing Co. 1861.
Boy Soldier ; or, Garibaldi’s Young Captain, The. 48 nos. G.
Howe. 1871. Also in 24 nos.
Boy’s World, The. Vol. I. No. 1. April 14th, 1879.
Boys Of Bircham School, The. By George Emmett. First
serialized in The Young Englishman’s Journal, of which No. 1
was issued, Saturday, April 13th, 1867. Separate publication,
29 nos. Newsagents Publishing Co. i86g. Another ed.,
16 nos. Hogarth House, Bouverie Street, London, E.C. One
shilling and sixpence.
Boys Of England. A Magazine of Sport, Sensation, Fun, and
Instruction. Conducted by Charles Stevens. No. 1. Price
One Penny. Tuesday, November 27th, 1866. E. J. Brett,
who after the first few numbers himself conducted this
famous paper.
252 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Boys of Hawkhouse School, The. Price sixpence. E. J. Brett,
Ltd., Harkaway House, 6, West Harding Street, London,
E.C.
Boys of Marford, The. By E. H. Burrage. In vol. V of The
Boys’ World, No. 1. April 14th, 1879.
Boys of the Empire. Journal edited by Edwin J. Brett.
Boyhood Days of Guy Fawkes; or, The Conspirators of Old
London, The. A Historical Story. Price Sixpence. E. J.
Brett, Ltd., Harkaway House, 6 West Harding Street, Lon-
don, E.C.
Boyhood Days of Jack Straw ; or, The Sword of Freedom, The.
By the Author of “Dark Deeds of Old London.” A Historical
Story. E. J. Brett, Ltd., Harkaway House. 6 West Harding
Street, London, E.C. By Robert Justin Lambe.
Boyhood’s Battles, Or The Ups & Downs Of A Runaway. 1
1
nos. Beautifully Illustrated. London : Hogarth House, 32
Bouverie Street, E.C.
The opening chapters are closely imitative of Nicholas
Nickleby, Squeers and Dotheboys Hall.
Brave and Bold by Brenchley Beaumont (pseudonym of Walter
Viles), The Boy’s World, Vol. II. The Boy’s World, Vol. I,
No. 1. April 14th, 1879.
Bravo of Bohemia ; or, The black forest, The. A romance. By
a lady. 4 vols. Minerva-Press, Lane, Newman, and Co.,
1806. The same lady wrote Yamboo, 1812 ;
and Jessy, 1818.
Bravo Of Venice, The. A Romance: Translated From The
German By M. G. Lewis. One vol. J. F. Hughes, Wigmore
Street, Cavendish Square. 1805 [4]. Freely adapted with
alterations from Abcellino, der grosse Bandit of Johannes
Heinrich Daniel Zschokke. See for further details The Gothic
Quest by Montague Summers, pp. 267-71. The Bravo of
Venice was actually published in December, 1804, and some
few copies carry this date on title-page, although 1805 is more
usual with first edition. The Second Ed., 1809; The Third
Ed., 1805; The Fourth Ed., 1806; The Fifth Ed., 1807;
The Sixth Ed., 1809; The Seventh Ed., Simpkin and Mar-
shall, 1818. Another ed., London, 8vo. 1830. The Bravo
of Venice (with Vathek, and The Castle of Otranto)
Bentley’s
Standard Novels, No. 41, 1834. “ Romancist and Novelist’s
TITLE INDEX 253
Library,” No. 1, 1839. Another ed., London. 1844. Another
ed., with The Castle of Otranto, 8vo., London, Ward and
Lock, 1856. Another ed., Romantic Tales. By M. G. Lewis,
Author of “ Tales of Wonder.”
One vol., London : George
Slater, 252, Strand; J. Menzies, Edinburgh; J. McGlashan,
Dublin. Contents: Blanche and Osbright, pp. 5-75; The
Anaconda, (separate pagination), pp. 3-36; My Uncle’s
Garret-Window, pp. 39-66. The Bravo Of Venice, (separate
pagination), pp. 3-75. N.D. (
c
.
1865). Another ed., The
Bravo Of Venice. By M. G. Lewis. In “ Cassell’s National
Library.” With an Introduction by H. Morley. i6mo. 192
pp. London. 1886.
Throughout the nineteenth century The Bravo Of Venice was
frequently reprinted in a number of cheap editions. Often
the title-pages “ For The Booksellers ” carry no date.
Rugantino, The Bravo Of Venice, [chapbook abridgement].
30 pp. London, Dean & Munday. [1810?]
Rugantino, The Bravo Of Venice, [chapbook abridgement].
8vo. London. 1823.
Rugantino. Chapbook. [An abridgement from The Bravo
Of Venice]. G. Walker, Durham. 1837. For the many
dramatizations of The Bravo of Venice see The Gothic Quest
by Montague Summers, 1938, pp. 270-72.
Bravo’s Son, The. 2 vols. J. F. Hughes. 1814.
Bravos of Alsatia; or, the Fortune of Felix Ferdinand, The.
A Story of Romance and Adventure. Edwin J. Brett, Ltd.,
Harkaway House.
Brazen Mask, The. By Mrs. Charlotte Putney. Author of
Cora, etc. 4 vols. A. K. Newman. 1826.
Brick Bolding; or What is life ? An English, French, and
Italian romance. 2 vols. Minerva-Press ;
Lane, Newman,
and Co. 1804. From the French of Pigault Lebrun.
Bridal Of Dunamore ; And Lost And Won. Two Tales. By
Regina Maria Roche. Author Of The Children Of The
Abbey, Trecothick Bower, Maid Of The Flamlet, Munster
Cottage Boy, Vicar of Lansdown, Houses of Osma And
Almeria, etc. 3 vols. A. K. Newman And Co. 1823.
Bridal Ring; or, The Maiden’s Sacrifice, The. 30 nos. E.
Lloyd. 1851.
254 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
A Bride And No Wife. A novel. By Mrs. Mosse. 4 vols.
Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1817. Mrs. Henrietta Mosse*
nee Rouviere.
Bride of Obeyda, And Other Tales, The. By The Author Of
Montville ;
Or, The Dark Heir Of The Castle. 2 vols. A.
K. Newman. 1827.
Brigand ; or, The Mountain Chief, The. By T. P. Prest. 104
penny nos. E. Lloyd. 1851.
Brigand Muleteer; or, The Scourge of the Pyrenees, The. A
Story of Romance and Adventure. E. J. Brett, Ltd., Harka-
way House, 6 West Harding Street, London, E.C.
Les Brigands de VEstramadure, ou VOrphelin de la Foret,
“ librement traduit de l’anglais ” of William Henry Ireland
by Charles Desrosiers. 3 vols. Paris. 1823.
Charles Desrosiers is Madame de Saint-Sperat, and the trans-
lation (or rather adaptation) is indeed very free.
Brigands of Palestra, The. E. Harcourt Burrage reprint from
Ching-Ching’s Own. Pub. “Best for Boys Co.” 1889.
Brigands of the Sea; or, The Sailor Highwayman. By Brace-
bridge Hemyng. Hogarth House.
Brighton In An Uproar ; Comprising Anecdotes Of Sir Timothy
Flight, Mr. Abrahams, Solomons, Alias Modish And Family,
etc., etc., etc. A Novel Founded On Facts. By [Mrs.]
Henrietta] M[aria] Moriarty. Printed for and sold by the
Author, 29 Villiers-Street, Strand. 1811. Second ed., 1811.
A scandal novel “ for the publication of which the authoress
was threatened with a prosecution by a certain baronet with
whom she had been intimate.”
Bristol Heiress; Or, The Errors Of Education, The. A Tale.
In Five Volumes. By Eleanor Sleath, Author Of Who’s The
Murderer? The Orphan Of The Rhine, etc. London:
Minerva-Press, Lane, Newman, And Co. 1809.
British Admiral, The. A novel. By a naval officer [Lieut.
Arnold], 3 vols. Minerva-Press, Lane, Newman. 1808.
British Knight Errant, The. A tale of chivalry. 2 vols. W.
Lane. MDCCXC.
Broad Arrow Jack. By the author of Handsome Harry, E.
Harcourt Burrage. [1866 ?]
TITLE INDEX 255
Broken Heart: Or, The Village Bridal, The. By Mrs. Bennett,
Authoress Of The “ Cottage Girl,” “ Orphan Sisters,” “ Jane
Shore,” “ Gipsy Bride,” etc., etc. Embellished With Steel
Engravings. London :
John Lofts, 368, Strand, And All
Booksellers. N.D. c. 1845. Published in 49 nos., generally
bound in one volume. The Broken Heart by Mary Bennett
[.sic] Milner’s Red and Blue Library ;
One Shilling Each.
Fscp. 8vo. Milner & Co., London and Halifax, Yorkshire.
N.D. c. 1870.
Bromley Melmot. A Novel. Lady’s Monthly Museum. Vols.
II & III. Vemor and Hood. 1
799-
Bronze Statue ; or The Virgin’s Kiss, The. By George W. M.
Reynolds. John Dicks. 1849.
The Bronze Statue as a serial commenced in Reynolds’s
Miscellany on March 31st, 1849, and concluded the same
year. It was then published by Dicks in one volume, and
more than once re-issued. New ed., One vol., John Dicks, c.
1880. Price 5s. 6d. An edition in Two Volumes, 6d. each,
Nos. 104, 105, Dicks’ English Novels.
Brother Jonathan; Or, The New Englanders. [By John Neal].
3 vols. Blackwood and Cavell. 1825.
Brothers, The. By the Author of The Stage-Coach and Lucy
Wellers. [Miss Smythies]. 2 vols. London, R. and J.
Dodsley. 1758. Second ed., 2 vols. London, R. and J.
Dodsley; and Colchester, W. Keymer. 1759.
Brothers; Or, The Castle Of Niolo, The. A Romance. By
Robert Huish, Esq., Author Of “ Kelly’s celebrated Memoirs
of Her late Royal Highness the Princess Charlotte ” ;
“ The
Peruvians,” a Poem ;
“ A Treatise on the Management of
Beco ” ;
“ Ferney Castle,” etc., etc. 2 vols. 8vo. London :
Published By William Emans, No. 7, London Road. 1820.
The engraved title has : London. Published by W. Emans,
No. 2, Peacock Street, Newington. With copper-plate illus-
trations. Vol. I has title, 1820; Vol. II, 1819.
Brothers In High Life; Or, The North Of Ireland, The. A
Romance. By Mrs. D. Johnson. 3 vols. Kearsley. 1813.
Brougham Castle. A novel. By Jane Harvey. 2 vols. Minerva-
Press. A. K. Newman and Co. 1816.
256 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Bruno; Or, The Sepulchral Summons. A Romance. By
W[illiam] H[enry] I [reland]. 4 vols. Hemet and Earle.
1804.
Buccaneers, The. By Edward Ellis. 12 nos. John Dicks.
i860. Re-issue, one vol., Dicks. N.D. [1883]. Price is. 6d.
Bungay Castle. By Mrs. [Elizabeth] Bonhote. 2 vols. W.
Lane. Minerva-Press. MDCCXCVI. Frontispiece. Dedi-
cation to the Duke of Norfolk, dated 1797.
Burke and Hare, The Body Snatchers. 28 nos. Fred. Farrah,
1866.
Burton Wood. [By Mrs. Anna Maria Johnson]. Baldwin.
1 784[_i=i J . Mrs. Johnson, later Mrs. Mackenzie; pseudonym
Ellen of Exeter. See under Mackenzie, Mrs. Anna Maria, of
Exeter, Index of Authors.
But Which? Or, Domestic Grievances Of The Wolmore
Family. By the author of Leopold. 2 vols. Bentley. 1807.
Second ed. A. K. Newman. 1818. By Henry Whitfield.
A Butler’s Diary; or, The history of Miss Eggerton. A novel.
2 vols. W. Lane, Minerva Press. MDCCXCII.
By Command of the King. An Historical Story. 1 vol. Six-
pence. E. J. Brett, Harkaway House.
By the Queen’s Command ; or, The Mystery of the Seventh
Stair. An Historical Story. 1 vol. Price Sixpence. E. J.
Brett, Harkaway House.
C
Cacique of Ontario, The. An Indian Tale. 1786.
Caernarvon Castle; or The birth of the Prince of Wales. An
opera in two acts. Lane, Minerva-Press. MDCCXCIII.
Price one shilling. By John Rose. Produced at the Hay-
market, 1 2th August, 1793. Dedicated to the Prince of Wales.
Ccesar Borgia. An Historical Romance. By the Author of
“ Whitefriars ” [Emma Robinson]. 3 vols. Colburn. 1846.
Ccesar Borgia commenced as a serial in Ainsworth’s Magazine,
Vol. VIII, with illustrations by Phiz. Colburn. 1845. In
TITLE INDEX 257
Routledge’s “ Railway Library,” No. 67. Price one shilling.
In Routledge’s Standard Novels. No. 16. Price 2s. 6d.
And other cheap reprints.
CSsar Borgia. French translation. Paris. 1861.
Calaf. A Persian Tale. By Mrs. Holford. 2 vols. Minerva-
Press, Lane. MDCCXCIV. Second ed., ibid. 1800.
•Caleb Williams. See under Things As They Are by William
Godwin, whose novel was often referred to and has been
printed as Caleb Williams.
Caledonian Bandit; Or, The Heir Of Duncaethel, A Romance
of the Thirteenth Century, The. By Mrs. Smith, of the
Theatre-Royal, Haymarket. 2 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K.
Newman. 1 8 1 1
.
Calendar Of Horrors! The. A Weekly Register Of The
Terrific, Wonderful, Instructive, Legendary, Extraordinary
And Fictitious.
The Calendar Of Horrors, An Interesting Collection Of The
Romantic, Wild and Wonderful. Edited by Thomas Prest.
Embellished with Wood Engravings. Vol. I. No. I. Thurs-
day, April 2nd, 1835. Price One Penny. 48 nos. Vol. II.
commencing with No. 49, Thursday, February 1 8th, 1836:
Geralda, The Demon Nun ; Or, The Charmed Bracelet. Vol.
II. concludes with No. 88, Thursday, November 17th, 1836.
Vol. III. Nos. 89-—91, November 24th—December 8th,
1836.
Calista. A novel. By Mrs. Johnson. 2 vols. W. Lane. 1789.
See under Mrs. Anna Maria Mackenzie, Index of Authors.
Mrs. Johnson later became Mrs. Mackenzie.
Calthorpe ; Or, Fallen Fortunes. [By Thomas Gaspey]. 3 vols.
Longman. 1821.
Calthorpe, ou les Revers de fortune, traduit de l’anglais par le
traducteur des romans historiques de Sir Walter Scott.
[A. J.-—B. Defauconpret]. 4 tom. 1821. In the Catalogue
general des livres imprimes de la Bibliotheque Nationale, Tome
LXXXIX, Paris, Imp. Nat., 1926, Colonnes 872-3, the
French translation of Calthorpe is erroneously said to be from
the original of F[rancis] Lathom.
s
258 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Cambrian Pictures; Or, Every One Has Errors. By Ann of
Swansea. 3 vols. Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman and Co.
[1810]. Ann of Swansea, nee Kemble, Mrs. Ann Curtis,
known also as Anne Hatton.
Camden. A Tale of the South. 3 vols. A. K. Newman. 1830.
Camilla; Or, The Correspondence of a Deceased Friend. 3
vols. Cass, 1785. Advertised by Lane, 1786.
Can We Doubt It? A Novel. By Mrs. Villa Real Gooch. 3
vols. Crosby. 1804.
Canonbury House. By G. W. M. Reynolds. 1857-8. Com-
menced in Vol. XVIII of Reynolds’s Miscellany. Issued
separately in seven monthly parts. Re-issue, 6d. edition, by
John Dicks as Canonbury House ; or, The Queen’s Prophecy.
Pirated American ed. as Mysteries of the Court of Queen
Elizabeth, one vol.; Ada Arundel; or, The Secret Corridor,
one vol.; Olivia; or, The Maid of Honor, one vol. These
three volumes make up the complete Canonbury House.
They were published, 50 cents a piece, in “ The Stein Co’s
Library of Classics,” Chicago, 1895.
Canonization {The) of Thomas ——— Esq., Who has lately erected
at East L h, Dorset, a Monastery, and therein established
a Body of Monks. 8vo. 1801. 2r. 6d. Included here as a
curious and significant libel.
Canterbury Tales, The. In Five Volumes. By Harriet and
Sophia Lee. Canterbury Tales for the Tear iygy, By H. Lee,
G. G. and J. Robinson. 8vo. 1797. 3rd ed. 1801. Can-
terbury Tales. Vol II. By S. Lee, G. G. and J. Robinson.
8vo. 1798. 2nd ed. 1799. Canterbury Tales. Vol. III.
By S. and H. Lee, G. G. and J. Robinson. 8vo. 1799. 8vo,
1800, in which year there were two issues. Canterbury Tales,
Vol. IV, By H. Lee. 8vo., 1801. Canterbury Tales, Vol. V,
By H. Lee. 8vo. 1805. In Five Volumes, 8vo, Robinson,
1804-05, Vol. V being First Edition. In Five Vols., 4to.
1801. In Two Volumes, Post 8vo, Longman, 1826. In Two
Volumes, Bentley’s “Standard Novels,” No. 12 and 13, 1837
and 1838. With a Preface by Harriet Lee, who states:
“ The outline of the work was exclusively mine.” Sophia
Lee wrote, The Introduction; The Young Lady’s Tale, The
Two Emilys
;
and The Clergyman’s Tale, Pembroke. The
rest of the work is by Harriet Lee, from whose pen accordingly
TITLE INDEX 259
came Vol. IV containing the celebrated Kruitzner. The Two
Emilys was later published by A. K. Newman and Co., in 2
vols., as a separate novel, and translated into French. It was
a favourite and had early been translated into French, Les
Deux Emilies, ou les aventures du due et de la duchesse
d’Aberdeen. Traduit de l’anglais de Henriette [rather Sophia]
Lee, par M. Christophe. 2 tom., i2mo, Paris, an viii [1800].
Others of the tales were also separately reprinted. The
Officer’s Tale: and Clergyman’s Tale: Or, History of
William Cavendish, and Henry Pembroke. Small 8vo.
Dublin, H. Colbert, 1799. Kruitzner ; Or, The German’s
Tale. 5 ed., Murray. 8vo. 1823. Pembroke And Kruitzner.
By Miss Lee. New Edition. London : Charles H. Clarke,
23a, Paternoster Row. Price Eighteenpence. A yellow-back.
N.D. [18^7]. Pembroke is by Sophia Lee, Kruitzner by
Harriet Lee.
Byron’s Werner, commenced, December, 1821 ;
completed,
January, 1822 ;
published November, 1822, is “ taken entirely
from the German’s Tale, Kruitzner,’’ as he very frankly states
in his Preface to that tragedy.
Captain Hawke, The Gallant Highwayman ; or May Boyes, and
The Shadow of Death. 66 nos. E. Lloyd. 1851. Also as
Captain Hawk; or, The Shadow of Death.
Captain Jack ; or, One of the Light Brigade. The first story
in George Emmett’s “ Shot and Shell ” series commenced in
The Young Englishman’s Journal (No. 1, April 13th, 1867),
No. 56, May 2nd, 1868.
Captain Kyd, or the Wizard of the Sea. A romance. One vol.
Aberdeen, G. Clark; Dublin, J. M’Glashan : 1848.
Captain Macheath the Bold Highwayman. By a Popular Author.
G. Purkess, Compton Street, Soho. 1851. Reissue, 1859.
Captain of the Guard ; or, the Mysterious Horseman, The. A
historical story. Price 6d. E. J. Brett, Ltd. Harkaway
House, London, E.C.
Captain of the School, The. A School Story. Price 6d. E. J.
Brett, Ltd., Harkaway House, London, E.C.
Captain’s Wife, The. By William Johnson Neale. 3 vols.
London. 1842. Another ed., 1862.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
260
Captive Fair, And Enchanted Rock; Or, The Legend Of St.
Altram, The. A Romance. Translated from an Ancient
British Manuscript. London. Hughes. N.D. [c. 1807].
Captive Of Vallance, The. 2 vols. Minerva-Press, Lane and
Newman. 1804.
Les Capucins, ou le Secret du cabinet noir. 2 tom. Paris, 1801.
3me ed. 2 tom., Dubot, Bordeaux et Paris. 1815. 4me
ed. 2 tom., Massin. 1821. By Elizabeth Guenard, baronne
de Mere.
Caractacus, The Champion of the Arena. Hogarth House, n.d.
Card, The. By the Rev. John Kidgell. Coloured frontispiece.
2 vols. Printed for the Maker and sold by J. Newberry.
1755 -
This satirical piece is said to reflect on the poet Young.
Nichol’s Literary Anecdotes, Vol. I, p. 623.
Cardinal’s Daughter, The. By R. Mackenzie Daniel. London :
Newby. 1847. The days of Cardinal Wolsey.
Caroline. By A Lady. Hookham & Carpenter. 1798.
Caroline; Or, The Diversities of Fortune. A novel. By Mrs.
Anne Hughes. 3 vols. W. Lane. 1787.
Caroline Courtney. By Thomas Bellamy. The Monthly
Mirror, Vol. I, No. 1. December, 1795, to April, 1796.
Caroline de Montrnorence : A Tale founded in Fact. By La
Marquise de 8vo. pp. 196. Longman. 1794.
Caroline Lismore: Or, The Errors Of Fashion. A Tale By
Alice Catherine Mant, Author of Ellen ;
or, the Young God-
mother. 1 vol., i2mo. Law and Whittaker. 1815.
Caroline Merton. Founded on Facts. By a Lady. 2 vols.
Richardson. 1794.
Caroline Of Lichtpeld. A Novel. Translated From The
French. By Thomas Holcroft.
Idole d’un coeur juste, and passion du Sage,
Amitie, que ton nom souticnne cet ouvrage
;
Regne dans mes ecrits, ainsi que dans mon coeur,
Tu m’appris a connoitre, a sentir, le bonheur. Voltaire.
Vol. I [II-III] London : Printed For G. G. J. and J.
TITLE INDEX 26 l
Robinson, Paternoster-Row. MDCCLXXXVI. Since the
First Edition of Caroline of Lichtfield is very rare I have
thought it well in this instance to give details of the title-page.
My own copy is in contemporary binding.
Lichtfield was (not altogether surprisingly) confused with the
English city, Lichfield, and the book has often been quoted
as “ Caroline of Litchfield.” This was foreseen and on page 1
there is a footnote, Lichtfield :
“ Not Litchfield in England,
but Lichtfield, a supposed Prussian title.”
The French original, by I. P. de Bottens, Baroness de
Montolieu, is Caroline. Par Madame de * * *. Publiee
par le traducteur de Werther ... 2 vols., i2mo. A Lausanne,
Aux depends de 1’ Auteur & se vend chez Francois La-Comte.
MDCCLXXXVI.
Caroline de Lichtfield. Par Madame de * * * Public par le
Traducteur de Werther. Nouvelle Edition, Avec des Correc-
tions considerables. 2 vols., 8vo. A Londres, Et se trouve a
Paris, Chez Buisson, Libraire . . . MDCCLXXXVI.
Caroline de Lichtfield, par Madame de * * * ;
publie par le
Traducteur de Werther. Seconde Edition. 2 Tomes. i2iuo.
Elmsley. From an advertisement in the New Review, March,
1796, Elmsley was an imposter. This is probably the Paris
issue.
Caroline de Lichtfield, par Madame de * * *. Publie par le
Traducteur de Werther. 3 vols., i2mo. A Paris, Chez Louis,
libraire, rue Severin, No. 29. An III de la Republique
frangaise [1795]. Bound in at the end of Vol. II are:
“ Premiere Romance de Caroline, Musique de M. le Comte
de Colemberg ” ;
“ Meme Romance, Musique de 1 ’ Auteur
de Caroline ” ;
and “Romance No. 2. Musique de 1 ’ Auteur.”
There is a 3 vol. French edition “ avec la musique des
Romances par 1’auteur,” 8vo., 1809, published in England
“ pour R. Dulau et Co., Soho Square,” Vol. I, printed by R.
Juigne, 17 Margaret-street, Cavendish Square, and Vol. II.
printed by P. Da Ponte, 15 Poland Street.
Caroline Of Lichtfield: A Novel. Translated from the
French. By Thomas Holcroft. Second ed., 3 vols., Robinson.
1787. A new ed., 3 vols., A. K. Newman and Co.,
Leadenhall-street, and Joseph Booker, Bond-street. 1817.
Irish editions. 2 vols., Watson, Dublin, 1786. 2 vols. P.
Wogan. Dublin, 1795.
American edition. Caroline of Lichtfield ; a novel. Trans-
lated from the French by Thomas Plolcroft. The First
262 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
American Edition. In two volumes [i2mo] . . . London.
Printed : New York. Re-printed and sold by J. S. Mott,
No. 70, Vesey-street, 1798.
Caroline Ormsby; Or, The Real Lucille. One vol., Colburn,
1809. Second ed., A. K. Newman, 1820.
The same author wrote The acceptance, 1810; and The
decision, 1811.
Carpenter’s Daughter Of Derham-Down ; Or, Sketches On The
Banks Of Windermere, The. 2 vols. Printed at the Minerva.
William Lane. MDCCXCI. The same author wrote Count
Roderic’s Castle, 1794.
Carthusian Friar ; Or, The Mysteries Of Montanville, The. A
Posthumous Romance. Corrected and Revised by an Author
of Celebrity. 4 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1814.
Written by Mrs. Sarah Green. The Monthly Review more
than once suggests that Mrs. Green is a pseudonym concealing
the sex of this writer. In any case it seems that The Car-
thusian Friar (the absurdity of the title may be noted) is an
original romance, and “ posthumous ” is probably fudge. Mrs.
Sarah Green was publishing novels as late as 1823.
Cartouche, the French Jack Sheppard. 41 penny nos., Temple
Publishing Co. c. i860. Re-issue, 14 penny ncs., by Charles
Fox, 4 Shoe Lane, Fleet Street.
Carwin the Biloquist, and Other American Tales and Pieces. By
Charles Brockden Brown. 3 vols. Henry Colburn. 1822.
Carwin the Biloquist, afterwards expanded to Wieland, originally
was never finished. It first appeared in Dunlap’s Life and
Selections from the Works of C. B. Brown, 1815. The other
American Tales are, Stephen Calvert; Jessica; and, The
Scribbler.
Castle Baynard ; Or, The Days Of John. By Hal Willis, student
at law. [Charles Robert Forrester]. 8vo., London. 1824.
Castle Chapel, The. A Romantic Tale. By Regina Maria
Roche. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1825.
La Chapelle du vieux chateau de Saint-Doulagh, ou les Ban-
dits de Newgate. Traduite de l’anglais. 4 tom., Paris. 1825.
Castle Fiend; or, the fate of the loved and lost, The. An old
English romance. London. [1847].
TITLE INDEX 263
Castle Harcourt; Or, The Days Of King Richard the Third.
By L. F. Winter. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1825.
Castle Nuovier ; Or, Henry And Adelaide. By Mrs. Manners,
[later, Lady Stepney]. 2 vols., Crosby. 1806.
Castle Of Arragon ; or, The banditti of the forest. By Mrs.
Smith. 2 vols. Colburn, 1 8 1 1 . Also advertised by A. K.
Newman, 1815. Catharine Smith of the Haymarket Theatre.
Castle Of Beeston; Or, Randolph Earl of Chester, The. An
Historical Romance. 2 vols. Faulder. 1799.
Castle of Berry Pomeroy, The. A Novel. By Edward Mon-
tague. 2 vols., Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman. 1806.
Castle of Caithness, The. A Romance of the Thirteenth Cen-
tury. By F.H.P. 2 vols., Minerva-Press, Lane and Newman.
1802.
Castle Of Eridan. The, Or The Entertaining And Surprising
History Of The Valiant Don Alvares, And The Beautiful
Eugenia, Duchess Of Savoy. [By G. A. Graglia]. Hurst.
1800.
Castle of Hardayne, The. By John Bird. 2 vols., J. M'Creery,
Liverpool; and Kearsley, London. 1795.
Castle Of Inchvally, The. A Tale Alas! Too True. By
Stephen Cullen. 3 vols., Bell. 1796. 8vo. Emans, 1820.
J. S. Pratt, “ Pocket Series,” 1846.
Castle of Montabina, The. By Sarah Wilkinson, n.d. [c. 1810].
Castle Of Mowbray, The. An English Romance. By the
Author of St. Bernard’s Priory. [Mrs. Harley]. Stalker.
1788. Irish ed., Dublin, Printed by William Porter, For P.
Wogan, P. Byrne, J. Parker, J. Jones, J. Moore, and J. Archer.
1789.
Castle Of Ollada, The. A Romance. [By Francis LathomJ.
2 vols. Minerva-Press. W. Lane. 1794. Second ed., 2 vols.,
A. K. Newman. 1831. Lathom’s first novel, written when
he was seventeen.
Castle Of Otranto, The. Printed for Tho. Lownds in Fleet-
street. 1765. Walpole’s romance was actually published on
December 24th, 1764.
264 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Second ed., Printed for William Bathoe in the Strand, and
Thomas Lownds in Fleet-street. 1765. 500 copies, published
April nth, 1765.
Third ed. The Castle Of Otranto. A Gothic Story. The
Third Edition. London. Printed for John Murray, Successor
to Mr. Sandby. Fleet-street. 1769.
Fourth ed. The Castle Of Otranto. A Gothic Story. Trans-
lated by William Marshal, Gent. From the Original Italian
of Onuphrio Muralto, Canon of the Church of St. Nicholas
at Otranto. The Fourth Edition. London. Printed for J.
Dodsley, in Pall-Mall. MDCCLXXXII.
Fifth ed. J. Dodsley. 1786.
Sixth ed. J. Dodsley. I7qi.
Edwards’ Edition Of The Castle Of Otranto, A Gothic Story.
Translated by William Marshal, Gent., From the Original
Italian of Onuphrio Muralto, Canon Of The Church Of St.
Nicholas At Otranto. The Sixth Edition. Parma. Printed
by Bodoni, For J. Edwards, Bookseller of London.
MDCCXCI.
A new edition, 1793.
II Costello Di Otranto. Stampato Da T. Bensley Sotto Li
Ispezione Di Giovanni Sivrac., A. M. Title-page: II Castello
Di Otranto Storia Gotica. In Londra : Presso Molim,
Polidori, Molini E Co. Hay-Market. Ed. I. Edwards, Pall-
Mall. 1795. With seven Illustrations, delto da una dama
[Miss Clarke].
Jeffery’s Edition Of The Castle Of Otranto, A Gothic Story.
Translated By William Marshal, Gent., From The Original
Italian Of Onuphrio Muralto, Canon Of The Church Of
St. Nicholas At Otranto. A New Edition. London. Printed
by Cooper and Graham. And Sold By The Publishers, No.
11. Pall-Mall, 1796. Price One Pound Seven Shillings in
Boards, with coloured Plates and Borders.
A re-issue of Jeffery’s Edition. Printed by Blackader, 16
Took’s Court, Chancery Lane : And Sold by the Publisher,
No. 11, Pall-Mall. 1800. Price One Pound Seven Shillings
in Boards, with coloured Plates and Borders. An inferior
issue.
A new edition, London. 1801.
A new edition, London. 1804.
The Old English Baron, A Gothic Story, And The Castle of
Otranto, with a biographical preface. i6mo. London. 1808.
The Old English Baron. A Gothic Story. The Castle Of
TITLE INDEX 265,
Otranto, A Gothic Story. By Horace Walpole, Earl of
Walpole, Earl of Orford. Vol. XXII. “The British
Novelists.” Ed. Mrs. Barbauld. 1810.
The Castle of Otranto, a Gothic Story, with a Critical Intro-
duction [By Sir Walter Scott]. Edinburgh. 1811.
The Old English Baron, A Gothic Story, And The Castle Of
Otranto, with a biographical notice. London. 1 8 1 1
.
The Castle of Otranto, London. 1817.
Another ed., with Memoir of the Author by Sir Walter Scott.
Vol. V. Ballantyne’s Novelist’s Library. 1821.
Another ed., in Popular Tales, 8vo. 1827.
The Castle of Otranto: a Gothic story . . . And The Old
English Baron: a Gothic story by Clara Reeve. With a
biographical preface. i2mo. London. [1830].
The Castle of Otranto (with Vathek and The Bravo of
Venice), Bentley’s Standard Novels. No. 41. 1834.
Another ed., in “ Clarke’s Home Library,” [1844].
Another ed., “Classic Tales,” 8vo. 1852.
Another ed., “Standard Novels,” 8vo. 1853.
Another ed., With The Bravo of Venice, 8vo. 1856.
Another ed., (with The Old English Baron), Royal 32010. In
“ The Cottage Library,” Price One Shilling, Milner and Co.,
Halifax and London. N.D. [1872?]
Another ed., (with The Old English Baron, etc.). 8vo. 1883.
The Castle of Otranto (with The Old English Baron) with
portraits and drawings by A. H. Tourrier, Nimmo and Bain.
London. 1883.
Another ed., In “ Cassell’s National Library'.” Edited by H.
Morley. No. 10. i6mo. 1886.
The Castle of Otranto. “York Library.” London. 1906.
The Castle of Otranto. “ King’s Classics.” London. Chatto
and Windus. 1907.
The Castle Of Otranto And The Mysterious Mother. Con-
stable’s Edition. Edited with an Introduction and Notes by
Montague Summers. Constable & Co. London. 1924.
This edition contains the coloured illustrations used by Jeffery
in his edition of 1796.
The Castle of Otranto. London. 1929.
The Castle of Otranto, in “ Shorter Novels of the Eighteenth
Century.” Everyman’s Library. (Vol. III. : Rasselas ; The
Castle of Otranto; Vathek).
French Translations.
266 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Le Chateau d’Otrante, trad, sur la 2e edition par M. E. [Marc.
Antoine Eidous]. Amsterdam et Paris. 1767
.
Ibid. Paris. 1774.
Le Chateau d’Otrante, traduction nouvelle, sous le titre
:
Isabelle et Theodore. 2 vols. (in 12 and in 18). Paris. 1797.
Le Chateau d’Otrante, histoire gothique. Trad, de Panglais de
Horace Walpole, par M. A. Eidous. i2mo. Paris: an VI,
1798. With illustrations.
The Castle of Otranto was dramatized by Robert Jephson as
The Count of Narbonne, produced with great success at
Covent Garden, on Saturday, November 17th, 1781.
An adaptation of Jephson’s play by Thomas John Dibdin as
The Prophecy ; or, The Giant Spectre, was given at the
Surrey on January 6th, 1820.
The Count of Narbonne was printed 8vo, 1781 ;
Second ed.,
8vo. 1787. Dublin, i2mo 1782; and 1788. Included in
Mrs. Inchbald’s British Theatre, Vol. 20, 1808; Dibdin, Vol.
15; London Stage, Vol. 3; Dicks, No. 277. French trans>-
lation, 1781.
Walpole’s Gothic story contributed to some scenes of a
“ Pantomime Entertainment ” given at Covent Garden in
December, 1786.
There is a “ grand romantic extravaganza ” by Gilbert
A’Beckett, The Castle of Otranto, produced at the Hay-
market on Monday, April 24th, 1848.
Castle Of Roviego ; Or, Retribution, The. An Italian Romance.
By M. Pickhard. 4 vols. Booth. 1805.
Castle Of St. Bernard; or The Captive of the Watch Tower,
The. In which is Illustrated the Fatal Effects of Misplaced
Love, and the Errors of Credulity. To which is added The
Twin Brothers of Mezzorania. Coloured frontispiece. Lon-
don. Langley and Belch. 1810. Gothic chapbook.
Castle Of St. Caranza, The. A Romance. 2 vols. Minerva-
Press. Lane and Newman. 1803.
Castle Of Saint Donats; Or, The History Of Jack Smith, The.
In Three Volumes. Minerva-Press. Lane. 1798. With a
frontispiece, which is reproduced in The Gothic Quest (p.
134) by Montague Summers.
By The Rev. Charles Lucas.
TITLE INDEX 267
Castle Of St. Vallery, The. An Anciejit Story, i vol. 8vo.
pp. 77. Robinsons. 1792. Price 2/-.
An imitation of The Castle of Otranto with suggestions from
Cumberland’s tragedy The Carmelite, which was produced
at Drury Lane on December 2nd, 1784. Printed 8vo, 1784,
two editions; Third ed., 8vo, 1785; Dublin, i2mo, 1785;
and in several collections. Dicks : No. 1 7 1
.
Castle of Santa Fe, The. A Novel. In Four Volumes. By A
Clergyman’s Daughter. Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman.
1805. With a frontispiece. Second ed., Newman, 1818.
The same author wrote Jealousy; or The dreadful mistake,
1801.
Castle Of Strathmay, The. A Tale. By Honoria Scott. 2 vols.
Tegg. 1814.
Castle Of Tariffa; Or, The Self-Banished Man, The. A Novel.
In Four Volumes. By The Author Of The Fugitive Daughter,
Or Eva of Cambria; Ora And Juliet, Or Influence Of First
Principles. By Amelia Beauclerc. London: Printed For B.
Crosby And Co., Stationers’ Court, Paternoster Row. 1812.
Castle Of Tynemouth, The. A Tale. By Jane Harvey. 2 vols.
Vemor and Hood. 1806.
Castle Of Villa-Flora, The. A Portuguese tale, from a manu-
script lately found by a British officer of rank in an old
mansion in Portugal. 3 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K. New-
man. 1819.
Castle Of Villeroy; or, The Bandit Chief, The. By Ann of
Kent. One vol. i2mo. Simpkin. 1827.
Castle Of Vivaldi; or, The Mysterious Injunction, The. A
novel. By Caroline Harwood. 4 vols. Minerva-Press, A.
K. Newman. 1810. Reprinted as The Castle of Vivaldi ; or,
The Mysterious Casket, 20 nos., with a frontispiece and illus-
trations. 8vo. Davis. 1840.
Castle Of Wolfenbach ; A German Story. In Two Volumes.
By Mrs. Parsons, Author of Errors of Education, Miss
Meredith, Woman As She Should Be, And Intrigues Of A
Morning. London: Printed For William Lane At The
Minerva-Press, Leadenhall-Street, And Sold By E. Harlow,
Pall-Mall. MDCCXCIII. “ Illustrated with a descriptive
268 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Frontispiece.” In 2 vols. 12 mo. Price 6r. sewed. Second'
ed., ibid., MDCCXCIV. With a frontispiece.
Castle Of Wolfetibach ; Or The Horrid Machinations Of
Count Bernini, By Mrs. Parsons, with 5 costly Engravings, the
2 volumes in 4 Sixpenny Numbers, or bound in boards 2 s. S.
Fisher. 1824.
The Castle of Wolfenbach. A German Story. One vol., i2mo..
J. Pattie. 1835.
The Castle Of Wolfenbach. A German Story. By Mrs.
Parsons. Vol. I, No. 23 of The Romancist, and Novelist’s
Library. London. J. Clements. 1839.
The Castle Of Wolfenbach is one of the seven “horrid”
novels mentioned in Northanger Abbey, Chapter VI.
Castle of Ffittaw. A German tale. By C. R. 3 vols. W. Lane..
Minerva-Press. MDCCXCIV.
Castle of the Thuilieries, The. A Narrative of all the Events
which have taken place in the Interior of that Palace, from the
time of its Construction to the 18th Brumaire of the Year
VIII. Translated from the French by Francis Lathom. 2
vols. Longman. 1803.
See under Le Chateau des Tuileries.
The 18th Brumaine, VIII, that is November 9th, 1799, was
the day on which the Directory was overthrown, and
Napoleon established his supremacy.
Castle on the Rock ; Or, Memoirs of the Elderland Family, The.
3 vols. Symonds. 1798. By A. Kendall.
Eliza, ou memories de la famille Elderland
;
traduit de l’anglais
[de Kendall] par L. F. Berlin. 4 tom., Paris, an VI [1798].
Castle Spectre, The. By Sarah Wilkinson. Founded upon
Matthew Gregory Lewis’ famous drama, The Castle Spectre,.
produced at Drury Lane on Thursday, December 14th, 1797.
Castles Of Athlin And Dunbayne, The. A Highland Story.
———For justice bares the arm of God,
And the grasp’d vengeance only waits his nod.
Cawth.
London : Printed For T. Hookham, New Bond-Street-
MDCCLXXXIX. Anne Radcliffe’s first romance.
The Castles Of Athlin And Dunbayne. A Highland Story. By
Anne Radcliffe. The Third Edition. London :
James
Carpenter and Co., Old Bond Street. 1799-
TITLE INDEX 269
The Fourth Edition. Longman, Hurst, etc. 1806.
Another edition, called “The Fourth Edition.” 1811.
A new edition. A. K. Newman. 1822.
The Castles of Athlin and Dunbayne ; an Highland Story, by
Ann Radcliffe, with 3 beautiful Engravings, in 2 numbers il,
bound in boards is. 6d. S. Fisher, 151, St. John Street, West
Smithfield, 1824.
Another ed., London: 8vo. 1826.
Another ed., pub. J. Smith, 1836.
Another ed., London: Bruce, 1844.
Another ed., pub. J. S. Pratt, Stokesley, Yorkshire. 1846.
Irish ed., The Castles of Athlin and Dunbayne. A Highland
Story. Dublin. Jackson. 1792.
For translations, adaptations, and dramatizations of The
Castles of Athlin and Dunbayne, see Index of Authors under
Ann Radcliffe.
•Castles Of Marsange & Nuger; Or, The Novitiate de
Rousillon, The. A Tale, Altered From The French By a
Lady. In which is introduced the History of Paulina &
Isabella By the Translator. 3 vols. Faversham : Printed
And Sold By Warren; Sold in London By J. Richardson,
Royal Exchange; B. Crosby And Co., Stationer’s Court, And
the Other Booksellers. 1809.
Castles of Montreuil and Barre ; Or, The Histories of the
Marquis La Brun and the Baron La Marche, the late Inhabi-
tmits and Proprietors of the Two Castles, The. A Gothic
Story. Frontispiece. London. Fisher. 099- A Gothic
chapbook.
Castles Of Wolfnorth And Monteagle, The. By St. Ann. [Mrs.
Ann Doherty]. 4 vols. Hookham. 1812.
The Castles are “ full of perturbed spirits and mysterious
monks.”
Casualties. By Mary Goldsmith. 2 vols. Hughes. 1804. 2
vols. Hookham. 1805.
Catalina; or, The Spaniard’s Revenge. 12 nos. J. Dicks.
1848.
Catastrophe, The. A Tale Founded on Facts. From the
French of the Chevalier de St. Aubigne. By J. Byerley. One
vol. Highley. 1805.
270 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Catherine ; or, The Wood of Llewellyn. A descriptive tale. 2
vols. W. Lane. MDCCLXXXVIII. Frontispiece. This
tale is by Mr. Nicholson, who also wrote The Village of
Martindale, 1787; Orlando and Seraphina, 1787; and The
Solitary Castle, 1789.
Catholic; Or, Acts And Deeds Of The Popish Church, The.
A Tale of English History. By W[illiam] H[enry] Ireland. 3
vols. Earle and Hemet. 1807. Second ed. One vol. 8vo.
John Williams, 44 Paternoster Row. 1826.
Cave Of Cosenza, The. A Romance of the 18th Century;
altered from the Italian, by Eliza Nugent Bromley. 2 vols.
Robinsons. 1803.
Cave Of Toledo ; Or, The Gothic Princess, The. An Historical
Romance. By Augusta Amelia Stuart. 5 vols. Minerva-
Press. A. K. Newman. 1812.
Cavendish ; Or, The Patrician At Sea. By W[illiam] J[ohnson]
N[eale]. i2mo. London. Henry' Colburn. 1831. New
ed., 121TL0. Tegg. 1841. Another ed., London. 1854.
Another ed. Charles H. Clarke, Celebrated Naval Novels.
N.D. [1855]. Another ed., Bryce, 1856. New ed. “Parlour
Library,” Vol. 219. London, i860. Another ed., “Naval
and Military Library',” Vol. V, 1861.
Cavern Of Astolpho, The. A Spanish Romance. 2 vols.
Simpkin and Marshall. 1818.
Cavern Of Death, The. A Moral Tale. 8vo. pp. 116.
London: Bell, 1794. Dublin: Colbert. 1795.
Cavern of Horrors ; or, Misenes of Miranda, The. A Neapoli-
tan Tale. Frontispiece. London: Hurst. 1802.
Cavern Of Roseville; Or, The Two Sisters, The. A Tale.
Translated From The French Of Madame Herbster. By
Alexander Jamieson, Author of a Treatise on the Construction
of Maps, etc., etc. With a frontispiece. London: Printed
For Law And Whittaker, Ave Maria Lane, Ludgate Street.
1817. From Le Souterrain, ou les Deux Soeurs, by Madame
Herbster, afterwards Mme. Metaal Beckker.
Cavern Of Strozzi, The. A Venetian Tale. One vol. Minerva-
Press, W. Lane. 1800.
A translation of La cavernc de Strozzi by Regnault-Warin.
TITLE INDEX 271
Celebrity; or, The Unfortunate choice. A Novel. By Mrs.
Pilkington. 3 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1815.
Celestina. A Novel. In Four Volumes. By Charlotte Smith.
London : Printed For T. Cadell, In The Strand. MDCCXCI.
Second ed., ibid. 1791. Irish ed. 3 vols. Dublin, R. Cross,
etc., 1791.
Celestine, ou la victime des prejuges, traduit de l’anglais par la
citoyenne R * * * [Madame de Rome], 4 vols., Paris, an 3
[ 1795]-
A Tale Of Mystery; Or, Celina. A Novel. By Mrs. Meeke,
Author of Which is the Man, the Sicilian, etc., etc. 4 vols.
Minerva-Press. Lane and Newman. 1803.
A translation from Ccelina, ou VEnfant du Mystere, 1798, by
Francois Guillaume Ducray-Duminil. Ccelina is generally re-
garded as the chef-d’oeuvre of this author. It was immensely
popular, and was reprinted more than tv/enty times. A
drama adapted from the romance by Pixerecourt, Ccelina, ou
l’Enfant du Mystere, had an overwhelming success in 1800.
Cesario Rosalba; Or, The Oath Of Vengeance. A Romance.
5 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1819. By Ann of
Swansea, [Mrs. Ann Curtis].
Chamber Of Death; Or, The Fate of Rosario, The. An His-
torical Romance Of The Sixteenth Century. By Orlando.
2 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1809.
Chances; Or, Nothing Of The New School, The. A Novel.
By A Disciple Of The Old School. 3 vols. Cuthell &
Martin. 1803.
Champion Of Virtue, The. Anon., [By Clara Reeve]. i2mo.
Engraved frontispiece. Colchester. 1777.
Issued in the following year as The Old English Baron. See
under this title.
The Champion of Virtue, a Gothic story. “The Mirror of
Amusement.” 8vo. London. [1800?].
Charity Joe, Or From Street Boy to Lord Mayor. By George
Emmett, Hogarth House. 10 penny nos. Or in coloured
wrapper, is.
Charles And Charlotte. 2 vols. W. Lane. MDCCLXXVII.
272 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Charles Ellis ; Or, The Friends. 2 vols. Baldwin. 1805. By
Robert Semple.
Charles Henley; Or, The Fugitive Restored. 2 vols. W. Lane.
MDCCXC. Attributed to Mrs. Green.
Charles Peace the Burglar. 100 penny nos., n.d. [1879-80].
A romance woven around the burglar and master criminal
Charles Peace (1832-79). It was not for a considerable time
subsequent to the shooting of Arthur Dyson that Peace was
(almost accidentally) apprehended, and hanged for this murder
in February, 1879. “ After his death he became a legendary
figure, the wildest exploits being ascribed to him,” Encyclo-
paedia Britannica, 14th ed., 1929, Vol. XVII, p. 412.
Charley Wag, the new Jack Sheppard. A new and intensely
exciting real-life romance. London. 8vo. [1861]. By
George Augustus Sala. In My Life (1917 ; p. 50) George R.
Sims says that when the play “ Sweeny Todd ” (rather
“ Sweeney Todd ”) was produced “ it was announced as
“ Sweeney Todd, the Barber of Fleet Street, or The String
of Pearls, a Drama in three acts founded on the popular work
of the same title by Fred Hazelton, Esq., Author of ‘
Edith
the Captive,’ ‘
Charley Wag,’ etc.” ” For some reason
Charley Wag has acquired a curious notoriety, which is quite
undeserved. This slippery repute, if not arising from, was
no doubt considerably stimulated by a remark of G. R. Sims,
(My Life; 1917; p. 60) who wrote: “There were some
dreadful stories published in penny numbers for the reading
of the young who were permitted to choose their own litera-
ture. Two of the worst that I remember were “ Charley
Wag” and “The Woman with the Yellow Hair.” This is
absurd, and G. R. Sims spoke “ With his tongue in his cheek,”
as Ingoldsby has it. Charley Wag carries advertisements of
The Woman with the Yellow Hair, The Serpent on the
Hearth, and Gipsy Madge.
Charlie and Tim at Scarum School. By E. H. Burrage.
Hogarth House, n.d.
Charlotte. A tale of truth. 2 vols. W. Lane. MDCCXCI.
By Mrs. Rowson.
Charlton; Or, Scenes In The North Of Ireland. By John
Gamble, esq., Author of Sarsfield, Howard, etc. 3 vols.
Baldwin. 1823.
THE CHILDREN OF THE ABBEY
By Regina Maria Roche
1796. Illustration from the Spanish translation,
Oscar y Amanda, 1868. Vol. II, p. 368
TITLE INDEX 273
Charms Of Dandyism ; Or, Living In Style, The. By Olivia
Moreland, Chief of the Female Dandies; and edited by
Captain Ashe, author of The spirit of the book, etc. 3 vols.
Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1819.
Chartley The Fatalist. By — Dalton. 3 vols. Bull. 1830.
A dramatization by George Dibdin Pitt was produced at the
Britannia, Hoxton.
Le Chateau d’Albert, ou le Squelette ambulant. Traduit par
Cantwell. 2 vols., in—18. Paris et Lille. 1799. Frontis-
pieces. Translated from The Animated Skeleton, 2 vols.
I
79 8 -^
Andre Samuel Michel Cantwell was an industrious and suc-
cessful translator of English romances into French.
Chateau de Moniville, The. By Sarah Wilkinson. 3 vols.
Allen. 1803.
Le Chateau de Vauvert, ou le chariot de feu de la rue d’Enfer.
“ Manuscrit trouve dans les decombres de l’ancien couvent
des Chartreux.” 4 tom., Paris. 1812. (Frontispieces). Par
B . By Elisabeth Guenard, baronne de Mere.
Le Chateau des Tuileries, etc., i.e. The Castle Of The Tuileries,
Or A Narrative Of Events In The Interior Of That Palace
From The Time Of Its Construction To The 18th Brumaire
Of The Year VIII [November 9th, 1799]. With Particulars
of the Visit of Lord Bedfort after the 10th of August, 1792,
etc., etc. By P. J. A. R. D. E. 2 vols. 8vo. Paris, 1802.
Imported By De Bosse, London. Price 12s. Sewed.
See also under The Castle Of The Thuilieries, by Francis
Lathom.
Chateau Of Leaspach; Or, The Stranger In Switzerland, The.
3 vols. A. K. Newman. 1827.
Chevy Chase. By Cecil Stagg. Serial in E. J. Brett’s Boys Of
England. With a large engraving which depicted the meeting
of Percy and Douglas on the Field of Chevy Chase.
Chieftain Of The Vale, The. By George West. 3 vols. Lon-
don. 1820.
Child Of Chance; Or, The Adventures Of Harry Hazard, The.
A Novel. By J. H. Wynne. 2 vols. Hookham. 1789.
274 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Child Of Misfortune ; Or, The History Of Mrs. Gilbert, The.
By Mr. Thistlethwaite. 2 vols. London. 1777.
Child Of Mystery; Or, The Cottager’s Daughter, The. A Tale
of Fashionable Life. By Hannah Maria Jones. Virtue. 1837..
Child of the Battlefield, The. 54 nos. E. Lloyd. 1856.
Child of Providence, The. A novel. 4 vols. W. Lane.
Minerva-Press. MDCCXCII.
Child of Two Fathers; or, The Mysteries of the Days of Old,
The. 40 nos. E. Lloyd. 1848. By T. P. Prest.
Child Of Woe, The. By Mrs. Elizabeth Norman. 3 vols.
Symonds. 1789.
Childe Rocliff’s Pilgrimage, And Other Tales. By Several
American Authors. 3 vols. A. K. Newman. 1834.
Children Of Error. By an Officer of Dragoons. 2 vols.
Ostell. 1806. Second ed., 2 vols., Minerva-Press, A. K.
Newman and Co., 1818.
Children Of The Abbey, The. A Tale. In Four Volumes. By
Regina Maria Rocke. William Lane. Minerva-Press.
MDCCXCVI. Frontispiece. Second ed., ibid., 1796. Irish
ed., called “Third Edition,” 2 vols., Cork: Daly. 1798.
Fourth ed., 4 vols., London: Lane, Minerva-Press. 1800.
Fifth ed., 4 vols., Lane, Newman and Co., Minerva-Press,
1805. Sixth ed., 4 vols., Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman,
1810. Seventh ed., ibid, 1815. Eighth ed., ibid, 1816.
Another ed., 2 vols., Engraved frontispiece and vignette.
Hertford: Goodsell. 1822. Ninth ed., 4 vols., A. K. New-
man and Co., 1823. Another ed., One vol., 759 pp., With
frontispiece, vignette title, and eight illustrations. Called
“ Third Edition.” Manchester, Printed And Published By J.
Gleave And Son, No. 19 1, Dcangate. 1823. [Vignette title,
1823; second title, 1824]. Fisher’s edition. With engravings.
Printed and Sold by S. Fisher. London. 15 1, St. John Street,
West Smithfield. 1824. Tenth ed., 4 vols., A. K. Newman
and Co.: 1825. Another ed., 3 vols., 1835. Another ed..
Nos. 93-99, Vol. IV, The Romancist And Novelist’s Library.
J. Clements. 1840. Another ed. One vol. N.D. [1843]]
With a frontispiece, S. Williams, Del. Another ed., J. S.
Pratt, Stokesley, Yorkshire; and London, 1848. Another
TITLE INDEX 275
ed., “ New Popular Library,” One Shilling. H. G. Collins.
1851. Another ed., Milner and Company, Paternoster Row,
“ Miscellaneous Series,” Crown 8vo., Cloth Plain, 2 s. Gilt
Edges, 35-. 6d. [1854]. Another ed., Milner, “Cottage
Library,” Royal 32010. One Shilling. [1854-5]. Another
ed., Milner, 1865. Another ed., W. Nicholson and Sons,
Wakefield. N.D. [1870]. Another ed., yellow-back. 1880.
Another ed., Routledge. i2mo. pp. 585 [1882].
There were several other cheap reprints of The Children Of
The Abbey which remained a favourite romance and was
everywhere popular throughout the nineteenth century. There
is a French translation of Mrs. Roche’s best-known work, and
a Spanish version Oscar y Amanda . . . Verdadera y unica
refundicidn castellana por D. E. Villalpando Cardenas. 2
tom. Barcelona. 1868.
Chiron; Or, The Mental Optician. 2 vols., J. Robinson. 1758.
A brisk satire on contemporary modes and morals.
Chit-Chat: Or, Natural Characters ; And the Manners of Real
Life. Represented in a Series of interesting Adventures. 2
vols., London: Printed for R. and J. Dodsley, at Tidl/s
Head, in Pall-mall. MDCCLV. Irish ed., 2 vols., Dublin :
Henry Saunders. 1755.
Christabelle, The Maid of Rouen. A Novel founded on facts.
By Mary Ann Hanway. 4 vols. Minerva-Press, A. K. New-
man and Co. 1814.
Christmas at Old Court. By the Author of Richelieu in Love,
etc. [Emma Robinson], pp. iv. and 473. 8vo. London.
1864.
Chronicles Of An Illustrious House; Or, The Peer, The
Lawyer, And The Hunchback. A novel . . . embellished with
Characters and Anecdotes of well-known persons. By Ann
of Swansea [Ann Hatton], 5 vols. Minerva-Press, A. K.
Newman. 1816. By Mrs. Ann Curtis.
Chronicles Of The Ton; Or, A Spring And Summer In Lon-
don. By Henry Morduant, Esq., 3 vols., Simpkin and
Marshall.
Church Of St. Siffrid, The. In Four Volumes. [Quotation, 9
lines from Guarini : Non mesto, non valor, non riverenza . . .
]
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
276
London : Printed For G. G. And J. Robinson, Paternoster-
Row. 1797.
By Mrs. Elizabeth Hervey.
Cicely ; Or, The Rose of Raby. An Historic Novel. 4 vols..
Lane, Minerva Press. MDCCXCV. Second ed. 4 vols.,
ibid., 1796. Fourth ed., A. K. Newman. 1830.
By Agnes Musgrave.
Cinthelia; Or, The Woman Of Ten Thousand. By George
Walker. 4 vols. B. Crosby. 1797.
In 1800 advertised by Walker as one of his own publications.
Citizen, The. By Mrs. Gomersall of Leeds. 2 vols. Scatcherd
and Whitaker. 1790.
City Banker; or, Love and Money, The. By the author of
“ Whitefriars ” [Emma Robinson], 3 vols., London. 1856.
Another ed. Routledge’s “Railway Library,” No. 244;
1862. Another ed., Routledge’s “Standard Novels,” No.
1 32 -
J. F. Smith commenced a serial, Masks and Faces, in the
London Journal on June 23rd, 1855. When towards the end
of that year he abruptly broke his connexion with Vickers to
transfer to Cassell, the serial was completed (concluding
March 15th, 1856) by Emma Robinson, and published as
“ By the author of ‘
Whitefriars’ ” under the title The City
Banker.
Clandestine Lovers, The. In a Series of Letters. 2 vols. Noble.
1789.
Clara. A Tale. 2 vols. London. G. Kearsley. 1801.
Clara And Emmeline ; Or, The Maternal Benediction. By the
author of “ Louisa ;
or, The Cottage on the Moor.” [Mrs.
Elizabeth Helme]. 2 vols., London. 1788.
Clare et Emmeline, par Miss H * * * *. 1788. A French
version of Mrs. Helme’s novel.
Clara And Montfier, A moral tale. By Mrs. Elizabeth Anne
Le Noir. 3 vols., Rivington. 1809.
Clara Duplessis And Clairant. The History Of A Family Of
French Emigrants. 3 vols. Longman. 1798.
From the German of August Heinrich Lafontaine.
TITLE INDEX 277
Clara Howard. By Charles Brockden Brown. 1801. English
ed. as Philip Stanley; Or, The Enthusiasm Of Love. 2 vols.
Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman. 1807. See under Philip
Stanley.
Clara Lennox; Or, The Distressed Widow. A Novel, founded
on facts. Interspersed with an Historical Description of The
Isle of Man. By Mrs. Harriet Lee. Adlard. 1797.
Clara Lennox, ou la veuve infortunee. Paris: an vi [1798].
Clarence ; Or, A Tale Of Our Own Times. In Three Volumes.
Colburn, price 21/-. A. K. Newman, price 16/6d. 1830.
A novel of American life by Catharine Maria Sedgwick.
There was an earlier American edition.
Clarentine. A Novel. 3 vols. G. G. and J. Robinson. 1796.
By Sarah Harriet Burney.
Clarentine. Traduit de l’Anglaise par Mme. Elisabeth De Bon.
4 vols. Paris. 1819.
Clarisse ; or, The Merchant’s Daughter. A Romance. 89
penny nos., E. Lloyd. 1847.
Clary, ou le retour a la vertu recompense. By Baculard
D’Arnaud. A story in his Les Epreuves du sentiment, six
volumes of “ nouvelles,” 1772-80. In The Tears of Sensi-
bility, 1773 ,
John Murdoch gives four stories from Les
Epreuves, of which one is Rosetta; or, the Fair Penitent
rewarded, a version of Clary.
It has not, I think, been observed that Clary is the original of
the opera Clari, or, The Maid of Milan, which was produced
at Covent Garden on May 8th, 1823. It was played about a
month earlier as Clari; or, The Milanese Peasant Girl. The
music is by Bishop. The opera is famous for the song “ Home
sweet home.” Clari is sometimes attributed to Planche, but
more often (and by Genest, George Daniel, and other
authorities) to John Howard Payne, whose name appears in
the printed copies, John Cumberland’s edition, and Dicks’
Standard Plays, No. 406.
Claude Du Val, The Aristocratic Highwayman. Anon. [Henry
Downes Miles]. Edwin Dipple. Holywell Street. 1849. “A
stirring romance.”
Claude Du Val. A Romance of the Days of Charles the
Second. By Henry Downes Miles. 8vo. London. Dipple.
Re-issue of above.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Claudine ; Or, Pertinacity. A Novel. By Mrs. Bridget Blue-
mantle. [Pseudonym of Mrs. E. Thomas]. 3 vols. Minerva-
Press. A. K. Newman. 1817.
Clavering Tower. A Tale. By Rosalie St. Clair. Author of
The Blind Beggar, Son of O’Donnel, etc. 4 vols. A. K.
Newman. 1822.
Clementine Bradford. In Letters and Narrative. By J. J.
Cambon. Symonds. 1796.
Clergyman’s Widow And Her Young Family, The. One vol.
Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1811.
Clermont. A Tale. In Four Volumes. By Regina Maria
Roche, Author Of The Children Of The Abbey, etc., etc.
Our Passions gone, and reason on her throne,
Amaz’d we see the mischiefs we have done :
After a tempest, when the winds are laid,
The calm sea wonders at the wrecks it made.
Waller.
London : Printed At The Minerva-Press, For William Lane,
Leadenhall-Street. 1798. With a frontispiece. Irish ed., 2
vols. Dublin : Printed by William Porter for P. Wogan, H.
Colbert, W. Porter, and N. Kelly. 1 799- Second ed.,
London : Minerva Press.
A new ed., 4 vols. London: A. K. Newman. 1836.
Clermont is one of the seven “ horrid ” novels mentioned in
Northanger Abbey, Chapter VI.
Clifton Grey. 36 penny nos. E. Harrison, c. 1855.
La Cloche de deux heures, ou la nuit fatale. Traduit de
1’anglais, par M. de L * * * * *. Paris. 1806.
La Cloche de Minuit. Traduit de 1 ’anglais. 3 tom. Paris, an
vii [1799]. With frontispieces. The frontispiece to Vol. I.
is reproduced in The Gothic Quest (p. 312) by Montague
Summers.
La Cloche de Minuit is a translation of Lathom’s The Mid-
night Bell, 1798. See under this title.
Cloudsley: A Tale. By the Author of “Caleb Williams.”
[William Godwin]. 3 vols. Colburn and Bentley. 1830.
Coalition; Or, Family Anecdotes, The. By Mrs. S. Boys. 2
vols. London: Logographic Press. 1785.
TITLE INDEX 279
Ccelia In Search Of A Husband. By A Modem Antique.
[Medora Gordon Byron]. 2 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K.
Newman. 1809. Second ed., 1809. Third ed., 1810. The
spelling Ccelia varies and is sometimes Celia.
Ccelibia Choosing A Husband, a modern novel. By R. Torrens.
2 vols. Hughes. 1810.
Ccelina, ou VEnfant du Mystere. By F. G. Ducray-Duminil.
6 vols., Paris. 1798. Regarded as the chef-d’oeuvre of
Ducray-Duminil. A very famous romance reprinted at least
twenty times. One of the latest editions is that in the
Bibliotheque des villes et des campagnes, 3 tom. 1863.
Translated by Mrs. Meeke as A Tale Of Mystery, or, Celina.
4 vols. Lane, Newman, Minerva-Press. 1803. See under
this title.
Ducray-Duminil’s Ccelina was dramatized by Guilbert de
Pixerecourt as Ccelina, ou VEnfant du Mystere, a drama
in three acts, which was produced with great success at the
Ambigu comique, Paris, in 1800, and printed 8vo. 1801.
Pixerecourt’s Ccelina was adapted by Holcroft as A Tale of
Mystery ; a melodrama (see under this title), produced at
Covent Garden on Saturday, November 1 3th, 1 802 ;
printed
8vo., 1802. This proved extremely popular and long held
the stage. A Tale of Mystery has been considered as the first
English melodrama proper, but it is not possible to be so
definite and precise, although it may freely be allowed that the
piece is of its kind important.
John Wallace has an adaptation of the play by Pixerecourt,
Ccelina; or, A Tale of Mystery, 8vo., 1802.
Coincidence ; or, The Soothsayer. A Novel. By Paul Sebright.
3 vols., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1820.
Coliseum, The. A fragment of a romance by Percy Bysshe
Shelley. Written in the winter 1818-19. Imperfectly printed
by Medwin in 1832, and again in The Shelley Papers, 1833;
first correctly and as far as written completely printed in the
two volume edition of Shelley’s Essays and Letters, edited by
Mrs. Shelley, 1840, and thence included in collections and
editions of Shelley’s Prose Works.
Colonel Berkley and His Friends; Containing Sketches of Life
South of the Potomac. A Tale. A. K. Newman & Co.
1825.
First English edition of this American novel.
280 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Columella ; or, The Distressed Anchoret. A Colloquial Tale.
By the Editor of the Spiritual Quixote. [The Rev. Richard
Graves.] 2 vols., J. Dodsley. 1779.
Coming Out; and, The Field of the Forty Footsteps, by Jane
and Anna Maria Porter. 3 vols., Longman, 1828. Coming
Out is by Anna Maria Porter. The Field of the Forty Foot-
steps, by Jane Porter.
The Field of Forty Footsteps, a melodrama by Percy Farren,
was produced at the Tottenham Street Theatre, “ the smallest
of these places devoted to the drama,” on Thursday,
January 14th, 1830.
Commodore’s Daughter, The. By B. Barker. Issued in 9 penny
nos. E. Lloyd. London. 1847.
Concealment ; or, The Cascade of Llantwarryhn. A Tale.
2 vols., Minerva-Press. William Lane. 1801. By Mrs.
E. M. Foster.
Conduct. A novel. 3 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman.
1814.
Confederates, The. By the Author of Farman, Wharbroke
Legend, etc. 3 vols., A. K. Newman, and Hcokham. 1822.
Confession, The. A Novel. By Agnes Musgrave. 5 vols.
Cawthorn. 1801.
Confessions of a Beauty. From the French. 2 vols., Minerva-
Press, William Lane. 1798. By Mrs. Croffts.
Confessions In Elysium; or, The Adventures of a Platonic
Philosopher. Taken from the German of C. M. Wieland,
by John Battersby Elrington, Esq. 3 vols., Bell, 1804.
Remained on issue with new half-title and title-page,
Minerva-Press, Lane, Newman. 1804. Translated and
abridged from Geheime Geschichte des Philosophen Peregrinus
Proteus, 1791.
Confessions of a Coquet, The. A novel. In a series of letters.
W. Lane, 1785.
Confessions of a Ticket of Leave Man. 18 nos., Newsagents’
Publishing Company. 1864. The Boy Pirate is the sequel.
Confessions of Constantia; a Tale. 3 vols., J. F. Hughes,
Wigmore-Street. 1807. Published at 13L 6 d.
TITLE INDEX 281
Confessions of Sir Henry Longueville, The. A Novel. By
R. P. Gillies. 2 vols., Longman. 1814.
Confessions of the Monk of St. Benedict. 3 vols., J. F. Hughes,
Wigmore-Street. 1807.
Confessions of the Nun of St. Omer. A Romance. By
Charlotte Dacre, better known as Rosa Matilda. 3 vols.,
J. F. Hughes, Wigmore-Street. 1805. Second ed. Ibid.,
1806. Third ed., “with A Portrait and Memoirs of the
Fair Author.” Ibid., 1807.
Confessor, The: A Jesuit Tale of the Times. Founded On Fact.
By the Author of
6
Michael Cassidy.’ With Preface by the
Rev. C. B. Tayler, M.A. London : Clarke, Beeton & Co.,
148, Fleet Street; Ipswich: J. M. Burton and Co.,
MDCCCLIV. “ The Run And Read Library For Railway,
Road And River.” Green pictorial boards. One shilling
and sixpence. Woodcut Frontispiece and Title-Page.
By Elizabeth Hardy.
Confessional of Valombre, The. A Romance: By Louisa
Sidney Stanhope. 4 vols. Minerva-Press : A. K. Newman.
1812. With a frontispiece.
Conflict; or, The History of Miss Sophia Farebrook, The.
3 vols., Francis Noble and John Noble. 1767.
Conflict, The; A Sentimental Tale, in A Series of Letters.
By Mr. Heron. 2 vols., Newcastle: Deighton. 1793.
Coningsby. A Tragic Tale. By Sir Egerton Brydges, Bart.
K. J. Paris, J. J. Pagehoud, Geneve Meme Maison de Com-
merce, London, Rob. Triphook. 1819.
See also under Tragic Tales.
Conisdan; or, The St. Kildians. A Moral Tale. One vol.,
i2mo., Sherwood, Nealy and Jones. 1816.
Conrade ; or, The Gamesters. A Novel founded on facts. By
Caroline Matilda Warren. 2 vols., Minerva-Press. Lane,
Newman, and Co. 1806.
Conscience. A Novel. By Mrs. Meeke. 4 vols., Minerva-
Press. A. K. Newman. 1814.
Conscious Duplicity. A novel. 2 vols., William Lane, at the
Minerva. MDCCXCI.
282 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Consequences ; or, Adventures at Wraxhall Castle. By A
Gentleman. 2 vols., Boosey. 1796. By Thomas Skinner
Surr.
Constance : A Novel. The First Literary Attempt of a Young
Lady. In Four Volumes. [Quotation, four lines from
Akenside.] London : Printed at the Logographic Press for
Thomas Hookham, at his Circulating Library, New Bond-
Street, comer of Bruton-Street. MDCCLXXXV.
Constance. A Novel. By Mrs. Katherine Thomson. 3 vols.,
8vo. London. 1833.
Constance De Lindensdorf ; or, The Force of Bigotry. By
Sophia L. Francis. 4 vols., Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman.
1807. With a frontispiece.
Constance De Lindendorf, ou la Tour de Wolfe?istad. Traduit
de 1 ’anglais de Sophie Francis par Mme. P * * * *, Paris
:
Dentu. 4 vols., 1808.
The Catalogue general des livres imprimes de la Bibliotheque
Nationale, Tome LIV. Paris: Impr. Nat. 1913, colonne 433
in error has: Frances, Sophie. Pseud, de Lathom, Francis.
Ibid. Tome LXXXIX, 1926. Col. 872-73, is given. Lathom,
Francis: Pseud, de Sophie Frances. Under this heading are
listed French translations of four of Sophia L. Francis’ novels,
two French translations of works by Francis Lathom, Lathom’s
Mystic Events (English original, 4 vols., A. K. Newman,
1830), and two French translations of novels by Thomas
Gaspey.
Constant Lover; or, William and Jeanette, The. A Tale.
Translated from the German, With an Account of the
Literary Life of the Author [August Friedrich Ferdinand von
Kotzebue]. 2 vols. Bell. 1799. A translation of Gepriifte
Liebe.
Constantia and her Daughter Julia, an Italian History. With
a Discourse on Romances. 2 parts. 1769.
Constantia Neville; or, The West Indian. By Helena Wells,
Author of The Step-Mother, etc., 3 vols., Cadell and Davies.
1800.
Contested Election; or, A Courtier
3
s Promises, The. By A. M.
Ennis. 3 vols., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1820.
TITLE INDEX 283
Contradiction, The. By the Reverend William Cole. One vol.,
i2mo. Cadell, jun., and Davies. 1796.
Contradictions ; or, Who Could Have Thought It? A Novel
from the French. John Hemet. 1799.
Contrast. By Regina Maria Roche. 3 vols., A. K. Newman.
1828.
Published by subscription. Dedicated to H.R.H. the Princess
Augusta Sophia (1768-1840, sixth child of King George III).
Dedication dated, London, April 10th, 1828.
Convent; or, The History of Julia, The. 2 vols., T. Lowndes.
1767.
Convent ; or, The History of Sophia Nelson, The. By A Young
Lady [Anne Fuller]. 2 vols., Robinson. 1786.
Le Couvert, ou Histoire de Sophie Nelson. Paris. 1790.
Convent Of Notre Dame ; or, Jeanette, The. 2 vols., Colburn,
1806.
Convent Of St. Clair, The. By M. Butt. One vol. i2mo.
(Berwick printed.) 1833. Mary Martha Butt, Mrs. Sher-
wood.
Convent Of St. Marc, The. 4 vols., 1808.
Convent Of St. Michael, The. A Tale “ taken from a German
manuscript of the Seventeenth Century.” 2 vols., Hurst.
1803.
Convent of St. Ursula, The. Chapbook. 1809.
Convent Spectre, The. A chapbook. 1808.
Conversation ; or, Shades of Difference. A Novel. By Mrs.
Heron. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1821.
Convert, The. One vol., Longman. 1826. By the Author of
The Two Rectors.
Convict ; or, Navy Lieutenant, The. A Novel. By Mrs. Parsons.
4 vols. Brentford. Printed by and for F. Norbury, 1807.
Convict, The. 20 penny nos. E. Lloyd. 1846.
Conviction ; or, She Is Innocent! A novel. By Ann of
Swansea, Author of Cambrian Pictures, etc., etc. By Mrs.
Ann Curtis. 5 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1814.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
284
Coombe Wood. By the Author of Barford Abbey and The
Cottage [Miss Minifie]. Baldwin. 1783.
Coquetry. A Tale. 3 vols., Constable, Hurst; and A. K.
Newman. 1819.
Coquette; or, The History of Eliza Wharton, The. A Novel
founded on fact. 1797. By Hannah Foster, of Massachusetts.
The thirtieth edition, Boston, 1833.
Cora, The Nabob’s Granddaughter. By Mrs. Charlotte Putney.
4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1824.
Coral Island; or, The Hereditary Curse, The. By George W.
M. Reynolds. Commenced as a Serial in Reynolds’s
Miscellany, July 15th, 1848; Concluded March 31st, 1849.
One vol., 1849. Several times re-issued. Another ed., one
vol. John Dicks. Price 5.L Another ed. Nos. 132, 133, 6d.
each in Dicks’s English Novels.
R. M. Ballantyne’s famous romance The Coral Island was
first published in 1857.
Corasmen ; or, The Minister. A Romance. By the Author of
The Swiss Emigrants [Hugh Murray]. 3 vols., Longman,
Hurst, Rees, etc. 1814.
Cordelia; or, The Romance of Real Life. By Sophia King..
2 vols., Minerva Press. W. Lane. 1
799-
Cordelia, ou la Faiblisse Excusable, histoire de la vie telle qu’elle
est, par l’Auteur des Amusemens de l’Helicon, de Valdorf, et
des Dangers de la Philosophic, trad, de 1 ’Anglais sur la seconde
edition, par le C. Chanin. Deux vol. Paris : Chez Ducauroy.
An VIII [1800].
Correction. A Novel. 3 vols., Longman, Hurst, etc., 1818.
Second ed., 1819. By Mrs. A. Raikes Harding.
Correlia; or, The Mystic Tomb. By the Author of Humbert
Castle. Minerva-Press. W. Lane and Newman. 1802.
Correspondents, The. An Original Novel in a Series of Letters.
T. Becket, Pall-Mall. 1775. A new ed., ibid., 1775. Anew
ed., ibid., 1776. A new ed., T. Becket, Pall-Mall, and
William Lane, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXIV. These
letters were rumoured actually to have passed between the
first Lord Lyttleton and Mrs. Peach, who afterwards married
TITLE INDEX 285
his son. A contemporary MS. note in a copy of the first
ed., 1775, states that the book was from the pen of Miss
Berry, the friend of Horace Walpole, who revised and edited
her work.
Corsair’s Bride, The. A Legend of the Sixteenth Century. By
Louisa Sidney Stanhope. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1830.
Corsair, The ; The Foundling of the Sea. A Romance. 6 nos.
London: E. Lloyd. 1847. By Harry Hazel. (Pseudonym
of J. Jones.)
Cospatrick of Raymondsholm, A Western Tale. By the
Author of Redmond the Rebel, and St. Kathleen. 2 vols.,
A .K. Newman. 1821. By Alexander Sutherland.
Cottage, The. A Novel in a Series of Letters. By Miss Minifie.
Durham and Co. 1769.
Cottage Girl; or, The Marriage Day, The. By Mrs. Elizabeth
Bennett. One vol., 8vo. Bennett. 1842. Another ed.,
Tallis, 1845. Another ed., Edwin J. Brett, Harkaway House,
6 West Harding Street, Fetter Lane, Fleet Street, London,
E.C. One vol., pp. 516. Illustrated. Price is. c. 1880.
Cottage of Friendship, The. A Legendary Pastoral. By
Sylviana Pastorella. Pp. 254. Bew. 1788.
Cottage of Merlin Vale, The. A Novel by J. Morrington. 2
vols., London. 1809.
Cottage of The Var, The. A Tale. 3 vols. Tipper. 1809.
Cottage on the Cliff, The. A Sea-Side Story. One vol., 8vo.
By Catherine G. Ward. London: George Virtue. 1823.
This, the most popular of Mrs. Ward’s romances, was
frequently reprinted. In “ The Wide, Wide World Library,”
Demy i8mo. Cloth, plain is. 3 d. Coloured Cloth, Gilt
Edges, is. 6d. Milner and Company. N.D. [c. 1869.] In
“ The Cottage Library,” Royal 32010. One shilling. Milner
and Company. N.D. [c. 1869.] Pirated edition, Phila-
delphia, 1823.
Cottage-Sketches ; or, Active Retirement. By the Author of
An Antidote to the Miseries of Human Life, Talents
Improved, etc. 2 vols., Gale, Curtis, and Fenner. 1812.
Count De Hoensdon, The. A German Tale. By the Author
286 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
of Constance, the Pharos, Argus, etc., etc. 3 vols. Hookham.
1792.
Count De Poland, The. By Miss M. Minific, one of the
Authors of Lady Frances A and Lady Caroline S—
—
Dodsley. 1780.
Count De Rathel, an Historical Novel, taken from the French.
3 vols. Hookham. 1785.
Count De Santerre, The. A Romance. By A Lady. 2 vols.,
Billy. 1797.
“ The author of these volumes has suffered herself to be mis-
lead by the prevailing taste of the mysterious and the horrid
.
. . . None the less the novel has promise ” ! Monthly Mirror,
December, 1797: Vol. II, p. 346.
Count De Valmont; or, The Errors of Reason, The. Trans-
lated from the French [of the Abbe Louis Philippe Gerard].
3 vols., 8vo. London. 1805. An epistolary novel.
Count di Novini; or, The Confederate Carthusians. A
Neapolitan Tale. 3 vols., Robinsons. 1799.
Count Donamar ; or, Errors of Sensibility. A Series of Letters
written in the Time of the Seven Years’ War. From the
German. 3 vols., Johnson. 1797.
Count Eugenio; or, Fatal Errors. A Tale. 2 vols., J. F.
Hughes, Wigmore-Street. 1807.
Count Roderic’s Castle; or, Gothic Times. A tale. 2 vols.,
Minerva-Press. W. Lane. 1794- Reprinted Romancist
and Novelist’s Library, Vol. Ill, No. 64. J. Clements. 1840.
Another ed., London: S. J. Pratt. 1846. A very popular
romance. A French translation in 1807.
Count St. Blancard ; or, The Prejudiced Judge. A novel. By
Mrs. Meek [«'<;].
3 vols., William Lane, at the Minerva Press.
MDCCXCV. With a frontispiece. Mrs. Mary Meeke’s first
novel.
Countess of Hennebon, The. An Historical Novel. By the
Author of the Priory of St. Bernard. 3 vols. W. Lane.
1789. By Mrs. Harley.
Court Intrigue; or, The Victim of Constancy. An historical
romance. 2 vols. Minerva-Press. W. Lane. 1799. By
Mrs. Sarah Green.
TITLE INDEX 287
Courtier’s Daughter, The. By Lady Stepney. 3 vols., Colburn.
1838.
Courtly Annals; or, Independence the True Nobility. By
Richard Matthews (Mathew), Esq., 4 vols. Minerva-Press.
A. K. Newman. 1814.
Courville Castle. Chapbook. 1804.
Cousin Dick’s School Days. By Ralph Rollington. The Boy’s
World. Vol. II. (Vol. I, No. 1, April 14th, 1879.)
Cousin Harry. A novel. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey.
3 vols., Hurst and Blackett. 1858.
Cousins; or, A Woman’s Promise And A Lover’s Vow, The.
By Mrs. Ross. 3 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman.
1 8 1 1.
Cousins of Schiras, The. Translated from the French, by John
Brereton Birch, Esq. 2 vols., William Lane, Minerva-Press.
MDCCXCVII.
Coxheath Camp: A Novel. In a Series of Letters. By A Lady.
2 vols., Fielding and Walker. 1779. With a folding engraved
frontispiece of the Camp at Coxheath, and a Chart of the
Army stationed there.
Craig Melrose Abbey. By Henrietta Rouviere. 4 vols., Chappie.
1816.
L’Abbaye de Craigh-Melrose, ou memoires de la famille de
Mont-Linton. Traduit de 1 ’anglais par J. Cohen. 4 tom.
Paris: 1817.
Creole; or, The Haunted Island, The. A Novel by Samuel
James Arnold, Jun. 3 vols., C. Law, etc. 1796.
Crim. Con. A Novel founded on facts. By Mrs. Henrietta
Maria Moriarty. 2 vols., 1812.
Crime ; or, The Gamester’s Daughter. 8vo., n.d. By T. P.
Prest.
Crime And Characters ; or, The New Foundling. By Mrs.
Pilkington. 3 vols. Earle. 1805.
Crimes of the Aristocracy ; Their Vices, Crimes and Cruelties.
15 nos., Waley & Co. 1837.
288 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Criminal Annals of Highwaymen. 35 nos., R. Macdonald.
1841.
Criminal Recorder, a New Newgate Calendar, The. 15 nos.,
H. Beale. 1851.
Cruise of the Spitfire, The. By Stephen Hayward. Boy’s World,
Vol. IV. (No. 1, Vol. I, April 14th, 1879.)
Crusaders, The; An historical romance of the twelfth century.
By Louisa Sidney Stanhope. 5 vols., Minerva Press. A. K.
Newman. 1820.
Crusoe Jack, King of the Thousand Islands, n.d. c. 1868.
Cumberland Cottage, The, a story, founded on facts. By Miss
Broderick. 3 vols. Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1818.
Curate And His Daughter, The. A Cornish Tale. By Elizabeth
Isabella Spence. Author of Summer Excursions, The Nobility
of the Heart. 3 vols., Longman. 1812.
Curate of Coventry, The. A Tale. By John Potter. 2 vols.,
F. Newberry. 1771.
Curiosity. A Novel. By Joan De Luce. 2 vols., Printed for
the Author. 1822.
Current American Notes. By Buz. 9 nos. E. Lloyd. 1840.
A Dickens’ travesty.
Curse, The. By Mr. Stenhouse. One vol., 1825.
Cyanna. A novel. 2 vols. William Lane. Minerva Press.
1
793 -
Cynthia Thorold. By the Author of Whitefriars. [Emma
Robinson.] 8vo. London. 1862.
Cypher; or, The World As It Goes, The. 2 vols., William Lane,
at the Minerva. MDCCXCI. By P. Littlejohn.
Cypriots; or, A Miniature of Europe in the Middle of the
Fifteenth Century, The. By the Author of The Minstrel; or,
Anecdotes of Distinguished Personages in the Fifteenth
Century. 3 vols. 1795.
E T H E L W I N A,
or THE
HOUSE OF FITZ-Al
r
LUR A7v
A ROMANCE OF FORMER TIMES
JV THREE VOLUME-'.
T. E II ORS
—
—
« He is a very ft rpest in mv w.y ;
« And wherel'oj’ir th loot of min-:. loth tread
<!
He lies before me.”
t !t a i: s 3 J> F. a r 2.
v O t. . i
.
L 0 Nn 0 A':
PRINTED AT THE
C^nett\t*prcfj,
TOR VILLIAM late, KfUU.
ETHELWINA, OR THE HOUSE OF FITZ-AUBURNE
A romance by T. J. Horsley Curties
Title page, First Edition, 1799
TITLE INDEX 289
D
Dacresfield ; or, Vicissitudes on Earth. A novel. By Cordelia,
chief lady at the court of Queen Mab! 4 vols., Minerva
Press, A. K. Newman. 1820.
Daemon of Venice, The. Tegg. 1810. With a coloured
frontispiece. See under £ofloya
.
Dagger, The. Translated from the German of Grosse. One
vol., Vemor and Hood. 1795. Translated from Der Dolch
by Karl Grosse, self-styled Marquis of Phamusa, and called
The Marquis of Grosse.
Dalinda; or, The Double Marriage. Being the genuine history
of a very recent adventure. One vol., pp. xii ;
288. London :
G. Corbett. 1749-
Dame Rebecca Berry ; or, Court Scenes in the Reign of Charles
the Second. By Elizabeth Isabella Spence. 3 vols., Long-
man. 1822.
Danebury ; or, The Power of Friendship. By A Young Lady.
1 777-
Dangerous Connections ; or, Letters Collected In A Society And
Published For The Instruction of Other Societies. A Novel;
translated from the French [Les Liaisons Dangereuses], 4
vols., Hookham. 1784.
Les Liaisons Dangereuses by Pierre-Ambroise-Francois
Choderlos de Laclos, i2mo., 1782; i2mo., 1784; i2mo.,
1786, and many subsequent editions. A recent edition, one
vol., is “ publie sur l’edition originale de 1782, avec une
Preface, des Notes et une Bibliographic par Ad. Van Bever.”
There is a reproduction of the portrait of Laclos by Carmon-
telle, and a facsimile of a page of the original manuschipt.
The twenty illustrations are by Martin Van Maele.
The best known English translation of Les Liaisons Danger-
euses is that by Ernest Dowson, 2 vols., royal 8vo., half
parchment, Privately Printed, 1898. The book (360
numbered copies) was published by Leonard Smithers.
Dowson (in a letter to Smithers) expressed himself as far from
satisfied with his work. Dowson’s translation (1,000 copies),
with illustrations by Alastair, was reprinted, 2 vols., qto.,
Paris, 1929, by the Black Sun Press.
u
290 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Dangerous Secrets. A novel. 2 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K„
Newman. 1815.
Dangers Through Life. By Miss Gunning. Minerva-Press.
A. K. Newman. 1812.
Danish Massacre; An Historical Fact, The. By the Author
of Monmouth, A Tale. 2 vols., Minerva-Press. W. Lane.
I
79 I -
By Mrs. Anna Maria Mackenzie of Exeter. See Index of
Authors.
Days of Harold, The. A metrical tale. By John Benjamin
Rogers. One vol. Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1816.
Frontispiece.
Dare Devil Dick, The Boy King of the Smugglers. 96 nos.*
Temple Publishing Co., 1867.
Dark Deeds of Old London. Two volumes. Popular Series of
Complete Boys’ Novels. Sixpence each volume. Edwin J.
Brett, Ltd., Harkaway House, 6 West Harding Street, Fleet
Street, London, E.C. By Robert Justin Lambe.
Dark Woman ; or, The Days of the Prince Regent, The. A
Tale of London Life from the Court to the Hovel. By
Malcolm J. Errym. 104 nos. (Halfpenny weekly, threepenny
monthly nor.) London: John Dicks. i860. Re-issue,
1861-2. Re-issue, 1868. Re-issue, Dicks (c. 1884), 2 vols.
Price 1
35-. Alternate title: The Dark Woman; or, Plot and
Passion. For M. J. Errym see Index of Authors.
Darnley Vale ; or, Emilia Fitzroy. By Mrs. Bonhote. 3 vols.,.
W. Lane. MDCCLXXXIX.
Dashing Duke the Highwayman ; or, The Mystery of the Red
Mask, The. Coloured wrappers. 8vo., n.d., woodcuts.
Dashing Duval ; or, The Ladies’ Highwayman. Coloured
wrapper, n.d.
Daughter, The. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey. 3 vols.,.
Newly. 1847. In “The Parlour Library,” Vol. 233.
Another ed., C. H. Clarke, 1861. Price 2 s. As The
Daughters, Ward, Lock, & Co., one vol., 1884.
Daughter of Adoption: A Tale of Modern Times, The. By
TITLE INDEX 2gi
John Beaufort, LL.O., 4 vols., R. Phillips. 1801. Irish ed.,
2 vols. Dublin: N. Kelly, 1801. A West Indian tale.
Daughters of Isenberg, The. A Bavarian Romance. By Alicia
Tyndal Palmer. 4 vols., Lackington. 1810.
Daughter of St. Omar, The. A novel. By Catherine G. Ward.
2 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1810.
D’Aveyro. By F. L. C. Montjoye. 4 vols., 1803.
David Watson; or, The London ’Prentice
.
24 penny nos., W.
Caffyn, 31 Oxford Street, Mile End. 1847-8.
Days of Chivalry. A Romance. 2 vols. Minerva-Press. W.
Lane. 1797.
Days of Hogarth; or, The Mysteries of Old London, The.
By G. W. M. Reynolds. 1847-8. Serialized in Reynolds’s
Miscellany, original series. Separate issue Penny nos.,
February—October, 1850, and reprinted. A romance woven
from the incidents in many of Hogarth’s pictures, “ The
Rake’s Progress,” etc.
De Clifford ; or, Passion more powerful than Reason. A novel.
4 vols., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1820.
De Lacy ; or, Passion’s Slave. By the Author of Modes of Life
;
or, Town and Country. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1827.
De Lisle ; or, The Distrustful Man. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline
Grey. 3 vols., Bull. 1828.
De Mowbray; or. The Stranger Knight: a romance. By Nella
Stephens. 4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1823.
De Renzey ; or, The Alan of Sorrow. By R. N. Kelly. 3 vols.,
Simpkin. 1821.
De Santillana; or, The Force of Bigotry. By Zara Wentworth.
4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1825.
De Willenburg ; or, The Talisman. A Tale of Mystery. By
I. M. H. Hales, Esq. 4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1821.
Death’s A Friend. A Novel. By the Author of The Bastard.
Bew. 1788.
Dead Letter Office, The. A Novel. 2 vols., Crosby. 181 1.
292 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Death Grasp; or, The Father’s Curse, The. A Romance of
Startling Interest. By Thomas Prest. 28 penny parts. E.
Lloyd. N.D. [1842].
Death Ship ; or, The Pirate’s Bride and The Maniac of the Deep,
The. A Nautical Romance. By T. Prest. 32 penny parts.
1846.
Deception. By Mrs. Green. 3 vols., 1813.
Decision. A Tale by the Author of “ Correction.” 3 vols.,
Longman, Hurst, etc. 18 iq. By Mrs. A. Raikes Harding.
Decision, The. By the Author of “ Caroline Orrnsby,” “ The
Acceptance,” etc. 3 vols., Colburn. 1811.
Deeds of Darkness ; or, The Unnatural Uncle. By G. T. Morley.
2 vols., Tipper and Richards. 1805.
Deeds of the Olden Time. A Romance. By Ann of Swansea
[Ann Hatton]. 5 vols., A. K. Newman. 1826. By Mrs.
Ann Curtis.
Delaval. A novel. 2 vols., Minerva-Press, William Lane.
1802. Frontispiece.
Delia. A Pathetic And Interesting Tale. 4 vols., Minerva-Press.
W. Lane, 1790. Dublin ed., 2 vols., 1790. An epistolary
novel. By Miss Pilkington.
Delicate Distress, The. By “ Frances” [Mrs. Elizabeth Griffith].
2 vols., Becket. 1769.
Delicate Objection ; or, Sentimental Simple, The. 2 vols., Law,
and also W. Lane. MDCCLXXV.
Delineations of the Heart; or, The History of Henry Bennet.
A Tragi-Comic-Satiric Essay, attempted in the Manner of
Fielding. 3 vols., Hookham. 1791.
Dellingborough Castle; or. The Mysterious Recluse. 2 vols.,
Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman and Co. 1806.
Delmore. By Mrs. Roberts. 3 vols., 1814.
Deloraine. A Domestic Tale. 2 vols., Minerva-Press. W.
Lane. 1798. By Mrs. Martin.
Deloraine. By William Godwin. 3 vols., Bendey. 1833.
TITLE INDEX 293
Delphine. A novel. In Six Volumes. London : Printed for
J. Mawman. 1803.
The English translation of Madame De Stael-Holstein’s famous
epistolary novel Delphine, A Geneve, Chez J. J. Paschoud,
Libraire. An XI—1802.
Delves. A Welch Tale. By Mrs. Gunning. 2 vols., Lackington.
1796. Seconded, ibid. 1796.
Delworth ; or, Elevated Generosity. By T. Southworth. 3 vols..
Crosby. 1808.
Demetrius, A Russian Romance. 2 vols., Longman. 1813.
The story of Demetrius Ivanovitch from Coxe’s Travels.
Democrat, The, Interspersed with Anecdotes of Well-known
Characters. 2 vols., Minerva-Press. W. Lane. MDCCXCV.
By H. I. Pye, the poet-laureate. Second ed., ibid.
MDCCXCVI.
Demon of Sicily, The. A Romance. By Edward Montague.
4 vols., Hughes, Wigmore-Street. 1807.
Denial; or, The Happy Retreat, The. A Novel. 3 vols.,
J. Sewell. 1790. By the Rev. James Thompson.
Denouement ; or, The History of Lady Louisa Wingrove; The.
By A Lady. One vol., Robinson. 1784. An epistolary novel.
Derwent Priory; or, Memoirs of An Orphan, In a Series of
Letters. First published periodically, now republished with
additions. By the Author of The Castle on the Rock.
[A. Kendall.] 2 vols. Symonds. 1798.
A Description of Millenium Hall, and the Country Adjacent.
Together with the Characters of the Inhabitants and such
Historical Anecdotes and Reflections as may excite in the
Reader Proper Sentiments of Humanity and lead the Mind
to the Love of Virtue. By A Gentleman on his Travels.
Newbury. 1762. Second ed., ibid. 1764. Third ed., with
a frontispiece. Newbury. 1767. Fourth ed., 1768. Irish
ed., 8vo., Dublin: Wilson, 1764.
A note by Horace Walpole in a copy of this book in the
British Museum says that it was written by Sarah Scott and
Lady Barbara Montagu. It has been erroneously attributed
to Goldsmith.
294 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Deserted Wife, The. A tale of much truth. 2 vols., Minerva-
Press, Lane and Newman. 1803.
Deserter, The. A novel. By Amelia Beauclerc, Author of
Montreithe, etc., etc. 4 vols., Minerva Press. A. K.
Newman. 1817.
Desmond. A Novel. By Charlotte Smith. 3 vols., Robinson.
1792. Irish ed., 2 vols., Dublin: P. Wogan, etc. 1792.
Desmond is an epistolary novel.
Desmond, ou VAmant philantrope. Traduit de l’anglais par
L.C.D., 4 vols., Paris. 1
793-
Destination ; or, Memoirs of a Private Family. By Clara Reeve,
Author of The Old English Baron, etc., etc. 3 vols., Long-
man and Rees. 1799.
Devil Upon Two Sticks In England, The. Being a continuation
of Le Diable Boiteux of Le Sage. [By William Coombe.]
4 vols., 1790. Fifth Edition, 6 vols. Mason, and A. K.
Newman & Co., 1817. “The necessary increase of letter-
press will be found to amount to near two volumes of the
work in its original form.”
Devil’s Diamond; or, The Fortunes of Richard of the Ravens
Crest. Coloured wrapper, n.d. c. 1870.
Devil’s Elixir, The. From the German of E. T. A. Hoffmann.
In diesem Jahre wandelte auch der Deuvel offentlich auf den
Strassen von Berlin.—Haftit Mieroc. Berol. p. 1043. In
that yeare, the Deville was alsoe seene walking publiclie on the
streetes of Berline. 2 vols., William Blackwood, Edin-
burgh : And T. Cadell, London. MDCCCXXIV.
Hoffmann’s Die Elixiere des Teufels, written 1814 (Part I);
1815 (Part II).
Di Montranzo ; or, The Novice of Corpus Domini. A Romance.
In Four Volumes. By Louisa Sidney Stanhope, Author of
Montbrasil Abbey ;
The Bandit’s Bride ;
Striking Likenesses
;
The Age We Live In, etc., etc. [Quotation, three lines from
Lee.] London : Printed at the Minerva-Press, for A. K.
Newman and Co. (
Successors to Lane; Newman, and Co.),
Leadenhall-Street. 1810.
Dick Dauntless, the Boy Privateer. Coloured wrapper. 8vo.
n.d. woodcuts. Hogarth House.
TITLE INDEX 295
Dick Lightheart’s Schooldays. 2 vols., coloured wrappers, n.d.
Edwin J. Brett.
Dick Strongbow the Diamond King, and The Wonder of the
World. 22 penny nos., n.d. E. Harcourt Burrage.
Dick Tarleton; or, Lessons of Life. By J. F. Smith. 1856.
Cassell’s Illustrated Family Paper. See J. F. Smith, Index of
Authors.
American ed., in two separate volumes, each 75 cents, pub.
Dick & Fitzgerald, New York. N.D. [
c
.
1881] as: Dick
Tarleton; or, The Last of his Race, and,. Marion Bernard;
or, Lessons of Life.
Dick Tarleton, roman anglais traduit par E. Scheffter. 2 tom.
Paris [1858]. “ Bibliotheque des meilleurs romans etrangers.”
Dick Turpin. By Henry Downes Miles. 49 penny nos., Weekly
parts, price Sixpence. London : William Mark Clark,
Warwick-Lane, Patemoster-Row. 1839. The Fourth
Edition, 1845. Several times re-issued.
There are, of course, many versions of Dick Turpin, often
as Dick Turpin the Highwayman. The first edition should
be as above, not as has been supposed Dick Turpin, 41 nos.,
Thos. White, 1840. Nor is the Fourth Edition, Wm. Clark,
1856. This is a later and deceptive re-issue.
Turpin was (inexplically enough for he seems to have been
a complete ruffian) something of a tradition and a popular
hero long before Rookwood, 1834, although that fine romance
immensely increased his vogue and fame. The theatres were
not backward in heroizing him. Rookwood was at once
turned into a drama for the Adelphi and many minor
theatres. G. Dibdin Pitt’s Rookwood! or, The Legend
of the Old Lime Tree was given at Sadler’s Wells on
February 24th, 1840, and revived at the Royal Victoria,
October 27th, 1845. H. M. Milner’s Equestrian Drama,
Turpin’s Ride To York; or, Bonny Black Bess, first per-
formed at Astley’s on Whit Monday, 1836, in one form or
another persisted until well within the twentieth century.
J. H. Green, who claimed to have been “ The Original
Inventor ” of the Juvenile Drama published a Rookwood for
the Toy Theatre with a Panorama of Turpin’s Ride to York,
1834.
Dick Turpin’s Ride to York, a romance, 9 nos., G. Purkess.
1848. In November, 1910, “reading of the Dick Turpin
type of literature ” led to the appearance of a Camden
296 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Town errand-boy before Mr. Plowden the Marylebone
magistrate. This youth had decamped with money and a
loaded revolver “ to take the road.” In his pocket was a
copy of Dick Turpin's Ride to York. The magistrate placing
him on probation remarked that although books of a
romantic character had a bad effect on certain minds
hundreds of boys read these books but were able to control
their imaginations.
The longest and perhaps best known of the minor Turpin
romances is Black Bess which runs to 1,136 chapters. From
about 1904 to 1910 the Aldine Library published Penny
romances in a Dick Turpin series by Stephen H. Agnew, the
author of With Pistol and Pad, Christmas with the King
,
The Man in Stripes, King John's Treasure, etc. Such are:
The Seven Amber Eyes; or, The Demon of the Fleet Ditch
(No. 163); Minions of the Moon; or, The Trail of the Sack
of Gold (No. 164); The Mysterious Mask (No. 174); The
Kidnapped King; or, The New Captain of the Bow Street
Runners (No. 175); The Silver Lion; or, The Terror of
Epping Forest (No. 176). These stories which comprise “ The
Dick Turpin Library,” in all 182 nos., are told with spirit
and do not lack a certain quality.
“ The New Black Bess Library ” in which is incorporated
“ Dick Turpin.” The late Mr. C. A. Ransom had Nos. 1-38,
bound in seven volumes, original coloured wrappers bound
in half calf, royal 8vo. n.d.
A famous “Dick Turpin” romance is Red Ralph; or, The
Daughter of Night. A Romance of the Road in the Days
of Dick Turpin. By “Rip Roarer.” 52 nos., Newsagents
Publishing Co., c. 1866.
The characters are miscellaneous and comprehensive, includ-
ing such heroes as Tom King, Jonathan Wild, and Blueskin.
Did You Ever See Such Damned Stuff ; or, So-Much-The-Better.
A Story without Plead or Tail, Wit or Humour. One vol.,
C. G. Seyffert. 1760. An anonymous satire.
Dinan. A Romance. By Arthur Johnson. G. and W. B.
Whittaker. 8vo. 1821.
Dinarbas. A Tale. Being a Continuation of Rasselas, Prince
of Abissinia. Small 8vo. G. Dilly. 1790. Fifth ed., CadelL
1 8 1 1 . Very frequently reprinted.
By Miss Ellis Cornelia Knight.
TITLE INDEX 297
Disappointed Heir; or, Memoirs of The Ormond Family, The.
By [Mrs.] A. Gomersall. 2 vols., Richardson. 1796.
Discarded Daughter, The. By Eugenia De Acton. 4 vols.,
Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1810.
Discarded Son; or, Haunt of The Banditti, The. A tale. By
Regina Maria Roche. 5 vols., Minerva-Press. Lane, New-
man. 1807. Second ed., A. K. Newman. 1825.
Discontented Man; or, Love and Reason, The. A novel. By
Anthony Frederick Holstein. 3 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K.
Newman. 1815.
Discovery ; or, The Late Mysterious Separation of H.D., Esq.
And Ann His Wife, The. By H. D[oherty], Esq. Vol. I.
i2mo. London: Printed by Sidney. To be had only at
No. 12, Temple Place, Blackfriar’s Road, 1807. No more
appears to have been published. Second ed., 1807. Third
ed., 1807. Fourth ed., 1807. Fifth ed., 1807. A scandal
novel purporting to give an account of the domestic difficulties
of the author, Hugh Doherty, late 23rd Light Dragoons, who
married Ann, daughter of Thomas Holmes Hunter, Esq., the
lady then being about 15 years old. She soon separated
herself from her husband on a charge of cruelty, and returned
to her parents. She formed a connexion with P. W. Wyatt,
Esq., against whom Mr. Doherty instituted an action for
Crim. Con., obtaining five hundred pounds damages.
Disinterested Love; or, The Llistory of Sir Charles Royston,
and Emily Lesley: In a Series of Letters. By A \Vidow
Lady. 2 vols., T. Hookham. London: 1776. Dublin ed.,
2 vols., 1776.
Disinterested Nabob, The. 3 vols. 1787.
Disobedience. A novel. By the Author of Plain Sense. 4 vols.,
Minerva-Press. W. Lane. MDCCXCVII.
Disorder and Order. A novel. By Amelia Beauclerc. 3 vols.,
Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1820.
Dissipation. A Tale of Simple Life. By the author of Realities.
4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1827. Mrs. A. Raikes Harding.
Diurnal Events; or, The antipodes to romance. A novel. 4
vols., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman and Co. 1816.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
298
The same author wrote The Sailor Boy, 1800; The Soldier
Boy, 1801 ;
Nobility Run Mad, 1802.
Divorce; or, Mystery of the Wreck, The. 22 penny nos., E.
Lloyd. 1847.
Doctor or Demon? Serialized in Boys of the Empire, Vol. XI,
1892.
Dolgorucki and Menzikoff. A Russian Tale. 2 vols., Minerva-
Press. Lane, Newman. 1805. Translated from August
Lafontaine, Fedor und Marie, 1803.
Dombey and Daughter. Dickensian plagiarism. 12 nos.
Thomas Farris. N.D. [1848]. By R. Nicholson.
Domestic Comforts. A tale, founded on facts, for the use of
young people. By Mrs. Frances Kelly. Minerva-Press,
Lane, Newman, 1808. New ed., Minerva-Press. A. K.
Newman. 1816. With a frontispiece.
Domestic Scenes. From the German. 3 vols., Minerva-Press.
Lane, Newman. 1806.
Domestic Tales. By Mary Johnston. Whittaker. 1822.
Dominican, The. A Romance. By Captain Williamson. 3
vols., Longman, 1809. Advertised by A. K. Newman in
1813.
Don Ccesar de Bazan. A Romance of Spain. By Malcolm J.
Errym. 32 nos. E. Lloyd. 1845. A very popular romance.
The French play of this name by MM. Dumanoir and
D’Ennery was produced in Paris, July 30th, 1844. The
English adaptation by Gilbert Abbott A. Beckett and Mark
Lemon had its premiere at the Princess’s Theatre, London,
October 8th, 1844. Other versions were seen at the minor
theatres. W. V. Wallace’s famous opera Maritana, words by
Fitzball, was produced at Drury Lane, November 15th, 1845.
Don Cesar de Bazan is a dramatic character, a serio-comic
role in Victor Hugo’s Buy Bias ( 1 838), whence he is taken for
romance and opera.
For M. J. Errym see Index of Authors.
Don Juan de la Sierras ; or, El Empecinado. By Alicia Lefanu.
3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1823.
Don Raphael, A Romance. By George Walker, Author of The
TITLE INDEX 299
Three Spaniards, Vagabond, Poems, etc. In Three Volumes.
[Quotation, 3 lines, Tancred and Sigismunda, Act III.]
London: Printed for G. Walker, Bookseller, 106 Great Port-
land-Street ;
and T. Hurst, 32, Pater-Noster-Row ;
by Exton,
Great Portland-Street. 1803.
Don Sancho ; or. The Monk of Hennares. 2 vols,, J. F. Hughes,
Wigmore-Street. 1803.
Don Sebastian; or, The House of Braganza. By Miss Anna
Porter. 4 vols., Longman, Hurst, etc. 1809. Another ed.,
1 2mo., vignette title. London : Allman. 1838. Another ed.,
i2mo. London N.D. [c. 1850].
Don Sebastien, roi de Portugal, roman historique. Traduit de
l’anglais par le traducteur du Polonais, etc. [de Sennevas].
3 tom., Paris: 1820.
Don Sylvio de Rosalva. A translation of C. M. Wieland.
Don Sylvio von Rosalva. See under Reason Triumphant.
Donald Monteith, The Handsomest Man of the Age. A Novel.
By Selina Davenport. 5 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K.
Newman. 1815.
Donalda; or, The Witches of Glenshiel. A Caledonian Legend.
By Mary Julia Young. 2 vols., J. F. Hughes, Wigmore-
Street. 1805. Advertised by A. K. Newman in 1812.
Doncaster Races ; or, The History of Miss Maitland; A Tale
of Truth ; In a Series of Letters, Published from the Originals
With Interesting Additions. By Alex. Bicknell, Author of
the History of Lady Anne Neville ;
Isabella ;
or, The Rewards
of Good Nature; The Patriot King, a Tragedy, etc., and
Editor of Mrs. Bellamy’s Apology ;
Captain Carver’s Travels,
etc. 2 vols., Stalker. 1789.
Doomed One; or, They Met At Glenlyon, The. By P„osalia
St. Clair. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1832.
Dorothea; or, A Ray of The New Light. 3 vols., Robinsons.
1802. Anti-Godwin satire.
Dorothy Firebrace; or, The Armourer’s Daughter of Birming-
ham. By the Author of ‘
Whitefriars,’ etc. In Three
Volumes. London : Richard Bentley, New Burlington Street.
1865. Running title, The Armourer’s Daughter. By Emma
Robinson.
300 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Double Courtship, The. A Romance of Deep Interest. By Mrs.
M. L. Sweetser. 12 nos. London: E. Lloyd. 1847. A
Tale of American Life.
Double Disappointment ; or, The History of Charles Marlow,
Esq., And Miss Hastings, The. 2 vols., Hookham. 1788.
Douglas Castle; or, The Cell of Mystery. A Scottish Tale.
i2mo. N.D. With a frontispiece. Chapbook. Douglas
Castle; or, The Cell of Mystery. A Scottish Tale. i2mo.
N.D. Second ed., with a frontispiece. “ On which was
founded the popular Spectacle of the Iron Tower, Performed
with unbounded Applause, at Astley’s Amphitheatre, West-
minster Bridge.”
Dream; or, Noble Cambrians, The. By Mr. [Robert] Evans..
2 vols., Minerva-Press. W. Lane. 1801.
Dream of a Life, The. A Romance. By the Author of “The
Ordeal By Touch,” “Gentleman Jack,” etc., etc. 16 nos.
London. E. Lloyd. 1843. The sub-title, p. 1, reads The
Dream of a Life, A Romance, by the Author of “ Villroy ;
or.
The Horrors of Zendorf Castle.” Re-issue, E. Lloyd. 1852.
By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey.
Gentleman Jack by Mrs. Grey to be distinguished from
Gentleman Jack by W. Johnson Neale.
Drelincourt and Rodalvi ; or, Memoirs of Two Noble Families.
By Mrs. Byron. 3 vols., Mawman. 1807.
Drunkard's Career, The, a sequel to The Dottle. 8 nos., E.
Lloyd. 1846.
Duchess de la Valliere, The. An historical novel. Translated
from the French. 2 vols., 1804. Translated by Charles
Lennox from Mme. de Genlis.
Duchess of York, The. An English story. 2 vols. William
Lane, at the Minerva. MDGCXCI. James, Duke of York
[James II], and Anne Hyde.
Duchesse de Kingston, La. 4 tom., Paris: 1813. By Elisabeth
Guenard, baronne de Mere. M. J. Errym wrote Kate Chud-
leigh; or, The Duchess of Kingston. 15 nos. John Dicks.
1864.
Dudley Castle. By M. Butt. One vol., Darton. 1820. Mary
Martha Butt, afterwards Mrs. Sherwood.
TITLE INDEX 3° i
Duke, The. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey. 3 vols., Bentley.
1839. Another ed., the “ Railway Library,” Routledge.
1855. Price is. 6 d.
Duke Christian of Luneburg ; or, Tradition from the Hartz
.
3 vols., London: Longman. 1824.
Le Due Christian de Lunebourg, ou traditions du Hartz.
Traduit de l’anglais par le traducteur des romans historiques
de Sir W. Scott [A. J. B. Defauconpret]. 4 tom., Paris: 1824.
Duke of Clarence, The. An Historical Novel. By E.M.F.,
4 vols., Minerva-Press. W. Lane. 1795. Second ed., A. K.
Newman. 1818. Irish ed., 2 vols., Dublin: W. Folds for
P. Wogan. 1795. By Mrs. Foster.
Duke of Exeter, The. An Historical Romance. 3 vols. W.
Lane. MDCCLXXXIX.
Duncan and Peggy: A Scottish Tale. By Mrs. Elizabeth Helme.
2 vols., J. Bell. 1794. A new ed., 3 vols., Minerva-Press.
A. K. Newman. 1816. Third ed., 3 vols., Newman. 1830.
Dunethvin ; or, The Visit to Paris. A novel. 4 vols. By a
lady, some time resident in France. Minerva Press. A. K.
Newman. 1818.
Dupe, The. A Modern Sketch. 2 vols., Debrett. 1794.
Durston Castle; or, The Ghost of Elenora. A Gothic Story.
London. 1804.
Durval and Adelaide: A Novel. By Catherine Lara. Ridg-
way. 1796.
Dusseldorf ; or, The Fratricide. A romance. In Three
Volumes. By Anna Maria Mackenzie. Minerva-Press. W.
Lane. 1798. With a frontispiece.
Dusseldorf, ou le fratricide. Traduit de l’anglais par L. A.
Marquand. 3 tom., Paris, an VII [1799].
For Mrs. Mackenzie see Index of Authors.
Duty. By Mrs. Roberts. 3 vols., 1806.
Dwarf of Westerbourg, The. Translated from the German of
Christian Heinrich Speiss. 2 vols., Morgan; and A. K.
Newman, 1827. Christian Heinrich Speiss, 1755-99.
302 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
E
Eardiey Hall; or, The Midnight Crime. 45 penny nos. E.
Lloyd. 1850.
Earl of Desmond ; or, O’Brien’s Cottage, The. An Irish story.
By Caroline Maxwell. London. 1810.
Earl Osric; or, The Legend of Rosamond. By Mrs. Isaacs.
4 vols., Chappie. 1820.
Earl Strongbow ; or, The History of Richard De Clare and
The Beautiful Geralda. 2 vols., i2mo. London: Crowden,
1789. By J. White.
Early Feuds ; or, Fortune’s Frolics. A novel. By the author of
Geraldwcod, etc. 3 vols. Minerva Press. A. K. Newman.
1816. By Henry Whitfield.
East Indian; or, Clifford Priory, The. A Novel, in Four
Volumes. By Mary Julia Young. Author of Rose-Mount
Castle, Poems, etc. [Quotation ; seven lines.] London
:
Printed for Earle and Hemet, No. 47, Albermale-Street,.
Piccadilly, by John Nichols, Red-Lion-Passage, Fleet-Street.
Sold also by T. Hurst, No. 32, Paternoster Row, 1799. Irish
ed., Dublin: N. Kelly. 2 vols., 1800.
Eccentricity. A Novel. By Mrs. M’Nally. 3 vols., A. K.
Newman. 1822.
Edelfrida. A Novel. 4 vols., Hookham. 1792.
Eden Vale. A Novel. 2 vols., Stockdale. 1784. By Catherine
Parry.
Edgar ; or, The Phantom of the Castle. A Novel. By Richard
Sickelmcre, jun., 2 vols. Minerva-Press. W. Lane. 1798.
Edgar Huntly; or. The Sleep-Walker. By Charles Brockden
Brown. 1799. Edgar Huntly; or, Memoirs of a Sleep-
Walker. A novel. By C. B. Brown. 3 vols., Minerva-Press.
Lane and Newman. 1803. Another ed., In Bentley’s
Standard Novels. No. 10, 1831. (With the conclusion of
Schiller’s Ghost-Seer.) No. 9, Frankenstein and The Ghost-
Seer, Vol. I, 1831, No. 10, The Ghost-Seer, Vol. II, and
Edgar Huntly. 1831. Another ed., Vol. 157 of “The
Parlour Library.” 1847, etc.
TITLE INDEX 303
Edinburgh: A Satinccd Novel. By the Author of London; or,
A Month at Stevens’s. 3 vols., Sherwood, Neely, and Jones.
1820.
Edington. By Richard Hey, Esq. 2 vols., Vernor and Hood.
1796.
Edith Heron; or, The Earl and the Countess. By Malcolm
J. Errym. A sequel to Edith the Captive. 104 weekly penny
nos. John Dicks. 1862. Re-issue, 2 vols. Price 13.L John
Dicks. (
c
.
1884.)
Edith the Captive; or, The Robbers of Epping Forest. By
Malcolm J. Errym. 104 weekly penny nos., monthly sixpenny
parts. J. Dicks, i860. Re-issue, i860. Re-issue, 1861.
Re-issue, 2 vols. Price 13L John Dicks (c. 1884).
Edmund; or, The Child of the Castle: A Novel. 2 vols., W.
Lane. 1790.
Edmund and Eleonora; or, Memoirs of The Houses of Summer-
field and Gretton. By the Rev. Edmund Marshall, A.M.,
2 vols., 8vo. Stockdale. 1797.
Edmund Ironside. 3 vols., 1805.
Edmund of the Forest. An Historical Novel. By the Author of
Cicely; or, The Rose of Raby. 4 vols., Minerva-Press. W.
Lane. MDCCXCVII. By Agnes Musgrave.
Edric The Forester ; or, The Mysteries of the Haunted Chamber.
An Historical Romance. By Mrs. Ann Ker. 3 vols. J. F.
Hughes, Wigmore-Street. 1817. Advertised by A. K.
Newman. 1818. Another ed., Edric, The Forester. . . .
By Anne Ker, Author of ‘
The Heiress Di Montalde,’ ‘
Adeline
St. Julian,’ ‘
Emmeline ;
or, The Happy Discovery,’
‘
Mysterious Count,’ and ‘
Modem Faults.’ One vol., pp. 64.
London : Published by J. Clements, Little Pulteney Street, for
the Proprietors of The Romancist and Novelist’s Library.
1841.
Education; or, A Journal of Errors. By Emma Hamilton.
Harris. 1809.
Education; or, Elizabeth, her lover and husband. A tale for
181J. By Eliza Taylor. 3 vols., Minerva Press, A. K.
Newman. 1817.
304 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Edward. A Novel. 2 vols., 1774.
Edward and Anna; or, A Picture of Human Life. By John
Bristed of the Inner Temple. 2 vols., Minerva-Press. Lane,
Newman. 1806.
Edward and Annette. A moral tale. From the German of
Augustus Lafontaine. i2mo. London. 1807.
Edward and Eleonora. By F. Chamberlain. One vol., n.d.
Edward and Sophia. A novel of incident. By a lady. 2 vols.
W. Lane, MLDCCLXXXVII.
Edward De Courcy. An Ancient Fragment. 2 vols., Minerva-
Piess. W. Lane. 1
794- Period : The Wars of the Roses.
Edward The Black Prince. 36 penny nos., W. Johnson. 1855.
By Pierce Egan.
Edwardina. A Novel. By Catherine Harris. 2 vols., Printed
for the Author by W. Lane at the Minerva-Press. 1800.
Dedicated to Mrs. Souter Johnson.
Edwin ; or, The Heir of Aella. An Historical Romance. 3 vols.
Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman, 1803. With a frontispiece.
By the Author of The Wanderer of the Alps; or, Alphonso,
1796; and The Mystic Castle. Mr. Singer.
Edwy; Son of Ethelred The Second: An Historical Tale. By
A Lady. Addressed (By Permission) To The Right Honour-
able The Countess of Westmoreland. 2 vols., i2mo. Dublin.
Printed for the Authoress by John Rice, and sold by G. G.
J. and G. Robinson, Paternoster-Row, London. 1791.
Edwy and Bertha; or, The Force of Connubial Love. By John
Corry. London. Crosby. [1802.]
Edwy and Edilda. By T. S. Whalley. One vol., 1783.
Edwy and Elgiva; An Historical Romance of the Tenth
Century. By John Agg. 4 vols., Chappie. 1811.
Effusions of Sensibility ; or, Letters from Lady Honoria Harrow-
heart to Miss Sophonisba Simper, The: a Pathetic Novel in
the Modern Taste, being the first literary attempt of a Young
Lady of Tender Feelings. By M. G. Lewis. Written in his
sixteenth year. An unfinished novel, printed in The Life and
TITLE INDEX 305
Correspondence of M. G. Lewis. Colburn, 1839. Vol. II,
pp. 241-70.
Ela; or, The Delusions of the Heart. A Tale. Founded on
Facts. By Mrs. Burke. 2 vols. Robinsons. 1787.
Ela the Outcast ; or, The Gipsy of Rosemary Dell. A Romance
of Thrilling Interest. By T. Prest. 104 penny nos. E. Lloyd.
231 Shoreditch, 1841. Re-issue, 1845. Re-issue, E. Lloyd,
Salisbury Square, Fleet-Street, January, 1850. Re-issue, 76
nos., 1856.
Eleanor ; or, The Spectre of St. MichaeVs. A romantic tale. By
Miss C. D. Haynes. 5 vols., A. K. Newman. 1821.
Eleanor Ogilvie, The Maid of the Tweed. A Romantic Legend.
By Rosalia St. Clair. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1829.
Eleonora, in a Series of Letters
;
written by a Female Inhabitant
of Leeds in Yorkshire [Mrs. Gomersall]. 2 vols., Walter,
Piccadilly. 1789.
Elfrida, Heiress of Belgrove. By Emma Parker. 4 vols., Crosby
& Co. 18 1 1.
Elisabeth De S * * *, ou L’Histoire D’Une Russe, Publiee par
une de ses Compatriotes. 3 tom., Paris. Chez Ducauroy.
An X—1802.
Elise ; i.e. Eliza, or Family-Papers. By Augustus La-Fontaine.
4 vols. Paris. London. Colburn. 1810.
Eliza. A novel. By Mrs. Yeates. 2 vols., Tibson. 1800.
Advertised 1801 by Lane, Minerva Press. The first novel of
Mrs. Yeates (sometimes spelled Yates).
Eliza. Chapbook. 1803.
Eliza; or, The Pattern of Women. A moral romance. Trans-
lated from the German of Maria Regina Roche. One vol.,
178 pp., Lancaster, Philadelphia, U.S.A. Published by
Hutter. 1802.
An erroneous attribution. The double mistake, naming Mrs.
Roche as the author, and “ from the German,” is curious.
Eliza Beaumont and Harriet Osborne ; or, The Child of Doubt.
By Indiana Brooks. 2 vols., Robinson. 1789.
Eliza Cleland. A novel. 3 vols., W. Lane. MDCCLXXXVIII.
X
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
3°6
Eliza Grimwood. A Legend of the Waterloo Road. 40 penny
nos., London. D. Cousins. 1844.
Eliza. Powell; or, Trials of Sensibility. A series of Original
Letters collected by a Welsh curate. 2 vols., Robinson.
J 795-
Elizabeth. 3 vols. Minerva-Press. W. Lane. MDCCXCVIL
By Mrs. Carver.
Elizabeth ; or, The Exiles of Siberia. A Tale Founded on Facts.
From the French of Madame de Cottin. By Mrs. Meeke.
London : Printed by Dean and Munday, Threadneedle-Street
;
For Lackington, Allen, and Co., Temple of the Muses,
Finsbury Square. 1814.
Elizabeth De Mowbray ; or, The Heir of Douglas. A Romance
of the Thirteenth Century. In Four Volumes. [io-line
quotation from Exile of Erin.] Minerva Press. A. K. New-
man. 1816.
Elizabeth Evanshaw. The sequel of “ Truth
.”
A novel. By
the author of “Truth” [William Pitt Scargill]. 3 vols.
Hunt and Clarke; A. K. Newman. 1827.
Elizabeth Percy. A Novel, founded on Facts. Written by A
Lady. 2 vols., Hamilton. 1792. Partly in narrative, but
for the greater part in letters.
Ella; or, He’s Always in the Way. By Maria Hunter. 2 vols.,
Minerva-Press. William Lane. 1798.
Ella Rosenberg. A Romance. 2 vols., Hughes. 1808. A New
Edition, Revised and Corrected, in The Romancist, and
Novelists’ Library. Vol. Ill, No. ^9. J. Clements. 1840.
By William Herbert, and founded upon the famous melo-
drama of James Kenney, Ella Rosenberg, produced at Drury
Lane, November 19th, 1807.
Ella St. Lawrence; or, The Village of Selwood and its
Inhabitants. By Mrs. Isaacs. 4 vols., Chappie. 1809.
Ellen and Julia. By Mrs. Parsons. 2 vols., Minerva Press.
Lane. MDCCXCII. Ornamented with an elegant Frontis-
piece, describing Julia in the Cave.
Ellen, Countess of Castle Ilowel. A Novel. In Four Volumes.
By Mrs. [Agnes Maria] Bennett. Minerva-Press. Lane.
TITLE INDEX 307
1794. Second ed., 4 vols., by Mrs. Bennet, Author of Anna;
Juvenile Indiscretions ;
Agnes De Courci ;
Beggar Girl
;
Vicissitudes, etc. London : Printed at the Minerva-Press, for
Lane, Newman, and Co., Leadenhall-Street. 1805.
Ellen, Heiress of the Castle. By Mrs. Pilkington. 3 vols.,
Crosby. 1810.
Ellen Percy; or, The Memoirs of An Actress. By George W. M.
Reynolds. 104 weekly penny nos. 1855-6. John Dicks. Re-
issued. Also as Ellen Percy, A Tale of the Stage, 2 vols.
Dicks. Price 13L (c. 1884). In Dicks’ English Novels, 6d.
a volume.
Ellen Rushford. A novel. 2 vols. W. Lane, Minerva-Press.
MDCCXCIV.
Ellen Woodley. A novel. By Mrs. Bonhote, Author of the
Parental Monitor, Olivia, and Damley Vale. 2 vols., W.
Lane, Leadenhall-Street. 1790.
Ellesmere. A Novel. 4 vols., Minerva-Press. W. Lane. 1 799-
By Mrs. Meeke.
Ellinor ; or, The World As It Is. By Mary Ann Hanway.
4 vols., Minerva-Press. W. Lane. MDCCXCVIII. Second
ed., 1800.
Elliott; or, The Vicissitudes of Early Life. A Novel. By Mrs.
Burke. 2 vols. Minerva-Press. Lane. 1800.
Ehnonde, ou la Fille de VHospice. By F. G. Ducray-Duminil.
Paris. 1805.
Elnathan; or, The Ages of Man. An Historical Romance.
By a Philosopher. 3 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman
and Co. 181 1.
A translation of Elnathan, ou les ages de I’homme. Traduit
du Chaldeen. By Baron Antoine Barthez de Marmorieres.
Eloise De Clairville. An Historical Novel, written during the
reign of Philip Augustus, King of France. 2 vols., Printed
for W. Lane. MDCCXC.
Eloise De Montblanc. A Novel. 4 vols., William Lane, at the
Minerva Press. MDCCXCVI. By a young lady aged
seventeen, i.e., Lady Mary C r.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
3°8
Elvina. A novel. 2 vols., William Lane, at the Minerva.
MDCCXCII. An epistolary novel.
Elvington. A tale. By Mrs. Eliza Nathan. 3 vols. A. K.
Newman. 1822.
Embarrassed Lovers ; or, The History of Henry Carey, Esq.,
and the Hon. Miss Cecila Neville, The. In a series of letters.
2 vols. Printed for W. Lane, No. 33, Leadenhall-Street.
MDCCLXXV.
Emigrants, The; or, The History of an Expatriated Family,
being a Delineation of English Manners, drawn from real
Characters. Written in America by G. Imlay, Esq., Author
of the Topographical Description of the Western Territory'.
3 vols., Hamilton. 1793.
Emily ; or, The Fatal Promise. A Northern Tale. 2 vols. 1792.
Emily; or, The Wife’s First Error: and, Beauty and Ugliness;
or, The Father’s Prayer and the Mother's Prophecy. By
Elizabeth Bennet. 4 vols., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman.
1819.
Emily De Varmont; or, A Divorce Dictated by Necessity. To
which are added, The Amours of Father Sevin. From the
French of Louvet de Couvray. 3 vols., 1798.
Emile de Varmont, ou le divorce necessaire, et les amours du
Cure Sevin, par l’auteur de Faublas One vol., i2mo. 1791.
Emily Fitzormond. A Tale of Mystery. By T. Prest. 36
penny nos. E. Lloyd. 1841.
Emily Moreland; or, The Maid of the Valley. By Hannah
Maria Jones, Authoress of Rosaline Woodbridge, Strangers
of the Glen, The Wedding Ring, Gretna Green, The Victim
of Fashion, etc., etc., etc. [Quotation from Coleridge. 9 lines.]
London : Printed by C. Baynes, Duke Street, Lincoln’s Inn
Fields, for George Virtue, Ivy Lane, Paternoster Row, Bath-
Street Bristol; and St. Vincent Street Liverpool. 1829.
Frontispiece. Vignette title. 8 illustrations. Re-issue, John
Lofts, 1854.
Emily of Lucerne. By the Author of The Duke of Clarence.
2 vols., Minerva-Press. W. Lane. 1800.
The Duke of Clarence is by E.M.F., Mrs. E. M. Foster.
Emily Percy; or, The Heiress of Sackville. A Romance. By
TITLE INDEX 309
Ellen T-
27 penny nos., E. Lloyd. 1842. Re-issue,
1845, and 1847. Later re-issue, G. Purkess.
Emma; or, The Child of Sorrow. A novel. 2 vols., 1776.
Emma; or, The Unfortunate Attachment. A novel. 3 vols.
Hookham. 1773 . A new edition with beautiful engravings,
2 vols., Hookham. 1789.
Emma Corbett. By Courtney Melmoth [S. J. Pratt]. 2 vols.,
Baldwin. 1780. The frontispiece by Angelica Kauffman.
Fifth ed., 2 vols., 1783.
Emma Dorville. By A Lady. Hookham. 1789.
Emma Mayfield; or, The Rector’s Daughter. ^2 penny nos.
W. Caffyn. 1847-8.
Emmeline, The Orphan of the Castle. By Charlotte Smith.
4 vols., T. Cadell. 1788. Third ed., 1790. New ed. 4 vols.,
advertised by A. K. Newman, 1816.
Emmeline became very popular and was several times re-
printed during the earlier part of the nineteenth century.
Emmeline, The Orphan of the Castle. By Mrs. Charlotte
Smith. One vol., 8vo. With Illustrations. London : J.
Robins and Co., Albion Press, Ivy Lane, Paternoster-Row
N.D. [c. 1820].
Emmeline, The Orphan of the Castle. A new edition, revised
and corrected expressly for “ The Novel Newspaper,” by
J. E. James. 8vo. In 13 parts. London: Bruce. 1844.
Mrs. Charlotte Smith’s Emmeline must be distinguished from
Mary Brunton’s Emmeline. With Some Other Pieces. To
which is prefixed A Memoir of Her Life including some
extracts from Correspondence. 8vo. Edinburgh : Manners
and Miller, 1819.
Emmeline; or, The Happy Discovery. By Mrs. Ann Ker. 2
vols., Kirby. 1801.
Emilia De St. Aubigne. By the Author of Ela [Mrs. Burke].
Elliot and Co., 1788.
Empire Of The JVairs; or, The Rights of Women, The. An
Utopian Romance. In Twelve Books. By James Lawrence.
4 vols., Hookham. 1 8 1 1
.
Enchantress ; or, Where Shall I Find Her? The. By the Author
3 IQ A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
of Melbourne, Deloraine, Reginald, etc. One vol., Minerva-
Press. W. Lane. 1801. By Mrs. Martin.
English Baronet, The. A Tale. By Leonora Des Straella. 3
vols., A. K. Newman. 1826.
English Expose; or, Men and Women “ Abroad ” and “At
Home,” The. By A Modern Antique, Author of Celia In
Search of a Husband, etc. 4 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K.
Newman. 1814. By Medora Gordon Byron.
English Gil Bias ; or, The Adventures of Gabriel Tangent, The.
By John Canton. 3 vols., Hughes. 1807.
English Jack among the Afghans. 2 vols., coloured plates, n.d.
E. J. Brett.
English Merchant, The. 2 vols., William Lane, Minerva.
MDCCXCV.
English Nun, The. A novel. One vol., William Lane, at the
Minerva-Press. MDCCXCVII. By Catherine Selden.
Englishman, The. A Novel. By Miss [Medora Gordon] Byron.
6 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1812.
Englishman In Paris, The. A Satirical Novel With Sketches
of the most remarkable Characters that have recently visited
that celebrated capital. 3 vols., Sherwood, Neely, and Jones.
1819.
Englishwoman, The. A Novel. By Miss [Medora Gordon]
Byron. 5 vols., Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman. 1808.
Second ed., 1812.
Erminia Montrose; or, The Cottage of the Vale. By Emily
Clark. 3 vols. Minerva Press. Newman. 1818.
Ernestina. A Novel. By Esther Holstein. 2 vols., Jones. 1801.
Ernestine. A Tale from the French, with Additions and Altera-
tions. By Francis Lathom. One vol. Payne. 1802.
Advertised by A. K. Newman, 1812.
Ernestine; or, The Child of Mystery. By A Lady of Fashion.
[Miss Blackwell.] 3 vols., 1840.
Ernesto. A Romance. One vol. Smith. 1836.
TITLE INDEX 3 1 1
Ernestus Berchtold; or, The Modern Qsdipus. A Tale. By
John William Polidori : i2mo. London: Longman, Hurst,
Ernnestine De Lacy; or, The Robber's Foundling. An Old
English Romance. By Thomas Prest. Author of “ Angelina,”
“ Gallant Tom,” “ The Death Grasp,” “ Emily Fitzormond,”
etc., etc. [Quotation from Pope, 3 lines.] London : Printed
and Published by E. Lloyd, 231 Shoreditch. MDCCCXLII.
Errors of Education, The. A Novel. Dedicated by Permission
to the Right Honourable the Marchioness of Downshire. By
Mrs. Parsons. 3 vols. Printed for William Lane. 1791.
“ Instability of mind impedes our road to perfection ;
and
youth, if not animated by example to illustrate the precepts
of virtue, will even fall into error.”
Errors Of Innocence, The. A novel in a series of letters. By
Harriet Lee. 5 vols., Robinson. 1786.
Errors Of Sensibility, The. A novel. 3 vols., Minerva-Press,
William Lane. MDCCXCIII.
Essays on the Art of Being Happy. Addressed to a Young
Mother. By Eugenia De Acton. 2 vols., Minerva-Press.
Lane and Newman. 1803.
Esquimaux ; or Fidelity, The. A tale. By Miss Emily Clark,
grand-daughter of the late Colonel Frederick, and author of
Tales at the Fireside, etc. 3 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K.
Newman. 1819.
Ethelia. By Jane Harvey. 3 vols. Longman. 1810. Second
ed., A. K. Newman, 1814.
Ethelinde; or, The Recluse of the Lake. By Charlotte Smith.
In Five Volumes. London : Printed for T. Cadell, in the
Strand. MDCCLXXXIX. The Second Edition, ibid.
MDCCXC. A new edition. Five vols., Minerva-Press.
A. K. Newman. London. 1814. Another ed., one vol.,
864 pp. Illustrated. London : J. Robins and Co., Albion
Press, Ivy-Lane, Paternoster Row. N.D. [c. 1820].
Ethelinde; or, The Fatal Vow. A Romance. By T. Prest.
12 nos., E. Lloyd. 1848.
Ethelwina; or, The House of Fitz-Auburne. A Romance of
Former Times. By T. J. Horsley, [i.e., T. J. Horsley Curties.]
3 vols., Minerva-Press W. Lane. 1799.
312 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Ethelwina. Traduit de l’anglais de M. Horstley, par O. Segur.
2 tom., Paris. 1802.
Eugene and Eugenia; or, One Night’s Error. Altered from
the French of Choudard-Desforges. 3 vols., Minerva-Press.
Lane, Newman, and Co. 1805. An adaptation of Eugene
et Eugenie.
Eugenia and Adelaide. 2 vols., Dilly. 1791.
Eugenius ; or, Anecdotes of The Golden Vale. [By the Rev.
Richard Graves.] 2 vols., J. Dodsley. 1785.
Eunuch ; or, The Northumberland Shepherd, The. In Four
Chapters. Whereon Hangs a Tale. Apply It Who May.
8vo. M. Cooper. 1752.
Euphronia ; or, The Captive. By Mrs. Norris. 3 vols., Colburn.
1809. Advt. by A. K. Newman. 1813.
Eustace Fitz-Richard. A Tale of the Barons’ Wars. In Four
Volumes. By the Author of The Bandit Chief ; or, Lords of
Urvino. [Quotation : Midsummer’s Night’s Dream.]
London : Printed for A. K. Newman and Co., Leadenhall-
Street. 1826.
Euston: A Novel. 2 vols., Chappie. 1809.
Eva: A Novel. Dedicated by permission to His Royal Highness
the Duchess of Gloucester. By Isabella Kelly. 3 vols.
Minerva-Press. W. Lane. 1709. French translation by
M.D.G., 3 vols. Paris: 1803.
Eva of Cambria; or, The Fugitive Daughter. By Amelia
Beauclerc. 3 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1810.
Miss Dorothy Blakey {The Minerva Press, London, The
Bibliographical Society, 1939 for 1935, p. 232 and p. 330)
erroneously ascribes Eva of Cambria to Emma De Lisle.
It is, however, the work of Amelia Beauclerc, and sent to the
press in mistake for Emma De Lisle’s novel which was pub-
lished in the following year, 18 11, as Fitz-Edward ; or, The
Cambrians.
Alinda, 1812, is as by the author of The Castle of Tariffa.
The Castle of Tariffa, 1812, is as by the author of The
Fugitive Daughter ; or, Eva of Cambria.
Disorder And Order, 1820, is by Amelia Beauclerc, author
of Alinda.
FATHERLESS FANNY
Frontispiece, G. Virtue’s edition
%/A,
<///?//
FATHERLESS FANNY
Vignette title, G. Virtue’s edition
TITLE INDEX 3 1
3
Eve Of Allhallows, The. A Romance. By M. W. Hartstonge.
3 vols., Whittaker. 1825.
Eve Of St. Agnes, The. A Romance by Mrs. Mason, late
Catherine George Ward. 4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1831.
Eve Of San-Pietro, The. A Tcde. In Three Volumes. [Quota-
tion, five lines, Young; two lines Ovid’s Epistles in English.]
London : Printed for T. Cadell and W. Davies, Strand
;
by I. Gold, Shoe-Lane, Fleet-Street. 1804. By M. A. Neri.
Evelina the Pauper’s Child; or, Poverty, Crime and Sorrow„
qo penny nos; E. Lloyd. 1842.
Eventful Marriage, A Tale, The. 4 vols., Crosby. 1807.
Eversfield Abbey. 3 vols., Crosby. 1807.
Example; or, The History of Lucy Cleveland, The. London:
1778.
Excessive Sensibility ; or, The History of Lady St. Laurence.
A Novel. By Mrs. Thomson. 2 vols., Robinson. 1787.
Exhibitions of the Heart. By Miss Hutchinson. 4 vols.,
Kearsley. 1799. New ed., 1800. Dedicated by Permission
to the Queen.
Exile of Poland; or, The Vow of Celibacy, The. Translated
from the French by Mrs. Caroline Richardson. 3 vols.,
Chappie; and A. K. Newman. 1819.
Exile of Portugal, The. By A. A. Stuart. 2 vols., 1806.
Exiles; or, Memoirs of The Count de Cronstadt, The. By
Clara Reeve, Author of the Old English Baron, Two Mentors,
etc., etc. [Quotation, Horace, one line.] In Three Volumes.
London : Printed for T. Hookham, New Bond Street.
MDCCLXXXVIII.
Experience, A Tale For All Ages. By the Author of Realities,
Correction, etc. 4 vols. A. K. Newman. 1828. By Mrs.
A. Raikes Harding.
Explanation ; or, Agreeable Surprise, The. By A Young Lady.
2 vols., London. 1778. Irish ed., 2 vols., Dublin. Peter
Hoey. 1778.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
314
Express, The. A novel. By Frances D’Aubigne. 3 vols.,
Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1819.
F
Fair Cambrians, The. A novel. 2 vols. W. Lane, Leadenhall
Street. MDCCXC.
Fair Hibernian, The. 2 vols., Robinsons. 1789.
Fair Impostor, The. 3 vols. 1792.
Fair Wanderer, The; or, The History of Caroline Dormer, A
reformed Prostitute, written By Herself. In which is Intro-
duced Lucy of Leinster, A Pathetic Tale. With a frontispiece.
Lemoine. 1803.
Faith and Fiction; or, Shining Lights in a Dark Generation.
By Elizabeth Bennet. 5 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K. New-
man. 1816.
This novel is sometimes erroneously attributed to Mrs. A. M.
Bennett, who died 1808.
Faithful Irish Woman; or, The House of Dunder, The. By
Captain S. S. De Renzy. 2 vols., Sherwood and Co., 1813.
Falconbridge Abbey, A Devonshire Story. By Mrs. Mary Ann
Hanway. 5 vols., Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman. 1809.
Falkner. A Novel. By the Author of ‘
Frankenstein,’ ‘
The
Last Man,’ etc. In Three Volumes. Saunders and Otley.
1837. By Mary Wcllstonecraft Shelley.
Fallen Minister, And Other Tales, The. From the German of
Christian Heinrich Speiss. Translated by [Captain] William
B. Llewetson, author of the drama of The Blind Boy. 2 vols.,
Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1809. The tales are:
The Murder; The Revenue Collector; The Fallen Minister;
Vanity; or, The Merchant ; Charles; Paulina, a tale of truth;
and Jealousy; or, The Curate.
False Appearances ; or, Memoirs of Henry Auberville. Inter-
spersed with Legendary Romances. Irish ed., Dublin : Porter.
1803. There is, I believe, an English edition of the same
year but some months earlier. This I have not seen.
False Friend, The; A Domestic Story. By Mary Robinson,
TITLE INDEX 315
Author of Poems, Walsingham, Angelina, Hubert De Sevrac,
etc., etc. In Four Volumes. London: Printed for T. N.
Longman and O. Rees, Paternoster-Row. 1 799-
Fcdse Friends, The. By the Author of The Ring. Barker.
1785. The Ring is by A Young Lady.
Families of Owen and De Montfort, The. A Tale of Ancient
Days. 3 vols., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1819.
Family Annals; or, Worldly Wisdom. By Mrs. Hunter, of
Norwich. 5 vols., Hughes. 1807.
Family Estate ; or, Lost and Won, The. By Mrs. Ross. 3 vols.,
Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1815.
Family Faults ; or, A Mother’s Errors. By Hannah Maria Jones.
Virtue, 1845. Re-issue, John Lofts. 1854.
Family Misfortunes ; or, The History of The Amtsratk Gutman.
One vol., Minerva-Press. W. Lane. 1800. 1801 ed.,
Vemor. From the German of Baron Knigge.
Family Mysteries. A new Tale by the Author of The Orphan
Sisters [Mrs. Elizabeth Bennett]. In penny nos., 1853-4.
Henry Lea, 22 Warwick Lane, London.
Family of Halden, The. A Novel. Translated from the German
[of August Lafontaine]. 4 vols., Bell. 1799.
Family of Montorio, The. By C. R. Maturin. See The Fatal
Revenge. Maturin intended The Family of Montorio as the
title of his first romance, 1807, pub. Longman, and later,
in the Preface to Women, 1818, he spoke of his former prose
works, amongst which “ Montorio ” (misnomed by the book-
seller “ The Fatal Revenge ” a very book-selling appellation)
had some share of popularity.”
Family of Santraile ; or, The Heir of Montault, The. A romance
by Miss Harriet Jones. 4 vols., Cawthorn. 1809.
Family Party, The. By Mary Julia Young. 3 vols., William
Lane, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCXCI.
Family Pictures; or, The Life of a Poor Village Pastor and
His Children. From the German of August Lafontaine.
London. 8vo. 1849. See The Village Pastor and His
Children.
316 a gothic bibliography
Family Party, The. 3 vols., Minerva, for William Lane.
MDCCXCI. By Mary Julia Young.
Family Portraits ; or, Descendants of Trelawney. By Catherine
G. Ward, Authoress of — The Mysterious Marriage, — The
Rose of Claremont, — Poems, — The Orphan Boy, —
Bachelor’s Heiress, — My Native Land, — etc., etc. [5 lines
verse.] London : Printed by C. Baynes, 13 Duke Street,
Lincoln’s-Inn-Fields. Published by G. Virtue, 6, Payner
Alley, Paternoster Row ;
and 28 Temple Street, Bristol.
Sold also by John Tallis, 16, Warwick Square, Newgate Street,,
and 47 Digbeth, Birmingham; and W. Baynes, Leeds. 1822.
With Frontispiece, Vignette Title, and 8 Illustrations.
Another ed., Complete in 29 Numbers, with Engravings.
G. Virtue. 1822.
Family Portraits is a sequel to The Mysterious Marriage.
Family Portraiture; or, The History of a German Country
Pastor and His Family. Freely rendered from the French by
Mrs. J. D. W. Digby. 8vo. London: Hall. 1857.
A version from the French translation of August Lafontaine
by Mme. de Montolieu. See The1 Village Pastor and His
Children.
Family Pride and Humble Merit. A Novel, founded on facts,
and partly taken from the French. By E. Senate, M.D.
3 vols., Sherwood, Neely and Jones. 1810.
Family Quarrels. A Novel. From the German of August
Lafontaine. 3 vols., Dean. 1811. Family Quarrels
advertised by Newman in 1813.
Quarelles de famille. 3 vols., Colburn. 1809.
Family Secrets, Literary and Domestic. By Mr. Pratt. In Five
Volumes. [Quotation from Bacon.] London: Printed for
T. N. Longman, Paternoster-Rcw. 1797. Irish ed., 3 vols.,
8vo. Cork : Connor. 1 800.
Family Secrets; or, The Skeleton. 60 penny nos., E. Lloyd..
1846.
Family Sketches; or, The History of Henry Dinmore. 2 vols.,
W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXIX.
Family Story, The. A novel by Mr. Smith. 3 vols., Crosby..
1797 -
TITLE INDEX 3*7
Fanny; or, The Deserted Daughter. Being the first literary
Attempt of a Young Lady. 2 vols., Bew. 1792. The first
novel of Mrs. Margaret Holford, of Chester.
Fanny, histoire angloise. By Baculard D’Arnaud. Translated
as Fanny; or, Injur’d Innocence, 1767 ;
and again as Fanny;
or, The Happy Repentance.
Fanny Fitz-Tork; a Novel. By Mrs. Ryley of Liverpool.
3 vols., Sherwood, Neely and Jones. 1817.
Fanny Hill. By John Cleland. See under Memoirs of a Woman
of Pleasure.
Fanny White And Her Friend Jack Rawlings, n.d. [c. 1865].
See Addenda.
Les Fantomes Nocturnes. 2 vols., Paris. Chez Mme. Ve.
Lepetit, Libraire. 1821. With frontispieces. By P. Cuisin.
Farmer of Inglewood Forest, The. By Mrs. Elizabeth Helme.
4 vols. William Lane at the Minerva-Press. MDCCXCVI.
With a frontispiece. Second ed., 4 vols., Minerva-Press.
A. K. Newman. 1811. Fourth ed., 4 vols., Minerva Press.
Newman. 1817. This important novel proved immensely
popular and was frequently reprinted. The Farmer of Ingle-
wood Forest; or, An Affecting Portrait of Virtue and Vice.
By Elizabeth Helme, Author of Louisa; or, The Cottage on
the Moor, Duncan and Peggy, St. Clare of the Isles, etc.,
etc., etc. Four Volumes in One. Seventh Edition.
[Quotation, 6 lines.] London: Published by George Virtue,
26 Ivy Lane, Paternoster-Row. Entered at Stationers’ Hall.
N.D. [1825?]. Frontispiece, Vignette Title, and 4 Illustra-
tions. On the Vignette Title Elizabeth Helme is named as
Author of St. Clair of the Isles, Louisa, or the Cottage on
the Moor, Ducan and Peggy, St. Margaret’s Cave, etc., etc.”
The Farmer of Inglewood Forest. By Elizabeth Helme.
Illustrated with Numerous Wood Engravings Designed
Expressly for this Work by Robert Barrow. London. Henry
Lea, 22 Warwick Street. N.D. [c. 1840]. A well-printed
and produced edition. Throughout the nineteenth century
The Farmer of Inglewood Forest was reprinted, generally
in cheap and widely disseminated editions J. S. Pratt of
Stokesley, Yorkshire, included Mrs. Helme’s novel in his
Pocket Series,” 1845. The Farmer of Inglewood Forest.
One vol., price one shilling. New Popular Library. H. G.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
3 l8
Collins, 22 Paternoster Row. 1851. Milner and Co., Halifax,
and Paternoster Row, London, reprinted The Farmer of
Inglewood Forest among their “ Cheap Books ” in “ The
Wide, Wide World Library,” Demy i8mo., at is.
3d. and
1 s. 6d., also in “The Cottage Library,” Royal 321110., at is.
N.D. [c. 1875]. The Farmer of Inglewood Forest also
appeared as a yellow back, and was further reprinted [
c.
1880] at sixpence.
Le Fermicr de la foret dTnglewood, ou les effets de Uambition.
. . . Traduit de 1’anglais sur la 4e edition, par Henri
V[illemai] n. 4 tom., Paris: 1818.
The Farmer of Inglewood Forest. A Drama, by William
Rogers. Produced at the Royal Pavilion, Whitechapel, on
February gth, 1846.
Farmer’s Three Daughters, The. A Tale. 4 vols., A. K.
Newman. 1821. By the Author of The Foundling of
Glenthorne.
Fashionable Follies. A Novel, containing the History of a
Parisian Family. By Thomas Vaughan. 2 vols., J. Dodsley.
1781.
Fashionable Infidelity; or, The Triumph of Patience. 3 vols.,
rlookham. 1785.
Fashionable Mysteries; or, The Rival Duchesses, And Other
Tales. A Month In The Highlands. Poor Mary Ann;
or, The Country Election. By Francis Lathom. 3 vols.,
A. K. Newman. 1829.
Fashionables and Unfashionables. A Novel. By Rosalia St.
Clair. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1827.
Fast of St. Magdalen, The. A Romance. By Miss Anna Maria
Porter. 3 vols., Longman, Hurst, Rees, Qrme, and Brown.
1818. Second ed. 3 vols., ibid. 1819.
La Jeune de Sainte Magdeleine, ou les illustres proscrits.
Roman traduit de l’anglais. 3 tom., Paris: 1819.
Fatal Connection, The. By John Murdoch. London. 1773.
Fatal Effects of Jealousy, a Spanish Novel. Founded on Facts.
i2mo., pp. 48. New York: J. Harrison, at Yorick’s Head,
3 Peck Slip. 1795- An American chapbook.
TITLE INDEX 31$
Fatal Follies; or, The History of the Countess of Stanrnore.
4 vols., Robinson. 1788. By Mrs. Thomson.
Fatal Jealousy. Chapbook. 1807.
Fatal Legacy; or, Memoirs of The Count of Comminge, The
.
From the French of Monsieur D’Amaud. Irish ed., Dublin :
C. Jackson. 1781. From Les Amants Malheureux, ou
Comte de Comminge by Baculard D’Arnaud. This is one
of the best known of D’Amaud’s “ drames monacales.” First
English translation of the Memoires, 1773, as Memoirs of
The Count Comminge. For full details see The Gothic Quest
by Montague Summers, pp. 116-117.
Fatal Marriage, The. 2 vols., Hookham. 1785.
Fatal Obedience ; or, The History of Mr. Freeland. 2 vols.,
London. N.D. (
c
.
1780).
Fatal Revenge; or, The Family of Montorio, The. By Dennis
Jasper Murphy [Charles Robert Maturin]. 3 vols., Longman,
etc., 1807. The Fatal Revenge ; or, The Family of Montorio.
By the Author of The Wild Irish Boy. 2nd. ed., 4 vols.,
A. K. Newman & Co., 1824. The Fatal Revenge; or, The
Family of Montorio, A Romance. By the Rev. R. Maturin.
Fourth Edition. J. Clements. 1840. See under The Family
of Montorio.
La Famille de Montorio, ou la Fatale vengance, traduit de
l’anglais par J. Cohen. 5 tom., Paris. 1822.
Fatal Secret; or, Unknown Warrior, The. A Romance of the
Twelfth Century. By Sophia King. One Vol., Barnard.
1801.
Fatal Secrets. By Isaac Crookenden. One vol., 1806.
Fatal Vow; or, St. Michael’s Monastery, The. A Romance in
Two Volumes. By Francis Lathom. Crosby. 1807.
Historical Gothic. The story of Fair Rosamond. See The
Gothic Quest by Montague Summers, pp. 175-77.
Fatal Vow; or, Ethelinde; The. By T. Prest. 12 nos., E. Lloyd.
1848.
Fatalists ; or, Records of 1814 and 1815, The. By Mrs. Kelly.
5 vols., A. K. Newman. 1821. This lady is not to be con-
fused with Mrs. Isabella Kelly, afterwards Mrs. Hedgeland.
320 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Fate; or, Spong Castle. By Maria Vanzee. Parsons. 1803.
Fate of Greysdale, The. A Legend. 2 vols., Duncan. 1829.
Fate of Sedley, The. A Novel. 2 vols., Minerva-Press, W.
Lane. MDCCXCV. An epistolary novel by the author of
The Offspring of Russell, 1794. By Henry Summersett.
Fate of Velina De Guidova, The. By Mrs. Ann Radcliffe.
3 vols. W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCXC.
The work of Mrs. Mary Ann Eliza Radcliffe, authoress of
Manfrone; or, The One-Handed Monk. This lady is not
to be confused with the famous Mrs. Radcliffe who wrote
The Mysteries of Udolpho.
Father and Son; or, Claremont. A desultory tale. 3 vols.
Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman. 1806. By Miss Taylor.
Father Oswald, A Genuine Catholic Story. One vol. 1842.
A Father’s Love and a Woman’s Friendship ; or, The Widow
and Her Daughters. By Mrs. Mosse. 5 vols., A. K. Newman.
1825. Mrs. Henrietta Mosse nee Rouviere.
Fatherless Fanny; or, Adventures of The Countess of Werdens-
dorff. A Real and Most Extraordinary Narrative. Written
By Herself. Coloured frontispiece. London : Harrild.
N.D. [c. 1810]. A chapbook.
Fatherless Fanny; or, A Young Lady’s First Entrance Into
Life, Being the Memoirs of A Little Mendicant and Her
Benefactors. By the Author of the Old English Baron, etc.,
etc. [Quotation, four line stanza, Anderson.] London:
Published by J. Tallis, 7 Warwick Square. [1819.]
This famous book which was long extremely popular is
anonymous, and curiously the authorship has been ascribed
to two such different writers as Clara Reeve and T. P. Prest.
It certainly belongs to neither, although in 1841 Prest pro-
duced for Edward Lloyd a piracy, Fatherless Fanny.
Clara Reeve died in 1807, and Fatherless Fanny in no
particular resembles her work. There is also internal evidence.
The story opens in the year 1798, when Fanny is about five
years old. At the conclusion Fanny has been married some
years, and is an affectionate mother, she and her husband
having been “ blessed by Providence with numerous pledges
of their mutual love.” Fatherless Fanny which is an extremely
TITLE INDEX 32 1
well-written romance of its kind was several times printed
as by “ The Author of ‘
The Old English Baron,’ ” as
edito princeps. Other editions claim Mrs. Sarah Green
as author or editor, yet another edition carries Jane Taylor’s
name on the title-page.
Fatherless Fanny has been reprinted again and again. One
of the most esteemed editions after the first is that by G.
Virtue, Payner Alley, Paternoster Row. N.D. [1818-19].
The Preface says :
“ This Novel is one of the newest and
most modem now extant.” Virtue also issued an edition in
penny numbers.
Fatherless Fanny, chapbook, 32 pp. Tegg. N.D. [c. 1819].
Fatherless Fanny. With title-page carrying “ By the Author
of The Old English Baron.” London: Kelly. 1837.
Fatherless Fanny. Illustrated. 8vo., London : Kelly. 1839.
Fatherless Fanny. J. S. Pratt. Stokesley, Yorkshire ;
and
London. 1846.
Fatherless Fanny. “ The Wide, Wide World Library.”
Demy i8mo. Bound in the Best Cloth, ir.
3 d. In Coloured
Cloth, gilt edges, ir. 6d. Milner & Co. N.D. [c. 1870].
In “ The Cottage Library.” Royal 32010. Coloured Cloth.
One shilling. Milner & Co. N.D. [c. 1870].
Fatherless Fanny; or, The Mysterious Orphan. By the Author
of “ The Hebrew Maiden ;
or, The Lost Diamond,” “ Oliver
Twiss,” etc., etc., published by E. Lloyd, 231, Shoreditch.
1841. T. P. Prest wrote The Hebrew Maiden, and the above
is his version of the famous romance, Fatherless Fanny.
Fatherless Rosa; or, The Dangers of The Female Life. By
Robert Huish. 8vo. 1834.
Faulconstein Forest. A Romantic Tale. Hookham, jun., 1810.
The scene Hungary.
Fault Was All His Own, The. A Novel, in a Series of Letters.
By A Lady. 2 vols., G. Riley. 1771. By Mrs. Elizabeth
Nichols, nee Eyton.
Faust. By George W. M. Reynolds. Author of “ The
Mysteries of London,” etc. Serialized in The London
Journal: Prologue, Chapter I, commencing Vol II of the
Journal, No. 32, October 4th, 1845. Chapter XCV,
Epilogue, concluding Vol. Ill of the Journal, No. 73, July 18th,
1846. On September 19th, 1846, announced as ready for
322 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
publication in the course of the year. On Wednesday,
April 2 ist, 1847, was published No. 1 of Faust: A Romance
of the Secret Tribunals, to be continued in weekly Penny
Numbers, and Sixpenny Monthly Parts. G. Vickers, 3
Catherine Street, Strand, London. Faust was completed in
27 nos. Faust, A Romance of the Secret Tribunals. Com-
plete, in One Volume. G. Vickers. Price 2 s. 6d. 1847.
Advertised on November 6th, 1847, as “ Just Published.”
Faust was many times reprinted and is No. g4 of Dicks’
English Novels, price 6d.
Faux Pas; or, Fatal Attachment, The. By C.L. 2 vols.,
Minerva-Press. W. Lane. 1800.
Favourites of Felicity, The. By John Potter, M.B. 3 vols.
Cass. 1785. Advt. by Lane, 1786.
Favourite of Nature, The. A Tale. [By Mary Ann Kelty.]
3 vols., Whittaker. 1821. Second ed., 3 vols., ibid., 1821.
French translation as Eliza Rivers, 1823.
Fays of Loch Lomond, The. By William Child Green. London.
1824.
Fears And Cares; or, An Uncle And His Nephew. By E. D.
Carr. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1821.
Features From Life; or, A Summer Visit. A Novel. By
Elizabeth Blower. 2 vols., Dcdsley. 1788.
La Visite d’Ete, ou Portrait de Mceurs. Paris. 1788.
Felicia To Charlotte: Being Letters From A Young Lady In
The Country, To Her Friend In Town. 2 vols., Printed for
Jacob Robinson. 1744. Vol. I is concluded, and Vol. II is
in the nature of a sequel.
Felician Alphery; or, The Raleigh Family. By the Author of
Herwald De Wake, etc., 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1828.
Felix Alvarez, A Spanish Tale. By R. C. Dallas. 3 vols.,
Minerva Press. Newman. 1818.
Felon's Daughter, The. By Edward Ellis. John Dicks, c. i860.
Re-issue, Dicks, one vol., price 4s. N.D. [1883].
Female Advocate; or, An Attempt To Recover the Rights of
Women from Male Usurpation, The. By Mary Ann [Eliza]
TITLE INDEX 323
Radcliffe. One vol., Vemor and Hood. 1799. Mary Ann
Radcliffe is characterized by Upcott as “ one of the Woll-
stonecraft school.”
Female Art ; Or, True and False. A Tale. By Ann Pile. One
vol., Symonds. 1807.
Female Banishment ; or, The Woman Hater. Originally wrote
by the Chevalier de Mouhy, Author of The Fortunate
Country Maid. 2 vols., London: T. Lowndes. 1759. By
Charles De Fieux, Chevalier De Mouhy.
Female Intrepidity. One vol., n.d.
Female Pilgrim; or, The Travels of Hephzibah, The. Under
the Similitude of A Dream. Interspersed with a Variety of
Reflections, Dialogues, Songs, etc. By John Mitchell. 8vo.,
London: 1762; Second ed., London, Chalmers, 1793; 4-to.,
1
793 5
8vo. [1800]; “Edited,” 1812; London, Evan, 1815.
An odd enough fantasy, modelled on Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s
Progress.
Female Quixotism Exhibited in the Romantic Opinions and
Extravagant Adventures of Dorcasina Sheldon. 2 vols., 1801 ;
also 1803 and 1808. By Tabitha Tenny. An American
satire on the romance. Founded upon The Female Quixote
of Mrs. Lennox.
Female Werter, The. By Mon. Perrin. 2 vols., 1792.
Ferdinand and Amelia. 3 vols., Crosby. 1806.
Ferdinand and Ordella. A Russian Story, With Authentic
Anecdotes of the Russian Court after the Demise of Peter
The Great. To Which Is Added, A Prefatory Address To The
Satirist Upon Patron And Dedications, Reformers And
Reformations. By Priscilla Parlante. 2 vols., Tipper. 1810.
Priscilla Parlante, pseudonym of The Hon. Mary Ann
Cavendish Bradshaw.
Ferrandino. A German Romance. 2 vols., Colburn. 1813.
Advertised by Newman. 1816. By Henry G. Bohn.
Festival of Mora, The. An Historical Romance. By Louisa
Sidney Stanhope. 4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1821.
Festival of St. Jago, The. A Spanish Romance. In Two
Volumes. By the Author of The Tankerville Family, Private
History of The Court of England, etc. “ It is not sufficient
324 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
to be master over many passions ;
no
—
all must be overcome.”
General Moreau’s M.S. London : Printed at the Minerva-
Press for A. K. Newman and Co. (Successors to Lane,
Newman, and Co.) Leadenhall-Street. 1810. By Mrs.
Sarah Green.
Feuds of Luna and Perollo, The. A Romantic Tale of the
Sixteenth Century. 4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1821. The
Feuds of Luna and Perollo ; or, The Fortunes of the House
of Pandolfina. An historic romance of the Sixteenth Century.
4 vols., 1847.
Feudal Days; or, The Freebooter’s Castle. By Mitchell
Williams. 3 vols., London. 1826.
Feudal Days. Chapbook, n.d.
Feudal Events ; or, Days of Tore. By Mrs. McKenzie. 2 vols.,
Minerva-Press, W. Lane. 1800. For Mrs. Anna Maria
Mackenzie of Exeter see Index of Authors.
Feudal Tyrants; or, The Counts of Carlsheim and Sargans.
A Romance. Taken from the German. By M. G. Lewis,
Author of The Bravo of Venice, Adelgitha, Rugantino, etc.
[Quotation, four lines, Gray.] London : Printed by D. N.
Shury, Berwick Street, Soho, for J. F. Hughes, Wigmore
Street, Cavendish Square. 1806. Second ed., ibid. 1807.
In 1808 Hughes advertises: Feudal Tyrants; a Romance,
4 vols., 285., by the same author [M. G. Lewis]. (3rd
edition.)
From Elisabeth, Erbin von Toggenburg (1789) by Christiane
Benedicte Eugenie Naubert.
Field of The Forty Footsteps, The. By Miss Jane Porter.
3 vols., Longmans. 1828. See under Coming Out.
The Field of Forty Footsteps. A Drama. By Percy Farren.
Produced at the Tottenham Street Theatre, January 16th,
1830. Dicks’ Standard Plays. No. 569.
Fiesco, Count of Lavagne. A novel. 4 vols., Minerva-Press.
Lane, Newman. 1805. By Mr. Lyttleton.
Filial Indiscretions; or, The Female Character. 3 vols.,
Robinsons. 1 799.
Fille De Chambre, The. A novel. 3 vols., William Lane, at
the Minerva. MDCCXCII. By Mrs. Rowson.
TITLE INDEX 325
Fine Lady, The. A Novel. By Sophia Briscoe. 2 vols., T.
Lowndes. 1772.
Fireside Stories, plain tales of Aunt Deborah and her friends.
3 vols., Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman. 1806. By Mrs.
Leslie.
First Affections, an Oxfordshire Story. 2 vols., T. Boys. 1823.
The Preface is “ on Novel Writings.”
First and Last Years of Wedded Life, The. A Novel. By
Rosalia St. Clair. 4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1826.
First False Step; or, The Path of Crime, The. A Romance.
By T. Prest. 22 nos., E. Lloyd: London. 1846.
First Impressions ; or, The Portrait. By Mrs. Holford. Author
of Selima, Gresford Vale, Poems, etc. 4 vols., Minerva-Press,
W. Lane. 1800.
First Love ; or, The History of Lady Frances Sullivan. A novel.
3 vols., Minerva-Press, W. Lane. 1801.
Fisher’s Daughter, The; or, The Wanderings of Wolf, and
the Fortunes of Alfred. Being the sequel to that so greatly
admired and popular Work, entitled, The Cottage on the
Cliff ; or, A Sea-Side Story. By Mrs. Catherine G. Ward.
Authoress of — Mysterious Marriage — Family Portraits —
Orphan Boy — Widow’s Choice — The Thorn, etc., etc.
[Quotation, 8 lines verse.] London : Published by G. Virtue,
26, Ivy-Lane, Paternoster-Row ;
Bath-Street, Bristol ;
and
Queen-Square, Liverpool. 2 vols., 1827.
Sometimes in one volume. This tale, which proved popular,
was re-issued.
Fisherman’s Hut; or, Alzendorf, The. A novel. 3 vols.,
Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman. 1805.
Fitz-Edward ; or, The Cambrians. A novel. Interspersed with
pieces of poetry. By Emma De Lisle. 3 vols., Minerva-
Press. A. K. Newman. 1811.
Fitzherbert. A novel. By Mrs. Pilkington. 4 vols., Plughes.
1808.
Fitzmaurice. By William Frederic Williams. 2 vols., Murray
and Highley. 1800.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
326
Fitzroy; or, The Impulse of the Moment. A Novel. By Maria
Hunter. 2 vols. William Lane, at the Minerva-Press.
MDCCXCII.
Fitzwalters, Barons of Chesterton, The. 4 vols., A. K. Newman.
1829.
Flatterer; or, False Friendship, The. By Mary Anne Hedge.
Baldwin. 1822.
Fleetwood ; or, The New Man of Feeling. By William Godwin.
3 vols., R. Phillips. 1805. In Bentley’s Standard Novels,
“ Revised, Corrected, and Illustrated with a New Preface by
the Author.” No. 22. 1832.
Fleetwood. Traduit de l’anglais, par A. L. Villeterque.
3 tom., Paris. 1805.
Florence ; or, The Aspirant. 3 vols., G. B. Whittaker. 1829.
Florence Graham; or, The Pirate’s Daughter. 34 nos., E.
Lloyd. London. 1847.
Florence Macarthay: An Irish Tale. By Lady Morgan, Author
of “ France,” “ O’Donnel,” etc. 4 vols., Colburn. 1818.
Several times reprinted.
Thomas John Dibdin has a burletta, produced at the Royal
Circus, May 31st, 1819, Florence Macarthay ; or, A Town in
Hibernia.
Flying Dutchman: A Legend of the High Seas, The. 3 vols.,
London: 1839. By William Johnson Neale. Another ed.
“ Books For Railway Reading,” “ Celebrated Naval Novels.”
One vol., ornamental boards. Price 2 s. C. H. Clarke.
23a, Paternoster Row. N.D. [c. 1855].
Flying Dutchman; or, The Demon Ship, The. 12 penny
nos. London: Foster and Hextall. N.D. [1827-1830?]
Marryat’s The Phantom Ship is 3 vols., Colburn. 1839.
It had appeared in The New Monthly Magazine, 1838-9.
Fitzball’s melodrama The Flying Dutchman; or, The
Phantom Ship, “ not by any means behind every Frankenstein
or Der Freischiitz itself in horrors and blue fire ” (published
Cumberland’s Minor Theatre, Vol. II; Lacy, Vol. LXXI),
with music by Rodwell, was produced at the Adelphi on
January 1st, 1827. It had a great success and was shortly
burlesqued in a pantomime The Flying Dutchwoman ; or,
Harlequin and the Enchanted Bay at the Royal Amphi-
TITLE INDEX 327
theatre, Astley’s on June 4th, 1827. The authors who wrote
sensational fiction for Edward Lloyd, Purkess, Foster and
Hextall, and other publishers often availed themselves of the
popular melodramas of the day, and as they were not slow
to seize the immediate occasion we are tempted to date The
Flying Dutchman, published by Foster and Hextall as early
as 1827, or at any rate within the next two or three years.
The Phantom Ship; or, The Demon Pilot by John Thomas
Haines is a Surrey drama, and was produced at that house
on July 1 st, 1839.
Wagner’s opera Der Fliegende Hollander was produced in
Dresden on January 2nd, 1843. In 1841 he had sold his
scenario to the manager of the Opera, and having been set
by Pierre Louis Philippe Dietsch (1808-65) on November 9th,
1842, it was given at the Opera as Le Vaisseau fantome.
On July 23rd, 1870, Der Fliegende Hollander was given in
Italian at Drury Lane as L’ Olandese dannato. On June 16th,
1877, the Italian version was named II Vascello jantasma.
Wagner’s opera was given by the Carl Rosa at the Lyceum,
October 3rd, 1876, and in German at Drury Lane, May 20th,
1882.
The Flying Dutchman ; or, The Demon Seaman and the
Lass that Loved a Sailor, a burlesque by W. Brough, Royalty,
December 2nd, 1869, sufficiently amused kindly audiences.
Other burlesques are: The Flying Dutchman by Reece,
Prince of Wales, Liverpool, 1883; and Vanderdecken ; or.
The Flying Anglo-Dutchman’s Phantom Penny Steamer,
libretto by W. Edgar, music Meyer Lutz, given at the Novelty,
December 6th, 1886.
Vanderdecken by G. W. Wills and Percy Fitzgerald was
produced at the Lyceum with Henry Irving in the title-role
on June 8th, 1878.
Follies Of Fashion, The. A Dramatic Novel. 3 vols., Longman
and Co., 1802. By Mr. Lyttleton.
Follies of St. James’s Street, The. 2 vols., William Lane,
Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXIX.
Follow My Leader ; or, Young Wilful’s Schooldays. (Alterna-
tively, Lionel Wilful’s Schooldays.) Serialized in The Boy’s
Standard, Vol. I, No. 1, November, 1875. By Chaseton
(H. C. Emmett). Hogarth House. 3 vols. at is. each. One
vol., bound cloth and gold, 3s
1
. 6d. Illustrated by Phiz.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
328
La Fontaine de Ste Catherine, etc., etc. St. Catherine’s Fount.
A Novel by M. Ducray-Buminil. 4 vols., Paris. 1813.
London: Be Bosse. 1813. See under The Blind Beggar.
For Vengance; or, The Doom of the Russian Tyrants. 8vo.,
n.d., woodcuts, [c. 1870.]
Forbidden Apartments. A tale. 2 vols. Minerva-Press. W..
Lane. 1800. By William Linley.
Force Of Prejudice, The. A Moral Tale. Sold by the Author,,
Mr. Wildman, No. 18, West Street, Soho. 1800.
Forest Of Comalva, The. A Novel containing Sketches of
Portugal, Spain, and Part of France. By Miss Hill. 3 vols.,
Phillips. 1809.
Forest Of Hohenelbe, The. A Tale. 3 vols., Minerva-Press;
Lane, Newman. 1803.
By the Author of Humbert Castle ; or, The Romance Of The
Rhone, 1801, and Correlia ; or, The Mystic Tomb, 1802.
See under these titles.
Forest Of Montalbano
:
A Novel. In Four Volumes. By the
Author of “Santo Sebastiano,” and “ The Romance of the
Pyrenees.” London : Printed for George Robinson, 25,
Paternoster-Row. 1810. By Catharine Cuthbertson. It is
supposed that her sister helped her in the writing of romances.
Forest Of St. Bernardo, The. By Miss Ann Mary Hamilton.
4 vols., Hughes, Wigmore-Street. 1806.
Forest Phantom; or, The Golden Crucifix, The. Chapbook
[1808].
Foresters, The. A Novel. Altered from the French by Miss
Gunning. In Four Volumes. London : Printed by and for
Sampson Low, Berwick Street, Soho; and sold by C. Law,
Ave-Maria Lane; and William Jackson, No. 198, Oxford
Street, 1796.
Les Forges Mysterieuses. 4 tom., Paris: 1800. “ Roman dans
le genre de Faublas.” Par Elisabeth Guenard, baronne de
Mere.
Forman. A Tale. 3 vols., Ogle. 1819.
Forresti; or, The Italian Cousins. A romance. 3 vols.,
Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman. 1806. By the Author of
TITLE INDEX 329
Valombrosa; or, The Venetian Nun. A Novel. 3 vols.,
Minerva-Press. Lane and Co. Price 12L
Fortescue ; or, The soldier's reward. A characteristic novel.
2 vols., W. Lane. MDCCLXXXIX.
Fortitude ; or, Euphemia. By B. Taylor, Esq., 2 vols., Simpkin
and Marshall. 1816.
Fortunes of Perkin Warbeck, The. A Romance. By the
Author of “ Frankenstein.” In Three Volumes. Bentley.
1830. Another ed.. One vol., Routledge. 1857. By Mary
Wollstonecraft Shelley.
Foscari, A Venetian Tale, Founded On Facts. [Quotation: 6
lines. Prior.] London : Printed for William Lane, at the
Minerva, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCXC. One vol., pp. 143.
One of the shorter Gothic tales.
Foundling Of Devonshire ; or, Who Is She ? The. By Miss
C. D. Haynes. 5 vols., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman.
1818.
Foundling Of Glenthorne ; or, The Smugglers’ Cave, The.
By the Author of the Farmer’s Three Daughters, etc. 4 vols.,
A. K. Newman. 1824.
Foundling of the Forest, The. Chapbook. 1806.
Frances; or, The Two Mothers. A tale. 3 vols. Minerva-
Press. A. K. Newman. 1819.
Francis and Josepha. A Tale from the German of Huber,
by William Fardeley. 1807. See The Gothic Quest by
Montague Summers, Ch. Ill, p. 146.
Francis Berrian; or, The Mexican Patriot. [By T. Flint.]
i2mo., 1826.
Francis, The Philanthropist : An Unfashionable Tale. In Three
Volumes. London : Printed for William Lane, Leadenhall-
Street. MDCCXXXVI. Dedicated (August, 1785) to
Lady Williams-Wynne. The Advertisement, pp. ix-xii, dis-
cusses the “ epistolary manner of novel-writing ” of Richard-
son, and the “ narrative way ” of Fielding and Smollett.
Francis the Philanthropist is written in the latter manner, the
“ narrative way.”
Frank Fearless; or, The Cruise of the Firebrand. 31 nos..
Hogarth House. A pirate story.
330 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Frankenstein ; or, The Modern Prometheus. [By Mary
Wollstonecraft Shelley.] 3 vols., i2ino., Lackington, Hughes,
Harding, Mayor and Jones. London, 1818. A new ed.,
2 vols., 8vo., London, 1823. Another ed., Standard Novels:
No. IX, Frankenstein. Complete. The Ghost-Seer. Vol I.
Frankenstein ; or, The Modern Prometheus. By the Author
of The Last Man, Perkin Warbeck, etc., etc. Revised,
Corrected, and Illustrated with a New Introduction by the
Author. London : Henry Colburn and Richard Bentley, New
Burlington Street : Bell and Bradfute, Edinburgh ;
and
Gumming, Dublin. 1831. (No. X is Vol. II, conclusion of
The Ghost-Seer.) Frankenstein has frontispiece, T. Holst del.,
W. Chevalier Sculp., and vignette title by the same artists.
Frankenstein
:
Another ed., The Parlour Library [1847, etc.],
8vo., Vol. 144. 1856. Another ed., The Cottage Library,
32mo., Price One Shilling. Milner, London. N.D.
[
c
.
1870]. Another ed., Routledge. London. 1882.
Frankenstein ; or, The Modern Prometheus. With an Intro-
duction by H. R. Haweis. Routledge’s World Library
[1886, etc.]. No. 25. Another ed., Routledge’s Pocket
Library. Vol. 31. i6mo. 1888. Another ed., London.
N.D. [c. 1895]. Another cheap ed., wrappers, N.D.
[c. 1930]. The most recent reprint to date (1940) of
Frankenstein is in Everyman’s Library, No. 616.
Frankenstein; or, The Demon of Switzerland, and later as
Frankenstein ; or, The Man and the Monster. A romantic
melo-drama, in two acts, by H. M. Milner. Produced at the
Coburg Theatre, London, on Monday, July 18th, 1823.
Printed, Lacy’s Acting Edition of Plays, Vol. 75. Dun-
combe’s Edition, Vol. II. Founded principally “ on Mrs.
Shelley’s singular work entitled Frankenstein
,”
but partly on
the French play Le Magicien et le Monstre.
Presumption! or, The Fate of Frankenstein, a melodrama in
three acts by Richard Brinsley Peake, music by Watson, was
produced at the Lyceum Theatre on Monday, July 28th,
1823. As Frankenstein ; or, The Danger of Presumption,
given at the Royalty on Monday, September 22nd, 1823.
Given at Covent Garden, July 9th, 1824. Printed, Franken-
stein, A Romantic Drama, No. 431, Dicks’ Standard Plays.
Wallack played Frankenstein ;
T. P. Cooke, the Monster.
In 1827 Sir Walter Scott saw one of these two plays, Milner
or Peake, at Edinburgh, and records the performance in his
TITLE INDEX 33 1
Journal. The London Minor Theatres adapted Mrs. Shelley’s
novel for their own requirements. In November, 1838, N. T.
Hicks played the Monster (probably in Peake’s play) at the
Victoria Theatre, London. One or other of the two dramas
was revived at the Lyceum in 1839 (probably Peake), at
Sadler’s Wells in 1843 (probably Milner), and later they were
popular at several Minor Theatres. At Edinburgh, 1856-59,
Henry Irving was acting in Milner’s play.
Frankenstein : an Adventure in the Macabre. By Peggy
Webling. Founded on the Novel of the same name by Mary
Wollstonecraft Shelly, was produced at the Little Theatre,
Adelphi, Strand, in 1930.
A contemporary parody of the Frankenstein dramas was
Frank-in-Steam; or, The Modern Promise to Pay, given
at the Olympia, on December 12th, 1824. There have been
at least two later burlesques. At the Adelphi, London,
December 26th, 1849, was given Frankenstein ; or, The Model
Man. At the Gaiety, London, December 24th, 1887, was
given Frankenstein with Nelly Farren in the title-role.
Frankenstein has been adapted for the cinema, and there is
also a kind of sequel, Frankenstein’s Wife, a screen play.
Fred Frolic. His Life and Adventures, n.d. E. J. Brett.
Frederic ; or, The Libertine, including Memoirs of the Family
of Montague. By Mr. Potter. 2 vols. W. Lane, Leadenhall-
Street. MDCCLXXXVIII.
Frederic and Caroline; or, The Fitzmorris Family. A novel.
By the author of Rebecca, Judith, Miriam, etc., 2 vols.,
Minerva-Press. William Lane. 1800. Dedication signed
E.M.F. By Mrs. E. M. Foster.
Frederic and Louisa. A novel. By the author of Adeline.
4 vols. William Lane, Minerva Press, and sold by E. Harlow,
Pall Mall. MDCCXCII.
Frederic Latimer ; or, The History of a Young Man of Fashion.
3 vols., Cadell, jun., and Davies. 1799. Irish ed., Cork:
J. Connor. 1801. By F. Le Maistre.
Frederica; or, The Memoirs of a Young Lady. By A Lady.
Dedicated to Her Royal Highness the Duchess of York.
3 vols., Ridgway. 1792.
Frederica Risberg. A German Story. 2 vols. Printed for
332 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
William Lane at the Mincrva-Press, and sold by E. Harlow^
Pall-Mall. MDCCXCIII. The same author has a later
novel, Agnes, 1801.
Frederick Dornton; or, The Brothers. By R. N. Kelly. 4 vols.,
A. K. Newman. 1822.
Frederick Montravers ; or, The Adopted Son. By Sophia Wood-
fall.
4 vols., Hughes. 1802.
Frederick Moreland. By the Author of Lochiel ;
or, The Field
of Culloden, etc. 2 vols., Edinburgh: 1824. Also London:
A. K. Newman. 1824. By David Carey.
Fredolfo. A Tragedy in Five Acts. By the Rev. C. R. Maturin.
Author of “Bertram,” etc., etc. Edinburgh, Constable;
London, Longman, etc.; 8vo. 1 8 1 g.
Produced at Covent Garden on Wednesday, May 12th, 1819.
Freebooter of the Alps, The. A Romance. In Two Volumes.
By James Griffin. London : Printed for A. K. Newman and
Co., Leadenhall-Street. 1821.
Freebooter’s Bride ; or, The Black Pirate of the Mediterranean,
The, Including the Mystery of the Morescoes. A Romance.
5 vols., A. K. Newman. 1829.
Freebooter’s Wife, The. By E. Grosset. One vol., 1819.
Freischutz; or, The Seventh Bullet. Etch, by Cruikshank.
i2mo. Baldwyn. 1824. From the German of Johann
Friedrick Kind (1767-1843). Adapted by George Soane.
London. 1825. Given at Drury Lane, November 10th,
1824. Based on Kind’s libretto, but the dialogue is practically
new, and the songs have been re-written. Music by Bishop.
Der Freischutz ; or, The Seventh Bidlet. A libretto. 41 pp.
i8mo. 1832. Another ed., German and English. i2mo.
1830. Fourth ed., revised and retranslated, i2mo. London.
[1841]. Fifth ed., ibid., i2mo. London, 1842. Translated
by Carl B. Burkhardt, 8vo., 17pp. Ward : New York. 1845.
These are other American editions; 1856 (with some music);
Bryant: New York, 1871; Italian and English, some music,
Ditson, Boston, 1888. In Davidson’s Musical Opera-Books,
Musical Publishing Co., 167 High Holborn, London. No. 29,
Der Freischutz, German and English words, 10 Pieces music.
Der Freischutz (The Free-Shooter) , A Lyric Folk-Drama
Written by Friedrick Kind and Rendered into English from
TITLE INDEX 333
the German by J. Wrey Mould. The Music composed by
Carl Maria von Weber, Revised from the Orchestral Score bv
W. S. Rockstro. London, T. Bocsey and Co., 28 Holies Street,
Oxford Street. Being Volume the Fifth of The Standard
Lyric Drama. [1850.] Price 12s. 6d.
Kind took his plot from a story, Der Freischiitz, by A. Apel.
This appears, Vol I, p. 1, in the Gespensterbuch by A. Apel
and F. Laun, Goschen, 1810. Apel’s tale was afterwards
published separately, Leipzig, Ernst Fleischer, 1824. Apel
may have derived something from Versuch einer Geschichte
der Hexenprocesse, by Joh. Mor. Schwager, Vol. I, Berlin,
1784.
Weber’s opera was produced at Berlin, June 18th, 1821.
For the first time in England at the English Opera House,
1824, with Braham as Max. Both Miss Noel and Miss
Stephens sang Agatha. Covent Garden, 1824-5. Drury
Lane, 1824-5. Covent Garden, 1827, with Madame Vestris,
Annchen, and Duruset the ami de cceur of M. G. Lewis,
Kilian. He repeated this role at Drury Lane in 1839.
Friar Hildargo. A Romance. By Mr. [Edward] Montague.
4 vols., Hughes, Wigmore-Street. 1807.
Friar's Tale; or, Memoirs of the Chevalier Orsino, With Other
Narratives, The. By L[uke] A[ylmer] Ccnolly, A.B. In
two Volumes. [Quotation, 4 lines, Rogers.] London
:
Printed for T. Cadell and W. Davies, Strand. 1805.
Friends, The; or, Original Letters of a Person Deceased. Now
First Published from Manuscripts in his Correspondent’s
Hands. 2 vols., i2mo., 1773.
Friends Unmasked ; or, Scenes In Real Life. A Novel founded
on Facts. By [Miss] A. A. Hutchinson. Author of The
Exhibitions of the Heart, etc. 3 vols., Longman and Co.,
1812.
Fugitive; or. Family Incidents, The. 3 vols., Minerva-Press,
A. K. Newman. 1814. By Mrs. Sarah Green.
Fugitive Countess; or, The Convent of St. Ursula, The. A
Novel. By Miss Wilkinson. 4 vols., Hughes. 1807.
Fugitive Daughter; or, Eva of Cambria, The. Before 1812.
By the Author of The Castle of Tariffa; or, The Self-
Banished Man. [By Amelia Beauclerc.]
334 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Fugitive of the Forest, The. A Romance. By Maria Lavinia
Smith. 2 vols., Minerva-Press : W. Lane. 1801.
G
Gabriel Forrester; or, The Deserted Son. By Thomas Pike
Lathy. 4 vols., Oddy. 1807.
Gabrielle de Vergy. An Historical Tale. 2 vols., 1790.
Gallant Tom; or. The Perils of a Sailor Ashore and Afloat.
30 nos., E. Lloyd. 1840. By T. Prest. Gallant Tom; or.
The Perils of a Sailor Ashore and Afloat. By the Author
of “ The Smuggler King,” “ Death Ship,” “ Ela the Outcast,”
“ Blighted Heart,” “ Gipsy Boy,” etc., etc. A new edition,
carefully revised and corrected by the Author. 30 nos.
E. Lloyd. N.D. A Re-issue of 1849. Gallant Tom was
frequently re-issued and reprinted. One of Prest’s most
popular works.
Gambler’s Wife, The. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey.
3 vols., Newby, 1844. Another ed., with two Illustrations.
London : Clarke, Beaton and Co., 148, Fleet Street. Ipswich :
J. M. Burton and Co. : MDCCCLIII. Another ed., one vol.
David Bryce, Amen Corner, i860. Price 2s.
Gambler’s Wife; or, Murder Will Out, The. 17 penny nos.
E. Lloyd. 1850. By Mi's. Elizabeth Caroline Grey.
Game of Life, The. By Leitch Ritchie. 2 vols., Churton. 1830.
Reprinted, Parlour Library, No. 58. 1851.
Gamesters, The. By the Author of Burton Wood. Baldwin.
1786.
By Mrs. Anna Maria Johnson, afterwards Mrs. Mackenzie
under which name see Index of Authors.
Gaston De Blondeville ; or, The Court of Henry III. Keeping
Festival In Ardenne, A Romance. St. Alban’s Abbey, A
Metrical Tale; With Some Poetical Pieces. By Anne
Ratcliffe, Author* of “ The Mysteries of Udolpho,”
“ Romance of the Forest,” etc. To which Is Prefixed A
Memoir Of The Author, With Extracts From Her Journals.
In Four Volumes. London : Henry Colburn, New Burlington
Street. 1826.
TITLE INDEX 335
Vol. I. Memoir Of The Life And Writings Of Mrs. Radcliffe,
pp. 2-132. Written by Sir Thomas Noon Talfourd. Gaston
De Blondeville. Introduction, pp. 3-76. The First Day,
p. 79. The Second Day, pp. 105-86. Vol. II. The Third
Day, pp. 1-100, and pp. 103-118. The Fourth Day, pp.
121-142. The Fifth Day and Night, pp. 145-242. The
Sixth Day, pp. 245-314. The Seventh Day, pp. 317-399.
Vol III. The Seventh Night, pp. 3-40. The Eighth Day,
pp. 43-55 Notes, pp. 59-87. St. Alban’s Abbey; A
Poetical Romance. Cantos I-IX, pp. 91-375. Vol IV. St.
Alban’s Abbey, continued : Canto X, pp. 1-44. Notes, pp.
47-106. Miscellaneous Poems, pp. 1 09-331.
Gaston De Blondeville. Another ed., 4 vols. Colburn, 1833.
Another ed., Colburn’s Modem Novelist, 2 vols., 1834. I
give the editions of 1833 and 1834 on the authority of an
English catalogue.
Gaston de Blondeville, ou Henri III tenant sa Cour a Kenil-
worth en Ardennes. Roman traduit de l’anglais par le
traducteur des romans de Sir W. Scott [A. J. B. Defauconpret],
3 tom., in —12. Paris. 1826.
Gaston de Blondeville, a play (unacted), is included in the
Dramatic Works (1854) of Mary Russell Mitford.
Der Geisterbanner. Eitie Wundergeschichte aus mundlichen und
schriftlichen Traditionen gesammelt. 1792. Second ed.,
1799, with subtitle Eine Geschichte aus den Papieren eines
Ddnen. By Lorenz Flammenberg, pseudonym of Karl
Friedrich Kahlert. Translated by Peter Teuthold as The
Necromancer ; Or, The Tale Of The Black Forest: 1794.
See under this title.
Der Geisterseher. The first part of Schiller’s romance was
turned into Englisih in 1795 by D. Boileau as The Ghost-Seer
;
or, The Apparitionist. The translation by Dr. Wilhelm
Render, “ Teacher of the German Language in the University
of Cambridge,” The Armenian ; or, the Ghost Seer. A his-
tory founded on fact, 4 vols., London, Symonds, 1800 (review,
Monthly Mirror, May, 1800), includes the continuation by
Emanuel Friedrich Wilhelm Ernst Follenius (1773-1809).
There are several English versions of Der Geisterseher. Render
was reprinted in Colburn and Bentley’s “ Standard Novels,”
No. IX (Frankenstein, complete; and Vol. I, Ghost-Seer)
and No. X (Vol. II, Ghost-Seer), 1831. Also The Ghost-Seer,
Colburn and Bentley, 2 vols., 1831.
33^ A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Der Geisterseher. The first part of Schiller’s romance was
Colburn and Bentley, 2 vols., 1831. The translation in the
Bohn Schiller, 1849, by Henry Bohn who discards the work
of Follenius.
Der Geistehseher, which Schiller himself left incomplete, ap-
peared 1785-9 in the periodical Thalia, and as a separate
volume, 1789.
There is a version by Roscoe in his German Novelists; an
edition, Blackwood, 1856; as well as other reprints.
Gems of Romance. 28 penny nos., E. Lloyd. 1836.
Generosity. A novel. 3 vols. William Lane ;
at the Minerva.
MDCCXCII.
Generous Attachment, The. A Novel In A Series Of Letters.
4 vols. London: Bew. 1787.
Generous Briton; Or, The Authentic Memoirs Of William
Goldsmith, Esq., The. 2 vols. B. Law and Son. 1792.
Generous Lover ; Or, The Adventures Of The Marchioness De
Brianville, The. Translated from the Original Italian of the
Abbe Pietro Chiari. 3 vols. D. Steel. 1771.
Genevieve ; or, The Orphan’s Visit. A novel. By Mrs. Strutt.
3 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1818.
Genius: Or The Mysterious Adventures Of Don Carlos De
Grandez, The. By the Marquis Von Grosse. Translated
from the German by Joseph Trapp, Translator of Stoever’s
Life of Linnaeus, &c. 2 vols. Allen and West. 1796.
Der Genius of Karl Grosse, self-styled Marquis, also translated
(1796) by P. Will as Horrid Mysteries under which title see.
Gentleman George. By J. J. G. Bradley. Illustrated by G. C.
Tressider. Serial, Boy’s Standard, commencing Vol. I, No.
1. November 6th, 1875.
Gentleman In Black, The. By — Dalton. 1 vol. Kidd. 1830.
Illustrated by Cruikshank.
Gentleman Jack. A Naval Story. By the Author of Cavendish.
8vo. London. 1837. Reprinted in “ Books For Railway
Reading ” ;
“ Celebrated Naval Novels.” Gentleman Jack.
Price 2 s. Ornamental Boards. London : Charles H. Clarke,
23a, Paternoster Row. N.D. [
c
.
1855].
TITLE INDEX 337
Gentleman Jack, A Naval Story, by William Johnson Neale,
must be carefully distinguished from the following romance
by Mrs. Grey.
Gentleman Jack ; or, Life on the Road. CCCXCVIII chapters.
1,636 pages. 205 penny weekly nos. Nos. 2, 3, and 4, Pre-
sented Gratis With No. 1. London: E. Lloyd, 12 Salisbury-
Square, Fleet-St. [1852-3.]
By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey.
Genuine Memoirs Of Miss Harriet Melvin And Miss Leonora
Stanway. In A Series Of Letters. By A Young Lady of
Glocester. i2mo. J. Fuller. 1772.
George Barnwell. A Novel. In Three Volumes. By T. S.
Surr, Author Of Consequences, A Novel; And Christ’s
Hospital, A Poem. [Quotation, 4 lines, Cowper]. London :
Printed For H. D. Symonds, No. 20, Paternoster Row. 1798.
Fourth ed., 3 vols., Richard Phillips, 1807. Fifth ed., 3 vols.,
A. K. Newman, 1825. Sixth ed., 3 vols., Newman, 1834.
In the “British Library,” One vol., 1857.
Lillo’s famous play The London Merchant ; Or, The History
of George Barnwell (universally known as George Barnwell)
originally produced at Drury Lane, June 22nd, 1731, was
still a great favourite in the theatre, and had been reprinted
again and again. Mrs. Siddons was celebrated in the role of
Millwood.
George Barnwell, Memoirs of. One vol. Price 35. 6d.
London: Sherwood, Neely, and Jones. 1810.
Life of George Barnwell; or, The London Apprentice of the
Last Century, The. 32 nos. 8vo. London : White. 1820.
This has been rather stupidly attributed to E. L. Blanchard,
who is misnamed and called Edward Lytton Blanchard.
Edward Leman (or Laman) Blanchard was born 1820 and
died 1889. He was a very prolific author, and wrote many
successful pantomimes and other dramatic pieces. When
G. W. M. Reynolds had a difference with the publisher George
Vickers, and left him for a new publisher, John Dicks,
Vickers commissioned E. L. Blanchard to write the Fourth
Series of The Mysteries of London, then in progress.
George Barnwell, the City Apprentice ; or, London Life in the
Last Century. 2 vols. (generally found in one). Price ir. 6d.
George Vickers. 1849. This is possibly by E. L. Blanchard.
z
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
338
George Barrington ; or, Life in London A Hundred Years Ago.
By T. Frost. 30 nos., 1851. Reprinted, John Dicks, one
vol., 30 Illustrations. Price 4s. N.D. (
c
.
1884), when
Malcolm J. Errym is named as the author.
Barrington, the Pick-Pocket. A drama, anon., produced at
the Surrey Theatre, Blackfriars Road, London, on Monday,.
October 21st, 1833.
George Barrington ; or, The Life of a Pickpocket. By Thomas
Prochis Taylor. A drama. 1844. Licence refused, August,.
1844.
George Bateman. A Novel. By Elizabeth Blower. 3 vols.,
Dodsley. 1782.
Georgina; or, Memoirs Of The Bellmour Family. By A Young
Lady. 4 vols., Printed for the Author; and sold by R.
Baldwin, etc., 1787.
Georgina ; or, The Advantages Of Grand Connexions. A Novel.
By Mrs. Howell. 2 vols., Minerva-Press : W. Lane.
MDCCXCVI. With a frontispiece.
Gerald Fitzgerald, An Irish Tale. By Ann of Swansea. 5 vols.,
A. K. Newman. 1831. [By Mrs. Ann Curtis, nee Kemble.]
Geraldina, A Novel, Founded On A Recent Event. 2 vols.,.
Robinsons. 1798.
Geraldine Fauconberg. 3 vols., G. Wilkie and J. Robinson.
1808. By Sarah Harriet Burney.
Geraldine ; or, Modes of Faith and Practice. A Tale. In Three
Volumes. By A Lady. [Two prose quotations ;
the first,
Cowper ;
the second, Elizabeth Smith.] London : Printed
for T. Cadell and W. Davies in The Strand ;
and W. Black-
wood, Edinburgh. 1820. An autographed copy has the
initials M.J.K.
Geraldine; or, The Secret Assassins of The Old Stone Cross.
By T. Prest. 26 nos., E. Lloyd. 1844.
Geraldwood. By the Author of Villeroy and Sigismar. [Henry
Whitfield.] 4 vols., Minerva-Press: W. Lane. 1801.
German Letters. Translated into English. By Catharine
Seldon. One vol., Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman, 1805.
There is an Irish edition, Cork, 1804.
TITLE INDEX 339
German Sorceress, The. A Romance. 3 vols., Minerva-Press.
Lane, Newman, 1803. By Mr. Lyttleton.
Die Geschichte der Fraulein Phobe Osmond, von der Verjasserin
der Lucie Wellers, aus dem Englishen. 1776.
The author of Lucy Wellers, 1745, was Miss Smythies, but
the English original (The History of Miss Phoebe Osmond)
of this German translation, apparently has not been traced.
Ghost of Harcourt, The. A romance. To which is added The
Fair Maid of Portugal. One vol., Minerva-Press; Lane,
Newman. 1803.
Giles Evergreen; or, Fresh from the Country. Coloured
wrapper. E. J. Brett, n.d.
Gilham Farm; or, The Flistory of Melvin and. Lucy. 1780.
Introduces some Indian scenes.
Gilmour ; or. The Last Lockinge. 3 vols., Whittaker. 1824.
This anonymous romance when translated into French was
erroneously ascribed to Anna Maria Porter. Gilmour, ou le
dernier Lockinge, roman historique des deux roses d’Angle-
terre. Par A. M. Porter. Traduit de 1 ’ anglais par J. Cohen.
3 tom., Paris. 1829.
Gipsey Bride ; or, The Misers Daughter, The. A Tale of the
Sixteenth Century. By the Author of Jane Shore. [Mrs.
Elizabeth Bennett.] 8vo., London : J. and F. Tallis. N.D.
(
c
.
1844). Issued in penny nos., but generally bound in one
vol., which has frontispiece and vignette title. Ainsworth’s
The Miser’s Daughter appeared in Ainsworth’s Magazine,
1842 ; 3 vols., 1842 ;
Second ed., 1843 ;
Third ed., and 1st in
One vol., 1848.
Gipsey Chief; or, The Haunted Oak, The. A Tale Of Other
Days. By Hannah Maria Jones, Authoress of “ The Gipsey
Mother,” “ Outlaw’s Bride,” “ Scottish Chieftains,” “ Pride
of the Village,” “ Emily Moreland,” “ Rosaline Woodbridge,”
etc., etc. [Quotation, verse, 9 lines, Elliott.] Embellished
With Highly-Finished Engravings On Steel. [Frontispiece,
vignette title, and 9 plates.] London : Published for the
Proprietors, and Sold by George Virtue. N.D. [1841]. Re-
print, 31 nos., H. Lea. 1850. A poor reprint, with crude
woodcuts. One vol., London. N.D. [c. 1870]. This was a
340 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
very popular romance, and it was often reprinted, but in
cheapest fashion.
Gipsey Countess, The. By Miss Gunning. 4 vols., Longman
and Rees. 1 799-
Gipsey Girl ; or, The Heir of Hazel Dell, The. A Romantic
Tale. By Hannah Maria Jones. London Printing and
Publishing Company. Bluecoat Buildings, n.d.
Gipsey Madge ; or, The Thieves of London. 12 penny nos.
United Kingdom Press. 1861.
Gipsey Mother; or, The Miseries of Enforced Marriage, The.
By Hannah Maria Jones. Virtue. 1835. Reprint, John
Lofts, 1854.
Gipsey
1
s Warning; or, Love and Ruin, The. An Entirely
Original Romance of Real Life. By H. J. Copson. 20
penny nos. London : Cousins. N.D. [
c
.
1833].
Gipsy Boy, The. By G. W. M. Reynolds. One of Reynolds’s
shorter tales. Published by Dicks in a volume The Young
Fisherman and (eight) other Tales.
Gipsy Boy; a Romance of the Woods and the Wilds, The.
By T. Prest. 58 penny nos., E. Lloyd. 1847. Re-issued
about 1859.
Gipsy Boy; or, Green Woods and Battlefields, The. 52 nos.,
Edwin J. Brett, Ltd. 1870.
Gipsy Bride, The. By M. E. O. Malen. No. 47, Dicks’ English
Novels. Price Sixpence Each.
Gipsy Of The Abruzzo, The. By William Grattan Tyrone
Power. 3 vols. E. Bull. 1831.
Gipsy Schoolboy ; or, The Mystery of a Dark Night, The. A
School Story. Edwin J. Brett, Ltd. 1870.
Gipsy’s Daughter, The. A Tale. Edited by Mrs. Grey.
[Rather, written by Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey.] 2 vols.,
London. 1852.
Girl Of The Mountains, The. A Novel. By Mrs. Parsons.
4 vols., William Lane, at the Minerva-Press. MDCCXCVII.
Irish ed., Dublin, P. Byrne. No. 108, Grafton-Street. 1798.
TITLE INDEX 34I
Glenalpin; or, The Bandit’s Cave. By Miss Sarah Taylor. 2
vols., Norwich, Wilkin; London, Longman. 1828.
Glenarvon. In Three Volumes. London : Printed for Henry
Colburn. 1816. Post 8vo. Half titles to Volumes I and III.
No half title to Vol. II was published. By Lady Caroline
Lamb. This famous book is a thinly disguised romance of
Byron, Lady Caroline Lamb and her husband, afterwards
Lord Melbourne. Reprinted, 1865, as The Fatal Passion.
A new edition was projected in 1928, but unfortunately not
published. In a letter from La Mira, Venice, dated August
7th, 1817, to Murray, Lord Byron says: “An Italian trans-
lation of ‘
Glenarvon ’
came lately to be printed at Venice.
The censor (Sr. Petrotini) refused to sanction the publication
till he had seen me on the subject ... I desired him ... to
permit the poor translator to publish his labours.”
Glencarron. A Scottish Tale. By Miss Sarah Wigley. 3 vols.,
i2mo. Colburn. 1811. Advertised by A. K. Newman,
1813.
Glencore Tower; or, The Feuds of Scotland. 2 vols., Minerva-
Press; Lane, Newman. 1806.
Glenloney; or, The Dcemon Friend. By William Henry Merle.
Longman. 1825.
Glenmore Abbey; or, The Lady Of The Rock. A novel. By
the author of Ariel. 3 vols., Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman.
1805. By Mrs. Isaacs.
Glenoeven ; or, The Fairy Palace. By Eleanor Sleath. One
vol., Black. 1815. Price 3s.
Glenwar, the Scottish Bandit. Chapbook. n.d. [c. 1799].
Goblin Groom; A Tale Of Dunse, The. By R. D. Fenwick.
4to. Edinburgh. 1809.
Godfrey De Hastings. A romance. 3 vols. Minerva-Press,
William Lane. 1798.
Godfrey Ranger. A Novel. By D. W. Paynter. 3 vols. Man-
chester, 1813. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1818.
Gold; or, The Stranger Of The Wreck. A Romance. By
Malcolm J. Errym. Serialized in Forty Numbers in Lloyds
Entertaining Journal, commencing February 15th, 1845.
342 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Gold Worshippers ; or, The Days We Live In, The. A future
historical novel. By the Author of “ Whitefriars ” [Emma
Robinson]. London. 8vo. 1851. New ed., “ The Railway
Library,” 1858.
Golden Marriage, The. A Romance of Deep Interest. 10
penny nos., London: E. Lloyd. N.D. [1839].
Gomez Arias; or, The Moors. A Romance. 3 vols., Hurst.
1802. Second ed., A. K. Newman.
Gondez The Monk; A Romance Of The Thirteenth Century.
By W[illiam] H[enry] Ireland. 4 vols., Earle and Huckle-
bridge. 1805.
Gondola, The. By Henry Stoe Van Dyk. 8vo., Lupton Rolfe.
1827.
Gonzalo Di Baldivia; or, A Widow’s Vow. A Romantic Legend.
By Ann of Swansea. 4 vols., Minerva Press ;
A. K. Newman.
1817. Inscribed, by permission, to William Wilberforce.
[By Mrs. Ann Curtis, nee Kemble.]
Good A lint : Including The Story Of Signor Aldersoni And His
Son, The. By Harriet Ventum. Author of Charles Leeson,
etc. Chappie. 1813.
Good Men Of Modern Date. A Satirical Tale. By Mrs. Green,
author of “ Romance Readers and Romance Writers,”
“Reformist,” etc. 3 vols., Tegg. 1811.
The Monthly Review, Feb., 1811, and again May, 1812,
Vol. LXVIII, p. 109, suggests that Mrs. Green is a pseudonym
concealing the pretended sex of the writer.
Good Nature And Other Tales. By Miss Aimwell. 3 vols.,
A. K. Newman. 1821.
Good Society; or, Contrasts Of Character. By Mrs. Elizabeth
Caroline Grey. 3 vols., London. 1861, 1863.
Gordian Knot, The. By Henry [Richard Griffith], 2 vols.,
Bccket. 1769.
A Gossip’s Story, And A Legendary Tale. By the Author of
Advantages of Education. 2 vols. T. N. Longman. 1796.
By Mrs. Jane West. Second ed., ibid. 1796. Third ed. ibid.
1707.
TITLE INDEX 343
Founded on
Gotha; or, Memoirs Of The Wurzburg Family.
Facts. 2 vols., 1 8 1 1
.
Gothic Legends, A Tale of Mystery. With a Frontispiece.
Chapbook. 1802.
Gothic Pieces. Chapbook. 1804.
Gothic Stories. Chapbook. 1797.
Gothic Stories. Chapbook. 1799.
Gothic Stories. Chapbook. 1800.
Gothic Story of Courville Castle ; The; or, The Illegitimate Son,
A Victim of Prejudice and Passion; owing to the early
Impressions inculcated with unremitting assiduity by an
Implacable Mother, whose resentment to her Husband excited
her Son to envy, Usurpation and Murder; but retributive
justice at length restores the right Heir to his Lawful Posses-
sions. To which is added the English Earl; or, The History
of Robert Fitzwalter. i2mo. Gothic chapbook. Coloured
frontispiece. N.D. [c. 1800].
Governess Of Courtland Abbey, The. 4 vols., Vemor and
Hood. 1797.
Grace Darling; or, The Heroine of the Fern Islands. By
G. W. M. Reynolds. One vol., G. Henderson. London.
1839. Reprinted by John Dicks, Grace Darling and other
stories. 6d.
Grace Rivers; or, The Merchant’s Daughter. A Romance.
By Malcolm J. Errym. 44 penny nos., E. Lloyd. 1843-4.
Re-issue, 1845.
Grace Rivers; or, The Merchant’s Daughter. A Drama.
Produced at the Royal Pavilion, Whitechapel-road, Mile End,
on February 5th, 1844. The Royal Pavilion, opened Monday,
November 10th, 1828, was famous as the home of “ Newgate
melodrama.” Burned in 1856, the theatre was subsequently
rebuilt.
Graham Hamilton. By Lady Caroline Lamb. 2 vols., Henry
Colburn. 1822.
Grandeur And Meanness ; or, Domestic Persecution. By Mary
Charlton. 3 vols., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1820.
Grasville Abbey. A Romance. In Three Volumes. [Quotation.
3 lines, Blair, The Grave.] London: Printed for G. and J.
344 A gothic bibliography
Robinson, Paternoster-Row. 1
797 * By George Moore.
“This novel first appeared in the Lady’s Magazine”: The
Monthly Mirror, December, 1797, Vol. IV, p. 346. Gras-
ville Abbey appeared in the Dublin Masonic and Sentimental
Magazine, 1795-6: contemporary MS. note in a copy of the
First Edition. First Irish Edition : In Two Volumes.
Dublin : Printed for P. Wogan, P. Byrne, G. Barnet, H.
Colbert, and J. Rice. 1798. A new ed., London: A. K.
Newman. 3 vols. 1832.
L’Abbaye de Grasville, Paris, 1798; reprinted, 1810. Trans-
lated by Ducas, who erroneously (but perhaps purposely)
attributed the romance to Mrs. Radcliffe. It is mentioned
with Lewis’ The Monk and Mrs. Radcliffe’s romances in
La Nuit anglaise, a satirical romance by Beilin de La
Liborliere, Paris, 1799, “Deux volumes in—12 se trouvent
dans les ruines de Paluzzi . . . dans les abbayes de Grasville,
de Saint-Glair, dans les chateaux d’Udolphe, de Mcrtymore.
. . Here the mock demon asks M. Dabaud :
“ Renoncez-
vous librement et absolument aux Mysteres d’Udolphe, au
Moine, a YAbbaye de Grasville, aux Souterrains de Mazzini,
au Tombeau, a la Foret, au Confessional des Penitents
noirs ... ?
”
German translation. Die Abten von Grasville. 3 vols., 1799.
Gratitude, And Other Tales. By Mrs. Mosse. 3 vols., A. K.
Newman. 1826. Mrs. Henrietta Mosse, nee Rouviere.
Great Frost, The; or, London in 1814. The mysteries of love,
the crimes of the abandoned, the awful effects of unrestrained
passions, and the singular anecdotes of distinguished persons,
will be found combined, to render this work one of the most
popular of the present day. 16 penny nos., S. Y. Collins;
1
13 Fleet Street. 1851.
Gretna Green. A Novel. By Hannah Maria Jones. Virtue.
1820.
Gretna Green; or, All For Love. By Susannah Frances Reynolds
(Mrs. G. W. M. Reynolds). In 54 weekly nos. No. 54
published on Wednesday, August 30th, 1848, with Title-page
and Index. John Dicks, 7 Wellington Street North, Strand.
1847-8. Re-issue in Penny Weekly Nos. and Sixpenny
Monthly Parts, and in one vol. complete as Gretna Green;
or, All For Love, A Domestic Tale: 1849. Illustrated by H.
Anelay.
TITLE INDEX 345
Gretna-Green Marriages ; or, The Nieces. By Mrs. [Sarah]
Green. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1823.
Grey Friar, And The Black Spirit Of The Wye, The. A
Romance. By John English, Esq., [of Blackwood Hall, Mon-
mouthshire]. 2 vols., Minerva-Press ;
A. K. Newman. 1810.
Griffith Abbey; or, The Memoirs Of Eugenia. By Mrs. Char-
lotte Matthews. 2 vols., Oddy and Godwin. 1807. A. K.
Newman, Minerva Press, 1818.
Guardian Angel, The. A narrative. From the German [of
Kotzebue]. London. 1802.
Guerilla Chief, The. A Novel, in Three Volumes. By Emma
Parker, Author of “ Elfrida, Heiress of Belgrove ” ;
—
" Virginia; or, The Peace of Amiens ”—and “ Arestas.”
[Quotation, verse, 3 lines and hemistich, M. R. Mitford.]
London : Printed for William Lindsell, Wimple Street ;
by
C. Gold, 24, Wardour Street, Soho. 1815. Second ed., ibid.
1817.
Guilty ; or, Not Guilty; or, A Lesson For Husbands. A Tale.
By Ann of Swansea. 5 vols. A. K. Newman. 1822. [By
Mrs. Ann Curtis, nee Kemble.]
Guiscard ; or, The Mysterious Accusation. A Romance. By
Horace Vere. 2 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman.
1809.
Gwelygordd ; or, The Child Of Sin. A Tale Of Welsh Origin.
By the Author Of The Infernal Quixote. [Rev. Charles
Lucas.] 3 vols., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1820.
H
Hag of the Storm! or, The Doomed Knight, The. “Taken
from a Legend of the ‘
Wild and Wonderful ’
highly popular
in Holstein,” in other words an adaptation of M. G. Lewis’
The Wood Dcemon (later and better known as One o’ Clock!)
for Astley’s when it was produced on May 27th, 1833,
and had a great success. For The Wood Dcemon see
Montague Summers, The Gothic Quest, pp. 274-76.
On Monday, June 10th, 1833, the “Entertainment” at
346 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Astley’s commenced with The Siege of Troy
,
“Including
and embodying all the varied resources of the Theatre,” a
very real and not too remote echo of Elkanah Settle and
Bartlemy Fair tragi-comedy The Siege of Troy. There
followed a Spectacle entitled Chinese Wonders Or Five Days
Fete! of Pekin, and next The Reaper “ a Rustic Tale of Love
and Harvest Home ” delineated in “ the Execution of some
Equestrian Feats.” The whole concluded with The Hag
of the Storm! or, The Doomed Knight. Mr. Gomersal
played Hardyknute, Lord Holstein ;
Mr. S. Foster, Rolf,
his Esquire ;
Messrs. Bland, F. Smith and T. Smith, Osway,
Rupert and Karl ;
Mr. Conquest, Willikind ;
Miss Lee,
Leolyn, the Dumb Boy, Miss Daly, Una ;
Mrs. Pope, Clotilda
;
Mrs. J. Ducrow, Paulina ;
and Mr. Curtlich, Sangrida, the
Hag of the Wood. There were marvellous effects, “ A Mid-
night Storm of August, Convocation of Daemons, Witches,
and Fiends to bow to the Evil Enchantress. Awful Charm
and Incantation. Change to the Baronial Hall.” Later,
an “ Allegorical Ballet of Sorcery ” was “ interrupted by the
Mysterious Woman of the Black Veil—sudden Convulsion
of Nature and Awful Darkness of the earth, preparatory to
the Fiery Appearance of the Sorceress demanding her Victim.
Sleeping Chamber of Mystery, and the Fathom Deep Cell of
Sorcery. Ropey Altar of Human Bones—The Dark Powers
of Evil Fall, and the Rightful Heir is Re-enstated in the
honour of the Domains of Holstein, whilst the Doomed
Knight is borne off by the Dragon Daemon.”
In its original form, in derivative minor melodrama and
spectacle Lewis’ romantic play remained long exceedingly
popular, and as late as 1848 the Marylebone Theatre called
their Christmas pantomime, produced December 23rd,
Harlequin and Hardyknute ; or, The Knight and the Wooden
Demon.
Hal Harkforward and Tom Tallyho’s Schooldays. E. J. Brett,
n.d.
Hall of Hellingsley, The. A Tale by Sir E. S. Brydges, Bart.,
etc. 3 vols., Longman, Hurst. 1821.
Half-pay Officer; or, Memoirs of Charles Chanceley, The. A
Novel. 3 vols., Printed for the Author by T. Bensley. 1788.
By John Heriot.
TITLE INDEX 347
Hamel, The Obeah Man. 2 vols., London: Hunt. 1827.
Hampstead Murder; or, The Prediction, The. 12 penny nos.,
London: E. Lloyd. 1845.
Handsome Harry Of The Fighting Belvedere, commenced in
Charles Fox’s The Boys
3
Standard, No. 20, 1876, and was
followed by the sequels Cheerful Ching-Ching and Daring
Ching-Ching. These became very popular and initiated a
number of “ Ching-Ching ” tales.
In 1888 E. Harcourt Burrage issued the first number of a
paper Ching-Cking's Own which (with variants) ran until
June, 1893.
Happiness, A Tale for the Grave and the Gay. 2 vols., London.
1821.
Happy Jack the Rover. Coloured wrapper, n.d.
Happy Discovery; or, The History Of Miss Emilia Cresswell,
The. 2 vols., London: j. Wilkie. 1769.
Harcourt. A Novel. By Gabrielli [Mrs. Mary Meeke]. 4 vols.,
Minerva-Press ;
W. Lane. 1
799-
Hardenbrass And Haverill; or, The Secret Of The Castle, A
Novel. Containing A Madman And No Madman; Who
Walks; Deeds Of Darkness, etc.; Remarkable Characters,
Incidents, Adventures, etc. Instructive And Entertaining.
4 vols., Sherwood, Neely, and Jones. 1817.
Hardiboy James; or, Chums and Chappies. 13 nos., E. Har-
court Burrage. n.d. The sequel is The Bangwell Boys.
Harley Radington. By Miss D. P. Campbell. 2 vols., A. K.
Newman. 1821.
Harriet; or, The Innocent Adultress. 2 vols., 1774.
Harriet Stanton; or, Married and Starved for Money. 60
penny nos., London. N.D. (
c
.
1859).
Harry Racket Scapegrace, The Spoiled Child. A Tale for the
Wilful. By Pierce Egan The Younger. Author of “ Robin
Hood,” “ Wat Tyler,” “ Paul Jones,” “ Quintin Matsys,” etc.
“ Spare the rod, and spoil the child.” One vol., 102 pp.
London : Published by William Barth, 4, Brydges Street,
Covent Garden. N.D. [1850].
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
348
Hartlebourne Castle: A descriptive English tale. 2 vols., Belh
*
794-
Hartly-House, Calcutta. 3 vols., Dodsley. 1789. An epistolary
Anglo-Indian novel.
Harvest Home, The. A Domestic Romance. By T. Prest. 42
penny parts. London: E. Lloyd. 1852.
Hatred; or, The vindictive father. A tale of sorrow. 3 vols.,
Minerva-Press. Lane and Newman. 1802.
Haunted Castle, The. A Norman Romance. By George
Walker. 2 vols., Minerva-Press. William Lane.
MDCCXCIV.
Haunted Castle, The. Chapbook. n.d. [c. 1799].
Haunted Castle, The, from the German of August Lafontaine.
In Tales Of Humour A?id Romance, R. Holcroft. Longmans:
1829. American ed., New York : Francis, 1829.
Haunted Cavern, The. A Caledonian Tale. By John Palmer,
Jun., Crosby: 1796. Published in the winter of 1795, and
reviewed in The Critical Review, December, 1795. Re-
printed Vol. IV, No. 104, The Romancist, and Novelist’s
Library, Edited by William Hazlitt. London :
J. Clements.
1840.
Haunted Palace; or, The Horrors Of Ventoliene, The. By
Mrs. Yorke. 3 vols., Earle and Hemet. 1801. Dedication
signed May 31st, 1801, to Joshua, Viscount Allen in Co.
Kildare and Baron Allen of Stillorgan, Co. Dublin (1728-
1816).
Haunted Priory; or, The Fortunes Of The House Of Rayo, The.
A Romance Founded Partly On Historical Facts. By Stephen
Cullen. 8vo., Bell. 1794. Second ed., 1795. Third ed.,
1796. Dublin, 1794. In The Romancist and Novelist’s
Library, Vol. II, No. 39, as “ Sixth Edition,” J. Clements,
1839.
Haunted Tower ; or, The Adventures of Sir Egbert De Rothsay,
The. By Charles Giberne. One vol., i2mo. 24 pp. R.
Hunter. 1822. Chapbook.
Haunted Woman; or, Passion and Perseverance, The. A Tale
TITLE INDEX 349
of Startling Interest. 20 penny nos. London. Lea. N.D.
(
c. 1849). Re-issue, ig nos., Lea. 1866.
Hawthorn Cottage; or, The Two Cupids. A Tale by J. Jones.
2 vols., Aspeme. 1815.
He Deceives Himself. A Domestic Tale. By Marianne
Chambers, Daughter of the late Mr. Charles Chambers, many
years in the service of the Hon. East India Company, and
unfortunately lost in the Winterton. Published by subscrip-
tion. 3 vols., Dilly. 1799.
Heads of the Headless, The. 8vo. [1847]. By F. Saville.
Woodcuts.
Heart And The Fancy; or, Valsinore, The. A Tale. By Miss
Benger. Two vols., Longman. 1813.
Hearts Of Steel, The. An Irish Historical Tale Of The
Eighteenth Century. By the Author of O’Halloran, etc.,
Price is. 1848. By Dr. James M’Henry. Sold by E.
Farrington and J. H. Woodley. See under O’Halloran.
Hearts Versus Heads; or, Diamond Cut Diamond. A novel.
3 vols., i2mo. A. K. Newman: 1823. By Innes Hoole.
Heaven’s Best Gift. A novel by Mrs. Lucius Phillips. 4 vols.
Lane, Minerva-Press (also Miller). MDCCXCVII.
Hebrew Maiden; or, The Lost Diamond, The. A Tale of
Chivalry. By T. Prest. 104 penny nos., London: E. Lloyd.
1841. In a later issue the woodcuts have been toned down
and are less crude and less characteristic.
Heerfort And Clara. From the German. 3 vols., Robinsons.
1789.
Heir Apparent, The. By Mrs. Gunning. Revised and Corrected
by her Daughter, Miss Gunning. 3 vols., Ridgway. 1802.
Heir Of Drumcondra ; or, Family Pride, The. By Mary Julia
Young. 3 vols., Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1810.
Heir Of Montague, The. 3 vols., Minerva-Press: W. Lane.
MDCCXCVIII. With a frontispiece.
Heir Presumptive, The. By Lady Stepney. 3 vols., Bentley.
1835-
350 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Heirs Of Villeroy, The. By Henrietta Rouviere. 3 vols. v
Minerva-Press ;
Lane, Newman. 1805. Miss Henrietta
Rouviere, afterwards Mrs. Mosse.
Heiress Of Avonmore, The. 3 vols., Minerva-Press; Lane,
Newman. 1804. By Miss Taylor.
Heiress Di Montalde ; or, The Castle Of Bezanto, The. By
Mrs. Ann Ker. 2 vols., Kerby. 1799.
Heiress of Montalvan; or, First and Second Love, The. (See
under Santo Sebastiano.) Published in penny numbers,
1845-6. (No. I, December 20th, 1845.) W. Caffyn, 31
Oxford Street, Mile End. 1846. No. I was given gratis
to every purchaser of No. 18 of Hannah Maria Jones’ The
Ruined Cottage ; or, The Farmer’s Maid.
Helen ; or, Domestic Occurrences. A Novel. By Augusta A.
Hirst. 2 vols., Bent. 1807.
Helen De Tournon. A Novel. Translated from the French.
2 vols., London: Longman. 1821. By Madame Adelaide
Maria Emilie De Souza-Botelho.
Helen Halsey. A Tale of the Borders. A Romance of Deep
Interest. 10 penny nos., London: E. Lloyd. [1847.]
Helen Monteagle. By Alicia Lefanu. Author of Strathallari.
In Three Volumes. Sherwood, Neely, and Jones. 1818.
Helen Of Glenross. By H. Martin. 4 vols., Robinson. 1802.
An epistolary novel.
Helen Porter ; or, A Wife’s Tragedy and A Sister’s Trials. A
Romance. By the Author of “ The Hangman’s Daughter."
25 penny nos., London: E. Lloyd. N.D. (c. 1844).
Helen Sinclair. A Novel By A Lady [Elizabeth Isabella Spence].
2 vols., Gadell junior and Davies. 1
799 *
Helena. By A Lady Of Distinction. Richardson. 1788.
Helena Egerton; or, Traits Of Female Character. A. K.
Newman. 1824. The Second Edition of Woman; or, Minor
Maxims. See under this title.
Heloise ; or, The Siege of Rhodes. A Legendary Tale. 2 vols.,
1788. By George Monck Berkeley.
TITLE INDEX 35
1
Henrietta Bellman; or, The New Family Picture. 2 vols.,
Vernor. 1804. From the German of August Lafontaine.
Henrietta, Countess Osenvor ; a sentimental novel in a series of
letters. By Mr. Tressac de Vergy. Sold by J. Roson. 1770.
In Harrison’s The Novelist’s Magazine, Vol. XVII, 1785.
Illustrated by Stothard.
Henrietta Of Gerstenfeld. A German Story. Vol. I, 1787;
Vol. II, 1788. W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street. Attributed in
1787 to Wieland, whose name is omitted from Vol II.
Henrietta Princess Royal Of England, Daughter Of King
Charles I. An Historical Novel. By the Comtesse de la
Fayette. Translated from the French. With an Elegant
Portrait of the Princess Royal. Engraved by Grainger. Allen
and West. 1796. A pseudo-historical romance by Madame
de la Fayette, 1634-93.
Henry. A novel. By the author of The Cypher [P. Littlejohn].
2 vols. W. Lane at the Minerva-Press. MDCCXCIII.
Richard Cumberland’s novel Henry was published two years
later, in 1795.
Henry And Isabella; or, A Trial Through Life. By the Author
of Caroline; or, The Diversities of Fortune. 4 vols., Minerva-
Press: W. Lane. 1788. By Mrs. Anne Hughes.
Henry, Count Of Kolinski: A Polish Tale. By Mrs. Murray.
Cawthcm. 1810.
Henry De Beauvais. A novel. 2 vols. Minerva-Press, William
Lane. 1798.
Henry Of Northumberland; or, The Hermit’s Cell. A tale
of the fifteenth century. 3 vols. Minerva-Press, W. Lane.
1800. By Miss Helen Craik, who also wrote Adelaide De
Narbonne, 1800.
Henry Stukely; or, The Effects of Dissipation. By William
Helme. 3 vols., Dangerfield. 1794.
Henry The Fourth Of France, A Romance. By Alicia Lefanu.
4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1826.
Henry Willoughby. A Novel. 2 vols., Kearsley. 1798.
Herbert-Lodge ; A New-Forest Story. In Three Volumes. By
352 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Miss Warner of Bath. [Quotation : 4 lines, Cowper.] Printed
by Richard Cruttwell, St. James’s-Street, Bath; and sold by
Longman, Hurst, Rees, and Orme, Pater-noster-Row, London.
1808.
Herman Of Unna: A Series of Adventures Of The Fifteenth
Century, In Which The Proceedings Of The Secret Tribunal
Under The Emperors Wincaslaus And Sigismond, Are
Delineated. Written in German by Professor Kramer [i.e.,
Christiane Benedicte Eugenie Naubert, nee Hebenstreit].
London : Printed for G. G. and J. Robinson, Pater-noster
Row. MDCCXCIV. Three volumes. Second ed., ibid.
3 vols., W94-
Translated from Hermann von Unna, 2 vols., 1788.
There is a detailed notice of Herman of Unna in The Monthly
Review, Vol. XV, pp. 121-28, 1794, when the original
Hermann von Unna is mistakenly supposed to be by Professor
Kramer of Kiel.
Hermann and Emilia. From the German of Augustus Lafon-
taine. 4 vols., Minerva-Press ;
Lane and Newman. 1805.
Hermione; or, The Defaulter. A novel. By Caroline Scott.
2 vols. Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1816.
Hermione ; or, The Orphan Sisters. A Novel 4 vols., W. Lane,
at the Minerva. MDCCXCI. An epistolary novel.
Hermit, The. By Lady Atkyns. 2 vols., 1769.
Hermit Of Caucasus, The. An Oriental Romance. By Joseph
Moser, Author of Turkish Tales, etc., etc. 2 vols., William
Lane, at the Minerva-Press. MDCCXCVI.
Hermit of Snowden ; Or, Memoirs Of Albert And Lavinia, The.
Faithfully Taken from the Original Manuscript found in the
Hermitage. Vignette title. 8vo. Barker. 1
793- By
Elizabeth Ryves.
Hermit’s Cave ; Or, The Fugitive’s Retreat, The. An Historical
Romance. By Zara Wentworth. 4 vols., A. K. Newman.
1821.
Hermitage, The. A Novel. By Joshua Bridges Fisher. 2 vols.
Printed for the Author. 1796.
L’Hermitage St. Jacques, etc., i.e. The Hermitage Of St. James
;
TITLE INDEX 353
Or, God, Our King, And Our Country. By M. Ducray-
Duminil. 4 vols., Paris, 1815. London, imported by De
Bosse.
L’Hermite de la Tombe mysterieuse, ou le Fantome du Vieux
Chateau, “ anecdote extraite des Annales du XI lie siecle par
Mme. Anne Radcliffe; 3 vols., Paris, 1816.
A pseudo-Radcliffian romance, actually by the Baron de La
Mothe-Houdancourt.
Hero; Or, The Adventures Of A Night, The. A Romance.
Translated From The Arabic Into Iroquese; From The
Iroquese Into Hottentot; From The Hottentot Into French;
And From The French Into English. A sad tale’s best for
winter; I have one of ghosts and goblins.
—
Shakespeare. The
best and wholesomest spirits of the night envelope you.
—
Ibid.
In Three Volumes. Colburn. 1815.
Hero; Or, The Adventures Of A Night, The. A Romance.
[All as English edition.] Two Volumes In One. Vols. I-II.
Philadelphia: Published By M. Carey & Son, Comer Of
Fourth And Chesnut Streets 1817. Vol. I, pp. 1-119.
Vol. II, pp. 1-1 17.
The Hero has been mistakenly ascribed to Eaton Stannard
Barrett, presumably because he is the author of The Heroine,
a satiric tale in the same genre, and also because The Flero
Is advertised by Colburn in the Third Edition, 1815, of The
Heroine. Actually The Hero is a translation (originally made
about 1800) by Mrs. Sophia Elizabeth Shedden from La Nuit
Anglaise, 2 vols., Paris, 1799, by Belin de La Liborliere. (See
under this title.) Sophia Elizabeth Shedden was the second
daughter of Matthew Lewis, Under-Secretary of War, and the
younger sister of Matthew Gregory (“ Monk ”) Lewis.
The Hero is “ Dedicated, With All Due Humility To The
Authors Of The Mysteries Of Udolpho; The Tomb; Gras-
ville Abbey ;
The Monk ;
Hubert De Sevrac ;
Celestina ;
And
The Heroine.” See respectively under these several titles.
The Tomb is Le Tombeau.
It may be remarked that the satire of The Hero although not
unamusing is rather too rough and too drawn out to be wholly
effective. Mr. Dob (in the original, Monsieur Dabaud), a
Parisian bourgeois, who has become a votary of the roman
noir is practised upon by a series of japeries counterfeiting
various incidents in the romances of Mrs. Radcliffe, Matthew'
Gregory Lewis, and other famous writers. In a final scene
A*
354 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
he is obliged freely and absolutely to renounce “ your Gras-
ville Abbey, Hubert de Sevrac, Celestine, Mysteries of
Udolpho, The Monk, Sicilian Romance, The Tomb, Romance
of the Forest, The Italian; ... all romances, past, present,
and to come, which may contain spectres, ruins, old castles,
banditti, concealed doors, daggers crusted with blood, and,
above all, a tower bearing the name of even one of the
subdivisions of the four cardinal points.” He must needs,
bind himself never to look into “ an English romance pro-
perly so called, nor into any English novels, excepting those
of Fielding, Smollet, and Miss Edgeworth; Waverley, and
others of the same author ;
Sketches of Character, and Pride
and Prejudice, with others by the same author.” A terrible
threat is
—“ I will oblige you to read a whole chapter of the
second volume of Ccelebs.”
A Hero of Salamanca ; Or The Novice Isabel. By H. M.
Moriarty. 3 vols. Souter. 1813.
Heroine, Or Adventures Of A Fair Romance Reader, The. By
Eaton Stannard Barrett, Esq. “ L’Histoire d’une Femme est
toujours un Roman.” In Three Volumes. London : Printed
For Henry Colburn, Public Library, Conduit-Street, Hanover-
Square ;
And Sold By George Goldie, Edinburgh, And John
Cumming, Dublin. 1813. Second ed., With Considerable
Additions And Alterations. 3 vols. Colburn, 1814. The
Heroine, Or Adventures Of Cherubina. Third Edition.
Three Volumes. Colburn, And Sold By Bell and Bradfute,
Edinburgh, And John Cumming, Dublin. 1815. The
Heroine By Eaton Stannard Barrett. With An Introduction
By Walter Raleigh. London: Henry Frowde. 1909. The
Heroine. With An Introduction By Michael Sadleir, E.
Mathews & Marrot. 1927.
Herwald De Wake; Or, The Two Apostates. A Romance. 3
vols., G. and W. B. Whittaker. 1823. By Hewson Clarke.
Hide And Seek ; or, The Old Woman’s Story. 3 vols. Minerva-
Press; Lane and Newman. 1806.
Wilkie Collins’ fine novel with the same title Flidc And Seek
was published, 3 vols., Bentley, 1854, and many subsequent
editions.
High Life: A Novel, or The Flistory of Miss Faulkiand. 2
vols., Dublin ed., J. Exshaw. 1768.
TITLE INDEX 355
Highest Castle And The Lowest Cave, The. Or Events Of The
Days Which Are Gone. By Rebecca Edridge. 3 vols., G. B.
Whittaker. 1825.
Highland Castle And The Lowland Cottage, The. A Novel,
by Rosalia St. Clair. 4 vols. Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman.
1820.
Highland Alary. By the Author of the Farmer’s Three
Daughters. 4 vols. A. K. Newman. 1826.
Highland Watch Tower, or the Sons of Glenalvon, The. 36
penny nos. E. Lloyd: London. 1842.
The Highlander ; or, A Tale of my Landlady. In Two Volumes.
By E.H.H. [10 line quotation.] London: Printed at the
Minerva Press for A. K. Newman and Co., Leadenhall-
street. 1819.
The Preface avows indebtedness to Scott, and sharply snibs
the contemporary novel.
Histoire D’lnes De Leon. Par F. L. C. Montjoye. 6 tom.
A Paris, Chez Le Normant, Libraire, Rue Des Pretres S.
Germain-L’Auxerrois. An XIII. —(1805).
Histoire du Prince de Timor, etc. The History of the Prince
of Timor ; containing an Account of his Travels in different
Parts of the World, and particularly in France, after he had
been deserted and betrayed by his Governor in the Port of
Lorient. By M. D. B. 4 vols., Paris. 1812. Imported by
De Bosse.
Historic Tales. A Novel. One vol., pp. 267. Dilly. 1790.
History And Surprising Adventures Of Joseph Pignata, The.
Translated by G. Beech. Dean & Munday. 1821. From
Kotzebue.
History Of A Dog, The. Written by himself, and published by
a gentleman of his acquaintance. Translated from the
French of Pigault Lebrun. One vol., Minerva-Press. Lane,
Newman, 1804.
History Of A Young Lady Of Distinction, The. In A Series of
Letters. 2 vols., 1754. Possibly a translation or adaptation
from the French, but if so I have not traced the original.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
356
History Of Agathon, The. 4 vols. Cadell. 1773. Translated
from Wieland Geschichte des Agathon, 1766-7.
History Of Alicia Montague, The. By Mrs. Jane Marshall.
2 vols. Irish ed., Dublin: J. Murphy, etc. 1767. The
pagination of the two vols is continuous, and Vol. II has
merely a dropped-title.
History Of Betty Barnes, The. [By Sarah Fielding]. 2 vols.
1753-
History Of Captain And Miss Rivers, The. 3 vols. London:
Hookham. 1787.
History Of Charles Manderville, The. A Sequel To Lady
Julia. By Mrs. Brooke. W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street.
MDCCXC. A posthumous publication, and it may even be
a spurious attribution. Mrs. Frances Brooke died January',
1789.
History of Cornelia, The. A Novel. i2mo. London: A.
Millar. 1750. Irish ed., J. Smith: Dublin, 1750. By
Sarah Scott.
History Of Count Gleichen, The. Translated from the French
of Arnaud. One vol., pp. 220. T. Hookham. 1786. From
Baculard D’Arnaud, Le Comte De Gleichen.
History Of Edward Prince Of Wales, Commonly Termed The
Black Prince, Eldest Son Of King Edward The Third, With
A Short View Of The Reigns of Edward I, Edward II, And
Edward III, And A Summary Account Of The Institution
Of The Order Of The Garter, The. One vol., 8vo. pp.
xvi and 352. London: J. Bew. 1776. By Alexander
Bicknell.
History Of Eliza, The. Written by a Friend. 2 vols. J.
Dodsley. 1767.
History Of Eliza Warwick, The. 2 vols. London: Bew. 1778.
An epistolary novel.
History Of Elsmere And Rosa, The. An Episode. By George
Colman. 2 vols. Baldwin. 1817. George Colman the
younger (1762-1836).
History Of Fanny Seymour, The. One vol. By William
Bathoe. 1753.
TITLE INDEX 357
History Of George Godfrey, Written by himself, The. 3 vols.
Longman: 1828. By Thomas Gaspey.
History Of George Neville; Or, The Distressed Orphan, The.
Dedicated, with Permission, to the Hon. Lady Warren. 2
vols. Hookham. 1790. The “first literary attempt of a
Young Lady.”
History Of Henrietta Mortimer; Or, The Force Of Filial
Affection, The. A Novel. By A Lady. 2 vols. Hookham.
1787.
History Of Jack Connor, The. By William Chaigneau. 2
vols. Johnston. 1752. Second ed., ibid. 1752. Irish ed.,
2 vols. Dublin: Hulton Bradley. 1766.
History Of Joshua Trueman, Esq.; And Miss Peggy Williams,
The. 2 vols. D. Wilson and T. Durham. 1754.
History Of Lady Anne Neville, Sister to the Great Earl of
Warwick; In Which Are interspersed Memoirs of that
Nobleman, and the Principal Characters of the Age in Which
She lived, The. 2 vols. London: Cadell. 1776. Dedicated
to the Duchess of Kingston. By Alexander Bicknell. His-
torical figures in fictitious adventures. Borrows freely from
Prevost and the Countess D’Aulnoy. Geschichte der Lady
Anne Neville des grossen Grafen von Warwick Schwester . . .
Aus dem Englischen. 8vo. pp. 290. 1777
.
History Of Lady Barton, The, In A Series of Letters. By Mrs.
Griffith. 3 vols. David. 1771. Second ed. 1772.
History Of Lady Caroline Rivers, The. In A Series of Letters.
By Miss Elizabeth Todd. 2 vols., i2mo. London: Printed
for the Authoress. 1788.
History Of Lady Julia Mandeville, The. By Frances Brooke.
2 vols. J. Dodsley. 1763. Second ed., 1763. Third ed.,
1764. Fifth ed., 1769.
History Of Lucy Wellers, The. Written by a Lady [Miss
Smythies]. 2 vols., London: R. Baldwin. 1754. A new
ed., 1755. During 1754 and 1755 four German versions were
published.
History Of Miss Greville, The. By the Author of Interesting
Memoirs [Mrs. Keir]. 3 vols., London. Printed and Sold
35^ A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
for the Author. At Mr. Carruthers’s, No. 36, Cheapside ; and
by T. Cadell, Strand. 1787.
History Of Miss Katty N The. Containing A Faithful and
Particular Relation of her Amours, Adventures, and Various
Turns of Fortune in Scotland, Ireland, Jamaica, and in
England. Written by Herself. One vol. 8vo. F. Noble.
N.D. [c. 1756].
History Of Miss Meredith, The. A Novel. Dedicated By Per-
mission, To The Most Noble The Marchioness of Salisbury.
By Mrs. Parsons. In Two Volumes. [Quotation: prose,
two lines]. London: Printed For The Author; And Sold
By T. Hookham, New Bond-Street. MDCCXC. Dedication
signed: Eliza Parsons. March 31, 1790. No. 15, East-
place, Lambeth. List of Subscribers, pp. 7-25.
History of Miss Temple, The. By A Young Lady. 2 vols.,
London: 1777.
History of Mr. Charles Fitzgerald, And Miss Sarah Stapleton,
The. In Five Books. Dublin: James Hoey. 1770. The
novel concludes on p. 174, and the second part of the book
is entitled “ Fugitive Pieces by the Author of the Preceding
Memoirs. Dublin: Printed in the Year 1770.” This second
part comprises copies of verse and some topical prose, ap-
parently taken from The Batchelor. The novel is by Daniel
Marley, a copious contribution to this periodical.
History of Mr. John Decastro And His Brother Bat, Commonly
Called Old Crab, The. 4 vols., Egerton, 1815. The Merry
Matter written by John Mathers; The Grave, by A Solid
Gentleman. By George Colman the Younger (1762—1836).
History Of My Father ; Or, How It happened that I was born,
The. A Romance from the German of Kotzebue. Treppan.
1798.
History Of Myself And My Friend, The: By Ann Plumptre.
4 vols., Colburn. 1813.
History Of My Own Life, The. Being an Account of Many of
the Severest Trials imposed by an Implacable Father, upon
the most Affectionate Pair that ever entered the Marriage
State. 2 vols., F. Noble. 1756.
TITLE INDEX 359
History Of Ned Evans, The. 4 vols. Robinson. 1796. By
Elizabeth Hervey, nee Marsh.
History Of Netterville, a chance Pedestrian, The. By A Lady.
2 vols., Crosby. 1802.
History of Philip Waidegrave, The. 2 vols. Evans, 1793.
History Of Sidney And Volsan, The. Translated from the
French. One vol., pp. no. Dublin: James Vallance.
1772. From Baculard D’Arnaud, Sidney et Volsan, histoire
anglaise. 1770.
History Of Sir Charles Beaufort, The. Containing The Genuine
And Interesting Memoirs Of A Family Of Distinction In The
South Of England. Displaying the Miseries that may arise
from acting contrary to that peculiar Character which Nature
has given to both the Sexes. 2 vols. T. Lownds. 1766.
History Of Sir Charles Bentinck And Louisa Cavendish, The.
A Novel. By the Author of Laura and Augustus. 3 vols.
Hookham. 1789.
History Of Sir George Ellison, The. 2 vols. Millar. 1766.
By Sarah Scott.
History Of Sir Roger And His Son Joe, The. 2 vols. J. Scott
[i750]-
History Of The Grubthorpe Family; Or, The Old Bachelor
And His Sister Penelope, The. By Mrs. Hunter. 3 vols.
Longman. 1802.
History Of The Honourable Edward Mortimer, The. By A
Lady. 2 vols. London: Dilly. 1785. By Albinia Gwynn.
A History of the Pirates of All Nations. 71 penny nos. E.
Lloyd. 1836.
History Of The Rockinghams, The. Interspersed with a
Description of the Inhabitants of Russia, and a variety of
interesting anecdotes of Peter the Great. By Mrs. Pilkington,
author of The ill-fated mariner; Sinclair; Crimes and
Characters, etc. One vol., Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman.
1812. Frontispiece.
History Of The Tankerville Family, The. 3 vols. Minerva-
Press, Lane, Newman. 1806. By Mrs. Sarah Green.
360 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
History Of Tom Rigby, The. By John Chator. 1773.
History Of Tom Weston, The. After the Manner of Tom
Jones. By George Brewer, Esq., of the Royal Navy. 2 vols.
Hookham. 1791.
History Of Vanillo Gonzales, Surnamed The Merry Batchelor?
The. In Two Volumes. From The French Of Alain-Rene
Le Sage, Author Of The Celebrated Novels Of “ Gil Bias
”
And “ The Devil Upon Crutches.” Volume The First
—
Second.
“ Mores Hominum Multorum Vidit Et Urbes.”
“ He Many Men And Many Manners Saw.”
London: Printed For G. G. And J. Robinson, Pater-Noster
Row. MDCCXCVII.
Hofer, The Patriot of the Tyrol. An Historical Romance. By
J. H. Newton. 8vo. 16 nos. London: Peirce: 1845.
Home. A Novel. 5 vols., Mawman, 1803. Another ed., 1822.
By Miss Margaret Cullen.
Homicide, The. A Novel. Taken From The Comedie Di
Goldoni, By Mary Charlton, Author Of “ The Wife And
Mistress,” etc. [Quotation. 3 lines, Shakespeare’s Richard
II]. In Two Volumes. London : Printed At The Minerva-
Press, For Lane, Newman, And Co., Leadenhall-Street. 1805.
Rosaura Di Viralva; Or, The Homicide. Second ed., 2 vols.,
Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1813.
Honor O’Hara. A Novel. By Anna Maria Porter. 3 vols.
Longman. 1826.
Honorine O’Hara, traduit de 1’anglais par J. Cohen. 4 tom.
Paris. 1827.
Honoria Sommerville. 4 vols. Robinsons. 1789.
Honorina; or, The Infatuated Child. A Novel. By James
Barton. 2 vols. Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman. 1804.
Hope ; or, Judge without prejudice. A novel. By Miriam
Malden. 4 vols. Minerva-Press; A. K. Newman. 1813.
Horatio; Or, Sketches Of The Davenport Family. A novel.
By Mr. Smith. 4 vols. Longman. 1807.
Horrid Mysteries. A Story. From The German Of The Mar-
TITLE INDEX 361
quis Of Grosse. By P. Will. In Four Volumes. London :
Printed For William Lane, At The Minerva-Press, Leadenhall-
Street. MDCCXCVI. Translated from Der Genius of Karl
Groses, styled Marquis of Grosse, by the Rev. Peter Will,
Lutheran Minister of the German chapel in the Savoy.
Horrid Mysteries. A Story. With an Introduction by Mon-
tague Summers. 2 vols. London : Holden. 1927.
Horrid Mysteries is one of the seven “ horrid ” novels men-
tioned in chapter VI of Northanger Abbey.
Horrors Of Oakendale Abbey, The. By The Author Of Eliza-
beth. London : Printed For William Lane, At The Minerva-
Press, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCXCVII. One vol., pp. 172.
By Mrs. Carver.
Horrors of War, The. Authentic Narratives. Edited by T.
Prest. In Penny Nos. G. Drake, 12 Houghton Street, Clare
Market, 1836.
Hortensia. A Novel. 2 vols. William Lane, Leadenhall-Street.
MDCCLXXVII. By Mrs. Bonhote.
Hour Of Trial, The. A Tale. By Mary Anne Neri. 3 vols.
Longman. 1808.
Hour Of Two, The. A Novel By Augusta Maria Woodthorpe.
3 vols., London: 1809.
Hours Of Affluence, And Days Of Indigence. A Novel. By
Miss [Medora Gordon] Byron. 4 vols. Minerva-Press : A.
K. Newman. 1809.
House Of Clarendon, The. An Historic Novel. 3 vols.
Minerva-Press: W. Lane. MDCCXCVII.
House Of Marley, The. A novel. 2 vols. Minerva-Press: W.,
Lane. MDCCXCVII.
House Of Ravenspur, The. A Romance. By Mrs. Frances
Jamieson. 4 vols. Whittaker. 1822.
House Of Tynian, The. By George Walker. 4 vols. London :
Published by George Walker. 1795. And W. Lane, at the
Minerva-Press. MDCCXCV.
Houses Of Osma And Almeria; Or, The Convent Of St..
Ildefonso, The. A tale. By Regina Maria Roche. 3 vols.
Minerva-Press: A. K. Newman. 1810.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
362
How To Be Rid Of A Wife ; and, Lily Of Annandale. By-
Elizabeth Isabella Spence. 2 vols. Longman. 1834.
Howard. By John Gamble, Esq., Author of “ Irish Sketches,”
“ Sarefield,” etc. 2 vols. Baldwin and Co., 1815.
Howard Castle ; Or, A Romance From The Mountains. By A
North Briton. r
y vols. Minerva-Press : A. K. Newman.
1817.
Hubert De Sevrac: A Romance Of The Eighteenth Century.
By Mary Robinson. 3 vols. Hookham and Carpenter. 1796.
Hulme Abbey. A Novel. In Three Volumes. By Mrs. Frederick
Layton, formerly Miss Jemima Plumptree. Dedicated by
Permission to the Duke of Northumberland. London
:
Printed for William Fearman, Library, 170 New Bond Street.
1820.
Human Beings. A Novel. By Francis Lathom. 3 vols.
Crosby. 1807.
Human Frailties. Interspersed with Poetry. 3 vols. Dutton.
1804.
Humbert Castle; Or, The Romance Of The Rhone. A novel.
4 vols. Minerva-Press: W. Lane. 1800. Frontispiece. By
the same author: Correlia (1802), and The forest of
Hohenelbe (1803).
Hungarian Brothers, The. By Miss Anne Maria Porter. 3
vols. Longman, Hurst, Rees, and Orme. 1807. 3rd ed.,
3 vols. 1816. 4th ed., 3 vols., Longman, etc. 1819. In
Bentley’s Standard Novels: No. 11, 1831. “The Parlour
Library” (1847-63), Vol. 147. In Milner’s “Cottage
Library.” Royal 321110. Price One Shilling. N.D. (c. 1870).
Another ed., London. 1872. Another ed., London. 1883-4.
During the nineteenth century The Hungarian Brothers was
a popular romance and was re-issued several times in sixpenny
and other cheap formats.
Les Freres hongrois. Roman traduit de l’Anglais sur la
troisi&me edition, par Mile. Aline de L. [Verdier de Lacoste].
3 tom., Paris. 1818.
Husband And The Lover, The. An Historical and Moral
Romance. 3 vols., Lackington and Co. 1809. By Alicia
Tyndal Palmer. Period : Louis XIV.
TITLE INDEX 363
Husband And Wife ; or, The Matrimonial Martyr, The. A
Novel. By Mrs. Bridget Bluemantle [Mrs. E. Thomas]. 3
vols. Minerva-Press : Lane, Newman. 1807.
Husband Hunters! ! ! A Novel. By the Author of Montreithe.
4 vols. Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1816. By Amelia
Beauclerc.
Husband Hunting: Or, The Mothers And Daughters. A tale.
By S—
1
J—n, Esq. 3 vols. G. B. Whittaker. 1825.
Husband’s Resentment ; or, The History of Lady Manchester,
The. Anon. 1776.
Hut And The Castle, The. A Romance. 4 vols. Baldwin.
1823. By Catharine Cuthbertson.
Hyacinthe; Or, The Contrast. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline
Grey. 3 vols. Cochrane. 1835. One vol. Newby. 1846.
Price 4s.
Hypocrite ; Or, The Modern Janus, The. A Novel. By Selina
Davenport. 5 vols. Minerva-Press: A. K. Newman. 1814.
Hyppolitus ; Or, The Wild Boy. A novel. Translated from the
French. 4 vols. Minerva-Press: Lane, Newman. 1805.
I
1 Can’t Afford It. By Miss Emma Hamilton. 2 vols. Chappie.
1813.
1 Says, Says I. A Novel. By Thinks-I-To-Myself. 2 vols.
Johnston, 1812; and Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1813.
By Edward Nares.
Ianthe; Or, The Flower Of Caernarvon. By Emily Clarke. 2
vols. Hookham & Carpenter. 1798.
Idalia. A Novel. Founded on Facts. 2 vols. Minerva-Press
:
W. Lane. 1800.
Idiot, The. 3 vols. By H. Boswell. 1811.
Idiot Heiress, The. A Novel. 2 vols. Minerva-Press: Lane,
Newman. 1805.
The same author wrote My Bird And My Dog, 1806.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
364
Ildegerte, Queen Of Norway. From the German of Augustus
von Kotzebue, author of The Stranger. By Benjamin
Thompson, Jun., translator of The Stranger, as performed at
the Theatre Royal, Drury-Lane. 2 vols. Minerva-Press, for
William Lane, Leadenhall-Street. 1798. The Stranger was
produced at Drury-Lane, 24th March, 1798, with Mrs.
Siddons as Mrs. Haller.
Ill Effects Of A Rash Vow, The. A Novel. In A Series Of
Letters. 2 vols. Printed for W. Lane. MDCCLXXXIX.
Illusion of Sentiment, The. A Descriptive and Historic Novel.
2 vols. Axtell. 1788. An epistolary novel. Advertised by
Lane, 1787, “in the press.”
Illusions of Youth. By G. Cordova. 4 vols. 1809.
Imaginary Adultress, The. 2 vols., 1808.
Immelina, Countess de Mansfield. A German tale. 3 vols.
Minerva-Press: W. Lane. 1799.
Imogen. A pastoral romance. From the ancient British. 2
vols., William Lane. MDCCLXXXIV.
Impenetrable Secret, The. Find It Out! A novel. By Francis
Lathom. 2 vols. Minerva-Press: Lane, Newman. 1805.
Frontispiece. Second ed., 2 vols. A. K. Newman. 1831.
Independence. A Novel. In Four Volumes. By Gabrielli [Mrs.
Mary Meeke], Author of The Mysterious Husband, etc.
[Quotation : verse, 6 lines, Lewis]. London : Printed At The
Minerva-Press, For Lane And Newman, Leadenhall-Street.
1802.
Impertinent Wife, The. By Madame Genlis. One voL
Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman. 1806.
Incognita; or, Emily Villars, The. A Novel. In a series of
letters. W. Lane. MDCCLXXXIII.
Indian Adventurer ; or, History of Mr. Vanneck, The. A novel
founded on facts. One vol. W. Lane. MDCCLXXX. Price
three shillings.
Indian Chief ; Or, Tokeah And The White Rose, The. A Tale
Of The Indians And The Whites. 3 vols. A. K. Newman.
1829.
TITLE INDEX 365
Indian Cottage; Or, A Search After Truth, The. One vol.
W. Lane. 1791 . Minerva-Press. W. Lane, 1799 . With a
Frontispiece. Minerva-Press. W. Lane. 1800. With a
Frontispiece. From the French of Jacques Henri Bemardin
De Saint-Pierre, La Chaumiere indienne. 1791 .
Indian Voyage, The. A Novel. By Alicia Lefanu. 2 vols.
1804.
Infatuation ; Or, Sketches From Nature. By Mrs. [Margaret]
Turner. 2 vols. R. Phillips. 1810. Advertised by Newman,
1812.
Infernal Quixote, The. A Tale Of The Day. In Four Volumes.
By Charles Lucas, A.M., “ Better to reign in Hell than serve in
Heaven.” Milton’s Satan. Minerva-Press. W. Lane. 1801.
With a frontispiece.
LTnfernal Don Quichotte. Histoire a VOrdre du Jour. En
trois volumes, omes chacun d’une gravure en taille-douce.
Traduit de l’Anglais de Charles Lucas, Auteur du Chateau
de Saint-Donat, etc., etc. A Paris. Riche, Le Normant,
Maradan. An IX—1801.
Infidel Father, The. 3 vols. T. N. Longman. 1802. By Mrs.
Jane West.
Infdel Mother; Or, Three Winters In London, The. A
Satyrical Novel In Three Volumes By Mr. Sedley. J. F.
Hughes. 1807. Second ed., 1807. By Charles Sedley.
This most extraordinary interesting Performance, besides a
variety of very curious Anecdotes, contains the complete
development of a certain Delicate Mystery, that has so long
agitated the Public Mind.
Ingaretha. By M. E. O. Malen. No. 87. Dicks’ English
Novels. (Price Sixpence each.)
Inhabitants Of Earth; Or, The Follies Of Woman, The. A
novel. By Anthony Frederick Holstein. 3 vols. Minerva-
Press; A. K. Newman. 1811.
Inkle and Yarico. Chapbook. 1805. Founded on the popular
opera.
LTnnocence Et Le Crime. Par l’Auteur du Marchand Forain,
de la Roche du Diable, de IEnfant de VAmour, etc. [Legay].
3 tom. Paris. Th. Chaumerot, Libraire, Palais-Royal
;
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
366
Galeries De Bois, No. 188. Chaumerot, Jeune, Passage
Feydeau, No. 24. 1810.
Innocent Fugitive ; Or, Memoirs Of A Lady Of Quality, The.
2 vols. Hookham. 1789.
Inquisition, The. 2 vols. Vernor And Hood. Printed By
Merritt And Wright, Liverpool : And Sold By Them And By
Rawson And Co., Hull. N.D. [1797].
Inquisitor ; or Invisible Rambler, The. By Mrs. Susanna
Rowson. 3 vols. 1788.
Insurgent Chief; Or, O’Bailoran, The. An Irish Historical
Tale of iyg8. By Solomon Secondsight. [Rev. Thomas
Berkeley Greaves]. 3 vols. x-\. K. Newman. 1824. In
Popular Tales, containing a Choice Selection of the Works of
the most Celebrated Authors. The Recess, Old English
Baron, Castle of Otranto, O’Halloran, etc. i2mo. J.
McGowan and Sons. 1827. “The Cottage Library,”
321110. Milner & Co. \c. 1870].
According to the title of some copies this novel was first pub-
lished in .America. See also under O’Halloran.
Interesting Adventures of Tomar, the Celebrated Pirate of Tunis,
The. Including the Pathetic History of Quieto, the Unhappy
Slave and his Affectionate Morilda. With a Frontispiece.
1801. Chapbook.
Interesting Tales. Selected And Translated From The German.
[By Mrs. Showes]. One vol., Minerva-Press ;
W. Lane.
MDCCXCVII. Contains: Biography of a spaniel; The
Mask; The Florist ; The Robber; The April Fool; and
The Idiot.
LTntriguante ; Or, The Woman Of The World. By Anthony
Frederick Holstein. 4 vols. Colburn. 1813.
Intrigue; Or, Woman’s Wit And Man’s Wisdom. By Mrs.
Mosse. 4 vols. A. K. Newman. 1827. Mrs. Flenrietta
Mosse nee Rouviere.
Intrigue, The. A Tale translated from the German [of August
Lafontaine]. One vol., i2mo. BickerstafL 1803. Price
35. 6d.
Intrigues Of A Morning, The. In two acts. As performed at
TITLE INDEX 367
Covent Garden. By Mrs. Parsons. London : Printed for
William Lane, at the Minerva. MDCCXCII.
The Intrigues Of A Morning; Or, An Hour in Paris was
given at Covent Garden 18th April, 1792. This farce is an
adaptation from Moliere’s Monsieur de Pourceaugnac, and
Mi's. Parsons was accused of having made a literal copy of
Charles Shadwell’s The Plotting Lovers ; or The Dismal
Squire, first acted and printed in Dublin, 1740. Charles
Shadwell, however, frankly acknowledges that his piece is
taken from Monsieur de Pourceaugnac, which indeed has been
drawn upon again and again by English dramatists.
Introspection ; or, A Peep At Real Characters. A Novel. By
Mrs. [Charlotte] Matthew. 4 vols., Bath : R. Cruttwell ;
and,
Carpenter: London. 1801.
Invasion; or, What Might Have Been, The. A Novel. 2 vols.,
London: Symonds. 1798. An epistolary novel.
Invisible Gentleman, The. By the Author of “ Chartley ” [—
Dalton]. 3 vols., Bull. 1832.
Invisible Enemy; or, The Mines Of Wielitska, The. A Polish
Legendary Romance. By Thomas Pike Lathy. 4 vols.,
Minerva-Press : Lane, Newman. 1806.
Invisible Man; or, Duncam Castle, The. From the French.
2 vols., Minerva-Press: W. Lane. 1800. From the French
of Pigault-Lebrun.
Invisible Ring, The. Chapbook. 1806.
Ionian; or, Woman In The Nineteenth Century, The. By
Sarah Renou. 3 vols., Sherwood ;
and A. K. Newman.
1824.
Iphigenia. A Novel. 3 vols., William Lane, at the Minerva.
MDCCXCI.
Ireland; or, The Montague Family. By Miss A. M. Ennis.
3 vols., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1820.
Irish Assassin; or, The Misfortunes of the Family of O’Donnell,
The. An Original Tale. By Henry Vincent. Chapbook.
N.D. [c. 1800]. Coloured Frontispiece by Rowlandson.
Irish Chieftain And His Family, The. A romance. By Theo-
dore Melville, Esq. 4 vols., Minerva-Press: Lane, Newman.
368 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
1809. A remainder issue, with a new half-title and title-
page.
Irish Excursion; or, I Fear To Tell You, The. A Novel. In
Four Volumes. Quis Separabit? [With printer’s device,
three clasped hands, and rose, thistle, shamrock.] London
:
Printed at the Minerva-Press, for William Lane, Leadenhall-
Street. 1801. Irish ed., Dublin: H. Colbert, W. Porter,
etc., 2 vols., 1801.
Irish Guardian; or, Errors of Eccentricity, The. In Three
Volumes. By Anna Maria Mackenzie. Longman. 1809.
For Mrs. Mackenzie of Exeter see Index of Authors.
Irish Heiress, The. A novel. By Mrs. F. C. Patrick. 3 vols.,
William Lane at the Minerva Press. MDCCXCVII.
Irish Necromancer ; or, Deer Park, The. A Novel. 3 vols.,
A. K. Newman. 1821. By Thomas H. Marshall.
Irish Outlaws, The. A Romance. 3 vols., Advertised among
A. K. Newman’s New Publications, 1832.
Irish Recluse ; or, A Breakfast At The Rotunda, The. By Sarah
Isdell. 3 vols., Booth. 1809.
Irish Valet, The; or, Whimsical Adventures Of Paddy
O’Haloran: Who, After Being Servant To Many Masters,
became Master of Many Servants. By the late C. H. Wilson,
Esq., Author of “ Polyanthea,” “ Beauties of Burke,” etc.
One vol., Allen. 1811.
hishmen, The: a military-political novel, wherein the idiom of
each character is carefully preserved, and the utmost pre-
caution constantly taken to render the ebullutionary phrases,
peculiar to the sons of Erin, inoffensive as well as entertaining.
By a native officer. 2 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman.
1810.
Written by Lieutenant Arnold.
Irishwoman In London, The. A Modern Novel. By Anne
Mary Hamilton. 1810.
Iron Mask; or, The Adventures Of A Father And Son, The.
By The Rev. J. P. Hunt. 3 vols., Minerva-Press : A. K.
Newman. 1809.
Iron Mask, The. A Romance. By the Author of the Prize
T11E HE HO?
OK, THE
ADVENTURES OF A NIGHT:
A ROM.1.VCE.
TRANSLATED
i'ROM THE ARABIC INTO IROQUESE? FROM THE lli'i
qiLSF. INTO HOTTENTOT? FROM THE HOT! NTOT
INTO FRENCH I AND FROM THE FRENCH INTO ENGLISH.
A sad tale’s best lor winter: I have one ot' ghost*
and goblins.
—
Shakspeave.
The best and the wholesomest spirits of the night
envelope you. —Ibid.
TH O VOLUMES AV O.VA
VOL. il.
PHILADELPHIA :
TUBLiSHED BY M. CORKY & SON, CORNER OF
FOURTH AND CHESN'UT STREETS.
1817-
THE HERO; OR, THE ADVENTURES OF A NIGHT
A romance by Mrs. Sophia Elizabeth Shedden
Title page, Vol. II, American edition, Philadelphia, 1817
TITLE INDEX 369
Romance of “ The Ordeal By Touch ” [Mrs. Elizabeth
Caroline Grey]. Serialized in Lloyd’s Entertaining Journal
and Weekly Miscellany, 1846-7, commencing October 31st,
1846; concluding March 27th, 1847. Issued in numbers,
E. Lloyd. 1847.
In Mrs. Grey’s romance the Iron Mask is not (as might be
supposed) the theme of L’Homme au Masque de Fer, which
had been utilized by Ann Yearsley in The Royal Captives, A
Fragment of Secret History, 1795, but quite another story
set in the period 1 720-1, the scene London. The Iron Mask
hides an evil and mysterious astrologer. The tale is full of
adventure and hairbreadth escape, only marred by a some-
what huddled conclusion, a fault not altogether uncommon
in these romances.
Iron Shroud, The. Chapbook. 1839.
Isabel; or, The Orphan of Valdarno. By a student of Trinity
College. 3 vols., Minerva-Press : W. Lane. 1802. By
Mr. Lyttleton.
Isabella; or, The Rewards of Good-Nature. A Sentimental
Novel Intended Chiefly to Convey United Amusement and
Instruction to the Fair Sex. By the Author of the Benevolent
Man and the History of Lady Anne Neville [Alexander
Bicknell]. 2 vols., i2mo. Bell. 1776.
Isabinda of Bellefield. A Sentimental Novel, In A Series of
Letters. By Mrs. Courtney. 3 vols., Bagster. 1796.
Isadora of Gallicia: a Novel. In Two Volumes. By Mrs.
Hugill, Author of Countess of Hennibon, Juliana Qrmiston,
The Prince of Leon, etc., etc. London : Printed for Lee and
Hurst, Paternoster Row. 1797.
Mrs. Hugill formerly Harley.
Isadora Of Milan. By Anthony Frederick Flolstein. 5 vols.
Colburn. 1811. Advertised by Newman, 1813.
Iskander ; or, The Hero of Epirus. A romance. By Arthur
Spenser. 3 vols., Minerva Press, A. K. Newman. 1819.
The Island School. By E. Harcourt Burrage. 39 penny nos.
1895.
Isle of Devils, The. A Historical Tale, Founded on an Anec-
dote in the Annals of Portugal: (verse), by M. G. Lewis.
B*
37o A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Privately printed Kingston, Jamaica, at the Advertiser office-
1827. Reprint, 8vo., 250 copies. 7s. 6d., 1912. Large
paper, 4to., 50 copies. I2L 6d. 1912.
The Isle of Devils is printed in Lewis’ Journal of a West India
Proprietor, 1831. See under M. G. Lewis in the Index of
Authors for details.
It Was Me. By Me. One who cares for nothing or nobody.
2 vols. Printed for the author, and sold by A. K. Newman
and Co., Leadenhall-Street. 1813.
Italian ; or, The Confessional Of The Black Penitents, The.
A Romance. By Ann Radcliffe, Author Of The Mysteries
Of Udolpho, etc., etc. In Three Volumes. London : Printed
for T. Cadell, Jun., and W. Davies (Successors to Mr. Cadell)
in the Strand. 1797.
The Second Edition. 3 vols., ibid. 1797. Second Edition (so-
called), 3 vols., London : Printed for T. Cadell and W. Davies,
Strand. 1811. The Italian. London: Printed and sold by
S. Fisher, 151 St. John Street, West Smithfield, 1824.
The Italian, in “The Illustrated London Novelist,” N.D. (c.
1825). The Italian; or, The Confessional of The Black
Penitents. A Romance. By Ann Radcliffe. London.
Printed and Published by J. Limbird, 143 Strand. 1826.
Re-issued, J. Limbird, 1831. In “The Romancist and
Novelist’s Library,” Nos. 71-4, Vol. III. J. Clements,
London. 1840.
The Italian. Published by J. S. Pratt, Stokesley, Yorkshire,
1846. The Italian, “The Cottage Library,” Royal 32mo.
Coloured Cloth. One Shilling. Milner and Co., Halifax
and London. N.D. (
c
.
1870).
The Italian. London and New York. 1877. Another ed.,
London, Routledge, 8vo. 1884.
The Italian long remained popular and was frequently re-
printed in a cheap form throughout the nineteenth century.
First Irish ed., The Italian, 2 vols., Dublin, P. Wogan, etc.
*
797 -
The Midnight Assassin ; or, Confessions of the Monk Rinaldi,
containing A Complete History of his Diabolical Machina-
tions and Unparalleled Feroscity. Hurst: 1802. Chapbook
from The Italian.
For translations and dramatizations of as also other adapta-
tions from The Italian see the Index of Authors under Ann
Radcliffe.
TITLE INDEX 37 1
Italian Banditti; or, The Secret History of Henry and Matilda,
The. A Romance. By Isaac Crookenden. Harrild. c. 1 8 1 1
.
For other of Crookenden’s works see Index of Authors under
Isaac Crookenden.
Italian Jealousy. 3 vols., Hurst. 1818.
Italian Letters; or, The History Of The Count De St. Julien.
Robinsons. 1784.
Italian Marauders. 4 vols. By Anna Matilda. 1807.
Italian Mysteries; or, More Secrets Than One. A romance.
By Francis Lathom. 3 vols., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman.
1820.
Les Mysteres italiens, ou le Chateau della Tornda, par Francis
Lathom, traduit de l’anglais par un des traducteurs des
romans historique de Walter Scott [J. Saladin], Paris
:
E. Gamot. 4 tom. 1823.
Italian Stories. Translated by Miss Holford, Author of Wallace.
J. Andrews. 1823.
Italian Vengeance And English Forbearance. By Selina
Davenport. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1828.
Itanoka. Chapbook. 1810.
Itinerant; or, Memoirs Of An Actor, The. By S. W. Ryley.
Nine volumes, 1808-27. Vol. I, Sheerwood, Neely and Jones.
1808. Vols. I, II, and III, Sheerwood, Neely, and Jones.
1816. Second ed., 1818. Vols. IV, V, and VI of The
Itinerant, being a continuation of the above work, Sheerwood,
Neely, and Jones. 1818.
Another ed., Chronicle Office, Oldham. 1880.
Ivey Castle, containing Interesting Memoirs of Two Ladies,
late Nuns in a French abolished Convent. 2 vols., Owen.
1794. By the Author of Laura and Augusta.
Iwanowna ; or, The Maid of Moscow. By Mrs. Hcfland. 2
vols., Robinson. 1813. The Maid of Moscow ; or, Iwanawna,
second edition, 2 vols., Minerva Press, A. K. Newman, 1816.
372 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
J
Jack and his Seven Foes. Edwin J. Brett, n.d.
Jack And Joe; or, The Troublesome Twins, Hogarth House.
One Shilling. Or 12 penny nos.
Jack At Eton. Edwin J. Brett, n.d. [c. 1880].
Jack Cade. An Historical Romance. By James Cooke. 21 nos.,
London : White. N.D. (c. 1841).
Jack Cade, the Insurrectionist ; A Tale of the Olden Times.
Describing the Feats and Exploits of his Notorious Band, his
Secret Caves, etc. An historical romance published in Penny
Weekly Numbers. G. Purkess. 1845. Re-issue, 1851.
Jack Harkaway. Bracebridge Hemyng was the author of the
lengthy Jack Harkaway series published by E. J. Brett.
The series comprises: Jack Harkawa/s Schooldays. Jack
Harkaway After Schooldays. Jack Harkaway At Oxford.
Jack Harkaway Among The Brigands. Jack Harkaway In
China. Jack Harkaway In Greece. Jack Harkaway In
Australia. Jack Harkaway And His Son’s Adventures Round
The World. Jack Harkaway And His Boy Tinker. Jack
Harkaway Among The Pirates. Jack Harkaway In America.
Jack Harkaway At The Isle Of Palms. Young Jack Harka-
way At School In America.
The American Jack Harkaways were issued, coloured
wrappers, in twenty-eight volumes, dividing and re-naming
most of the above.
Among the later (Hogarth House) Jack Harkaways, which
fell below the standard of the original series, are :
Jack Hark-
away Out West Among The Indians. Jack Harkaway In
Search Of The Mountain Of Gold. Jack Harkaway And
His Father At The Haunt Of The Pirates; Or, The Flaunt
Of The Black Flag.
Jack Junk; or, The Tar for All Weathers. A Romance of the
Sea. By T. Prest. 22 nos., E. Lloyd. 1840.
Jack Junk; or, The Tar for all weathers. A romance of the
sea. By the author of Richard Parker. [T. Prest.] Re-issue.
N.D. [1851].
TITLE INDEX 373
Jack-o’-Lantern ; or, The King of the School. 8vo., n.d. ;
wood-
cuts.
Jack Rann. (Sixteen-String Jack.) By James Linridge. 52
penny nos., G. Purkess, Compton Street, Soho, 1845. Jack
Rann, alias Sixteen-String Jack, re-issue 1850.
The Life and Adventures of Jack Rann, Sixteen-String Jack.
Issued in penny weekly nos., London : A. Ritchie, 6 Red-
Lion-court, Fleet-street, E.C.
Laetitia, Lady Lade, was believed to be the mistress of John
Rann, the notorious highwayman. See “ A Genuine Account
of the Life of John Rann, alias Sixteen-String Jack,” 1774,
where his chere amie Mrs. Smith (afterwards Lady Lade) is
described as “ rather above the middle size,” p. 29 of this pam-
phlet. Sir John Lade, “ the libertine Lad,” married Mrs.
Smith. She was the mistress of the Duke of York, and others.
Her portrait was painted by Sir Joshua Reynolds in 1785.
There is a full account of her in The Female Jockey Club
by Charles Pigott, and in Robert Huish’s Memoirs of George
the Fourth, Vol. I, p. 14 1. Lady Lade died at the Hithe,
Egham, Surrey, May 5th, 1825. Sir John Lade, nicknamed
“Jehu,” born 1759, died in his eightieth year at Egham on
February 10th, 1838. See further Notes and Queries, nth
Series, Vol. X, October 17th, 1914, p. 316, also same vol.,
PP- 357, 394, 472.
William Leman Rede’s Sixteen String Jack was first produced
as a spectacular drama at the Coburg on February 18th,
1823, and revised as “ A Romantic Drama ” at the Olympic,
on November 15th, 1841. Printed, Dicks’s Standard Plays,
No. 392.
Sixteen String Jack; or, The Knaves of Knaves Acre. A
melodrama by Thomas Egerton Wilks. Produced at Sadlers
Wells on Monday, November 28th, 1842. Printed,
Buncombe, Vol. LXIII ;
Lacy, Vol. CV.
George R. Sims My Life (1917), pp. 51-2, speaks of Sixteen
String Jack—whether W. L. Rede or T. E. Wilks or another
version he does not say—being played under Richards’ pro-
prietorship to packed houses at the Garrick Theatre in Leman
Street, Whitechapel, “ a theatre run on the lines of a gaff.”
Should this theatre be the Garrick, Leman Street, Goodman’s
Fields ;
or the Effingham Saloon, Whitechapel ;
or Royal
Pavilion, Whitechapel? I imagine “ Leman Street, White-
chapel ” is a slip for Leman Street, Goodman’s Fields.
374 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Jack Sheppard and Jonathan Wild. A Romance. By the
Author of “ Dick Turpin, a Romance of the Road.” The
Newsagents’ Publishing Company (Limited), 147, Fleet Street,
E.C. c. 1862.
James Manners, Little John, And Their Dog Bluff. By Eliza-
beth Helme, Jun. Darton and Harvey. 1799. A very
popular juvenile by the daughter of Mrs. Helme. Fifth
ed., 1818.
James the Fatalist, And His Master. Translated from the
French of Diderot. 3 vols., Robinson. 1797.
James Wallace. A novel. 3 vols., W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street.
1788. By Robert Bage.
Jane Brightwell. By Malcolm J. Errym. E. Lloyd. 1844.
Re-issue, Dicks, 1848.
Jane De Dunstanville. A novel. By Mrs. Isabella Hedgeland
(formerly Mrs. Kelly). 4 vols., 1813.
Jane Shore; or, The Goldsmith’s Wife. By Hannah Maria
Jones. Virtue. 1839. Jane Shore was frequently reprinted
and is often ascribed to Mrs. Bennett. There are actually
several versions of this romance.
Jane Shore; or, The Goldsmith’s Wife. Complete in One
Volume. With Numerous Coloured Pictures. [Edwin J.
Brett.] 173, Fleet Street, and All Booksellers. “The Interest-
ing Novel of Jane Shore; or, The Goldsmith’s Wife, will be
published every Tuesday with ‘
Something to Read,’ ” 29
nos. N.D. [c. 1877].
The Goldsmith’s Wife. A Tale. By William Harrison Ains-
worth. 3 vols., Tinsley. 1875. Cheap ed. London : John
Dicks. No. 50, Dicks’ English Novels. 6d.
Jane Talbot. By Charles Brockden Brown. 1801. English
ed. 2 vols. Lane, Newman. Minerva-Press. 1804. An
epistolary novel. Reprinted in Brown’s Works. Vol. V,
Charles Brockden Brown’s Novels, Philadelphia, David
McKay, Publisher, 1887.
Janet; or, Glances at Human Nature. By Miss Waddington.
3 vols., Saunders and Otley. 1839.
Jaqueline of Olzeburg; or, Final Retribution. One vol.,
Chappie. 1800.
TITLE INDEX 375
Jasper: A Fragment. By the late Mrs. [Mary] Robinson. This
unfinished novel is printed in Vol. Ill of Memoirs of the
Late Mrs. Robinson, Written by Herself. With some Post-
humous Pieces. 4 vols., R. Phillips; Hurst; Carpenter. 1801.
Jealousy; or, The Dreadful Mistake. A Novel. By a Clergy-
man’s Daughter. 2 vols., W. Lane; Minerva Press. 1801.
Jeannette. A novel. By the Author of Melbourne. 4 vols.
Minerva-Press. W. Lane. 1800. By Mrs. Martin.
Jeannette and Jeannot; or, The Conscript's Vow. A Romance.
23 penny nos. London. E. Lloyd. 1846.
Jeannette and Jeannot; or, The Conscript Bride. A drama
produced at the Royal Victoria Theatre (until July, 1833,
Royal Coburg), Waterloo Road, London, on April 17th,
1848.
Jemima. A Novel. By the Author of £oriada
.
2 vols., W.
Lane, at the Minerva Press. MDCCXCV. With a frontis-
piece. By Mrs. Anne Hughes.
Jenny Diver, the Female Highwayman. A Romance of the
most exciting Dramatic interest. In Penny Numbers, with
First-rate Illustrations. S. Y. Collins, No. 113 Fleet Street,
London. 1851.
Jerry Abershaw ; or, The Mother's Curse. 30 penny nos. W.
Caffyn. 310 Oxford Street, Mile End; 1847-8.
Jessica Mandeville ; or, The Woman of Fortune. By Miriam
Malden. 3 vols., Longman. 1805.
Jessie Arnold; or, The Murder at the Old Well. A Romance.
19 penny nos., London. Lloyd. 1852.
Jessie The Mormon's Daughter, a Tale of English and American
Life. 8vo., n.d. Coloured Frontispiece and woodcuts.
Jessy; or, The Rose of Donald’s Cottage. A tale. 4 vols.,
A. K. Newman: Minerva Press. 1818. By the Author of
The Bravo of Bohemia. Dedication to Lady Cope Sherbrooke,
inscribed St. John’s, New Brunswick. The same author’s
Lamb00, 1812, is an American tale.
Jester's Revenge; or, The Seven Masks, The. 8vo., n.d.,
woodcuts.
37^ A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Jesuit; or, The History of Anthony Babington, Esq, The. An
Historical Novel. By the Author of More Ghosts, The Irish
Heiress. [Mrs. F. C. Patrick.] 3 vols., Dilly. 1799.
Jesuit, The. A novel. 3 vols., London: Saunders and Otley.
1832.
The first novel, which can be traced, by John Frederick
Smith.
Professor B. Q. Morgan, misled by the English Catalogue, in
his Bibliography of German Literature in English Transla-
tion, 1922, p. 499, No. 5422, confuses Smith’s novel with a
translation from Karl Spindler, having the same title. See
next entry.
Jesuit, The, characteristic of the early portion of the 18th
century. In “The Library of Romance.” One vol., i2mo.
Smith and Elder. 1834.
Another ed., The Jesuit, a picture of manners and character
from the first quarter of the 18th century. 2 vols., London :
Bull, 1839.
Another ed., The Jesuit, a historical romance, illustrating the
principles and practices of the celebrated Society . . . during
the early portion of the 1 8th century. One vol., 110 pp.,
New York. Winchester. 1844.
Another ed., The Jesuit: A Tale Showing The Character And
Policy Of The Order. New Edition. London: David Bryce,.
48 Paternoster Row. Price Eighteen pence. MDCCCLIV.
A translation from the German of Karl Spindler (1796-1855).
Jesuit, The. By Joseph Hocking. One vol., Cassell (June),
1 9 1 1 . Popular ed., Cassell (March), 1913. Cheap ed.,
Cassell (October), 1915. Reset, 1920.
Jesuit at Cambridge, The. By Sir George Stephen. 2 vols.,
Colburn. 1847.
Le Jesuite. Par l’Abbe * '
:f
* [J. F. X. Mouls]. 2 tom., Paris..
1865.
Jew and the Foundling, The. A Romance. 49 penny nos.,
London: E. Lloyd. 1847.
Joan!!! A Novel. By Matilda Fitz-John. 4 vols., Hookhann
1796.
Joan of Arc; or, The Maid of Orleans. 11 penny nos., W.
Winn. 1842.
TITLE INDEX 377
Joe Oxford; or, The Runaway. By Francis Glasse. Author
of Ned Clinton ;
Andrew Winpenny, etc., etc. 3 vols., Hurst.
1830. In The Romancist and Novelist’s Library. Vol. IV,
Nos. 79-83. J. Clements. 1840.
The commencement of this novel much resembles Oliver Tzvisl
although later the narrative differs in every detail.
Jolly Dogs of London, The. A novel of modern life. News-
agents’ Publishing Co., 145 Fleet Street, London, c. 1858.
Jonathan Bradford; or, The Murder at the Road-Side Inn.
A Romance. By the Author of “ The Hebrew Maiden,” etc.
[T. Prest.] 18 penny parts. E. Lloyd: London. 1846.
Re-issue, 1851.
The famous melodrama of the same name in two acts by
Edward Fitzball was produced June 12th, 1833, at the Surrey.
Buncombe, Vol. XII ;
Lacy, Vol. LV ;
Dicks Standard Plays,
No. 370. The music to Fitzball’s play is by Jolly. Another
drama, Jonathan Bradford; or, The Murder at the Road-
Side Inn was licensed on October 31st, 1835.
Joscelina; or, The Rewards of Benevolence. A Novel. Dedi-
cated, by Permission, to Her Royal Highness the Duchess of
York. By Isabella Kelly. 2 vols., Longman: 1797. Adver-
tised by Lane, 1798.
Joseph Wilmot ; or, The Memoirs of a Man-Servant. By G.
W. M. Reynolds. Issued in Penny Numbers. Nos. 1 and 2
were published on Friday, July 29th, 1853. two volumes,
1855. Joseph Wilmot was more than once reprinted. In
Four Parts, Nos. 159-162, Dicks’ English Novels. Price Six-
pence each.
Josephine. A novel. By an incognita [Miss Taylor]. 2 vols.
Minerva-Press, William Lane, 1799.
Journey Through Every Stage Of Life, A. Described in a
Variety of Interesting Scenes, Drawn from Real Characters.
By a Person of Quality. 2 vols., London, Printed for A.
Miller in the Strand. MBCCLIV. By Sarah Scott.
Journey Through Sweden, A. Written in French by a Dutch
Officer. Translated by William Radcliffe, A.B., of Oriel
College, Oxford. Kearsley. 1790.
Non-fiction. Listed as being a translation by the husband of
Ann Radcliffe.
37^ A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Judith. By the Author of Rebecca, etc. 2 vols., Minerva-Press,
William Lane. 1800. By Mrs. E. M. Foster.
Julia, a Novel; interspersed with some poetical pieces. By
Helen Maria Williams. 2 vols., Cadell. 1790. Irish ed.,
2 vols., Dublin: Chamberlaine and Rice. 1790.
Julia. 2 vols., Rowe. 1802.
Julia De Grammont. By the Rt. Hon. Lady H * * * *. 2
vols., Bensley. 1788. By Cassandra, Lady Hawke.
Julia De St. Pierre. 3 vols., W. Lane : Minerva-Press.
MDCCXCVI. By Miss Helen Craik.
Julia De Vienne. A novel. 4 vols., Colburn; 1811. Adver-
tised by A. K. Newman, Minerva-Press ; 1813.
Julia Of Ardenfield. A novel. 2 vols., Law. 1816.
Julia Of England. By Mrs. Norris. 4 vols., Tipper. 1808.
Julia St. Pierre. A Horrible Story of the French Revolution.
11 penny nos., London. E. Lloyd. 1842. Re-issue: Julia
St. Pierre. A Tale of the French Revolution. 10 penny nos.
London. Lloyd. N.D. (
c
.
1848).
It is many years since I read this tale, but if my memory
serves it is identical with (or only very slightly altered from)
Julia De St. Pierre, 3 vols., 1796. However I have thought
it well in the circumstances to give it a separate entry.
Juliana. A Novel by the Author of Francis the Philanthropist.
3 vols., W. Lane: London. MDCCLXXXVI. By Mrs.
Johnson.
Juliana Ormiston; or, The Fraternal Victim. By Mrs. Harley,
author of The Countess of Hennebon, Castle Mowbray, St.
Bernard’s Priory, etc. Dublin : Wogan, Byrne, Stone, Jones
and Rice. 1793. (Mrs. Harley, afterwards Mrs. Hugill.)
Julien; or, My Father's House (translated) by Mrs. Meeke. 4
vols., Minerva-Press; Lane, Newman: 1807.
Translated from F. G. Ducray-Duminil, Jules, ou le Toit
paternal. 4 tom., Paris: 1804.
Juliet; or, The Cottager: In A Series Of Letters. By a Lady.
2 vols., William Lane, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXIX.
TITLE INDEX 379
Julietta; or, The Triumph of Mental Acquirements over Personal
Defects. Johnson. 1802.
Julius; or, The Natural Son. Translated from the French. 2
vols., Ridgway. 1789.
Julius Fitz-John. 3 vols., Sherwood, Neely and Jones. 1817.
Justina; or, The History of a Young Lady. [By Mrs. Harriet
Ventum.] 4 vols. Badcock. 1801. An epistolary novel.
Juvenile Indiscretions. A Novel. By Mrs. [Agnes
Maria] Bennett. 5 vols., W. Lane : Leadenhall-Street.
MDCCLXXXVI. Second ed., 5 vols. Lane, Newman
:
Minerva Press. 1805. New ed., advertised by Newman,
1812.
K
Kate Chudleigh ; or, The Duchess of Kingston. By Malcolm J.
Errym. 15 nos., J. Dicks. 1864. Re-issue, one vol., price
1 s. 6d. John Dicks, 313 Strand. (
c
.
1884).
La Duchesse de Kingston. 4 tom., Paris: 1813. By Elisa-
beth Guenard, baronne de Mere.
Katherine. A Tale. 4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1828. By Mrs.
Hofland.
Katherine Beresford ; or, The Shade and Sunshine of a Woman's
Life. By Hannah Maria Jones. London: 1850.
Kathleen; or, The Secret Marriage. By T. Prest. 80 penny
nos., E. Lloyd. 1842.
Kept Mistress, The. 8vo. J. Morgan. 1761.
Kerwald Castle; or, Memoirs of the Marquis de Solanges.
Translated from the French by Mrs. Bamby. 2 vols., Maid-
stone. 1803. Printed for the author by D. Chalmers. And
sold by Wilkie, Symond’s, and Hunt, Paternoster Row,
London.
Kidnapped King; or, The New Captain of the Bow Street
Runners, The. By Stephen H. Agnew. No. 175. Dick
Turpin Library, Aldine Publishing Co., Crown Court,
Chancery Lane, London.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
38°
Kilverstone Castle ; or, The Heir Restored. An English Gothic
Story founded on a Fact which happened on the Dawn of
the Restoration. Lemoine : 1799- Coloured frontispiece.
Chapbook.
King Of Diamonds. Sequel to “ Gentleman George.” Hogarth
House. One Shilling. Or 12 penny nos.
King of the Beggars; or, Bamfylde Moore Carew, The. 38
penny nos., G. Purkess. 1851.
Kins?s Secret, The. By William Grattan Tyrone Power. 2 vols..
E. Bull: 1831.
Le Secret du Roi . . . traduit de l’anglais par M. A. J. B.
Defauconpret. 2 tom., Paris: 1832.
Kinsmen Of Naples, The. A Novel. 4 vols. 185. (2nd edition).
Thus advertised by Hughes, 1808. This is the second ed. of
Right And Wrong, 1803, by Mary Julia Young. See under
this title.
Knight Dcemon and Robber Chief, The. By George Soane.
Sherwood: 1812.
Knight Of St. John, The. A Romance. By Miss Anna Maria
Porter. 3 vols., Longman, Plurst, Rees, Orme, and Brown.
1817. Another ed., 8vo., London: 1852.
Le Chevalier de Saint-Jean. Traduit de 1 ’anglais par J.
Cohen. 4 tom., Paris. 1818.
Knight of the Glen, The. 2 vols., 1815.
Knight of the Rose, The. By Lucy Peacock. One vol., 1793..
Knight Of The White Banner ; or, The Secret of the Castle, The.
By Mrs. Mason, late Catherine G. Ward. One vol., 8vo.
Virtue: 1827.
Knights; or, Sketches of the Heroic Age, The. A Romance.
3 vols., Ogilvy & Son. 1798.
Ktiights, The. Tales Illustrative of the Marvellous. By R. C.
Dallas, Esq. 3 vols., Longman and Co., 1808.
Knights Of Ritzburg, The. A Romance. 3 vols., Spence.
1822.
Kcenigsmark the Robber; or, The Terror of Bohemia. By J. H..
Sarratt. One vol., 1801.
TITLE INDEX 381
“ Mr. Sarratt ... is known in the literary world as the
author of . . . Kcningsmark the Robber, a romance in one
volume . .
.” Memoirs of Mrs. Crouch, by Maria Julia
Young, 2 vols., 1806: Vol. II, pp. 311-12. Kcenigsmark
the Robber is from the German of Rudolf Erich Raspe.
Kcenigsmark the Robber ; or, The Terror of Bohemia: in which
is included the Affecting History of Rosenberg and Adelaide,
and their Orphan Daughter. By M. G. Lewis, Esq., M.P.,
Author of “ The Monk,” “ Raymond and Agnes,” “ Bravo of
Venice,” etc. 8vo. London: Dean and Munday. N.D. A
pirated chapbook, ascribed to the popular “ Monk ” Lewis.
The probable date is 1808. See The Gothic Quest by
Montague Summers, pp. 248-51.
Kruitzner. By Harriet Lee. Vol. IV, Canterbury Tales.
See under this title.
L
Labyrinth of Corcira, The ; or, The Most Extraordinary History
of Don Fernando d’Auolo, Hereditary Prince of Salerno, and
Isidora, Duchess of Catania. By G. A. Graglia. 1804.
Labyrinths of Life, The. By the author of Excessive Sensibility,
and Fatal Follies. 4 vols. Robinsons. 1791- By Mrs.
Thomson.
Lady Almira Grantham, in a Series of Letters, inter-
spersed with several interesting Stories, written in the year
MDCCLXXXIX. 2 vols. Printed at Bath, by Hazard.
1792.
Lady Durnevor ; or, My Fathers Wife. By Ajnthony]
Frederick] Holstein. 3 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K.
Newman. 1813.
Lady Geraldine Beaufort. By a Daughter of the late Serjeant
Wilson. 3 vols. Robinsons. 1803.
Lady Hamilton; or, Nelson’s Legacy. A Romance. 12 nos.,
Lloyd. 1849.
Lady in Search of a Husband, A. A. Romance, with woodcuts.
10 nos., E. Lloyd. 1847.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
382
Lady Jane Grey. An Historical Tale. 2 vols., William Lane,,
at the Minerva. MDCCXCI.
Lady Jane’s Pocket. By the Author of “ Silvanella ;
or, The
Gipsey,” etc. 4 vols. Minerva Press. A. K. Newman.
1815.
Lady MacLain, the Victim of Villainy. By Mrs. Hunter. 4
vols. Longman. 1806.
Lady Of The Cave; or, Mysteries of the fourteenth century,
The. An historical romance. By H. H. Hasworth. 3 vols.
Minerva-Press, Lane and Newman, 1802.
Lady of Martendyke, The. A historical tale of the fifteenth
century. By A Lady. 4 vols., 1813.
Lady of the Lake, The. A Romance founded on the Poem so
called by Walter Scott, Esq. 2 vols. Tegg. 1810.
Lady’s Tale; or, The History of Drusilla JVorthington, The
.
2 vols., London. Noble. 1786.
Lairds of Glenfern; or, Highlanders of the Nineteenth Century,
The. A Tale. By Mary Johnston. 2 vols. Minerva Press.
A. K. Newman. 1816.
Lake of Killarney, The. A novel. By Miss Anna Maria Porter.
3 vols. T. N. Longman and O. Rees. 1804.
Another ed. 3 vols. A. K. Newman. 1833.
Another ed. i2mo. London. 1838.
Another ed. London. J. S. Pratt. 1848. Another ed.,
Aberdeen, George Clark and Son ;
Dublin, J. M’Glashan.
One vol., 1848.
Rose de Blaquiere ; or the Lake of Killarney. A New ed.
8vo. London. N.D. [1857].
Lake Of Winander Mere, The. A novel. By the Editor of
Maria. 2 vols. William Lane, at the Minerva. MDCCXCI.
By Miss Street.
Lambs Of Littlecote, The. A School Story. By F. Harcourt
Burrage. 39 penny nos. 39 coloured plates. 1895. Re-
printed (in abridged version) by the Aldine Co.
Langreath. A Novel. By Mrs. Eliza Nathan. 3 vols. A. K.
Newman. 1824.
TITLE INDEX 383
Lascelles. Interspersed with characteristic sketches from nature
.
By Marian Moore. 3 vols. Minerva-Press. Lane and New-
man. 1802.
Lass and the Lady, The. By Ernest Charles Jones. London.
*855-
Last Man; or, Omegarus and Syderia, The. A romance in
futurity. 2 vols. Dutton. 1805.
Last Man, The. By the Author of “Frankenstein.” [Mary
Wollstonecraft Shelley]. 3 vols., Colburn, 1826. Second ed.,
Colburn. 3 vols. 1826. In Three Volumes. Paris: Pub-
lished by A. and W. Galignani. At the French, English,
Italian, German, and Spanish Library, No. 18, Rue Vivienne.
1826.
Last of The Plantagenets : The, An Historical Romance. Illus-
trating Some of the Public Events, and Domestic and
Ecclesiastical Manners of The Fifteenth and Sixteenth Cen-
turies. One vol., Smith Elder, and Co., 1829. By William
Heseltine.
Laughable Adventures of Charles and Lisette ; or The Beards,
The. To which is added, the Strolling Student. Vernor and
Hood. 1796.
Laughton Priory. By Gabrielli [Mrs. Mary Meeke]. 4 vols.
Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1809.
Laura, or Letters from Switzerland. By the Author of Camille.
Translated from the French. 4 vols. Hookham. 1788.
Laura; or Original letters. 2 vols. A sequel to the Eloisa of
J. J. Rosseau. From the French. One vol. W. Lane.
MDCCXC.
Laura; or, The Invisible Lover. By Caroline Maxwell. 4 vols.
Jones. 1 8 1 1
.
Laura and Augustus. An Authentic Story; in a Series of
Letters. By A Young Lady. 3 vols. London. Cass. 1784.
Laura Blundel and Her Father. A novel. 3 vols. Minerva-
Press. A. K. Newman. 1812.
Laura Valmont. Written by a Lady. Price 2 s. 6d. Dilly.
W9 1 -
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
384
Laurette ; Or, The Caprices of Fortune. By Mrs. Thomson.
3 vols. Lane, Newman and Co. Minerva-Press. 1807.
Leap Year ; or, Woman’s Privilege. By Selina Davenport. 5
vols. Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1817.
Learning at a Loss; Or, The Amours of Mr. Pedant and Miss
Hartley. A Novel. 2 vols. London, printed for the Author.
1778. An Epistolary novel.
Le Forester. A Novel. By Sir (Samuel) Egerton Brydges, Bart.
3 vols. 1802.
Legacy, The. A novel. 2 vols. Minerva-Press, William Lane.
1799. By Mrs. Carver.
Legend of Moleiria, The. A Tale. One vol. Minerva-Press,
Newman. [1812].
Legends of a Nunnery: a romantic legend. By Mr. [Edward]
Montague. 4 vols. Hughes. 1807.
Legends of Scotland. (First Series), containing Fair Helen of
Kirkonnel, and Roslin Castle, by Ronald M’Chronicle, Esq.
3 vols. A. K. Newman. 1822.
Legends of Scotland. (Second Series), containing Daft
Margate. 3 vols., ibid. 1824.
Legends of Scotland. (Third Series), containing Edward
Falconer. 3 vols., ibid. 1828.
Legends of Terror. One vol., 1826.
Legendary Tales. 3 vols., Hughes, Wigmore-Street. 1808.
Legitimacy; or, The Youth of Charlemagne. “An Heroic
Romance.” By Mitchell Williams.
Leicestershire Tales. By Miss Mary Linwood. 4 vols. R.
Phillips. 1809.
Leixlip Castle. An Irish Family Legend. By the Rev. Charles
Robert Maturin. The Literary Souvenir ; or Cabinet of
Poetry and Romance. Hurst, Robinson, & Co., etc. 1825.
Reprinted in The Grimoire and other Supernatural Stories,
Collected by Montague Summers. Fortune Press. 1936.
Leolin Abbey. By Alicia Lefanu. 3 vols., Longman. 1819.
Leon: a Spartan Story. By Henry Siddons. 2 vols. William
Lane, at the Minerva. MDCCXCI.
T il £
MYSTERIES of UDOLPIIO
A
R 0 MA N C E ;
i:;ti r sPF.Rsra with some pikces of poetry.
£ Y
ANN RADCLIFFE,
AVTHO.R OP THE ROMANCE OP THE FOREST, E rf
IV FOUR VOLUMES,
Fate fits otr theft? dark battlements, and frowns.
And, as the pv>rta!s rpen so receive me,
Her voice, in, fallen echoes through the courts
Tells of a namelefs deed.
VOL. I.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR C. C. AND J . ROBIN SC- V,
paternoster-row.
5
79T
THE MYSTERIES OF UDOLPHO
A romance by Ann Radcliffe
Title page, First Edition, 1794
/
_
TITLE INDEX 385
Leonora: or Characters Drawn from Real Life. Containing
a Great Variety of Incidents. Interspersed with Reflections,
Moral and Entertaining. 2 vols., London : Thomas Davies.
1745 -
Leopold ; or, The Bastard. A novel. By Henry Whitfield. 2
vols. Highley. 1803.
Leopold de Circe ; or, The Effects of Atheism. Translated by
J[ohn] S[cott] Byerley. 2 vols. Chappie. 1807. From the
French of Madame De St. Venant.
Leopold Warndorf. A novel. By Henry Summersett. 2 vols.
Minerva-Press: Lane. 1800.
Letitia; or The Castle without a Spectre. By Mrs. Hunter. 4
vols. Longman & Rees. 1801.
Letters of a Solitary Wanderer, The. Containing Narratives of
various Descriptions. By Charlotte Smith. Vols. I—III.
Longman and Co. 1801. Vols. IV and V. 1802. Irish
ed., 2 vols., Dublin: Burnet, Wagan, etc. 1801. French
translation. Les Cavernes des Montagues-Bleues, ou Orgueil
et Haine. Traduit de l’anglais par M. Marchais de
Migneaux. 5 tom. Paris. 1819. An adaptation of the
Story Henrietta.
Letters of Miss Riversdale. 3 vols. Johnson, 1804.
Letters from Mrs. Palmerstone to her Daughter. By Mrs.
Hunter of Norwich. 3 vols. Longman and Rees. 1804.
Levity And Sorrow; a German story, in two volumes: with a
preface by A. von Kotzebue. Translated by Michael Angelo
Bianchi. London : Printed at the Minerva-Press, for A. K.
Newman and Co., Leadenhall-Street. 1809.
Actually printed by Hartnell, Printer, Albion-Press, Ber-
mondsey-Street, for Dutton, who originally published the
book. The above is a remainder issue, with a new title-page.
Levity and Sorrow is a translation of Luise.
Liberal American, The. A Novel in a series of letters. By a
Lady. 2 vols. William Lane. MDCCLXXXV.
Liberality and Prejudice. A Tale. By Eliza A. Coxe. 3 vols.
Crosby. 1813.
The Libertine. A novel by “ Charlotte Dacre, better known as
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
386
Rosa Matilda.” 4 vols, Cadell, April, 1807. 2nd ed., 1807.
3rd ed., 1807.
Angelo, comte d’Albini, on les dangers da vice, par Charlotte
Dacre, connue sous le norm de Rosa Matilda, Traduit de
Panglais [The Libertine] par Elizabeth de Bon, traducteur des
Freres Anglais, etc. 3 tom., Chez Arthur Bertrand. Paris.
1816.
Libertines, The. 1 vol. Robinsons. 1800. A stupid anti-
monastic diatribe.
Lidora; An Ancient Chronicle. From the French of Mons. de
Gorgy. 2 vols. London. W. Lane at the Minerva.
MDCCXCI.
Life; or, Fashion and Feeling. By Mary Anne Hedge. 3 vols.
A. K. Newman. 1822.
Life and Adventures of Anthony Leger, Esq., The. 3 vols.
Wilkins. 1789.
Life and Adventures of Jack Sheppard, The. In 30 penny
numbers. No. 1. May 1849. G. Purkess, Compton Street,
Soho.
Life and Adventures of Joe Thompson, The. By Edward
Kimber. 2 vols. Hinton. 1750. There are reprints, and
Joe Thompson is included in Harrison’s Novelist’s Magazine,
Vol. XII, 1783, with illustrations by Stothard.
Life and Adventures of Oliver Twiss, the Work-house Boy, The.
By Bos. Weekly Penny Numbers. 78 nos. Printed and
published by E. Lloyd for F. Graves, Printer, 30 Curtain
Road, Shoreditch. August 2nd, 1839. For Bcs, see Index
of Authors.
Life and Adventures of the Chevalier de Faublas, The. Includ-
ing a Variety of Anecdotes relative to the present King of
Poland. 4 vols. Evans. 1793.
Les Adventures du Chevalier de Faublas. 19 parts. 1787-89.
By Jean-Baptiste Louvet de Couvrai.
Life and Adventures of the Marchioness Urbino, The. Con-
taining several remarkable passages in England, Spain,
Turkey, Italy, France and Holland. By Dorothy Noake. 8vo.
London: T. Cooper. 1735.
TITLE INDEX 387
Life and Extraordinary Adventures of James Molesworth
Hobart, alias Henry Griffin, alias Lord Massey, the New-
Market Duke of Ormond, etc., involving a number of well-
known Characters : together with a short sketch of the early
part of the Life of Dr. Torquid. By N. Dralloc. 2 vols.
i2mo. London: Sael. 1794. N. Dralloc is John Collard.
Life and Adventures of Paul Plaintive, Esq., an Author, The.
By Martin Gribaldus Swammerdam, his Nephew and
Executor. 2 vols. Sherwood and Co. 1812. A satirical
novel.
Life and Extraordinary Adventures, The. The Perils and
Critical Escapes of Timothy Ginnadicke, That Child of
chequer’d Fortune. 3 vols. Bath: R. Cruttwell. 1771.
Vol. III. draws a picture of fashionable life in Bath,
1770-1771.
Life and Opinions of Sebaldus Nothanker, The. From the
German of Friedrich Nicolai. 3 vols. C. Lowndes. 1798.
Translated by Thomas Dutton, A.M., from the original of
Christoph Friedrich Nicolai, 1733-1811.
Life and Singular Memoirs of Matilda, Countess de Lausanne ;
or, The Unfortunate Victim of Parental Ambition, The. A
Gothic Story. To which is added the Castle of Formosa; or,
The Treacherous Moor; and The Rivals, or Love and
Superstition, a Terrific Tale Founded on Fact. Fisher. 1802.
With a Frontispiece. By Miss Guion.
Life and Surprising Adventures of Jack Sheppard, The. By
Obadiah Throttle. 30 penny nos., London. Caton. N.D.
Life and Tunes of Dick Turpin the Highwayman, The. London.
1848.
Life as it is; or, A Peep into fashionable parties. A novel, 3
vols. Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman. 1807.
Life in Paris: a New Historical Romance, by Vidocq., Late
Chief of the Police in Paris. In parts with separate illustra-
tions. Generally bound together, one vol., demy 8vo.
Appleyard. N.D. [c. 1847]. Reprint, 56 nos., 1866.
Life of Alfred the Great, King of the Anglo-Saxons, The. [By
Alexander Bicknell.] 8vo. pp. xv. 404. London : J. Bew.
1777 -
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
388
Life of a Boy, The. By the Author of The Panorama of Youth.
2 vols. G. and W. B. Whittaker. 1821. By Mrs. Mary
Stemdale.
Life of a Lover, The. In a Series of Letters. By Sophia Lee.
6 vols. G. and J. Robinson. 1804.
Life of a Recluse, The. By A. Gibson. 2 vols. London,
Newark. Printed by M. Hage, Newark, for A. K. Newman
and Co., Leadenhall-Street. 1817.
Life of Fanny Hill, a Fair Cyprian, Many Years resident in
Russel Street, Covent Garden, The. London. N.D. [c.
1810].
Life of Jack Sheppard the Housebreaker, The. Glover. 1840.
Illustrated.
Life of Jemima, The. Chapbook. n.d. [c. 1800].
Like Master Like AYan. A Novel. In Two Volumes. By the
Late John Palmer, of the Theatre Royal, in the Haymarket.
Son to the deceased and celebrated John Palmer, of the
Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, and of the above-mentioned
Theatre. With a Preface, by George Colman, The Younger.
London. Printed for the relief of the Author’s Widow. 1811.
Lilias ; or, The Milliner's Apprentice. By Gabriel Alexander.
52 penny nos., John Dicks. 1851. Later edition, one vol.
Dicks. 6/6.
Lindor and Adelaide, a moral Tale. In which are exhibited the
Effects of the late French Revolution on the Peasantry of
France. 1791. (See Monthly Review, July: 1791-)
Lindorf and Caroline. Translated from the German of Pro-
fessor Kramer [i.e. Christiane Benedicte Eugenie Naubert] by
Mary Julia Young. 3 vols., Crosby. 1803. From Lindorf
and Caroline. 1792.
L’Intriguante ; or, the Woman of the World. By Anthony
Frederick Holstein. 4 vols. 1813. Colburn. Advertised by
Newman, 1815.
Lion Hearted. A Novel. By the author of “ The Gambler’s
Wife.” 2 vols. 1864. Second ed. 2 vols. 1864. By Mrs.
Elizabeth Caroline Grey.
TITLE INDEX 389
Lionel; or, The Impenetrable Command. An historical
romance. By Mrs. Caroline Maxwell. 2 vols. Minerva-
Press : Lane and Newman. 1808.
Lionel of the Sea. Coloured wrapper. From The Boys’ Stan-
dard. Charles Fox, 6 Red Lion Court, Fleet Street, London,
S.E. Published at 3d.
Lionel, the last of the Pevenseys. 3 vols. Minerva-Press, New-
man. 1818.
Lise et Valeour, ou le Benedictin. Par le citoyen G—d. Paris.
2 tom. 1799. By Elizabeth Guenard, baronne de Mere.
Little Beauty, The. A novel. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline
Grey. 3 vols. Hurst and Blackett, i860.
Little Chimer, The. 4 vols. Colburn, 1810. Translated from
F. G. Ducray-Duminil, Le Petit Carrilloneur, 1809. In 1813
Newman advertises The Little Chimer.
Little Wife, and the Baronet’s Daughters, The. By Mrs. Eliza-
beth Caroline Grey. 3 vols. Hurst. 1841. Another ed.
Routledge, in “Railway Library.” 1850. Price ij. 6d.
Live and Learn; or, The First John Brown, His Friends,
Enemies, and Acquaintances in Town and Country. A novel.
By Francis Lathom. 4 vols. A. K. Newman. 1823.
Lives and Exploits of Banditti and Robbers in all Parts of the
World, The. By C. MacFarlane, Esq. 2 vols. Bull and
Andrews. 1833. A new edition, 2 vols. 1833.
Llewellin. A Tale. 3 vols. London. Cawthome. 1799- A
Scottish Tale of Terror.
Lobenstein Village. A Novel. Translated by Mrs. Meeke From
The French Of Augustus La Fontaine. 4 vols. Quotation
:
Protegez, conservez les etres animes
Nes pour aimer un jour qu’ils soient d’abord aimes
Cceurs aimans, a vos soins la nature confie
Ces etres imparfaits qui commengent la vie.
Minerva-Press: Lane, Newman. 1804. The word “French”
on the title-page clearly indicates that Mrs. Meeke did not
use the German original, Der Sonderling, but relied upon the
French version of Madame de Montolieu, Le Village de
Lobenstein, ou le nouvel Enfant trauve. Traduction libre
390 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
du roman allemand d’Auguste Lafontaine, intitule Theodore.
Geneve et Paris, 5 vols. 1802.
Lochandhu. A Tale of the Eighteenth Century. [By Sir
Thomas Dick Lauder, Bart.] Edinburgh, Archibald Con-
stable and Co. 3 vols. 1825.
Lochiel; or, The Field of Culloden. By David Carey. 3 vols.
Whittaker: Minerva-Press. Newman. 1820.
Lodore. By the Author Of “Frankenstein.” In Three Volumes.
London : Richard Bentley, New Burlington Street. (Succes-
sor to Henry Colburn) 1835. Another ed., Brussels. Wahlen.
1835. By Mar)' Wollstonecraft Shelley. Largely auto-
biographical.
Logan, the Mingo Chief, by the Author of Seventy-Six, etc. 4
vols. A. K. Newman. 1823. By John Neal.
Lollards, The. A Tale, founded on the Persecutions which
marked the Early Part of the Fifteenth Century. [By Thomas
Gaspey.] 3 vols. Longman, 1822.
London; or, Truth without Treason. A Novel. By Francis
Lathom. 4 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1809.
London Nights Entertainment. By Leitch Ritchie. One vol.
Newman. 1833.
London Tales ; or, reflective portraits. By Regina Maria Roche.
2 vols. Booth. 1814.
Lone Cottage; or Who's the Stranger ? The. A Romance. By
the author of the “ Hebrew Maiden.” “ Fatherless Fanny,”
etc. 35 parts. London, E. Lloyd. 1845. By Thomas Prest,
to whom Fatherless Fanny is wrongly attributed.
Longsword, Earl of Salisbury. An Historical Romance. [By
Thomas Leland, D.D.] 2 vols. W. Johnston. 1762. A
frontispiece to each volume.
Longsword Earl of Salisbury ; Son of Fair Rosamund, Mistress
of Henry the Second. By John Leland, D.D. [ric] embellished
with 4 engravings, in 3 Sixpenny Numbers, or in boards 2s.
London. S. Fisher. 1824. 1 ° The Romancist and Novelist’
s
Library, edited by William Flazlitt. Vol. IV. 1840.
Lord Fitzhenry. A Novel. By Miss Elizabeth Gunning. 2
vols. 1794- Irish ed. 2 vols. Dublin. Byrne. 1794.
TITLE INDEX 39 1
Lord Lindsay. By Ernest Charles Jones. London. 1853.
Lord Morcar of Hereward, a Romance of the Limes of William
the Conqueror. 4 vols. A. K. Newman. 1829.
Lord Walford. By L. Lewis, Esq. 2 vols. Hookham. 1789.
Lord Winworth ; or. The Memoirs of an Heir. A Novel. 3
vols. 1787.
Lords of Erith, The. By Mrs. Manners [Later Lady Stepney],
3 vols. Ryan. 1809.
Lorimon ; or Man in Every Stage of Life. A Novel. Trans-
lated from the French. 2 vols., Minerva-Press : Lane and
Newman. 1803. From the original of Francois-Thornas de
Baculard D’Amaud (1716-1805), who is of great importance
in the development of the Gothic romance. See Montague
Summers, The Gothic Quest, pp. 116-17.
Lost Heir, The, and The Prediction. By William Grattan
Tyrone Power. 3 vols. Bull. 1830. Reprinted as Cauth
Malowney ; or, The Lost Heir. 1847.
Lost Ship ; or, the Atlantic Steamer, The. [By William Johnson
Neale.] 3 vols. London. 1845. Another ed. 8vo. i860.
Lottery of Life ; or, The Romance of a Summer, The. A Novel.
[By Mr. Lyttleton.] 3 vols. Minerva-Press : Lane and
Newman. 1802.
Louis and Nina; or, an Excursion to Yverdun. 2 vols. William
Lane. From the French. 1789. “ Written by the First Wit
in France,” J. C. Gorgy.
Louis de Boncceur, a domestic tale. By Catherine Lara. Trans-
lated from the French. 2 vols. Ridgeway. 1796.
Louisa, a Novel, by the Author of Melissa and Marcia, or, The
Sisters. 3 vols. Hookham. 1789.
Louisa: a Narration of Facts, supposed to throw Light on the
Mysterious History of the Lady of the Hay-Stack. London.
Rivington. 1801. By George Henry7
Glasse.
Louisa; or, The Black Tower. A Novel. By G. D. Hemon.
2 vols. H. D. Symonds. 1805.
Louisa; or. The Cottage on the Moor. [By Elizabeth Helme.]
392 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
2 vols., Kearsley. 1787. A new edition with corrections, 2
vols., 1787. 7th ed., 2 vols., Newman, 1811. 8th ed., ibid.
1819. 9th edition, 3 vols. A. K. Newman. 1834. Re-
printed 1840.
Louisa; or, The Rewards of an affectionate Daughter. A novel.
2 vols. Hookham. 1790.
Louisa; or, Virtue in Distress. Being the history of a natural-
daughter of Lady * * * * j Vol. 1760.
Louisa, the Wandering Maniac. Chapbook. 1804.
Louisa Forrester ; or, Characters drawn from Real Life. 3 vols.
Printed for W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXIX.
Louisa Matthews. By an eminent Lady. 3 vols. Lackington.
1
793 -
Love and Gratitude ; or traits of the human heart. Six novels.
From the German of Augustus Lafontaine. “ Prepared for
the Press by Mrs. Parsons.” 3 vols., Brentford. 1804. Mrs.
Parsons probably revised a literal translation of the original.
Love & Horror ; an Imitation of the Present and a model for
all future romances. By Ircastrensis. One vol., i2mo. 1825.
Love and Madness. 3 vols. Hughes. 1807. Translated from
Lafontaine.
Love and Mystery. E. Lloyd. 52 penny nos. 1849.
Love and Patriotism, or, the extraordinary adventures of M.
Duportail, etc. London. i2mo. 1797. An episode from
Louvet de Couvrai’s Aventures du Chevalier de Faublas. 19
parts. 1787-89.
Love as it May Be, and Friendship as it Ought to Be. A novel.
By Mrs. Bayfield. 4 vols. Hughes. 1807. See A Winter
at Bath.
Love at first sight. A Novel from the French, with Alterations
and Additions. By Mrs. Gunning. 5 vols. Lowndes. 1797.
Love Child, The. By the Author of “Varney the Vampire.”
[T. Prest.] 59 parts. E. Lloyd. 1847.
Love, Hatred, and Revenge. A Swiss Romance. By Thomas
Pike Lathy. 3 vols. 1809.
TITLE INDEX 395
Love in a Cottage. A Novel. By B. Walwyn. 2 vols. 1785.
Love, Mystery, and Misery! By Anthony Frederick Holstein.
2 vols. Minerva-Press : A. K. Newman. 1810.
Love, Rashness, and Revenge ; or, Tales of Three Passions. By
Rippen Porter, Esq. 2 vols. Simpkin and Marshall. 1816.
Love the Leveller; or Fenella’s Fortunes. A Story for Christ-
mas. By Malcolm J. Errym. John Dicks. 1861. Serialized
in Reynolds’s Miscellany. 1861.
Love Token; or, The Mistress and her Guardian, The. A
Domestic story. By Hannah Maria Jones. Virtue. 1844.
Lovers, The ; or, The Memoirs of Lady Sarah B and the
Countess P . For the Editor. Sold by J. Roson. 1769.
By Pierre Henri Treyssac De Vergy. Dublin edition. G.
Byrne (1770). Lady Sarah B is Lady Sarah Bunbury,
and the work is founded upon contemporary scandal also
dealt with in The Unhappy Wife, 1770.
Lovers, The ; or the Memoirs of Lady Mary Sc—— and the
Hon. Amelia B—*
—. Printed for the Editor and sold by the
Booksellers. 1772. By Pierre Henri Treyssac De Vergy.
Lovers, The. By Pierre Henri Treyssac De Vergy. A Third
Volume was announced in 1772.
Loves of Paris, The. Translated from the French of Paul
Feval, by John Wilson Ross. 16 nos. One vol. Vickers.
1846. Reprint, 21 nos. 1866.
Love’s Pilgrimage, a Story founded on Facts, Compiled from
the Journal of a Deceased Friend. 3 vols. Longmans. 1796.
Lovers and Friends; or, Modern Attachments. A novel. By
Ann of Swansea (Mrs. Ann Curtis). 5 vols. Minerva-Press
:
A. K. Newman. 1820.
Loyalists, The. An Historical Novel. By the Author of “Letters
To A Young Man,” “ A Tale Of The Times,” etc. 3 vols.,
London: Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme and Brown, 1812.
By Mrs. Jane West. Period : Charles I.
Lucilla; or, the Reconciliation. By Miss Sandham, Author of
The Twin Sisters, etc. 2 vols., Minerva-Press : A. K. New-
man. 1819. Second ed. 1822.
394 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Lucius Carey; or, the Mysterious Female of Mora’s Dell. An
historical tale. By Henry Coates. 4 vols. A. K. Newman.
1831.
Lucky Escapes ; or Systematic villany. 3 vols. Minerva-Press.
Lane, Newman. 1809. By Lieut. Arnold.
Lucretia; or, Virtue the best Dowry. 2 vols. Vernor. 1790.
Lucy. A Novel. By Mrs. Parsons. 3 vols. William Lane
:
Minerva-Press. MDCCXCIV.
Lucy Osmond. A Story. Robinsons. 1804.
Ludovico’s Tale ; or, The Black Banner of Castle Douglas. By
A. A. Stewart. 4 vols. 1807.
Luke Somerton, or, the English Renegade. 32 penny nos. 1845.
Lumley House. A novel. The first attempt of a young lady.
3 vols. W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXVII.
Lusignan, Or The Abbaye Of La Trappe. A Novel. 4 vols.
Minerva-Press: W. Lane. 1801.
Founded on Baculard D’Arnaud’s first play Les Arnans
Malheureux, ou le comte de Comminge, ( 1765)
itself a drama-
tization of Madame de Tencin’s story Les Memoires du comte
de Comminge (English translation, Memoirs of the Count
Comminge, 1773)
in her Malheurs de I’amour, ( 1735).
Lussington Abbey. By Henrietta Rouviere. 3 vols. Minerva-
Press: Lane, Newman. 1804. Miss Henrietta Rouviere,
afterwards Mrs. Mosse.
Luxima, the Prophetess : a Tale of India. London. Westerton.
1859. By Lady Morgan. A revision of The Missionary: an
Indian Tale.
Lydia, or Filial Piety. A Novel. By the Author of the
Marriage-Act, a Novel, and Letters on the English Nation.
4 vols., J. Scott. 1755. 4 vols., Harrison. 1786.
By John Shebbeare.
M
Macgrigor And Clarendon ; Or The Recluse Lovers. A novel.
By Alexander Gordon. Chalmers. Aberdeen. 1821.
TITLE INDEX 395
Macrimmon. A Highland Tale. By the Author of Redmond
the Rebel, Cospatrick of Raymondsholm,
St. Kathleen, etc.
4 vols. A. K. Newman & Co. 1823. By Alexander
Sutherland.
Mad Dog; Or, St. Catherine’s Abbey, The. 3 vols. Earle.
[c. 1814.]
Mad Man Of The Mountain, The. A tale. By Henry
Summersett, author of Probable Incidents, etc. 2 vols.,
Minerva-Press for William Lane, 1 799.
Madelina. A tale founded on facts. By Louisa Sidney Stan-
hope. 4 vols. Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman and Co. 1814.
Madeline ; Or The Castle Of Montgomery. A novel. 3 vols.
William Lane, at the Minerva-Press. MDCCXCIV. By
Mrs. Isabella Kelly.
Madeleine Graham. By the Author of Whitefriars; Ccesar
Borgia; Banker’s Wife; etc., etc. 3 vols. London: John
Maxwell & Co. 1864. Second ed. One vol. ibid. 1865.
Subsequently reprinted in popular form. By Emma Robinson.
The story' is that of the celebrated poisoning case and trial
of Madeleine Hamilton Smith of Glasgow in 1857.
Mademoiselle De La Fayette. By Madame Genlis. 2 vols.
Colburn. 1813. Advertised by Newman in 1819.
Magazine of Curiosity and Wonder, The. Edited by Thomas
Peckett Prest. Vol. I. Nos. 1
—30, from 5th November,
1835—26th May, 1836. 1835-6.
Magdalen ; Or, The Penitent Of Godstow. An Historical
Novel. In Three Volumes. By Elizabeth Helme, Author of
St. Margaret’s Cave, or, The Nun’s Story ;
The Pilgrim of
the Cross, etc., etc. Brentford : Printed by and for P.
Norbury; and sold by C. Cradock and W. Joy, No. 32,
Pater-noster-Row. London. 1812. Second ed., 3 vols.
i2mo. Printed at the Minerva Press for A. K. Newman and
Co., Leaacnhall-Street. 1818. Price 15L Third ed., 3
vols. Newman, ibid. 1820.
Magdalen, The ; Or Flistory of the First Penitent Received into
that Charitable Asylum. In a Senes of Letters to a Lady.
With Anecdotes of the Other Penitents, By the late Rev.
William Dodd, L.L.D. Dedicated to the Rev. Mr. Harrison,
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
396
chaplain to the Magdalen Hospital. London : Printed for
W. Lane, Leaden-hall Street. [1784?] One vol. The
letters, signed MS., are dated 1763. Dr. Dodd was executed
on 27th June, 1777. A portion of the last letter is verbatim
from a sermon he had preached before the Governors of
Magdalen-House on 26th April, 1759. The incidents of this
History are clearly derived from the first story in The Histories
of some of the Penitents in the Magdalen-House, Rivington
and Dodsley, 1759.
Magic of Wealth, The. By T. S. Surr. Author of A Winter in
London, etc., etc. 3 vols., Cadell and Davies. 1815. The
story is founded on the suppression of the Society of Jesus
in 1773.
Magician, The. A Romance. By Leith Ritchie. 3 vols.
Macrone. 1836. In the “Parlour Novelist” series, 1846;
In the “ Parlour Library,” 1853.
Magnanimous Amazon; or Adventures of Theresia Baroness
Van Hoog; with Anecdotes of other eccentric Persons, The.
From the Dutch. Venor and Hood. 1796.
The same work as, The Memories of Madame de Barneveldt
.
Translated from the French by Miss Gunning. 2 vols.
Booker. 1795.
Maid Marian, the Forest Queen. A sequel to Robin Hood. 31
penny nos. George Pierce. 1840. By Pierce Egan, jun.
See entry under his name, Index of Authors.
Maid of Avon, The. A novel for the haut ton. By an Irish-
woman. 3 vols. Minerva-Press : Lane, Newman. 1807.
By Mrs. Frances Peck.
Maid of Kent, The. 3 vols. Hookham. 1790.
Maid of Moscow, The. See under Iwanowna.
Maid of Orleans, The. A Romantic Chronicle. By the Author
of “ Whitefriars ” [Emma Robinson], 3 vols., Colburn. 1849.
A new Edition. One vol., Routledge, 1858. Another ed.
One vol., Routledge. N.D. [1878].
Maid of Padua; or, Past Times, The. A Venetian Tale. By
Miss C. D. Haynes. 4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1835.
Maid of Quality; or, the History of Lady Lucy Layton, The.
Vemor. 1770.
TITLE INDEX 397
Maid of the Castle, The. A legendary tale. In three cantos.
By Jemima Maria Stratton. One vol. William Lane,
Minerva-Press, MDCCXCIV. Price 35.
Maid of the Hamlet, The. A Tale. By Regina Maria Roche.
Author of the “Vicar of Lansdown.” 2 vols. Long. 1793,
Second ed., 2 vols. Minerva-Press, W. Lane. 1798. Irish
ed., Dublin ;
G. Burnett, H. Colbert, B. Dornin, G.
Folingsby, and T. Codd. One vol., 1802.
Maid of Warsaw; or, The Tyrant Czar, The. A Tale of the
last Polish Insurrection, The. By Ernest Charles Jones.
London. 1855. The Polish Insurrection of 1830-31. War-
saw surrendered on September 8th, 1831. The Czar was
Nicholas.
Maiden Wife, The. By Miss Emma Hamilton. 4 vols.
Chappie. 1812.
Maid, Wife, and Widow. By Henry Siddons. 3 vols. R.
Phillips. 1806. Advertised by Newman, 1812.
Majolo, The. A Tale. One vol.; pp. 252. Colburn. 1815.
The hero is a Sardinian Majolo.
Major Piper ; or, the Adventures of a Musical Drone. By the
Rev. J. Thompson. 5 vols. Robinson. 1793.
Male-Coquette ; or, The History of the Hon. Edward Astell,
The. 2 vols., i2mo. London: Robinson & Roberts. 1770.
Another ed. as by Jane Timbury, 1788. Another ed., 2 vols.,
Murray, 1789.
Malouka. Chapbook. n.d. [c. 1800].
Man; or, Anecdotes National and Individual. By Mary Anne
Hedge. One vol., A. K. Newman. 1822.
Alan of Benevolence, The. One vol., 200 pp. Buckland. 1789.
Man of Falling, The. A tale. 2 vols. Printed for William
Lane, Leadenhall Street. MDCCLXXXIX.
Man of Nature; or, Nature and Love, The, a novel translated
by William Wennington from the German of Augustus
Lafontaine. London. 1805. New ed., enlarged (447 pp.)
London; for the translator. 1807.
Man of Pleasure ; or, Memoirs of William Wilding, Esq., The.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
398
Written by Himself. Ann Lemoine : White Rose Court,.
Coleman Street. 1800. Frontispiece.
Man of Sorrows, The. By Alfred Allendale, Esq. 3 vols.
Tipper. 1808.
Mandeville ; a tale of the Seventeenth Century. By William.
Godwin. 3 vols., Edinburgh: Constable. 1817. The story
of Mandeville is taken from Joanna Baillie’s Hate.
Mandeville; or, The Last Words of a Maniac ; a. Tale of the
Seventeenth Century in England. Written by himself. Vol.
IV, London: Wilson. 1818. This “Vol. IV” was not by
Godwin .
Mandeville, histoire anglaise du dix-septieme siecle. Traduit
de 1 ’anglais par J. Cohen. 4 tom., Paris. 1818. Isabelle
Hastings. Traduit de Fanglais par Mme. Collet. 4 tain.
Paris. 1823.
Mandeville Castle ; or, The Two Elinors. 2 vols., Booth. 1807.
Manfredi, Baron St. Osmund. An Old English Romance. By
Sarah Lansdell, Tenterden. 2 vols. William Lane, at The
Minerva-Press. MDCCXCVL With a frontispiece. This
was reproduced, facing p. 404, in The Gothic Quest (1938)
by Montague Summers.
Manfredi, or The Mysterious Hermit. An interesting romance-
Chapbook (30 pp.). G. Stevens: London. N.D. [1825?]
Manfrone ; or, The One-Handed Monk. A Romance. In
Four Volumes. By Mary-Anne Radcliffe. J. F. Hughes,
Wigmore-Street, Cavendish-Square. 1809. Second ed., A.
K. Newman: Minerva-Press. 1819. Third ed., 4 vols., A.
K. Newman and Co. 1828.
Manfred [u'c], or, The One-Handed Monk. By M. A.
Radcliffe. 8vo. pp. 102. London. 1839.
Manfrone ; Or, The One-Handed Monk. A Romance. By
Mary Anne Radcliffe, Author of “ The Italian,” etc. Lon-
don : N. Bruce, Peterborough Court, Fleet Street ;
and Sold
by All Booksellers. 8vo. 1844.
Manfrone ; Or, The One-Handed Monk. A Romance. By
Anne Radcliffe. With a frontispiece. London. N.D. [c. i860].
Manfrone ; or, The One-Handed Monk. A Romance. By
Anne Radcliffe. Milner & Co. Ltd., London and Halifax,
Yorkshire. N.D. [
c
.
1870].
TITLE INDEX 399
Maniac Father ; or, The Victim of Seduction, The. A Romance
of Deep Interest, The. By T. Brest. 76 penny parts. E.
Lloyd. 1842. A very popular romance, more than once
re-issued.
Maniac of the Desert, The. By William Child Green. London.
1821.
Manners. A Novel. By Madame Panache. 3 vols., Baldwin,
Cradock and Joy. 1817.
Manon L’Escaut: or, The Fatal Attachment. A French Story.
Translated by Mrs. Charlotte Smith. London : 2 vols.
Cadell. 1785.
Mansion House, The, A Novel Written by a Young Gentleman.
2 vols., William Lane, Minerva-Press. MDCCXCVI. By
James Norris Brewer.
Mantle, The. Translated from the German of Christiane
Benedicte Eugenie Naubert. In Specimens of German
Romance, Translated by George Soane. i2mo. Whittaker.
1826.
Manuel, A Tragedy in Five Acts, as performed at the Theatre
Royal, Drury Lane, by the author of Bertram. Murray.
1817. Manuel was produced March 8th, 1817. The music
was by Cooke. There were 3 editions in 1817.
“ Extracts from some unpublished scenes of Manuel.” The
New Monthly Magazine, or Universal Register. 1st Series.
Vol. XI, p. 236. 1819.
Maple Vale ; or, the History of Miss Sidney. 3 vols. Vernor,
I
79 I -
The Marchioness! ! ! Or, " The Matured Enchantress
.”
In
Three Volumes. By Lady —-
— [Quotation, 2 lines, Gay].
London : Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman and Co. 1813. By
Mrs. Ross.
Marchmont : A Novel. By Charlotte Smith. 4 vols., Sampson
Low, Berwick Street, Soho. 1796.
My copy of Marchmont has a printed label :
“ Sold by
Hookham and Carpenter, Bond street.”
Also 4 vols., Lane, Newman. 1803.
Marcus Flaminius ; or, A View of the Military, Political, and
400 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Social Life of the Romans: In a Series of Letters from a
Young Patrician to his Friend, in the Year J62 from the
Foundation of Rome, to the Year j6g. By Miss Ellis Cornelia
Knight. 2 vols. Dilly, 1792. Another ed., 2 vols., Cadell. 1808.
Margaret ; or, The Discarded Queen. By G. W. M. Reynolds.
Serial in Reynolds’s Miscellany, Vol. XVI—Vol. XVIII.
1856-7. Two Parts, Nos. 14 1-2, Dicks’ English Novel#.
Price Sixpence Each.
Margarita. By the Author of The Traditions. 4 vols., Minerva-
Press. Lane. 1799. By Mary Martha Butt, afterwards Mrs.
Sherwood.
Margiana ; or, Widdrington Tower. A Tale of the Fifteenth
Century. In Five Volumes. Minerva-Press, Lane, Newman.
1808. By Mrs. S. Sykes, afterwards Lady Sykes.
With a frontispiece which represents “ An interesting Scene
from the Novel of Margiana.” This is reproduced at page
204 of The Gothic Quest by Montague Summers.
Maria. A Novel. By the author of George Bateman. [Eliza-
beth Blower]. 2 vols. Dodsley. 1785.
Maria; or, The Hollanders. By Louis Buonaparte. 3 vols.
Colburn. 1815.
First ed., Mane, ou les Reines de VAmour. Gratz. 1812.
Second ed., revised. Maria, ou les Hollandaises. Paris, 1814.
Maria; or, The Vicarage. [By the Rev. Thomas Stebback].
2 vols., London. 1796.
Maria Cecilia; or, The Life and Adventures of the Daughter of
Achmet III, Emperor of the Turks. From the French. 2 vols.,
Printed for W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXVIII.
The French original is Cecile, file d’Achmet III Empereur des
Tures, by Joseph La Vallee.
Maria Harcourt. A novel. 2 vols. Stalker. 1788.
Maria Marten; or The Murder in the Red Barn. For an
account of the celebrated murder of Maria Marten by William
Corder see All The Year Round, Vol. 18, No. 443, October
19th, 1867, pp. 397—403. The murder took place in 1827,
and Corder was executed the following year. In 1831 was
published The Red Barn, A Tale, founded on Fact by William
Maginn. See under this title. More than one melodrama
TITLE INDEX 401
was based on the murder, and these were huge favourites at
the London minors and in the smaller country theatres. The
first recorded London performance of a Maria Marten melo-
drama seems to be that at the Marylebone Theatre, April 6th,
1840. The house dramatist to the Queen’s Theatre, Battersea,
wrote a melodrama on the Red Bam which has not been
printed but from which a number of similar plays were
derived. For an account of these and of the fortunes of
Maria Marten on the stage see, Maria Marten ; or, The
Murder in the Red Barn,” a Traditional Acting version here
for the First Time printed and published, by the Care of Mr.
Montague Slater, Esquire.” London; Gerald Howe: 1928.
The last London revival of Maria Marten; or, The Murder
in the Red Barn was at the Elephant Theatre (Elephant and
Castle) in 1927. At the doors was sold a penny pamphlet
Maria Marten; or, The Mystery Of The Red Barn ,
pink
wrappers illustrated, 8 pp., with three crude cuts in the
traditional manner. This was published by “ E. Lane, Book-
seller, Club Row, Bethnal Green Road, Every Sunday Morn-
ing From 9 to 1. And at Theberton Street (Upper St. end)
Islington, Nightly 6 to 10. Outside the Pied Bull. With
all the Famous Old Song Books, Irish, Scotch, and Jew Joke
Books, Dog and Bird Books. All the Famous Crimes. Other
famous books in course of preparation are :
—Sweeny Todd,
Sapho, Jane Shore, Jack Sheppard, Dick Turpin, Maria
Monk, The Artists’ Model, etc.”
The Red Farm; or, The Well of St. Marie, A Domestic
Drama in Two Acts, by William Thomas Mcncrieff, which
was produced at Sadler’s Wells, on Tuesday, August 29th,
1842, has as its plot a story, the scene being laid in France,
almost exactly resembling the incidents of the Red Bam
Murder.
Maria Monk. Awful Disclosures of . . . in the Hotel Dieu
Nunnery at Montreal. See under Awfid Disclosures.
The First Edition is 1836. New York: Published by Howe
& Bates; No. 68 Chatham street. i2mo., pp. xviii and 231.
Groombridge, London, i8mo., Price 2 s. 6d., 1836, is later
in the same year.
The Second Edition, “ with an Appendix and a Supplement,
and a Plan of the Nunnery, 2nd edition, revised by the Rev.
J. J. Slocum of New York,” is 1837. London :
J. S. Hodson,
1 12 Fleet Street. i2mo., pp. 385, and folding plan.
D;5
402 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
There have been innumerable cheap reprints of this anti-
clerical romance, as it may be surely termed, for Maria Monk
was, in the words of Colonel W. L. Stone of New York who
investigated her “ revelations,” an “ arrant impostor,” and her
book “ a tissue of calumnies.” Maria Monk has been aptly
described by Mr. G. K. Chesterton as “ a dirty half wit.”
This unhappy wretch in 1849 robbed a paramour, who
prosecuted her, and she died in prison. See for details The
True History of Maria Monk, Catholic Truth Society,
London : C. 132. Also The Protestant Platform (pp. 1 1-12) by
G. G. Elliot Anstruther; Catholic Truth Society, London:
C. 180.
Maria of the Mountain. By G. Boswell. One vol. 1827.
Mariamne ; or, Irish Anecdotes. A novel. 2 vols. William
Lane, Minerva-Press. MDCCXCIII. New ed., 2 vols,
Minerva-Press for W. Lane, 1801.
Mariamne; or, The Maid of Palestine. 3 vols., G. B. Whit-
taker, and later A. K. Newman. 1825.
Marian. 3 vols., Longman & Co. 1812.
Marian De Brittoon. 3 vols. Newman. 1822. By Captain
S. S. De Renzy.
Marianna; or, Modern Manners. 2 vols., Cadell & Davies.
1808.
Marie Anne Lais The Courtezan ; or, Certain Illustrations. A
Romance. By H. C. Sims. 8vo. London: Rodwell. 1812.
An epistolary novel.
Marietta; or, The Forger’s Wife, and The Child of Destiny.
An Original Romance. By the Author of “ Ela the Outcast,”'
“Angelina,” etc. E. Lloyd. 1844-5. By T. P. Prest.
Serialized in Lloyd’s Entertaining Journal, commencing
March 30th, 1844.
Marley; or, Life of A Planter. One vol., Glasgow, Griffin:
London, Hurst: 1828. 2nd ed., A. K. Newman. A story
of life in Jamaica.
Marquis of Dalewood, The. 12 nos. n.d. Illustrated. A
Highwayman story, published under an innocuous title on
account of the outer)' for the suppression of these tales.
TITLE INDEX 403
Marriage Act, The. A Novel, containing a Series of Interesting
Adventures. [By John Shebbeare.] 2 vols., J. Hughes :
1754.
Marriage Victim ; or, The History of Lady Villars, The. 2 vols.,
Hookham. 1789.
Married Life ; or, Faults on all Sides. By Miss Howard. 5 vols.,
Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1811.
Martha Willis ; or, The Maid, The Profligate, and The Felon.
A Romance. E. Lloyd. 1844. By T. P. Prest.
Martin and Mansfeldt ; or, The Romance of Franconia. In
Three Volumes. By Anna Maria Mackenzie, Author of
Mysteries Elucidated, Feudal Events, etc. [Quotation : 4
lines: “Sonnet by Queen Eliz. written in 1529,” sic. Eliza-
beth was born 1533.] London, Minerva-Press, for Lane and
Newman. 1802. The story is based on Schiller’s Die Riiuber.
Martyn Of Fenrose; or, The Wizard And The Sword. A
Romance. By Henry Summersett. 3 vols., Dutton. 1801.
Marvellous Magazine And Compendium Of Prodigies, The.
Consisting of The Southern Tower; or, Conjugal Sacrifice,
and Retribution—The Veiled Picture, a Tale of Mystery—
Domestic Misery—Highland Heroism—Albani—Innocent,
Abbot of the Capuchins. 8vo. Printed for T. Hurst, 1802,
etc. A collection of chapbook tales, abridgements of famous
romances. Thus The Veiled Picture is from The Mysteries
of Udolpho. See under Ann Radcliffe, Index of Authors.
Father Innocent is from The Monk, see further under this
title.
Marvellous Pleasant Love-Story, A. 2 vols. Minerva-Press,
for W. Lane. 1801.
Mary, A Fiction. i2mo. J. Johnson. 1788. By Mary Woll-
stonecraft, who married William Godwin.
Mary and Fanny. A narrative. By Juvenis. One vol. Minerva
Press. A. K. Newman. 1816. Price 4s.; 4s. 6d. With a
frontispiece.
Mary Clifford; or, The Foundling Apprentice Girl. By the
author of “ Angelina,” etc. [T. P. Prest.] E. Lloyd : London.
[1841].
Mary De-Clifford. A Story interspersed with many Poems.
404 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
By Sir (Samuel) Egerton Brydges, Bart. London : Whitting-
ham. 1792. 2nd ed., 1800. Another ed., 1844.
Mary-Jane. A Novel. By Richard Sickelmore, jun. 2 vols.
Printed for the author at the Minerva Press, by William
Lane. 1800.
Mary Jane Meadows. Chapbook. 1802.
Mary Price ; or, The Memoirs of a Servant Maid. By G. W.
M. Reynolds. Penny Weekly, Sixpenny Monthly Numbers,
1851-
2. Separate issue in two volumes. Vol. II. was pub-
lished in September, 1853. Four Parts, 154- 157, Dicks’
English Novels. Price Sixpence Each.
Mary Seaham. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey. 3 vols.
Colburn. 1852. A new ed., One vol., (pp. 415). Ward,
Lock. 1884.
Mary Stuart, Queen of Scotland. By G. W. M. Reynolds. No.
13, Dicks’ English Novels. Price Sixpence Each.
Mary, the Primrose Girl. 34 penny nos. E. Lloyd. 1847.
Mask of Fashion, The. A Most Interesting Modern Novel, with
Satyrical Remarks and Anecdotes of many of the Fashionable
Characters of the Present-Day. 2 vols., Hughes: 1806.
Masks and Faces. By J. F. Smith. Commencing in The
London Journal on June 23rd, 1855. When towards the end
of that year Smith severed his connexion with the Journal
this serial was continued to a conclusion by Emma Robmson.
See under the title The City Banker; or, Love and Money.
1856.
Masqued Weddings, The. A Novel in a Series of Letters.
By Miss Elliott. 2 vols. Hookham. 1781.
Massacre of Glencoe, The. A Histoncal Tale. By G. W. M.
Reynolds. Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, July 31st,
1852
—
June 1 8th, 1853. Nos, 126 and 127 Dicks’ English
Novels. Price Sixpence Each.
Massouf ; or, The Philosophy of the Day. An Eastern Tcde.
One vol., Minerva-Press ;
Lane and Newman. 1802.
Match Girl, The. 2 vols., J. F. Hughes: 1808.
Mathilde, Ou Memoires Tires De L’Histoire Des Croisades;
TITLE INDEX 405
Precedes D’Un Tableau Historique Des Croisades Et De La
Conquete De Constantinople. Nouvelle Edition, Revue Avec
Soin, Et Omee De Douze Jolies Gravures. 4 tomes. Paris,
Lecointe et Durey, Libraires. Quai Des Augustins, No. 49.
1825.
A romance very markedly showing the influence of Scott.
Matilda. Chapbook. n.d. [c. 1800].
Matilda; or, The Barbadoes Girl. A tale for young people.
One vol., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1816. Price 4s.
With a frontispiece. By Mrs. Hofland.
Matilda; or, The Efforts of Virtue. A novel in a Series of
Letters, by a Lady. 3 vols. William Lane. MDCCLXXXV.
Matilda Montford. A Romantic Novel. By Peter Peregrine.
4 vols., Spencer. 1809.
Matilda St. Aubin: a Sketch. 2 vols. W. Lane. Minerva-
Press. MDCCXCIII.
Matrimonial Vanity Fair, The. By the author of “ White-
friars ” [Emma Robinson.] 3 vols., 8vo., London. [Guild-
ford printed.] 1868 [1867].
Matrimony! ! The Height of Bliss; or, The Extreme of Misery.
A novel. By Mrs. Meeke. 4 vols., Minerva-Press : A. K.
Newman. 1812.
Matron Of Erin, The. A National Tale. [By Mrs. Kelly.]
3 vols., Simpkin and Marshall, 1816. 2nd ed. A. K.
Newman: 1825.
Mrs. Kelly is to be distinguished from Mrs. Isabella Kelly,
afterwards Mrs. Hedgeland.
Maude Marsden; or, The Court and Camp of Charles the
Second. An Historical Romance. Six nos. Cleave, Shoe
Lane. 1846.
Mauleverer’s Divorce: a story of woman’s wrongs. By the
author of “ Whitefriars ” [Emma Robinson]. London:
[Guildford printed], i2mo. 1838. Another ed., “Railway
Library,” 1863.
Maurice and Berghetta; or, The Guest of Rahery. A Tale.
By William Parnell. London: Rowland Hunter. 1819.
406 a gothic bibliography
Maurice Powell, a Welsh Tale. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1821.
May Grayson; or, Love and Treachery. A Romance. By
T. P. Prest. 32 penny nos. E. Lloyd. 1842.
May Middleton ; or, The History of a Fortune. By G. W. M.
Reynolds. No. 123 of Dicks’ English Novels. Price Sixpence
each.
May Turpin The Queen Of The Road. A Romance. By the
Author of “ Dick Turpin, a Romance of the Road ” ;
“ Jack
Sheppard and Jonathan Wild,” etc., etc. Richly Illustrated.
The Newsagents’ Publishing Company (Limited), 147, Fleet
Street, E.C. 1864.
Mazeppa; or, The Wild Horse of the Ukraine. A Romance,
no nos. pp. 878. London: E. Lloyd. 1850.
Mazeppa was for many years a favourite equestrian spectacle.
On November 3rd, 1823, Mazeppa a spectacle was given at
the Coburg. Adah Isaacs Menken (Adelaide McCord)
played Mazeppa in 1861 at the Green Street Theatre,
Albany, U.S.A. She came to England in 1864 and played
Mazeppa at Astley’s.
Melbourne. A Novel. By the Author of Deloraine. 3 vols.
Minerva-Press, for William Lane. 1798. By Mrs. Martin.
Melissa And Marcia; or, The Sisters: A Novel. [Quotation,
2 lines Akenside.] In Two Volumes. London: W. Lane.
MDCCLXXXVIII. By Elizabeth Hervey, nee Marsh.
Medallion, The. By Sfusanna] Pearson. Dedicated by per-
mission, to His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales. 3 vols.,
Robinsons. 1794.
Melmoth the Wanderer. A Tale. By the Author of “ Bertram,”
etc. 4 vols., Edinburgh, Constable ;
Hurst & Robiason,
London: 1820. Second ed., 4 vols. do. 1821.
Melmoth the Wanderer. By Charles Robert Maturin. 3
vols., Richard Bentley & Son. 1892. With a Memoir of
Maturin by Robert Ross and More Adey.
Melmoth, ou VHomme errant, traduit de l’anglais par J.
Cohen. 6 vols., Paris : 1821. There is a German translation,
Melmoth der Wanderer.
Melmoth the Wanderer, and Walburg the Victim. A melo-
drama in 3 Acts. By B. West. Produced Coburg, July 14th,
TITLE INDEX 407
1823. London, 1823; and included in Vol. 10 of Dun-
combe’s British Theatre, 1825, etc.
Melwin Dale. A novel. In A Series of Letters. By A Lady.
W. Lane : Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXVI.
Memoirs And Adventures Of A Flea; In Which Are Inter-
spersed Many Humorous Characters And Anecdotes. In
Two Volumes. London : Axtell. 1785. Advertised by Lane,
1786. Price 5s. 6d.
To be distinguished from the well-known erotic book The
Autobiography of a Flea, published in London about 1887,
or earlier. The French Les Souvenirs d’une Puce is a trans-
lation of this, 2 vols., Amsterdam et Paris, 1890.
Memoirs And Opinions Of Mr. Bleufield. By the Author of
Tales of Sympathy. 2 vols., London: Printed for W. Lane,
Leadenhall Street. MDCCXC.
Memoirs Of An American Lady; with Sketches of Manners and
Scenery in America, as they existed previous to the Revolu-
tion. 2 vols., Third ed., London: A. K. Newman. 1817.
By Mrs. Ann MacVicar Grant.
Memoirs Of An Author. By Jane Harvey. Author of Ethelia,
Tynemouth Castle, Governor of Belleville, etc. 3 vols., Long-
man and Co., 1812.
Memoirs Of A Baroness. By the Author of the Conquests of
the Heart, and The Victim of Fancy. 2 vols., Robinsons:
1792. Historical; Henri IV of France.
Memoirs Of A Coquet; or, The History of Miss Harriot Airy.
By the Author of Emily Willis; or, The History of a Natural
Daughter. W. Haggard for Francis Noble. 1765.
Memoirs of a Coxcomb. London: i2mo. 1751. By John
Cleland. Reprint, Fortune Press, 1926, and also 1937.
Memoirs of an Hermaphrodite, The. [By Pierre Henri Treyesse
de Vergy.] London: 1772.
Memoirs of a Magdalen; or, The History of Louisa Mildmay.
By Hugh Kelly. Author of Thespis. 2 vols., W. Griffin.
1767. Second ed., 2 vols., ibid. 1767. In Harrison’s
Novelist's Magazine; Vol. VII. 1782. Illustrations by
Stothard.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Memoirs Of A Man Of Quality. Written originally in the
French Tongue by himself after his Retirement from the
World. 2 vols., J. Wilford : 1738. Second ed., E. Cave:
1742. Another translation for F. Newberry. 1770.
Memoirs d’un Homme de Qualite, by Antoine-Frangois Pre-
vost, 7 vols., 1728-31.
Memoirs of a Scots Heiress. Addressed to the Right Honourable
Lady Catherine * * * *. By the Author of Constance. 3
vols., Hookham. 1791.
Memoirs Of A Woman Of Pleasure, The. [By John Cleland.]
Mr. C. R. Dawes has obliged me with the following note
:
“ There are very many different editions of this book, and
it has never been definitely established which is the actual
original, nor the exact date. The first edition, which ever
it may be, is certainly not dated. My copy which has
“Memoirs of
*********** ** ************
London: Printed
for G. Fenton in the Strand,” on the title-page, N.D.
2 vols., i2mo., pp. 232 and 252, is generally considered to
be the Second Edition, and G. Apollinaire says that this
edition appeared in 1747 or 1748, but he does not give his
reasons. The current title is Memoirs of Fanny Hill. There
is an edition with illustrations said to be by Rowlandson.
I have never seen it, but am told that the illustrations are
not very good. In most reprints up till quite recent times,
the homosexual episode is omitted.”
In 1750 Griffiths the bookseller, who is doubtless G. Fenton,
published an expurgated edition, i2mo., as Memoirs of Fanny
Hill. There have been many reprints, several of which were
illustrated and all of which were clandestine, of this master-
piece of English erotica. There is at least one much mutilated
chapbook version of Fanny Hill, c. 1820.
The Isidore Liseux edition. Memoirs of Fanny Hill, “A new
and genuine edition from the original text, London, 1749,”
was published, Paris, 1888. Reprinted, 1890.
An early French translation is La Fille de Joye, Ouvrage
quintessence de l’Anglois, A Lampsaque, 1751. One vol.,
8vo., pp. 172. An abridged version. Attributed (La France
Litteraire, 1769), to the son of a Parisian banker, named
Lambert. It is also said to be the work of Fougeret de
Montbron, whose is the famous little erotic fairy-tale, Le
Canape couleur de Feu, Amsterdam, 1741.
The second French version of Memoirs of Fanny Hill was very
TITLE INDEX 409
literally turned as regards the title at all events : Apologie
de la fine galanterie de Mile. Franqoise de la Montague, 1756.
Nouvelle Traduction de Woman of Pleasur [Jit] ou Fille de
Joie par M. Cleland, contenant les Memoires de Mademoi-
selle Fanny, ecrits par elle-meme. A Londres, chez G.
Fenton, dans le Strand. 2 tomes. Avec figures.
MDCCLXXVI.
With 13 somewhat free illustrations. A French text.
La Fille de Joie, ou Memoires de Miss Fanny. A Paris, chez
Madame Gourdan. MDCCLXXXVI. One vol., 34 illustra-
tions of a fine quality. Accounted the best French edition.
La Fille de Joie, ou Memoires de Mademoiselle Fanny. Nou-
velle edition. Avec figures. 2 tom., A Londres: 1790. 12
illustrations, 6 in each volume.
There were other French translations in 1821, 1823, 1825,
and (2 vols., chez Duquessne), 1868.
Memoires de Fanny Hill par John Cleland (XVIIXe sieele)
entierement traduits de l’anglais pour la premiere fois par
Isidore Liseux. Imprime a cent exemplaires pour Isidore
Liseux et ses amis. One vol., Paris: 1887. In spite of
entierement this translation is not altogether complete, the
episode at the inn being omitted.
Another translation: L’ceuvre de John Cleland (Memoirs de
Fanny Hill, femme de plaisir), Troisieme Serie, Les Maitres
De L’Amour, Bibliotheque Des Curieux. Paris: 1910. A
valuable Introduction by Guillaume Apollinaire.
There are several Italian versions of The Memoirs of a
Woman of Pleasure, of which one La Meretrice Inglese,
Cosmopoli (Venice), about 1764 is by Count Carlo Gozzi.
A German translation Das Frauenzimmer von Vergniigen,
Boston, R. Chesterfield (actually Leipzig, 1872), is Vol. I of
the series Priapische Romane, but there were earlier adapta-
tions, and of these the translation, Leipzig c. i860, is said
to be very faithful and well rendered.
Memoirs of A Young Lady of Quality, A Platonist, The. 3 vols.,
R. Baldwin: 1756.
Memoirs of Andrew Winpenny, Count de Deux Sous. Com-
prising Numerous Adventures in Different Countries. By
Francis Glasse. In Two Parts. 3 vols., 1829. And for the
Proprietors of The Romancist, and Novelist
3
s Library,
London: J. Clements. 1841.
Memoirs of Bryan Perdue: a novel. By Thomas Holcroft.
410 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
3 vols., Longman, Hurst, Rees, and Orme ;
Paternoster-Row.
1805.
Memoirs of Captain and Miss Rivers. By a Lady. 3 vols.,
Hookham : 1788.
Memoirs of George Barnwell. One vol., Price %s. 6d. London :
Jones. 1810.
Memoirs of Harriet and Charlotte Meanwell, Who from a
State of Affluence are reduced to the greatest Distress. Con-
taining many Particulars in the Intercourse of their Lives,
both entertaining and instructive to young Persons of both
Sexes of either Sex. Written By Themselves. Printed for
the Authors and sold by W. Owen. One vol., 8vo. 1757.
Memoirs of Julia De M *****, a reclaimed Courtezan.
From the French of Le Chevalier Rutledge, Author of La
Quinzaine Anglaise. 2 vols., Bentley, etc. 1741 (should be
I79i)-
Memoirs of Maitre Jacques, of Savoy. 2 vols., Bath ;
Samuel
Hazard: 1775.
Memoirs of the Marchioness De Louvoi. In Letters. By A
Lady. 3 vols., Robson: 1777.
Memoirs of Maria, a Persian Slave. 2 vols., Robinsons: 1790.
Memoirs of Maria Countess d’Alva being neither novel nor
romance, but appertaining to both ; interspersed with historic
facts and comic accidents, in the course of which are intro-
duced fragments and circumstances not altogether inapplic-
able to the events of this distracted age and to the measures
of the fore-sighted defenders of our holy faith. By Priscilla
Parlante. 2 vols., 8vo. London, 1808. By The Hon. Mary
Ann Cavendish Bradshaw.
Memoirs of Mary. A Novel. By Mrs. Gunning. 5 vols., Bell
:
1793. 2nd ed., 1793. 3rd ed., 1794. Irish ed., 2 vols.,
Dublin, Wogan :
1794.
Memoirs Of Mrs. Crouch. Including A Retrospect Of The
Stage During The Years She Performed. By M[ary] j[ulia]
Young. 2 vols., London : Printed for James Aspeme, At
The Bible, Crown, And Constitution, Comhill. 1806. With
engraved portrait, Mrs. Crouch.
Non-fiction. A valuable theatrical biography.
TITLE INDEX 41 I
Memoirs Of Modern Philosophers. [By Miss Elizabeth
Hamilton. A novel, purporting to be edited by Geoffrey
Jarvis.] 3 vols., London, Robinson: 1800. Bath, Crutwell
:
1800. Irish ed., 2 vols., Dublin: Brett Smith, for Wogan :
1800. A satire on the theories of Godwin, Hclcroft, and
Mary Wollstonecraft.
Memoirs of Sir Roger De Clarendon, the natural son of Edward,
Prince of Wales, commonly called the Black Prince; with
anecdotes of many other eminent persons of the fourteenth
century. [By Clara Reeve.] 3 vols., Hookham and
Carpenter. 1793.
Memoirs Of The Ancient House Of Clarendon. A Novel. 3
vols. 1796.
Memoirs Of The Chevalier Pierpoint. 2 vols., R. and J.
Dodsley. 1763.
Memoirs Of The Ancient House Of Clarendon. A novel. 3
vols., William Lane, at the Minerva Press. MDCCXGVI.
Memoirs Of The Life Of Agrippina, The Wife Of Germanicus.
By Elizabeth Hamilton. 2 vols. Second ed., London : John
Walker; Wilkie and Robinson; John Richardson; J. M.
Richardson ;
A. K. Newman, and Co. ;
Joe Johnson and Co.
;
and Geo. Robinson. 1 8 1 1
.
Memoirs Of The Miss Holmsbys. By Sarah Emma Spencer.
2 vols., Smith. 1788.
Memoirs Of The Princess Of Zell, Consort to King George
the First. 2 vols. Printed for the author, by William Lane,
at the Minerva Press. MDCCXCVI. By Mrs. Sarah Draper.
Published by subscription. The British Museum copy has a
frontispiece inserted. This was published by S. Harding,
January 1st, 1802.
Memoirs Of The Villars Family; or, The Philanthropist. A
novel. By Harriet W. Weeks. 3 vols. Chappie. 1815.
Memoirs Of The Year Two Thousand Five Hundred. Trans-
lated from the French. By William Hooper. 2 vols., G.
Robinson: 1772. Dublin ed., 2 vols., W. Wilson : 1772.
Men And Manners, A Novel. In Four Volumes. By Francis
Lathom, Author of The Midnight Bell, Castle Of Ollada, etc.
412 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
[Quotation: Cervantes, Don Quixote.] London: Printed
for J. Wright, opposite Bond-street, Piccadilly ;
and H. D.
Symonds, Pater-noster Row. 1799.
A new edition : Printed by William Thorne. 4 vols., Wright
and Symonds. 1799.
A new edition : Printed by J. Davis. 4 vols., Wright and
Symonds. 1800.
Men And Women. A Novel. Dedicated to Sir James
Mackintosh. By the Author of What You Please, Tourville,
etc. 3 vols., Longman, 1804; Bristol: J. Lansdown, 1805.
Second ed., advertised by A. K. Newman, 1812. The novel
is by the Rev. Mr. Wyndham.
Mental Novelist And Amusing Companion, The. A Collection
of Histories, Essays, and Novels : containing Historical
Description of the Indians in North America. Curious odd
thoughts. History of Milo, the Cruiser. The Man of Spirit
;
or, History of Alacer. Humorous and wonderful History of
the Lancashire Witches. Llistory of the Unfortunate Man
of Honour. The Final Philosopher. Unheard-of Sufferings
of David Menzies, amongst the Cherokees, and his Surprizing
Deliverance. The Innocent Suicide, a tale. Dialogue between
Miss Prater and Lady Dunny, on Ghosts. Series of Dilemmas
and Difficulties of an Officer of Marines. With many other
Curious Literary Productions of Alexander Kellet, Esq.
London: Printed for W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street. 1783.
One vol., 8vo.
This volume is a reissue, with a new title-page, of A pocket
of prose and verse: being a selection from the literary pro-
ductions of Alexander Kellet, Esq. Bath: Printed by R.
Crutwell. And sold by E. and C. Dilly, in the Poultry,
London. MDCCLXXVIII.
Mental Recreations. Four Danish and German Tales. One
vol., Baldwin : 1805.
Mental Triumph, The. By a Lady. 3 vols., Walter: Picca-
dilly. 1789.
Mentoria ; or The Young Lady’s Friend. 2 vols. By Mrs.
Ravson. William Lane, at the Minerva. [MDCCXCL]
Merchant’s Widow And Her Family, The. One vol., Minerva-
Press; A. K. Newman. 1814.
TITLE INDEX 413
Merry Wives of London, The. 26 penny nos. No. 1 pub-
lished on Monday, September 16th, 1850. Weekly nos.,
One Penny ;
Monthly Parts, Sixpence. G. Vickers ; 334
Strand, London. By James Lindridge. Pseudo-pornography.
Metropolis, The. A Novel. 3 vols., Stockdale. 8th ed., 1819.
Metropolis ; or, A Cure for Gaming, The. Interspersed with
anecdotes of living characters in high life. 3 vols. By
Cervantes Hogg, Esq. Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 181 1.
By Eaton Stannard Barrett.
Michael Cassidy; or, The Cottage Gardener. i2mo. 1845.
By Elizabeth Hardy.
Microcosm, The. By the Author of “Vicissitudes in genteel
Life.” 5 vols., Mawman : 1801. By Mrs. Eugenia De
Acton.
Midnight Assassin, The. Chapbook from The Italian. See
under Ann Radcliffe, Index 0} Authors.
Midnight Bell, The. A German Story, Founded On Incidents
In Real Life. In Three Volumes. A round unvamish’d tale.
Othello. London : Printed for H. D. Symcnds, No. 20,
Paternoster-Row. 1798. By Francis Lathom.
Second ed., 3 vols., A. K. Newman: 1825.
It has been supposed that there was an edition of 1800, but
this is almost certainly an error.
See The Gothic Quest by Montague Summers, pp. 311-13.
La Cloche de Minuit, trad, de 1’anglais. 3 tom. Paris an
VII [1799]. With frontispiece. The frontispiece to tom. I
is reproduced as an Illustration in The Gothic Quest, p. 312.
The Midnight Bell is one of the “ horrid ” novels mentioned
by Isabella Thorpe in Northanger Abbey, chapter VI.
The Midnight Bell; or, The Abbey of St. Francis. 34 pp.
Coloured frontispiece. 1811. Chapbook abridgement of
Lathom’s romance.
Midnight Groan; or, The Spectre of the Chapel, The. Invok-
ing an Exposure of the Horrible Secrets of the Nocturnal
Assembly, a Gothic romance; chapbook: 1808.
Midnight Horrors; or, The Bandit’s Daughter. An Original
Romance. London: Dean and Munday. N.D. [
c
.
1807.
B.M. 1810?] of the chapbook order. With a coloured frontis-
piece.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
4'4
Midnight Hour; or, The Fatal Friendship, The. London :-
Lemoine and Roe. N.D. \c. 1806]. Chapbook.
Midnight Journey, The. By Leitch Ritchie. With other Tales
by Mrs. Crowe, etc. Reprinted from Chamber’s Journal:
1871.
Midnight Wanderer ; or, A Legend Of The Houses Of Altenberg
And Lindendorf, The. A Romance. In Four Volumes. By
Margaret Campbell. [Quotation :
3 lines, Milton.] London :
A. K. Newman and Co., Leadenhall Street. 1821.
A free translation of Alexina, “ imite de 1 ’anglais par Mme.
Brayer de Saint-Leon,” 4 vols., 1813.
The Midnight Wanderer was re-translated into French by
Henri Duval as Rose d’Altenberg, ou le Spectre dans les
Ruines, 1830, a version said to be made from an English
MS. found “ in the portfolio of the late Anne Radcliffe.”
Midnight Weddings. By Mrs. Meeke. 3 vols., Minerva-Press ;
W. Lane: 1802. Second ed., 3 vols., Minerva-Press ;
A. K.
Newman. 1814. French translation. Les Manages Noc-
turnes. 4 vols., 1820.
Midshipman Tom ; or, The Cruise of the Warcloud. By George
Emmett. Serialized in The Young Briton, No. 1, September
18th, 1869.
Mildred Winnerby; or, The Curse of Beauty. 19 penny nos.
E. Lloyd : 1848.
Milena the Murderess ; or, The Soldier’s Victim. 29 penny nos.
W. Caffyn, 31 Oxford Street, Mile End, 1848.
Milesian Chief, The. A Romance. By The Author Of
Montorio And The Wild Irish Boy. [C. R. Maturin.] In
Four Volumes. London : Printed for Henry- Colburn, Public
Library, Conduit-Street, Hanover-Square. 1812.
Connal, ou les Milesians, traduit par Madame la Comtesse
de . . .
[Mole]. 4 vols., Paris, 1828.
Milistina; or, The Double Interest. A Novel. 2 vols., 1797.
Dedicated to the Marchioness Townshend.
Miller and his Men ; or, The Secret Robbers of Bohemia, The-
A Romance. [By T. P. Prest.] 53 penny parts. E. Lloyd :
1852.
Founded on the famous and long-lived melodrama by Isaac
TITLE INDEX 415
Pocock, The Miller and his Men, produced at Covent Garden,
November 21st, 1813.
Minerva Castle. A Tale. By Jane Harvey. 3 vols., Minerva-
Press; Lane. 1802.
A Minion Of The Moon. A Romance Of The King’s High-
way. By T. W. Speight. One vol., 1897. By the Author
of The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.
Minions of the Moon; or, The Trail of the Sack of Gold. By
Stephen H. Agnew. No. 164. Dick Turpin Library. Aldine
Publishing Co., 1, 2 and 3 Crown Court, Chancery Lane,
London, W.C.
Minnigrey. By J. F. Smith. London Journal, serial 1851-2.
See Index of Authors, J. F. Smith. Re-issue, N.D. Minni-
grey was serialized in The Guide, commencing August 3rd,
1861. One vol., Price Two Shillings, Bradley and Co.,
12 and 13 Fetter Lane. London: 1888. One vol., Price
One Shilling. 8vo. 1897. American ed., New York, Dick
& Fitzgerald. N.D. \c. 1885] in two separate volumes as,
Minnie Grey; or. Who is the Heir? 75 cents: and Gus
Havard; or, How to Win a Wife, 75 cents.
Minnigrey was at once dramatized, Minnigrey ; or, The Gipsies
of Dingley Dell, a melodrama in three acts, and pirated at
more than one Minor London Theatre. The play, Minnigrey,
was published by Purkess in his pictorial penny plays, No. 17.
Minnigrey, a drama in four acts, by H. Young and G.
Roberts. Produced at the Elephant and Castle Theatre,
June 14th, 1886.
Minor; or, The History of George O’Kiel, Esq., The. 2 vols.,
W. Lane. MDCCLXXXVIII. Irish ed., 2 vols., Dublin,
Watson: 1787.
Although dated 1788 on Lane’s title-page, actually published
in February-March, 1787. See The Critical Review, April,
1787, which comments on this.
Minstrel; or, Anecdotes of Distinguished Personages in the
Fifteenth Century, The. 3 vols., 1793.
Minstrel-Love. From the German of the Author of Undine.
By George Soane, A.B. 2 vols., London : W. Simpkin &
R. Marshall. 1821. American ed., New York, 1822. A
reprint. The later editions, Lumley, 1845; and Routledge,
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
416
1876; announce themselves as new translations of La Motte-
Foque’s romance.
Miralba; or, The Chief of the Banditti. Translated from the
French. 2 vols., Hurst. 1802.
Miranda. A Novel. By the Rev. John Styles. One vol, 1797.
Miranda; or, The Heiress of the Grange. A romance. By
Malcolm J. Errym. 69 penny nos., E. Lloyd: 1848. Re-
issued as Rankley Grange, the authorship then being claimed
by Edward Viles.
Miranda ; or, The Mysterious Stranger. By Esther Flolstein.
2 vols., Jones. 1803.
Miriam. By the Author of Frederic and Caroline ; Rebecca, etc.
2 vols., Minerva-Press ;
W. Lane: 1800. By Mrs. E. M.
Foster.
Miriam Coffin; or, The Whale Fishermen. 3 vols., A. K.
Newman; and Whittaker. 1834.
Misagug; or, Women as they are. A Chaldean Tale. Trans-
lated from the French. 2 vols. Elliot & Kay. 1791.
Misanthropic Father; or, The Guarded Secret, The. By Miss
[Catharine] Smith. 3 vols., Appleyard : 1807.
Miser and his Family, The. By Mrs. Parsons. 4 vols., T.
Hurst: 1800.
Miser Married, The. A Novel. In Three Volumes. By
Catherine Hutton. London: Printed For Longman, Flurst,
Rees, Orme, and Brown. Paternoster Row. 1813. Miss
Hutton’s first novel, dedicated (Birmingham, May 1st, 1813)
to her father.
Miser of Shoreditch ; or, The Curse of Avarice, The. An
original historical legendary romance of the fifteenth century.
By T. Prest. 38 penny parts. E. Lloyd: 1849. Re-issued,
Beard: 1855.
Miser of Shoreditch, The. An original romantic drama in two
acts. Produced at the Royal Standard Theatre, Shoreditch,
November 2nd, 1834. Adapted by Prest from his novel.
Printed in Lacy’s Acting Edition of Plays, Vol. XVIII. The
Miser of Shoreditch. A drama by Angelina [i.e. T. P. Prest],
New York, 1857.
TITLE INDEX 4 r
7
Miser’s Fate, The. 12 nos. E. Lloyd: 1846.
Miseries and Pleasures of Matrimony ; or, The First Husband
and the Second. A novel. 4 vols. Minerva-Press ;
A. K.
Newman. 1815.
Miseries of an Heiress, The. By Anthony Frederick Holstein.
4 vols. Minerva-Press; A. K. Newman. 1810.
Misfortunes Of Love, The. A novel. Translated from the
French. 2 vols., W. Lane. MDCCLXXXV.
Misrepresentation ; Or, Scenes in real life. By Miss Wadding-
ton. 3 vols., Saunders and Otley. 1838.
Missionary, an Indian Tale, The. By Miss Owenson. 3 vols.
J. J. Stockdale. 1811. 3rd ed., 1811. In 1859 there ap-
peared a revised edition as Luxima, The Prophetess. See
under this title.
Miss-Led General, The. A Serio-Comic, Satiric, Mock-Heroic
Romance. By the Author of The Rising Sun. [Eaton
Stannard Barrett.] H. Oddy : 1808. Second ed., 1808. A
satire on Frederick, Duke of York.
Mistakes of the Heart, The ; or the Memoirs of Lady Caroline
Pelham, and Lady Victoria PIevil. Shatwell: 1769. The
Mistakes of the Heart. II. Shatwell: 1772. By Pierre
Henri Treyssac de Vergy.
Mr. Humfries Clock by Bos. Penny weekly numbers. Printed
and published by E. Lloyd, 44 Holywell Street, London.
1840. For Bos see Index of Authors.
A Modern Calypso; Or, Widow’s Captivation. By Mrs. Ross.
4 vols., Minerva-Press: A. K. Newman. 1813.
Modern Characters. A Novel. By Edward Montague. 3 vols.,
J. F. Hughes: 1807. Second ed., 3 vols., ibid. 1808.
Modern Faults: A Novel founded on Facts. By Mrs. Xer.
2 vols., 1814.
Modern Husband, The. 2 vols. Hookham. 1789.
Modern Incident in Domestic Life, A. By Mrs. Isabella Kelly.
Author of Abbey St. Asaph, Avondale Priory, Eva, Ruthing-
lenne, Baron’s Daughter, Madeleine, etc., etc. 2 vols. Hurst.
1802.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
418
Modern Kate ; Or, The Husband perplexed, The. By Anthony
Frederick Holstein. 2 vols. Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman.
1812.
Modern Miniature, The. 2 vols. Hookham. 1792.
Modern Novel Writing, Or The Elegant Enthusiast ; and
Interesting Emotions of Arabella Bloomville. A Rhapsodical
Romance ; Interspersed with Poetry. In Two Volumes. By
the Right Hon. Lady Harriet Marlow. G. G. and J.
Robinson. 1796. By William Beckford.
There is a variant of this edition. It is doubtful which is the
earlier.
Modern Story Teller, and Entertaining Novelist, The. Being
a Collection of all the agreeable novels, tales, and stories in
the English language. 2 vols. Illustrated with cuts. Wm.
Lane. 1791.
Modern Times; or, The Adventures of Gabriel Outcast. 3
vols. London. 1785. Second ed., enlarged, 1785. By John
Trusler, LL.D.
Modern Times ; or, The Age we live in. By Elizabeth Helme.
3 vols. Norbury, Brentford. 1814. A posthumous Novel.
Second ed., Modern Times; or, The World we live in. 3
vols. [Printed by P. Norbury, Brentford] for A. K. Newman.
1817.
Modern Villa and the Ancient Castle; or, The Peer and the
Alderman, The. By Medora Gordon Byron. 3 vols. Minerva-
Press, A. K. Newman. 1810.
Modern Wife, The. A Novel. 2 vols., Lowndes: 1769.
Second ed., 1769. An epistolary novel by John Stevens.
Monastery Of St. Colomb ; Or, The Atonement. A Novel. By
Regina Maria Roche. 5 vols. Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman.
1813.
Monastery of St. Mary, The. Chapbook. n.d. [c. 1800].
Monbars. L’Exterminateur, ou Le Dernier Chef des Filibustiers.
Anecdote de Nouveau Monde. Par Jean Baptiste Picquenard.
3 vols. Paris. Galland. 1807.
A romance of pirate adventure.
Monimia. A Novel. 2 vols. W. Lane ;
at the Minerva.
MDCCXCI.
TITLE INDEX 419
Monk, The. A Romance. In Three Volumes. London. J.
Bell. 1 796.
The first issue of the First Edition, published in March, 1796.
Price gr.
The second issue of the First Edition, published in April, 1796.
Price 1 or. 6d.
The two issues are easily distinguished and differ in several
important details. Thus, Vol. I, p. 25, 1 .
14, confidence (First
Issue) becomes conscience.
Vol. II, p. 73, line 23, frequently (First Issue) becomes
occasionally.
Vol. Ill, p. 274, catchword infinite (First Issue) is abbreviated
to infi
—•.
In Vol. I, the poem on pp. 88-89 in the First Issue has 55
lines. Second Issue, the poem commences on p. 87 and has
49 lines only.
Vol. Ill, first issue, verso p. 315 carries an advertisement of
two other of Bell’s publications. The second issue has no
advertisement.
First Issue. Vol. III. concludes with the death of Ambrosia
as soon as he is hurled on to the rocks. A short horizontal
line is drawn, and there is an added paragraph commencing
:
“ Haughty Lady, why shrunk you back . . . .
”
Second Issue. Vol. III. Twenty-seven lines are added after
Ambrosio is hurled on to the rocks, which detail his agony
during the six days he lingers. The “ Haughty Lady ”
apostrophe does not appear.
Title-pages. First Issue :
“ In Three Volumes ” is found
above the quotation. Second Issue :
“ In Three Volumes ”
is found below the quotation.
“ In the first issue on the verso of page 315 of Volume III is
an advertisement of two books offered by the same publisher
[Bell]. In the second issue this advertisement is omitted. The
issues are, however, easily distinguished by their title pages,
the first having the words “ In Three Volumes ” above the
quotation and the second having the words below the quota-
tion.” Frederick Coykendall.
The Monk. A Romance. In Three Volumes. London, j.
Bell. 1796. The Second Edition, as expressed on tide-page.
Published in October, 1796.
This has the briefer description of Ambrosio’s death, as in
First Issue of First ed., but the “ Haughty Lady ” apostrophe
follows.
420 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The Monk. The Third Edition. (As expressed on title-page.)
1797. This Third Edition seems to be the sheets (with all
errors) of the first issue, kept back by the publisher because of
the mistakes, and bound up with a Third Edition title-page
to meet the demand for a new edition. This suggestion is
made by Mr. Coykendall. Fourth Edition.
The Monk: as Ambrosio ; or, The Monk: a romance.
“ With considerable additions and alterations.” 3 vols., 1 798.
The alterations mainly consisted of the omission of the para-
graph which gave greatest offence as seeming to reflect on the
Bible, and a chastening or omission of various presumedly
erotic passages. The British Museum has the author’s copy
with his manuscript revisions for the new edition of 1798.
Passages are toned down and words altered.
The passage on the Bible in ed. 1796, is Vol. II, chapter vii,
P- 247-
Fifth Edition.
Ambrosio; or The Monk. By M. G. Lewis, Esq., M.P.
Fifth Edition, in 3 vol. Price 12s. in boards. “With con-
siderable additions and alterations,” (as in Fourth Edition),
1800.
At the end of Adelmorn the Outlaw, 8vo., 1801, Beil advertises
this Fifth Edition, but adds :
“ N.B. The First Edition of
the above Romance may be had at the Publisher’s, price One
Guinea.”
Bell, 148 Oxford-street, on the production of Raymond and
Agnes, a Ballet Pantomime (from The Monk), Covent
Garden, Thursday, 1 6th March, 1797, advertised The Monk,
3 vols., 10/6, and announced that he “ found it necessary to
inform the public that a few copies of the Second Edition
still remained. The Book has been reported out of print, and
as a Grand Ballet has been brought forward, taken from the
above work, many people may wish to see the book before
the performance ;
and as it will be some months before a
new edition can be ready to supply the demand, he has given
this notice.”
There is a later Victorian pantomime : Raymond in Agonies,
A Bit of Fun with Flarlequin and the Bleeding Nun.
Early Irish Editions of The Monk.
The Monk. A Romance. 2 vols., Dublin, Brett Smith for
P. Wogan, P. Byrne, W. Jones, and G. Folingsby. 1796-
Text, second London issue of April, 1796.
The Monk. A Romance. 2 vols. Dublin, Porter. 1797.
TITLE INDEX 42 1
The Monk. A Romance. 2 vols. Dublin. J. Charles, 49
Mary Street for the Proprietor. 1808.
The Monk. A Romance. 3 vols., Waterford. J. Saunders.
1796. Mr. Louis F. Peck (See Times Literary Supplement,
Thursday, March 7th, 1025, Bibliographical Notes) has
pointed out that this edition has 1818 watermarks, and there
can be little doubt, as he suggests, that since Lewis died in
1818 the printer, visualizing a revival of interest in his great
novel of more than 20 years before, hurriedly issued a number
of “ first editions.”
The Monk. A Romance. One vol., i2mo. Aberdeen. 1820.
The Monk. A Romance. 3 vols. London. N.D. [c. 1820].
The Monk. A Romance. Printed for the Booksellers. One
vol., 8vo. London. N.D. [c. 1827].
The Monk. Paris. 1832. This edition has both the long
ending and the “ Haughty Lady ” paragraph.
The Monk. A Romance. One vol. i6mo. Published by
J. S. Pratt. Stokesley, Yorkshire. 1848.
Also with title-page “ London : Published by J. S. Pratt.”
“ There is an illustrated edition of The Monk in one volume
undated, and without name of publisher or printer, apparently
made up from twenty-four serial parts. The text is printed
two columns to a page and resembles books of this type
issued between 1840 and 1850.” Mr. Frederick Coykendall.
The Monk: A Tale of the Inquisition. By Monk Lewis:
showing the horrors of the torture chamber, and mysteries of
the confessional. With No. 1 is presented No. 2 Gratis, in
a highly embellished wrapper.
Every true Protestant should read this extraordinary work :
upwards of one hundred and fifty thousand have already been
sold.
N.B.—Be sure to ask for Monk Lewis’s Edition.
Published by G. Purkess, Compton Street, Soho, and all
Booksellers in Town and Country.
Advertisement in Reynolds’s Miscellany. No. 136. Vol. VI,
New Series, p. 64. Saturday, 15th February, 1851.
The Purkess edition of The Monk, 18^0, was in 36 penny
numbers. The title-page for the bound volume issued with
No. 36 runs: The Monk by M. G. Lewis, Esq. [quotation].
Beautifully Illustrated. London : J. and H. Purkess, 60 Dean
Street, Soho, and all booksellers.”
See further letter from Mr. E. G. Bayford, in The Times
Literary Supplement, April, 1935.
422 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The Purkess edition was re-issued, 1859. The first publica-
tion, 1850, was suggested by the “ Papal Agitation” of that
date.
The beautiful illustrations were reproduced in a number of
cheap and semi-clandestine reprints of The Monk from
1860-1890.
Rosario ; or The Female Monk (i.e. The Monk), London,
For the Booksellers. One vol. N.D. [c. 1865]. As having
a pseudo-pornographic appeal this title was adopted in the
cheaper reprints of The Monk.
The Monk. A Romance. By M. G. Lewis, Esq., M.P. In
Two Volumes. Unabridged Reprint of the First Edition.
London. N.D. [c. 1890]. A useful reprint.
The Monk. A Romance. By M. G. Lewis. Two volumes.
London, [c. 1894].
The Monk. A Romance. By M. G. Lewis. 3 vols. Intro-
duction, and illustrated with etchings. Gibbings and Com-
pany. London. 1906. Edited by J. R. Statham. The
etchings by R. C. Armour.
The Monk. One vol., Routledge. London. 1907. Value-
less and negligible.
The Monk. 3 vols. Illustrated. Gibbings & Company.
1913. Said to be a reprint of the first edition, but having
many corrections which were not made until the fourth
edition.
The Monk. By Matthew Gregory Lewis. Brentano. Price
i2r. 6d. 1924. With illustrations.
See further Frederick Coykendall A Note On “ The Monk”
;
The Colophon, New Series, Vol. I. No. 1., 1935.
The Monk was almost immediately shamelessly pilfered from
and abridged for a large number of chapbooks.
Father Innocent, Abbot of the Capuchins ; or, The Crimes
of Cloisters, an abridgement of The Monk, appeared in “ The
Marvellous Magazine and Compendium of Prodigies, con-
sisting of The Southern Tower; or, Conjugal Sacrifice, and
Retribution : The Veiled Picture, a Tale of Mystery, [from
The Mysteries of Udolpho]: Domestic Misery; Highland
Heroism ;
Albani ;
Father Innocent, Abbot of the Capu-
chins,” with illustrations, 8vo. 1802.
A separate edition of Father Innocent, i2mo., with frontis-
piece, was published by Tegg, 1803.
The Castle of Lindenberg ; or the History of Raymond and
Agnes. A Romance. Fisher [1799] is merely the Raymond
TITLE INDEX 423
and Agnes episodes from The Monk with a few connecting
paragraphs. It runs to about 5,500 words. This (in variant
forms) was frequently reprinted.
Almagro and Claude; or Monastic Murder; Exemplified
in the Dreadful Doom of an Unfortunate Nun. 40 pp. 1803.
A condensation of The Monk. Almagro and Claude are
Raymond and Agnes. The actual story of Ambrosio is dras-
tically abridged into four pages, 36-40.
Priests and their Victims ; or, Scenes in a Convent. Contain-
ing the Confessions of a Nun ;
the Midnight Orgies of the
Priests; the History of Sister Agnes; Secret Instructions,
etc., etc. 1851. R. Donaldson, 52 Holywell Street, Strand.
Price 2d. Largely draws upon (and caricatures) The Monk.
French Translations.
Le Moine. trad, de l’anglais (sur la 4
e edit.) par Deschamps,
Despres, Benoit, et Lamare. Paris. 4 vols. in 12 avec figures,
et 3 vol. in 12 sans figures. Maradin. 1797.
Le Moine. Avec gravures. 4 vol. Paris. Maradan. An X
[1802].
Ibid. 4 vol. Paris. Maradan. 1811.
Ibid. 3 vol. Paris. Maradan. 1819.
Le Jacobin espagnol, ou Histoire du moine Ambrosio, et de
la belle Antonia, sa soeur: roman trad, de 1’anglais. 4 vol.
Paris. Favre. An VI [1797].
Le Moine. Trad, nouvelle par l’abbe Morellet. 8vo. Paris..
Cadot. 1838.
Le Moine. Trad, nouvelle et entierement conformee au texte
de la premiere edition anglaise, par Leon de Wailly. Paris.
Delloye. 2 vols., i8mo. 1840. (Avec vignettes. Collection
des romans illustres.)
Ibid. 4
0. Paris. 1849.
Le Moine. Illustre par J.—A. Beauce. 8vo. (Romans du
jour illustres). Paris. Maresq. i860.
Ibid. 4to. Paris. Maresq. 1864.
Ibid. ed. illustree. 4to. Paris. Noblet. 1878. In parts;
10 centimes each. The whole series 50 cs.
Le Moine; ou, les Nuits du ClcAtre. Avec gravures. 4to.
Paris, libr. Claverie. 1878. Published in parts.
Ibid. Paris, libr. Claverie. 8vo. 1878.
Ibid. Paris, libr. Claverie. 8vo. 1879. 46 parts. 10 cs. each.
Le Moine, ou les Nuits du Convent, ed. illustree. Paris,
libr. Roux. 4to. 1880. In parts. 10 cs. each. The whole
series. 50 cs.
424 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Le Moine. Avec vignettes. 4to. Paris. Noblet. 1881.
Le Moine incestueux. Roman imite de l’anglais. (Abridge-
ment of The Monk by Edouard Ploert.) With Nouvelles et
Contes extraits des meilleurs ecrivains du xviiie siecle. Paris.
Librairie anticlericale. i2mo. 1883.
German translations.
Der Monch. Trans, by F. von Oertel. Leipzig. 1797-8.
Mathilde von Villanegas, oder der weibliche Faust. Berlin.
*
799-
Der Monch, oder die siegende Tugend. Magedeburg. 1806.
Dei•
Monch, Eine schauerlich abentheuerliche Geschichte.
Hamburg. 1810.
Die blutende Gestalt mit Dolch und Lampe, oder die
Beschwohrung im Schlosse Stern bei Prag. Anon., Vienna
and Prague. N.D. It was rashly enough asserted that Lewis
had derived much material for The Monk from this anony-
mous romance which bears no date. An advertisement in the
Weiner gfeitung, March 22nd, 1799, announces Die blutende
Gesalt as “ shortly to be published.” Actually then this
romance is largely conveyed from von Oertel’s translation of
Lewis.
A sequel to Die blutende Gesalt shortly followed, Der Geist
Lurian im Silbergewand oder das Gericht uber Ambrosio.
N.D.
For fuller details see, Montague Summers, The Gothic Questy
1938, pp. 227-8.
Spanish translation.
El Fraile, o historia del padre Ambrosio y de la bella
Antonia. Barcelona. 1822. A version at second-hand from
the French translation of 1797, Le Jacobin Espagnol.
The Monk has been adapted, and translated into Italian, and
(from the French) into Swedish, and other languages.
Aurelio and Miranda, “ A Drama in Five Acts with Music
”
produced at Drury Lane, Saturday, December 29th, 1798,
8vo, 1798 (bis) ;
3rd ed., 8vo., 1799, is founded on The Monk
with some very feeble alterations.
The Raymond and Agnes story has been utilized in the ballet
Raymond and Agnes, Covent Garden, 16th March, 1797,
(see above) ;
as also by Henry William Grosette in Raymond
and Agnes, the Travellers benighted, or the Bleeding Nun of
Lindenburg, performed at the London minor theatres and in
some provincial towns in 1809.
The Robber’s Wife; or The Bleeding Nun of Lindenburg..
TITLE INDEX 425
A spectacular Drama produced at the Coburg on Tuesday,
August 28th, 1821. Also called One O’clock.
Raymond and Agnes, a “ grand romantic English Opera in
three acts,” words by Fitzball, music E. j. Loder, was pro-
duced in Manchester, 1855, and at the St. James’ Theatre,
London, on June 11th, 1859.
French plays founded on The Monk.
Le Moine “ comedie,” adapted from the English romance by
Cammaille Saint-Aubin, “ plan de Ribie, musique de Fro-
ment,” Theatre de 1 ’Emulation, le 5 Nivose, an VI, December
27th, 1797.
Le Moine,
melodrama, Theatre de la Gaiete: 17th August,
1802. (A revival with alterations.)
La Nonne de Lindenberg, ou la Nnit merveilleuse, tragi-
comedy, 5 acts, Cailleran and Coupilly, Theatre des Jeunes-
Artistes, 24th June, 1798.
C’est le Liable, ou la Bohemienne, Cuvelien de Tyre,
Ambigu, November 18th, 1798.
Alarguerite, ou, les Voleurs. Saint-Aubin and R.ibie. Episode
in one act. Theatre de la Gaiete. 1799.
Le Moine, ou la victime de VOrgueil. Guibert de Pixere-
court. 1798. Unacted, on account of the number of plays
adapted from The Monk then enjoying good runs.
La Foret de Sidle, “ drame lyrique,” Pixerecourt. Theatre
des Jeunes-Associes. 1798.
Ambrosio. A Tragedy. Anon. Odeon. March 28th, 1800.
Le Jacobin espagnol. Prevost. 1800.
Le Moine “ drame fantastique.” L.-M. Fontan. Odeon.
28th May, 1830.
Le Dominicain, ou le Convent de VAnnonciation. Fontan
and A. Chevalier. Ambigu-Comique. March 9th, 1832.
La Nonne Sanglante, 4 acts, xAnicet Bourgeois and J. Maillan.
Porte-Saint-Martin. February 17th, 1835.
La Nonne Sanglante. Music, Gounod. Libretto, Scribe and
Germain Delavigne. Opera. October 18th, 1854.
The libretto of Robert le Liable, music Meyerbeer, libretto
Scribe and Delavigne, borrows important matter from The
Monk.
For ampler details see Montague Summers, The Gothic
Quest, 1938, pp. 228-232.
The Monk by M. G. Lewis must be distinguished from other
works bearing the same title. Thus Mi's. Sherwood’s The
Monk 0} Cimies, one vol., Danton, 1839, was reprinted, “A
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
426
New and Improved Edition,” Simpkin Marshall. London.
J. M. Burton and Co., Ipswich, as The Monk, N.D. [1855].
This has a lurid and ludicrous frontispiece “ At Confession.”
Monk And His Daughter ; Or, The Intrigues Of Amanda, The.
3 vols. Hughes: 1808.
Monk And The Married Man, The. By Miss Waddington. 3
vols., Saunders and Otley. 1840.
Monk of Dissentis, The. Translated from the German of
Augustus Lafontaine. By James Powell. 3 vols., Crosby :
1806.
Monk of the Grotto; or, Eugenio and Virginia, The. A Tale
from the French. 2 vols. William Lane; Minerva-Press.
1800. Irish ed., one vol. Cork: 1802.
The original is by Pigault-Lebrun.
Monk of Hennares, The. 2 vols. J. F. Hughes, Wigmore-
Strcet. 1817.
Monk Of Udolpho, The. By T. J. Horsley Curties. 4 vols.
J. F. Hughes, Wigmore Street, Cavendish Square. 1807.
The title-page carries the quotation :
Once more
Let’s mock the midnight bell.
—Shakespeare [Anthony and Cleopatra.
III. xiii. 1 . 185.]
Advertised by Hughes in 1808: The Monk of Udolpho; a
Legendary Tale. 4 vols. 22.L by Mr. Horseley Curties.
Monks and the Robbers, The. A Tale of the Fifteenth Cen-
tury. 2 vols. Robinson. 1808.
Monk-Wood Priory. By Francis Tracy Thomas, Comet in the
East and West Lothian Dragoons. 2 vols. Longman and
Rees. 1799.
Monmouth: A Tale, founded on Historic Facts. Inscribed to
His Grace the Duke of Buccleugh. By Anna Maria Johnson.
3 vols. W. Lane. MDCCXC.
Mrs. Anna Maria Mackenzie of Exeter, nee Wight. Mrs.
Cox, en secondes noces Mrs. Johnson ;
then Mrs. Mackenzie.
Nom de plume, Ellen of Exeter. See under Mackenzie, Index
of Authors.
TITLE INDEX 427
Monsieur Botte. A Romance. 3 vols. Minerva-Press, Lane
and Newman. 1803. Translation from Pigault-Lebrun, M
.
Botte, 4 volumes in —12, 7 liv. ior., Chez Barba, libraire,
palais du Tribunal, No. 51 : A Paris. There are at least
three French plays founded on this novel. Monsieur Botte,
comedie, by J. Serviere and Ernest (pseudonym), 1803; M.
Botte, comedie by Marion Dumusan and Theophile Valentin
de Bugny, 8vo, 1803; and a comedie vaudeville, Monsieur
Botte by C. D. Dupeuty and T. F. Vallou de Villeneuve, 8vo.
1827.
Montalbert. A Novel. By Charlotte Smith. 3 vols. Printed
by S. Low for E. Booker, No. 56 New Bond Street. 1795.
Irish ed., 2 vols., Dublin, P. Wogan, etc. [1796].
Montalbert
;
a Novel by Charlotte Smith, with 8 superb
Engravings, the 3 Volumes in 7 Sixpenny Numbers, or boards
4s. S. Fisher, 15 1 St. John Street, West Smithfield, 1824.
Montalva; Or, Annals of Guilt. By Ann Mary Hamilton. 2
vols. 1 8 1 1
.
Montauban and the Monk Hilario. A Legend of the thirteenth
century. By George Fitz-George. 3 vols., A. K. Newman :
1828.
Montbrasil Abbey; or, Maternal Trials. A tale. 2 vols.
Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman. 1806. By Louisa Sidney
Stanhope.
Monte Video ; or, the Officers Wife and her Sister. By Mrs.
Bridget Bluemantle [Mrs. E. Thomas]. 4 vols. Minerva-
Press: A. K. Newman. 1809.
Monteith, A Novel founded on Scottish History. By Mrs. Rice.
2 vols. Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman. 1806.
Montford Castle; Or, the Knight of the White Rose. An
Historical Romance of the Xlth Century. 2 vols. Crosby.
!796 -
Montgomery ; or, Scenes in Wales. 2 vols., William Lane, at
the Minerva. 1796. By Annabella Plumptre.
Montgomery; or, The West Indian Adventure. By a Gentle-
man resident in the West Indies. 3 vols. Printed at Jamaica,
1812. Published from the Kingston Press.
428 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
A Month at Brussels. A Satirical Novel. 3 vols. London ~
Iley : 1815.
A Month in the Highlands. By Francis Lathom. 22 chapters..
Vol. II and part of Vol. Ill of Fashionable Mysteries; or
,
The Rival Duchesses (and Other Tales). 3 vols. A. K.
Newman: 1829.
Montoni; or, The Confessions of the Monk of St. Benedict.
4 vols. 1807.
Montreithe; or, the Peer of Scotland. A Novel. 4 vols.
Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1814. By Amelia Beauclerc.
Montrose, Or The Gothic Ruin. A Novel. In Three Volumes.
By The Author of “ The Mystic Cottager ” And “ Observant
Pedestrian.” [Quotation : 3 lines, Thomson]. London
:
Printed For R. Dutton, Birchin-Lane, Comhill. 1799.
Montville ; Or, The Dark Heir Of The Castle. 3 vols. A. K.
Newman: 1826.
Monument ; or, The Great Fire of London, The. By Rip Rap.
16 nos. London, G. Vickers. 1841. Suggested by Ains-
worth’s famous romance, Old St. Paul’s, A Tale of the Plague
and the Fire; which was serialized in The Sunday Times,
commencing January 3rd, and concluding December 26th,
3841. Published, 3 vols., December, 1841.
The Monument ; or, The Great Fire of London is generally
bound in one volume with Mysteries of Old Saint Paul’s,
under which title see.
Mordant. By J. Moore. 3 vols. 1800.
More Ghosts! In three volumes. By the Wife of an Officer.
Author of The Irish Heiress. Minerva-Press, William Lane.
1798. [By Mrs. F. C. Patrick.]
Moreland Manor ; Or, Who is the Heir? By Mrs. Kendall. 3
vols., Longman : 1 806.
Moreton; Or, The Doomed House. A Romance. 21 penny
nos. London: E. Lloyd. N.D. [
c
.
1845].
Moreton Abbey; or The Fatal Mystery. 1786. By Miss
Harriet Chilcot of Bath, afterwards Mrs. Meziere.
Morlands, The. By R. C. Dallas. 4 vols., Longman; 1805.
TITLE INDEX 429
Mornton. A Novel. By Margaret Cullen. 3 vols. Minerva-
Press, Newman. 1814. Second ed., 1829.
Mort Castle. A Novel. Wallis: 1800.
Mortimer Hall ; Or, The Labourers Hire. A Novel. In Four
Volumes. By Mrs. Bridget Bluemantle [Mrs. E. Thomas],
Author of Husband And Wife, 'These Old Maids of The
House of Penruddock, Monte Video, etc., etc. [Quotation,
3 lines, Cibber.] London : Printed At The Minerva-Press,
For A. K. Newman And Co. (Successors to Lane, Newman,
& Co.), Leadenhall-Street. 1811.
Moscow; Or, The Grandsire. An historical tale. 3 vols. A.
K. Newman. 1822.
Moss Cliff Abbey; Or, The Sepulchral Harmonist. A Mys-
terious Tale. By Mary Julia Young. 4 vols. J. F. Hughes,
Wigmore-Street. 1803. In 1808 Hughes advertised : Moss
Cliffe Abbey; a Novel, 4 vols. i8.r. (2d Edition) by the
Author of “ A Summer at Brighten.”
Moss-troopers, The. A Border Tale. By the Author of Ban-
nockburn, etc. 3 vols. A. K. Newman: 1826.
Most remarkable year in the Life of August von Kotzebue, The,
Containing an Account of His Exile into Siberia. Written by
himself. Translated from the German of the Rev. Benjamin
Beresford. 3 vols. Phillips : 1802. Included here as being
a favourite translation of Das merkwurdigste Jahr meines
Lebens.
Motto; Or, The History of Bill Woodcock, The. By George
Brewer. 2 vols. Sael :
1795.
Mount Erin. An Irish Tale. By Matilda Potter. 2 vols.
Souter: 1813.
Mount Pelham. A Novel. By the Author of Rosa De Mont-
morien. 2 vols. William Lane : MDCCLXXXVIII. By
Miss Ann Hilditch. Afterwards Mrs. Hughes.
Mountain Chief, The. 4 vols. J. F. Hughes: 1809.
Mountain Cottager ; or, Wonder upon Wonder, The. A Tale.
Translated by Annabella Plumptre from the German of
Christian Heinrich Speiss. Minerva-Press : V/. Lane.
MDCCXCVIII. American ed., Hyndman, Philadelphia, 1800.
43° A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Mountville Castle, A Village Story. By J. N. Brewer. 3 vols.
Corri, and Colburn: 1808.
Mourtray Family, The. [By Mrs. Elizabeth Hervey], 4 vols.
J. Faulder. 1800. Second ed. 4 vols. 1810.
Munster Abbey. A Romance: interspersed with Reflections on
Virtue and Morality. Written by Sir Samuel Egerton Leigh.
3 vols., 1 797-
Munster Cottage Boy, The. A Tale. In Four Volumes. By
Regina Maria Roche, Author Of The Children Of The
Abbey, Trecothick Bower, Monastery of St. Columb, etc., etc.
And yet poor Edwin was no vulgar boy. Beattie. London
:
Printed at the Minerva-Press for A. K. Newman And Co.,
Leadenhall-Street. 1820.
Munster Village. A Novel in a Series of Letters. By Lady
Mary Walker. Robson: 1788.
Murderer; Or, The Fall of Lecas, The. By Joseph Bounden.
2 vols. Minerva-Press: Lane, Newman. 1808.
Murray House. A Novel. [By Mrs. Parsons]. 3 vols.
Brentford. Printed By and For F. Norbury : 1804. Also
attributed to Mrs. Meeke. Advertised by A. K. Newman in
1812, 3 vols. 1 5T.
Mutiny at the Nore, The. A Romance. 66 penny nos., Lon-
don : E. Lloyd. 1851.
My Master’s Secret; Or, The Troublesome Stranger. By Mrs.
Yorke. 2 vols. Earle and Hemet: 1804.
My Native Land; Or, The Test of Heroism. A novel. By
Catherine G. Ward. One vol. Minerva-Press, A. K. New-
man. 1813.
My Old Cousin; Or, A Peep into Cochin-China. A Novel by
the author of Romantic Facts, or Which is his Wife
?
3
vols. Minerva-Press : Newman. 1819.
The same author wrote The Blue Mountains.
My Poll and My Partner Joe. By T. P. Prest. 48 penny nos.
London: E. Lloyd. N.D. [1849?].
My Uncle Thomas. A Romance. 4 vols. Minerva-Press: W.
Lane. 1801. Irish ed., Dublin, 2 vols. 1801.
TITLE INDEX 43 *
From the French of Pigault-Lebrun, Mon oncle Thomas, 4
vol., in —12 ; 7 liv. iol, A Paris, Chez Barba, libraire, palais
du Tribunal. No. 51 ;
1806.
Myrtle; Or, The Effects Of Love, The. A novel. In a
Series of Letters. Bv A Lady. 3 vols. William Lane,
MDCCLXXXV.
Les Mysteres de la Tour Saint-Jean. 4 tom., Paris: 1818.
By the Baron de La Mothe-Houdancourt (later de La Mothe-
Langon) who published this romance as a translation from
M. G. Lewis. The reason for this was no doubt that Lewis
died in May, 1818.
Mysteres sur mysteres, ou les onze chevaliers. 4 tom., Paris
:
1807. By Elisabeth Guenard, baronne de Mere.
Mysteries Elucidated. A novel. 3 vols. By the author of
Danish Massacre, Monmouth, etc. By Mrs. Anna Maria
Mackenzie. W. Lane : Minerva-Press. MDCCXCV.
Mysteries Of Ferney Castle, The. A Novel. By Robert Huish.
4 vols., Colburn. 1809.
Also ascribed to George Lambe, but Huish claimed the
authorshop. Advertised by Newman, 1813, 4 vols. 22s.
Mysteries Of Hungary, The. A Romantic History of the
Fifteenth Century. By Edward Moore, Esq. 3 vols.
Minerva-Press: A. K. Newman. 1817.
Mysteries of London, The. By G. W. M. Reynolds. George
Vickers, 3 Catherine Street, Strand, and sold by him at his
Office, 28 and 29 Holywell Street, Strand. — Paris : A.
and W. Galignani, Rue Vivienne. Series I and II, four
volumes, 1845-7.
For details see The Mysteries of London under G. W. M.
Reynolds, Index of Authors. After Reynolds had separated
from Vickers, the latter continued The Mysteries of London.
Series III, 2 vols., was written by Thomas Miller.
Series IV, 2 vols., was written by E. L. Blanchard.
For these see further, below. The Mysteries of London was
frequently re-issued both by Vickers, and (later) by John
Dicks.
Dicks issued Series I and II, Reynolds’ work.
The Mysteries of London. Vickers advertised :
“ On Wednes-
day, September 20th [1848] was commenced the First
432 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Number of a Third Series of the “ Mysteries of London,”
by Thomas Miller, Esq. Author of “ Gideon Giles the
Roper,” “ Fair Rosamond,” “ Lady Jane Grey,” “ Pictures
of Country Life,” “ Godfrey Malveroy,” “ Poems,” etc.
This Series which is entitled “ The Mysteries of London ;
or,
Lights and Shadows of London Life ” contains the most
Truthful and Interesting Description of Every Class of Society
in the Metropolis; and in Beauty of Composition, Fearlessness
of Exposure, Variety of Incident, and Excitement of Narra-
tive, rivals, if it does not surpass, the celebrated “ Mysteries
of Paris ” by the far-famed Eugene Sue. In Weekly Numbers
at One Penny, and Monthly Parts at Sixpence. G. Vickers,
334 Strand ;
and All Booksellers.”
The Mysteries of London. By E. L. Blanchard, Author of
“ The Confessions of a Page of the Court of George IV,” etc.
No. i published on Saturday, September 22nd, 1849. To
be continued in Weekly Numbers, price One Penny, and in
Monthly Parts, price Sixpence. Each number splendidly
illustrated by J. Gilbert, Esq., and the whole forming a
volume, when complete, uniform with those of the First,
Second, and Third Series. G. Vickers : 334 Strand. It may
be remarked that the Miller and Blanchard Series fall far
below Reynolds.
A drama founded on Reynolds’ romance and entitled The
Mysteries of London was produced at the Marylebone
Theatre, Church-Street, Edgware -Road, on May 18th, 1846.
Paul Henri Corentin Feval has a drama, Les Mysteres de
Londres, ou les gentilhommes. de la nuit, in 5 acts, 1849,
printed in the Bibliotheque dramatique, tom. 17. The sub-
title recalls a later romance, The Wild Boys of London; or.
The Children of Night, issued in penny numbers.
Mysteries of London, The. One vol., “ Red and Blue Library,”
N.D. Milner & Co., Ltd. London and Halifax.
Mysteries of Marlborough House, The. 50 nos. Published by
E. Harrison, n.d. c. i860.
Mysteries of Modern London, The. A Novel By Sir John
Trollope, Bart. [Publisher’s Device.] London John And
Robert Maxwell Milton House, Shoe Lane, Fleet Street And
St. Bride Street, Ludgate Circus, E.C. [All rights reserved.]
n.d. [1886]. One vol. With a frontispiece. 52 chapters.
Purple cloth gilt.
o
V
NETLEY ABBEY
GOTHIC STORY,
“ Avaunt, and quit my fight! Let the earth hide thee?
“ Thv bones are trtarrowleis, thv blood is cold ;
<• Thou hail no fpeculation in thole eyes,
" Which thou doft glare with.” s-iacsst!;.
IN TWO VOLUMES,
YOL. I.
SOUTHAMPTON
:
PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR,
3'T T, SKELTON--*
AND
SOLD BY C. LAW, AVE MARY LANE, LONDON.
NETLEY ABBEY
A Gothic Story by the Rev. Richard Warner
Title page, first issue (Southampton), First Edition, 1795
TITLE INDEX 433
An abridged translation of Les Mysteres de Londres, 5 vols.,
1844, which was written by Paul Henri-Corentin Feval under
the name Sir Francis Trollop. See Index of Authors under
this pseudonym, Trollop.
Mysteries and Miseries of New York, The. By Ned Buntline.
5 parts. New York. 1851.
Mysteries Of New York, The. A Tale Of Real Life. By Ned
Buntling. London : Milner and Company, Limited. Pater-
noster Row. N.D. An edition in one volume. Also in two
volumes. And in Milner’s “ Red and Blue Library.” Price
One Shilling.
Mysteries of Old Father Thames, The. In penny nos., issued
by W. Caffyn, 31 Oxford Street, Mile End. 1848.
Mysteries of Old Saint Paul’s. A Tale of the Plague. 18 nos.,
London: G. Vickers. 1841. Suggested by Ainsworth’s
famous romancer Old St. Paul’s which was serialized in The
Sunday Times, running from January 3rd to December 26th,
1841. Published in book form, 3 vols., December, 1841.
Mysteries of Old Saint Paul’s is generally bound in one volume
with The Monument. See under this latter title.
Mysteries of Oronza; or, The Murderer’s Doom, The. A
Romance of the Thirteenth Century. 20 nos., London,
Elliot. 1841.
Mysteries of Philadelphia, The. 18 penny nos., E. Lloyd:
1842.
Mysteries Of Saddleworth, The, by A. Harcourt Burrage. Re-
printed (and in part rewritten?) by T. Nelson & Sons. Illus-
trated by G. S. Brien. No date. In “ The Gold Medal
Series ” which in 1 940 had been out of print for several
years.
Mysteries of St. Clair; or, Mariette Mouline, The. By Mrs.
Catherine G. Ward. Authoress of The Cottage on the Cliff,
etc., etc., etc. One vol., J. Jaques and W. Wright. 1824.
Mysteries of the Castle, The. By M. P. Andrews. One vol.,
'
195-
Mysteries of the Divorce Court, The. 27 nos. United Kingdom
Press. 1861.
434 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Mysteries of the Forest, The. By Miss Mary Houghton. 3
vols., Minerva-Press : A. K. Newman. 1810. Second ed.,,
Newman, 1822. Third ed., Newman, 1827.
Mysteries of the Inquisition. 16 nos., G. Pierce: 1842.
Mysteries of the Inquisition, The. Serialized in The London
Journal. Prologue, Chapter I, commencing in Vol. I, No. 8r
April 19th, 1845; Chapter L, concluding, Vol II, No. 32,
October 4th, 1845. G. Vickers. Adapted from the French
of M. de Ferreal. The original work was published by
Boizerd, rue Jacob, Paris. The English version is believed
to be by G. W. M. Reynolds although not signed by him.
Mysteries of the Old Castles of France ; or, Secret Intrigues of
Kings and Queens, Princes and Princesses. By a Society of
Arch Seers. Pub. E. Dipple. 44 nos. n.d. Pseudo-historical
romance.
Mysteries of Udolpho, The. A Romance. Interspersed With
Some Pieces of Poetry. By Ann RadclifT, Author Of The
Romance Of The Forest, Etc. In Four Volumes.
Fate sits on these dark battlements, and frowns,
And, as the portals open to receive me,
Her voice, in sullen echoes through the courts,
Tells of a nameless dead.
[Double rule.] Vol I (-II-III-IV). [Rule.] London:
Printed for G. G. and J. Robinson, Paternoster-Row. 1794.
The quotation, according to Morley and Everett is of Mrs.
Radcliffe’s own composition.
An advertisement, Thursday, April 24th, 1794, in The London
Chronicle announces:
“
In a few Days will be published,
In Four very large Volumes Twelves, The Mysteries of
Udolpho ... By Ann Radcliffe. . . . Printed for G. G. and
J. Robinson. . .
.”
The Mysteries of Udolpho. Ibid., 2nd ed., Robinson, 1794.
Third ed., Ibid., Robinson, 1795. Fourth ed. With frontis-
pieces on copper. 4 vols., 1799. Fifth ed., ibid., 1803. Sixth
ed., with frontispieces. 4 vols., 1806. Eighth ed., 4 vols.,
Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, and Brown, 1809.
Another ed., In Mrs. Barbauld’s The British Novelist: Vols.
45-47. 1810.
Another ed., In Four Volumes. Mason: 1823.
Mysteries of Udolpho. A Romance, by Mrs. Radcliffe, the 4
volumes, printed verbatim and illustrated with 15 Engravings,
TITLE INDEX 435
in 13 numbers 6s. 6d. : bound in 2 vols., boards 7 s. 6d. S.
Fisher, 15 1 St. John Street, West Smithfield. 1824.
The Mysteries of Udolpho. A Romance. By Mrs. Ann
Radcliffe, Authoress of “ The Romance of the Forest,” etc.
With Critical Remarks, And A Memoir Of The Authoress.
Embellished With Numerous Engravings On Wood. London :
Printed and Published by J. Limbird, 143, Strand (
Near
Somerset House). 1824. Afterwards (with the Sicilian
Romance)
as Vol I of Limbird’s British Novelist. Reprinted,
i 832 .
Another ed. in Ballantyne’s Novelist’s Library, Vol. X,
Ballantyne, Edinburgh; Hurst Robinson & Co. London.
1824. Prefatory Memoir by Sir Walter Scott. Mrs.
Radcliffe’s five principal novels in one volume.
Another ed., 3 vols., N.D. (c. 1844).
Another ed., Published by J. S. Pratt, Stokesley, Yorkshire.
1845.
The Mysteries of Udolpho in Penny Weekly Numbers and
Sixpenny Parts. Printed on Superfine Paper, Royal 8vo., in
new and beautiful Type. Illustrated with Engravings, quite
equal to any of the most Expensive Works. London. Pub-
lished at the Office of “ Lloyd’s Weekly London Newspaper,”
12 Salisbury Square, Fleet Street. 1846-47.
Another ed. “ The Cottage Library.” Royal 321T10.
Coloured Cloth. One Shilling. Milner & Company. Pater-
noster Row. London. N.D. [1870].
Another ed., 8vo. 1877.
Another ed., Routledge. 1882.
Another ed., Routledge. 8vo. 1891.
Another ed., “ Half-forgotten Books.” Routledge. 8vo.
i9°3-
The most recent reprint to date (1940) of The Mysteries of
Udolpho is that in “ Everyman’s Library,” 2 vols., Nos. 865
and 866.
During the nineteenth century The Mysteries of Udolpho
remained popular and was several times issued in a very
cheap form, often without date.
Early Irish Editions. The Mysteries of Udolpho. 3 vols.,
Wogan, Jones, and Colbert. Dublin: 1794. Another ed.,
3 vols., Wogan, Dublin : 1800.
For translations, adaptations, and dramatizations of The
Mysteries of Udolpho see the Index of Authors under Mrs.
Ann Radcliffe.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
436
Mysterious Baron, The. By Eliza RatclifFe. One vol., Minerva-
Press : Lane, Newman. 1808.
Mysterious Bridal, And Other Tales, The. 3 vols., A. K.
Newman: 1835.
Mysterious Bride; or, The Statue Spectre, The. i2mo. N.D.
[1800]. Chapbook.
Mysterious Count; or, Montville Castle, The. By Mrs. Ann
Kerr. 2 vols., Crosby. 1803.
Mysterious Father; or, Trials of the Heart, The. 4 vols.,
Cundee. 1805.
Mysterious Florentine, The. 4 vols., Hughes. [1810.]
Mysterious Foundling ; or, The Heir Restored, The. In which
is included, The Adventures of a Misanthrope. Coloured
frontispiece. Langley. N.D. [c. 1808].
Mysterious Freebooter ; or, The Days Of Queen Bess, The.
A Romance. [Rule.] In Four Volumes. [Rule.] By
Francis Lathom, Author Of Men And Manners; Mystery;
Astonishment ;
The Impenetrable Secret, etc., etc. [Double
rule.]
In winter’s tedious nights, sit by the fire
With good old folks ;
and let them tell thee tales
Of woful ages, long ago betid.
Q, ,
onaKespcaxe.
[Rule.] Vol. I (II-III-IV). [Double rule.] London:
Printed At The Minerva-Press, for Lane, Newman, and Co.,
Leadenhall-Street. 1806.
Another ed., Illustrated, 8vo. London: Jaques. 1828.
A very popular romance. A Spectacle The Mysterious Free-
booter ; or, The Days of Queen Bess, taken from Lathom,
was produced at Astley’s, the Royal Amphitheatre, on April
14th, 1806, and was extremely successful.
Mysterious Friendship, The. A Tale. 2 vols., Earle and Hemet.
1801.
Mysterious Hand ; or, Subterranean Honours, The. A romance.
By Augustus Jacob Crandolph. Minerva-Press : A. K.
Newman. 1811.
Mysterious House in Chelsea, The. By Erskine Boyd. No. 57,
Dicks’ English Novels. Price Sixpence Each.
TITLE INDEX 437
Mysterious Husband, The. By Gabrielli, Author of The
Mysterious Wife. [Mrs. Mary Meeke.] 4 vols., Minerva-
Press : William Lane. 1801.
Mysterious Man, The. 3 vols. Newby. By the Author of
Ben Bradshaw. [1827.]
Mysterious Marriage; or, The Will of My Father, The. By
Catherine G. Ward. 4 vols., London. G. Virtue. 1821.
Second ed., 1821.
Third ed., The Mysterious Marriage; or, The Will Of My
Father. By Catherine G. Ward, Authoress of—Family Por-
traits,—The Rose of Claremont,—The Orphan Boy,-—Poems,
—The Daughter Of St. Omer,—My Native Land,
—
Robertina,—Son and the Nephew,—The Primrose Girl,
—
Tales of my Grandmother, etc., etc. One vol., 8vo. G.
Virtue, London and Bristol ;
John Tallis, London and
Birmingham ;
W. Baynes, Leeds.
Fourth ed., in 27 weekly Numbers. Price 6d. each. Virtue,
1822. Another ed., Virtue, 1824. A late pirated ed., New
York, 1869.
Mysterious Mask, The. By Stephen H. Agnew. No. 174,
Dick Turpin Library, Aldine Publishing Co., 1, 2, and 3
Crown Court, Chancery Lane, London.
Mysterious Monk; or, The Wizard’s Tower, The. By C. A.
Bolen. An historical romance. 3 vols., A. K. Newman &
Co. 1826. Period of this “ legendary tale,” King John.
Mysterious Monks of St. Bernard, The. A Romance. 4 vols.,
J. F. Hughes: Wigmore-Street. 1802.
Mysterious Mother, The. A Tragedy by Mr. Horace Walpole.
Printed at Strawberry-Hill. 50 copies. MDCCLXVIII.
First public edition. Dodsley, 1781. Second public ed.,
1789. Irish ed., Dublin : 1791.
In The Modern British Drama, Vol. II, Tragedies. Edited
by Sir Walter Scott. Miller, and Ballantyne, Edinburgh.
181 1.
In Dicks’ Standard Plays. Price One Penny. N.D. [c. 1881].
Constable’s Edition. With The Castle Of Otratito. Edited
by Montague Summers. One vol., Constable & Co., Ltd.,
London: 1924.
Mysterious Murder, The. By Isaac Crookenden. One vol., 1806.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
4-
3 8
Mysterious Novice; or, Covent of the Grey Penitents, The.
Including the Memoirs of Augustus and Wilhelmina. An
Original Romance. With a Frontispiece. London : Arliss.
1809.
Mysterious Omen; or, Awful Retribution, The. An Original
Romance. Including the Crimes of Count Caraffa, the
Murderer, and the Adventures of his Son Leonardi, the
Banditti Captain. London. Harrild : 1812. Chapbook with
a coloured frontispiece.
Mysterious Penitent; or, The Norman Chateau, The. A
Romance. 2 vols., Winchester: Ja. Robbins. 1800.
Another (the second) ed., 2 vols., London, Crosby: 1801.
Irish ed., One vol., Dublin : H. Colbert, B. Domin, and T.
Codd. 1801.
Mysterious Pilgrim; or, Fatal Duplicity, The. An Italian
Romance. To which is added The Hibernian Mendicant.
London, Langley and Belch. 1810. Chapbook. Coloured
frontispiece.
Mysterious Protector, The. A Novel. 2 vols., Robinson. 1805.
Mysterious Seal, The. A Romance. By W. C. Proby. 3 vols.,
Westley :
1799.
Mysterious Sisters, The. 2 vols., J. F. Hughes: Wigmore-
Street. 1805.
Mysterious Visit, The. A Novel Founded on Facts. In Four
Volumes. By Mrs. Parsons. Author of The Peasant of
Ardenne Forest, The Valley of St. Gothard, The Miser and
His Family, etc., etc., etc. Brentford, P. Norbury ;
T. Hurst,
Paternoster Row ; J. Hatchard, Piccadilly ;
Carpenter and Co.,
Old Bond Street ;
Didier and Tibbett, St. James’s Street.
1802.
Mysterious Visitor; or, Mary, the Rose of Cumberland, The.
A Novel. By Henry Montague Cecil. 2 vols., Longman.
1805.
Mysterious Wanderer, The. By Sophia Reeve. 3 vols.,
Richardsons. 1807.
Mysterious Warning, The. A German Tale. [Rule.] In Four
By Richard Phillips.
TITLE INDEX 439
Volumes. [Rule.] By Mrs. Parsons. Author of Voluntary
Exile, etc. [Rule.]
“ Thus conscience
Can make cowards of us all.” [Hamlet, III, i.]
[Rule.] Vol. I (II-III-IV.) [Double rule.] London:
Printed for William Lane, at the Minerva-Press, Leadenhall-
Street. [Rule.] MDCCXCVI. Half-title : Mysterious
Warning. In Four Volumes. With an Engraved Frontis-
piece.
The Mysterious Warning; including the Memoirs of the
Solitary Man of the Desolate Mansion, by Mrs. Parsons with
10 fine Engravings, the 4 volumes in g Sixpenny Numbers,
or in boards 5L Being “ Fisher’s Edition of The Mysterious
Warning.” Printed and Sold by S. Fisher, 15 1, St. John
Street, West Smithfield ;
and to be had at Mr. Hughes, 35
Ludgate Street.
The Mysterious Warning. By Mrs. Parsons. With a
biographical Introduction by Montague Summers. Limited
Edition. 2 vols., Robert Holden : 1928.
The Mysterious Warning is one of the seven “ horrid novels
”
mentioned in Northanger Abbey, Chapter VI, but Miss
Thorpe alludes to it as Mysterious Warnings.
Mysterious Wife, The. A novel. By Gabrielli. [Mrs. Mary
Meeke.] 4 vols., William Lane, at the Minerva Press.
MDCCXCVII.
Mystery. By Francis Lathom. 2 vols., Symonds : 1800.
There are French and German translations, but the French
version must not be confused with Le Mystere, ou II y a
quarante uns, traduit par Defauconpret, 4 vols., 1821, which
is a rendering of Gaspey’s The Mystery; or, Forty Years Ago.
[See next entry.] The Catalogue general of the Bibliotheque
Nationale, Tome LXXXIX, 1926, Col. 872-3 under
“ Lathom ” has fallen into this error.
Mystery; or. Forty Years Ago, The. A Novel [by Thomas
Gaspey]. 3 vols., Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme and Brown.
1820.
Le Mystere, ou II y a quarante ans, par l’auteur de
“ Calthorpe,” traduit de l’anglais par le traducteur des
romans historiques de Walter Scott. [A.-J.-B. Defauconpret.]
Paris. Librairie grecque-latine, 4 vols., 1821.
In the Catalogue general of the Bibliotheque Nationale
44° A gothic bibliography
Calthorpe and consequently Le Mystere are erroneously
ascribed to Francis Lathom, the latter being confused with
the French version of Lathom’s Mystery, whereas it is a version
of Gaspey’s The Mystery.
Mystery And Confidence. A Tale founded on fact. By Mrs.
Pinchard. 3 vols., Chappie. 1814.
Mystery Developed, The. A Novel. By Martin Macdermot.
3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1825.
Mystery of The Black Tower, The. A Romance. By John
Palmer, Jun. Author of The Haunted Cavern. [Rule.]
Quotation, seven lines, Shakespeare, Macbeth, III, 4 :
“ Can
such things be blanch’d with fear.” [Rule.]
Vol. I (-II). [Double rule.] London: Printed for the Author
By William Lane, At The Minerva-Press, Leadenhall-Street,
[rule], MDCCXCVI. Half-title: Mystery Of The Black
Tower. Dedication to Mrs. Vernon. List of Subscribers,
pp. IX-XVI.
Mystery Upon Mystery, a tale of earlier times. By the author
of The Baron de Falkenheim. 4 vols. Minerva-Press : Lane,
Newman. 1808. Frontispiece. By the same author: The
Black Banner, 1811.
Mystic Castle ; or, The Orphan Heir, The. A romance. 2 vols.,
William Lane at the Minerva-Press. MDCCXCVI.
The same author, Mr. Singer, wrote The Wanderer of the
Alps, 1796; and Edwin . 1803.
Mystic Cottager of Chamouny, The. A Novel. 2 vols., William
Lane, at the Minerva-Press. MDCCXCIV. Dublin ed.,
1795. By the same author : The Observant Pedestrian, 1795.
Mystic Events; or, The Vision of the Tapestry. A Romantic
Legend of the Days of Anne Boleyn. By Francis Lathom.
4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1830.
Mystic Sepulchre ; or, Such Things Have Been, The. A
Spanish romance. By John Palmer, Jun. 2 vols., J. F.
Hughes, Wigmore-Street. 1807.
Le Tombeau mysterieux, on les families de Henaris et
d’Almanza. Roman espagnol . . . traduit de l’anglais par
R. J. Dardent. 2 tomes. i2mo. Paris: 1810.
TITLE INDEX 44I
Mystic Tower; or Villany Punished, The. A Romance.
London. Kaygill. N.D. [
c
.
1800]. With a frontispiece.
Of the chapbook kind.
N
Nabob, The. In a Series of Letters. By a Lady. 2 vols.
W. Lane. MDCCLXXXV.
Nabob, The, a moral tale. By Mrs. Rice. One vol., Harris.
1807.
Nailed to the Mast; or, The Child of the Wave. 8vo., n.d.,
coloured wrapper ;
woodcuts.
Napoleon; or, The Mysteries of the Plundred Days. An
Historical Novel. By Mrs. Peek. 2 vols., 8vo. Simpkin and
Marshall. 1826.
Natural Daughter: With Portraits of the Leadenhead Family,
The. By Mrs. Robinson. 2 vols. Longman and Rees.
1799-
Natural Son, The. Translated from the French of Diderot,
Author of James the Fatalist ,
the Nun, etc., 2 vols., T. N.
Longman. 1798.
Nature: or the School for Demi-Repts. A novel in a series of
letters. Murdoch. 1772. By Pierre Henri Treyssac de
Vergy.
Nature and Art. By Elizabeth Inchbald. 2 vols., 8vo., G. G.
and J. Robinson. 1796. Second ed. 2 vols., Robinson.
'
797 -
Nature and Art was very popular and frequently reprinted.
In Mrs. Barbauld’s British Novelists. Vol. 27. 1810. (The
same vol. contains Mrs. Brooke’s History of Lady Julia
Mandeville.)
In British Novelists. 8vo. 1823.
In Bentley’s Standard Novels. Vol. 26. 1838. (With A
Simple Story.)
The Romancist, and Novelist’s Library. J. Clements. Vol. L
No. 21. 1839.
442 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Nature arid Art. 8vo. 1849.
i6mo. Piper Bros. 1850.
8vo. De La Rue & Co., 1880 (with A Simple Story).
In Cassell’s National Library. Vol. 24 [1886].
Le Nature et FArt. Roman traduit de l’anglais. 2 tom.
i2mo. Geneve. 1 797 -
Nature et les Societes, La; etc. i.e., Nature and Society; or,
Ariana and Walter. By Joseph Lavallee. 3 vols. Berthoud
and Wheatley. 1815.
Nature; or, a Picture of the Passions. To which is prefixed
an Essay on Novel Writing. By J. Bryerley. 4 vols. Highley.
1804.
Naval Surgeon, The. [By William Johnson Neale.] 3 vols.
London. 1841.
Another ed. 8vo. 1858.
Another ed. “Naval and Military Library.” Vol. 6. 1861.
Neapolitan ; or, The Test of Integrity, The. By Ellen of Exeter.
[Anna Maria Mackenzie.] 3 vols., William Lane, at the
Minerva-Press. MDCCXCVI.
French translation, La Famille Napolitaine, 3 vols., 1 798.
Mrs. Anna Maria Mackenzie of Exeter, nee Wight. Mrs.
Cox, en secondes noces, Mrs. Johnson ;
then Mrs. Mackenzie.
Nom de plume Ellen of Exeter.
Necromancer ; or, The Tale Of The Black Forest, The. Founded
On Facts : Translated From The German Of Lawrence
Flammenberg, By Peter Teuthold. In Two Volumes. Printed
for William Lane at the Minerva-Press. MDCCXCIV.
Irish ed., 2 vols., Dublin: Brett Smith, 1795.
The Necromancer was reprinted, No. 88, in Vol. IV of The
Romancist and Novelist’s Library, London, J. Clements, 1840,
as ‘
From the German,’ with sub-title Wolfe The Robber.
The Necromancer ; or, The Tale Of The Black Forest, with
an Introduction by Montague Summers. One vol., London,
Robert Holden & Co. 1927. Lawrence Flammenberg is a
pseudonym of Karl Friedrich Kahlert. See under this name.
The Necromancer is a translation of Der Geisterbanner, 1792.
See under this title.
The Necromancer is one of the “ horrid ” novels mentioned
in Northanger Abbey.
TITLE INDEX 443
Necromancer, The. A Romance. By G. W. M. Reynolds.
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, concluding July 31st,
1852. Separate issue, 33 nos. Beautifully Illustrated. (By
Corbould, engraved by Hooper). London. John Dicks.
1857. A later edition, No. 103, Dicks’ English Novels. Price
Sixpence Each. With Twenty-Eight Illustrations by F.
Gilbert and E. H. Corbould.
Ned Bentley. By J. Amphlett. 3 vols., Longman & Co. 1809.
Ned Nimble; or, The Boys of Pickleton Priory. Pub. Edwin
J. Brett, Boys of England Office, 173 Fleet Street.
Neighbourhood, The. A Tale. 2 vols., Black. 1800.
Netley Abbey: A Gothic Story. In Two Volumes. Southamp-
ton : Printed for the Author [the Rev. Richard Warner], by
T. Skelton. And sold by C. Law, Ave Mary Lane, London.
1795. Also: London: Printed for William Lane, at the
Minerva Press, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCXCV.
German translation, Kloster Netley, One vol., 1796.
Neville Castle; or, The Generous Cambrians. A Novel. In
four volumes, by the Author of Raynsford Park. [The Misses
Purbeck.] Dutton. 1802.
New Historical Note Book; or, Soldiers’ and Seamans’
Recorder, The. Edited by T. Prest. London. G. Drake,
12 Houghton Street. Clare Market. In Penny Parts. 1835.
New Monk, The. A romance. By R. S., Esq., 3 vols., Minerva-
Press, for William Lane. 1798. A close parody of The
Monk. See Montague Summers The Gothic Quest, pp. 245-6.
New Mysteries of London, The. Illustrated by Phiz. One vol.,
E. Griffiths, 13 Catherine Street, Strand. N.D. [1857-8].
A re-issue, 22 nos. J. A. Berger, about 1861.
New Sylph; or, The Guardian Angel, The. A Story. One
vol., W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXVIII.
New Road to Ruin, The. By Lady Stepney. 3 vols., Bentley.
1833.
New Terrific Register, The. 90 penny nos. S. Robins, London.
1838.
Newgate. A romance. [By T. Prest.] 97 numbers, 149
chapters; 772 pages. E. Lloyd. 1847.
444 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Reprinted as The Romance of Newgate in Boys’ Leisure
Hour (No. i, August 18th, 1884), a journal which ran for
nearly seven years. It was published by Charles Fox, who
later re-issued Newgate in 24 parts as Tales of Highwaymen.
Newminster Abbey; or, The Daughter of O’More. 2 vols.,
J. F. Flughes, 1808. Advertised by Newman, 1818, 2 vols.,.
IOJ.
Newstoke Priors. By Miss Waddington. 3 vols., Bentley. 1842.-
Nicholas Nicklebury. By Bos. Penny weekly numbers. E.
Lloyd. 62 Broad Street, Bloomsbury. 1838. For Bos see
Index of Authors.
Nick of the Woods. 22 nos. E. Lloyd. 1847.
Nick of the Woods. 6 nos. E. Lloyd. 1852.
John Thomas Haines has a melodrama Nick of the Woods;
or, The Altar of Revenge, produced at the Royal Victoria
Theatre in 1839, and printed in Buncombe’s Edition of Plays,
vol. xliv.
Niece; or, The History of Sukey Thornby, The. By Mrs. P.
Gibbes. 3 vols. Printed for F. Noble at his Circulating
Library, No. 324, Holborn. 1788.
Nightshade ; or, Claude Duval, the Dashing Highwayman. By
Malcolm J. Errym. 60 nos. 8vo. n.d.
Re-issue, Dicks. One vol. N.D. (
c
.
1884).
Nine Days’ Worider, The. By Mrs. Meeke. 3 vols., Minerva-
Press : Lane, Newman. 1804.
Nobility of the Heart, The. By Elizabeth Isabella Spence^
3 vols., Longman. 1804.
Nobility Run Mad; or, Raymond and his Three Wives. A
novel. By the Author of The Sailor Boy and Soldier Boy.
4 vols., Minerva-Press, Lane and Newman. 1802.
Noble Enthusiast, The. A Modern Romance. 3 vols., William
Lane, at the Minerva Press. MDCCXCII.
Noble Family, The. A Novel in a Series of Letters. By Mrs.
Austin. i2mo. 1771.
Noble Wanderers, The. A novel. 2 vols., Minerva-Press; Lane
and Newman. 1802.
TITLE INDEX 445
Nobleman And His Steward; or, Memoirs Of The Albany
Family, The. 3 vols. Minerva-Press ;
Lane and Newman.
1802. By Miss Taylor.
Nobody’s Dog. E. J. Brett. Coloured wrapper, n.d.
Nocturnal Minstrel; or, The Spirit of the Wood, The. A
Romance in Two Volumes by Mrs. Sleath. Author of The
Orphan of the Rhine, Who’s the Murderer? Bristol Heiress,
etc., etc. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1810.
Nocturnal Visit, The. A tale. By Regina Maria Roche. 4
vols., Minerva-Press. William Lane. 1800.
La Visite nocturne. Traduite de l’anglais. 5 Tom. Paris.
1801.
Nocturnal Visits ; or, The Mysterious Husband. An English
Tale. To which is added the Village Curate. N.D. [1800].
With a frontispiece. Chapbook.
Norman Abbey: A Tale of Sherwood Forest. By A Lady.
3 vols., Cochrane. 1832.
Norman Banditti; or, The Fortress of Coutance. A tale. By
Felix Elba. 2 vols., Minerva-Press, for William Lane. 1 799-
Northern Memoirs; or, The History of a Scotch Family.
Written by a Lady. 2 vols., Noble. N.D. [1757].
Northumbrian Chieftain; or, The Spectre of the Abbey, The.
A Legendary Tale [Collected from an Ancient Manuscript].
By Joseph D. M’Arthur. Newcastle-upon-Tyne : Printed by
D. Bass, Foot of Pilgrim-Street, and may be had of All the
Booksellers. 1803. Price One Shilling. 60 pp.
Northumbrian Tale, A. Written by a Lady. i2mo. 1 vol.,
pp. 301. Debrett. 1799.
Notoriety; or, Fashionable Unveiled. By Castigator. 3 vols.,
Sherwood. 1812. Advertised by Newman, 1818, 3 vols.
1 5*.
Notorious Highwaymen. 60 penny nos. E. Lloyd. 1836.
La Nouvelle Arcadie
;
etc. i.e., The New Arcadia; or, The
Interior of Two Families. By Augustus La Fontaine. 4 vols.,
Paris. London. Colburn. 1810.
Novellettes. 3 vols., Phillips, 1807. Translated from Kotzebue.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
446
Nouellettes Moral and Sentimental. Partly Original and partly
compiled by the late T. Potter, Surgeon at North Shields
near Newcastle upon Tyne. Printed for the Editor. 8vo.
1785. With engraved portrait of T. Potter. A collection of
twelve short novels.
JVovice; or, The Heir of Montgomery Castle, The. A novel.
By Matthew Moral, Esq. [Mrs. Pilkington], 3 vols., Minerva-
Press; A. K. Newman. 1814.
JVovice of St. Dominick, The. By Miss Owenson, Author of
St. Clair. 4 vols., Richard Phillips. London. 1806. 4 vols.
1808, and frequently reprinted.
JVun, The. By Diderot. Translated from the French. 2 vols.,.
i2mo., Robinson. 1797.
Dublin ed., Post 8vo. 1797.
JVun, The. By Mrs. Sherwood. Seeley [1837 ?].
New ed., 1857.
In the “ Run and Read Library.” i860.
JVun and her Daughter; or, Memoirs of the Courville Family,
The. A novel. 4 vols., Minerva-Press, Lane, Newman. 1805.
By Miss Helen Craik.
JVun of Arrouca, The. A Tale. [By John, Earl Russell.] 8vo.
Murray. 1822.
Very shortly after publication the author determinedly
suppressed the book buying up every copy at whatsoever
price and destroying it.
JVun of Gnadenzell, The. By Robert Huish. 17 nos. E. Lloyd.
1846.
JVun of Miserecordia ; or, Tlie Eve of All Saints, The. By
Sophia L. Francis. 4 vols., Minerva-Press, Lane, Newman.
1807.
La Sceur de la misericorde, ou la Veille de la Toussaint, par
Sophie Frances. Traduit de l’anglais par Mme. V
[Viterne]. Paris. J.-G. Dentu, 4 vols., 1809.
In the Catalogue general des livres imprines de la Bibliotheque
JVationale, Tome LIV, Paris, Impr., Nat. 1913, Colonne 413,
there is an erroneous entry :
“ Frances, Sophie. Pseud, de
Lathom, Francis.” Ibid. Tome LXXXIX. id. 1926.
Col. 872-3, we have :
“ Lathom, Francis, pseud, de Sophie
TITLE INDEX 447
Frances,” under which entry is listed La Sceur de la miseri-
corde.
Nun of St. Agatha, The. A romance. 3 vols., A. K. Newman.
1830.
Nun Of Santa Maria Di Tindaro, The. A Tale. By Louisa
Sidney Stanhope. 3 vols., Minerva Press, A. K. Newman.
1818.'
Nunnery; or, The History of Miss Sophia Howard, The. 2
vols., F. & J. Noble. 1767.
Nunnery for Coquettes, The. T. Lowndes. 8vo. 1771. Irish
ed., Dublin. 1771.
Nuns Of The Desert; or, The Woodland Witches, The. In
Two Volumes. By Eugenia De Acton, Author of Essays
On The Art Of Being Happy; A Tale Without A Title, etc.
London: Printed At The Minerva-Press For Lane, Newman,
and Co., Leadenhall-Street. 1805.
Nun’s Picture, The. By Regina Maria Roche. 3 vols., A. K.
Newman. 1834.
Novice Of St. Ursula, The. A translation from the French of
Ducray Duminil. 4 vols., Colburn. 1810. Advertised by
Newman, 1813, 4 vols. 21 s.
Nuit anglaise, La, par le R. S. Spectro Ruini, moine italien.
“ Deux volumes in—12 se trouvent dans les ruines de
Paluzzi, de Tivoli, dans les cavemes de Sainte-Claire, dans
les abbayes dq Grasville, de Saint-Clair, dans les chateaux
d’Udolphe, de Mortymore, de Montnoir, de Lindenberg; en
un mot, dans tous les endroits oil il
y a des revenants, des
moines, des ruines, des bandits, des souterraines et une tour
de 1 ’Ouest, et chez Charles Pougens, rue Thomas-du-Louvre,
No. 246.”
2 vol. in—12. Paris. 1799.
By Belin de La Liborliere.
“ Ouvrage tres original, tres amusant.” A parody of the
“ roman noir ” and the popular “ radcliffades.” Belin de la
Liborliere then attempted to show how the historical novel
should be written and published his Anne Grenvill, 1800.
This seems, to me at least, a very feeble kind of romance.
Translated by Mrs. Sophia Elizabeth Shedden as The Hero;
Or, The Adventures Of A Night, 3 vols., 1815. See under
this title.
448 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
o
Oakwood Hall. A novel. By Catherine Hutton. 3 vols.,
Longman. 1819.
Oath; or, The Buried Treasure, The. 16 penny nos. Lloyd.
1846.
O’Briens and the O’Flahertys, The. A National Tale. By
Lady Morgan. 4 vols., Colburn. 1827.
Second ed., 1828.
Galignani, Paris. 1828.
Several times reprinted.
Observant Pedestrian; or, Traits Of The Heart: in a solitary
tour from Caernarvon to London. 2 vols. By the Author
of The Mystic Cottager. 2 vols., William Lane, Minerva-
Press. MDCCXCV.
Observant Pedestrian Mounted; or A Donkey Trip to
Brighton, The. A Comic Sentimental Novel. By the Author
of “ The Mystic Cottager,” “ Observant Pedestrian,” etc.
3 vols. Simpkin and Marshall. 1815.
Octavia. A novel. By Miss A. M. Porter. 3 vols., T. N.
Longman. 1798. A New Edition. Lane, Newman, Minerva-
Press. 1804.
Octavia, traduit de l’anglais. 3 tom. Paris, an VII [1799].
Odd Enough To Be Sure! or Emilius in the World. A Novel.
Translated by J. Hemet from the German of August Lafont-
aine. 2 vols., Minerva-Press : Lane and Newman. 1802.
A translation of Der Sonderling.
Odd Volume, The. First and Second Series. Edinburgh,
Lizars; London, Whittaker. 1826 and 1827.
O’Donnel, A National Tale. By Lady Morgan (late Miss
Owenson). 3 vols., Colburn. 1814.
New ed., 1815.
Several times reprinted.
Officer's Daughter; or, A Visit to Ireland, The. By Miss
Walsh, daughter of a naval officer. 4 vols. [1814 ?]
Bosalte:
OR, THE
CASTLE OF MONTALABRETTL
IN FOUR VOLUMES.
VOL. I.
a Led through a sad variety of woe*.”
RICHMOND :
908 B.OHGMAN, HURST, REES, ORMSE, AMD BROtfW,
BATSRNOSTER ROW, LOh'DOW,
1811.
ROSALIE; OR, THE CASTLE OF MONTALABRETTI
Title page, First Edition, 1 8 1 i
TITLE INDEX 449
Offspring of Russell, The. A novel. 2 vols., William Lane, at
the Minerva-Press. MDCCXCIV. By Henry Summersett.
O’Halloran ; or, The Irish Insurgent Chief. Popular Tales,
containing a Choice Selection from the Works of the most
celebrated Authors. The Recess, Old English Baron, Castle
of Otranto, O’Halloran, etc. i2mo. J. McGowan and Sons.
1827.
O’Halloran ; or, The Irish Insurgent Chief, a Tale of the
United Irish men; with an Appendix, containing Biographical
Memoirs of the principal Characters, and descriptive of the
scenery of the volume. By Dr. James M’Henry. Containing
480 pages for one shilling. This is the only complete edition
which has yet been published. 1848.
Also The Hearts of Steel; an Irish Historical Tale of the
Eighteenth Century, by the Author of O’Halloran, etc. Price
is. 1848.
Sold Wholesale by E. Farrington, 16 Bath-street, Newgate-
street; Retail by J. H. Woodley, Aldermanbury Postern; and
all Booksellers.
Old Castle ; or, The Forty Knights and the Fair Penitent, The.
A Romance. London. [1810.]
Old Country House, An By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey. 3
vols., Newby. 1850.
Another ed., Routledge. 1859. Price il 6d.
Old Dower House, The. A tale of bygone days. By Mrs.
Elizabeth Caroline Grey. 3 vols., Newby. 1844.
New ed., J. & C. Brown. 1857. Price 2 s.
Old English Baron, The. A Gothic Story. By Clara Reeve.
Edward and Charles Dilly. 8vo. 1778.
Engraved frontispiece by J. Caldnall.
The Old English Baron had been published the previous year
as The Champion of Virtue. See under this title.
The Old English Baron. Second ed., 1778.
The Third ed., 1780.
A New ed., C. Dilly, 1787.
Fifth ed., 1789.
Sixth ed., 1797.
T. Cooke’s edition, 1798.
Another ed., i2mo. London. 1801.
A new ed., Dublin, T. Codd. 1805.
G*
450 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Eighth ed., 1807.
The Old English Baron (with The Castle of Otranto), 2 parts.
i6mo., London. 1808.
In Vo. XXII of Mrs. Barbauld’s British Novelists. 1810.
In Walkeds British Classics, i2mo. London and Weybridge,
181 1.
In Ballantyne’s Novelist’s Library (with Memoir by Sir Walter
Scott), 8vo., Vol V, 1821.
Another ed., 24010., Chiswick, 1823.
S. Fisher’s edition, with 3 superior Engravings, in 2 Sixpenny
Numbers, or in boards is. 6d. 1824.
In Popular Tales, 8vo. 1827.
The Old English Baron (with The Castle of Otranto), 121m,
London. (1830 ?)
8vo., London, 1836.
In The Romancist and Novelist’s Library. No. 8. J.
Clements. 1839.
In British Novelists. Vol. XXII. London. 1840.
Standard Novels. 8vo. London. 1853.
The Old English Baron (with The Castle of Otranto).
Notable Novels. 8vo. London. 1872.
The Old English Baron (with The Castle of Otranto) in The
Cottage Library, Royal 32010. Milner and Company. Price
One Shilling. N.D. [1872 ?].
The Old English Baron (with The Castle of Otranto), with
portraits and drawings by A. H. Tourrier, Nimmo and Bain,
London. 1883.
In Cassell’s National Library. London. 1888.
The Old English Baron. A Gothic Story. Chapbook.
London. 1806.
Lovel Castle ; or, The Rightful Heir Restored, a Gothic Tale ;
Narrating how a Yeung Man, the Supposed Son of a Peasant,
by a Train of Unparalleled Circumstances, not only Discovers
who were his Real Parents, but that they came to Untimely
Deaths ;
with his Adventures in the Haunted Apartment,
Discovery of the Fatal Closet, and Appearance of the Ghost
of his Murdered Father; Relating, also, how the Murderer
was Brought to Justice, with his Confession, and the Restora-
tion of the Injured Orphan to his Title and Estates. 1818.
Chapbook abridgement of The Old English Baron.
French translations.
Le Vieux Baron anglais, ou les Revenants venges, histoire
gothique, imitee de l’anglais de Mistress Clara Reeve, par
TITLE INDEX 45 1
M.D.L.P. (de la Place) Amsterdam et Paris. i2mo. 1787.
Ibid, as Le Champion de la Vertu, ou le Vieux Baron anglais
,
histoire gothique, trad, de l’anglais par M.D.L.P. Paris. 1787.
Edouard, ou le Spectre du Chateau. Paris, an VIII (1800).
Edmond, Orphan of the Castle. A Tragedy. Anon. 8vo.
1799. Never acted. A feeble dramatization of The Old
English Baron.
An Old Family Legend ; or, One Husband and Two Marriages.
By James Norris Brewer. 4 vols., Minerva-Press : A. K.
Newman. 1811.
An Old Friend With A New Face. A Novel In Three Volumes.
By Mrs. Parsons. [Quotation, 6 lines verse.] London:
Printed for T. N. Longman, Paternoster-Row. 1797. Vols.
II and III on their respective title-pages each carry a different
quotation.
Old House of West Street; or, London in the Last Century,
The. By T. Prest. 104 nos. E. Lloyd. 1846.
Old Irish Baronet ; or, The Manners of My Country, The.
By Henrietta Rouviere. 3 vols., Minerva-Press. Lane,
Newman, 1808. Miss Henrietta Rouviere, afterwards Mrs.
Mosse.
Old London. By G. W. M. Reynolds. No. 22. Dicks’ English
Novels. Price Sixpence Each. Earlier as The Days Of
Hogarth; or, The Mysteries of Old London, 1847-8.
Serialized in Reynolds’ Miscellany, original series. First
separate issue, Penny Numbers, February—October, 1850.
Old Manor House, The. A Novel. By Charlotte Smith. 4
vols., Bell. 1793.
Second ed. 1793.
Another ed., Third ed., 4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1822.
The Old Manor House. In Mrs. Barbauld’s “British
Novelists.” Vols. XXXVI and XXXVII. 1810.
In Ballantyne’s “ Novelist’s Library.” With a memoir by Sir
Walter Scott. 1823.
Rayland Hall. 40 pp. Tegg. 1810. A chapbook abridge-
ment of The Old Manor House.
Old Nick : a satirical story. By the author of A Piece of Family
Biography, etc. [E. Dubois.] 3 vols., i2mo., Murray and
452 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Highley. London. 1801. Second ed., Longman. 1803.
Advertised by Newman, 1818. 3 vols., ioj. 6d.
Old Sanctuary: A romance of the Abbey, The. 12 nos., E.
Lloyd. 1848.
Old Stories. By Elizabeth Isabella Spence. 2 vols., Longman.
1822.
Old Times and New ; or, Sir Lionel and his Protegee. A novel.
4 vols., Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1812.
Old Wife And Young Husband, The. A novel. By Mrs.
Meeke. 3 vols., Minerva-Press ;
Lane, Newman. 1804.
Old Woman, The. A novel. 2 vols. By the author of The
Horrors of Oakendale Abbey. Printed for the Author, at the
Minerva-Press, by William Lane. 1800. By Mrs. Carver.
Oliver Cromwell; or, Cavaliers and Roundheads. A Tale of
the Civil Wars. 14 nos. London. Strange. 1841.
Oliver Twiss, The Workhouse Boy. The Life and Adventures
of. Edited by Bos. 78 nos., E. Lloyd. 1839. A piracy by
Thomas Prest.
Olivia; or, The Deserted Bride. By the author of Hortensia,
etc. [Mrs. Elizabeth Bonhote.] 3 vols., W. Lane, in Leaden-
hall-Street. MDCCLXXXVII.
Olivia; or, The Nymph of the Valley. By John Potter. 2 vols.,
Earle. 1813.
Olivia; or, The Orphan. A Tale. By a Lady of Distinction.
2 vols., i2mo., M. Iley, London. 1820.
Olivia and Marcella. A novel. By Miss Norris. 3 vols., London.
1807.
Omar, A Tale of the Crimean War. By G. W. M. Reynolds.
Two parts, Nos. 147 and 148. Dicks’ English Novels. Price
Sixpence Each.
Les Ombres Sanglantes. Par P. Cuisin. 2 vols., Paris. 1820.
Omen; or, Memoirs of Sir Henry Melville and Miss Julia
Eastbrook, The. A Novel. In Two Volumes. London.
Lowndes. 1785. An epistolary novel. By Arthur Gifford.
One of the Family; or, The Ladies. A novel. Edited by Mrs.
TITLE INDEX 453
Grey. [Rather written by Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey.]
2 vols., Skeet. 1 86 1
.
One-Pound Note, and other Tales, The. By Francis Lathom.
2 vols., Minerva Press: A. K. Newman. 1820.
The contents are: The One-Pound Note; The Wife, The
Mistress, and The Friend; and The Prophecy.
Opera Singer’s Wife, The. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey.
C. H. Clarke, i860.
New ed., pp. 352. Ward Lock. 1885.
Ora and Juliet ; or, The Influence of First Principles. A novel.
[By Emma De Lisle.] 4 vols., Minerva-Press : A. K. Newman.
181 1.
Orange Girl of Venice, The. A Romance. London, E. Lloyd.
12 nos. 1840.
Re-issue, 11 nos. 1847.
Ordeal, The. A novel. 3 vols., Gale, Curtis, and Fenner.
London (Edinburgh printed). 1813.
Ordeal By Touch, The. “A Prize Romance For Which One
Hundred Pounds Were Paid.” [By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline
Grey.] Serialized in Lloyd’s Entertaining Journal and Weekly
Miscellany, 1846, concluding on Saturday, October 24th,
1846, No. 140. Vol. VI. Issued in 12 nos., E. Lloyd,
London. 1846.
Re-issue, 1847.
The Ordeal By Touch is in many ways rather an absurd
fiction, although by no means so absurd as the majority of
self-dubbed “ thrillers ” of to-day. Thus the incidents are
well woven, and the tale swings along energetically enough,
but the history jars. There are Jesuits and Mystery. At the
conclusion Henry VIII formally banishes the Jesuits from
England ! !
!
Oriental Wanderings ; or, The Fortunes of Felix: an Egyptian
romance. By R.C., 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1824.
Orientalist; or Electioneering in Ireland, The, also as The
Orientalist ; or, A Season in Ireland. By myself [Mrs. Purcell].
2 vols., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1820.
Original of the Miniature, The. A novel. By Selina Davenport.
4 vols., Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1816.
454 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Original Poems on Several Occasions. By C.R. 4to. London.
Harris. 1769. Clara Reeve’s first book.
Original Stories From Real Life. With Conversations calcu-
lated to Regulate the Affections, and form the Mind to Truth
and Goodness.
i2mo. J. Johnson. 1788.
Irish ed., Dublin, J. Jones. i2mo. 1792.
A later edition has plates by William Blake.
By Mary Wollstonecraft.
Orlando and Lavinia. By Anna Maria Mackenzie. 3 vols.,
William Lane, at the Minerva. MDCCXCII.
Mrs. Anna Maria Mackenzie of Exeter, nee Wight. Mrs.
Cox, en secondes noces Mrs. Johnson ;
then Mrs. Mackenzie.
JVom de plume, Ellen of Exeter.
Orlando and Seraphina: a Turkish Story. 2 vols. William
Lane. MDCCLXXXVII. By Mr. Nicholson.
Ormond ; or, The Secret Witness. By Charles Brockden Brown.
One vol., Minerva-Press, William Lane. 1800.
Another edition. 3 vols., Colburn. 1811. 3 vols., Minerva
Press. A. K. Newman, 1815.
Orphan Boy; or, Test of Innocence; The. By Mrs. C. G.
Ward, Author of The Rose of Claremont,—The Mysterious
Marriage,—Poems,—The Daughter of St. Omer,—Robertina,
etc., etc. One vol., G. Virtue. 1822.
Issued in 25 numbers, price sixpence each.
Orphan Heiress of Sir Gregory, The. An Historical Fragment
of the Last Century. One vol., Longman, 1799.
A cavalier romance. Oliver Cromwell is well drawn.
Orphan Marion; or, The Parent Rewarded, The. 2 vols.,
Vemor. 1790.
Orphan Of The Rhine, The. [Rule.] A Romance, In Four
Volumes. [Rule.] By Mrs. Sleath. [Double rule.] [Quota-
tion, 3 lines, Shakespeare, “ Sweet are the uses of adversity
in his head.” As You Like It, II, I.] Vol. I [-II-III-
IV]. [Double rule.] London: Printed At The Minerva-
Press, for William Lane, Leadenhall-Street. 1798. The
Orphan Of The Rhine is one of the seven “ horrid novels”
mentioned in Northanger Abbey, Chapter VI. Frontispiece.
TITLE INDEX 455
Orphan of Tintern Abbey, The. A novel. By Sophia F.
Ziegenhirt. Author of Seabrook Village, etc. 3 vols.,
Minerva Press. A. K. Newman: 1816.
Orphan Sisters; or, The Lover’s Secret, The. By Mrs. Eliza-
beth Bennett. 8vo. c. 1844.
In penny weekly nos., No. 1 issued October 8th, 1853. John
Dicks.
Orphans Of Llangloed, The. A modern tale. By the x\uthor
of Lusignan. 3 vols. Minerva-Press, Lane and Newman.
1802.
Orwell Manor. By Mary Elizabeth Parker. 3 vols. Printed
for the Author, at the Minerva Press. MDCCXCV.
Osmond. A Tale. By the Author of “ The Favourite of
Nature.” [Mary Ann Kelty.] 3 vols., Whittaker. 1822.
Second ed., 3 vols., 1823.
Osrick; or, Modern Horrors, A Romance; “ Interspersed with
a Few Anecdotes, etc. That have their Foundation in Truth,
and which are occasionally pointed out to the Reader.” By
Richard Sicklemore. 3 vols., Minerva-Press, Lane, Newman.
1809.
Oswald Castle; or, Memoirs of Lady Sophia Woodville. By
a Lady. 2 vols., Hookham. 1789.
Oswick The Outlaw. Chapbook. 1802.
Other Times; or, The Monks of Leadenhall. By the Author
of The Lollards. [Thomas Gaspey.] 3 vols., Longman,
Hurst. 1823.
Otho And Rutha: An Interesting Tale. By A Lady [Miss
Edwards.] i2mo. 1781. Third Ed., Dublin: Printed by
H. Colbert; No. 136, Caple-street. Opposite Abbey-street.
1787. Imitative of and inspired by Ossian. “A Dramatic
Tale ” mainly in dialogue, with a list of Speakers, 24 Men
and 10 Women.
Ottawah, The Lost Chief of the Red Indians of Newfoundland.
22 penny nos. London. 1847.
Outcasts, The. A romance. Translated by George Soane. 2
vols., i2mo., London, Whittaker. 1824.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
456
From the original of Friedrich Heinrich Karl freiherr de La
Motte-Fouque.
Out On The World. A Circus Tale. By George Emmett,
Hogarth House. One Shilling.
Outlaw's Bride, The. A romantic tale. By Hannah Maria
Jones. Virtue. 1838. Reprinted, 13 penny nos., E. Lloyd:
1847.
Owen Castle; or, Which is the Heroine? A Novel by Mary
Ann Sullivan, Late of the Theatre Royal, Liverpool, Man-
chester, Newcastle, Birmingham and Norwich. [Quotation :
couplet. Pope.] 4 vols., Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman
;
and also Simpkin. 1816.
Second ed. Four vols., London : Printed for A. K. Newman
and Co., Leadenhall-Street. 1823.
Owen Glendower ; or, The Prince of Wales. An historical
romance. 2 vols., i2mo. 1849. By Elizabeth Hardy.
Owen Tudor; An Historical Romance. By the Author of
“ Whitefriars,” “ Caesar Borgia,” etc. Three Volumes.
Colburn. 1849.
A New Edition. One vol., Routledge. 1857.
Oxford And Cambridge Eights; or, The Young Coxswain’s
Career, The. E. J. Brett, n.d.
P
Painter of Florence, The. By Ernest Charles Jones. London.
1854.
Paired—Not Matched; or, Matrimony in the Nineteenth
Century. By Mrs. Ross. 3 vols., Minerva-Press : A. K.
Newman. 1815.
Palinode, The; or, The Triumph of Virtue over Love. A
sentimental novel, in which are painted to the life the
Characters of some of the most celebrated Beauties of England.
By Mr. Treyssac de Vergy. Woodfall and Evans. 1771.
Palmira And Ermance. A novel. By Mrs. Meeke. 3 vols.,,
William Lane, Minerva-Press. MDCCXCVIII.
TITLE INDEX 457
Panorama of Youth, The. By Mrs. Mary Sterndale. 2 vols.,.
Robinson. 1806.
Papa Brick; or, What Is Death? An English, French, and
Italian Romance. Being a suite of Brick Bolding. From the
French of Pigault le Brun. One vol. Minerva-Press. Lane,
Newman and Co. 1804.
The Critical Review, September, 1804, names Law as the
publisher.
Paraclete, The, a novel. By Thomas Pike Lathy. 5 vols.,
Minerva-Press, Lane, Newman. 1805. Frontispiece.
Parental Duplicity; or, The Power of Artifice. By P. S. M.
3 vols., Kearsley. 1 797-
Parental Murder. Chapbook. 1807.
Parents and Wives; or, Inconsistency and Mistakes. By Mrs.
[Sarah] Green. Author of the Carthusian Friar, etc., 3 vols.,
A. K. Newman: 1824.
Parisian; or, Genuine Anecdotes of Distinguished and Noble
Characters, The. [By Mary Charlton.] 2 vols., William
Lane, at the Minerva Press. MDCCXCIV.
Parricide ; or, A Youth’s Career of Crime, The. By G. W. M.
Reynolds. Dicks’ English Novels. Price Sixpence Each.
Originally as The Youthful Impostor. 1835.
Parricide, The. A Domestic Romance. By the Author of
“ Miserrimus.” 2 vols., Thomas Hockham. 1836.
By Frederic Mansel Reynolds.
Parricide’s Grave, and other Tales, The. By Grenville Fletcher.
Longman. 1824.
Parsonage House, The. A Novel. By Elizabeth Blower. 3
vols., Dodsley. 1780.
Passages in the Life of a Fast Young Lady. By Mrs. Elizabeth
Caroline Grey. 3 vols., Hurst and Blackett, 13 Great
Malborough-street : 1862. Advertised in March, 1862, as
“ Just ready.”
Passions, The, a Novel. By Rosa Matilda. (Charlotte Dacre.)
4 vols., Cadell. 181 1.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
458
Past Events; or, The Treacherous Guide. A Romance. By
Mary Charlton. 3 vols., Wm. Reeves. 1830.
Pastor’s Daughter, The. With other romances from the
German. 4 vols. Colburn. 1806.
Second ed. 4 vols. 1807.
From Kotzebue.
Pastor's Fire-Side, The. A novel by Miss Jane Porter. 4 vols.
Longman, Hurst, etc. 1817.
In “ Bentley’s Standard Novels,” Colburn and Bentley, Nos.
18 and 19. 1831-2.
Another ed. “ Revised with an introductory note by a friend
of the author’s, an appendix, etc. One vol., 8vo. London.
Virtue, 1840. “ With a new Preface by Miss Porter,” and 10
plates. Re-issue, 1849.
Another ed., London. 1856.
Another ed., Routledge. 1880.
Le Coin au feu du Pasteur, roman Traduit de l’anglais par
Mme. E. de Bon. 4 tom., Paris. 1817.
The Pastor’s Fireside; or Memoirs of the Athelstan Family.
An interesting Tale, Founded on singular Facts that occurred
during the reigns of Charles the Second, and his brother
James. Abridged from the popular novel. By S. S.
Wilkinson. 8vo., London, Dean and Munday. [c. 1819].
A chapbook version by the prolific Sarah Wilkinson.
The Pastors Fireside. A Drama. Produced Surrey, February
4th, 1831.
Pat O’Connor’s Schooldays ; or, The Boys of the Shannon.
Coloured wrappers. E. J. Brett, n.d.
Paternal Love ; or, The Reward of Friendship. By P. Darling.
Author of “ The Romance of the Highlands,” etc. 1 vol.
Gale and Co. 1814. Peter Middleton Darling.
Path of Crime; or, The First False Step, The. 22 nos., E.
Lloyd. 1846.
Patience And Perseverance ; Or, The Modern Griselda. [By
Mrs. Hofland.] 4 vols., Minerva-Press ;
A. K. Newman.
1813.
Patriarchal Times. By Miss O’Keefe. 2 vols., Rivington. 1811.
Paul, ou la Ferme abandonee. By F. G. Ducray-Duminil.
Paris. 1799.
TITLE INDEX 459
Paul and Mary. An Indian Story. 2 vols. Dodsley. 1789.
Irish ed. Dublin. 1789. One vol.
By Daniel Malthus.
A translation of Bernardin de St. Pierre’s Paul et Virginie.
Paul And Virginia. Translated from the French of Bernardin
St. Pierre by Helen Maria Williams. Vernor and Hood.
1796. Bernardin de St. Pierre, 1737-1814.
Paul et Virginie, 1787.
Paul and Virginia. Chapbook. 1802.
Paul Clifford ; or Hurrah For The Road. A Romance of Old
Times. By the Author of Gentleman Jack, Claude Duval,
Tom King. London, E. Lloyd. MDCCCLII.
Paul Jones the American Pirate. 16 nos. London. Charles
Fox. N.D.
Paul Jones the Pirate. 68 nos. G. Purkess. N.D. By Pierce
Egan.
Paul Periwinkle ; or, The Pressgang. [By William Johnson
Neale.] Embellished by forty etchings, drawn and engraved
by Phiz. London. 8vo. 1841. And subsequent reprints.
Paul the Poacher. By T. Frost. 60 Penny Numbers. G.
Purkess. With “fierce” woodcuts. 1850. Reprinted 1856.
Frost was the author of The Black Mask, Emma Mayfield,
etc., etc.
Advertised in Reynolds’s Miscellany, September, 1850.
Paul the Reckless; or, the Fugitive’s Doom. 12 nos. Lloyd.
1846.
Paul’s Perils; or, The Days of Jonathan Wild. 52 nos.
Wrappers. Royal 8vo. n.d. [c. i860].
Pauline; Or, The Victim of the Heart. From the French of
[Contant] d’Orville. 2 vols. William Lane, Minerva Press.
MDCCXCIV.
Pauline de Ferriere, ou Histoire de vingt jeunes files enlevees
de chez leurs parens, sous le regne de Louis XV. 3 torn.
Paris. [1801?]
By Elizabth Guenard, baronne de Mere.
Pauper Boy, The. By Rosalie St. Clair. 3 vols. A. K. New-
man. 1834.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
460
Pavilion, The. A Novel. [By Mrs. Crespigny.] 4 vols-
William Lane ;
at the Minerva-Press. MDCCXCVI. 1796.
Mrs. Crespigny is possibly to be identified with Mrs. Cham-
pion de Crespigny who wrote The Poor Soldier: An American
Tale. 1789.
Peaceful Villa, The. An eventful Tale. 2 vols. Sael. 1793-
Pearl Fisher Of St. Domingo, The. A Tale of the Buccaneers-
12 penny nos. London. Geo. Pierce. [1840.]
Peasant Girl, The. A Domestic Story by Hannah Maria Jones.
E. Lloyd. 1844-5. Serialized in Lloyd’s Entertaining Journal,
commencing March 30th, 1844; concluding December 21st,
1844. Separate publication, 1845.
Peasant; or Female Philosopher, The. 2 vols. William Lane,
Minerva-Press. MDCCXCII.
Peasant of Ardenne Forest, The. By Mrs. Parsons. 4 vols..
Norbury, Brentford. T. Hurst, etc. 1801.
Pedlars Acre; or, The Murderess of Seven Husbands. A
romance of Old London. [By T. Prest.] 29 nos. E. Lloyd.
1848.
Founded on a popular drama by George Almar.
Pedlar’s Acre; or, The Wife of Seven Husbands. Produced
at the Surrey Theatre in 1831. Period of play, Henry VII.
A Peep at our Ancestors. An historical romance. By Henrietta
Rouviere. 4 vols. Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman. 1807.
Frontispiece, being a portrait of the author, Miss Henrietta
Rouviere, afterwards Mrs. Mosse.
A Peep at the World; or, The Children of Providence. A
novel. By Harvey Sinclair. 3 vols. Parsons. 1804.
Peggy and Patty ; or, The Sisters of Ashdale. 1783.
Penitent Father; or, Injured Innocence Triumphant over
Parental Tyranny, The. 2 vols. 1793.
Penitent of Godstow ; or, Magdalen, The. By Elizabeth Helme..
3 vols. Craddock. 1804.
2nd ed. Minerva-Press. Newman: 1812.
3rd ed. Minerva-Press. Newman: 1820. Also as Mag-
dalen; or The Penitent of Godstow. See under Magdalen.
TITLE INDEX 46 1
Penitent Prostitute, The. Or, the History of Miss Julia Frank,
written by herself. Scatcherd and Co. 1788.
Penny Pickwick, The. 11 nos. Edited by ‘Bos’. E. Lloyd.
1840. See under Posthumous Note of the Pickwickian Club.
Penny Play Book; or, Library of Dramatic Romance, The.
Each number containing an original tale founded upon a
romantic drama, written by T. Prest. G. Drake, 1 2 Houghton
Street, Clare Market. 1836. No. 1. April 21st, 1836.
No. 1. The Ocean of Life ; or Every Inch a Sailor. (Surrey.)
No. 2. Don Juan of Austria. (Covent Garden.)
No. 3. The Fire of London; or, The Doomed City.
(Astley’s.)
No. 4. The Witch's Son. (English Opera House.)
No. 5. The Dice of Death. (English Opera House.)
No. 6. The Wood Devil; or, The Vampire Pirate of the
Deep Dell. (Sadlers Wells.)
No. 7. The Steel Pavilion; or, The Charcoal Burners of the
Hartz
.
(Covent Garden.)
No. 8. The Skeleton Lover. (English Opera House.)
No. 9. The Black Inn of the Heath. (Astley’s.)
No. 10. The Sexton of Cologne ; or, The Burgomaster’s
Daughter. (Cc-vent Garden.)
No. 11. Bound Prentice to a Waterman; or, The Flower
of Woolwich. (Sadler’s Wells.)
No. 12. The Death Blow; or, The Fatal Knife. (Sadler’s
Wells.)
Percival; or, Nature Vindicated. A Novel. By R. C. Dallas.
4 vols. Longman. 1801.
Percival Ellingford ; or, The Reformist. [By Mrs. Sarah Green.]
2 vols. Minerva Press. A. K. Newman: 1816.
The second edition of Mrs. Green’s The Reformist! ! ! A
Serio-Comic Political Novel. 2 vols. Minerva-Press, A. K.
Newman: 1810.
Peregrine, Or The Fool of Fortune. A Novel. By The Author
of Follies of Fashion, Lottery of Life, La Belle Sauvage; etc.
[Mr. Lyttleton.] 3 vols. Minerva-Press : Lane, Newman.
1803.
Perkin Warbeck. Roman Historique. Par M. Dorion. 3 vols.
Paris. 1819.
4^2 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Mrs. Shelley’s The Fortunes of Perkin Warbeck appeared in
1830. She may have known Dorion’s romance.
Perplexed Lovers, The. Or; The History Of Sir Edward
Balehen, Bart. 3 vols. W. Hoggard for Francis Noble. 1768.
Perplexities ; or, the Fortunate Elopement. A Novel. By Mrs.
Mathews of the Theatres Royal, York and Hull. 3 vols. 1794,
Perplexities Of Love, The. A novel. One vol. W. Lane.
MDCCLXXXVII.
Persiana; or The Nymph of the Sea. A Novel. 3 vols.
William Lane, at the Minerva. MDCCXCI.
Personation. By Selina Davenport. 3 vols. A. K. Newman.
1834.
Petits Orphelins du Flameau, Les. By F. G. Ducray-Duminil.
Paris. 1800.
Phantom; or, Mysteries of the Castle, The. A Tale of Other
Times. By The Late Mrs. Mathews, Of The Theatres Royal,
York and Hull. London: Baldwin, Craddock, and Joy;
and I. Wilson, Hull. 1825.
Phantoms; or, The Adventures of a Gold-Headed Cane, con-
taining a General Description and Picturesque View of
Human Life. By the late Theophilus Johnson, Prompter to
Sadler’s—Wells. 2 vols. William Lane. MDCCLXXXIII.
Dedication by Lane as publisher addressed to Mr. Thomas
King, Comedian. Thomas King, the famous actor, 1730-
1805. Amongst many other celebrated roles, he was the
original Lord Ogleby, The Clandestine Marriage, 20th
February, 1766; and Sir Peter Teazle, The School for
Scandal, 8th March, 1777. The Dedication of Phantoms,
the novel of the Sadler’s Wells prompter is particularly appro-
priate since in 1771 King purchased three-quarters of Sadler’s
Wells, which he held until 1778 when he sold his shares.
Phantoms of the Cloister; or, The Mysterious Manuscript. A
novel. 3 vols. William Lane, at the Minerva Press.
MDCCXCV.
Pharos, The. 2 vols. 1787.
Phedora; or, The Forest of Minski. A Novel In Four Volumes.
By Mary Charlton. [Quotation : 6 lines. Pope.] London
:
TITLE INDEX 463
Printed At The Minerva-Press, For William Lane, Leadenhall-
Street. MDCCXCVIII. With a Frontispiece.
Philanthropic Rambler, The. By Jane Timbury. Printed for
and sold by the Author, Petty France, Westminster. 1790.
The Philanthropic Rambler. Part II. A sequel, pp. 148.
Southern. 1791.
Philaro and Eleonora; or The Orphan Twins. 2 vols. 1792.
Philip Stanley; or, The Enthusiasm of Love. A novel. By
C[harles] Bjrockden] Brown. 2 vols. Minerva-Press; Lane,
Newman, and Co. 1807.
A re-issue of Clara Howard with a change of title.
Philosophic Kidnapper, The. A novel. Altered from the
French. [By Mary Charlton.] 3 vols. Minerva-Press. Lane,
Newman. 1803.
Phoebe; or, Distressed Innocence. 2 vols. Stalker. 1788.
Phoebe, the Miller’s Daughter. 52 nos., Pub. E. Lloyd. 1842.
Phoenix: or, The History of Polyarchus and Argenis, The.
Translated from the Latin by a Lady. 4 vols., i2mo., London.
John Bell. 1772. Translated by Clara Reeve from John
Barclay’s Argenis, first edition of which was 1621.
Pickwick Abroad; or The Tour in France. By G. W. M.
Reynolds. London. 1838-9. In monthly nos. 41 illustra-
tions.
In 80 penny nos. 1848-9.
“Second ed.” Bohn. 1864.
Another (later) ed. N.D. In Dicks’ English Novels. 6d.
Sam Weller’s Tour ; or, The Pickwickians in France. Burletta,
Strand, Monday, June 25th. 1838.
Pickwick in America, edited by Bos. Penny weekly numbers.
Printed and published by E. Lloyd, 82 Broad Street, Shore-
ditch. [Presumably printer’s error for 62 Broad Street,
Bloomsbury.] 1839. See “Bos” in Index of Authors.
Pickwick in America: edited by Bos. London. 8vo. 1855.
This reprint is noticed by John E. Haynes, Pseudonyms of
Authors, New York. 1882. Mr. Haynes erroneously identifies
“ Bos ” as G. W. M. Reynolds, whence some confusion has
been caused.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
464
A Picture from Life, from the History of Emma Tankerville
and Sir Henry Moreton. By Henry Whitfield, A.M. 2 vols.
Highley. 1804. Advertised by Newman, 1812. Price 7 s.
Picture of the Age, The. 2 vols. Symonds. 1801.
Pictures of the Heart, sentimentally delineated .... By John
Murdoch. 2 vols. i2mo. London. 1783. Contains:
Adventures of a Friend of Truth, an oriental history, 2
parts ;
Embarrassments of Love, a novel ;
Double Disguise,
a prose drama in two acts.
Pierre and Adeline ; or, The Romance of the Castle. By D. F.
Haynes. 2 vols. Crosby. 1814 (pub. Dec. 1813).
As The Romance of the Castle in Hazlitt’s The Romancist
and Novelist’s Library, New Series, Vol. Ill, 1841.
Pigeon, The. A Tale. Translated by a Philadelphian. Phila-
delphia. 8vo. 1802.
From Kotzebue, Die Taube.
Pilgrims of the Cross; or, The Chronicles of Christabelle de
Mowbray. An Ancient Legend. By Elizabeth Helme. 4 vols.
P. Norbury, Brentford; and Ostell. 1805. Dedicated to
Princess Sophia of Gloucester. Advertised by Newman, 1818.
4 vols. 205'.
Pirate Cave, The. A Tale of the War of 1812. No. 5. Two-
penny Pocket Novels. Glasgow. [1871.]
Pirate of Bofine, The. An historical romance. 3 vols. New-
man. 1831.
Pirate of Naples, The. By Mary Charlton. Author of Rosella,
The Fugitive Bride, Phedora, etc. 3 vols. Minerva-Press,
for William Lane. 1801.
Pirate of the Gulf ; or, Lafitte; The. By The Author of The
South West. 2 vols. A. K. Newman. 1837.
Pirate’s Doom; or, A Midshipman’s First Voyage, The. By
Trysail. 17 penny nos. London, Hextall and Wall. 1843.
The author who used ‘
Trysail ’
as a pseudonym has not been
identified.
Pixy; or the Unbaptized Child, The. A Christmas Tale. By
G. W. M. Reynolds. One vol. 150 pp., bound in cloth, Price
TITLE INDEX 465
One Shilling. Reynold’s Miscellany Office. (Published gth
December). 1848.
Placide, a Spanish Tale. Translated from the French of
Madame de Genlis. By Alexander Jamieson. Law and
Whittaker. 1817. From Les Battuecas.
Plain Sense. A novel. 3 vols. William Lane ;
Minerva-Press.
MDCCXCV. Second ed., 1796 ;
Third ed., 1799.
The same author wrote Rhoda; Things By Their Right
Name
;
and Disobedience.
A Plain Story. 4 vols. Minerva-Press, for William Lane. 1801.
By Mrs. Leslie.
Plain Tales. By R. M. Roche. 2 vols. n.d.
Plantagenet ; or Secrets of the House of Anjou. A Tale of
the Twelfth Century. By Anna Millikin. 2 vols. Connor.
1802.
Platonic Guardian; or, The History of an Orphan, The. By
a lady. [Mrs. Johnson.] 3 vols., W. Lane, in Leadenhall-
Hall Street. MDCCLXXXVII. Second ed., 1788. French
translation, 1789.
Pleasure and Pain; or the fate of Ellen. A tale. By Anna
Maria Weston. 3 vols. Tegg. 1814.
Plexippus ; or, the Aspiring Plebeian. [By the Rev. Richard
Graves.] 2 vols. Dodsley. 1790.
Poems. By Mary Julia Young, author of Rose-Mount Castle.
One vol. Minerva-Press, for William Lane. MDCCXCVIII.
Price 3s., and 35. 6d.
Polanders, The; The Lying Family; and The Life of My
Uncle, with His Portfolio. From the French of Pigault
Lebrun. 2 vols. i2mo. Minerva-Press; Lane, Newman.
1805.
Polish Bandit; or, Who is my Bride, The. And Other Tales.
By Francis Lathom. 3 vols. Minerva Press. 1824.
Polish Chieftain, The. 1 vol. J. F. Hughes, Wigmore-Street.
1809.
Ponsonby. Italian Mother. 2 vols., Richardson. 1817.
H*
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Poor Boys of London; or, Driven to Crime. 41 penny nos.
Temple Publishing Co., London: 1866. Later Charles Fox
published an abridged version.
Poor Mary ; or The Love Engagement. A Romance. 7 penny
nos. London. E. Lloyd. 1845.
An American tale of 1776.
Poor Mary; or, The Maid of the Inn, a melodrama, produced
at the Richmond Theatre on June 24th, 1806.
Poor Mary Ann, or The County Election. By Francis Lathom.
In Vol. III. of Fashionable Mysteries ; or The Rival Duchesses
[and Other Tales). 3 vols. Newman, 1829.
Poor Ray, the Drummer Boy. Coloured wrappers. E. J. Brett,
n.d.
Pope Joan; or, The Female Pontiff. By G. VV. M. Reynolds.
Serialized in Reynolds's Magazine, commencing August 10th,.
1850, and concluding January 25th, 1851. Separately issued.
Also No. 165, Dicks’ English Novels. Price Sixpence Each.
Popular Tales of the Germans. Translated from the German.
2 vols. J. Murray. 1791.
One vol., i2mo. William Porter. Dublin. 1791- (A
piratical Irish Edition.) [By William Beckford.] From the
German of Johann Karl August Musaeus.
Popularity ; or, the Votary of Wealth. By a Miser. 3 vols.
Price 1 5Y. Advertised in 1816, and again in 1823 among the
“ New Publications Printed For A. K. Newman & Co. At
The Minerva-Press, Leadenhall-Street, London.”
Port Admiral, The. A Tale of the War, The. [By William
Johnson Neale.] London. 1833.
Another ed., “ Naval and Military Library,” Vol. 4, 1861.
Post-Humorous Notes of the Pickwickian Club ; or, The Penny
Pickwick, The. Edited by Bos. Penny weekly numbers. 1 1
8
nos. 2 vols. E. Lloyd, 62 Broad Street, Bloomsbury. 1838
and 1839.
For Bos see Index of Authors.
Posthumous Papers of the Wonderful Discovery Club
;
edited by
Poz. 8vo. W. M. Clark, n.d. [1839].
TITLE INDEX 467
Un Pot Sans couvercle et rien dedans, ou les Mysteres de la rue
de la Lime. Paris. 8vo. 1799.
By Louis Randol.
A Parody of the “ roman noir.”
Power of Sympathy ; or, the Triumph of Nature, The. Founded
in Truth; In Two Volumes. Isaiah Thomas; Boston, 1789.
The first American novel. Usually ascribed to Mrs. Sarah
Wentworth Morton, but now said to be the work of William
Hill Brown.
Powis Castle, or Anecdotes of an ancient Family. 2 vols.
Printed for W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXVIII.
By the author of Ashton Priory, 1793 ;
Benedicta, 1791; and
Marianne, 1793.
Predestined Wife; or, the Force of Prejudice, The. A novel in
a Series of Letters. By the author of Edward and Sophia,
Powis Castle, and Eliza Cleland. 2 vols. Kerby. 1789.
Preference. A Novel. By Selina Davenport. 2 vols. A. K.
Newman. 1824.
Prejudice; or, Physiognomy. A novel. By Azile D’Arcy. 3
vols. Minerva Press. A. K. Newanan. 1817.
Prelate, The. A Tale of the Church. 2 vols. Boone. 1840.
.Another ed., yellow-back. Ward and Lock. i860. By J. F.
Smith.
Present Times and Modern Manners; or, Tale of A Rector’s
Family. 4 vols. Appleyard. 1810.
Pride of Ancestry; or, Who is She? The. A novel. By Mrs.
Thomson. 4 vols. Parsons. 1804.
Pride of the Valley; or, The Farmer’s Daughter, The. By
Hannah Maria Jones. Virtue. 1830.
Priest, The. A Romance. 3 vols. A. K. Newman. 1821.
Priests and their Victims ; or, Scenes in a Convent. Containing
the Confessions of a Nun ;
the Midnight Orgies of the Priests
;
the History of Sister Agnes; Secret Instructions, etc., etc.
Price Twopence. R. Donaldson, 52 Holywell Street, Strand.
1851.
Prince; or, The Royal Libertines, The. 3 vols. Newman:
Minerva-Press. 1818. Second ed. 1818.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Prince Arthur: an allegorical romance. The story from
Spenser. 2 vols. G. Riley. 1779.
By Alexander Bicknell. A version, in prose, of the first two
books of the Fairie Queens.
Prince Charles; or, The Young Pretender. By J. F. Smith.
The Young Pretender ; or, a Hundred Years Ago, serialized
in Cassell’s Illustrated Family Paper, commencing July 18th,
1857. Published in America in two parts, Prince Charles and
Alice Arran.
See Index of Authors under J. F. Smith.
Prince of Assassins, The. Chapbook. 1804.
Prince of Salerno, The. One vol. London. 1770. Inspired
by The Castle of Otranto.
Princess; or The Beguine, The. By Lady Morgan. 3 vols.
Bentley. 1835.
Princess of Cleeves, The. An Historical Novel. Revised and
Corrected by Mrs. Griffith. One vol. W. Lane, Leadenhall-
Street. MDCCLXXX. From Mme. de la Fayette. A re-
issue with new title-page from the novel in Vol. II. of A
Collection of novels, selected and revised by Mrs. Griffith.
G. Kearsley, etc. MDCCLXXVII.
Principle. By Miss M’Leod, author of Tales of Ton, etc. 4
vols. A. K. Newman. 1824.
Principle and Passion. 2 vols. Derby, Mozley; London,
Longman, and A. K. New'man. 1818.
Prior Claim, The. By Mrs. Iliffe. 2 vols. Minerva-Press. A.
K. Newman. 1813.
Mrs. Iliffe, nee Palmer, also published Poems, 1808; second
edition (Malta), 1818.
Priors of Prague; The. [By William Johnson Neale.] 3 vols.
London. 1836.
Priory Of St. Bernard; an Old English Tale, The. In two
volumes; being the first literary production of a young lady.
William Lane, Leadenhall-Street. [1789.]
A re-issue of Mrs. Harley’s St. Bernard’s Priory, 1786. See
under this title.
Priory of St. Clair ; or, Spectre of the Murdered Nun, The. A
TITLE INDEX 469
Gothic Tale. By Sarah S. Wilkinson. 36 pp. Harrild. 181 1.
Chapbook.
Priory of St. Mary, The. A Romance. 4 vols. 1808.
Prison of Montaubon ; or, Times of Terror, The. A Reflective
Tale. One vol. Craddock. 1810.
“ By the Editor of Letters of the Swedish Court,” Julia Smith.
Prison-House ; or, the World we live in, The. By Mrs. Bridget
Bluemantle, [Mrs. E. Thomas]. 4 vols. Minerva-Press : A.
K. Newman. 1814.
Private History of the Court of England, The. 2 vols. Crosby
and Co. 1808. Second ed. 1808.
This book was very sharply censured as a scandal novel.
Published anonymously it was written by Mrs. Sarah Green.
The Monthly Review, February, 1811, and again May, 1812,
asserted that this name is a pseudonym concealing the pre-
tended sex of the author.
Probable Incidents; or, Scenes in Life. A novel. By Henry
Summersett. 2 vols. William Lane, at the Minerva-Press.
MDCCXCVII.
Prodigious! ! ! Or Childe Paddie In London. 3 vols. Printed
for the Author and sold by Wm. Lindsell. 1818. Byron’s
Childe Harold was completed in 1818.
Profligate Prince; or, the Court of Ethelred, The. A novel.
One vol. pp. 223. Sherwood, Neely and Co., London. 1812.
Profligate’s Lesson or the Wife’s Dream, The. 19 nos. E.
Lloyd. 1848.
Progress of Crime; or, The Authentic Memoirs of Maria
Manning, The. By Robert Huish. 8vo. 1849.
This novel includes a letter from Charles Dickens on the sub-
ject of public executions.
Progress of Love ; or, The History of Stephen Elliot, The. 3
vols. Vemor. 1789.
Prophecy; or, The Lost Son, The. By George W. M. Reynolds.
John Dicks. 1850.
Prophecy of Duncannon ; or, the Dwarf and the Seer, The. A
Caledonian Legend. By W[illiam] C [hild] Green, Esq.
Joseph Emans. 1824.
47° A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Prophetic Warning, The. One vol. n.d.
Protector’s Secret; or, The Puritan’s Daughter, The. A
Romance. 12 penny nos. London. E. Lloyd. [1842.]
A tale of the days of Oliver Cromwell.
Pupil of Adversity, The. An Oriental Tale. 2 vols. W. Lane,
Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXVIII.
Pupil of Pleasure; or, The New System Illustrated . The.
Inscribed to Mrs. Eugenia Stanhope, editor of Lord Chester-
field’s Letters. By Courtney Melmoth [S. J. Pratt]. 2 vols.
Robinson and Bew. 1776- Third ed., Dublin. Jackson.
1781.
New ed., corrected. Written by Mr. Pratt. 2 vols.
Robinson. 1783.
Purity of Heart; or the Ancient costume. By Bridget Blue-
mantle [Mrs. E. Thomas]. Simpkin. 1816. 3rd ed. A. K.
Newman. 1826.
Puzzled and Pleased; or, The Two Old Soldiers, and other
Tales. By Francis Lathom. 3 vols. A. K. Newman. 1821.
Pyrenean Banditti. A Romance. By Mrs. Eleanor Sleath. 3
vols. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1811.
Q
Quaker, The. A Novel. In a Series of Letters. By a Lady.
2 vols. William Lane ;
Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXV.
Queen’s Page, The. A Romance. By Selina Davenport. 3
vols. A. K. Newman. 1831.
Queenho-Hall. A Romance: and Ancient Times, A Drama.
In Four Vols. Edinburgh: Murray. 1808. By Joseph
Strutt.
Sir Walter Scott wrote the last chapter of the work, revised it,
and saw it through the press. Strutt died October 16th, 1802.
Queenho-Hall. A Romance, and Ancient Times, a Drama. By
the late Joseph Strutt, Author of “ Rural Sports and Pastimes
of the People of England,” etc. In Four Volumes. Second
Edition. London: Printed by John Dean, 1 Wardour Street,
TITLE INDEX 47
1
for T. Mason, No. 5, Cambridge Street, Golden Square ;
may
be had of all booksellers. 1812.
Queenho-Hall, Vols. I, II, III, and IV, 1
—79. Queenho
Hall (15th century) is an ancient manor house at Tewin, near
Bramfield, Herts.
Les Querelles de Famille. Par Auguste Lafontaine. Traduite
de l’Allemand. 3 vols. Paris. Reprinted in London for
Colburn. 1809.
Quintin Matsys the Blacksmith of Antwerp. By Pierce Egan,
jun. 40 nos. E. Harrison, i860.
R
Radcliff’s New Novelist’s Pocket Magazine
;
or, Entertainment
of Delight, containing an elegant and chaste collection of
Original Novels, Tales, Romances, Lives, Memoirs, Voyages,
Travels, etc. Together with a judicious selection from the
Writings of those Authors, whose works have in any Degree
excited public Notoriety. The whole written, adjusted and
compiled solely for this Work by Mrs. Mary Anne Radcliffe
of Wimbledon in Surrey. N.D.
No. 1. The Adventures of Captain Duncan.
No. 2. Monkish Mysteries. [1820?]
Radzivil, a Romance. Trans, from the Russ of the celebrated
M. Wocklow. [By Mrs. Ann Radcliffe.] 3 vols. W. Lane,
Leadenhall-Street. MDCCXC. The work of Mrs. Mary
Ann Radcliffe, authoress of Manfrone ; or, The One-Handed
Monk. This lady is not to be confused with the famous Mrs.
Radcliffe, who wrote The Mysteries of Udolpho.
Rags And Riches. A Story of Three Poor Boys. Hogarth
House. Illustrated by Phiz. One vol. 15.
Rake and the Misanthrope, The. A Novel. Translated from
the German of August Lafontaine. 2 vols. Minerva-Press
;
Lane, Newman. 1804. Translated by Mary Charlton.
Ralph Wildhawk ; or, Alone Amongst the Brigands. E. J.
Brett. Coloured wrapper, n.d.
Ramble Of Philo, And His Man Sturdy, The. 2 vols. W.
472 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Lane; Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXVIII. By Captain
Nixon.
Rambles of Mr. Frankly, The. Published by his sister. The.
By Mrs. Elizabeth Bonhote. 3 vols. W. Lane. 1773-6.
Irish ed., 2 vols., Dublin :
1773. New edition, with additions.
4 vols., i2j. 6d. Advertised by Lane as “ In the press,” 1796.
Ranger of the Tomb; or, The Gypsefs Prophecy, The. 34
penny nos. E. Lloyd : 1845. And 1847.
Rank And Fashion; or, The Mazes of Life. By Mr. Frere.
3 vols. A. K. Newman. 1821.
Ranspach ; or, Mysteries of a Castle. A Novel, by the author
of Edward de Courcy. 2 vols. Richardson ;
Uttoxeter
;
1
797 -
Raphael, ou la Vie paisible, etc. Raphael; or, a peaceful Life.
By Augustus La Fontaine. Translated from the German by
M. Breton. 2 vols. Dulau : 1811.
Raphael; or, Peaceful Life. Translated from the German.
[By Mrs. Green.] 2 vols. Taylor: 1812. From the original
cf August Heinrich Julius Lafontaine.
Rashleigh Abbey; or, the Ruin on the Rock. A novel. By
Richard Sickelmore. 3 vols. Minerva-Press ;
Lane, Newman.
1805.
Ravensdale. A Romance. By Ellen T 15 penny nos. E.
Lloyd, London: 1847.
Rayland Hall. Chapbook. 1810. From Mrs. Smith’s The
Old Manor House.
Raymond, A Novel. Inscribed by permission to George Porter,
Esq., M.P. By Richard Sickelmore. 2 vols., Didier and
Tebbett. 1801.
Read it, and give it a name. A novel. By Mrs. Llewelyn. 4
vols. Minerva-Press; A. K. Newman. 1813.
Realities, Not A Novel. A Tale From Real Life. 4 vols. A.
K. Newman. 1825. By Mrs. A. Raikes Harding.
Reason Triumphant over Fancy; Exemplified in the Singular
Adventures of Don Sylvio de Rosalva. A History in which
TITLE INDEX 473
every marvellous Event occurs Naturally. 3 vols. i2mo.
J. Wilkie, S. Leacroft, and C. Heydinger. 1773.
A translation of Wieland’s Der Sieg der Nature ilber die
Schdwrmerey, oder die Abentheuer des Don Sylvio von
Rosalva, 1764. Reason Triumphant over Fancy was indiffer-
ently reprinted, 1904, as The Adventures of Don Sylvio De
Rosalva. Wieland’s satirical romance was translated into
French, 1769. A condensed version, 1771, as Don Quichotte
moderne, by Madame d’Ussieux. Under the 1769 title this
is included as Vol. XXXVI (the last) of Le Cabinet des Fees,
with charming illustrations.
Rebecca. A Novel. 2 vols. Minerva-Press, for William Lane-
1799. By the author of The Duke of Clarence, etc., E. M. F.
i.e. Mrs. E. M. Foster.
Rebecca ; or, The Victim of Destiny. 3 vols. Lackington and
Co., 1809.
Rebecca; or, The Victim of Duplicity. 3 vols. Crosby: 1808.
Rebel, The, A Tale of the Times. 2 vols. i2mo. Pub. at
Southampton. 1799.
Recess, The. Or, A Tale of Other Times. By the Author of
The Chapter of Accidents [Sophia Lee]. 3 vols. T. Cadell.
1
7 ^3
-
5 - Vol. I., 1783; Vols. II. and III., 1785.
Second Edition. 1785-6.
Fourth Edition, corrected. 1792.
The earlier Bibliography of The Recess is often confusing and
confused since the publishers, Cadell, made up sets of 3
volumes from different editions. Thus we find in uniform
bindings, uniformly lettered and numbered, Vols. I. and II.,
Fourth Edition, 1792, and Vol. III., First Edition, 1785.
An Edition, 3 vols., i2mo, Cadell and Davies, 1804, is an-
nounced as “ The Second Edition,” but is actually the Fifth
Edition.
First Irish Ed., The Recess; or, a Tale of Other Times. By
the Author of the Chapter of Accidents. Dublin, G. Burnet,
etc. 2 vols. 8vo. 1791.
The Recess; Or A Tale of Other Times. By Sophia Lee,
Author of the Chapter of Accidents, Canterbury Tales, etc.,
etc. Three Volumes in One. An Historical Romance. With
8 handsome Engravings, the volumes in 7 Sixpenny Num-
bers or in boards 45'. London. Printed and Sold by S. Fisher,.
474 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
1 5 1 St. John Street, West Smithfield. 1824. The title-page
has a woodcut, Hopwood del. White sculpt. One of the
illustrations was reproduced in The Connoisseur, November,
1936, p. 271, to accompany an article by Montague Summers,
The Illustrations Of The “ Gothick” Novels.
The Recess, in Popular Tales, 8vo. 1827.
The Recess, another ed., double columns, 1840.
The Recess, or, A Tale of Past Times. An abridgement, pp.
33. i2mo. J. Williams. Portsea. [1800?]
The Recess. A Tale of Past Times. Carefully Abridged from
the Fascinating and Elegant Performance of Miss Lee. 12 mo.
Hurst. 1802.
Le Souterrain, ou Matilde, Traduit de l’Anglois sur la
deuxieme edition par Mme. de Mere. 3 tom., Paris : 1787.
French translation of The Recess.
The plot of Rossini’s famous opera, Elisabetta,
regina
dTnghilterra, which w'ith the most brilliant triumph opened
the autumn season of 1815 at the San Carlo Theatre, Naples,
is taken from The Recess. Schmidt, quaintly termed “ Signor
Smith,” the author of the libretto, very closely followed a
French melodrama, Elisabeth, reine d’Angleterre
,
which is
wholly from Sophia Lee’s romance. In Elisabetta Isabella
Angela Colbran sang the title-role, the English queen ;
Manuel
Garcia, Norfolk ;
Nozzani, Leicester ;
and Mile. Dardanelli,
Mathilde. Elisabetta, regina dTnghilterra was given at Drury
Lane, 20th April, 1818. Mons. G. M. Gustave Chouquet in
his article on Rossini, Grove’s Dictionary of Music and
Musicians, edited by J. A. Fuller Maitland, 1904, Vol. IV,
p. 153, speaking of Elisabetta expresses astonishment at the
“ curious fact that some of its incidents anticipate those of
Kenilworth.” H. Sutherland Edwards, Rossini and his
School, p. 47, boldly writes of Elisabetta as “ a work founded
on Scott’s Kenilworth.” However Kenilworth was not pub-
lished until January, 1821, more than five years after the
production of Rossini’s opera. We know that Scott had read
Sophia Lee’s romance, and it is very clear that when writing
Kenilworth he remembered much of The Recess.
Recluse; or History of Lady Gertrude Lesby, The. By Miss
Esther Finglass. 2 vols. Barker: 1790. Dedicated by
permission to Her Grace the Duchess of Rutland.
Recluse Of Albyn Hall, The. A Novel. In Three Volumes.
By Zara Wentworth. [Quotation, 7 lines, Cowper.] London
:
TITLE INDEX 475
Printed, at the Minerva Press for A. K. Newman And Co.,
Leadenhall-Street. 1819.
Recluse Of Norway, The. By Miss Anna Maria Porter. 4 vols.,
Longman, Hurst, Rees, etc., 1814. Second ed., ibid. 1817.
Another ed., London: J. S. Pratt. 1848. Another ed., one
vol. Aberdeen, George Clark; Dublin, J. M’Glashan, 1848.
Another ed., London, 8vo. 1852.
Le Reclus de Norvege. . . . Traduit de l’anglais, par Elisabeth
de B * * * [Bon], 4 tom., Paris : 1815.
Recluse Of The Appenines, The. A tale, in two volumes. By
the author of The Lake of Windermere [Miss Street]. William
Lane, at the Minerva-Press. MDCCXCII.
Recluse of the Wood, The. Chapbook. 1809.
Reconciliation ; or, The History of Miss Mortimer and Miss
Fitzgerald, The. In a series of letters. An Hibernian novel.
By an Irish lady. 2 vols., William Lane, Leadenhall-Street.
MDCCLXXXIII.
Records of a Noble Family. By Jane Harvey, Author of
Memoirs of an Author. 4 vols., Longman, 1814.
Rectors Son, The. By Ann Plumptree. Author of Antoinette.
3 vols., Lee and Hurst. 1798.
Rectory Guest, The. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey. 3
vols., Newby. 1849. Another ed., J. & C. Brown, Ave
Maria Lane. One vol., 1858. Price 2 s.
Recueil de Nouvelles, etc. A Collection of Tales. By Madame
de Montolieu, Author of Caroline de Litchfield, La Princesse
de Wolfenbuttel, etc. 3 vols., Printed at Paris, and reprinted
for Colburn, London, 1812.
Red Barn, The. A Tale, founded on fact. By William Maginn.
8vo. Illustrated. (One plate is by Phiz.) London ; Bennett
:
1831. See under Maria Marten.
Red Ralph; or, The Daughter of Night. A Romance of the
Road in the Days of Dick Turpin. 52 nos. 8vo. The News-
Agents’ Publishing Company Limited, 147 Fleet Street, n.d.
(
c
.
1866), woodcuts. By P. Wolfe.
Red Tyger; or, The Truth Will Out. 2 vols., Crosby: 1808.
47^ A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Redmond the Rebel; or, They Met at Waterloo. [By Alexander
Sutherland.] 3 vols., Minerva Press; A. K. Newman. 1819.
Reformist! ! ! The. A Serio-Comic Political Novel. [By Mrs-
Sarah Green.] 2 vols., Minerva-Press; A. K. Newman. 1810-
Second ed., as Percival Ellin gford ; or, The Reformist. 2 vols.,
Minerva-Press; A. K. Newman. 1816.
Reft Rob ; or, The Witch of Scot-Muir, commonly called Madge
the Snoover; a Scottish Tale. One vol., 12010. Sherwood,,
Neely & Jones. 1817.
Refugee; The. A Romance. By Captain Matthew Murgat-
royd (of the Ninth Continentals in the Revolutionary War).
New-York : Printed for Wilder & Campbell. London : Re-
printed for A. K. Newman & Co. 3 vols., 1825.
Refugees, The. An Irish Tale. By the author of Correction..
3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1822. By Mrs. A. Raikes Harding.
Refusal, The. A novel. By the Author of the Tale of the
Times [Mrs. Jane West]. 3 vols., London : Longman, Hurst,
Rees, Orme, and Brown. 1810. Price ll. is. in boards.
Reginald; or, The House of Mirandola. A romance. By the
Author of Melbourne, etc. 3 vols., Minerva-Press, for William
Lane. 1799. With a frontispiece. By Mrs. Martin.
Reginald De Torby and The Twelve Robbers. A romance.
2 vols., Minerva-Press, Lane and Newman. 1803. By
Henry Siddons.
Reginald Du Bray. An Historick Tale. By A Late Lord,
Greatly Admired in the Literary World. One vol., Dublin :
Printed by and for S. Colbert. MDCCLXXIX.
Reginald Du Bray. An historic tale. By a late noble-
man. London. Printed for W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street.
MDCCLXXXVI.
Reginald Du Bray which is a reprint of Vol. II of The Rival
Friends ; or, The Noble Recluse, 1776, sets its scene in the
reign of Henry III, and has truly been described as “ The
literary offspring of Longsword,” 1762. This, of course,
equally and more exactly applies to The Rival Friends.
Reginald Trevor; or, The Welch Loyalists. A Tale of the
Seventeenth Century. 3 vols., A. K. Newman, 1829. By
E. Trevor Anwyl.
TITLE INDEX 477
Reign Of Fashion, The. A Novel. By T. S. Surr. 3 vols.,
Colburn: 1830.
Relapse ; or, Myrtle Bank, The. 2 vols., Stalker: 1790.
Rencontre ; or, The Transition of a Moment, The. A novel.
In a Series of Letters. By a lady. William Lane, Leadenhall-
Street. MDCCLXXXIV.
Renegade, The. Translated from the French [of Charles Victor
Prevot, Vicomte D’Alincourt]. London, Robins : 1822.
Les Repaires du crime. 4 tom., Paris: 1812. By Elisabeth
Guenard, baronne de Mere.
Reprobate, The. A Novel. In Two Volumes. Translated By
The Author Of The Wife And The Mistress, etc. [Mary
Charlton.] The Original By Augustus La Fontaine. London:
Printed At The Minerva-Press, For Lane And Newman,
Leadenhall-Street. 1802.
Lafontaine’s novel was translated into French as Tableaux de
famille.
Republican’s Mistress, The. By Miss Charlotte Smith. 3 vols.,
W. Wright : 1821. Re-issue. 3 vols., A. K. Newman : 1824.
Restless Matron, The. A Legendary Tale
:
3 vols., Minerva-
Press, for William Lane. 1799- By Mrs. Showes.
Retreat, The. A Novel. [By Mary Anne Hedge.] 2 vols.,
Swinburne, Colchester; Baldwin, London: 1820. Second
ed., A. K. Newman: 1822.
Retribution; or, The Oath, The Curse, and The Crime. 12
nos., W. Dugdale. N.D. [1835].
Retribution ; or, The Murder at the Old Dyke. 37 penny nos.,
E. Lloyd: 1847.
Reuben ; or, The Suicide. Swift: 1787.
Reuben And Rachel; or, Tales of Old Times. A novel. By
Mrs. Rowson. 2 vols., Minerva-Press ;
for William Lane.
1
799-
Revengeful Turk; or, Mystic Cavern, The. The Distressed
Nun; or, Sufferings of Herselia Di Brindoli of Florence. And
the Vindictive Monk; or, Fatal Ring. By Isaac Crookenden.
S. Fisher: N.D. c. 1802.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Rhapsodies, by W. H. Ireland, Author of the Shakesperian MSS.,,
etc., etc. 8vo. 200 pp. 1 05. 6d. (common paper js.). Long-
man and Rees: 1803.
Rhodomaldi ; or, The Castle of Roveggiano. By Granville
Fletcher. 3 vols., Longman : 1823.
Rhydisel. The Devil In Oxford. Scilicet in siccis amhulat ille
locis. What! Can the Devil Speak Truth? In Two
Volumes. London: Printed For The Author; And Sold By
Sherwood, Neely, And Jones, Paternoster-Row. 1811.
Ricardo The Outlaw: A Romance. By Captain John Simpson,
2 vols. A. K. Newman : 1823. Second ed., 2 vols., London :
Printed for J. Jones, 28 Leadenhall Street. 1823.
Rich and the Poor; or, Friends and their Shadows, The, and
The Last of the Old English Gentlemen. By John H. Wilkins,
Author of Leola, The Green Hills of the Far West, The Pro-
phet, etc. Illustrated by Henry Saunders. Penny Weekly
Nos., Sixpenny Monthly Parts. E. Dipple. 42 Holywell
Street. 1851.
Richard Coeur De Lion. An Historical Romance. 48 nos.
London, G. Peirce, c. 1840.
Richard Of York; or, “The White Rose of England.” A
Romance. 3 vols. London: 1832. The story of Perkin
Warbeck, “ Richard the Fourth, King of England.”
Richard Parker; or, The Mutiny at The More. A Romance
.
By T. Prest. 66 penny nos. E. Lloyd: 1851.
Richard Parker, supernumerary seaman (1767 ?-
1 797) was
hanged on the Sandwich for mutiny, June 30th, 1797. These
extraordinary events were said to have had a political signifi-
cance. See The Dictionary of National Biography, under
Richard Parker for details.
The prohibited comedy. Richelieu in love ; or, The Youth
of Charles I. An historical comedy in three acts. By the
Author of Whitefriars. [Emma Robinson.] 8vo. 1852. A
prose comedy.
Richmond ; or, Scenes In The Life of a Bow Street Officer.
Drawn up from his private memoranda. 3 vols., 8vo. Henry
Colbom. 1827. By T. S. Surr.
Right and Wrong; or, The Kinsmen of Naples. A romantic
TITLE INDEX 479
story. By Mary Julia Young. 4 vols. J. F. Hughes,
Wigmore-Street. 1803. In 1808 Hughes advertises: The
Kinsmen of Naples
;
a Novel. 4 vols. i8r. (2nd edition.)
Rimualdo ; or, The Castle Of Badajos. A Romance. By
W[illiam] H[enry] Ireland. 4 vols., T. N. Longman and O.
Rees: 1800. Advertised by Lane and Newman, 1803,
4 vols., i2mo. Price 14L
Rinaldo Rinaldini. The History Of Rinaldo Rinaldini,
Captain Of Banditti. Translated From The German Of
Vulvius \sic\. By I. Hinckley, Esq. In Three Volumes.
London: Printed by A. Strahan, Printers-Street, For Long-
man And Rees, Paternoster-Row; And C. Geisweiler, Parlia-
ment-Street: 1800.
Rinaldo Rinaldini. A Novel. 3 vols., A. K. Newman : 1831.
Rinaldo Rinaldini, Captain of Banditti. A Tale of the last
century. 4th ed., J. Clements: 1841. In The Romancist,
new series. Vol. I, 1841.
.American ed., 8vo. N.D. James. Cincinnati.
During the first half of the nineteenth century there were
several cheap reprints (London) of this popular robber-
romance. For dramatization of Rinaldo Rinaldini see under
John Hinckley, Index of Authors.
Ring, The. In a Series of Letters. By A Young Lady. 3 vols.,
Stockdale. 1783.
Ring and the Well; or, The Grecian Princess, The. A Romance.
In Four Volumes. London : Printed for Longman, Hurst,
Rees, and Orme, Paternoster Row. 1808.
Ringrove ; or, Old Fashioned Notions. By Mrs. Janes West.
2 vols., Longman: 1827.
Rising Sun, The. A serio-comic-satiric romance, by Cervantes
Hogg. 3 vols. Appleyard : 1807. 2nd ed., 1807. 3rd ed.,
1807. 4th ed., 1807. 5th ed., 1809. Cervantes Hogg, a
pseudonym of E. S. Barrett.
Rival Chiefs; or, The Battle of Mere, The. By Anna Milikin,
One vol., Minerva Press; Lane, Newman. 1805. Also an
edition, 1805, Connor.
Rival Crusoes, The. E. J. Brett. Coloured wrappers, n.d.
480 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Rival Demons, The. By — Dalton. One vol., 8vo. Churton :
1836.
Rival Knights, The. Chapbook. n.d. [c. 1800].
Rivals; or, The Spectre at the Hall, The. A Romance. By
the Author of Varney the Vampire. [T. Prest.] 103 penny
nos. 1847.
Rizzio ; or, Scenes in Europe during the Sixteenth Century.
By the Late Mr. Ireland. Edited by G. P. R. James, Esq.,
Author of Darnley, Henry Masterman, Richelieu, The
Forgery, etc. 3 vols., T. C. Newby: 1849.
William Henry Ireland died in 1835.
Robber, The. By — Dalton. 3 vols., Bull : 1831.
Robber Chieftain; or, Dinas Linn, The. A romance. By Nella
Stephens. 4 vols., A. K. Newman: 1825.
Robber’s Wife, The. 9 penny nos., E. Lloyd: 1852.
The Robber’s Wife, a romantic drama by Isaac Pccock, music
by F. Ries. Produced at Covent Garden on Thursday,
October 22nd, 1829. Printed in Cumberland’s Minor
Theatre, Vol XI ;
Cumberland, Vol. XXVIII ;
John Dicks’
Standard Plays, No. 362
;
Lacy, Vol. LXIX. Originally
called The Robber’s Bride.
Robert and Adela; or, The Rights of Women best maintained
by the Sentiments of Mature. 3 vols., Robinson: 1795.
Directed against the Wollstonecraft school.
Robert Bruce, The Hero King of Scotland. By Gabriel
Alexander. 56 penny nos. Illustrated by W. H. Thwait.
London ;
John Dicks : 1840. Re-issue, 1852. A later edition.
One vol., Dicks, c. 1882. Price 6s. 6d.
Robert Macaire; or, The French Bandit in England. By
G. W. M. Reynolds. 3 vols. Price £1 iu. 6d. London.
1839. Second ed., one vol., iol 6d. In 30 Penny Nos.
Number 1 published December 16th, 1848, illustrated by
Henry Anelay. Another ed., one vol., illustrated by Henry
Anelay. 1849. Price Two Shillings. Reprint, John Dicks
:
one vol., 35. With 20 Wood Engravings. Reprint, No. 97,
Dicks’ English Novels, 6d. See The London Journal, Vol. I,
No. 13, May 24th, 1845, p. 195.
TITLE INDEX 481
Robert of Artois, An Historical Romance of the Fourteenth
Century. E. Farrington, 16 Bath Street, Newgate Street, and
sold by all Booksellers in the United Kingdom, 1845. Re-
issued in 23 penny nos., Number One appearing on Septem-
ber 1 st, 1846.
Robertina ; or, The Sacred Deposit. A novel. By Catherine G.
Ward. 2 vols., Minerva Press for A. K. Newman: 1818.
Robin Hood and Little John. 41 penny nos. Hextall and Wall.
1840. Re-issued, 35 nos., E. Harrison: 1850.
Robin Hood And Little John ; or, The Merry Men Of Sherwood
Forest. By Pierce Egan The Younger, Author Of “ Wat
Tyler,” Etc. [Quotation, four lines, “ Old Ballad.”]
London : George Peirce, 310, Strand. 40 penny Weekly Nos.
With woodcuts, frontispiece and eight plates. 1848-9. Peirce
advertised in Robin Hood, “ Perkin Warbeck,” “ Maid
Marian,” “ Richard Coeur de Lion,” “ William Tell,” etc.
Robin Hood ; or, The Outlaws of Sherwood Forest. By George
Emmett. 3 vols. Coloured wrappers. Hogarth House, n.d.
La Roche Du Diable
;
Par Legay Auteur d’Elisabeth Lange, le
Marchand forain, etc. 5 tom. [Each with vignette title.]
A Paris. A la Librairie Economique, rue de la Harpe No. 94,
ancien College d’Harcourt. 1809.
Roche-Blanche ; or, The Hunters Of The Pyrenees. A Romance.
By Miss Anna Maria Porter, Author of “ The Village of
Mariendorpt,” etc. [Quotation: 15 lines, MS. Poem.] In
Three Volumes. Vol. I [-II-III] . London: Printed for
Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, and Brown, Paternoster-Row.
1822. In the first issue of the first edition the head-lines are
printed “ Roche Blanc ” and an erratum, verso xi, calls atten-
tion to the error.
Roche Blanche, ou les chasseurs des Pyrenees. . . . Traduit de
l’anglais par Mme. Collet. 5 tom., Paris: 1822.
Rochester; or, The Merry Days of Merry England. [By j. F.
Smith.] 29 penny weekly nos., E. Lloyd, 1852. Re-issue,
1854. As a serial, illustrated by C. Bonner; in The Half-
penny Gazette, commencing Number 46, January 16th, 1864.
Only 38 chapters instead of the original 49, a compression
which materially injures the tale.
Rochester; or, The Merry Days of Charles II. By J. F.
482 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Smith, Esq. New York. Dick & Fitzgerald. One vol., 50
cents. Beautifully Illustrated [by 2 crude woodcuts]. 39
chapters, c. 1885.
Rock; or, Alfred and Anna, The. By Mrs. Bamby. Maid-
stone : 1801.
Rock of Modree; or„ The Legend of St. Eltram, The. An
Ethical Romance. Translated from An Ancient British
Manuscript lately discovered among the Ruins of an Abbey
in North Wales. 2 vols., W. Bent. 1792.
Rockhaven. A Tale of the Thirteenth Century. By E. H. St.
Pierre Jones. 3 vols., London: Caxton Press. 1827.
Roderick Dhu, the Scottish Outlaw. 57 penny nos. G. Purkess :
1850.
Roderick the Rover; or, The Jolly Roger. 12 nos. E. Lloyd:
1847.
Rodolphus of Werdenberg. A play. 2 vols., London: 1805.
A dramatic romance translated from the German of August
Lafontaine.
Rolando. A Romance. By Alexander Henry. 2 vols., A. K.
Newman: 1821.
Roman Nights at the Tomb of the Scipios, The. Translated
from the Italian of [Count Alessandro] Verri. 2 vols. Edin-
burgh. Constable: 1825. Le Fanu, Forgotten Novels,
Dublin University Magazine, March, 1862, says that this
translation is by Miss Cornelia E. Knight. See under Verri,
Index of Authors.
Romance of Private Life, The. By Sarah Harriet Burney.
3 vols., London: 1839.
Romance of Real Life, The. By Charlotte Smith. 3 vols., T.
Cadell, 1787 [6]. Seconded., 1794. Another ed., London:
1847. Another ed., George Clark, Aberdeen; J. M’Glashan,
Dublin. One vol., 1848. Incorrectly said to be by Miss
Smith. An English version of some of the more remarkable
trials from the Causes Celebres et Interessantes avec les
Jugemens qui les ont decidees. Redigees . .
.
par M. Richer.
Romance of Smyrna ; or, The Prediction Fulfilled, The. By
TITLE INDEX 483
Mrs. Yorke. 4 vols., Earle and Hemet. 1801. Dedicated
to Sir Sidney Smith.
Romance Of The Appennines, The. 2 vols. 1808.
Romance of the Castle, The. [By Jane Elson.] 2 vols., W.
Lane; Minerva-Press, for William Lane. 1800. With a
frontispiece.
Romance of the Cavern; or, The History of Fitz-Henry and.
James. By George Walker. 2 vols. William Lane, at the
Minerva-Press. MDCCXCII.
Romance Of The Forest, The. Interspersed With Some Pieces
Of Poetry. [Quotation, 5 lines : Macbeth.] By the
Authoress of A Sicilian Romance, etc. On Three Volumes.
T. Hookham : 1791.
Second ed., 3 vols., 1792. Third ed., 3 vols., 1792. Fourth
ed., 3 vols., 1795. Fifth ed., 3 vols., 1797. Sixth ed., 3 vols.,
1799. Seventh ed., 3 vols., For Longman, Hurst, Rees, And
Orme, 1806. In Mrs. Barbauld’s “ British Novelist,” Vols.
43 and 44, 1810. A new ed., 3 vols., A. K. Newman,
Minerva-Press, 1819. In Ballantyne’s Novelist’s Library,
With Memoir by Sir Walter Scott, Vol. 10: 1821.
Romance of the Forest, by Ann Radcliffe, the 3 volumes in
one, with 8 interesting Engravings, in 7 numbers 3.1. 6d. in
boards 4s. od. S. Fisher, 15 1 St. John Street, West Smith-
field, 1824.
Another ed., Printed and published by J. Limbird, 143 Strand,
London: 1824.
A new edition, 3 vols., A. K. Newman and Co., 1825.
Price 155.
Limbird’s edition, reprinted 1831.
Another ed., In penny nos., London, Kelley: 1836.
Another ed., J. S. Pratt, Stokesley, Yorkshire: 1846.
Another ed., London: 184.6.
Another ed., 8vo. London: 1847.
Another ed., 8vo. New York: 1857.
Another ed., “ The Cottage Library.” Royal 32010. One
Shilling. Milner and Co. N.D. [1865].
Another ed., London and New York: 1877.
Another ed., Routledge. 1882.
Another ed., Routledge, “Half-forgotten Books.” 1904.
The First Irish Edition: 2 vols., Dublin; Wogan, etc. 1792.
During the nineteenth century several cheap editions of The
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
484
Romance of the Forest were issued, and Mrs. Radcliffe’s book
remained very popular.
For translations, adaptations, dramatizations, see under Mrs.
Radcliffe, Index of Authors.
Romance of the Hebrides; or, Wonders Never Cease! The.
By Francis Lathom. 3 vcls., Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman.
1809.
Romance of the Highlands, The. By Peter Middleton Darling.
2 vols., Edinburgh, Ramsay and Co. ;
London, Longman :
1 810.
Romance Of The Pyrenees. In Four Volumes. Vol. I [-II-III-
IV]. London: Printed for G. and J. Robinson, Paternoster-
Row: By S. Hamilton, Falcon-Court, Fleet-Street. 1803.
Fifth ed., Baldwin, Cradock and Joy, 1822. The Romance
is by Catherine Cuthbertson.
Romance Readers And Romance Writers. A satirical novel.
[By Mrs. Green.] 3 vcls., Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman.
1810.
Romantic Facts; or, Which Is His Wife? In Four Volumes.
By The Author Of Veronica; or, The Mysterious Stranger.
[Quotation : 6 lines. Ancient Ballads. The first stanza of
The Spanish Lady’s Love, from Percy’s Reliques, Second
Series, II, No. XXIIL] Vol. I (-II, -III, -IV). London :
Printed at the Minerva Press for A. K. Newman And Co.,
Leadenhall-Street. 1816.
My Old Cousin, 1819, is by the same author.
Romantic Tales. By M. G. Lewis, Author of the Monk, Adel-
githa, etc. In Four Volumes. [Quotation :
4 lines, Crabbe.]
Volume The First. [Second, Third, Fourth, followed by
titles of tales in each volume.] London : Printed By D. N.
Shury, 7 Berwick Street, For Longman, Hurst, Rees And
Orme, Paternoster-Row. 1808.
Vol. I. Mistrust; or, Blanche And Osbright. 12 chapters,
pp. 1-251.
And Five Poems. The Admiral Guarino—King Rodrigo’s
Fall—Bertrand and Mary—Belle—The Lord of Falken-
stein—Sir Guy, The Seeker.
Vol. II. The Anaconda. An East-Indian Tale, pp.2-114.
The Dying Bride. A Ballad.
TITLE INDEX 485
The Four Facardins. An Arabian Tale. Part I.
Translated from Hamilton.
Vol. III. The Four Facardins. An Arabian Tale. Part II,
pp. 2-215. Lewis’ original conclusion.
Oberon’s Henchman ; or, The Legend of the Three
Sisters. A Poem of 5 1 1 lines.
Vol. IV. My Uncle’s Garret-Window. A Pantomimic Tale.
PP- 3
-
92 .
Bill Jones. A Tale of Wonder
:
verse.
Amorassan ; or, The Spirit of the Frozen Ocean.
An Oriental Romance. 15 chapters, pp. 103-326.
Romantic Tales. By M. G. Lewis. One vol., 8vo. W
Smith: 1839. 3s- 6c?
.
Romantic Tales. By M. G. Lewis. One vol., i2mo. Groom-
bridge : 1850. 2 s.
Romantic Tales became very popular and the book was more
than once reprinted. Generally two or three excerpts were
made, the favourite tales, and these were issued again and
again, sometimes separately, sometimes with other pieces by
Lewis, and even with pieces not from his pen.
His original continuation concluding Hamilton’s unfinished
The Four Facardins is given in Bohn’s Extra Volume, Count
Hamilton’s Fairy Tales, 1849. The original by Hamilton ( ob
.
1720), Les Quatre Facardins, is to be dated 17 10-15. The
Four Facardins “ with continuations by M. G. Lewis and
the Duke de Levis,” printed for the Lutetian Society, i.e.,
Leonard Smithers, Royal 8vo. (April), 1899.
As a typical reprint of the Romantic Tales may be cited:
Romantic Tales. By M. G. Lewis, Author of “ Tales of
Wonder.” London: George Slater, 252 Strand; J. Menzies,
Edinburgh; J. McGlasher, Dublin. N.D. [c. 1865]. This
contains: Blanche and Osbright, pp. 5-75; The Anaconda,
pp. 3-36 (separate pagination); My Uncle’s Garret-Window,
pp. 39-66. This is generally accompanied by The Bravo of
Venice, pp. 3-75 (separate pagination).
Mistrust; or, Blanche and Osbright, a Feudal Romance, was
included in The Romancist, and Novelist’s Library, J.
Clements, Vol. I, No. 3, 1839. No. 13, same vol., ibid., con-
tained The Anaconda. No. 58, Vol. Ill, ibid., 1840. con-
tained Amorassan.
Blanche et Osbright, suivi de l’Anaconda. Traduit de 1’anglais
[of M. G. Lewis] par M. de S. French version by Mons.
486 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
et Mme. de Terrasson de Sennevas. 2 tom. Paris [Evreux
printed]. 1822.
Romulus. A Tale of Ancient Times. Translated from the
German of Augustus Lafontaine by the Rev. P. Will, Minister
of the German Congregation in the Savoy. 2 vols., Phillips
[1801].
A tale of ancient times, entitled Romulus. Balto. Mauro 1814,
pp. 314. Pirated American reprint of Will’s translation.
Rook the Robber. By Edward Ellis. 30 nos., pp. 488. Dicks.
c. i860. Re-issue, one vol., Dicks. N.D. [1883]. Price 4s. 6d.
Rosa ; or, The Child of the Abbey. In Four Volumes. By
Sophia Woodfall. Author of Montravers. j. F. Hughes: 1804.
Rosa de Montmorien. A Novel. By Miss Ann Hilditch. 2 vols.
Printed for William Lane. MDCCLXXXVII.
Rosa In London, and other Tales. By the Author of The
Young Mother; or, Albinia. 4 vols. Colburn. 1809.
Advertised by Newman, 1813. 4 vols. 22s.
Rosabella; or, A Mother’s Marriage. A Novel. 5 vols.,
Baldwin, Cradock, and Joy. 1817. By Catherine Cuthbert-
son.
Rosalie; or, The Victim of Infatuation. An Historical Fact.
Translated from the French. London, Hurst : 1803.
Rosalie ; or, The Castle Of Montalabretti. In Four Volumes.
Vol. I (-II, -III, -IV). “ Led through a sad variety of woes.”
Richmond : Printed For Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme And
Brown, Paternoster Row, London. 1811.
Printed by Eling & Wall, Hill-Street, Richmond.
Rosalind. A novel. By the Author of Josephine. 2 vols.,
Minerva-Press, for William Lane. 1799. By Miss Taylor.
Rosalind De Tracy. By Elizabeth Sophia Tomlins. Author of
The Victim of Fancy. 3 vols., Dilly : 1798.
Rosalind Woodbridge ; or, The Midnight Visit. A Romantic
Tale. By Hannah Maria Jones. Virtue: 1827. Reprinted
by John Lofts. 1854.
Rosalviva ; or, The Demon Dwarf. A Romance. By Grenville
Fletcher. 3 vols., Longman: 1824.
TITLE INDEX 487
Rosamund, Countess of Clarenstein. 3 vols., A. J. Valpy : 1812.
Rosanne ; or, A Father’s Labour Lost. By Laetitia-Matilda
Hawkins. 3 vols. F. C. and J. Rivington : 1814.
Rosario; or, The Female Monk. M. G. Lewis’ The Monk was
several times reprinted in a cheap form under this meretricious
title during the nineteenth century. There were variants as
Rosario; or, The Monk, but Female Monk was preferred.
See The Gothic Quest by Montague Summers, p. 297, n. 27.
Rosaura. From the German of Augustus Lafontaine. 4 vols.,
Minerva-Press, for William Lane. 1800. French translation
by Madame la Comtesse de Mfontolieu], Rosaure, Ou L’Arret
Du Destin, 4 tom. A Paris, De LTmprimerie De P. Didor,
L’Aine, Chevalier De L’Ordre Royal De Saint-Michel,
Imprimeur Du Roi. MDCCCXVIII.
Rosaura Di Viralva. 1813. Second edition of The Homicide.
See under this title.
Rose Cecil. A novel. 3 vols., William Lane, at the Minerva-
Press. MDCCXCVII. By Lady Mary C .
Rose d’ Altenberg, ou le Spectre dans les Ruines. Paris, 1830.
Ascribed by the translator, Henri Duval, to Mrs. Radcliffe,
but in reality a version of Margaret Campbell’s The Midnight
Wanderer (under which title see), itself adapted from Alexina,
“ imite de l’anglais par Mme. Brayer de Saint-Leon.”
Rose Mortimer; or, The Ballet-Girl’s Revenge Being The
Romance And Reality Of A Pretty Actress’s Life Behind The
Scenes And Before The Curtain. By A Comedian Of The
T.R. Drury Lane. One vol., 25 nos. London. Published
for the London Romance Company by the News-Agents’
Publishing Company Limited. 147 Fleet Street. N.D.
(c. 1856).
A contemporary note in my copy gives the initials of the
author as C.H.R.
Rose-Mount Castle ; or, False Report. A novel. By Mary Julia
Young. 3 vols. Minerva-Press, for William Lane.
MDCCXCVIII.
Rose of Claremont ; or, Daughter, Wife, and Mother, The.
By Catherine G. Ward. Authoress of The Mysterious Marri-
age, The Daughter of St. Omer, My Native Land, etc., etc.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
488
2 vols., J. Tallis and G. Virtue, 1820. Another ed., Kelly,
1823.
The story of the Princess Charlotte Augusta, daughter of
George IV.
Rose Of Cumberland, The. Advertised by Newman, 1812.
2vols., 9s. This is The Mysterious Visitor. See under this
title.
Rose of England ; or, The Adventures of a Prince, The. Dedi-
cated to Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent. By the
Author of Jane Shore, etc. [Hannah Maria Jones.] 8vo.
London, Bennett: 1841. Reprinted, 40 Penny nos., John
Lofts, 1852-3.
Rosa Summerville ; or, A Husband’s Mystery and a Wife’s
Devotion. By Ellen T . 22 penny nos., E. Lloyd,
London: 1847. Also as Rose Summerville; or, The Double
Crime.
In Reynolds’s Miscellany, Saturday, July 23rd, 1853, G. W.
M. Reynolds printed a vehement protest addressed “ To the
People of the United States ” against “ an atrocious impos-
ture just perpetrated by STRINGER AND TOWNSEND,
Booksellers, of No. 222 Broadway, New York. These un-
principled scoundrels have printed and published two books
respectively entitled Rose Somerville ; or, A Husband’s
Mystery and The First False Step; or, The Path of Crime.
Both these works are represented as being written by me, and
have my name on the title-page. / declare solemnly that I
never wrote them : I never saw them until now : I never
heard of them until now.” See further in the Index of
Authors under G. W. M. Reynolds.
The First False Step, published E. Lloyd, London, 1846, is
the work of T. P. Prest.
Rosella; or, Modern Occurrences. By Mary Charlton. 4 vols.,
Minerva Press, for William Lane. 1799.
Rosenberg. A legendary tale. By a lady. 2 vols., W. Lane,
MDCCLXXXIX. By Mrs. Howell.
Rosetta. A Novel. 4 vols., Minerva-Press, for Lane, Newman.
1805. Ascribed by Stephen Jones to Mrs. Parsons.
Rosetta. By a Lady well known in the Fashionable World. 4
vols., Longman : 1807.
TITLE INDEX 489
Rosina. A Novel. 5 vols., William Lane, at the Minerva.
MDCCXCIII. By Miss Pilkington.
Rosine Laval. A Novel. 2 vols., A. K. Newman: 1833.
Rosoline Woodbridge ; or, The Midnight Visit. 47 penny nos.
John Lofts, n.d.
Round Tower, The, or; A Tale of Mystery. 241110. With a
frontispiece. London, Roe and Lemoine : 1803. A Gothic
chapbook.
Roving Jack, the Pirate Hunter. 40 penny nos., News Agents
Publishing Company Limited, 147 Fleet Street. 1867.
Royal and Noble Lovers, The. Chapbook. 1806.
Royal Captives, The. A Fragment of Secret History. Copied
from an Old Manuscript. 2 vols., Robinson, 1795. Vols.
3 and 4, Robinson, 1795. G. Robinson told Joseph Cottle
that he gave £200 for the book. Vols. 1 and 2 came out
early in 1795; 3 and 4 in April. For 1 and 2 see Monthly
Review, January, 1705 (enlarged series, Vol. XVI, pp. 112-
14); 3 and 4, following April (Vol. XVII, p. 452).
This romance is by Ann Yearsley.
Royal Exiles, The ; or, Victims of Human Passions, an Historical
Romance of the 16th Century. [By Mrs. Sarah Green.] 4
vols., Newman; Minerva Press: 1811.
Royal Intrigues. A Novel. 2 vols., Hughes : 1808.
R——L Spectres! or The P e in a Panic, The. A Tale of
Wonder. By Monk Lewis, Esquire. London: 8vo. 1813.
A squib in verse attacking the Prince Regent and satirically
published under Lewis’ name.
Royal Wanderer; or, The Exile of England. By Algernon.
3 vols., Johnston, 1815.
Ruddiman’s Tales and Sketches. One vol., Edinburgh,
Anderson; London, Simpkin : 1828. By Joseph Ruddiman.
Rudolph and Adelaide ; or, The Fort of St. Fernandos. A Novel.
By M. A. Marchant. 3 vols., 8vo. Sherwood: 1811.
Ruined Cottage; or, The Farmer’s Maid, The. By Hannah
Maria Jones. Published in 78 penny nos., by William Caffyn,
31 Oxford Street, Mile End. 1847-8.
49° A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Ruins Of Avondale Priory, The. A Novel. By Mrs. Kelly.
Author of Madeleine ; Abbey of St. Asaph, etc. 3 vols.,
William Lane, at the Minerva Press. MDCCXCVI.
Another ed., Decorated with 6 Engravings, the 3 volumes in
5 Sixpenny Numbers, or in boards 3.1. Printed and Sold by
S. Fisher, 151 St. John Street, West Smithfield, 1824.
Another ed., London: Published by J. S. Pratt. 1846.
Ruins Of Rigonda ; or, The Homicidal Father, The. By Helen
St. Victor. 4 vols., Chappie: 1808.
Ruins Of Ruthvale Abbey, The. A Novel. By Miss C. D.
Haynes. 4 vols., A. K. Newman: 1827.
Ruins of St. Oswald, The. By the Author of Bromley Melmot.
Lady’s Monthly Museum. Vol. IV. Vernor and Hood.
1800.
Ruins of Selinunti; or, The Val de Mazzara, The. Sicilian,
Calabrian, and Neapolitan sceneries, by a late rambler in
those countries. 3 vols., Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1813.
Ruins Of Tivoli, The. A Romance. By Francis Clifford. 4
vols., J. F. Hughes, Wigmore Street. 1804.
Runaway; or, The Seat Of Benevolence, The. By Mr. Smith.
4 vols., Crosby & Co., 1800.
Rupert Dreadnought. 52 penny nos. n.d. Later issue, E. J.
Brett. 14 nos.
Russian Boy, The. Chapbook. n.d. [
c
.
1800].
Ruth the Betrayer; or, The Female Spy. By Edward Ellis,
Dicks, c. i860. Reprinted, Dicks, One vol., N.D. [1883]. 6s. 6d.
Ruthinglenne ; or, The Critical Moment. A novel. By Isabella
Kelly. 3 vols., Minerva-Press, for William Lane. 1801.
With a list of subscribers.
Rybrent De Cruce. By Miss [Catherine] Head. 3 vols.,
Colburn: 1829.
Rye House Plot; or, Ruth the Conspirator’s Daughter, The.
By G. W. M. Reynolds. Serial in Reynolds’s Miscellany,
June 1 8th, 1853-1854. Separate issue, two volumes. Reprint,
Two Parts, Nos. 107 and 108, Dicks’ English Novels. Price
Sixpence each.
TITLE INDEX 49 1
s
Sadaski; or, The Wandering Penitent. By Thomas Bellamy.
2 vols., Sael : 1798.
Sailor Boy, The. A novel. 2 vols., Minerva-Press, for William
Lane. 1800.
Sailor Boy, The. A Novel. By Rosalia St. Clair. 4 vols.,
A. K. Newman: 1830.
A Sailor’s Friendship and A Soldier’s Love. By Miss Anna
Maria Porter. 2 vols., Longman: 1805.
St. Alma. A novel. Translated from the French of J. C.
Gorgy by Mrs. Helme. 2 vols., William Lane, MDCCXCI.
St. Aubin; or, The Infidel. 2 vols., 1821.
St. Bernard’s Priory. An old English tale ; being the first literary
production of a young lady. London : Printed for the
authoress, and sold at Swift’s Circulating Library, Charles-
Street, St. James’s Square. MDCCLXXXVI.
Re-issued in two volumes by Lane as The Priory Of St.
Bernard, 1789.
St. Bernard’s Priory is by Mrs. Harley, afterwards Mrs. Hugill.
St. Botolph’s Priory; or, The Sable Mask. By T. J. Horsley
Curties. 5 vols. J. F. Hughes: 1806.
St. Clair ; or, First Love. Dublin : 1802. By Sydney Owen-
son, Lady Morgan. Re-issued as St. Clair ; or, The Fleiress
of Desmond. 1803. An epistolary novel.
St. Clair; or, The Heiress of Desmond. A novel. By S.O.
London: Harding and Highley. Dublin: Archer, 1803.
S.O., Sydney Owenson, afterwards Lady Morgan. Her first
novel. Her first book was Poems, 1801.
St. Clcrir Of The Isles: Or, The Outlaws Of Barra. A Scottish
Tradition. By Elizabeth Helme. In Four Volumes. Vol.
I. (- 11 . ,
-II., -III., -IV). London : Printed By A. Strahan,
Printers-Street, For T. N. Longman And O. Rees, Paternoster-
Row. 1803. 2nd ed., 4 vols., Newman, Minerva-Press, 181 1
.
3rd ed. 4 vols., Newman, 1823. Another ed., one vol.,
George Virtue, c. 1825. I n The Romancist and Novelist’s
Library, Vol. IV., No. 84. J. Clements, 1840.
492 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
St. Clair Of The Isles remained very popular throughout the
nineteenth century, and was frequently reprinted, generally
in a cheap form. It was included by T. S. Pratt, Stokesley,
Yorkshire, in the “Pocket Series,” 1846. Another ed., in
“Notable Novels,” 1867. Milner and Co., Halifax and
London, Paternoster Row, reprinted St. Clair Of The Isles,
Demy, i8mo, in “The Wide, Wide World Library,” ij. 3 d.;
and is. 6d., and also in “ The Cottage Library,” Royal 32010,
is., c. 1870. St. Clair Of The Isles, Routledge, 6d., 1889.
St. Clair of the Isles; or, The Outlaws of Barra. Melodrama
by Elizabeth Polack. Produced Royal Victoria (Coburg)
Theatre, on Monday, April 1 6th, 1838. 121110. [1838]; No.
794, Dicks’ Standard Plays.
St. Clyde. 3 vols., Gale and Fenner: 1816. A Scotch novel.
St. Godwin: A Talc of the Sixteenth, Seventeenth, and
Eighteenth Century. By Count Reginald de St. Leon. Lon-
don : 1800. Dedicated to Mrs. Sheridan. Signed: Reginald
de St. Leon. 1799. Preface, December 26, 1799. Irish ed.,
Dublin. P. Wogan, W. Porter, B. Dornin, etc. 1800. A
clever and amusing satire by Edward Du Bois.
St. Irvyne ; Or, The Rosicrucian. A Romance. By A Gentle-
man Of The University Of Oxford. [Percy Bysshe Shelley.]
London: Printed for J. J. Stockdale, 41, Pall Mall. 1811.
And in the collected editions of Shelley’s Prose Works.
Saint Julian, In A Series of Letters. By Mrs. J. T. Serres..
Ridgeway: 1806.
Saint Julian’s Abbey. A novel. In A Series of Letters. 2 vols.
W. Lane. MDCCLXXXVIII.
Saint Julien; or, Memoirs of a Father. From the German of
August Lafontaine. Bell. 1798.
Saint Julien. From the German of Augustin Lafontaine. 2
vols. Minerva-Press, for William Lane. 099- With
additional notes, historical and explanatory.
St. Kathleen; or, The Rock of Dunnismoyle. [By Alexander
Sutherland.] 4 vols. Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1820.
St. Leance; or, The Castle of Rugosa: Giving an Account of
the Invisible Band, that Long Infested the Pyrennean Moun-
TITLE INDEX 493
tains. And Describing the Death of the Lovely Constance, the
Earl of Rugosa’s Daughter, Under the most Dreadful Circum-
stances that can befall Human Nature. London. Bailey.
1821. With a frontispiece. Chapbook.
St. Leon: A Tale Of The Sixteenth Century. By William
Godwin. In Four Volumes. Vol. I. (- 11 .
,
-III., -IV.).
Ferdinand Mendez Pinto was but a type of thee, thou liar of
the first magnitude. Congreve [Love for Love]. London:
Printed For G. G. And J. Robinson, Paternoster-Row, By J.
Cundee, Ivy-Lane, Newgate-Street. 1799. Second ed. (with
half-titles, Travels of St. Leon), 4 vols., Robinson, ibid., 1800.
First Dublin Edition, 4 vols., Moore, 1800.
First American Edition, 2 vols., Alexandria (U.S.A.), 1801.
Third Edition. 4 vols. Simpkin, London. 1816.
In “ Standard Novels,” No. 5. Colburn And Bentley. New
Burlington Street. 1813. With an “Advertisement,” June,
1831, by Godwin. Frontispiece, Boxall, delt., G. Marr, sculpt.
and vignette title.
In “ The Novelist and Romancist’s Library,” Vol. IV. 1839.
Saint Leon, histoire du seizieme siecle. Traduit de l’anglais.
3 tom. Paris : 1800.
For the satire on Godwin and St. Leon, St. Godwin, see under
that title above.
St. Leonard’s Forest ; Or, The Child Of Chance. A Novel. By
William Henry Hitchener. 2 vols. Chappie: 1813.
Hitchener was an actor of the Surrey Theatre.
St. Margaret’s Cave: Or, The Nun’s Story. An Ancient
Legend. In Four Volumes. By Elizabeth Helme, Author of
Albert, Farmer Of Inglewood Forest, Louisa, etc., etc. Vol.
I. (-IL, -III., -IV.). London : Printed For Earle And Hemet,
Albermale Street. 1801. Second ed., 4 vols., Minerva Press,
A. K. Newman. 1819.
St. Mary’s Abbey. 2 vols. Badccck : 1801.
St. Ostberg, Or The Carmelite Monk. A Romance. I11 Four
Volumes. Vol. I. (- 11 .
,
-III., -IV). London : Published By
M. Taylor, 25 Dean Street, Soho. And Sold By Sherwood,
Neely, And Jones, Paternoster Row, And By All Booksellers.
1 81 1. The romance is by Miss Harwood.
Saint Patrick. A Tale of the Fifth Century. By an Antiquary.
494 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
3 vols. Edinburgh, Constable : London, A. K. Newman
;
1819. Advertised as Saint Patrick, A National Tale.
St. Ruthin’s Abbey. A Novel. In Three Volumes. 1786.
Sans Souci Park; or, The Melange. A Novel. By Maria
Tharmott. 3 vols. Crosby: 1806.
Salvador; Or, Baron De Montbelliard. By Mrs. Croffts. 2
vols. Minerva-Press, for William Lane. 1801.
Sam Hall, the Burglar. 12 penny nos. H. Benten : 1848.
Suggested by the ballad “ Sam Hall.”
Santa Maria; or, The Mysterious Pregnancy. A Romance. By
Joseph Fox, Jun. 3 vols., Kearsley :
1797.
Santo Sebastiano ; Or, The Young Protector. A Novel. In
Five Volumes. By The Author Of “ Adelaide ;
Or, The
Countercharm:”
—“The Romance of The Pyrenees:”
—
And “ The Forest Of Montalbano,” etc., etc. G. Robinson.
1806. By Catherine Cuthbertson. Published in October,.
1806.
Third ed., 5 vols. London : Printed For G. And S. Robinson ;
Longman, Hurst, And Co. ;
Cradock And Joy ;
Paternoster-
Row : And A. K. Newman And Co., Leadenhall Street.
1814.
Fourth ed., 5 vols., Longman and Newman. 1820.
Santo Sebastiano ; or, The Heiress of Montalvan. Complete
in 68 nos. at One Penny each. 8vo. Frontispiece and
woodcuts. William Caffin, 31 Oxford Street, Mile End,
London. 1847-8. An earlier issue 1845-6, as The Pleiress of
Montalvan ; or First and Second Love. See under this title.
Santos De Montenos ; or, Annals of a Patriot Family. Founded
on recent Facts. By William Ticken. 3 vols. N. L. Pannier :
181 1.
Sappho. After a Greek Romance. By Dr. John Nott. i2mo.
London: 1803.
Sarsfield; or, Wanderings of Youth, an Irish Tale. By John
Gamble, Esq., Strabane. Author of “ Sketches, etc., in
Ireland.” 3 vols. Cradock and Joy: 1814.
Sawney Bean, the Man Eater of Midlothian. By T. P. Prest. In
Penny nos. E. Lloyd: 1851. At the Coburg Theatre on
TITLE INDEX 495
Tuesday, February 1 8th, 1823, was produced a Spectacle,
Sawney Bean, the Terror of the North. At Sadler’s Wells on
Monday, April 1st, 1839, was given a new Pantomime,
Sawney Beane ; or Harlequin and the Man Eater!
See for a chapbook account of Sawney Bean under The Sur-
prising Life of Richard Turpin.
Saxon and the Gael, The. Or The Northern Metropolis
:
Including A View of the Lowland and Highland Character.
4 vols. Thomas Tegg: 1814.
Says She To Her Neighbour, What? By an Old-Fashioned
Englishman. 4 vols., Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1812.
By Mrs. Hofland.
Scapegrace at Sea! The, [By William Johnson Neale]. Second
ed., 3 vols. 1863.
Scapegrace at School, 2 vols. ;
Scapegrace at Sea, 2 vols.
;
Scapegrace in London, 1 vol. The “ Scapegrace Series ” by
Bracebridge Hemyng, the author of Jack Harkaway’s School-
days.
Scarlet Handkerchief, The. By the Author of Zeluca, the Creole.
3 vols. A. K. Newman: 1823.
Scenes At Brighton; or, How Much? A Satirical Novel. [By
Innes Hoole]. 3 vols. A. K. Newman: 1821.
Scenes From The Life Of Nickleby Married.
Edited by “ Guess,” With Illustrations By “ Quiz.”
London :
John Williams, 44 Paternoster Row, And 43
Aldersgate Street. 1 840.
Scenes In Feudal Times. A Romance. By R. H. Wilmot.
4 vols. Robinson: 1809.
Scenes Of Life. By T. Harral, Esq. 3 vols. Crosby : 1807.
Schamyl; or The Wild Woman of Circassia. 53 penny nos,
H. Lea : 1856. By T. P. Prest.
Schemer, The. London: 1807. A translation of Pigault
Lebrun, L’Homme a Projets.
Scheming. A Novel. 3 vols. Colburn: 1821.
Schinderhannes, the Robber of the Rhine. By Leitch Ritchie.
In the “Library of Romance,” Vol. 2. Smith and Elder:
49^ A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
1833. In the “ Parlour Library,” No. XIII, 1848. Another
ed., 1878. There is an account of Schinderhannes, whose
real name was Johann Buckler, in MacFarlane’s Lives of
Banditti and Robbers, and his trial is in the Causes
Celebres. There is further a Vie de Schinderhannes, 2 vols.,
i2mo., by Mons. de Sevelinges. Born at Nastatten, Hessen-
Nassau, in 1779, this famous robber together with nineteen of
his band was executed at Mainz in 1803. George Almar, the
actor-dramatist, wrote a famous melodrama The Robber of
the Rhine ; or, Schinderhannes of the Owl Forest produced
at the Royal Pavilion, Mile End, the “ Newgate melodrama ”
house, on Monday, April 22nd, 1833, and as Schinderhannes!
The Robber of the Rhine at Sadler’s Wells, a week later,
Monday, April 29th. It is printed, Cumberland’s Minor
Theatre, vol. x; Lacy’s Acting Edition, vol. lxxxvii; Dicks’
Standard Plays, No. 917.
School For Fashion, The. By Mrs. Thicknesse. 2 vols. 8vo.
Debreet, etc. 1 800.
School For Fathers; Or The Victim Of A Curse; The. A
Novel. Containing Authentic Memoirs and Anecdotes with
Historical Facts. 3 vols. G. G. and J. Robinson: 1788.
School For Majesty; Or The Sufferings Of gjomelli, The. An
Oriental History. i2mo. W. Lane. MDCCLXXXIII. An
imitation of Rasselas.
School For Widows, The. By Clara Reeve. Author of The
Old English Baron, etc. 3 vols. Hookham : 1791.
School For Wives, The. In a series of letters. R. and J.
Dodsley : 1763.
Mr. Ralph Straus in his study Robert Dodsley quotes :
“ Feb.
19th, 1763, Rd of Mr. Dodsley Twenty four pounds fifteen
shillings for the use of Mr. Cooper of Shottisham in Norfolk
Rebecca Edwards for ye School of Wives.”
School Of Virtue, The. A novel on a new plan, inscribed to
Her Majesty, by a gentleman of the Temple. 2 vols. William
Lane. MDCCLXXXVII. By the same author, of the
Temple, Alfred and Cassandra, 1788.
Schoolmistress, The. A moral tale for young ladies. By Mrs.
Hunter, of Norwich. 2 vols. Minerva-Press, for A. K.
Newman. 1811.
ST, OSTJBERG
,
OR THI
CARMELITE MONK.
A ROMANCE.
I* FOUR VOLUMES.
TOL- !
Xonuon :
Printed by J. DEAN, 7. Wardour Street, Soho.
I1L18H ED AND SOLD BY M. TAYLOR AND CO.
25, DEAN t TRP.ST, SOHO, AND BY ALL
BOOKSELLERS.
1811.
ST. OSTBERG, OR THE CARMELITE MONK
A romance by Miss Caroline Horwood
Title page, First Edition, 1 8 1 i
TITLE INDEX 497
Scotch Law Suits; or, a Tale of the Eighteenth and Nine-
teenth Centuries. By the Author of The Two Brothers.
Robinson: 1812. By Mrs. Wilson.
Scotchwoman, The. By Anthony Frederick Holstein. 3 vols.
Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1814.
Scottish Chiefs, The. A Romance. By Miss Jane Porter. 5
vols. Longman: 1810. Second ed., 5 vols., 1811. Third
ed., 5 vols., 1816. Fourth ed., 5 vols., 1820. Another ed..
Virtue: N.D. [1822]. Another ed., In “Standard Novels,”
No. 7 and 8. Colburn and Bentley: 1831. Illustrated ed., 2
vols., London, Virtue: 1840. Another ed., “The Novelist,”
Vol. 3. 1840. In Routledge’s “Railway Library,” No. 68.
Price 2 s. Another ed., Weekly Penny Nos., 1853-4. Pub.
H. Lea, 22 Warwick Lane. Another ed., One vol., 8vo.,
London: Willoughby, 1854. Another ed., London [1855].
Another ed., 8vo, Halifax, 1862. Another ed., London,
Simpkin : 1862. Another ed., “ The Cottage Library,” Royal
32mo. One Shilling. Milner and Co.’s Cheap Books. N.D.
[c. 1869]. Another ed., London: 1870. Another ed.,
London: 1879. Another ed., Routledge, 1880. Another ed.,
Routledge, 1882.
There were throughout the nineteenth century several more
(mostly very cheap) reprints of this popular romance.
Les Chefs Ecossais. Roman historique . . . traduit de l’anglais
par le traducteur d’lda, etc. [Dubuc] 5 tom., Paris: 1814.
Scottish Chieftains ; or, The Perils of Love and War, The. By
Hannah Maria Jones. Virtue: 1831. Reprinted, John
Lofts, 1854. Issued in 59 penny nos., E. Lloyd: 1856.
Scottish Legend; Or, The Isle Of Saint Clothair, The. By T.
J. Horsley Curties. 4 vols. Minerva-Press, for William Lane.
1802.
Seabrook Village and Its Inhabitants. A Tale for Youth. By
Sophia F. Ziegenhirt. One vol., Colburn. 1811.
Sea-Devil; or, Son of a Bellows-mender, The. A Tragi-comic
Romance of the present Day. By Edward Rose, Seaman. 2
vols., Plymouth Dock: J. Roach. 1811. Vol I. was written
by Mr. Edward H. Rose, who died before the work was
completed. Vol. II. was written by Mr. Wild. Fielding and
Sterne are imitated. Advertised by Newman, 1812. 2 vols.
i2mo. Price gt.
K*
49& A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Sea Drift; or, The Wreckers of the Channel. A tale ashore
and afloat. By Malcolm J. Errym. American ed., New
York. 8vo. N.D. [i860].
Sea Fiend, The. A Leeendary Romance. 12 penny nos., E.
Lloyd: 1846.
Seamstress, The. A Domestic Tale. By G. W. M. Reynolds.
Also, later, as The Seamstress ; or, The White Slaves of
England. Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, concluding
August 10th, 1850. In Penny Weekly Numbers; Monthly
Sixpenny Parts; Nos. 1 and 2 issued on March 25th, 1853.
Reprinted, No. 102, Dicks’ English Novels. Price Sixpence
Each.
Sebastian and Isabel; or, The Invisible Sword. A Romance.
By T. C. Loney. [2-line quotation]. London: Printed for
Henry Colburn, English and Foreign Public Library, Conduit-
street, New Bond-street. 1 8 1 1
.
Sebastian and gfeila. Chapbook. 1802.
Secluded Man; or, The History of Mr. Oliver, The. By the
Rev. Mr. Holder (Cantilena captivitatis) 2 vols., Minerva-
Press, for William Lane. 1798.
Second Love ; or, The Way to be Happy. A Novel. By Miss
Norris. 2 vols. Crosby: 1805.
Secresy; or, The Ruin on the Rock. In three volumes. By a
Woman. London: Printed for the author, and sold by
William Lane, Leadenhall-Street ;
Knight and Co., booksellers
to His Majesty, St. James’s Street ;
Miller, Old Bond-Street
;
Hodgson, Wimpole-Street ;
E. Harlow, bookseller to the
Queen, Pall-Mall; and Scatchard, Paternoster-Row. [1795].
By Mrs. Fenwick.
Secret, The. A Novel. By Isabella Kelly. 4 vols. Norbury,
Brentford: 1805. Advertised by Newman, 1812. 4 vols.,
1 2 mo. 1 8y.
Secret Avengers; Or, The Rock Of Glotzden, The. A
Romance. By Ann of Swansea [Mrs. Ann Curtis]. 4 vols.
Minerva-Press : A. K. Newman. 1815. Dedicated to Miss-
Smith, of the Theatre-Royal, Drury-Lane.
Secret Foe, The. An Historical Novel. [By Ellen Pickering.]
3 vols., Boone: 1841.
TITLE INDEX 499
Secret Machinations. By Sarah Ann Hook. 4 vols. Dutton :
and Lane, Newman; Minerva-Press : 1804.
Secret Oath; or Blood-stained Dagger, The. A Romance.
i2mo. Frontispiece. London. Hurst: 1802.
A Gothic chapbook.
Secret Of The Cavern, The. A Novel. By Mrs. Burke. 2
vols. Minerva-Press; Lane, Newman. 1805.
Secret Service: A Tale of the Sea, The. By Malcolm J. Errym.
John Dicks : 1861. Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, com-
mencing Saturday, April 6th, 1861.
Secret Warning; or, The Fatal Hour, The. 8 nos. London:
(c. 1844).
Secrets In Every Mansion; Or, The Surgeon’s Memorandum
Book. A Scottish record. By Ann of Swansea [Mrs. Ann
Curtis]. 5 vols. Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 1818.
Secrets of a Physician. 24 penny nos. E. Lloyd: 1847.
Secrets made Public. A novel. By James Norris Brewer. 4
vols. Minerva-Press; Lane, Newman. 1808.
Secrets of the Castle, The. By David Carey. 2 vols. Crosby:
1806.
Secrets of the Dissecting Room. 6 penny nos. No Publisher’s
name. N.D. c. 1840.
Secrets of the Sewers of London. 103 penny nos. E. Lloyd :
1847.
Secretary; or Circumstantial Evidence, The. A domestic
romance. 25 penny nos. London; E. Lloyd: 1848.
Seduction; a History of Lady Revel. 2 vols., Axtell. 1787.
Also advertised by Lane, 1787. 2 vols. 5E
Seer Of Tiviotdale, The. A Romance. By Louisa Sidney
Stanhope. 4 vols. A. K. Newman: 1827.
Self-Condemned, The. [By Thomas Gaspey.] 3 vols., Long-
man: 1836.
Self-Deceived ; or, The History of Lord Byron, The. F. and J.
Noble: 1773.
5°° A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Self-Deception. In a Series of Letters. By Emma Parker. 2
vols. T. Egerton : 1816.
Self-Tormentor, The. 3 vols. Wilkies: 1789.
Selima, Or The Village Tale, A Novel, In A Series Of Letters,
By The Authoress Of Fanny. [Mrs. Margaret Holford.] In
Six Volumes. Vol. I. (-II., -III., -IV., -V., -VI.). London,
Printed And Sold For The Authoress, By T. Hookham, New
Bond-Street; And P. Broster, Chester. N.D. [1793].
Selina: founded on Facts. By A Lady. 3 vols. Minerva-Press,
for William Lane. 1800.
Semler, a Tale of Marriage. By J. A. I. Semler. One vol.,
A. K. Newman: N.D. [1821?]. Editor, Johann Immanuel
Augustus Semler.
Sempronia. A Tale to the Heart. In a series of letters. 3 vols.
William Lane, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCXC.
Sentimental Deceiver ; or, The Ilistory of Miss Hammond, The.
A novel. In a Series of Letters. By A Lady. William Lane,
Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXIV.
A Sentimental Journey Through Margate And Hastings. By
Dr. Comparative, Jun. London : Printed for A. K. Newman
and Co., Leadenhall-Street. 1819. Aquatint frontispiece.
Printed by J. Brettell, Rupert Street, Haymarket.
Sentimental Traveller; or, A Descriptive Tour through
Life, The. 2 vols. William Lane, Leadenhall-Street.
MDCCLXXXIV.
Sepoy’s Daughter, The. A True Tale of the Indian War. By
An Eye Witness. 109 penny nos., London. H. Lea: i860.
A Sequel to Ccelebs ; or the Stanley Letters: containing Obser-
vations on Religion and Morals; with Anecdotes founded on
Fact. Jones: 1812.
Seraphina, or A Winter in Town. A Modern Novel. By
Caroline Burney. 3 vols. Hughes: 1809.
Serena. A novel. In three volumes. By Catharine Selden,
Author of The English Nun, etc. Minerva-Press, for William
Lane. 1800.
A Series of Genuine Letters Between Henry and Frances, [i.e.
TITLE INDEX 5° I
Richard and Elizabeth Griffith, under whom see in the Index
of Authors], 2 vols., W. Johnston, 1757; 2nd ed., 2 vols.,
ibid., 1761. Vols. 3 and 4, 1766. The Third Edition,
Revised, Corrected, Enlarged and Improved, By the Authors.
(348 Letters.) 2 vols. W. Johnston, in Ludgate Street,
MDCCLXVII. Vols. 5 and 6, 1770. Another ed., Richard-
son and Urquhart, 1770. A new ed., 6 vols. 1786.
Setting Sun; or Devil amongst the Placemen, The. To which
is added a new musical drama; being a parody on the
Beggar’s Opera, as lately acted ... at the Theatre Royal,
Gloster Place. 3 vols. London : 1809. By Cervantes Hogg
[Eaton Stannard Barrett].
Seven Amber Eyes, or, The Demon of the Fleet Ditch, The. By
Stephen H. Agnew. No. 163. Dick Turpin Library', Aldine
Publishing Co., 1, 2 and 3, Crown Court, Chancery Lane,
London.
Seventh Stair, The. A melodrama popular at the minors and
gaffs, upon which a lurid romance of the same name was
founded. Also an alternative title to By The Queen’s
Command.
Seventy-Six. By the Author of Logan. [John Neal] Baltimore :
Printed London : Reprinted for G. and W. B. Whittaker. 3
vols. 1823.
Seymour Castle; or, The History of Julia and Cecilia. An
entertaining and interesting novel. 2 vols. 1789.
Shadow ; or The Wife’s Devotion, The. A romantic Tale. By
Malcolm J. Errym. John Dicks: 1861. Serialized in
Reynolds’s Miscellany, commencing Saturday, November
10th, i860.
She Thinks For Herself. 3 vols. Longman : 1813.
She Tiger; or The Female Fiend of Paris, The. Published in
penny nos.; Sinnett, 490 Oxford Street. 1853.
She Would be a Heroine. By Sophia Griffith. 3 vols. Bald-
win and Co. 1816.
Sheet Anchor Jack. Hogarth House, n.d. In the later issues
the inset plates do not appear.
Shenstone-Green ; or, The New Paradise Lost. Being A History
502 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
of Human Nature. Written by the Proprietor of the Green.
The Editor Courtney Melmoth. 3 vols. Baldwin: 1799.
By S. J. Pratt.
Sherwood Forest; or, Northern Adventures. By Mrs. Villa
Real Gooch. 3 vols. Highley : 1 804. Attributed to Lane,
Newman, and Co., Minerva Press by the Literary Journal,
May, 1804, and The Critical Review, September, 1804. The
Monthly Review, October, 1804, says Highley.
The Shipwreck ; or Paul and Mary. An Indian Tale. Adver-
tised by Lane, 1 790. 2 vols. Price 5J, A translation of J. H.
Bemardin de St. Pierre, Paul et Virginie.
Shipwreck ; or, Memoirs of an Irish Officer and his Family, The.
By Theodore Edgeworth, Esq. 3 vols. Tegg : 1811.
Shipwrecked Stranger, The. A sequel to the Ruined Cottage.
By Hannah Maria Jones. Issued in penny nos. by W.
Caffyn, 31 Oxford Street, Mile End, 1848.
Shrewtzer Castle; or the Perfidious Brother. A German
Romance Including the pathetic tale of Edmund’s Ghost.
Frontispiece. 1802. Gothic chapbook.
Shrine of Bertha, The. A novel in a Series of Letters. By Miss
M. E. Robinson. 2 vols. William Lane at the Minerva
Press : MDCCXCIV. Second ed„ 2 vols., ibid. MDCCXCVI.
Maria Elizabeth Robinson, daughter of Mrs. Mary “Perdita”
Robinson.
Shrove-tide Child; or, The Son of a Monk, The. A Novel
translated from the French, London: 1797. A translation
of L’Enfant du Carnival, 1792, by Pigault Lebrun. In 1825
Wilton and Son, 245 High Holbom, issued “ The French
Novelist,” weekly parts, 2 d. each, and herein a version of
L’Enfant du Carnival was included under the more ribald
and unseemly title The Amour of a Friar. Spanish trans-
lation : El Hijo del Carnaval, traducida en Castellana por
Mingo Revulgo. 4 tom. Burdeos : 1822.
Sibyl’s Little Daughter. A Sequel to the “ Gipsy’s Daughter.”
By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey. 2 vols. Newby: 1854.
Sibyl’s Warning, The. A romance. 2 vols. Chappie: 1827.
Sicilian, The. A novel. By the author of The Mysterious Wife
TITLE INDEX 503
[Gabrielli, i.e. Mrs. Meeke]. 4 vols. At the Minerva-Press,
for William Lane. MDCCXCVIII.
Sicilian, The. A Romance. By J. T. Bennett. 2 vols. Newby:
1846.
Sicilian Boy, The. By William Child Green. London: 1824.
Sicilian Mysteries; or, The Fortress Del Vechii. A Romance.
In Five Volumes. [3-line quotation from Ossian]. London:
Printed for Henry Colburn, English and Foreign Public
Library, Conduit-Street, Hanover-Square. 1812. By Ann
of Swansea, i.e. Mrs. Ann Curtis.
Sicilian Pirate, The; or The Pillar of Mystery, a Terrific
Romance. Chapbook. c. 1800.
A Sicilian Romance. By the Authoress of the Castles of Athlin
and Dunbayne [Mrs. Ann Aadcliffe]. 2 vols. “ I could a
Tale unfold.” Hookham and Carpenter : 1790. Seconded.,
2 vols., 1792. Third ed., 2 vols., 1796. The Fourth Edition.
In Two Volumes. London: Printed For Longman, Hurst,
Rees, And Orme, Paternoster-Row. 1809. (Strahan and
Preston, Printers-Street, London). Fifth ed., 2 vols., Long-
man : 1818. A new ed., 2 vols., A. K. Newman, Minerva
Press: 1820. In Ballantyne’s Novelist’s Library. With
Memoirs by Sir Walter Scott. Vol. 10. 1821.
Sicilian Romance, by the celebrated Ann Radcliffe, orna-
mented with 4 engravings, the 2 volumes in 3 numbers is. 6d.,
bound in boards 2s. od. S. Fisher, 15 1 St. John Street, West
Smithfield, 1824. Another ed., Printed and published by J.
Limbird, 143 Strand. 1824. Another ed., 1826. Another
ed., one vol., Aberdeen, G. Clark and Son ;
Dublin, J.
M’Glashan : 1848. Another ed., one vol., N.D. [c. 1887].
During the nineteenth century several cheap reprints of A
Sicilian Romance were published. For translations, adap-
tations, dramatizations, see under Mrs. Radcliffe, Index of
Authors.
Sidney Castle; or, The Sorrows of De Courci. A Novel. By
the Author of Edmund ; or the Child of the Castle. 2 vols.
William Lane, at the Minerva Press. MDCCXCII.
Sidney Place ; or. The Bracelet. 2 vols. W. Lane. Leaden-
hall-Street. MDCCLXXXVIII.
5°4 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Sidney Romelee. A Tale of New England. By Mrs. S[arahj
J. Hale. 3 vols. A. K. Newman: 1827.
Siege Of Aubigny, The. An Historical Novel. By Major
Mante. [Translated from the French of M. D’Uffieux by
Thomas Mante.] Hookham : 1781.
Siege Of Belgrade, The. An historical novel. Translated from
a German manuscript. 2 vols. Symonds. 1741 (for 1791).
Siege Of Kenilworth, The. A Romance. By Louisa Sidney
Stanhope. 4 vols. A. K. Newman; Minerva Press. 1824.
Sigisman. By the Author of Villeroy [Henry Whitfield]. 3 vols.
Dutton. 1799.
Silvanella; Or, The Gypsey. 4 vols., 1812. Gloucester.
Printed by Joseph Wood Brisley [Bisley] Stroud and Wash-
boum, Gloucester. Also 4 vols. with another title-page read-
ing : London. Printed at the Minerva-Press for A. K.
Newman and Co., Leadenhall-Street. 1812. The Monthly
Review, October, 1812, gives Newman as the publisher. In
1813 Newman advertises Silvanella, 4 vols., i2mo, 20.L The
story of Silvanella for the greater part takes place in
Gloucestershire. The novel has a long list of Subscribers,
mostly local names. Newman and other London publishers
were wont to handle locally printed novels (supplying a new
Minerva or other title-page) for the London market. See for
a second example under Netley Abbey.
Silver Lion ; or the Terror of Epping Forest. By Stephen H.
Agnew. No. 176. Dick Turpin Library. Aldine Publishing
Co., Crown Court, Chancery Lane, London.
Silver Lock; or, Italian Banditti, The. An original Romance
by Isaac Crookenden, with two Engravings, complete in one
number, 6d., bound in boards os. 9 d. S. Fisher, 15 1 St. John
Street, West Smithheld. 1824.
Simple Facts; or. The History of an Orphan. By Mrs.
Mathews. 2 vols. Richardson: 1793.
A Simple Narrative; Or, A Visit to the Newton Family. 2
vols. Minerva-Press; Lane, Newman. 1806.
A Simple Story. By Elizabeth Inchbald. 4 vols. G. G. and J.
Robinson. 1791. (Published in February.)
TITLE INDEX 5°S
Second ed., 4 vols., ibid. 1791 (Published in May).
First Irish ed., 2 vols., Dublin, W. Wilson: 1791.
A Simple Story was very popular and frequently reprinted.
In Mrs. Barbauld’s “British Novelists,” Vol. 28: 1810.
A Simple Story. New ed., with plates. 2 vols. i2mo.
Paris, T. Barrois : 1808. Another ed., 8vo. London: 1823..
In Bentley’s “Standard Novels” Vol. 26: 1838. (
Nature
and Art in same volume).
In “ The Romancist, and Novelist’s Library,” Vol. IV, No,.
90. J. Clements: 1840.
“The Parlour Library.” Vol. 85, 1848.
“ Illustrated Literature of All Nations” (1851, etc.). No. 18.
A Simple Story. 8vo. London. Bentley. 1849.
A Simple Story, and Nature and Art. 8vo. London, De La
Rue & Co. 1880.
A Simple Story. 8vo. London. Routledge : 1885 [1884].
Simple Histoire. Traduction de l’anglois par M. Deschamps.
2 tom., Maestricht. 1793.
Simplicity in a Cottage or the Village Fete, comprising the
Wonderful History of Henry and Adeline. A Pathetic Tale.
Frontispiece. N.D. [c. 1810]. Chapbook.
Sinclair; Or, The Mysterious Orphan. A Novel. By Mrs.
Mary Pilkington. 4 vols. Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman. 181 1.
Singer's Penny Magazine And Reciter’s Album, The. Edited
by Mr. T. Prest, Author of Several Popular Dramas, Tales,
Poems, etc., etc. 3 vols. London, G. Drake, 12 Houghton
Street, Clare Market. 1855-6. A vast collection of Songs,
Recitations, and the like.
Singularity. By Jane Harvey. 3 vols. A. K. Newman: 1822.
Sir Edward Seaward’s narrative of his shipwreck and consequent
discovery of certain islands in the Caribbean Sea. Edited by
Miss J. Porter. 3 vols. London: 1831. Rather written
(than edited) by Miss Jane Porter.
American ed., New York, 3 vols., 1831.
Third ed., 2 vols., London: 1841.
In “ The Traveller’s Library,” abridged from the last edition
of the original. 2 parts. Vol. XXL 1856. Another ed.,
8vo. London: 1878. Another ed., Preface by W. H. G.
Kingston. London; Edinburgh [1879]. Another ed., Lou-
don; Routledge [1883].
506 a gothic bibliography
Sir Ethelbert. By Catherine Cuthbertson. 3 vols., 1830.
Sir Ferdinand of England. A Romance. By James Norris
Brewer. 4 vols., Minerva-Press ;
Lane, Newman. 1802.
Second ed., Minerva-Press; A. K. Newman. 1813.
Sir Gilbert Easterling. A Romance. By James Norris Brewer.
4 vols., Minerva-Press; A. K. Newman. 1813.
Sir Guy De Lusignan, a Romance. By Miss Ellis Cornelia
Knight. 2 vols., Saunders and Ottley : 1833.
Sir Owen Glendowr, and Other Tales. By Anthony Frederick
Holstein. 3 vols. Minerva-Press; Lane, Newman. 1808.
Sir Ralph De Bigod. A Romance Of The Nineteenth Century,
Interspersed With Anecdotes Of Real Life. In Four Volumes.
By Edward Moore, Esq. [Quotation, 6 lines : Crabbe.] Vol.
I (-II, -III, -IV). London: Printed At The Minerva-Press,
For A. K. Newman And Co. (
Successors to Lane, Newman,
and Co.) Leadenhall-Street. 1811.
Sir Ralph Willoughby: An Historical Tale of the Sixteenth
Century. By Sir Egerton Brydges, Bart. Florence. 1820.
Sir Roland, a Romance. By Hal Willis. 4 vols., A. K.
Newman: 1822. Hal Willis, pseudonym of Charles Robert
Forrester.
Sir William Dorien : a domestic story. By the Author of
Margiana. [Mrs. S. Sykes, afterwards Lady Sykes.] 3 vols.
Minerva-Press; A. K. Newman. 1812.
Sisters, The. A Domestic Tale. By the Author of The Clergy-
man’s Widow and Family, etc., etc. [Mrs. Hofland.] One
vol., Longman, 1813. Printed by J. Raw, Ipswich. Also
with Raw’s name as printer on verso of title-page and at end.
Printed at the Minerva-Press, for A. K. Newman and Co.,
1814.
Sisters Of St. Got hard, The. A tale. By Elizabeth Cullen
Brown. 2 vols., Minerva Press, A. K. Newman. 1819.
Six Weeks at Long’s. By A Late Resident. [Eaton Stannard
Barrett.] London: Printed for the Author. 3 vols., 1817.
Second ed., 1817. Third ed., 1817. Byron, Wordsworth,
Southey, Thomas Moore and others are introduced by Barrett
in his chapters under feigned names.
TITLE INDEX 507
Sixteen-String Jack. See under Jack Rann.
Skeleton, The. Chapbook. 1805.
Skeleton Clutch; or, The Goblet of Gore, The. A romance.
By T. Prest. E. Lloyd: 1842.
Skeleton Horseman ; or, The Shadow Of Death, The. Penny
nos. Offices: Newsagents’ Publishing Company, 147 Fleet
Street.
Skeleton Horseman ; or, The Masked Mystery. By the Author
of Buffalo Bill. Published October 27th, 1906. No. 564 :
Penny Serial Story Book.
Sketch Book, The, by Bos. Penny weekly nos. E. Lloyd,
62 Broad Street, Bloomsbury: 1836. By T. P. Prest. See
under Bos, Index of Authors.
A Sketch of her own Circle. By Miss Russel. 4 vols., A. K.
Newman: 1823.
Sketches from Nature; or, The History of Henry and Lucy
Stanley. 3 vols., 1778.
Sketches of Character; or, Specimens of Real Life. 3 vols.,
Longman and Co., 1819.
Sketches from Nature, taken and coloured in a Journey to
Margate. Published from the Original Designs. By George
Keate, Esq., 2 vols., Dodsley :
1779. Second ed., 2 vols.,
1779. Fourth ed., 2 vols., 1790.
This book was very popular and reprinted several times.
There is a French translation. The reviewers hailed Keate
as Sterne’s “ legitimate offspring.”
Slapcrash Boys, The. 12 nos., 8vo., n.d. ;
woodcuts.
Slavery; or, The Times. By the Author of Monmouth, the
Danish Massacre. 2 vols., Crown 8vo., Robinsons. 1792.
By Mrs. Anna Maria Mackenzie, whom see in the Index of
Authors.
Smiles and Tears ; A Tale of Our Own Times. By J. F. Smith :
1837-8. Cassell’s Illustrated Paper (new series). See J. F.
Smith, Index of Authors American ed., New York, Dick
& Fitzgerald. N.D. [c. 1885]. In two separate volumes as,
Dick Markham; or, Smiles and Tears, 75 cents; and Lilian;
or, The Adventures of an Heiress, one dollar.
508 a gothic bibliography
Bolese i Radose: powiese wspolezesna z angielskiego. 4 vols.,,
1 ^ 73 -
Smuggler King, The. 56 penny nos., E. Lloyd: 1844.
Society and Manners. A Novel. By G. Moore. 2 vols., 1779.
Society and Solitude. A Novel. 3 vols., i2mo. A. K. Newman :
1821. By Innes Hoole.
Soldier Boy, The. A novel. By the Author of The Sailor Boy..
3 vols., Minerva-Press ;
for William Lane. 1801.
The same author also wrote Nobility Run Mad, 1802; and
Diurnal Events, 1816.
Soldier Boy; or, The Last of the Lyalls, The. By Rosalia St.
Clair. 3 vols., A. K. Newman: 1831.
Soldier of Pennaflor, The. 5 vols. Minerva-Press, A. K. New-
man. 1812.
Soldier’s Child, The. A Novel. By Caroline Richardson. 2.
vols., A. K. Newman: 1821.
Soldier’s Family ; or, Guardian Genii, The. By Mrs. Anne
Ormsby. 4 vols., Crosby: 1810.
A Soldier’s Offspring; or, The Sisters. A tale. By Emma De
Lisle. 2 vols., Minerva-Press; A. K. Newman. 1810.
Soldier’s Orphan, The. A Tale by Mrs. Costello. 3 vols.,.
Longman and Co., 1809.
Soldier’s Victim ; or, The Sister of Mercy, The. 36 penny nos.,.
H. Lea : 1858.
Soldier’s Wife; The. By G. W. M. Reynolds. Published in.
Penny Numbers; Monthly Sixpenny Parts. Nos. 1 and 2 (in
an Illustrated Wrapper) issued on Friday, November 12th,
1852. 60,000 copies of Nos. 1 and 2 were sold on the day
of publication. Afterwards with sub-title The Cat-O’-Nine
Tails, complete in one vol., price 2 s. 6d., June 1853. Re-issue
in Penny Parts, Nos. 1 and 2, September 1 6th, 1853. Re-
printed, No. 95, Dicks’ English Novels, Price Sixpence Each.
Solemn Injunction, The. A Novel. By Agnes Musgrave-
4 vols., W. Lane; Minerva-Press, for William Lane-
MDCCXCVIII. Frontispiece.
TITLE INDEX 509
Solitary Castle ; a romance of the eighteenth century, The. By
the author of The Village of Martindale. 2 vols., W. Lane,
Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXIX. Frontispiece. By Mr.
Nicholson.
Solyman And Fatima; or, The Sceptic Convinced. An Eastern
Tale. By J. Wright. 2 vols., Small 8vo., Bcw : 1791.
Dublin ed., 8vo. 1792.
Somerset ; or, The Dangers of Greatness. A Tale, founded on
historic truths. 2 vols; William Lane, at the Minerva Press.
MDCCXCII. By Henry Siddons.
Somerset Castle ; or, The Father and Daughter. A Tragic Tale.
To which is added Ghost or no Ghost, or the Dungeon.
Pub. Ann Lemoine, White Rose Court, Coleman-street. With
a frontispiece. N.D. [1804]. Gothic chapbook.
Something New. 2 vols., E. & C. Dilly : 1772. By Richard
Griffith.
Something New ; or, Adventures at Campbell House. By Anne
Plumptre. 3 vols., Longman and Co., 1803.
Something Odd! A Novel. In Three Volumes. By Gabrielli
[Mrs. Mary Meeke]. Minerva-Press; Lane, Newman. 1804.
Something Strange. A Novel. In Four Volumes. By Gabrielli
[Mrs. Mary Meeke]. Minerva-Press; Lane, Newman. 1806.
Son and the Nephew ; or, More Secrets than One, The. By
Catherine G. Ward. 3 vols. Minerva-Press; A. K. Newman :
1815.
Son Of Ethelwolf, The. An Historical Tale. By the Author
of Alan Fitz-Osbome, etc. [Ann Fuller]. 2 vols., G. G. J.
and J. Robinson: 1789.
Son Of O’Donnell, The. A Novel. By Rosalia St. Clair. 3
vols., Minerva-Press; A. K. Newman. 1819.
Son Of The Storm, The. A Tale. By Henry Siddons. 4 vols.,
Longman. 1809. Advertised by Newman, 1813. 4 vols.,
Price i85\
Der Sonderling, 1793, by A. H. J. Lafontaine. Often considered
his best romance. French translation by Madame de Monto-
lieu, Le Village de Lobenstein, ou le nouvel Enfant Trouve,
510 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Geneve et Paris, 5 vols., 1802. English translation. Loben-
stein Village. A Novel. In Four Volumes. Translated
By Mrs. Meeke. From the French of Augustus La Fontaine.
4 vols., Minerva-Press. Lone, Newman: 1804.
It is plain that Mrs. Meeke used the French version and not
the German original.
Sons Of Altringham, The. A Novel. By Alicia Tyndal Palmer.
3 vols., Lackington : 1811.
Sons Of St. David, The. A Cambro-British Historical Taler
of the Fourteenth Century. By Griffiths Ap Griffiths, Esq.
3 vols., Minerva-Press; for A. K. Newman. 1816.
Sons of the Viscount and the Daughters of the Earl, The. A
Novel, depicting Scenes in Fashionable Life. By A Lady
[Selina Davenport]. 4 vols., Colburn: 1813.
Sophia; or, The Embarrassed Wife. 2 vols., Allen: 1788.
Sophia St. Clare. 2 vols., Johns: 1807.
Sorcerer, The. A Talq From The German Of Veit Weber.
London : Printed For J. Johnson, In St. Paul’s Church-Yard.
1795. One vol., pp. 210.
This translation of Georg Philipp Ludwig Leonhard
Wachter’s Die Teufelsbeschworung is by Robert Huish.
An opera, The Devil of a Lover, words by Mowbray, music
T. Attwood, produced at Covent Garden, Saturday, March
17th, 1798, is founded on this romance.
Sorrows Of Edith; or, The Hermitage of the Cliffs, The. A
descriptive tale founded on Facts. By Mrs. Burke. 2 vols.,,
Crosby: 1796.
Les Souterrains de Birtningham, ou Henriette Herefort. By
Elisabeth Guenard, baronne de Mere. 4 tom., Paris: 1822.
South West, The. By the Author of The Pirate of the Gulf;
or, Lafitte. [1835.]
Southern Tower; or, Conjugal Sacrifice and Retribution, The.
i2mo. London; T. Hurst: 1820, pp. 72.
Spangles and Gold. By E. Harcourt Burrage. See under Young
Briton.
Spaniard ; or, The Pride of Birth, The. A Tale. By M. Rymer.
One vol., Robinson: 1808.
TITLE INDEX 5 1 1
Spanish Lady; and the Norman Knight, The. A Romance
of the Eleventh Century. By Kate Montalbion. 2 vols.,
Hughes: 1810.
Spanish Outlaw, The. A Tale. By William Herbert, Esq.
In Four Volumes. Vol. I (-II, -III, -IV). London: Printed
For J. F. Hughes, Wigmore-Street, Cavendish Square. 1807.
An epistolary novel.
Spanish Campaign ; or, The Jew, The. A novel by Mrs. Meeke.
3 vols., Minerva-Press ;
A. K. Newman. 1815.
Specimens of German Romance. Translated by George Soane.
i2mo. London ;
Whittaker : 1826. Contains:
—
Master Flea,
by Hoffmann. The Blind Passenger, by F. Laun (Friedrich
August Schulze). The Mantle, by Christiane Benedicte
Eugenie Naubert. The Patricians, by Karl Franz van de
Velde.
Spectre, The. Quotation, 6 lines, Vergil, /Eneid, VI, 452-60,
omitting 456, 457, 459, and the word “ regina.” Vol I.
Ornamented With A Frontispiece. (Vol. II.) London
:
Printed For John Stockdale, Opposite Burlington House,
Piccadilly. MDCCLXXXIX. In Two Volumes, by Charles
Andrews. The Frontispiece. W. Bromley sculp, was Pub-
lished Feb. 12th, ijdg, by J. Stockdale. It is reproduced,
facing p. 50, of The Gothic Quest by Montague Summers.
The Spectre is an epistolary novel of 52 letters with a Con-
clusion. Epistle Dedicatory, pp. iii-xvi.
Spectre Barber, The. A Tale of the Sixteenth Century.
“ Romancist and Novelist’s Library.” Vol. II, No. 31. J.
Clements: 1839.
Spectre Chief ; or, The Bloodstained Banner, The. An Ancient
Romance. And Baron Fitzalan. A Baronial Romance. By
F. Legge. London, Bailey, c. 1800. Coloured frontispiece.
Chapbook variety.
Spectre Mother; or, The Haunted Tower, The. London.
i2mo. N.D. [c. 1800]. Chapbook.
Spectre Nun, The. London. i2mo. [c. 1802.]
Spectre of Lanmere Abbey, The. By Sarah Wilkinson. 1820.
A short tale which endeavours very feebly to explain away the
ghostly visitants. Thus the Spectre proves to be mortal, “ a
512 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
tall figure dressed in white, and a long, transparent veil flow-
ing are her whole figure.”
Spectre of the Forest, The. A Romance. 3 vols., A. K.
Newman: 1826. By the Rev. Thomas Berkeley Greaves.
Spectre of the Mountain of Grenada; The. A Romance. In
Three Volumes. [5-line quotation from Shakespeare.]
London : Printed by John Dean, 57 Wardour Street, Soho.
For George Hughes, 221, Tottenham-court Road. Bookseller
to her R.H. the Princess of Wales. 1811.
Miss Blakey, The Minerva Press iygo-1820, London. Printed
For The Bibliographical Society At The University Press,
Oxford, 1939 (For 1935), p. 237, states that Spectre Of The
Mountain Of Granada (sic) was “ Printed at the Minerva-
Press, for A. K. Newman and Co.”, but since she quite
obviously had not seen the romance and gives no authority
for naming the Minerva Press, A. K. Newman and Co., as the
publishers, I imagine that her hazard is merest conjecture.
Spectre of the Turret; or, Guolto Castle, The. By Isaac
Crookenden. [c. 1810.] Chapbook.
Spinster’s Journal, The. By a Modem Antique. [Medora
Gordon Byron.] Minerva Press; A. K. Newman. 1816.
Spirit Of The Castle, The. A Romance. By W. C. Proby.
2 vols., Crosby: 1802.
Spirit Of The Elbe, The. A Romance. 3 vols., Longman:
1798.
Spirit Of Turretville; or, The Mysterious Resemblance, The.
A Romance of the 12th Century. 2 vols., Dutton : 1800.
Spirit of the Grotto; or, The Castle of St. George, The. A
Romance. By Emilia Grosett. Mason (
c
.
1799).
Spiritual Quixote, The; or, The Summers Ramble of Mr.
Geoffrey Wildgoose. A Comic Romance. [By the Rev.
Richard Graves.] 3 vols., J. Dodsley :
1773. 074 {bis)\
1 7 8 3; 3 vols. J. Dodsley, 1792. Vignette-title to Vol. I
and frontispiece. Vols. II and III have each a frontispiece.
1797, Cooke’s Edition; 1808; 1810, Vols. XXXII and
XXXIII of Barbauld’s “British Novelists”; 1816, in
Walker’s “British Classics.” The Spiritual Quixote; Intro-
9 rSobcl.
IN FOUR VOLUMES.
kt.niKi.n i ii O'; riiv. : r.t m u ut
nn ;; ir-nuMixir.,
M R S. M K K K K,
A ilh'>r 0/ /fluth <'' /
': Van, tin \iri';,rn 9
tS ( X r.
“ O passions lies homraes
VOL. I.
LONDON
t
PRINTED AT T H
E
Ci3inertJa=lPteGj,
FOR LANE AND NEWMAN,
I.EADEN HALL-STREET.
1803 .
A TALE OF MYSTERY, OR CELINA
A novel adapted from the French of Ducray-Duminil by Mrs. Meeke
Title page, First Edition, 1803
TITLE INDEX 5*3
duction by Charles Whibley. Edition limited to 700 sets.
8vo. 36L net. P. Davies (Oct.) 1926. The Spiritual
Quixote, Introduction by Charles Whibley. 2 vols. in One.
8vo., 10.L 6d. P. Davies (Sept), 1928.
Splendid Follies. A Novel: Founded on Facts. 3 vols., Hughes :
1810. By the Author of Montrose; or, The Gothic Ruin.
Splendid Misery. A Novel. By T. S. Surr. 3 vols., London,
Hurst: 1801. Another ed., 1814. Fifth ed., 3 vols., A. K.
Newman: 1821
Some Account of Myself. By Charles Earl, of Erpingham.
4 vols., Newman; Minerva-Press : 1817.
Some Account of the Life of the Late Gilbert Earle, Esq.,
Written by Himself. 8vo., Charles Knight: 1824. By Barry
St. Leger. Gilbert Earle. One vol., Third Ed., Advertised
among New Publications by A. K. Newman and Co., 1834.
Sorrows Of Gustavus, The; or, The History Of A Young
Swede. 2 vols., Henry Colburn: 1808.
Splendour of Adversity, The. A Domestic Story. By the
Author of Black Rock House ;
Winter in Bath, etc. 3 vols.,
Crosby: 1814. By Mrs. Bayfield.
Spoiled Child, The. A Novel. By Mrs. Howell. 2 vols., W.
Lane; at the Minerva Press. MDCCXCVII.
Spring Heeled Jack, the Terror of London. 48 penny nos.
London : Charles Fox, 4 Shoe Lane, Fleet Street, E.C. Melo-
dramas with this title were popular at the minor theatres
and gaffs.
Spring Heeled Jack Library. Aldine. 12 nos. Coloured
wrappers.
Stage-Coach, The. Containing the Character of Mr. Manly,
and the History of his Fellow-Travellers. [By Miss Smythies.]
London; T. Osborne: 1753. Second ed., 2 vols., London:
1
755*
Another ed., 2 vols., W. Jhonson, Berwick: 1789. Another
ed., 3 vols., London: 1791.
A German translation was published at Leipzig and Rostock,
1777-78.
514 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Stanfield Hall. By J. F. Smith. London Journal
,
1849-50.
For details see under J. F. Smith, Index of Authors.
Stanfield Hall. A romance in two Chronicles. Issued in
weekly penny nos., 50 nos. E. Lloyd: 1851. Stanfeld Hall,
in two Chronicles: 59 nos., E. Lloyd: 1856. The Third
Chronicle, serialized London Journal, May to November
1850, was issued separately as a complete one volume romance,
entitled Cromwell. To be distinguished from Cromwell.
An Historical Novel. By Henry W. Herbert, Author of
“ The Brothers,” etc., of which there was a one volume
edition. Aberdeen, George Clark and Son ;
Dublin, j.
M’Glashan, in 1848.
Stanfield Hall, re-issue. N.D. [c. 1868].
Stanfield Hall. A Romantic Historical Novel. By the Author
of “ Amy Lawrence ;
or, The Freemason’s Daughter,”
“ Minnie Grey,” etc. This book contains 432 closely printed
large octavo pages, and is illustrated with 16 engravings. 1
dollar, 50 cents. New York, Dick & Fitzgerald. N.D.
[1883-4].
Stanfield Hall. (Vol. I). Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert,
R.A. In handsome illustrated covers. Bradley and Co.,
12 and 13 Fetter Lane. London: 1888.
Stanmore ; or, The Monk, and The Merchant’s Widow. By
Sophia Reeve. 3 vols., Whittaker: 1824.
Star in the Dark, The. By the Author of “ Whitefriars,” etc.
[Emma Robinson.] 1856.
The Star in the Dark commenced as a serial in The London
Journal, Vol. XXIII, No. 578, for the week ending March
22nd, 1856. The instalment, Chapter XI, in No. 583,
April 26th, following has To be continued in our next but
seemingly the tale broke off abruptly here and was not carried
further. Blythe Hall by Percy St. John commenced as the
principal serial on April 12th, 1856, and ran until the follow-
ing August 1 6th, in which number began Quadroona by the
same author. Quadroona concluded, Chapter LIX, on
February 28th, 1857.
Star of the Ballet, The. 1
1
penny nos., E. Lloyd : 1848.
Statira ; or, The Mother. A novel by the Author of Interesting
Tales. [Mrs. Showes.] Minerva-Press ;
for William Lane.
MDCCXCVIII.
TITLE INDEX 515
Statue Room, The. An Historical Romance. By Rossetta
Ballin. 2 vols., H. D. Symonds : 1790.
Stella of the North; or, The Foundling of the Ship. A novel.
By the Author of Adelaide De Narbonne, etc. 4 vols.,
Minerva-Press ;
Lane, Newman. 1802. By Miss Helen
Craik.
Stellino ; or, The New Werter. 2 vols., Minerva-Press, for
William Lane. MDCCXCIII.
Step-Mother ; a Domestic Tale from Real Life, The. By A
Lady. [Helena Wells, afterwards Mrs. Whitford.] 2 vols.,
Longman: 1798.
Stories Of The Four Nations, Containing Montargis, a French
Story; My Aunt Patty, an English Story; Lillias De Lara,
a Spanish Story; The Calabrian, an Italian Story. In Five
Volumes. Minerva-Press; A. K. Newman. 1813. Frontis-
piece.
By Mrs. S. Sykes, afterwards Lady Sykes,
Stories of the Ship. Chapbook, 1807.
Story of Al Raoui, A Tale from the Arabic, The. London:
C. Geisweiler, Robinson, Symonds, Richardson ;
Keil (Magde-
burg) ;
Hoffman (Hamburg) ;
Goeschen and Beygang
(Leipzig). 1799. It has been conclusively shown that Al
Raoui is the work of the Rev. Samuel Henley, and not by
Beckford to whom it is generally ascribed. See under Beck-
ford, Index of Authors.
Story of Isabel, The. A Tale. 3 vols., Longman: 1826. By
Mary Ann Kelty.
Story of Lady Juliana Harley, The. A Novel in Letters. By
Mrs. Griffith. 2 vols., Caclell :
1776.
Story of Morelia de Alto, The. By Isaac Crookenden. One
vol. n.d. [c. 1808].
Stradella; or, The Power of Song. An Italian Romance. 13
penny nos., London; Dipple : 1848. Suggested by and
founded upon Flotow’s opera, which (libretto altered, by
Alfred Bunn, music arranged by Julius, or Jules, Benedict)
had been produced with great success in this English version
at Drury Lane on Tuesday, June 5th, 1846.
5
1
6 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Stradella, a lyric drama by Flotow was originally given at the
Palais Royal Theatre, Paris, in February, 1837. Recomposed
as a grand opera, Alessandro Stradella, it was given at
Hamburg, on December 30th, 1844. In English at Drury
Lane, as detailed above two years later. Alessandro Stradella
(.c
.
1645-1682) according to the romantic story fell in love
with Ortensia, the mistress of a Venetian nobleman, Pignaver
—some say she was the betrothed of the Senator Alvise Con-
turini. They eloped. The jilted lover hired assassins who
followed the pair to Rome, but on hearing in S. Giovanni
Laterano Stradella’s oratio S. Giovanni Battista the bravoes
melted and gave the couple whom they were pledged to
murder a timely warning to flee.
Stranger; or, The Llewellyn Family, The. A Cambrian Tale.
2 vols., Minerva-Press, for William Lane. 1799.
Stranger; or, The New Man of Feeling, The. A Novel. By
Miss Norris. 2 vols., Crosby: 1806.
Stranger Chieftain; or, Lara and his page, The. 2 vols., A. K.
Newman: 1834.
Stranger of the Valley; or, Louisa and Adelaide, The. An
American Tale. By A Lady. 3 vols., A. K. Newman : 1825.
3 vols., New York: 1826.
Strangers, The. By Mrs. Norris. 3 vols., Vemor : 1806.
Stranger’s Grave, The. A Tale. One vol., Longman: 1823.
Stranger’s Grave, The. By Henry Villiers. 12 nos., 8vo.
London; George Peirce: 1845.
Strangers of Lindenfeldt ; or, Who is my Father? The. A novel.
By Mrs. Ross. 3 vols., Minerva-Press ;
A. K. Newman.
1813.
Strangers of the Glen, The. By Hannah Maria Jones. George
Virtue: 1828.
Stratagems Defeated. A novel. By Gabrielli [Mrs. Mary
Meeke]. 4 vols., Minerva-Press; A. K. Newman. 1811.
Strathallan. By Alicia Lefanu, Grand-daughter Of The Late
Thomas Sheridan, M.A. In Four Volumes. London
:
Printed For Sherwood, Neely, & Jones. Paternoster-Row. 1816-
Third ed., 4 vols., ibid. 1818.
TITLE INDEX 5 1
?
Strathbogie ; or, The Recluse of Glenmorris. A romance. By
Alicia M’Gennis. 5 vols., Minerva Press, A. K. Newman. 1817.
Striking Likenesses ; or, The Votaries of Fashion. A Novel. By
Louisa Sidney Stanhope. 4 vols., J. F. Hughes: 1808.
String of Pearls, The. A Novel. 2 vols., Bentley: 1832.
By G. P. R. James. To be carefully distinguished from
The String of Pearls afterwards Sweeney Todd.
String of Pearls; or, The Sailor’s Gift, The. A Romance. By
T. P. Prest. 92 weekly nos., E. Lloyd, 12 Salisbury Square,
Fleet Street. Prest’s romance was afterwards altered and
named Sweeney Todd. See under this title.
Strolling Player; or, The Life and Adventures of William
Templeton, The. 3 vols., i2mo., Symonds : 1802.
Submissions of Dependence, The. Interspersed with Poetry.
One vol., Hookham and Co., 1797.
Substance And Shadow; or, The Fisherman’s Daughters Of
Brighton. A Patchwork Story. 4 vols. By the Author of
Light and Shade; Eversfield Abbey; Banks of the Wye;
Aunt and Niece; etc., etc. Minerva-Press ;
A. K. Newman.
1812.
Subterranean Cavern; or, Memoirs Of Antoinette De Monflor-
ence, The. By the Author of Delia and Rosina. 2 vols.,
Minerva Press; for William Lane. 1798.
By Miss Pilkington.
Subterraneous Passage; or, Gothic Cell, The. A Romance by
Sarah Wilkinson. Frontispiece. Ann Lemoine, White Rose
Court, Coleman Street. [1803.] Chapbook variety.
Such Follies Are: A Novel. 2 vols., William Lane, at the
Minerva Press. MDCCXCV.
Sufferings Of The Family Of Ortenberg, The. A novel. From
the German. Translated by the Rev. P. Will. 2 vols.,
Dublin ;
for Moore : 1 799. From the German of Kotzebue.
A Suffolk Tale ; or, The Perfidious Guardian. By J. Hamilton
Roche. 2 vols., Printed for the Author. Hookham. 1810.
A Summer at Brighton. A Fashionable Novel. [By Mary Julia
Young.] 3 vols., J. F. Hughes: 1807.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
A Summer at Brighton. A Modern Novel. Second ed.,
3 vols., Hughes: 1807. Third ed., 3 vols., Hughes: 1807.
Fourth ed., 3 vols., Hughes : 1807. Fifth ed., 4 vols., Hughes :
1807.
A Summer at Brighton. Fifth Edition in Four Volumes. To
this Edition is now first added the Fourth Volume, containing
the Memoirs and Intrigues of the Modern Lais, a well-known
Woman of Rank and Fashion. J. F. Hughes, Wigmore Street,
Cavendish Square. 1807.
A Summer at Margate and Ramsgate. A Novel. 3 vols.,
Hughes: 1808.
A Summer by the Sea. A novel. By Orlando. 2 vols., at the
Minerva-Press, for Lane, Newman. 1807.
Surprising Life of Richard Turpin, a Notorious Highwayman,
The. Containing a True and Detailed Account of his Many
Escapades, etc. To which is added The Life of Sawney
Beane, The Man-Eater. London, Dean and Munday. N.D.
[c. 1806]. Chapbook.
The Dick Turpin saga was being carried on in the romances
of Stephen H. Agnew issued by the Aldine Publishing Com-
pany, 1, 2 & 3, Crown Court, Chancery Lane, London, W.C.
Such, for example, are The Seven Amber Eyes; or, The
Demon of the Fleet Ditch; Minions of the Moon; or, The
Trail of the Sack of Gold; The Mysterious Mask; The
Kidnapped King ; or, The New Captain of the Bow Street
Runners; The Silver Lion; or, The Terror of Epping Forest.
Susan. 2 vols., Booth : 1809.
Susan Hoply. 56 penny nos., E. Lloyd. 1842. A piracy on
Mrs. Crowe’s famous novel.
Susan Hopley
;
1841. Susan Hoply has been ascribed to Prest,
but is probably from another pen. There is a Domestic
Drama by George Dibdin Pitt, Susan Hopley; or, The
Vicissitudes of a Servant Girl, produced at the Royal Victoria,
May 31st, 1841. Printed, Dicks Standard Plays, No. 395;
and Lacy, Vol. LXIX.
Susanna; or, Traits of A Modern Miss. A novel. 4 vols.,
William Lane at the Minerva Press. MDCCXCV. A satire
on affectation of sentiment. By Mrs. Bullock.
TITLE INDEX 519
Suspicion; or, The Benevolent Recluse. 2 vols., Minerva-Press
;
A. K. Newman. 1814. By Lady Dunn.
Swedish Mysteries; or, The Hero of the Mines of Dalecarlia.
A tale. Translated from a Swedish manuscript by Johanson
Kidderslaw. 3 vols., Minerva-Press, for William Lane. 1801.
By Mrs. Mackenzie.
Sweeney Todd, the Demon Barber of Fleet Street. The charac-
ter of Sweeney Todd was first presented in The People’s
Periodical, a journal published by Edward Lloyd, 12 Salisbury
Square, Fleet Street; No. 1, November 21st 1846. Under
the title of The String of Pearls; or, The Sailor’s Gift, this
romance appeared in separate penny numbers which ran to
ninety-two weekly instalments.
The opening chapters were written by George Macfarren
(1788-1843), who was obliged to abandon the work owing to
blindness, a complete rest of the eyes having been imperatively
ordered before an operation for cataract.
The story was taken up and completed with great vigour by
Thomas Peckett Prest.
In 1800 there had been discovered in Paris a series of grue-
some crimes of the Sweeney Todd kind, when a barber and
a piemaker were convicted. These horrors are described in
detail in Fouche’s Archives of the Police. The whole story
was given in The Tell Tale, a London monthly magazine.
1804.
Macfarren and Prest undoubtedly knew the story' of the Paris
barber and his confederate, and Prest drew' upon this narra-
tive. He placed the barber’s shop, however, at No. 186
Fleet Street, next door to St. Dunstan’s Church (premises
demolished May', 1913) and the pie-shop in Bell Yard.
It has been denied that there was any such barber’s shop in
Fleet Street, and the idea that Sweeney Todd had a real
original has been scouted, a little rashly it would seem, for
Prest was drawing upon a long-standing and obstinate, if
possibly only an oral authority, since there persisted a very
old Fleet Street tavern tradition (current long before 1800)
that such an individual as Sweeney Todd existed, and his story'
is only a little exaggerated.
This may well be the case, as curiously crimes have an odd
habit of repeating themselves in various countries even in
detail. The old watchman, outside the gate of S. Bartholo-
520 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
mew’s Hospital, about 1798, used to aver that his father had
been murdered for his coin “ by Sweeney Todd.”
At any rate we may say that the Fleet Street tradition cannot
even now be regarded as wholly disposed of, since there does
appear to be some substratum of truth.
The Editor of the Boy’s Standard and purveyor of much sen-
sational literature such as Spring Heeled Jack, Charles Fox, 4
Shoe Lane, Fleet Street, chanced upon a copy of The String
of Pearls—it is said that one of his staff having picked up the
thirty year old forgotten book for a few pence Fox, glancing
at it and having scented its possibilities, bought it from him
for thirty shillings. Fox then handed it to one of his writers
to refurbish and renew. George Augustus Sala is often (and
not without reason) supposed to have been the pen employed,
although Sala more than once indignantly denied that he
had ever had anything to do with Sweeney Todd. Be that
as it may, about 1878 Fox brought out in forty-eight penny
weekly numbers Sweeney Todd, The Demon Barber of Fleet
Street: “ One Penny Weekly. 24 Pages Of Sensational
Romance, With Magnificent Large Coloured Picture Pre-
sented Gratis.”
Sweeney Todd has been often re-issued. A cheap (and
abridged) edition of the famous old romance was printed and
published by E. Lane, 21 South Street, New North Road,
London, about 1929.
There have been innumerable melodramatic adaptations of
Sweeney Todd, many of which were never printed and only
hastily made for the very Minor Theatres.
George Dibdin Pitt’s drama Sweeney Todd, The Barber of
Fleet Street; or, The String of Pearls was produced at the
Britannia Theatre High Street, Hoxton (managed by Lane
from 1841-49, and by his widow Mrs. Sara Lane for fifty
years, 1849-99). Pitt revised his play which was given on
February 22nd, 1847, at the same theatre as The String of
Pearls ; or, The Fiend of Fleet Street. It achieved a tremend-
ous success and reverting to the original name Sweeney Todd
(often with sub-title The Demon Barber of Fleet Street) it was
continually acted until the Britannia as a theatre closed its
doors.
Sweeny Todd, the Barber of Fleet Street ; or, The String of
Pearls, a drama in three acts by F. Hazleton was produced in
1 862 at the Bower Saloon (later the Royal Stangate Theatre),
Stangate-street, Lambeth.
TITLE INDEX 52 1'
Sweeney Todd, in one or another of the many adaptations,,
was frequently played in London and throughout the pro-
vinces. A revival, in a very effective and able version, under
the management of Tod Slaughter at the Elephant and Castle
Theatre, London, S.W., in 1927, just before the demolition
of the old house proved extremely successful and was much
talked of and deservedly praised at the time.
John Lawson appeared in a Music Hall sketch Mr. Todd of
Fleet Street, but it proved more laughable than terrible and
after a very short time was withdrawn.
Sweeney Todd. A Tradition Acting Version. “Barn-
stormer Plays.” London: Gerald Howe. [1928.]
Sweeny [s/c] Todd The Demon Barber of Fleet Street. An
Entirely Original Version By J. P. Quaine. For The Radio.
I932-
Swiss Emigrants, The. A Tale. One vol., i2mo. Longman
and Rees: 1804. By Hugh Murray.
Swiss Revolution, The. Chapbook. 1803.
Sword, The ; or, Father Bertrand’s History Of His Own Times,
From The Original Manuscript : By Eliza Clarke, Author of
Narrative Poems, etc. Vol I (-II). Liverpool: Printed for
the Author by A. Smith, and sold by R. Faulder, New Bond-
street, London. 1791. A List of Subscribers’ Names, pp. i-xii.
Two volumes.
Sword of Fate; or, The Headsman’s Doom, The. E. J. Brett,
n.d.
Sybil Lennard. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey. 3 vols.,
Newby: 1846. Another ed., T. Hodgson. Another ed., C.
H. Clarke, 1854, price is. 6d.
Sybil’s Prophecy, The. A Dramatic Fragment. By the Rev.
C. R. Maturin. The Literary Souvenir ; or, Cabinet of Poetry
and Romance. Hurst, Robinson, & Co., etc. 1826.
Sydney St. Aubyn. In a Series of Letters. By Mr. Robinson.
Author of Love Fragments, etc. 2 vols., Herbert : 1794.
Sylph, The. A Novel. 2 vols., London, Printed for T.
Lowndes : 1779. First Dublin ed., one vol., 8vo. W. Wilson,
T. Walker, etc., 1784. Another Dublin ed., one vol. P.
Wogan, 1805. By Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire (1757-
1 806).
522 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
System and No System; or, The Contrast. By [Miss] Maria
Benson. Author of Thoughts on Education. One vol.,
Hatchard : 1815.
T
Takings; or, The Life of a Collegian. By Thomas Gaspey.
3 vols., Longman. 1821.
A Tale of Mystery; a melodrama. By Thomas Holcroft. Pro-
duced at Covent Garden on Saturday, November 13th, 1802.
The play had great success, and is important in the Gothic
movement as being founded upon a drama by Pixerecourt,
Coelina, ou VEnfant du Mystere which is adapted from
Ducray-Duminil’s novel of the same title. See under Ccelina.
Pixerecourt’s drama was acted in Paris, 1800, and printed
1801.
A Tale of Mystery ; a melodrama By Thomas Holcroft.
8vo. Richard Phillips, 1802.
Second ed., “ with etchings after designs by Tresham.” 8vo.
London, Phillips, 1802.
Third ed. J. Roach, 8vo. 1813.
Sixth ed. J. Roach, 8vo. 1813.
A Tale of Mystery was included in most collections :
“ The
London Stage,” 1824; John Cumberland’s “ British Theatre
”
with an Engraving from a drawing taken in the Theatre,
R. Cruikshank, Del., 1829; “The Acting Drama,” 1834;
“The British Drama,” 1864; “The British Drama” (J.
Dicks), 1864; Dicks’s Standard Plays, No. 38, 1883.
American editions. New York. N. Judah. 1803.
New York. D. Longworth. 1803.
Second ed. New York. D. Longworth. 1808.
Boston. Edward Cotton. “ As performed at the New-York
Theatre.” 1803.
A Tale Of Mystery, Or, Celina. A Novel. In Four Volumes.
Altered From The French Of Ducray-Duminil, By Mrs.
Meeke, Author of Which is the Man, the Sicilian, etc., etc.
“O passions des hommes! ” Vol. I (- 11 ,
-III, -IV). Lon-
don: Printed At The Minerva-Press For Lane And Newman,
Leadenhall-Street, 1803.
Mrs. Meeke in her Advertisement says that the approbation
TITLE INDEX 523
obtained by “ Mr. Holcroft’s much-admired and deservedly
esteemed Melo-Drame ” induced her to translate the Story
which was the foundation of that performance. She has
deemed it necessary to make some very' material alterations
in the conduct of the tale. “ The two last volumes, indeed,
may be considered as mere imitations of the original.”
Ccelina, ou VEnfant du Mystere, 1798, by Francois Guillaume
Ducray-Duminil. One of the most popular of Duminil’s
romances.
A Tale of Mystery; or, The Castle of Solitude. London. Tegg.
[1803.] With a frontispiece.
Ghapbook, trading on the popularity of Holcroft’s melo-
drama.
A Tale of the Olden Time. By a Harrow Boy. One vol., Lon-
don. Andrews. 1821.
The author of this Gothic romance was aged 14.
Tale of The Times, A. By The Author Of A Gossip’s Story.
Dedicated by permission to Mrs. Carter. 3 vols. T. N.
Longman and O. Rees. 1799. By Mrs. Jane West.
A Tale without a Title: Give it What you Please. A novel.
By Eugenia De Acton. 3 vols. Minerva-Press, for Lane,
Newman. 1804.
Tales: Entertaining and Sympathetic ; inscribed to The Heart.
2 vols. W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXIX.
Tales and Romances, of Ancient and Modern Times. By
Joseph Moser. 5 vols. T. Hurst. 1800.
Tales of Fault and Feeling. 3 vols. A. K. Newman. 1828.
Tales, Mournful, Mirthful, and Marvellous. By Mrs. [Sarah]
Wilmot Wells. 3 vols. Longman. 1827.
Tales Of An Exile. By W. F. Williams. 2 vols. Minerva-
Press. Lane, Newman. 1803.
Tales of a Tourist, including The Outlaws and Fashionable Con-
nexions. By Alicia Lefanu. 4 vols. A. K. Newman. 1823.
Tales of Chivalry, Perils by Flood and Field. Woodcuts by S.
Williams. 2 vols. G. Berger. N.D. (c. 1840).
Tales of Elam, The. 2 vols. W. Lane, at the Minerva Press.
524 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
MDCCXCIV. Oriental fiction. The tales of Elam, the
hermit of Bazoub.
Tales of Enchantment ; or, The Book of Fairies. Written and
adapted by Thomas Peckett Prest. Twelve Stories. 1836.
Tales Of An Exile. By W. F. Williams, author of Sketches of
Modern Life, Fitzmaurice
,
etc. 2 vols. Minerva-Press, for
Lane, Newman. 1803.
Tales of Fancy. By [Miss] S. H. Burney. 3 vols. Colburn.
1816-20. Vol. I., which was issued separately, contains a
complete novel. The Shipwreck. Vols. II. and III. comprise
another novel : Country Neighbours ; or, The Secret.
Tales of Former Times. By Andrew St. John. 2 vols. Crosby.
1808. With 2 engravings.
Tales of Highwaymen ; or Life on the Road. 66 nos., 8vo.
London. 1865-66.
Tales of my Aunt Martha. 3 vols. A. K. Newman. 1823. By
Mrs. Martha Blackford.
Tales of my Grandmother. One vol. By A. Crawford. Hurst-
1825.
Tales of Old Mr. Jefferson of Gray’s Inn. 3 vols. G. B.
Whittaker. 1823-1825.
Tales Of A Parrot; done into English from a Persian Manu-
script, intitled Tooti Nameh. By a Teacher of the Persic,
Arabic, Hebrew, Syriac, Chaldie, Greek, Latin, Italian, French
and English Languages. [By B. Gerrans.] Entered at
Stationers-Hall. London : Printed for the translator, at the
Minerva Press; and sold by Mess. Robson, New Bond-Street;
B. Law, Ave-Maria-Lane ;
and W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street.
MDCCXCII.
Tales of Passion; Lord LovePs Daughter; The Bohemian;
Second Love. 3 vols. Henry Colburn. 1829.
By Barry St. Leger.
Tales of Perplexity. One vol. Low. [A. K. Newman.] 1829..
Tales of Superstition. Chapbook. 1803.
Tales Of Sympathy. By an Attorney. 2 vols. William Lane-
MDCCLXXXIX.
TITLE INDEX 525
Tales of the Abbey, founded on Historical facts. By A. Kendall.
3 vols. Symonds. 1800.
Tales Of Terror. Printed by Bulmer. Published by John Bell,
Oxford-Street. 1801. With three coloured engravings.
Second ed., Weybridge, for R. Faulder, 1808. With an
additional ballad. Often attributed to, but not the work of,
M. G. Lewis.
Tales of Terror. Although this title has been mentioned by
many writers and is included in both Lowndes and Allibone,
nevertheless, it seems probable that Lewis had no connexion
with any book with the title Tales of Terror. This opinion
was set forth in an article by George P. Johnston :
“ The
First Book Printed by James Ballantyne : being An Apology
for Tales of Terror; with notes on Tales of Wonder and
Tales of Terror Printed in Publications of The Edinburgh
Bibliographical Society, Vol. I., 1896, No. 19.
The Kelso book of 1799 often listed as Tales of Terror was not
Tales of Terror but was “ An Apology for Tales of Terror. A
thing of shreds and patches. Hamlet. Kelso :
printed at the
Mail Office. 1799-” According to Lockhart ( Life of Scott,
Vol. I., Ch. IX.) this was the first book printed by James
Ballantyne and was done at the instance of Walter Scott and
not at the suggestion of M. G. Lewis. Twelve copies only
were printed. The book consisted of nine ballads, 3 by Scott,
3 by Lewis, 2 by Southey and one unknown. The three by
Lewis are “ The Water-King,” “ Alonzo the Brave, and Fair
Imogine ” and “ The Erl-King’s Daughter ” ;
all of these
are included in the first edition of “ Tales of Wonder
;
written
and collected by M. G. Lewis, Esq., M.P.” . . . London 1801
which contains sixty ballads.
In Scott’s “ Essay on Imitation of the Ancient Ballad
”
{.Poetical Works, 1833, Vol. IV., p. 71 et seq.) written in 1830
he says the collection made by Lewis was “ first intended to
bear the title Tales of Terror and afterw ards published under
the title Tales of Wonder.” Scott further says that Tales of
Wonder was criticized because of its fine format and high
price (2 vols., super royal 8vo, £1 is.) so that it was spoken
of as “ Tales of Plunder.” That Lewis was much interested
in the publication of this collection is shown by his letters to
Scott, and it seems beyond reason to suppose that while he was
publishing this book he should also arrange to publish, anony-
mously, a second book, using a title previously discarded
;
526 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
and for him to publish anything anonymously at this time
seems unlikely. He was too popular a literary figure to make
it probable that he or his publisher would forego the benefit
of his name as author.
Now, Tales of Terror; with an Introductory Dialogue . . .
London: 1801, is an entirely different book. It has none
of the items which appeared in dn Apology for Tales of
Terror, 1799, and none which appeared in Tales of Wonder,
1801. The book is gruesome and in its illustrations even
disgusting and it seems impossible that Lewis could have had
anything to do with it. Some of the ballads are too coarse
and grotesque to stand comparison with any work by M. G.
Lewis; and they read more like an attempt to ridicule the
popularity of the gothic romances for which Lewis was so
largely responsible.
“ No—I have hopes you’ll find this rage decreased.
And send a dish too much to Terror’s feast
;
The vicious taste, with such a rich supply
Quite surfeited, ‘
will sicken and so die.’
”
Page 3 of Introductory Dialogue Tales of Terror.
The book consists of twenty ballads. No. I. is an Introductory
Dialogue; No. IV. has a note: “respectfully inscribed to
M. G. Lewis, Esq., M.P., as an humble attempt to imitate
his excellent version of that celebrated ballad.” No. XI. has
a note :
“ This tale, as will be immediately seen by all tale-
readers, is written in imitation of the Cloud-King and dedi-
cated, of course, to M. G. Lewis, Esq.” (The “ Cloud-King
”
by M. G. Lewis is No. XIII. in Tales of Wonder.) No. XVI.
has a note :
“ Written by a boot-catcher at “ the Pig and
Pepper-box,” in imitation of Mallet’s William and Margaret.
(Mallet’s ballad is No. XXXVI. in Tales of Wonder.) No.
XX. has a note :
“ The Author humbly hopes that those of
his readers whom he has failed to convince by his Introductory
Defense, (No. I.) will at least be contented with the opinions,,
held forth in this Tale by the enraged Smedley ” ;
and a
second note: “Written in imitation of
u
The Fisherman
”
(a footnote states “ Vide Tales of Wonder, Vol. I., p. 79 ”) by
Lutetia, the Younger; with Notes and Illustrations by
Philopelus Pangloss.” These notes show definitely that the
ballads to which they are attached were not written by Lewis
;
and the last note, in connexion with the character of the other
ballads, strongly points to one author for the entire book.
There are, in addition, other items of evidence.—There seems
TITLE INDEX 527
to be no record of any admission by Lewis of his connexion
with this book. The Monthly Magazine ; or, British Register
lists on Jan. 1, 1801 Tales of Wonder by M. G. Lewis, M.P.,
and on July 1, 1801 Tales of Terror without name of author
although the same list includes Adeimorn by M. G. Lewis,
M.P. The list of books printed at the end of the first edition
of Tales of Wonder does not include Tales of Terror, and the
list at the end of the second edition, which contains only 32
ballads instead of 60 as in the first edition, names Lewis as
the author of the other volumes but does not name the author
of Tales of Terror even though it is to be issued uniform with
the second edition of Tales of Wonder. The list of books by
Lewis at the end of Poems 1812 does not contain Tales of
Terror. In the list of books in the Life and Correspondence
of 1839 there is no Tales of Terror, 1801, but there is a Tales
of Terror, 1807. This I have been unable to find but it is
doubtless meant for “ Tales of Terror—Second Edition
printed for R. Faulder (& others)” 1808, which is a reprint
of the edition of 1801 with one piece added. However the
Life and Correspondence can not be relied upon for accuracy.
Tales of Terror and Wonder, 1887, combines the Tales of
Terror 1801 (No. IV. being omitted) and the 32 ballads of
the second edition of Tales of Wonder.
From the foregoing and in the absence of any affirmative
evidence the conclusion seems justified that M. G. Lewis had
nothing to do with Tales of Terror, 1801, or with any other
book of that title.
The details of the foregoing are taken from a description of
The Apology which was in the possession of Mr. Aitken,
Falkirk, a member of the Edinburgh Bibliographical Society,
and from copies of Tales of Wonder, Tales of Terror
;
and
other books in the possession of the writer.
Frederick Coykendall.
Tales of the Dead. One vol., 1813.
Tales of the Castle, or Stories of instruction and delight. Being
les Veillees du Chateau, written in French by Madame la
Comtesse de Genlis. Translated into English by Thomas
Holcroft. 5 vols. London. G. Robinson. 1785.
Les Veillees du Chateau, ou Corns de Morale a Uusage des
enfants. Par l’auteur d’ Adele et Theodore. 3 vols. Paris.
Chez M. Lambert and F. J. Baudouin. MDCCLXXXII.
528 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Tales of the Castle. Irish ed., 4 vols. Dublin, Printed for
Messrs. Price, Moncrieffe, Jenkin, etc. 1785.
Second ed., 5 vols., London, Robinson, 1786.
Third ed., 5 vols., G. Robinson, R. Phillips, Wilkie and
Robinson, Scatcherd and Letterman, and J. Walker. 1806.
Another ed. 2 vols., i2mo. In “ Walker’s British Classics.”
1817.
American ed., called the “ ninth edition.” 5 vols., in two.
Brattleborough [Vermont] : Published by William Fessenden.
1813. Fessenden was a printer in Brattleboro from 1803
until his death in 1815.
Tales of the Castle; or, Stones of Instruction and Delight.
Abridged from the original work of Madame de Genlis, and
adapted for youth by Mrs. Elizabeth Kerr. Glasgow : Printed
for Richard Griffin & Co., Juvenile Library, Hutcheson Street
;
and Thomas Tegg, Cheapside. i2mo., pp. 176. London.
1824.
The abridgement, which is very drastic, has quite obviously
been made from Holcroft, and—in spite of the title-page—not
from the original.
The Beauties of Genlis .... extracts. With copper plates.
Printed for the Booksellers. 8vo. MDCCLXXXVII.
Holcroft’s Tales of the Castle has been extensively drawn
upon in these excerpts.
Tales of the Glen. By Catherine G. Ward. One vol. Roach.
1813.
Tales of the Manor. By the Author of “ The Private History
of the Court of England.” [Mrs. Sarah Green.] 2 vols..
Lane, Newman; Minerva Press: 1809.
Tales of The Minstrels. From the French of Mons. Le Grand.
Ross. 1796.
Little other than a reprint of Tales of the 12th and 13th
Centuries, 1787. Almost precisely similar is Norman Tales.
Tales Of The Passions. By George Moore. One vol., Wilkie.
1 8 1 1 . Second ed., A. K. Newman, 1815. 8vo., 10s. 6d.
Tales Of The Pirates ; or, Lives Of Smugglers And Buccaneers.
Illustrated with numerous Engravings, by eminent Artists.
London: 31 nos., pp. 244. Published by William Mark
TITLE INDEX 529
Clark, 17, Warwick Lane, Paternoster Row, And Sold By
All Booksellers. 1847.
Highly romantic narrative of Paul Jones, George Lowther,
John Richardson, Martel, Kidd, Cuban Pirates, Greek Pirates,
and other ruffians, with naval songs, “ The Neglected Tar,”
“ Will Watch,” “ The Pirates’ Song,” “ Pirate’s Bride,” “ The
Lass That Loves A Sailor,” and the like.
Tales of To-day. By Mrs. Isaacs. 3 vols., Chappie. 1816.
Tales of Ton (First Series), containing Fashionable Characters,
by Miss M’Leod. 4 vols.
(Second Series) containing The Miser’s Daughter, Beautiful
Countess, a Cure for a Broken Heart, Fiorabelle, Determina-
tion, Rosamund, and A Tale from Common Life. 4 vols.
(Third and Last Series) containing A Tale of the Heart, the
Hat and Feathers, Education and No Education, Caprice,
etc.
4 vols. Minerva Press. A. K. Newman. 1821-1822.
Tales of Welshland and Welsherie. By the Author of Reginald
Trevor, and Youth of Edward Ellis. 2 vols., A. K. Newman.
1831. By E. Trevor Anwyl.
Tales Of Wonder. By M. G. Lewis. Printed for the Author
by Bulmer. 2 vols., super royal, 8vo., 1801. Price £1 ir.
Because of the fine format and high price the wits nicknamed
this book “ Tales of Plunder.”
An abbreviated second edition, 8vo., printed by Bulmer, was
issued later in the same year, 1801.
For a full note see further under Tales of Terror.
Tales Round a Winter Hearth. By Jane and Anna Maria
Porter. 2 vols., Longman. 1826.
Three tales by Anna Maria Porter; the rest by Jane Porter.
Tancred. A Tale Of Ancient Times. By J. Fox, Jun. [Quota-
tion, 10 lines. Blair.] In Two Volumes. Vol. I (-II).
London : Printed For William Lane At The Minerva, Leaden-
hall-Street. MDCCXCI.
Tarantula; or, The Dance of Fools, The. A Satirical Work.
By Eaton Stannard Barrett. 2 vols., Hughes. 1809.
Tears of Sensibility, The. By John Murdoch. 1773.
Tell Tale, The. A Magazine. 1804.
530 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Temper ; or, Domestic Scenes ; a Tale. By Mrs. Opie. 3 vols.,
Longman. 1812.
Tender Father, The. A Novel. 2 vols,, London. Riley. 1775.
Terrific Record, The. 48 nos. E. Stell. 1836.
Terrific Record, The. Terror! Horror! Terror! Nos. 1-4,
W. Winn. 34 Holywell Street, Strand. 1849. This differs
from the above.
Terrific Register, The. 63 nos. No publisher’s name. 1837.
Terrific Tales. 1 vol. Hughes. 1818.
Test of Honour, The. By a Lady. 2 vols., Abraham. 1789.
Thaddeus of Warsaw. By Miss (Jane) Porter. 4 vols., Long-
man. 1802.
Second ed., 1803.
Third ed., 1805.
Fourth ed., 4 vols., London. Longman. 1806.
Fifth ed., 4 vols., London. Longman. 1809.
Sixth ed., 4 vols., London. Longman. 1812.
Seventh ed., 4 vols., London. 1816.
Eighth ed., 4 vols., 1817.
Ninth ed., 4 vols., 1818.
Tenth ed., 4 vols., Longman, Hurst Rees, Orme and Brown,
1819.
Eleventh ed., 3 vols., Longman, Rees and Co. 1826.
In “ Standard Novels.” Vol. 4. Colburn and Bentley. 1831,
One vol., London : Virtue, 1840.
In Routledge’s “ Railway Library.” No. 70. Price eighteen-
pence.
A new edition. Routledge. 1854.
Another edition. Lea. i860.
In “ The Cottage Library.” Royal 32010. Milner and Co.’s
Cheap Books. One Shilling. N.D. [c. 1870].
Another ed., Routledge. [1880.]
Le Polonais. Traduit de 1’ anglais par * * * * [Mons et Mme.
Terrasson de Sennevas.] Seconde edition. 3 tom. Paris. 1809.
Theodore: A Domestic Tale. 2 vols., William Lane, at the
Minerva-Press. MDCCXCII. By Miss Street.
Theodore ; or, The Enthusiast. 4 vols., Longman and Co.
1807. A translation from the German.
TITLE INDEX 53 1
Theodore ; or, The Peruvians. From the French of Pigault Le
Brun. By E.W. One vol., Crosby. 1808.
Theodore and Emma. Chapbook. n.d. [
c
.
1800].
Theodore Cyphon; or, The Benevolent Jew. A novel by George
Walker. 3 vols., Published by George W'alker. 1796.
Irish ed. Dublin. Joshua Porter. 2 vols. N.D. (1797).
Another Irish ed., 2 vols. [1818.]
Life and Exploits of Theodore Cyphon ; or, The Benevolent Jew,
by George Walker, with 7 excellent Engravings, the 3 volumes
in 6 Sixpenny Numbers, or in boards 35. 6d. S. Fisher. 151
St. John Street. West Smithfield. 1824.
Theodosius and Arabella. A Novel in a Series of Letters by the
late Mrs. Hampden Pye. William Lane, Leadenhall-Street,
MDCCLXXXVI.
Theodosius De yfulvin, The Monk of Madrid: A Spanish Tale,
Delineating Various Traits of the Human Mind. By George
Moore, Author of Grasville Abbey. In Four Volumes.
London. G. and J. Robinson. 1802.
The author in his Preface speaks of himself as having been
resident in the Isle of Wight from the latter end of 1798 to
the autumn of 1799 when he returned to London. He
signs his Dedication, Tottenham Court Road, June 4,
1802.
There Is A Secret, Find It Out! By Mrs, Meeke. 4 vols.,
Minerva-Press, for Lane, Newman. 1808.
Theresa; or, The Wizard’s Fate. A Romance, by a Member
of the Inner Temple. 4 vols., Minerva-Press ;
A. K. Newman.
1815.
Therese; or, The Orphan of Geneva. An interesting Romance.
Translated from the French of the celebrated M. Victor by
Sarah S. Wilkinson. On this story are founded No Less than
Five Melo-Dramas. 8vo. London. Dean and Munday.
N.D. [1821].
Therese; or, The Orphan of Geneva. By Thomas Peckett
Prest. 32 nos. E. Lloyd. 1844.
Both these works are founded on Therese, ou I’Orpheline de
Geneve, melodrame en trois actes, by Henri Joseph Brahain
Ducange Victor. Of this John Howard Payne’s famous
532 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
version Therese, or the Orphan of Geneva was produced at
Drury Lane, February 2nd, 1821.
Almost simultaneously John Kerr’s Therese ; or, The Orphan
of Geneva was produced at The New Royal West London
Theatre, Tottenham-street, one of the humblest and smallest
of the Minors. At the Coburg, another version, Therese;
or, The Maid, of Geneva was given on February 8th, 1821.
On Wednesday, February 21st, there followed at the Olympic
Therese; or, The Orphan of Geneva.
Therwald Castle. 2 vols., Wilkin: 1799.
Thlevery-a-la-Mode ; or, The Fatal Encouragement. One vol.,
J. Roberts. 1728.
A satirical novel directed against The Beggar’s Opera, which
is condemned as an incentive to Thieves and bad characters.
Thus in some ways it anticipates the outcry against Jack
Sheppard, Paul Clifford, and other romances more than a
century later.
Thieves’ House; or, The Murder Cellar of Fleet Ditch, The.
Drama by Samuel Atkyns refused a licence in August, 1844,
for autumn production at the Albert Saloon, Sheperdess-walk,
Hoxton. It was founded upon a sensational romance of the
same (or a very' similar) title.
Things As They Are; or, The Adventures of Caleb Williams.
By William Godwin. 3 vols., B. Crosby, 1794.
First Irish Edition, 2 vols., Rice, Dublin, 1795.
Second Edition, Corrected, 3 vols., G. G. and J. Robinson,
Paternoster-Row. 1796.
Third Edition, Corrected, 3 vols., G. G. and J. Robinson,
W97-
Fourth Edition, 3 vols., Simpkin and Marshall, 1816.
First American Edition, 2 vols., Philadelphia, 1818.
An Edition with Plates, i2mo. London, 1824.
In Standard Novels, No. 2 ;
As Caleb Williams and Adven-
tures of Caleb Williams. Prefaced by “ Memoirs of William
Godwin.” Frontispiece, and vignette title. Colburn and
Bentley: 1831.
As The Adventures of Caleb Williams, W. & R. Chambers,
Edinburgh, 1839.
Caleb Williams. In “The Railway Library,” 1853.
There are several cheap English reprints of Things As They
Are with title Caleb Williams. In a sixpenny edition, Wame,
TITLE INDEX 533
c. 1882; in “Half-Forgotten Books” by Routledge, 1904,
Also with an Introduction by Van Wyck Brooks, Greenburg,
New York, 1926.
Les Avantures De Caleb Williams, ou Les Choses comme
elles sont. Par Williams [jzc] Godwin. 2 vols., Paris, Agasse,
An IV (1796).
This, the first French Translation, is made from the Second
English Edition, 1796.
The Iron Chest, a play by George Colman, Jun., founded on
Things As They Are was produced at Drury Lane on Satur-
day, March 12th, 1796, and published, 8vo., the same year.
The first and second editions, both 1796, have preliminary
matter attacking John Kemble for his acting and his general
attitude towards the dramatist and the play. This Intro-
duction was suppressed by Colman in subsequent reprints, e.g.,
in 1798, 3rd ed., and 1808, 4th ed. The Iron Chest was
frequently performed, and appears in most of the Collections
of British Drama. It was also several times separately re-
printed.
The British Theatre. By Mrs. Inchbald. Vol. XXI. 1808.
John Cumberland’s British Theatre. Vol. XXXV.
Lacy’s Acting Edition of Plays. Vol. 39.
Dicks’ Standard Plays. No. 10.
Things by their right names. By a Person without a Name.
2 vols., Robinsons. 1812.
Second ed., 1814.
Thinks-l-To-Myself. A Serio-Ludicro, Tragico-Comico Tale.
Written by Thinks I to Myself Who? [Edward Nares.] 2
vols., i2mo., Sherwood, 1811.
Second ed., With Additions, 1 8 1 1
.
Fourth ed., 2 vols., 8vo., 1811.
Thirteenth ; or, The Fatal Number, The. By Pierce Egan.
14 nos. A Vickers : 1849.
Thomas Fitz-Gerald, Lord of Offaley. A romance of the 16th
century. 3 vols. 8vo. A. K. Newman. 1825.
Three Brothers, The. By Joshua Pickersgill, junior. 4 vols.,
John Stockdale, Piccadilly, 1803.
Three Fingered Jack. 51 nos. E. Lloyd: 1850. The later
Fox version differs entirely from the Lloyd publication.
John Fawcett’s famous play Obi ; or Three-fingered Jack was
534 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
produced at the Haymarket on Wednesday, July 2nd, 1800.
The music is by Arnold. 8vo., 1800; and in Buncombe
Vol. LIX. It was so popular as to be adapted for the Toy
Theatre.
Three Germans, The. A novel. 4 vols., J. F. Hughes, Wigmore-
Street. 1807.
Three Ghosts of the Forest, The. Chapbook. 1803.
Three Gil Bias; or, Follies of Youth, The. A Novel. Trans-
lated from the French [of Jean Henri Ferdinand La
Marteliere]. 4 vols., Minerva-Press; Lane, Newman.
1804.
The Three Monks! !
!
From the French [of Elisabeth Guenard,
baronne de Mere]. Translated by J. FI. Sarratt. 2 vols.,
Crosby. 1803.
Les Trois Moines. Paris. 2 vols., 1802. See under this
title.
Three Old Maids Of The House of Penruddock, The. A Novel.
In Three Volumes. By Mrs. Bridget Bluemantle [Mrs. E.
Thomas]. Quotation, 5 lines, Churchill. Introduction, pp.
1 and 2, signed ‘
Martha Homely.’ 3 vols., Minerva-Press.
Lane, Newman : 1806.
Three Peers, The. By Lady Stepney. 3 vols., Bentley. 1841.
Three Spaniards, The. A Romance. By George Walker,
Author of The Vagabond, etc. 3 vols., For George Walker.
1800.
Irish ed., Dublin, P. Wogan. 2 vols., 1800.
Times, The. 2 vols., Colburn. 1811. Advertised by Newman
in 1813, 2 vols. 1 or.
Times Past. A Romantic Melange. 2 vols., Minerva-Press;
Lane, Newman. 1805.
Tom Daring; or, Far From Home. E. J. Brett. Coloured
wrapper, n.d.
Tom Floremall’s Schooldays. E. J. Brett. Coloured wrapper,
n.d.
Tom Floremall In Search of Flis Father. Sequel to the above.
E. J. Brett. Coloured wrapper, n.d.
TITLE INDEX 535
Tom King. A Romance of the Road. By the Author of Gentle-
man Jack; Claude Duval, [c. 1850.]
Tom Tartar. By the author of Handsome Harry.
The “ Tom Tartar Series ” consists of Tom Tartar at School;
Tom Tartar at Home; and Tom Tartar Abroad. Each
volume, 8vo., with Coloured Frontispiece, n.d. [1877-8].
Tom Wildrake’s Schooldays. By George Emmett. (Actually
E. H. Burrage is believed to have written of this story.)
Hogarth House, 5 vols., 15. each. One vol., bound cloth and
gold, 5L 6d. Also in Penny Weekly Nos. Young Tom’s
Adventures, is. 6d. is the sequel.
Tombeau, Le. Ouvrage Posthume D’Anne Radcliffe, Auteur
De L’Abbaye De Sainte-Claire, Des Mysteres D’Udolphe, De
L’ltalien, Etc,
Traduit sur le Manuscrit Par Hector Chaussier et Bizet.
(Almost certainly the work of these two authors.) Paris,
1 7g9- 2 vols., 1835. And other editions. See The Gothic
Quest by Montague Summers, pp. 367-8.
Tombeau mysterieux ; ou les families de Henares et d’Almanza,
Le. French translation, 1810, by J. R. Dardent, of The Mystic
Sepulchre ; or, Such Things have been. A Spanish romance,
1807, by John Palmer, junior.
Torrenwald. A Romance. By Scriblerus Secundus. 4 vols.,
A. K. Newman. 1824.
Tour infernale, La. 3 tom. Paris. 1819.
By Elisabeth Guenard, baronne de Mere.
Tower, The. A Romance of Ruthyne. 3 vols., Carpenter.
1798. By Sarah Lansdell.
Tower of Clanmalloch, The. One vol., A. K. Newman. 1828.
Towers of Lothian, The. A Scottish Legend. 4 vols., Plolmes.
1809.
Towers of Ravenswold ; or, The Days of Ironside, The. A
Romance. By William Henry Hitchener of the Surrey
Theatre. Author of St. Leonard’s Forest, etc. 2 vols.,
Chappie. 1814.
Tracey the Poet, A Sketch from the Life. 3 vols., A. K.
Newman. 1823.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
536
Tradition Of The Castle; Or, Scenes In The Emerald Isle, The.
In Four Volumes. By Regina Maria Roche, Author of The
Children of the Abbey, Vicar of Lansdown, Maid of the
Hamlet, etc. Quotation : 4 lines. Vol. I (-II-III-IV).
London : A. K. Newman And Co., Leadenhall-Street.
1824.
Traditions, The. A Legendary Tale. Written by a Young
Lady. 2 vols., William Lane, Minerva. MDCCXCV.
List of subscribers. Second ed., 1795. By Mary Martha
Butt, afterwards Mrs. Sherwood.
Tragic Tales. Coningsby and Lord Brokenhurst. By Sir
Egerton Brydges, Bart. 2 vols. Robert Triphook. 1820.
Traits and Trials. A novel. 2 vols., A. K. Newman. 1821.
Traits of Nature. A novel. [By Sarah Harriett Burney.]
5 vols., Colburn. 1812.
Second ed., 1812.
The first edition of this novel sold out within three months.
French translation. Le Jeune Cleveland, Ou Traits de
Nature
;
Traduit de L’ Anglais par le Traducteur de Rob-Roy
et de la Prison D’Edimbourg. 4 vols., Paris. 1819.
Travellers, The. Chapbook. 1806.
Travels for the Heart. Written in France. By Courtney
Melmoth. 2 vols., John Wallis. 1777.
Treachery ; or, The Grave of Antoinette. A Romance, Inter-
spersed with Poetry. By Louisa Sidney Stanhope. 4 vols.,,
Minerva-Press: A. K. Newman. 1815.
Treasures of St. Mark, The. A Tale of Venice. By Malcolm
J. Errym. Dicks, i860.
Serialized in Reynold’s Miscellany, Saturday, May 12th, i860
—Saturday, June 16th, i860.
Trecothick Bower ; or, The Lady of the West Country. A tale.
By Regina Maria Roche. 3 vols., Minerva-Press ;
A. K
Newman. 1814.
Trevanion ; or, Matrimonial Errors. A novel by Mr. Smith
4 vols., Crosby. 1800.
Trials. A Tale. 3 vols., 1824.
TITLE INDEX 537
Trials of Life, The. By the Author of De Lisle. 3 vols., BulL
1829.
By Mrs. Grey.
Trials of Love; or, Woman’s Reward, The. By Hannah Maria
Jones. London. 1849.
A Trip To Paris. One vol., 1793.
A Trip To Weymouth. A Novel. 2 vols., W. Lane, Leadenhall-
Street. 1790.
Triumph of Benevolence ; or, The History Of Francis Wills, The.
First Irish ed., Dublin : J. Potts, W. Sleater, etc. 2 vols.,
1772.
Triumph of Friendship ; or, The History of Charles Courtney,
and Miss Julia Melville, The. By Jane Timbury. 2 vols.,
Fox. 1789.
Triumphs of Fortitude, The. A Novel in a Series of Letters.
2 vols., London. Richardson. 1789.
Triumvirate; or, The Authentic Memoirs of A(ndrews),
B(ellville) and C(arewe), The. [By Richard Griffith.] 2
vols., W. Johnston. 1764. Preface signed Biographer
Triglyph.
Les Trois Moines. Par l’Auteur des Forges Mysterieuses des
Capucins et de Pauline de Ferriere. [Elisabeth Guenard,
baronne de Mere.] Chez Marchand, Libraire, Palais du
Tribunat. 2 vols., Paris. 1802.
2 vols., with coloured plates, 1815.
2 vols., 1821.
And other Editions.
Truth and Fiction. A novel. By Mrs. Gooch. 4 vols., Crosby.
1801.
Tuileries, The. An historical romance. By Miss A. M. Porter.
3 vols., Colburn. 1831.
Turkish Tales. By Joseph Moser. 2 vols., W. Lane, at the
Minerva-Press. MDCCXCIV. Five Tales : Selim and
Almeria; Prince Kesterman and Felicia; Nourmahal, Queen
of the Indies; The Fair Hibernian
;
and The Barber of
Pera.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
538
Turnpike Dick; or, The Star of the Road. 60 penny nos.
London, Charles Fox, 4 Shoe Lane, Fleet Street, E.C., n.d.
Turpin And Bess. A Romance Of The Road. 16 Pages And
Portrait Of Dick Turpin For Tinselling. Price One Penny
Weekly. Office :
9 Red Lion Court, Fleet Street and all
Booksellers, n.d. Remember.—A Series Of Tinselled Pictures
Gratis With This Work. £5 Worth Of Tinsel Given to Every
Subscriber. Remember.—Tinsel Given Away Every Week
With This Work.
Tutor of Truth, The. By Courtney Melmoth. 2 vols., Richard-
son. 1779.
Another edition, 1787.
An epistolary novel.
Twin Sisters; or. The Effects of Education, The. A Novel in
a Series of Letters. By a Lady. 4 vols., Hookham. 1789.
Twin Sisters, The. One vol., 321x10. London. [1853.]
Twin Roses, The. 31 penny nos., E. Lloyd: 1853.
Two Dead Men; a Tale of Love, War, and Horror, The.
Anon. The romance with which E. Lloyd commenced his
publication of melodramatic fiction in penny numbers [c.
1829].
Two Emilys, The. By Sophia Lee. Newman. 2 vols.
“The Young Lady’s Tale” in The Canterbury Tales under
which title see further details.
Les deux Emilies, French translation. See under The Canter-
bury Tales.
Two Hearts. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey. 1 vol., Hurst
and Blackett. 1858.
Two Martyrs, The. A moral tale. . . . Translated from the
French by W. J. Walter. With an appendix . . . illustrative
of the scenery of the tale. 2 vols., London. 1812.
Second ed., 2 vols., London. 1819.
From Les Martyrs, ou le Triomphe de la Religion Chretienne.
1809. By the Viscount Francois Rene de Chateaubriand.
Two Mentors, The. A Modern Story. By Clara Reeve. 2 vols.,
Dilly. 1783.
Irish ed., 2 vols., Dublin, S. Price, W. and H. Whitestone,
etc. 1783.
TITLE INDEX 539
Les deux Mentors. . . . traduction libre de l’anglais de
M * * * * Paris. i2mo. 1784.
Two Pilgrims, The. A Romance. 2 vols., Minerva-Press, for
Lane, Newman: 1805.
Two Rectors, The. In ten papers. One vol., Longman. 1824.
Tyburn Dick or Take Me Who Dare. c. 1862.
Re-issue. 62 ncs. Hogarth House, c. 1877.
Tyburn Tree ; or, The Mysteries of the Past. 40 nos. London.
G. Purkess. 1848.
Re-issue, G. Vickers. 1850.
Re-issue, 1852.
This romance is by James Lindridge. About i860 De Witt
of New York reprinted Tyburn Tree in four numbers of the
Handsome Jack series.
Tyburn Tree; or, The Highwayman of England. 30 nos.
G. Howe. N.D.
Tyranny of Love ; or, Memoirs of the Marchioness D’Aremberg,
The. 2 vols., Elliot and Co. 1789.
U
Ulric And Ilvina, A Scandinavian Tale. 2 vols., Allen and
West. 1797.
Ulrica of Saxony. A romantic Tale of the Fifteenth Century.
By Rosalia St. Clair. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1828.
Una and Arthur. An Allegorical History. The Incidents from
Spenser. 2 vols., i2mo. Cambridge. Printed for the Author
by Fletcher & Co., 1779. Greatly influenced by Alexander
Bicknell’s Prince Arthur, an allegorical romance; published
1778.
Unchanged, The. By Selina Davenport. 3 vols., A. K. New-
man. 1832.
Uncle Peregrine’s Heiress. A novel. By Ann of Swansea [Mrs.
Ann Curtis]. 5 vols., A. K. Newman. 1828.
Uncle Tweazy and His Quizzical Neighbours: a Comic Satiric
540 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Novel. By the Author of The Observant Pedestrian, etc. 3
vols. Simpkin and Marshall. 1816.
Uncles ; or, Selfishness and Liberality, The. By Zara Went-
worth. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1822.
Undine. A Romance. Translated by George Soane, A. B. One
vol., i2mo. Edinburgh, Bell & Bell. London, Simpkin, 1818.
Another ed., i2mo. Simpkin, 1830. From the German of
Friedrick Heinrich Karl, freiherr de La Motte-Foque, Undine,
1811.
Unexpected Legacy, The. By Mrs. Hunter of Norwich. 2 vols.,
Longman. 1804. Advertised by Newman, 1812. 2 vols.,.
95.
Unexpected Wedding, The. In a Series of Letters. 8vo., T.
Beckett. 1768.
Unfortunate Attachment ; Or, Memoirs Of Mr. And Mrs. De-
La Bedoyere, The. 2 vols., Vemor. 1794. Advertised by
Lane and Newman, 1803; 2 vols., i2mo. 6l
The Unfortunate Attachment is a translation of Les epoux
malheureux, ou Vhistoire de Monsieur et de Madame de la
Bedoyere, by Baculard d’Arnaud.
Unfortunate Sensibility ; or, The Life of Mrs. L ***** *.
Written by Herself. In a Series of Sentimental Letters Dedi-
cated to Mr. Torick in the Elysian Fields. 2 vols., London :
Richardson. 1784.
Union, The, by Miss Minifie. 3 vols., Dutton. 1804.
Unknown ; or, The Northern Gallery, The. By Francis Lathom.
3 vols., Minerva-Press ;
Lane, Newman. 1808. Frontispiece.
Second ed., 4 vols., Newman. 1828. LTnconnu, ou la
Galerie mysterieuse, par 1’auteur de “ la Sceur de la miseri-
corde ” traduit de 1’ anglais par Mme. de Viteme. Paris
:
J. G. Dentu. 5 vols., 1810. This attribution to l’auteur de
“la Soeur de la misericorde,” Sophia L. Francis, The Nun
of Miserecordia, 1807, is erroneous.
Unknown Warrior; or, The Secret Band, The. A Romance
of the Eleventh Century. 24 penny nos. G. Purkess,
Compton Street, Soho. N.D. (c. 1849).
Unlucky Bob; or, Our Boys at School. Coloured wrapper-
E. J. Brett, n.d.
TITLE INDEX 541
IJrbino ; Or, The Vaults Of Lepanto. A Romance. By T. R.
Tuckett. 3 vols., Minerva-Press ;
A. K. Newman. 1814.
Also as The Vaults of Lepanto.
Usurpation ; or, The Inflexible Uncle. A Novel. By Thomas
Pike Lathy. 3 vols., Minerva-Press ;
Lane, Newman. 1805.
V
Vaga; or, A View of Nature. By Mrs. Peck. Author of Maid
of Avon, etc. 3 vols., Robinsons: 1813. Second ed.,
advertised by Newman, 1815; 3 vols., i2mo., i8l
Vagabond, The. A Novel. By George Walker. 2 vols., Pub-
lished by G. Walker. 1799.
Third ed., 1800.
Fourth ed., G. Burnet, etc. 1800.
Dedicated to the Bishop of Llandaff.
Vale of Clyde, The. A Tale. By Honoria Scott. 2 vols., Dick.
1811.
Valentine. A novel. 2 vols., W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street.
MDCCXC.
Valentine Vaux. By Timothy Portwine. 32 nos. Lloyd.
1840.
Valley of Collares ; or, The Cavern of Horrors, The. A romance.
By Mrs. Yorke. 3 vols., Minerva-Press, by William Lane.
1800.
Valley of St. Gothard, The. By Mrs. Parsons. 3 vols., T.
Hurst. 1801.
Valley of Shenondoah ; or, Memoirs of the Graysons, The.
3 vols., A. K. Newman and Co.
Advertised among A. K. Newman’s New Publications, 1832.
Valombrosa; Or, The Venetian Nun. A novel. 3 vols.,
Minerva-Press; Lane, Newman. 1804.
Valperga ; or, The Life and Adventures of Castruccio, Prince
of Lucca. By the Author of “ Frankenstein.” [Mary Woll-
stonecraft Shelley.] In Three Volumes. London. Whittaker.
1823. Another ed., 3 vols. 1832.
542 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Vampyre, The. A Tale. By John William Polidori, but often
attributed to Lord Byron, who denied the authorship in a
letter to Galignani’s Messenger, April 27th, 1819. The
fragment of Byron’s novel, often called The Vampire was
printed at the end of Mazeppa on June 28th, 1819, and has
often been reprinted among his works.
The Vampyre. A Tale. [Polidori.] First Edition. First
Issue.
8vo. Sherwood. 1819. [First separate issue.]
First Edition. Second issue. 8vo. Sherwood. 1819.
The Vampyre. A Tale. By the Right Honourable Lord
Byron. A Paris. Chez F. Louis, Libraire Rue Hautefeuille,
No. 10. 1821.
The Vampyre. Advertised by Galignani, “ New Publications,”
1826, under “ Lord Byron.” The Vampyre, a tale, 2d.
Edition, i2mo. Vallum paper. 3 fr. — This most terrific
and interesting tale was given out as LORD BYRON’S on
its publication in London.
The Vampyre. By D. Polidori. In The Romancist and
Novelist’s Library. Vol. I, No. 70, p. 285. London. J.
Clements. 1840.
The Vampyre. By Lord Byron. People’s Edition. Com-
plete, without abridgement. One Penny. “ Celebrated
Works. The Cheapest Books in the World.” London. John
Dicks. [1882.]
The Vampyre is reprinted in The Grimoire—and other Super-
natural Stories. Collected by Montague Summers. Fortune
Press. 1936- The Introduction, pp. xiii-xviii, gives an
account of Polidori’s tale and its attribution to Byron.
The Vampyre first appeared in The New Monthly Magazine,
April, 1819, and in spite of Byron’s protests it was referred to
as the poet’s work. In the May number of the Magazine
Colburn even advertised as a separate 8vo., at 4s. 6d.
“ The Vampyre, a Tale. By Lord Byron.” French and
German translators and publishers insisted upon regarding The
Vatnpyre as from Byron’s pen.
La Vampire, nouvelle traduite de VAnglais de Lord Byron.
By Henri Faber. 1819.
Der Vampyr. Eine Erzahlung aus dem Englichen des Lord
Byron. Nebst einer Schilderung seines Aufejithaltes in
Mytilene. Leipzig. 1819.
Der Vampyr. Translated into German by Christian Karl
Meissner. In Vol. V of the German version of Byron’s Poems
TITLE INDEX 543
and Dramas, edited by J. V. Adrian, Frankfurt. 1821, etc.
In Answers to Correspondents, London Journal, July 12th,
1845 an inquirer is told that The Vampire “ can be procured
of Newman, Leadenhall Street.”
Vancenza; or, The Dangers of Credulity. By Mrs. Mary
Robinson. 2 vols., Printed for the authoress, and sold by
Mr. Bell. 1792.
Second ed., 1792. (It is said that the whole of the First
Edition was sold in one day.)
Third ed., 1792.
Fourth ed., 1792.
Fifth ed., 1792.
Another ed., Dublin. 1792.
Sixth ed., Advertised by Newman, 181 1. 2 vols., 8r.
Vancenza ; or, the dangers of credulity. Two parts. Tegg’s
edition (chapbooks). i2mo., Parts I and II, London, Thomas
Tegg. 1810.
Vandeburg; or, The Fatal Injunction. A Romance. By Gren-
ville Fletcher. 8vo. London. 1834.
Varley the Vulture ; or, The Track of the Doomed. E. Lloyd..
[1844.]
Varley the Vulture; or, A Race for Life. Drama, Produced
at the Brittania Theatre, Hoxton, February 10th, 1845.
Varney, The Vampire: Or, The Feast Of Blood. A Romance.
“ Art thou a spirit of health or goblin damned !
” London :
Printed And Published By E. Lloyd, 12, Salisbury-Square,
Fleet-Street. 109 nos., 220 chapters, 868 pages. The Preface
is dated, London Sep. 184J.
A very inferior re-issue, penny nos., 1853.
Varney, The Vampire is esteemed the masterpiece of Thomas
Peckett Prest.
Varney the Vampire. A drama by H. Young. Produced at the
Bower Saloon, Stangate-street, Lambeth, on September 5th,
1846.
Vathek. Henly’s translation.
An Arabian Tale, From An Unpublished Manuscript : With
Notes Critical and Explanatory. One vol. London. J.
Johnson [7th June] 1786. Half-title, The History of the
Caliph Vathek.
544 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
An Arabian Tale. From an Unpublished Manuscript.
Clarke. 1809.
Vathek. Translated from the Original French. Third ed.
Clarke. 1816.
Vathek. Another issue. Clarke. 1816.
Vathek. Another issue. Clarke. 1816. Third ed., with
slight variant on title-page, for which detail see the Chapman-
Hodgkin Bibliography.
Vathek. Translated from the Original French. Fourth ed.
Clarke. 1823.
Vathek; an Arabian Tale. By W. Beckford. Bentley. 1834.
Vol. 41 of Bentley’s Standard Novels. The Castle of Otranto
and Bravo of Venice are in same volume.
Another issue of this edition. 1836.
Another ed., 1849.
Another ed., Bohn, 1852.
Another ed., Ward and Lock, 1856.
Another ed., 1866.
Another ed., Sampson Low, 1868.
Another ed., Library of Famous Fiction, 1873.
Sixth ed. [so called] 1881.
History of the Caliph Vathek, The. By William Beckford,
Esq., (Also Rasselas, Prince of Abyssinia. By Samuel
Johnson, LL.D.) London, Nimmo and Bain. 1883.
Another ed., 1887.
Vathek by Beckford. In The Bayard Series, “ edited by the
late J. Hain Friswell ;
flexible cloth extra, 2 s. 6d. each.”
Sampson Low, Marston & Company, Ltd., St. Dunstan’s
House, Fetter Lane, London, E.C.
Edited by Richard Garnett. Lawrence and Bullen. 1893.
Another ed., 1900.
Another ed., 1901.
Another ed., 1905.
Another ed., 1912.
Another ed., 1923.
Vathek. Translated by Herbert Grimsditch. Nonesuch Press.
House, Fetter Lane, London, E.C. 1892.
1929. This does not give the Episodes.
First American ed., of Henley’s translation. Philadelphia,
Carey’s also Wells and Lilly, Boston. 1816.
Vathek. Beckford’s French Original.
Vathek. A Lausanne. Chez Isaac Hignou & Compe. 1787.
Vathek. Conte Arabe. A Paris. Chez Poingot. 1787.
VESUVIA
OR,
•»
*
A XGLESEA MA X0 11
=**>?©»
IN THREE VOLUMES.
BY THE AUTHOR OF
VALAMBROSA, AND FOR R ESTI t
Quoth Sidrophc), it is no part
Of prudence *0 cry il.wn an arr.
And what it rr.ay perform, den/
Because you understand not why*
Do cot the hist’ries vf aii ages
Relate miraculous presages
Vf strange turns in the world’s affairs
Foreseen by astrologers f
HUIIJ2RAS.
VOL. I.
LONDON:
PRINTED AT THE
£©m«ba=113ies0,
FOR LANE, NEWMAN, AND CO.
L£ AD ENH ALL-STREET.
isor.
VESUVIA; OR, ANGLESEA MANOR
A novel
Title page, First Edition, 1807
TITLE INDEX 545
There are two further issues, 1787.
Vathek. A Londres. Chez Clarke. 1815.
Vathek. A Londres. Chez Clarke. [1828.]
Vathek. Reimprime en 1817 a Paris. [Barbier.]
Histoire Du Calife Vathek. 2 vols. A. Paris. Chez Anthe
Boucher. 1819. Not Beckford’s original, but a retranslation
into French of Henley’s translation.
Vathek, Nouvelle edition. Londres. Bentley. 1834.
Le Vathek de Beckford. Preface par Stephane Mallarme.
Paris. 1876, and reprint 1893.
Vathek. With the Episodes. Edited by Guy Chapman. 2
vols., Constable & Co. 1929. Text, Paris. 1787.
Vathek. First German ed. Translated by G. Chr. Romer
from the French. Mannheim, 1788.
Episodes of Vathek, The. By William Beckford. The
Episodes appeared in the original French in The English
Review, December, 1909, and August, September, 1910.
Translated by Sir Frank T. Marzials. With an Introduction
By Lewis Melville. Swift & Co., London. 1912.
Veiled Picture, The. 1802. Chapbook from The Mysteries of
Udolpho. See under Mrs. Radcliffe, Index of Authors.
Veiled Protectress ; or, The Mysterious Mother, The. A novel.
By Mrs. Meeke. 5 vols. Minerva Press; A. K. Newman.
1819.
Velina, a moral tale. By Alexander Whyte. 2 vols. Miller.
1812.
Venoni ; Or, The Novice Of St. Mark’s, drama by M. G. Lewis,
produced at Drury Lane, on Thursday, 1st December, 1808.
Founded on Monvel’s Les Victimes cloitrees. See Montague
Summers, The Gothic Quest, pp. 281-84.
Veronica; Or, The Mysterious Stranger. A novel of curious
events. 2 vols. Minerva-Press, William Lane. 1799.
The same author wrote Romantic Facts (1816) ;
and My Old
Cousin (1819). A. K. Newman advertises Veronica in 1816.
Very Strange, But Very True! Or, The History Of An Old
Man’s Young Wife. A Novel. By Francis Lathom. 4 vols.
Longman. 1803.
Second ed., 4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1821.
Vesuvia ; Or, Anglesea Manor. A Novel. In Three Volumes.
n':
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
546
By the Author Of Valombrosa, And Forresti, [Quotation, 8
lines, Hudibras]. London: Printed At The Minerva-Press,
For Lane, Newman, and Co. Leadcnhall-Street. 1807.
Vicar of Bray,
The. A Tale. 2 vols. London. Baldwin.
1771. 2 vols. Dublin. J. Williams, etc. 1771.
Vicar of Lansdowne ; or Country Quarters, The. By Regina
Maria Dalton. 2 vols. Johnson. 1789.
Second ed., 2 vols. Minerva-Press, for William Lane. 1800.
Third ed., A. K. Newman. 1825.
French translation. Le Cure De Lansdowne, 2 vols. 1789.
Miss Dalton married Mr. Roche at some date 1790-92.
Vice; or The Secret Crimes of London. By the Author of
Charley Wag. c. 1863.
Vice and its Victim; or, Phoebe the Peasant’s Daughter. 8vo.„
Henry Lea. 72 nos. n.d., woodcuts. By Thomas Peckett
Prest.
Vicissitudes Abroad ; or, The Ghost of My Father. A novel.
By Mrs. Bennet, Author of Anna; Juvenile indiscretions
;
Agnes de Courci ; Ellen; Beggar Girl, etc. 6 vols. Minerva-
Press; Lane, Newman. 1806.
Victim, The. In 5 Letters to Adolphus. One vol., post 8vo.
Frontispiece. 1800.
Victim of a Vow; or the Dangers of Duplicity, The. 2 vols.
Symonds. 1 790.
Victim Of Deception, The. 2 vols., W. Lane, Leadenhall-
Street. MDCCLXXXVIII.
Victim of Fashion; or, A Treacherous Friend, The. By
Hannah Maria Jones. G. Virtue. 1825.
Victim of Fashion; and Treacherous Friends, The. (A Warning
to Youth.) By Hannah Maria Jones. Wakefield, Nicholson;
London, S. D. Ewins and Co. With a coloured frontispiece.
N.D. c. 1870.
Victim of Intolerance ; or the Hermit of Killarney, The. A
Catholic Tale. By Robert Torrens, Major in the Royal
Marines. 4 vols. Gals & Co. 1814.
Victim Of Magical Delusion; Or, The Mystery Of The Revo-
TITLE INDEX 547
lution Of P—L: The. A Magico-Political Tale. Founded
On Historical Facts, And Translated From The German Of
Cajetan Tschink. By P. Will. 3 vols., London. Printed For
G. G. and J. Robinson, Paternoster-Row. 1795.
Victim of Passion; or, Memoirs of the Comte de Saint Julien,
The. Minerva Press, W. Lane. MDCCXCV.
Victim of Prejudice, The. By Mary Hays, Author of the
Memoirs of Emma Courtney. 2 vols. Johnson. 1799.
Victor; or, The Child of the Forest. Translated from the
French. 4 vols. Minerva-Press; Lane, Newman. 1802.
Translated from F. G. Ducrav-Duminil, Victor ; ou VEnfant
de la foret. 4 vols. 1796.
Victor Allen. A novel. By Mrs. Fortnum. 2 vols. j. F.
Hughes. 1805.
Second ed., 1806.
Victorina. An Interesting and Incidental Tale from the French.
2 vols. W. Lane; Leadenhall-Street. MDCCXC. A trans-
lation of Victorine by J. G. Gorgy.
Victorine’s Excursions. By Mrs. Elizabeth Anne Le Nob.
Boosey. 1804.
French translation. Les Promenades de Victorine. Boosey.
1804.
Vidocq, The French Jonathan Wild. 26 penny nos. j. Chidley :
1848.
Vileroy; or, The Horrors of Pfindorf Castle. A Romance of
Chivalry. [By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey.] 30 nos. E.
Lloyd. 1850.
Villa Nova; or, the Ruined Castle. A Romance. By Catherine
Selden. 2 vols. Printed [by Connor, Cork] for Lane, New-
man. 1805.
Village Anecdotes. By Mrs. Elizabeth Anne Le Noir. 3 vols.
Vernor. 1804.
Village Annals ; or, Scenes in Domestic Life. By Mrs. Elizabeth
Anne Le Noir. 2 vols. 1803.
Village Coquette, The. 3 vols. Whittaker; A. K. Newman.
1822.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
548
Village Curate and his Daughter Julia, describing her Journey
to London, The. A Tale. Riley. 1797.
1 vol., with six engravings: plain 12s., coloured £1 is.
Village Lovers, The. 2 vols. William Lane, at the Minerva-
Press. MDCCXCIII.
Village Maid; or, The Interesting Adventures of Montsirant,
The. London. Roe and Lemoine. 1804.
With a frontispiece. Chapbook.
Village of Friedewalde ; or The Enthusiast, The. A novel.
Translated from the German of Augustus Lafontaine, by
James Powell. 3 vols. Hughes. 1806.
Village of Mariendorpt, The. A Tale. By Miss Anna Maria
Porter. 4 vols. Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, and Brown.
1821.
Le Village de Mariendorpt. Traduit de l’anglais par M. H.
de Janoey. 4 tom. Paris. 1821.
Dramatized by James Sheridan Knowles as The Maid of
Mariendorpt, A Play in Three Acts, and produced at the
Haymarket on Tuesday, October 9th, 1838. Dicks’ Standard
Plays, No. 496.
Village of Martindale, The. A novel. 2 vols. W. Lane,
Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXVII. By Mr. Nicholson.
Village Pastor and His Children, The. A novel from the Ger-
man of Augustus Lafontaine. 4 vols. Minerva-Press ;
Lane,
Newman. 1803. A translation of Leben eines armen Land
predigers. American ed. 4 vols. New York. Longworth.
1810.
Family Pictures ; or, the life of a poor village pastor and his
children. London. 8vo. 1849.
Family Portraiture ; or, the History of a German country
pastor and his family. Freely rendered from the French by
Mrs. J. D. W. Digby. 8vo. London. Hall. 1857. A trans-
lation from the French version of Lafontaine by Mme. de
Montolieu.
Village Romance, The. A Novel. By Jane Elson. 2 vols.
Minerva-Press, Lane and Newman. 1802.
Village Scandal; or, The Gossip’s Tale. A picture of real life.
By Hannah Maria Jones. G. Virtue. 1835.
TITLE INDEX 549
Village Virtues. A Dramatic Satire. In Two Parts. [By M.
G. Lewis.] 4to. Bell. Oxford-street. 1796.
Published at three shillings.
Reviewed Monthly Mirror, August, 1796, p. 229; Monthly
Review, November, 1 796, p. 336 ;
etc.
Villasantelle ; or, the Curious Impertinent. A romance. By
Catharine Selden. 1 vol. Printed [by R. Snare, Reading]
for A. K. Newman. 1817.
Villeroy; Or, The Fatal Moment. A novel. 3 vols. W. Lane,
Leadenhall-Street. MDCCXCI. Said to be ‘
By a lady,’ but
actually by Henry Whitfield.
Vindictive Spirit, The. By Mrs. Bridget Bluemantle [Mrs. E.
Thomas]. 4 vols., Minerva-Press ;
A. K. Newman. 1812.
Violet Hill; or, Memoirs of Cordelia, a fair foundling. By E,
Miles. London. 1791.
Virgin Bride, The. A Romance. 8 nos. London. E. Lloyd.
N.D. (1844).
A story of Mexico.
Virginia; or the Peace of Amiens. By Miss Emma Parker.
Author of “ Elfride.” 4 vols. Crosby and Co. 1811.
Virtue and Vice, a novel. B. W. H. Rayner. 2 vols. Ostell.
1805.
Virtuous Orphan; The, Or The Life, Misfortunes And Adven-
tures of Indiana. Written by Herself. This popular novel
had reached a fifth edition in 1770. 2 vols., with engraved
frontispieces. L. Hawes, etc.
Virtuous Orphan; or, The Life of Marianne, The. London.
8vo. 1784. A translation from Marivaux, La Vie de
Marianne, 1 731-41.
Virtuous Poverty. By Henry Siddons. 3 vols. R. Phillips.
1804.
Virtuous Prince, The. Travels and Adventures of Usong, an
Oriental Tale. One vol., post 8vo., London; William Lane,
Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXIV. A translation of von
Haller’s Usong.
Visit To London; Or, Emily And Her Friends, The. By Mrs.
Holland. 4 vols. Minerva-Press. A. K. Newman. 1814.
550 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Visiting Day, The. A Novel. One vol. 1768.
Vittoria Colonna. 3 vols., 1827.
Vivonio; or, The Hour of Retribution. By a Young Lady.
[Miss Sophia L. Francis] 4 vols., Minerva-Press ;
Lane,
Newman: 1806.
Vivonio; ou V Heure de la retribution, par Sophie Frances.
Paris. J. G. Dentu. 5 vol. 1820.
In the Catalogue general des livres imprimes de la Biblio-
theque Rationale, Tome LIV, Paris, Impr. Nat., Colonne 413,
Sophie Frances erroneously entered as Pseud, de Lathom
(Francis). Ibid. Tome LXXXIX. Id. 1926. Col. 872-3
we have : Lathom (Francis), pseud, de Sophie Frances, under
which entry is listed Vivonio Paris, 1820.
Voltairiana. In Four Volumes. Selected and Translated from
the French By Mar)' Julia Young, Author of Donalda, or The
Witches of Glenshiel; Moss Cliff Abbey; Right and Wrong,
etc. 4 vols. Hughes. 1805.
Voluntary Exile, The. By Mrs. Parsons. 5 vols. William Lane
at the Minerva Press. MDCCXCV.
With an engraved Frontispiece.
Voyages And Travels Of Captain Robert Boyle, The. In
several Parts of the World: Intermixed with the Story of
Mrs. Villars, an English Lady, with whom he made His
Surprising Escape from Barbary. Likewise including the
History of an Italian Captive, and the Life of Don Pedro
Aquilio. Full of the most Various as well as Surprizing Turns
of Fortune. London : Printed for W. Lane, Leadenhall-
Street. 1797. One vol. Price 2 s. 6d. Boards.
W
Wagner, the Wehr-Wolf. By G. W. M. Reynolds. 1847.
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany, original series. No. 17.
Dicks’ English Novels. Price Sixpence Each.
Waldeck Abbey. A novel. By the Author of The Weird
Sisters, Butler’s Diary, etc. 2 vols., William Lane, at the
Minerva Press. MDCCXCV.
TITLE INDEX 55
1
Waldorf ; or, the Dangers of Philosophy. A Philosophical Tale.
By Sophia King. 2 vols. Robinsons. 1798.
Waldorf, ou les Dangers de la Philosophic. Traduit de
1 ’anglais. Paris. 2 tom. An VIII. [1800].
Wallace ; or, The Piero of Scotland. By Gabriel Alexander.
34 nos., John Dicks. 7 Wellington Street North, Strand.
1848.
Re-issue in Weekly Penny Numbers and Monthly Sixpenny
Parts (No. 1, August 10th, 1850), 1850-1.
A later ed., John Dicks, one vol. 55. About 1882.
Wallace, the Hero of Scotland. Melodrama by William
Barrymore, was produced at Astley’s, October 6th, 1817, and
at the Coburg, June 8th, 1818. Printed : Dicks, 953 ;
Lacy,
vol. lxxiii.
Walsh Colville. By Miss Anna Maria Porter. One vol., i2mo.
A. K. Newman. 1833.
Walsh Colville ; or, A Young Man’s First Entrance into Life.
By A. M. Porter. No. 61. “The Romancist and Novelist’s
Library.” Vol. III. Clements. 1840.
Walsingham ; or, the Pupil of Nature. A Domestic Story, inter-
spersed with Poetry. By Mary Robinson. 4 vols. Longman.
1798. 2nd ed. 4 vols. Minerva-Press, Lane, Newman.
1805.
Walter De Monbary, Grand Master Of The Knights Templars.
An Historical Romance. From the German of Professor
Kramer, Author of Herman of Unna. [
i.e
.
Christiane Bcne-
dicte Eugenie Naubert.] 4 vols. Minerva-Press. Lane and
Newman. 1803. Second ed. Minerva Press for A. K.
Newman. 1816.
Translation from Walt her von Montbarrn. 1786.
Walter the Murderer; or, The Mystery of El Dorado. An
historical romance. By C. A. Bolen. 3 vols. A. K. Newman.
1827.
Wanderer of the Alps; or, Alphonso, The. A Romance. 2
vols. William Lane, at the Minerva-Press. MDCCXCVI.
By Mr. Singer.
The same author wrote The Mystic Castle, 1796; and
Edwin; or, The Heir of Aella, 1803.
552 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Wandering Islander ; or, the History Of Mr. Charles North
,
The. 2 vols. Ridgway, 1793.
Wandering Jew, The. A Melodrama in three Acts translated
from the French of A. Caignez By J. Doran. First performed
at the Surrey Theatre, September 2nd, 1822, for the Benefit
of Mr. Blanchard. Hitherto unrecorded MS. in the posses-
sion of Montague Summers. There is a Wandering Jew,
anon., acted at the Queen’s on Thursday, March 3rd, 1835.
Sue’s famous romance Le Juif errant is 1844-45.
Wandering Spirit, The. Chapbook. 1802.
Wanderings of Childe Harold,
The. By John H. Bedford. A.
K. Newman. 1824.
Wanderings of Warwick, The. A Novel. By Charlotte Smith.
1 vol., i2mo. Bell. 1794.
In an advt., Oxford Street, 13th January', 1794, Bell apologises
for delay in publication, as also for the novel being in one
volume instead of the promised two.
Wanley Penson ; or, the Melancholy Man: A Miscellaneous
History. 3 vols. Kearsley. 1791.
Wanton Widow, The. Being faithful Memoirs of the Amours
and Intrigues of John Stewart and the Widow Carleton. One
vol., 8vo., by Richards: 1769. A somewhat free satire in
the guise of a novel upon the reputed intrigues of the mother
of George III, the widow of Frederick, Prince of Wales, with
the Earl of Bute.
War Cruise of the Mosca,
or, The Six Fighting Middies, The.
Coloured wrappers. Hogarth House, n.d.
Warbeck. A pathetic tale. 2 vols., William Lane; Leadenhall-
Street. MDCCLXXXVI. Translated from the French of
F.—-T. de Baculard d’Arnaud by Sophia Lee.
Warbeck of Wolfstein. By Miss Holford. 3 vols. Rodwell and
Martin. 1820.
Warbeck Legend: a tale of the dead. 2 vols. Ogle. 1820.
A new ed., Routledge. 1855.
Ward of Delamere, The. By Mrs. Pinchard. Author of
“ Mystery and Confidence,” etc. 3 vols. Black, Parry and
Co. 1815.
TITLE INDEX 553
Warkfield Castle. A tale. By Jane Harvey. 3 vols. Minerva-
Press, Lane and Newman. 1802.
Warwick Castle, an historical novel “ containing, among other
desultory information, the Descent and Achievements of the
ancient Earls of Warwick, from the earliest period of their
creation to the present time. With some Account of Warwick,
Birmingham, Leamington, etc., etc., interspersed with Pieces
of Local Poetry, incidental Biography, and Anecdotes of
English History.” By Miss Prickett. 3 vols. Baldwin,
Cradock and Joy. 1817.
Wat Tyler. 55 nos. G. Pierce: 1850. 64 nos. W. Johnson:
1851. By Pierce Egan, Jun.
Watch Tower ; or, The Sons of Ulthona, The. By T. J. Horsley
Curties. 5 vols. Hurst. 1804.
Advertised in 1812 by Newman. 5 vols. i2mo. 25s.
Water Queen; or, the Mermaid of Loch Leene, The. And
other tales. By Henry Coates. 3 vols. A. K. Newman.
1832.
Way of the World, The. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey. 3
vols. Bull. 1830.
Way to Lose Him, The. Printed for and sold by Francis Noble
and John Noble. 1772.
Way to Please Him. Or The History of Lady Sedley, The.
Printed for and sold by Francis Noble and John Noble. 2
vols. 1773.
Wealth and Poverty. A Domestic Tale. By Susannah Frances
Reynolds. (Mrs. G. W. M. Reynolds.) John Dicks. In
weekly Penny Numbers, and Monthly Sixpenny Parts. No.
1, published on Wednesday, 6th September, 1848. No. 12,
2nd December, 1848. Complete Work. Price One Shilling.
Complete in 12 Nos. Reynolds Miscellany Office, 7, Welling-
ton Street North, Strand. 1848.
Wearyfoot Common. A Tale by Leitch Ritchie. One vol.
i 855-
Wedding Day, The. By Elizabeth Isabella Spence. 3 vols.
Longman and Co. 1807.
Wedding Ring; or Married and Single, The. A domestic Tale..
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
554
By Hannah Maria Jones. Originally issued in 28 weekly nos.
at sixpence each. With superior engravings. G. Virtue, 26
Ivy Lane, Paternoster Row. 1824.
Complete edition, 4 vols., Virtue. 1824.
A Week at a Cottage. One vol., 1775.
Weird Sisters, The. A novel. 3 vols. William Lane, at the
Minerva-Press. MDCCXCIV. By the Author of A Butler’s
Diary, 1792; and Waldeck Abbey, 1795.
Weird Woman of the Wraagh; or, Burton and le Moore, The.
By Henry Coates. 4 vols. A. K. Newman: 1830.
Welch Mountaineer, The. By Arthur Mower. 2 vols. B.
Crosby and Co. 1811.
A novel by Dr. Arthur Mower of Edinburgh.
Welsh Mountaineer, The. A novel. By Catherine Hutton. 3
vols. Longman. 1817.
Welch Peasant Boy, The. A novel. By Mrs. Frances Peck. 3
vols. Minerva-Press; Lane, Newman. 1808.
A Welsh Story. By Mary Barker. 3 vols. Hookham. 1798.
West Indian; or, The Brothers, The. A novel. 3 vols.
Minerva Press for A. K. Newman and Co. 1820.
Westbrook Village. A novel. 2 vols. Minerva-Press, for
William Lane. 1 799-
Wharbroke Legends, The. By A. Marmacopt. 2 vols. 1820.
What Has Been. A novel. 2 vols. Minerva-Press, for William
Lane. 1801.
“ The first literary attempt of a lady.”
What Shall Be, Shall Be. A Novel. In Four Volumes. By Mrs.
Meeke, Author of The Veiled Protectress ; Old Wife and
Young Husband ; There Is A Secret! Find It Out; Which
Is The Man ? The Spanish Campaign, etc. Quotation :
5
lines, Davenant. Vol. I. (-11. ,
-III., -IV.). London : Printed
For A. K. Newman And Co., Leadenhall-Street. 1823.
What you please ; or, Memoirs of Modern Characters. A novel.
4 vols. Longman. 1805. By the Author of Tourville, Rev.
Mr. Wyndham. Second ed. advertised in 1812 by Newman.
4 vols. i2mo. 1 45.
TITLE INDEX 555
Which Is The Man? A Novel. In Four Volumes. By Mrs.
Meeke, Author of Anecdotes of the Altamont Family,
Ellesmere, etc. Minerva-Press, for William Lane. 1801.
Frontispiece.
Which Wins, Love or Money
?
By the author of “ Whitefriars.”
[Emma Robinson.] London. 8vo. 1862 [1861]. In “ The
Shilling Volume Library.” On the cover the name Louis
Ulbach appears as author.
White Cottage, The. A tale. By Arthur Mower [By A. M.].
One vol., i2mo. Cadell. London: and Edinburgh. 1817.
By Dr. Arthur Mower of Edinburgh.
White Knight ; or, The Monastery of Morne, The. A Romance.
By Theodore Melville, Esq., 3 vols., Crosby and Co. 1802.
White Slave, The. A Romance for the Nineteenth Century.
By Richard Hildreth. 32 nos. London. 1844.
White Squaw, The. A Tale of Indian Vengeance. Coloured
wrapper. E. J. Brett, n.d.
Whitefriars ; Or, The Days Of Charles The Second. An His-
torical Romance. [By Emma Robinson.] In Three Volumes.
London: Henry Colburn. 1844.
Second ed., 3 vols. Colburn. 1844.
Third ed., 3 vols. Colburn. 1844.
Several other editions followed.
In Routledge’s “ Railway Library,” Nos. 28, 29. Price one
shilling each.
Another ed., 1852.
Routledge, Sixpenny edition. 1884.
Whitefriars
:
roman anglais traduit par E. Sfcheffter]. Paris.
1858.
Whitefriars ; Or, The Days of Claude Du Val. A Drama,
In Three Acts From the Celebrated Romantic Novel of the
Same Title. By W. Thompson Townsend, Esq. Produced at
the Royal Surrey Theatre, Easter Monday, 4th April, 1844.
French’s Acting Edition (late Lacy’s) No. 598.
Dicks’ Standard Plays. Price One Penny. No. 742.
Whitehall ; Or, The Days of Charles I. An Historical Romance.
By The Author Of “ Whitefriars.” [Emma Robinson.] 3
vols. Colburn. 1845.
Second ed. 1846.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
556
Third ed. 1849.
2 vols., Routledge. 1854.
Whitehall: roman anglais traduit par E. SchafFter; Paris..
j 857 -
Who Is The Bridegroom? Or, Nuptial Discoveries. A Novel.
In Three Volumes. By Mrs. Green, Author of Good Men
of Modern Date, The Fugitive, Romance-Readers and
Romance-Writers, Reformist, Festival Of St. Jago, Carthusian
Friar, Royal Exiles, etc., etc. Quotation : She’s a woman
of a noble resolution. Sir John Vanbrugh. The Confederacy?
Act IV. Vol. I (-II-III). London: Printed For A. K.
Newman And Co., Leadenhall-Street. 1822.
Who's the Murderer? or, The Mystery of the Forest. By
Eleanor Sleath. 4 vols., Minerva-Press. Lane, Newman.
1802.
Widow; or, A Picture of Modern Times, The. A Novel. In
a Series of Letters. By Mrs. Mary Robinson. 2 vols., Hook-
ham. 1794. New ed., 2 vols., Minerva-Press, A. K. Newman..
1813.
First Dublin ed., 1794.
Widow Mortimer ; or, The Marriage in the Dark. A romance.
By T. Prest. 12 parts. E. Lloyd. 1850.
Widow of the Wood, The. By Benjamin Victor. i2mo.
London, C. Corbett. 1755.
A scandal novel, the heroine, in real life Ann Northey, married
as her fourth husband a Mr. Hargrave, an attorney. Their
son Hargrave, editor of the State Trials, bought up and
destroyed every copy of the novel he could find, in order
to prevent the dissemination of the slur on his mother’s name.
Widow's Choice; Or, One, Two, Three, The. By Mrs.
Catherine G. Ward. Authoress of the Rose of Claremont ;
Mysterious Marriage; Orphan Boy; Thorn, or Doubtful
Property; Family Portraits; and The Cottage on the Cliff.
One vol. 8vo., Oxford Printed. London: J. Saunders;
Bartlett and Hinton, Oxford; J. Bennett, Plymouth. 1823.
Frontispiece, vignette title-page and 5 illustrations.
Widowed Bride; or, Celina, The. A Novel. By Sarah Anne
Hook. 3 vols., Minerva-Press; Lane and Newman. 1802.
TITLE INDEX 557
Wieland ; or, The Transformation. By Charles Brockden
Brown. 1798.
Wieland, An American Tale. By Charles Brockden Brown.
Reprinted. 3 vols., Colburn. London. 1811.
Wieland, An American Tale. A New Edition. 3 vols., Colburn.
1822.
Wife; or, Caroline Herbert, The. By the late Author of The
Exemplary Mother (Mrs. Cooper). 2 vols., Becket and Porter.
1813. The Wife has been attributed to Mrs. Hughes.
Wife and the Mistress, The. A novel. By Mary Charlton. 4
vols., Minerva-Press ;
Lane, Newman. 1802. Second ed.,
ibid. 1803. Frontispiece.
Wife of Fitzalice ; and the Caledonian Siren, The. A romance
with historical notes. By Marianne Breton. 5 vols., Minerva
Press; A. K. Newman : 1817.
Wife of Two Husbands ; or, Fritz the Outlaw, The. By Sarah
S. Wilkinson. London. Roe and Lemoine. 1804.
With a frontispiece. Of the chapbook kind.
Wife’s Dream; or, A Profligate’s Lesson, The. 3vo., n.d. by
T. P. Prest. Woodcuts.
Wife’s Secret, The. 14 penny nos., E. Lloyd: 1850.
Wild Boys of London; or, The Children of the Night, The.
Newsagents’ Publishing Company (Limited), 147 Fleet Street,
E.C. Penny nos. 1866. Woodcuts. This romance is said
to have been suppressed by the police.
Wild Boys of Paris; or, The Mysteries of the Vaults of Death.
Newsagents Pub. Co. 22 nos. N.D.
Wild Irish Boy, The. By the Author of Montorio. 3 vols.,
Longman, etc. 1808.
Wild Irish Boy, The. By the Author of The Milesian, and
Fatal Revenge or Family of Montorio. 2nd. ed. 3 vols.,
Colburn. 1814.
Wild Irish Boy, The. By the Rev. R. Maturin. No. 49,
Vol. II, The Romancist and Novelist’s Library. J. Clements,
1839.
Le Jeune Irlandais, traduit par Mdme. la Comtesse de
[Mole]. 4 vols., Paris, 1828.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
558
Wild Irish Girl, The. A National Tale. By Miss Qwenson,
3 vols., Richard Phillips. 1806.
The Wild Irish Girl ran through seven editions in less than,
two years, and was frequently reprinted.
With a portrait of the author and a prefatory address, 8vo.,
Colburn. 1846.
Wild Roses ; or, Cottage Tales. “ With fine engravings.” 2 vols.,
Vignette title. London : Ann Lemoine, White Rose Court,
Coleman Street. N.D. [1807]. I n spite of the gentle title
these volumes present some highly sensational tales
:
Twelve O’clock ; or, The Three Robbers.
The Monks of Cluny; or, Castle Acre Monastery.
The Tomb of Aurora; or, The Mysterious Summons.
The Mysterious Spaniard ; or, The Ruins of St. Luke’s Abbey.
Barbastal; or, The Magician of the Forest of Bloody Ash.
Le Fanu gleefully declared that Wild Roses was “ a volume
the delight of our boyhood, and still most precious from early
associations ” and that it “ boasted names which would never
have blessed the imaginations of even our living princes in the
art.”
Forgotten Novels in “ The Dublin University Magazine,”
March, 1862, Vol. LIX, No. CCCLI, p. 343.
Wildfoot, the Wanderer of Wicklow. Coloured wrapper. E_
J. Brett, n.d.
Will Dudley ; or, The Scarlet Riders of Hounslow Heath
.
Coloured wrapper. Hogarth House, n.d.
Will Watch,
from the Autobiography of a British Officer. [By
William Johusa Neale.] 3 vols., London : 1834.
Will Watch, the Bold Smuggler. A Tale of the Coast. The
Narrative Founded on Fact, and Characters Drawn from Life.
[Henry Downes Miles.] 47 parts. 8vo. London. W.
Clarke. 1842.
Will and the Way, The. By J. F. Smith, London Journal
1852-3. See Index of Authors, J. F. Smith.
As a serial, commencing in No. 1 of The Seven Days Journal„
Sept. 6th, 1862, and continued in No. 1 of The London
Reader, May 18th, 1863, when The Seven Days Journal
became incorporated in The London Reader.
The Will and the Way. By J. F. Smith. One vol., Illustrated
TITLE INDEX 559
by Sir John Gilbert. Bradley and Co., 12 and 13, Fetter Lane.
1888.
American ed. as Henry Ashton; or, The Will and the Way-
75 cents, and Ellen De Vere ; or, The Way of the Will. 75
cents. Both published. Dick and Fitzgerald. New York.
N.D. [c. 1888].
Opactwo Carrow, powiese wspolezesna z angielskiego. 2 vols.,
1871.
Almost immediately upon its completion, The Will and the
Way was dramatized and pirated for more than one London
Minor Theatre.
The play, The Will and The Way was published by Purkess
in his pictorial penny plays, about 1855.
Will and the Way; or, The Mysteries of Carrow Abbey, The.
A Romantic Drama by W. R. Waldron.
Founded upon the work [by J. F. Smith] of the same name.
Produced at the Theatre Royal, Leeds, April 19th, i860.
Printed : Lacy’s Acting Plays, No. 986.
A Will and a Way. By Lady Georgiana Fullerton. 3 vols.,
Bentley. 1881.
William and Charles; or, The Bold Adventurers. A Novel.
By the Author of Lord Winworth. 2 vols. 1789.
William De Montfort; or, The Sicilian Heiress. By Agnes
Musgrave. 3 vols., Richards. 1808.
William of Normandy. An Historical Novel. 2 vols., 1787.
William Tell. The Hero of Switzerland. An Historical
Romance. By J. H. Newton. 8vo. 24 penny parts.
London. Paine, c. 1840. Also in 28 nos. pub. G. Pierce.
William Thornborough, the Benevolent Quixote. 4 vols.,
Robinsons. 1 79 1
.
William Wallace ; or, The Highland Hero. A tale founded on
Historical facts. By Henry Siddons. 2 vols., London. 1791.
Archibald McLaren has a melodrama Wallace the Brave ; or.
The Siege of Perth. i2mo., 1819.
Willie Gray; or, The Wreck of the Polar Star. Commenced
in No. 1 of The Young Englishman’s Journal, April 13th,
1867. Separate issue, coloured wrapper, Hogarth House,
n.d.
560 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
Willoughby. By the Author of Realities. 2 vols., Newman.
1826. By Mrs. A. Raikes Harding.
Willoughby: or Reformation. By the Author of Decision.
(Grace Kennedy.) i2mo. 1823.
Wilmot ; or, The Pupil Of Folly. 4 vols., William Lane,
Leadenhail-Street. MDCCLXXXII.
Winifred, a Tale of Wonder. 2 vols., London. 1803. By
The Rev. James Thompson.
A Winter At Bath; or, Love as it May Be, and Friendship as it
Ought to Be; a Novel in 4 vols. from the chaste and classical
pen of Mrs. Bayfield. Her very able delineation of the
Character of Lady M ,
Lord B——,
Mr. E ,
etc., etc.
—so well known at Bath, must for ever stamp her name
with celebrity. J. F. Hughes. 1807.
A Winter at St. James ; or, Modern Manners. By Miss Emma
Hamilton. 4 vols., Chappie. 18 11.
A Winter in Dublin. A Descriptive Tale. By Charles Sedley.
3 vols., 1808.
A Winter in Edinburgh ; or, The Russian Brothers. A Novel.
By Honoria Scott. 3 vols., J. Dick. 1810.
A Winter in London; or, Sketches of Fashion. A Novel. By
T. S. Surr. 3 vols., Phillips. 1806.
Second ed., 1806.
Third ed., 1806.
Fourth ed., 1806.
Fifth ed., 1806.
Another ed., 3 vols., 1807.
13th ed., 3 vols., A. K. Newman : 1821.
A Winter in Washington ; or, The Seymour Family. 3 vols.,
A. K. Newman: 1822.
Winter Tales. By Maria Scott. One vol., A. K. Newman.
1824.
A Winter’s Tale. By James Norris Brewer. 4 vols., Minerva-
Press, for William Lane. 1799- Frontispiece. Second ed.,
Minerva-Press, for A. K. Newman. 1811.
Witch and the Maid of Honour, The. 2 vcds., Longman. For
the Author. 1799.
WOMEN AS THEY ARE
A novel by Mrs. Eliza Parsons
Frontispiece, First Edition, 1796
TITLE INDEX 561
For a review see Lad/s Monthly Museum, 1799. Vol. Ill,
p. 151.
Witch Finder; or. The Wisdom of Our Ancestors, The. A
Romance. [By Thomas Gaspey.] 3 vols., Longman, 1824.
With a frontispiece.
The Witch-Finder, melodrama by Douglas Jerrold. Drury
Lane, December 19th, 1829.
Witch of Aysgarth, The. By Miss C. D. Haynes. 3 vols., A. K.
Newman: 1841.
Witch of Rauensworth, The. By James Norris Brewer. «8o8.
Witch of Windshaw, The. A Tale of the Seventeenth Century.
3 vols., Simpkin. 1817.
Witcheries of Craig Isaf, The. A Romance, by William Frederic
Williams. 2 vols., Minerva-Press, Lane, Newman. 1804.
An Historical Novel. Period : William Rufus.
Wizard Priest and The Witch, The. A Romance. By Quintin
Poynet. 3 vols., A. K. Newman: 1822.
Wolf ; or, The Tribunal of Blood. Translated from the German
of Veit Weber [Georg Philipp Ludwig Leonhard Wachter]
by James Powell. 2 vols., London. Johnson. 1806.
Reprint J. Clements. London. 1841.
Wolfe of Badenoch. An Historical Romance. [By Sir Thomas
Dick Lauder.] 3 vols., Simpkin. 1827.
Wolfnorth; or, Mont Eagle. 4 vols., Hookham : 1812.
Wolfstein. Chapbook. n.d. [c. 1800].
Woman; or, Ida of Athens. By Miss Owenson. 4 vols.,
Longman and Co., 1809.
Frequently reprinted.
Woman; or, Minor Maxims. A sketch. 2 vols., Minerva Press
for A. K. Newman and Co. 1818. Dedication “ to a Tender
and Affectionate Mother.”
“ A New Edition, revised and corrected ” with new title
Helena Egerton; or, Traits of Female Character. By the
author of Always happy; Claudine, etc. A. K. Newman, 1824.
Dedication signed M.E.B. By Mrs. Bridget Bluemantle (also
Martha Homely), i.e., Mrs. E. Thomas.
M.E.B. may stand for Martha E. Bridget (or Bluemantle).
o*
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
562
Woman and her Master. By J. F. Smith. 1853-4. London
Journal. See Index of Authors, J. F. Smith.
One vol., Bradley and Co., 12 and 13 Fetter Lane. 1888.
One vol., price one shilling. 1897.
American ed., New York. Dick and Fitzgerald. N.D. [c.
1885] in two separate volumes as, Woman and her Master,
75 cents: and, Fred Vernon ; or, The Victim of Avarice, one
dollar.
La Femme et son Maitre. Traduit par H. de L’Espine. 3
tom., Paris. 1859. “ Bibliotheque des meilleurs romans
etrangers.”
Woman as She Should Be; or, Memoirs of Mrs. Menville.
A novel. By Mrs. Parsons. 4 vols., London : Printed for
William Lane, at the Minerva, Leadenhall-Street, and sold
by E. Harlow, Pall-Mall. MDCCXCIII.
Woman’s a Riddle. A Romantic Tale. By Ann of Swansea.
[Mrs. Ann Curtis.] 4 vols., A. K. Newman. 1824.
Woman’s Life; or, The Trials of the Heart. Serialized in
Lloyd’s Entertaining Journal, commencing March 30th,
1844; concluding (chapter CII) February 15th, 1845.
By Malcolm J. Errym.
Woman of Colour, The. 2 vols., Black and Co., 1810.
Woman Of Fashion, The; or, The History Of Lady Diana
Dormer. 2 vols., J. Wilkie: 1767.
Woman of Feeling, The. 4 vols., Hemet and Earle : 1804. By
William Henry Ireland. Signed as by Paul Persius.
Woman of Honor, The. 3 vols., London. 1768.
An epistolary novel.
Woman Of Quality; Or, The Ilistory of Lady Adelinda Bella-
mont, The. In a Series of Letters. 2 vols., William Lane,
Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXV.
Woman of the Town; or, authentic memoirs of Phebe Phillips,
The. Written by herself. Price 6d. i2mo. Lemoine. 1801.
Woman’s Wrongs. A series of tales. By Ernest Charles Jones.
London. 1855.
Women; Or, Pour Et Contre. A Tale. By The Author Of
“ Bertram,” etc.
TITLE INDEX 563
“
’Tis good to be merry and wise,
’Tis good to be honest and true ;
’Tis good to be off with the old love
Before you be on with the new.”
Scotch Ballad.
In Three Volumes. Vol. I (-II, -III). Edinburgh : Printed
by James Ballantyne and Co. For Archibald Constable And
Co., Edinburgh; And Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, And
Brown, London. 1818.
Dedication To The Right Honourable The Countess Of Essex.
Preface, pp. iii-v.
Eva, ou Amour et Religion. Traduit de l’anglais sur la 2e.
edition [?] par M 4 vols., Paris: 1818.
Les Femmes, ou rien de trop. 3 vols., Paris: 1820.
Women As They Are. A Novel. In Four Volumes. By Mrs.
Parsons. Author of Mysterious Warnings, etc. Vol. I (-II
;
-III; -IV). London: Printed For William Lane, At The
Minerva-Press, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCXCVI. With an
engraved Frontispiece. Dedication, signed Eliza Parsons,
London, Nov. 1, 1796, to Mrs. Anson, of Shuckborough-
Manor, Staffordshire. An epistolary novel.
Wonder Of The Village, The. A novel. By Mrs. Meeke. 3
vols., Minerva-Press ;
Lane, Newman. 1805.
Wonderfid Tales. Chapbook. 1802.
Wood Dcemon; or, “ The Clock Has Struck,” The. Melo-
drama by H. M. G. Lewis, music Kelly. Drury Lane,
April 1st, 1807. At the Lyceum, on August 1st, 1811, as
One O’Clock. See under The Hag of the Storm.
Wood Nymph, The. A novel, by Mrs. Isaacs. 3 vols. Chappie.
1806. Advertised in 1812 by Newman. 3 vols., i2mo. 12s.
Wood Spirit, The. A Novel. By Ernest Charles Jones. 2 vols.,
post 8vo. Boone. 1841.
Another edition was commenced in 1855, but two numbers
only, 1 and 2, were issued.
Woodland Family; or, The Sons of Error and Daughters of
Simplicity, The. A Domestic Tale, by William Child Green,
Esqr. London. Joseph Emans. No. 91. Waterloo Read:
1824.
World As It Goes, The. A novel, by John Palmer. 1800.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
564
World We Live In, The. A novel, by William Frederick
Williams. 3 vols., Minerva-Press ;
Lane, Newman. 1804.
Worst of Stains, The. A novel by Henry Summersett. 2 vols.,
Dutton. 1804.
Wreath Of Friendship ; or, A Return from India, The. 3 vols.,
W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXXIX.
Y
Tamboo; Or, The North American Slave. A Tale. By the
Author of The Bravo of Bohemia. 3 vols. Minerva-Press:
A. K. Newman. 1812. Dedication to Major-General Hunter,
from Frederictown, New Brunswick. 1811. Second ed.,
A. K. Newman. 1819. 3 vols., 155.
A Tear and a Day. A Novel. By Madame Panache. Author
of “ Manners.” 2 vols., Baldwin, Cradock and Joy. 1818.
Young Countess, The. A Tale for Youth. By the Authoress
of the “Blind Child.” [Mrs. Pinchard.] One vol., i2mo.
Chappie. 1820.
Young Father, The. A Novel by William Frederic Williams.
3 vols., Minerva-Press, for Lane, Newman. 1805.
Young Husband, The. By Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey. 3
vols., Hurst. 1854. Another ed., one vol., C. H. Clarke,
1861. Price 2 s.
Young Indian, The. 7 nos., E. Lloyd. 1845.
Young John Bull; or, Born Abroad and Bred at Home. By
Francis Lathom. 3 vols., A. K. Newman. 1828.
Young Mother; or, Albinia, The. 3 vols., Minerva-Press;
Lane, Newman. 1808.
Young Philosopher, The. By Charlotte Smith. 4 vols., Cadell
and Davis. 1798.
Young Pickwick's Schooldays. Pub. E. J. Brett. “ Boys of
England ” Office.
Young Prima Donna, The. A Romance of the Opera. By
TITLE INDEX 565
Mrs. Elizabeth Caroline Grey. 3 vols., Bentley. 1840. A
new ed., Routledge : i860. Price is. 6d. In the “Railway
Library.” Another ed., 1877.
Young Rosiniere; or, Sketches of the World, The. By Mrs.
Frances Peck. 3 vols., London (Richmond printed): 1809.
Young Scarron. By Thomas Mozeen. 1 vol., i2mo. T. Trye :
1752. With a Special Dedication to Thomas Sheridan.
Irish ed., Dublin: Sam Price and Richard Wilson. 1752.
This theatrical romance has erroneously been attributed to
David Garrick.
Young Shipwright, The. A Tale of the Sea. By Malcolm J.
Errym. Dicks: i860. Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany
,
i860.
Young Tom’s Schooldays. And Young Tom’s Adventures
Round the World. Illustrated by Phiz. “ Tom Wildrake
Series.”
Young Widow; or, The History of Cornelia Sedley, The. In a
Series of Letters. By William Hayley. 4 vols., G. G. J.
and J. Robinson : 1789.
Young Will Watch, the Smuggler King. Coloured wrapper.
Hogarth House, n.d.
Youth of Edward Ellis, The. 2 vols., A. K. Newman: 1830.
By E. Trevor Anv/yl.
Youthful Impostor, The. A novel. By G. W. M. Reynolds.
3 vols., Hookham. 1835. Afterwards reprinted as The Parri-
cide; or, A Youth’s Career of Crime. 2 vols.
Although Journals are not included in this Bibliography an
exception may here be made to list the following
:
The Young Englishman’s Journal. No. 1. April 13th, 1867.
Six vols. issued.
Captain Jack the first story in G. E. Emmett’s “ Shot and
Shell ” Series commenced in No. 56, May 2nd, 1868.
The Young Gentlemen of Britain. No. 1, October I5th-26th,
1868, 3 vols. Then incorporated with The Young Briton
,
No. 1, September 18th, 1869. The opening serials were:
566 A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
The Master of the Lions, by Charles Stevens, illustrated by
Maguire; Midshipman Tom, by G. Emmett; Dick and Dick’s
Brother, by Ernest Brent, illustrated by Phiz. In No. 5
there began Harry Power the first serial contributed by E.
Harcourt Burrage, and this was followed by other of his
stories, notably Spangles and Gold, Boys Will be Boys, Move
On, Rags and Riches, and Charley and Tim at Scarum
School. The Young Briton ceased about 1877.
The Sons Of Britannia. Edited by William Emmet Laurence.
Vol I, One Penny, March 16th, 1870.
Rapier Jack, Or, The Bull-Fighters of Madrid by Charles Stevens
commenced in No. 1. Tom Wildrake’s Schooldays began in
an early number. This Journal ran to nearly 400 nos. The
Young Englishman, No. 1, April 18th, 1873, proved very
popular, serializing some good school stories. The Rover’s
Log, No. 1, March nth, 1872, ran to 59 numbers.
Z
£aida; or the dethronement of Muhammed IV. A novel,
founded on historical facts. Translated by Carl Smith.
Burton & Darling. New York: 1803. From Kotzebue.
i?astrozzi, A Romance. By P.B.S. [Percy Bysshe Shelley].
Quotation :
4 lines, Paradise Lost. London, Printed for G.
Wilkie and J. Robinson: 57 Paternoster Row. 1810. Re-
printed, Vol. I, No. 10 (p. 145), The Romancist, and Novelist’s
Library, J. Clements: London. 1839. Included in the various
editions of Shelley’s Prose Works.
Zayde, Histoire Espagnole. Par M. De Segrais. Avec unTraite
de I’Origine des Romans. Par M. Huet. 2 vols., A Paris,
Par la Compagnie des Libraires associez. 2 vols., 1725.
Huet’s Traite is a valuable piece.
gfayde, a Spanish History, written originally in French, by
Monsieur de Segrais, revised and corrected by Mrs. Griffith.
One vol., W. Lane, Leadenhall-Street. MDCCLXXX.
A reissue, with a new title-page, of a section of Vol I of
A Collection of Novels, selected and revised by Mrs. Griffith.
London : Printed for G. Kearsley . . . and the other Pro-
TITLE INDEX 5 6 7
prietors. MDCCLXXVII. Lane in 1780 reproduces for
yfayde the frontispiece by Isaac Taylor, published by G.
Kearsley, 1777.
Zfelia in the Desert. From the French. By a Lady. 3 vols.,
Wilkie: 1789.
Founded upon Metastasio’s L’Isola Disabitata, written at
Vienna in 1752, and played at Court. Music by Bonno.
£elomer, A Romance. Translated from the French of M. de
Vinde. By Thomas Noble. London : 1801.
gfeluca; Or, Educated and Uneducated Women. 3 vols.,
Baldwin & Co. 1815.
As Zeluca, the Creole. 3 vols. Advertised in A. K. Newman’s
“New Publications,” “At The Minerva Press,” 1826.
Zeluca is the female counterpart of Moore’s Zeluco.
Z'enobia,
Queen of Palmyra. By Miss O’Keefe. 2 vols.,
Rivington; and Minerva Press, A. K. Newman: 1814.
Another ed., 2 vols., 1824. Metastesio has a gfenobia
,
1740,
music by Predieri, produced on August 28th, 1740, at the
court of the Emperor Charles VI.
An American writer, the Rev. William Ware (1797-1852) is
the author of a famous novel Letters from Palmyra, 1837,
later called and better known as yfenobia
.
Tfittaw the Cruel. By Sarah Wilkinson. One vol., n.d.
£oflora; or, The Generous Negro Girl. A Colonial Story.
“ From the French of J. B. Piguenard.” 2 vols., Lackington,
Allan & Co., 1804. More than once reprinted, ^oflora, ou
la bonne negresse. Paris. 2 vols. i8mo. 1799. By Jean
Baptiste Pieguenard.
Zfofloya; Or, The Moor: A Romance Of The Fifteenth Century.
In Three Volumes. By Charlotte Dacre, Better Known As
Rosa Matilda, Author Of The Nun Of St. Omers, Hours
Of Solitude, etc. [Quotations : one line, Collins. Three lines,
Milton.] London : Printed For Longman, Hurst, Rees, And
Orme, Paternoster-Row. 1806.
Zfofloya; Or, The Moor . . . With an Introduction by
Montague Summers, one vol., Fortune Press: 1928.
gfofloya, ou le Maure, histoire du XVe Siecle. “ Traduite de
1’ Anglais par Mme. de Viteme.” 4 vols., Paris, chez Barba :
1812.
A GOTHIC BIBLIOGRAPHY
568
The Dcemon of Venice, chapbook, Tegg, 1810, is an abridge-
ment of z°fl°ya-
For Charlotte Dacre see Essays In Petto by Montague
Summers, “ Byron’s ‘
Lovely Rosa.’
”
Zoriada ; or, Village Annals. A Novel. William Lane, at the
Minerva-Press. MDCCXCIII. By Mrs. Ann Hughes.
Pfulneida: A Tale of Sicily. By the Author of the White
Cottage. 3 vols., Macrone : 1837. By Dr. Arthur Mower
of Edinburgh.
ADDENDA
INDEX OF AUTHORS
A
ALEXANDER, Gabriel. (See p. i.)
Madeleine Lisle ; or, The Maid of Kent
ANDREWS, M. P.
The Mysteries of the Castle
ANN OF SWANSEA. Mrs. Julia Ann Curtis, nee
Kemble, and formerly Mrs. Ann Hatton. (See p. 2.)
Bom 1764; died 1838.
In 1783 advertisements appeared in several London
papers requesting donations on behalf of Mrs. Curtis,
“ the youngest sister of Mrs. Siddons,” to enable her
to purchase necessities since she was in utmost want,
and to allow her to earn her bread by needlework or by
the making of artificial flowers, a craft in which she was
accomplished. These advertisements went on to set
forth how, although she was crippled with rheumatic
affections which prevented her from undertaking any
strenuous work for her support, her pitiful applications
for some modicum of relief that had been more than
once humbly addressed to her sister, the famous actress,
and to her brother John Philip Kemble, had been
coldly ignored.
Mrs. Siddons, it may be remembered, had appeared on
October 10th, 1782, as Isabella in the later eighteenth
century adaptation of Southeme’s great tragedy The
Fatal Marriage ; or, The Innocent Adultery, achieving
a veritable triumph. Her subsequent performances
that season, as Euphrasia (The Grecian Daughter),
Jane Shore, Belvidera, Zara (
The Mourning Bride),
and Calista (The Fair Penitent), had firmly established
her reputation and were the talk of the town.
These extraordinary advertisements caused a resound-
ing scandal.
1851
1795
569
57° ADDENDA
In 1784 there was published a little volume of verse,
Poems on Miscellaneous Subjects, by Anti Curtis,
Sister of Mrs. Siddons.
On 5th October, 1784, when Mrs. Siddons made her
first appearance that season at Drury Lane, her entry
was greeted with a storm of hisses, and although, upon
silence being obtained, her speech declaring that the
stories which had been circulated against her were
calumnies was received with some applause, for several
evenings afterwards there were little disturbances and
booing. Letters were published in refutation of the
charges and the thing soon died out, but the great
actress declared that she did not regain perfect confid-
ence for three or four months afterwards.
Later an advertisement appeared to the effect that
Mrs. Siddcns’s youngest sister, Mrs. Curtis would
read a lecture at the Temple of Health in Pall Mall, the
establishment of a notorious quack doctor named
Graham.
Some years later Mrs. Curtis was injured in the face
and almost deprived of the sight of one eye by the
accidental discharge of a pistol. This episode, to
which considerable publicity was given, took place in a
fashionable but exceedingly ill-famed bagnio in Covent
Garden.
Thereupon Mrs. Siddons made her sister an allowance
of twenty pounds a year on condition that she should
permanently reside not less than one hundred and fifty
miles from London.
Mrs. Curtis retired to Swansea. In 1819 a visitor to
that town rather roughly described her as a large
woman, who squints and writes novels.
B
BACULARD D’ARNAUD, Francois Thomas De
(1716-1805)
Euphemie, Ou Le Triomphe De La Religion. Drame,
En Trcis Actes En Vers. Par M. D’Arnaud. Sonitus
terroris semper in auribus. Job. Ch. XV. A Paris,
Chez Prault Fils, Quai de Conti, vis-a-vis la descente
du Pcnt-Neuf, a la Charite. MDCCLXVIII. Avec
INDEX OF AUTHORS 57 1
Approbation and Privilege du Roi. [First Edition.]
(See pp. 4 and 5.)
BARRETT, C. F.
Douglas Castle [n.d.]
Mysterious Vision; or, Perfidy Punished, The 1801
Chapbook kind.
BENNETT, Mrs. Elizaeeth. (See p. 10.)
This lady was the wife of William Bennett, a publisher.
The Gipsey Bride ; or, The Miser’s Daughter was pub-
lished before The Orphan Sisters; or, The Lover’s
Secret which carries on the title-page “By the Authoress
of the “ Cottage Girl ;
or, The Marriage Day” ;
“Gipsy
Bride,” etc., etc. Neither novel being dated The Gipsey
Bride may be assigned to c. 1843, The Orphan Sisters
to c. 1844.
BENSON, Miss Maria
The Wife. A Novel 1810
BOSWELL, G. H.
The Idiot 1 81
1
Maria of the Mountain 1827
BOYD, Erskine
A Desperate Deed [n.d.]
No. 44, Dicks’ English Novels.
The Mysterious House in Chelsea [n.d.]
No. 57, Dicks’ English Novels.
BRADDON, Mary Elizabeth, Mrs. John Maxwell
The Story of Barbara; Her Splendid Misery, and Her
Gilded Cage 1880
As noted on p. 20, Miss Braddon in her “ Explanation
”
which prefaces Vol. I says that this novel was com-
menced in The World under the title “ Splendid
Misery.” A short story of the same name which “ lay
buried for years ” in a halfpenny weekly journal caused
the proprietor to claim copyright, and some litigation
ensued. Miss Braddon eventually adopted as her title
The Story of Barbara.
The story in question, Splendid Misery, is by C. H.
Hazlewood, and was published as No. 83 of Dicks’
English Novels. See under Flazlewood.
572 ADDENDA
BRETT, Edwin J. 173, Fleet Street.
In 1886, E. T. Brett advertises his “ List of Publica-
tions.”
Boys’ Comic Journal. id. Weekly; 6d. Monthly;
is. 4d. Quarterly; Cloth Volumes, 4s. No. 1 appeared
on March 14th, 1883, and over thirty volumes were
issued. Among the serials were Dark Deeds of Old
London, by Robert Justin Lambe, and Sons of Foes
by H. Whyte.
Boys of England. The oldest and best conducted book
for Boys. Weekly, id.; Monthly Parts, 6d. ;
Half-
yearly Volumes, 2s. 6d. and 4s. No. 1 appeared on
November 24th, 1866. It ran until June 23rd, 1899,
when it was incorporated with Up-to-Date Boys, No. 1,
June 30th, 1899. Jack Harkaway’s Schooldays, the
first of the “ Harkaway ” series, commenced in No. 249
of Boys of England, July 23rd, 1871. The two con-
cluding “ Harkaway ” stories, Jack Harkaway in the
Transvaal and Jack Harkaway’s War Scouts ran
through Up-to-Date Boys, which came to an end after
two years, its place being taken by Boys of the Empire.
Charles Stevens conducted the first nine numbers of
Boys of England, and it was he who wrote the leading
serial, Alone in the Pirate’s Lair. E. J. Brett very soon
took over the editorship of the paper himself, and con-
tinued until his death, December 15th, 1895.
Young Men of Great Britain. An Interesting Journal
of Love, War, Romance, and Adventure, for Men of
all Ages. Price id. Weekly; 6d. Monthly; Half-yearly
Volumes, 2s. 6d. and 4s. This Journal commenced
towards the end of January, 1868, as a “companion
journal ” to Boys of England. Brett appointed as
editor Vane St. John, who wrote the leading serial.
The Night Guard; or, The Secret of the Five Masks.
On reaching No. 1, 118, Young Men of Great Britain
was incorporated with No. 73 of The Boys of the
Empire, June 24th, 1889. Thus combined the Journal
continued for several volumes.
Something To Read. The New Double Weekly
Journal, containing Stories of Thrilling Interest,
together with a full-sized Complete Novelette with each
Number. Price id. Weekly; Monthly Parts, fid.
;
Quarterly, is. 6d. ;
Cloth Volumes, 4s. 6d.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 573
The Princess’s Novelettes. Profusely Illustrated, id.
Weekly; Monthly Parts, 4d.
Boys of England Novelette. Boys’ Weekly Reader
Novelette. Price id.; or in Volumes is. Interesting
and Complete Stories Every Week. Complete Volumes
at One Shilling each.
King of the School; or, Who Will Win?
Jack-O’-The-Cudgel ; or, The Hero Of A Hundred
Fights
Rival Schools: Their Fun, Feuds, And Frolics
Fred Frolic: His Life And Adventures
The Night Guard; or, The Secret Of The Five Masks
Giles Evergreen ; or, Fresh From The Country
Poor Ray, The Drummer Boy
Tom Daring; or, Far From Home
Walter The Archer; or, The Robber Lords Of The
Mountains
Wildfoot, The Wanderer Of Wicklow
Jack Steadfast; or, Wreck And Rescue
Dick And His Friend Duke. A Tale of Adventure in
the Fiji Islands
Nobody’s Dog
Oxford And Cambridge Eights ; or, The Young Cox-
swain’s Career
Unlucky Bob ; or, Our Boys At School
Every Inch A British Sailor; or, The Cruise Of Jack
And Joe.
Fatherless Will
Chevy Chase ; or, The Battle On The Border
Strongbow, The Boy Chief Of The Delawares
Jack Rushton; or, Alone In The Pirates’ Lair
By The Queen’s Command ; or, The Mystery Of The
Seventh Stair
The Captain Of The School
White Squaw. A Tale of Indian Life
Pat O’Connor’s School Days; or, The Boys Of The
Shannon
Bicycle Bob ; or, Who’ll Win?
Three Boy Crusoes
The Rival Crusoes
Gallant Jack; or, The Pride Of The British Army
On And Off The Stage
Tom Floremall In Search Of His Father
574 ADDENDA
Travelling Schoolboys
Isabel’s Fortune
The Armourer’s Son; or, The Mysteries Of The Tower
Of London
Captain Of The Guard; or, The Mysterious Horseman
The Comic History of London
Rupert Dreadnought ; or, The Secrets Of The Iron
Chest
Stories From The Plays Of Shakespeare
Complete in Two Volumes, is. each.
Tom Floremail’s Schooldays
True To Each Other ; or, Boyhood’s Trust
Scapegrace Of The School
Scapegrace At Sea
Scapegrace In London
English Jack Among The Afghans
Pantomime Joe
Who Shall Be Leader?
The Harkaway Series. Price is. Each Volume.
Vol. i. Jack Harkaway?s Schooldays
Vols. 2 and 3. Jack Harkaway After His Schooldays
Vols. 4 and 5. Jack Harkaway At Oxford
Vols. 6 and 7. Jack Harkaway Among The
Brigands
Vols. 8 and 9. Jack Harkaway’s Adventures Round
The World, America And Cuba
Vol. 10. Jack Harkaway1
s Adventures In China
Vols. 11 and 12. Harkaway In Greece
Vol. 13. Harkaway In Australia
Vols. 14 and 15. Harkaway And His Boy Tinker
American Series.
Harkaway At School in America
Harkaway At The Isle Of Palms
Harkaway Among The Malay Pirates
The “ Hogarth House Harkaway Series ” comprised :
Jack Harkaway In America
Jack Harkaway Out West Amongst The Indians
Jack Harkaway In Search Of The Mountain Of Gold
Jack Harkaway In Search Of His Father
This tale commences with young Jack at a boarding
school.
Jack Harkaway Among The Pirates
Adventures of young Jack.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 575
Jack Harkaway On The Prairie
Young Jack escapes from the pirates to the prairie.
Jack Harkaway And His Father At The Flaunt Of The
Pirates ; or, The Last Of The Black Flag
Brucebridge Hemyng, “ jack Harkaway ” was induced
by Frank Leslie to go to America, and write more
“Harkaway” tales for the Boys’ and Girls’ Weekly.
In 1897-8 Hemyng was writing a series of “Jack
Harkaway Junior ” tales for such papers as Good
News, Half Holiday, Harper’s Young People, Bright
Days, etc. He afterwards returned to England and
wrote Jack Harkaway In The Life Guards for British
Boys, G. Newnes, a halfpenny weekly which ran from
No. 1, December 12th, 1896, to No. 104, December
3rd, 1898. He also wrote the “Scapegrace Series”
(“ Dick Lightheart ”) for E. J. Brett.
The Ned Nimble Series of Stories. Price is. each
Volume.
Vols. 1 and 2. Ned Nimble’s Schooldays
Vol. 3. Ned Nimble Amongst The Indians
Vols. 4 and 5. Ned Nimble Amongst The Mormons
Vol. 6. Ned Nimble Amongst The Pirates
Vol. 7. Ned Nimble Amongst The Tartars
Vols. 8 and 9. Ned Nimble Among The Chinese
Vols. 10 and 1 1. Ned Nimble Among The Bushrangers
E. J. Brett “ Boys Of England ” Office, 173 Fleet Street
also published, 2d. each, a series of “ Boys Of
England ” Guides, such as “ Boys Of England
Swimming Guide,” “ Boys Of England Cricket Guide,”
“ Boys Of England Fencing,” also “ Boys Of England
Conjuring Book,” which went into several editions, as
well as the “ Something to Read Dream Book,” and the
“ Princess’s Infallible Fortune-Teller.”
BREWER, James Norris (
c. 1777-1829)
The Witch of Ravensworth
See p. 25, and p. 561. A melodrama The Witch of
Ravensworth ; or, The Bridal Supper, founded on this
novel was produced at the Surrey, Blackfriars Road, on
Monday, January 13th, 1812.
BROCK, le Baron de
A pseudonym of Christiane Benedicte Eugenie Naubert
(See p. in).
1808
ADDENDA
576
A French translation (1803) by Mme. de Cerenville
Les Aveux D’Un Prisonnier is said to be from the
German of “ le Baron de Brock ” ;
Auteur d' Herman
D’Unna et de Walter De Monbary.
C
CHAMBERLAIN, F.
Edward and Eleonora
COOKE, Mrs.
Battleridge
COPSON, H. J.
The Gipsey’s Warning; or, Love and Ruin
CORDOVA, C.
Illusions of Youth
CROOKENDEN, Isaac. (See p. 32.)
Fatal Secrets
The Mysterious Murder
The Story of Morelia de Alto
Horrible Revenge; or, The Monster of Italy!
!
A Romance of the 16th Century, Also,
Elopeless Love, An Interesting Tale
CROW, Mrs. Louisa
Venus at School
The Rose and Shamrock
No. 11, Dicks’ English Novels.
The Yellow Diamond
No. 21, Dicks’ English Novels.
Lestelle
No. 27, Dicks’ English Novels.
The Cost of a Secret
No. 31, Dicks’ English Novels.
Two Pearls
No. 36, Dicks’ English Novels.
The Lily of St. Erne
No. 49, Dicks’ English Novels.
Golden Fairy
No. 64, Dicks’ English Novels.
[n.d.]
099
[n.d.]
1809
1806
1806
[n.d.]
1808
[n.d.]
INDEX OF AUTHORS 577
Woman’s Wiles
No. 69, Dicks’ English Novels.
Held in Thrall
No. 82, Dicks’ English Novels.
Two Fates and A Fortune
No. 170, Dicks’ English Novels.
CUTHBERTSON, Catherine. (See p. 34.)
It is said that Catherine Cuthbertson was assisted in the
composition of her romances by her sister, and hence
these are often spoken of as having been written by the
Misses Cuthbertson.
D
DALLAS, Robert Charles (1754-1824). (See p. 34.)
Miscellaneous Writings, consisting of Poems ; Lucretia,
a Tragedy; and Moral Essays with a Vocabulary of
the Passions. 4to. 1797
Percival; or, Nature Vindicated. A novel 1801
Elements of Self Knowledge 1802
Compiled and largely written by Dallas.
History of the Maroons from their Origin to their
Establishment in Sierra Leone 1803
Aubrey. A novel 1804
The Marlands. Tales illustrative of the Simple and
Surprising 1805
The Knights. Tales illustrative of the Marvellous 1808
Not at Home. An operatic farce. 8vo. 1809
Produced at the Lyceum, on Monday, November 20th,
1809.
Sir Francis Darrell; or, The Vortex. A novel 1810
Miscellaneous Works and Novels. Seven volumes 1813
A collected edition to date.
The New Conspiracy against the Jesuits detected 1815
French translation, 1816.
Letter to C. Butler relative to the New Conspiracy 1817
Felix Alvarez, a Spanish Tale 1818
Ode to the Duke of Wellington 1 8 1
9
Adrastus, a Tragedy. Amabel, or the Cornish Lovers
and other Poems. 8vo. 1823
Recollections of the Life of Lord Byron from the year
1808 to the end of 1814. 1824
P*
ADDENDA
578
Posthumously published, and edited by his son, the
Rev. Alexander Robert Charles Dallas (1791-1869), a
divine, who became known as a writer of distinction
upon theological subjects.
DUNN, Sara (or Sarah) nee Symonds
The Soldier’s Progress :
pourtrayed in the life of George
Powell. i2mo., London 1850
Emmeline Latimer, a novel. 3 vols. 1857
Heatherbrae, a novel. 3 vols. 1858
The Step-Sister, a novel 1861
An Essay on the Age and Antiquity of the Book of
Nabathaean Agriculture. iQmo. 1862
Translated from the French of Renan.
Blanche Fleming
No. 45, Dicks’ English Novels.
Fortune’s Favourites
No. 56, Dicks’ English Novels.
The Wife’s Secret
No. 62, Dicks’ English Novels.
The Mortimers
No. 67, Dicks’ English Novels.
Imogen Herbert
No. 75, Dicks’ English Novels.
E
EARLE (or EARL), William (1780 ?- )
Obi; or, The History of Three-Fingered Jack [n.d.]
No date, but probably 1800-01, since the popular
drama by John Fawcett, with music by Arnold, Obi;
or, Three-fingered Jack was produced at the Hay-
market on Wednesday, July 2nd, 1800. 8vo., 1800.
Also printed in Duncombe’s Edition, Vol. lix. Obi;
or, Three-fingered Jack was adapted for the Juvenile
Theatre, scenes and characters by W. G. Webb, Old
Street, St. Luke’s.
The Welshman, a romance 1801
Welsh Legends 1801
Trifles in Verse 1803
Outwitted at Last, acted 1817
Also as Outwitted at Last ; or, The Ward and Brother,
INDEX OF AUTHORS 579
a comic opera, music by Lanzi, produced at Drury
Lane on December 13th, 1817. According to the
Dictionary of Living Authors, 1816, William Earle was
in February, 1814, was fined and imprisoned for a
“ scurrilous and malignant libel.”
W. Fraser Rae, Sheridan, A Biography, 2 vols., 1896,
ascribes to Earle Sheridan and His Times. By an
Octogenarian, who stood by his knee in youth and sat
at his table in manhood. In Two Volumes. London.
J. F. Hope. MDCCCLIX. Fraser Rae has no
authority for his statement, which at the best is
extremely dubious. E. M. Butler, however, in
Sheridan: A Ghost Story, 1931, proceeds to elaborate
this, and says that “ Earle was introduced into Sheri-
dan’s household in 1790, when he was ten years of age :
he remained there, probably in some menial capacity,
until his master’s death.” This again is all random
guess-work, and we hardly suppose that had Earle
been in Sheridan’s house “ in some menial capacity
”
he would have “ sat at his table.” Such conjectures as
these of Fraser Rae and E. M. Butler are worse than
useless. In any case the matter is of no importance
since the late R. Crompton Rhodes in his Harlequin
Sheridan, 1933, dismisses Sheridan and His Times as
“ utterly valueless,” and sums up the matter by saying
(pp. 296-7) of “an Octogenarian” that, whoever he may
have been, “ his two volumes are rubbish.”
F
FROST, Thomas. (See p. 47.)
The Mysteries of Old Father Thames
See under Title Index.
H
HALEY, William Thomas
The Bull Dog
8vo. A Periodical, edited by W. T. Haley.
The Curse and Cure of Ireland exhibited in a Dialogue
on the Catholic Question. i2mo. London
1848
[1826]
1828
58o ADDENDA
The Historical Keepsake, a series of original historical
romances founded on . . . events in British History 1835
pp. 324. i2mo., F. J. Mason, London. Edited and in
greater part written by W. T. Haley.
Borjia, a dramatic tale
The King’s Fool; or, le Roi s’amuse, and Lucretia
Beth adapted by W. T. Haley from the French of
Victor Hugo Hazlitt, Romancist and Novelist’s Library,
Vol. V 1 84 1 ,
etc.
The Cross Roads 1841
The House of Doom, from La Maison Muree of M. E.
Berthet; The Convent from Le Prieur des Penitens
Rouges of M. Gozlan.
Tales of My Landlady, 8vo. Parts 1 and 4 [
1
843, etc.]
Mysteries of the Old Castles of France; or, Secret
Intrigues of Kings and Queens, Princes and Princesses.
By a Society of Arch Seers. [Adapted by W. T. Haley
from the French of A. B. Le Frangois, a pseudonym
of Alexandre Bailly.] Pub. E. Dipple. 8vo. 44 nos.,
n.d. [1848]
HARKAWAY, Jack
See below HEMYNG, BRACEBRIDGE.
HAZELTON (or HAZLETON), Frederick
George R. Sims, My Life, 1917, p. 50, says that when
the play Sweeny Todd was produced it was announced
as “ founded on the popular work of the same title by
Fred Hazelton, Esq., Author of ‘
Edith the Captive,’
‘
Charley Wag,’ etc.” It is just possible that Hazelton
and not Sala may have been the writer whom Charles
Fox, the publisher, of 4 Shoe Lane, Fleet Street, com-
missioned to revise the old novel by T. P. Prest, The
String of Pearls. Edith the Captive, however, is by
Malcolm J. Errym, and the statement which George
R. Sims makes cannot but be considered vague and
unreliable. Hazelton’s drama in three acts, Sweeney
Todd, the Barber of Fleet Street; or, The String of
Pearls was produced in 1862 at the Bower Saloon
(later the Royal Stangate Theatre), Stangate-street,
Lambeth. G. R. Sims has not improbably confused
the Sweeney Todd play (in one version, at any rate)
with the Sweeney Todd romance. Charley Wag is
almost certainly from the pen of George Augustus Sala,
INDEX OF AUTHORS 581
to whom then we must also attribute Fanny White And
Her Friend Jack Rawlings, A Romance Of A Young
Lady Thief And A Boy Burglar Including Their Artful
Dodges, Their Struggles And Adventures, Prisons, And
Prison Breakings, Their Ups And Downs And Their
Tricks Upon Travellers, etc., etc. By the Author of
Charley Wag. With Twenty-One Illustrations.
George Vickers, Angel Court, Strand [c. 1865]
HAZLEWOOD, Colin Henry (1823-1875)
Actor, dramatist, and novelist. He was an extremely
prolifice writer, producing more than seventy plays
alone. For many years he occupied the position of
house-dramatist to the Britannia Theatre or Saloon,
High-street, Hoxton, a house managed by Lane from
1841 to 1849, and for fifty years (1849-99) directed by
Lane’s widow, the famous Mrs. Sarah Lane. Hazle-
wood was also house-dramatist to the Royal City of
London Theatre, which was near Bishopsgate Station,
Norton Folgate. This house was opened on Monday,
March 27th, 1837, by Cockerton, and became the
home of domestic (and more lurid) melodrama. Before
many years the City of London Theatre was notorious
as a low place of entertainment, and it was closed
down in 1868. Many of Hazlewood’s plays were
extremely popular, and a number of these are printed
in T. H. Lacy’s Acting Edition. In 1863 Hazlewood
dramatized Aurora Floyd for the Britannic Theatre,
and this proved so great a success that a month or two
later in the same year he dramatized Lady Audley’s
Secret for the Royal Victoria Theatre, Waterloo Road,
the “ Old Vic.” These bold stage piracies of her work
cannot but have given Miss Braddon some annoyance,
and she was even more vexed sixteen years later whilst
she was. serializing her novel Splendid Misery in The
World to receive an injunction from John Dicks, who
claimed copyright in the title since they had published
Hazlewood’s novel Splendid Misery. Hazlewood him-
self had now been dead four years. Miss Braddon
under protest altered the name of her novel to The
Story of Barbara; Her Splendid Misery, and Her
Gilded Cage, 3 vcls., 1880.
ADDENDA
582
Splendid Misery. By C. H. Hazlewood.
No. 83, Dicks’ English Novels.
HEMYNG, Bracebridge
Jack Harkaway. Son of the Registrar of the Supreme
Court of Calcutta, and sometime a Barrister of the
Middle Temple. He was an extremely prolific author
and wrote several serials for the London Journal.
Among his longer novels are The Curate of Inveresk,
a clerical biography, i860 ;
Gaspard Trenchard, 3 vols.,
1864; Curious Crimes; On the Road, commercial
travellers’ tales. Also, Called to the Bar; The
Favourite Scratched ; The Orange Girl; Season at
Brighton; Secrets of the Turf; and the “Skittles”
and “ Kate Hamilton ” group.
He wrote a number of yellow-backs, mostly published
in the eighteen-sixties at two shillings : The Stock
Broker’s Wife; A Stock Exchange Romance ; The Girl
of the Period ; The Man of the Period.
On July 23rd, 1871, there commenced in No. 249 of
Boys Of England the “ Harkaway ” series with Jack
Harkaway’s Schooldays. Hemyng and his “ Jack
Harkaway ” certainly laid the foundations of the
fortune of the proprietor, E. J. Brett, who died at his
house, St. Peter’s, Broadstairs, on December 15th, 1895,
a very wealthy man.
Frank Leslie persuaded Hemyng to go to America,
and write a number of American Harkaway stories.
These, as well as reprints of the original English stories
appeared in Leslie’s Boys’ and Girls’ Weekly. During
1897-8 Hemyng was writing “ Jack Harkaway Junior
”
serials. On his return to England he wrote the
“ Scapegrace ” series for E. J. Brett. He died at his
flat in Fulham, London.
HURRY, Mrs.
Artless Tales 1811
Advertised by Longman & Co. 3 vols., i2mo. Price
15s. in boards. “These ‘Artless Tales’ well deserve
their appellation. They describe in the language of
nature possible occurrences, and uniformly tend to
enlist the sympathetic feelings on the side of mildness,
benevolence, and virtue.” Ann. Review.
INDEX OF AUTHORS 583
I
IRELAND, William Henry (1777-1835). (See p. 75.)
Passages selected by distinguished personages on the
great literary trial of Vortigern and Rowena. A Comi-
tragedy. “ Whether it be or be not from the . . .
pen of S.”
4 vols. J. Ridgway 1796-1807
Satires, purporting to be quotations from Ireland’s
pseudo-Shakespearean plays and aimed at leading
persons of the day. These “ Passages ” were written
with a good deal of wit by the Rev. Sir Henry Bate
Dudley (1745-1824) and his wife Lady Dudley. In
1780 the Rev. Sir Henry married Mary, daughter of
James White of Berrow, Somerset. He had founded
the Morning Herald in which paper the “ Passages
”
originally appeared. When collected in book form
they had a great success and ran into at least seven
editions.
J
JOHNSON, Mrs.
The Innocent Fugitive; or, Memoirs of a Lady of
Quality 1 789
(See p. 79.)
K
KELTY, Mary Ann (1789-1873). (See p. 85.)
Alice Rivers ; or, Passages in the Life of a Young Lady.
Written by herself 1852
2 vols., 8vo. London.
L
LAWS, Mrs.
Marion's Quest
No. 74, Dicks’ English Novels.
LINDRIDGE, James. (See p. 99.)
The Socialist Girl [1849 ?]
5 84 ADDENDA
M
McDermott, p.
Ladye Laura’s Wraith
No. 76, Dicks’ English Novels.
MALEN, M. E. O.
The White Lady
No. 34, Dicks’ English Novels.
The Shadow Hand
No. 38, Dicks’ English Novels.
Hawthorne
No. 51, Dicks’ English Novels.
The Two Countesses
No. 58, Dicks’ English Novels.
Ashfield Priory
No. 70, Dicks’ English Novels.
The Pearl of Levonby
No. 78, Dicks’ English Novels.
Ingaretha
No. 87, Dicks’ English Novels.
MONTJOYE, F. L. C.
D’Aveyro 1803
N
NERI, Mary Anne. (See p. 112.)
In the Advertisement “ Novels And Romances, Pub-
lished by Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, and Brown,
Paternoster Row,” (4 pp.) at the end of the Fourth
Edition, 181 1, of The Castles of Athlin And Dunbayne
Dunbayne Longman & Co., is included :
“ The Hour
of Trial, A Tale by Mary Anne Neri, Author of the
the “ Eve of San Pietro,” in 3 vols. i2mo., price 15s.
in boards. “ This is an interesting story, told in very
pleasing language.”
NICHOLSON, Renton. (See p. 113.)
Cockney Adventures and Tales of London Life 1838
PERRIN, Mon.
The Female Werter
P
1792
INDEX OF AUTHORS 585
PORTER, Jane (1776-1850). (See p. 122.)
Jane Porter also wrote various miscellanea. At the
end of the Fourth Edition, 1811, of The Castles Of
Athlin And Dunbayne (see above under Neri) are
advertised :
“ The Scottish Chiefs, a Romance by Miss
Jane Porter, Author of “ Thaddeus of Warsaw,” and
“ Remarks on Sir Philip Sidney’s Aphorisms,” in 5
vols. i2mo., price \l. 1 5T. in boards,” and also
“ Thaddeus of Warsaw, a Novel, by Miss Jane Porter,
the ninth edition, in 4 vols,. price 1 8t. in boards.
‘
Thaddeus is a work of genius . . Imp. Rev.”
For Thaddeus of Warsaw, The Pastor's Fireside, and
Anna Maria Porter’s The Hungarian Brothers, see
further below under Ann Radcliffe, “ Five Fine Old
Novels.”
Sir Edward Seaward’s narrative of his Shipwreck
proved extremely popular and caused something of a
sensation. It was generally accepted as fact but many
people declared it to be fictitious. When questioned
Jane Porter said that she had edited the book from
Sir Edward Seaward’s own MS. Diary, and if pressed
further she replied briefly :
“ Sir Walter Scott had his
great secret : I must be allowed to keep my little one.”
Family letters and a MS. Diary exist which show that
Sir Edward Seaward’s narrative actually was written
by Miss Porter’s brother Sir Robert Ker Porter (1777-
1842) and revised by her, and seen through the press.
PREST, Thomas Peckett ( c
.
1810-1879). (See p. 125
and p. 129.)
The Spectre of the Hall 1847
The plagiarism from Mrs. Crowe, Susan Hopely, 1842,
often attributed to Prest is entitled Susan Hopely; or
the Trials and Vicissitudes of a Servant Girl. The
domestic drama by George Dibdin Pitt, Susan Hoply;
or, The Vicissitudes of a Servant Girl was produced
at the Royal Victoria Theatre, the “ Old Vic,”
Waterloo Road, on May 31st, 1841. It is printed in
Lacy’s Acting Edition, Vol. lxix.
586 ADDENDA
R
RADCLIFFE, nee Ward, Ann (1764-1823). (See p.
]
35 -)
The Romance of the Forest
The Romance of the Forest with alternative title A
Father’s Crime; or, The Chamber Mystery was pub-
lished (
n.d
.
but c. 1870) in “ Five Fine Old Novels
Comprising The Following Stirring And Romantic
Tales. The Romance of the Forest (Ann Radcliffe)
;
The Pastor’s Fireside (Jane Porter); The Hungarian
Brothers (Anna Maria Porter); Thaddeus of Warsaw
(Jane Porter); and Adelaide; or, The Mysterious
Rescue. Cameron and Ferguson, Publishers. Glasgow,
88 to 94 West Nile Street. London, 12 Ave Maria
Lane.
REBAK, H.
Bound by a Spell
No. 20, Dicks’ English Novels.
Tracked
No. 28, Dicks’ English Novels.
Doomed
No. 33, Dicks’ English Novels.
The Young Cavalier
No. 37, Dicks’ English Novels.
Bertha
No. 52, Dicks’ English Novels.
REYNOLDS, Susannah Frances
Mrs. G. W. M. Reynolds.
Gretna Green; or, All for Love was published in
penny weekly and monthly sixpenny numbers.
“ Beautifully illustrated.” No. 1 appeared on Wednes-
day, September 8th, 1847. The Offices of Reynolds’s
Miscellany, 7 Brydges Street, Covent Garden.
Mrs. Reynolds also wrote a very popular song, The
Belle of the Village
;
Words by Mrs. Reynolds, Music
by Albert Dawes, Organist of Trinity Church, Ryde,
Isle of Wight. The words had appeared in Reynolds’s
Miscellany, and the song set to music was published at
two shillings on Saturday, September 25th, 1847.
Household Book of Practical Receipts, The. By Mrs.
W9 1
INDEX OF AUTHORS 587
Reynolds and W. E. Hall. 32 nos., 1847. Published
at the Offices of Reynolds’s Miscellany, 7 Brydges
Street, Covent Garden. (See p. 145.)
RIVERS, Starr
Overtaken
No. 81, Dicks’ English Novels.
ROBERTS, Mrs.
Delmore 1806
Rose and Emily; or, Sketches of Youth 1812
i2mo., pp. 297, Longman & Hurst, London.
Duty 1814
ROSS, Charles Henry
Ross did a vast amount of journalistic work, writing
under several pseudonyms of which the most famous
is Ally Sloper. He is perhaps best known in connexion
with the two comic papers Ally Sloper and Judy.
The Eldest Miss Simpson, her haps and mishaps. 8vo. [1866]
The Pretty Widow. 2 vols. Pub. Tinsley 1868
A London Romance. 3 vols. 1869
A Private Inquiry. 3 vols. 1870
Hush Money
No. 3, Dicks’ English Novels.
The Doom of the Dancing Master
No. 61, Dicks’ English Novels.
Misery Joy
No. 66, Dicks’ English Novels.
ROSS, Miriam
Counterfeit Coin
No. 7, Dicks’ English Novels.
After Many Years
No. 16, Dicks’ English Novels.
Jennie Grey
No. 26, Dicks’ English Novels.
S
SMITH, John Frederick (1803-1890). (See p. 186 and
pp. 189-90.)
Stanfield Hall 1849-50
ADDENDA
588
About i860 was published as Book IV of Stanfield
Hall, The Young Chevalier, a romance which is
identical (or nearly identical) with The Young Pre-
tender; or, a Hundred Years Ago, 1857.
Although published anonymously, The White Rose:
A Tale of the Fifteenth Century is recognized as the
work of J. F. Smith. This historical romance, which
deals with the fortunes of Perkin Warbeck, ran to
twenty-three chapters and was serialized in Cassell’s
Illustrated Family Paper, commencing Vol. IV, No. 88,
Saturday, August 6th, 1859, and concluding Vol. IV,
No. 101, Saturday, November 5th, 1859.
SOANE, George (1790-1860). (See p. 198.)
Younger son of Sir John Soane. To the list of his
works on p. 198, add
The Frolics of Puck, i2mo. 1834
Edward James Loder has a Ballad Opera, Robin
Goodfellow ; or, The Frolics of Puck, which was pro-
duced at the Princess’s Theatre on Wednesday,
December 6th, 1848.
Life of the Duke of Wellington 1839-40
The Last Ball, and Other Tales. 8vo. 1843
January Eve, a tale, i6mo. 1847
New Curiosities of Literature. i2mo. 1847
Soane was also a prolific dramatist and wrote the
following plays
:
The Peasant of Lucerne. A melodrama. 8vo. 1815.
The Bohemian. A tragedy. 8vo. 1817.
The Inkeeper’s Daughter. A melodrama. Produced
at Drury Lane on Monday, April 7th, 1817. 8vo.
1817. In Duncombe’s Edition of Plays, Vol. XLIII.
In Lacy’s Acting Edition, Vol. CXIV. Music by
Thomas Simpson Cooke, “ director of the Music at
Drury Lane.”
The Falls of Clyde. A melodrama. Produced at
Drury Lane on Wednesday, October 29th, 1817. 8vo.
1817, and 8vo. 1818. In Cumberland’s British
Theatre, Vol. XXXI. Music by Cooke. This melo-
drama was very popular and was adapted to the Toy
Theatre.
Rob Roy, the Gregurach. A melodrama founded on
Scott’s Rob Roy. Produced at Drury Lane on
INDEX OF AUTHORS 589
Wednesday, March 25th, 1818. 8vo. 1818. In Cum-
berland’s British Theatre, Vol. XXXVI.
The Dwarf of Naples. A Tragi-Comedy. Produced
at Drury Lane on Saturday, March 3rd, 1819. 8vo.
i 8 i
9 -
Self-Sacrifice ; or, The Maid of the Cottage. A melo-
drama. Produced at The English Opera House
(Lyceum Theatre) on Monday, July 19th, 1819. 8vo.
1819. Music by William Reeve.
The Hebrew. A drama founded on Scott’s Ivanhoe.
Produced at Drury Lane on Thursday, March 2nd,
1820. 8vo. 1820.
Der Freischiitz- Opera, music by Sir Henry Rowley
Bishop. The libretto adapted from Johann Friedrich
Kind. Produced at Drury Lane on November 10th,
1824. 8vo. 1825. See Freischiitz in the Title Index.
Masaniello, the Fisherman of Naples. Drama. Pro-
duced at Drury Lane on Thursday, February 17th,
1825. Music by Bishop.
La Muette de Portici, an opera in five acts, music by
Auber, libretto by Scribe and Delavigne, which was
produced at the Academie, Paris, on February 29th,
1828, was generally known in England as Masaniello.
Arranged in three acts is was produced at Drury Fane.
Faustus. A Romantic Drama. Written in collabora-
tion with Daniel Terry. Produced at Drury Lane on
Monday, May 16th, 1825. Music by Bishop, Charles
Edward Horn and Cooke. 8vo. 1825. In Cumber-
land’s British Theatre, Vol. XXXIII. Soane had
translated and published, 1820, selections from Faust
to accompany the plates by Retzsch.
Aladdin. Opera. Produced at Drury Lane on Satur-
day, April 29th, 1826. 8vo. 1826. Music by Bishop.
Aladin, ou la lampe merveilleuse, an opera which
Nicolo Isouard (Isoard), had left unfinished at his
death in Paris on March 23rd, 1818, was completed
by Benincori, and produced on February 6th, 1822.
Pride Shall Have a Fall; or, The Ladder of Life.
Melodrama. Produced at the Royal Coburg Theatre,
Waterloo Road, the “ Old Vic,” on Monday, July
30th, 1832.
The Young Reefer. Farce. Produced at the Queen’s
Theatre, Fitzroy-square, Tottenham-court-road on
590 ADDENDA
Monday, April 27 th, 1833. In Cumberland’s British
Theatre, Vol. VIII.
£arah. A Romantic Drama. Produced at the Queen’s
Theatre on Monday, September 7th, 1835. In Cum-
berland’s British Theatre, Vol. XXXV ;
Lacy’s Acting
Edition, Vol. XCII ;
and Dicks, 357.
The Chelsea Pensioner. A Drama. Produced at the
Queen’s Theatre on Thursday, October 29th, 1835.
In Duncombe’s Edition of Plays, Vol. XIX.
Lilian,
the Show Girl. A Drama. Produced at the
Surrey Theatre, Blackfriars-road, on Monday, October
10th, 1836. In Duncombe’s Edition of Plays, Vol.
XXIV; Dicks, 739.
The Syren. A Comic Opera. Produced at the
Princess’s Theatre, Oxford Street, on Monday, October
14th, 1844. 8vo. [1844]. An adaptation of La
Sirene, opera-comique in three acts, music by Auber,
libretto by Scribe, produced in Paris at the Opera-
Cpmique on March 26th, 1844.
The Wilis; or, The Night Dancers. A Romantic
Drama. Produced at the Princess’s Theatre on
Wednesday, October 28th, 1846. 8vo. 1846. Two
editions this year as The Night Dancers. Giselle, ou
les Wilis, a ballet by Adolphe Adam based on a plot
adapted from Heine by Theophile Gautier was given
at the Grand Opera, Paris, on July 4th, 1841, and at
Her Majesty’s Theatre, London, on March 12th,
1842. Giselle was one of Carlotta Grisi’s most famous
roles.
Edward James Loder wrote an opera The Wilis; or,
The Night Dancers which was produced at the
Princess’s Theatre in 1846, and revived at the same
house in 1850. It was also given at Covent Garden in
i860.
Le Villi, an opera in one act, libretto by Tontana,
music by Puccini, was produced at the Teatro del
Verme, Milan, on May 31st, 1884. It proved so' great
a success that, revised and expanded to two acts, it was
presented at the Scala, on June 24th, 1885.
The Young Guard. Operetta. Produced at the
Princess’s Theatre on Thursday, January 20th, 1848.
Haydee ; or, The Secret. An Opera. Produced at
the Strand Theatre on Monday, April 4th, 1848..
INDEX OF AUTHORS 59 1
i2mo. 1848, in Davidson’s Dramatic Operas. The
English version of Haydee, ou le Secret, an opera-
comique in three acts, music by Auber, libretto by
Scribe, produced at the Opera-Comique, Paris, on
December 28th, 1847.
The Isle of Calypso. An operatic masque. i2mo.
London. 1850.
SOUTHWORTH, Mrs. Emma Dorothy Eliza
Nevitte. (See pp. 195-98.)
The Modern Publishing Company, London, published,
price 6s. net, the following works of Mrs. Southworth :
How He Won Her
Only A Girl’s Heart
The Bride Of An Evening
The Changed Brides
The Bride’s Fate
The Bridal Eve
The Fatal Marriage
A Woman’s Fate
No date, but c. 1908.
STENHOUSE, Mr.
The Curse
STEVENS, Charles
My Ladyfs Master
No. 79, Dicks’ English Novels.
Charles Stevens was a well-known journalist. He
edited Boys of England. First number, Tuesday,
November 27th, 1866. See Title Index under Boys of
England.
T
T ,
Ellen. (See p. 202.)
Love And Honour. By Ellen T ,
Authoress of “Rose
Sommerville ” (sic.) Lloyd’s Weekly Volume Of Amus-
ing And Instructive Literature. [New Series.] Vol. I.
London, Edward Lloyd, 12 Salisbury-square, Fleet-
street. N.D.
[n.d.J
592 ADDENDA
V
VILES, Edward. (See p. 207.)
Viles collaborated with F. J. Fumival in
The Fraternitye of Vacabonds by J. Awdeley; A
Caveat or Warening for common cursetors by T.
Harman; A Sermon in praise of Thieves by Parson
Haben. Early English Text Society. Extra Series, IX.
Edited by E. Viles and Frederick James Furnival i86g
The Rogues and Vagabonds of Shakespere’s Youth.
Edited by E. Viles and F. J. Furnival in 1869 for the
Early English Text Society, and now reprinted for the
.New Shakespere Society, 8vo. 1880
W
WILKINSON, Miss Sarah. (See pp. 213-14.)
The Castle of Montabina [n.d.]
WILLIAMS, F.G.S., F.R.G.S., Robert Folkestone
Rhymes and Rhapsodies 1
833
An Historical Sketch of the Art of Sculpture on
Wood . . . r
835
Mephistopheles in England ; or, The Confessions of a
Prime Minister. 3 vols. 1
835
Eureka; or, A Prophecy of the Future. By the Author
of Mephistopheles in England. 3 vols. 1837
Shapespeare And His Friends ; or, “ The Golden Age ”
Of Merry England
His life wr
as gentle, and the elements
So mixed in him, that Nature might stand up,
And say to all the world—This was a man!
Julius Caesar.
He was net of an age, but for all time.
Ben Jonson.
In Three Volumes. London : Henry Colburn, Pub-
lisher, Great Malborough Street 1838
Shakespeare und seine Freunde oder das goldene
gfeitaher des lustigen Englands. Nach dem Englischen
von W. Alexis \i.e., W. Haring] 3 Bde. Berlin i83g
INDEX OF AUTHORS 593
The Youth Of Shakespeare. A novel, by the Author
of Shakespeare And His Friends. In Three Volumes.
London: Henry Colburn 1839
Lives of the Princes of Wales. Vol. I. [No more pub-
lished] 1843
The Secret Passion. 3 vols. 1844
Memoirs of Sophia Dorothea, Consort of George I .. .
2 vols. 1845
Maids of Honour. A Tale of the Court of George I.
3 vols. 1
845
Sir Roger De Coverly. A Tale of the Court of Charles
the Second. 3 vols. 1846
Strawberry Hill. An historical novel. 3 vols. 1847
The Court and Times of James the First. Edited with
an Introduction and Notes, by the Author of Memoirs
of Sophia Dorothea, etc. 2 vols. 1848
The Court and Times of Charles the First. Edited
with an Introduction and Notes by the Author of The
Court and Times of James the First 1848
The Luttrells ; or, The Two Marriages. 3 vols. 1850
Memoirs of Horace Walpole and his Contemporaries.
2 vols. 1851
Domestic Memoirs Of The Royal Family And Of The
Court of England Chiefly At Shene And Richmond.
By Folkestone Williams, F.G.S., F.R.G.S. In Three
Volumes. London: Hurst and Blackett, Publishers,
Successors To Henry Colburn, 13 Great Malborough
Street. In Two Volumes. i860
The Right of Translation is reserved.
Jack Scudamore’s Daughter. A Domestic Story.
3 vols. 1865
Lives Of The English Cardinals ... to Thomas Wolsey,
Cardinal Legate. 2 vols. 1868
Memoirs And Correspondence of F. Atterbury, Bishop
of Rochester. Compiled by Folkestone Williams 1869
WHALLEY, T. S.
Edwy and Edilda 1 783
Q*
TITLE INDEX
A
Abdalla The Moor And The Spanish Knight. A Romance of
Mexico. By Dr. Bird, Author Of “ The Hawks Of Hawk-
Hollow,” etc.
Escucha, pues, un rate, y dire cosas
Estranas y espanto sas, poco a poco.
Garcilaso De La Vega.
London : Published by J. Cunningham, Peterborough-court,
Fleet-street, And Sold By All Booksellers. 1839. In “The
Novel Newspaper” series. Another edition. 10 nos., E.
Lloyd, 12 Salisbury-square, Fleet-street, London. 1845.
(See p. 220.)
Adelaide; or, The Mysterious Rescue. In Five Old Novels.
Cameron and Ferguson, Publishers, Glasgow, 88 to 94 West
Nile Street. London, 12 Ave Maria Lane. [c. 1870.]
Adventures Of A Bank-Note, The. In Two Volumes. Vol. I
(-II).—Explebo numerum, reddarque tenebris.—Virg. Asn.
When I’ve held up a proper number
Of fools and knaves, and such-like lumber,
To public view, and public scorn,
Contented I’ll to dust return.
London, Printed for T. Davies, in Russel-street, Covent-
garden. 1770.
Adventures Of A Bank-Note, The. In Four Volumes. Vol. Ill
(-IV). [Quotations as above.] London, Printed fol. (sic)
T. Davies, in Russel-street, Covent-gardcn. 1771- (See
p. 223.)
Alone In The Pirates’ Lair. Serial “By the Editor” in Boys
Of England, Conducted By Charles Stevens, commencing
No. 1, November 27th, 1866, published (and after nine
numbers edited) by E. J. Brett. This romance was dramatized
for the Juvenile Theatre, the sheets of the play being given
gratis in four instalments to readers of Boys Of England.
Later, coloured sheets were sold separately in sixpenny sets
of sixteen sheets of characters and scenes. In the first number
594
TITLE INDEX 593
of Boys Of England there appeared an announcement
:
“ Given away—To the Boys of England a complete new
play entitled, ‘
Alone In The Pirates’ Lair ’
consisting of
eight scenes, seven sets of characters, six wings, foot pieces
and a large stage front. N.B.—The above entertaining gift
is specially designed for young readers.” Brett proceeded
to issue further plays :
Jack Cade, with eight sheets of
characters and seven scenes (there are two romances of this
name, see p. 372); King Arthur; or, The Knights of the
Round Table, 1870; Harlequin Jack and his Seven Brothers
,
1872; The Giant of the Blue Mountains ; Tom Daring; or,
Far From Home ; The Skeleton Florseman (for the romance
of this title see p. 507) ;
Robinson Crusoe ; The Forty Thieves
;
Bluebeard ; Mazeppa (the famous Equestrian Spectacle, for
the romance of this name see p. 406); The Roadside Inn
Fitzball’s melodrama Jonathan Bradford; or, The Murder
at the Roadside Inn, produced at the Surrey Theatre on
June 12th, 1833; for the romance Jonathan Bradford, see
p. 377). The favourite Jack Harkaway afforded E. J. Brett
ample scope for more than one juvenile theatre play, and
he also issued a Miller and his Men, 1874 (see pp. 414-15),
which is very inferior to the spirited versions of West,
Hodgson, Webb, Skelt, and Benjamin Pollock. Brett further
announced that he had arranged to supply wooden toy stages,
which from the description must have been most elaborate
models with wing grooves, traps, and all details complete.
It does not appear, however, that this project materialized.
(See p. 229.)
Ancient Records; or, The Abbey Of Saint Oswythe. A
Romance. In Four Volumes. By T. J. Horsley Curties.
1801. (See p. 232.)
A drama founded on this romance and entitled The Towers
of Urbandine was produced at the Theatre Royal, Finkle-
street, Hull, on December 13th, 1805, and became very
popular on the York Circuit. York, it may be remembered,
was one of the chief circuits and enjoyed a Royal Patent
dating from 1759. The order of the circuit was generally
York, Hull, Wakefield, Leeds, Pontefract, and Doncaster.
There is a very full description of the Castle of Urbandine in
Ancient Records, Vol. I, pp. 160-65 (ed. 1801). The follow-
ing passage is extremely Gothic. “ The castle was of great
extent, and built of such durable materials and rugged texture,
59 6 ADDENDA
as to bid defiance almost to time itself ;
but though its interior
was magnificent and sumptuous, there was an air of proud
grandeur in the style of the building, that was evidently meant
for purposes of greater import than an old English Noble’s
residence. Its high-raised towers, and heavy overhanging
battlements conveyed an idea of a place designed for at
once a fortress and a prison.
The late Baron of Urbandine had indeed endeavoured to
alter the style of the building, and to take from it that
Gothic, gloomy aspect which, at first sight, excited emotions
of fear and alarm in the beholder ;
but either the architect
was unskilful, or the design was ill-judged, for no improve-
ment could add an outward cheerfulness to the solemnity of its
dark rugged towers.”
Artless Tales, in 3 vols., i2mo., by Mrs. Hurry, price 15^. in
boards. Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, and Brown, Pater-
noster Row, 1 8 1 1
.
Arnold £iilig, a Swiss Story. By the author of Constance, the
Pharos, and Argus. 3r. sewed. T. Hookham, New Bond
Street. MDCCXC. (See p. 236.)
Les Aveux D’Un Prisonnier, Ou Anecdotes de la Cour de
Philippe de Souabe ; Par le Baron Debrock ;
Auteur d'Herman
D’Unna et de Walter De Monbary, Traduit De L’Allemand,
Par Mme. De Cerenville. A Paris. Chez Le Normant,
imprimeur-libraire, rue des Pretres, Saint-Germain—I’Auxer-
rois, No. 42. An XII—1804. Vol. IV has: An XII—1803.
Four volumes with frontispieces. A romance of the Secret
Tribunal.
Baron De Brock (or Debrcck) is a pseudonym of Christiane
Benedicte Eugenie Naubeit. (See p. hi.)
Awful Disclosures Of Adaria Monk, Also, The Mysteries Of A
Convent, The. One vol., Philadelphia: T. B. Petersen,
1 01, Chestnut Street. Maria Monk occupies pp. 1 —159.
The Thrilliig Mysteries of a Convent Revealed! Philadelphia :
Published By The United States Protestant Association.
Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the Year 1854,
by T. B. Peterson. In the Office of the Clerk of the District
Court of the United States, in and for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania. The Thrilling Mysteries occupies pp. 1 - 1 68.
“ The author is one of the most celebrated Methodist preachers
TITLE INDEX 597
now living.” Jones, Printer, Clyde Street, London. Wood-
cut frontispiece and title. (See p. 239.)
B
Black Rollo the Pirate; or, The Dark Woman of the Deep.
go nos. By Captain L. Lyons. George Howe. c. i860.
(See p. 248.)
Bleeding Phantom; or, Wild in Fetters, The. Pictorial Boards.
1867. Published by Robert M. de Witt: New York, No. 13
Frankfort Street. No. 8 of the “ Jonathan Wild Series.”
Blueskin, A Romance of the Last Century. By the Author of
Black Bess, or the Knight of the Road. [Edward Viles.]
With one hundred and fifty-seven Original Illustrations.
London : E. Harrison, Salisbury Square, Fleet Street. No
date. (1867-8.) The illustrations are by R. Prowse. 158
numbers. 753 chapters, with 1,259 Pa£es >
double columns
of smallest type. (See p. 250.) Jack Sheppard is the hero
of this romance.
Bottle; or, The Drunkard’s Career, The. “Illustrated in the
style of George Cruikshank.” In penny weekly numbers; or
monthly sixpence. No. 1 issued on Saturday, 23rd October,
1847. Reynolds’s Miscellany Office, 1 Wellington Street
North, Covent Garden. By Gabriel Alexander. (See p. 251.)
A Boy Burglar. A disguised Jack Sheppard romance. (
c. 1869.)
The adventures and example of Jack Sheppard were con-
sidered to exercise so immoral an influence that he was com-
pelled to masquerade, and in this romance for example
appears as Bob Chance. Jack Sheppard was prohibited on
the stage, and in The Stone Jug (1873), “Adapted by J. B.
Buckstone from the celebrated Novel of ‘
Jack Sheppard ’
by
Harrison Ainsworth ” we have Robert Chance : The Idle
Apprentice (Jack Sheppard) ;
Richard Riverside (Thames
Darrell) ;
Sampson Savage, a Thief-Taker (Jonathan Wild)
;
Jim, alias “ Purpleface ” (Blueskin) ;
and a curious cast of
misnomered characters, whilst such figures as Edgworth Bess
and Poll Maggot have entirely disappeared.
Boy Pirate ; or, Life on the Ocean, The. With woodcuts. News-
agents Publishing Company. 1865. The sequel to Con-
fessions of a Ticket of Leave Man. (See p. 251, and p. 280.)
ADDENDA
59 8
Bravo Of Venice, The. By Matthew Gregory Lewis. Reprint,
n.d. but about 1890. The Castle Of Otranto and The Bravo
Of Venice. One vol., double columns, price 6d. George
Newnes, Southampton Street, Strand. (See pp. 252-3.)
Brik Bolding, ou qu’est-ce-que la vie? roman-anglais-frangais-
italien. 3 vols. in 12, avec figures. 4 fr. 50c. Paris. Chez
Le Normant. [1803.] By Pigault-Lebrun. (See p. 253.)
Castle Of Otranto, The. By Horace Walpole. And The Bravo
Of Venice by M. G. Lewis. One vol., double columns, price
6d. Geo. Newnes, Southampton Street, Strand, [c. 1890.]
See pp. 263-6.
Castles Of Athlin And Dunbayne, The. A Highland Story.
[Rule.] By Ann Radcliffe. [Rule.]
-
—For justice bares the arm of God,
And the grasp’d vengeance only waits his nod.
Cawt [rfc.]
[Rule.] The Fourth Edition. [Rule.] London : Printed
For Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, And Brown, Paternoster
Row. [Rule.] 1 8 1 1 . C. Stower, Printer, 32 Paternoster
Row, London. One vol., boards, pp. 280. (p. 269.)
Celia In Search Of A Husband. By A Modern Antique.
“ There wanted yet the master-work, the end
Of all yet done ;
a creature, who not prone
And brute as ether creatures, but endued
With sanctity of reason,
— — — and from thence
Magnanimous, to correspond with Heaven,
But grateful to acknowledge whence his good
Descends.”
In Two Volumes. Second Edition. Vol. I [-II] . London:
Printed At The Mincrva-Press, For A. K. Newman And Co.
( Successors to Lane, Newman, and Co.), Leadenhall-street,
1809. (See p. 279.)
Celina. By Mrs. Meeke. An adaptation from Pixerecourt’s
drama “ Coelina, ou l’Enfant du Mystere ” by John Wallace,
Ccelina; or, A Tale of Mystery, a play, was printed octavo,
1802.
Charley Wag, The New Jack Sheppard, A New and Intensely
Exciting Real Life Romance. Illustrated by Robert Prowse.
TITLE INDEX 599
London : United Kingdom Press, 28 Brydges Street, Strand.
[ 1 860- 1 86 1
.]
Published in Penny Numbers with green covers.
Also issued in Monthly Parts. The Advertisement says :
“ In
this work . . . will be found the most graphic and reliable
pictures of hitherto unknown phases of the Dark Side of
London Life . . . rendered in stern, truthful language by one
who has studied, in all its blackest enormity, the doings of
secret crime.”
The origin of the name “ Charley Wag ” in this connexion
is not exactly known, but it was in common use much earlier
than i860. A character, Charley Wag, appears in J. R.
Planche’s “ Comic Fantastic Spectacle ” The Seven Champions
of Christendom produced at the Royal Lyceum Theatre on
April 9th, 1849. St. George, played by Miss Kathleen
Fitzwilliam, is attended by Charley Wag, Esq., an important
part taken by Charles Mathews, who in Act II sang a number
which rounds off
In a jingling, chiming, crambo, rhyming,
Pattery, chattery, what can it mattery.
Charley Wag sort of a song.
J. Redington, 208 Hoxton Old Town, published about 1841
a character portrait of “ Mr. C. Pitt, As Charly Wag.”
C. Pitt (who must be distinguished from George Dibdin Pitt,
actor and prolific dramatist) was a great favourite at the
Minor Theatres, and especially shone in melodrama of the
more lurid kind. In the role of Charley Wag he is made
up as a stalwart bewhiskered bandit in the prime of life.
He wears a blue coat, red waistcoat, knotted belcher, buff
breeches and Wellington boots. With one hand he is aiming
a pistol, in the other is clasped a great knife. A second
pistol is stuck in his belt. There is a moonlit background.
It will at once be observed that this is an entirely different
Charley Wag from the boy thief, “ the new Jack Sheppard.”
It should be remarked that Fred Hazelton is sometimes said
to have been the author of Charley Wag and hence also of
Fanny White. See under HAZELTON, Index of Authors
(Addenda).
See for Charley Wag, Chamber’s Journal, 5th December,
1914. (See p. 272.)
Children Of The Abbey, The. Spanish translation. Oscar T
Amanda (Amor Y Virtud Triunfantes) Por Regina Maria
6oo ADDENDA
Roche, Verdadera Y Unica Refundicion Caste'ilana Por D.
Enrique Villalpando de Gardenas. Tomo I-II. Barcelona
Establecimiento Tipo-Litografico Editorial De Espasa Y Ca.
221, Calle De Las Cortes, 223. [1868.] With twenty-seven
coloured illustrations. (See pp. 274-5.)
Chronicles of Old London Wall. London: G. Vickers. [1839.]
Largely plagiarized from Harrison Ainsworth. The same
author also conveyed from Old Saint Paul's (1841) his
Mysteries of Old Saint Paul’s. See under this title (p. 433).
Church Of St. Siffrid, The. Dublin edition, 2 vols., i2mo.,
William Porter, 1798. French translation: L’Lglise de S.
Siffrid, traduit de l’anglais, par L. F. Bertin. 5 vols in 12,
avec figures. 9 fr. A Paris. Chez Le Normant, imprimeur-
libraire, rue des Pretres Saint-Germain-rAuxerrois, No. 42.
[1801.] (See pp. 275-6.)
Clary. There is a ballet Clari, ou La Promesse De Mariage,
Ballet-Pantomime en trois actes, Represente, pour la premiere
fois, a Paris, sur le Theatre de l’Academie Royale de Musique,
le Lundi 19 Juin 1820, Par L.-J. Milon, Maitre de Ballets
de 1 ’Academie Royale de Musique ;
Musique de Mr. Kreutzer,
Chef d’Orchestre du meme Theatre.
Printed : A Paris, Se vend au Magasin de la rue Neuve St.
Mare, No. 10, au coin de la place des Italiens. 1820.
Mile. Bigottini appeared in the role of Clari. (See p. 277.)
Colonel Jack; or, The Life of a Highwayman. 104 nos. NM
date.
Constance ; or, The Star of the Ballet. An Interesting Narrative
.
E. Lloyd, 12 Salisbury Square, Fleet-street, and G. Purkess,
Compton Street, Soho. n.d. [1848]. Also as The Star of the
Ballet. (See under this title, p. 514.)
Cottage Girl; or, The Marriage Day, The. By Mrs. Elizabeth
Bennett. E. J. Brett’s edition is 1885-6, and was issued from
173 Fleet Street, E.C. There are 33 nos. Two numbers.
Price One Penny. The woodcuts depict the characters in
the costume of 1885. (See p. 285.)
Count de Rethel. 3 vols. 7s. 6d. sewed. T. Hookham. 1785.
(See p. 286.)
Cross Roads, The. By W. T. Haley. 1841.
TITLE INDEX 6or
D
Dalmanutha. Chapbook. [c. 1802.]
Days Of Hogarth; or, The Mysteries Of Old London, The.
Serialized in Reynolds’s Miscellany. “By the Editor.” Com-
menced on Saturday, 29th May, 1847. Vol. II, No. 30.
“ A tale [founded] upon the most popular and best known of
Hogarth’s Pictures.” (See p. 291.)
Death’s A Friend. By the author of the Bastard. 2 vols. 4s..
sewed. Advertised by T. Hookham, New Bond Street. 1790.
(See p. 291.)
Disinterested Love. 2 vols., T. Hcokham. 1776. Advertised,
1790, by Hookham as Disinterested Love; or, The Modern
Robin Grey, a novel, in a series of letters ; by a widow Lady,
2 vols. 4s. sewed. (See p. 297.)
E
Edgeworth Bess; or, Shephard in Danger. No. 2 of the “ Biue-
skin Series” issued by Robert M. de Witt: New York,
No. 13 Frankfort Street, 1867. Each number complete.
100 pages. Price 25 cents.
Robert M. de Witt also published “ The Black Bess Series,”
“ The Claude Duval Series,” “ The Nightshade Series,” and
the “ Jonathan Wild Series.”
Edwin, a Tragedy. Also as Edwin, Heir of Cressingham. Pro-
duced at the Norwich Theatre in February, 1817. A play by
Edward Fitzball, founded on The Scottish Chiefs by Jane
Porter. (See p. 497.)
Elinor Clare; or, The Flaunted Oak. Complete, With New
And Beautiful Illustrations. London : Published By Edwin
J. Brett, 173, Fleet Street, E.C. 1886. “Cottage Girl”
Edition. 33 nos. Weekly, and “ Continued Every Week.”
2 Numbers, Price One Penny. The author’s name is not
given, but Elinor Clare is a reprint under a new title of
The Gipsey Chief ; or, The Haunted Oak, A Tale Of Other
Days. By Hannah Maria Jones. [1841.] In Elinor Clare
the woodcuts, if crude, are not without a certain power. The
costumes are contemporary, i.e., 1884. (See pp. 339-40.)
602 ADDENDA
Eton School Days. By an cld Etonian. [Samuel Bracebridge
Hemyng.] 8vo. 1864.
Eve Of San-Pietro, The. A Tale. 1804. See Title Index.
This Tale is by Mary Anne Neri. In 1811 Longman & Co.
advertise: “ The Hour of Trial, a Tale, by Mary Anne Neri,
Author of the ‘
Eve of San Pietro.’ ” (See p. 313.)
F
Fanny White And Her Friend Jack Rawlings. A Romance
Of A Young Lady Thief And a Boy Burglar Including Their
Artful Dodges, Their Struggles and Adventures, Prisons and
Prison Breakings, Their Ups and Downs, And Their Tricks
Upon Travellers, etc., etc. By the author of Charley Wag.
With Twenty, One Original Illustrations. George Vickers,
Angel Court, Strand, n.d. \c. 1865].
In reference to the authorship of Charley Wag and hence also
of Fanny White see under Charley Wag, Title Index and
Title Index, Addenda, also under HAZELTON, Index of
Authors, Addenda. (See p. 317.)
Les Fantomes Nocturnes ; Ou Les Terreurs Des Coupables
;
Theatre de forfaits, offrant, par Nouvelles Historiques, des
visions infernales de monstres fantastiques, d’images futestes,
de lutins homicides, de spectres et d’echafauds sang Ians,
supplices prccurseurs des scelerats.
Tristes divinites du gouffre de Pluton !
Toi, lugubre Chaos ! et toi, noir Phlegeton
!
Permettez qu’un mortel, de vos rives funebres
Trouble le long silences et les vastes tenebres,
Et sonde, dans ses vers ncblement indiscrete,
L’abome impenetrable ou dorment les forfaits
!
Eneide, livre VI.
A Paris. Chez Mme. Ve. Lepetit, Libraire, Rue Hautefeuille,
No. 30. 1821. Two volumes with frontispieces, which are
extremely horrible and grim and reminisant of certain illustra-
tions to Juliette. The author is P. Cuisin. (See p. 317.)
The quotation is from the Aeneid, VI, 264-267 :
Di, quibus imperium est animarum, umbrasque silentes
et Chaos et Phlegethon, loca nccte tacentia late,
sit mihi fas audita loqui, sit numine vestro
pandere res alta terra et caligine mersas.
TITLE INDEX 603
Farmer of Inglewood Forest, The. By Elizabeth Heime. J.
Clements. Romancist and Novelist’s Library. 1841. (See
pp. 317-8.)
Fatal Revenge, The. In 18 11 Longman & Co. advertise:
“The Latal Revenge; or, The Lamily of Montorio, a
Romance, by Dennis Jasper Murphy [C. R. Maturin], in
3 vols. i2mo. Price 1 1. ir. in boards.” (See p. 319.)
A Father's Crime ; or, The Chamber Mystery. Under this title
Mrs. RadclifTe’s The Romance of the Forest is reprinted in
Five Fine Old Novels. See below.
Fatherless Fanny; or, A Young Lady’s First Entrance Into Life,
Being The Memoirs Of A Little Mendicant, And Her Bene-
factors. By The Author Of The Old English Baron, etc., etc.
Meek Child of Want! I pity thy distress,
Lor I have leam’d to feel another’s woe
;
Yes, my heart pants to make thy sorrow less,
And dry the tear which mis’ry bids to flow.
Anderson.
London: Published by J. Tallis, 7, Warwick Square. 1819.
With four illustrations, and a frontispiece. Erontispiece,
Duke of Albermale. Engrav’d by W. Ridley from a Minia-
ture by Naish. (1) Facing p. 36, Lady Ellincourt. Printed
by Slater. Engraved by Hapwood. (2) Facing p. 148, The
Horse taken fright with Fanny, Swift Sc. (3) Facing p. 229,
Fanny’s Interview With Her Father. (4) Facing p. 237,
Fanny’s Interview With Her Mother. Pub. by W. Pritchard,
Warwick Lane. 52 chapters; pp. 520.
Fatherless Fanny; or, A Young Lady’s First Entrance Into
Life, Being The Memoirs Of A Little Mendicant and Her
Benefactors [vignette]. London. Published by G. Virtue,
Panyer Alley, Paternoster Row.
N.D. With five illustrations, frontispiece, and engraved title-
page. Frontispiece. Mrs. Dawson on opening Fanny’s Trunk
discovers £200. “ This ticket is not a blank at least.”
Stennet del., Illman set. (1) Facing p. 7, Fatherless Fanny
At The Age Of 19. (2) Facing p. 45, Pemberton Abbey the
place of Fanny’s Nativity. Swift Sc. (3) Facing p. 122.
The Horse taken fright with Fanny. Identical with the
Illustration facing p. 148 in the edition of 1819. (4) Facing
p. 333. Duke Of Albermale
:
Identical with the Frontispiece
ADDENDA
604
in the edition of 1 8 1 g. Engraved by W. Ridley from a
Miniature by Naish. (5) Facing p. 339. Fanny’s Interview
With Her Mother. Identical with the Illustration in the
edition of 1819, but “ Pub. by W. Pritchard, Warwick Lane,”
omitted from plate. 52 chapters; pp. 520. (See pp. 320-21.)
A melodrama Fatherless Fanny; or, The Fair Mendicant and
the Spirit of the Rock was produced at the New Royal Sussex
Theatre, Church-street, Edgware-road on 21st April, 1834.
Five Fine Old Novels Comprising The Following Stirring and
Romantic Tales, The Romance of the Forest; The Pastor’s
Fireside; The Hungarian Brothers; Thaddeus of Warsaw;
Adelaide; or, The Mysterious Rescue. Cameron and
Ferguson, Publishers, Glasgow, 88 to 94 West Nile Street
:
London, 12 Ave Maria Lane. n.d. [c. 1870].
Francis Berrian. Francis Berrian; or, The Mexican Patriot
[by T.F.] i2mo. 1826. Another edition, 3 vols. 1834.
By Timothy Flint, a fairly prolific and miscellaneous writer.
(See p. 329.)
Frankenstein ; or, The Modern Prometheus. There is a recent
French translation : Frankenstein ou le Promethee moderne.
Traduit de l’anglais et precede d’une introduction par G.
d’Hangest. Paris, La Renaissance du Livre. n.d. i6mo.
(See p. 330.)
Freischutz, Der. It may be noted that in 1824 no less than five
adaptations were given in London :
John Oxenford’s Der
Freischutz; or, The Seventh Bullet at the English Opera
House (Lyceum) on 23rd July, a version sometimes attributed
to Samuel James Arnold ; J. H. Amherst’s spectacular Der
Freischutz at Astley’s on 30th August; Edward Fitzball’s
Der Freischutz; or, The Demon of the Wolf’s Glen, and
the Seven Charmed Bullets at the Surrey on 6th September;
James Robinson Planche’s Der Freischutz; or, The Black
Huntsman of Bohemia, printed (bis) 8vo, 1825 as The Freis-
chutz; or, The Wild Huntsman of Bohemia, the music being
derived from Weber by Livius, at Covent Garden on 14th
October ;
and George Soane’s Der Freischutz at Drury Lane
on 10th November.
The usual crop of burlesques appeared one of the earliest
of which was Der Freischutz produced at the Olympic on
4th October, 1824. Der Freischutz Travestie by “Septimus
TITLE INDEX 605
Globus” was printed 8vo., 1824. On 8th August, 1825, Der
Fryshot was given at Edinburgh. On nth November, 1828,
yet another burlesque Der Freischutz was given in London
at the Adelphi. (See pp. 332-3.)
G
Gambler’s Dream, The. 3 vols., Edward Bull, 19 Holies Street.
1837. Second edition. 3 vols., ibid. 1837.
Generous Conqueror, The. An historical tale
;
by Major Mante,
1 s. Advertised by T. Hookham, New Bond Street. 1790.
George Barrington. For an account of George Barrington,
“pickpocket and author,” born 1775, see the Dictionary of
National Biography. There is a separate life, The Prince of
Pickpockets by Richard S. Lambert, Faber and Faber, 1930.
(See p. 338.) A drama Barrington, the Pick-pocket was pro-
duced at the Surrey on 21st October, 1833.
A Gossip’s Story, And A Legendary Tale. In 1811 Longman
& Co. advertise :
“ A Gossip’s Story, and Legendary Tale, by
Mrs. West, in 2 vols. i2mo., fifth edition, price 7 s. in
boards.” (See p. 342.)
Grace Darling; or, The Heroine of the Fern Islands. A Tate
founded on recent Facts. [Vignette : A Scene in the Cabin
of the Forfarshire Steam Boat. F. Phillips.] London. G.
Henderson, 2 Old Bailey.
Grace Darling; or, The Heroine Of The Fern Islands. A
Tale. By G. W. M. Reynolds. Author of “ Pickwick
“ Abroad,” “ Alfred De Rosann,” etc., etc. London : G.
Henderson, 2, Old Bailey, Ludgate-Hill. 1839. One vol.
Frontispiece, vignette title, and eighteen illustrations by
Phillips. (See p. 343.)
Grasville Abbey. A Romance. In Three Volumes.
See yonder hallow’d fane ! The pious work
Of names once fam’d, now dubious or forgot,
And buried ’midst the wreck of things which were.
Blair, The Grave.
London : Printed for G. G. and J. Robinson, Pater Nostcr
Row. 1797. By George Moore. A very famous and
typically Gothic romance. (See pp. 343-4.)
6o6 ADDENDA
H
History Of Lady Caroline Rivers, The. By Miss Elizabeth
Todd. 2 vols., Printed for the Authoress. 1788. (See p. 357.)
In 1790 advertised among “ Books printed for T. Hookham,
New Bond Street
,”
as “ by Miss C. Todd. 2 vols. 55’. sewed.”
History of Melinda Harley, The. 2 s. 6d. sewed. Advertised
by T. Hookham, New Bond Street, 1790.
History of Miss Baltimores, The. 2 vols., 5s. sewed. Advertised
by T. Hookham, New Bond Street, 1 790.
History of the Honourable Mrs. Rosemont and Sir Henry
Cardigan, The. 2 vols., 5J. sewed. Advertised by T. Hook-
ham, New Bond Street, 1790.
Horrible Revenge ; or, The Monster of Italy! ! A Romance of
the 1 6th Century. Also Hopeless Love, An Interesting Tale
.
By Isaac Crookenden, Author of etc., etc.
“ Vengance is alive! from her dark cave,
“ With all her snakes erect upon her crest,
“ She stalks in view, and fires me with her charms
!
“ But that her blood’s too hot, or I’d carouse
“ It round my festive board !
”
Dr. Young’s Revenge.
London : Printed and Sold by R. Harrild, No. 20. Great
Eastcheap. 1808. The Horrible Revenge occupies pp. 3-28;
Hopeless Love, pp. 29-36. Coloured Frontispiece. The
quotation (not exactly cited) is from Zanga’s speech in The
Revenge, Act II, and, the two last lines, from Alonzo’s speech
in Act IV.
Hungarian Brothers, The. Advertised by Longman & Co. in
18 1 1. The Hungarian Brothers, by Miss Maria Porter, in
3 vols., i2mo., second edition, price 15s. in boards. Also
reprinted in Five Fine Old Novels, Cameron & Ferguson,
Glasgow. See under this title, Title Index, Addenda. (See
p. 362.)
I
Innocent Fugitive; or, Memoirs of a Lady of Quality, The.
By the author of the Platonic Guardian. [Mrs. Johnson.]
2 vols. 5s. sewed. T. Hookham, New Bond Street. 1789-
TITLE INDEX 607
J
Jack Sheppard. A very full and amply annotated Bibliography
by S. M. Ellis of the “Jack Sheppard” romances will be
found in Jack Sheppard by Horace Bleackley and S. M. Ellis,
“ Notable British Trials Series,” William Hodge & Company,
Limited, Edinburgh and London [April, 1933].
Ainsworth’s famous romance Jack Sheppard, with the illustra-
tions by George Cruickshank, was rather roughly issued in
forty-four Penny Numbers, commencing in 1858, by Henry
Vickers, Angel Court, Strand.
The Jack Sheppard Tales were a series published in Penny
Numbers, 1904-06, by the Aldine Publishing Company, 1, 2,
and 3, Crown Court, Chancery Lane, E.C. Nos. 1-28.
Each number in pictorial coloured paper covers contained a
complete tale.
The Adventures of Jack Sheppard. A stirring Story of the
Wonderful Escapades of the Most Amazing Boy in History,,
by A. C. Marshall, forming Nos. 1-13 of the “Black Bess”
Library. 1921. London: George Newnes, Southampton
Street.
Jack Sheppard at Bay. (The Sequel Serial.) By A. C. Marshall,
forming Nos. 14-24 of the “Black Bess” Library. 1922.
London : George Newnes. Price 2 d. a number. With
Illustrations by Glossop.
K
Koningsmarke, The Long Finne. A Story Of The New World.
“ This affair being taken into consideration, it was adjudged
that Koningsmarke, commonly called the Long Finne,
deserved to die, yet, in regard that many concerned in the
affair being simple and ignorant people it was thought fit to
order that the Long Finne should be severely *****”
Fragment of Minutes of Council in New York. London :
Published By J. Cunningham, Peterborough-Court, Fleet-
Street, And Sold By All Booksellers. 1839. “The Novel
Newspaper.” (This romance should be carefully distin-
guished from Kcenigsmark the Robber. See pp. 380-1.)
6c8 ADDENDA
L
Legend of the Tower, The. By J. H. Hainsworth. Penny parts.
Edward Lloyd, 44 Holywell Street. 1840. A catchpenny
plagiarism of W. Harrison Ainsworth’s famous The Tower of
London, 1840.
Louisa; or, The Cottage on the Moor. (See pp. 391-2.) 2 vols.,
Kearsley, 1787. By Mrs. Elizabeth Helme.
A. K. Newman published a “ Seventh Edition,” 2 vols., 181 1,
but actually this extremely popular novel ran through seven
editions in the very year it first appeared, and the genuine
Seventh Edition is G. Kearsley, 1787.
The Seventh Edition corrected, with Additions, and orna-
mented with Frontispieces, neatly engraved. Louisa ;
or,
The Cottage On The Moor. In Two Volumes.
“ Ye good distrest
!
“ Ye noble few ! who here unbending stand
“ Beneath life’s pressure ;
yet bear up awhile
;
“ And what your bounded view, which only saw
“ A little part, deem’d evil, is no more !
“ The storms of wintry time will quickly pass,
“ And one unbounded spring encircle all.”
By Mrs. Helme. Vol. I [-11 ].
London : Printed for G. Kearsley, at Johnson’s Head, No. 46,
Fleet-Street. 1787. [Price Six Shillings sewed.] Entered
at Stationers-Hall.
Each volume is embellished with an elegant Frontispiece, and
also another engraving, four illustrations in all.
This Seventh Edition appeared towards the end of September,
1787.
In the First Edition Louisa was written as one continuous
narrative, but the Seventh Edition has a note :
“ This edition
is divided into chapters, mottos added to each, and the whole
carefully revised.”
There are twenty-four chapters. The poetical extracts at the
head of the several chapters are from Young’s Night Thoughts,
Thomson’s Seasons, Shenstone, Addison’s Cato, Home’s
Douglas, and Blair.
Lucinda; or, The Self-devoted Daughter. By Major Mante.
gr. sewed. Advertised by T. Hookham, New Bond Street,
I790-
TITLE INDEX 609
M
Madeleine Lisle; or, The Maid of Kent. An Historical
Romance. By Gabriel Alexander. London. Published by
S. Y. Collins, 1
13 Fleet-street. MDCCCLI.
Maid Of Kent, The.
Le faux est toujours fade, ennuieux, languissant
;
Mais la nature est vraye, et d’abord on la sent.
Boileau.
Vol. I [-II-III]. London: Printed for T. Hookham, New
Bend Street. MDCCXC. (See p. 396.)
Memoirs Of George Barnwell. The unhappy Subject of Lillo’s
celebrated Tragedy : derived from authentic Sources, by a
Descendant of the Barnwell Family. Price 3T 6d., boards,
embellished with an interesting Frantispiece, representing an
Interview between Barnwell and Millwood. Sherwood,
Neely, and Jones. Paternoster Row. 1810. (See p. 337.)
Memoirs Of Mary, A Novel. By Mrs. Gunning. In Five
Volumes. Vol. I [-II, III, IV, V]. Second Edition. London:
Printed For J. Bell, No. 148, Oxford-Street. MDCCXCIV.
(See p. 410.)
Merry Wives Of London, The. A Romance of Metropolitan
Life. By the Author of The Socialist Girl [James Lindridge].
26 penny numbers. No. 1, published on Monday, September
1 6th, 1850. Weekly Numbers, One Penny; Monthly Parts,
Sixpence. G. Vickers, 28 and 29 Holywell Street. Another
issue has G. Vickers, 334 Strand, London. Pseudo-
pornography. (See p. 413.)
Monk, The: By M. G. Lewis. See under Raymond and Agnes,
below.
Morality of Fiction, The; or, An Inquiry into the Tendency of
Fictitious Narratives With Observations on some of the most
eminent, by H. Murray, Author of “ The Swiss Emigrant.”
In one vol., i2mo., price 4$. in boards. Advertised bv Long-
man & Co. in 181 1.
Mysteries of a Convent, The ; Awful Disclosures of Maria Monk
;
and Six Months in a Convent. One vol., 8vo., pp. 288,
T. B. Petersen, Philadelphia [1878]. Six Months in a Con-
vent is by R. T. Reed. (See p. 239, and pp. 401-402.)
R*
6io ADDENDA
Mysteries of Old Saint Paul’s. A Tale of the Plague. By the
Author of Legends of London; Chronicles of Old London
Wall. Vickers, 1841. (See p. 433.)
Mysteries of the Forest; or, The Deformed Transformed,
The.
8vo., London [1846].
Mysteries of the Old Castles of France ; or, Secret Intrigues of
Kings and Queens, Princes and Princesses, and other great
personages of the times. By a Society of Arch Seers, under
the direction of A. B. Le Frangois. Translated by W. T.
Haley. Published by E. Dipple, London. 8vo., 44 nos.
[1848.] A. B. Le Frangois is Alexandre Bailly. A later, but
generally considered the best, edition of the original is Les
Mysteres des Vieux Chateaux de France par une Societe
d’Archivistes sous la direction de A. B. Le Frangois. 8 tom.,
8vo., Paris, 1865. (See p. 434.)
Mysteries of Udolpho, The. Advertised by Longman & Co.
in 1 8 1 1 . “The Mysteries of Udolpho, a Romance; inter-
spersed with some pieces of Poetry, by Ann Radcliffe,
Author of the “ Romance of the Forest,” the sixth edition,
in 4 vols., i2mo., price il.
4s. in boards.” (See pp. 434-5.)
There is a story Le Chateau d’ Udolphe in Les Nuits Anglaises,
Contes Nocturnes, par Mery. Paris; Michel Levy Freres,
1853-
N
Nabob, The. A tale. Agib, an Arabian tale ; and fables. 4to.
2 s. 6d. Advertised, T. Hookham, New Bond Street. 1790.
To be distinguished from The Nabob, 2 vols., Lane, 1785.
(See p. 441.)
A New Collection Of Gothic Stories. Rodolpho ; or, The
Banditti of the Castle. The Story of Frederico ; or, The
Ruin of the Blouse of Vilaineuf. Athelbert ; or, The Phantom
of the Castle: A Tale of Horror. The Mysterious Vision; or,
Perfidy Punished. Henry De Montmorency : A Terrific
Story. 8vo. London, Fisher. 1801. With a Frontispiece.
The Mysterious Vision is by C. F. Barrett, who also wrote
Douglas Castle.
Henry De Montmorency. This is No. 15 of Dr. Nathan
Drake’s Literary Hours, 1798. “On Objects of Terror.
title index 6i i
Montmorenci, a Fragment See The Gothic Quest by
Montague Summers, pp. 49-56.
Night Guard; or, The Secret of the Five Masks, The. By
Vane St John. Serial, commencing January', 1868, in Young
1 len of Great Britain. E. J. Brett. Also in one vol., coloured
wrappers, E. J. Brett.
O
Obi; or The History of Three-Fingered Jack. By William
Earle (or Earl), n.d., but probably 1800-01, and taken from
John bawcetts play of the same name which was produced
at the Haymarket on July 2nd, 1800. 8vo., 1800; and also
printed in Duncombe’s Edition of Plays, Vol. LIX. Fawcett’s
Obi; or, Three-Fingered Jack was adapted for the Juvenile
theatre, scenes and characters by W. G. Webb, Old Street
St. Luke’s.
’
°ld English Baron, The. A Gothic Story. By Clara Reeve
078. As The Champion of Virtue, 1777. (See pp. 449-
A melodrama The Old English Baron was produced at the
New Royal West London Theatre, Fitzroy-square, Tottenham-
court-road, the smallest of these places devoted to the
drama [The Percy Anecdotes Original and Select, 1822
p. 168) on March 12th, 1821, and met with such success
as to be revived on June 12th, 1826, at the larger and far
better known Royal Coburg Theatre (the Old Vic), Waterloo-
road.
Old Manor House, The. A Novel. By Charlotte Smith. i 7 qa
Reprint, one vol, pp. 183. 1840. (See p. 451.)
Olwald Castle; or, Memoirs of Lady Sophia Woodville; by a
Lady. 2 vols. 61. sewed. Advertised Books printed for
1 . Hookham, New Bond Street.” 1790.
Ormond; or The Secret Witness. By Charles Brockden Brown
Those who plot the destruction of others, very often fall
themselves the victims. London. Published by T. Cunnimr
ham, Peterborough-Court, Fleet-Street, And Sold By All
Booksellers. 1839. “The Novel Newspaper Series.” (See
p. 454.)
r r 1
e
bi2 ADDENDA
Orphan, The. 2 vols., 5^. sewed. Advertised, T. Hcokham,
New Bond Street. 1790.
P
Pamrose; or, The Palace and the Cottage. From the French
cf Madame de Genlis. 48 pp. With a woodcut frontispiece,
lettered “ The Palace and the Cottage.” Lane, Newman and
Co., Minerva Press, Leadenhall Street. 1803. See Notes And
Queries, 9th December, 1939,
“ A Minerva Press Chap-book.”
Pastor’s Fire-Side, The. (p. 458.) Reprinted in Five Fine Old
Novels (under which title see Title Index, Addenda),
Cameron & Ferguson, Glasgow [c. 1870]. (See p. 458.) A
drama The Pastor’s Fireside was given at the Surrey Theatre
on Friday, 4th February, 1831.
Pharos, The. A Collection of Periodical Essays. By the Author
cf Constance and Argus. 2 vols., 6^. sewed. T. Hookham,
New Bond Street. 1787. (See p. 462.)
Portrait, The. 2 vols., 55'. sewed. Advertised, T. Hookham,
New Bond Street. 1790.
Pretty Girls of London, The. 52 ncs. Newsagents Publishing
Company. N.D.
R
Raymond And Agnes ; or, The Bleeding Nun. By M. G. Lewis.
Author Of The “ Brave Of Venice,” etc., etc. [Quotation
from the romance.] London : J. Clements. The Romancist
And Novelist’s Library. 1841. Eight chapters, pp. 78.
Excerpts from The Monk. The story of Don Raymond and
Agnes. The story of Ambrosio is omitted.
Real Life and Times of Jack Sheppard, The. Complete Edition.
One Shilling. Beautifully Illustrated with Woodcuts.
London : Newsagents Publishing Company. 147, Fleet Street,
n.d. (1866-8 ?). To a very great extent this Real Life is
taken from Harrison Ainsworth’s romance Jack Sheppard.
Richard Parker; or, The Mutiny at The Nore. A Romance.
By T. Prest. 1851. (See p. 478).
TITLE INDEX 613
A melodrama, Richard Parker ; or, The Mutiny at The Nore
was produced on Monday, 4th November, 1830, at the
Tottenham-street Theatre, Fitzroy-square, Tottenham-court-
road, sometime known as The New Royal West London
Theatre, and afterwards (1831) The Queen’s.
Ring and the Well; or, The Grecian Princess, The (p. 479).
In 18 1 1 Longman & Co. advertise :
“ The Ring and the Well,”
a Romance, in 4 vols. i2mo. Price 181. in boards. (See
P- 479 -)
Romance Of The Castle, The. By D. F. Haynes, Esq. [Quota-
tion, 6 lines. R. Glynn.] London : J. Clements. The
Romancist And Novelist’s Library. 1841. Vol. Ill, Part X.
Eleven chapters; pp. 106. A reprint of Pierre And Adeline
;
or, The Romance of the Castle, 1814. (See p. 464.)
Romance of the Forest, The. Longman & Co. in 1811 adver-
tise: “The Romance of the Forest; interspersed with some
pieces of Poetry, by A. Radcliffe, the seventh edition, in 3 vols.
i2mo. Price 15$. boards.
Under the title A Father’s Crime ; or, The Chamber Mystery
Mrs. Radcliffe’s The Romance of the Forest is reprinted in
Five Fine Old. Novels, Cameron & Ferguson, Glasgow [c.
1870]. See under this title, Title Index, Addenda. (See pp.
483-4.)
Romantic Tales. Longman & Co. in 1811 advertises:
“ Romantic Tales,” by M. G. Lewis, Author of the “ Monk,”
“ Adelgitha,” etc., in 4 vols. i2mo. Price il.
4s. in boards.”
(See pp. 484-6.) My Uncle’s Garret Window was reprinted
London, J. Clements, Romancist and Novelist’s Library, 1841.
S
Scottish Chiefs, The. A Romance. By Miss Jane Porter.
Dramatized by Edward Fitzball as Edwin (also Edwin, Heir
of Cressingham) produced at the Norwich Theatre in
February, 1817. (See p. 497.)
Secret Avengers ; or, The Rock Of Glotzden, The. A Romance.
By Ann of Swansea. 4 vols., 1815. (See p. 498). A melo-
drama founded on this romance, The Tower of yfaujjen; or,
The Cavern of Glotzden was produced at the Coburg Theatre,
ADDENDA
614
Waterloo Road (the “ Old Vic.”) on 4th November. Royal.
1830.
Sentimental Memoirs, by a Lady. 2 vols., Gs. sewed. Advertised
by T. Hookham, New Bond Street. 1790.
A Sicilian Romance. Longman & Co. advertise in 1811 : “A
Sicilian Romance, by Ann Radcliffe, the fourth edition, in
2 vols. i2mo. Price 8.r. in boards.” See p. 503.
Silvanella; or, The Gypsey. (p. 504.) It should be noted that
in some copies of Silvanella after “ Printed by Joseph Wood ”
there is blacked out a line and a half of type. The British
Museum copy has a slip of paper pasted over that part of
the imprint which in some copies is blacked out, but through
this paper can be read after “ Printed by Joseph Wood,”
“ for Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, and Brown, London.”
See p. 504.
Six Months in a Convent. One vol., Philadelphia : T. B. Peter-
son, 101, Chestnut Street, n.d. [1853-4]. Printed for the
Booksellers. By R. T. Reed.
The Mysteries of a Convent; Awful Disclosures of Maria
Monk; and Six Months in a Convent. One vol., pp. 288.
T. B. Peterson, Philadelphia. 8vo. [1878]. (See p. 239,
pp. 401-2.)
Skeleton Crew ; or, Wildfire Ned, The. Newsagents Publishing
Company, 145 Fleet Street, (c. 1854). Suppressed by the
police.
Socialist Girl, The. Penny Numbers. G. Vickers, 28 and 29
Holywell Street. [1849.] By James Lindridge.
Some Account of the Life of the late Gilbert Early Esq. Written
by himself. [By Francis Barry Boyle St. Leger.] 8vo.
Charles Knight: London. 1824. (See p. 513.)
See The Gentleman’s Magazine. XCIX, ii, p. 642.
Spectre of the Hall, The. By Thomas Prest. E. Lloyd, 1847.
String of Pearls; or, The Sailor’s Gift, The. (p. 517.) There is
a melodrama by George Dibdin Pitt, The String of Pearls;
or, The Fiend of Fleet Street, which was produced at the
Britannia, Hoxton, on February 22nd, 1847. (See p. 522.)
TITLE INDEX 6 1
5
Submarine Privateer, and The Land of Mystery, The. 8vo.
Woodcuts, n.d.
Sweeney Todd, the Demon Barber of Fleet Street, (p. 519.)
The old church of St. Dunstan in the West, Fleet Street, was
taken down towards the close of 1829, and the present church,
the first stone of which was laid on July 27th, 1831, is set
further back than its predecessor which, projecting forward
into the street, considerably narrowed the thoroughfare.
Thus the present church, consecrated on July 31st, 1833,
stands in what was formerly the churchyard.
Swiss Emigrants, The. A Tale. (p. 521.) In 1811 Longman
& Co. advertise :
“ The Swiss Emigrants, a Tale, in 1 Vol.
i2mo. Second edition, price 45. in boards.”
T
A Tale of the Times, (p. 523.) Longman & Co. in 1811
advertise :
“ A Tale of the Times, by Mrs. West, in 3 vols.
i2mc. Second edition, price 135. 6 d. sewed.”
Tales Of The Drama. Founded On The Tragedies Of
Shakespeare, Massinger, Shirley, Rowe, Murphy, Lillo, And
Moore, And On The Comedies Of Steele, Farquhar, Cum-
berland, Bickerstaff, Goldsmith, And Mrs. Cowley. By Miss
Macauley. [Quotation ; 4 lines, Lansdowne.] Chiswick
:
Printed By C. Whittingham, College House : For Sherwood,
Neely, And Jones, Paternoster Rove, London. 1822. 130
Cuts. Price 10 Shillings.
A work doubtless inspired by and in some sense imitative of
Lamb’s Tales from Shakespeare, 1807.
Miss Macauley with no little skill gives the stories of the
following plays: The Duke of Milan; The Inconstant ; The
Good-Natured Man; King John; The Quaker; Edward, the
Black Prince ; The Belle’s Stratagem ; A Winter’s Tale ; George
Barnwell; The Conscious Lovers; King Richard II; The
Grecian Daughter; The Brothers; Lady Jane Grey; The
Merchant of Venice; Coriolanus ; The Way to Keep Him;
The Gamester; The Hypocrite ; Julius Ccesar. There is (pp.
62-4) a poetic “ Introduction to Shakspeare’s Plays ” ;
and
(pp. 419-424) a “ Conclusion To Tales Of The Drama.”
6 1
6
ADDENDA
Tales of Other Realms
:
collected during a Tour through Europe,
by a Traveller, in 2 vols. i2mo. Price 8.y. boards. Adver-
tised by Longman & Co., 1811.
Thaddeus of Warsaw, a Novel, by Miss Jane Porter, the ninth
edition, in 4 vols. Price i8r. in boards. Advertised by Long-
man & Co., 1 8 1 1 . Also reprinted in Five Fine Old Novels,
Cameron & Ferguson, Glasgow, n.d. [c. 1870.] See under
this title, Title Index, Addenda. See p. 530.
Thrilling Mysteries Of A Convent Revealed! The. Philadelphia :
Published By The United States Protestant Association.
Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the Year 1854,
by T. B. Peterson, In the Office of the Clerk of the District
Court of the United States, in and for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania. Thirty Chapters, and Conclusion. “ The
author is one of the most celebrated Methodist preachers now
living.” In one volume with The Awful Disclosures Of
Maria Monk. Woodcut frontispiece, and woodcut on title-
page, both illustrating incidents in The Thrilling Mysteries.
Jones, Printer, Clyde Street, London.
Towers of Urbandine, The. A favourite romantic play on the
York Circuit. A dramatization of Ancient Records. See
under this title, Title Index, Addenda.
Tyburn Dick, the Boy King of the Highwaymen. Hogarth
House. E. J. Brett. No date. A romance giving the
adventures of Jack Sheppard’s son. See Jack Sheppard,
Horace Bleackley and S. M. Ellis (p. 134), “Notable British
Trials.”
V
Vampire Demon; or, The Martyred Virgins, The. Newsagents
Publishing Company, 145 Fleet Street. 60 penny nos. With
coloured plates. (
c
.
1849.) In some sort a sequel to Varney
the Vampire.
Victor ; or, The Child of the Forest. 1802. English translation
of Victor ; ou I’Enfant de la foret, 1796, by Ducray-Duminil.
Spanish translation: La Expiacion De Un Padre T El Nino
Del Bosque Por Ducray-Duminil. Texto Castellano Refun-
dido Por D. Enrique Villalpando De Cardenas. (The Spanish
TITLE INDEX 617
translator of The Children of the Abbey.) 2 vols., 4to.
Barcelona, Establecimiento Tipo-Litografico Editorial De
Espasa Y Ca. 221, Calle De Las Cortes, 223. 1868. There
was a second edition (1869 ?). (See p. 547.)
W
Wagner the Wehr-Wolf. “ By the Editor.” Serialized in
Reynolds’s Miscellany, ending with Chapter LXXVII and
Conclusion in No. 38, Vol. Ii, on Saturday, July 24th, 1847.
(See p. 550.)
Wallace; or, The Hero of Scotland. By Gabriel Alexander.
(P- 55 1 -)
Wallace, a drama, was produced at the Surrey Theatre on
1 2th March, 1833.
Wandering Boys; or, The Castle of Olival, The. A romantic
drama produced at Covent Garden on Thursday, 24th
February, 1814. Music by Sir Henry Rowley Bishop. An
adaptation of Le Pelerin blanc, ou les Orphelins du hameau
a melodrama by Pixerecourt (Paris, 1801) founded on Ducray-
Duminil’s romance Les Petits Orphelins du Hameau, 4 vols.,
1800. (See pp. 38 and 39.)
Another version by John Kerr of Pixerecourt’s Le Pelerin
blanc entitled The Wandering Boys was produced at Sadler’s
Wells on May 24th, 1830. Music by Nicholson. This
melodrama was printed ;
Duncombe’s Edition, Vol. VI ;
Cum-
berland’s Minor Theatre, Vol. Ill; Lacy’s Acting Edition,
Vol. XXXIV ;
and Dicks’s Standard Plays No. 916.
Watch Tower ; or, The Sons of Ulthona, The. By T. J. Horsley
Curties. 5 vols. 1804. (See p. 553.) A spectacular piece
Ulthona the Sorceress was produced at the Sans Pareil
Theatre, Strand, in November, 1807. The Sans Pariel which
opened on Friday, 27th November, 1806, thirteen years later,
in 1819, was renamed and won a first place among the
minors as the Adelphi.
Whitefriars ; or, The Days Of Charles The Second. By Emma
Robinson. (See p. 555.) One vol., Illustrated. No. 17 1,
Dicks’ English Novels. Price Sixpence Each. n.d. (
c
.
1880)-
ADDENDA
6 1
8
Wife, The. A Novel, by Miss Benson, Author of “Thoughts
on Education,” in 3 vols. 121m, i6e 6d. boards. Advertised
by Longman & Co. 18 11.
Wild Boys of London, The. Newsagents Publishing Company,
145 Fleet Street. It should be noted that it was not the first
edition but the re-issue which was suppressed, and this action
taken by the police may be said practically to have closed
down the Company. (See p. 557.)
Wizard Phiest and The Witch, The. A Romance. By Ouintin
Poynet. 3 vols. 1822. (See p. 561.) A melodrama, The
Wizard Priest; or, The Hall of Fate was produced at the
Royal Pavilion, Whitechapel-road, Mile-End, a house notori-
ous for “ Newgate melodrama ” on Monday, 8th April, 1833.
CIRCULATING LIBRARIES
The first Circulating Library was established in London about
the year 1740, by a bookseller of the name of Batho, at the
house new 132, in the Strand.
They have since spread so extensively that every intelligent
village throughout the nation now possesses its Circulating
Library.
The principal of them in London are the following
:
Hookham’s, in Old Bond-street.
Hookham’s (Jun.), in New Bond-street.
Earl and Hemet’s, in Albemale-street.
Lane’s, in Leadenhall-street.
Parson’s, on Ludgate-hill.
Ogilvy’s, in Holborn.
Dutton’s, in Birchin-lane.
Cawthorne’s, in the Strand.
Besides these there are two subscription libraries for the pur-
chase of new books, under the direction of a committee of the
subscribers, viz.
:
The Westminster Library, in Panton-square.
The London Library, in Hatton-Garden.
The French Booksellers are :
De Bosse, Gerrard-street.
Dulau, Sohc-square.
L’Homme, New Bond-street.
Boosey, Old Broad-street.
Gameau and Co., Albermale-street.
The German Booksellers are :
Griffiths, Patemoster-row.
Giesweiller, Parliament-street.
Escher, Gerrard-street.
Among the dealers in valuable and scarce books, chiefly
second-hand, whose collections are extensive, may be named
Payne, White, Egerton, Faulder, Evans, Carpenter, Reynolds,
Lunn, Otridge, Gardner, Leigh, Cuthell, Jeffries, Priestly,
Baynes, and Lackington.
619
620 CIRCULATING LIBRARIES
The shop of Lackington, in Finsbury-square, may be deemed
one of the curiosities of the metropolis, and deserves to be visited
by every stranger, on account of the vast extent of the premises,
and of the immense stock of books, which in consequence are
brought into one point of view.
The Picture Of London, For 1802, Being A Correct Guide
To All the Curiosities, Amusements, Exhibitions, Public
Establishments, and remarkable Objects, in and near London.
(pp. 249-50.) London : R. Phillips, No. 71, St. Paul’s Church-
Yard. ([1802.]
At the west end of the town are bookseller’s shops (particularly
Debrett’s, Stockdale’s, Wright’s and Hatchard’s in Picca-
dilly ;
Hookham’s in Old and New Bond-street ;
Earle and
Hemmett’s, Albermale-street ;
and Lloyd’s, Harley-street),
furnished with all the daily newspapers, which are much
frequented about the middle of the day, by fashionable people,
and are used as lounging places for political and literary con-
versation.
The Picture Of London, For 1802 (p. 28).
ERRATA
p. 4. Last line. Religion read Religion.
p. 249, 1 . 27. La Fontaine Le Sainte Catherine, read La
Fontaine De Sainte Catherine.
p. 286, 1 . 6. Count De Rathel, read Count De Rethel.
p. 274, 1 . 18. Rocke, read Roche.
621
PRINTED AT SEVENOAKS BY KNOLE PARK PRESS LTD
