{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__seabrook___witchcraft.pdf","mytitle":"Witchcraft","mylang":"de"}
W I T C H C R A F T
Its Power in the W orld Today
HY W I L L I A M S E A B R O O K
II \ R C O U R T , B R A C E A N D C O M P A N Y , N E W Y O R K
COPYRIGHT, 1 9 4 0 , BY
HARCOURT, BRACE AND COMPANY, INC
All rights reserved, including
the right to reproduce this book
or portions thereof in any form.
first edition
Designed by Robert Josephy
P R I N T E D I N T H E U N I T E D S T A T E S O F A M E R I C A
BY Q U I N N & B O D E N C O M P A N Y , I N C . , R A H W A Y , N. J .
Books by William. Seabrook
A D V E N T U R E S I N A R A B I A
Published also in England and in Dutch, French, Hungarian,
Swedish, and Arabic.
T H E M A G I C I S L A N D
Published also in England and in Czech, French, German,
Italian, Spanish, and Swedish.
J U N G L E W A Y S
Published also in England and in Danish, French, German,
Italian, and Swedish.
A I R A D V E N T U R E
Published also in England, and in French and Portuguese.
T H E W H I T E M O N K
O F T I M B U C T O O
Published also in England, and in French, German, and Spanish.
A S Y L U M
Published also in England, and in French and Swedish.
T H E S E F O R E I G N E R S
Published in England under the title “ Americans All.’1
Also in Swedish.
W I T C H C R A F T
a u t h o r ’s n o t e
1his book is factual. Nearly all the names
o f people and places are obviously and
recognizably real. In a few rare instances
it has been necessary, however, to change
names and locales in order to protect certain
people in high places who are still alive.
Contents
Forew ord
i I'lihling a Non Sequitur Perched on the Horns
<
>
l .1 I)ilctnma 3
P art One
T H E W ITCH AND H ER DOLL
1 I 1m
ierning Dolls in General 15
n IIn Witch’s Doll and Its Equivalent 18
in Monstrous Doll in Africa 26
Ictl Cent Store Doll in France 4 1
\ Wooden Doll in a Cave 52
i 1 Sawdust Doll in Brambles 62
'ti Doll de Luxe in London 76
mii, Nail-studded Dollin Toulon 89
P art Tw o
TH E V AM PIRE AND W EREW OLF
I i 1>
111 erning Vampires and Werewolves
in General 1 1 1
n World Champion Lady Vampire
of All Time 1 1 5
II Vampire 19 3 2 fromBrooklyn, N. Y. 128
vii
iv. Panther-Man from the Ivory Coast 137
v. Lady Hyena with Jeweled Earrings 145
vi. The Caged White Werewolf
of the Saraban 154
v i i . Werewolf in Washington Square 164
Part Three
W H I T E MAGIC, PROFESSOR R H I N E ,
T H E S U P E R N O R M A L , AND J U S T I N E
i. Presentation of an Open Question,
to Which a Negative Answer
May Not Be the Final Word 179
11. “Astral Body” on a Boat 193
hi. Our Modern Cagliostros 204
iv. Upton Sinclair’s “Mental Radio” 233
v. W. E. Woodward With a Hatpin
Driven through His Jaws 247
vi. Justine Dervish Dangling 259
vii. Justine in the Mask 271
Part Four
a p p e n d i x : s u p p l e m e n t a r y n o t e s ,
ANECDOTES AND ILLUSTRATIONS
Notes on Foreword
We Have a Benevolent White Witch 291
Notes on Part One
Apropos of Shooting ’em 300
Current American Witchcraft Cases 301
Apropos of the York Hex Murder 309
viii
CONTENTS
CONTENTS
Ihi her Goose, Edith Sitwell, Gertrude Stein 3 10
I In Musical Properties of Salt and M etals 3 13
.1 uti Part. Two
I‘ <iither Societies in London 3 16
1 urturc to D rive Out Devils 322
\ . m i Part Three
I he Universe Outside Sensory Perception 324
Rhine’s Figures 327
Possibility of Precognition 332
A Fine New Crop of White Magicians 335
K
.ti-Imamurti Blew up as a W orld-Savior 345
I’icrrc Bernard (Oom the Omnipotent) 354
Magic Pentagrams and Circles 359
Nostradamus Is Again a Best Seller 365
Blanking the M ind 367
l Ipton Sinclair’s M ental Radio Drawings 369
Bishop Arthur A. Ford of the Spiritualist Church 369
One “ Swami” Who Knows 379
I )ervish D angling’s Equivalents Among the
Eskimos 381
IX
inn-word: Exploding a Non Sequitur
l'<relied on the Horns of a Dilemma
1 M |( MICH this book may boil and bubble with the dirty
i " i'I modern witches, white and black; with current
m i s , incantations, human vampires on the Riviera; pan-
i m. m in Africa and Satanists in Paris; Devil Worshipers
m Ni w York; werewolves in Washington Square; witch-
i' arcs and killings dated 1940 here in the United States
1 ' *)ing to be a disappointment to all who believe in the
•1•<1 natural.
I 1m addressing it to rational people only. It is going to
I IIn m, if I can, that while witchcraft is not demoniac,
■ 1 specific, real, and dangerous force, evil when used for
I. mysterious in some of its manifestations, but always
in i\ lble, always understandable within the bounds of rea-
n, and combatable in consequence, like crime, snake bite,
■I mity, and yellow fever.
\ thousand books, histories, and treatises were written in
'In m
m
; of superstition, to prove that this deadly snake was a
In link. Another thousand volumes have been written in our
mI so-called reason to prove that since the snake is not a
I . disk, it consequently cannot bite you. I am a firm disbe-
• 1 in basilisks, but also a disbeliever in non sequiturs.
3
FOREWORD
I have outgrown the puzzlement, and outgrown, too, the
attitude of willing and romantic wonder which characterized
some of my earlier books. It was never an attitude of super­
stitious credulity, and I tried never to let it interfere with
honest and objective—if sometimes too sensational—report­
ing. M y puzzlement was completely sincere. I left many
questions concerning the limitations of magic wide open, be­
cause I did not know the answers, and suppressed many epi­
sodes because their treatment would have seemed out of place
in books of travel and adventure. Travel and adventure is a
surface subject, and they were surface books. For a long time,
I didn’t know what to do with the under-the-surface mate­
rial. Conversations with Dr. Alexis Carrel after I ’d returned
twice from Africa did not help any. Fie believes that white
magic (Lourdes), and black too, can wield a power over the
organic—including the inflicting and healing of gaping
wounds—which by ordinary definition comes pretty close to
the edge of the supernatural. I have never seen anything to
confirm that great biologist’s credulity. I learned, ten years
after the event, that my “ little black girls pierced with
swords” had been either phony or the victims of a particu­
larly ugly ritual murder.
When you see phenomena of that sort, criminal or harm­
less, whether in Africa or India, in a spiritualist seance or at
a Coney Island side show, it is always either crime, trickery,
or innocent illusion. The lady sawed in two at Coney Island
and the rope trick in India are out of the same rabbit hat—
and I hope my little girls were.
Despite all that, I was hooked for years on the horns of a
dilemma which I am now trying to solve in this book. It was
the only pair of horns I brought back from Africa, and many
4
FOREWORD
■'in |\ i wished I ’d left them there. They are not nice to
I'-' with.
I I' n was the dilemma, from which this work has slowly
(jrttW li:
\ mMfirmed disbeliever in the supernatural, refusing to
II hi demons, jungle gods, and devils, refusing for that
■ i'i even to believe in spiritualism, telepathy, clairvoy-
n , ni' "hosts, I yet became convinced after years in the
I that the witch-doctors wield a seemingly “ occult”
• deadly, dangerous, and real. Taking the commonest
■ ' M
i lation for an example, I became convinced they can
i ill In the use of witchcraft solely, that is, by pure sorcery,
it recourse to poison, pseudo-accident, violence, or any
i 11 physical-material contributory causes whatsoever.
I lived hand in glove with sorcerers who possessed and
i l ihis power, and who finally gave me, I believe, as full
mi isure of their confidence as any native ever had, but
they exposed their sometimes hideous technique, they
"•ii totally unable to throw any light on what for me was
'I' iiucial problem, because they themselves believe fro-
<.-.//v in the sufermtural sources of the fower they wield,
c with deef conviction in their old jungle demon-gods.
I lure are charlatans, crooks, and fakers among African
■ nil doctors, just as among “ doctors” in New York and
1 Ion. 1 am writing here about the sincere and real ones.
I sure they were completely wrong in their belief, but
• •|>111
!y sure they possessed a power of some sort. They pos-
d tlso the pragmatic knowledge of how to aim, focus,
II wield it with an appalling efficiency. It was not easy for
■ 1 in reconcile the two elements:
5
FOREWORD
1. Delusion in the operator concerning the nature of his
tool or weapon.
2. Pragmatic efficiency in the use of it.
To clarify that preliminary point for myself, I devised an
analogy which I am willing to stand on. I call it the “ gun
analogy,” and here it is:
I ask you to imagine a hypothetical man, a savage if you
like, who has a keen natural intelligence, but is totally igno­
rant of gunpowder, explosives, ballistics, firearms. H e sees in
action a heavy, modern automatic pistol. He sees it used. He
sees it close up. H e studies it with ignorance of its essential
nature, but with keen, not stupid eyes. He subsequently ob­
tains possession of it, loaded. H e doesn’t know what it’s
loaded with. But he knows pragmatically that if you release
the safety catch, point it at your intended victim, and pull
the trigger, you get a loud noise, a flash of fire, a whiff of
smoke, while the victim lies blasted with the top of his head
blown off or a hole in his belly. Now this hypothetical gun­
man has invented a false theory. Pie believes with a pro­
found conviction that what has killed his victim is the loud
noise, the flash of fire, the whiff of smoke. H e is supersti-
tiously wrong about the nature of the power he wields, but
he has learned to wield it with deadly efficiency. Here, I be­
lieve, is a parallel with the psychology of the true witch­
doctor, the true sorcerer, the true witch. If you grant the
parallel, I ’m sure you will carry the analogy a step further.
I suggest to you, in the cases of both my hypothetical gun­
man and the witch-doctor, that the victim is just as dead and
the operator just as guilty as if no ignorance or superstition
had been connected with the death. Delusion as to the na­
ture of power doesn’t necessarily render the power nil or
6
FOREWORD
i .....Ir nor make of the sorcerer or witch a poor, misguided
"I in |>e smiled at, pitied, and acquitted because he or she
in rely stuck pins in a doll instead of sticking a knife in
*h' in ighbor’s gizzard. The true witch in history, like the
n li today, is not and never was the pitiful, deluded victim
i in empty superstition. The fact that many innocent old
■Iurn and occasional young ones were wrongly convicted
I burned at the stake is the tragic side-truth most empha-
I in history, but it isn’t the whole truth about witch-
■ i ill.
\ll primitives and more than half the literate white popu-
'• Min the world today believe in witchcraft, and no amount
I l.il'-e rationalization, no spread of higher education can
i ■ hake that belief, because witches still live, operate, help,
11111, cure, and kill without recourse to scientifically accred-
'I means of curing and killing. This believing majority is
1 la in the belief that witches wield real power, but wrong
opposing it to be supernatural.
I mi proposing to prove that witchcraft is simply the dark,
■i se image of a familiar coin which has become common
-111 ‘ ncy in the everyday fields of psychology and education,
! particularly in the now almost equally familiar special-
1 holds of medical psychology, psychiatry, and mental
1,1 ' ipy.1 I intend to prove that “ suggestion” pure and sim-
1 i ■ the elemental key to witchcraft’s power, and believe I
give its complete definition in two simple words:
IN D U C E D A U T O SU G G EST IO N
I am using these words in their simplest and not too tech-
’ 'I connotation. By “ suggestion,” I mean no more than
Appendix, p. 291.
7
FOREWORD
that if people keep telling you you are nervous, you are likely
to become so, even though you had no inherent tendency in
that direction. By “ induced,” I mean no more than that the
germs of the suggestion have been deliberately implanted in
you from outside sources. By “ auto,” I mean that the sug­
gestion has taken root and that you begin to generate your
own worries and fears—that the suggestion implanted from
the outside begins to “ eat in on you.” I don’t mean anything
subtle, hypnotic, or esoteric. I mean that you can take any
mentally and physically normal, balanced person—child, ado­
lescent, or adult—in your own home, or in your neighbor’s
home. Keep telling him he is awkward, keep harping on it.
He will presently knock over something by sheer accident,
as we all occasionally do. Now take advantage of the acci­
dent. Keep harping, and you’ll keep him awkward all his
life. Keep asking what’s the matter with his feet, keep harp­
ing on it—and he’ll presently begin to stumble. Keep tell­
ing him he’s sick, keep harping on it—and he’ll presently
begin to feel awful, go to bed, call in the doctor. Here, shorn
of labels, technique, and paraphernalia, is the essence of
“ black magic.” It is the dirty side and reverse image of all
mental therapy, whether in hospital clinics or Christian Sci­
ence churches.
Now, dress up induced autosuggestion with the supersti­
tion technique and paraphernalia of the jungle, or of medi­
eval diabclist tradition. Pierce the doll with needles. Bury the
lock of hair. Howl and chant the incantations. Beat the drums.
Tom-toms and incantations have a terrific emotion impact.
The drums are as elemental as your own pulse and heart­
beat. The incantations, analyzed, have the repetitive simplic­
ity, the direct emotional appeal of Edith Sitwell, Gertrude
8
FOREWORD
•»i. in, uni Mother Goose. Nursery rhymes from hell. When
'lil superstition, fear, and horrid paraphernalia—you
■ plained the curse that came upon the Lady of Shalott.
i hi Invt: explained why the Pennsylvania hex “ murders” of
*ii.ln l>y the intended victims may have been legitimate
■ !' in self-defense. In Africa you have explained the
I'M It Death Curse, the Great Ouanga.
11 this theory of mine is true, that witchcraft lodges solely
■■ I1 ' mind and emotions, we can begin immediately to limit
I i ift’s powers, and to consider a number of forced corol-
I .in ■ which I propose to present and examine:
• I hc intended victim must know, i.e., must literally have
" inlormed of what is being done against him.
1le must fear it. He must become at some time afraid
ither consciously or subconsciously. I believed for a
that, if my theory stood up, he must have a conscious
I have since learned, not from the witch-doctors but
in Doctors A. A. Brill, Smith E ly Jelliffe, and the con-
mn ii. uf their colleagues, that conscious and rationalized ab-
...... ill fear doesn’t necessarily create immunity. The in-
ii' I*11 victim may be armed with complete intellectual dis-
i i Iii I. defiance, scorn, against the witch-doctor’s mumbo
" I but if a residue of unconscious or subconscious fear is
i1 ■ I- he may succumb even more quickly than the victim
ii h" ' tear is on the surface. This is an unpleasant thought,
I was sorry when I learned it. I have never been able to
m
i Innticate a case in which knowledge on the part of the vic-
" i ■■ i i ibsent, but have known a number of cases in which
iIn victim seemed unsuperstitious, and seemed to have no
inn nous fear—yet succumbed to the witch-doctors.
\ third obvious corollary is that if true witchcraft oper-
9
FOREWORD
ates through the mind and the emotions, it can operate only
functionally, and can operate only on animate, sentient be­
ings. I am convinced that this is true. I am convinced that
not all the witchcraft in Africa or that ever existed in Egypt
or medieval Europe can move the tiniest pebble or break the
thinnest glass—without resort to “ stage magic,” to trickery,
legerdemain, stage props, illusion. It can’t break an egg or
the most fragile wineglass—much less knock down stone
walls or open locks—and it can’t mend a broken egg either.
It can’t knock Humpty Dumpty off the wall, and it can’t
put him together again. If Humpty Dumpty’s an egg, witch­
craft cannot even make him wobble. If Humpty Dumpty’s
sentient, witchcraft can make him fall off the wall and per­
haps break his neck—but that’s a different field of force en­
tirely. In the physical field of “ stage magic” I don’t believe
there has ever been or ever will be a jungle sorcerer or Hindu
fakir capable of doing anything that the late Houdini or the
current John Mulholland could not duplicate. As for table-
tippings, tambourines, and other physical-mechanical phe­
nomena that occur in spiritualist seances, I believe, as Hou­
dini did and Mulholland does; that they all have a physical-
mechanical origin.
In stripping witchcraft of its supernatural aura, attempting
its analysis, and attempting to define its limitations, I am
aware that one of these limitations on which I propose to
stand throughout this book will have to be modified, if and
when Professor J. B. Rhine at Duke University (who fol­
lowed the late William McDougall of Oxford, Harvard, and
Duke) and Gardner Murphy at Columbia succeed in prov­
ing the existence of extra-sensory perception, telepathy, clair-
io
FOREWORD
> mu-. Their laboratory work, as yet inconclusive to the
111v of their fellow-psychologists, has lifted into the field
■ u ncc, out of the old field of superstition and fortune-
i booths at country fairs, the possibility that perception
1111v ■ nter through some means other than any of the five
If this be true, it would open a new, epoch-making
i i for honest folk, but would open at the same time the
in
. I' ..us possibility that the witch possesses, and may have al-
.< , p<.ssessed, the power to send out effectively his evil
I IIs, even from a great distance, without the conscious
A. ledge of the intended victim. If there is anything deeper,
i. dangerous, more mysterious in witchcraft than I am
. | ired to admit, it derives from extra-sensory perception
. iili. i than from devils, spirits, ghosts, and demons. To con-
■ nd ihat it derives from the supernatural is simply going
nk to the nursery-child mind, the jungle primitive mind,
uperstition-ridden European mind of the Dark Ages. If
11., i. is anything deeper than I contend, it lies in the yet un-
........... field which Rhine is exploring.
II extra-sensory power does exist and anyone possesses it,
.1 i. rtain that those who have proclaimed themselves spe-
I |..'Ssessors of it and frequently made lasting spots in the
.. ild’s history for good and evil for close to ten thousand
i it ., including spiritualists, illumines, and faith healers, but
l .. including Satanists and “ faith killers,” have been using
.1 nice the dawn of time, and must know more about it in­
tuitively and pragmatically than has yet been learned by
In.nest scientists in laboratories.
I visited the laboratories of Profesor Rhine at Duke Uni-
ity, and discussed this disturbing corollary of their main
iii. sis with him and his associates. We agreed that if super-
FOREWORD
normal forces do exist they can obviously be used—in the
same way as normal forces such as superior executive ability,
high explosives, electricity, and the radio—for both good
and evil. It is an exciting but unpleasant certainty that if
Professor Rhine’s cold cards marked with stars and circles
can send out any emanations whatsoever that can be picked up
by any means whatsoever other than the five normal senses—
then a doll pierced with needles can send out emanations too.
This side angle, this side issue, is a wide open one—whether
it touches faith curing and witchcraft killing, the blind read­
ing of marked cards in laboratory tests, or your Uncle
Charlie’s premonition that his wife would be run over by a
truck. I have seen things happen among witches and witch­
doctors which are more startling and superficially convincing
than anything your Uncle Charlie ever saw by premonition,
or than any positive result obtained in any laboratory. Yet I
remain on the negative side. I just don’t believe in them.
However, I ’m going to be as fair about it as a man with a
set thesis can, in chronicling events which have occurred out­
side all laboratory control—outside the possibility of scien­
tific checking.
W . S.
Rhinebeck, 1940
11
Part One
T H E W I T C H AND H E R D O L L
I. Concerning Dolls in General
IK IL L S—soulless and intrinsically inanimate reproductions
I animate human beings, and also of gods, hobgoblins, and
mimals—have held a peculiar and not always wholesome
i " illation for human beings young and old, from the cradle
tn the grave.
In babyhood they are generally rag dolls, china-headed, or
lulls stuffed with sawdust. In the nursery, they become more
i liberate and now include dolls which squeak “ mamma” or
"papa” —and wet their diapers. They also include kewpies,
1'iinches, Judys, gnomes, shepherds with their sheep beneath
iIn- Christmas tree, and all the little wooden animals that
m e out of Noah’s Ark. Tony Sarg’s puppets are the child’s
In i and greatest joy in the make-believe world of the theater.
\1
! these childhood dolls are toys. They are manufactured
and sold—as toys. As children, we -play with them.
But after we’ve grown up and reached the supposed age
■■I reason, we so-called civilized whites as well as jungle
;„i\ i:>es fabricate a whole new category of dolls, and what do
■ do with them? W e habitually worship them, kiss their
' toes, burn them as effigies, adorn them with glittering
i- Is, and travel thousands of miles to kneel before them,
15
WITCHCRAFT
ride them on rails, beat them with clubs, shoot them,1 hang
them—bless them and enshrine them in cathedrals if their
cult is currently popular—lynch them if their “ cult” is cur­
rently feared or hated—spend millions of dollars for them
and enshrine them in museums if their cult is dead.
The emotional reaction of adults toward dolls is by no
means always limited to worship and violence. Store windows
on Fifth Avenue contain as many dolls, manikins, and life-
sized plaster images as St. Thomas’s Church or St. Patrick’s
Cathedral—and arouse emotions of admiration, envy, jeal­
ousy, and whatnot in the ladies. Charlie McCarthy is heard
weekly by audiences as vast as those which listen when His
Holiness the Pope broadcasts from Vatican City. Dolls that
maintain a steadfast silence, as Saint Peter does when throngs
kiss his toe in Rome, or Our Lady of the Immaculate Con­
ception when throngs visit her grotto at Lourdes, already
exercise an immense power over a large, intelligent cross sec­
tion of superior humanity. But when you persuade a doll to
speak, whether in a broadcasting studio or in a temple, then,
indeed, professor, you’ve got something! Whether you’re
Edgar Bergen in Hollywood, or that old Egyptian priest of
Memnon who used to make his statue hoot at sunrise, you’re
going to reach more listeners and be longer remembered than
if you’d said it with your own simple tongue—or with flowers.
Dolls of every sort and size have always intrigued human­
ity—rag dolls, plaster saints, and brazen idols, images in
bronze, wood, and marble; kewpies, Teddy bears, Madonnas,
and Saint Josephs; Jupiter and Venus, Mammon, Memnon,
Vishnu, Baal, and Buddha; fashion-decked dummies in win­
dows and blood-spattered Juggernauts on wheels; sacred,
1 See Appendix, p. 3 0 0 .
l6
C O N C E R N IN G DOLLS IN G EN ER A L
it mic, or silly, from Donatello’s wooden Christ on the cross
i" llrrgen’s wooden ventriloquist dummy on its owner’s knee.
I have been a “ collector” and connoisseur of a peculiar type
I ■l"H for many years—the kind that are made in secret, then
i d with needles; or wound round with scarlet death
itin id; or made of wax to melt before a fire. And I propose
ir11 all about them in this book.
II I have “ collected” more of them than seems credible, or
k> 'iw more about them than seems respectable, it is because
tiny tie up with the far-from-respectable subject that has
I n my major interest and obsession all my life.
11 I attribute to these evil dolls a greater power for evil
ih m you are at first whiling to believe, I ask you to remember
ih it I shall never contend they are anything more than sym-
/Vnd I ask you also to remember the incalculable power
• iM ed by sacred doll-symbols in the field of religion. I in-
i ;n<1 no blasphemy by this analogy, nor even any shadow of
II Iaragement toward religion. I regard religion, with pro-
I-mnd respect, as the bright and shining face of the coin whose
II verse evil image I propose to expose and examine.
17
II. The Witch’s Doll and Its Equivalent
IN most cases where witchcraft plans to blast a human life,
and to do it by real witchcraft, i.e., without recourse to knife,
gun, poison, or any normal murder methods, a doll or doll’s
equivalent is used. It can begin by being any ordinary doll
such as children still play with the wide world over as they
have since Egypt’s early dawn. While an ancient childish
symbol, it can become saturated with an equally ancient evil.
These dolls, generally pierced with nails or needles, or made
of wax to melt before a fire, or wound round with scarlet
woolen thread, occur continually in the records and literature
of sorcery in classic times and through the Middle Ages.
They, or their equivalent, occur today in nearly all cases
of so-called “primitive” sorcery, whether in Africa or the
South Sea Islands. They occur also with a steady frequencv
here in our own United States 1 and in all other civilized
countries.
Last summer, in its issue of June 19, 1939, Life published
a series of Ozark Mountain pictures taken by D. F. Fox and
captioned by Vance Randolph, of Galena, Missouri. The first
one shows an Ozark “witch-woman” with a doll of dirt and
1 See Appendix, p. 301.
1 8
!>iwax which she had made and named after an enemy,
ills are shown driven in the doll to “hurt” corresponding
11 o f the enemy’s body. It is not a pretty picture, and the
i ni that nonsuperstitious Missourians mildly protested its
publication on the ground that they had lived there all their
I m s and never seen such a doll, doesn’t wipe out the picture,
Inch is followed in the same issue of Life by the sinister
photograph of two rag dolls, one dressed as a man and one
<woman, laid prone on an altar before a Bible surmounted
In a skull. Near St. Remy, in Southern France, in 1932,
I helped smash a similar setup in which the Bible was sur-
....noted by an inverted crucifix on which hung a toad cruci-
iird head downward. In that case, a doll lay pierced through
1m
iI through with needles, smeared with the toad’s blood,
m
l murder had been intended. In the Ozark picture, the
I tnale of the two dolls has had nails driven into its back. The
caption, written with caution, reads, . . muttering secret
•pi 11s, a jealous wife hopes to separate her husband from an-
■.1 h
<r woman. The dolls represent the adulterous pair.” The
II dies are mine. In the caption under the first Ozark picture,
tin nails are described as being driven to “ 'hurt1correspond-
111” parts of the enemy’s body.” I don’t know what Messrs.
I and Randolph thought they were playing with. They
may have merely persuaded some old woman to show them
In>
wsuch things are set up, but the pictures intrinsically stink
nf murder.
In August, 1939, from Cairo, Illinois, Ben Lucien Bur­
min, who had been studying folklore with the roustabouts
id the Mississippi River steamboat Golden Eagle, wrote a
\ndicated article, in the course of which he recounted a tech-
T H E W IT C H ’ S D O LL AND ITS E Q U IV A L E N T
19
W IT C H C R A F T
nique by which a photograph of the intended victim is used as
a substitute for the doll:
“A sure way to kill a man is to place his picture under the
eaves at the corner of your house during rainy weather and
let the water pour upon it.”
In August and September, 1939, the Omaha Evening
World-Herald devoted columns and pictures to a witchcraft
case in which the alleged doll substitute had been “a big piece
of bone with meat on it, buried under the intended victim’s
window.” This is a variant I have also seen in Africa, but
rarely. The Omaha case had some curious aspects, including a
solemn session in Catholic Sokol Hall, with the press present,
the police also unofficially present, in which Alfio Laferla,
president of the Italian-American Societa Risveglio, accused
a woman of practicing witchcraft against his mother-in-law,
Mrs. Grazia Trino, and of having buried the bone with an­
cient m-aiaria incantations so that “just as the worms would
eat the meat off the bone, so would Mrs. Trino waste away
and die.” Mrs. Trino meanwhile knewall about it—of course
—believed it effective—was desperately afraid—became very
ill, “felt her flesh melting away.” If my main thesis is true,
she might well have died, murdered as surely by induced
autosuggestion as if it had been by arsenic, and may only have
survived through the exposure of the alleged witch and ex­
orcism of the evil spells. At any rate the Risveglio sat in its
full regalia, heard the accusations and evidence, during which
the accused woman rose and screamed denials. They found
her guilty, and expelled her from the society. She has sued
the society for damages and reinstatement. She may be com­
pletely innocent.
In the York, Pennsylvania, hex powwow murder, Novem-
2 0
i i, 1 9 2 8 , which became a nationwide newspaper sensation,2
mi.I was revived last year by the release from prison of the
i" n younger men convicted of participation in the “ witch-
1 .1 1 1 killing,” the doll’s substitute was to be the lock of
lint' which the witch-doctor, John Blym yer, was trying to
mi itch from the head of the rival witch-doctor, Nelson Reh-
uieycr. They fought, you will recall, and Rehm eyer was
I 11led not by witchcraft but by being clubbed and strangled.
II Blymyer, however, had been able to obtain the lock of
luir, he would have done no further violence. He had
planned another way—to bury the hair eight feet under
miind, with the old incantations. If Rehmeyer had known
III ait it and believed it and feared it— he could be just as
■had as he is from being clubbed. Blym yer was accused of
having caused the death by “ pure witchcraft” of other vic-
1 mis. The lock of hair, the doll’s substitute, was the central
nbjcct, central motivation. It is the common history of witch-
1 1 aft today, as in the past, that in addition to “ pure witch-
■1aft,” there occur also continually these “by-product” mur-
ihis by ax, club, gun, knife, or arsenic. Murders of this latter
Iat, by a poison ring out to collect insurance, supplied head-
inn■ during 1939 for columns of Associated Press reports on
iIm Philadelphia “Mass Witchcraft Murders.” Interwoven
iimtinually with the crime fabric of that drama has appeared
' warp or background of vicious and authentic witchcraft,
II cd here not to kill—they used arsenic for that—but to in-
lnuidate and terrorize tools, victims, relatives, neighbor-
h
.11ids. The dupes of the arsenic ring who are still alive have
im p ly testified to this. There is a large Italian population in
' Sec Appendix, p. 309.
T H E W IT C H ’S D O LL AND ITS E Q U IV A L E N T
2 1
W IT C H C R A F T
Philadelphia, and Italians figured largely in this picture,
among the dupes and the conspirators.
Sometimes the doll’s substitute among Italians is the
“Hand of Glory” or the “Hand of Power,” which may be
an actual human hand severed and mummified, or a tiny
hand of ivory or bone with the thumb and two middle fingers
closed, while the index and little fingers point outward to
make a pair of horns. Often it is a piece of metal known as
“the knife,” but knife is here a misleading term since it is
never used to cut, or as a weapon. Morris Bolber of Phila­
delphia, who admitted that he practiced witchcraft and
claimed (to evade the electric chair) that he did it as a healer
and not a destroyer, possessed such a knife. Its metal was
no different from that of any tiny knife you buy in any ten
cent store. Neither is the plaster in a sacred image or the
metal in an icon any different from the plaster in a wall or
the metal in a nail. It had been made “different” in its emo­
tional field, as plaster saint and icon are made “different” in
their emotional fields, by a method similar to, but the re­
verse of, consecration.
First [Bolber disclosed], it was buried for three days and three
nights in the earth, the open blade buried downward so that the
spirits might penetrate its steel point and surface. Then it was
taken from the ground and put under the pillow and slept on for
three nights. On the seventh day it was put in my pocket infused
with the spirit that will dominate devils, and was ready as the
assistant to the witch doctor.
We don’t need to believe with Bolber, as he claimed, that
by waving it he copld stop an engine or derail a trolley car,
any more than we need to believe that a sacred image will
stop the flow of lava from Vesuvius, but if I am right about
T H E W IT C H ’ S D O LL AND ITS E Q U IV A L E N T
mvthing, and if the body of medical psychology is right in
11 present-day certainty concerning the relation of nervous
,m
d mental conditions, then Bolber could start, stop, or de-
i ul, that is, help, hurt, make ill, any dupe who believed in
• fo-wer of this doll’s substitute.
During the past ten years, in the decade between the York
hex murder and the Philadelphia witchcraft murders, there
were many other American witchcraft cases and witchcraft
killings. These practices, beliefs, and their attendant dangers
persist today. Not the least of the attendant dangers (though
this book will not be directly concerned with them) is that
the terrors and hatreds engendered by witchcraft frequently
lead to plain, brute-mechanical ax, arsenic, strangling, and
gun murders, as a police-court by-product of the subtler
crimes and attempted crimes which seldom reach newspa­
pers, because they seldom result in arrests.
I intend presently to take you behind the scenes, in Africa
and America, in New York, London, Paris, Southern France,
in my own back yard too, and show you, step by step, how
those dolls or their equivalent, though endowed intrinsically
with no supernatural quality and no supernormal power, yet
work potently for evil. If presently, in getting down to brass
tacks driven into dolls for murder, I seem to know more
about these things than any decent white adventurer or au­
thor should, and seem to have intimate knowledge of so
many horrors over a period of so many years in so many
lands as to transgress the bounds of credibility, I beg you to
remember that black magic has been my lifelong obsession
and chimera. If there is anything in heredity, I must have
been tainted from birth. There was bad blood in me, from
23
WITCHCRAFT
the angle of magic, and it came, mandragora-like, from the
best roots of my family tree. M y only distinguished ancestor
was a great-great-grandfather on the maternal side, a Bishop
Peter Boehler, of the Moravian Church, who had been a
friend of Wesley’s. H e was born at Frankfurt, ordained to
the Moravian ministry by Count Zinzendorf, and sent to the
United States as a missionary. H e worked among the In­
dians, the Negroes in Georgia, and among the Germans in
South Carolina, some of whom he ultimately transferred to
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, where he helped found the Mora­
vian Seminary and College for Women. A portrait of him
hangs in the vestry of Central Church, at Bethlehem. So
much for his distinguished importance. The New Inter­
national Encyclopaedia says, in addition to the above facts,
that he was instrumental in aiding the spiritual development
of the Wesleys. What our family tradition adds, and what is
not in any encyclopedia, is that my distinguished great-great­
grandfather was up to his ears in black magic. Shortly after
he had been consecrated “ Bishop of the Moravian Churches
in America, England, Ireland and Wales,” leaders in the
Welsh Diocese nearly succeeded in having him deposed. The
old gentleman ably defended himself by admitting that he
dabbled in magic, but asserted he had been doing it all for
the glory of God, seeking to “ fight the Devil with his own
fire.”
Hair-raising tales of him were told in my nursery, at Get­
tysburg, and whether you choose to attribute it to heredity,
or to John Watson’s behavioristic early childhood condition­
ing, I cannot remember when I didn’t have an obsessed curi­
osity about these forbidden things. It sent me finally to the
voodoo altars of Haiti, where the priests accepted me as one
2 4
..( them and traced their cross in blood on my forehead. It
M
-nt me later to Africa, and has ridden me all my life.
1 shall be showing in successive chapters an intimate, some-
tlines dangerous, knowledge of witch dolls in actual opera-
nun. Where to begin has been a problem. I have decided to
begin with a witchcraft killing which contained all the ele­
ments in their controlled completeness.
THE WITCH’S DOLL AND ITS EQUIVALENT
25
III. Monstrous Doll in Africa
D U R IN G one of my stays in Africa, I had been living alone
for several months with a native household in a large M a­
linke tribal town, in jungle-mountain country, northeast of
Bassam. I was studying fetish ritual, religious ceremonials
and beliefs, and saw little or nothing of the few whites scat­
tered in the region. The French jonctionmires, most toler­
ant of all colonial administrators, had let me consort with
the witch-doctors to my heart’s content. One night my black
friends said to me:
“ We have taught you all we can. We are going to send
you back in the higher mountains where you may learn more.
There is a great Ogoun . . . Nahaou-don-ba is one of his
names . . . and he is sometimes called Woron. He is a man
of power, a mighty drinker of banghi like yourself, and if
you become friends he can disclose further mysteries.” They
gave me additional names, maps, guides, porters, letters.1
Before leaving my Malinke friends, I went up to the ad-
1 Letters are no longer rare among African witch-doctors. They write
usually in Malinke or Bambara, using phonetic Arabic script, and some­
times phonetic French transliteration. I knew a witch-doctor with panther
teeth braided in his hair who possessed a fountain pen, and used it. An-
2 6
MONSTROUS DOLL IN AFRICA
ministration compound, found Monsieur Lauriac at home,
ihanked him for his kindnesses, not the least of which had
been to let me consort unspied-on with the local feticheurs,
and told him I was headed, with his further kind permission,
a hundred miles or so up into the jungle. H e asked me to
stay to dinner, and during the evening, as we talked about
the region I planned to visit, he said:
“ W e’ve had some recent trouble from there, made by a
white man who’d have been in jail long ago, back where he
came from . . . that damned commercial hunter, Albrecht
Tellier. H e has a Belgian passport, and I ’ve been in a quan­
dary more than once what to do about him.”
“ I know,” I said. “ I ’ve met him a couple of times. What
happened?”
“ The same old thing,” Lauriac replied. “ Apparently he
hired a couple of hundred Yafouba, the whole male popula­
tion of three villages, to go with him for ivory and skins, and
failed at the end of the hunt to pay them off. His licenses are
all in order, and lie’s got some traders down on the coast
backing him, but if it weren’t bad policy to put a white man
on public trial with a lot of howling savages as the only wit­
nesses for the prosecution, I ’d have had him in the jug long
ago. H e’s back here, I ’m told, saying it’s the other way
around . . . that the Yafouba broke their contract . . . de­
serted him.”
“ Who’s telling the truth?”
“ We know who’s telling the truth! It’s happened four or
other had a safety razor, and sent three hundred miles to buy new blades.
Another manufactured his own gunpowder, and still another took delight
in an old German phonograph with a green tin horn. He liked best an
old record of “ Johnny” made by Marlene Dietrich.
27
W IT C H C R A F T
five times. He’s failed to pay off more than one expedition,
and some of the men have never come home to their
families.”
“I’m surprised they haven’t shot him by ‘accident’ with
one of his own guns,” I said.
“Not any more,” said Lauriac. “Unofficially I wouldn’t
blame ’em, but officially I’d have to hang some of the head­
men, probably the wrong ones, and they know it. It’s tough
on the natives when a crooked white exploits them, because
legal recourse or private retaliation are both pretty difficult.”
I went away and soon forgot about Albrecht Tellier, whom
I’d known only slightly, and whose mistreatment of the na­
tives was an old story in the region.
The Ogoun Nahaou-don-ba whose other name was Woron,
informed of my coming, had prepared a wing of the guest­
house in his own compound. It was mud-thatched, earthen-
floored, clean, comfortable, and had a spacious veranda which
I could use as a sleeping porch. Two handsome wenches and
an old woman, all apprentice sorceresses, were to keep house
and cook for me. Probably also to spy on me until they de­
cided it was all right. The Ogoun, in robes of soft, brilliantly
dyed leather, red, peacock blue, and yellow, was corpulent,
powerful, impressive. His first name meant “Learned
Scholar” and his other name meant “The Big Gorilla.” He
was a little of both, and was head of what amounted to a
Witch-Doctors’ Theological Seminary, whither I’d been sent
by my Ivory Coast friends for a sort of postgraduate course.
After some weeks of hard study, I felt I had come to the
right place. The work—ritual, instruction, ceremonials, in­
cantations—was broken once a week by all-night drunken
28
parties, when the Ogoun and I got roaring tight as anybody.
Aconsiderable time passed. On the final night, before I was
lo depart, he invited me into his own house for a private
ionference.
Said he, “You knowas much theory nowas you ever could,
without being born into it. You’re a black man in a white
skin. Before you go away, we’d like to show you some prac­
tice . . . work in progress . . . a big enchantment . . . a
great ouanga.”
Ouanga meant a death-sending, and the Ogoun had me
in a spot. He was a tough-minded, intelligent, practical man,
and I said after considerable reflection,
“We are on the edge of French territory. The administra­
tion has been kind to me and trusts me. They have lent me
motor trucks more than once, permit me to wander freely,
and do not spy on me. Monsieur Lauriac, down yonder where
I came from, trusts me as you do. If it is anything to the
hurt of the French, or to the hurt of anybody connected with
them, I must not see it.”
“It is nothing like that,” said the Ogoun. “It concerns us
only. It is a matter of private justice.”
They took me next afternoon in broad daylight, in ritual
procession with drums, the witch-doctors ceremonially garbed,
and with singers, to a ledge in a dark ravine where they had
set up a monstrous “doll” which was more than an effigy.
It was the guarded corpse of a black man which had been
requisitioned on his natural death in a neighboring village.
As in the case of inanimate dolls, what he had once been was
of no consequence, for they had solemnly rebaptized the
corpse by their jungle rites with a new name—with the name
of Albrecht Tellier—and were using it as the ritual symbol
M O N STRO U S D O LL IN A FRICA
29
W IT C H C R A F T
for their concentrated, focused mumbo jumbo. It had been
Jashed upright against a tree with vine ropes, tarred so that
it wouJd disintegrate slowly in the jungle sun, rain, mists,
and night miasmas. Twisted into its black hair were comb­
ings of Tellier’s own, filched by servants from his comb and
brush. Fastened to its finger tips were his own filched nail
parings. They had dressed the body in one of Tellier’s hunt­
ing shirts, “soaked,” as they said, “in his vital juices.” In
plain English, an unwashed shirt in which he had perspired.
Their technique was classic and old as Africa. In construc­
tion of the “doll,” they had combined the two methods which
Frazer and most anthropologists differentiate under the terms
of “imitative magic” and “sympathetic magic.” If you buy or
make a doll, simply dress it up to resemble the intended
victim and “baptize” it with his name, the magic is purely
“imitative.” It remains purely imitative if you use a picture
such as the one described under the eaves in Cairo, Illinois,
or even a corpse such as this one in Africa, merely “rebap­
tized” in the intended victim’s name. It is purely “sympa­
thetic” if you use as a substitute for the “doll” some object
which has been an actual part of, or has been in physical con­
tact with, the intended victim. The lock of Rehmeyer’s hair
in the Pennsylvania case was in this “sympathetic” category.
Similarly in this category are fingernail parings, combings, a
shirt or dress previously worn by the intended victim, stolen
to rot slowly. When you buy or make a doll, and instead of
dressing it with something to merely resemble the victim,
dress it in something actually previously worn by the victim,
or fasten upon it the victim’s own hair, you have then, as
in the case of this monstrous human effigy here in the jungle,
a combination of the two techniques. Incidentally, any
3 0
M O N STRO U S D O LL IN A FRICA
learned discussion of their relative intrinsic importance or ef­
ficacy, is jargon, nonsense. The importance is precisely the
nne as whether you make a sacred statue out of plaster or
iurve it out of wood. If you feel that such things can have a
mysterious intrinsic importance, an analogy would lie in the
ijuestion of whether the bones of some saint—some sacred
relic which had once been part of his anatomy—can be more
efficacious than a mere statue of him. If you think the saint’s
bones or bloodstained handkerchief might cure your boils,
or stop an eruption of Vesuvius, where the saint’s mere statue
wouldn’t, you are at liberty to suspect that sympathetic magic
can be more deadly than imitative. To me they’re all intrinsi­
cally zero, potent only as symbols on which to focus love or
hatred, fear or faith.
Now here in the jungle, as tom-toms began to throb, was
focused malignant hatred—and far away down yonder in
Albrecht Tellier’s house, as I shall presently show, was fo­
cused fear.
Invoking all their jungle gods and demons, and invoking
them with frenzied faith, the witch-doctors first roared and
howled their unholy hymns, deep bass and screeching treble,
until they judged the demon-gods had heard. Then to a dif­
ferent and simpler steady drum throb they began their magic
chants, their incantations. Repetition and simplicity. Like
London Bridge Is Falling Down and Ring-around-a-Rosy.
A rose is a rose is a rose is a rose. This is the way we wash
our clothes so early in the morning. Three blind mice, up
and down the clock, Mother Goose, Edith Sitwell, echolalia,
Gertrude Stein.2 Black Mrs. Behemoth, in long steel grass,
and pigeons on the grass alas. Cut off their tails with a carv-
2 See Appendix, p. 310.
31
W IT C H C R A F T
ing knife, and sonnez la marine. They were like Frere
Jacques and Wee Willie Winkie. Also they were horrible.
They sang in a sort of simplified, bastardized Malinke and
Bambara: Gneni dimi dogomani
Gneni dimi kounba ba
Gneni dimi yan dakoro
Gneni di yoradian!
Farikolo balole
A-dama-den sa!
The words are as simple as any nursery rhyme, and as easy
to translate. What’s difficult to translate—just as it would
be difficult to translate the charming but contagious nonsense-
emotional impact of “A tisket, a tasket, a green and yellow
basket”—is the ugly emotional impact of this doggerel, ac­
companied by the rhythmic patter of the drums. The near­
est I can come to it, with no talent for nursery rhymes, and
sticking to the literal meaning of the words, is:
A big pain, a little pain,
A small pain, a great pain,
Growing here and growing there,
Growing slowly everywhere,
While a dead man lives
And a living man dies!
When this endlessly repeated doggerel had ceased, a little
woman, monkey-thin, with shriveled breasts, danced forward
and did a thin-voiced, cackling solo, while the drummers
tapped a light treble beat with their fingers, on the drum
rims. It was nursery rhyme again. It was the incantation for
“clogging the throat.” As the body disintegrated here, they
told me, and its throat began to clog and swell, so the man
down yonder would begin to suffer difficulty in breathing,
32
M O N STRO U S D O LL IN A FRICA
speaking, swallowing. The little monkey-woman sang, smil­
ing and grinning, as if chattering singsong nonsense to a
' L aja lafa lafa!
Bolt an-ou kill
Mina mina mina
Scguen tji kari ki
Kesi kasi kesi
Baribo sienta
Banabato Sa-a-a!
It meant, still translating as literally as I can:
Choke, choke, choke!
Devils we evoke!
Thirst, thirst, thirst,
Suffer till you burst.
Cry, cry, cry,
Try, try, try.
Die, die, die! 3
“What would happen,” I asked, “if you stopped all this?”
“He is very sick, but he would get well,” said the Ogoun.
“We could stop it by twisting the magic backward, and he
would not die. But we are not going to do it, and no other
witch-doctors are going to do it either, for this man has been
condemned, and justly so, by the forest.”
“Could you teach me how magic is twisted backward?”
“I thought you knew it already,” said the Ogoun. “Since
you know forward magic, you could teach yourself.”
3 Readers who have lived in French West Africa and probably have a
knowledge of Malinke or Bambara, will understand the difficulty, arising
from the almost childish simplicity of the words, of putting them into
an English equivalent. No English-Bambara dictionary exists, so far as I
know, but in 1913 the Librairie Paul Geuthner, 13 Rue Jacob, Paris, pub­
lished a pretty good French-Bambara one.
33
W IT C H C R A F T
“I might need it some day,” I said.
“If it’s a doll,” he said, “you unbaptize it, remove the
nails or needles, and burn it in purifying fire. If it’s a lock
of hair, you dig it up and burn it. If we unbaptized this body
here, removed and burned the hunter’s own hair and nail
parings, removed and either washed or burned the shirt, and
then laid the body back in its own name and in its own grave,
it would lie there in peace and the man down yonder would
get well.”
“Don’t you think the man would have to know all this?”
I asked.
And the Ogoun replied cryptically,
“ They always know it.”
Presently he added, “There was an older magic by which
time is twisted backward, so that the forward magic becomes
as if it never had been, and the man as if he had never been
sick—as if it had all been a dream, or a thing done by shad­
ows, which are as if they never had been, and leave no trace
when light appears. But it is something nobody can teach
you, because it has been lost.”
“Another thing,” I asked, “and since you tell me this
man has been justly condemned to die by your forest code,
you will perhaps not mind giving me a true answer. If by
any chance the magic didn’t work, you’d poison him?”
“When the magic is real,” said the Ogoun, “poison is
never necessary. And besides,” he added practically, “his
servants or somebody would be caught and hanged. White
doctors and the white police have a different kind of magic
with liquids that change color.”
My conscience was none too clear, nor was it entirely clear
3 4
just what I might have accomplished if I’d gone and re­
ported the whole tale to the administration. They’d have
probably said, “Well, we're not rival witch-doctors. We’re
the police. If a man’s shot or poisoned, or going to be, we
know what to do. But demons, jinxes, and Mother Goose
rhymes are not exactly in our line.”
I washed my hands of the whole business, like a little
Pontius Pilate, borrowed an old Renault, and went clean out
of the forest, over toward Bobo Dioulasso. Returning two
weeks later, rolling down toward Bassam again, I got into
the edge of my own forest, and presently fell in with an old
acquaintance, a Baouli truckman named Yo-Ouro, nicknamed
“Joe,” who was trucking kola nuts north, to return with salt,
and who had all the latest gossip. Over a couple of bottles of
beer and a game of belotte, Joe said,
“There’s one piece of news from your town. That Belgian
saligaud of an Albrecht’s on his deathbed, and nobody’s
sorry.”
“What’s he dying of?”
“Shortness of breathsaid Joe with a malicious grin. “He
can’t draw his breath any longer. That’s what most of us
die of, isn’t it?”
“But what’s really the matter with him?”
“He thinks he’s been poisoned,” said Joe, “and he’s had
doctors and the gendarmerie and all that, but you’re one
white man I can tell the truth to. He’s dying because they
put the great ouanga on him—the death ouanga.”
“How?”
“I wouldn’t know,” said Joe. “I had a Malinke grand­
mother who knew plenty, but I went to mission school, and
M O N STRO U S D O LL IN A FRICA
35
W IT C H C R A F T
now I work in a garage. All I know is that when it’s put on
you, whether you’re white or black, you get sick, and die.”
When I finally got down there, a couple of weeks later,
Albrecht Tellier had been dead for a fortnight. Since he’d
accused the blacks of poisoning him (though Lauriac told me
there had never been any poison symptoms), a complete
autopsy had followed, and the result had been—zero. Ever
since the Dakar yellow fever clean-up, West Africa has had as
good medical laboratories as exist anyw'here, and it is not
true that mysterious poisons exist which leave no trace and
are unknown to the materia medica.
“ If you ask me,” said Lauriac, “ he cracked up under his
own fears and a guilty conscience, but I’d like very much to
know more about it. The natives say it was magic, and I
think he thought so at the last. But since he was not mur­
dered, if he was murdered at all, in any sense that we de­
fine as murder in court, I ’m not going to undertake punish­
ing anybody for it. I’d just like to know. . . .”
“ So would I,” I said, and I didn’t mean it hypocritically.
I felt it would serve no good purpose to inflict my private
knowledge on Lauriac’s official conscience. And I wanted to
learn, if I could, what had happened down here, in Albrecht
Tellier’s own household.
It was Lauriac’s superb, black mistress-housekeeper, with
one ear in the jungle and another close to the administrator’s
own, who turned up the complete, unequivocal inside story
of how Tellier’s black entourage, as ignorant of Freud-Jung-
Adler-and-our-learned-psychology-psychiatry-jargon as we
would be of language spoken on another planet—and on top
of that believing in the supernatural power of their witch-
3 6
M O N STRO U S D O LL IN AFRICA
doctors and demons—had nevertheless destroyed Albrecht
Tellier by induced autosuggestion, applied as expertly for
their sinister ends as it ever is for good in any of our advanced
medical and psychiatric clinics.
It had begun when one of Tellier’s native hunters, perma­
nently employed, and pretending deep sympathy for his
master, had come to him, and said, “ I ’ve just had dreadful
news. A ouanga has been put on you. Perhaps you have al­
ready felt it. In a month you will be dead.”
Tellier scoffed, grew angry, raged, beat the old man, and
went around saying nobody could play on him with silly
superstitions. It was either, he said, a scheme to frighten
him out of the country, or a threat to poison him. H e went
to natives he thought he could trust, and they promised to
find out what they could. They soon returned saying that,
alas, the great ouanga was indeed in operation, and described
it to him in all its ugly detail. H e checked on his hunting
shirts and found one missing, as described. The women said
it had been “ stolen.” Where was the ouanga? It was hidden
far away, beyond the mountains. Who were the witch-doc­
tors? Nobody knew. They were “ far away,” of “ another
tribe.” Natives began false-condoling with him, saying he
looked sick, assuring him that he would surely die, telling
him more and more about the rotting effigy. Pretended-pity­
ing old women kept supplying him with further details,
other “ cases.” H e began to feel sick, and was sure he had
been poisoned. The doctors who tended him were sure he
had not been poisoned, could find nothing the matter with
him—and told him so. H e had sent for Lauriac, demanded
protection, arrests.
37
W IT C H C R A F T
“What can I protect you against?” had asked Lauriac. “If
they have dug up a corpse somewhere and put your shirt on
it, and you believe in that stuff, I might arrest them—for
stealing your shirt. But who are they and where is it?”
“I don’t believe in it!” Tellier had protested.
But he was sick, and getting sicker, and how much he be­
lieved by that time is a point on which there can be no con­
trol, and a point on which not even he himself could have
been sure.
One day after he had become quite ill, the old Yafouba
nurse who had come to his cot with a glass of water said,
“Poor Monsieur Tellier. Does your throat hurt yet?”
“No! Why?” he had demanded. “And what do you mean
by yet?”
“Oh, it will, soon now,” she had pityingly replied, “be­
cause they are now doing this in the mountain.” And she
had begun the “throat clog” chant, tapping out the rhythm
with her fingers on the edge of his cot. It was a simple
nursery doggerel, sung to a simple drum rhythm, tapped out
by the old black woman’s horny-nailed, black, wrinkled hands
in that nursery of death:
Ta-da-da-da-doom .............................Doom
Ta-da-da-da-doom .............................Doom
Ta-da-da-da-doom .............................Doom
He was already a sick and frightened man. He had lis­
tened to and understood the horrid w'ords, then automatically
clutched at his throat as if in some new pain, then screamed,
“Get out! You’re either crazy, or you’ve poisoned me! Or
am I crazy?”
And he soon was crazy, crazed with fear, and crazed by
38
M O N STRO U S D O LL IN A FRICA
new fear-induced difficulty with his throat muscles, difficulty
in speaking and in swallowing. For, from the morning the
old woman had come in, by day and night from then on to
. the end, his ears were never free from that little tapping
rhythm whose words he knew. It hadn’t been kept up by
an occult, astral “ sending.” And it hadn’t been hallucinated
ghost tapping inside his own terrified brain. It had been im­
pacting relentlessly on his physical eardrums, as the old
woman and her accomplices, including children, had tapped
it out with sticks on the bamboo fence toward the forest, on
porch railings of the rambling house in which he lay; faint,
far away, then close, receding and returning, day and night.
H e had died of a nervous and functional crack-up, caught in
the autosuggested clutches of his own crazed and paralyzing
fear.
I have told this as dramatically as I could, not for the
sake of dramatizing horror, but because it contains all the
paraphernalia, elements, and controls necessary to my thesis.
If I am right, the corpse effigy and stolen shirt were empty
symbols. I believe them always to be intrinsically empty.
They serve two symbol purposes:
1. A focusing point on which to concentrate the rituals;
2. An objective means of arousing dread in the informed
victim.
Could the witch-doctors have obtained an identical result
without ever setting up the effigy at all? I believe they could,
if they had believed they could. Can a priest pray and per­
form his good works as efficaciously without his rosary? With­
out his holy water? Without his altar? Without the sacred
39
W IT C H C R A F T
image in the consecrated shrine? Of course, he can, and does,
when he believes he can.
Witchcraft instead of being superstitious nonsense, is men­
tal therapy reversed, with mystery, horror, and superstition
added.
40
IV. Ten Cent Store Doll in France
I HAVE a friend, a certain celebrated Paris journalist, who
has made a deep study of sorcery and witchcraft all his life.
Like my maternal great-great-grandfather, he sometimes
“fights the devil with fire,” and has been called into consulta­
tion more than once by the French police and by the Roman
Catholic exorcists of St. Sulpice. Fighting evil with its own
weapons is a dangerous warfare, and my friend has been in
foul danger more than once. An attempt was made some
years ago by Satanists from Lyons to murder his little daugh­
ter, a case which never went to the police because he took the
vengeance into his own hands.
It was through my friend Orlet, as we shall call him, that
I became a partial participant in the episode of the pianist
and the doll, which ended less disastrously than murder, but
cost the young victim his career. In this case, what I have to
tell is partly reconstruction, because the harm had already
been done on the night when Orlet invited me to drive with
him out to Le Touquet (Paris Plage), the seaside resort on
the channel, and help him burglarize, if he could, a certain
beach bungalow, remote from the town, which contained
something that ought to be destroyed. It w
r
as an isolated
41
W IT C H C R A F T
shack, with apparently nobody at home, and we crept to­
ward it from the back, a little after dark. While I kept watch,
he smashed the fastening of a heavy shutter and pried it
open. We climbed inside, dosed the shutter, and began look­
ing around with our flashlights. The shack was roughly fur­
nished like a camp, or hide-out . . . a couple of cots which
had been recently slept in . . . dirty dishes on a table . . .
an oil stove recently used . . . over in a corner, an old rock­
ing chair. In a closet behind a locked door which he had
some difficulty in forcing, we found a wooden carpenter’s vise
screwed to the wall, and from the vise, with its hands caught
and crushed in the vise, dangled a little doll—a cheap mod­
ern novelty doll, a tawdry manikin in Lilliputian garb, like a
puppet in full-dress evening clothes.
“I’d like to ram it down their dirty throats,” said Orlet.
“If I believed, as they do, in an actual Satan, we’d burn it
here and now. What we’d better do is take it along as evi­
dence.”
On the way back to Paris we stopped at a roadside res­
taurant, and he showed me a longish press clipping, a week
or two old—one of those mixed news-and-gossip stories that
imply between the lines more than is said in them. What it
boiled down to was that Jean Dupuis, a brilliant and promis­
ing young concert pianist, had unaccountably made a sensa­
tional botch of his first important public appearance, in a
small but crowded concert hall. He had begun well enough
the rendition of Beethoven’s “Appassionata” . . . when sud­
denly a false note, then a succession of jangling chords, fol­
lowed by worse fumbling, had brought whispers and hisses
from the outraged audience. The young man had stopped
playing, half turned to the audience, resumed desperately,
4 2
T E N C EN T STORE DOLL IN FRAN CE
md, after a ghastly parody of the next few bars, had fled
from the stage in shame and confusion.
And then came the gossip and comment, as recounted in
lhe clipping. “Neuritis . . . a cramp in the fingers,” had
said his friends, his manager, and the kindlier critics next
day. “Bah, he was drunk,” had said others. Or, “He was a
bad pianist anyway, and succumbed to stage fright in the cru­
cial test.” His budding reputation and career were ruined,
said the clipping, and suggested, indirectly, that there was
some sort of unsolved mystery. It ended by adroitly hinting
that, as in the case of more than one brilliant young French
artist who had gone to pieces in other fields, the mystery
might be an addiction to cocaine, if he had absorbed too
little, or too much, before he sat down at the piano.
The clipping dropped the mystery there, and it was Orlet
who supplied the rest of the story. Dupuis’s own privately
given explanation of what had happened had been so fantas­
tic as to cast doubts on his sanity, but his devoutly Catholic
mother had believed him, and as devout Catholics have been
doing for centuries, told his story to her priest. The priest,
with her permission, had called Orlet into conference, and
Orlet, after obtaining a complete confession from the young
pianist, who now mentioned certain names and facts he had
withheld, had been busy day and night, aided unofficially by
the police and by friends in the Paris underworld in which
occultism, fortune-telling, fake mysticism in all its racketeer­
ing forms, are rampant.
The pianist had confessed to Orlet that he had been se­
cretly dabbling in the esoteric, including black magic, and
had joined some months before a dubious sect of so-called
4 3
WITCHCRAFT
“ Rosicrucians” who had no honest connection with the true
followers of Christian Rosenkreuz.
With these facts and actual names to go on, Orlet had
succeeded in smoking out the dirty plot. The pianist had
made enemies who wanted to ruin him, and since they knew
of his occult interests, had hired Satanists instead of ordinary
thugs. As a matter of cold, criminal fact, no matter how
strongly the Satanists may have believed in their own evil
and diseased minds that the Devil helped them, they had
been paid to ruin the musician. They had “ done their stuff,”
and earned their money.
A certain Mere Levin who lived in Vincennes and fre­
quented the Rue de Lappe, had bought and dressed the doll
and taken it to Le Touquet, which had become the center in
the north for the black mass celebrants after Monsieur
Chiappe, then Prefect of Police, had driven them from Paris.
She and her associates had performed their unholy baptismal
rites over the doll, clamped it in the vise where wre later
found it, and where she had returned from time to time to
perform her incantations. One might doubt that such witches
themselves have any real belief in the supernatural, in de­
moniac emanations of evil from the actual doll, since they
seem always to see to it that the victim is made to know and
fear it. Yet I am convinced that, precisely as witch-doctors
in the jungle, they often do illogically believe it.1
Whether Mere Levin and her associates believed it or not,
I cannot tell. But whatever she may have believed, the cumu­
lative job they did by direct, if devious approach, would have
1 . our witches are justly hanged, because they think themselves to
be such; and suffer deservedly for believing they did the devil’s mischief
----DRYDEN.
44
more than sufficed in its purpose, even if they and the vic­
tim too had been devoid of superstition. What put Orlet on
the track was the pianist’s confession of a series of “ coinci­
dences” that had worried him. The undermining of his con­
fidence had been a slow process. It had taken time. It had
cost money. And it had proven at the last that some of his
own supposed friends were Judases. Here are some of the
successive steps they’d used:
A musician who visited his study on casual pretext, had
heard him practicing, had praised his playing, but had added
that his finger dexterity seemed slipping a little, and advised
him to rest for a few days. “ Nonsense,” he’d replied. He
knew that his dexterity hadn’t slipped, and forgot the epi­
sode.
But not long afterward, one night after he had been play­
ing, a young woman said, “ Have you sprained your hand?”
“ W hy?” he had asked in astonishment. “ Do you think I
played so badly?” “ Oh, no,” she had evaded, “ I was thought­
less. You played beautifully. It was nothing.”
A while later a false friend had come to him and said,
“ Whether you will admit it to yourself or not, there is
something the matter with your mechanical technique. If
you’ve a touch of neuritis or something of the sort, you
ought to face it, for your own good, and see a doctor.”
By this time he had begun worrying and wondering, con­
centrating on the nerves and muscles of his fingers, flexing
and moving and testing them when not at the keyboard, be­
coming cerebrally conscious of his fingers, which meant self-
conscious about movements which should be pure automatic
reflexes. So that naturally his fingers began occasionally to
“ tangle,” or fail to respond automatically in difficult passages.
TEN CENT STORE DOLL IN FRANCE
45
WITCHCRAFT
H e went to a doctor, and then to specialists, who told him
there was nothing the matter with his hands. From their
point of view, they were right. H e began brooding, certain
now that there was something mysteriously wrong with his
hands which the doctors couldn’t diagnose.
What had been done to him by open and direct suggestion
up to now had been merely the groundwork.
When they thought he was ripe for it, a little before the
concert, an anonymous letter was sent him:
“ I can tell you what is wrong with your hands, but it is
so frightful that I am almost afraid to tell you.” The letter
then played on “ emanation,” “ vibrations,” so-called Rosicru-
cian mysteries which they knew the young man had read and
studied. It ended by telling him about the doll with its hands
squeezed in the vise. It was cruelly and cunningly signed, as
if coming from some fellow-esoteric afraid to divulge his
name, “ A Sympathetic Friend.”
On the night of the concert, he had found pinned in his
dressing-room a shorter note, in different handwriting, which
said:
“ The handle of the vise will be slowly turned tonight,
until your hands are crushed.”
If you think the victim of a plot like that had to be tem­
peramental, credulous, and neurasthenic to begin with, or
that such ugly influences as I describe are too far removed
from the everyday life of normal people to be of anything
but clinical interest, there are unpleasant ways by which it
can be proved and has been proved, that such influences,
though often unco-ordinated, often unconscious, and hap­
pily seldom organized or directed, are at work and affect
4 6
people in every walk of life and every grade of society. Take
the healthiest, most hard-boiled, nonimaginative adult you
know. Let several people, separately and at intervals, tell
him he seems nervous and ought to take a rest. Let somebody
say to him, “ Aren’t you feeling well?” Let another say cas­
ually some day, “ Have you been sick?” By the time it’s gone
that far, he will be feeling “ awful,” having symptoms of
functional or nervous disorders, and will be consulting the
specialists. You can’t “ wish” cancer, a broken leg, anthrax,
influenza, or malaria on him, but you can “ wish” him into
his bed, and sometimes into his grave, if you’re vicious and
patient enough. Without ever having studied the so-called
“ Black Art,” you will have been practicing it, as truly as any
coven witch in Hungary, hex-doctor in Pennsylvania, or
witch-doctor in Africa. These are the crude elemental princi­
ples of witchcraft at its wickedest.
And that sort of unconscious “ witchcraft,” alas, instead of
being rare, is as common as the air we breathe. It seldom
produces fatal illness or death, but too frequently in a thou­
sand homes or groups, some of which you doubtless know,
it produces depression, inefficiency, brooding, and unhappi­
ness. Take a healthy, charming, well-co-ordinated child, a
completely normal, bright, but sensitive little girl, for in­
stance. Start telling her she’s stupid. Keep telling her on
every possible occasion that she’s stupid. Keep drilling it into
her . . . you’d deserve to rot in hell for it if you did, as
much as if you’d put disease germs in her morning oatmeal
. . . and if you keep at it patiently, at the end of six months
or a year, you’ll have a stupid and unhappy child.
It’s just as much a moral crime to put “ poison” in the
mind, as it is to put it in the soup. It works more slowly, but
TEN CENT STORE DOLL IN FRANCE
47
WITCHCRAFT
it works. “ Give a dog a bad name,” and no matter how well-
bred he is, he’ll soon be feeling, and consequently acting, like
a slinking cur. I am intimate and friendly with a family of
former city people always kind to dogs, to children, to their
friends, who have a farm here in the country, and who have
been puzzled for years because they can’t get loyal, honest,
and trustworthy farm help in a countryside which has a tra­
dition of honesty. The reason is simple. From the start, no
matter whom they employ, they have always suspected that
he was going to let them down. They have always suspected
that he would cheat them on the apples, eggs, or fertilizer
bill, or that he would be “ loafing on the job.” Now, no mat­
ter how polite and smiling employers may be, or how careful
they think they are in concealing their misgivings, the em­
ployee always knows it. No extra-sensory perception or non­
sense of telepathy is required to explain his knowledge. He
might say he “ feels” it, or “ senses” it, instead of that he
knows it. H e might say it was “ intuition.” But it has all come
in through his five senses, so that saying he “ sensed” it is
the simple truth. H e “ feels” what they “ feel,” and since they
feel that way and since he’s no miracle of incorruptible in­
tegrity (are any of us?) but simply a decent, ordinarily hon­
est fellow, inclined to be decent and honest under decent
circumstances, he says to himself sooner or later, “ What the
heck, if that’s how they feel about me anyway . . .” and
starts gypping them.
“ Since that’s how they feel, since that’s what they think of
me anyway, why disappoint them?”
If their psychology had been the opposite, if they had
trusted him (and they should never have hired him unless
48
TEN CENT STORE DOLL IN FRANCE
they intended to trust him), he might not have disappointed
them in that case either.
Carl Sandburg tells about an early sodbuster settled in
Kansas. The sodbuster leaned at his gate. Drove up a new­
comer in a covered wagon: “ What kind of folks lives around
here?” “ W ell, stranger, what kind of folks was there in the
country you come from?” “ W ell, they was mostly a low-
down, lying, thieving, gossiping, backbiting lot of people.”
“ W ell, I guess, stranger, that’s about the kind of folks you’ll
find around here.” And the dusty gray stranger had just
about blended into the dusty gray cottonwoods in a clump
on the horizon when another newcomer drove up: “ What
kind of folks lives around here?” “ W ell, stranger, what kind
of folks was there in the country you come from?” “ W ell,
they was mostly a decent, hard-working, law-abiding,
friendly lot of people.” “ W ell, I guess, stranger, that’s the
kind of folks you’ll find around here.”
If the stranger is strong enough on the side of the angels,
he can work miracles for good. One did once, though he was
born a carpenter’s son, native peasant in the local village,
and turned “ strange” inside himself without the exterior aura
of remote origin. But most of us are more facile agents for
contagious evil than contagious good. Magic is contagious,
particularly when unconscious and unfocused. When one sus­
picious man or family moves into an honest community, ex­
pecting to be cheated, the community will remain generally
honest, and confine its cheating to the strangers ivho asked
for it. But if enough people of his sort move in, the whole
community will become corrupt, including the oldest in­
habitants, and start cheating each other.
Bad people are almost as rare as bad dogs. It isn’t often,
49
WITCHCRAFT
not once in a thousand or a million mongrel births, that dog
or man loves evil. But dogs and men are sensitive. They vi­
brate. If you feel strongly that the dog will bite you, or that
the man will cheat you or do you in the eye, the dog or man
is pretty likely to vibrate in harmony with your emotion-
expectations, and do it to you—and it serves you damned well
right.
Rhinebeck, my village, your village, your family, is always
the Lion of Androcles. It will almost never attack you wan­
tonly, unless it is terribly hungry—and in that case you can
forgive it. Any village, city, or family group is the magical
equivalent of the lion. Be friendly and trustful toward the
animal (your own family, the grocer, your wretched sister,
your difficult mother, your sexful or long-lost-to-sex wife)
and they will be friendly toward you. Beware however of
hypocrisy. If you pretend to do it without feeling it, the
grocer, your mother, your sister, your wife, will outdo you
in devilish hypocrisy and nail your worse-stripped skin to the
nearest barn door.
M y friends think I lean too far toward the side of the
angels. M y gardener has all my keys, except the one to my
cash drawer, and the reason he hasn’t that is that it’s never
locked. H e goes to it frequently, to buy this and that for
cash. I don’t keep count, but my gardener John, I ’m sure,
has never even had the “ concept” of gypping me. It would
be as absurd as gvpping himself. Yet perhaps he’s no more
basically incorruptible than any of the rest of us. Remember
Judith Anderson in Pirandello’s As You Desire A'le? Per­
haps I have been applying “ white magic” to my gardener.
At any rate, it works.
M y friends, I am sure, have never dreamed that their
50
own psychological distillation of a mild elemental form of
“ black magic” has ruined their successive farmers, made them
disloyal and dishonest, as truly as “ black magic” ruined the
Paris pianist. There’s nothing diabolic about any of it in a
supernatural sense, but “ black” is the right adjective for it.
TEN CENT STORE DOLL IN FRANCE
5 r
V. Wooden Doll in a Cave
IN the cases of Albrecht Tellier, cynical Belgian globe-trot­
ting scoundrel, soldier of fortune and big game hunter, and
of Jean Dupuis, cultured but esoterically inclined Parisian, it
is by no means certain that Tellier believed at all, or that
Dupuis believed completely, in any diabolic, superhuman,
supernatural power behind the doll. In the case I propose
next to relate, the intended victim believed as implicitly and
unquestioningly in the deadly supernatural power behind the
doll as you believe in poison gas or cholera germs. When the
intended victim believes the force attacking him is super­
human, the doll, for him, becomes a fatal image of certain
doom, and he tends more easily to crack up emotionally and
functionally. All savages and primitives believe in this super­
natural element, and so do millions of otherwise civilized
whites in Europe and here in America. Rehmeyer fought to
the death, and John Blymyer killed him by violence because
they both believed that the “ hexing” of a lock of hair would
have been just as murderous and deadly. In Africa, in the
case of the wooden doll in a cave, my savage friends wiped
out, by similar physical violence, and with clean consciences
according to their standards, a rival witch who was slowly
5 2
WOODEN DOLL IN A CAVE
murdering one of them—with no other weapon than that
wooden doll.
I was living up in the Ivory Coast, near Dananae, and the
young black witch and priestess Wamba came to my house
one day to ask a favor. She had done me many, and knew
that I could scarcely refuse. It seemed an “ uncle” of hers
was sick in the hospital at Huan, three hundred miles away,
and she wanted to pay him a visit. His name was Benke Kono
(Uncle Bird), and she hadn’t seen him since she was a little
girl. H e had sent word that he was afraid he was going to
die, and hoped he could see her. “ Benke,” the Bambara word
for uncle, is loosely used, as is its equivalent in all languages,
as an affectionate term for any old man one is fond of.
Wamba consequently felt it necessary to add that this old
gentleman was blood kin, and that she felt it her duty to go.
Wamba was a wayward, usually selfish wench, and I was
surprised at this display of family affection toward a distant
relative she hadn’t seen in years. She was deliberately piling
it on so that I could scarcely refuse. She had come dressed
in all her finery; scarlet leather hat surmounted by red,
white, and yellow ostrich plumes; bracelets, bangles, grigris,
anklets, tinkling bells . . . and indeed I was not going to
refuse . . . though I couldn’t help reflecting that unless she
went home and changed her clothes before we started, she’d
be a startling apparition seated beside a white man in the
front seat of an open Renault truck that had a government
official license! For the truck was what she’d come for. It
would take three weeks for her to make the trip to Huan
with carriers in the hammock swung on poles in which she
usually traveled, and it could be done in three days or less
53
WITCHCRAFT
in a motor car. Poor old Uncle Bird, she said, might be dead
when she got there, unless I helped her.
“ Why do you really want to go to Huan?” I asked her.
“ M y uncle is sick. I ’ve told you the truth.”
“ I doubt it,” said I, “ and if you have told me the truth, I
don’t believe you’ve told me all of it, but I ’ll find out
whether the roads are passable, and if they are, we’ll start
tonight.”
“ The roads are passable. The kola-nut trucks have been
going through,” she said—and added, “ W e’ll have to take
Diisi. He can sit on the bags in the rear.”
“ Why do we have to take Diisi? What are you planning
to do at Huan?” I asked.
She replied impatiently, “ I tell you, my uncle is sick! Do
I need to keep telling you I want to comfort him? Wouldn’t
you want to, if you had a sick uncle?”
“ And I suppose you need Diisi to help comfort him?”
“ Fate,” said Wamba, who was a real jungle priestess, de­
spite her handsome impudence, “ is always fan-shaped. Per­
haps I will need Diisi.”
This Diisi, whom I ’d known for a long time, was Wamba’s
“ brain trust.” She seldom went far afield, or undertook any­
thing serious, without him. H e was an elderly, skinny, little
fetish-temple soothsayer, with keen eyes, a seamy smile, and
grizzled beard. His grandfather had been a great witch­
doctor, and he was the custodian of the “ sacred relic” —his
grandfather’s mummified arm, which they used as a sort of
jungle ouija board. It was a shriveled human forearm with
the clenched hand attached . . . dry and hard as wood . . .
almost like petrified wood. I had seen it “ consulted” on more
than one occasion. You suspend it by the middle, on a single,
54
WOODEN DOLL IN A CAVE
long, slender thread, from the ceiling of the temple, or if
it’s outdoors from the branch of a tree, so that it dangles,
balanced horizontally. Then you build a tiny altar of pebbles
under it, on which you place offerings of food . . . a fine,
ripe mango, a chicken liver . . . anything small and tasty
that comes handy. Sometimes you lay a little bouquet of
flowers against the side of the altar. Sometimes, if the arm
is slow in answering, you build a little fire under it—as good
Catholics among the peasants of the Roman Campagna stand
the little image of Saint Joseph on his head in a basin of
water, to “ persuade” him to answer their prayers. Then you
invoke the spirit of the long-dead witch-doctor, and presently
the arm begins to gyrate slowly. It does too—nearly always—
and without needing to be jiggled or tricked. The temple
ceilings are bamboo-latticed, thatched, thick, but not very
solid or stable, and any slight vibration does it. Sometimes
there’s a slight breeze, nearly always the vibration of the
drums. Sometimes in complete silence, with no drums and
apparently no breath of air, the “ hand of power” revolves
slowly on its axis-arm, or dips upward or downward, as if
it wants to say or point out something. No spirit speaks
through it, and no spirit ever has or ever will speak through
any medium, animate or inanimate, in my opinion, but it’s
eerie, there in its own setting, and it’s easy to understand
how they believe a spirit moves it.
I knew that if we were going to take Diisi along, we would
also be transporting what was left of Diisi’s grandfather. So
that when they turned up that night, with Wamba, thank
God, divested of her scarlet ostrich plumes and bangles,
swathed now in a dark-blue fagne suitable for inconspicuous
55
WITCHCRAFT
travel, I was not surprised to see in Diisi’s luggage the little
mahogany casket bound in leopard skin, in which reposed the
long-dead sorcerer’s black hand.
We got there in less than three days, and the hospital
turned out to be a Catholic medical mission of the Peres
Blancs. To the kindly monks and doctor who received us, I
was simply a white colonial who had brought a couple of
natives to visit a sick relative. Diisi, and Wamba too, were
circumspect and humble. The hospital had many patients, all
black, and they weren’t sure whether a Benke Kono was
among them or not. If the records didn’t show anything, we
were welcome to have a look at all the men patients, and
would doubtless recognize him, if he was there. Native names
were sometimes difficult to get straight, they explained to me.
But presently they found Benke Kono’s name, and then re­
membered him perfectly, since he had been there for several
weeks and had been an “ interesting case.” He had gone home,
probably to die, they said, a few days before. He had been
“ an interesting case,” the doctor repeated.
“ W hy had the case been interesting?”
“ W ell, to be frank,” said the doctor, “ we are equipped
with laboratories and technicians, and I have had a lifetime’s
experience with native diseases . . . but we couldn’t find
out what was the matter with the old Malinke.” He had
seemed to be wasting away from pernicious anemia or some­
thing of the sort, the doctor continued, but the blood tests,
and all the other tests and attempted diagnoses, had failed to
show anything whatsoever.
I thanked them, got permission to leave the truck for a
few days.
From then on it was up to Wamba. Since I had come that
56
WOODEN DOLL IN A CAVE
far to visit her sick uncle, I was willing to tag along a little
further, and let her find him if she could. It proved to be
simple enough. Uncle Bird’s village was distant only fifteen
kilometers, and we got there, with porters, late that night.
Uncle Bird was one of the village headmen, had a sizable
compound, several houses, several wives, a flock of chickens,
and a herd of goats. The village helped install me in the
thatch-roofed guesthouse—nearly every forest village has
one—while Wamba and Diisi were looked after by Uncle
Bird’s wives. Next morning she sent for me to come over
and meet Uncle Bird. He was a pleasant, sad, old savage
who must once have had a powerful physique and command­
ing presence . . . elderly rather than really old . . . and
not precisely a savage either, since I soon discovered he could
speak good pidgin French, and saw hanging from pegs in
the wall two suits of store-bought clothes. Like many native
headmen in that part of Africa, he had worked a good part
of his life for the administration, had been a sort of tax over­
seer. Now he was wasted, emaciated, melancholy, and de­
pressed. H e had been lying in a bamboo wall bunk on a
straw mat, with a pillow, but sat up to talk with us. It was
the administration, he said, who had persuaded him to go to
the hospital, and he had consented to go, not because of the
medical doctors but because the Peres Blancs were basi-tigui,
which means dealers in spiritual and supernatural things.
Just as the fetishist priest is basi-tigui, so likewise is the
Roman Catholic priest, or priest of any religion.1 Uncle Bird
had gone to the hospital, he told me, because he’d thought
1 Protestant missionaries, though occasionally liked and respected by
the natives, have never been considered basi-tigui,
S I
WITCHCRAFT
the proximity, prayers, masses, and protection of the basi-
tigui might help him.
Did he know, then, I asked, what was the matter with him?
Oh, yes, he knew, and glanced at Wamba. That was why
he had sent for Wamba. H e glanced at her again, and she
nodded her head in assent. It was all right to tell me. So he
told me.
H e knew and told me all about why he was dying. Some­
where in the forest, a wooden doll had been carved in his
image and baptized with his name. It had then been wound
round and round with soft scarlet woolen thread which had
been “ made to be” his own life-thread. Each day, a little of
the thread was being unwound, while the deadly basiko and
dayama incantations were chanted. When the end of the
scarlet thread was reached, he was going to die, he said, and
I, who have no superstition, was convinced that he would.
H e was going to die simply and solely because he knew that
he was going to die? The only thing he didn’t know was
who the witch might be, or where the doll was hidden.
Wamba meanwhile, first whispering with Diisi, was now
moving restlessly around the room, then standing trembling
like a big savage cat when it begins lashing its tail.
“ Perhaps you are not going to die, Uncle Bird,” she said.
“ H ave you not been taught that fate is always fan-shaped?
But you should have sent for me sooner.”
On our way back to Huan, which had a large native popu­
lation and the biggest native market in the region, Wamba
2To those who believe that concentrated hatred and destructive thought
can send out actual emanations of evil, perceptible through channels other
than the senses— I can only say that while they may be right, I do not be­
lieve it.
58
said to Diisi and me, “ With more time, I could handle this
in the old way, as such things should be handled. But there
is little time, and I am going to handle it by a quicker
handle.”
The only whites in Huan were the missionary priests, the
manager of a “ chain-store” trading post, and a French ser-
gent-jonctioimaire in charge of a few Senegalese soldiers.
Having already “ gone native” on this little expedition, I
stayed away from the whites. From then on, I let Wamba
run the show.
Wamba took a house for us out on the edge of the town,
in a compound fenced at the front, but whose back yard was
the whole forest. It had mud-thatched outbuildings, includ­
ing a small fetish house, as these compounds nearly always
do, and in this little devil’s doghouse, Diisi prepared to go
to work on his grandfather’s arm. I helped gather pebbles
for the altar, and contributed two or three cigarettes which I
propped against it. When I went back that night, they were
gone, and I didn’t inquire whether Diisi had smoked them
himself or burned them to propitiate his ancestor. Wamba
had made one trip to the market, and servants had returned
laden with provisions. Then she went down into the town,
and was gone for two days and nights. She returned, worn
out and travel stained, looking completely done in. I don’t
think she’d slept at all in the interval. I gave her a shot of
rum from a bottle I’d sent one of the servants to buy from
the chain store. She flopped down and slept for a couple of
hours. Then drummers came, and we went into executive
session with Diisi’s grandfather’s arm. Before it ended, we
had a small, fervent congregation . . . the servants . . .
WOODEN DOLL IN A CAVE
59
WITCHCRAFT
and other faces I had never seen before. They joined in the
prayers, and Wamba seemed pleased. The arm did its stuff,
and when it was over Wamba told me she knew everything
she needed to know. She knew where the doll was, and the
identity of the witch. I suspect that during the two days and
nights she’d been absent, working probably as detectives or
rival gangsters work in the jungles of Chicago or New York,
she’d learned, or bought, the information.
“ I am now going,” said Wamba, “ to save Uncle Bird’s
life. You can come along if you choose, but I advise you not
to. You are one of us, a black man with a white face, but you
would perhaps not wish to see what you would see.”
Diisi did not accompany us. Wamba and I made a journey,
accompanied only by two grim-faced men who she said were
her “ cousins.” “ Torpedoes” would have been the name for
them in the American jungle. They were forest savages, but
I suspected they were Senegalese. They were barefoot now,
but I suspected they had worn shoes, and uniforms. There
was a mud-and-stone house built into the face of a cliff, many
a long mile from Huan. And the house was the masked en­
trance to a cave. We entered the house, and entered the cave.
And there, upon an altar, candlelighted, smeared with chicken
blood, I saw the ugly little wmoden doll from which the scarlet
life-thread had been unwound almost to the last strand. I had
expected to see a hag, but the witch, who would unwind no
more because she lay quivering on the floor sieved with slugs
fired at close range by Wamba’s “ cousins,” was a young
wench who spat in our faces as she died. Wamba had no re­
morse. Wamba was gay and happy as a girl scout who had
done her good deed for the day. We later held a festival, a
6o
W OODEN D O LL IN A CAVE
bamboche, to celebrate Uncle Bird’s deliverance and the be­
ginning of his recovery. He began getting well immediately,
and he got well, as I believe, because he now knew that he
was going to get well.
61
VI. Sawdust Doll in Brambles
IN contrast to Uncle Bird’s whole-souled and whole-minded
fear-belief in the infernal, supernatural power of the witch’s
incantations and the doll, I next present the case of an in­
tended victim who was a disbeliever and had no conscious
fear at all.
H e was a young mechanic from Marseilles, who understood
engines and anything he could take hold of with his hands
or a wrench, but to whom the complications of modern psy­
chology, much less the idea that a “ witch” could hurt him
with a doll or by suggestion either, would have been de la
fumislerie—the bunk.
H is name was Louis Bausset, and I got acquainted with
him first in a garage, at St. Remy, where I was living up­
stairs above a workman’s restaurant. H e had a girl in a neigh­
boring hill village, and I had a girl in the town. The four
of us used to meet occasionally in the restaurant and share
the same table. They confided one evening that they wanted
to get married and w'ere having a bad time with Marie’s
doddering old grandmother who had refused to let them.
Marie was an orphan, under age, the grandmother was her
guardian, and the French laws are tough in such circum-
6 2
SAWDUST DOLL IN BRAMBLES
stances. Louis wondered if I ’d go up with him some day and
see if I could help.1
There’s a turn on one of the main roads well out of St.
Remy where you can look up and see the hill village perched
on a steep cliff above the gorge through which the road runs.
A winding goat path leads up from that point, but it’s a hard
climb and people seldom use it to go up, though mountain
peasants often come down that way, since it cuts off several
miles. Louis sometimes used it, even in going up, but on
the Sunday morning set for our visit to Marie and her
grandmother, we had borrowed an old Citroen from his
garage and rode the long way, roundabout. Marie was wait­
ing for us at a cafe, beyond the church.
She took us to an old stone mas, a dilapidated but mas­
sively built farm cottage which had been there for centuries.
In introducing me, with peasant formality, she called her
grandmother “ Madame Tirelouet,” but “ Mere Tirelou” was
the more familiar name by which she and Louis afterward
addressed her. Mere Tirelou was withered, skinny in the
arms and legs, yet unhealthily plump in face and body, like
a withered, half-rotting sour apple. She was civil at first, in
the presence of a stranger, and fetched wine with a plate of
seedcakes. But when the subject of marriage came up and I
began to speak well of Louis, she told me, in a croaking
voice, to keep my nose out of other people’s business. I tried
to point out that it was very much the business of Marie and
Louis, the most important thing on earth for them, and that
I was Louis’s close friend and sincerely believed he would
1 Years ago, I twisted some of these events into a short story. I never
expected to touch it again, but in this context it deserves to be told as it
actually happened.
63
WITCHCRAFT
make Marie a good husband. I tried to tell her about his
work and prospects. Presently she lost her temper and was
screaming at us, “ Never . . . while I live!”
There was no use arguing with an eccentric old woman in
a screaming temper, and as we went away, she fired a parting
shot at Louis,
“ . . . and I may live longer than you do, unless you let
Marie alone!”
“ I doubt if you’ll ever bring her round,” I said to Marie
as we sat in the sunshine, on the terrace of the cafe overlook­
ing the gorge and valley. The view was magnificent. I ’d
never been up there before, and was thinking it would be a
lovely place to spend a week in. I was thinking that even
though I hadn’t been much of a help as a matchmaker, I ’d
found a spot worth visiting for a while when I left St. Remy.
“ After all, the old lady can’t live forever, and, for that
matter, you’ll be of age in a year or so,” I said to Marie.
“ Why don’t you wait a little?”
“ We don’t want to wait,” said Louis. “ We want to get
married.”
I said, “ I ’d like to come up here and spend a couple of
weeks anyway, and if I do I’d be glad to try to get better
acquainted with her, and try . . .”
Louis said, “ I don’t think it would be of any use, but you
might try if you are coming up anyway.”
That was the situation, and that was the way it still was,
when I went up in August and took a room at the inn. The
inn owned the cafe and terrace on the edge of the cliff. The
inn was built into the parapet which hung over the gorge.
6 4
There was a stone wagon shed which had been converted into
a garage, and my room was above it. The motor road came
up through the back of the village, and the footpath coming
up from the gorge bent round the wagon shed’s courtyard
walls and joined the road almost beneath my window. Louis
had arrived for a few days’ vacation, had another room in
the inn, and was seeing Marie in spite of the old woman.
In casual conversations with new acquaintances in the vil­
lage, I learned that Mere Tirelou was supposed by some of
them to be a little crazy, and said by others to be a “ witch.”
I pricked up my ears a little . . . but since every village in
Southern France has an old woman who sells harmless herbs,
tells fortunes in tea leaves or with the Tarot cards, and cures
rheumatism, or tries to, with amulets and charms, my curi­
osity was only mildly aroused. And as for any suspicion that
her sort of witchcraft might be sinister, or might have any
remote connection with her refusal to let her granddaughter
marry Louis, it didn’t enter my head.
Then, one hot midafternoon when I lay reading in my
room beside an open window, the series of events began
which led finally, by paths of ancient evil, to the doll in bram­
bles. I had often heard Mere Tirelou quarreling with Louis,
but all at once, down in an angle of the courtyard wall be­
neath my window, I heard their voices now, and there was a
new note in the old woman’s. I couldn’t catch the words at
first, but she was muttering, and he was trying to quiet her,
half-amiable, half-impatient and derisive. Her tones, mean­
while, were so curious that I got the unpleasant impression
she might be on the verge of convulsions, or a “ seizure” as
the French call it, and I got up to see what was happening.
SAWDUST DOLL IN BRAMBLES
65
WITCHCRAFT
They were standing down there in the sunshine, he tall,
ruddy, tousle-haired, bareheaded, in knickers and sport shirt;
she gray, bent, and batlike in her Arlesienne coijje and shawl,
with arms outstretched, crouching, and barring his path. She
was now intoning a weird, singsong doggerel, at the same
time weaving in the air with her clawlike hands:
Go down, go down, my pretty youth,
But you will not come up.
Tangled mind will twist and turn,
And tangled foot will follow.
You will go down, my pretty one,
But you will not come up again.
So tangle, tangle, twist and turn,
For tangling webs are woven.
She kept singing it, and was on her knees, clawing at his
feet and ankles, scratching and pulling at his shoelaces. H e
was bending as if to lift her up, when she hopped aside and
arose.
She was no longer barring Louis’s path but standing aside,
inviting him to pass, so that her back was partly turned to
me, while Louis stood so that I would see his face and the
expressions which flitted over it—first an interested, incredu­
lous, surprised attention as if he couldn’t believe his own
ears, then a good-humored but derisive and defiant grin as
the old woman began again to mumble her doggerel.
“ No, no, Mere Tirelou,” he said. “ You can’t scare me
with stuff like that. Better get an honest-to-goodness broom­
stick when you try to drive me away. Save your cobwebs and
incantations for the shepherds.”
Then Louis with a defiant, humorous au revoir was off
down the goat path whistling, while the old woman screamed
66
after him, “ Down, down, down you go, but not up, my pretty
boy; not up, not up, not up!”
This was years ago, but I already knew, or thought I knew,
a good deal about witchcraft. I had known it to produce re­
sults, but only in cases when the victim was superstitious and
consequently amenable to fear. I knew nothing then about
the role the subconscious might play. I felt sure that such
complete, hardheaded disbelief constituted a stronger “ coun­
ter-magic” than any amount of exorcism and holy water, and
felt sure that Louis wasn’t in the slightest danger.
I have since learned that it’s never quite as simple as that.
But holding those wrong convictions then, I finished my
reading, dined early, strolled to the top of a crest to watch
the sunset, and went early to bed.
Usually after ten o’clock the whole village, including the
interior of the inn, was sound asleep and silent. It was the
noise of footsteps clattering along the stone floor of the cor­
ridor which awoke me late in the night. I heard lowered
voices in the road, saw lights flashing.
I struck a light, dressed and went downstairs. The inn­
keeper, Martin Plomb, was talking to a group of neighbors.
His wife was standing in the doorway, wrapped in a quilted
dressing gown.
“ We’re worried about Louis Bausset,” she said. “ He went
down the goat path this afternoon, and said he was coming
back the same way. It’s all right in the daylight, even for a
stranger, but it’s not safe at night unless you know every inch
of it. We thought nothing of it that he didn’t come back for
SAWDUST D O LL IN B R A M B L E S
67
W IT C H C R A F T
dinner, but it’s past midnight and we’re afraid he may have
had an accident.”
Already the men, in groups of twos and threes, with farm
lanterns, a few with electric flashlights, were starting down
the path. It had a lot of “ false turnings,” they said, which
the goats had made, foraging off in the brambles . . . and
one turn which led across into another gorge.
Martin Plomb was instructing them to go this way or that
and to keep in touch with one another by shouting. I went
along with him. It was just before dawn, after hours of fruit­
less search, that we heard a different shouting from the right.
I couldn’t distinguish the words, but Martin said, “ They’ve
found him.” We worked our way across and climbed toward
the main road along which we now could see lights flashing.
They were carrying Louis on an improvised litter made
with two saplings and pine branches interwoven. H e was con­
scious; his eyes were open; but he seemed to be in a stupor
and had been unable, they said, to explain what had hap­
pened to him. No bones were broken, nor had he apparently
suffered any serious physical injury, but his face was cut and
scratched, his clothes were badly torn, particularly the knees
of his knickerbockers, which were ripped and abraded as if
he had been dragging himself along on his hands and knees.
His stockings and shoelaces were torn to tatters.
They all agreed on what had probably happened. He had
been climbing bareheaded among the rocks in the heat of
the late afternoon, had suffered an insolation, or sort of sun­
stroke, they said. They’d found him a mile off the path, in
a sloping tangle of thornbush and brambles. He should be
all right in a day or two, Martin said. They were sending-
down to St. Remy for the doctor.
68
It was dawn when we got to bed, and when I awoke to­
ward noon the doctor had already come and gone.
“ He had a bad stroke,” Martin told me. “ His head is clear
—but there’s still something the matter that the doctor
couldn’t understand. When he tried to get up from the bed,
he couldn’t walk. His legs aren’t broken or anything. It’s
queer. H e seemed to twist and stumble over his own feet.”
Sharply, as he spoke, the belated certainty came to me that
here was an end to coincidence; that I had been wrong; that
something evil had been happening here under my eyes.
“ Martin,” I said, “ something happened yesterday that you
don’t know about. I ’d like to see Louis and talk with him.
You say his mind is dear?”
“ But assuredly,” said Martin, puzzled. “ H e will want to
see you.”
Louis was in bed, his face and hands zigzagged with
scratches.
I said, “ Louis, Martin tells me there’s something wrong
with your legs. I think perhaps I can tell you what—”
“ Why, have you studied medicine?” he interrupted ea­
gerly. “ If we’d known that! The one who came up from
St. Remy didn’t seem to be much good.”
“ No, I ’m no doctor. But I ’m not sure this is a doctor’s job.
You know where my room is. I was at the window yesterday
and heard and saw everything that happened between you
and Mere Tirelou. Haven’t you thought that there may be
some connection?”
H e stared at me in surprise, and also with a sort of angry
disappointment.
“ TiensI” he said. “ You, an educated American, you be-
SAWDUST D O LL IN B R A M B L E S
6 9
W IT C H C R A F T
lieve in that crazy foolishness! Why, I came from these
mountains; I was born here, and I know that stuff is silly
nonsense. I thought about it, of course, that tanglefoot busi­
ness, but it doesn’t make any sense. How could it?”
“ Maybe it doesn’t,” I said, “ but just the same will you
please tell me as well as you can exactly what happened to
you yesterday afternoon and last night?”
“ I went down,” he said, “ then walked to the crossroads
and hitchhiked into St. Remy on a truck, which brought me
back and dropped me there at the same carrejour an hour
later. I started back up the path, and caught my foot in a
vine or something and fell down, and when I got up I saw
I must have wandered off the path without knowing it, for
there wasn’t any path in sight, and I went looking for it.
You know how the going is, and how thick it is with thorn-
bush. I stumbled a couple of times . . . anybody but a goat
would stumble in that tangle . . . finally fell down a couple
of times more . . . and there I was, lost on that damned
mountainside. I had the ‘stroke,’ or whatever it was, after­
ward. I began to be dizzy, couldn’t stand up, everything
looked queer to me. I was frightened, I guess, and I kept try­
ing to walk, and kept falling down, and it got dark . . . and
that’s all I remember. If it’s left me like this, I ’d rather it
had killed me. I’d rather be dead than crippled.”
Louis lapsed into somber silence. I had heard enough.
People have lain in bed for years because they believed they
couldn’t arise and walk. Medical records show plenty of
cases in which such patients have been “ cured” simply by
being “ jolted” out of the neurosis, and it was my job now to
jolt Louis if I could.
7 0
SAW DUST D O LL IN B R A M B L E S
Neither the old woman nor her granddaughter had been
near the hotel that morning. I climbed the winding cobbled
street and tapped at their door. Presently Marie reluctantly
opened. I said:
“ I ’ve come to see Mere Tirelou.”
“ She is not here,” said Marie. The girl was in distress, and
I felt she knew or suspected why I had come.
“ In that case,” I said, “ we must talk. Shall it be like this,
or would you prefer to have me come in?”
She motioned me inside.
I said, “ Marie, I beg you to be honest. You know what
people say about your grandmother—and there are some
who say it also about you. I hope that part isn’t true. But
your grandmother has done something I ’m determined to
have undone. I’m so certain that, if necessary, I am going to
see the priest, and have him get the police up from St. Remy.
I think you know exactly what I am talking about. It’s Louis
—and I can’t see how you, pretending to love him and want­
ing to marry him . . .”
“ No, no, no!” the girl cried pitifully, interrupting. “ I tried
to stop it! I warned him! I begged him yesterday not to see
me any more. I told him that something dreadful would hap­
pen, but he laughed at me. He doesn’t believe in such things.
I have helped my grandmother in other things—she has
forced me to help her—but never in anything so wicked as
this—and against Louis!”
“ W ell, by god,” I said, “ no matter what your grandmother
has made you help in, it’s Louis and me you’re going to help
now.”
“ I ’m afraid,” she said, “ afraid of my grandmother. Oh, if
71
W IT C H C R A F T
you knew! I don’t dare go down there—and besides, the
door is locked—and it may not be down there.”
I insisted. We broke the lock. The girl went first, and I
followed close, lighting our way with the lamp held at her
shoulder. The stone stairway curved sharply downward, as
in all such farmhouses, then emerged into what must once
have been the wine cellar. It now housed various unpleasant
objects on which the shadows flickered as I set the lamp on
a barrel, and began to look about me. I had heard that
witches, practicing in the medieval tradition, still existed in
certain parts of Europe, yet I was surprised to see the defi­
nite evidence so literally surviving.
Against the opposite wall was an altar surmounted by a
pair of horns. Beneath them “ I N R I ” with the letters dis­
torted into obscene symbols—and there on the floor, cun­
ningly contrived with infinite pains, covering a considerable
space, was the thing which we had come to find and which,
for all my efforts to rationalize it, sent a shiver through me.
Spread there on the earthen floor, like a wild landscape in
miniature, was a tangled labyrinth of thorns and brambles
Tangled in its center like a butterfly caught on flypaper, was
a doll, a common doll with china head on a stuffed sawdust
body; a doll such as might be bought for three francs in
any toyshop—but whatever baby dress it may have worn had
been removed and a costume suggesting a man’s knicker­
bockers and sport shirt had been substituted. The eyes of
this manikin were bandaged with a narrow strip of black
cloth. Its feet and legs were tangled, fastened, pierced, and
enmeshed in the crisscross maze of thorns and brambles. It
slumped, sagging there at an ugly angle, neither upright nor
72
SAW DUST D O LL IN B R A M B L E S
fallen, grotesquely sinister, like the body of a soldier caught
in barbed wire. All this may seem silly, childish, when
set down in words. But it was not childish; it was vicious,
wicked.
I disentangled the manikin gently, examined it to see
whether its sawdust body had been pierced with pins or
needle. But there were none. The old woman had apparently
stopped short of intended murder.
Marie had covered her face and was sobbing her heart out.
I picked up the lamp, began again to look around me, and
went through a vaulted passage leading to another part of
the cellar. Suspended by heavy chains from the ceiling was a
life-sized contrivance of wood, with blackened leather straps
—as perverse a device as twisted human ingenuity ever in­
vented. I knew its name and use from old engravings in
books dealing with the obscure sadistic-masochistic element in
medieval sorcery. It was a witch’s cradle. And there was
something about the straps that made me wonder. . . .
Marie saw me staring at it, and shuddered.
“ Marie,” I said, “ is it possible— ?”
“ Yes,” she answered, hanging her head. “ Since you have
been down here there is nothing more to conceal. But I have
hated it, and it has always been on my part unwillingly.”
“ W hy on earth haven’t you denounced her to the authori­
ties? A plain charge of cruelty would have been enough. Why
haven’t you left here?”
“ Monsieur,” she said, “ I have been afraid of what I knew.
And besides, she is my grandmother.”
♦
73
W IT C H C R A F T
I was alone with Louis in his bedroom. I had brought the
O
manikin with me, wrapped in a bit of newspaper. I showed
it to him and told him what I had discovered. H e was at
first skeptical, incredulous, but when I made him see that the
manikin had been crudely dressed to represent himself and it
became clear to him that Mere Tirelou had deliberately
sought to do him a wicked injury, he grew angry, raised up
from his pillows, and exclaimed:
“ Ah, the old woman! She really meant to harm m e!”
I took a chance. I stood up and threw the doll against the
wall as hard as 1could. Its china head crashed to pieces.
“ Did that hurt you?” I demanded.
“ Hurt me? What are you talking about? Are you as crazy
as the old woman?”
“ The doll,” 1said, “ is damned nonsense. Of course smash­
ing it didn’t hurt you! Now forget all about it . . . and get
the hell up out of that bed! Believe you can walk, and you
will walk.”
H e stared at me helplessly, sank back, and said, “ I don’t
believe it. I had a ‘stroke.’ I don’t believe any of it.”
I had failed. He lay there, victim of his own unconscious
imagination, yet his conscious mind lacked paradoxically the
imagination needed to pull him out of it.
I said, “ Louis, you still love Marie, don’t you? W ell,
Mere Tirelou has been doing worse things to Marie than
she tried to do to you.” And I told him brutally, almost vi­
ciously, of the cradle that hung there in the cellar, and of
its use.
The effect was as violent as if 1 had hit him in the face.
“ Ahi Ah! Tonnerre de dieu! La coquine! La vilaine co-
74
quine!” he shouted, leaping up from his bed like a crazy
man. “ Where are my clothes?” he yelled, rushing around
the room.
H e’d forgotten all about his “ stroke” —and that was that.
Louis Bausset, twenty-six-year-old garage mechanic, was
as matter-of-fact and unimaginative an adult as I ’ve ever
known. H e was not a neurasthenic type. H e was devoid of
credulity and superstition. I discovered, however, as we
talked and wondered, after it was all over, that Louis Bausset
at five years of age had believed in all the ghosts, hobgoblins,
and malignant witches which infest the fairy tales and folk­
lore of that region, as they do the Black Forest of Germany.
H e had long ago rejected it rationally, but it had apparently
left something emotionally deep down, asleep, as it were, in
his consciousness. Psychiatry has a simple name for the not
uncommon thing that had happened to him. His “ stroke” and
subsequent inability to walk had been the result of a com­
pulsion neurosis.
SAW DUST D O LL IN B R A M B L E S
75
VII. Doll cJe Luxe in London
I F IR S T came indirectly into this tangle when I was invited
one night to a dinner at the palatial villa of Alice Crystal
Johns, near Juan-les-Pins7 during one of my periods of tem­
porary prosperity at Banded where Dr. Thomas Mann, little
Dr. Lion Feuchtwanoer, other famous German exiles, and
Aldous Huxley were my nearest neighbors, and where D. H .
Lawrence had his last illness.
Marjorie and I were driven over by the Princess Violette
Murat, then at Toulon, and among the dinner guests were
Jean Cocteau, the Comtesse de Noailles, Pirandello, whose
As You Desire Me had recently been translated into French.
Neither Marjorie nor I belonged properly in the group,
but some of my books had also been recently translated. I
had bought the old ruined Chateau d’Evenos, which amused
these brilliant, wealthy neighbors . . . and they were being
kind to us. We were feasted that night superbly on a suc­
cession of marvelous dishes, with priceless wines—while Alice
Johns sat at the head of the table eating plain, unseasoned
gruel from a wooden bowl, with a wooden spoon.
She was beautiful . . . she was always beautiful . . . but
she seemed pitifully thin, I thought, and pale beneath her
76
•n il - up. “ I ’m on a diet,” she had said flatly, as if to avoid
nnnnent or need of further explanation. I didn’t know that
ili< gruel contained no salt until she later confided her trou-
Mi to me privately. It was no secret that I studied black
". i\:ic, and was supposed to practice it. Alice and I had known
■ " li other for several years. She had been gracious to me in
I nndon, and it was to ask my help now that she’d invited us
to dinner. Later in the evening, on a corner of the terrace
looking out over the Mediterranean, she began cautiously,
“ Do you really believe that spells can be cast on people?
I sometimes wonder, because none of the doctors can find
anything the matter with me.”
“ You’ve been doing more than wondering,” I said, “ you’re
•i1raid of something specific, or you wouldn’t be eating out of
a wooden bowl with a wooden spoon. I ’m going to ask you
something. Was there any salt in that gruel you were
eating?”
“ No,” she said, “ it was made without salt.” 1
“ You’re superstitious as a savage,” I said, “ and a fine lot
of superstitions you’ve collected! Salt turns into poison when
you’ve been bewitched! You talk like a zombi. Eating from
a silver spoon might kill you! You’re frightened out of your
wits by something.”
“ I’m not really superstitious,” she said. “ I guess the bowl
and spoon must just be a sort of childish game I ’m playing.”
“ Playing against what?” I asked, and she replied,
“ There is something, but it’s so idiotic and fantastic . . .
so childish and at the same time so crazy . . . that I hesi­
tate to tell you. Do you know' a girl in London by the name
of Annabel Swain?”
1 Sec Appendix, p. 313.
D O LL DE L U X E IN LO N D O N
77
W IT C H C R A F T
“ Yes,” I said, “ I ’ve never seen her on the stage, but I
met her at the Eiffel Tower Hotel, and have seen her around
at other places, sometimes at the Fitzroy Tavern.”
“ W ell,” continued Alice, “ there’s a tale going around
London that she’s got an expensive doll . . . you know how
they make dolls now, like window dummies to represent real
people . . . and that it’s me . . . and that she’s had it
dressed in a miniature replica of one of my Chanel gowns
. . . the green one with gold . . . and that she calls it
‘Alice’ . . . and amuses herself at night by sticking pins
and needles in its stomach!”
“ Such things don’t generally get about,” I said. “ Has any­
body actually seen it? How did the story start?”
“ In that crowd,” said Alice, “ everybody knows every­
thing. They know that so-and-so smokes opium, that Gen­
eral Tel wears high-heeled shoes and corsets, that Miss Biggs
is a mummy-worshiper, and that Arthur has a Negro prize
fighter for a sweetheart. Everybody always knows every­
thing. And if Annabel gets her nasty little thrill from stick­
ing pins in a doll . . . well, it’s silly and loathsome . . . but
it isn’t exactly anything you could have her arrested for.”
“ No,” I said, “ but how do you know the story’s true?”
“ She was full of champagne one night, wobbly, and when
her wobbly friends saw her home, she insisted on their com­
ing up to the apartment and watching her do it. They say
she got a quite nasty little thrill out of sticking the pins in,
and asking ‘Alice’ if ‘that one hurt.’ They thought it made
a funny dirty story, and whispered it, of course, all over
London.”
“ She hates you a lot, doesn’t she?” I asked.
“ Yes, she has hated me for years. She’s a strange girl,
78
vicious as only women of her sort can be, but I suppose I ’d
better admit that she has her own special reasons for hating
me.”
That part, I thought, was none of my business. The word
“ vicious” had caused my memory to click back' to another
story about Annabel Swain which I ’d heard, and forgotten.
It was one of those things like the gossip that Lord So-and-So
paid little girls to torture rabbits. Only worse. It is not re­
peatable in print.
I said, “ Lady Alice, you’ve been talking sensibly, almost
ironically, about that wretched, silly doll. Why did you ever
let it frighten you?”
“ But I didn’t !” she exclaimed. “ I thought it was a nasty,
stupid, silly thing, and almost felt sorry for her. I knew
you’d think it was silly when I told you about it. I know the
doll is nothing but a coincidence. What has troubled me is
my own tummy. I ’m sure you don’t want me to bore you
with all the symptoms, but whatever it is is not simple. I ’m
going to the best doctors and specialists, but they can’t seem
to do anything, and it’s pulling me down. M y friends say
tactlessly, 'You’re not looking well, dear,’ or 'You ought to
take a cruise,’ or '. . . a long rest,’ or mention casually that
they know a wonderful doctor, and I ’m not very happy
about it.”
I said, “ Dear lady, you are lying to me and to yourself.
You say you are not superstitious . . . yet the business of
the salt, the wooden bowl and spoon; the fact that you have
picked me to confide in, all prove that your pretended sense
is only on the surface. You believed all sorts of things in
Grimm’s fairy tales when you were a little girl in the nursery,
didn’t you?”
D O LL DE L U X E IN LO N D O N
79
W IT C H C R A F T
“ Yes,” she said, “ and, oh, I ’m ashamed of it, but Pm
afraid you are right. I ’m afraid I ’m still that little frightened
girl in the nursery, in the dark. I asked you to come tonight
because . . . because I am horribly afraid.”
“ You’re beautiful when you’re scared,” I said irrelevantly.
“ Why don’t you go to London, and let me come along?
W e’ll find out all about that doll. W e’ll smash it, and smash
your precious Annabel Swain too, if we have to. Let’s go to
the mat on it and end this horrid nonsense.”
Alice Johns was something of a power in her international
world. She knew a lot of the biggest people in London by
their intimate, friendly nicknames, which is an entirely dif­
ferent thing from knowing them by their titles. Yet it had
never occurred to her, apparently, to go at this business in
the direct way I had suggested. I suppose it must have been
because her fears, emotions, and superstitions were in one
separate compartment of her mind, while the rational part
of her mind still rejected the possibility that a doll could be
taken seriously. But now that she faced her fears, there was
no stopping her. We flew to London, and I was the one who
was a little scared by the highhanded way she plunged into
the job. The first thing she did was to phone a Cabinet minis­
ter—at his residence. Then she wanted me to go along with
her, and help her tell him all about it. She was spoiled, as
all beautiful rich women are. Apparently her idea now was
to mobilize the Criminal Investigation Department and all
the bobbies of the British Empire against the woman who
was “ trying to murder her.” Well, maybe the woman was
trying to murder her, but there’s no statutory law against
sticking pins in dolls.
8o
D O LL DE L U X E IN LO N D O N
I said, “ Your friend will think you’re crazy. You might as
well call up the First Lord of the Admiralty and ask him to
call out the fleet. We’re going to hire some private investi­
gators quietly to find out what we can about that doll, and
I’m going to do a little investigating on the side myself,
from a different angle.”
I persuaded her, and we employed a firm with a former
Scotland Yard inspector at the head of it. I told them we
wanted to find out if, and when, and how, and for whom, a
portrait doll of Lady Johns had been made within the last
few months in London, an expensive doll de luxe, with Lady
Johns’ features and garbed in the miniature replica of a
Chanel gown, which she showed them. We didn’t tell them
why we wanted this information, and they didn’t ask. The
assumption was that some patent or copyright had been vio­
lated. There are “ rackets” connected with dressmaking, as
with all big international business.
They asked a few questions. They asked if Lady Alice
had ever had a plaster portrait cast made of her head. It was
a fad some years ago; you probably remember about it;
quills in the nostrils for breathing, hair covered with an
oiled-silk cap, face smeared with oil, and the plaster-of-
Paris mold packed over it. She never had—but there’d been
several heads made by sculptors, she said, including amateur
friends, and several of them were around London, one in the
Renfred studios, she believed, and others owned privately.
Could they have a list? Addresses? Yes, if she could find
them.
Next evening a report came by messenger from the de­
tective agency, to say that they were making progress. One
of their wroman operatives had visited four studios, and in
8 l
W IT C H C R A F T
the fourth, whose owner had made a smiling, terra cotta por­
trait bust some years before, the operative had picked up the
trail. A craftsman had come to the caretaker, at a time in
February' when the artist was on the Continent, and had pre­
sented a typewritten letter on Lady Johns’ own stationery',
apparently signed by her, instructing that a plaster cast be
made. The caretaker had of course permitted it . . . had no
record or memory of the man’s name . . . had supposed he
came from Lady Johns.
Alice had written no such letter, and we were evidently
getting somewhere. She was still a sick woman, dieting, suf­
fering frequent nausea and occasional “ sharp pains.” What
she believed or did not believe about those “ stabbing pains”
as she called them, balancing her common sense against her
confessed superstitious fear, is a question I am sure she
could not have answered.
During the next week or so, our private detectives were
tracing and eventually finding the Italian puppet-maker in
Soho who had reduced the portrait replica to doll size and
manufactured the actual doll. I was at work on the other
angle of the case. I was determined to find out, if I could,
whether this pincushion doll de luxe had merely been a per­
verse, vicious whim of Annabel Swain’s, or whether there
was something fouler behind it. I had a lot of acquaintances
in the so-called “ occult” underworld of London and its sub­
urbs, which houses more strange cults, secret societies, devil's
altars, professional “ sorcerers” and charlatans than any other
metropolitan area on earth. And I hoped to turn up the other
angle in that milieu. London cults include Goat Worship,
Cults of Cruelty, Tree Cults, Cults of the Horrible, Rosi-
crucians, Thugs, Ghost Circles, Black Brothers and Grey
82
Sisters, Suicide Societies and Mummy Worshipers. The late
G. K. Chesterton knew and Arthur Machen knows more
about these fantastic, crazy and sometimes wicked circles
than they ever cared to write.2
These cults include also the Satanists who claim direct
traditional descent from the black magic practitioners, sor­
cerers, and witches’ covens which flourished in the Middle
Ages. They still practice witchcraft, and celebrate the Black
Mass. They also stage occasional theatrical travesties of it
which cover its inner meaning and merely exploit the ob­
scene for money. The Black Mass itself, when celebrated
solely as a ritual, is not nearly as spectacular as certain lurid
accounts of its exploited variations have led readers of witch­
craft books to believe. I had seen it celebrated several times,
twice in London, in Paris, in Lyons, and once within less than
a mile of the Washington Arch, in New York. It has varied
little in centuries, and is rather a bore unless one gets a kick
out of blasphemy and the defiling of sacred objects. It has
attracted, and been exploited commercially in secret, with a
lot of pornographic nonsense added, by many a charlatan
who is no more of a true Satanist than Bolber or the current
witchcraft poison murderers in Philadelphia. It was not these
fakers in whom I was interested, but certain real ones whom
I knew, and who might be in London. These, in their crack-
brained, twisted way, believe in their demonology, and in
its infernal sanction, in the same way orthodox Christians
believe in their theology, and its heavenly sanction. Their
Satan is the fallen Archangel Lucifer, who has always had
more power on earth than God, and their ultimate object is
2 See Appendix, p. 316.
D O LL D E L U X E IN LO N D O N
83
W IT C H C R A F T
to restore “ Him ” —they spell it with a capital letter—to the
throne of the universe.
Some of them are wealthy, many are otherwise “ respect­
able” and otherwise quite sane. One I know has a degree
from Oxford, and nearly all of them are profound students
of the Bible, Church history, the Talmud and Kabala. Just
as witchcraft is the evil, reverse image of mental therapy,
so Satanism is the reverse image of religion. How liter­
ally it is a “ reverse” image is a thing which should be
briefly told, even at the risk of further interrupting, for a
moment, the thread of my narrative.
Four essentials are, and always have been, necessary to the
ritual: an apostate priest, a consecrated host, a prostitute, a vir­
gin. The false priest is in these days generally a priest who has
been unfrocked, kicked out of the Church. The consecrated
wafer is obtained by a false communicant who goes to a true
mass with his tongue and the mucous membranes of his
mouth coated with alum.
Before an altar surmounted by a crucifix turned upside
down, and on which the girl who is a virgin lies naked, the
black-robed priest intones parts of the true mass backward,
in dog Latin, substituting the word “ evil” for “ good” and
the word “ Satan” for “ God.” The prostitute, robed in scar­
let, performs the duties of acolyte, the goblet of wine is
placed between the breasts of the recumbent virgin and a
part of the wine is spilled over her body. At the supreme
moment, the sacrament, the consecrated wafer, which they
believe has become by its previous true consecration the body
of Christ, is debased instead of elevated, and subsequently
defiled. Efforts were made to “ convert” me at one time,
which explains how I know so much about it. I have spent
84
entire nights talking and drinking Scotch with leaders of the
Satanists, have had them in my studios and have been in
theirs; have even helped draw the pentagrams with chalk
upon the floor wrhen they were trying, as the spiritualists try
with ghosts of the departed, to evoke the materialized pres­
ence of Beelzebub or Ashtoreth. The only materialization
we ever got—and which scared the wits out of all of us in­
cluding the Satanist leader—was a stray cat which had wan­
dered in from a Chelsea fire escape one night in summer.
It was this Satanist leader I thought of now. If he was still
in London, he might have the information I sought. I had
little difficulty in locating him, and he agreed to meet me
that evening at the Fitzroy Tavern. At a table in the long
alcove beyond the bar, I put it to him flatly. I said, “ You
know from experience of over ten years that Pm not a spy,
informer, or reformer, and that I have no connection with
the police. Nor am I engaged in any investigation into pres­
ent activities. I want some private information about one
single private individual. I want to know whether Annabel
Swain is, or has ever been, a Satanist, and if so how deeply
she got into it.”
“ Is there any police-court angle in this?” he asked. “ Black­
mail or anything of that sort?”
“ No,” I said, “ and there won’t be.”
I had done him some favors in the old days when I was a
student of diabolism, and he said,
“ All right, if it’s my turn to do you a favor, you’ll keep
my name out of it. She’s in it. I ’ve seen her in the proces­
sion of communicants, both here and in Paris.”
“ Has she ever been a student of the other stuff?”
D O LL DE L U X E IN LON D ON
85
W IT C H C R A F T
“ O h!” said he, with a grunt, “ so that’s what she’s been
up to! If she’s a real adept I ’d be surprised to learn it. But I
could find out for you . . . or perhaps you know enough
“ Yes,” I said, “ I think I know enough.”
And by that time we did. Worshiping the devil and stick­
ing pins in dolls are indeed not statutory crimes, but now
that we knew' wrhere we stood, Alice Johns had the necessary
influence, and the necessary ruthlessness, to put the screw's
to her enemy. She w'as literal-minded.
“ You tell me that if I hadn’t been superstitious, I might
never have been ill,” she said, “ but superstition or no super­
stition, I ’m going to have that doll and Annabel Swain’s
hide!”
She knew an excellent angle from which Annabel Sw'ain
could be attacked, and though it came close to being the
equivalent of “ framing her,” we didn’t have the slightest
qualms of conscience in doing it. The actress was know'n to
be what’s called in that decadent set, as it’s called too now I
believe in Hollywood, a “ druggist.” She wasn’t a dope vic­
tim or dope maniac, and might never be, but she was on
and off cocaine and heroin, consequently had to buy it from
peddlers who could be located if necessary and made or
bribed to talk. She must have small supplies of it from time
to time, in her apartment, and if there didn’t happen to be
any there just now', it could be “ planted.” Not a very savory
business, but the v'hole thing was unsavory. And w'hen a
couple of beautiful women in that ruthless group are deadly
enemies, out for each other’s scalps, it’s been my lifelong ob­
servation that they willingly use w'eapons w'hich would make
an honest gunman blush.
8 6
DOLL DE LU XE IN LONDON
Three nights following, around one o’clock in the morn­
ing, a licensed detective named Yarborough, accompanied by
two gentlemen with badges who said they were members of
the narcotic squad, returned from Annabel Swain’s apart­
ment with the doll, and with a brief scrawled note on violet
paper, which said,
Darling, it was only a bad joke, of course, and I ’m terribly
sorry you took it seriously. But you never had a sense of humor!
Am sailing for New York tomorrow and if I never see you again,
I hope you choke.
With all my love,
A.
“It was a very bad joke indeed,” I said. “She was merely
trying to kill you, and since you seem to have been almost
as superstitious as she was, she might have succeeded.”
The doll was a lovely object to have been put to so foul
a use. It was a perfect little masterpiece of boudoir art, and
its startling, perfect likeness made me shiver a little. It was
Alice Johns in miniature. She was emotionally affected too.
She was dubious at first about touching it, then burst into
hysterical laughter, clasped it to her breast, began hugging
it and kissing it and comforting it.
“Are you going to burn it?” I asked. “That’s usually the
classic procedure. We could have a little ceremony, and if it
amused you, I could recite the old formula of purification.”
“I am not!” she retorted with a laugh that was still hys­
terical, but had relief and a spark almost of gaiety in it too.
“I’m going to keep it and feed it gruel without salt . . .
from a lovely wooden spoon!”
The memory of the agonies she had gone through sobered
her, and she said presently, “If she hated me that much and
87
W IT C H C R A F T
really wanted to see me dead, why didn’t she have me poi­
soned and be done with it?”
I said, “She did. Haven’t you realized yet that you were
poisoned? They hang people for poisoning your body, but no
law can touch them when they inject the poison in your
mind.”
8 8
VIII. Nail-Studded Doll in Toulon
TO poison the mind of an individual against some other in­
dividual is an easy, all-too-common practice—so common
that the phrase describing it is familiar in all languages. “ His
mind was poisoned against her.” Thus friendships, loves, and
family ties are broken. Thus Othello, his mind poisoned by
Iago, murders Desdemona.
Poisoning group minds against other groups is an equally
familiar phenomenon. Common metaphors frequently con­
ceal deep metaphysical truths. The term “ spellbinder” —orig­
inally applied only to the actual witch or sorcerer—has be­
come a common appellation for the rabble-rousing orator.
Baboon talk, direct in its appeal to the emotions, short-cir­
cuiting the mind and substituting “ feeling” for “ thinking,”
sets nations at each other’s throats. Adolf Hitler is a bloodier
witch and weaver of evil incantations than the foulest witch
in any German fairy tale. The poisoning of minds against
somebody or something else is so familiar that no more
need be said about it.
But the art of poisoning an individual’s mind in a way
that will cause the poison to eat inward is a more obscure
phenomenon. The witch—whether male or female, for the
89
W IT C H C R A F T
word properly is sexless—has had a monopoly on its tech­
nique from time immemorial.
By consorting with witches in primitive jungles, and in
“ jungles” even more sinister existing under cover in most
civilized cities and countrysides, I have learned most of their
secrets.
I have always been afraid of using what I know—whether
to help a friend or hurt an enemy. Only once have I ever
employed it as a lethal weapon, and fortunately for such
conscience as I may possess, the thing stopped short of actual
killing, though it came close to it.
One day after I had come back for a third time from
Africa, and when Marjorie and I were living in the Villa des
Roseaux, near Toulon, a distinguished ecclesiastic whom we
were proud to call our friend brought a new acquaintance
to visit us. M y friendship with Monseigneur Delatour, ex­
tending over years in Paris, on the Riviera, in Algiers, and
in Rome, had become so intimate that we called him affec­
tionately by his first name, Rafael, and once, for some house
guests who had come down for Christmas, he had celebrated
the Midnight Mass on Christmas Eve in the little chapel of
our villa. Afterward, in the old tradition, he had laid aside
his vestments to go into the kitchens and superintend the
basting of the wild boar on which we banqueted.
Because of that friendship, we were cordial now toward
the newcomer, a certain “ Abbe Penhoel,” whom he brought
to lunch one day in April. Our Monseigneur explained that
the Abbe, from Brittany, had been engaged for several years
in experiments connected with extra-sensory perception, men­
tal telepathy, and clairvoyance—somewhat the same sort of
9 0
N A IL -ST U D D E D D O LL IN T O U L O N
laboratory work, I supposed, that British and American uni­
versities are conducting. I gradually began to suspect, how­
ever, during our first luncheon conversation that our visitor
was involved in other and more dubious branches of the eso­
teric. So that I was not surprised when Rafael confided to
me in the garden later that the Abbe possessed or believed
himself to possess—in some degree, a kind of supernormal
power far beyond anything the universities were investi­
gating. And Rafael had added:
“ I think he does possess something extremely interesting,
but I don’t altogether like it. I hesitated quite a while be­
fore bringing him out here today, but I knew you were keen
on that sort of thing wherever it is real, or seems to be, and
he wanted to meet you.”
I was interested, and liked the Abbe Penhoel well enough,
so that, vacationing in Toulon, he came back to Les Roseaux
often. H e enjoyed swimming, canoeing, walking. I was fin­
ishing a book. His frequent presence was an agreeable diver­
sion for Marjorie who found him interesting and liked him
pretty well, too.
H e and she often sat on the beach in front of our terrace,
after swimming, and talked mysticism by the hour, engaged
sometimes in harmless “ palm-reading”—and then, for rea­
sons which it didn’t occur to me were any of my business at
the time, she seemed to take a sort of dislike to him. H e con­
tinued coming to the house, and it was only long afterward
I learned that he had made a violent “ declaration” to M ar­
jorie. H e had tried to force his attentions on her, and her
refusal was probably the motive for what followed. I knew
nothing of this at the time, so that we all kept seeing each
other.
9i
W IT C H C R A F T
One afternoon—this was in late April—the Abbe Penhoel,
with our Monseigneur, a couple of French authors, and a
publisher, were having aferitifs and tea. The talk turned to
work. The publisher or somebody asked Marjorie what she
was working on now, and she told, with eager enthusiasm,
about a novel she was planning, of how she looked forward
with real pleasure to writing it; of how she meant to begin
that very week, and intended to have it completed by the
last of October.
They had all gone away and it was getting toward dinner­
time, and I was down on the beach watching the sunset when
our maid, Anna, came and said, “ Monsieur, you had better
come to the house. Madame Marjorie is crying.”
I found her on the sofa of the funny little French parlor,
off from the big living-room, seldom lighted and almost
never used. She was shaking with sobs, her face buried among
the pillows.
She lifted her wet face and sobbed, “ W illie, I am so ter­
ribly unhappy.”
I got it out of her very slowly, partly because I think she
was afraid it would make me unhappy too. She said, “ Do
you and Rafael believe those things? Do you believe the
Abbe can foresee things?”
I said:
“ I don’t believe it. But nobody knows for sure. That’s
what the psychologists and so many of the big universities
would give their shirts to know. I don’t mean about the
Abbe Penhoel in particular, I mean about the whole thing in
general.”
She said, “ Pm so unhappy. Pm so afraid.”
9 2
I said, “ Let’s get this out on the carpet. What has he told
you?”
Then it all came out. H e’d not only been reading her
palm a while back, but had made her horoscope, done a lot
of monkey business with astrology, numerology, chiromancy,
and the devil only knows what. H e had just now told her
that he was “ terribly sorry,” heartbroken about it, but had
finally decided that it was best to tell her: that she was going
to die in October, before her book was completed.
“ H e said he was sure?” I asked.
“ Yes, he said he was sure. And I am so unhappy. I am so
afraid.”
I had trouble locating Rafael, but finally got him on the
telephone at a club where he was dining in Marseilles. I said:
“ I must see you immediately. You must come back out
here, or I will come in to Marseilles if you prefer it. But I
must see you tonight.”
H e said, “ I have to go to Paris on the midnight train.
You’d better come here.”
We met at the Cintra, and I said:
“ Now tell me all you know, tell me everything you know
or have ever heard, about this Abbe Penhoel.”
H e said, “ I am glad you ask me, because if I had known
everything I now know, I would never have brought him
to your house. He has been dabbling in magic, and if he were
not a priest—I know nothing actually or officially about what
he is, and it’s not always easy to find out—I would call it
black magic. I don’t like it. What has happened?”
I said, “ I thought so—and plenty has happened.”
N A IL -ST U D D E D D O LL IN T O U L O N
93
W IT C H C R A F T
I told him what had happened, and he crossed himself.
I said:
“ You can’t go to Paris tonight. You must find the Abbe
Penhoel tonight, or tomorrow morning. You must find him
immediately, and bring him to me.”
He said:
“ You know, the parish of St. Sulpice has its exorcist, a
powerful man of God, a good, almost holy man. I know
him. I can bring him down here.”
I said, “ No, I ’ll handle this myself.”
This was after midnight, and it was about six o’clock the
same morning that Monseigneur Delatour arrived at Les
Roseaux with the Abbe Penhoel. He had routed him out of
bed at the Grand Hotel in Toulon, and they had had coffee
on the way. W e awakened Anna and had some more coffee.
Marjorie stayed upstairs in her bedroom.
I said to the Abbe Penhoel:
“ Even if it is true, it seems to me it was a rather dreadful
thing for you to tell her. Moral obligation is a tangled prob­
lem in such a case, but even if it is true, it seems to me that
you should not have told her. If you are not absolutely cer­
tain, it was a wicked thing to tell her.”
H e said:
“ I am terribly sorry, tragically sorry, but I am sure that it
is true.”
I said:
“ You are absolutely sure?”
H e said:
“ Alas, yes.”
I said:
“ I beg you to go all over it in your own mind here and
9 4
now. Take all the time you want. Rafael and I will go into
the garden if you like, or you can have my study if you want,
for quiet. But I beg you to consider whether there isn’t some­
thing you have overlooked, which makes it uncertain, which
makes it a possible misreading of your signs and omens, or
whatever you call them!”
He said:
“ No, I struggled and suffered with it all night after I left
you. I am terribly sorry.”
I kept repeating. I said:
“ Are you absolutely sure that it is sure?”
He said:
“ Yes, I am sure.”
Then I knew what I was going to have to do. I said:
“ Monsieur the Abbe, in these deep esoteric delvings of
yours, have you ever heard of fan-shaped destiny?”
H e said:
“ No, what is it?”
I said:
“ W ell, it is not in any book. I learned about it from the
black witch, Wamba, with whom I lived, on the Ivory
Coast.”
He looked at me level-eyed, and repeated, “ I have never
heard of it.”
I got up and whistled a silly tune, Les Gars de la M a­
rine, which the sailors sing when they are drunk and gay. I
lighted a cigarette and offered him one.
He was a little disturbed, but not much. I said, lightly:
“ Au revoir, Monsieur the Abbe. It was nice of you to
have taken the trouble to come out this morning.”
He got up to leave, still suave, grave, polite, impeccable,
N A IL -ST U D D E D D O LL IN T O U L O N
95
W IT C H C R A F T
but I knew he would ask me about the fan shapes before he
went away. And he did.
I said, carelessly, “ You’ve really never heard of them?”
He said, “ No.”
I said, “ W ell, that’s just too bad for you, Monsieur the
Abbe.”
And he said, “ W hy?”
And I said, “ Because Marjorie is going to be well and
radiant in October—but whether you will be alive then is
going to be extremely doubtful.”
Rafael said, “ What are you going to do, my son?”
I said, “ I want you to keep your clean hands off it. It’s a
dirty business.”
H e said, “ I still think you should let me bring the exor­
cist, and you know that I shall have an impersonal, unpleas­
ant duty to perform later if this so-called Abbe has ever
really been ordained, which I begin to doubt, but, in the
meantime, it shall be as you wish.”
“ Thank you,” I said. “ And in answer to your question, I
don’t know what I ’m going to do yet, because I ’m not sure
yet what I ’m fighting. It’s a dangerous thing for a clairvoy­
ant, even though he is a man of good will and a Christian,
to be playing also with black magic. It is intrinsically evil
because the clairvoyant, even though he be a man of good
will, is under the temptation, consciously or subconsciously,
of using his magic to bring about the fulfillment of his pre­
diction. Simply perhaps as a protection to his ego, his human
vanity, his prestige. It may be that this is a case of that sort.
But it may be that it’s something even more wicked. It may
be that our Abbe determined to bring about the death of
96
N A IL -ST U D D E D D O LL IN T O U L O N
Marjorie because he wished her dead, and ‘foresaw’ her
death anteriorly. If it is this latter, he deserves, of course,
that I should kill him, deserves it as much as if I saw him
trying to stick a knife in her. If it is the former, I would
not want to have his death on my hands. I don’t know yet
what I am facing or what I may have to do, but I am very
much afraid of this Abbe Penhoel—and being afraid of him,
I ’m going to attack him.”
Rafael said, “ It is all very dangerous.”
I said, “ I know it’s dangerous and I ’m terribly sorry, but
you must keep your hands off it.”
Before going to Paris, Monseigneur Delatour asked me to
tell him about Wamba’s fan-shaped destiny, and I did so to
the best of my ability. Wamba believed and taught me that
all possible future events exist already in time and space.
This sounds like pure fatalism, but it is not. For she believed
also that the future, if foreseen, might be to some degree
controlled. And the real purpose of fetish consultation and
divination is to decipher and control the future. Those of us
whites who are fatalists at all usually believe in a predestina­
tion, providence, or kismet which cannot be changed, from
which there is no escape. What is going to be, will be. But
Wamba believed differently. She believed that fate, though
written, projects itself into the future not as a straight line,
but fan-shaped, in myriad alternate paths, multiplying to
infinity. She had conveyed to me this difficult concept of fan­
shaped destiny by an ingenious analogy: I am walking in an
unknown forest. There are as many directions to walk as
there are points of the compass. I know nothing of what
awaits me in any direction, but in all directions fate awaits
me, things already written in the sense that they embryon-
97
W IT C H C R A F T
ically exist already, and are there inevitable, but alternate,
depending on the path I take. In one path there is a tree
from which I will pluck refreshing fruit. In another, a pan­
ther waits to leap upon me, which, if taking a side path, I
shall kill instead of becoming its predestined victim. Beside
another path, there is a good spring of water. In another di­
rection, there is an elephant trap into which I will fall and
be impaled on the stakes. In still another, a friendly camp
where I will be well treated. And all these things are writ­
ten fan-shaped in the future. Wamba taught me—as is so
often the case in the deeper “ jungle” of all human life—
that no process of logic or reason can disclose whether it is
better to turn right or left. And since we are continually mov­
ing in some path or other from the womb to the grave, since
even stopping to stand still is also a form of moving, no
tiniest choice in the most trivial matter, no event, itself how­
ever trivial, is without its potentiality to change one’s future
life. Therefore the Negro primitive consults the fetish; there­
fore he devises charms and grigris to protect him in the laby­
rinth. If we have no faith in his methods, we can at least
begin to understand why he deems it necessary to try some­
thing. We whites often recognize, and sometimes with a
shock, that despite all our processes of logical foresight, we
also walk in this blind labyrinth, not knowing where any
path will lead. The gate clangs shut and you miss your train
by a split second because you fumbled for pennies when you
bought a morning newspaper; and next day, in another
paper, you read of the wreck, with a list of the dead . . . a
list that would have contained your name inevitably. Usually
the drama is less sudden, less spectacular, less final, but seem-
ingly pointless hazards or decisions change all our lives.
9 8
N A IL -ST U D D E D D O LL IN T O U L O N
“ Come over and make a fourth at bridge this evening?”
“ Sorry, I ’ve got some work I ought to do.” You are hesi­
tating, and your friend has almost hung up the telephone.
Just before it clicks, you say, “ Oh, well, I ’ll come over any­
way.” During the evening a girl drops in whom you have
never seen, nor heard of, and six months later you marry
her. Tomorrow, for all I know, I may go to the corner for
a pack of cigarettes, and be run over by a truck—or start an­
other sequence that will make me five years hence a million­
aire, or put me in the gutter. Now the basic difference be­
tween Wamba’s mind and mine, or yours, is that while we
regard all such blind sequences as unpredictable and there­
fore uncontrollable, she believes they form a mysterious pat­
tern which can be to some degree deciphered, and hence con­
trolled. This, I think, is one of the fundamental elements
of black primitive psychology and sorcery. In the fan-shaped
labyrinth of life where neither logic nor consciously directed
will seems adequate, the savage seeks for supernatural guid­
ance in his fetishes, as the Christian seeks it on his knees in
prayer.
Rafael was actually on his knees before he said good-by to
us, and unless you choose to call his prayers an interference,
he kept his hands off everything until the finish, except that
on his advice I had Marjorie gone over by a couple of the
best doctors in Marseilles. H e wasn’t wanting me to have a
possible murder on my conscience if it turned out that the
Abbe had really been clairvoyant, had really sensed intui­
tively that the Angel of Death, through no human wish or
guilty volition of his own, was actually at the threshold of
Marjorie’s door, already tapping, if ever so gently.
But the doctors said, “ Organically and functionally, she’s
99
W IT C H C R A F T
sound as a bell. Her normal life expectation is fifty years
. . . a. half a century . . . anything you choose to guess.
Has she been sick? She seems nervous. What’s all this about,
anyway?”
I said, “ Oh, nothing. She just got nervous about some­
thing.”
As a matter of fact, she was terribly frightened, already-
depressed, acutely conscious of all her physiological processes,
and imagining all sorts of things. That’s the way it always
begins. If you become acutely conscious of your visceral or­
gans and functions, heart, kidneys, respiration, no matter
how sound they are, they’ll soon begin to bother you. Add
ordinary fear, and you’ll be ill. Add superstitious terror, and
you’ll crack up completely.
In the practice of witchcraft and black magic, one can have
“ bad breaks,” and “ lucky breaks,” just as in anything else.
I hadn’t decided exactly yet on my whole plan of action, but
almost immediately, before three days had passed, Basil Orlet
came tearing down from Paris in his little Bugatti, to see me.
Something had happened which was good fortune for me,
and the reverse for the Abbe Penhoel. The Abbe had con­
fided what he was justified in calling my “ threat on his life”
to my friend Orlet. It was natural that he had done so, since
he knew nothing of our close friendship. Orlet was reputed
to know more about black magic and white magic, their his­
tory, technique, mechanics, limitations, than any other man
in Europe. A hard-boiled, brilliant, and successful journalist,
this had been his lifelong hobby, as some people go in for
Sanskrit or porcelain . . . except that he was more than a
dilettante. Back in 1927, dabbling in the black side of it, he
had got mixed up with one of the Satanist groups down in
IOO
N A IL -ST U D D E D D O LL IN T O U L O N
Lyons, which had later wanted to use him for some purposes
of their own that were definitely criminal. They had refused
to release him, and when he defied them, had made the
threat that they would destroy his little daughter. Orlet, de­
void of superstition and knowing that magic has nothing
supernatural in it, nevertheless highhandedly employed their
own technique against them . . . in reverse . . . and beat
them with it! It was as beautiful as a Christmas festival in
the Orlet apartment on the Champs Elysees, and the little
daughter thought it was a lovely new game her papa had
invented to amuse her. On the face of her nursery door
there hung a great Crusader’s sword, reversed so that it
formed the H oly Cross, and around its keyhole and hinges
were festooned sprigs of laurel. On the windows and in the
chimney were other herbs and symbols, some of them Chris­
tian white magic, some pagan, from the ancient, elder for­
mulas. And around the whole nursery area, running through,
in, and out of the other apartments, was laid down in white
enamel instead of chalk the sacred pentagram. In addition
to this, the child and the Breton nurse wore necklaces be­
neath their garments on which were tiny sacred medallions,
and other amulets, ancient before Christ ever cast out demons
by the shores of Galilee—so that they went regularly out­
doors to walk in the park as usual. On top of this he sent
messengers down to Lyons to tell them all about it, adding
that if they didn’t instantly lay off, he would cease merely
defending—and destroy them utterly!
“ It was nonsense,” had said Orlet, with savage cynicism,
“ but it was the right nonsense. If you engage in that sort of
‘nonsense’ you must go the whole hog, and leave no loop­
holes. They didn’t dare to strike back . . . then or ever.”
IO I
W IT C H C R A F T
They were afraid of him and “ it” because none of it was
“ nonsense” to the Diabolists, who are as sincere fanatical be­
lievers as any other superstitious sect, or any jungle savage.
They didn’t dare touch the child any more than you would
have dared to touch a hooded cobra.
The lucky break I now had was that Orlet knew what I
had learned and done down on the Ivory Coast, and being
my devoted friend, and no friend of the Abbe’s, and sensing
that there was a war between us, had had no mercy and no
scruples. H e had said:
“ Good god, man, I don’t know what you’ve done, whether
you were sincere, or right, or not, or where justice lies, but
I ’m sorry for you, and I don’t know what to advise you. I
had rather you didn’t tell me anything more about it.”
The Abbe had asked, “ W hy?” and Orlet had said:
“ Because I think you are probably going to die in the
month of October. You might as well have stirred up all
the black witch-doctors of the West Coast, and if you’ve ever
been down there, you know what that means! That Ameri­
can, crude as he is, has learned more than a white man ever
ought to learn. I ’m afraid he’s going to kill you—and don’t
misunderstand me. H e won’t do it by any method the police
could stop!”
“ Do you believe those things, Monsieur Orlet?” the Abbe
had asked.
And Orlet had said:
“ I don’t believe them, I know them. Just the same, un­
less I misread your nature and psychology, there’s one piece
of advice I can give you. Unless you know more about them
than I think you do, your only possible protection hangs right
there around your own neck—your crucifix.”
1 0 2
N A IL -ST U D D E D D O LL IN T O U L O N
And then, Orlet told me. the Abbe Penhoel had admitted,
in a moment of panic:
“ Alas, Monsieur, I cannot use that.”
And that was really what Orlet had come down to tell
me. Also, he had come to help me. We knew what we had
to do—and ruthlessly set about doing it. I knew, of course,
as Orlet had known about the swords and laurel, that some
of the things we did were in a manner of speaking “ non­
sense,” but also knew that they would not be nonsense to
the Abbe Penhoel. Orlet—who was stronger, more self-con­
fident, and a better man than I am—had been content to
defend. I was afraid, and was attacking.
I bought an ugly little doll, and dressed it as a little false
priest in black robes, with a little crucifix reversed dangling
from its neck, with a tiny little symbol of a toad. I drove
some brass-headed tacks into the region of its kidneys, and
a couple more into its little belly. Then I photographed it,
made one print, destroyed the negative, and had the print
mailed to the Abbe Penhoel—from a house of prostitution
in Marseilles. What I did with the doll afterward, and for a
number of successive weeks, involves a seeming contradiction
to my major thesis and belief that the ugly little doll in­
trinsically is utterly harmless; that it couldn’t harm the Abbe
Penhoel except through his direct knowledge and desperate
fear of it; that the sole power of witchcraft lies in the open
field of suggestion; and that the suggestion can be implanted
and intensified only through the channels of the normal, or­
dinary, direct senses. I found myself now, inconsistently . . .
like any thirteenth-century coven witch . . . like Wamba in
the jungle . . . weaving the old nursery-rhymed hatred “ in­
cantations” around that ugly, silly, inanimate little doll. I
103
W IT C H C R A F T
spent a lot of concentrated time and effort—which takes the
juice out of the man who’s doing it—wishing and willing the
Abbe Penhoel to suffer and waste away.
How can I explain or justify that inconsistency? How aft­
erward continue the assertion of my reasoned belief that there
is absolutely nothing even supernormal—much less super­
natural—in the power of witchcraft?
I can only answer as Chesterton did when asked if he be­
lieved in ghosts. “ Absolutely not,” he replied sincerely, and
added with rare candor, “ but Pm afraid of them!” W ell, I
was afraid—afraid I might be wrong. I was sure there was
nothing supernatural in the hocus-pocus—but afraid I might
be wrong in denying any power to the supernormal. If Pro­
fessor Rhine and his colleagues are on the right track—if
extra-sensory emanations, telepathy, clairvoyance, etc., are
authentic phenomena, if ordinary playing cards or cards
marked with circles, stars, and wave lines, can “ send out”
any emanations whatsoever that can be “ picked up” in any
manner whatsoever, other than through direct impact on one
of the five normal senses—then a witch’s doll can send out
extra-sensory emanations too! If Upton Sinclair can focus on
the penciled drawing of a cat or kitchen fork and reach his
wife by telepathy across an ordinary room, it is possible the
witch can focus on the doll and reach his enemy with con­
centrated, poisoned thoughts and images, with evil and de­
structive images, across Africa, or France. I intend to give
my full reasons later for doubting that anything of the sort
has ever been conclusively proved, but it remains the final
open question—the last veil of mystery after the veil of
superstition has been torn away. And in this ugly combat,
with Marjorie’s life at stake, I wasn’t taking any chances.
10 4
N A IL -ST U D D E D D O LL IN T O U L O N
I spent all the emotional force I had, with the doll as my
unholy symbol—precisely as believers in the pure white magic
of religion spend hours before their images which are some­
times “dolls” too, but clean and sacred, bathed in the pure
light of faith and love. I was saturating mine with darkness
and evil, if I could.
I cannot know, and indeed must doubt, that I succeeded
in projecting any psychic “poison,” any extra-sensory aura
of evil and destruction which could cause my enemy to feel
it through any mysterious channels of the supernormal. In­
deed, I had seen to it—by devious but normal means, with
the indirect help of Basil Orlet, that the Abbe, who believed
implicitly in all of it, believed in a way that neither I nor
most of my readers can, was kept full}’ informed, and pro­
gressively informed, of everything I was doing to “him” in
that doll-effigy.
In August a letter came by registered mail from the Abbe
Penhoel, saying that he was dreadfully sorry, wanted hum­
bly to ask forgiveness for the terrible mistake he had made
and to reassure Marjorie; that there was something he had
misread, wrongly read, about Marjorie’s predestined life-
cycle; that he now knew he was wrong, and would never
forgive himself—though he prayed that we would—for hav­
ing needlessly frightened us. He was begging me to cease.
But this was only August. October was still two months away.
The end of October was three months away. And I was afraid
to answer him.
In September he was in a hospital in Paris, and the doc­
tors thought they knew what was the matter with him. He
suffering excruciating pain in the region of the kidneys,
io 5
was
W IT C H C R A F T
and they were thinking of operating. I repeat, that I am de­
void of superstition, and I guess I was devoid of pity too. I
was elated, and it seemed to me that Marjorie who had lost
weight, lost her healthy glow, and been a sort of malade
imaginaire all summer, was picking up and beginning to be
herself again. I wanted no needless homicide on my con­
science, but I didn’t know what to do. Marjorie was no longer
deeply unhappy or in terror, but she was still unconsciously,
if not outspokenly, afraid of the month of October.
In his extremity, as I learned finally, the Abbe had sent
for Alonseigneur Delatour to confess that he’d been guilty
of commerce with things that were anathema, to beg Rafael’s
intervention in the saving of his life and his soul, which he
was now convinced were both in mortal danger. Rafael came
south to talk with me, and the talk was very solemn. He said:
“ The wretched man is penitent and sick to death. There
are two sides of this both of which concern me deeply, and
which I must try to explain to you. Not even witchcraft and
not even murder . . . if he had caused Marjorie’s death
. . . is the sin against the Holy Ghost. The infamous dab­
bler in magic, Gilles de Retz, once Joan of Arc’s field mar­
shal, who was guilty of a series of atrocious murders, made a
full formal confession, was granted the last rites of the
Church on the eve of his execution, and masses were said for
him after his death. You may not believe in the immortal
soul, but I do believe in it, and I want to tell you solemnly
that you may not only have his physical death on your con­
science as truly as if you had shot him, but may be the instru­
ment of his soul’s damnation. H e has already taken his de-
mission, of course, is no longer a priest, if he ever was a true
106
one, expresses an abject repentance; and, if he has time on
earth to prove his sincerity, may yet be saved from an eternity
in hell.”
I said, “ Whether I believe literally in those things or not
is beside the question, isn’t it? You believe in them, and I
suppose the Abbe, believing in Satanic supernatural forces
which transcend reason, must believe in the other face of that
coin too. If that is so, his demission and confession must have
already eased him a little?”
“ That is true,” replied Rafael. “ Long before the doctors
ever learned it, we men of God have known that an in­
flamed conscience can often have as fatal consequences as an
inflamed appendix. But mind you, he is also suffering from a
deadly horror-fear of you and your machinations. . .
“ A ll right,” I said, “ you can go back and tell Penhoel
that I’ve laid off it. You can assure him that I’ve ‘cleansed
it’ . . . he’ll know what that means . . . and that I’m will­
ing to wash it up forever. But you must add, and I mean it,
that unless Marjorie is blooming and in perfect health on
midnight of the last day of October, I ’ll see to it that he dies
writhing in agony!”
October came and passed, Marjorie was radiant, and the
former Abbe was still alive, recovering. I was the one who
was sick. It is always like that. What I had been doing always
injures one, weakens one, debilitates and wears one out, in­
evitably. Discard and forget, I beg you, the demons, dolls,
and mumbo jumbo. What you are actually doing is tearing
out your own emotional guts at the same time you’re trying
to tear someone else’s emotional guts to pieces. I have paid
N A IL -ST U D D E D D O LL IN T O U L O N
1 0 7
W IT C H C R A F T
a heavy price for learning these things. And I shall never
practice that sort of magic again, whether for good or evil.
Despite these overtones, I believe that a true way of re­
counting this entire story would be to say simply that the
Abbe Penhoel sought to bring about Marjorie’s death by
arousing her fears through the piled-up forces of suggestion,
and that I saved her solely and simply by tossing the ball
back to him.
10 8
Part Two
T H E V A M P I R E AND W E R E W O L F
I. Concerning Vampires and Werewolves
in General
T H E Y are harder to collect than dolls. Like the ground hog,
they emerge infrequently. Like the hedgehog, they discour­
age familiarity. One doesn’t intimately encounter vampires
and werewolves at every hex-infested crossroads or find one
hidden in every witch’s cellar. Though a considerable part
of my life has been spent following twisted roads and de­
scending into darkened cellars, I have met only one vampire,
one panther man, and two werewolves. Those encounters,
however, were more than sufficient to confirm my worst be­
liefs about them. Here again are phenomena—never super­
natural—but just as dangerous and deadly as the doll.
In fiction, the vampire is nearly always a gaunt, sinister
ghost-man, cousin to Bram Stoker’s Dracula; or a supernatu-
rally pale but lovely woman with green eyes and red hair,
cousin to Blanns Heinz Ewers’ Alraune and Balzac’s Succu-
bus, who pierces tiny, neat holes in the victim’s throat and
drinks the blood.
In classical and pagan superstition, in medieval church
lore, in the thundering anathemas of Kramer and Sprenger
for the H oly Inquisition, in A4alleus Maleficarum (“ Ham­
mer Against Witches” ), in the Bull of Pope Pius V III—and
111
WITCHCRAFT
still today to the Reverend Montague Summers—the vam­
pire is a dead man or dead woman who breaks out of the
coffin, as did the Algerian monk from his cell in the scan­
dalous limerick, goes about neatly puncturing plump victims’
throats, and returns to the grave feeling better—as full of
fresh new blood as a Jersey mosquito. But, being already
dead as it were, the vampire is not nearly so easy to kill as
the mosquito. You must dig it up, exorcise it, sprinkle holy
water over it, and bury it again at a crossroads with a wooden
stake driven through its heart.
In fact—that is, in fact as opposed to fiction, hocus-pocus,
ecclesiastic tommyrot, and superstition—the vampire is a dis­
eased and sometimes hallucinated human being, psychotic
rather than criminal, with a pathological taste for human
blood—but not necessarily a taste for murder. Vampires usu­
ally belong in Bloomingdale or Matteawan, but seldom in
the electric chair. Vampires generally do not raven or rip,
but prefer to feed daintily on blood, as does the humming­
bird on nectar from a flower. If the victims die, as did those
of the lovely Countess Elizabeth Bathory, it is just too bad—
but murder is never the vampire’s objective, any more than
it’s the objective of the hummingbird to kill the hollyhock.
Now the werewolf is a somewhat different animal. In fic­
tion and superstition it runs a pretty close four-footed parallel
to the vampire—except that instead of merely sipping blood
like cider through a straw, it ravens, kills, and devours the
flesh of its victims. To Kramer, and to Reginald Scot who
wrote the classic Discoverie of Witchcraft for King James I,
Royal Inquisitor of Scotland—and to dear old Dr. Baring-
Gould who more recently wrote “ Onward, Christian Sol­
diers,” as well as to our Reverend Montague Summers in
1 1 2
C O N C E R N I N G V AM PIRES AND W E R E W O L V E S
this Year of Our Lord 1940—the werewolf is a human being
supernaturally transformed into a beast, and capable of
changing back and forth, from two-legged to four-legged, at
will, with the help, of course, of the devil.
Now the werewolf in actual, bloody fact—and here we’re
getting somewhere—always turns out to be two-legged, un-
furry, and unsnouted, no matter how gory its human jaws
may be. The werewolf is a pathological case, a hallucinated
human being, like the vampire, but too savage to be caged
in Bloomingdale or any sanitarium. H e’d better be shot down
like Pretty Boy Floyd and Dillinger, and often is, but if he’s
captured alive the only safe place to put him is in the strong­
est cell at Matteawan, or in the electric chair, if the jury is
unsympathetic toward “ criminal insanity.”
Explosion of the two superstitions that the vampire is an
unlaid corpse and the werewolf a man changed supernatu­
rally into a snouted beast never brought back any mangled
victims or mitigated the grief of their families. Yet we have
over and over again in scores of books written by supposedly
sensible commentators and historians, the same silly non
sequitur which has made of most modern books denouncing
the old superstitions of witchcraft arrant trash. Because the
vampire and werewolf are not supernatural creatures, if you
please, they consequently don’t exist at all!
Pages of substantiated history, both lay and medical, re­
liable encyclopedias including the Britannica, and the veri­
fied repoi'ts of reputable news agencies including the Asso­
ciated Press contain hundreds of cases which corroborate my
rational thesis that vampires and werewolves, i.e., diseased,
hallucinated humans with a lust for blood or human flesh,
W IT C H C R A F T
exist and always have existed, and frequently themselves
believe that witchcraft and the devil are mixed up in it.
I have no intention of cluttering this book with intermina­
ble warmed-over cases. Instead I’m going to get on with it,
first giving you, as a preliminary to my own encounters with
these phenomena, one full-length portrait from the past. The
lady deserves to be included despite the fact she died long
ago. She is par excellence the world champion lady vampire
of all time. Her score was 80—and she fits into my thesis
for the additional reason that she practiced witchcraft and
black magic all her life.
II. World Champion Lady Vampire
of All Time
C LE O P A T R A , Greek queen of Egypt, bathed in the milk
of wild asses. Pope Sixtus V, on advice of his physicians,
bathed in the blood of oxen. Anna Held, French wife of
Flo Ziegfeld, bathed in Grade A milk from contented cows.
Earl Carroll’s girl bathed in a tub of champagne—and police
promptly raided the party.
The spoiled and beautiful Countess Elizabeth Bathory
bathed habitually in the blood of young maidens. The then
more tolerant police finally got around to raiding her party,
too, but only after she had “ milked” of their life’s blood
somewhere between 80 and 300 serving damsels.
She had begun, apparently, by merely drinking human
blood, as is the custom of the more dainty vampires—and as
Earl Carroll’s girl doubtless did with the champagne—but
presently she was using it for beauty baths as well, and even­
tually she became the messiest lady vampire in all history.
She also practiced magic and was a witch. Though mistress
of vast estates, chatelaine of Csejthe, kin to kings and car­
dinals, cousin to Count Gyorgy Thurzo, then prime minister
of Hungary, and destined to become family namesake in
reverse of the luxurious ocean liner Bathori which plies, or
WITCHCRAFT
rather did ply, between Hoboken and Danzig, she trusted
most in her own witchcraft . . . and depended on her coven
and familiars, rather than her family power and wealth, to
protect her from arrest.
Most of all, she depended on a certain incantation, written
on parchment, kept continually on her person. By one of
those curious coincidences which foster the survival of super­
stition, this parchment was lost or stolen on the day before
she was arrested. It has never been found, but it’s easy to
guess what was in it. For on discovering its loss, she hurried
to the forest, gathered the witches of her coven, waited until
night when clouds and stars were in the sky, and returned to
the chateau with a new incantation, similarly inscribed on
parchment, and which is a matter of court record:
Isten, help me! Istcn, help me! You little cloud, help me too!
Give health, protection, and long life to Elizabeth. You little
cloud, when I am in danger, send ninety-nine cats' I order yuu
to do so because you are supreme commander of the cats. Give
orders to the cats. Tell the cats to gather from wherever they be,
on mountains, water, rivers, seas. Order ninety-nine cats to come
with speed and bite the heart of King Matthias. Order them to
bite the heart of Moses Cziraky, and to bite also the heart of my
cousin the prime minister. Command them to claw and bite the
heart of Red Megyeri. And keep Elizabeth safe from harm.1
It’s pretty good as incantations go, and if the government
officials had been sufficiently superstitious, they might never
have dared touch her. A guess is that the police may have
stolen and burned the original incantation, and didn’t know
this duplicate had been concocted. At any rate, the new one
1 The names are those of the government and police officials whom she
feared.
1 1 6
WORLD CHAMPION LADY VAMPIRE OF ALL TIME
didn’t work. On New Year’s Eve, 1610, the Castle of Csejthe
was raided, the New Year’s Eve party interrupted, and the
countess put under arrest.
The army of cats failed to arrive in force, but by another
queer coincidence, the village priest who had denounced her
and who came with the police was attacked, severely scratched,
and bitten by a corporal’s guard of cats, as he mounted the
interior staircase. Six “ enchanted cats,” accompanied by a
flurry of “ enchanted mice,” which also tried to bite him,
were chased all over the castle and finally disappeared into
“ thin air.”
M y own four cats here in Dutchess County, 1940, have a
way of disappearing magically just after they’ve clawed the
dog, stolen the meat, or knocked over the vase of flowers;
so that the village priest in Niyatra County, 1610, who was
a reputable if credulous old gentleman, may easily be for­
given for believing the countess’s cats were phantoms. And
for adding the enchanted mice!
These cats and mice, by the way, have been hiding for
three centuries in a gold mine whose vein I discovered in the
New York Public Library, with the help of Hungarian trans­
lators.2 Neither English, French, German, Italian, nor any
2 Dezso Rexa, Bathory Erzsebet, Nddasdy Lerencne. Based on the old
court records. Published in Budapest by the Gyula Benko Royal Bookshop,
1908, in Hungarian, and never translated into any other language. A sev-
cnteenth-century Hungarian Jesuit Priest, Father Turoczi, did a learned
speculative monograph on the psychotic— and to him perhaps diabolic—
nature o f her vampirism and blood bathing. A German psychiatrist, R. A.
von Elsberg, published with S. Schottlaender, in Breslau, 1904, a volume
entitled Elisabeth Bathory (Die Blutgrdjin) j Ein Bitten- und Charakler-
bild; mil einern Titelbilde. He apparently had no access, as Dezsd did,
to the original documents. All he does is to rehash the facts recorded by
Dezso and the Jesuit, and then base his psychiatric opinions on them.
Apart from a few romances and a couple of plays, superstition stuff and
WITCHCRAFT
of the more generally known and more easily translatable
languages, have ever given much space to the Countess
Bathory. The encyclopedias, including the Grand Larousse,
give only this brief mention:
Elizabeth Bathory, wife of Count Nadasdy Bathori, slew 80
peasants in her chateau in Csejthe, Nyitra County, Hungary, to
bathe in their blood. Surprised in the act (1 61 0) , she was con­
demned to life imprisonment.
The untranslated material, including the biography by
Dezso, is authoritative, scholarly, and rich. The Countess
Bathory 3 was born in 1560 on one of the vast Bathory fam­
ily estates, on the edge of the Carpathians. The family was
for centuries one of the wealthiest and most outstanding in
central Europe. One of her relatives was a cardinal, another
was Prince of Transylvania, and one became king of Poland.
It included also bishops, sheriffs, governors of provinces,
judges. They had always been a hard and cruel, if able, fam­
ily, and by the time Elizabeth was born, were a decadent and
degenerate, though still powerful, side branch of royalty. A
favorite aunt of hers was a notorious lesbian. An uncle was
a diabolist and practiced witchcraft. Her brother, oversexed,
was a satyr. Elizabeth was betrothed as a child to Count
Ferencz Nadasdy, a great soldier, who became afterward
the famous “ Black Hero” of Hungary. They were married
on M ay 8, 1575. She was fifteen and he was twenty-one.
The Emperor Maximilian of Hapsburg attended the wed-
horror stuff, all in the untranslated Hungarian, there is nothing more.
The only basic, correlated source material is contained in the old court
documents, the volume by Dezso, and the monograph by Father Turoczi.
8 Twice a countess since she was born one and afterward married Count
Ferencz Nadasdy— she was apparently a Lucy Stoner, for she survives in
history not as a Nadasdy, but under her own family name.
1 x 8
WORLD CHAMPION LADY VAMPIRE OF ALL TIME
ding. King Matthias of Hungary and the Archduke of Aus­
tria sent wedding presents. They went to live in the castle
of Csejthe, in the hill country of northwestern Hungary, still
famous today for its vineyards, red wine, ghosts, and were­
wolves. The superb ruins of the castle are still standing, and
there are steel engravings which show it in its heyday. It
was like one of the dream castles drawn by Howard Pyle or
Maxfield Parrish. It was like an inland Mont St. Michel.
Vast walls on a hillside, above a village, dungeons, caves,
cellars, surmounted by turrets and spires.
Count Nadasdy was soon off to the wars, and presently
the countess eloped with a pale young nobleman who was
said to be a vampire. It seems he was a vampire who in this
case had bitten off more than he could chew, because pres­
ently the girlish countess returned, licking her chops, while
the young nobleman was never afterward heard of. She was
forgiven by her hero-husband, who returned occasionally
to sleep w’ith her, but for the first ten years of their marriage
they had no children.
The one touch of normalcy in this dangerous young lady
was that she detested her mother-in-law, who had come to
live in the castle. She preferred to associate with her serving
maids and occasionally amused herself by torturing them,
aided by an old nurse named Ilona Joo, who was, like herself,
immersed in witchcraft. Count Nadasdy was a bit of a savage
himself, a leader of mercenary troops, and apparently had no
objections to his wife’s torturing her little playmates, to while
away the long winter evenings in the lonely castle. H e doubt­
less reasoned that it would keep her out of other mischief
. . . such as eloping with visiting vampires.
Count Nadasdy seems to have been aware also that his
WITCHCRAFT
young wife was a witch. She bore him no babies in the early
years, and he encouraged her in the concoction of charms to
induce pregnancy. These were successful, and they later had
four children. That he knew she was engaged in blacker
magic is evidenced by one of her letters to him in which she
wrote:
. . . Thorko has taught me a lovely new one. Catch a black
hen and beat it to death with a white cane. Keep the blood and
smear a little of it on your enemy. If you get no chance to smear
it on his body, obtain one of his garments and smear it.
Little black hens, however, were mere caviar to the vora­
cious countess. For several years prior to her husband’s death
she had been vampire bleeding and murdering peasant girls.
The count and countess remained on as excellent connubial
terms as any two loving Gila monsters, and probably under­
stood each other perfectly. A couple of years before he died,
she wrote him this touching, domestic, dutiful letter:
My dear Husband,
I am writing, as you asked me to do, about our children. Little
Anna is healthy, thank goodness, little Orsik is well except for
his sore eyes, and Kato is cutting her new teeth. Thank goodness
I am in good health, except for occasional headaches, and I pray
that you are in good health too, my beloved husband.
Your obedient wife,
Elizabeth.
In 1600 her husband died, at the age of forty-seven. H e
was in the prime of life. It is too late to wonder whether
she’d perhaps smeared one of his shirts with the blood of a
little black hen. There was no inquest. The mother-in-law
was sent packing, of course, on the day after the funeral,
and from then on, for ten whole years, the Countess Eliza-
120
WORLD CHAMPION LADY VAMPIRE OF ALL TIME
beth was free to indulge her fancies. She was at that time
approaching forty, and was still extremely handsome. There’s
an excellent oil painting, three-quarters length, which shows
her, in the style of Holbein, in an immense starched ruff,
jeweled stomacher, pannier skirts of Burgundy velvet with
an apron and puffed sleeves of sheer, white lawn. H er hair,
elaborately coiffed, drawn back from her broad forehead, is
meshed in a jeweled snood, above big, dark, wide-set eyes
which are heavy-lidded, hard, and cruel. The nose is classic
Greek; the chin is a bit heavy, the mouth curved, dimpling,
and sensual, like that of the Mona Lisa.
Among her retainers and subsequent companions in crime,
in addition to her old nurse, the witch Ilona Joo, there was a
sort of major-domo by the name of Johannes U jvary; an­
other manservant named Thorko who practiced sorcery; a
second witch named Dorottya Szentes; a forest witch named
Darvula. Accomplices among the permanent serving maids
were the Demoiselles Barsovny and Otvos.
It was a diabolic household with expert devil’s disciples
as its minions. The countess, entouraged by them, never
lacked for diabolic advice and suggestions when her own
imagination flagged, but the inception of the blood baths ran
parallel with the case of the little girl who was mentioned
some years ago in the New Yorker. The child had a tantrum
in which she screeched, wept, tore her copybook to tatters,
stamped on the floor, paused out of breath, and then spat
like a cat or a sailor. Her kindly, Christian mother said, “ The
Devil gets into little girls sometimes. The Devil put you up
to that. The next time you feel a fit of temper coming on,
be a brave little girl and say, ‘Get thee behind me, Satan.’ ”
The little girl reflected, and replied, “ The Devil may have
121
WITCHCRAFT
made me tear the book, stamp my feet, and scream—but the
spitting was my own idea.”
Blood baths were the countess’s own idea. I doubt she’d
ever heard of Pope Sixtus V or Cesare Borgia, either. The
idea came to her as the result of an accident, which occurred
one day while she was having an elaborate hair-do. She was
vain, sensual, narcissistic, probably lesbian, also took pleasure
in the embraces of the black-bearded husband when he re­
turned between battles—and consequently spent a lot of
time having herself beautified. Since Helena Rubinstein and
beauty parlors hadn’t yet been invented, her own maids
worked overtime at it in the boudoir. On this particular
morning, a maid pulled her hair with a comb, and the count­
ess slapped her in the face so hard that the maid’s nose bled.
Blood spilled on the countess’s hands, and it seemed to her
that w'here the blood had fallen, the skin became more
smooth, more youthful, and more beautiful. So she began
bathing in human blood to keep her youth and beauty.4
For the next ten years the castle of Csejthe was an abattoir
and human “ dairy” in which she kept scores of peasant girls
chained in the dungeons and cellars, like cattle, to be
“ milked” of their blood until they died. Whisperings and
even direct accusations had been rife in the countryside, but
the victims had all been peasants, serfs, and it was less strange
than it may now' seem that the authorities were so long a time
in taking action.
4In those days, blood baths, though never before involving human
blood, had a double phony sanction of magical buncombe plus medical
buncombe. Cesare Borgia bathed in ox’s blood, on the recommendation
of his doctors, as a cure for pimples, and Pope Sixtus V took similar
treatments as a tonic.
1 2 2
W ORLD C H A M P IO N LADY V A M P IR E OF A L L T IM E
On New Year’s Eve, the night of December 30, 16 10 ,
Count Gyorgy Thurzo, her own cousin, the governor of the
province, accompanied by soldiers, gendarmes, and the vil­
lage priest, raided the castle and arrested everybody in it.
They had interrupted an orgy of blood. In the main hall of
the castle, they found one girl drained of blood and dead,
another living girl whose body had been pierced with tiny
holes, another who had just been tortured. In the dungeons
and cellars they found and liberated “a number” of other
girls, some of whose bodies had already been pierced and
“milked,” others intact, plump, well fed, like well-kept cattle
in their stalls. The dead bodies of some fifty more were sub­
sequently exhumed.
The countess, being a noblewoman related to royalty, was
kept prisoner there in her own castle, while the other mem­
bers of the household were taken to the jail at Bitcse. They
included the major-domo, Johannes Ujvary; the sorcerer,
Thorko; the old witch-nurse Ilona Joo; the witch Dorottya
Szentes; the forest witch Darvula; several maids who were
accomplices; and a couple of manservants.
The trial took place at Bitcse, in January and February
1 6 1 1 . Theodosius Syrmiensis de Szulo, judge of the Royal
Supreme Court, presided, with twenty associate judges as­
sisting. The Countess Bathory was included in the indictment
and evidence was taken against her, but she was never pres­
ent in the courtroom. She had been caught red-handed, re­
fused to plead, and was permitted to remain during the whole
time a prisoner in her own chateau. The charge against all
of them was straight murder. It was a criminal trial, not an
ecclesiastical trial, so that it was not complicated or cluttered
with the issues of vampirism or witchcraft.
1 2 3
WITCHCRAFT
Johannes Ujvary was first examined. A part of the testi­
mony ran as follows:
O. How many years have you worked for the Countess
Bathory?
A . I have been sixteen years in her household.
P . How many women, to your personal knowledge, were mur­
dered by the countess and her associates?
A . No women. That is, no married women. Thirty-seven girls
were killed, within my direct knowledge.
P . Who obtained the victims?
A . I got six of them myself. We told the girls we wanted
them as servants. Miss Barsovny and Miss Otvos enticed others
in the same way.
P . How were they killed?
A . Well, their arms were tied behind them, then twisted with
tight cords, tourniquet-fashion, and the veins cut with scissors.
P . Were they ever otherwise tortured?
A . Sometimes the two old women, Ilona and Dorottya, would
torture them, and when they did it well, the countess would give
them presents. Sometimes the countess tortured them herself.
p . What were the tortures?
A . They were beaten with whips and cut with knives. Some­
times we froze them in cold water afterward.
P . When did the Countess Bathory begin these practices?
A . She began long before her husband died.
Ilona Joo’s testimony came next:
P . How long have you worked for the countess?
A . More than ten years. I was the family nurse.
P . How many girls did you help the countess in murdering?
A . Many, many.
p . How many?
A . As many as forty.
O. More than that? As many as fifty?
A . No, about forty.
1 2 4
WORLD CHAMPION LADY VAMPIRE OF ALL TIME
Q . Were any of them tortured?
A . Sometimes we put heated keys and coins in their hands.
We smeared one girl’s body with honey. When they fainted, we
used to put paper between their toes and set it on fire. Mostly
we opened their veins with scissors. Sometimes when the flesh was
drawn tight, blood would spatter the walls.
Other servants testified similarly, added details, helped
run the score up to a hundred or more victims, but only
eighty bodies were ever traced or found. At no point did
witch hysteria, vampire hysteria, superstition, or forced con­
fession enter the deliberations or ultimate court findings. The
incantations, etc., were embodied in the record, but would
have been a matter for the Holy Inquisition. And the Inqui­
sition was never called in. There was no need. The servants
testified to the truth because there was no possible way of
escaping it, and in hope that complete confession might miti­
gate the court’s severity.
As a matter of fact, those of the defendants who were ac­
cessories, or procurers, got off “ lightly,” as court sentences
went in those days. They merely had their heads cut off, and
their dead bodies were burned afterward. The two old women
Ilona Joo and Dorottya Szentes were convicted as principals,
and had a worse time of it. The fingers of their hands were
torn off, one by one, and they were burned alive.
The disposal of the Countess Bathory supplies perhaps the
strangest touch of all in this history of hallucinated post-
medieval horror, in which perhaps only the victims and the
judges on the bench were completely sane. Yet, viewing the
Countess Bathory in the Leopold-Loeb light of modern psy­
chiatry, her personal case couldn’t have been more fairly han­
dled if she’d had the late Clarence Darrow as a lawyer, with
1 2 5
WITCHCRAFT
a battery of alienists and the most enlightened jury of today.
What they gave her was a medieval version of a padded cell
in Matteawan for life. They accomplished this by simply
never sentencing her! The only sentence they could have
inflicted from the bench was death. Her cousin, the prime
minister, interceded and they invoked red tape. She stood
convicted, but they simply delayed passing sentence, and no
sentence was ever passed on her. She remained imprisoned
in her own chateau, and in order to make sure that she would
continue imprisoned, they sent stone masons to Csejthe.
They walled up the windows and door of the countess’s own
bedchamber, with the countess inside, leaving only slits for
air where the windows were, and leaving where the door
had been only a small hole in the wall through which food
and drink could be passed. The king, Matthias II of Hun­
gary, had felt at first that she should be executed, but finally
agreed to the indefinitely delayed sentence, which was tanta­
mount to solitary imprisonment for life. She died four years
after she had been walled in, on the twenty-first of August,
1614.
Dezso and Father Turoczi guess that one of the reasons
they walled her in, instead of merely keeping her locked up,
is that they were afraid of her witchcraft. But whether it was
that, or merely the reluctance of honest judges to sentence
a madwoman to execution, they did a pretty sensible job of
it, as things went in those days. The superstitious element of
vampirism was hallucinated tommyrot in 1614 as it is in
1940, but she was the bloodiest wholesale murderess who
ever lived. And they had put her where she could commit
no more murders. If they were a bit superstitious about her,
1 2 6
they had sense enough to know—if some of my distinguished
contemporary colleagues and supposed authorities have not—
that one of the things no witch or vampire on earth can ever
do is to walk through or break down a solid wall.
WORLD CHAMPION LADY VAMPIRE OF ALL TIME
1 2 7
III. Vampire 1932 from Brooklyn, N. Y.
I’D been walking in the hills behind Le Trayas, on the
Riviera, with Eugene Bagger, the stocky little Austrian jour­
nalist who worked for the New York Times some years ago
and later wrote Eminent Europeans. We’d returned to the
town, where he had a house and where I was staying in the
hotel, which contained that summer a number of other
writers, painters, musicians, including some Americans.
It was late afternoon. I was hot, and went down to the
shore for a swim. There was a rocky, pebbled cove, a sort of
inlet deep among the pine trees, closer than the sand beach.
Seated on the pebbles, alone and with her hands clasped
round her knees, was the girl I knew as Mary Lensfield.
She painted a little, and translated children’s books. She sat
all alone there, staring out toward Porquerolles where the
steamers passed. She was a queer type, striking without being
beautiful. She was extremely thin and pale, with flaming hair
and the sort of greenish eyes which frequently go with pale
skin and hair that is naturally red. I had known her off and
on for quite a time, but never very well. I’m not sure any­
body knew her very well. She was friendly enough, but
never very gay, and apparently not very strong. She said
1 2 8
hello in an absent-minded sort of way. I dived from the top
of a rock. In making the turn of the cove, I swam a bit too
close to another rock just under water, and scraped my shoul­
der on the barnacles. It wasn’t scraped badly, but when I
came out there was a streak of bright, shiny blood glistening
on my wet shoulder.
“ You’ve cut yourself,” said the girl. I sat down beside her,
twisting my head to look at the scratch, and said, “ It doesn’t
amount to much. I doubt if I ’ll need to put iodine on it.” I
asked her how her work was going. She was translating some
of Comtesse de Segur’s juveniles. When she made no answer,
I glanced at her. She had bent closer and was staring with
wide, dilated eyes at the scarlet abrasion. Then she jerked
convulsively toward me, and- her teeth were in my shoulder,
and she was sucking like a leech there—not like a leech either,
but more like a greedy half-grown kitten with sharp-pointed
teeth. It hurt sharply, but astonishment held me motionless
for a second, and then a mixture of surprise, curiosity, and
sheer amazement made me grit my own teeth and let it ride.
She had deepened the abrasion, and was literally drinking
blood! I am properly ashamed of it, but I sat there tense,
perversely fascinated, and let her slake her thirst.
A big truck roared past on the Corniche road above us,
behind the trees, and it was this noise, I think, that brought
her out of it. She slumped back, terrified, her nerves torn to
pieces, sobbing, shaking all over, with her face buried in her
hands. I said nothing. I had been frightened too by the
glimpse of her smeared, red mouth. But I said nothing.
When she quieted a little and realized that I was silent, she
said,
VAMPIRE 1932 FROM BROOKLYN, N. Y.
1 2 9
WITCHCRAFT
“ Seabrook, what shall I do? Shall I have myself locked
up? Shall I kill myself? Or what?”
Everything I ’d ever known about the girl had been rac­
ing in that silence through my mind, and some of the things,
which had seemed pointless when they occurred, seemed now
to have a possible new significance. I ’d met her first a couple
of years before at a party in Bob Chanler’s weird house, off
Gramercy Park, in New York. She lived in Brooklyn Heights,
and seldom came to Manhattan, but Bob wanted to paint her
portrait, so she returned several subsequent times to his house,
which I was then frequenting, and once or twice stayed over
in the evening. On one of the evenings a queer episode had
occurred. Bob never went in deeply for the esoteric, in fact
had a slight contempt for it, but his friend Stanislaus Ivorsky
was a student of the occult, and had brought there a certain
Madame Ludovescu, who claimed to possess supernormal
powers, physical rather than psychic, including the ability to
heal cuts and burns, and to staunch the flow of blood. She
was a dowdy woman, dressed pretentiously—velvet, a big
picture hat, long, black kid gloves and bangles. Stanislaus had
brought a medical friend to the party, and the doctor had
consented to be the subject for the blood-staunching experi­
ment, but Bob, whose skepticism was mixed with a vast, Gar­
gantuan curiosity and childish egoism, roared,
“ I want to be the goat in this miracle!”
So it was agreed. The doctor got a saucer, turned back the
sleeve from Bob’s left wrist, held it over the saucer, dabbed
the skin with alcohol and nicked the transverse superficial
vein with a small scalpel. It wasn’t any pinprick either. The
blood trickled in a slight but steady stream, as we all crowded
130
round the table. Madame Ludovescu bent her head, as if
nearsightedly studying the puncture, wiping her unrouged
lips meanwhile with a handkerchief, which she kept held to
her mouth for an appreciable moment. I guess she thought
we had our attention safely fixed on Bob’s wrist. Then she
pressed her lips tight to the wound, seemed to breathe upon
it precisely as I had seen Hindu fakirs do. We heard a faint
mumbling as if of muttered prayer or incantation, and the
muscles of her mouth were moving. It took fully a minute or
more, and seemed longer. Then she raised her head, saying,
“ It has ceased. You can see.”
It was then the queer interruption had occurred which
now brought the whole thing back to me in memory. The
woman’s mouth and cheek were reddened, a tiny thread of
scarlet trickled from the corner of her mouth, and as she
lifted her face, saying, “ It has ceased,” Mary Lensfield, who
had been watching with the rest of us, moaned and keeled
over in a dead faint. “ It’s nothing serious,” said the doctor
in a moment, lifting her to a couch. “ She’ll come round in a
minute or two. The sight of any blood sometimes affects peo­
ple that way.” And she did, and we thought nothing more
of it.
The flow from Chanler’s wrist had ceased completely, and
the others had exclaimed now in awe and admiration, when
Bob had shouted,
“ Didn’t you see? Prayers my eye! She licked it like a
puppy! I licked it myself just now, and that’s what’s caught
her cold! I might as well have been licking green persim­
mons! Make her give you that handkerchief, if she dares.
You’ll find it stinks of tannic acid, and probably Adrenalin.
VAMPIRE 1 9 3 2 FROM BROOKLYN, N. Y.
WITCHCRAFT
H ey, Paul! Give this bitch ten dollars and a drink of gin,
and throw her out!”
I ’d forgotten all about the Rumanian woman and her
cheap tricks. It was only the memory now of how M ary
Lensfield had moaned, shuddered, and dropped to the floor
that brought the episode flashing back. And it made me re­
member another episode which had occurred more recently
at Antibes. It had a queer angle too, which had seemed
merely a casual coincidence at the time. The Lensfield girl
had shared a room there with a friend, also an American
girl, and the two had seemed to be inseparable. The friend­
ship had suddenly been broken for reasons that nobody knew.
The girl had moved to another fension. And I now sharply
recalled that at the time of the quarrel, or of whatever had
happened, this second girl had cut herself with an ice pick,
or said she had. At Chanler’s, Mary Lensfield had gone to
pieces and fainted at the sight of blood on another woman’s
lips. In this second instance, I began to wonder if there had
been an accident with an ice pick, and if so, whose lips might
afterward have been stained.
For here was M ary Lensfield now, her own pallid mouth
smeared with blood—afraid that she was going mad. I said,
“ Has it ever happened to you before?”
She said, “ I was visiting a friend at Vassar. She cut her­
self on broken glass. I helped bandage it. She slept soundly
that night. I had persuaded her to take a triple bromide. I
wanted to kill myself next morning.”
I said, “ Was it something like that when you had the
quarrel, if it was a quarrel, with that girl—I don’t recall her
name—at Antibes a couple of years ago?”
1 3 2
“ Yes,” she said, “ it’s as bad as that. I am what you think.
It has happened more than once.”
I said, “ What did you mean by saying you were ‘what I
think’? I don’t think anything except that you’re a sick girl
who ought to see a doctor.”
And then it was she, mind you, who whispered the old,
ugly word “ vampire.” While she talked on now, as if a flood­
gate were opened, spilling out her sick and tortured soul, I
think I realized for the first time a truth which has never
been clearly stated, so far as I know, by anybody: that the
persistence and bolstering of superstition not only fosters fear
(and cruelty) in the public mass mind, but also helps spawn
and foster the very horrors it attacks. Let me explain exactly
what I mean, with reference to the vampire. The unsuper-
stitious individual who becomes afflicted with this craving for
blood either sees a doctor or goes out and commits crimes
easily dealt with by the police. Which of those two simple
things he does depends simply on his moral balance. But the
superstitious man or woman, so afflicted and superstition-
ridden besides, reacts entirely differently. If he, or she, is a
morally bad type, the next step is, “ Ooooooooh! I’m a vam­
pire!” or “ Wooooow! Pm a werewolf! I ’m superman now,
and nothing but a silver bullet or a stake driven through my
heart can stop me! So I ’ll go to town!” H e or she, super­
stition-ridden, but with a moral conscience, as in the case of
the wretched young lady with whom I was now talking, says,
“ Woe is me! I have become a horrible and awful thing. And
I can do nothing to resist it. Better I were dead! Better I
had never been born!”
It made me sick to learn, as we sat there and talked, of
how this otherwise mentally normal girl, afflicted with blood-
VAMPIRE 1 9 3 2 FROM BROOKLYN, N. Y.
1 3 3
W IT C H C R A F T
craving and inclined toward a belief in heaven and hell in­
herited from overly religious parents, had wallowed in the
obsessed reading of everything she could find on the subject
of vampires. There’s a vast bibliography, containing lots of
honest stuff of course, but cluttered with learned, stupid,
pious, horrid fantasy and supernatural doctrine, written by
professors, esoterics, cultists, crackbrained preachers and
priests, including also certain celebrated modern doctors of
theology. She had read them all absorbedly, and in three
fourths of the medieval stuff she had found that among the
marks of the female vampire were pallor, thinness to the
point of emaciation, red hair, and green eyes! Pure, crazy
coincidence! Yet you can imagine how she must have stared
in her own mirror. She knew, since the coincidence hadn’t
driven her completely crazy—though it might easily have
done so in conjunction with her secret knowledge of her own
blood lust—that she’d never been dead and buried, and that
she didn’t crawl back at night to sleep in a vault or coffin
like Lady Vere or Dracula. But that hadn’t helped her any,
because part of the learned, superstitious hogwash on the
“nature of vampires” explains that if you’re bitten by one
(and this, of course, can occur in your sleep without your
knowing it), you’re in danger of becoming one yourself, be­
fore you die, in your own natural lifetime—just as a person
bitten by a mad dog is in danger of hydrophobia. She asked
me whether I believed what all those learned writers did,
or whether I thought she was crazy.
I gradually realized that she was not only pouring out her
fears to me, but was close on the edge of confessing her com­
plete belief in all that horrid nonsense, “confessing” herself
to be of that unholy kin.
134
VAM PIRE 1 9 3 2 FROM BROOKLYN, N. Y.
And I realized too as we sat there in the twilight that if
this same misadventure had happened in this same Mediter­
ranean cove a couple of hundred years before instead of in
the twentieth century, not only would the man have fled in
terror and reported her to the ecclesiastical authorities, but
the girl would have made a full confession, voluntarily with­
out need of any torture, that she was a true vampire. She
would have died believing in the justice of her condemna­
tion, and would have been buried at a crossroads with a stake
driven through her heart. I came out of those reflections
angry—but not at her.
I said, “ For Christ’s sake, forget all that crazy nonsense.
You’re not crazy, but all those goddamned supernaturalists
are as crazy as hell. Agreed, you’re a ‘vampire’ if you insist
on calling it that—you’re a sort of baby vampire who could
grow up into a monster, but you’re not a supernaturally
doomed creature, and you’re not a criminal either, yet. You’re
not even wicked, yet. You’re just an ill, hallucinated girl,
and you ought to see a doctor. See a doctor first, and get
him to find you a good psychiatrist, one who is an M .D . too
. . . here or back home in America.”
M y advice was sound enough, but it came too late. Miss
Lensfield followed it literally, returned to America, and put
herself in the hands of doctors, specialists. She never suc­
cumbed again to her tragic craving, but within a year she was
dead—of pernicious anemia. The red blood cells in her body,
the erythrocytes, had been disintegrating. H er whole chemi­
cal organism had been involved in a terrific struggle to bal­
ance itself and survive, and it had been discovered too late
for transfusion or anything to save her. This desperate physi-
135
WITCHCRAFT
ological maladjustment had been at the bottom of her mental
maladjustment, of her awful craving, and she’d been no
more morally responsible for her monstrous yearnings than
midgets, dwarfs, and giants (innocent victims of their pineal
and thyroid glands) are for their monstrous shapes. It all
makes part of the picture tied up with the now commonplace
certainty discovered in the twrentieth-century merging of clin­
ical medicine and psychiatry, that anomalies in the realm of
psychology and behavior are often traceable to chemical-
organic causes.
IV. Panther-man from the Ivory Coast
C O N F ID E N T IA L interviews, exchanges of cigarettes, and
mutual confidences with caught, convicted werewolves are
fairly rare. Werewolves and their kin aren’t often caught
alive. The werewolf, along with his African prototype, the
leopard-man, panther-man, hyena-woman, are usually killed
on the spot or escape to commit subsequent depradations, and
die generally—as generals do—in bed.
M y little friend Tei, petty chief of the Yafouba, and some­
time white-collar clerk in the administration offices at Dakue,
was an exception. H e had been caught red-clawed, confessed,
been sentenced to die, and now sat in the shade of the jail-
yard wall, chewing kola nuts, smoking cigarettes, waiting
while the official papers came from Bingerville to confirm
the sentence. When not engaged in werewolfery, this Tei
was a beguiling little scoundrel, and had become, indeed, a
sort of pet werewolf, now that he was caught. Clouzet, the
local administrator, was almost beginning to be sorry they
were going to have to shoot him. I spent hours with Tei,
smoking interminable cigarettes, chewing kola, listening to
him talk. H e was a skinny little runt, wrinkled face, bright
eves, keen smile, with a wisp of a billy-goat beard that bobbed
137
WITCHCRAFT
up and down as he chewed. He was naked now except for his
loincloth, amulets, beads, crocodile teeth, and little leather
bags strung round his neck. When he’d worked up in the
office, he’d worn store clothes and shoes, had a fountain pen,
a watch and chain. Time no longer made any difference to
Tei, as he wiggled his toes and kept insisting,
. . but I tell you I do turn into a panther. No—I can’t
do it now for you! I can’t do it like that—whenever I want
to. I can’t do it ever. It isn’t anything I do. It’s something
that happens to me. But when it happens, I am a panther
“ Do you like it?”
“ Oh, yes,” he would always answer, “ it’s nicer than being
a man.”
“ But if you really do turn into a panther,” I kept badger­
ing him for the four-hundredth time, “ then why do you
have to put on that panther skin—those mittens with iron
claws?”
“ It’s a part of the fetish,” he’d repeat, “ it’s part of the
magic. It’s like rubbing the panther fat, and eating the part
of the panther’s liver, and dancing the panther dance, crouch­
ing and leaping. It’s when you make the leaping that you
become the panther. . . .”
Once he’d added hopefully, when I ’d brought him a bottle
of sweet vermouth, of which he was inordinately fond, “ I
don’t know whether a white man could do it or not, but I ’ll
be glad to teach you the leaping . . . and you could always
try.”
“A ll right,” I’d say, getting back to the point which in­
terested me most, “ but after you’ve leapt and become the
panther, if you really become a panther, why don’t you leap
138
out of the disguise? You don’t need two panther skins, and
you don’t need the iron claws, if you’ve got real ones!”
To this, Tei had a variety of answers, the best one being
that you never knew when you might suddenly change back
into your human shape—and be recognized.
In the end, I became firmly convinced of Tei’s sincerity,
convinced that his hallucinations about actually turning into
a panther were completely real—as hallucinations. I got to
thinking about the whole queer business of subjective and
objective reality, and it occurred to me that in the typical
panther-man murder-drama as it usually occurs in the jungle
—and as it had occurred in the death of Blito to which little
Tei had confessed—there is a three-way illusion, a three-way
subjective reality which spreads out beyond the mere illusion
in the panther-man’s one individual brain. I ’m not turning
mystical, either. By “ three-way subjective reality,” I mean
simply that three separate individuals, or groups, participate
simultaneously in the hallucination:
1. The panther man,
2. The victim,
3. The witnesses, if any.
So it had surely been in the killing of Blito, which occurred
as she walked in the twilight along a jungle path leading
from her village to a spring, and of which we had full cir­
cumstantial knowledge.
Tei, in his panther garb and iron claws, believing himself
to be a panther, completely victim of the subjective reality
of his own frenzied illusion, had leapt, probably yowling,
down from a branch on her shoulders, and had torn her
throat out with the claws.
What had Blito seen and felt in that fleeting instant as
P A N T H E R -M A N FR O M T H E IVORY COAST
1 3 9
W ITCH CRA FT
she died? If she had seen anything, it had been the flashing
form of a panther, leaping*as a panther leaps. What she had
felt is sure. She had felt a lithe, jurry body landing on her
shoulders, and claws tearing at her throat. She had died in
the complete subjective certainty that she had been slain by
a panther.
When there are witnesses to these murders, as in this case
there were, what do the witnesses see? They see a leaping
panther, engaged in a kill, and flee screaming to raise the
village.
The dead Blito will never know that the panther was hu­
man—a were-panther. The witnesses will only learn it was a
were-panther when the hunters come back. When it’s a real
panther, they can easily trail and find the mangled, partially
devoured body, and the real panther’s tracks. In the absence
of normal beast marks, they suspect now it was a panther-
man—and to them, in this completed circle of subjective real­
ity, it was a man not in human form, but in a panther’s form.
These same villagers now came often to the jail yard to
see Tei in his familiar, human form. Sometimes they brought
him mangoes. They bore him no malice. They believed, as
he did, that he couldn’t help sometimes turning into a pan­
ther. They were sure that this would happen, for a last and
final time, when Tei was stood up against the jail wall and
shot. After he’d been shot, he’d no longer be there, as Tei.
Thcre’d be a dead panther lying there, its body pierced with
bullets. They were all coming, from miles around, to see it,
because Tei’s case—a curious mixture of comedy, monkey-
shines, and horror—had had our whole part of the jungle,
including whites and blacks, in a dither for weeks on end.
140
P A N T H E R -M A N FRO M T H E IVORY COAST
Blito, you see, had been Tei’s own jungle love—and also
Clouzet’s—in a district where the blacks, and whites too,
bought, sold, and swapped young Yafouba girls, wives, con­
cubines, and slaves, as we do puppies, cats, and hunting dogs.
I bought one once for three dollars and a pink celluloid
mirror. When Tei became a government employee, Blito,
who was young, handsome, jangling with bracelets and trin­
kets, had caught Administrator Clouzet’s roving eye. The
foxed-face little village chief, who had as many girls in his
harem as he had chickens in his hencoop, was delighted. The
natives are never jealous in such cases. The best thing that
can happen to them, and they know it, is when a daughter or
any other female member of their household can get into a
white man’s house, and bed. The perquisites always add up
to more than the original “ gift” or purchase price. Sometimes
when Blito danced on the lawn of Administrator Clouzet’s
compound to the accompaniment of tribal drums, for our
amusement, Tei would be sitting on a stool near Clouzet’s
chair, and enjoying it as much as anybody. In those days,
Tei was a cocky, active, intelligent, likable little savage, who
had feathered his nest with the French. Though he still wore
amulets beneath his store clothes and the teeth of wild ani­
mals braided in his hair, he sported a golf cap, yellow shoes
that might have come from Harlem, and was “ Monsieur Tei
of the Administration” to the barefoot ones back yonder in
his village. When the servants brought vermouth and Pernod,
Clouzet occasionally handed Tei a glass too, with a grin.
That was the way things had stood at Dakue when I went
north to join Administrator-General Bercole on a hunting
trip. Returning to his headquarters, we heard there’d been
W IT C H C R A F T
trouble down in Clouzet’s district. First we heard there’d
been a raid of Liberian leopard-men from across the river.
These Liberian leopard societies are group versions of the
Ivory Coast “ panther-man,” 1 the European “ werewolf,” and
generally hunt in packs. They are criminal secret societies
which practice a sort of mass lycanthropy, working them­
selves up to a state of frenzied hallucination in groups. First
we heard that Blito had been among the victims—and then
we heard the straighter report, that Blito had been the only
victim, while on a visit back to her native village, which was,
in fact, near the river, the Liberian border. Clouzet, we heard,
had called out a platoon of tirailleurs, and Tei, whose village
district it concerned, had been put in charge of the investi­
gation.
“ It’s a queer story,” said Bercole. “ Of course Clouzet has
always been a fool, but it’s a queer story. Only Blito mur­
dered. Who says there was a raid? Who says anybody came
across the river? I ’ll be interested to hear what happens.”
A week or two later, we had word from Clouzet that the
crime had been pinned on three marauding Liberians. They
had been captured, and there was more than enough evidence
to have them condemned and shot. Bercole, responsible for
the whole region, still felt there was something queer about
it, and the next day we went down to Dakue. Bercole dis­
simulated his suspicions, was mild as a lamb, congratulated
Clouzet, had a casual look at the prisoners, and presently,
as we dined with Clouzet, began asking innocent questions.
How had they caught them? How identified them? Had
they confessed yet? No, said Clouzet, they hadn’t confessed.
1 See Appendix, p. 316.
1 4 2
They even claimed an alibi, of all things, but you knew what
native alibis amounted to, and there was enough circumstan­
tial evidence to satisfy any court anywhere. Bercole repeated
his congratulations, and Clouzet said,
“ W ell, the credit really belongs to Tei. The tirailleurs and
constabulary helped, but it was Tei who really pulled it off.”
“ So,” said Bercole mildly, and I noticed he was scratching
his head. “ By the way, who had the Liberian idea in the be­
ginning? Who had the original leopard society hunch?”
“ It was Tei,” replied Clouzet, “ he’s a smart little head­
man.”
“ Yes,” agreed Bercole, “ he’s one of the smartest. I ’d like
it, though, if we could get a confession out of those Liberians.
I think I ’ll see what I can do about that if you don’t mind.”
Bercole saw the prisoners, separately, and together, several
times, then was gone from Dakue for two days, came back,
and said,
“ They didn’t do it. They couldn’t have done it.”
“ Are you sure?” said the astonished Clouzet.
“ Yes, I ’m sure—and you know what it adds up to now,
don’t you?”
“Mon dieu!” said the astonished Clouzet, “ it couldn’t be!
H e’s been a good government employee for years. . . .”
“ Ah me,” said Bercole wearily. “ I like you, Clouzet, but
you’re a baby. This case stunk long before I found out those
poor apes you arrested couldn’t have done it. It still stinks.
It smells. It smells so loudly that I got a little sniff of it
when I first heard, a hundred miles away. And now I ’m
sure.”
So the highhanded Bercole had acted on his “ hunch,” ar­
rested Tei, torn Tei’s fetish house to pieces, discovered hid-
P A N T H E R -M A N FROM T H E IVORY COAST
1 4 3
W ITCH CRA FT
den in the thatching the panther disguise, skin, bloody-clawed
mittens—and Blito’s anklets, bracelets, likewise stained with
blood. Tei confessed readily, since the jig was up. H e’d been
turning into a panther, he said, from time to time, for years.
The rigolade of the industrious and faithful little govern­
ment employee who’d been a part-time panther on his eve­
nings off, illogically mitigated the ghastliness of the hallu­
cinated crime, but rightly failed to mitigate its expiation.
The French have never gone in for hangings. They do it
with a firing squad in Africa. The natives had come from
miles around to see the execution, convinced that the body
would turn miraculously to its panther form in death. But
the body which lay crumpled there at the foot of the yellow
wall outside the jail yard was merely the body of little Tei.
I felt a little sorry for him, for I ’m sure he would have been
surprised, as they were, that no miracle had happened.
1 4 4
V. Lady Hyena widi Jeweled Earrings
IF I am convinced, and hope to convince you, that many
witches, vampires, werewolves, panther-men, and their kin­
dred, are hallucinated humans who believe in their own
hocus-pocus and are frequently guilty as hell of murder and
worse, I don’t mean to imply that all unhappy creatures so
accused are thus deluded or guilty, or both.
One of the by-products of superstition, whether primitive
and savage or a medieval hang-over among us supposedly
enlightened whites, is that in addition to providing a con­
tagious culture-medium for epidemic witchcraft and lycan-
thropy, it makes witch fear, witch hysteria, similarly epi­
demic, W'ith the result that innocent individuals are frequently
accused unjustly, persecuted, and destroyed. Also it offers a
foul field for private plotting.
Innocent, for instance, as any Hawthorne heroine, or
screen-warmed-over Maid of Salem, was the handsomest and
youngest daughter of a Mossi chief in the Upper Volta who
was “ framed” by native priests, and subsequently murdered
by them. The priests had convinced the countryside that the
wretched girl was a demon-hyena, and nearly got away with
their crime.
145
W IT C H C R A F T
I ’d been up toward Ouahigouya, looking at some hippo­
potami, with Bercole, who was a naturalist as well as a hunter,
and who would as soon have shot his own pet goldfish as one
of those amiable and lumbering water beasts. We had dropped
in to see his colleague, Monsieur Maillard, administrator in
one of the Ouahigouya districts, to tell him about the hippo­
potami. It was while we were playing three-handed cutthroat
bridge afterward, at the administration residence, that we first
heard about the mysterious “ lady hyena,” and I recall that
my friends were excessively impatient about it—at first.
The black Moslem butler had come to say in faultless, dis­
creet French that a British gentleman had called who seemed
disturbed about something, and “ wished earnestly” to see the
administrator tonight.
“ Name of a pipe!” said Maillard, “ tell the British gentle­
man to come back at ten o’clock tomorrow morning . . . or
tell him to go jump in the Niger. Don’t you see that we are
playing cards?”
Government functionaries in these isolated regions, where
no hotels or public restaurants exist, are terribly imposed on
by sportsmen, “ explorers,” tourists, until they learn to be
inhospitable for self-protection. Ordinarily the butler would
have taken it on himself to tell the stranger to come back
next day, and now when the butler still stood there uncer­
tain, reluctant to withdraw, I sensed something unusual.
“ What are you standing there for?” growled Maillard.
“ Whatever his business is, it can wait. Get on out now!”
But the butler strangely held his ground. It wasn’t, the
butler explained timidly . . . well, it wasn’t exactly busi-
146
ness. The British gentleman was quite perturbed. You see,
he had shot a hyena. . . .
“ Name of a name of a name!” It was Bercole who swore
this time, pushing back his chair. “ Tell the fool to go out
and shoot a thousand hyenas! Does he suppose there’s a
closed season on shooting hyenas in Africa? If he’d shot one
of my hippos . . . But who cares about hyenas!”
“ Monsieur Commandant,” said the now trembling butler,
“ it was a young female hyena, and there were jeweled ear­
rings in its pierced ears.”
“ The Englishman is drunk?” asked Maillard, mildly.
“ No, Monsieur Commandant, he is not drunken, and he
has the hyena outside. I have seen it.”
“ I ’ve always been told that anything can happen in Africa,
but I ’ve been here so long that I don’t quite believe it,” said
Maillard with heavy sarcasm. “ You may now bring in the
English milord and his milady hyena.”
The Englishman was dignified, middle-aged, stuffy, and,
as we soon discovered, also quite annoyed. lie was anything
but apologetic for disturbing us. His attitude definitely im­
plied that hyenas never wore earrings in properly run Brit­
ish dependencies. He explained that he’d been hunting at
night, for lion, on the cliffs toward Bandiagara, and that he
felt it necessary to report so “ unreasonable” a happening to
the authorities. In night hunting, you wear an electric bulb,
with a reflector, fastened round your hat or forehead, with
the wires running to a battery in your pocket. When the
light picks up a pair of gleaming eyes, you shoot, and some­
times it’s a lion. If you’ve misjudged the distance, and, in
consequence, the space between the eyes, it may be a wildcat,
or even a rabbit. This can happen to anybody on a dark
LADY H Y E N A W IT H J E W E L E D EARRING S
H 7
W IT C H C R A F T
night. In this case it had been the hyena which the English­
man’s porters now lugged in and deposited, at a sign from
Maillard, on a trestle table so that we could examine it. It
was just a dead, two-thirds grown young female hyena, but
the lobes of its ears had been pierced as women’s are, and set
in the ears were a pair of beautiful native gold earrings en­
crusted with semiprecious stones of the sort found in the
neighborhood of Gao.
The butler brought Pernod and whisky. The Englishman
became a bit less stuffy. W e all unbent and agreed that here
was a fine how-de-do.
The Englishman wras put up in the guesthouse, the dead
hyena locked in the office, and next morning, Maillard sent
for the local Mossi chief and his jeticheur priests, the local
witch-doctors, the native gendarme sergeant, the interpreters,
who all came presently, rubbed their eyes—and were dumber
than they should be. No, they knew nothing about it. No,
they had never heard of such a thing ever happening before.
No, they could guess nothing about it. No . . . absolutely
not . . . none of them had ever previously seen that par­
ticular pair of earrings. They presently departed, but Ber-
cole, who had helped conduct the investigation, was sure they
were lying. They’d been dumber than was necessary, he said.
No charge could be brought against them, or against any­
body. It’s no crime to put rings in a hyena’s ears and turn
it loose on the mountainside. And when no crime is involved,
it has always been the policy of the French not to interfere
with the feticheurs, their native temples, and their native
shenanigan and superstition.
No further official investigation was made at this time,
and it was plain curiosity, I think, rather than a suspicion
148
of anything sinister, that prompted Bercole before leaving
the region to pay an informal visit to his high-up native col­
league—that magnificent old patriarch and reprobate, His
Negro Holiness, the Yatanga Naba, Black Pope of all the
Mossi. These two oddly assorted tyrants—the cocky, little
French administrator-general who took a twisted pride in
his petulant, shabby informality, and the superb Yatanga
who weighed three hundred pounds, wore gorgeous robes of
silk and gold, and claimed descent from a black high priest
of the Egyptian Pharaohs—had been intimates and allies for
a long decade. Both were completely cynical, equally con­
temptuous of French red tape and jungle mumbo jumbo, yet
both loved West Africa, and both worked in their own de­
vious ways toward the furtherance of its tangled destinies.
The Yatanga’s palace was at Ouahigouya. Thither Bercole
went with the jeweled earrings in his pocket, and the in­
trigued Yatanga Naba, after seeing them and hearing Ber-
cole’s story, promised he’d get to the bottom of it. The
Yatanga, who knew that a lot of the forest priests were ras­
cals, was never loath to catch them out on limbs and put
the fear of the devil in them. It was he who really uncovered
the murder for us. It proved to be a double story, with plau­
sible superstition motives on its surface, and plain crime un­
derneath.
The jeweled earrings, as subsequently proven, had orig­
inally adorned the ears of a certain Sarab’na, youngest daugh­
ter of a native “ king” named Sanou. In this territory, with
French consent, every big tribal chief is a “ king,” while the
native temporal ruler of all the Mossi, the effeminate Moro
Naba, is an “ emperor.” The titles are less ridiculous than
they sound, for the Mossi have walled towns, adobe palaces,
LADY H Y E N A W IT H J E W E L E D EARRING S
*49
W IT C H C R A F T
fine horses, and affect magnificent garments of brilliantly
colored leather. So that Sarab’na had been in native parlance,
a moso-masake, “ little princess,” though it helped her not at
all when her dreadful fate came upon her. The surface story
had been that when she had come to the age of thirteen, the
priestly witch-doctors and fetish-women attached to her own
household had discovered, in the portents and omens which
resulted from the incantation ceremonies surrounding her
initiation to womanhood, that she was not a woman at all,
but a demon-hyena—which means according to their myths
that a hyena had magically taken up its abode in her human
body. If this were true, according to the belief of the Mossi,
it constituted a deadly danger to her own family; for when
the hyena possession came upon her, as it would some day
inevitably, she would, first of all, slay her own parents—her
own human father and mother. To kill the girl w'ould have
been no use, by their belief, for that would simply release a
disembodied, demoniac hyena spirit, against which there could
be no protection at all. Consequently, she had been turned
over to the priests, who undertook to make the hyena come
out of her in its material form.
The procedure is the same as the driving out of devils
used to be among Greeks, Romans, Jews, and Christians. The
incantations and mumbo jumbo differ, but the essence of it
is to make the body of the possessed person such an uncom­
fortable habitation that not even a devil or wild beast cares
to remain in it.1 Superstition is never completely logical, even
within its own false premises, and in the case of the demon­
hyena, they believe it will either abandon the body and try
to escape, when it can be clubbed or shot down in its animal
1 See Appendix, p. 322.
1 5 0
form—or that the human body itself will become magically
transformed into the ravening beast, and must then be slain.
The sour note that aroused Bercole’s suspicion concerning
this surface version based on superstition was that the girl’s
own sisters had helped in the procedure. As to what they
had actually done to the unhappy girl, Bercole had some de­
tails from the Yatanga which are too dreadful to write or
print. They’d kept her in a cellar, and the sisters had worked
on her in relays while the priests howled their incantations
and exorcisms. All this, it seems, went on for the best part
of a month, in the subterranean vault of one of their mud
temples, and Sarab’na had become a demented creature,
scarcely indeed human any more except in form, crawling on
all fours, slavering, cowering, snarling at her tormentors—
but the hyena refused to be driven out, nor did the girl’s
form ever change.
What threw it out of the already bad-enough field of
superstitious persecution into the same crime-for-gain cate­
gory as our own recent witchcraft-arsenic murders was the
fact, finally dug up and proven by Bercole and the Yatanga,
that the girl’s jealous sisters, abetted by other relatives with
an eye on the family succession, lands, and cattle, had bribed
the priests to fake the omens; had cooked up the plot to get
Sarab’na out of the way. She had been her father’s marked
favorite and he had planned an early marriage for her, to a
“ prince” of the Songhai, with half his holdings thrown in as
a dowry. Because she was his favorite, they hadn’t dared risk
an ordinary murder, but had evolved the horrid plot which
would put him in terror of Sarab’na and make him believe
she was a menace to his own existence.
LADY H Y E N A W IT H J E W E L E D EA RRIN G S
W ITCH CRA FT
When the unfortunate girl was completely demented, they
went to Sanou, invited him to see for himself, and what he
saw was a whipped, starved, and tortured creature who went
on all fours, completely mad and ravening, who devoured
chunks of raw meat when they were thrown to her. This
convinced him so fully that they were easily able to obtain
his acquiescence to their further plans. They persuaded him
with childish logic that the reason they hadn’t been able to
exorcise the hyena, to make it come out in its own form, was
that it realized, shut up as they were in the cellar, that it
would be cornered and killed the moment it showed itself.
So, after further conference, Sanou agreed to let them take
her out among the cliffs, and try it in the open.
What they did, of course, was simply to murder her out
there, and throw the bod}' in the river, which swarmed with
crocodiles. And if they’d let it go at that, it would have been
just one of those things in Africa that no white man ever
hears of. But the wily priests, who planned to go back and
say that the girl herself had become a hyena and fled into
the bush, had played their too smart trick with the earrings.
They had trapped a young hyena alive, “ planted” the ear­
rings, and turned it loose, on the long chance that sooner or
later somebody might glimpse the marvel fleeting in the
moonlight, might even kill it, as actually had chanced to
happen, thus “ proving” that the wretched girl had been a
real demon-hyena; thus increasing the prestige of their
priestly craft and magic. This is precisely what would have
happened, had the hyena been seen or shot by any super­
stitious native. The almost impossible long chance they had
overlooked was that it might be bagged by a white man and
carried to the administration. White hunters almost never
1 5 2
LADY H YEN A W ITH JE W E L E D EARRINGS
shoot hyenas. The hyena is carrion, and its hide is worth­
less. Nor could white men alone have ever got to the bottom
of it and brought the priests and their accomplices to justice.
Bercole had a long talk with Maillard about that. And it was
agreed that it would be a mistake to try to make it stand up
in a tribunal. Justice was left to the Yatanga Naba, who took
a savage pleasure in seeing it was administered—in the savage
fashion the savage crime deserved.
153
VI. The Caged White Werewolf
of the Saraban
“ T H E last two times they brought her back to the planta­
tion,” said the mahogany exporter, and he was speaking of
his own wife Marthe, whom he had married in Marseille
before coming to the Ivory Coast, “ her mouth [son museau,
he called it, which properly means a wild beast’s snout] was
smeared with blood.”
He was begging Bercole and me to understand that he
had done the only thing he could, and we were wondering
what other solution could have been any better.
No roads or regular safari trails led up into the Saraban,
and no white Frenchman, not even Bercole on whose dis­
trict it abutted, had ever been up there officially until now.
A lot of native rumors had kept seeping down to the coast,
and Bercole, forced finally to investigate, had invited me to
go along with him. H e’d been in a bad humor about it, for
if there is any one thing, other than sunstroke, that gives
your seasoned African colonial a sharper pain in the neck
than something else, it is precisely any tale about mysterious
white women gone jungle mad, or held prisoner and made
to officiate as voodoo priestesses. They generally turn out to
be there of their own free will, from one of the brothels
H 4
T H E CAGED W H IT E W E R E W O L F OF T H E SARABAN
behind the old port in Toulon, near the Senegalese barracks,
or from the Kasba at Algiers, where no color lines are drawn
—and seldom thank you for butting in on their new racket.
If there was a white woman “ held captive” in the Saraban,
Bercole had been sure it would be something in that category.
Yet the queer rumors had persisted, and there were natives
who swore they had been there . . . had seen with their
own eyes. They said there was a man up there, on the banks
of the Cavally, on the other side of the mountain, who kept
a woman, with long, straight hair, in an iron cage, “ kai
gaibou,” that is, “ like a panther”—like a wild beast in an iron
cage—and Dioula peddlers, who claimed to have actually
seen the woman, swore she was a white European.
Bercole had been long years in Africa. “ It could be,” he’d
said to me, “ that this is a drawing, painting, or carving that
has taken hold on the imagination of some isolated tribe
back there. Their belief in animism, you see, means that
nothing is ever necessarily wTat it seems. It could easily be
a wooden image or an idol; it could even be some animal,
or even a stone or a tree. When you live here in the jungle
twenty years, you begin to understand that what you first
mistook for fantasy, or deliberate lying to mystify us whites,
is often something different and quite sincere. M y Senegalese
chauffeur who served four years in France as a sergeant, who
can take my motor to pieces and put it back again, who has a
phonograph and can read Morse code, once took me to see
his grandfather at Konakri. I ’d said, ‘I thought he was dead.’
The chauffeur said, ‘No, he’s come back.’ So we went to see
his grandfather at Konakri, and his grandfather was a goat!
M y Baoule housekeeper Ouia, who has more hard common
sense, as you know, than nine tenths of the white function-
155
W ITCH CRA FT
aries down in the governor’s palace, keeps a sea shell which
is her dead sister. H alf the time, to them, a tree is not a tree.
A broken monkey wrench you’ve thrown away is a snake—or
somebody’s cousin. And it’s more tangled even than that. It
takes deeper twists no white man can follow. In those twists
a man’s assay of wearing a hat can be his grandfather, or a
herd of elephants. So God knows what we’ll find, if anything,
when we go up the river.”
Next day, as Bercole’s truck took us toward the mountain,
he said, “ W e’ll see no literal kai gaibou panther-woman in
a cage . . . depend on that . . . but I’ll showr you more
baboons than you ever dreamed were in the world. We had a
telescope trained on the mountain a couple of years ago when
the chief surveyor was up from Bingerville, and the rocks
were swarming with them, like maggots in a cheese.”
We camped and slept at the base of the mountain, and
left the truck there next morning. We packed light, went
afoot, with his cook, his boy, six porters, and by late after­
noon were up among the apes. The rock ridge lay like the
gray carcass of a mile-long whale, emerging from the green
jungle sea, and its clefts literally swarmed with baboons. It
was a baboon metropolis. On some of the slopes, they were
thick as flies. Bercole and his Negroes treated them like peo­
ple. They were not afraid of us . . . quite harmless, as long
as we remained polite to them—and as long as we were not
afraid of them. They chattered with interest, but not in
anger. Bercole said that if we killed or wounded one, or
even threw stones at them, they’d mob us, submerge us, and
tear us into little pieces.
We camped next night on the further slope, above the
Cavally, and in the morning a petty chief appeared, drawn
1 5 6
by our smoke, with a dozen men armed with spears, to see
■who we were and what we wanted. They were Ouabe, like
Bercole’s own porters. W e went down with them, gave them
three big salt bars and some tobacco. They found us a pirogue
above the rapids, and manned it with paddlers. We went for
three days up the river, with the Saraban on our right and
the Liberian hinterland on our left. On the fourth day we
came to a worked mahogany clearing, and soon to a planta­
tion, in a lagoon, on the French side. Apart from its remote­
ness, it looked ordinary, commonplace. It could hardly be
what we were looking for, yet the paddlers said it was. We
tied up, and as we were unloading, the proprietor came down
to the water. H e was a surly but not stupid-looking fellow,
brown-bearded, middle-aged—a Luxembourgeois, it turned
out. Bercole always dressed shabbily, without insignia, and
the man, not knowing whom he had to deal with, made it
plain he was not glad to see visitors. H e offered us no wel­
come, and was surly. It was always a mistake to be surly
with little Bercole. Bercole said in a sharp, clipped, official,
nasal twang:
“ So here you are, whoever you are, playing that old game
in my territory! One foot in Liberia, the other in French
territory, cutting mahogany on both sides of the river, evad­
ing taxes, probably paying no concession. I am Bercole, you
understand, administrator-general of this district. . .
“ I’m sorry,” said the proprietor, “ I could not know who
you were. I am Joseph Hecht, formerly of Luxembourg and
Marseille. M y papers are all on file, Alonsieur I’Admini-
strateur, in Bingerville. I regret . . .”
“ H ein,” said Bercole, “ so that’s who you are . . .”
T H E CAGED W H ITE W EREW OLF OF T H E SARABAN
H7
W IT C H C R A F T
“ I regret . . .” the man began again, when Bercole in­
terrupted, this time deprecatingly, almost amiably.
“ It wasn’t that anyway. That wasn’t what I came up here
to see you about. I came up here to put an end to a crazy,
idiotic story the tribes are circulating. I hesitate to mention
it.”
“ How does it concern me?” asked Joseph Hecht, and
added, “ The tribes are making me no trouble.”
“ They say,” blurted Bercole, “ that you keep women in
cages!”
At this, an extraordinary change came over the bearded
man. His former aggressiveness dropped from him. It was
not so much that he wilted. His face softened, rather, and
with the softening was a sort of queer, bitter resignation.
“ Ah, monsieur,” he said, “ it is just as well that you came.
I would have spared you the invitation, but I must beg you
now to come to my house. For you see, it is true. I keep my
wife . . . yes . . . I suppose cage would be the name for it.
In this climate, she would die if kept locked in a close room.
And if I did not keep her confined, where she cannot break
out nor others break in . . . Yes, monsieur, it is true. I keep
my wife—in a cage.”
Bercole is a difficult man to surprise, but his mouth had
dropped, and he was staring at Hecht as if he thought the
man was crazy. “ No,” exclaimed the planter earnestly, “ I am
not mad, nor is my wife insane in any ordinary sense. I do
not know what you believe about such things, but from time
to time my wife becomes demoniac, -possessed. She becomes a
wild beast. The jungle madness got into her, and the witch­
doctors themselves are afraid of her! If she had been one of
their own, they would have killed her. They have told me.
158
The last two times they brought her back to the plantation,
her jaws were smeared with blood”
“Mon dieu, mon dieu, mon dieu!” said Bercole. We had
reached the veranda. House boys brought bottles and refresh­
ment. Bercole said, “ I have lived for twenty years in the
jungle. . . . I have heard of it happening to jungle women
. . . but a white European . . . I do not know what to
think.”
“ There are worse things in Europe than in any jungle,”
said Hecht. “ Before I ever met my wife, before she dreamed
that she would ever live in Africa, she had already become
entangled.”
“ Entangled in what, in God’s name?” asked Bercole, mut­
tering more to himself than asking the direct question to
Hecht.
“ I will try to tell you,” said the man. “ I want to tell you.
She confessed it all to me in Marseille, and wanted to get
away from it; and it was one of the reasons we came to the
colonies.”
Here, concisely, is what he told us, with the first evil roots
back in the center of civilized France.
H e had first met the girl in Valence, near Lyon, where she
taught in the ecole normale. H e had fallen in love with her—
was still in love with her despite everything—and they had
married. Honeymooning in Marseille, she had become fright­
ened at someone she saw in the street, who she believed had
followed her down there, from Lyon. She had confessed what
she was afraid of, and begged Hecht to take her out of the
country. The “ Center,” the Valley of the Rhone, has always
been the stronghold of a deep, medieval religious mysticism,
which has—as such medievalism always has—its demonology,
T H E CAGED W H IT E W E R E W O L F O F T H E SARABAN
159
W IT C H C R A F T
black superstition, and weird cults growing out of them. One
of these cults had pulled the girl in, and taking advantage of
her perverse, neurasthenic temperament, had made her an
adept, an illuminee. She had participated in the sacrifice of
animals, had drunk the sacramental blood, had lain naked on
the altar, and had once or twice become possessed. In her
usually normal state, she feared and hated it, but they had
her hooked, and didn’t want to let her go. It was to escape
that she had married Hecht, and then persuaded him to take
her thousands of miles away, to a new life. Like all the pro­
vincial French who want to make a new start, they had natu­
rally gone “ to the colonies.”
All had gone well for a while, and then one night she had
disappeared. H er bed was empty. The tom-toms had been
throbbing all night down in the forest. Before Hecht could
get a search organized, the blacks themselves had brought
her back, already a little afraid of her, but bowing down be­
fore her with reverence, and giving Hecht to understand
they thought she was a sort of goddess. It was only later that
he learned what had happened on that first night. They’d
been holding an invocation of their jungle gods and demons,
with the drums, masks, chants, and dances, when she sud­
denly appeared in the light of the torches, swayed, began
screaming, tore off all her clothes, and rushed into their
midst, galvanized, illumined, shrieking. The natives had
milled around her, throwing themselves at her feet so she
could trample on them, howling “ G’nouna! G’nouna!
G’nouna! ” which is the feminine incarnation of Gla, the
Great Demon of the forest. These topmost demons in their
pantheon are worshiped as much as feared, are regarded as
1 6 0
T H E CAGED W H IT E W E R E W O L F OF T H E SARABAN
gods rather than devils, and rarely, as they believe, become
incarnate.
But again one night she was gone from her bed, and this
time when he found her, her mouth was smeared all over
with blood. The natives were in utter terror. They told him
it was the blood of a sheep. But they were so terrified he did
not believe them. They were no longer worshiping her. She
was one possessed, they said, with an evil spirit. A third, more
definitely horrible thing had happened soon afterward, and
then the witch-doctors had solemnly come to tell him that
his wife was kai gaibou, possessed by the spirit of a panther.
So the husband, who had made previous unsuccessful ef­
forts to prevent her from slipping away when the jungle
madness came upon her, had contrived the cage, to bar her in,
to make running away by night or day impossible, to protect
her against herself, as he said—from her own madness. She
was as sane as anybody, he said, between these awful lapses.
Yes, he said, the cage was here in the compound. It was a
part of the house, really, built on as a sort of wing. We
would go there now, and Monsieur the Administrator would
do whatever he judged wisest.
So we went, no longer antagonistic toward the man, filled
more with embarrassment and pity than with any morbid
curiosity. And there it was, just as the Dioula peddler had
said—the white Frenchwoman locked in an iron cage, kai
gaibou, like a panther, like a wild beast in the zoo. As for the
cage itself, it was roofed, comfortable, clean, and large as a
room, built sheltered against the bungalow, with mats on the
clay floor, a divan in one corner piled with cushions, and in
another corner a shower with toilet arrangements—the same
Hecht had for himself in the main house.
161
W IT C H C R A F T
As for the woman who came forward to the bars, sullen
but less embarrassed than we were, wrapped in a silk -pagne
twisted round her body in the Arab manner, inhaling deeply
the smoke from a cigarette, she was a heavy, dark-complex­
ioned, coarsely handsome creature, sensual rather than beau­
tiful, definitely volcanic, neurasthenic. I wondered whether
she had ever really been a schoolteacher—whether she hadn’t
been in an older and commoner profession before her mar­
riage.
“ M y wife, Marthe,” said the planter, making the weird in­
troductions. She stared at us, almost insolently, and the con­
versation, as the French say, refused to begin. It was damna­
bly embarrassing. Bercole sought refuge in the strictest offi­
cial formality.
“ Madame, I am the administrator-general with full police
authority in this district. I have men with me. I have heard
what this man here has recounted. I take note of what I see
in the presence of this gentleman as a witness. I take note,
and I am ready to act. Do you make complaint against this
man who says he is Joseph Hecht, and says he is your hus­
band? Are you held here against your will? Do you wish
to be released first, and then charge him?”
The woman inhaled again deeply and stared at Bercole.
“ He is my husband,” she said, and stopped, and then went
on. “ I have nothing to say, and no complaint or charge to
make. You’d better talk with him about it.”
“ As you wish, madame,” said Bercole, saluting punctili­
ously.
We were halfway down to the rapids next day, sliding
with the current, in the pirogue, when Bercole said:
162
T H E CAGED W H IT E W E R E W O L F O F T H E SARABAN
“ It looked crazy, but it wasn’t a stupid idea, you know.
She’s better off, probably, than in an insane asylum. And I
don’t believe she could be judged insane anyway. Apparently,
she’s not, except for that blood lust which sends her off at
intervals. Maybe she is bewitched, ensorcelee. I don’t know
what I believe about sorcery, but there’s one thing I do know
about it. No magic, my friend, can twist or break an iron bar.
Maybe Hecht has not been stupid. But if she were my woman,
assuming everything he told is true, I give you my word of
honor, I ’d shoot her through the head and believe I’d done
the right and moral thing about it.”
VII. Werewolf in Washington Square
IN esoteric lore and old theology, the difference between
black magic and white magic is that Satan and his devils help
you with the first, while the Lord Jesus, saints, and bright
pure spirits, including that of your dead aunt from Hawkins-
ville, Georgia, help you with the second.
In applied witchcraft and applied occultism today, the only
difference between black and white is in the intention. If
you’re doing it for evil, it’s black; if you’re doing it for good,
it is white. All magic, whether white or black, is dangerous—
and there are sometimes lamentable kickbacks.
Treating patients with ultraviolet rays or radium is dan­
gerous too. And so are strychnine pills. Unless the doctors
know their stuff, somebody, occasionally both the doctor and
the patient, get burned or poisoned. It’s the same in occultism
and white magic. Even when it’s “ only a game,” like table­
tipping or the ouija board, it can take dangerous turns, and
when you get deeper into it . . . into the Yi King, for in­
stance . . . it can sink you.
The Yi King, oldest of all books on divination and magic,
was written in China long before Confucius, and long before
dialectic theology was invented. It is neither black nor white.
It is magic, tout court, and I was employing it, with friends
1 64
from Columbia and Cornell, neither for good nor for evil,
but out of sheer curiosity to see how far we could make the
cat jump—if we could make it jump at all. The cat remained
poised and indifferent, but the experiments had various vio­
lent effects on the two-legged professors, and on other hu­
man beings whom we persuaded to shuffle the tortoise-shell
wands. In the end I realized again, belatedly, that magic is
a thing you’d better let alone unless you have the protection
of a pure and guileless heart like Parsifal’s. M y heart was far
from pure, and I ’d have materialized Lucifer himself, if I
could, as readily as any of the unfallen archangels. But my
experiments in reverse-orthodox, pentagrammed diabolism
had never materialized anything. And I ’d gone on to the
Yi King to see what poltergeist high jinks it might uncork,
if any.
The adventure I propose to relate occurred in John Ban­
nister’s studio, looking out on the Washington Arch, in the
summer of 1923. H e kept himself out of the newspapers,
but had a curious word-of-mouth reputation which was inter­
national. Some people considered him the greatest living se­
cret master of esoteric mysticism and magic; others insisted
he was no more than a crackbrained charlatan. At any rate,
he had a small private fortune, and never founded cults or
exploited his hobby commercially. I knew him intimately
and wavered between two opinions.
Our active monkey business with the Yi King (pronounced,
by the way, Yee Ching) dated back to 1922 when we had
chanced to find and buy the first actual set of wands I ’d ever
seen. W e’d been playing chess one afternoon at Mouquin’s,
and later in the afternoon were strolling up Fifth Avenue
when something in the window of a Chinese curio shop
W E R E W O L F IN W A SH IN G TO N SQUARE
1 6 5
W IT C H C R A F T
caught our eye. It was the shop on the east side of the Ave­
nue, above the old Brentano’s, around 29th Street. We went
inside, and the clerk took from the window a little bundle of
flat, dark-colored tortoise-shell wands, fastened together with
a bit of string. There were six, and they were all identical.
Each was about the size and shape of an ordinary foot rule,
slightly smaller. One face of each was blank, and the reverse
face of each was cut crosswise in two with an inch-wide strip
of inlaid white ivory. We recognized them immediately for
what they were, but Bannister said casually to the Chinese
clerk,
“ Do you happen to know what they are?”
The clerk shook his head. “ One game like fan-tan maybe.
Maybe he part lost. If you not know, you not buy.”
We bought them at a reasonable price, took them down to
Bannister’s studio, got the books out. We had the translation
by Professor James Legge of Oxford, published by the Clar­
endon Press, among the Sacred Books of the East, edited by
F. M ax Muller. Also a volume in French, by Harlez of the
Royal Belgian Academy, and a German treatise which I
couldn’t read.
The wands themselves are supposed to be the key to the
great book. When shuffled and tossed in the air so that they
fall, each “ heads or tails” as it were, they are then laid paral­
lel and will form (like the Heinz pickle products) one of 57
varieties of the mystical hexagram.
Here they are. The ringed one, No. 49, the ko hexagram,
is the one that got us into trouble. We should have been
warned by Confucius who said, “ If some years were added to
my life, I would give fifty to the study of the Yi, and might
even then fall into grievous errors.”
166
T he Hexagrams, in the order in which they appear in the Yi, and were
arranged by king Wan,
W IT C H C R A F T
In addition to being the key to the book, the wands were
also supposed to open other magic doors through which the
spirit could stroll into the past or future, walk through walls,
across the ocean, over mountains, to heaven, hell, or Hono­
lulu—depending on which hexagram you tossed. To “ send
your soul into the infinite,” you shake and toss your tortoise
shells like poker dice, then arrange the wands parallel and
fix the resulting hexagram firmly in your visual memory.
Next, you must visualize an imaginary closed door with this
symbol painted on it. All you know about the imaginary door
is that if it swings open at all, it will open away from you—
as if pushed. Next you kneel, or sit cross-legged like a
Buddha, or squat on your haunches, if you choose, like a
Chinese bandit waiting for his head to be cut off. You try to
make your mind a blank, simply staring in imagination at the
door and at the symbol. You do it either in the dark or blind­
folded or simply with your eyes closed, if you have the will
power to keep them closed for what may be a long time.
After a while, maybe in a half hour, maybe in seven or
eight hours, maybe not at all in any single given trial, the
door will seem to swing slowly open. Then, in your imagina­
tion, you go through it. You don’t merely look through it.
You go through it, in your imagination. You “ arise out of
your body,” as the book says, and “ walk through the door.”
What you see, encounter, and experience on the other side is
believed by the esoteric to be seen by the soul’s eye—to be
experienced by the astral body.
I believe soul’s eyes and astral bodies are boloney, and that
here is again merely another—if one of the oldest and most
complicated—methods of rapping at the door of your own
subconscious. But it certainly bangs on that sometimes, like
168
a hammer on a brazen gong. Whatever bell It rings, it rings
it. Some of the university professors were amiably interested
in our experiments, and I shall never forget the night when
Morris Bishop of Cornell went through the door to become
a monk in the old Abbey of Solesmes, and chanted pure Gre­
gorian in the old Latin. It was no proof of the old reincarna­
tion tommyrot, because he was a Latin scholar (which is the
crux generally left out of such recounted episodes), and had
sung Gregorian plain chant long before he started 'writing
Limericks after Lear. M y own unhappy adventures beyond
the door consisted always in seeking something I could never
find, and are consequently not worth mentioning. What hap­
pened to various others beyond the door was often dull, but
sometimes astonishing, and not always entirely respectable.
There was one memorable night when a chubby professor of
Greek from Columbia—who in his state of normal conscious­
ness disbelieves in one sort of fairies and heartily dislikes the
other sort—became a wanton young female Corybant.
In the hair-raising adventure we had at the last with Nas-
tatia Filipovna, there was a disturbing element of coincidence
—absent in the Greek professor’s case—between the transfor­
mation she experienced and the esoteric meaning of the par­
ticular hexagram she was concentrating upon. I ’m not trying,
however, to play this account two ways against the middle.
It is true that she had tossed the ko hexagram by pure
chance, and knew nothing of its special significance—but de­
spite that fact, which is of the sort the esoterists love to
harp upon until the cows come home, I stand solidly on
the side of those who believe that such coincidences, no mat­
ter how sensational, are never anything but—sheer, gratui-
W E R E W O L F IN W A SH IN G TO N SQUARE
169
W IT C H C R A F T
tous coincidences. The Chinese ideograph for ko is . Both
Harlez and Professor Legge translate it as meaning: “ Skin;
hide; fur; leather; also to skin; to flay. Also, figuratively,
to undergo change; to be made different.” Among the mag­
ical properties ascribed to ko in the Yi King, quoting from
the Legge translation, are these:
The common man may change his face; the sage may change
his whole being as does the leopard.
Two sisters may live together in the same skin, differing and
opposed, yet the same.
The great sage may change himself as the tiger changes its
form and stripes.
I had known Nastatia Filipovna in the days just after the
World War. She was a Russian refugee who had dropped her
title, had come to New York, had gone through the usual
vicissitudes, then married a Cleveland manufacturer, and
dropped out of sight. I ’d heard nothing from her for a num­
ber of years when there came one morning in my local mail,
scrawled in an imperious yet childish hand, a note from the
St. Regis. It said, “ Take me to eat lobsters. And bring me
that Bannister of yours if you can find him.”
I phoned Bannister, and we took her to luncheon. H e had
met her in the old days, when she was singing with Balieff,
and she wasn’t the sort one easily forgets. I suppose “ violent”
would be as good a single descriptive adjective as any, and
I ’m inclined to believe that her physiological savagery, per­
haps as much as her psychology and temperament, had a
bearing on the course things took when her atavistic passions
were unleashed. Nastatia was an aristocrat—and a savage. She
was far too handsome in an animal sort of way to be in good
1 7 0
taste in civilized bourgeois Anglo-Saxon society. A ll her
physical traits, though superb, were exaggerated. She was tall,
narrow-waisted, full-breasted, had coarse but beautiful brown
hair. H er tawny, brown-flecked eyes were enormous and
wide-set under a powerful but low forehead. She had a large
nose, and a big, full-curved mouth with teeth that flashed
magnificently when she smiled but became ugly when she
lost her temper. As for her manners, they were those of an
eccentric grand duchess, or a savage, depending on how you
choose to differentiate.
At luncheon, she told us of some experiences she’d been
having. That was why she wanted to see Bannister. She’d
known Rasputin, had dabbled in occultism, and had found a
Russian fortune-teller in Cleveland who had initiated her
into crystal gazing. She had begun to be able to go into self-
induced trances, but hated everything that happened to her
in the trances. To begin with, she didn’t like Cleveland, she
didn’t like her husband, she didn’t like America. Trance stuff
and the occult are escape mechanisms, just as drugs and
liquor are. She didn’t like reality. But she didn’t like what
she’d encountered in the crystal-ball illusion world of unreal­
ity either! She kept “ sliding across,” she said, into a camp of
Mongols, where she herself, with some other women, was
engaged in cutting up the carcass of a bear with a stone knife.
In these trance experiences she suffered cold, discomfort,
brutal treatment. She hated the “ hard work,” the “ dirty
skins” she wore, the smells, the “ burned food.” And the
worst of it was that now, every time she sent herself “ across,”
she kept “ sliding back” to that brutal life. She talked in com­
monplace, petulant terms, as if complaining about having to
live in one sort of house when she wanted to live in another.
W E R E W O L F IN W A SH IN G TO N SQUARE
171
W ITCH CRA FT
“ I don’t want to live in Cleveland, but I don’t want to sleep
in caves either, and be clubbed about by cave men!” she pro­
tested, as if we were to blame for it.
“ It’s jolly well good for you, you know,” said Bannister.
“ Clubbing is what you need, and I hope every time you go
back there they beat you black and blue. But speaking seri­
ously, my dear, I ’d give my eyeteeth for a real throwback
of that sort, if it’s real. They are extremely rare. I don’t sup­
pose you’ve thought to make notes or check your experiences
against what is actually known of cave life? You don’t know
what this stuff of yours may tap!”
Bannister was off on his hobby.
“ It’s stupendous, if it’s real! If you weren’t so selfish you’d
realize it. But no, you want your castle in the Caucasus. Or
you want to be Catherine the Great. And you think I ’ll help
you do that, my dear? W ell, I won’t. But I ’d love to help
you in the other direction—farther and farther back.”
Nastatia flew into a rage. “ Of course!” she retorted an­
grily. “ You have always been a filthy swine. I come to you
unhappy, and all you think about is your own rotten experi­
ments. You ought to know that I won’t be anybody’s Trilby.
To hell with you! I am not interested in adding to other
people’s knowledge. I am interested in myself.”
“ Come, Nastatia,” Bannister protested, “ don’t lose your
temper. I apologize. You’ll never be anybody’s Trilby. But
if you want to try a different door from the one you’ve been
using . . .”
We told her all we knew about the Yi King, and of course
she wanted to try it. So we invited her down that same night
to Bannister’s vast apartment-studio, hung with crimson cur­
tains and black drapes, stinking with incense, cluttered with
Tibetan idols, Hindu Durgas, prayer wheels, gongs, demon
masks, and magical gimcracks from every corner of the globe.
What we were doing was in one sense as completely respect­
able as the Sunday evening table-tippings my aunt used to
participate in with other credulous members of the Methodist
Ladies’ Aid Society. There’s no more intrinsic evil in the
Yi King than in a ouija board. And we had in the party a
thoroughly decent young British vice-consul, Edward Gay,
who had spent a lot of time in the Orient and whose interest
in these matters was as honest as that of my friends at Co­
lumbia. Yet what we were doing now was dangerous, as it
turned out. Nastatia was a neurasthenic, hyperimaginative
type, already addicted to occult escape mechanisms.
On the night the thing happened, she had been kneeling
for a couple of hours, on the floor in the center of the crimson-
draped studio, with her eyes closed, in semidarkness. The
three of us sat quietly waiting to see whether the door would
open for her or not. She said petulantly, “ M y knees hurt. I
am getting numb.” She presently groaned, let her legs slump,
and was on her haunches, sitting on her heels, but with her
body still upright. H er head sagged, and after another full
hour had passed in silence, we wondered whether she had
gone to sleep. Then she said:
“ The door is moving. The door is opening. But it’s open­
ing into the outdoors! I supposed it would open into another
room. It’s beautiful out there . . . and yes . . . I ’m going.
“ Snow . . . everything’s white . . . everywhere snow,”
she kept murmuring, “ and the moon . . . the moon on the
white snow . . . and black trees over there against the sky.
Yes, I ’m outside now, I am lying in the snow . . . pressed
against the snow . . . I am not cold . . . I am wearing a
W EREW OLF IN W ASHINGTON SQUARE
173
W ITCH CRA FT
fur coat. I am lying naked in a fur coat . . . and I am warm
in the snow . . . flat with my belly and chin on the snow I
lie. It is good to lie warm in the snow. . . .”
“ Do you get what it’s about?” I whispered to Bannister.
“ Not the faintest idea,” he replied. “ Do you?”
Nastatia was talking again, and quite apart from its trance­
like dreaminess, her voice sounded puzzled too: “ I am mov­
ing now . . . but I am not walking. I am crawling on my
hands and knees . . . why am I crawling? . . . but I’m not
crawling now, I ’m running, on my hands and feet, lightly
. . . now! now! now! . . . I ’m running lightly like the
wind . . . how good the snow smells! I have never smelled
the snow before. And there’s another good smell. Ah! Ah!
Faster . . . faster . . . faster. . . .”
She was breathing heavily, panting. H er big handsome
mouth was open, drooling. And when she next broke the si­
lence, it was with sounds that were not human. There were
yelps, slavering, panting, and then a deep baying such as
only two sorts of animals on earth emit when they are run­
ning—hounds and wolves.
“ M y G od!” whispered Bannister. “ She’s turning into one,
there on the floor! H er face is changing! See!”
“ You silly ass,” said the Vice-Consul sharply, “ she al­
ways had that face . . . big teeth . . . pointed nose.” H e
snapped on the lamp nearest him. No horrid physical mir­
acle was occurring, but it was bad enough and ugly enough,
without that. Nastatia had always had a predatory, vulpine
face, as many humans have, and now it was horrible. Gay
went over to where she crouched, took her by the hand,
slapped her smartly on both cheeks and cried, “ Come out of
174
it, Nastatia! Wake up! It’s all right. Wake up! You’ve been
dreaming.”
The girl snarled hideously, her eyes wide open now, and
leaped for his throat. She would have torn his throat with
her teeth if the long-crouched position had not numbed her
so that she lurched and fell heavily. And now, literally on
all fours and crawling, she slithered, still snarling, into the
dark shadows of the corner. We had the lights on, snared her
in big blankets, wrapped her tight as she struggled like a
maniac, put ammonia under her nose, and she came out of it.
We helped her to a couch. We brought a towel and a basin.
We didn’t talk much. W e brought her brandy. In a few
minutes she made us find her handbag with powder and
make-up. She went into the bathroom. She came out and
sank into an armchair and lighted a cigarette, and said, “ What
time is it?”
Presently she yawned, and said, “ I ’m hungry.”
It was about two o’clock. She lighted another cigarette.
We found a taxi and went over to Siegel’s place under the
Sixth Avenue L for sandwiches and coffee.
A week passed, and then she telephoned that she wanted
to try it again.
She remembered what had happened—and she liked it!
She told me that as a tiny child, she had seen wolves cours­
ing over moonlit snow in Russia, had thought it beautiful,
and wished with all her passionate baby soul to run with
them. It was a nice rationalization, but if the thing had hap­
pened a few centuries before, in the full flower of inquisi­
torial superstition . . . and had become known . . . we
might all have been thrown in the bonfire for it.
W EREW OLF IN W ASHINGTON SQUARE
175
Part Three
W H I T E M A G I C , P R O F E S S O R R H I N E ,
T H E S U P E R N O R M A L , A N D
J U S T I N E
I. Presentation of an Open Question,
to Which a Negative Answer
May Not Be the Final Word
T H E veil of the supernatural which once shrouded witch­
craft and black magic has been pretty well pierced from many
angles.
The veil of the supposedly supernormal, however, still
shrouds more than one deep mystery. Those who believe we
have pierced it a little, and are convinced by what we have
seen that there is nothing supernormal behind it, may not
have pierced the holes deep enough, or may not have poked
them in the right places. Those who believe they have pierced
it deeper and glimpsed authentic phenomena which can only
be explained in terms of the supernormal may have seen dis­
torted images or may have interpreted them wrongly. By
the supernormal, in this context, I mean anything which oc­
curs contrary to the fixed known laws of time-space, the fixed
known rules of logic, or endows its supposed possessor with
senses and powers outside those laws and rules, as known
up to now. It is “ supernormal,” of course, in a different con­
text, for a man to play perfect blindfold chess, or add six-
column sums by lightning calculation at a glance. But I am
dealing only with the first connotation in this book.
The veil of the supernormal cloaks witchcraft, telepathy,
r79
W IT C H C R A F T
clairvoyance, occultism, mystical excursions into the past and
future—only incidentally. It is indeed the veil which shrouds
all life in mystery.1 Religion has sought to illuminate the
shadows by the light of faith, and philosophy has sought to
do the same thing by the light of reason. The two lights have
somewhat neutralized each other. I happen to stand with
those who believe that life—including witchcraft incidentally,
and including also all phenomena of the so-called supernor­
mal—can be interpreted in terms of reason. I believe that
seers, mystics, clairvoyants, telepathists, spiritualists, readers
of the future, fakirs, yogis, and dervishes,2 whether in cells,
seances, or laboratories, can reveal nothing beyond what has
first entered their consciousness through the channels of the
five normal senses, and has subsequently been churned over,
sifted, reshuffled, trance emotionalized, and frequently dis­
torted by their own unconscious and subconscious minds.3
1 Sec Appendix, p. 32+.
2 M ost o f our progress from ape, to cave, to man, has been built on
sensory foundations. In the world o f mysticism there have been exceptions
such as Jesus Christ, Gautama Buddha, Lao-tse— and possibly M ahatma
Gandhi in our time. But the average oriental swami is as inferior to the
average Rotarian, in power, brains, intelligence, harmonious adjustment
to life, co-ordination, and capacity fo r active happiness, as the barnacle
is inferior to the baboon. The average dervish or yogi, squatting immo­
bile fo r a year, or fo r a thousand years, in his lotus posture, with his
heel stuck in his anus, is as inferior to the average American business
man on his hurried commercial-airline-flagship w ay to a Chicago conven­
tion as is a bu llfro g on a lily pad to Nicholas M urray Butler. I f you
prefer a bu llfrog on a lily pad to Nicholas M urray Butler— you are a
mystic. I don’t know whether I am a mystic or not.
3 T h e term “ unconscious” or “ subconscious” is interpreted differently by
different schools o f psychology. A ll admit that the human, and animal
mind too, consists o f something more than tile conscious experience o f
the present moment. And all admit that this “ something more” contains at
least the fram ew ork o f instincts or inborn drives and the system o f mem­
ories or residues o f past experience. Each momentary sensation resulting
180
P R E SE N T A T IO N OF A N O P E N QU ESTIO N
God knows they produce plenty of authentic abnormal
“ psychic” phenomena, sometimes physical phenomena—
faintings and fits, convulsions, catalepsy, rigidity, glazed eyes,
hypnotic trances. I ’ve even seen them froth at the mouth.
A lot of them are absolutely sincere. They cannot know—
even if rationalists are right about it—that what froths up
must be derived from their own subconscious—no matter
how beautiful it may be as in the cases of certain epileptic
saints; or how wicked and abominable, as in the cases of cer­
tain esoteric sinners.
All hard-boiled rationalists felt that way about it—and felt
they had a right to feel that way about it—up to and through
from an external stimulus derives its “ frin ge’'’ o f primary and secondary
meaning and its capacity fo r significant and intelligent reaction from the
pre-existing or unconscious part o f the mind. It is agreed to be mainly
responsible fo r ordinary dreams and fo r creative imagination. But when
you turn from a consideration o f the functions or effects o f the uncon­
scious to a consideration o f its intrinsic nature, you enter the arena o f a
free-for-all dogfight— a scrambling and scrambled conflict o f not always
amiably diverging opinions. At one extreme arc the behaviorists who in­
sist that the unconscious or subconscious is only a somewhat misleading
name for that part o f the brain structure consisting o f association or con­
duction paths produced by previous experience; and that as such it is
purely physiological, with nothing mental or psychical about it. A t the
other extreme are the psychological mysticists, follow in g the late W illiam
Jam es, who regard the unconscious mind as a sort o f entity sim ilar to
the conscious mind, but vaster in extent, a great sea o f fears, hopes,
desires, and thoughts more or less insulated from the conscious mind but
more or less united to the “ cosmic mind” and endowed with metaphysical
powers, from which might derive telepathy, clairvoyance, prophecy, etc.
Between the materialistic view o f the behaviorists and the “ idealistic”
view o f the mysticists, there are a number o f intermediate positions. I am
not committed to, or meaning to defend, any o f these positions, whether
intermediate or extreme. I am using the term “ unconscious” or “ sub­
conscious” merely to designate tentatively and in its purely functional
sense, any capacity or power or manifestation that would seem by its
character to be a product o f the individual’s mind but not o f his conscious
mind, in the sense that the term conscious is generally accepted.
1 8 1
W IT C H C R A F T
the beginning of this twentieth century, while the phenomena
were still confined to monastic cells, spiritualist prayer meet­
ings, fortune-tellers’ booths and mediumistic seances; and
while such “ scientific” investigations as went on were con­
fined mostly to cranks on the one side who wanted to be con­
vinced by the swamis and mediums and on the other side to
honest debunkers like the late Houdini. Such unprejudiced
individuals and organizations as really investigated it—in­
cluding the Scientific American and Houdini—got negative
results and publicly exposed a lot of fraud and charlatanry.
The picture has somewhat changed, however, within re­
cent years. A basic phase of this subject, along with its sup­
posed phenomena, has been rescued by Professor J. B. Rhine
of Duke University, Gardner Murphy of Columbia, the late
William McDougall of Oxford, Harvard and Duke, from
the half-world of Indian guides, tipping tables, tambourines,
and trumpets, and been lifted for purposes of prolonged and
honest study into the completely respectable world of the
scientific laboratories and scientific examination, in many of
the big universities. I don’t believe they have yet proven
anything conclusive,4 or that they will, by their present meth­
ods. But I can be wrong about that—and whether I ’m right
or wrong, the whole thing has become, for the first time in
the world’s history, a scientific problem, scientifically stated,
with an honest solution being honestly sought for.
In less orthodox ways, and with no possibility of laboratory
control, the investigation of these same phenomena has been
a part of my lifelong obsession in witchcraft and magic. If
the orthodox laboratory research gentlemen have a justifiable
See Appendix, p. 327.
182
P R E SE N T A T IO N OF AN O P E N QU ESTIO N
contempt for the sort of hot and sweating, rough, occasion­
ally dangerous plowing I ’ve been doing in this field of the
supposedly supernormal, I must admit to having a slight
reciprocatory contempt for their unheated, surface scratching,
which has broken no deep earth up to now—for their efforts
to prove or disprove something in so deep and emotionally
fox-fire-glimmering a swamp field with cold little decks of
cards, guessing games and adding machines. I don’t think
they’ve yet taken off their gloves and grabbed the dragon
firmly by the tail—if there is any dragon.
Whatever there is to it, if only illusions, delusions of co­
incidence, in which you and some millions of others have
remembered the one time you had a premonition that Aunt
Sally would be run over by a truck or Uncle Charlie drowned
at sea (and she was run over or he was drowned) but have
forgotten the equally strong premonitions you have had when
nothing subsequently happened—these supposed telepathic
extra-sensory flashes that did pan out, almost always occur
when you are consciously or unconsciously under some worry,
stress, or strain; sometimes mental, sometimes physical, some­
times both. Real and provable or not—they almost never
occur “ cold.” They almost never occur to people who are
indifferent, whose emotional condition prior to their occur­
rence is that of calm, cowlike normalcy.
I think Rhine and his associates have handicapped them­
selves by the utter calmness which prevails in the extra-sen­
sory excursion trips on which they conduct calm, unworried
excursionists by the hundreds of thousands in calm and full
possession of their five ordinary, normal senses. If there is
such a thing as extra-sensory perception, I don’t think they’ll
ever awaken it to startling positive performance in that way.
183
W IT C H C R A F T
If there is such latent power, I think it’s much more likely
to be stirred up by such experiments as the swamis, mystics,
yogi engage in—prolonged sleeplessness, fasting, numbness,
anaesthesia—anything not too dangerous that may short-cir­
cuit or lull to abeyance the five normal senses and leave the
door wider open for extra-sensory phenomena (if any) to
kick through. And I go the whole hog on it.
That’s how the long-kneeling adept of the Yi King taps
on the door. Hindu fakirs lie on beds of nails or stare into
the sun till they go blind. The Arab Rufia, a sect of Moslem
mystics allied with the Melewi, hang themselves up by one
wrist and dangle like bats in the darkness for hours until
they go into a trance, or faint. The Eskimo witch-doctors de­
scribed by Peter Freuchen have themselves tightly bound
with thongs, and go into their trances only after the long-
cramped posture has worn out and dulled their normal senses.
The more civilized Melewi, the most cultured mystic sect of
Islam, whirl until they’re dizzy. The completely civilized
mystical mandarin sits cross-legged, bends his head down
over his fat belly, and stares at his own navel. They’re all
the same thing, really. If you have the will power to sit
motionless for eighteen hours or so, in an ordinary chair,
keeping your mind as open and empty as possible, and stare
fixedly at the point of a lead pencil, you’ll end by having all
sorts of exciting, sometimes beautiful and sometimes terrify­
ing “ revelations”—even though they’re nothing but illusions.
If, as I suspect, these revelations, messages, experiences, in
telepathy, clairvoyance, spiritual vision, are never extra-sen­
sory or supernormal, but merely well up from the depths of
the experimenters’ released subconscious, they can be never­
theless violently exciting and have been known to produce
184
(as a sort of by-product), sublime masterpieces in poetry, reli­
gious and mystical prose, etc.
If anything more important “ comes out,” it’s more likely
to come by hammering at the door, by breaking the door
open, if there is such a door, than by discreet, cold tapping,
followed by the insertion through an imaginary crack of a
spook visiting card printed with stars and circles. If and
when the door does open, the subject is sure to see more
clearly with his extra-sensory vision, when he has baggage-
checked his normal five senses in the waiting room outside.
Dr. Rhine’s technique in seeking to “ baggage-check” the
normal senses, is for his subjects to be calm, at ease, relaxed,
comfortable, both physically and mentally—the body com­
pletely calm and the mind as calm and empty as possible.
Cats, dogs, saints, cows, savages, primitives, old ladies on
rocking chairs in the country, can do this, but it’s next to
impossible for most of us. It’s easier in a way than bending
over and staring at your navel till your neck is numb and
your brain empty or dreamy-—but in another way it’s harder.
“ Blanking” the mind so that anything can come into it is the
one thing nearly all of us are desperately afraid of and in­
cessantly struggling against. Hence crossword puzzles, ana­
grams, contract bridge, knitting, reading. We have to be at
something every waking instant, if it’s only mechanically
reading the label on a tube of toothpaste . . . for fear . . .
Dr. Rhine’s results seem to show that his subjects seem
to do less well when they’re tired. M y guess about that, and
I think it’s a shrewd guess, is that they simply don’t get
tired enough. All five of their normal senses are still func­
tioning normally. Their minds cannot be completely blank
of sensory things. Yet it has always seemed to me the sim-
P R E SE N T A T IO N OF AN O P E N QU ESTIO N
185
W IT C H C R A F T
plest sort of common sense that a vital step toward extra­
sensory perception consists in breaking as far as possible—or
at least wearing thin—the connection with the five ordinary
senses that we are normally completely slaves to.
Rhine and the E SP investigators, it seems to me, are un­
dertaking to do with telepathy, clairvoyance, and what was
once “ spook” stuff, the same job that chemistry and physics
did with alchemy—but with one perhaps important over­
sight. Just as the chemists and physicists lifted the search for
the elixir of life, the philosopher’s stone, the transmutation
of lead into gold, from the dark hell’s caldron of the al­
chemist, who was a magician and sorcerer, into the clean test
tubes and crucibles of the scientific laboratory—so Rhine and
his associates have lifted the search for supernormal, extra­
sensory vision out of the dark, veiled atmosphere of the mod­
ern, mediumistic witches’ caves of Endor, with their trum­
pets, tambourines, “ Indian guides,” and phony ectoplasm,
into the clear light of controlled psychological laboratory ex­
periment.
But they might learn something by remembering that the
same hot fires burn beneath the crucibles of science as burned
beneath the caldron of the alchemist. The caldron still boils
and seethes in chemistry. The night skies over Bethlehem
and Pittsburgh glow with as red a light as ever did the night
skies over cave and forest when the old alchemists tossed in
the fat of toads, bat’s blood, and sometimes a murdered baby
to make the lead turn into gold. Physical sciences abandoned
the crazy superstitions, but still turn on the heat. Rhine and
his associates light no fires. They never turn on the heat.
Their mental test tubes are always cold.
It is true that chemistry, with even hotter crucibles than
186
the magicians had, has never been able to turn lead into gold,
or find the elixir of life—but it has turned pitchblende into
radium, and found vitamins.
Now Rhine—even if he turned on more stress, strain,
warmth, more mental and emotional excitement, more psy­
chological and mental heat than the Greeks once did in their
wild orgies around the oracles of Delphi and Dodona, or
in the Mysteries of Eleusis, or Ezekiel when he prophesied
and saw the wheel, or the great Saint Theresa in her long
ecstasies—might never in my opinion turn the dross of
mediumistic buncombe into pure telepathy or pure clairvoy­
ance; but if he warmed things up and kept the fires con­
trolled, he might discover and learn more about whatever
latent mental, psychic powrers may lie dormant and unused
in the modern Western world.
The late William James, probing the same problems as
Rhine’s but from a different angle, experimenting with the
“ mystical vision” and the “ anesthetic revelation,” turned on
the heat in Harvard, experimented with loss of sleep, with
ether, laughing gas, fatigue, strain, hashish, analonium. He
uncorked experiences more baffling and exciting than have
the current extra-sensory laboratories, but was never able to
persuade himself that they came from any other source than
the subconscious, or that they ever contained any elements
that postulated extra-sensory perception or clairvoyant power.
This supernormal stuff is all in the same bag, you know,
whether you split it into telepathy, clairvoyance, mystical
vision, fourth-dimensional excursions, or the metaphysical
corollaries of the Einstein theory in which space if not time
curves round and back on itself like a serpent swallowing
its tail. Dr. Rhine is not merely experimenting, you know,
P R E SE N T A T IO N O F A N O P E N QU ESTIO N
187
W IT C H C R A F T
with telepathy and clairvoyance confined to the immediate
instant, to the “ nick” of time. H e is experimenting also with
precognition, previsionary clairvoyance, seeing into the fu­
ture. Also with retrocognition, i.e., seeing back into the past
clairvoyantly.
If and when the laboratory people produce anything as
worth recording, as lasting and exciting as have the world’s
great white magicians, prophets, sages, seers, and mystics, or
as Margaret Prescott Montague recounted years ago in the
Atlantic Monthly, only then will I believe their cold test
tubes constitute as good a method as the red-hot, fire-
illumined crucible.
If and when either Rhine or the Grand Lama of Tibet,
working cold or hot, produces one individual authentically
possessed of telepathic or clairvoyant power, and capable of
really using it, I will then believe that it exists, as an extra­
sensory power, outside normal consciousness, outside the nor­
mal senses—and also outside the limits of the subconscious
as we know it up to now.
If it ever does happen, it won’t make the slightest dif­
ference whether I believe it or not, or whether you do either,
any more than it makes any difference whether you believe
in dynamite or not—because one person authentically pos­
sessed of telepathic or clairvoyant power, and capable of
pragmatically using it, could make the world his toy for good
or evil, wreck all the stock markets in less than a week, smash
governments with their secret diplomacy, control the out­
come of all battles, whether in the Baltic or in “ big business.”
H e could begin by breaking the bank at Monte Carlo, all
the baccarat banks, three-card monte and “ Russian” banks in
1 8 8
P R E SE N T A T IO N O F AN O P E N QU ESTIO N
the world, pick up the Union Pacific en -passant, then go on
and break the Bank of England.
Clairvoyance is believed by many to include not merely
the power of projecting the extra-sensory vision through
space, and through opaque objects, the pasteboard of Rhine’s
cards, through solid walls, across hundreds of intervening
miles, to perceive things occuring elsewhere in the current
instant of time; but also the power to project it both back­
ward and forward in space-time.5
If space-time is curved, and if time and space are interde­
pendent, as Einstein holds in theory, then, by one of the
metaphysical corollaries, the past, present, and future instant
are perhaps space-time illusions—the future already existent
in space and the sum total of the past still spatially existent
in the current instant.
Light travels at the speed of 1 86,000 miles per second,
and many of the great fixed stars are hundreds of light-years
distant from the earth. Beetle-Goose (Betelgeuse) is more
than 150 light-years distant. The Swan (Cygnus) is 1,290
light-years distant. Andromeda’s Whirling Spray, that spiral
galaxy which is another “ universe” beyond the M ilky Way,
is more than 800,000 light-years distant from the earth. If
you were somewhere out there, and could see light carried
there from here, bringing you visual images, what you would
see in the light-waves would be our ancient stone age with
its cave men, Pharaoh building the first pyramid, Caesar’s
legions marching—depending on how many light-years dis­
tant you stopped off—all occurring as images in the present
nick of time. If you were sitting today on a remote planet
5 See Appendix, p. 332.
189
W ITCH CRA FT
revolving around Betelgeuse, and had a telescope sufficiently
powerful to see what was occurring here on this earth—you
would see George Washington crossing the Delaware. If you
went to one 450 light-years distant and looked back, you’d
see Columbus crossing the Atlantic. The light and visual im­
ages which reached your eye could bring you nothing later
than the length of time it took the light to travel, so that
you’d see those things happening again in distant time-space,
in what would be for you the present nick of time. In visual
terms and terms of light, to this hypothetical earthling space-
projected to distant planets, if he went to a planet 75 light-
years distant, our Civil W ar would have concluded yesterday,
and the shot which killed Abraham Lincoln would not yet
have flashed. As for our present nick of time, with its Man­
hattan skyscrapers, streamline trains, airplanes, Hitler’s mad­
ness, current on the instant here, it would still be veiled in
a 75-years-distant future, to a visual observer 75 light-years
away.
A final curious, purely Einsteinian corollary of the queer
space-time relation in terms of light is that if you could travel
through space with a speed greater than light, you could stop
off like excursionists or God, live in any period of the past
you chose; and so, it would seem, could likewise go scooting
into the future. To M ay Sinclair, philosopher and metaphy­
sician as well as novelist, is attributed the limerick which
caps these scientific fantasies:
There was a young lady named Bright,
Whose speed was much greater than light;
She went off one day
(In a relative way),
And returned on the previous night.
1 9 0
If Einstein’s theory is sound, and if such speed were attain­
able, the young lady could literally do it, while telepathy
and clairvoyance, including the reading of the future, would
become as simple as television and the radio.
If tranced esoterics, cataleptic dervishes, or your Aunt Sally
ever do get glimpses of the hidden past or future, they prob­
ably get them in some such fourth-dimensional manner, pierc­
ing through and beyond what Jung and Fulton Oursler call
the “ slit” in time.
If anything happened to Kipling’s Brushwood Boy or to
Christopher Isherwood more recently in Connecticut,0 where
he saw his niece playing tennis next summer and read a bird­
cage catalogue published in 1949, it must have been some­
thing like what happened to the young lady in the limerick.
I got some extraordinary results in this category which
I’ll describe in a later chapter . . . with a young lady named
Justine. If they consisted of anything beyond delving, dream­
ing, and wandering in the rich caverns of her own deep sub­
conscious mind, it must have been in that mysterious category.
One thing only is certain, and that is that the illusion of
it, frequently more startling and vivid than any present ma­
terial reality, is something nearly all people have experienced
once or twice in a lifetime, usually under nervous strain, fa­
tigue, or stress. It is a condition which can be deliberately
produced, increased in frequency, prolonged in time, by de­
liberate technique and practice. I believe the possibility of
experiencing these illusions, or whatever they are, to be in­
herent in all humans. Anybody can go through that “ door”
with training and patience. I’ve been through it, like all who
have experimented with magic whether white or black. I
6 See Appendix, p. 332.
PRESEN TA TIO N OF AN O PEN QUESTION
1 9 1
W ITCH CRA FT
think anybody, as I ’ve said, is potentially able to do it. But
it isn’t easy. If you think concentration is easy, “ blanking”
the normal activities of the surface-conscious mind, staring
with closed eyes at nothing, or staring with open eyes at a
globe or pencil point, sitting cramped for long hours—just try
it for one hour! In the East where they’ve been at it for five
thousand years, only the highest adepts can do it without me­
chanical aids. Only the greatest mystic seers and saints can
do it by sheer will power alone.
And even then, the memorable experiences seem to come
almost by accident, as my most memorable seemingly super­
normal experience did one night on Harrison Smith’s yawl,
the Cossack, in an Atlantic storm off the New England Coast
—off Monhegan Light.
1 9 2
II. “Astral Body” on a Boat
T H E Cossack is a 42-foot yawl, teakwood-finished, built in
Germany in the great days of Kaiser Wilhelm—and was
owned for a while in America by the New York publisher
and yachtsman, Harrison Smith. H e sold her not long ago,
and now has a newer boat, the Cossack II.
During the summers when I was crewing on the old
Cossack, in the late twenties, she used to lie at the Yacht
Club in Port Washington. She was a grand boat and, before
my time, had crossed the Atlantic more than once. She had
cruised in the Isles of Greece, outridden North Atlantic
storms, and come through high adventures in the Bay of
Biscay. We sailed her frequently in the Sound, occasionally
up through the Cape Cod Canal, occasionally to Martha’s
Vineyard, Nantucket, and Bar Harbor. H al himself was
skipper, and we generally sailed with an amateur crew of
three or four. One August he and I alone took her out of
Port Washington, planning to pick up the other members of
the party at New London. Arriving at New London, we
found a wire saying they hadn’t been able to catch their train
on the day they’d planned, but would join us later, up in
Maine. So we decided to go on. Normally it would have
193
W ITCH CRA FT
been nothing for the two of us to handle her. H al was a vet­
eran skipper. Being shorthanded, we could put in anywhere
we pleased to anchor and sleep at night. But we got caught
in a memorable storm off Monhegan Light, and he wisely
decided that the safest thing was to run for it, way offshore,
and ride it out. The Cossack could take it. The Cossack could
take anything in open water. And there would have been no
sense in risking piling her up inshore, trying to make a har­
bor. It was never dangerous. It was merely an exciting little
adventure, in which we didn’t risk losing anything but sleep.
But the storm continued; the wind came mostly out of the
northwest. We were blown well out to sea; and stayed out
there three days and nights. Nobody worried. There was
nothing to worry about—-except provisions. We had been
going to buy them later when the party was complete, and
the only reserve we had aboard was some old cans of corned
beef. The goddamned stuff must have been aboard for a
couple of years. But we weren’t very hungry. We were both
walleyed from loss of sleep, for close to ninety hours. The
boat couldn’t take care of herself in that weather, even run­
ning before the wind. One of us had to be continually at the
wheel, with the other continually on call. Most of the time
we were both on deck. Then, when it had quieted a little, we
took alternating four-hour shifts, one of us at the wheel,,
while the other tried to snatch four hours of sleep below.
What with the excitement, our liking each other, our talk of
Moby Dick, our struggles to heat the goddamned corned-
beef hash and keep the coffee pot from turning over, I don’t
think either of us ever thought about being physically tired;
and I don’t recall that we were ever tired, in a body-muscle
sense at all. But we were walleyed, dope)’, and at the same
1 9 4
time keyed to a sort of supersensitivity, from prolonged loss
of sleep. We felt, thought, and saw things with a sort of
acute superlucidity which made it seem as if a veil or fog
had been lifted from our minds and from the normal outline
of the masts against the thick sky. We talked about it. Any­
body who has, in the war or elsewhere, gone for an abnor­
mally long time without sleep, under exciting circumstances
which make sleep still impossible, will knowr what I am talk­
ing about. It gives the same sort of seemingly mystical clarity
of inner vision that dentist’s gas or anesthetics sometimes do,
in the transitional moments, going in and coming out.
At eight o’clock on the evening before what was to be the
last day of the storm, H al relieved me at the wheel, and I
went below to lie down and try to sleep. I found I couldn’t
sleep. M y mind was racing. In thinking of the curious ab­
normal state our minds were in, I began to recall a period
I ’d spent, engaged in long study, with a famous group of
Eastern mystics who have been specialists for a thousand
years in curious, abnormal states of mind. While in Arabia,
I had served a novitiate in the celebrated Melewi Monastery
in the mountains behind Syrian Tripoli. The Melewi, known
only as “ Whirling Dervishes” to our Western world, are the
highest order of the Sufi, and are considered to be the most
learned of all the mystical religious groups of Islam. Their
whirling, which has caught the outside world’s eye, has been
circused, toured, and exploited—just as the Sistine Chapel
Choir has, and for the same simple reason that its music,
vestments, and its dancing, too, are beautiful. But to them,
whirling is a way of inducing the mystical trance states in
which they believe themselves endowed with supernormal
senses, vision, and power. But it isn’t all dancing and music
“ a s t r a l b o d y ” o n a b o a t
195
W ITCH CRA FT
by any means in a Melewi Monastery. A lot of it is plain,
hard study. And I was thinking now of the efforts they had
made to teach me the elemental principles on which they
base their belief that the mind (or soul) and the body can
be separated, that the mind (or soul) can go out beyond the
body, can “ shuffle off this mortal coil” temporarily, as it
were, leaving it and returning to it, as one does with a house
or a garment. By study, I don’t mean that you memorize
abracadabra or the ninety-nine names of Allah backward.
They don’t go in for hocus-pocus. In one of the first lessons,
the monk in charge of my instruction had held a lighted
candle to my hand, so that the flame touched, and said,
“ Tell me what I am doing.”
“ You are burning m e!” I yelped like a resentful kid.
“ No,” he said, “ flame cannot touch you. You might have
answered that I was burning your hand. And that, in a sense,
would be moving toward the truth, but not far enough.
Your hand is not you. And neither are the nerves running
from your hand to your brain. And neither is your brain.
Nor is your body you; nor any part of it, nor the sum total
of it. If you devote your life to this, as I suppose you won’t,
you can reach the point where it would be a hand, rather
than your hand that was being burned.”
Presently he had reached over and deliberately torn the
sleeve of my robe. Again he said,
“ Tell me what I did.”
I was going to say, “ You have torn the sleeve of my
robe,” but recalled that they had handed it to me when I
began the novitiate and had not let me pay for it, since every­
thing in the monastery was common property. So I replied,
“ You have torn the sleeve of a robe.”
1 9 6
“ That is better,” he said. “ And your body is no more you,
no more your property either, than this robe is. Your body is
simply a material object which you inhabit temporarily as
you inhabit this garment. It is like your worldly wealth, if
you happen to have any. You use it. It is, of course, not you.
But it is not yours either. Nothing is you or yours, except
your self—your /.”
“ Suppose,” I had said, “ that instead of a candle, you had
lighted a bonfire and burned my body to ashes. . . .”
“ Suppose,” he said, “ I threw this robe of yours in the bon­
fire instead. In that case you would be naked—of your robe.
If your body were burned, you would be naked—of your
body.”
“ It would hurt like fury,” I said, and he replied, “ It would
indeed, unless you had become an adept. Have you forgot­
ten that your own Christian saints have smiled and felt only
the calm ecstasy of purification and deliverance as flames de­
voured their bodies? It is the same with our highest adepts.”
“ I’d hate to have to try it,” I said, and my monk had an­
swered with smiling candor, “ I shouldn’t like to try it my­
self. I doubt that I am sufficiently holy. But under easier cir­
cumstances, I have learned to detach the self from the ma­
terial body, and if you remained with us long enough, we
could teach you to do it too.”
Of course, I hadn’t remained in the monastery long enough
—since “ long enough” might have meant twenty years, a
lifetime—but they’d taught me quite a lot, and once, I viv­
idly now recalled as I lay there wide-eyed, sleepless, I had
put a part of that teaching into practice, in America. I ’d begun
to be bothered with an impacted wisdom tooth. It turned out
“ a s t r a l b o d y ” o n a b o a t
1 9 7
W ITCH CRA FT
to be such a honey that my own dentist sent me to that em­
peror of tooth-pullers, Hasbrouck, who gave me gas and
cracked it loose and pulled it out in pieces, along with some
slivers from the jawbone. H e’d poked novocain or something
in it too, so that when I came out of the sleep, I felt nothing
more than a slightly sore jaw, as if I ’d been hit with a club.
H e’d said,
“ In two or three hours when the shock wears off, it’s going
to hurt you, probably badly. I ’m giving you these three mor­
phine pills. . . .”
H e told me what to do, and how to take one or more of
them if need be. I went home in a taxi, feeling as if I’d been
in a barroom fight, but feeling pretty good about it, with the
morphine pills in my pocket. I lived in an apartment at Floyd
Keeler’s house, 52 West 12th Street, and Katie was South at
the time, if I recall correctly. At any rate, I was alone there,
midafternoon, still feeling pretty good. I lay down, as I ’d
been told, put a compress on the jaw, laid out the little box
of pills with a glass of water, regarded their protective pres­
ence with contentment, and nearly dozed.
Around five p .m ., it began. It wasn’t much of anything at
first—just a dull, increasing ache, but enough to make me
think I ’d better be taking one of the pills pretty soon. Then,
all of a sudden, with no other warning, it started really doing
its stuff—and it w'asn’t like anything I ’d ever felt or dreamed
of. I ’d had my thumb caught in a car door once, but it
couldn’t touch what was happening no\v. It knocked me up­
right, as if my head had exploded, and I let out a screech.
Before I could grab for the pills and glass, it subsided, and
then began coming back, this time in waves instead of ex­
plosions. The pain was god-aw'ful, but I felt astonishment,
1 9 8
surprise, almost a slight detachment, about the waves. They
suffused my inner universe. They began bright red, then
began to glow, became white flame, and then turned black
as the wave receded. I wondered if anything like that hap­
pened to women having babies. Was it like that when they
screeched? There was nobody to hear me, so I let out a
couple of good screeches. I thought, “ If the black continued
black, if the edges of light round the black went completely
away . . . I suppose that would be fainting.” The red
waves came . . . turning to flame again. I thought, “ God
almighty, if I could get outside this, it would be really in­
teresting.” I remembered what the Melewi had tried to
teach me, and thought now would be a time to try it. I’d
just about forgotten the morphine pills. I hate pain, and am
as much of a coward as anybody, but what was happening
to me was one of the most violent and interesting things that
had ever happened to me in my life. So I tried to do what
they had taught me. There’s no incantation hocus-pocus in
it. There’s a bit of technique which they call “ shifted con­
centration,” but what it boils down to is simply the persistent
use of the will, toward detachment. I set about trying—and
ended by never touching the morphine pills, because in a
very few minutes, I had done what they taught me, com­
pletely. There it was—the waves and the pain, the red, the
glow, the white flame; the stabbing pain and then the ache
making everything turn black—the sequences kept occurring
exactly as before—but instead of experiencing them in the
sense of being torn by them, it was like calmly remembering
them.
This part is perhaps a little difficult to describe. But it
“ a s t r a l b o d y ” o n a b o a t
1 9 9
W ITCH CRA FT
had seemed to me it was exactly like going through violent,
secondhand experiences, in reading a novel, or in calm re­
membrance. It doesn’t give you any physical pain, or any
psychic pain either, to remember when your thumb was
caught in a car door, or when you had an inflamed appendix,
or if you’re a mother, when you had a baby, but you can
remember all the details, how much it hurt, how it waved
and varied. You can become fully re-aware of the pain, but
the re-awareness doesn’t pain you. W ell, it was almost ex­
actly like that, except that the awareness and the occurring
were taking place simultaneously. They continued simultane­
ously for several hours, during which I lived in that truly
“ magical world” of Melewi detachment. When it finally
died down, I was merely tired, and went to sleep. If I ’d
had a scientific mind, which I lack, I think I ’d have sacrificed
a thumbnail by banging it once with a hammer, while in
that state, to see whether the detachment held—whether it
would be my thumb, or just a thumb I whacked. But I over­
looked the opportunity.
And now I lay sleepless, keyed nervously to abnormal
tension, with my mind racing back to those experiences,
while wind and wave pounded the Cossack, held on her
course by H al up there on deck at the wheel; I looked at
the luminous dial of my watch to see when I ’d be going to
relieve him. It lacked only ten minutes to midnight when
it would be my shift up there. I was about to go in the gal­
ley and make some coffee first, when I thought, or rather
felt, with a sudden quick flash, Well, if I could do one of
the things the Melewi taught me, perhaps I could now do
200
another. Suppose I can. Suppose it’s true. Suppose I try.
Suppose I do it!
I lay back in the bunk, and closed my eyes, and began
forming words. I can send my body up there to the wheel,
a body with its eyes to watch the compass, a body with its
hands to steer. I will send it. But I am not that body. I will
remain here, to sleep. I will repose here, lying in the Melewi
astral body, to sleep.
It was bright, cold daylight, with the sun glaring through
the morning haze. The wind was still high, but the storm
was abating. I was there at the wheel, and the boat was
steady on her course. H al, I learned later, had been shout­
ing at me, then pounding me on the back, then trying to pull
my hands away from the wheel. They were cold and blue
like the hands of a dead man.
I said, “ Good morning.”
H al said, “ Good morning hell, Willie, w'hat on earth hap­
pened to you? I thought you had passed out. Your eyes were
wide open, and the boat was steady on her course . . . the
wind hasn’t changed . . . and she’s been on it all night.
But when I came on deck, I thought you had passed out.
I should have come up at four, you know, but I went sound
asleep, and you didn’t call me. I guess you must have passed
out with your eyes wide open, just before I came on deck.”
I said, “ What time is it?”
H e said, “ It’s long past six.”
We looked at our watches. It was nearly seven o’clock.
H e said, “ Are you sure you’re all right now? Can you get
below all right?”
“ a s t r a l b o d y ” o n a b o a t
201
W IT C H C R A F T
“ Yes,” I said, “ I ’m fine. By the way, did I come up last
night, or did you come down and get me?”
H e said, “ What do you mean, Willie? It was just mid­
night, and I was just going to yell down when you came up.
Don’t you remember?”
I said, “ Did I say anything to you?”
“ No.”
“ Did I do anything strange?”
“ Not unless your not saying anything was strange. I asked
you if you wanted some coffee, and sort of wondered why
you didn’t answer.”
So that was that. Whatever I ’d done, I had done it. I had
no recollection of anything that had occurred in the seven-
hour interval since I ’d repeated the word “ sleep.” One part
of me, with feet, eyes, muscles, hands, functioning like a
robot’s, had gone up on deck and been there at the wheel
doing its physical-mechanical job. Another part of me had
been in deep and dreamless slumber—somewhere. I ’m not
insisting where, because I don’t know where. The Melewi
teach that it had been asleep in an “ astral body” which was
left lying below in the bunk, while the soulless, three-dimen­
sional body of flesh and blood climbed up on deck. They
teach that the astral body would have been invisible and in­
tangible to the normal eye and touch, but that an adept could
have literally seen its shadowy outlines. They teach that Hal
—that is, any person with senses and perceptions solely nor­
mal—could have sat, or slept, in the same bunk, completely
unconscious of any other presence. But that a cat or dog
would have known. I’m not sure I believe any of that part of
2 0 2
“ a s t r a l b o d y ” o n a b o a t
the Melewi teaching. I am inclined, on the contrary, to doubt
it. I know simply that a part of me had slept soundly
through the night, while another part of me, steering by
wheel, wind, and compass, had held the Cossack steady—and
had kept her on her course.
2 0 3
III. Our Modern Cagliostros
LO O K IN G back for my limited purpose upon Cagliostro
simply as a man who claimed to be the greatest white magi­
cian of his epoch, sponsored by kings, princes, Marie An­
toinette, and Cardinal de Rohan; idealized by Houdon, im­
mortalized later by Dumas in Joseph Balsamo (and specifi­
cally leaving out my comparison his connection with affairs
like that of the Queen’s necklace, since none of the current
gentlemen I propose to examine at length has ever been ac­
cused of swindling)—there are three outstanding Cagliostros,
white magicians, alive and active in our modern Western
world today, with a fine new crop coming up in 1940.1 By
calling them “ white magicians,” I mean they traffic in magic
and the occult, claiming to help rather than harm their
fellowman—and woman. By calling them “ Cagliostros” 2 1
1 See Appendix, p. 335.
2In using “ Cagliostro” as a generic term applied to these famous mod­
ern occultists, I have no intention o f asserting that any of them are
charlatans. Whether an individual who traffics in white magic is a char­
latan, or not, is always a matter of opinion, depending on whether or not
you believe in his magic. To an atheist, for an extreme instance, a vested
Roman Catholic priest celebrating the mysteries of the mass is technically
a charlatan. To many rationalists, all white magicians are charlatans. Con­
cerning the three gentlemen I propose to discuss, your opinions on this
point w ill be your own.
2 0 4
OU R M O D E R N CAGLIOSTROS
mean that in process of doing this, they have variously won
fame and fortune; have consorted with and been sponsored
by the modern democratic equivalents of kings, cardinals,
princes, their wives and mistresses—on W all Street and Park
Avenue, Park Row and the Champs F.lysees. I have known
two of them fairly intimately at intervals over a long period
of years. The three are:
George Gurdjieff, founder of the Gurdjieff Institute in Fon­
tainebleau and New York, which in its heyday is said to have had
twenty-nine schools scattered about in Europe and America.
Aleister Crowley, founder of the Great White Brotherhood,
the Order of Oriental Templars in England and America, and
of the College of the Holy Ghost, sometimes referred to as the
Abbey of Thelema, in Cefalu, Sicily.
Pierre Bernard, known as “ Oom the Omnipotent,” founder
of the wealthy Brae Burn club and cult at Nyack, New Jersey.
I have never met Mr. Bernard, who is sponsored by Rutherfords,
Vanderbilts, Dukes, the former Mrs. Ogden Mills, and many
other distinguished people, including the prize fighter Lou Nova.
I have, however, all the material publicly available on him, and
am including it in my appendix notes.3
George Gurdjieff, in my opinion, is, or was, the greatest
of the three. He first came to America in January, 1924, spon­
sored by the late Alfred Richard Orage, formerly editor of
the New Age; by the world-famous Russian mathematician
Ouspensky; by Muriel Draper, Zona Gale, Claude Bragdon,
Ernest Poole, and other variously celebrated or influential
Americans.
I was taken to meet him, privately, on the night after his
arrival, in a palatial suite in an old-fashioned uptown hotel,
and was so deeply impressed by his brains and brute strength
s See Appendix, p. 354.
205
W IT C H C R A F T
that we sat talking until nearly dawn. Whether his power
lay simply in the fields of hypnotism and autosuggestion, or
went beyond it into authentic telepathy and clairvoyance, or
even further into the Tibetan and Yoga fields of alleged
occult miracle-working, I never became convinced—for the
reason that I ’ve never yet become convinced that power in
these latter categories can exist at all. But whatever category
GurdjiefPs power may have lain in—in those days he had
power.
H e had brought with him from Europe a group of forty
disciples, and on the evening of January 23 gave a public
demonstration at Leslie’s Ballroom, 260 West 83rd Street.
On February 9, he gave another demonstration to a crowded
audience in Carnegie Hall. A number of other demonstra­
tions, some free and some with an admission charge, were
given at the Neighborhood Theatre, and elsewhere, and
there was a farewell demonstration on March 3, again at
Carnegie. These demonstrations consisted, as the programs
put it, of “ Movement, Music and Production of Phenomena,”
the latter based chiefly upon “ hypnotism and magnetism in
the broad sense.” There were also “ tricks, semi-tricks and
real phenomena occurring in religious ceremonies.”
The “ hypnotic,” “ magnetic,” mindreading, clairvoyant,
and telepathic parts of the performances were varied and in­
teresting, but since they were fundamentally no different
from those of Houdini, who specifically denied any super­
normal power whatsoever and insisted that the audience was
being entertained by “ stage magic,” there is no point in de­
scribing them.
What excited and interested me was the amazing, brilliant,
automatonlike, inhuman, almost incredible docility and robot-
2 0 6
OU R M O D ER N CAGLIOSTROS
like obedience of the disciples, in the parts of the demonstra­
tions which had to do with “ movement.” They were like a
group of perfectly trained zombis, or like circus animals
jumping through hoops ringed with fire, or like the soldiers
of Christophe who marched without breaking step off the
parapet of the citadel on that sheer mountainside in Haiti.
They did things, without suffering any apparent hurt, almost
as dangerous as dropping off a cliff, and certainly more dan­
gerous than leaping through fiery hoops.
The group consisted of young and youngish women, most
of whom were handsome and some of whom were beautiful;
and of men who looked as if they had come, and probably did
in most cases, from the best British and continental homes
and universities. I met some of these disciples, and they
were almost without exception people of culture, breeding,
and intelligence. The demonstrations, I imagine, were to
show the extent to which the Gurdjieff Institute in Fontaine­
bleau had taught them supernormal powers of physical con­
trol, co-ordination, relaxation, etc. And there was no fake
about it, regardless of whether it was supernormal or not,
because if they hadn’t learned supreme co-ordination, they’d
have broken their arms and legs, and maybe their necks, in
some of the stunts they did. But what I felt the demonstra­
tions showed, even more than their control over themselves,
was the terrific domination of Gurdjieff, the Master. At his
command, they’d race, spread out, at breakneck speed, from
left to right across the stage, and at another low command
from him, freeze full flight as if caught by a race-track cam­
era. Once I saw Gurdjieff push a dancer who had been
“ frozen” by his command in an attitude of difficult equilib­
rium. The dancer tumbled and rolled over several times,
207
W IT C H C R A F T
then rolled upright and was back again, apparently without
volitionally assuming it—in the original frozen position.
Gurdjieff himself, a calm, bull-like man, with muscles in
those days hard as steel, in immaculate dinner clothes, his
head shaven like a Prussian officer’s, with black luxuriant
handle-bar mustaches, and generally smoking expensive
Egyptian cigarettes, stood casually down in the audience, or
off to the side beside the piano, which was not on stage. He
never shouted. H e was always casual. Yet always in complete
command. It was as if he were a slave-master or wild-animal
tamer, with an invisible bull whip swishing inaudibly through
the air. Among his other qualities, he was a great showman,
and a climax came one night which literally had the front
rows out of their seats. The troupe was deployed extreme
back stage, facing the audience. At his command, they came
racing full tilt toward the footlights. We expected to see a
wonderful exhibition of arrested motion. But instead, Gurd­
jieff calmly turned his back, and was lighting a cigarette. In
the next split second, an aerial human avalanche was flying
through the air, across the orchestra, down among empty
chairs, on the floor, bodies pell-mell, piled on top of each
other, arms and legs sticking out in weird postures—frozen
there, fallen, in complete immobility and silence.
Only after it had happened did Gurdjieff turn and look
at them, as they lay there, still immobile. When they pres­
ently arose, by his permission, and it was evident that no
arms, legs, or necks had been broken—no one seemed to have
suffered even so much as a scratch or bruise—there were
storms of applause, mingled with a little protest. It had been
almost too much.
Audiences which saw some of these fantastic performances
20 8
OU R M O D ER N CAGLIOSTROS
included New York Times reporters, an editor from Collier's,
some of the editors from the Bookman, Fannie Hurst, J.
Julius Forman, Walter Damrosch, Carl Brandt, Percy Stick-
ney Grant, Christopher Morley, Mrs. Philip Lydig, Walter
Kingsley, Arnold Genthe, Rebecca West, and numbers of
professors from the universities.
According to Orage, who had abandoned the New Age
and the single-tax movement to become GurdjiefPs right-
hand man; according also to Ouspensky, to Claude Bragdon,
and to numbers of other distinguished experts and students
of such matters, Gurdjieff was at that time also wielding
powers of “ white magic” in the field of the occult which
were even more extraordinary in their way than any of these
sensational exhibitions in New York.
Whatever it was—or whatever its basis—Gurdjieff cer­
tainly had power. On the question of what it was and what
its basis may have been, I have already defined pretty clearly
the limits of my own skepticism. I submit the available facts
about Gurdjieff, and let you form your own opinions. Many
of these facts I have at first hand. Others I learned from
Orage and his associates. A few facts and dates are culled
from the library of the New York Times.
George Gurdjieff was born, in 1873, of Greek parentage,
in the Transcaucasian town of Aleksandropol, which made
him a Russian subject. He was christened George S. Gorgi-
ades. H e ran away to sea at an early age, and later spent
many years in Outer Mongolia and Tibet, where he is said
to have been at one time a Tibetan monk, and to have ab­
sorbed the mystical practices and teachings of the Sufis, Yogis,
Melewi, Rufiah, and Persian dervishes. I can testify of my
2 0 9
W IT C H C R A F T
own knowledge that Gurdjieff knows more about dervish
mysticism and magic than any man I have ever met outside a
dervish monastery.
During the Russian revolution and the years immediately
succeeding it, he was in Constantinople, in London, and
finally established himself in Fontainebleau, outside Paris,
where he founded the Institute which is said to represent the
first organized effort to bring to the Western world the eso­
teric practices developed in India and Tibet. The disciples
in this Institute, which was housed in a fine chateau with its
de-pendances, on a superb estate, were principally wealthy,
cultured, and in a few instances celebrated, people. There
were also a limited number of nonpaying students, men and
women.
Rhythm, ritual, and physical discipline played a large part
in the routine at the chateau. Classes began their exercise-
dances at dusk, and danced for several hours during the night.
In the daytime the disciples, including a princess or two, as­
sorted countesses, and a number of wealthy bankers, broke
rock, trundled wheelbarrows, tended pigs, pulled weeds, and
worked at other heavy manual tasks. A theory was that when
they became so tired that collapse was imminent, strength
would come from an inner source of reserve power—that they
would get their “ second wind,” as it were, or whatever they
call second wind on the top of the Himalayas.
Said Gurdjieff sententiously one day, “ Pig-raising and
weed-pulling have a tendency to teach people with their
heads in the air that their feet must be still on the ground.”
Thus he taught the countesses humility and obedience—but
for different disciples he had different preliminary treatments.
Gurdjieff, I keep telling you, was a great man in those days,
2 1 0
S.
OUR M O D ER N CAGLIOSTROS
and I really think he was. For instance, in dealing with pupils
who were of the severe, puritanical “ New England” type, he
prescribed—instead of weed-pulling and rock-breaking—
“ soft music and perfumed wines!” Said he, “ Of course I
know intoxication is not always good—but neither is sobriety
always good. The lure of music and the kindling of feeling
are remedies, however, which do not avail with all my
pupils.”
For others he prescribed “ the rigors of suffering, hardship,
torture, even with whips . . . long hours of meditation.”
Gurdjieff had learned whatever he learned from esoteric
mystics in the East. Gurdjieff was not umpiring parlor games.
Gurdjieff was turning on the heat. While French, British,
and American journalists were permitted to visit the setup
whenever they chose, and frequently did, and while a num­
ber of them definitely disliked M r. Gurdjieff, no scandal or
suggestion of scandal was ever connected with him or with
the Institute. When Gurdjieff and his Fontainebleau cult are
mentioned, the first thing the general public is likely to re­
member is “ Oh, yes, that’s where Katherine Mansfield died.”
So she did, but she was dying of tuberculosis before she ever
went there.
A cardinal point in GurdjiefPs teachings was the breaking
of habit, and to help accomplish this, many of the dances
were wild and eccentric in the extreme. So far as anybody
knows sex never “ reared its ugly head” in GurdjiefPs modus
operands, but apart from that the dances were a cross between
a voodoo bamboche in the jungle and a temple celebration of
the Mysteries of Eleusis. Limbs, heads, muscles, body, just
went hither and yon. Our jitterbugs at their best and fanciest
2 1 1
W IT C H C R A F T
are unimaginative earthworms compared to GurdjiefPs disci­
ples when they really got going.
Scores of them—at one time he had almost a hundred—
clad in flowing white, gray, and crimson garments, danced.
The musicians were hidden. The music was exotic, oriental,
sometimes mystical and sensuous, sometimes wild and crash­
ing. Gurdjieff, the Master, remained out of sight behind a
curtain, whence he issued his commands. Each individual
dancer responded to the commands “ as his soul dictated.”
A visiting Sunday World reporter, describing one of these
typical evenings, wrote:
Tired business men, bankers, intellectuals, actresses, barons,
countesses, millionaires, gave themselves up to tile music. At a
command from Gurdjieff they stood perfectly rigid for several
minutes, and then began to move their arms in unison; rapid,
jerky movements, their joints giving the effect of working on
ball bearings. The music quickened its pace, so did the arms. Legs
and bodies swayed, heads bobbed frantically from side to side.
Arms, legs, hands and heads acted in complete independence of
one another, and each dancer seemed to be executing a series of
movements different from his neighbor’s, yet the total effect of
the group was harmonious as it shifted with electrical rapidity
from one pattern into another. The music grew louder. At an­
other command from Gurdjieff the music stopped suddenly and
the dancers stood as if petrified in bizarre attitudes until released
by another command.
GurdjiefPs disciples apparently worked systematically, un­
der his control, to break all their habits, both good and bad,
thus freeing their lives from the ordinary man’s usual slavery
to habits. They lived a communal life. They did not regard
their rhythmic exercises as rites or ceremonies. They regarded
communal life as necessary for producing in highly concen-
2 1 2
OUR M O D E R N CAGLIOSTROS
trated form all the friction, all the reaction, pleasant and un­
pleasant, that are met with in ordinary life. Indifference to
these reactions was one of their goals.
Essence of the teaching seemed to be that through intense
physical labor, fasting, and elaborate exercises, the physical
machine is made perfectly obedient and responsive to the will.
They believed that in doing this the individual becomes pos­
sessed of faculties far exceeding those of the average man.
Clairvoyance, ability to see at a distance, power to know what
another is thinking, telepathic capacity, were supposed to be
some of the accomplishments. Also, a larger vision of the
universe.
Gurdjieff said: “ If we live calm, monotonous days and
peaceful nights, we stultify. We had better torture our own
spirit than suffer the inanities of calm.”
His disciples therefore were wakened at all hours of the
night, suddenly, and had learned to remain “ frozen” in what­
ever positions they had chanced to stand or fall in when
leaping out of bed.
I ’d have enjoyed being Gurdjieff in those days. I ’ve got a
whole list of friends including a couple of darling and digni-
field old “ River” ladies whom I ’d vastly enjoy having in
such a menagerie. But I ’m not sure I ’d care to be one of
GurdjiefPs disciples. The man had power. But whether he
was able to impart it to others is a different question. It
seemed to me that when disciples entered GurdjiefPs cult,
they sacrificed their wills and personalities, rather than en­
hanced them. I know, of course, that greater masters than
Gurdjieff (including indeed The Master), taught a deep and
similarly paradoxical philosophy. But like nearly everything
213
W IT C H C R A F T
in the realm of “ white magic,” its mystical efficacy in our
modern world remains an open question.
One of Job’s celebrated sayings, which my friend GurdjiefF
had evidently never read, was:
“ Would that mine adversary had written a book!”
The more you think that one over, the better it gets—as
this episode concerning Gurdjieff may serve to illustrate.
M r. Gurdjieff came back to New York in January, 1931,
rented a number of luxurious apartments at 204. West 59th
Street, and telephoned me one day that he had written a
book. H e knew that I liked him. He had not only written a
book, but as amateur authors so frequently do, he craved to
have some of it read aloud to a group of people who might
be capable of appreciating its beauty and wisdom. He always
did things in the grand manner. He asked me to invite as
many selected friends as I chose, to his apartments on a cer­
tain evening, for the reading, and to enjoy an Arabian Nights
collation afterward. I knew the supper would be marvelous,
and felt it my duty to choose only intelligent friends to hear
the reading. I was accused afterward of having chosen indi­
viduals whose intelligence was distinctly in the nine-minute-
egg category. If I did, it was as a compliment to M r. Gurd­
jieff. Among those who came, I recall particularly Behaviorist
John Watson of Johns Hopkins, the late Lincoln Steffens,
William Pepperell Montague and a couple more of the Co­
lumbia Pragmatists, George Seldes (I had also invited G il­
bert and it seems to me he dropped in for a while), Carl
Helm of the Sun, two Harvard psychologists, etc. Among the
ladies were Irita Van Doren, Claire Spencer, Virginia Hirsch,
and Blair Niles.
2 1 4
The evening—apart from the superb Algerian melons,
stuffed eggplant, stuffed grape leaves, great cook pots of
stewed goat or whatever it was, all in true Baghdad splendor
—was a complete, if always polite and amiable, fiasco.
Disciples and secretaries read us long portions of an opus
provisionally entitled “ A Criticism of the Life of M an; or
Beelzebub’s Tale to His Grandson.”
Late in the evening, M r. Steffens and John Watson began
whispering. Presently M r. Watson said,
“ Either this is an elaborate and subtle joke whose point is
completely over our heads, or it’s piffle. In either event, I
don’t see much that can be gained by hearing more of it. I
propose, if M r. Gurdjieff is agreeable, that we now converse
for a while.”
So we all relaxed, and conversed, and presently supped,
with equal amiability on the part of both host and guests.
M r. Gurdjieff was more brilliant, and more witty, than the
manuscript had been. He was so agreeable, so keen, and so
affable, that Steffens, Watson, Montague, and all the rest of
them took him into their complete confidence and explained
unanimously their conviction that—unless he was trying to
put over a cosmic joke of some sort whose point had not yet
become manifest—his future did not lie in the field of
authorship. Gurdjieff suggested that his purport might be
too deep for our limited comprehension.
There was a difference of opinion among my friends after
we had left, as to whether I had deliberately played a joke
on Gurdjieff in selecting his auditors—or whether Gurdjieff
and I had been in collusion to make monkeys out of them
for an amusing evening—or whether M r. Gurdjieff was
spoofing all of us. I ’m not quite sure myself. So far as I
OUR M O D E R N CAGLIOSTROS
215
W IT C H C R A F T
know, “ Beelzebub’s Tale” has not yet had a publisher. Gurd-
jieff is a great man, but I doubt that his field lies in belles
lettres.
It was through the late Frank Harris that I first met
Aleister Crowley, around 19 17, in New York. Harris had
finished his Shakespeare and Oscar Wilde biographies, had
not yet besmirched himself with M y L ife and Loves, and was
editing Pearson’s Magazine. He was living prosperously in
one of the verandaed houses on Seventh Avenue, in a Green­
wich Village which still had Theodore Dreiser in a step-down
on West 1 2th Street, Edna St. Vincent M illay in the same
block, Sinclair Lewis in a duplex studio on Tenth Street, and
Eugene O’Neill producing his plays in the Provincetown
Playhouse, south of Washington Square. I had served for a
while with the French on the Western Front, had been
gassed at Verdun, had recovered enough to come home and
start writing again. Aleister Crowley, a strange Englishman
who had devoted a great part of his life to “ white magic”
and was accused ignorantly by his many enemies of practicing
black magic too, was living at No. 1 University Place, to the
utter terror of two conventional ladies from the South who
had rented him the ground floor. H e was a Cambridge man,
a distinguished poet, was in many British anthologies, includ­
ing the Oxford Book of English Mystical Verse. H e had
been in the Himalayas as a mountain climber, was supposed
to have studied Tibetan lore. In 1905, according to the Man­
chester Guardian, he had led an expedition to ascend Kinchin-
junga, 100 miles southeast of Mount Everest. The party at­
tacked the southern face of the mountain, above Yalung Gla­
cier, but met with disaster. One climber and several porters
216
OU R M O D E R N CAGLIOSTROS
were swept away by an avalanche. Crowley was either part
Irish or an Irish sympathizer, and was denouncing England
during the World War as a “ vampire among nations.” He
was considered to be pro-German, and was for a while asso­
ciated with George Sylvester Viereck on the Fatherland and
International Monthly. These matters left me indifferent,
and I was never then or subsequently concerned in any of
them. I was wanting to meet Crowley because he was sup­
posed to be an authority on medieval sorcery, and was pleased
when Frank Harris arranged it.
We met at lunch in Mouquin’s. Aleister Crowley was a
strange, disturbing fellow, with a heavy pontifical manner
mixed with a good deal of sly, monkeylike, and occasionally
malicious humor. H e wore an enormous star sapphire on the
forefinger of his right hand, and had his head shaved just
then in the manner of Erich von Stroheim. H e later sprouted
an American Indian warlock which curled slightly and made
him somewhat resemble (with his round, smooth-shaven face
and big, round eyes) a nursery imp masquerading as Mephis-
topheles. The talk at that luncheon left me gasping. Frank
Harris was one of the greatest conversationalists of this or
any other century, and Crowley talked like Pain’s Fireworks.
No magic, black or white, was mentioned until the end of
it, when Crowley said he’d heard I was interested in magic
and invited me to call on him.
I telephoned late one morning, caught him at home, and
went around before lunch. On entering the spacious living
room, I was presented to a young lady by the name of Leah
Hersig. At least, as I subsequently learned, that was her
name in the phone book, and in the cold world outside. Here
in the nice, warm magician’s castle, she was naked as a jay
2 1 7
W IT C H C R A F T
bird, and just as unconcerned as one. They were not nudists.
It wasn’t anything like that. I slowly gathered that Leah was
a high priestess, and that she also occasionally turned into
Astarte, Ashtoreth, and Isis. Since these are goddesses with
a precedent dating back some hundreds of centuries, her lack
of embarrassment became more easily understandable.
What remained surprising, however, until my host kindly
explained it, was the one thing she did wear. She couldn’t
very well avoid wearing it, because it had been branded into
her fair hide with the red-hot point of a Chinese sword: on
her breast she wore a star, pointing to the pickle jar, as did
young King William’s. The Master Therion (who was
Crowley) had done a neat, artistic job of it, and after you
got over the first shock, it rather enhanced the charm of the
high priestess.
After that first visit, I got to know them both pretty well,
and over a long period of time. Crowley had a cult, with fol­
lowers and disciples. He never tried to make me a member
of it. He accepted me as a sort of apprentice fellow-sorcerer,
and I attended numbers of their ceremonies. They were Holy
Grail stuff, mostly. Some of the invocations were quite beauti­
ful, and Leah made a splendid combination of high priestess
and goddess. The ceremonial part of Crowley’s A. A. and
O. T . O. is neither here nor there for purposes of this book.
There are hundreds of such cults, mostly harmless and gen­
erally tiresome when you’ve seen much of them. What in­
terested me in Aleister Crowley was the same thing, finally,
that had interested me in the African witch-doctors and later
in Gurdjieff. Behind the mumbo jumbo, whether in spite of
or because of the mumbo jumbo, Aleister Crowley too had
power. Whether it was a kind of power worth having, or a
2 l8
O U R M O D ER N CAGLIOSTROS
kind that can ever—in anybody’s hands—have any profound
effect upon the world, or whether he always used it honestly,
are questions outside any point I ’m trying to make, and which
I don’t pretend to answer.’
I propose instead to recount a number of happenings of
which I had close personal knowledge. They will cast some
light on my assertion that he had power, and may cast a little
light too on why I write good-humoredly about him. During
the years in America, he was part pontifical and part monkey,
part primate and part primate, if any man ever was. I recall
that one summer our Master Therion gathered his followers
around him, announced that his planets were in such and
such conjunction, and that the time had come for him to go
into a forty-day retirement in the “ wilderness” for prayer
and mystical meditation. It was hot as hell in New York,
and my own idea was that he simply wanted to go to the
country. H e happened to be out of cash at the moment, and
fasting for forty days and nights was not included in his
program. We decided to stake him to a camping trip, up the
Hudson River—got him a canoe, a tent, supplied him with
some money and a list of American canned goods, provisions
which he was going to buy next day. These, with the canoe
and tent, were to go aboard the Albany day boat, and we
were going down to see him off next morning. When we got
there, he was pleased as Punch, looking very important,
4Aleister Crowley himself has written a hundred or more volumes on
both points. At least ten books have been written about him, including a
literary biography called Star in the W est by Major General J. F. C.
Fuller, who years later became one o f the only two Englishmen invited
to Hitler’s fiftieth birthday dinner. The British press, in particular the
D a ily E xpress, D a ily M a il, and D a ily T eleg ra p h , have published tons of
stuff about Crowley and his magic, mostly denunciatory.
219
W IT C H C R A F T
supervising the embarkment of the provisions. The “ provi­
sions” looked suspicious, and since we’d paid for them, we
decided to inspect them. They consisted of fifty gallons of
red paint, three big house-painter’s brushes, and a heavy coil
of rope. We investigated further. H e hadn’t bought so much
as a can of beans or a loaf of bread. H e’d blown every cent
for the red paint. H e had nothing in his pockets except the
ticket for the trip up the river.
“ What are you going to eat, for crying out loud?” we
asked, and he replied, in his heaviest pontifical manner,
“ M y children, I am going to Esopus Island, and I will
be fed as Elijah was fed by the ravens.”
“ Are you coming back in a chariot of fire, or in a Black
Maria?” we yelled as the boat pulled out, and he waved us
good-by with a grin.
Upstate New York farmers are a hard bunch for anybody
to make monkeys out of, or to play the monkey with—but
neighboring farmers fed Aleister Crowley for the whole forty
days—and at the end of the forty days all the summer ex­
cursionists going up and down the river saw painted on the
cliffs south of Kingston two enormous legends:
E V E R Y M A N A N D W O M A N IS A S T A R !
D O W H A T T H O U W IL T
S H A L L B E T H E W H O L E O F T H E L A W .
He had rigged himself a sling, and painted, we were told,
from sunrise to sundown. Thereafter he had sat cross-legged,
on the ground in front of his tent, while neighbors, w'hether
regarding him as a mighty prophet or a harmless crank, had
brought him eggs and milk, occasional sweet corn. Frequently,
2 2 0
OU R M O D E R N CAGLIOSTROS
when they chanced to pass next morning, he would still be
sitting like an idol, with the eggs and milk untouched. They
said he ate sparingly, once in every twenty-four hours, and
that it was a mystery when he slept—unless he slept while
sitting like a Buddha in the lotus posture. H e never made
any effort to commercialize or cash in on, or gain credit for,
the two legends painted on the rock. H e had wanted to paint
them there—and that was that.
A. C. came back to New York in September, sunburned,
lean, fit, and in a fine good humor. Acquaintances who were
not among his converts said he was crazy as a loon. I thought
so, but recalled that the Lord Gautama had sat thus under a
tree for eleven years. It was crazy in the age of motor cars
and airplanes, I agreed, but it was something.
On the day after he had returned to New York, I invited
him to the grillroom of the Plaza, for lunch, where he re­
galed himself with whitebait, steak tartare, creamcake, topped
off with a Napoleon brandy-—then lighted a Belinda perfecto.
I said, “ What did you get out of it, beyond cleaning out
your colon and taking weight off your belly?”
“ I have gained greater power.”
“ What kind of power?” I asked.
“ Perhaps,” he replied, “ I can show you.”
“ If it’s done in the dark,” I said, “ or behind curtains, or
with spooks, I wouldn’t believe it.”
“ It’s a bright, sunshiny day,” he said, as if dropping the
subject (or was he?). “ Suppose we stroll in the park in the
sunshine.”
I said, “ I ’d like to stop at Brentano’s. Suppose we stroll
down Fifth Avenue instead.”
“ Anywhere you like,” he replied.
221
W IT C H C R A F T
We strolled. The Avenue was crowded. “ On a block where
it thins out a bit,” said he, “ I ’ll show you.”
“ Show me what?”
H e replied majestically, “ I will show you.”
The crowd looked thinner ahead of us in front of the
Public Library, and as we crossed Forty-second Street, A. C.
touched me lightly on the elbow and put his fingers to his
lips. Ahead of us was strolling a tall, prosperous-looking
gentleman of leisure, and Crowley, silent as a cat, fell into
step immediately behind him. Their footfalls began to syn­
chronize, and then I observed that Crowley, who generally
held himself pompously erect and had a tendency to strut,
had dropped his shoulders, thrust his head forward a little,
like the man’s in front, had begun to swing his arms in per­
fect synchronization—now so perfect that he was like a mov­
ing shadow or astral ghost of the other.
As we neared the end of the block, A. C., in taking a step
forward, let both his knees buckle suddenly under him, so
that he dropped, caught himself on his haunches, and was
immediately erect again, strolling.
The man in front of us fell as if his legs had been shot
out from under him . . . and was sprawling. We helped
him up, as a crowd gathered. H e was unhurt. H e thanked us,
and looked for the banana peel. There was no banana peel.
With his hand on somebody’s shoulder, he looked at the
soles of his shoes. They were dry. H e brushed himself off,
regained his hat, tried his legs tentatively, thanked us, and
strolled on.
I think I know all the answers. The easiest one is that the
gentleman was a stooge. The only trouble with it is that I
was the one who had suggested strolling down the Avenue,
2 22
OUR M O D ER N CAGLIOSTROS
and I had been at A. C.’s side ever since. The gentleman, if
a stooge, however, could have been loitering outside the
Plaza, waiting for a signal. Identification of him and affidavits
from him wouldn’t have helped at all, since he might always
have been lying. The hell of all this stuff is that something
of that sort is always the easiest answer.
Another answer is that the gentleman, without being con­
scious of it, heard the faint sound of Crowley’s catlike foot­
falls, mingled in perfect synchronization with his own, un­
consciously identified the rhythm with his own rhythm, and
fell when the rhythm was violently broken. There are a num­
ber of variations of that answer, splitting hairs a bit, but
still leaving the phenomenon in the field of the sensory. Still
another answer is that Crowley possessed supernormal pow­
ers, was generating and sending out supernormal and super-
sensory emanations. I think I know all the answers—but I ’m
not satisfied with any of them.
One following summer—it was around 1920— I invited
A. C. to spend Ju ly and August with me on a farm near
Atlanta. We got to talking one night about the Trappist
monks, about their vows of silence, etc., and he suggested
that we try an interesting variant. H e proposed that for a
week we limit all verbal communication and all conversation
to one prearranged monosyllable. We experimented with
several, tried various animal monosyllables, including urr,
woof, moo, baa, and finally decided upon “ wow.”
We stuck to this for the whole week. Katie was amused
and tolerant, visitors wondered whether we’d gone crazy,
while Shep and Vonie, our two Negro servants, were con­
vinced we’d either joined or were founding a branch of some
new religion. We learned in the first couple of days, or be­
223
W IT C H C R A F T
lieved we did, a good deal about the manner in which ani­
mals communicate with one another. We were both surprised
how much, by mere change in intonation, volume, etc., we
could communicate. After we’d become pretty good, or
thought we had, in “ Pass the butter,” “ I don’t care for any
more,” “ Would you like to take a walk?” , “ That’s a pretty
g irl!” , “ It’s a fine morning,” “ yes,” “ no,” “ maybe,” “ I like
it,” “ I don’t like it,” “ the hell with it,” “ Isn’t it wonder­
ful?” and elementary things of that sort—it chanced that
one night Shep brought me a gallon of moonshine corn.
A. C. and I sat up that night, drank most of it, and held a
long, deep, philosophic conversation, in terms of “ wow,” until
the wee small hours, when Katie finally made us shut up and
go to bed. She still insists that we simply got drunk and sat
and barked at each other all night, but A. C. and I felt the
talk had been profound and illuminating.
It was at any rate profitable, for I later wrote a fantasy on
what might happen if human language were abolished, and
sold it to H . L . Mencken. It is entitled “ Wow,” and has
appeared in a number of anthologies.
A. C. subsequently went to Sicily, taking his high priestess
Leah with him, bought the equivalent of an old monastery
and grounds in the hills near Cefalu, outside Palermo, gath­
ered some disciples from England and America, and founded
there his College of the H oly Ghost.
I was in Africa again when the unfortunate episode of the
young Oxford poet and the cat occurred, but I have closer
knowledge of another drama which concerned a moderately
well-known American actress who has had roles on Broadway
and in Hollywood. The story contains nothing to anybody’s
2 2 4
OUR M O D E R N CAGLIOSTROS
discredit—on the contrary!—and she lent me her diary cover­
ing the entire Cefalu period, with permission to quote from
it, but requested that I leave her name out.
She had been suffering, as our best actresses sometimes do,
or did, from the heebie-jeebies; from an unrequited passion
for Horace Liveright, Jed Harris, M ax Eastman, Max
Bodenheim, or some other intellectual homme jatale of the
speakeasy epoch; from too much bathtub gin, despondency,
and a couple of other depressants which I believe included
veronal. She had met Aleister Crowley, suffered also from a
curiosity about the occult, and as an alternative to suicide had
gone over to become one of his disciples for the summer.
What happened after she had matriculated in the College
of the H oly Ghost and taken up her residence in the Abbey
of Thelema wasn’t anything that she’d expected.
On a small isolated promontory within the abbey grounds,
and overlooking the sea, the Master Therion set up the Si­
cilian equivalent of a pup tent—a shepherd’s shelter, a
thatched lean-to on poles, not much larger than the ward­
robe trunk she’d brought across the ocean. Behind it, he dug
a small lime pit to serve as a latrine. H er entire wardrobe
and camp equipment was to consist of a burnoose to cover
her nakedness when she got cold at night, or if it rained. It
was a voluminous, coarse woolen robe with a cowl. No bed,
no chair, no bunk, no straw, no blanket, no pillow—no toilet
articles, no books, no cards, no games. She would have, said
the Master Therion, the sun, moon, stars, sky, sea, the uni­
verse to read and play with. She was to stay up on that rock
alone for a month. No one was to go up except a little boy
who would come quietly to deposit a coarse loaf of bread, a
bunch of grapes, and a jug of water each night while she was
2 2 5
W IT C H C R A F T
sleeping. She told the Master Therion he was crazy. H e told
her there was a boat touching next day at Palermo, and that
there was her unpacked trunk, and there was the open door,
and there was a telephone—but that when the boat sailed
north, she’d be sitting up there naked on the rock, watching
it disappear.
And for a month!
What an outrageous trick, you say? Let’s look at it a
minute. Its horrors combined a perfectly balanced frugal
diet, a rest cure, sun baths, a fresh air cure, a sojourn by the
seaside overlooking one of the most beautiful bays on earth.
She undertook to try it, and did. I have neglected to men­
tion that at the end of seven days, pencil and paper were to
be sent up to her by the little boy, so that she could begin
keeping a diary. The diary was interesting for many reasons.
The progressive steps it shows are perhaps the most interest­
ing thing in it:
During the first days, she was nervous, uncomfortable,
angry, and resentful, but determined to stick it out. Then,
for a while, she was just as nervous, but less uncomfortable,
no longer angry and resentful, but beginning to be bored.
Then for a number of days, she was “ calm, but bored.”
It was boredom and not the hardship and discomfort,
which she no longer felt, that tempted her when nineteen
days had passed to give it up.
She stuck it out, and during the last ten days experienced
“ perfect calm, deep joy, renewal of strength and courage.”
As she put it, she had “ let go of herself” in New York, and
had “ gotten hold of herself again,” there on the rock. Also,
what with the limited diet, self-imposed calisthenics, sun and
2 2 6
air, she had “ lost sixteen pounds in the right places” which
doubtless partially accounted for her “ deep joy.”
She came down off the rock, remained in the colony for
the summer, studied principally self-control and the drawing
on her inner resources and reserve force, went back to Broad­
way, and resumed her career.
The methods of the Master Therion had savored of spec­
tacular boloney, but I doubt whether Bill Brown, the late
Muldoon, or their most orthodox and expensive prototypes
patronized by wealthy ladies could have done a better job.
Following the death of the young Oxford poet and athlete
Raoul (Frederick Charles) Loveday, after he had sacrificed
a cat on the altar of the cult at Cefalu and drunk a cup of
its blood, the young man’s widow, Betty M ay Loveday, for­
mer model, raised a tremendous hullabaloo with the help of
the British press, and in the spring of 1923, Aleister Crowley
was expelled from Italian territory by the Fascisti. H e raised
a counter-hullabaloo with libel suits, but was granted no
damages. Those who have read the Daily Mail, Daily Ex­
press, or Telegraph may sense a belief on my part that “ the
devil is not always as black as he is painted,” or if not that,
a desire on my part to whitewash him a bit.
Rather than use a whitewash brush on the Master Therion,
since he has always insisted he was a white magician anyway,
I suggest that the old schoolbook adage de gustibus non dis-
putandum may have a bearing on the cat. I have eaten cat in
Naples and caterpillars on the Ivory Coast. I have also eaten
stewed young man. I have drunk the sacrificial blood of goats
and bulls at voodoo altars, and have seen my surpliced bet­
ters drinking from a cup on the greatest altar of all, a liquid
OU R M O D ER N CAGLIOSTROS
2 2 7
W IT C H C R A F T
which people wiser and better than I am assure me has been
miraculously changed into the blood of a man who once be­
came a god. I have also seen my aunt from Hawkinsville,
Georgia, kneeling before one of these same greatest altars
and eating a substance which she believed to be a part of the
body of the man. The greatest and noblest of the Greeks
habitually sacrificed birds, beasts, more rarely their daugh­
ters, and consulted the steaming entrails. So that if Aleister
Crowley and his disciple Raoul Loveday, founding a new
religion, chose to assassinate a stray cat and imbibe its life­
blood, it seems to me that it was nobody’s business unless
the Italian S-P.C.A. chose to intervene. And if it made Raoul
sick afterward, it seems to me, similarly, that it was his own
private misfortune.
One can hardly have expected, however, so detached an
attitude on the part of his beautiful young model-widow.
She was known as the “ Tiger-Woman,” and so titled the
book she wrote about herself in 1929 for Duckworth. As an
amateur psychoanalyst, I suspect that Betty M ay was sub­
consciously thinking “ a tiger is also a cat. Maybe I ’d better
get out of here while the going’s good.” At any rate, she ran
away, and here’s what she tells us in Tiger-Woman about
the other cat—and about her young husband’s untimely de­
mise:
The ceremony opened with the solemn entrance of the Mystic
clad in the gorgeous robes of a Grand Master of the order of
Freemasons. After he had seated himself on the throne before
the brazier with the charcoal fire, around which hung the sacri­
ficial knives and swords, the other members of the cult took their
places on the triangular stools at the points of the star. They were
dressed as a rule in robes like those in which I first saw Leah, with
228
OUR M O D E R N CAGLIOSTROS
the cowls drawn down over their faces, and only their eyes visible
through the narrow eye-slits. Clouds of incense hung about the
room everywhere. When all were assembled, the Mystic rose
from his seat, and taking one of the swords from the side of the
brazier, held it pointing towards the altar while he intoned an
invocation in a language with which I was not familiar. From
hearing it every day, however, the sounds remain fixed in my
memory.
“ Artay 1 was Malcooth— Vegabular,
Vegadlira, ee-ar-la— ah moon.”
The last was a high-pitched note in contrast with the rest of
the chant. Following this, he walked over to Raoul, rested the
point of the sword on his forehead, and uttered a further rigma­
role, finishing up with a loud shriek of “ Adonis,” which was the
name by which my husband was known in the abbey. Then he
went through the identical performance in front of Leah, except
that to begin with he stood silently in front of her for a full min­
ute, breathing deeply the while— breathing in the soul of his
priestess, as Raoul explained it to me afterwards.
These preliminary invocations done, the Mystic proceeded to
execute a variety of ecstatic dances. This was both impressive and
ludicrous. He lashed himself into an absolute frenzy, brandishing
his sword, and dancing and leaping about in the magic circle. His
eyes blazed. The words he chanted had a compelling monotonous
and exotic rhythm, and his eyes were alight with fanatical en­
thusiasm. Every Friday night there was a special invocation to
Pan, in which, as is shown by the hymn for these occasions, the
doctrine of the cult became manifest. It was written in English,
and I will quote the first few lines,
“ Thrill with lissom lust of the light,
O M an, my Man-,
Come careening out of the night
To me, to me;
Come with Apollo in bridal dress— ”
229
W IT C H C R A F T
On the evening of the sacrifice
everybody took their accustomed position, except that for this oc­
casion Raoul, as he was to be the executioner, changed places with
the Mystic. The cat was brought out and placed, still in the sack,
on the altar. The opening of the rite was the same as the [cere­
mony of] Pentagram, which I have already described. The air
was thick with incense. Raoul recited the invocation, and walked
with upraised sword towards Leah and the others and placed its
point on their brows while he uttered the usual formula. I sat out­
side the magic circle and watched the gruesome performance.
Presently, when much of the ceremony had been gone through,
I saw Raoul take a kukri [Gurkha knife] from its place by the
brazier and approach the altar, on which was the squirming sack.
He untied it, drew forth the struggling and terrified Mischette
by the scruff of the neck, and held her with his left hand at arm’s-
length above his head. In his right he held the kukri with its
point towards the brazier. The Mystic stilled Mischette’s strug­
gles by applying a dab of ether to her nose. All was now ready
for the sacrificial invocation, which Raoul had written specially for
the occasion, and which he now had to recite in the fatiguing
posture that I have described.
It was a long invocation, and before it was half done I could
see his left arm quiver with the strain. As he approached the
point where the killing was to take place Leah stepped down from
her triangular stool, and taking a bowl from the altar, held it
underneath Mischette to catch the blood, none of which is sup­
posed to be lost. At last the moment had arrived. I saw him lift
back the kukri, and then closed my eyes till it should be over. . . .
Then swaying slightly, he laid the carcass on the altar. This done,
his resources were exhausted, and the Mystic had to take over
the conducting of the ceremony.
Having concluded the invocation, he took the bowl containing
the blood, uttered some consecratory formula over it and handed
it to Leah, who was standing by. Together they approached
Raoul. The Mystic then flung back the cowl from Raoul’s face,
and dipping a finger in the blood, traced the sign of the Penta-
230
OUR M O D E R N CAGLIOSTROS
gram on his white, glistening forehead, and so to all the others,
himself last.
The final rite . . . now alone remained to be performed.
. . . The Mystic took a small silver cup, into which he scooped
some of the blood from the bowl and handed it to my husband,
who drained it to the dregs.
For a time I was convinced that Raoul had been poisoned by
the blood of Mischette. But when he got steadily worse and a
doctor was summoned I found out that he was suffering from
enteric, a not uncommon disease in those parts.
It is quite understandable, if you know the British, that
the reported pentagrammed 5 shindigs of these two British
gentlemen, one of whom was a Cambridge honor man and
the other an Oxonian, were somewhat shocking to the learned
judges who heard the libel suits brought by the Master
Therion, and who concurred fervidly with the juries which
refused to grant M r. Crowley so much as a farthing in dam­
ages.
Quoting from The Times (London) of April 14, 1934,
“ His L o rd sh ip, in directing the jury, said that he had never
heard such dreadful, horrible, blasphemous, and abominable
stuff as that which had been produced by the man who de­
scribed himself as the greatest living poet.”
Said M r. Justice Swift on the same day, from the bench,
“ I have been more than forty years engaged in the admin­
istration of the law in one capacity or another. I thought I
knew of every conceivable form of wickedness. I thought that
everything which was vicious and bad had been produced at
one time or another before me. I have learned in this case
that you can always learn something more if you live long
enough.”
5Sec Appendix, p. 359.
2 3 1
W IT C H C R A F T
M r. Crowley got no satisfaction from the courts, but had
the subsequent fun of predicting the present world war, and
of suggesting that if the courts and British public had been
more sympathetic to him, the catastrophe might have been
averted. According to the Daily Express of December 23,
1937, portions of a prophetic book of Aleister Crowley’s
“ were read at Cleopatra’s Needle, at 6:22 a .m ., as the sun
entered Capricornus, by an Englishman, a Jew, a Negro and
a Malayan. There was a short speech by Crowley as Priest of
the Princes. He proclaimed the law of Thelema, and handed
copies to the white, red, brown, black and yellow representa­
tives. He stated that he had published three times, and that
each time war broke out nine months later; that ‘the might
of this magick burst out and caused a catastrophe to civiliza­
tion.’ He said that if everybody would do what he told them,
the catastrophe could be averted.”
H e missed it a little on his timing. But it came. War, as
Nostradamus knew, is always a safe bet for prophets. Old
Nostradamus, who was a great medieval magician in St.
Remy, wrote a book of prophecy, Centuries, which has re­
cently been reprinted in a popular edition and has become
again a best seller in Paris.0
I am possibly too casual, but feel that the British in gen­
eral, apart from Nina Hamnett’s treatment of him in Laugh­
ing Torso, have been a bit heavy in their attitude toward the
Master Therion. If he had been an American, I can’t help
feeling that we’d have had more fun with him. As a matter
of fact we did, while he was over here. I saw him last in
Paris in 1933. We lunched, on his invitation, at Foyot’s. H e
was still having a good deal of fun with the world.
6See Appendix, p. 365.
2 3 2
IV. Upton Sinclair’s “Mental Radio”
OF all the experiments in telepathy outside cold laboratories
on the one hand, and outside spook-ridden seance cabinets on
the other, the ones which seem to me most worthy of gen­
eral interest are those conducted, in their own homes in Pasa­
dena, California, by Upton Sinclair and his wife, M ary Craig
Sinclair. I visited them several years ago, had many talks
with them, and came away deeply impressed. While I re­
main respectfully dubious concerning the whole subject of
extra-sensory perception, I feel that what the Sinclairs have
accomplished is more important, perhaps, than anything
which has yet occurred at Duke.
Without ever “ turning on the heat” in the way my Tripoli­
tan dervishes did, they have operated on the dervish theory
that the “ blanking” out of the sensory' clutter which streams
in continually through all our five normal senses, plus the
utilization of autosuggestion, are the preliminary essentials to
establishing contact with extra-sensory impressions. They
have worked on the assumption, as Professor William Mc-
Dougall said, that “ if the faint and unusual telepathic proc­
esses are to manifest themselves, the track of the mind must
be kept clear of other traffic.” And without wishing to be too
2 33
W IT C H C R A F T
insistent in my partisanship for dervish practices as opposed
to casual guessing games, I cannot help feeling that there is a
parallel between the physical condition in which Mary Craig
Sinclair chanced to be when she first became an adept, and
the physical conditions which the dervishes deliberately in­
duce as a preliminary step toward supernormal vision. In the
prime of life, she suffered a long and painful physical illness.
It was, her husband writes, “ a story of suffering needless to
go into: suffice it that she had many ills to experiment upon,
and mental control became suddenly a matter of life and
death. . . . If she now believes anything, rest assured that it
is because she has tried it out in the crucibles of pain. . . .”
The heat, in that sense, had been “ turned on” by fate dur­
ing the period when M ary Craig began to learn and em­
ploy the technique of detachment which produced the aston­
ishing results told by M r. Sinclair in Mental Radio? with an
introduction by Professor William McDougall, then at Duke
University.
Before going into the phenomena, I want to present, with
Upton Sinclair’s permission, and from Mary Craig Sinclair’s
own statement, the approach she used and the technique she
employed in the unlocking of the “ door” beyond which lies,
perhaps, the answer to a great mystery.
To what extent she was influenced by her wide reading of
the Sufi and Melewi mystics, I do not know, but her concept
of the nature of concentration is identical with theirs. “ The
first thing you have to do,” she says, “ is to learn the trick of
undivided attention.” By that, she means what the Melewi
mean, and not at all what we mean when we talk ordinarily
of concentrating.
■ 'Published by Albert & Charles Boni, 1930. 239 pages, illustrated.
234
One “ concentrates” [in our ordinary sense] on writing a
chapter in a book, or on solving a problem in mathematics; but
this [sort of concentration] is a complicated process of dividing
one’s attention, giving it to one detail after another, judging, bal­
ancing, making decisions. The kind of concentration I mean is
putting the attention on one object, or one uncom plicated thought,
. . . and holding it there steadily. It isn’t thinking; it is inhibiting
thought, except for one thought, or one object in thought.
You have to inhibit the impulse to think things about the object,
to examine it, or appraise it, or to allow memory-trains to attach
themselves to it. The average person has never heard of such a
form of concentration. . . .
The attention must never stray to the sensations of the
body. To concentrate in this undivided way, you implant in
yourself the “ suggestion” that you will relax your mind and
your body, making the body insensitive and the mind a
blank. . . . You must relax completely your mental hold
of, or awareness of, all bodily sensation.2
All this, Mrs. Sinclair points out, is hard work, and I
think she is also aware of its dangers when carried too far,
because she explains that you must reserve the power to
“ break” the concentration. This involves the seeming paradox
of completely “ letting go,” yet at the same time “ holding
on.” Pain, she says, is tension, and pain can be inhibited by
autosuggestion. Drop your body, a dead weight, from your
conscious mind. Make your conscious mind a blank. It is the
mind, conscious or subconscious, which holds the body tense.
And to make the conscious mind a blank, it is necessary to
“ let go” of the body. If, after you have practiced letting go
of the body, you find that your mind is not a blank, you have
not succeeded in getting rid of your body. Darkness, either
u p t o n Si n c l a i r ’ s “ m e n t a l r a d i o ”
Sec Appendix, p. 367.
235
W IT C H C R A F T
turning off all the lights, or keeping your eyes closed, or
both, are recommended.
Now all this, obviously, is totally different from the cas­
ual manner in which card-guessing laboratory games are
played. Professor Morton Prince wrote to M ary Craig, after
she had learned to “ slide” completely through the door, as
the dervishes do, “ You are playing with powerful and dan­
gerous forces.” Of course she was, but being a sane, and
above all good,3 and balanced person, she was able, without
sliding too far, to bring back from the other side of the
“ door” a series of experiences which I believe are the most
exciting up to date.
Instead of using E SP cards or any other fixed, set symbols,
the Sinclairs experimented in telepathy (mind-reading) with
arbitrary pencil drawings. M r. Sinclair, or one of their close
friends, would make, with pen or pencil, a rough sketch of
some object, real or imaginary, which might be anything.
The one who had drawn it would then sit and concentrate
on it, and M ary Craig Sinclair, lying elsewhere in the dark,
would try to “ see,” and then describe, or reproduce with a
drawing of her own, what she had “ seen.”
Some of the results are so astonishing that I find myself
“ on the spot” in continuing to confess that even these Sin­
clair phenomena, which I regard as the best yet produced in
America, or perhaps anywhere, by reputable and rational
people in our own Western world, still leave me bewildered
and in doubt. I know of no possible way to interpret them,
and can suggest none, other than by accepting it as a fact
3 I am profoundly convinced that essential goodness is the sole protec­
tion against encountering horror and possible destruction on the other
side of that dubious and mysterious “ door.”
2 3 6
that extra-sensory thought transference (and in certain in­
stances clairvoyance too) did actually occur.
Some of the Sinclair phenomena, while simple and dealing
with simple things, almost as childish as parlor games, are
nevertheless loaded with terrific implications.
As for instance:
On the morning of Ju ly 13, 1928, Robert L . Irwin, a
young business man, was sitting in a room of his house in
Pasadena, at the prearranged hour of half-past eleven. He
had agreed to make a drawing of any object he might select,
at random, and then to sit gazing at it, concentrating his en­
tire attention upon it, for a period of from fifteen to twenty
minutes. With a lead pencil on a sheet of paper, he drew the
crude, simple outlines of an ordinary table fork.4
At the same agreed hour M ary Craig Sinclair was lying
on her couch in a study, in the Sinclairs’ seaside house at
Long Beach, forty miles away. She was in semidarknes, with
her eyes closed 3 employing the concentration method I have
partially described. Having become satisfied, as M r. Sinclair
records, that the image which came to her mind was the cor­
rect one—because it persisted, and came back again and again
—she sat up and took pencil and paper, and wrote:
“ See a table fork. Nothing else.”
Two days later, the Sinclairs drove to Pasadena, where
the drawing and writing were produced and compared. They
were all so excited about it that Mr. Irwin and M ary Craig
made affidavits, which are on file. They might as well have
been a set of affidavits about the virgin birth of Our Lord
4 See Appendix, pp. 369-372, for this and other drawings, reproduced
by permission of Upton Sinclair.
u p t o n Si n c l a i r ’s “ m e n t a l r a d i o ”
-37
W IT C H C R A F T
and Saviour Jesus Christ. Affidavits in this realm are even
more absurd than those you sign when you turn in your in­
come tax report. People either believe it, or they don’t. I
believe this happened, in exactly the way they tell it—or that
they think it did—because I know the Sinclairs. H e has what
are to me fantastic ideas about a lot of things, other than
extra-sensory perception. But he never cheats. Nor do any of
the people connected with those drawings.
One evening Upton Sinclair sat in his study and made a
pencil drawing of a five-pointed star such as children cut out
of gilt paper and paste on paper hats. H e was alone, with
the door closed before the drawing was made, and it was not
opened until the test was concluded. He held it before him,
and concentrated on it for a period of ten minutes. His wife,
who was lying on a couch in a different part of the house,
with closed doors and walls between, made five or six draw­
ings, all of which had the geometric essence of the star, or
of one of its parts or attributes—and had finally drawn the
star.
The cases in which the original drawings were misunder­
stood and distorted by M ary Craig seem to me more
astounding than those in which she clearly identified the fork
(or whatever it chanced to be).
The upside-down foot of a boy on roller skates, who had
presumably fallen sprawling, which had been drawn delib­
erately to confuse and puzzle Mary Craig, underwent a
weird transformation. She drew the upside-down leg and
shoe as the neck and head of a queer animal, with the wheels
of the roller skate as eyes! There was a general similarity of
outline, as of something “ seen through a glass darkly,” which
2 3 8
is more disturbing to me as a skeptic than a clearer sketch
would have been.
In 290 drawings, the total of complete successes was 65
(or around 22 per cent), but the total of partial successes was
155 (or around 53 per cent). The total of complete failures
was 70 (or around 24 per cent).
What puzzles and interests me most is the amazing recur­
rent partial successes.
One day, under circumstances similar to the case of the
table fork, Robert Irwin, who was the husband of Mary
Craig’s younger sister and consequently related to them all
by marriage but not by blood, drew a crude, full-face view of
his open-faced watch. What Mary Craig drew was the crude,
full-face view of a flat flower, like a Japanese chrysanthe­
mum, with crude, separated petals, enclosed in a circle. She
was worried about it, and wrote on her drawing, “ I think it is
not flower but wire (metal, shining). The ‘petals’ are not
petals but wire, and should be untjorm. . . . I see no flower
but shape of one on paper. Then decide it is of wire, but
this may be merely because I see drawing, which would
have no flower color. However, I see it shining as if it is
metal. . . .” She never guessed it was a watch.
Sinclair once drew the head of a comic Bolshevik with wild
hair and whiskers. What she drew, after long struggle, was
a sunrise or sunset, behind a mountain peak, in which the
penciled rays of the sun made lines similar to the Bolshevik’s
wild hair and whiskers!
Once the pedals on a harp became a pair of feet in slippers,
with the outline of the harp mistaken for a woman’s flaring
skirt above them.
The most disturbing case of all occurred in connection with
u p t o n Si n c l a i r ’s “ m e n t a l r a d i o ”
239
WITCHCRAFT
an attempt in which Irwin had taken a pair of compasses and
drawn a simple circle. It is necessary to explain that M r.
Irwin was physically ill. Some years previous the doctors had
given him only a few months to live, on account of tubercu­
losis. I ’d better quote Mr. Sinclair direct in this case. It was
“ the most sensational of all,” he says.
. . . I have to ask your pardon for the medical details involved.
So much vital knowledge hangs upon these tests that I have asked
my brother-in-law to forget his personal feelings. The reader will
please consider himself a medical student or hospital nurse for
the moment.
The test occurred July 11, 1928. My wife made her drawing
[in which she endeavored by telepathy to reproduce whatever
drawing Irwin had made], and then told me about the matter
at once. Also she wrote out all the details and the record is now
before me. She saw a feather, then a flower spray, and then she
heard a scream. Her first thought in case of illness or danger is
her aged parents, and she took it for her mother’s voice, and this
so excited her that she lost interest in the experiment. But soon
she concentrated again, and drew a series of concentric circles,
with a heavy black spot in the center. Then she saw another and
much larger spot, and this began to spread and cover the sheet
of paper. At the same time came a feeling of intense depression,
and Craig decided that the black spot was blood, and that Bob
had had a hemorrhage. . . .
. . . Bob’s wife drove him to our home, and in the presence
of all four of us he produced the drawing he had made. He had
taken a compass and drawn a large circle; making, of course, a
hole in the center of the paper. “Is that all you thought of dur­
ing the time?” asked my wife. “ No,” said Bob, “but I’d hate to
have you get the rest of it.” “What was it?” “Well, I discovered
that I had a hemorrhoid, and couldn’t put my mind on anything
else but tlie thought, ‘My God, my lungs—my kidneys—and
now this!’ ”
A hemorrhoid is, of course, apt to be accompanied by a hem-
2 4 0
orrhage; and it seems clear that my wife got the mood of de­
pression of her brother-in-law, his thoughts of blood and bodily
breakdown, as well as the circle and the hole in the paper. . . .
I do not see how there could possibly be more conclusive evi­
dence of telepathic influence— unless you suspect all four of us
of a series of stupid and senseless falsehoods. . . . The comment
written by my wife [on her own drawing at the time she made
it] reads: “ All this dark like a stain— feel it is blood; that Bob
is ill— more than usual.”
The experiments conducted with M r. Irwin were discon­
tinued because it was soon discovered that, in his bad health,
they were too much of a strain on him. The Sinclairs kept on
experimenting. They never permitted the astonishing results
to upset or derange their normal, busy, active outside lives,
but when it became generally known that this famous couple
were interested in extra-sensory and supernormal phenom­
ena, it naturally attracted to their home numbers of “ adepts,”
practitioners, “ mediums,” as well as occasional visitors like
myself who were interested not only in this field, but in its
varied ramifications.
It was there I first met “ Bishop” Arthur A. Ford, head of
the General Assembly of Spiritualist Churches in America,
sometime head of the Organized Spiritualist Churches of the
world, and frequently referred to in public print as the
“ Pope” of the Spiritualists.5 Ford had had a lot of front-page
publicity in connection with his unsuccessful efforts to estab­
lish contact with the ghost of the late Houdini. He was now
on his way to help reorganize the Spiritualist churches in
Australia and, like myself, was visiting in Pasadena, seeing
the Sinclairs. The Sinclairs were not spiritualists—and have
5 See Appendix, p. 369.
u p t o n Si n c l a i r ’s “ m e n t a l r a d i o ”
2 4 1
WITCHCRAFT
never been—but were interested in M r. Ford, and were won­
dering, as I have often wondered, whether or not some of
the phenomena which occur in spiritualist seances and meet­
ings may not be attributable to telepathy among the living
rather than to communication with the dead. On any other
assumption, the case for the spiritualists, in my opinion, is so
completely minus zero and has been so completely shot to
pieces in hundreds of investigations that it would be useless
to rehash it in this volume. M y enthusiasm for the experi­
ments conducted by the Sinclairs, and my needless-to-state
conviction of their obvious sincerity, did not include or extend
to Bishop Ford and his Spiritualists, a number of whose meet­
ings I attended in Los Angeles.
Nor did my credulity or sympathies extend to a Polish
gentleman by the name of Ostaja, whom I met subsequently
through the Sinclairs, and who had been for a time a pro­
tege of theirs.
M r. Sinclair writes with more tolerance than I could com­
mand of their earlier association with this extraordinary
young man, who had studied for a while in India. H e had a
habit of having himself buried in yellow silk pajamas, and
subsequently dug up, all over California, preferably with the
press and newsreels present, and one night, after the Sinclairs
had dug him up and invited him to dinner, it seems he had
a heavy table, spook-controlled, floating precariously in the
air over Upton Sinclair’s head. I wouldn’t have liked it. The
spooks might have dropped it on Sinclair. And if they had,
it would have blotted out more and better brains than are
possessed by all the fakirs from Tibet to Timbuktu. Here’s
Mr. Sinclair’s kindly account of it:
2 4 2
In our home he gave what appeared to be a demonstration of
levitation without contact. I do not say that it really was levita­
tion ; I merely say that our friends who witnessed it . . . were
unable even to suggest a normal method by which the event could
have happened. There was no one present who could have been
a confederate, and the psychic had been searched for apparatus;
it was in our home, where he had no opportunity whatever for
preparation. His wrists and ankles were firmly held by persons
whom I know well; and there was sufficient light in the room
so that I could see the outline of his figure, slumped in a chair.
Under these circumstances a 34-pound table rose four feet into
the air and moved slowly a distance of eight feet over my head.
M r. Sinclair gently adds, “ We saw this; our friends saw
it; yet, in my mind, and likewise in theirs, the worm of
doubt would always creep in.”
In my mind, that worm of doubt is a full-sized boa con­
strictor.
According to M r. Sinclair’s narrative, this young man
Ostaja, whom he refers to as Jan, “ was a peculiar person.
Sometimes he would be open and frank, and again he would
be mysterious and secretive. At one time he would agree to
teach us all he knew, and again he would hold on to his arts,
which he had had to go all the way to India to get. Was it
that he considered these forces too dangerous for amateurs
to play with? Or was it merely that he was considering his
means of livelihood?” asks the always kindly M r. Sinclair.
What I can’t help wondering unkindly is whether he W'asn’t
afraid the worm of doubt would turn into the boa constrictor
right there in that mild and friendly domicile?
Jan, it seems, was among other things a hypnotist, and in
this field M ary Craig, who was a bit of an amateur hypnotist
herself, and a bit of a “ white witch” too in the best connota-
u p t o n Sin c l a ir ’s “ m e n t a l ra d io ”
243
WITCHCRAFT
tion of the Tennysonian phrase, took delight occasionally in
making a monkey out of him. One day when he was staring
at her, making passes with his hands, and trying to hypnotize
her, M ary Craig, instead of going docilely to sleep, stared
back!
An essential part of Jan’s technique, says M r. Sinclair, as
Jan explained it, “ was in outstaring the patient and never
blinking his eyes. Now suddenly he blinked; then he closed
his eyes and kept them closed. ‘Do your eyes hurt?’ asked
his patient, in pretended innocence. ‘No,’ he replied. ‘Are you
tired?’ she asked. ‘No, thank you,’ said he. ‘What was I
thinking?’ she asked. ‘To hypnotize me,’ he replied, sleep­
ily.” Now she closed her own eyes and willed that Jan should
get up and go to the telephone. Jan opened his a little, and
seeing hers closed, said, “ Shall I go on treating you?” “ Yes,
please,” she replied. But Jan hesitated, and then said, “ E x­
cuse me, I have to telephone a friend!”
However M ary Craig may have done it, the hypnotist was
hoist on his own petard. M r. Sinclair writes of these adven­
tures in Mental Radio. He protects himself by saying “ these
stories of Jan . . . are the strangest, and the least capable
of proof,” and then generously recounts a good many which
indicate that the young man did possess extraordinary powers.
Those I naturally like best, however, are accounts of the
numerous duels which took place between this Master of the
Esoteric from the East and his sometime “ apprentice sor­
ceress.”
Says M r. Sinclair:
Jan goes into one of his deep states—a cataleptic trance, he
calls it—in which his body is rigid and cold. He has the power to
fix in advance the time when he will come out of the trance, and
0 4 4
his subconscious mind apparently possesses the power to keep track
of time—days, hours, minutes, even seconds. I have seen him
amaze a group of scientists by coming out on the second, while
they held stop-watches on him.
But now my wife thinks she will vary this procedure. Jan goes
into the trance in our home and Craig sits and silently wills,
“Your right leg will come out; you will lift it; you will put it
down again. You will sit erect”—and so on. Without speaking
a word, she can make him do whatever she pleases.
Jan is a “ continental male,” and Craig sometimes makes
“ fierce feminist war upon him.” It is the fashion among
young ladies from the South to tease the men, and Craig has
a lot of fun from time to time, “ tormenting her psychic in­
structor.” The Sinclairs were kinder to M r. Ostaja than I
have made it appear. They were wonderful to him. But I like
to think, and am inclined to think, that they were never com­
pletely “ sold” on him—any more than they were completely
sold on Bishop Ford and the spiritualists.
Indeed, they had enough—and maybe too much—which
was astounding and disturbing in the seemingly supernormal
powers with which M ary Craig was gifted.
I can’t help doubting that any complete, controllable, and
revolutionary power lies beyond that “ door in the wall” but
something lies behind it, and whatever it is can sometimes
get out of hand, and be dangerous. Upton Sinclair is touching
lightly on that, I think, despite the surface humor of his
phrases, when he calls M ary Craig his “ witch-wife.” She is
a pure “ white witch” who has never radiated anything except
kindness—but an evil woman, endowed with powers like her­
self, whatever they may be, could have radiated ruin and
destruction just as surely as ever did the witch of Africa. M r.
Sinclair has a marvelously illuminating paragraph on this
u p t o n Sin c l a ir ’s “ m e n t a l ra d io ”
245
WITCHCRAFT
point, in which he says, “ She has never tried these experi­
ments with or in the presence of a stranger. . . . She
learned from her experiments with her sick brother-in-law
that the agent can send you pain and fear, as well as chairs
and table-forks, and she would certainly not enter lightly into
a condition of raffort with those whom she did not know
and trust.”
The Sinclairs would believe that in my doll duel with the
notorious Abbe Penhoel, I had sent pain and fear to him
through similar mysterious channels. I cannot quite believe it.
2 4 6
V. W. E. Woodward with a Hatpin
Driven through His Jaws
B IL L W O O DW ARD looked like a portly Cupid, shot
through the head with one of his own darts, and was saying,
with pleased conviction,
“ Ii u-u uu a aa! Ii o-i uu a i-ou o-i i a u-i ow. I a ee ou aa a
aa, aa, ii a ou-a.”
His wife, Helen Rosen, scared and nervous, but giggling
in spite of it, said, “ I used to understand baby talk. I guess
he can’t pronounce his consonants. I think he’s saying it
doesn’t hurt him at all. H e says it only hurt a little, going in
and coming out. H e says he can’t seem to talk at all, and that
that is a nuisance.”
“ A i o!” agreed the famous author, biographer of George
Washington, General Grant, and Lafayette, lighting a ciga­
rette, which added another star point projecting from his
jaws like the spokes of a Fourth of Ju ly pin wheel—and went
over to admire himself in the mirror. . . .
In those days before the depression, the old Grosvenor
was—and pretty nearly still is, I ’m told—the most ornately
dignified and old-fashionedly impressive apartment house on
lower Fifth Avenue. And normally, M r. W . E . Woodward
2 4 7
WITCHCRAFT
was as dignified as was his domicile. No such shenanigan had
ever occurred under that old roof before, or probably ever
will again. But you’ll recall, perhaps, that before Woodward
became a biographer, he had won considerable celebrity with
a book entitled Bunk. Deflating stuffed horses and stuffed
shirts, though generally in a kindly way, has always been one
of his hobbies. H e’d invited a handful of us there that eve­
ning, including the Upton Sinclairs, Joseph Cragmore, Katie
Seabrook, and myself. W e had been invited to meet the
Polish gentleman named Ostaja wrho had studied in India,
among the fakirs, and had produced, or so it was said, some
extraordinary phenomena in California whose climate, as the
late Cardinal Gibbons once charmingly remarked, seems
“ peculiarly conducive to miracles.”
There’s something, on the other hand, about the rough
climate of our North Atlantic seaboard, particularly in its
metropolitan areas, which seems on the w'hole less conducive
than is California to these subtle phenomena, and on this
warm autumn evening the Woodwards had the windows
open, with a fine, salty breeze blowing in from the ocean.
Mr. Ostaja had been striving to please, and the Sinclairs,
with their deep, friendly, intelligent interest in these matters,
were inclined to believe he possessed strong, supernormal,
psychic powers. They may have been right about it. I have a
profound respect as well as a sincere affection for the Sin­
clairs, and I ’m not sure they weren’t right. But whether be­
cause of the unconducive climate, or for other reasons, the
demonstrations, on the whole, had been inconclusive. That
doesn’t mean, however, that some of it hadn’t been fascinat­
ing. Professor Cragmore, for instance, while totally indiffer­
ent so far as I know to mediums and swamis, is passionately
248
fond of anything that smacks of old-fashioned “ parlor
games.” And we’d had some good ones—swami variants of
button, button, who’s got the button . . . blind man’s buff
. . . puss in the corner . . . with Mr. Ostaja always in the
star role—or in the corner. And on a couple of occasions, even
before the hatpin episode, the corner had been a pretty tight
one.
One of the games was played like this:
With M r. Ostaja present, and with his knowledge, we
agreed on the object to be hidden. We chose, at random, a
pencil stub which chanced to be lying on Bill’s desk. Mr.
Ostaja picked it up and held it fondly for a moment. Then
he went out of the room, and went down to the other end of
the hall, so there could be no keyhole peeking or listening to
our movements. We hid the pencil, in a small table drawer,
in the southeast corner of the room. M r. Ostaja came back.
W e all sat around and did what we pleased. H e stood in the
middle of the room, and was going to find the pencil. Extra­
sensory perception, manifested as clairvoyance or telepathy,
or both, was going to enable him to find the pencil. Since we
all knew where it was, he might be guided by our thought
waves. That would be telepathy. Since he knew what it was,
he might be able to see it, unaided by our thought waves.
That would be clairvoyance. Maybe both would be operative.
M r. Ostaja’s performance was brilliant. H e moved slowly
around the room, approaching localities, objects—approach­
ing us too where we sat. H e would stand rapt in trance-
thought or whatever it was, studying a vase, or studying one
of us. That seemed quite proper. The object might, of course,
be hidden on one of our persons. We talked of other matters,
or kept silent as we chose. Inside of ten minutes—which is a
W. E. WOODWARD WITH A HATPIN IN HIS JAWS
2 4 9
WITCHCRAFT
long time under such circumstances—M r. Ostaja was concen­
trating on the corner of the room where the pencil was hid­
den. At the end of about ten minutes more, he opened the
drawer and took out the pencil. W e made admiring noises.
But M r. Woodward, and some of the rest of us too, were
unconvinced that any extra-sensory hypothesis was necessary.
After the polite comments were over, Bill began whittling it
down, with Occam’s celebrated razor. It was superbrilliant,
he agreed, but even though M r. Ostaja might be sincere in
imagining he’d done it by telepathy or clairvoyance, we had
all known when he was getting warm or getting hot or get­
ting cold, and he could have been guided to the goal by subtle
indications, picked up subtly, unconscious perhaps on his part
and on ours, but nevertheless through the medium of the
normal senses. “ Furthermore, technically,” said Bill, “ any
one of us could have been in cahoots with you, and could
have guided you by prearranged signals. I don’t believe it
for an instant. I know it’s not true. But it technically could
be.”
M r. Ostaja was not miffed or ungracious. H e could do the
same thing, he assured us, blindfolded and with his ears
stuffed with cotton, stripped over with adhesive tape. Helen
led him down the corridor and left him, with distance, space,
heavy walls, and two closed doors between him and the
studio. We took a little ivory elephant from the mantel and
stuffed it down behind the cushions of a sofa. Helen was in
the room when we did this.
Ostaja was brought back to the center of the room, looking
like the bandaged victim of a bombing raid, and we didn’t
see how he could possibly find the elephant—unless by an
extra-sensory miracle. It developed, however, that somebody
2 5 0
must hold his hand. H e liked his hand held when he was in
the dark. Someone must stay beside him, must be with him
as he moved about, must keep contact with him. “ H ’m,”
whispered Bill, “ I could never do it, and none of you could
either. I think perhaps I know how it’s done, but you’ve got
to be good to do it.”
So Helen held his hand, and we were all silent this time,
as they began to wander slowly around the room, “ like Pel-
leas and Melisande,” whispered somebody.
It was very brilliant. There was nothing spectacular about
it. Ostaja wandered about, apparently leading Helen. Helen
knew the possibilities, with their implications, and was obvi­
ously making a definite effort to let herself be led with com­
plete passivity. She was as passive, I think, as anybody could
be. But when they were approaching something Ostaja might
bump into or stumble over, she seemed, almost unconsciously,
to hesitate, ever so little. She let him bump into the object or
stumble, but just prior to it, it would seem to me, she gave
the impression of drawing back, if ever so slightly. There was
almost nothing to see or hear. It went very slowly, but it was
a brilliant thing, for presently he found the elephant.
We were almost sorry, all of us, when Woodward said:
“ I’m sorry. It’s wonderful. I am not impugning M r.
Ostaja’s sincerity, but I’ve seen John Mulholland do it, at
the Dutch Treat Club. Houdini used to do it. Ostaja’s done
it, and I congratulate him. Maybe there aren’t a dozen people
in the world who could do it. And on that basis, M r. Ostaja
is wonderful, but no matter how passive Helen tried to make
herself, she was probably having neuromotor reactions all
the time, as he got ‘warmer’ or ‘colder,’ as they used to say
in button, button, and M r. Ostaja, consciously or uncon­
W. E. WOODWARD WITH A HATPIN IN HIS JAWS
251
WITCHCRAFT
sciously, was registering these, by his sensory contact with her.
It’s marvelous, but if we’re asked to accept it as evidence of
anything outside the normal senses, it leaves me still in
doubt.”
M r. Ostaja, this time, was obviously miffed. The Upton
Sinclairs, no sponsors of credulity, and the gentlest, kindest
people 1 have ever known, were a little miffed too, as among
good friends, when good friends disagree. M r. Woodward
was saying,
“ I guess some of us are unreasonably skeptical in our re­
fusal to accept the supernormal. But that’s the way I am. I
suggest that we call it an interesting evening and all adjourn
to the basement of the Brevoort.”
“ No! Stop!” said M r. Ostaja, now furious. “ You scoff at
me, you have no faith, you disbelieve! W ill you believe, per­
haps, if I drive a dagger through my head?”
“ I beg you not to,” replied our startled host. “ I did not
know that your sense of honor was so Japanese. Over here,
we don’t feel it necessary to go so far as that. And besides, I
don’t keep daggers in the house.”
“ I have a samurai’s sword,” said Professor Cragmore
hopefully. “ M y apartment’s only half a block away. I ’ll be
glad to run over and get it. . . .”
The Sinclairs explained hastily that we had misunderstood
their protege. M r. Ostaja was not threatening suicide.
M r. Ostaja happily possessed, it seemed, among his other
supernormal gifts, that of rendering his body immune to
pain. Wild horses could romp and stomp harmlessly upon
his chest while he lay supinely rigid and cataleptic. For a
motion-picture film, he had lain in a trance, like a plank or
planked shad, as rigid and cold as one, with his head on one
2 5 2
chair and his heels on another while a rock from Alcatraz
weighing 150 pounds had been broken on his tummy with a
sledge hammer. H e could also be screwed in a coffin and
buried underground, while a ball game, including home runs
and cheering ad lib., could be played over his grave.
Unfortunately, M r. Woodward had no wild horses handy,
and the Grosvenor kept no stable. There happened to be no
rocks or sledge hammers handy, either, in the apartment at
the moment. Cragmore, always helpful, recalled there was
an Italian undertaker on Bleecker Street who stayed open all
night, and sold coffins as cheaply as $25. “ Lined with gray
cheesecloth and with stainless nickel-plated handles.” Pro­
fessor Cragmore offered to contribute the twenty-five dollars,
and suggested cheerfully that we might plant Mr. Ostaja in
Washington Square. He was on excellent terms with some of
the bootblacks, so we might even organize the ball game,
with cheering, next morning.
M r. Ostaja, however, now completely furious, was bent on
vindicating himself then and there, by driving something
long and sharp and pointed through his jowls.
It was in the days when ladies still wore hats, and one of
them delightedly proffered an extra-long and murderous
hatpin, adorned with a gold-plated Prussian eagle. It was
a war souvenir—had been part of an officer’s insignia—and
had been welded to the hatpin, for a head. The other ladies
shivered and said “ 00!” M r. Ostaja was steamed up, and
really going to do it. H e was wiping it, as one might a
duelist’s rapier, on an immaculate silk handkerchief.
M r. Woodward had been quiet, but I’d noticed him pok­
ing gingerly with a finger at one of his own healthy, beefy
clean-shaven jowls. Suddenly he arose and said,
W. E. WOODWARD WITH A HATPIN IN HIS JAWS
253
W IT C H C R A F T
“ Now, wait a minute. I apologize to M r. Ostaja. He has
been very kind, and I haven’t been very gracious about it, so
I apologize. I think the evening has gone far enough. I think
we should thank him, and all adjourn to the Brevoort for a
friendly drink.”
It’s when Bill Woodward is being most suave and self-
deprecatory that his friends, and some other people too, have
learned from experience to lay off. But M r. Ostaja had met
Mr. Woodward only that evening, had not become awfully
fond of him, and had probably never heard of M r. Wood­
ward’s major opus, entitled BUNK.
So M r. Ostaja replied heroically, “ But I insist. You have
doubted me, and I insist on showing you.”
“ Showing us what?” said Bill. “ If you must insist, I may
as well tell you, I don’t believe it would hurt much anyway.
And I don’t believe it would bleed if anybody did it. So why
bother to do it?”
M r. Ostaja then made his slip. Neither he nor any of us
knew it was a slip. But he said, with a polite, personal, Polish
sneer,
“ I suppose you think anybody could do it. . . .”
“ I think I could,” replied Bill mildly as a lamb. “ At any
rate, I ’m going to try.”
“ You are not,” said Mrs. Woodward hastily. But her
wifely protest was nothing compared to that of M r. Ostaja.
H e was hopping. After about a minute of Alphonse and Gas­
ton farce, in reverse English, in which both he and Bill were
insisting on having the honor, Cragmore said,
“ W hy don’t you get another hatpin and both do it?”
Bill said, “ Sit down, all of you.” H e took the hatpin,
puffed his cheeks, opened his mouth like a dying fish, and
2 5 4
began pushing the hatpin slowly into the flesh. After about
five inches of it had disappeared laterally, traversing the
buccal cavity, the cheek on the other side began to bulge
slightly outward. The hatpin point came through. H e kept
pushing until it was sticking out several inches on both sides
of his head. He smiled, or tried to, and began talking baby
talk.
M r. Ostaja had meanwhile been looking for his hat and
walking stick, and presently slipped unobtrusively out of the
door.
I ’ve included this frivolous anecdote on a more or less seri­
ous subject to show that, while psychic anesthesia may be an
authentic phenomenon, it isn’t necessarily always occurring
when it seems to be. Saints, mystics, dervish adepts, possess
it, I believe, but seldom demonstrate their power to audi­
ences, and never demonstrate it merely for the sake of prov­
ing they possess it. For all I know, M r. Ostaja may have
possessed it. I am not denying that he did. But he wasn’t
proposing to uncork it that night. It’s easier, and often more
theatrically impressive, to simulate this phenomenon—as in
the case of the hatpin driven through the jaws, which in­
volves no concentration strain at all and very slight pain or
discomfort—than it is to invoke or induce the self-hypnotized
state in which Saint Lawrence can smile ecstatically while his
body—which has become merely a body to him—fries and
sizzles on the gridiron.
It’s easier—and more spectacular—to lie comfortably or
even a little uncomfortably on a bed of spikes than it is to
kneel for twenty-four hours as frequently did the great Saint
W . E. WOODWARD W IT H A H A T P IN IN HIS JA W S
2 55
W IT C H C R A F T
Theresa of Avila, or to dangle all night by one wrist as do
the Moslem saints in Tripoli.
I tried a fakir’s bed of nails, in Turkestan, and it’s even
more of a phony than the hatpin driven through the jaws.
The latter takes a little nerve, and hurts a little—but the bed
of spikes, though it looks terrific, is only slightly more un­
comfortable than the lumpy bed in my aunt from Hawkins-
ville’s spare room, or the top of the billiard table in the
saloon around the corner from her house where I used to
sleep off my juvenile corn-liquor jags in Georgia. You can
try it yourself, if they let you—the bed of spikes, I mean—
the next time you see one in a freak show. You’ll be sur­
prised. I was, when I tried it, on the road to Kashgar. To ob­
tain the honor, I paid the owner twenty rubles, and to save
the fakir’s face let him proclaim to the not-at-all-interested
onlookers that I was a visiting fakir.
What the bed of spikes adds up to is a supersimple sum
in arithmetic. If you count the number of nails, and guess the
weight of the fakir, you’ll find there are generally several
nails to each pound avoirdupois of fakir. The nails or spikes
are never needle-pointed. They’re no more sharply pointed
than those you buy at any hardware store. Now you can take
four hardware store nails—or three for that matter—and
drive them through a shingle, and then poise on their points
a pound of beans wrapped in tissue paper. The nails won’t
pierce or tear the tissue paper—unless you’ve used Mexican
jumping beans or push the bag around. It’s as simple as that.
And that was probably the reason why honest fakirs origi­
nally invented the bed of spikes as an aid to mystical contem­
plation in the privacy of their own bedrooms, before it began
to appear in Coney Island side shows and oriental market­
256
places. The sharp differentiation between a bed of nails and
a Simmons mattress is—that you must lie still on it.
This was the secret of the celebrated Fakir Blakaman who
starred in the Cirque Medrano in Montmartre, in the late
twenties. H e lay on his back on a pile of broken beer bottles,
while heavy weights were laid upon his chest and while he
balanced tables with his feet. Tourists imagined the broken
beer bottles were phony, but they were jagged and real. Blak­
aman, who was a great performer, had learned to keep his
back and all its muscles motionless. Despite that, his back
was often pierced with slivers. If he’d moved, shifted, or
twitched his muscles, his back would have been cut into bleed­
ing cat meat. If the fakir’s bed of nails is an easier stunt than
the hatpin driven through your jaws, the bed of broken
beer bottles is an infinitely more dangerous and difficult one.
In recalling the details of the evening years ago at Mr.
Woodward’s, I dropped him a line the other day, and here’s
what he wrote me:
Dear Willie:
According to my diary the young man’s name was Ostaja (at
least it sounded like that and so I have it spelled) and he was a
Pole. He was a protege of Upton Sinclair.
I had never thrust a hatpin through my cheeks before, and I
did it then just to see if I could. I remember that it made Mr.
Ostaja furious. He thought I was stealing his show, which was
not at all my intention.
Since then, I have thrust hatpins through my cheeks numbers
of times. There’s nothing to it; anybody can do it. Just get a
clean hatpin, which must be very sharp. There’s a slight pricking
pain as it goes in through the skin of the right cheek, and when
it comes out through the skin of the left cheek, but the slight
W. E. WOODWARD W IT H A H A T P IN IN H IS JA W S
2 5 7
WITCHCRAFT
pain stops immediately. While the pin is in place, you can’t move
your tongue, or talk, and that is a nuisance.
Best wishes,
W. E. W.
PS. The date was Sunday— Oct. 21st— 1928.
The debunking of parlor tricks, whether in New York or
on the road to Samarkand, doesn’t abrogate the possibility
that self-induced anesthesia to bodily pain, stress, and fatigue
may lead into a fascinating and perhaps important field. The
intrinsic control by this method of pain as pain is of doubtful
importance, except in rare cases where ordinary sedatives or
anesthetics are unavailable. Eastern adepts, indeed, consider
its only importance to be that of providing one of the “ doors”
through which the mind (or soul), wrenched free from
sensory concerns, whether painful or pleasant, can “ pass
through” into other realms of contemplation and experience.
I propose to examine some of those supposed experiences in
my concluding chapters.
258
VI. Justine Dervish Dangling
W H A T Professor Rhine calls “ precognition,” the glimpsing
of events to come, the glimpsing of future events through
the current “ slit” or nick of time, is perhaps the most dis­
turbing and exciting of all seemingly extra-sensory phe­
nomena.
The young lady I am going to call Justine seemed on rare
occasions to possess this power, but could apparently evoke
it only when prolonged fatigue and strain of some sort had
brought about the separation and detachment of her subjec­
tive “ self” from the sensory envelope of the objective body.
What happened on these occasions seemed essentially simi­
lar to what had happened to me, under the fortuitous strain
of fatigue and prolonged loss of sleep, when I succeeded in
detaching my inner “ self” from the robot body which had
sat meanwhile like a zombi at the wheel of Hal Smith’s yawl
and steered it all night through a storm. Except that where
my supposed astral “ self” had merely lain unconscious, Jus­
tine’s seemed, in detaching itself from her wearied robot
body, to move backward and forward in time-space, to
strange and sometimes beautiful adventures. The technique
I had used on the yawl had been taught me by the Melewi
2 5 9
W IT C H C R A F T
dervishes, and the technique which I employed habitually
with Justine for several years is one which the Rufiah, an
allied dervish sect in Tripoli, has been employing for many
centuries.
We had tried all sorts of fantastic methods, and had finally
hit on “ dervish dangling” as the best and least dangerous.
In Tripoli, in the dervish convents and monasteries of Arabia,
it’s as normal and respectable as our flagpole sitting at county
fairs, fasting on Fridays, or kneeling in long meditation in a
church or chapel. If it seems here to transgress the bounds of
the bizarre, it’s only because we were doing it in New York
City. I never covered it up—everybody always knows every­
thing anyway—and friends who occasionally did walk in on it
were violently perturbed on a number of absurd occasions.
But we both knew what we were about, and we both liked it.
We were in love with each other, and if we hadn’t enjoyed
the games we played—we’d certainly never have gone to all
that unselfish trouble for the dubious advancement of general
knowledge (un-laboratory-controlled, in our case, and conse­
quently doubly worthless), in so doubtful a new scientific
field as extra-sensory perception.
Our games sometimes risked getting out of hand. But it is
often when things in this category are on the edge of getting
out of hand—on the edge of going too far—that they produce
the most interesting results.
I shall tell here at the beginning, instead of saving it for a
later climax, the result of what happened one night when
the dervish dangling got out of hand, through my careless­
ness, and catapulted Justine through what seemed to be the
“ slit” in time to a seeming experience in precognition whose
2 6 0
denouement came many months later in a place three thou­
sand miles away.
Justine was on tiptoe that night. I had arranged every­
thing with unusual care, because we’d begun early and had a
chance to let it run, if it ran, for seven or eight hours—even
longer. W e hadn’t got round to inventing the mask yet, so I
had turned out all the lights, as she preferred, had drawn
the velvet curtains of the big studio window, so that the room
was almost in complete darkness. A soft light, less than the
softest moonlight, came from the street outside through the
thinner curtains of a smaller window. We had tried it on
former occasions with one arm, as the Rufiah do—passing one
wrist through the loop of a soft, heavy rope dangling from a
ring in the ceiling and then revolving until the rope tightens
to give the right tension—but she had found it worked better
and left her mind more free when she was fastened up by
both wrists and “ stayed put.” This left her helpless as a
modern Andromeda—too helpless, in fact, because she didn’t
like being fussed over, or eased, or interfered with. So we
had worked out an arrangement with the telephone books.
On that night, all three of them—the Manhattan, the Brook­
lyn, and the Classified—were solidly under her feet when it
began, so that as she stood with her wrists fastened above her
head, she was slightly on tiptoe, but with her toes firmly on
the phone books. If the rope sagged, as it sometimes did, or
the soft straps round her wrists slipped a little, she could
push one or more of the books out from under, with her toes,
without my interference, to restore the tension.
Sometimes, in a long evening, nothing at all would happen,
and we’d give it up. On other evenings when she went
through the “ door,” she would sometimes tell what was hap-
J U S T I N E D ERV ISH D A N G LIN G
261
W IT C H C R A F T
pening in that other world in time-space, beyond our three-
dimensional horizon . . . if there is any such other world.
Just as often she’d be silent the whole time, and tell me
about it only afterward, if at all. In the near-darkness, it
frequently took a lot of patient waiting. I ’ve sometimes gone
out and left her alone for a whole evening. I might as well
have gone out during the early part of this evening, for noth­
ing happened until close on toward ten o’clock, and then I
heard her shuffling the phone books with her toes, pushing
one of them out from under, as I imagined, to increase the
tension a little.
Soon she began to talk . . . dreamily at first. She was
through the “ door,” and was having a lovely time. She sel­
dom went through that door into any horror or violence. She
was not like Nastatia Filipovna. In her trances, or whatever
they were, she nearly always encountered things that were
good and beautiful. If there is any such other world, beyond
our normal ken, there’s at least one moral-weighted aphorism
true there as here. Wherever you go, you have to take your­
self with you. It’s only if you have the soul of a werewolf
here that you will turn into a werewolf, or encounter were­
wolves, on the other side of the “ door.” The things Justine
encountered, in addition to being beautiful, were also some­
times surprising and amusing. She had never been in Europe
then, but she was wandering along a quai, overlooking a river,
and behind the quai was an enormous castle or palace. There
were crowds, streetcars, shops, motorcars, people on bicycles.
I thought it might be London, as she described with delight
the things she was glimpsing. She was walking. She stopped
to look at little boats that passed in the stream. I wanted to
ask her what language the street signs were in, what language
2 6 2
the people in the streets were speaking—but we’d learned
that such interruptions often short-circuited the contact. As
she talked on, describing, and exclaiming at the quaintness or
beauty of the buildings, I got the impression that it wasn’t
London. I wondered if it might be Budapest, or possibly a
part of old Florence. It was on a big river, and it was lovely
as she described it. But I wasn’t very excited about it. What­
ever specific city it turned out to be, she could easily have
seen it in newsreels, in photos in the National Geografhic, or
in any casual, forgotten magazine—or perhaps in some old
book she’d seen as a little girl and long since forgotten with
her conscious memory. That’s why supposed “ clairvoyance”
of this or any other sort is difficult to prove or make stand up.
She turned into a side street, leading away from the quai
and the river, attracted by the sound of music, and presently
came to a carnival, with merry-go-rounds, confetti, clowns,
Ferris wheels, booths, tents. It wasn’t exactly a carnival either.
There was a menagerie, she said; there were animal cages,
there was a dancing bear with a pointed hat on its head; there
were clowns. It was like a circus, only the clowns and animal
wagons weren’t under the tents. It puzzled her, but she was
enjoying it. She was seeing one of the big street fairs on the
continent—perhaps the Foire de Neuilly. But what if she
was? She could have seen it first (and consciously forgotten
about it while it stuck in her subconscious) in a topical news­
reel—or for that matter in a screen play made in Hollywood.
She went into one of the tents presently to see the trained
lions. There was a woman lion-tamer, on an elevated stage,
behind bars, putting a lion through its tricks. Justine pres­
ently chuckled a little. It was a funny lion. It was an old,
tired lion, and it looked as if it had been kept in moth balls.
J U S T I N E D ERV ISH D A N G LIN G
2 6 3
W IT C H C R A F T
The lion-tamer was “ cute,” in her boots and red jacket. She
was pretty. She was pretty, even if she did have blondined
hair and too much red paint on her cheeks. Now she was
going to put her head in the lion’s mouth. Yes, she was lying
down with the lion. Oo, yes she did! She’d put her head right
inside the lion’s enormous mouth. And afterward the lion had
got up and yawned. It had come to the front of the cage and
yawned. “ If that was my lion,” Justine giggled, “ I ’d teach it
to roar.”
Justine was silent nowT
, in the semidarkness, for a couple
of minutes, and then let out a gasp and giggle, and said, “ I
don’t believe it! It didn’t happen!” I was wondering what
she didn’t believe, what didn’t happen, when she burst into
gales of laughter, and cried,
“ Yes, it did happen! It really did happen! The others
thought it was a joke first, a part of the show. And I did too.
But it really happened. That woman in the front row with
the baby was simply too funny!”
Justine had presently left the street fair and was going
back to her hotel, or wherever she was going in the trance,
and had taken a taxi. She was still calm, apparently still en­
joying herself. H er voice was calm, smooth, pleased. I had
forgotten, almost as completely as she had, the other Justine
who had been standing all that time with her wrists drawn
up above her head, there on her tiptoes, on the phone books.
And now, in a period of silence, I didn’t like the sound of
that other Justine’s breathing. And I switched on the light.
It was now nearly two o’clock in the morning, and the last
shuffling of the phone books, or any other movement, had
been before io p .m . What she had done had been to push or
kick all three of the thick phone books aside. For more than
264
four hours, she had dangled there clear of the floor, sus­
pended by the wrists, her w’hole weight hanging by her
wrists, with her toes swinging nearly two inches clear of the
floor. The lips from which that always calm, tranquil,
amused, and at times gay and laughing, talk had been
streaming, were bitten and bruised by her own teeth, and her
face was contorted as that of a girl who weeps when no tears
flow. H er eyes were glassy, clear, ecstatic, wide open in the
light. The light bewildered her, but she was still far away.
When I lifted her and loosed the straps around her wrists,
she said, “ Don’t! Don’t! I ’m seeing. . . .”
I carried her to a couch, made her drink a little brandy,
and began chafing her wrists. We never quarreled—but that
night she was so angry that she threatened never to come
back.
I said, “ Look at your wrists! They’ll be black and blue to­
morrow, and your thumbs will be numb for a week.”
She said, “ M y thumbs! I thought you were so brave and
daring, and you tell me my wrists will be black and blue!
They’re my wrists and my thumbs. Something wonderful
was happening to me. It was different from anything that
has ever happened before.”
I said, “ You played a dirty trick on me there in the dark.
I wouldn’t have done that to you—for four hours. And I
wouldn’t have let you do it to yourself. . . .”
She said, “ You lost your nerve and I’m ashamed of you.
I tell you this was different.”
How different, how on the edge of something possibly
tremendous if it could ever be controlled—how perhaps actu­
ally over the edge, Justine had been that night, I didn’t
know, and I still didn’t know the following summer, when
J U S T I N E D ERV ISH D A N G LIN G
2 65
W IT C H C R A F T
more than six months had passed, and she was on her first
visit to Europe, and we were spending a week together in
the south of France.
One afternoon we drove to Avignon, and were walking
along the quai toward the old bridge, with the Papal Palace
on our left, when she said:
“ But this is it! This is where I was that night, the night
we quarreled because you brought me back too soon. There’s
the man on the bicycle, with a derby hat, those three girls
with shawls, that priest on a bicycle. I remember how funny
the priest was, in robes, with a beard, on a bicycle. . . .”
I was a little bit scared, and still skeptical. I thought, “ She
can have seen Avignon without ever being in Europe before.
The Papal Palace, the quai, the famous bridge, are travelogue
stock subjects.” And I thought of another point too, which
I maliciously made.
“ You never mentioned any priest on a bicycle, or a man
with a derby hat on a bicycle either.”
“ Didn’t I, W illie?” she asked. “ I don’t know what I said
that night. Did I tell you about the street fair? Listen, you
can almost hear the music now. The merry-go-round will be
up that second corner, round another turn, with the tents and
clowns.”
W e made the first turn, and I began to hear the merry-go-
round, and it gave me goose flesh. The back of my neck felt
cold. I was goose pimples all over, and we were holding each
other’s hands pretty tightly when we walked into that street
fair. I tried to get a grip on myself, I kept thinking, “ No, it
can’t be. There’s a fair here every summer, same fair, same
clowns, same animals, same dancing bear, same lion-tamer.
She must have seen it in a film somewhere.” I kept telling
2 6 6
myself she must have seen it in a film somewhere, when we
came to the lion-tamer’s tent, and went in and sat down. I
kept telling myself that the lion-tamer is always a little
woman in boots, red jacket, with blondined hair, and too
much rouge on her cheeks. It was always an elderly lion, and
she always lay down and put her head in its mouth. But did
it always yawn, as it was now doing? It must have yawned,
in whatever film or travelogue Justine had seen and forgot­
ten. For it was yawning now. It was surely a part of the act.
Justine said, and I began to have goose pimples again, “ If it
was my lion, I ’d teach it to roar.”
Then as we sat there, she said, excitedly, “ It’s going to
turn now! It’s going to come to the front of the cage and
turn its back! Yes, it’s going to do it!”
“ Do what?” I asked, and she whispered, “ It's going to wet
those -people down there in the front row.”
The front row benches were six feet away from the barred
stage, and on a lower level. The great cat lumbered, sidling
to the front bars, turned its back, half squatted, and loosed a
mighty stream of amber liquid, that arced through the air and
splashed on the clothes and faces of the people in the middle
of the row down yonder.
The audience was amazed, then giggling, then shouting
with joy, and Justine burst into gales of laughter. She
clutched me and said, “ Watch that woman with the baby!
She’s going to get up now. . . .”
The woman, a bareheaded peasant in a black shawl, hold­
ing aloft a wailing brat whose face she was wiping, arose,
climbed on the bench, and screamed furiously in the Marseil­
lais dialect:
“ You saw it! I call you to witness! In the face! In the eyes
J U S T I N E D ER V ISH D A N G LIN G
2 6 7
W IT C H C R A F T
of my darling innocent! In the face, it pissed! In the face of
my little Poupoune! For this I paid two francs and fifty
centimes! ”
The audience howled and egged her on. I said to Justine,
“ Could you understand what she said?”
Justine said, “ No, I couldn’t understand a word of it,
either time. But it was simply too funny, wasn’t it? I ’m glad
you’ve seen it too.”
I was more disturbed, perhaps, than I have ever been
about anything. I was thinking of the “ slit” in time, of the
Einstein corollaries, of a phrase written by Columbia Uni­
versity’s greatest mathematician, Dr. Cassius Jackson Keyser,
“ Simultaneity of events is relative, not absolute; the sense of
time is only an imperfect sense of a fourth dimension in
space.” Yet I was unconvinced. There’s a tenet in philosophic
logic known as “ Occam’s Razor.” It says, “ Essentia non sunt
multi-plicanda praeter necessitatem.” I thought, “ It can be
that this whole thing has happened before. It can be a part
of the act . . . just as the yawning might be a part of the
act . . . and it can have been caught in a film—or Justine
can have read it.”
Next morning I went and tried to shave the little lion-
tamer with Occam’s Razor. She thought I was a lawyer, or
making a complaint, and said I ’d better talk with her hus­
band, who was the manager of the show. I convinced them
that I was a journalist, and that all I wanted to knowr was
whether the thing had been part of the act—or if not part
of the act, whether by chance it had ever happened before.
“ But mon dieu/” they protested, of course it had never
happened before! They had only bought the old lion in
268
January. They had bought it because it was an old “ trouper”
born in a cage, born in the show business.
Had they ever heard of such a thing happening before
with any lion? They laughed. “ Not through the bars of the
cage! Not on the audience! It had been funny, if one hadn’t
been splashed. Impossible, unexpected things animals did
were always the funniest. One night with those three per­
forming bears at the Medrano . . .” the woman was saying,
and I asked,
“ Did you work at the Medrano?”
“ All my life,” she said proudly. “ This is the first season I
have ever worked in a street fair.”
Justine and I had long talks about it, and felt that perhaps
we were on the edge of something tremendous. We both
knew that if we could control, even to some slight extent,
and then focus these glimpses through the slit of time, if that
was what they really were, we’d soon be having rings on our
fingers and bells on our toes and elephants to ride on, if we
preferred elephants to Rolls-Royces. That’s the hell of this
whole business—that if anybody possessed and could control
any phase of clairvoyance, he could become more powerful
than J. P. Morgan or the Pope. The fact that nobody ever
has used clairvoyance or precognition with practical effective­
ness, whether in Duke University or on a mountaintop in
Tibet,1 is the strongest evidence to me that extra-sensory
perception, if any, has never yet been controlled or focused
to a degree worth getting excited about.
If Justine, for instance, could ever see and read next year's
stock-market page in the Herald Tribune, or next week's or
J U S T I N E DERVISH D A N G LIN G
1 See Appendix, p. 379.
26 9
W IT C H C R A F T
tomorrow mornings for that matter, she could be richer than
a maharaja’s maharani before the next sun went down.
But whatever fleeting power she possessed, though it came
flitting back at times, we could never control to the slightest
extent. And as for focusing it—the only practical thing it
ever brought us was a barrel of iced fish, once, from Canada.
It was just like talking with the ghost of Euclid, at a medi-
umistic seance, and having the ghost of that great genius tell
you that a straight line is the shortest distance between two
points. It was tremendously exciting, but it got you nowhere.
2 7 0
VII. Justine in the Mask
IT is common knowledge that when certain of the five
normal senses are dulled or blanked out, whether tempora­
rily or permanently, other senses in the normal group may
tend to become more highly sensitive.1
Look around you at any audience in Carnegie H all, or at
any group listening to chamber music. Numbers of people
will be listening raptly with their eyes shut. This isn’t always
a pose, though it lends itself easily to posturing. Many people
actually hear better with closed eyes, or in the dark.
It is equally common knowledge among people who have,
for any purpose whatsoever, experimented in such things out­
side laboratories, that steps taken in the direction of soothing
to somnolence, lulling, dulling, blunting, or blanking all five
of the normal senses to whatever extent may be devised is a
first step toward inducing extra-sensory receptivity.
The most commonly known phenomenon in the realm of
the five ordinary senses is the case of the blind, whose sense
1 The one exception to this rule lies in the close relationship between
the two allied senses of smell and taste. Apparently these two senses are
so closely interlocked that when one is dulled, both are. But no other two
of the five senses are thus interrelated.
W IT C H C R A F T
of touch is nearly always abnormally acute, and whose sense
of hearing is frequently so. The increased touch sensitivity
in the blind seems in some cases to extend far beyond the
actual physical contact with any object, with the fingers or
with the skin.
Paul Donahoo, blind attorney, was coroner of Richmond
County (Atlanta), Georgia. H e could tell, could “ sense” in
some way, indoors and outdoors, whenever he approached
to within about four feet of any solid object or obstruction.
It didn’t have to be a massive wall, or an extensive surface,
like the side of a house, though such heavy and large-surfaced
obstructions were the easiest. He could always tell when he
was approaching a wrall. H e could similarly always tell, when
approaching a door, whether it was closed or open. He could
nearly always tell, but not infallibly, when he was approach­
ing or passing within four feet or so of a telegraph pole or
lamppost.
Paul wasn’t interested in clairvoyance or any aspect of the
supernormal, and didn’t attribute his sensitivity to anything
mysterious. He was willing to talk about it, however, and I
learned that while he couldn’t be certain how he did it, he
believed it could be explained in terms of hypersensitivity of
touch, hypersensitivity of hearing—perhaps a combination of
both. He couldn’t be sure, but believed that he felt, perhaps
on the skin of his cheeks or hands, perhaps with his whole
body, some subtle difference in the density of the air, on ap­
proaching large, solid objects; or some difference perhaps in
air vibrations or air currents. That would be the normal sense
of touch, subtly hvpersensitized—but as definitely sensory as
when you feel a breeze on your cheek—or are hit by a cy­
clone. With reference to his possible hypersensitivity of hear­
272
ing, he thought that perhaps any sounds, even the faintest,
which happened to be in the air, made waves which were
interrupted, diverted a little, thrown back distorted a little,
by their contacts with the solid objects. If this was true, it
would have been the normal sense of hearing, abnormally
sensitized—but just as definitely sensory as when you go out
behind Johnnie Mack’s barn, and shout, and hear the echo.
Dog whistles which no normal human ear can hear hadn’t yet
been invented. If they had, I ’d have liked to try one on
Paul.
Justine was a wide-awake sort of girl, acute, sensitive, and
active as a kitten, in full possession of all five of her physical
senses, and as much a slave to them and their habits as any­
body. She was inclined, indeed, to be a flibbertigibbet. And
in our experiments, if they can be dignified with that appella­
tion, in the “ games” we played and fantasies we indulged,
she soon discovered that when temporarily deprived of this
or that sense and its attendant habits, it made the senses
which were left free more receptive and more interesting.
There were days, for instance, on which we played the game
that she was not permitted to use her hands. She was not
permitted to touch anything whatsoever. If she forgot, and
picked up something, or smoothed her dress, or pushed back
her hair, or scratched the tip of her nose, I’d tie her hands
behind her back for a couple of days. We didn’t do it sol­
emnly, in hushed silence, or in hiding. We never flaunted it,
but we never bothered to cover it up much either. With Jus­
tine in a loose cape, we walked and sat in the park, took taxis,
went to cafes and theaters. We were never exhibitionistic
about it. But we went places instead of staying shut up to-
J U S T I N E IN T H E M A SK
273
W ITCHCRAFT
gether in the studio. People never gave us more than a sec­
ond glance, didn’t give a hoot in hell. Justine was pretty as
a picture in those days, poised and happy as a child. Nobody
interferes with a girl who’s poised and happy, not even if the
boy friend is jabbing pins in her. People figure that it’s the
girl’s own affair. Nobody, not even the waiter or the couple
at the next table, ever gave more than two glances, even if
I was holding a glass or spoon to her lips, or brushing back
her hair. They saw a girl who wasn’t mutilated, crippled, or
deformed, but who couldn’t use her hands. They were cor­
rect about that. She couldn’t. They figured that if there had
been anything criminal about it, we wouldn’t have been there
in the tearoom of the St. Regis enjoying ourselves. They
were correct about that too. We enjoyed it. We were a couple
of cuckoos, tired of monotony, and making our own little
play worlds to live in. I confided all of it, back in the days
we were doing it, to my friend Dr. A. A. Brill, dean of the
Freudians in America. H e listened with surprised but un­
shocked amusement . . . told me the Greeks had a name
for it. We needed no dean of the Freudians to tell us that.
The erotic fun we got out of it was strictly our own business
and is of no importance in connection with certain adventures
in the field which this book attempts to cover. If I mention
that angle at all, it’s not in the nature of apology, but simply
to clear the fact that I ’m not an ostrich, and am not writing
for ostriches . . . or for innocents either. There are erotic
overtones, perverse in their different and more familiar ways,
in every' other page of the daily' newspapers, in the Socratic
dialogues, in H oly Writ, in the Sapphic odes and the
Shakespearean sonnets. Such overtones are neither here nor
2 7 4
JU S T IN E IN T H E MASK
there so long as they're not suffocatingly emphasized and
harped on. If harped on, they are of no interest to anybody
but another hippopotamus.2
One thing which came out of the business with the hands,
and which may be of general interest, was our discovery of
the casual, almost unconscious, and generally unnecessary
tactile contacts the normal person makes with the hands in
the course of an ordinary day. Without being aware of it, you
and ninety-nine per cent of everyone you know will be, for
instance, touching lightly your chin, cheek, forehead, hair,
as if brushing away imaginary cobwebs, or as if your own face
were a kitten which you stroked, ever so lightly and absent-
mindedly at odd moments. You will be doing this, unless
your hands are otherwise continually occupied, as in knitting
or rapidly typing, or tightening bolts on the Ford conveyer,
on an average of at least 150 times a day. You will be patting
your knee, or fondling your elbow, unnecessarily adjusting a
detail or fold of your garments, touching or tapping the chair
arm or table, etc., many hundreds of times in the course of
the same eighteen hours. A ll these involve slight, generally
unconscious sensory impressions—unless you absent-mindedly
pat a red-hot stove or cake of ice by mistake—and this fact
helps to explain why the oriental adepts and yogis remain
motionless and numb, like wooden images or plaster statues,
2 Sacher-Masoch’s Venus in Furs, parts of D. H. Lawrence’s Lady
Chatterley’s Lover, Alfred de Musset’s (r ) Gam iani, Andre Gide’s Cory-
don, are interesting only to other hippopotami. Women in Love, the Shake­
spearean sonnets, Gide’s Counterfeiters, and Thomas Mann’s Death in
Venice, in which the cerebral eroticism is not overemphasized or harped
on, are of lasting interest to everybody. I’ve known some quite attractive
hippopotami, but this narrative is not for them.
275
W IT C H C R A F T
when endeavoring to induce the detachment from the senses
which may let extra-sensory perception come in.
In this game of trying to lull, anesthetize, or “ blank out”
the myriad sensory things which impact unconsciously at the
rate of perhaps several thousand per second through the sum
total of the five ordinary senses, we tried some experiments
with sound and hearing, but never got very far with them.
Paul Morand had given me a box of pink pellets made with
wax and cotton—then recently invented—to make sleep
easier when fire engines pass in the street or your apartment-
house neighbors are making whoopee after midnight . . .
but they merely lulled sound. And besides, your own ears
buzz inside. The elder Pulitzer spent thousands of dollars
to have a room cork lined and wound with silk, cocooned
(walls packed too, they say, with mineral wool), but he still
heard, or imagined he heard, church bells ringing. And even
if he didn’t hear outside sounds, it was still a noisy place. His
pen sounded like cats scratching, and when he dropped a
pencil on the rug it sounded like a depth bomb with a re­
tarded explosion. A vacuum is the only thing that will blank
sound completely, and you can’t live in a vacuum.
In the field of light waves, sight, and seeing, Justine and
I made better progress, and got a lot of interesting results.
If my way of defining that field seems tautological, it’s be­
cause, as w'e soon found out, the field itself is complicated,
tricky. Any pressure on the closed eyelids makes you see tiny
shooting stars and rainbows. If you press hard on your eye­
lids with the balls of your thumbs, you see the Aurora Bore­
alis and the San Francisco fire. And any slight pressure, such
as being blindfolded for a length of time or wearing the satin
“ sleeping mask” which has since become popular and is sold
2 7 6
in all fashionable stores; or merely holding your eyes
squinted tight shut, produces tiny recurrent darts and spots
of light, or their illusion. We tried it in those various ways,
indoors and out, and discovered that though only comparative
darkness was induced, Justine’s other faculties already became
keener. H er sense of smell, her sense of sound, her sense of
touch, would tell her more than she supposed they normally
could.
She could sit on a bench in Central Park, with her eyes
squinted shut, on a summer morning, and tell whether it was
a big dog or a little dog; when it was one man, two men, or
a man and a woman passing; when it was a baby carriage,
and when (by smell from a distance of thirty feet if the wind
wasn’t in the wrong direction) it was the popcorn wagon
which ran on rubber wheels and made—she said—identically
the same sound as the baby carriage.
Indoors, we tried a lot of blindfold tricks, but blindfolding
is tricky, annoying to the subject, bothersome, frequently in­
conclusive.
Justine sometimes kept her eyes closed—was on other occa­
sions blindfolded—in the dervish-dangling experiments, and
in others with clairvoyance of some sort or another as their
objective. But she worked best with her eyes unclosed, in
darkness or near-darkness. What we were after, by now, was
not merely the blanking of one sense to increase the acuteness
of the other senses, but a blanking, or lulling, of all five
normal senses, to prevent them from interfering with her
adventures in that other world which was purely subjective,
and perhaps extra-sensory.
The mask we finally devised was partly my idea, and
J U S T I N E IN T H E M A SK
2 7 7
W IT C H C R A F T
partly hers. When I later, living in France, permitted the
French Museum of Natural History to publish, in one of its
official bulletins, a photograph of Justine wearing it—with a
scholarly essay concerning its psycho-erotic aspects, written
by Michel Leiris—people who saw the photo but misunder­
stood the essay thought the devil had invented it.
After we’d planned it, made a couple of sketches, and de­
cided what we wanted, we went to see the best glove-and-
leather expert I happened to know—at Abercrombie and
Fitch’s.
They were a bit British about it, lifted their eyebrows since
it had no precedent, but not too highly, since I ’d once bought
a lot of African equipment—and thought it might be done.
The cost, however, if they did it, what with a mold of the
young lady’s head to work from, what with trial and probably
error—might be pretty steep. They weren’t passionately de­
sirous of undertaking it at any price, and suggested that some
less expensive leather-worker who specialized in theatrical
costuming might be found who could do it just as well, and
at a lower figure. I took their always excellent advice, and
we were given the address of an elderly Italian named
Sinatra, who limped a little and had a shop of his own with
a half dozen workmen in a converted brownstone house on
West 47th Street, east of Broadway. H e was interested, pre­
cisely because it involved the making of something which had
never been made before, and in a week or so turned out a
beautiful, skilled, craftsman-artist’s job.
It was made, on his advice, of soft, smooth, glace kid. We
experimented first with suede, but (believe it or not) any
suede which was soft and light enough proved not to be com­
278
pletely lightproof. The smooth leather, on the contrary, was
as lightproof as a sheet of lead.
The mask covered Justine’s entire head, following all the
contours of her face, and, when laced tight in the back, fitted
smoothly and tightly as her own skin. The only opening was
a slit for the mouth, which followed the lines of her lips,
and through which she soon learned to breathe, deeply and
steadily.
But now that it was done, and she began to wear it, she
went through periods of hating and fearing it, because it
accomplished, as she said, too completely, the things we’d
hoped it would.
Instead of producing the ordinary effect of blindfolding,
or of closing the eyes, her eyes, wide open inside it, stared
in utter blackness. Sense of smell was blanked, since there
were no holes for the nostrils. Sense of hearing was dulled,
and the tactile sensitivity of her cheeks (normally feeling
warmth, coolness, air currents, when a window was opened
or closed, when she was merely blindfolded) was like­
wise blanked. It shut her off—as completly as a conscious
mind can ever be shut off—from everything outside. Often,
in what came close to panic, she could not tell whether I or
anybody was in the room at all, whether I might be close
beside her, or whether I had gone awr
ay and left her there
totally alone. It was like being back, she said, “ in the womb
of time.” And it was more than she had bargained for. There
were times when she hated and feared it, and would have
torn it off if I hadn’t kept her hands always tied or chained,
well away from her face and head. Eventually she became
accustomed to it, gave up “ fighting” it, let it “ take her,” as
she said—and ended by liking it. She wanted to be in it when­
J U S T I N E IN T H E M A SK
2 79
W IT C H C R A F T
ever she could, even when I might have to go away and leave
her all day alone, as I occasionally did.
We now began trying, not very scentifically, but certainly
with “ the heat turned on,” a series of experiments in the
supposed extra-sensory. Rhine’s E SP cards, which Farrar &
Rinehart have popularized as a parlor game with rules, hand­
book, scoring pad, etc., hadn’t yet become generally available,
and we worked often with an ordinary poker deck. I had
been told by Montague of Columbia, then president of the
American Philosophical Association, who had served on some
of the old Eusapia Palladino committees, that if any person
ever succeeded in making extra-sensory perception work with
accuracy and controlled certainty, it would revise the whole
present aspect of the universe and rank in importance with
the discoveries of Kepler, Galileo, Copernicus, and Einstein.
I kept such records as I could, but their sum totals and per­
centages were no more impressive than Rhine’s, or than those
which the sardonic John Mulholland produced with inani­
mate equipment borrowed from the International Business
Machines Corporation.3
Most of the time, it seemed to me that what Justine was
doing was the equivalent of pure guessing. And it seems to
me that this is what the scores, whether high or low, made
by Rhine’s subjects, always seem to be. There were other rare
occasions when Justine seemed to “ slide over,” as she called
it, into flashing moments of what seemed actual illumination,
when she seemed to be on sure ground. In those impatient
moments, she’d name the cards, insisting that she saw them.
What did she mean by seeing? It was, she said, like closing
3 Sec Appendix, p. 327.
2 8 0
your eyes in memory, and seeing a familiar face or object.
In doing that, in thinking of a face, or doorway, or land­
scape, there is no vision in the sense of light impacting on the
eye, but nevertheless the cerebral image you have is visual.
She said that when she “ slid over” and it “ happened,” it was
like that. And it was an eerie, emotionally if not scientifically
convincing, experience when she’d sometimes say, “ But I see
it plainly . . . it’s the nine of spades, and you’re holding it
sideways.”
As to whether it was telepathy, clairvoyance, sheer acci­
dent, I don’t yet know. She wasn’t interested in card experi­
ments anyway, and was always impatient with them. I ’m not
sure she wasn’t right in being impatient.
What Justine enjoyed was the adventures that came spon­
taneously, the subjective experiences, trance visions, or what­
ever they were, when her mind, shut away from impacts with
the sensory world and consequently freed from it, wandered
into that other world—which is perhaps really another world
in some fourth-dimensional region of time and space—or
perhaps merely a dreamworld of cloud fantasy built with
nothing more than the released imagination.
Three or four times, in the course of a number of years,
she slid over again into what seemed to be the field of pre­
cognition—the field which had most excited and interested
us, since the night she had first slid into it and seen the street-
fair lion. H er glimpses into the future, however, if that is
what they really were, never brought back anything of seri­
ous importance or intrinsic value. She never foresaw the
armistice, or the boom, or the depression, or the death of the
Pope. It was always something intrinsically trivial, usually
fantastic, pucklike, poltcrgeistlike, verging on the edge of the
J U S T I N E IN T H E M ASK
281
W IT C H C R A F T
unexpected comic—as in the case of the absurd micturating
lion.
The other time Justine strolled into fourth-dimensional
time-space, as it were, the only thing she brought back was a
barrel of fish. She’d been sitting in the mask all day,
crouched, in a posture we’d borrowed from Peter Freuchen’s
Eskimo seers and wizards,4 with her wrists fastened to her
ankles. When she began to talk that evening—it was in Janu­
ary—she seemed to be shopping in Saks Fifth Avenue, in the
summertime, with her cousin Lucy. They bought some sum­
mer clothes. She was talking with Lucy about the heat, and
about whether they’d walk home or take a taxi. She bought
some dresses and gewgaws, seemed to be enjoying herself.
They were going to have an ice-cream soda presently. . . .
This cousin of hers, Lucy, lived in the East Sixties, in a
small but la-di-da apartment, with a tiny kitchenette and
colored maid who came only in the late afternoon. I ’d been
there a couple of times to tea. That was where they were
going now, as I gathered from Justine’s chatter with Lucy.
They were walking a few blocks. It had become cooler, so
they walked the whole way. Justine was chattering along,
with the silences filled in, as I imagined, by Lucy, when they
reached the apartment and were let in by the maid.
“ What?” Justine was saying. “ What did she say had come?
A barrel of fish! The expressman brought it, and it’s in the
kitchenette? It must be a joke! I don’t believe it!”
There was a spot of silence, and then Justine was shrieking
with laughter. There was a barrel of fish in the kitchenette—
it seemed—a small barrel, but a barrel. “ Fresh . . . fish!
4 See Appendix, p. 381.
. . . Perishable!” shrieked Justine, still almost inarticulate
with laughter.
There was now a prolonged period of silence. Then Justine
stirred, struggled a little, groaned, whimpered like a baby.
She had come “ out of it” or had “ come back” or whatever
you want to call it. The thread of whatever it was had been
broken.
She said, ‘W illie . . . are you there? M y wrists hurt, and
my shoulders ache. What time is it? Please let me go now.”
Late one evening in June, Justine was on the telephone,
after having tried to reach me repeatedly since six o’clock,
and said:
“ Pm at Lucy’s, and the fish are here! They came from
Canada, and Lucy thinks she can guess who sent them. W e’ve
had the janitor up to open the barrel. It was mostly full of
salt and ice. H e says they’re lake trout and landlocked sal­
mon.”
“ H ey,” I said, “ I ’m coming around right now.”
I went and saw the barrel of fish. Lucy heard next day
from the returned vacationing friend who had sent them.
H e was back in New York. I had never met him, but went
to see him. H e couldn’t understand why I had come to see
him.
He had known Lucy longer than I had; Lucy was his girl,
and what business was it of mine anyway? Why had he sent
them?
W hy did anybody ever do anything? H e’d sent them, he
said, “ parti}' on impulse, and part!}- as a joke.”
J U S T I N E IN T H E M ASK
28 3
W IT C H C R A F T
Had he ever promised Lucy, or any of her friends, that
some day he’d send Lucy a barrel of fish?
Say, what was this? H e hadn’t thought of it until after
he’d caught them, and then he only thought of it because the
guide had told him it could be done. H e wanted to know,
finally, if the fish had spoiled.
The fish hadn’t spoiled. I ate some of the salmon, but
lovely as it was, it didn’t sit well on my stomach—nor does
it, to this day, sit any better on my mind. I am fully aware
that, whereas in the case of the lion, there hadn’t been one
chance in quadrillions of ordinary predictability, or of collu­
sion, this barrel of fish was a different kettle of them. If Jus­
tine, the blondined lion-tamer, and the angry mother with
her brat, had been mysteriously in transatlantic cahoots, it
still left the whole episode up in the air—because the lion
would have had to be in on it too. But in this latter case of
apparent precognition, since we had, of course, told Lucy
about it, nothing would have been easier than for Lucy and
her boy friend to have played an elaborate joke. They hadn’t,
as a matter of fact, but neither I nor anybody nor they them­
selves on oath can prove a negative of that sort, in terms of
what the laboratories properly demand as proof. There was
no presumption of control in this case, and I have made no
attempt to imply any. It’s as wide open as any other—fish
story. It was unfortunately the same on the couple of other
occasions when she seemed again to pass through “ the door
in the wall” to step forward in fourth-dimensional time-
space. We never again got anything as good as the lion.
These precognition experiences of hers were of extremely
rare occurrence. They occurred four times in all, in a period
2 8 4
of more than five years. She had soon begun habitually, and
seeming to prefer it so, to slide backward instead of forward
—to slide into the past, in trances which, if authentic, were
in the field of what Professor Rhine has labeled retrocogni-
tion. It was in these that Justine reveled, but in these excur­
sions backward, as Rhine so ably points out in New Frontiers
of the Mind, there is almost never any possibility of control.
If you’ll follow Dr. Rhine’s reasoning, closely and tightly,
you’ll see why this is so:
If it is something out of the past that is known, even
though it dates back to before the building of the pyramids,
there is always the possibility that the entranced excursionist,
no matter how sincere, may have heard it or read it or seen
it (in pictured illustration, in museums, or on the screen),
and retained it in the deep well of the unconscious mind.
If it is something out of the past which is unknown, there
is almost never any way of proving that what he seems to
see in retrospect ever happened originally. The only way to
establish control in a case of this latter sort would be, for
instance, for the excursionist to dig up the lost chest of gold,
or the old family plate, which, in the vision, he had seen his
great-grandfather secretly burying. Since neither Justine nor
anybody else has ever put retrocognition to any practical and
profitable use of that sort, the whole field is still shrouded in
thick fog and foxfire.
It was in these uncontrolled fields and vistas of fog and
foxfire that Justine generally now wandered when she went
through the door in the wall. It was there that she liked best
to wander. It seemed to me that she suffered less strain . . .
that she was less torn . . . experienced less subsequent pros­
tration and fatigue . . . in these excursions backward, than
J U S T I N E IN T H E M ASK
2 85
W IT C H C R A F T
she had on the rare, violent occasions when she seemed pro­
jected into the future.
Wandering in the past, Justine had long adventures—
sometimes commonplace as cooking on an open fire or draw­
ing water from a well, sometimes gorgeous and fantastic as
anything in the Thousand and One Nights, but there can be
no point, in this context, in relating or embroidering them.
For reasons Rhine has given, they have no clinical value, and
their only real value, which lies in the field of art, when
they’re intrinsically good enough—a field which has nothing
to do with the general purpose of this present book—is a
value which has already been amply demonstrated by more
than one great master. Kipling wrote “ The Brushwood Boy,”
Du Maurier wrote Peter Ibbetson, Arthur Machen wrote
The H ill of Dreams, Viola Hunt wrote “ The Coach,” H . G.
Wells wrote “ The Door in the W all,” and ninety-seven
other great ones, including our own Poe, Ambrose Bierce,
Jack London, M ary Austin, have contributed their classic and
near-classic tales, more than often based on what they be­
lieved to be authentic experiences. They are all, as a matter
of fact, “ door in the wall” stories, and the wall is always the
same wall—the wall which imprisons all us normal humans
in the three-dimensional sensory here and now, which bars
us from the fourth-dimensional field of space-time, familiar
to saints, geniuses, and mystics long before Einstein gave it
a potential scientific basis in his Theory of Relativity.5
Justine had more joy wandering in that realm than any
other, but so many have wandered there, and have brought
u “ One of the most beautiful things we can experience is the mysterious.
It is the source of all true science and art. He who can no longer pause
to wonder is as good as dead.”— a lbert ein stein .
286
back such rich treasures, shared afterward with the world,
that if she and I tried to recount all her adventures, it would
be merely bringing more coals to a Newcastle where many of
the coals have been already polished to the radiance of dia­
monds.
Are they really diamonds, or are they merely polished
carbon? Some people think they know the answer, but I am
not sure of anything in this realm of the supernormal. I am
not even sure—I can’t be after Justine’s adventure with the
lion—of the validity of my own doubts.
J U S T I N E IN T H E M A SK
287
Part Four
A P P E N D I X : S U P P L E M E N T A R Y
N O T E S , A N E C D O T E S A N D
I L L U S T R A T I O N S
Notes on Foreword
i. W E H A V E A B E N E V O L E N T W H IT E W IT C H in
Rhinebeck. She is a crippled lady who knows what suffering
is, and uses her “ white magic” to help others. A couple of
weeks ago our Rhinebeck Gazette told about a kindly “ mira­
cle” that left the recipient puzzled, grateful, and amazed.
One day delivering bread he told the dear lady he was suf­
fering from pains in his head.
When he came back early the following morning she said,
“ W ell, how’s your head now?”
H e said, “ It still hurts.”
She said, “ That will be all right. At exactly ten o’clock
this morning, it will stop hurting you entirely.”
H e went his rounds. The pain stopped completely. H e
looked at his watch. It was exactly ten o’clock. The delivery
man says, “ I don’t know what happened, but I tell you, it
makes you think.”
It probably makes you think that I ’ve picked up a small
town coincidence that doesn’t prove anything. Maybe you
won’t be so sure when I tell you some facts recently presented
by one of America’s leading scientific authors, George W,
Gray, author of The Advancing Front of Science and N ew
2 9 1
W IT C H C R A F T
World Picture. In IIarpePs Magazine, May, 1939, and
condensed in the Reader's Digest of June, he tells of some
startling cures accomplished in ordinary clinic routine by the
employment of “ white magic” in cases where the patients, as
it were, had “ hexed” themselves.
A man came into the hospital one day whose arms were
pimpled with a bothersome skin disease. H e told them it
always broke out worse on Monday mornings. “ What do you
do on Sundays?” asked the doctor. Usually, said the patient,
he visited a young lady. It developed that for some years
the couple had been engaged, but the girl repeatedly post­
poned naming the wedding day. Each Sunday, says Dr. Gray,
the man pressed for a decision; each Monday was the day
after a frustration. And almost every Monday his skin pro­
tested his anxious state by breaking into eczema.
To the same big Eastern hospital came a man critically ill
with asthma. After weeks of treatment he was relieved, and
a day set for his discharge. Suddenly, on the night before his
scheduled departure, all his former dangerous symptoms re­
turned. Treatment was resumed; again his breathing became
free; again arrangements were made for the journey and
again asthma returned in full force. H e was a college teacher
who had become embroiled in a faculty fight and feared for
his job. Subconsciously he felt it safer to be in the protective
walls of a hospital than go back and face possible dismissal.
“ In these cases,” says the author, “ there was more than the
physical condition. There was a mental or emotional disturb­
ance which had its counterpart in the physical mechanism.”
Dr. Erwin Moos reported the case of a man with a systolic
blood pressure of 280 who was also afflicted with a lung dis­
order and whose urine showed traces of albumin. Rest and
2 9 2
N O TE S ON FOREW ORD
drugs brought no help, but one day the patient remarked
that he had done a great wrong to his estranged wife. The
doctor immediately arranged a meeting, and after a recon­
ciliation between the two, the man’s blood pressure fell to
150, his lung symptoms abated, and the albumin disappeared.
Several years later the patient was in good health, with a
blood pressure of only 130.
And mind you, the gentlemen who recount these things
are neither faith healers nor cranks. These facts are based on
hospital records. I am bringing them in to make it easier for
you to believe in my dolls.
Gray tells of a businesswoman who had been highly
capable in a minor capacity and who was unexpectedly pro­
moted to an executive job. Three months later she developed
a severe physical ailment. The doctor presently guessed that
her increased responsibilities were a source of apprehension.
When she was persuaded to resign the executive job for
which she was unfitted, and resume her old place as an
assistant, for which she was admirably fitted, the physical
ailment disappeared.
A key to the way black magic and the doll can kill you
(i.e., by deliberately implanted anxiety and fear) is given, I
think, in the following scientific analysis in which Gray, in
the article I have identified above, expresses his conviction
that anxiety can actually become a biochemical factor as dan­
gerous as bacteria:
The whole physiology of anxiety is bound up with the idea of
protection, and has its origins far back in human history. How to
save one’s skin was a supreme problem of primitive man. Every
day there was the necessity of taking strong action either in fight­
293
W IT C H C R A F T
ing or fleeing. These demands gradually built into the body an
automatic scheme of swift adjustment for action.
In time of fear or anger powerful changes go on within the
body: the heart muscles are stimulated to more rapid pulsations,
circulation is shifted from the stomach and intestines to the heart,
brain, lungs, and skeletal muscles— all resources are mobilized for
most effective fight or flight. The mechanisms of these automatic
reactions are largely chemical— caused by powerful substances se­
creted by the glands and the nerve endings. And every impres­
sion from the outside world that threatens the security of the in­
dividual, that provokes him to anger or inspires him to fear, auto­
matically calls into play this complicated biochemical mechanism
to prepare the body for action.
Now the man who has just lost his fortune in a bank failure
suffers a fear just as real as was the fear of a cave man confronted
by a wild beast. However, whether the cave man ran, or stood
and fought, he needed the stronger heartbeat, the change in blood
distribution. But to the victim of the bankruptcy these adjustments
are superfluous. They prepare him for action which docs not take
place. They glut his system with powerful substances he does not
need, and which cause internal conflict. Such conflicts tend to be
suppressed, but the fact that they are unconscious does not mean
they are innocuous. Quite the opposite. The poisoning effect of a
source of anxiety seems to increase in inverse ratio to the victim’s
awareness of its identity.
It seems likely that the stresses of life affect one individual dif­
ferently from another because of differences in constitution, in
relative weakness of certain organs which ordains which shall give
way rather than others, and in the conditioning experiences of
early childhood. Dr. Leon J. Saul of the Chicago Institute for
Psychoanalysis observes: “ One child may be allowed to express
his rages quite freely, as compared to another. Later in life he
will allow himself to become very angry, while the other gets a
headache. Again, a person who has been overprotected in child­
hood will more readily feel the stress of a highly competitive so­
ciety which demands extreme aggressiveness and independence,
2 9 4
N O TES ON FOREW ORD
and such a person will more readily develop symptoms.” The ag­
gressive business man who has repressed longings for a retreat to
love, care and protection, often has a tendency to express his hid­
den conflicts in a gastric ulcer. Beneath the surface of a gentle,
considerate personality, on the other hand, may be hidden a state
of chronic rage— a repression that frequently expresses itself in
high blood pressure.
The wise physician takes into account all the circumstances.
He may use drugs, surgery, suggestion, social readjustment, any­
thing that will get at the root of the anxiety. He does not treat
only hearts, lungs, intestines or kidneys. He treats not only that
which is sick but also him or her who is sick. Dr. Stanley Cobb
has said that the criterion for calling one disease organic and
another functional is artificial, and that the line between physical
and mental is fictitious.
We have seen that changes in the “ structure” of the blood are
wrought by minute quantities of added substance— adrenalin, for
instance. Blood may be regarded as a fluid organ. As this circu­
lating organ is changed by slight alterations of its chemical con­
tent, so are the other organs changed as they are bathed by these
altered fluids.
Anxiety thus becomes a biochemical factor. Through auto­
matic stimulation of secretions it may release materials as upsetting
to the system as bacteria.
A. J. Cronin, author of Hatter’s Castle and The Citadel,
gives an account in the Cosmopolitan, July, 1939, of a case
that will give you even more to think about. H e presents it
in the guise of fiction, but I ’m guessing it to be based on his
own or some colleague’s actual experience. It concerns a little
cockney barber’s assistant whom Dr. Cronin calls Jamie in
the story, an obliging, kindly, competent little fellow but
“ shy, mild, timid.” Jamie fell in love with a pretty girl
named Nancy. One evening, some months later, Jamie went
to see a patron of his, an old-fashioned doctor, a general
2 9 5
W IT C H C R A F T
practitioner. Jamie was desperately unhappy because he
couldn’t get up his nerve to ask Nancy to marry him.
H e had tried whiskey to “ stiffen his nerve,” but it hadn’t
helped any. The doctor gave Jamie thirty drops of what
Jamie believed was a mysterious and terrifically powerful
drug. Jamie rushed out and won the girl. Five years later
Jamie returned to his old doctor-friend, in desperation. A big
bruiser had moved in on him and Nancy, and he didn’t dare
to throw the man out. Same dose. Jamie rushed home strong
as ten tigers, and mopped up the bigger man. Ingredients of
the terrific drug had been water, a drop or two of burnt sugar
to color it—and Jamie’s faith.
It’s the same in reverse with the incantations and spells of
the black, evil witch and her foul dolls. Perhaps they can’t
hurt you if you don’t believe in them, but if you believe in
them, they can destroy you.
Sir Baldwin Spencer, K.C.M .G., F.R.S., Professor Emeri­
tus of Biology in the University of Melbourne, sometime
Special Commissioner for the Government of Australia and
Chief Protector of Aborigines in the Northern Territory,
records a case in which these same mysterious forces operated,
to kill—and to cure. It concerns an Arunta native who was
hit by a boomerang—who would have surely died if left to
the care of modern science—but who recovered under treat­
ment of the witch-doctors. It is a common thing for these
aborigines to “ charm” a weapon by “ singing” over it. I have
never heard them sing, but Sir Baldwin has heard them, and
says it’s the same old Mother Goose stuff. In muttered tones,
the witch-doctor hisses out the following incantations, end­
lessly repeated:
296
“I-ta pukalana purtulinja appinia-a” (“ May your heart be
rent asunder” ).
“ Purtulinja appinaa aintaapa inkirilia quin appani intar-
pakala-a” (“ M ay your backbone be split open and your ribs
torn asunder” ).
“ Okinchincha quin appinaa ilcha ilchaa-a” (“ M ay your
head and throat be split open” ).1
Next, and here is something interesting, if the owner of
the weapon foresees no immediate chance of meeting his
enemy and socking him with it, or sticking it into him, but
knows in what camp his enemy resides, he stealthily ap­
proaches that camp until the features of his victim are clearly
discernible by the firelight. H e now sits out there in the
darkness, points the weapon toward his enemy, and repeats
the incantations. Within a short time—a month at most—the
victim is supposed to sicken and die, unless his life be saved
by the magic of another medicine man or witch-doctor.
When they get into battle, or into whatever their equiva­
lent is of a barroom fight, any spear, club, or boomerang
which has been “ sung” over is supposed to be endowed with
Arungquilta—that is, magical poisonous properties—and any
native who believes that he has been struck by, say, a
“ charmed” spear, is almost sure to die, w'hether the wound
be slight or severe, unless he be saved by counter-magic. Says
Sir Baldwin, with a lifetime of scholarly responsibility,
“ There is no doubt whatever that a native will die after the
infliction of even a most superficial wound if . . . he believes
the weapon which inficted the wound had been ‘sung1 over.”
If the victim has merely been scratched by a “ sung” spear
1 Sir Baldwin Spencer and the late F. J. Gillen, T h e A rttnta: a Study
o f a Stone A g e P eo p le, Macmillan & Co., London, 1927. 2 vols.
N O TES ON FOREW ORD
2 97
W IT C H C R A F T
or bumped by a “ sung” boomerang, he simply lies down, re­
fuses food, and pines away. Sir Baldwin said in 1927:
Not long ago a man from Barrow Creek received a slight
wound in the groin. Though there was apparently nothing serious
the matter with him, still he persisted in saying that the spear had
been charmed and that he must die, which accordingly he did in
the course of a few days. Another man coming down to the Alice
Springs from the Tennant Creek contracted a slight cold, but
the local men told him that the members of a group about twelve
miles away to the east had taken his heart out, and believing this
to be so, he simply laid himself down and wasted away. In a simi­
lar way a man at Charlotte Waters came to us with a slight spear
wound in his back. He was assured that the wound was not seri­
ous, and it was dressed in the usual way, but he persisted in say­
ing that the spear had been “ sung,” and that though it could not
be seen, yet in reality it had broken his back and he was going to
die, which accordingly he did.
It is impossible to prove that death would not have fol­
lowed under any circumstances—that is, whether the native
had or had not imagined the weapon to have been “ sung”—
yet with a knowledge of what wounds and injuries he would
normally survive if he did not suspect the intervention of
magic, it is impossible to explain death under such circum­
stances except as associated directly with the firm belief of
the victim that magic has entered his body, and that therefore
he must die.
Boomerang brawls like those in Alice Springs occur fre­
quently here in northern Dutchess County. Any which start
in Lafayetteville, Mrs. Lena Grosenbeck is always ready to
calm with the sawed-off baseball bat she keeps behind the
bottles on the bar. Lena taps them, and they’re carried out
cold to their cars by the state police, and wake up feeling not
298
too badly next morning, since Mrs. Grosenbeck is not a witch,
and they have no superstitious worries. The Arunta boy
friend, steeped in superstitions, who would have died unless
saved by counter-magic, was smacked by a boomerang which
inflicted a wound no worse than Lena’s kindly tap. The
“ wound” was merely a bump on the back of the head, valid
only for a headache or hang-over such as we survive here
after drinking Lena’s excellent Scotch, and being smacked
maternally by her sawed-off baseball bat.
The trouble was that the chap at Alice Springs was con­
vinced that the boomerang that had laid him low was fatal.
When he woke up next morning he declared that the weapon
had been sent down by the Ilpirra tribe which lives away to
the north of Arunta, and that it had been “ sung” by an Ilpirra
witch-man. An Arunta medicine man was of no use, but for­
tunately there was an Ilpirra witch-doctor available. H e was
found, hired, paid, and consented to “ sing” the counter­
magic. H e made passes, sucking and muttering over the
wound. As the witch-doctor belonged to the same locality as
the man who had originally “ sung” the boomerang, the
Arunta native had faith, confidence, belief in the efficacy of
the counter-magic. Instead of dying, he got well because he
knew he would get well.
Instances of such occurrences, in modern hospital clinics in
New York, Chicago, London, as well as in the Australian
bush, could be multiplied to a point which would make this
intended-to-be-readable appendix an encyclopedic treatise.
N O TE S ON FOREW ORD
2 99
Notes on Part One
C H A P T E R I
i. APRO PO S O F SH O O TIN G ’E M , the Herald Tribune
boxed this recent A P tidbit on its front page:
Ian
11;
J p
le
r,
to
et
5Sl-
Londoners Can Shoot
‘ Hitler’ for a Dime
LONDON. Oct. 10 HP).—For a
sixpence (about a dime) Brit­
ishers now can obey that impulse
to work oft hate against a prom­
inent Nazi. Shooting galleries
around London have introduced
targets that are figures of Adolf
Hitler, Hermann Wilhelm Goer-
ing. Paul Joseph Goebbels, Joa­
chim von Ribbentrop and other
German leaders.
The faces show the Nazis look­
ing over their shoulders at the
marksman and howling with pain.
TT_.11 A o l . n T ___J -
»
Fii
R
o
>
Hi
P<
De
I
&
Sot
cor
In the early days of the other world war, the British, who
surpass us Americans in vulgarity, exploited a chamber pot in
3 0 0
N O TE S ON PART O N E
whose bottom was the face of the Kaiser. In December, 1939,
Time carried the letter of a gentleman who had been sticking
pins in a picture of Stalin. In 1925, when I was in Arabia,
young Prince Fuad, son of Amir Nuri Shalin of the Roualla,
bought the photo of an enemy in Damascus, took it out in the
desert, and peppered it with bullets.
C H A P T E R II
I. C U R R E N T A M E R IC A N W IT C H C R A FT CASES oc­
cur with steady frequency and in pleasing variety at the rate
of several dozens a year. Here, to begin with, are a few more
from the 1939 and 1940 crop:
December n , 1939, World-Telegram tells how Salvatore
Petruzzella poured salt in the form of a cross before the
home of his Coney Island neighbor, Alex Colona. It’s one of
the oldest and supposedly most deadly of the Italian equiva­
lents for the witch’s doll. Colona went in terror to the police
who had sense enough to arrest the sorcerer. Magistrate
Joseph C. H . Flynn found him guilty of disorderly conduct.
It was testified that many Italians believe death will come to
a house cursed with salt. Petruzzella had been apparently
planning a neighborhood “ witchcraft” massacre since he had
put salt crosses in front of the houses of several enemies.
“ That kind of stuff doesn’t go in this country,” the Magis­
trate said to the complainants. “ Don’t be afraid, I ’ll take the
curse away.”
November 15, 1939, San Jose, California, Mercury Herald
tells how witchcraft entered the jury trial in a $17,000 will
contest over the estate of Joseph Botelho before Superior
Judge Warren Tryon. It was testified that Botelho’s daugh-
3 0 1
i?3K
4 *
& ' as x .
1 * v K :
m
usiisM
^
ter, M ary, was believed by the old man to be “ a devil on a
cross,” which is the Portuguese designation for witch. It was
testified that the daughter had used her witchcraft to terror­
ize and influence her father.
August 13, 1939, Buffalo Courier-Express tells of a drug­
gist who had been besieged by people who believed spells
had been cast on them by witches and begged him to sell
them countercharms. A well-dressed woman had come in a
new car, had asked to see the druggist in private, and had
talked to him with tears streaming down her face. A woman
had put a witch’s curse on her, she was getting sicker and
sicker, and begged for a charm to break the spell. The drug­
gist, who knew something about mental suggestion, sold her
for twenty cents a packet of quassia chips, or bitterwood. He
told her to brew and drink it, and that when she did, the
curse would be lifted. The druggist explained to the re­
porter that though he believed his action had been slightly
nonethical, it was nevertheless good psychology. He must
have been right, because the woman, who had been on the
verge of complete collapse and nervous breakdown, came
back cured. Another woman, a mother, wanted a love charm
to save her son from the clutches of a “ bad girl,” and threat­
ened suicide unless the druggist supplied it. H e gave her
some sugar of milk in solution, and again the charm worked.
Frequently he has calls for mandrake or mandragora, but
refuses to sell it, although it’s a harmless root, if he suspects
the customer is superstitious. H e knows that mandragora is
used in the concocting of death spells.
July 29, 1939, Newark, New Jersey, Ledger tells how a
Negro, John Baptistalk, accused of witchcraft, was held in
bail under grand jury indictment. H e had been giving cred-
N O TES ON PA RT O N E
3 03
W IT C H C R A F T
ulous people “ magical baths” and had sent James Elijah to
a cemetery at midnight to bring back earth from a freshly
dug grave.
Ju ly 28, 1939, Riverhead, New York, Weekly News tells
how Edward Smith, of Huntington, used a milk bottle to
break the spell cast over him by Melinda Carman, whom he
believed to be a witch. He tried to break the spell by break­
ing a bottle over Melinda’s head—which was as good a way
as any.
M ay 11 , 1939, Detroit Free Press revives the famous case
of Mrs. Laura Pichette, who is serving a life term in the
House of Correction for killing a young witch by the name
of Marian Doyle. Mrs. Pichette, the “ witch killer,” got into
the news again by having a baby.
March 9, 1939, Detroit Free Press tells how Mrs. Jacque­
line Thomas awakens every once in a while in the morning
to find her body covered with deep painful scratches sup­
posed to be inflicted by the spirit of an Indian medicine man.
Mrs. Thomas married a full-blooded Indian from the Six
Nations’ Reserve at Branford. The husband’s grandfather, a
mighty powwow man, had forbidden him to marry into the
white race, and the husband is convinced that the grand­
father’s magic is punishing his wife. Doctors have seen the
marks and don’t know what causes them. Mrs. Thomas sleeps
alone in a locked room, yet the scratches occur. Spiritualist
mediums have tried to lay the ghost, and local hospitals have
interested themselves in the mystery, which may have a simi­
larity to the stigmata cases which still occur in Europe.
January 1, 1940, New York Times (A P) has a tale of
witchcraft and hexing from a northern New Mexico moun-
3 0 4
N O TES ON PA RT O N E
tain village, Mora, about twenty-six miles north of Las
Vegas.
R. E. Cooper, assistant District Attorney, returned from Mora
and said that a preliminary hearing was conducted in Justice
Court there for a man charged with mayhem and accused by
townsfolk of “turning himself into a frog” and “hexing people.”
The defendant, Evclion Espinosa, was charged with mutilating
his wife and cousin, Mrs. Amadco Sisneros, as they slept on
Christmas night. Mrs. Espinosa’s fingers were injured and Mrs.
Sisneros lost two teeth.
“They testified Espinosa acted quecrly Christmas night and
that he made signs on the floor near their beds,” Mr. Cooper
said. “ They said when he left the house they became frightened
and locked the door.”
Mr. Cooper quoted Mrs. Espinosa as saying that the next morn­
ing “there was a frog in the room but it disappeared when I called
my husband and he entered another door.”
Mrs. Espinosa testified that “ If the frog did it, my husband
couldn’t have.”
Mr. Cooper said that the mountain folk had long accused Es­
pinosa of being “ the man who turns into a frog.” A large crowd
milled around the courthouse during the hearing.
Espinosa put up $1,000 bond pending District Court hearing.
January n , 1940, Denver Post has the following story
from Pretoria, South Africa.
Fighting witchcraft will be part of the task of L. F. W. Trol­
lope, who has just been appointed magistrate and native commis­
sioner of the eastern Caprivi Zipfel by the native affairs depart­
ment of the South African government.
The duties of Trollope and his assistants are thus described
in an official statement issued by D. L. Smit, department minister.
“Administer the territory, making full use where possible of
native institutions, to combat the evil of witchcraft.”
3° J
W IT C H C R A F T
January 3 1, 1940, New York Herald Tribune reports that
the Rev. Josephine Carbone, pastor of the Chapel of M ira­
cles, a Pentecostal church at 1558 Sixty-ninth Street, Brook­
lyn, was found guilty of grand larceny in the first degree by
a jury in Kings County Court. Angelo Nicosia, a fifty-nine-
year widower, said he had paid her $557 on October 25,
1938, to work a miracle and get him a new wnfe. The miracle
had not come to pass. The jury recommended mercy and
Judge Edwin L . Garvin remanded her to the Women’s
House of Detention for sentence on February 14.
On February 20, 1940, in the New York Herald Tribune,
a United Press item from Palm Springs, California, tells
how a young mother, member of a voodoo cult that allegedly
believes in human sacrifice, confessed that she killed her five-
year-old daughter, Geraldine, because the child was “ too
good to live.”
March 21, 1940, Newr York Sun, under the heading “ Jer­
sey Extortion Laid to Witchery,” says:
The police of three New Jersey cities were unraveling today
the fantastic story of a former Ridgefield Park patrolman who,
Police Capt. August F. Winklemann of Elizabeth said, bewitched
a nineteen-year-old girl into aiding him to extort money from her
employers.
Winklemann said George Barning had “hypnotized” the girl
into thinking the lives of the Whites were in danger.
More than half the population of the United States be­
lieves in witchcraft, and every year scores of cases reach the
courts and newspapers. Here are a few scattering recent ones
during the last two decades:
October 2, 1936, in Woodbridge, New Jersey, Mrs. Terese
Czinkota was accused by neighbors of being a witch and a
3 0 6
N O TE S ON PART O N E
werewolf. The case was heard in Magistrate’s Court before
Recorder Arthur Brown. The complainants were Mrs. Harry
Rottenhoffer, Mrs. Gertrude Mutter, Mrs. Rose Czepeter.
Mrs. Rottenhoffer told how they had looked through a
window and seen Mrs. Czinkota making magic brews and
performing witchcraft rituals. One of the women testified
“ her body changed, horns appeared on her head, and she
went on all fours like an animal.” Another witness swore that
the witch had merely been dressed in the skin of an animal
and that the horns were merely streams of light. Another
said, “ I saw her bend down and change into something like
a dog.” Another said, “ She was on all fours, dressed in the
skin of an animal and there was a blazing stream of fire over
her head.” When another witness testified also that Mrs.
Czinkota changed into a horse and walked on her hind legs,
Recorder Brown threw the case—and the dear ladies—out of
court.
February 26, 1935, in Williamsport, Pennsylvania, a
young boy named John Fritz started carving his baby brother
with a butcher knife. A gray-bearded hex-doctor, named
Dave Snyder, 84 years old, was accused of having hexed the
boy and making him do it. The hex-doctor’s family said he
couldn’t read and write and consequently couldn’t be familiar
with The Tong Tost Friend or The Seventh Book of Moses,
which is also known in Pennsylvania as the “ Black Art
Bible.” The Tong Tost Friend, first published in German
in 1820, is Johann George Hohman’s Der Tange Verborgene
Freund. It has run to more than fifty editions and enjoys an
enormous sale in America.
April 10, 1931, in Wilkes-Barre, Mrs. Carl Thomsen,
aged 29, a graduate of Wellesley, killed an alleged witch,
3 0 7
W IT C H C R A F T
Miss Minnie Dilley, aged 76, with a knife and a ginger-ale
bottle. The habit of attacking witches with bottles seems
peculiarly American. Said Mrs. Thomsen, “ She had cast a
spell over me and my husband, and it was her life or mine.”
February 25, 1929, Brooklyn Daily Eagle tells how
Nathaniel Conway killed his wife “ because she was a witch
and had put a death curse on me.” H e killed her with a knife
and subsequently “ strangled” her, because no matter how
dead a witch looks from knife or gun, you can never be sure
unless she is strangled or burned.
M ay 17, 1929, a locally famous “ witch” in Rome, Georgia,
was found murdered in her house. The police said she had
practiced witchcraft for many years and that one of her clients
or victims had murdered her.
In 1927, in Bluefields, Nicaragua, a lady by the name of
Doreth Fox, married to a Wisconsin man named John
Bolton, became a high priestess of local black magic. She was
ambushed and killed on Pearl Lagoon by three men who
feared her magic. They were sure they were right when dogs
dug up her grave.
In Mobile, Alabama, a few years ago (I can’t locate the
exact date), King William Carpenter and four high priests
of his local voodoo temple were arrested because an aged
man had died while they were trying to exorcise an evil spirit
that was supposed to have entered his body. One of the
methods of exorcism was to fasten the patient to a post with
a trace chain and beat him with whips.
I have the record of about twenty other homicide cases
among Negroes in America within the last five years, in
which voodoo and witchcraft were the motivating causes.
308
N O TES ON PART O N E
Since cases of this sort, whether white or black, never become
public knowledge unless somebody gets arrested, it is any­
body’s guess how much larger the number of cases may be
which we never hear about.
2. APRO PO S OF T H E Y O R K H E X M U R D E R , and its
“ happy ending” for the two comparatively innocent young
participants who left prison last year with that one bad night­
mare spot in their past lives wiped out, John M . McCul­
lough wrote in the Philadelphia Inquirer, August 6, 1939:
It is difficult to describe “hex” or “ hexerai” (to give it its full
name) in words that mean anything to the average person, for it
is a combination of superstition, witchcraft, medieval demonology
and primitive religion.
Under its alleged influence, murders have been committed, in­
nocent children have died in agony without benefit of medical at­
tention, and men and women have gone to their graves haunted
by the grim bogies against which they struggled with counter­
rites to no avail. . . .
It is the grossest error to assume that all or even a measurable
number of hexerai’s adherents and believers are of feeble mind.
They are not. Many a stout barn, resting amid its lush acres in
Lancaster, York, Berks, Lehigh and Lebanon counties, has on its
gable, the curious cabalism, roughly shaped in the form of a Lor­
raine Cross, which wards of? evil spirits.
In fact, during the trial, a minor county official told this writer:
“ Of course I don’t believe in hex, but it is a fact that a car­
buncle which none of the physicians could cure when I was a boy
disappeared immediately after a hex doctor prescribed for me.”
Contemptuous and half-ashamedly defiant in the same breath!
The “prescription” had been an amulet of frog’s leg, chicken
liver, and other oddments, prayed over at a rotten stump in a
certain requisite phase of the moon!
The terrible power of belief in hex has demonstrated its ca-
3 0 9
W IT C H C R A F T
pacity for tragedy again and again in the history of dozens of
States of the United States.
Physicians appreciate that it is a problem for youth education
and, in its most aggravated phase in the adult, for the most care­
ful, sympathetic and painstaking practice of the science of psychia­
try. Belief in the power of a curse, spawned by family environ­
ment, can be as horrible in the mind which it infects as knowledge
of hereditary insanity can be in the mind of an otherwise normal
and unaffected member of a family. . . .
It is easy to be contemptuous about such imaginings . . . and
yet:
Have you ever noticed a person of substance and intelligence,
whom you know, make an elaborate though apparently noncha­
lant detour to avoid walking under a ladder? Have you ever been
all but catapulted through a windshield by a highly intelligent
motorist, slamming on the brakes to avoid crossing the path of
a black cat? Have you ever been lectured by a friend for daring
to take the third “light” from a match?
C H A P T E R III
2. IN M O T H E R GOOSE, E D IT H S IT W E L L , G E R ­
T R U D E S T E IN (as in all African mumbo jumbo, and as
in all medieval magical word rhythms, cantrips, spells, in­
cantations), words are used for their piled-up, tom-tom im­
pact on the emotions, plus the impact of the words’ intrinsic
emotional content, as distinguished from the other set of
values and contents contained in words when they are con­
nected logically to express cold, logical statements and mean­
ings.
“ Pigeons on the grass alas” and “ a rose is a rose is a rose
is a rose” have deep tom-tom and emotion-contact impact—
which is the reason they have become world-famous and
familiar even to people who deride them.
3 1 0
N O TE S ON PA RT O N E
Mother Goose has survived over a century and will con­
tinue to survive because it is similarly laden.
Hickory, Dickory, Dock
makes the eternal clock tick whether a mouse subsequently
runs up it or not.
A dillcr a dollar,
A ten o’clock scholar
survives in memory no matter what happens when he arrives
at the little red schoolhouse.
Diddle, diddle, dumpling, my son John,
He went to bed with his trousers on;
One shoe off, the other shoe on,
Diddle, diddle, dumpling, my son John.
John will live as long as the band of revelers on Keats’s
Grecian urn, not because of what he wore to bed, but because
Diddle, diddle dumpling.
Therefore ye sweet pipes, play on!
Edith Sitwell added the sweet pipes when she made a set
of Decca Records (25632 A et seq.), chanting her “ Fagade”
to music. They are hot with the heat of tom-tom impact and
superheated with the emotion impact of words strung to­
gether solely for the value of their emotion content, as cun­
ningly chosen as if by any black African witch:
Man must say farewell
To parents now
And to William Tell
And Mrs. Cow—
Man must say farewell.
W IT C H C R A F T
Gertrude Stein is a sorceress, but also an intellectual, and
she sometimes gets her roles mixed. As a sorceress, I think
she can do more with words in weaving spells and incanta­
tions than any other living writer. I give this opinion not as
a literary critic but as an apprentice African witch-doctor. M y
name is Willie, and as Willie, I think some of her “ Lily
Lucy” lines in Four Saints in Three Acts will last as long as
Shakespeare and Joyce.
In a recent children’s book, she writes:
My name is Willie I am not like Rose
I would be Willie whatever arose.
I would be Willie if Henry was my name
I would be Willie always Willie all the same.
My
What a sky
And then the glass pen
Rose did have a glass pen
When oh When
Little glass pen
Say when
Will there not be that little rabbit
When
Then
Pen.
It’s nonsense, and so is Mother Goose, and my witch­
doctor’s guess is that Gertrude Stein’s little glass pen is less
fragile than it seems. Whether I ’m right or wrong about it,
a lot that she writes (even when not infected by her deep
learning) impacts with the power of jungle doggerel on me
—and I take more delight in it because she is on the side of
312
N O TE S ON PART O N E
the children and angels, instead of on that of the demons
and darkness and death:
Bring me bread
Bring me butter
Bring me cheese
And bring me jam
Bring me milk
And bring me chicken
Bring me eggs
And a little ham.
Once upon a time something can
Once upon a time nobody sees
But I I do as I please
Run around the world just as I please
I Willie.
I, W illie too, think it’s so goddamned beautiful that I just
wish it was true—of I Willie.
C H A P T E R VII
i. T H E M A G IC A L P R O P E R T IE S OF S A L T AN D
M E T A L S are believed in by all primitives. Salt is a potent
factor in casting spells, and if you are already under evil en­
chantment, salt becomes poison. I mentioned this in my ac­
count of zombis in Magic Island, and last year Dr. Rolph
Reiseman commented further on it in Kolnische Zeitung:
One Easter Sunday a woman was left on a plantation to look
after the zombis. She was extremely anxious to go to the neigh­
boring village and see the Easter Parade, and decided to take the
zombis with her. These creatures sat down in the market place
and watched the procession with unseeing dispassionate eyes. In
view of the general festivity of the occasion the woman bought a
313
W IT C H C R A F T
few sugar buns for the zombis, after assuring herself they con­
tained no salt. But unfortunately, she forgot to notice one thing—
the pistachio nuts with which they were topped had been rolled
in salt.
After eating them the zombis marched back to their native
villages, many miles away.
Metal similarly is powerful in casting or warding off spells,
but dangerous to touch if you are already under enchantment.
Frank Gervasi had an article in Collier’s, November 25,
1 939j about King Alfonso and the Evil Eye, in which he told
how the superstitious Italians always clung to the keys in
their pockets when the former King of Spain came to Rome.
H e tells about a doorman, named Pietro, at the Grand Hotel,
when Alfonso, who was stopping there, had greeted him.
When he had ascertained that His Majesty was not looking
Pietro reached under his tail coat and withdrew a long, shiny
iron key. He removed his white cotton gloves deftly. In his bare
hands, he rubbed the polished key and, as he did so, muttered
what seemed an Italian incantation. Pietro replaced the key with
the air of a man who has just purchased a large quantity of life
insurance.
Pietro rubbed the iron key because he, like all other Italians
from Benito Mussolini down to the lowliest peasant, implicitly
believes that Alfonso is a “ jettatore,” literally a “ thrower” of bad
luck.
Alfonso, Pietro would explain, has the Evil Eye. One almost
foolproof safeguard against the disastrous effects of the evil glance
is to make immediate and intimate contact with a bit of iron—
key, horseshoe, spike, or whatever is handy.
The superstition concerning the jettatore is as old as Italy her­
self. Pliny wrote of laws passed for the ostracism of those sus­
pected or proved to possess the Evil Eye. A Pope, during the in­
tellectual sterility of the Middle Ages, ordered with a papal bull
3 H
the prosecution of “ male and female witches” who cast their
spells with the eye.
On another occasion, in Naples, Gervasi tells that:
Mothers in the throngs on the docks along the water front spat
three times against the breasts of their babies, according to the
ancient advice of Theocritus, to protect the children from the
blighting blink of the bewildered Alfonso. Fathers wore amulets
of iron, carried iron spikes and jingled iron keys. The clatter of
hardware rose above the cheers and was something to hear.
Either salt or metal is a protection if you are not already
under a spell—but if the curse is already on you, you must
wear Paris garters, no metal must touch you—and you don’t
dare eat salt. You must eat unseasoned food out of a wooden
bowl with a wooden spoon.
N O TE S ON PA RT O N E
3 * 5
Notes on Part Two
C H A P T E R IV
i. P A N T H E R SO C IE T IE S IN LO N D O N are among the
weird cults recently investigated by Elliot O’Donnell. More
than once I ’ve told incredulous friends that I ’ve encountered
more horror, mystery, black superstition, mystical evil, and
weird abomination in the shadows of New York’s skyscrapers,
London’s towers, and Paris’s cathedrals (particularly St. Sul-
pice) than I ever did in the African jungle. It is a pleasure to
quote M r. O’Donnell in confirmation of this, with reference
to London. I quote from his Strange Cults and Secret So­
cieties in London, with permission of E. P. Dutton & Co., his
American publishers. I hope M r. O’Donnell will favor us
with subsequent, similar volumes on New York, Paris, and
Berlin.
Concerning suitable playmates in modern London for my
bloody little playmates in the Ivory Coast, M r. O’Donnell
says:
If you were to tell any of your friends that there are human
panthers and leopards in London, they would not, of course, be­
lieve you. Nevertheless, I believe it to be a fact. There certainly
3 1 6
N O TES ON PART TWO
is a secret Cult in London that imitates, as far as it dares, the
tenets and practices of the Leopard and Panther People of
Africa. . . .
One evening, an acquaintance of mine, who is an Irish writer
of some repute, having drunk rather more than was good for
him, . . . in attempting to stagger home from his club, by some
means he could never quite explain, got into a strange house in­
stead of his own, and found himself in a semi-dark room full of
queer-looking people, male and female, clad in leopard skins.
Being given a skin by a dark, foreign-looking girl, he . . . put it
on. . . . Probably no one paid any heed to him, everyone’s at­
tention being centered on a woman, who was standing in the
middle of the room, haranguing them. My friend could not see
her very distinctly owing to the lights being turned down, but he
judged her to be colored, she looked so dark, and not a British
subject, as she spoke with a decided foreign accent. The cool
night air, blowing into the room, through an open window near
at hand, gradually sobered him, and his brain became quite clear.
He realized then that the people around him belonged to some
strange exotic cult, and finally the amazing fact that they were
Leopard and Panther People dawned on him.
The woman who was haranguing them was a witch-doctor.
She was expatiating on the various qualities of the leopard and
panther; extolling their beauty, their cunning, and their courage,
and bidding her audience take these animals as their models, copy­
ing them as nearly as they could, without actually getting them­
selves into serious trouble. When she had finished this exhortation,
a stuffed leopard was fetched and placed in their midst, and every­
one kneeling down in front of it, repeated, in low, monotonous
tones, a kind of prayer or incantation, during which, at intervals,
the witch-doctor clapped her hands, and everyone touched the
ground with their foreheads. The incantation over, one of the
company, a very tall man, beat several times on a tom-tom, where­
upon all present, forming themselves into a circle, linked hands
and danced round and round the witch-doctor ami leopard, toss­
ing their heads backwards and forwards, and howling and growl­
317
W IT C H C R A F T
ing, in imitation, my friend supposed, of the noises made by a
leopard. This performance continued until some of the participants
obviously getting exhausted, the witch-doctor clapped her hands
as a signal, and it ceased. After that everyone sat on the floor,
with legs crossed, Turkish fashion, whilst the leopard was removed
and the dummy of a woman put in its place. The witch-doctor
then, demonstrating the leopards’ and panthers’ method of seiz­
ing their prey, sprang on the back of the dummy, dug the claws
of the skin she was wearing into it, and pretended to bury her
teeth in its throat.
The spectacle might have struck some people as horrible and
revolting, but my friend thought it merely ludicrous. The witch­
doctor was decidedly plump, and to see her performing such
antics was very funny. The members of the Cult, however, did
not think so; they were in dead earnest, and when the witch­
doctor had finished her demonstration, several of those present
got up, and one after the other, imitated her to the best of their
ability, going through the same performance. Eventually, after
more beating on the tom-tom and singing, a girl produced a huge
bowl, full of raw meat, and proceeded to hand it round. This
was the last straw as far as my friend was concerned. . . . He
could not stand it, so he decided to beat a retreat. The member
who had gone out of the room to fetch the meat had left the
door slightly open, and my friend slipped out unobserved. He was
reminded of his adventure, some weeks later, when he read in
one of the London papers that a girl had been found dead in a
lonely suburban thoroughfare, with curious wounds, like scratches
made by some large animal, on her back and chest. . . .
Many people will probably recall the case that happened a few
years ago, either in London or one of the suburbs, of a youth,
who, for no other apparent reason than blood lust or the love
of cruelty, killed a boy much younger than himself. He lured the
boy into some lonely spot and then, springing on his back after the
manner of a wild beast, mauled and killed him. Though no hint
was made of such a thing in court during the trial, it was rumored
in the locality where the crime had been committed that the
318
N O TE S ON PART TWO
murderer might belong to a Panther Society, because men clad
in panther skins had been seen, from time to time, in the garden
of one of the houses there. . . . A curious story about the same
cult was told me by Madame Bessier, who, some years ago, was
living in the Faubourg St. Antoine, Paris. She said that she was
walking along a quiet road, late one summer evening, when a
private automobile passed her and stopped outside a house, on
the same side of the road, about twenty yards ahead of her. Two
men got out of the car, and then, reluctantly, so it seemed to
Madame Bessier, a lady wearing an opera cloak. The men each
took an arm of the lady and almost dragged her into the house.
There being something about the men Madame Bessier did not
like, she paused outside the house, debating in her mind whether
one ought to call a policeman or not. She was still standing there,
unable to decide, when two other cars drove up and several men
and women got out of them and approached the house. As they
did so, the front door opened (apparently they were expected)
and Madame Bessier saw something that startled her very con­
siderably. It looked like a leopard on its hind legs. However, be­
fore she could make up her mind what it was, the door slammed
to, rather violently. Fascinated by what she had seen, she re­
mained in front of the house for some time. Presently she moved
on, but she had not gone far when she heard a cry, a cry of pain.
It seemed to come from the house, and it was followed by in­
tense silence. . . .
She did not pass the house again for nearly two years, and when
she did, she noticed it was empty and for sale. Curiosity prompt­
ing her, she got permission from the agent, and accompanied by
one of his clerks, went to look it over. Directly she got inside the
front door she was conscious of a curious smell. It was strangely
familiar to her, but at first she could not identify it. Then, sud­
denly, she recogmV.cd it. It was the smell of the big cats of the
jungle, the smell she had grown quite used to when living in
the Dutch East Indies. She asked the clerk if he could explain
the smell, how it got there, whence it came. . . .
After much coaxing on her part, and many assurances that, if
319
WITCHCRAFT
he told her, she would not say a word about it to the house agent,
. . . he said it was rumored that a queer society, who used to
dress up in leopard and panther skins and indulge in all kinds of
orgies, once inhabited it, and that after they left, people who
looked over it complained of the smell she had spoken about, the
smell of wild beasts. . . .
The Panther and Leopard People are said to have had quarters
in Blackheath some time ago, somewhere in the neighborhood of
Shooter’s Hill Road.
O’Donnell, in the Dutton book, goes to town on no less
than seventeen strange cults and secret societies which flourish
today in what seems on the surface the world’s most conven­
tional, circumspect great city. What he has to say about the
Gorgons and Mummy Worshipers will perhaps partially ex­
plain why the witch’s “ doll de luxe” which I uncovered in
London was less anachronistic than it seemed:
Somewhere on the banks of the Thames, between Richmond
and Maidenhead, the Gorgons, a secret society of women, who
. . . have no liking for men, have their headquarters.
Their High Priestess . . . is called Medusa. She has been de­
scribed to me as of middle age, tall and of a masculine build and
leonine appearance that is absolutely uncanny. . . .
The Gorgons believe only in Nature and Nature worship.
Every night in the week they meet, either in or out of doors, and
worship Nature, cither in some animate or inanimate form. The
nature objects they select for worship are usually either those that
were venerated by the Ancients, or those that have been deified
by the Cult’s High Priestess, Medusa; and they are invariably
said by the Cult to he of feminine gender. The sun, the moon,
the stars, river, woods and pools, all are deified objects, and
strange, indeed, arc the tributes these Thameside worshippers pay
them. I can, however, furnish my readers with a reliable account
of some of the Gorgon ceremonies, since they were described to
me by an ex-member of the Cult, who participated in them.
320
NOTES ON PART TWO
Miss Biggs, my informant, attended her first ceremony, at
which homage would be paid to the Thames, soon after she had
passed through her final stage of initiations. Her written summons
to it was virtually a command. . . .
Her [Medusa’s] white dress, like that of her followers, was
sleeveless; she wore many and various massive gold bangles on
her arms; her bare feet were encased in sandals, and her toe-nails,
no less than her finger-nails, were covered with red varnish. . . .
This first stage, Miss Biggs explained, was a somewhat embar­
rassing and trying affair. The initiate, in order to prove her agility
and strength, had to run so many yards in so many seconds, to
jump no mean height, pull herself up several times on a horizontal
bar, and wrestle with one of the most physically formidable mem­
bers. But that was not all; in order to prove her willingness to
submit and obey Medusa in all things, she had to kneel before
her, imprint a kiss upon both of her feet, and take from her three
strokes, and pretty hard strokes too, inflicted by a stick cut from
an ash tree. . . .
The sacrifice followed, with more ceremonial. Every member
had brought an offering either of food or wine, or some article
of apparel, and when all these gifts had been placed in tubs,
moored alongside the shore, the tubs were set on fire and pushed
off, into midstream, to the accompaniment of the Cult song of
triumph.
With regard to secret Mummy Cults, there is at least one
in London, O’Donnell says, with headquarters in Upper
Norward. He describes one of their ceremonies which a friend
of his attended.
The members of the Society gathered in the courtyard of
the headquarters, around a tomb in which the mummy of a
Peruvian princess was laid. After a brief ceremony of worship,
four members of the Society, dressed in black, came out of
the house carrying a kind of stretcher on which another
mummy sat upon a low stool. The mummy was wrapped in
321
W IT C H C R A F T
a llama skin, the only uncovered parts of her being her hands
and feet. The stretcher was set down in the midst of the wor­
shipers. By the side of the wooden stool were several pieces
of brightly colored Peruvian pottery; and painted in brilliant
red, on what looked like a piece of calico, attached to the
llama skin above the mummy’s breast, was a flaming device
depicting the sun. After the recital of several long prayers by
the President, during which the members knelt in silence,
the mummy was taken slowly into the chulfa (tomb), and
there deposited. Then incense was burned, more prayers read,
and everyone sat on the ground, legs crossed, and eyes on the
door of the chulfa. Minutes passed, then slowly the door of
the tomb opened and the mummy appeared on the threshold.
This time it moved of its own will, passing among the mem­
bers, her features covered by a veil, her hands and feet free.
She even bent and kissed one of the members. Then she faced
them all, stretched out her arms, uttered three cries, and
glided back into the tomb. The President said a few prayers,
shut and bolted the door of the chulfa and announced the
meeting at an end.
C H A P T E R V
i. T O R T U R E TO D R IV E O U T D E V IL S bids fair to be
reinstated by science. Most ancient and medieval methods of
treating the “ possessed” and insane were based on theories
identical with those held by early Christian and African
witch-doctors. Just as Einstein, Carrel, and the late Stein-
metz returned to a theory of the universe which the African
witch-doctors and a few late Christians clung to in the face
of materialism, so medicine may now be in process of return­
ing scientifically to torture as a therapeutic method and psy-
32a
N O TES ON PART TWO
chological cathartic. They call it “ convulsive therapy,” and
here is part of what Time said about it, November 20, 1939:
Today psychiatrists again apply with scientific refinements
something very like medieval shock treatment to victims of schizo­
phrenia (dementia praecox). Most common form of insanity,
schizophrenia packs 200,000 patients in U. S. mental hos­
pitals. . . .
Metrazol is a powerful stimulant of the centres which regulate
blood pressure, heart action and respiration. . . . about five cubic
centimeters of the drug are injected into his [the patient’s] veins.
In about half-a-minute he coughs, casts terrified glances around
the room, twitches violently, utters a hoarse wail, freezes into
rigidity with his mouth wide open, arms and legs stiff as boards.
Then he goes into convulsions. In one or two minutes the con­
vulsion is over, and he gradually passes into a coma, which lasts
about an hour. After a series of shocks, his mind may be swept
clean of delusions.
. . . So horrible are the artificial epileptic fits forced by metra­
zol that practically no patients ever willingly submit. Common
symptoms are a “ flash of blinding light,” an “ aura of terror.” One
patient described the treatment as death “ by the electric chair.”
Another asked piteously: “ Doctor, is there any cure for this treat­
ment? ”
More serious than this subjective terror are dislocations of the
jaw, tiny compression fractures of the spine, which occurred to
metrazol patients in over 40% of one series of cases. During their
violent convulsions, patients arch their backs with such force that
sometimes they literally crush their vertebrae.
So although metrazol is widely used, a large number of psy­
chiatrists condemn it as a “ very dangerous drug.” . . . Most ex-
perts now agree that, despite a few spectacular cures, metrazol is
far less effective than insulin. A few laboratory workers are ex­
perimenting with kindred drugs, trying to concoct a less danger­
ous substitute.
32 3
Notes on Part Three
C H A P T E R I
i. T H E U N IV E R S E O U T SID E SEN SO R Y P E R C E P ­
T IO N , outside our three dimensions and the conventional
concept of time-space, was perhaps first glimpsed by Plato. If
his majestic ghost could return after more than two thousand
years of pendulum-swinging in which the materialism of the
nineteenth century became as ridiculous as its earlier antithe­
sis, the majestic ghost might smile to learn that Einstein,
Steinmetz, Carrel, Dunne, Haldane & Co., had returned to a
concept not unlike that which he had put in the mouth of
Socrates. Here’s what he has Socrates saying to dear Glau-
con:
Behold! human beings living in an underground den, which
has a mouth open towards the light and reaching all along the
den; here they have been from their childhood, and have their
legs and necks chained so that they cannot move, and can only
see before them, being prevented by the chains from turning
round their heads. Above and behind them a fire is blazing at a
distance, and between the fire and the prisoners there is a raised
way; and you will see, if you look, a low wall built along the
way, like the screen which marionette players have in front of
them, over which they show their puppets.
3 24
NO TES ON PART T H R E E
I see.
And do you see, I said, men passing along the wall carrying all
sorts of vessels, and statues and figures of animals made of wood
and stone and various materials, which appear over the wall?
Some of them are talking, others are silent.
You have shown me a strange image, and they are strange
prisoners.
Like ourselves, I replied; and they see only their own shadows,
or the shadows of one another, which the fire throws on the
opposite wall of the cave?
True, he said; how could they see anything but the shadows
if they were never allowed to move their heads?
And of the objects which are being carried in like manner they
would only see the shadows?
Yes, he said.
And if they were able to converse with one another would they
not suppose they were naming what was actually before them?
Very true.
And suppose further that the prison had an echo which came
from the other side, would they not be sure to fancy when one
of the passers-by spoke that the voice which they heard came from
the passing shadow?
No question, he replied.
T o them, I said, the truth would be literally nothing but the
shadows of the images.
It’s going to be fun, after quoting from Greek classics, to
quote briefly next a “ short” from the Reader’s Digest, Janu­
ary, 1940. They give us this from Lady Eleanor Smith’s
Life's a Circus (Longmans):
It was about three o’clock in the morning, and five of us sat
in the dark, empty auditorium watching the final rehearsal of
the “ Snowbird” Ballet of B allerin a , a play based on one of my
books. I had been inspired to write the book after I had watched
Pavlova dance The Swan a few months before her death, years
earlier. Directly or indirectly, Pavlova had inspired us all.
3 2 5
W IT C H C R A F T
The stage revolved to show a woodland glade, and a slight
figure, snow-white in a fluffy tutu, its head bound with swan’s
plumage, entered, paused and crossed itself. It seemed to me that
the star, Frances Doble, had grown much smaller. Then, as she
glided into the spotlight, I caught my breath.
The figure was not that of Frances. It had assumed the jorm
of Anna Pavlova.
Pat Dolin, co-star with Frances, gripped my hand until I
thought he would break it. I looked at him; he was ice-pale. He
muttered:
“ This is uncanny . . . what have we done? Oh, God— why
did we ever bring up the past?”
The white form on the stage stood effortlessly upon one
fo in te ; it pirouetted three times— a thing Frances could not do—
and drifted like swansdown into its dancing partner’s arms, as
the curtain fell. I looked at my companions— Pat; Charles Land-
stone, our level-headed business manager; Henry Harrison, com­
poser of the score; and his manager. They were white and dazed.
Somebody mumbled: “ W e’re all very tired . . . don’t let’s
imagine things . . . ” Somebody else said: “ We can’t all have
seen— what we saw. . . .”
Pat and I ran to the pass-door. We were afraid. Frances stood
on the stage. She said in a perplexed, mechanical voice:
“ Pat, I ’m sorry . . . let’s take it again. I couldn’t dance. I
must be awfully tired. My mind suddenly seemed to go blank.”
Pat gave me a warning look, and we said nothing at the time.
Later he affirmed: “ We can’t deny it. For a moment that par­
ticular spirit from the past had taken possession of Frances’ mind
and body.”
Justine’s micturating lion and barrel of fish, which occur
in my concluding chapters, are perhaps less absurd in the
firelight of Plato’s cave and the gasoline flares of Lady Elea­
nor’s circus tent than they seemed to me when I was writing
in the sunshine, and perhaps less absurd than they may seem
3 2 6
N O TE S ON PART T H R E E
to you, if you bother to read that far by the light of your
Mazda lamp.
4. R H IN E ’S F IG U R E S impress me (as a black magician)
and John Mulholland (as a stage magician) even less than
they do that holy terror of all American psychologists, James
McKeen Cattell, and the skeptical university professors who
combine skill in mathematics and an interest in advanced
psychology'.
I have a warm and friendly admiration for Rhine’s pains­
taking care, his scrupulous scientific honesty, and am not in­
volving myself in any controversy concerning the mathe­
matical soundness of the theory from which he derives his
percentages and averages. It is simply that in my opinion and
Mulholland’s, the slight 'pluses Rhine’s figures show.' are not
enough.
I think pure mathematicians have complicated their own
negative criticisms so much that they don’t prove anything
either. I think Rhine’s own figures almost stand up in the
light of their attacks, but I don’t believe they stand up against
what all gamblers know. There are not only such things as
“ runs,” there are also such things as “ slides.” Take guessing
an ace out of the deck. Your chances are one in thirteen. Or
take matching pennies, where your chances are even. There
are always “ runs” and there are frequently “ slides.” Same
thing in the red and black of roulette. Of course, it always
balances out in time, but there are only given moments in
which it balances. “ Runs” and “ slides” start occurring again.
The “ slide” would seldom be necessary to explain Rhine’s
pluses. A series of “ runs” could account for most of it. At all
times except the moment when it balances, even if you carry
3 2 7
W IT C H C R A F T
it to astronomical numbers, there’s always a positive or nega­
tive “ run” one way or the other. If you try to guess the ace
googol times, you’ll get an average in certain spots of exactly
i in 13. You’ll get that exact average once every several
million guesses, but on the millions of times in between, you’ll
always be having “ runs” and sometimes fantastically pro­
longed “ slides.”
Here’s what Mulholland did with it. H e writes in Beware
Familiar Spirits:
Professor Pitkin and I were interested in seeing what true
chance might bring. We therefore asked aid from the Interna­
tional Business Machines Corporation. We not only asked aid
from the company but dropped our problem into their lap. While
we knew what we wanted, we were most anxious not to have
anything to do with getting it, so as to eliminate any possible
chance of psychic cause. Jointly we wrote the following letter to
the company:
“ The interesting experiments of Professor Rhine, of Duke Uni­
versity, in ‘parapsychology’ seem to show that some people are,
in a sense, clairvoyant, while others are televisual. The entire
country has been following the card-naming tests which Rhine
and his many friends have been conducting. A few scientists still
suspect that something in the method or in the interpretations of
results requires clarifying. We happen to be of this opinion.
“ In recent discussions we have advanced two lines of thought,
both so closely interrelated that we have decided to invite your
company to conduct one or more fairly simple tests on your ma­
chines by way of clearing up a fundamental issue.
“ This issue has to do with the structure of long runs of pre­
sumed chance events. The so-called ‘laws of probability’ in their
purely mathematical form assert nothing as to specific sequences
in the space-time order that we call the real world. All that is
asserted is that, out of a given number of events, presumably de­
termined by an indefinitely large number of variables, certain rela-
328
N O TE S ON PART T H R E E
tive frequencies tend to occur. When any particular frequency
arises is not known; nor is any unusual frequency regarded as
evidence that a ‘special cause’ is at work.
“ In common thinking, however, another practice is followed.
People regularly assume that any striking series of similar repeat­
ing events implies the ‘probability’ of a special ‘cause.’ ‘The rule
of common sense’ or ‘the lesson of experience’ is invoked here. It
seems to us that the parapsychologists have not given due consid­
eration to certain logical weaknesses in this practical type of in­
ference.
“ For instance, we should like to compare minutely a very long
Rhine sequence with a correspondingly long one made by a
method which is incontrovertibly ‘pure chance’ in the mathemati­
cal sense.
“ Such runs would be strictly comparable to the total of tests
made by all the parapsychologists. The important question would
then be directly answerable; it is this:
“ Do the right answers recorded by the parapsychologists’ sub­
jects relate to the total answers in a manner significantly differ­
ent from similar coincidences of events mechanically produced?
“ Our doubt would then be solved one way or another. We
feel that the parapsychologists, by casting out all the persons who
answer according to the ‘law of probability’ and by talking solely
about the rare cases who show abnormal correctness in answering
to the card draws, distort the picture gravely. Here we agree thor­
oughly and would like to see a full intercorrelation worked out
between total guesses, right and wrong, in the Rhine experiments,
and a large series made mechanically.”
The International Business Machines Corporation, under the
direction of their skilled operators, ran two hundred thousand
numbered cards. The first hundred thousand cards were white,
and each card carried digits from I through 5. There was an
even distribution of those digits. Twenty thousand cards carried
I; twenty thousand 2; and so on. The white cards were me­
chanically shuffled and run through a machine which printed the
numbers on paper in the order in which they happened to come.
3 ^ 9
W ITCHCRAFT
The second hundred thousand cards were red, and these also had
an equal distribution of the first five digits. These, too, were me­
chanically shuffled, and their numbers were printed on the paper.
The finished job, as sent to Professor Pitkin and myself, con­
sisted of page after page with printed columns of numbers—one
column from the white cards and one from the red. Just as with
Doctor Rhine’s test there was one chance in five of the pair of
digits in any given line being the same—that is, matching. But,
with our test, there was no possible chance of mind-reading or
clairvoyance as a factor. In getting a true picture of pure chance,
a run of 100,000 is a small number, but it is a large number to
work with; for instance, there are not that many words in this
book. Of course, as we expected, we got what seemed to be most
exceptional runs and lack of runs. When mathematicians say that
an event is likely to happen but once in so many times, they do
not mean that it has to happen, or that it can’t happen more than
once in any given series. No segment and no particular time are
referred to in the mathematician’s statement. If we knew how to
state the possibilities of special events, they would cease to be pos­
sibilities and would become certainties.
We got some amazingly amusing results. For instance, there
were as many as thirty-two lines of figures in sequence without
one matching pair. Of course, by chance we might expect to get
six matched pairs. Again, there would be runs of matching pairs.
Professor Pitkin made a most astonishing discovery about these
runs. Runs of five matching pairs in sequence fell 25 per cent
below theoretical frequency, while runs of six rose to 25 per cent
above theoretical frequency. Runs of seven jumped still higher to
59 per cent above chance expectancy, and with runs of eight we
went to 78 per cent above theoretical frequency. Now, if we
were to use our short-test run illogically, we might infer that in
any long run the tendency is for the striking coincidences to occur
oftener than called for by the mathematical formula. And the
longer the coincidental run, the higher its frequency as compared
with mathematical requirements. Obviously, this ends in pure ab­
surdity. Another amusing freak deviation from theoretical distri­
330
NOTES ON PART TH REE
bution was that in the first forty thousand pairs there were al­
most three times as many runs of five as there were in the next
sixty thousand, while with the runs of six it was just the reverse.
And neither of these series of runs was to be expected.
We also found that when we arbitrarily selected segments for
their high frequency of matching pairs, we would find twenty-five
and twice twenty-five with half the pairs matching. These runs
were above chance expectancy in 100,000; but in an infinite
number they were to be expected. All that we had was a series
of numbers in which these matched pairs happened to come.
Totaling the number of “ correct guesses” in each thousand of
our pure-chance run, we found that twenty-four thousand came
within 2 per cent of mathematical expectancy; thirty thousand
went above and forty-six thousand went below theoretical chance.
The total number of pairs in the entire one hundred thousand was
less than 2 per cent away from what was to be expected. The
total, by the way, was under mathematical expectancy.
Perhaps Doctor Rhine has proved that a certain few people
have mind-reading or clairvoyant powers, but so far the tests do
not seem to me to be conclusive. I know that he will agree with
me fully in stating that, even granting that there are people who
have extra-sensory perception, it is a most uncertain and unde­
pendable ability.
Fallacious isolation is so easy in dealing with psychological
studies. My mother has been amused for years because of a book
in which the author pointed out my extremely youthful identifi­
cation of music. The author based his opinion on personal ob­
servation and on the answers my mother gave to his questions. He
saw me get quite excited in a dining room in a hotel when the
orchestra began to play a march by Sousa. I was but a baby in a
high chair, and he was quite astonished to hear me call out
“ Sousa!” He came over to the table and asked my mother if I
had actually said “Sousa” when the orchestra began to play, and
she replied that I had. He then asked for my name and age, and
both were given him. It so happened that my baby name for
3 3 1
W ITCHCRAFT
music was “Sousa.” The professor had merely failed to ask the
right question.
So far, nothing has convinced me of any one’s ability to read
minds, but then many other people do believe. My mother not
only does believe mind-reading possible but bases her proof on
the number of times I have read her mind. I think the probability
is that on a few occasions I have outguessed her, and mother-like,
she has unconsciously multiplied the number many times.
5. P O S S IB IL IT Y OF P R E C O G N IT IO N is accepted and
partially explained by the British military inventor and sci­
entist, J. W. Dunne, in various volumes including The Serial
Universe and An Experiment with Time. Commenting on
Dunne’s theories, in the New York Times Book Review,
December 3, 1939, Henry James Forman says:
. . . Mr. Dunne, however popular he tries to be in his manner
of presenting his theory, is still and always the engineer, the
scientist and the mathematician.
. . . one may state with boldness that if any theory of the
present confused age has a chance of surviving and growing Mr.
Dunne’s theory of “serialism” is the likeliest. For all of us today,
from the most intelligent to the least intelligent, are weary of
the materialist pummeling we have received during the last sev­
enty or eighty years. To such a degree has the universe been
mechanized for us that scientists themselves can no longer bear
it. And now we hear from the greatest of them that the universe
consists of pure thought. Intuitively we have always felt that to
be the case. We have always known somehow that Reality is
hidden by the veil of so-called matter and that matter itself does
not matter much. It is the poets, saints and prophets to whom we
turn to enlarge our spirits, not to theses upon the Diesel engine,
however brilliant, nor to techniques of nerve-splicing or operable
cancer. . . .
. . . in his first book Mr. Dunne showed, much to his own
332
NOTES ON PART TH REE
surprise, that dreams have certain startling attributes; that actually
they reveal the future quite as often as they deal with the past.
That the time in and by which we live is very far from the whole
story, and that there is a “ N ow ” of which our fast and future
are merely small artificial comfartmetits. Being a scientist, he pur­
sued the experimental method and arrived at some amazing re­
sults.
. . . The “ self” which we cannot visualize, he shows, but of
which we are vaguely aware, is a traveling field altering en­
tropy—a traveling intersection point. “All states which the self at
the traveling field regards as ‘future’ are just as real in the sense
of ‘existing now’ as are those states which the same restricted in­
dividual regards as past. All,” he adds, “are equally present in
the real ‘now’ . . . But the self can interfere at the place where
the traveling field happens to be. . . .”
Thus Mr. Dunne arrives by mathematics and physics to the
point where those saints and prophets referred to by Mr. Priestley
were when they told us such things as, “ Before Abraham was, I
am” ; or, in the words of the Buddhist sutra, “all sentient beings
are identical in essence with the true nature; . . . the nature in
itself neither departs nor comes” . . . .
This “ slit in time” business is just now exciting a lot of
practical and hard-boiled people. Lowell Thomas, at M ul-
holland’s request, tells, in Beware Familiar Spirits, of a girl
who had precognition of his residence in Dutchess County.
Lowell says:
Back in my school days I had a girl chum, a young lady who
vanished from my life when I grew up. I had entirely lost track
of her. After the World War, upon returning from ten years of
wandering around the globe, I was walking along a street in the
Broadway night life district and to my surprise saw the name
of my school friend, Beula Bondi, featured in electric lights in
a theatre marquee. I went back stage with the hope that it was
333
W IT C H C R A F T
the same girl. It was, and there was a reunion, with memories of
gay college days.
Said Miss Bondi: “ Tommy, although I have not heard from
you in years and years, you have not been entirely out of my
thoughts. For several summers, I have lived in the foothills of
the Berkshires, and every time I passed a certain house, I had a
strange feeling that you were there living in that house! ”
At that time I had never been in the Berkshires and knew
nothing about Dutchess County, and had never heard of lovely
Quaker Hill. But two years after meeting Miss Bondi, who is
now a celebrated character actress of the screen, I decided I
wanted a place in the country, and it must be within one hundred
miles of Manhattan Island. Whereupon I began a systematic
search of everything within that distance. My dream was to find
a perfect all-year-round climate, plus scenic beauty, plus good
neighbors. For one reason or another I eliminated Long Island,
Northern New Jersey, and both the West and East shores of the
Hudson. Eventually my travels brought me to Dutchess County,
and to historic Quaker Hill, a ten-mile-long ridge in the South­
eastern corner of the county, which is one of the loveliest spots
on earth— not as spectacular as the Vale of Kashmir— but in its
own way just as beautiful.
And, there on one spur of Quaker Hill I saw just the Colonial
House I wanted. The dowager who owned the estate at that time
had not thought of selling. But, at last, a deal was made. And
that, as you have guessed by now, is the same which Beula Bondi
had for many years associated with her college friend, the house
in which she, with her prophetic eye, saw me living.
This I discovered later after I had moved into the neighbor­
hood.
Fulton Oursler, as quoted by Mulholland, says:
The riddle of time and space has always seemed to me much
more important than the question of personal survival; and I have
had actually hundreds of experiences that seemed to indicate the
validity of the “ slit in time” theory advanced in the last few years
334
N O TE S ON PA RT T H R E E
by the great Freudian apostate, Jung. I came to the same theory
independently. I do not know if I formulated it before Jung did,
but I certainly formulated it before Jung announced it.
C H A P T E R III
I. A F IN E N E W CROP OF W H IT E M A G IC IA N S is
coming up in 1940 as this book goes to press. They get
photos in picture papers, space in newspapers, including the
Herald Tribune and the Times.
At Oakdale, Long Island, James B. Schafer has founded
the Royal Fraternity of Master Metaphysicians, and has
adopted a red-haired six-months-old girl baby by the name
of Jean Gauntt. The baby is to be subjected to intensive white
magic as a candidate for immortality.
At West Hempstead, Long Island, a Russian named Gleb
Botkin, son of the physician to the late Czar, has founded
and incorporated the Long Island Church of Aphrodite, for
the worship of Venus.
In Los Angeles, California, Edwin J. Dingle, F.R.G .S.,
has expanded the Institute of Mentalphysics, which hopes to
regenerate the Western world by Yoga. Mr. Dingle, of
course, “ lived in a Tibetan monastery,” w'here the priests
taught him “ secret methods closely guarded for many cen­
turies.”
Great white magicians go out of fashion, or come croppers,
but my bet is that these will be around for quite a while. The
field offers as good opportunity for success as medicine or
law, but is almost as crowded. There are thousands of little
ones, male and female, who never get further than talking
to the ghost of your grandmother through an “ Indian
335
W IT C H C R A F T
guide” ; reading your palm or horoscope for twenty-five
cents; or reading your future in tea leaves at the same price
—with the tea and toast thrown in. The great rewards are
only for the great successes, but if you feel you’re in commu­
nication with my late aunt from Hawkinsville, Georgia, or
her deceased equivalent in your own family—or with Tibetan
monks or their esoteric equivalent in the great human family,
you might take a flier at it. Maybe it will make you more
money and give more aid and comfort to your fellow-man
than delivering groceries, working in a garage, cooking,
sweeping, or dishwashing. Maybe it will require posterity to
decide whether you’re a third Saint Theresa (it was a servant
girl who recently became a second one) or whether you’re
merely a deluded servant girl trying to get on in the world—
whether you’re another Saint Francis of Assisi or merely the
village idiot. If you’re sincere and care more about helping
your fellow-man than you do about making a nickel, you
may go a long way. So many new mechanical gadgets have
been invented and need to be mended, that the human soul,
which perhaps needs the most mending of all, is at a discount.
The soul is the only gadget, so far as I know, that the Inter­
national Correspondence School doesn’t teach you how to
mend. That may be why so many incompetent and unskilled
people try to do it.
Every once in a while a great one, or potential great one,
comes along. They usually emerge from obscurity. The most
promising one in recent years was Krishnamurti,1 but he got
tired of being a “ World Savior” and blew up. The most
interesting one who hasn’t blown up is Father Divine (great
white magician among the blacks). I ’m paying him the com-
1 See p. 345.
3 3 6
N O TE S ON PA R T T H R E E
pliment of leaving him out of this book because he puts
honesty, industry, and the cardinal virtues ahead of magic.
At the moment, Jean Gauntt, the baby being coached by
metaphysicians for immortality, is getting more publicity
than any other candidate in this field. The Herald Tribune
launched her on November 27, 1939, with a baby picture
and a piece by a staff correspondent. Time has mentioned the
baby several times and on December 4, 1939, she occurred
as follows in Time's column entitled “ Milestones” :
AD O PTED . Jean, five-month-old girl; by James Bernard
Schafer, Messenger (headman) of the Royal Fraternity of Master
Metaphysicians; in Oakdale, L. I. Jean’s home will be the 100-
room Oakdale mansion (formerly William K. Vanderbilt’s) ac­
quired by the R.F.M .M . last year (Time, July 11, 1938), who
changed its name from Idle Hour to Peace Haven. A religious
cult dedicated to Peace and practicing a mixture of Rosicrucian-
ism, Christian Science, Christianity, Supermind Science and faith
healing, the Fraternity will attempt to make Jean immortal, by
bringing her up in an environment where death and disease
(called the products of destructive thinking) arc not mentioned
or thought about. She will attend metaphysics classes from the
start, will be a vegetarian as soon as she can be taken off her
special formula.
The Herald Tribune's staff correspondent wrote on No­
vember 26:
Mr. Schafer, a calm, soft-spoken metaphysician, believes that
the child’s education can be so shaped that destructive thoughts
will never enter her mind, and as a result she will be preserved
from destruction— even destruction of the body.
Mr. Schafer quoted the Bible, “ The last enemy to be de­
stroyed is death,” and Mary Baker G. Eddy, founder of Chris­
tian Science, “ Death must be overcome, not submitted to.” While
churches have taught immortality of the soul, he said, schools of
337
W IT C H C R A F T
truth, such as his fraternity, teach that immortality of the body
is attainable as well.
“ It isn’t a dream,” he said. “ All of us work from the stand­
point of immortality of the body, but most students by the time
they come to us have dissipated and ruined their lives. They have
so much mental baggage that has to be unloaded.
“ A baby has an empty brain. W e’ll keep impressing on it the
beauty of life and the side of life that we are trying to live. If
the child doesn’t think anything that’s bad or destructive it can’t
be torn down.”
As evidence of the possibilities of metaphysics, Mr. Schafer told
of his own teacher, who, he said, “ is ’way over loo years old,
though to look at him you wouldn’t think he was more than forty
or fifty.” Mr. Schafer would not disclose the name of his teacher.
He also told of a man who broke his leg last week, and an
hour later was cured and walking. “ There isn’t a school of truth
in existence that hasn’t hundreds of seemingly miraculous cures
in its files,” he said, “ but what would be the use of talking about
them? People wouldn’t believe it.”
Mr. Schafer has started proceedings for the formal adoption of
baby Jean, and although he will be the legal foster-parent, all
of the students who come to Peace Haven will take part in her
education. The infant is a daughter of a couple who, according
to Mr. Schafer, were starving themselves to feed her and were
glad to have her brought up in the luxurious atmosphere of Peace
Haven.
This Long Island Shangri La is the 110-room mansion built
in 1901 by the late W . K . Vanderbilt at a cost of $2,500,000. Its
great rooms are opulently furnished, there are tennis courts, a
swimming pool, a squash court, saddle horses, archery ranges, a
gymnasium and other recreational facilities. Students, adepts and
master metaphysicians use the estate, Mr. Schafer said, “ as an
auxiliary home,” and there are always from fifty to 100 in
residence.
It is in this atmosphere that baby Jean will grow up. She now
has a trained nurse who also has had long experience in meta-
3 3 8
N O TE S ON PA RT T H R E E
physics. When she is a little older she will go on a vegetarian diet.
She attends classes now, as Mr. Schafer says, “ to get the atmos­
phere.” Later she will be fortified against destructive influences
by education.
She will learn that there are such things as meat and alcoholic
beverages and cigarettes, but she also will learn why they are to
be avoided as destructive. She will learn that there is such a thing
as death, but will be told that it is an unnecessary evil. “ She must
be educated to understand everything,” Mr. Schafer said. “ Where
there’s ignorance there’s fear. Where there’s fear there’s de­
struction.”
Whether it was Dr. Schafer’s own idea or a suggestion
from the Daily Mirror, I don’t know, but in December the
“ immortal” baby was driven to the Ziegfeld Theatre in her
own car, with her own chauffeur and private nurse, where
the Mirror took pictures of her. The baby sat and behaved
herself very well while Dr. Schafer lectured to 1,500 people.
Afterward he took Jean before the footlights, recited,
“ Where do you come from, baby dear?” Jean cooed in re­
sponse and posed again for the photographers. “ See,” said
Dr. Schafer. “ She isn’t afraid of the flash bulbs. She will go
on forever.”
The New Yorker has suggested that if she does, she’ll
probably end by being a bore to her great-great-great­
grandchildren.
Another gentleman who feels that we don’t need to die is
Preceptor Emeritus Edwin J. Dingle, F.R.G.S., of the In­
stitute of Mentalphysics in Los Angeles. I dropped him a
postcard and had a letter in return. It was from his private
office at 2 13 South Hobart Boulevard, and contained a
pamphlet with a picture of administration offices and audi-
3 39
W IT C H C R A F T
torium at Los Angeles; also a woodcut of a Tibetan lama­
sery in the Himalayas. Or was it a pagoda? The letter was
nice. M r. Dingle addressed me as his dear friend and as­
sured me that when he had heard from me he felt immedi­
ately that I “ belonged.” H e told me not only that God is
within me, but that I, myself, little Willie Seabrook am God
in human form. H e said this would amaze me, and it did.
H e goes on to tell me that I will be further amazed at the
might of my power when I have learned more about it. H e
tells me that as I become skilled in my strange new power
my own family (which consists of Marjorie, a Scottie, and
three cats) and also my friends and acquaintances will be
fascinated by the change in me. H e’s got something there.
1 think Marjorie would be pleased to see any change. H e
says they will be astonished at the radiance of my counte­
nance and the greater strength in my body. Maybe I ’ll be
able to drive over two hundred yards after I ’ve tapped the
reservoir of power. H e tells me I ’m like a giant in the hands
of a hypnotist. H e says the giant in me is made helpless,
hypnotized by false ideas of my own weakness and by tradi­
tional notions of my own limitations. I’m a giant, but a sick
giant. Mr. Dingle tells me that he is a “ De-hypnotist.” H e
is a persuasive letter writer. I got the impression that he was
sincere, that he believed these things (or that somebody
backing him did), and that he also believes he can teach
them. So did Dr. Coue. So did Buddha, Confucius, Moham­
med, and Jesus Christ. If M r. Dingle’s approach to the pub­
lic is a bit more modern and more high-powered-salesman­
ship-mail-order style than theirs—well, this is a modern
age, and mimeographed letters hadn’t been invented in the
3 4 0
time of Confucius. If they had, Confucius might have used
them.
The pamphlet explains that he’s the author of a number
of books including Across China on Foot, China's Revolu­
tion, Your Mind and Its Mysteries-, that he is also editor of
Dingle's New Allas and Commercial Gazetteer of China, Bi­
lingual M ap of China, Far Eastern Products Manual. I can’t
find him in the British Who's Who, or in the American
Who’s Who, but by faith we shall know him.
This field is infested by quacks, crooks, and petty rack­
eteers. So also are the fields of science, law, and medicine.
But it’s by no means automatically true that all fakirs are
fakers. Nor are all founders of new religions necessarily so
ridiculous as at first they sometimes seem.
The newspapers were inclined to poke mild fun at Gleb
Botkin, when he and his wife put a statue of the Venus de’
Medici on their bureau and started worshiping it. But when
the World-Telegram sent its staff writer, Douglas Gilbert,
out to West Hempstead, he refrained from doing any bur­
lesquing. The World-Telegram (November 15, 1939) gave
his piece the following headline:
A P H R O D IT E GODDESS O F C H U R C H
T H A T G IV ES LO V E A BIG B R E A K
Russian Gets License from State to Worship “ Sweetly-Smelling,
Laughter-Loving” Beauty
This is what he wrote:
Gleb Botkin, 38, a learned Russian, author of numerous books
in English and son of the physician to the Czar— his father was
murdered with the Emperor in the Red revolt— has founded a
new religion. It is the Long Island Church of Aphrodite.
N O TE S ON PART T H R E E
341
W IT C H C R A F T
It was incorporated Oct. 2 1 when Mr. Botkin received his
charter from the State Department of the State of New York and
was established May 6, 1938. He made its existence known
today.
He already has some 35 followers and about 15 more are
“ borderline.” They meet at his home, 55 Ivy St., West Hemp­
stead, L. I., Fridays— Friday being Aphrodite’s day.
There they discuss the new religion with its founder, who is
the priest, and those who are earnest in their prophet’s belief ad­
journ later to a rear bedroom in his home and worship before
Aphrodite’s altar which he has erected on a bureau.
The altar is a figure of the goddess, the post-Praxiteles art
work known as The Venus of the Medici. It stands before a
purple scarf or tapestry and before it burn nine candles and in­
cense. It is beautiful to look at and impressive in an eerie way.
The members who thus assemble before the altar then recite
their credo and chant a psalm, both written by M r. Botkin. The
creed begins:
I believe in Aphrodite, the flower-faced, sweetly-smelling,
laughter-loving goddess of Love and Beauty, the self-existent,
eternal and only Supreme Deity; creator and mother of the Cos­
mos; the Universal Cause; the Universal Mind; the source of
all life and all 'positive creative forces of nature; the Fountain
Head of all happiness and joy. . . .
The psalm concludes:
Blessed thou art, O beautiful goddess; and our love for Thee
is like the sky which has no bounds; like eternity which has no
ending; like thy beauty itself that no words could describe. For
ive love Thee with every atom of our souls and bodies, O A phro-
dite: holiest, sweetest, loveliest, most blessed, most glorious, most
beautiful Goddess of Beauty.
It is one of Mr. Botkin’s cherished dreams some day to have
a chapel. Hs religion, he says, is modishly ecclesiastical and he
will establish a consecrated clergy.
As a priest Mr. Botkin will wear mainly the Aphrodisian head­
dress (it is shaped like a mitre), and already he has designed the
3 42
N O TE S ON PART T H R E E
Church of Aphrodite symbol. It is a cross, surmounted by a circle.
The cross is significant of the love meeting of man and woman;
the circle symbolizes eternity.
Sex enters into the new religion of Mr. Botkin but only as an
ideal, “ divine and wonderful.” It is no part of the ritual. He
puts a halo on the expression, and in its discussion makes it sound
like the necking of angels.
Mr. Botkin’s followers are no collection of orgiastic nudist nuts
with vine leaves in their hair. Most of them are intellectual
friends, he says, of broadminded inquiry and tolerant acceptance.
Some live in West Hempstead, some in New York, and a few
believers are in Europe with whom he has correspondence. He
has had no inquiries from Los Angeles, yet.
Nor is Mr. Botkin a prophet in a nightgown with a shepherd’s
crook. He is a highly agreeable, well-spoken gentleman, giving
every evidence of earnestness and faith. His face is lean and hand­
some, often wrinkled in smiles, and a half-Hughesian beard en­
hances his saintly, Messianic aspect.
His wife is a pleasant lady in face and manner with prematurely
whitish hair. They have five children, three sons and two daugh­
ters. All are absolutely uninhibited and it is a lovely thing to
break bread with them.
This reporter, informed of the charter grant to his church in
Albany, called upon him unheralded. The Botkins have no tele­
phone. He received us in his study, an alcove off the living-room
containing a bookcase, a desk, a typewriter, a deep lounge chair,
and a cot.
He was apologetically reluctant to release information about
his new church.
“ I am afraid of its presentation,” he said, “ lest it attract neu­
rotics and those emotionally unstable. But I shall some day have
to do it and I suppose it may as well be now.”
He said that he had long been familiar with the Aphrodisian
qualities that are found in most religions and that he had nursed
his own ideas about it while a novitiate for the priesthood in the
Greek Catholic Church of Russia.
343
W IT C H C R A F T
He said this was the basis of his religion of Aphrodite:
“To seek and develop Love, Beauty and Harmony, and to
suppress ugliness and discord.”
He said that his religion follows precisely the natural instincts
of man and that Christianity often denies them.
“ The Christian principle,” said Mr. Botkin, “is to suppress
desires and to develop spirit. The religion of Aphrodite, with
minor qualifications, is the antithesis of this.
“Sex, for example, is a divine function. But listen to this: In
the Lambeth Conference in 1930 the Episcopal bishops stated,
‘sexual relations are a regrettable necessity even when children
are desired.’ And in reply to this the late Pope Pius X I deplored
‘the laxity of the Episcopal bishops.’
“ Marriage, within the Christian principle, . . . is a compro­
mise which is permissible when men can no longer stand celibacy.
In the religion of Aphrodite the sex expression limits itself within
the virtue of its sacrcdness.”
When lie is not involved in his Aphrodisian theories and faith,
Mr. Gotkin works upon a book he is writing that is to interpret
Russia since the fall of the Czar. Russia, not Nazi Germany,
which is certain to be defeated, is the coming world problem,
he says. But love will find a way.
Hate, he says, is evil, and evil, in the Aphrodisian faith, is only
the absence of good. Hate, selfishness, jealousy, are unnatural, he
says. He put it quite poetically: “ A good gardener pulls up weeds
not because he hates weeds but because he loves flowers.”
The worship of Venus, Isis, and Astarte was not ridiculous
in Greece and ancient Egypt. It is perhaps a bit ridiculous
within the shadow of Manhattan’s skyscrapers in 1940. If it
is slightly ridiculous (i.e., a legitimate butt for slight ridi­
cule), the ridiculousness is not intrinsic or inherent, but de­
rives from the fact that Gleb Botkin’s worshiped statue is
not merely an anachronism in time and space, but is also
archaic. Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception at Lourdes
344
N O TE S ON PA RT T H R E E
seems equally anachronistic in a 1940 time-space spanned on
our little globe by radio and transatlantic airlines—but she is
not archaic. She is a living sacred symbol to millions now
alive.
Fashions change in gods and goddesses, just as they do in
white magicians; just as they did in the hats worn on earth
by my aunt from Hawkinsville, Georgia, who now wears a
halo, I hope. The Venus Cult has gone the way of my late
aunt’s hats. But the fashion for worshiping M ary and her
Son has scarcely changed in two thousand years—and perhaps
the world will be better if it never changes.
ia. K R IS H N A M U R T I B L E W U P AS A W O RLD -
SAVIO R when Mrs. Annie Besant and the Theosophists,
after grooming him for years to be Lord Jesus Christ’s and
Lord Gautama Buddha’s successor, brought him, not for the
first time, to New York on October 19, 1931. Ship news re­
porters swarmed him. In his first authorized interview, car­
ried on the morning of October 20, in the Herald Tribune,
Times, and by the Associated Press, he renounced Theosophy
and repudiated Mrs. Besant.
Behind that unhappy landing lies a tangled story. I am not
sure any of it disproves the possibility that Krishnamurti
may have been a world savior who might not have blown
up. Here are all the known facts, in a sequence not always
chronological, but pointing always backward and forward in
time to the perhaps inevitable blowup:
On December 29, 1925, Mrs. Annie Besant, then president
of the Theosophical Society of the World, had announced
at Adyar, Madras Province (Adyar being the home of the
Society), that a “ world-teacher” had been reincarnated and
345
W IT C H C R A F T
would appear soon in the person of Jiddu Krishnamurti.
Krishnamurti was a young Hindu, then about twenty-nine
years old, who had been a protege of hers and of Bishop
Charles W . Leadbeater’s since the age of twelve.
I don’t need to tell you about Mrs. Besant, on whose
shoulders the great Blavatsky’s mantle had fallen. I can’t
tell you much about Bishop Leadbeater, who died a couple
of years ago. He was an Englishman whose past became in­
teresting to the Herald Tribune in August, 1926, when
Krishnamurti first came to America. According to the Herald
Tribune of August 25, efforts had been made by “ unknown
persons” to bar Krishnamurti’s landing on the grounds that
he was guilty of “ moral turpitude.” The basis was that his
former tutor, Bishop Charles W. Leadbeater, “ had often
been accused and had confessed to immoralities.” The Herald
Tribune declared: “ Bishop Leadbeater’s exploits, trials and
reinstatements have convulsed the Theosophist order since
1906. Now, at the age of eighty [1926], the Bishop lives in
Sydney, Australia, surrounded by adepts and novitiates in
mystic orders.”
The Herald Tribune quoted London Truth:
Many readers of “Truth” will doubtless remember what was
said here at the time as to the disreputable antecedents of one or
two of these worthies. That they are not unfair samples of the
crowd of disciples which Mrs. Besant has gathered about her may
be guessed from a scandalous affair that has just occurred in
Holland.
I don’t know what the “ scandalous affair” in Holland was.
The Herald Tribune dropped the hot potato. The only addi­
tional knowledge I have of Bishop Leadbeater is that he was
a cultured, supposedly homosexual gentleman, first and only
3 4 6
N O TE S ON PA RT T H R E E
Bishop of the Liberal Catholic Church, which was an affiliate
of the Theosophist movement, and had nothing remotely to
do with the H oly Roman Catholic Church. Bishop Lead­
beater and the Liberal Catholic Church disappear quickly
from this picture, which has been a headache to all orthodox
Theosophists since it started to be painted.
So far as anybody knows, Mrs. Besant met Krishnamurti
in India, when Krishnamurti was about twelve years old and
was attending a Theosophic gathering with his widowed
father and a younger brother. This was in 1908. Krishnamur-
ti’s father was a magistrate’s clerk in India. Mrs. Besant
accepted the guardianship of the boy and his younger brother
from their father, and promised to be responsible for their
education, “ provided I was given entire control over the
boys. The father gladly welcomed my offer and gave over
the two to my care. From that year until 1925, I remained
their guardian, although they were, of course, legally free on
their coming of age.”
Mrs. Besant apparently felt that the “ world-teacher” who
had already manifested himself through the bodies of Jesus
Christ, Buddha, and others, displacing their souls temporarily
or permanently, would reveal himself again through Krish­
namurti, to an anxious and waiting world, particularly to
Americans, Australians, and other “ white Pacific people.”
In 19 11, Mrs. Besant founded the Order of the Star of
the East, to further the work of preparing for the coming
of the world-teacher through the person of Krishnamurti.
The brothers were brought to England and educated there.
It was frequently published that Krishnamurti was educated
at Oxford, but Mrs. Besant declared that he went to Cam­
347
W IT C H C R A F T
bridge. In 19 17, Krishnamurti was an ambulance driver with
the British forces in France.
Previously, in 1912, the boys’ father, J. Narayaniah, had
sued both Mrs. Besant and Bishop Leadbeater for recovery
of his sons’ custody. Leadbeater’s part in the cause celebre in
India is scarcely mentioned in newspaper reports later, since
Mrs. Besant at the time held the spotlight.
The father’s petition charged that Krishnamurti was being
made the object of adoration by Theosophists because of Mrs.
Besant’s belief in his so-called mission. The petition also
denounced Leadbeater for alleged immoralities. The highest
courts in India ruled that the boys be restored to their father,
after a lengthy trial, but the case was brought to the Privy
Council, which reversed the previous decision and directed
that Krishnamurti and his brother be kept in Mrs. Besant’s
custody, but hers alone.
While resident in England, an income was provided for
Krishnamurti by a wealthy Englishman, for about ten years
(19 15-25). Authority for this was Fritz Kunz, of H olly­
wood, American head of the Order of the Star of the East,
with headquarters in Hollywood, in a 1926 newspaper inter­
view.
Although most papers give 1926 as the date of Krish-
namurti’s first arrival in this country, he was here at least
once previously, and possibly twice. The New York Journal
carried his photo prior to 1926 under a San Francisco date
line, as en route to Bombay from there. Also, he is supposed
to have visited this country in 1922.
The December, 1925, announcement of Mrs. Besant’s
endorsement of Krishnamurti caused a terrific backfire in
London and Czechoslovak Theosophic circles. These groups
348
broke away from the world body. Colonel C. L . Peacocke,
president of the London Lodge, said: “ The disgraceful use
being made of the Society by its present president, Mrs.
Annie Besant, for booming and advertising her own private
beliefs and superstitions is driving out of the Society most of
those who are genuine students and searchers for real theos­
ophy.”
It was shortly after the December, 1925, announcement,
that Krishnamurti began his travels. H e was in Paris in June
of 1926, where he created a sensation. H e then went on to
London and was accepted as “ world-teacher” by a vote (un­
doubtedly packed by Mrs. Besant, since the London Lodge
numbered but 40 members) of 600 to 3.
On June 17, 1926, James Montgomery Flagg drew a pic­
ture and wrote an article for I.N.S. on his meeting with
Krishnamurti (carried in the New York Journal), in which
he waxed lyrical over the young Hindu.
In July, 1926, the first of a series of annual camps took
place at Ommen, Holland, attended by two thousand pil­
grims and delegates. While they heard him speak, Krish­
namurti was said to have been possessed by another who
spoke in a different voice, in old English, for four or five
minutes. Also, a huge star over Krishnamurti’s head was said
to have burst into fragments which came raining down.
Others were said to have seen elves, fairies, etc., during the
camp.
It was also declared that Krishnamurti’s body was being
possessed more and more frequently by the “ world-teacher,”
and according to Mrs. Besant, the Christ, Buddha, etc., spirit
would soon take permanent possession.
N O TE S ON PA R T T H R E E
349
W IT C H C R A F T
Forrest Davis, writing for the Herald Tribune, August 15,
1926, said of Krishnamurti:
. . . while always speaking well of the poor, [he] feels more
comfortable in the presence of safely invested wealth. He preaches
a “spiritual aristocracy,” but it may be surmised that a suggestion
of regard for yet another sort of aristocracy underlies the phrase.
This is no advent to the ragtag and bobtail. The street crowds
may not shout Hosanna and spread palms before his motor car,
but many a drawing room will be opened to Krishnaji in New
York and elsewhere. Here, as in London, people of consequence
already are enlisted in the new faith. Women whose names adorn
the Social Register, artists and bankers, joined to herald the com­
ing of the Messiah a long while since.
On Krishnamurti’s arrival here, August 17, 1926, Mrs.
Besant declared that he had covered a total of 30,000 years
during previous lives (not that he had lived that long, since
a soul, after a body’s death, may wait even thousands of years
for a new body, according to Theosophic lore) through re­
incarnation and/or transmigration of souls. Also, he had
passed through thirty-one separate and distinct reincarna­
tions. The occasion of Krishnamurti’s visit, ostensibly, was a
convention at Chicago. H e was accepted almost in triumph
here, although cooler heads among the Christian clergy
roundly denounced him and Mrs. Besant for the pretensions
of Christly honors.
In Chicago crowds gathered about him in triumph, mostly
Theosophists and curiosity seekers, and a newspaper story
mentions that two boy scouts carried flowers before him.
Krishnamurti spoke before a gathering of the Advertising
M en’s Post of the American Legion at Chicago, which post
accepted him as “ a regular fellow.”
350
N O T E S ON PA R T T H R E E
After this Chicago convention, Krishnamurti was supposed
to have gone into retirement.
We next hear of him in this country again when he came
on April 9, 1928, after teaching in Europe and Asia. His
journey this time was devoid of the tremendous fanfare of
publicity that attended his supposedly first arrival. As previ­
ously mentioned, the 1926 arrival here may have been his
third, certainly no less than his second.
During his 1928 stay here, the ascetic Krishnamurti, in a
more worldly outlook, was said to have told Beatrice Black-
mar, in an interview about Katherine Mayo’s Mother India
published in the New York World on May 6, 1928, that
“ India hasn’t too much sex. The poor devils haven’t enough
of it. It is the last thing in their lives.”
In August, 1929, the Order of the Star in the East held
another annual camp at Ommen, in Holland. During its
progress, Krishnamurti threw a bombshell {Times, August 4,
A P) into the ranks of his followers when he announced the
dissolution of the Order of the Star in the East and (accord­
ing to a later report) the return of all property and funds
“ donated” to the Order. Krishnamurti, in a story confused
by the press, was said to have given as his reason, among
others, that truth could not be organized. In the light of his
later words, it is fair to guess that he may have been dis­
gusted with the whole business and felt that he had been
made an unwitting tool by Mrs. Besant to further her own
aims.
H e declared in his announcement of dissolution that “ reli­
gious, philosophical and spiritual organizations are barriers
to understanding of the truth. The truth needs no disciples.
351
W ITCTJ C R A FT
It wants nothing from any man. Only a few will understand
and they need no organization.”
Krishnamurti explained that his Order had been preparing
him for eighteen years to proclaim the truth, but said its
members were not now willing to face the truth.
“ What, then, is the use of this organization?” he asked the
three thousand attending pilgrims and disciples.
On October 20, 19 31, the New York Herald Tribune car­
ried the story that upon Krishnamurti’s arrival here the pre­
vious day he had told the reporters that he had renounced
Theosophy and the representations made for him by Mrs.
Besant. He declared that because of his early mystical nature
Mrs. Besant had chosen him to become the vehicle of the
world-teacher, through revelation. Then later, as his mental
faculties matured, he had seen the error into which he had
been led, possibly by emotional ardor. H e said that gradually
he drifted away from the beliefs held by Mrs. Besant, and
in fact from Theosophy altogether.
“ I learned that each of us must do his own thinking. The
Deity—the better life—lies within each and all of us. You
cannot organize a system of truth; neither can you nor I set
a religious standard for another.”
H e sailed for India in November, and then nothing more
was heard about him, at least in New York, until September
5, 1934, when the United Press carried a story with a date
line from Ojai, California, where one of the Star’s camps
was formerly situated, and where Krishnamurti supposed 1
\
had a residence. The story, a short, was to the effect that
Krishnamurti declared the world is heading for unbelievable
catastrophe “ unless men learn to think.” The fact that the
352
story came from one of Krishnamurti’s camps may sound
confusing, but although he repudiated Mrs. Besant and her
teachings, Krishnamurti, in a New York Times short, dated
March 5, 1930, when he was in New York, declared he had
organized schools in India through which he and his fol­
lowers are spreading his philosophy by instilling it in youth.
The Ojai, California, camp may have been conducted under
similar auspices.
In a March 12, 1935, story in the New York Herald
Tribune, Krishnamurti lectured on March 11 at Town H all
on “ Think for Yourself.” His talk was in part against previ­
ous conceptions, particularly of religion, and against “ lead­
ers,” particularly religious ones.
In a New York Herald Tribune story, dated M ay 3 1,
1936, Krishnamurti, on arriving here from Chicago the pre­
vious day, advised his followers to mistrust all Messiahs and
religious leaders. Previously he had lectured in South Amer­
ica for seven months.
“ It was just another cult, another ballyhoo, like any other
church,” he said of the Order of the Star of the East. When
he dissolved the Order he returned property and funds which
had been contributed by disciples all over the world.
“ I couldn’t tell people to beware of their exploiters and
then exploit myself,” he said. “ They still ask me about truth,
and God and immortality, but I tell them they must learn
for themselves. You can’t point out paths to any of the real
things in life. And besides, the only thing I really know is
myself.” He spoke at Town Hall. H e declared he had no
message, no dogmas. The 1936 clipping is the last the Times
or Associated Press has on him.
N O TE S ON PA RT T H R E E
353
W IT C H C R A F T
H e is now in his early forties, living in Hollywood, a
friend of the Aldous Huxleys and other intellectuals, re­
spected and well liked, seldom appearing in public and never
courting publicity. I believe he was, and possibly still is, a
potentially great man.
I suspect that if the Lord Gautama Buddha, Moses, M o­
hammed, Confucius, Our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ,
had fallen into the hands of Annie Besant and Bishop Lead-
beater, they also would have fallen down, gone boom, and
ended their days in Hollywood.
3. P IE R R E B E R N A R D (OOM T H E O M N IPO T E N T )
first burst into the public eye in the East in 1910 when he
was arrested by New York police on charges brought by two
girls, Zella Hopp, 18, and Gertrude Leo, 19. The case was
dropped after full investigation by the district attorney. The
girls had refused to back up their accusations. They had ap­
parently gone to the police through motives of jealousy. No
indictment was then or ever has been brought against the
man who later became famous in his peculiar field. Bernard,
on arriving in New York late in 1909, had opened the New
York Sanskrit College at 250 West 87th Street, but the ven­
ture was unsuccessful. Two or three years later he bobbed
up in Leonia, New Jersey, where he met a M ile De Vries,
a professional dancer of exceptional ability. It was really this
meeting, as events bear out, that started him on his road
toward success. He married M ile De Vries, taught her ori­
ental dances, and not long afterward she gained the attention
of various society women through her “ health system of
Tantrism.” She is given credit for first enlisting the attention
354
of the then Mrs. Ogden L . M ills,1 daughter of Mrs. W. K.
Vanderbilt. De Vries became Bernard’s “ high priestess” at
the Nyack mansion and estate, which he established in 1919,
under the name of the Brae Burn Club.
In 1927, at Nyack, a ceremony was held to celebrate the
tenth wedding anniversary of a Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
couple, two of Bernard’s devotees. This was the notorious
“ coffin ceremony.” As related by an anonymous witness (in
Hearst’s Sunday American, magazine section, M ay 15,
1927):
For this ceremony, which was mystically a marriage as well as
an anniversary, the “ bride” and “groom” were dressed as at their
first wedding. The girls and women of the cortege wore the
robes and veils of nuns, covering brilliant and fantastic costumes
beneath. The men wore the robes and cowls of monks, covering
up equally gay and fantastic costumes in which they were to ap­
pear later.
All carried tall candles, like a procession in a cathedral.
Immediately behind the bride and groom were carried two cof­
fins. These coffins were the symbol of the dead and the burying
of the past.
Afterwards the coffins were covered with gay draperies and
used as tables for an elaborate banquet, while the monks and nuns
put off their sombre religious habits and reappeared as gay
revelers.
In 1929, on September 8, a “ society circus” was staged at
Nyack. Featured was the “ Dance of the Dead,” in which
M ile De Vries, Bernard’s wife, co-cultist and high priestess,
arose from a coffin to do her dance. She wore a veil and exe-
1 Margaret Rutherford was successively Mrs. Ogden L. Mills, Lady
Dukes, and Princess Murat, and at one time the most fashionable member
o f the colony of Oom. Her latest husband is Frederick Leybournc Sprague,
a portrait painter o f Manasquan, N. J.
N O TES ON PA RT T H R E E
355
W IT C H C R A F T
cuted a series of serpentine exercises featured by twistings
and writhings of the body. Meanwhile she solemnly chanted:
T h a t m an has the w h o le w o rld ,
H e has m e, h e has you,
H e has all o f us n o w ,
H e has the w h o le w o rld h i his hands.
Bernard then did an exotic solo all his own.
H e also did a dancing specialty with a baby elephant. The
animal was said to be a sacred elephant of India. The Ameri­
can reporter termed the dance “ The Barbers’ Itch.”
To join the inner circle of the Secret Order of Tantriks,
which wealthy people were invited to join, the man or woman
must first have confessed to Bernard—as high priest—all
sins, all secret desires, all inner thoughts; must then promise
to abide by his decisions; must finally take the Tantrik vow.
In this inner circle, according to a woman who had lived
in the Nyack colony, Oom was more than a high priest—he
became, in the opinion of his followers, a sort of man-god.
H e is costumed as a high priest, and his devotees, garbed
usually as his worshipers and followers, sing the Tantrik
^ B e to m e a lo vin g g u r u ; (teacher)
B e a lo v in g T a n trik gu ru .
Then the initiates kneel as in a church and sing, in a
monotone: “ Oom ma na padma oom.”
It is sung repeatedly in a chanting monotone, like the
beating of drums in a forest, and is supposed, if kept up long
enough, to induce a state of ecstasy.
The secret of Bernard’s powers, it has been stated, seems
to be to give his followers a new conception of love. At the
3 5 6
N O TE S ON PART T H R E E
time he met M ile De Vries at Leonia, New Jersey, she is
supposed to have told him:
Half the domestic tragedies, three-fourths of the divorces, many
of the nervous breakdowns and not a few suicides and murders
in America are due to the inherent ignorance and stupidity of the
average Anglo-Saxon man or woman on the subject of love. We
will teach them— and maybe make our adventure a great success.
Winfield Nicholls, an adherent of Bernard’s who subse­
quently married into the Vanderbilt clan, gave an interview
to New York newspapers, in the course of which he said:
Under Dr. Bernard we tried to work out a sensible scheme of
balanced living. Wc tried to face all the facts of nature and life
and art with eyes open and unafraid. But we never overempha­
sized any of our functions or capabilities for happiness more than
was its due. We admitted love, but all things else as well.
Bernard’s principal aims are said to be “ to teach men and
women to love, and make women feel like queens.”
In M ay of 1931 (World-Telegram of May 7, 19 31) after
a two-year study of Bernard, Dr. Charles Francis Potter,
liberal New York City minister and founder of “ Human­
ism,” announced he was writing a serious biography of
Bernard. Dr. Potter had made his residence in Nyack since
1929.
Bernard claimed that he was doing pioneer work in human
body-building and character training. Potter “ began to
understand” why Bernard was called “ Omnipotent Oom”
after talking with many people “ whom he had brought back
to health and strength after they had decided life was not
worth while.”
His original methods of dealing with defeated personali­
ties interested Potter, and he found Bernard “ combined
357
W IT C H C R A F T
knowledge of age-old Indian methods of curing disease of
mind and body with the best of Western methods, plus a
refreshing amount of common sense.”
Said Dr. Potter, “ I was reminded again and again of the
lives of the great religious leaders of the past whom I had
studied for my book on ‘The Story of Religion.’ Dr. Bernard
has all the ear-marks of genius.”
Mrs. W. K. Vanderbilt is said to have contributed to
Bernard’s work. Her two daughters by a previous marriage,
Barbara and Margaret Rutherford, became disciples of Ber­
nard and his Nyack cult and married followers of the cult.
Margaret had been previously divorced from Ogden L.
Mills, and Barbara from Cyril Hatch.
Barbara became Mrs. Winfield Nicholls when she married
the right-hand man of Bernard. Margaret, in turn, married
Sir Paul Dukes, a well-known Britisher who during 191 5-
1918 was chief of the British intelligence service in Russia.
H e had joined Bernard’s cult in Nyack in 1922.
Other of Bernard’s disciples included Baron Droste von
Knoblauch, Marshall Bartholomew, Mrs. Samuel N. H ol­
liday, Mrs. Charles B. Alexander, Mrs. Chalmers Wood, Jr.,
Diana Hunt Wertheim, Dorothy Just, Christopher Hervey,
Charles Wood, Jr. and Mrs. Wood, Edmund Trowbridge
Dana, grandson of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
More recently (1939), Lou Nova, a heavyweight pugilist
of considerable prominence, allegedly trained under the
sponsorship of Bernard, Yoga methods and all. Pictures of
Nova in “ Yoga” postures appeared in the newspapers ol
New York. H e was matched to fight Tony Galento. Galento
knocked the disciple of Yoga cold in a Philadelphia ring.
Dr. Potter declares ( World-Telegram) that he admires
35 8
Bernard’s unusual qualities and completely disbelieves cur­
rent stories about him. H e plans in his book, he says, to “ con­
trast the bizarre myth of ‘Oom’ as built up in newspaper
accounts with the real facts of the man’s life and character
as I have come to know them.”
Potter termed Bernard a “ man both prophet and show­
man, who could lecture on religion with singular penetration
and could with equal facility stage a big circus, manage a
winning ball team or put on an exhibition of magic which
rivaled Houdini. H e knows the human body, anatomically
and psychologically, in a way to amaze veteran surgeons and
psychological experts. H e delights to visit a seance incognito,
and after the medium has done her best, he produces phe­
nomena which makes her call in fright for the lights.”
Reports that Bernard’s club was a love cult and that mys­
terious orgies took place there from time to time, said Dr.
Potter, “ differed so greatly from my own impression of the
place that I investigated further. I asked why Dr. Bernard
had not contradicted the astounding stories about him and
the club. The reply was that his policy was never to give
interviews and never to correct false stories.”
The club members were professional and business men
and women of New York, Potter found, of an unusually
healthy and happy sort.
The New York police, who used to visit the Nyack place
occasionally, have never issued any such encomiums—but
must be at least in pragmatic accord with Dr. Potter, since
no action ever followed any of the visits.5
5. M A G IC P E N T A G R A M S A N D C IR C L E S occur for
good and bad among all groups, from time immemorial, who
N O TE S ON PA RT T H R E E
359
W IT C H C R A F T
seek contact with the infinite—whether to use it as a harmful
weapon (as do witches) or as a haven and sanctuary from
kitchen and dining-room boredom, as do our ladies of the
Eastern Star in Rhinebeck.
I should like it if they or my witch-friends could tell me
why God, beauty, power, or a werewolf could be enticed or
stopped or captured more quickly in a circle-shaped or star­
shaped trap than in one shaped like the hat of my late aunt
from Hawkinsville. All they have ever been able to explain
is that, since God, power, werewolfs, have been enticed,
stopped, or trapped in stars and circles drawn like these from
the time of the early Egyptians—these must be the best traps.
They probably are—because they are the most tried and
used, for good and bad—whether to entice gods or cozzen
devils.
The British scolded A. C., and made him seem more mon­
strous by showing that the altar on which the wretched cat
lost its life was a pentagram. Intrinsically, A. C.’s altar is as
innocent as that of our ladies in Rhinebeck. It’s never the
shape of the altar that makes it good or bad. What sacrifices
you offer and what you do around it make it good or bad.
If Gertrude Stein had impaled pussycats on the thorns of her
magic circle of roses, it could become as wicked as any magic
circle Gilles de Retz stood in when he cut babies’ throats.
Since, instead, Gertrude Stein has stood inside her magi'
circle only to tell the rest of us—who have mostly forgotten
it—that a rose is a rose, I feel that the sweetest magic circle
ever swirled was her rose circle. It looks lovely, and it
doesn’t tell us any more than we ever need to know.
Here are some to show you that they are all intrinsical!
similar:
3 6 0
A. •. A. •. Publication in Class E
A. Crowley’s pentagram and its surrounding symbols and the circle
inside which the pussycat was slain— or was it?
O. T. O.
Swuco by otDcn
Symbols of Aleister Crowley’s O.T.O.
Circle, visible, and pentagram concealed under their robes, in which
Drs. Dec and Kelley engaged in practices less respectable than the
slaughter o f pussycats.
STATIONS OF THE OFFICERS
GRAND CHAPTER
EAST
Altar of the Order of the Eastern Star in Rhincbcck. Please study
it and note that the pentagram (star) shines with a pure, beautiful
religious light.
C
O
U
T
H
NOTES ON PART THREE
■ *r
O
^ S I ^
sweetest magic circle ever swirled6
6. N O STRA D A M U S IS A G A IN A B E ST S E L L E R in
Paris, according to the New Yorker’s cable letter of October
29, 1 939- He has never ceased to be a best seller in Arles
and St. Remy. When I went to St. Remy in 1907, every­
body in the workmen’s restaurant told me there would be a
world war within ten years “ because Nostradamus had said
so.”
When I went back there in 1932, they were still reading
their local prophet and told me there would be another
world war within another ten years “ because he had said so.”
Maybe he had glimpses through the “ slit in time.” Maybe
365
CO
i
va
vP
O
The
W ITCHCRAFT
he has merely had good breaks since his demise. His dates
always have the advantage of vagueness in the original script,
no matter how specifically his believers apply them, and if
you’re sufficiently vague or flexible about dates, the surest
way to become a major prophet is to predict war as the an­
cestral voices did in Kubla Khan. It always comes, and
here’s what the New Yorker said about this particular
prophet this time:
The author of the current best-seller in Paris is Michel Nostra­
damus, the astrologer who died in 1566. Nostradamus left about
5,000 lines of prophecy in a crabbed mixture of French and what
New Yorkers would call “double talk”—each quatrain lends it­
self to dozens of conflicting interpretations. He has been the ob­
ject of a tiny cult for a long time, but became an important pub­
lishers’ item only when war began. You can buy small condensed
versions of his prophecies on the bookstalls for two francs or a
large annotated definitive edition by a Dr. de Fontbrune for
thirty at the big bookstores; the Boulevard des Italiens branch of
Flammarion alone has sold 3,000 copies of the expensive edition
in the last month.
In one prophecy, Nostradamus speaks of the destruction
of Paris by “ birds from the East.” Some Nostradamists hold
that his forecast is for 2040, while others believe it was in­
tended for 1937, in which case Nostradamus, like the Ger­
man General Staff, has missed the boat. A ll adepts agree that
the astrologer predicted an eventual overwhelming French
victory. Nostradamus’s “ little epidemic,” as the booksellers
call it, represents one element in the Parisian mood of the
moment. Few readers admit taking him seriously, and yet
e’est une guerre tellement bizarre.
366
NOTES ON PART TH REE
C H A P T E R IV
2. B L A N K IN G T H E M IN D , negative way, simply relax­
ing, as cats and animals do when at ease, is the first step in
the direction which leads deeper wrhen used by Mary Craig
or my dervishes. It is a method of mental therapy which is
beginning to receive deserved, renewed attention in our over­
hurried modern world. A useful technique is described by
Alan Devoe in Coronet, June, 1939, condensed October,
1939, in the Reader’s Digest. M r. Devoe says, in part:
To see how grievously ignorant we have become, it is only
necessary to observe the pathetic behavior of men and women
who have escaped from their jobs for a while and are earnestly
trying to idle. Playing golf, tossing a medicine ball, driving an
automobile, hiking, dancing—these furious pursuits are not proper
ingredients for successful idleness. Nor is even the man who is
raking autumn leaves or weeding his delphiniums or strolling with
a friend practicing idleness. He is engaging, to be sure, in pleas­
ant and agreeable occupations. But he is not idling.
The recipe for idleness is simple: it consists of the abeyance of
physical strain and cessation of purposeful thinking. It requires
that you allow yourself to become for a while as purposeless as
a maple leaf or a stone, that you abandon those restless biddings
and nagging energies with which civilization has infected you,
and that you exchange the fatiguing habits of planned activity
and planned thinking for a directionless and unguided drifting of
the spirit. It requires, in a word, that you do nothing.
Look, sometime, at a relaxing tiger or fox; look at your cat.
Those calm unseeing eyes are fixed on nothing; those muscles
lie as quiet as stone; the usual preoccupations have been utterly
stilled. The animal is idling. It is an experience as natural to him
as eating or sleeping—but it is something which you will have to
learn. And when you have learned it, a whole new world of sen-
3 6 7
W IT C H C R A F T
sation will be opened to you, a world of such peace and subtle
awareness as you have never previously known, a realm which
has unmatched powers for refreshing the weary human spirit.
Make your first try at idleness now. When you have finished
the brief paragraphs that follow, put the magazine aside and
consciously call a halt to all the little movements which you have
absentmindedly been making . . . the foot-tapping, the nervous
eye-winking, the drumming of fingers on your chair-arm. While
you were reading, y'our breathing was quick and shallow, typical
rhythm of our over-hurried days. Relax your lungs. Breathe
deeply, slowly. A curiously pleasant feeling, isn’t it?
If you wear glasses, remove them. That little pressure on the
hridge of your nose is a distraction and vexation. And so is the
binding tightness of your belt, and the constriction of your collar.
Loosen them. Lie back now and be at rest. Do not attempt to
follow any train of thought. Your thinking is going to be wholly
purposeless now. Your spirit is going to drift and wander as it
pleases.
Presently dim half-thoughts and recollections and awareness
will stir in your newly freed consciousness. Because the tyranny
of Thought and the tyranny of Action are alike in abeyance now,
your spirit has a chance to be aware of, say, the fragrance of the
flowers in that vase. The fragrance has been subtly in the room
all day, but your spirit has not been free to savor it. Breathe that
fragrance deep into your lungs, for to a drifting spirit it can be
magically evocative. And now another awareness has come to
you—the feel of that ray of sunlight on your hand. The world
has somehow become not quite so bad, with the scent of flowers
in your nostrils and the feel of sunlight on your flesh.
Drift on, and be at peace. How odd a music the buzzing of
that fly. How brenthtakingly blue that patch of sky. The feel of
the chair against your relaxed muscles is a kind of benison, and
the slow deep drawing of your breath has wrought a singular
peace. Oblique and fragmentary recollections come to you . . .
the smell of the sea that year in Maine, the look of the deer-tracks
you once saw in a snowy woods, the remembered flash of pheas­
3 6 8
N O TE S ON PA RT T H R E E
ant-wings on a hazy October afternoon. You have wholly en­
tered now, at last, into that lovely secret realm which is the habi­
tation known only to masters of the art of idleness. To restore
yourself to the quiet ways of life is an art worth learning.
By M r. Devoe’s technique you step through the first door
leading into the antechamber of the secret realm which can
only be penetrated further by the complete, difficult, and
sometimes dangerous blanking of the mind as taught by
Eastern mystics and practiced rarely in the Western world.
4. U PTO N S IN C L A IR ’S M E N T A L R A D IO pictures in­
clude the following, reproduced with his permission. In each
case the drawing at the left is the original, and what Craig
wrote or drew is at its right. In turn of the instances here
shown—the fork and the star—she got it exactly. There were
many such cases. But the ones which excited me most are
those such as the subsequent instances, in which she seemed
to see it partially but not exactly, and not completely.5
5. BISH O P A R T H U R A. FO R D O F T H E S P IR IT U ­
A L IS T C H U R C H first attracted general notice in the New'
York Times, October 10, 1927, during the course of a de­
bate between him and the famous stage magician Howard
Thurston, at Carnegie H all. Several months later, on Feb­
ruary 10, 1928 (Times, February 11) , almost one and one-
half years after Harry Houdini had died, Ford, in a spirit­
ualist seance at his home—3 15 West 97th Street—declared
that he had received a message from Houdini’s mother con-
taining the code word “ forgive” which was to be evidence
that there was a life after death. This word had supposedly
been agreed upon between Houdini and his mother, who
3 6 9
/ 3, • 9^ Sr
CO
'■ £^0-0,.
t
S
N O TE S ON PART T H R E E
died in 1913, as the symbol of future life. However, after
due investigation, it appeared that Houdini’s wife had re­
vealed in detail the “ after-life” agreement between her hus­
band and his mother in an interview in the Brooklyn Eagle
dated March 13, 1927. Ford declared he knew nothing of
the interview. On January 9, 1929, in a trance at Mrs. Hou­
dini’s home at 67 Payson Avenue, New York City, Ford, as
minister of the First Spiritualist Church, declared he had re­
ceived a message from Harry Houdini himself. Houdini’s
friends were not at all impressed. Joseph Rinn went so far
as to offer Ford $10,000 if he were able to repeat the sub­
stance of a conversation Rinn had held with Houdini in 1926
at the New York Hippodrome. Also, Remigius Weiss of 954
North 5th Street, Philadelphia, declared Houdini had left
with him a secret code, different from Mrs. Houdini’s code.
Incidentally, a $21,000 reward was up for the medium who
would communicate successfully with Houdini. Ford’s al­
leged message, which attracted great attention at the time,
spelled, when deciphered, “ Believe,” the word arranged be­
fore Houdini’s death as proof of life after death. Only his
wife supposedly was aware of the word.
At the time, it was reported that Mrs. Houdini was con­
vinced that Ford had indeed been in communication with
her dead husband, but later she resented and repudiated the
whole affair. She and her husband had an open mind regard­
ing the possibility of life after death, as was evident in her
attempts at communication. Mrs. Floudini was disappointed
in her hopes, and Ford did not claim the $21,000 offered
for “ life-after-death” communication with Houdini.
On January' 24, 1929, the spiritualist world was startled to
hear that Ford was suspended from the Manhattan group of
373
W ITCHCRAFT
the United Spiritualist League because he had been guilty
of “ conduct unbecoming a Spiritualist minister” in the Hou-
dini “ seance” two weeks previously. The action was taken,
according to the president of the group, on the basis of news­
paper investigations of the message supposedly received by
Ford from Houdini. But John Heis (Heiser?), president of
the executive board of the league, declared that no evidence
had been presented against Ford and had opposed the action
on grounds that it violated bylaws of the group.
On February 24, one month later, Ford was cleared of the
charges by the board of trustees of the First Spiritualist
Church, headed by the John Heis mentioned previously,
who was also head of the New York State group.
At his vindication hearing Ford announced that rumors
had been circulated to the effect that he had been requested
to leave England by prominent spiritualists. H e offered a
reward of $1,000 to anyone who could prove the truth of
these rumors. On February 27, Ford went on a tour of the
mid-Western United States and in the summer of that year
was to go on a European tour with Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
A climax to the Houdini-Ford controversy was furnished on
October 3 1, 1936, ten years after Houdini’s death, when,
after elaborate preparations had been made in Hollywood
by Mrs. Houdini to communicate if possible with her de­
parted husband’s spirit, the “ spirit” refused to communicate.
On November 12, on her way East, Mrs. Houdini, at Little
Rock, Arkansas, confided to the Associated Press that she was
“ firmly convinced that communication with the dead is a
human impossibility and I challenge any medium who pro­
claims tangible proof.” In 1938 a picture, Religious Rack­
eteer, with Mrs. Houdini featured, was produced by an in-
374
NOTES ON PART TH REE
dependent Hollywood woman producer, Fanchon Royer
Gallagher. It treated of the attempt two years previously to
communicate with Houdini’s spirit, and exposed methods
allegedly used by spiritualists.
On June 21, 1936, the Associated Press, from Buffalo,
carried a story to the effect that spiritualists had begun a
drive to eliminate racketeering in the movement. Substance
of the report was that Ford, elected president of a new inter­
national group embracing “ several hundred” churches in
Canada, the United States, Mexico, and Cuba, as head of
the General Assembly of Spiritualists in America (head­
quarters at Buffalo) aimed to “ eliminate the racketeering
element in spiritualism and protect not only ourselves but
the public.” Incidentally, this was supposed to be the fortieth
annual convention of the group. Ford was now leader of a
great part of the spiritualist movement in North America.
H e also stated that the new' organization would co-operate
with police in driving charlatans out of business. He declared
that “ a real medium will have papers from the assembly and
always will be a member of a local church. An examining
board will test applicants and educational standards will be
high”
At an International General Assembly of Spiritualists
meeting at Baltimore (AP, October 28, 1937), Ford, as
president, declared that spiritualists would consider endowing
a school for mediums and lecturers. The purpose, he de­
clared, would be to “ tighten up the restrictions on the pro­
fession and eliminate the fakes.”
In a Brooklyn Eagle interview with John J. O’Neill on
October 27, 19 31, Ford had claimed to have been in commu­
nication with the spirit of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who
375
WITCHCRAFT
through Ford corrected proofs of his biography then in the
process of being published, written by the Rev. John La-
mond, D.D ., dean of the Scotch church. Ford also claimed
that one year previously Doyle had communicated through
him to Lady Doyle that the book was to be written by
Lamond. This took place during Ford’s 1931 European
tour. In a W orld-Telegram interview with George Britt
dated June 21, 1933, Ford’s education was said to have been
“ orthodoxly theological.” Britt also stated that Ford wrote
short stories and articles under spiritual influence. Most of
his stories were sold to the Ghost Stories type of magazine.
Through his spirit connections, Britt said Ford had told him
Ford had escaped financial loss in the 1929 W all Street crash,
and therefore had become a much-sought-after adviser of
business men.
On the night of March 21-22, 1935, Ford arranged a
seance in an airplane doing a flight over Newark airport.
He had fourteen guests including representatives of the AP.
H e claimed that he had heard Doyle, Wilbur Wright, and
Roald Amundsen, the explorer. An A P man remarked that
Amundsen had forgotten his Norse accent during the seance.
During Ford’s October 9, 1927, debate with Thurston at
Carnegie H all, Ford had explained his Spiritualist Church’s
teachings as follows:
Their central dogma was the immortality of the soul and
praying for the infidels within the gate. Ford also declared
that the study of psychic phenomena would solve the prob­
lem of the crowded insane asylums. H e said, “ A great many
inmates of our asylums were committed for acts for which
they were not responsible. By studying psychic laws and how
to control obsessions we can return a great majority of the
376
insane to normal existence. In California I saw three persons
released from an asylum when they were released from the
control of the low spirits which possessed them. In Michigan
the number of inmates has been reduced by such studies. The
phenomena of modern spiritualism are no different from the
phenomena recorded by great religious leaders of the past.
Jesus demonstrated the same psychic powers which the
mediums of today demonstrated, but of course their powers
are of a much lower order.”
Asked how he received the spirit messages, Ford has said,
“ 1 hear them, but ‘hear’ is not the correct word to describe
their reception, because if I just heard them in the ordinary
way you would hear them at the same time I did. I don’t
know where the impression is picked up, but the effect on my
mind is the same as if the sounds were picked up by my ear
and carried to my brain in the ordinary' way.”
After preaching a sermon at the Universalist Church of
the Divine Paternity, Central Park West and 76th Street
{Times, M ay 7, 1934), “ the Rev. Arthur A. Ford, general
missionary of the General Assembly of the Spiritualist
Movement in America . . . gave a demonstration of spirit­
ualism” on the steps leading to the chancel of the church.
H e communicated messages which he said came from various
deceased relatives of the church’s members. H e called out
names and asked if they were recognized by anyone present
When response was given—and in most cases it was given—
he said the spirit of the person named was standing near him
and had a message. In most cases the communication was that
the departed one was very happy and sent his or her love.
While speaking, Ford also included names of other members
of the families of which he was speaking and also some de-
NOTES ON PART THREE
377
W IT C H C R A F T
tails about the age and appearance of the departed persons.
His demonstration was received warmly.
Ford says about thirty million people throughout the
world believe in spiritualism. “ Our greatest enemy has been
the church,” Ford also declared. “ We do not believe there
ever were any miracles. They seemed miracles at the time
because they were not understood. Every day we find things
which we cannot understand, and they remain that way until
some one comes along who can explain them to us. Spiritual­
ism is a scientific fact which has conclusively proved that it is
possible at certain times and under certain conditions to con­
tact with the dead.”
A feature of the Buffalo convention in 1936 was the
demonstration of “ mental mediumship—psychometry, clair-
audience and clairvoyance.” Psychometry was defined as “ a
spiritualist touching a body so as to take on its vibrations.”
From all available data, Ford claims he is in touch with
spirits of the dead, can transmit, to a certain extent, messages
from them to others through his mediumship, and can fore­
tell the future.
Any number of prominent people are followers of spirit­
ualism. W all Street men with well-known names and a State
Supreme Court justice are among Ford’s secret followers.
If anybody could foretell the future on Wall Street, he could
own Wall Street or wreck it. If anybody could foretell a
jury’s verdict, we’d have to invent something new to take the
place of courts.
At the last Buffalo convention the following faithful were
revealed as officials of Dr. Ford’s assembly: Mrs. M . S.
McGuire of Toronto, vice-president j F. W . Constantine of
3 7 8
N O TES ON PART T H R E E
Buffalo, secretary5 Robert B. Collup of Akron, Ohio, treas­
urer} Dana McHenry, Los Angeles, second vice-president.
Other names gleaned were: Dr. F. A. Wiggin of Boston;
Dr. Alexander J. Mclvor-Tyndall of London, orator of the
movement, supposedly controlled by the spirit of Joseph
Jefferson; a Dr. George A. Lingenbach of Pittsburgh or
suburb. On conservative guess, there are close to a million
believers in spiritualism in the United States.
C H A P T E R VI
I. O N E SW A M I W H O KNOW S these implications is the
Tibetan Abbot, Chao-kung, known in America as Timothy
Lincoln, born originally in a Jewish Hungarian village
where he was first known as Ignatius Trebitsch.
From his Tibetan monastery, with the help of the United
Press and the cables, he hurled on December 19, 1939, an
ultimatum to the world, from the Sax Rohmer masters of
the world, which impressed the Herald Tribune sufficiently
(whether ironically or not is their own business) to run it,
with his picture, under the captions:
“ WARNS EUROPEAN BELLIGERENTS OF TIBETAN ACTION.”
“ TREBITSCH LINCOLN CALLS WRATH OF BUDDHA ON
WARRING NATIONS”
The subhead said:
“ Former Pastor, British M .P. and Spy, Now in Asia as
Abbot Chao-kung, Warns Powers (Except Finland) to
Make Peace or Be Destroyed.”
379
1
W IT C H C R A F T
The dispatch follows:
SHANGHAI, Dec. 19 (U P).—The Abbot Chao-Kung, once
known as Ignatius Timothy Trebitsch Lincoln, former pastor,
member of the British House of Commons and international spy,
announced to the world today that unless the governments of the
chief European belligerent countries resigned at once so that a
peace conference could be held, the Tibetan Buddhist “supreme
masters” would eliminate them from the scene of action by un­
leashing forces against which there was no defense.
This, the Abbot said, was his final appeal for peace. He had
made a preliminary one, in anticipation of the war, in the spring
of 1939.
Emerging from the Buddhist retreat in which he has secluded
himself for several years, the abbot demanded that the British,
French, German and Russian governments resign simultaneously
and immediately. He exempted Finland. New governments must
be formed, the abbot said, and they must call a world-wide peace
conference.
“Otherwise,” he warned, “ the Tibetan Buddhist supreme mas­
ters, without prejudice, pre-direction or favor, will unchain forces
and powers whose very existence is unknown to you and against
whose operations you are consequently helpless.”
World leaders, Trebitsch Lincoln pointed out, were mere hu­
man beings, subject to all human limitations. The sole exceptions,
he said, were the Buddhist “supreme masters, who, by their un­
limited and unbounded knowledge of nature’s secrets and their
ability to use certain powers, have broken through those limi­
tations.”
The United States, he said, could have prevented the European
war, but chose to follow the path of “open partiality, prejudice
and downright injustice, cloaked in phrases which pretended to
be all that is virtuous.”
The British, French, Russian and German governments were
all guilty of provoking the war, he said.
Discussing the Chinese-Japanese war, he said that regardless
3 8 0
NO TES ON PART T H R E E
of its background, Japan was willing to discuss peace, but China
continued its “ insane scorched-earth policy.”
Trebitsch Lincoln, born a Jew about fifty-eight years ago, left
his native Hungarian village to seek his fortune in England. He
entered the Church of England and became a curate, then en­
tered politics and was elected to the House of Commons as a
Liberal. He became wealthy in oil promotion ventures.
He was made a censor in the British post office at the outbreak
of the World War, but after a period during which, the British
alleged, he tried to act as a secret agent for Britain and Germany,
he fled to the United States. Britain extradited him and kept him
in prison until the war ended.
He was deported, went to Germany and played a big part in
the Kapp putsch of 1921, when conspirators seized Berlin. Some
years later he turned up in China to become a Buddhist monk.
Born Ignatius Trebitsch, he added the name Lincoln because
Abraham Lincoln was his boyhood ideal.
Native Tibetan abbots, monks, adepts, and Western con­
verts of theirs, have been suggesting for centuries that they
could and can do these things. The chief basis of my skepti­
cism is that they never have. I think the stuff is as shining
bright if not as hot as lightning was on Franklin’s kite string,
but I keep wondering if there is any power in it, since up to
now it has only given foxfire.
C H A P T E R VII
4. D E R V ISH D A N G L IN G ’S E Q U IV A L E N T S AM O N G
T H E ESK IM O S are described in detail by Peter Freuchen
on pages 129-137 of Arctic Adventure published by Farrar
& Rinehart in 1935. The American Museum of Natural H is­
tory has a number of prints illustrating these various ways
in which the Eskimo mystics and wizards lie bound to induce
381
W IT C H C R A F T
trance-states and excursions into the realm of the supernor­
mal. M r. Freuchen says:
The old man, Sorqaq, who was also hunting in the district, an­
nounced that he would attempt a journey to the nether world.
. . . He had met the devil and conquered him—perhaps he could
do it again.
At any rate, his preparations for descent proved his honesty.
He fasted until his interior was completely cleaned out, examining
his excrement until he was satisfied with his state. After three
days he announced himself ready for the journey, and the time of
departure was set for the following night. The old man mean­
while climbed high into the mountains seeking solitude to formu­
late his speech to the spirits and to train himself to swim through
the rocks—which he would most certainly have to penetrate in
order to meet the devil.
A huge igloo was constructed by adding many blocks of snow
to the largest house in the settlement. Several men worked at it,
and the snowblocks were cut by the elders who realized the seri­
ousness of the undertaking. After it was finished the inside was
draped with a tapestry of old tent skins. Sorqaq inspected the
stage which was to witness his marvels, said nothing, and de­
parted for further meditation.
Presently the natives were requested to gather and were led
to their places by Krilerncq, Sorqaq’s assistant. Krilerneq himself
was an old man, but with the aid of a cane he was as strong and
as spry as anyone. His eyes burned with his fervor, his gestures
were quick, his walk nervous.
Like a stage star making his appearance in an ancient vehicle,
Sorqaq was the last man to enter the house, and he was announced
three times before he finally arrived. He greeted us all by saying
that we were a pack of fools to have come: what he proposed to
do was nothing, and furthermore he could not even do it.
* * *
He peeled off his clothes, which were taken by Krilerneq, and
sat stark naked. Krilerneq then took up several sealskin lines and
382
N O TE S ON PA R T T H R E E
bound him tight, tying his arms beside his body and binding his
legs together, the thongs cutting deep into his muscles. The old
man held himself rigid during this process. Occasionally a deep
sigh escaped him.
When there were no more lines at hand, Krilerneq placed his
drum and a large section of dried sealskin beside him on the ledge.
The lights were extinguished and the only illumination came from
one tiny flame. We could barely make out each other’s faces; we
could see nothing distinctly.
Then Krilerneq took his place among us to make sure that no
one approached the angakok, for it would mean death.
After a few minutes of utter silence we heard Sorqaq’s voice
in song. It was weak and quavery, but slowly grew stronger and
seemed to emanate from different parts of the igloo. After a mo­
ment we heard the voice of the drum, as if beaten by a padded
stick, and slowly its sound, too, grew in volume, until the house
was filled with the song, the crashing of the drum and the rattling
of the dry skin, now over our heads, now beneath our feet!
The noise was almost unbearable, and I took hold of Kriler-
ncq’s arm, pretending fright. Actually I wanted to ascertain
whether or not he was contributing to the noise. Obviously he
was not.
How long the din lasted I am unable to tell. I remember that
when it finally calmed I felt as if I had been dreaming. By now
all of us had joined in Sorqaq’s song, but slowly it seemed that
tile voice of the angakok was fading away. At last I definitely
felt that it reached us through the walls of the igloo, perhaps
from above or below. And then suddenly we could hear him no
more.
None of us realized what had happened or when it had hap­
pened, but when Krilerneq turned up the flame so that it was
possible to see a little clearer—there was no Sorqaq on the ledge.
The drum was there and the skin was there, but that was all.
I was intoxicated by the heat and the odor of bodies and the
song, and perhaps I did not examine the igloo carefully enough.
383
W IT C H C R A F T
But I did look at the tapestry to see if he could be hidden behind
it, and he was not.
All of us sat there singing as we had before. Ecstasy was upon
the face of every man and woman. Their cheeks were swollen,
their eyes bright and shining. Their mouths hung open, and their
bodies were naked from the waist up in order to endure the heat.
They swayed back and forth to the rhythm of the song, and their
heads marked the double beats. No one seemed to see anything,
but merely to use his eyes as beacon lights. In the middle of the
floor was Krilcrneq writhing and twisting like a dancer.
Beside me sat a young girl, Ivaloo. Her naked body was
pressed against mine, and her strong young scent swept over me.
I tried to speak to her, but she did not hear. Instead, her eyes
followed Krilerneq directly in front of us. Her long hair sprayed
loose from the knot on her head, and swung from side to side as
she sang. The rhythmic swish of her hair made me as senseless
as the rest of them. . . .
When I looked into the faces of these people I could scarcely
recognize them as the calm, quiet friends who came down to
Thule to trade with us. Whence has come this leaning toward
mysticism? No one knows the origin of the Eskimo, but it is not
difficult to trace them to a moderate climate; many of their tra­
ditions derive from the worship of trees, snakes and frogs. Per­
haps they were Asiatics originally and have drawn from the Far
East their reliance upon the supernatural. Here I saw them
caught up by a spirit which they could not possibly understand,
the prey to emotions and passions which in everyday life would
puzzle them.
* * *
The song continued and I fell completely under the power of
the spirit. No longer was I able to observe dispassionately what
occurred. Ivaloo lay naked across me, and I could feel someone
else chewing my hair, clawing my face. The noise, the odor of
the bodies and the mystery of the moment caught me completely
unprepared.
Then suddenly all was changed. Krilerneq, who had been the
3 8 4
N O TES ON PART T H R E E
leader of the madness, announced that Sorqaq was trying to
return.
He beseeched us all to take our original positions and told us to
sit up and sing. No thoughts should concern us but those of the
angakok who was at this moment fighting his way up through
the granite beneath the igloo. We were as yet unable to hear him,
but Krilerneq, who had himself made the pilgrimage a number
of times, said that he could feel his imminent arrival, and com­
plained over the suffering he was undergoing. Krilerneq, being
the assistant, shared the travail of his friend who had to swim
through the rocks as if they were water. . . .
“ Quiet! Quiet! The shadow is ripened. The shadow is
ripened.” . . .
We all listened, and as from afar off we could hear Sorqaq’s
voice. Krilerneq extinguished the light completely, since no one
must look upon the angakok “ muscle naked”— he has been forced
to leave his skin when descending into the ground—lest he
die. . . .
But magically we knew at last that he had returned— from the
sky or from the depths his “shadow” had “ripened.” The igloo
reverberated with the noise of his drum and the rattle of the
crackling sealskin sometimes over our heads, sometimes under our
feet. I raised my hand to try to grasp the skin and received such
a blow on my arm that the bone was almost shattered. Hell it­
self had suddenly come to earth.
And then it all stopped. Krilerneq murmured a long rigmarole,
and tile igloo was quiet save for the crying of the children. They
may have been crying the whole time, but no one had known it.
Krilerncq’s droning voice prayed to the supposedly present anga­
kok to learn what secrets he had learned concerning the cause
of the accidents.
Sorqaq’s voice answered: “Three deaths are still to come. The
Great Nature is embarrassed by the white men who have come
to live with us, and refuses to betray the real reason for its anger.
But no great disaster will come to us if the women of the tribe
38 5
W IT C H C R A F T
refrain from eating meat of the female walrus until the sun sets
again in the fall.”
The angakok had done his duty and the performance was over.
I have no idea how long it had lasted. Someone brought fire from
the next igloo and lighted the lamps.
There was Sorqaq sitting on the ledge still wrapped in his many
strands of sealskin. I did not have the opportunity of examining
him to see whether he had been free and bound again. He was
extremely weak, covered with sweat, and spittle ran down his
chest. Krilerneq warned me not to touch Sorqaq as the fire from
the earth was still in him, and would be until he moved again.
He sat quiet until Krilerneq removed the lines, then fell back
and lay in a coma. At last he opened his eyes. His voice was weak
and his mouth dry. He tried to smile as he saw me.
“Just lies and bunk, the whole thing!” he said. “ Do not be­
lieve in anything. I am no angakok. I speak nothing but lies. The
wisdom of the forefathers is not in me!”
He fell back again, and we all assured each other that we had
indeed witnessed an amazing thing and been in the presence of
truth itself.
Next day I tried to talk with the natives about yesterday’s per­
formance, but they were mute. Ivaloo and my hostess, Inuaho,
said it made them realize I was a white man—an Eskimo would
not want to discuss things which were never mentioned, only
done.
Freuchcn also recounts a poignant tragedy which occurred
one day when some Eskimo children, playing at a form of
dervish dangling, let it get out of hand. The children as well
as the grownups incline to mysticism, and one of the tricks
by which they pass into unconsciousness and trance is to hang
themselves by their hoods. Says M r. Freuchen:
When the hoods tighten about their necks blood is kept from
their heads and they eventually lose consciousness. The other chil-
3 8 6
N O TE S ON PART T H R E E
drcn in the house take them down as soon as their faces turn
purple.
The state of unconsciousness is so delightful, the children say,
that they play this game at every opportunity, over and over again.
They played it on the day Angudluk and his wife were away.
Angudluk’s son was the largest child in the group. One after
another he hung the smaller children up and lifted them down
when they were purple, and laid them on the ledge to recover.
When all of them had had their turn he helped them to hang
him up. Eventually he grew purple in the face and kicked his
legs as the signal to be taken down. The children tried to lift him
off tile hook, but he was too heavy. They made every effort and
still could not lift him, and, as he soon stopped kicking and thresh­
ing about, the children forgot about him and ran out-of-doors to
play, leaving him hanging in front of the window over the door.
When the sledges came home the mother cared for the dogs
and Angudluk, cold from sitting all day, hurried inside. He
crawled through the tunneled entrance and saw the feet of his
son hanging down over the doorhole. . . .
We saw the sad little funeral procession. Only the best skins
were used as a coffin. The father drove the dogs up into the hills,
arid some of them turned stubborn and bolted. Everyone had to
stop and punish the dogs, whose howling added to the doleful­
ness of the occasion. The poor family, whose privations were
stringent enough already, left many gifts for the boy, especially
a little gun he had wanted, a big knife, and the pipes and to­
bacco belonging to the whole family— he would be there a long
time and need all these things. All the mittens which had been
used in constructing his stony grave were left also.
3 8 7
W I L L I A M S E A B R O O K
W illiam Seabrook was born in 1 886 in Westminster, M aryland. After
receiving his education in southern universities and spending a year on
the Augusta Chronicle, his restless spirit led him to Switzerland, where
for nine months he worked his way through the University of Geneva
studying philosophy and metaphysics. The next year and a half he spent
wandering about Europe, before he returned to Atlanta and entered the
advertising business. After the war, at the encouragement of H . L .
Mencken, he began to write. H is books have won him a firm place in
the literature not only of America, but of England, France, Germany,
Spain, Sweden, and Italy.
JUNGLE WAYS “There lias never been a traveler like Seabrook. The
opening of his book describing his progress through the
forest is one of the most engrossing narratives I have ever
read. The fourth part is the most interesting upside-down
account of morals since Swift’s voyages.”—L aurence
Stallings, New York Sun.
“Of all the books I have ever read about strange people,
William Seabrook’s is the most startling, most vivid, most
haunting.”—F anny B utcher, Chicago Tribune.
$1.49
MAGIC ISLAND “ Voodoo, the mysterious and terrible, has found its white
historian.’’—PhiladeIphia R ecord.
“ It can he said of many travelers that they have traveled
widely. Of Mr. Seabrook a much finer thing may be
said—he has traveled deeply.” —New York Times.
$1.89 H
ASYLUM “ Very few people could be as honest as Seabrook is here,
and it is honesty, plus the talent that Seabrook already
had. that makes a book of this sort first-rate.”—
H oh>j
C h a m b er la in , New York Times. $ I *49
H A R C O U R T , B R A C E A N D C O M P A N Y . 383 M A D IS O N AVE., N E W Y O R K
v
