{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__rosicruciae___the_rosy_cross.pdf","mytitle":"The Rosy Cross","mylang":"de"}
ROSICRUCL3E
THE
ROSY CROSS
Rosicrucice as a Spiritual Association of Neophytes and
Initiates Known Throughout History as the Fraternitas
Roseb Crucis. Its Philosophy and System
of Training.
F ----- Fa
By ROSICRUCLE
Issued by
BEVERLY HALL FOUNDATION, INC.
Quakertown, Pa.
1
INTRODUCTION
O
CCULT students are always seekers after truth. Yet,
strange as it seems, the student himself is rarely capable
of judging the truth from the false until after he has contacted
the true teaching.
Of the thousands of teachers and lecturers in the larger cit­
ies throughout America, the authentic teachers of the higher
spiritual knowledge can be counted on the ten fingers.
Most of the lecturers and teachers offer mental science as the
true spiritual teaching.
A little thinking and a little reasoning should quickly con­
vince the individual that although the mind is highly impor­
tant, the true teachings must reach far beyond mental science.
The true teachings must necessarily be spiritual in nature.
They must include knowledge regarding the Laws of God,
the Laws of Nature, the Laws of Man and— more important
still— the Laws governing man’s Spiritualization, permitting
and aiding him to bring his own Soul into Individualization
and Illumination.
During the past three hundred years the Rosy Cross has
been recognized throughout the world as a Fraternity of In­
itiates and Soul Illuminated men and women ever ready and
willing to guide the worthy seeker to the path that leads to
Soul development and Initiation.
Sublime as are these teachings, it must be recognized that
there exists a still higher teaching known as the ASth Priest­
hood, as fully described in another brochure under the title of:
"The Occult Arcanum.”
5
T H E R O S Y C R O S S
ROSICRUCL^E
The message contained in this brochure was first published
in 1897, in the magazine T h e TEMPLE, as the Fourth Rosi-
crucian Manifesto. It was prepared by Paul Tyner, a member
of the Council of Three of the American Rosy Cross; Brother­
hood, Temple, Order and Fraternity of Rosicrucians. The
Manifesto was issued over the signature of Rosicrucice, the
Initiate name of the author, and accepted as authoritative by
both the Fraternity and all its enrollees.
6
THE ROSY CROSS
The origin of the Rosy Cross is known only to the oldest
Initiates of the Fraternity. Its symbols are as ancient_ as the
Egyptian Mysteries and its principles underlie all religions,
ajudentand.modern. In modern timeTtHenames of Christian
Rosenkreuz, Robert Flood and Francis Bacon have figured
prominently in its literature; but historically, there are few
exotic landmarks of the Order.
Rosicrucice is spiritual, not material; a Fraternity rather
than an Order. Its members are selected from the East and the
West, from among the lofty and the lowly, the learned and
the unlearned and wherever there are free Souls and sympa­
thetic and aspiring natures. It embraces all ages, races and
climes, and reaches from the visible far into the invisible realm
of being. Silence, secrecy and unpretending good works are
its characteristics and one member may pass his life next door
to another and neither be aware of the bond between them
unless some stress of need may draw the curtain aside. The law
of Silence is particularly emphasized. Obedience to the injunc­
tion to “enter into the closet and shut the door” is imperative
on all who would have access to the sources of power.
Each age calls for restatements of truth, especially adapted
to its understanding and application of the present age is no ex­
ception. That which in the past was hidden from the ignorant
and vicious under symbols and figures, is emerging from its
outgrown shell so that he who runs may read. The Veil of
Isis has become a misty cloud, destined to disappear in the
broader light of the coming century, and while the Rosy Cross
has its lodges, pass words and signs, these external forms are
regarded with indifference by the genuine Rosicrucian, who is
aware that he can become a complete epitome of the Order only
through development of its principles within himself.
While the Rosy Cross has neither creed nor dogma to which
the Acolyte must subscribe, there are certain principles which
7
T H E R O S Y C R O S S
all true Rosicrucians accept. <Among them is the belief in the
Fatherhood of God and the possibility of a Universal Brother­
hood of Man, thus recognizing the Unity of Spirit in all mani­
festations of life.
Reincarnation generally is accepted as a truth and that salva­
tion is no less than the freedom of the Soul from successive em­
bodiments in earthly forms, wherein pain and pleasure alter­
nate, where the glow of genius is dimmed by the darkened
understanding of age and the flame of passion is quenched by
the chill of disease and death.
A Universal Brotherhood in the Making
Humanity desires happiness, but none ever attain it because
it is sought in individual conditions and possessions, while it
can be gained only through the uplifting of all Souls every-
X-where. Xife isXomogenedus and perfect rest will come to the
) individual Soul only when the Soul of the race is at peace.
Therefore, whatever makes for the kingdom of heaven among
men is the way to happiness for the individual. Men and
women are born free and [with] equal [opportunities] but
each one comes immediately into environments destructive of
freedom and equality— conditions which man himself has
created in the evolutionary processes of thought and life. He
binds himself with creeds, forms and codes of action which
divide man from man and create the iron bondage of caste
[against all reason] and limit freedom of thought by fear.
The recognition of universal brotherhood and of the truth
that all are entitled to equal rights and privileges in the house
of the common Father and Mother is an important step in the
path which the Soul must travel toward the perfect life.
The cults of the Rosy Cross embrace the culture of the
whole man; this is carried on through vibrations set up in the
emotional or Soul nature by the Will. These vibrations exalt
8
T H E R O S Y C R O S S
and expand the energies of the Soul and this development is
the work of salvation which is not claimed to be freedom from
consequences but deliverence from evil desires and tendencies.
That which is recorded cannot be erased but a new record may
be made which will cast the old into the limbo of forgotten
things.
The past belongs to God, with all its failures and sins, but
the future is man’s to mould and fashion as he will, for him­
self and for the race.
Vibrations may be indefinitely transferred by oral or mental
suggestion and the instructed Soul consciously arouses, excites
and directs the thoughtless and ignorant through these vibra­
tory forces. Ignorance unguards the Soul, furnishing condi­
tions of receptivity to good or evil suggestion which uplift or
degrade. Mind responds to mind, Soul to Soul, spirit to spirit,
through vibrations with each other.
The invisible world of spirit is drawing near to the earth
plane and the Souls of men respond wherever such are sensitive
to etheric vibrations. The Rosy Cross has long sensed this in­
coming spiritual tide and confidently expects the breaking
away of the clouds of ignorance which have long obscured the
light of the inner heavens. The pyramids, the buried cities,
the tombs and mountain retreats of the old world are giving up
their long hoarded secrets to the push and enterprise of the age;
but their wealth of knowledge and wisdom, though grand and
wonderful, sinks into insignificance when compared with the
treasures of the kingdom concealed in the Soul of man and
ready to be revealed' for use. This is the Kingdom of Heaven
which may be taken by force— but it must be the force of per­
sistent desire and effort.
Contacting the Powers of the Spaces
Thoughts are not things; they are greater than things.
9
T H E R O S Y C R O S S
Thought is the energy, the inherent force of things and comes
from the Primal Intelligence which is above and beyond all
things. The mind is an instrument manipulated by unseen
but not altogether unknown forces. Its energies do not belong
to us. They are lent for use and the only merit which we can
claim because of superior adaptability of the instruments, is
in the quality of their use.
The power to project this force or energy of the Soul is in­
herent in human nature and one department of the Rosy Cross
culture is devoted to instruction and training in its use. To
vibrate the etheric atoms of the body is to set in motion the
ether of space; to exercise the Will in breathing is to connect
with the space of Will, charging the body with electricity,
power and life; but the fervent desire to attain to any condi­
tion sets in vibration the finer essences of spirit that connect
with the Love-Soul of the universe— the Infinite Love. Every
aspiring Soul reaches some plane in spirit that corresponds to
itself and which it can absorb and use.
There are seven Spaces or Spirits corresponding to the seven
Great Powers, fourTnundane and three spiritual or psychic.
Those corresponding to the Mundane Powers: mineral, veg­
etable, animal, human. The Spiritual Spaces are: Faith, Will
and Love. All the Spaces are filled with Societies, Orders,
Associations, Brotherhoods, which correspond to every condi­
tion possible to man. Connection with the beings inhabiting
these spaces may be attained by systematic training and effort.
This is NOT mediumship but the entering into and obtaining
possession of the knowledge and power of the spaces contacted.
Man, body and Soul, is the Temple of the Infinite Spirit
and in him are etheric atoms belonging to all spiritual states
and spaces, some active, others latent. Those which are active
connect the individual with the spaces with which he has the
closest affinity and the influx from them is largely unconscious.
10
v -iV
. i- • . M
T. ■
V 1
T H E R O S Y C R O S S
To illustrate: Beethoven was by nature affiliated with the
Musical Societies and, being a fine instrument attuned to the
inspirations of that space, he holds the world entranced by
super-human melodies. Socrates contacted the Philosophical
Spaces: Napoleon, the Strategic but the full Soul of the prophet
of Galilee came forth from and breathed the inspiration of the
most interior space, that of Love.
Love Is the Greatest of All Powers
To aspire is to become, in time and in eternity; for aspira­
tion connects the Soul with the spaces of spirit vibrating with
immortal energy. Man makes and unmakes himself. "He
fails, sickens and dies through feebleness of Will.” Physical
life is only a series of vibrations whose intensity may be greatly
increased by persistent use of spiritual forces.
Degrees of Soul-force depend on the rapidity of the vibra­
tions of the flame uniting the three powers which constitute
the human ego. This trinity of Intelligence, Will and Love is
a manifestation of the Divine Trinity in Unity, making of
man a microcosmic God. The Soul is a glowing spark in an
Infinite Flame.
The vibrations of these triune forces develop heat, which is
generally diffused throughout the body as a gentle warmth.
This heat may be powerfully increased and drawn to a great
center, where it burns with a pure and conscious flame. This
is the baptism with fire and the Holy Ghost (Geist, Spirit)
and is typified by the fire kept burning on the altars of the
ancient temples. It is also the transmuting force of the Rosi-
crucians, which certain of the old Alchemists misunderstood
and materialized to mean the transmutation of the baser metals
into gold.
To be blessed with this flame is an evidence of the Christ-
union, the seal of Immortality and is possible only to the pure
11
T H E R O S Y C R O S S
in heart. To the impure and unholy, the increase of spirit
vibrations fills the Soul with unquenchable thirst and an in­
satiable hunger, which destroys Soul and body by a slow com­
bustion of unrest, impure desires, disease and dissolution. This
flame is the point of contact with the source of all power and
all knowledge, and sometimes it finds a voice. With Moses it
objectified itself in the form of a burning bush and the "still
small voice” of spirit became audible to the external ear.
Referring to this flame the great Persian sage, Zoroaster,
says, "When you see..the fire. listen, to ..the voice of the.fire."
This inner fire burns with conscious power when the disciples
walk with the risen Christ on the way to Emmaus. "Did not
our hearts burn with us, while he spake to us on the way?”
It has well-nigh ceased to burn on the altars of human
hearts but the Rosy Cross has preserved a spark of it and now
calls to the wise virgins, whose lamps are trimmed and burn­
ing, to unveil the light for the illumination of the world.
Love is the only antidote for evil; force will suppress but
cannot prevent it. The peaceful, gentle, forgiving vibrations
of love open the invisible spaces from which descends purifying
and regenerative power. Through the vibration of love, war
will (one day) cease, crime and its vindictive punishment will
pass away and practical help will supersede the sermons,
prayers and legal restraints with which society now ignorantly
strives to protect itself. Crime should be prevented rather than
punished, criminal tendencies detected, undermined and de­
stroyed and the transmission of criminal instincts rendered im­
possible. All this may be done through spiritual vibrations
and this is one of the fields of work which especially engages
the attentions and efforts of the Rosy Cross.
The concentration of effort and union of many minds in
one vibration, creates societies, governments and sects, on the
plain of its action; in the same way, spirit by projection, creates
12
T H E R O S Y C R O S S
and destroys. Spirit, individualized in a human body is no less
spirit than when disrobed. There are conclaves in the spaces
of spirit in which the Souls of men and women who are still
of the mundane world, take part, equally with those who have
cast off the body.
Convocations are held when the interests of earth life are
represented by those in earth-bodies who, in Soul projection,
are in the spiritual spaces, and the questions touching human
interests most nearly are considered. Such a convention, giving
exclusive attention to the application of the great principles of
sex, has long since been in session.1 It has removed the ban of
silence from woman and caused her equality with man to be
recognized in many ways; but the projection of this truth
into the external world has been difficult, owing to the preju­
dices and superstition, as well as the self-interests of man.
Rosicrucice invites woman’s co-operation and has made her
eligible to its councils and helpful influences on the same terms
as her brothers. It now boldly proclaims the feminine prin­
ciple as embodied in woman to be the saviour of the race.
Being the most spiritual (when she is truly woman) she is the
vibratory center between man and God. Through her eleva­
tion in the thought, Will and love of man, the influx of crime,
lust and disease from the lowest hells will be checked, and the
incarnation of lofty and pure Souls will be facilitated.2
This can be accomplished only by the co-operation of the
visible world of Souls with the invisible.
1 The instructions as imparted by Imperial Eulis.
2 Foolishly, ignorantly and conceitedly, multitudes of near-women,
masculine women and cold-hearted women have misread the Spiritual mes­
sage from the heavenly Hierarchies and have deluded themselves by the
belief that the freedom of themselves and the world in general will come
through their political equality and the opportunity which it affords them
to be equally blatant, vulgar and corrupt with their brother professional
politician. Women should have the vote, but the salvation of the race
will never be through the medium of the ballot, but through education—
enlightenment.
13
Sex is of the body, the spirit and the Soul; it is as eternal
as is the Creative potency, for by and through this sex prin­
ciple all things exist. It is always active and generation on
one plane creates on another and higher plane, with results
which are similar but a little superior. Vibrations of the body
are the result of vibrations of the spirit, which they involve,
and all vibrations are creative in accord with their plane of
activity. Sound vibrations reach the ear, thought vibrations
the mind; but the powerful and far-reaching vibrations of
emotion move the Soul and the inspiration is infinitely sus­
tained.
The Creative Center in Man
Love is the creative center and the vibrations that harmonize
the conditions, interior and exterior, of each individual, are
generated at that center. It is the love of one, not of many:V/®'
for all sincere and genuine Rosicrucians are monogamists, ft*
Love in the physical has its correspondence in the spiritual v
nature; it is one, for Love is Spirit and all its vibrations are
creative. What we name matter is an effect produced by spirit
transforming itself through vibratory motion.
Nature makes no mistakes. She is the Word (spouse) of
God to which nothing can be added or taken away by man,
except to his own injury. The separation of the masculine
and feminine in thought, emotion or physical life, is destruc­
tive, not constructive. In their perfect blending on all planes
lies the secret of power, of the regeneration of the race and the
reconstruction of the world. The Lost Word is unity— one.
The natural use of the organs of the body, as of the facul­
ties of the mind and powers of the Soul, is an imperative duty
to all who would perfect the human nature. The orderly
exercise of mind and Will is required to preserve the harmon-
14
T H E R O S Y C R O S S
ious balance of being, so that life on all planes shall march
together in orderly sequence.
To be self-poised and perfect in rhythmic motion, like the
world swinging in space, is not the prerogative of every human
being; but only those who have found the Center and lighted
the Flame on that Inner Altar and become Brethren of the
Light. It is not attained by ignoring the selfhood or in dis­
guise of the functions of body or mind.
The Rose Cross makes no noise. It loves the Infinite Silence
and works through vibrations of Thought, Will and Love.
It is ready to point out the path and to clasp hands with any
who desire to work for the advance of the new civilization.
To this end, the Fraternity desires Souls rather than money;
earnest, active, sincere students and workers. Not all who
knock can be permitted to enter. Before one can become a
member of the visible Fraternity, he or she is already enrolled
among the invisibles.
"Not every one who saith Lord, Lord, can enter into the
kingdom,” saith the Master, and one before Him affirmed the
same truth in different phraseology by saying, “Many are the
wand-bearers but few are the true Bacchanals.”
Those who can recall the conditions of life fifty [now
ninety] years ago will appreciate the gigantic strides man has
made along the lines of progress. The twilight of the stage­
coach has broadened into the noon-day of steam and elec­
tricity. The inspiration of books has largely given place to
scientific certainties [the cinema] to ascertained truths and
facts of things, thus widening and deepening the scope of free­
dom of thought.
Doctor Franklin ushered in a new age— the age of elec­
tricity, when he called forth a message from the shadow of
God which pronounced the death sentence on the limitations
of matter, annihilating time and space by putting "a girdle
15
T H E R O S Y C R O S S
round about the earth in forty minutes,” which was prophe­
sied by Shakespeare’s tricky sprite. As the age of crude force
merged into the electrical age, bringing with it everything
worth preserving, so the wires and dynamos and circuits, which
now witness the external activities of Man’s restless intelli­
gence, will give place to the simpler methods of the mental age,
when the possibilities of mind will become manifest. The
present laborious processes of education will become obsolete
and telepathy will take the place of the old, cumbrous methods
of instruction in the imparting of knowledge.
Daguerre pictured the outside of things fifty [now ninety]
years ago; modern photography reproduces the inside; and it is
only a question of a little more time and a few more experi­
ments when mental states will be photographed and man’s
nature will be mapped out, as physical geography maps the
surface of the planet. The swamps and lagoons in human
nature which send up the malaria that generates crime, disease
and death, will be located, as will be the light-giving seas
and breezy, moral mountain tops. Mind will be generated,
rather than adipose tissue, and God will be enthroned in the
heart of the world, rather than in a far-off anachronistic City
of God.
Speed characterizes the electrical age. Let us move quickly
to help God save humanity. He demands only the sacrifice
of meanness— the enmity of our brother man; and this is the
only bar to infinite progress.
No one can borrow the Light of the Soul. Each virginal
lamp must shine by its own light and each man stands or falls
alone. ‘‘God helps those who help themselves.” His tables
are laden with flowers and fruits which are not forced on
anyone. The command is, “help yourself.”
16
IMPORTANT POINTS OF
INFORMATION
T H E F R A T E R N I T Y A N D Y O U
T
ODAY, as always, the Doors of the Fraternity are wide open
to all sincere Aspirants who have the courage to knock and
who are willing and ready for that which confronts them.
Within the Archives of the Fraternity are all the manuscripts,
instructions and keys to the Mysteries which were accumulated
by the Alchemists, Hermetics, Paracelsians and other Occult
Masters hundreds of years before the foundation of the Broth­
erhood of the Rosy Cross as such, as well as the priceless dis­
coveries added since. All this priceless knowledge may become
the possession of those who are willing to meet the Truth, not
as they would have the Truth appear, but as it really exists in
the realm of actualities.
Irrespective of who you are, what you are, or where your
station of service in life may be, if you seek in truth and with
faith and if you are willing to follow the guidance of those
Masters who, during centuries past, have traveled the Path and
attained to Mastery, then the Fraternity is willing to enroll you.
Plan of Study and Training
The system of study and training remains almost identical
with that which has been followed since the first days of the
foundation of the Fraternity (1614). In the very beginning
it was found that the isolated students made greater progress
than was possible in group study. Because of this, the instruc­
tions were prepared in a manner making it easy for the Neo­
phyte to study, understand and actually practice; i.e., live in
such manner as to become that which he is taught in the
lessons.
Experience has shown that human nature and human needs
have changed but little within the past few hundred years and
that the method of gaining Wisdom and developing Spirit­
ually are today identical with that of four hundred years ago;
in terminology and the application of the teachings alone there
17
T H E R O S Y C R O S S
is a difference and all manuscripts have been brought up-to-date
in that respect.
The Neophyte receives approximately two lessons per
month. It is not to be understood that these lessons are such as
might be practical in a book or similar publication. The Laws
taught are fundamental and in a sense applicable to all people
with similar desires, but the distinction lies here: each lesson
contains a system of practice or development and because each
person is a law to himself (or herself) the lessons are adapt­
able to the individual and thus become immediately personal.
The Use of Text Books
The Brotherhood of the Rose Cross has never used text
books, as such, for its students. T o be sure, there are numer­
ous very good books which teach the laws, the philosophy and
the history of the Order, such as THE ROSICRUCIANS; THEIR
T e a c h in g s — T h e P h ilo so p h y o f F ir e— etc. These are
all highly important because on these teachings the student can
and should base his life and practice, and the teachings of these
books therefore become the rock-bottom foundation upon
which he builds his material and spiritual structure; but in
themselves they cannot lead the student to Spiritualization or
Initiation.
Method Practiced
When the Aspirant sends in his application-obligation, it
immediately receives careful examination, and if approved, he
is at once enrolled as a Neophyte. Lessons will begin arriving
by mail at regular intervals and in a natural, logical order.
These instructions are to be carefully studied and faithfully
practiced, as it is only through practice that the Neophyte will
be able to grow toward his Goal—physically, mentally, mate­
rially and Spiritually. These lessons are so complete and de­
tailed that little correspondence is necessary, but whenever
there is need of additional instructions or guidance, the student
is always at liberty to write to Headquarters and receive addi­
tional help.
18
T H E R O S Y C R O S S
What These Lessons Teach
Due to the nature of this Work, it is impossible to openly
print a synopsis of these instructions. We therefore refer the
Aspirant to such books of the past four hundred years, known
to have been written by members of the Fraternity, or to such
texts as have been published by the publishing house connected
with this Fraternity. These books, whether they be by Jen­
nings, Lytton, Levi, Corelli, Clymer or others, all hint at the
foundation and the consummation of the Great Work to be
attained by faithful Neophytes of the Fraternity.
Time to Be Devoted to the Study
The question is frequently asked: Must a certain amount of
time be devoted to the study and practice of this Work? The
answer is that, as all else in life, progress depends upon the
time and effort devoted to the Work. The student who really
is in love with the Work will naturally seek to find time to
devote to it; others will hardly succeed in it. If the student
will devote but thirty minutes a day on concentrated study
and practice, preferably in the evening, then ultimate success is
assured him. Surely anyone sincere in his search for so great a
treasure can find that much time out of every twenty-four
hours.
The Scope of the Great Work
Like all Arcana in Nature, the August Fraternity, triple in
its organization, is symbolized by the Triangle with its up­
ward point toward high heaven, even as arises the flame of the
Sacred or, i.e., Ineffable Fire from the Great Center WITHIN
the Neophyte toward the Cosmic or Central Throne.
19
THE FRATERNITAS ROS^E
CRUCIS
(AUGUST FRATERNITY OF THE ROSY CROSS)
T
HE Rosy Cross in all its sublimity is the first phase of the
great Triangle and the first step in the training which
gradually leads to the Spiritual Hierarchy. It is the prelimi­
nary grade of the Secret or Ancient Schools wherein is taught
a sublime philosophy of life and action, the Law of exact Jus­
tice, the principles underlying Compensation as relating to
every activity of life, the necessity of Manhood as a means to­
wards Godhood and Mastership. In its training the Rosy
Cross leads the gross man by degrees from the purely physical
and weakly human to the verity of the Spiritual. It instructs
the Acolyte in the process of transmutation, the acquisition of
health and strength, ridding the mind of all thoughts of weak­
ness and age, so that he may, by his own efforts, transmute the
base and inglorious into the pure and fine— the dross into the
finest gold. This process gradually brings about the Soul’s
awakening and Illumination. Man thereby proves to himself
that he does possess a Soul and ultimately contacts the Inner
Center of his own being, there to find the ever-living, ever­
burning Sacred Fire of the Soul. In the words of Maeterlinck,
"What is man but a god afraid?” This fear is ultimately
eliminated and the next step is to contact the Hierarchies of
the Brotherhood. During this process, and as a result of his
own volition and efforts, the Neophyte becomes a Rosicrucian
and is henceforth a Brother of the August Fraternity.
Imperial Eulis
Imperial Eulis is the second phase of the great Triangle. No
one is permitted to enroll for the instructions, but all who are
20
\
T H E R O S Y C R O S S
faithful will gradually grow into this grade and receive its
Ineffable instruction. Whether or not the Neophyte will ever
receive the Arcane inculcations depends wholly upon himself,
his own efforts and sincerity.
The Priesthood of /Eth
(The Brethren of Light)
This third phase of the great Triangle towers above all
other Arcane instructions and training. It embraces the
Higher Occult in all its phases and, in a sense, commences its
work after the efforts of the Rosy Cross have prepared the
Neophyte for the highest knowledge and Wisdom available to
man. The Tilth Priesthood, with its Centralized authority and
Secret Council guides the Neophyte into the deeper realms of
study and practice. Here are developed those who become the
Initiates of the Exalted Third, the Brethren of Light (the
Flame) and into whose keeping are confided the Greater Mys­
teries of the Ancient Schools. As these Aspirants prove them­
selves worthy, manuscripts whose contents are little dreamed
of by the profane are placed into their hands, and, as they pro­
gress, they may, if they choose, become Ordained into the
Councils of Initiate Priests. To enter this realm of training
the Neophyte must be willing to lay aside self-opinion, self-
conceit, biased judgment, self-righteousness and all other
vices of smallness, and stand ready to help all, while condemn­
ing none.
Conditions for Enrollment
Class A: Enrollment in Class A is on a month to month
payment basis. A registration fee of $3.25 is remitted with the
enrollment application. Beginning with the second month,
$1.75 a month is paid for as long as the Neophyte continues
with the study and training. Due to the expense involved,
21
T H E R O S Y C R O S S
credit for such payments cannot be allowed on Life Scholar­
ships. Request Class A application blank if this form of en­
rollment appeals to you.
Life Scholarships— Classes B and C
A Life Scholarship means that you are enrolled in the Fra­
ternity for life, unless, due to unethical acts or unfaithfulness,
all rights and privileges are withdrawn. It means that lessons,
special instructions and personal guidance will be given the
student as he progresses in the Work, or as he is in need of such.
His training will be under a special instructor and guide who
will constantly seek to learn his every need in the Work. There
will be no further fees or dues. All the Fraternity has to offer,
except books, is at his command as he progresses step by step.
Class B: Under this classification the applicant is enrolled
for a Life Scholarship in the Rosy Cross. The Neophyte re­
ceives full guidance and the entire training of the Fraternity
and, attaining the goal of Initiation, full membership in the
Fraternitas Rosce Crucis with all rights and privileges. (The
Class B work does not include the instruction and rites leading
to AEth Priesthood Initiation.) Life membership in Class B
requires a $50.00 donation.
Class C: This is a Life Scholarship in the Priesthood of
AEth and includes all of the work of the Rosy Cross, the
Occult Arcanum and complete training toward the Rite of In­
itiate Priesthood. The donation required is $150.00.
Those sincerely interested in the teachings and training of
the AEth Priesthood and Higher Occult, or Occult Arcanum,
should write for the brochures T he PRIESTHOOD OF AETH.and
T he Occult Arcanum.
The supposition is that, in enrolling in either Class B or C,
the entire donation be remitted with the application. However,
it is the desire of the Fraternity to be of help to all sincere seek-
22
T H E R O S Y C R O S S
ers and where it is impossible for the applicant to remit the full
donation, terms and conditions may be arranged (within rea­
son) to suit the applicant, provided: the applicant is ready
and willing to do the best he can.
All communications must be addressed and all remittances
made to:
DEPARTM ENT OF INSTRUCTION
Beverly Hall Corporation
Quakertown, Penna.
