{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__robinson___ye_men_of_athens.pdf","mytitle":"Ye Men Of Athens","mylang":"de"}
Ye Men of Athens
By
FrankB.Robinson,
D.D.,Ph.D.
FOUNDER OF
;'Psychiana"
International Headquarters, Moscow, Idaho, U. S. A.
"Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things you are
too superstitious. For as I passed by, I beheld an altar
with this inscription 'To the Unknown God'. He, there-
!ore, whom ye ignorantly worship, the same declare I unto
you"-The Christian Bible.
Published by "PSYCHIANA" Inc., Moscow, Idaho, U.S. A.
COPYRIGHT , 1940, BY FRANK B. ROBINSON.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
PRINTED IN THE UNITED ' STATES OF AMERICA BY METROPOLITAN
PRESS , GRAPHIC ARTS BUILDING, PORTLAND, OREGON, U. S. A.
DR. FRANK B. ROBINSON
Found er and Dir ector of "Psychiana"
DEDICATION
THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED TO ALICE AND ANNIE WACHAL ,
TWO "REAL FRIENDS" OF THE "PSYCHIANA" MOVEMENT . MAY
THE SPIRIT OF GOD AS THESE TWO FRIENDS HA VE FOUND
THAT SPIRIT, MANIFEST TO THE VJl:RY FULL IN THEIR LIVES ,
OTHER BOOKS BY DR. FRANK B. ROBINSON
"Gleams Over the Horizon."
"Secret of Realization."
"Crucified Gods Galore."
"Life Story of Frank B. Robinson."
"Shall We Know Each Other Beyond the Tomb?"
"ls the Story of Jesus Christ Fact or Fiction?"
"What God Really Is."
"The God Nobody Knows."
"The Number of the Beast."
"America Awakening."
These boOks and tlle complete "P.SY CHIANA" Tea.cblng may ,
be obtained from
"PSYCHIANA" Inc ., Moscow, Ida.ho, U . S. A,
INTRODUCTION
By C. W. Tenney, A. M., L. L. D., Assistant Director
of "Psychiana"
FAR from the mad clamor, clash, and tumult of the city,
out here in the wide open spaces where stand towering
pines ... majestic in their beauty ... wise with the
growth of centuries, lies the little city of Moscow, Idaho,
peacefully nestling close to the bosom of naturn. For nature
is peaceful here in Moscow. These pine trees rise like guar-
dians of the little city . . . they seem to stand there to
protect it from the noises of the beyond. They are dismayed
not by the fierce winds or rising gales, which, ever so often
sweep across this peaceful scene. Instead, with passive
grace, they sway and nod benignly in their contentment.
They are far-famed, these pines of Idaho; and the aspens
quiver to the gentle swaying of the breezes. The beautiful
corn-fields , brilli ant in their autumn ripeness, lend to the
beauty of the scene. Here, great acres of richly planted soil
are turning golden with promise of a great harvest .
It is to this little city of Moscow that we shall take our
reader. There, we shall pass a few hours together. In this
city of peace, carefully guarded by these tall nodding sway-
ing pines, we shall see if we cannot find the peace which
comes from communing with the God of all nature. We
shall try, as we muse here together, to bring to this sad,
war-torn world in which we live, something of the calm
assurance of peace, happiness and joy which is soon to
break o'er this troubled world. A glorious gleam will light
your path after your short sojourn here. You will go away
-knowing the peace that passeth all understanding. The
Peace which is God.
Countless thousands have turned their eyes this way.
Countless thousands who have never travelled these Idaho
plains have found peace too, for the message which is going
to the far corners of the earth from this little city, is the
[ 5 ]
message which the world has long waited for. Many
thousands have been unable to attempt the journey to this
land of wide open spaces; but they have found the peace
which all try to find, through the written word, emanating
from this spot of beauty. Countless thousands have turned
their footsteps this way. They came puzzled and dismayed
. . . caught in the whirlpool of doubt and fear which has
the whole world in its grip. Before they left, they found
themselves lifted into a sanctuary of certainty. And there
they nestle . . . sublimely content in their new found
security and peace.
Peace does shed its wings o'er this fertile land. Every
day seems a day of rest. A glorious hidden light seems to
serve to guide the footsteps of those who travel here. Each
sabbath, the solemnly tolling bells call the worshippers to-
gether; for there is a wealth of churches here. They meet
to meditate. They meet to see if they cannot find some-
where, that sense of rightness and security the whole world
is seeking. They are much more apt to find it here in this
city of peace and quietude.
From all corners of the earth they have come. Many
were tossed relentlessly on a sea of doubt. Many had been
engulfed by the maelstrom of fear. When they came, they
were discouraged. They had no tangible faith on which to
lean; but they found peace. They found that "Inner Voice"
which, from the stillness of the depths of their own souls
said unto them "What is it? ... what is the matter? ...
why do you fear?" And they found the Great Spirit. They
went away, confident in the ability of that Great Spirit to
satisfy the longings of their souls. And they were not dis-
appointed. They found the True Spirit which may be
called God.
Cannily, the Great Spirit they had found began to unwind
her cocoon of life. She had subtle ways. Buds burst forth
from their dormant hiding at her bidding. Birds came
winging to lend their sweet notes of harmony at eventide,
sublimely content in their song, and in their confidence of
the Great Spirit to provide. Truly, the place to give birth
[ 6 ]
to a great Spiritual Movem~nt, through which the world
shall know, after these long, trying centuries, the Presence
of this Great Spirit-God.
Millions have heard the message which has gone through-
out the world from this fair little city of Moscow, Idaho.
They stand all over the world as witnesses to the sublime
Power of the Great Spirit to bring them peace. In the midst
of this the greatest of all Spiritual Awakenings, they have
come. Wanderers from the mists ... not knowing whither
they were going . . . seeing not beyond their own futile
hopes. They had sought in vain for some thre ad of faith
which might lead them to the goal of their ambitions.
They had looked in vain for some faint ray of light which
they could grasp with a firm hand, but, like the wandering
dove that found no repose on the earth, sadly, remorsefully,
they had given up all hope. They had despaired of even
entering the haven of peace they found when they turned
their eyes to this little city of homes and churches.
Here they have found peace. They have found the Source
of Infinite Power. They came here to find these things,
and they left, overwhelmed with joy. They came bewild-
ered ... they left radiant with happiness and buoyant with
new hopes. They had found God through the simple message
of a simple quiet man in Moscow, Idaho. Some of them
said when they came "Oh, but my problems are too great!
I am beyond the scope of human aid". But they too found
the Spirit of Infinite Peace which this Great Spiritual
Awakening is bringing to the world. They found Power.
They found Joy. They found an abundance of spiritual
and material blessings at their right hand.
They came with spirits crushed and bleeding. They came
with bodies racked with pain; they found surcease from
suffering; they found their spirits renewed in a blaze of
hope and glory, as they found God. Baffling indeed are the
ways of human flesh. It will labor and strive; it will toil
far into the night, forgetting all else than the goal of its
ambitions. It will endure endless sacrifice, if haply it
might find that peace and tranquility it instinctively knows
[ 7 ]
is ... somewhere. Then, through many and devious ways,
the footsteps of these wayfarers have turned to this little
city; and they have found that peace which comes only
from the Realm of the Great Spirit.
The University of Idaho nestles hard by. Over the slopes
of its campus the late Senator William E. Borah loved to
ramble. Many a time he visited the home of the man with
whom we are to spend a few hours. There is a low-lying
comfortable chair in this home, in which the late beloved
Idaho statesman loved to rest. It is the favorite chair of
the man we shall shortly meet.
I want to relate a rather amusing incident concern ing
Senator Borah and little nine-year-old Florence, the daugh ter
of Dr. Frank B. Robinson, for, as you have perhaps sus-
pected, that is the man who will speak with you through
this book in just a few moments now. There is a gentle-
man in Moscow who wears a toupee. He looks well in it .
Recently, little Florence and her mother were in a local
barber-shop awaiting their turn. The gentleman with the
toupee entered, and, after speaking to the few customers ,
proceeded to take off his toupee, and hang it on a nail which
had been conveniently placed for that purpose.
Florence's eyes opened wide. "Oh-Mamma" she said as
loud as she could and in her most excited voice, "that ma n
took off his hair and hung it on a nail". Everyone in the
barber-shop convulsed with laughter, naturally, altho ugh
they tried to hide it somewhat as they tried to spare the
feelings of the gentleman with the toupee.
Shortly after, while the late Senator was resting in Dr.
Robinson's favorite low-lying chair, Florence entered th e
room and the Senator called her over to him. "Come and sit
on my knee and give me a big love," he requested. Florenc e
at once went over, climbed up on the Senator's knee and
put her arms round his neck. Looking up at his hair, quick
as a flash she clambered down out of his lap and went over
and threw her arms round her Daddy's neck. Surpri sed,
Dr. Robinson said to her "Why Florence-what's the mat -
ter? You go right over and sit on the Senator's knee again;
[ 8 ]
he likes you". Slowly Florence retraced her steps, and once
more climbed on Senator Borah's lap. Coyly looking up at
his hair she said "You doesn't take your hair off and hang
it on a nail does you?" The Senator assured her that he
did not, and all was serene from that time on.
However, this introduction is not a biography of Dr.
Robinson. I merely mention this little incident in passing.
We have far more important things to talk about; so let me
finish my introduction as speedily as possible in order that
we may get into the message Dr. Robinson has for this
world; for he has a message, I assure you! and this message
has gone round the world in the most amazing manner.
It will finally bring the world to God; and that is some-
thing no message from anyone has been able to do yet.
I count it a distinct privilege to be asked to write an
introductory statement to this book. I do not feel that I
am qualified to do this. Yet, as Assistant Director of what
is the fastest growing religious Movement in the world,
and as the "next-in-charge" to Dr. Robinson, I cannot see
how I can gracefully ref use his request. This man is already
internationally famous. The eyes of the religious world are
focused upon him. The Movement he heads has not been in
existence long enough yet for the entire world to know of
it; but it will be known for what it is; and that, very
speedily.
To few men has international acclaim and success come
as speedily, as it has come to the author of this book. Few
men have been so abundantly blessed as he has; for it is a
blessed thing to be able to bring to a dying world the
message which will save it? Deeply religious by nature,
this man all his life tried in vain to find God. He tried
every avenue offered by many religious organizations whose
claims are that they, and they alone know, and offer the
true solution to this world's ills, and the "one and only"
pathway to God. But he failed to find God anywhere, and
none of the organizations through which he tried to know
God were able to supply that knowledge.
Then, after nearly forty years of heart-r ,ending search,
[ 9 ]
he did what few ever do. He began to think. As a result
of his thinking, this world has been given a religious
Movement which, in the next few years, will bring to it the
conception and the Power of God for which the world has
ever sought, but has never been able to find. For, in spite
of how much we of the church love the institution, the
fact remains that it has failed in its task of revealing God
to man. H. G. Wells recently said-"Civilization will not
sink five years from today, it will not sink one year from
today; it is sinking now". That could not be possible had
full recognition of God been brought to the world by any-
one; and Dr. Frank B. Robinson was the man for this hour
of need.
As a result of the thinking Dr. Robinson did, 'I'he
"Pisychiana" Movement, in its first year, went into sixty-
seven different countries. In the United States alone, today,
there are more than 12,000 different cities, towns, and vil-
lages where may be found, in each, from one to more than
ten thousand members of this Movement. Yet it has no
church building; it has no ministers; it has no meeting-
places, with the exception of a branch office in The Hague
in Holland.
My life has been dedicated to the service of the Methodist
church for more than forty years. I was president of Mon-
tana Wesleyan College for fourteen years, and president of
Gooding Methodist College in Gooding, Idaho, for nearly
eighteen years. I was school inspector of the State of Mon-
tana for several years, and for the past few years, before
being associated with Dr. Robinson, I was president and
director of the Idaho Institute of Religious Education at
the University of Idaho. While not first called to do the
work Dr. Robinson is doing, I feel I am qualified to pass
on the merits of it. I do not hesitate to make the statement
that I have seen more of the works of God and received
more words of gratitude in the few years I have been
ass9ciated with Dr. Robinson, than in forty years of
religious education and public school work.
What Dr. Robinson will say to you in this book will
astonish you. It will sting many, I assure you. But the
[ 10 ]
prick of the hypodermic needle stings when diphtheria anti-
toxin is administered. Yet, diphtheria antitoxin is the only
known remedy for that deadly disease. If what Dr. Robin-
son writes stings, let me assure you the sting will soon be
forgotten in the joy of knowing the glorious revelations of
the Power of God this man will bring to you. He will never
try to hurt anyone's feelings. ,Nevertheless, he will bring
his message of God to the world, regardless of how many
or who it stings; for he is the most plain-spoken man I
have ever met, and he is also the most kind.
However, you may rest assured, that this man's life is
on the altar of service for God. He knows nothing else;
he works far into the night, wears himself out, and tears
himself ruthlessly to pieces in order that he may ·do a
good job of bringing to the world the TruthJ.sof God which
can save it, before he is "ordered home". How he stands it,
I do not know. What he does would kill the average man,
yet today, Dr. Robinson is in the pink of condition, and
can do more work than any two men I have ever met.
I know all about Frank B. Robinson. I knew him in his
youth, more than thirty years ago. In writing an introduc-
tion to "Gleams Over the Horizon" by Dr. Robinson, I said
"A true friend is one who knows all about us, and likes
us just the same". That is the kind of friend I want to be
to the man with whom I have the honor to work.
Now, I turn you over to my friend. Read carefully what
he has written, for he knows whereof he speaks. If we,
here in Moscow, can be of any assistance to you in your
search for this true picture of God, please let us know.
When the true Light dawns in your life, then spread the
good news as fast as you can. Ours is not the job of saving
the whole world. No one man can do that. Ours is the job
of sowing the seed. If the seed fall on fertile soil, it will
bring forth an abundant harvest, and through these price-
less truths, the entire world shall be brought to a knowledge
of the fullness of the Power of God.
C.W.T.
[ 11 ]
Chapter One
THERE MUST BE ANOTHER GOD
DR. TENNEY has painted a peaceful picture of Moscow,
Idaho, in his letter of introduction. It is peaceful here.
I wish the rest of the world was as full of peace as this
little community is. But it is not. For the war-dogs are
loose. Human beings are being blown into eternity ruth-
lessly, and human life has no value at all to those forces
which recently have manifested on the earth, believing that
"Might makes Right". I confess I do not understand their
appearance-so many of them at once. But they are dan-
gerous. That philosophy will drive every semblance of
peace and happiness and God from off the face of the earth
if it is not checked, and none can say with certainty that it
can be checked.
The minds capable of engineering such modern imple-
ments of destruction, certainly cannot be limited in their
ghastly inventions. We do not know what they might have
"up their sleeves". We do know that if they should come
into control of this world, life will not be worth living.
For no permanent peace can ever be brought to the earth,
if it is based on a foundation of wholesale murder. The
spirit of permanent peace must stand on the proper basis
and foundation . And war is not that foundation. In other
words, peace comes from within man. It cannot be forced
upon man at the point of the sword.
Dr. Tenney alluded in his wonderful introduction to a
recent statement of H. G. Wells. I agree with that state-
ment. Civilization, as we have known it, is sinking now.
It may sink completely. But I do not believe that any
civilization set up by any "dictator" at the point of
the sword will ever endure. If that sort of civilization
is forced upon the world at the point of the sword, the
world and the people will be kept in subse rvience to it
at the point of the sword . Permanent peace cannot be
[ 13 ]
brought in, in such a manner. So, looking at the world as
it exists today, the future is not easy to contemplate. It
holds little hope. Yet I find .it full of hope. For while it is
obvious to any thinker that no permanent peace can come
at the point of the sword, it may be that these war-m ad
dictators, and others , who seem to value human life at
such a low price, can be brought to their knees, and a per-
manent, lasting peace brought to the earth, in spite of the ir
faith and confidence in the ultimate permanent triumph
of arms . No man can state with certainty that in the prese nt
holocaust that any one side will win. The Allied forces may
win, and they may not win . If they do not win, and the se
totalitarian monstrosities are to be the order of the day,
then these United States had better note carefully what is
going on. For if Hitler wins the war, the first country he
would take from England would be Canada, and that would
be bringing these damnable doctrines a bit too close to
home for comfort.
The Monroe doctrine requires the U. S. to fight if a
foreign soldier enters the Americas. And I believe th ey
would. But can we say with assurance that the Unit ed
States could win a war against all totalitarian nation s ?
I don't think we could. Certainly today we could not do it
for we ar ,e not the type of people who have made designs
on the territory of others. But we have on the earth toda y,
those whose sole aim and object seems to be to rule the
world by brute force. They have even gone so fa r as to
write a book, and prophesy in the book what they would do.
And the dangerous part of the whole transition through
which hum anity is going lies in the fact that so far, the se
nations have done exactly as they predicted they would.
I do not blame the individuals of any nation. They do not
want war. But the y are living under governments headed by
individuals who, through some mental process or other,
have decided that they can rule this world by force. What
brought the advent of these men , I shall not deal with in
this book. There is a far more important problem to be
discussed .
[ 14]
I believe these totalitarian ideas and ideologies to be
false in their inception, and I believe them to be impossibl e
of fulfillment. To live under such a world regime would
render the whole human race nothing more than serfs and
slaves. It would admit that the rule of force is the most
powerful thing in the world today. As a religious leader
I am not prepared to admit that. If the day ever comes
when brute force is to be the dominating factor in this
world, it will destroy itself. For human nature is so con-
stituted that it longs for freedom. It will not forever settle
down under the rule of any dictators, whoever they may be.
The seeds of decay are in that philosophy, and therefore
it cannot and will not survive.
But if it cannot be beaten by force of arms, with what
weapon are we going to beat it? Personally, I believe, as
I write this, that these totalitarian nations will be suc-
cessful. I believe England and France will go down. What
then? Certainly these mad-men will not stop with what
they have stolen from others, leaving the United States
alone. That wUl never happen, for danger to us may be
closer than we dream, now. So I repeat the question-
"What will happen to us here in the U. S. if Hitler, Stalin ,
and Mussolini and Japan win this war?" That question is
pertinent. It must have an answer .
I believe the answer to that question exists. I believe
the next few years will bring to this world an era of peace,
joy, and happiness such as it has never seen or enjoyed
since civilization began. It does not look that way now.
But I believe that will all come to pass. If it does not come
to pass, civilization is permanently doomed. But what then,
can it be, which is not brute force, yet which can defeat
brute force as that force is manifesting on the earth today?
Certainly nothing we have known anything about in the
past can be called into play against these forces of wrong.
I know of absolutely nothing this world knows about which
can defeat force of arms, except a greater force of arms.
But that is not what I am talking about. These forces, if
one may call the ideas at the back of these armies, fcirces,
[ 15 ]
are not the forces of anything good. It is never right to
kill. It is never right to steal the country of another. It is
never right to blow human beings into eternity by the
submarine or the bombing-plane or by any of the rest of
inventions of war . That is never right.
I am aware that there are arguments on each side of
the present conflict. I am aware of the fact that the
German leaders may be honest in their aims and intentio ns
to "defend their land against Britain" and I also know
that the English really feel that Hitlerism is a menace.
I might even agree that Stalinism, with its Godless philoso-
phies actually thinks such philosophies are right and tru e,
and I'm not going to be the one to tell any of them that the ir
particular stand is wrong. What I am saying is that war
is never right. No civilization can be set up on a basis of
the r·esults of war, and a lasting peace never comes fro m
such civilization. So then, when this war is ended, regar d-
less of who wins, the world cannot help but be in far worse
condition than it was in before the war started.
The idea behind war is wrong. Regardiess of what in-
justices may exist on either side, brutal murder, opposed
by brutal murder, cannot be the answer. And the reason it
cannot be the answer is because killing anyone in war is
wrong. Never can it be justified. It is my opinion therefo re
that if these forces and ideologies, etc., are to be replaced
permanently on the earth, it cannot be done by war, but
it must be done by bringing into play a higher power or
force than that which rules and seems to control those in
power who have set out to conquer the world by force of
arms. To meet these threats of arms by more arms, simply
means that the nation with the most men and the most
deadly armaments "wins" the war. Nothing is settled th at
way. The one who loses may have been right. But if the
other fellow had greater armies, and more deadly explo-
sives, he would "win" , even though the ends of justice be
defeated in his winning.
So then, I say to you that if permanent peace is to be
brought to the ,earth, and it will have to come sooner or
[ 16 ]
later, it must be brought in, not by the force of superior
armaments, but by a more powerful and higher conception
of the moral values of right and wrong. The trouble is that
in the minds of these European .and Asiatic fanatics, their
only philosophy is that "might makes right". And just so
long as they believe that, it would be useless to expect them
to use other means than the sword and bombing plane and
submarine, to accomplish that which they set out to accom-
plish. So no higher type of thought or morality can ever
originate in the same place the higher thought or power,
which can check these warriors, originates. If it could,
they would not be fighting today.
This puts us up against the proposition that in order to
stop this war and bring permanent peace to the earth, a
higher force, or power, or moral law must come into play,
and it must come from someone who does not hold that
"might ma~es right". Now where are we to look for this
"someone?" From whence is this liberating power to come?
Or is the only future we have to look forward to, a future
rule by the sword with people kept in submisson for fear
of their lives? Can that be the end of humanity? And
it is to try and help bring this higher power into play
at this time that I write this book. For I believe that
I have the answer to the problem. And when a man feels
that, and when his experiences of eleven years, convince
him, and many many millions more that he has the
answer, that man should, with all the power of his nature,
get that answer to the people just as fast as he possibly
can. That is what I am trying to do. For I am convinced
that this world has gone as far as it can go, with what
morality and light it has today. And it is to bring to this
world a greater morality and the knowledge of a higher
spiritual power, that I write the book. I am convinced that
this world has never known what either true morality or
true religion is. We have had, and still have, many different
forms of theology on the earth. But I do not believe the
true conception of the higher moral and spiritual powers
has even been given to this world by any organization,
r11J
religious or otherwise. If these higher values and thi s
higher spiritual conooption ever had been brought, thi s
world now "would not" but "could not" be in the conditio n
it is in. These "dictators" could not possibly have sown th e
seeds which have germinated in what we have with us
today, which teaches that "might makes right".
When I speak of "spiritual" values, I am not speakin g
of the religious beliefs of any system of religion. They may
be true and then again they may not be true . The fact
, that they are "believed" has no bearing upon their trut h
or their falsity. In the current issue of "Life" magazin e
(March 24, 1940), there is a full page photo of the Pop e
of Rome standing with outstretched arms "beseeching God
to restore honor among the nations". Evidently the Pope
did not have much faith in either his God or in his abilit y
to persuade God to restore honor among the nations, for the
caption of the article closes with this - "Three days afte r
the Pope's peace plea, the Vatican laconically announce d
that a special air-raid shelter, secreted under the Vatica n
courtyard was nearing completion, for the peace-seekin g
Pope". Undoubtedly the Pope, with all due respect to him ,
felt that he had better play safe and build this bomb-proo f
cellar, just in case God did not do as he asked him to.
I feel that quite a lot of responsibility rests upon the
head of the Pope of Rome, if his claims, some of them ver y
astounding, are true. Just a few weeks ago this gentlema n
chided the American people for, as he put it, "not payin g
more attention to the only one authorized to act and teach
for God", meaning himself. I think that claim may be
nullified' by the fact that a few weeks later the Pope
"beseeches" God Almighty to stop the war, and at the same
time .builds a bomb-proof cellar.
I do not think there is any question but what any highe r
morality or spirituality must inevitably come from God.
And here may lie the crux of the trouble in the world today .
God, as that Great Spirit which created alJ life exists, may
be a good deal different in attributes and general characte r
from those credited to God by what we know as "religion" .
[ 18 ]
The world, so far as we know, has always been full of
religion. It is full of it today. Yet notwithstanding the
claims to "divinity" made by all of the world's many
systems of religion, they do not seem able to bring to the
nations, such a conception of God, or such a morality or
spirituality which could bring this business of war to
an end.
Without going into what God is at this time, I remind
you that it is the negative forces of the world which have
brought to pass a condition in which "might is right".
And if those negative forces can be eradicated by a higher
morality and spirituality, then certainly there must be some
higher realm of morality and spirituality from which those
higher forces must come. We have seen that the same chan-
nel of thought cannot germinate "war-thoughts" and
"peace-thought" . They are opposites. They come from dif-
ferent sources, and different schools of thought. Yet both
are now struggling for the mastery, on this earth. The
totalitarian school of thought denies the existence of any
power higher than the power of "might". It ridicules the
thought of God. Perhaps the reason it ridicules all thought
of there being a "supreme being" is because it has seen so
little evidence of such an existence. Perhaps it has mistaken
the Creative Spirit for certain organizations which have
claimed, without proof, that what they have offered is of
God. And perhaps they were mistaken. If this happened
to be a fact, there is still much hope left for the world.
For, when the true conception of God is brought to the
world, it is entirely possible that these "godless" totalitarian
nations may be very eager and even anxious to accept that
picture. It depends entirely upon our conception of God.
When I use the word "god", at this point, I mean what-
ever force, power, or spirit it must have been which mani-
fested life on this earth origin ally, and which continues to
sustain that life. For I do not believe life is either mechani-
cal or automatic. Nor do I believe lif.e was germinated here
by any force, power, or spirit which we know today. The
origin and source of life has ever remained a mystery, as
[ 19]
has the identity of the word I take that source to mean-
God. However, more of that later.
The possibility must be mentioned here of there existing
a higher souroe of morality, spirituality, and power, and
there being no organization on the earth today which has
had a conception of such a power either given to them, or
brought to them by someone else. As we are informed
by systems to religion, all there is to know of God is
confined in their respective teachings. There can be no
conception of God outside of their own. The Pope of Rome
very actively and freely makes that statement. The oppos-
ing systems of religion say such a statement is not true.
So where is the truth if those who say they teach it, cannot
agree among themselves what that truth is?
It seems rather strange, but whenever and whereve r
wars have been fought, the name God has cropped up
right in the middle of those wars. This may be very sig-
nificant. In the world war, it was "Gott mit uns" on the
one side, while the slogan on the British Royal Standard
is "Dieu et mon droit"-God and my right. And when our
own doughboys went over there, they carried in thei r
pockets coins upon which is stamped-"In God we trust ".
But the "Gott" the Germans trusted did not come to thei r
hel,P, They lost the war. Or did they? Regardless of how
far in history we look back, in every war that has been
fought, both sides called upon the name of God to brin g
them victory. The religions of each warring nation prayed
to God or to "Gott" to bring their armies through successfu l.
But no one wins in a war. We have seen that. And this
leads me to believe that ther ,e is quite a possibility tha t
the "Gott" or the "God" these nations depend upon for
help, may be an entirely different entity from the Great
Spirit who brought life to this earth in the first place, and
to Whom we are to look for the higher morality and
spirituality by which we can bring to the earth, a reig n
of permanent peace, founded on peace within man, and
not peace by the sword. When this world witnesses a peace
[ 20]
"from within man ", that peace will be permanent. The
peace of the sword never can be.
Several years ago, I saw an exhibit in New York, so
gruesome that I have often wished I had never seen it.
Yet it gave to me a very clear picture of what I wanted
to know, and it helped me considerably in presenting to
this world the liberating truths of the True God, which
truths have had such a phenomenal growth during the past
eleven years. This collection of relics consisted of a group
of "instruments of torture" which one system used upon
the "heretics" of another system of religion, or upon those
who had no religion at all, in an effort to force their system
of religion wher .
e it normally was not wanted.
The most gruesome of these contraptions was called
"The Iron Maiden". It was .about 8 feet tall, made of
metal, . and it hinged on the side, opening up like a door.
On the inside, both back and · front, set about 6 inches
apart, were pointed iron spikes about 6 inches long. The
"heretic", which meant "unbeliever" was stripped naked,
placed inside the "Iron Maiden" and the door forced shut.
Two spikes were so placed that they penetrated the eyes
of the poor unfortunate who was having "religion" forced
upon him. Several more penetrated his bowels. And so on.
It is evident that none could survive the "Iron Maiden".
Yet that thing stands there in New York today and can be
seen for 25c. The most gruesome thing about it was the
fact that the "Maiden's" ears were huge funnels, into
which molten lead was poured in a final effort to induce
the poor devil, man or woman, who was inside that thing.
These were the practices of "religion" not too long ago.
There was a "bath-tub" on exhibition. It was on rockers,
and had sharp nails driven into the bath-tub from the out-
side, ever few inches. The "unbeliever" was stripped , placed
in the bath-tub with hands and feet tied, and rocked from
side to side until he agreed to "join the church" which was
inflicting such inhumane tortures on him or her. There was
the "thumb-screw" and too many more devilish objects
for me to spend more time describing. The point I wish to
[ 21 ]
make is that such methods were used by the "representa -
tives of God" and not too \ong ago (the inquisitions) t o
bring a knowledge of God to the world. Wha"ti we ar e
off.ered today as religion, while it does not do those crue l
things, is a direct descendant of it. The "god" is the same .
And we may see that the "god" of this religious institutio n
and the Great Spirit which is God, whose aid we are now
trying to assure , are two differ ,ent "gods".
It is just possible that the true conception of the Creator ,
whatever he may be, has not yet been brought to th e
earth, in spite of the. many systems of religion, and in spit e
of the fact that the warring armies , as well as the religiou s
organizations of the world, both call on God to help them
win their wars, and to help them save the world. But we
have seen that there is no known power on the earth toda y
which is capable of even beginning to stop these ghastl y
slaughters. We hear the name of God, but so far as eithe r
knowing what God is, or having any confidence whatsoeve r
in God-well-we just have not seen anyone, nor any sys-
tem of religion which knows about that. And I am con-
vinced that it is quite as useless for the Germans to call
on their "Gott" and the Engiish to call on their "God" as
it is for the Pope of Rome, or any other spiritual leader, to
call on his "Dio" or his "Maria". For it must be remem -
bered that the Roman Catholic religion is an Italian system .
Somewhere, there must be another God. There must be
a True God. A God this world has never known. A God
these varying religions have never known. I believe ther e
is. I believed there was el,e.ven years ago, and I still believe
it. In fact I believe it more now than I did then. For I
have now the experience of seeing what has happened in
the lives of hundreds of thous ands of people all over the
world. Now I know that there exists a God this world ,
and this God the church knows nothing about. Rather a
stupendous statement that. Yet a statement which can be
borne out by an overwhelming mass of evidence. Unde r
the new conception of God, a new Power comes into lives.
Peace comes too. Lives are changed as they have never
[ 22]
been changed before, and God, the True Spirit of God,
becomes a living reality in those lives. I have, therefore,
grounds for believing that there is coming. to this earth,
through this Movement, a conception of God which can and
will bring to the earth, that higher morality and spirituality
the earth so much needs. For that higher morality and
spirituality are all that is needed to make wars, strikes,
injustices, and crimes-unknown.
[ 23]
Chapter Two
GOD BEHIND "PSYCHIANA"
IT is not my intention to waste any of your time by giving
you a history of anyone in the Robinson family. Yet I
feel that I must give you a few facts which help to lead
to the Spiritual Power which is being manif.ested on this
earth through us here in Moscow, Idaho. For this new
conception of God did not spring into being overnight .
It took many years of heartrending search before the Light
finally broke. I am only happy that I had the bull-dog
determination to seek until I found. For with this new
and higher moral and spiritual conception of God, for tha t
is really what it is, this world can now find complete
surcease from all its sorrows. It can find, individually-
peace. It can find God. And when God is found, all is found .
Strange, though, this new and higher conception of God
is entirely different from any conception brought to man
through any r,eligious organization on the earth today.
A civilization can rise no higher than its conception of
God. And if the conception of God held nationally and
internationally is so low that warring nations call upon it,
then certainly that cannot be the true conception of God.
If the conception of God held by the religions of this world
is so low, that they tell us we cannot know God this side
of the tomb, that cannot be the true conception of God
either. The true conception of Deity must be so far and
· above any conception offered to the world by anyone today ,
that there can be no comparison. Different morals must
be involved. Higher ideas and ideals must be there too.
The conception must be universal. It must appeal, as truth ,
to the savage in darkest Africa, just as easily as it appeals
to the most ,educated one here in educated America.
There can be no room for splits and 500 different
organizations in one system of religion (as the Christian
religion has) in the realm of the Higher and Truer God.
When this new conception of God is fully grasped, it
[ 24]
will be discovered that this _
conception, contains in itself,
an all-sufficiency of everything needed to bring to this
troubled earth, perfect peaoe, complete happiness, and
freedom from want. If the conception of God I bring
cannot do that, it is not the true conception of God. Leave
it alone. But it not only can do that, it does do that.
As I know God exists, there is no reason why this day,
there cannot be universal peace and happiness on this
earth, with wars a thing of the past. That is more simple
of achievement than appears on the surface. All that is
necessary to bring in that day is for the proper, . the
sensible, the true conception of Almighty God to be brought
to the earth. That of course means that whatever con-
ception we have today must go. Whatever these religious
organizations have brought to us and offered to us as
being of God, we shall have to refuse. For there is abundant
evidence that none of these systems of theology, man-made
they most are, can do anything towards raising the con-
ception of Deity to a plane on which it can, by its own
power, replace the conceptions usually accepted and taught
on the earth today.
The different church organizations I believe, in the main,
to be honest. But honesty and the true conception of God
may be two different things. In this instance, they are.
If the churches will accept the new conception of God which
is being brought to the world, they may yet have an oppor-
tunity to live up to the True Light. In doing this they will
have to raise their sights on God. What they have, and
what for thousands of years they have offered to the
world as being "of God", will have to be labelled cor-
rectly-"of man".
I was born and raised in the shadow of the Christian
church. My father is a Baptist minister and is still living
and preaching. From early childhood there has been in
me, an intense desire to know the truths of God. This,
entirely outside the efforts of puritanical parents who,
with a Bible in one hand, would whale me within an inch
of my life for every petty infraction of the rules I com-
[ 25]
mitted. So I am in a position to know the inner working s
of a household wherein there lived-one who knew God.
I am very frank to admit that nothing I ever saw or hear d
in that home convinced me that there was very much of
God in it. There may have been a lot of the god th e
Baptist church worships, but there was none of the God
I now know. What there was in that home, was a lot of
the god of the church, but none of the true God.
The search for God though went on undaunted. Ever y
travelling evangelist who came along could be sure of find -
ing one "seeking soul" at the altar. Wherever I though t
there was a possibility of finding out the actual truths of
God, there was I in the midst of them. This search kept
up for many years, and it embodied both Catholic an d
Protestant churches. It made no difference to me what
church it was, if that church could satisfy the inner long-
ings of my soul for God, that is where I wanted to be.
I would be baptized. Five times. And, not having foun d
any of God, I would at once start the search all over again ,
this time in some other denomination.
I shall not weary you with the details of that search .
It kept up through the years, and as they rolled by, th e
more anxious did I become to know God. It was a passion
with me. It was a soul hunger. It had to be satisfied .
Form, theology, creed, ritual, all these meant nothing to
me. I knew them all by heart. It was God I wanted, and
God I set out to find. In Toronto, Canada, some years ago,
one Dr. Elmore Harris , who was president of the Bible
Training School, paid all my expenses through that insti -
tution. He had heard of my church activities. Being a
millionaire, and a member of the Massey-Harris farm
implement family, he naturally was very wealthy. He was
a fine man. One day, calling me into conference with the
deans and instructors of that institution, he said to me
"Frank, we want you to keep very humble. We feel tha t
the Lord has a wonderful work for you to do, and we feel
that the Holy Spirit has been given to you in a grea t
[ 26]
measure. As a result of your ministry, this world will be
drawn closer to the cross of Jesus Christ".
I thanked the good brethren, for I knew myself that
some day or other I should be leading a Movement of the
s·pirit of God, so dynamic that it would leave its mark on
the world. What I did not tell Dr. Harris, nor any of the
rest of the instructors, was that while I was studying the
Christian bible in his school, I was studying other and
comparative systems of religion somewhere ,else. I had been
disappointed too many times in my search for God. I was
not going to be disappointed again. Finally the day of
graduation came, and I threw a bombshell into that won-
derful group by telling it that I had not yet found God,
and under no circumstanoos could I go out and preach
until I had.
I remember a long conference with that board. The
argument used on me was that I must accept the Christian
religion by "faith". Dr. Imrie used the illustration of the
boat crossing the riv.er. "Frank," he said, "here is the
Mississippi river-you want to get to the other side of it-
here is a boat ready to carry you across-now how can
you get across if you don't get on the boat?" At that point
I began to ask Dr. Imrie some rather embarrassing ques-
tions. Questions which he could not answer. For I was not
interested in just another "belief". · I believed that God
existed here and now, as a dynamic, literal, spiritual
Power, and I believed furthermore that I, of all people,
could actually find and know the living Power of God.
That, however, was not in accordance with Baptist doc-
trines, so I left the Baptists.
I pounded a drum in the Salvation Army, and came al-
most going to the Army Training School as an officer.
But still I had not found God. True, I stood there on the
street corners of Belleville, Ontario, Canada, Sunday after
Sunday, and told people I was "saved", but the Army
forced us to do that. I knew everyone in that corps. And I
knew if th.ey were "saved" so was I. For there was no
difference in life or actions between us. They would drink
[ 27]
a glass of beer and so would I. But this did not satisfy
me at all. So I took to the hills. And the sea. There, on
somESlonely mountain-side or beside the sea, Frank B.
Robinson has spent many an hour, many a day, many a
week, trying to find God. I besought God, as the Pope did
the other day, to reveal his Power to me. But I kept on
seeking. No light came. Nor did it come to the Pope either ,
I suspect, for a few days after he asked God to stop th e
war, he built a bomb-proof cellar. That was the way th e
God of the church, which God unfortunately I was seeking ,
used me, too.
Every so often I received a letter from some good frien d
who believes religiously in "orthodoxy", telling me th e
reason I had so much trouble was because I would not
"believe". Of course I would not believe. There was nothin g
offered me to believe in. I had not found God, and I did
not intend to go through life with a pseudo-god, nor did
I intend to let the matter stay in abeyance, trusting to
good fortune or luck to find God after I had passed fro m
these shores. When I asked the representatives of thes e
religious organizations "where is your God?" I answered by
the statement that someone killed hilll/ 2000 years ago,
but someday, soon, perhaps, he would be back again, an d
at that time he would straighten this whole mess of a
world out. That was not the God I wanted to believe in,
for I instinctively knew there must be a far more potent
God than that, for instance, a God too big to allow anyone
to kill him for any reason at all.
One of such letters came in today from a dentist in
Atlanta, Ga. I will quote one statement from the letter of
Dr. Allen:
''The church has lost the dynamic power you have
found, but deserved to be pitied rather than con-
demned. They at least have preserved a form of
godliness. Your 'Law', coupled to the stabilizing
gospel of Jesus Christ, would stir the church as noth -
ing else since the days of St. Paul".
[ 28 ]
I will grarit you Dr. Allen that this is a fact. I will
also ask you what good a "form of godliness" can do this
earth in the face of the disaster so very imminent? This
world is full of "forms of religion". That's all it has.
And perhaps these warring "dictators" have mistaken
these "forms of religion" for the true Power of the Spirit
which is God. If that should be so, where does the re-
sponsibility for these ghastly wars lie? Your reference to
Jesus Christ proves that you are a member of the Christian
religion, and to you, all the truths of God are wrapped up
in that r,eligion. But why did the Pope have to build a
bomb-proof cellar, after asking his god to stop the war?
Can it be that all he has is a "form of religion?" I suspect
that all this world has ever known is a series of "forms
of godliness", none of them having the Power of God
in them.
This brother admits that the "dynamic power" in the
"Psychiana" Movement would shake the church as nothing
since the days of St. Paul has shaken it. But if it will do
that, why confine it to the church? It will shake the whole
world just as effectively, will it not? And does not the
who1e world need the saving truths of God-or are they
just for those who agree with your system of religion?
The Christian church has done everything it can do with
what little power and experience it has. But that little is
not enough to save this world. The conooption of God is not
high enough. We shall see later on just where that con-
ception came from.
The years rolled by. I had married the youngest daughter
of Circuit Judg ,e A. L. Leavitt of Klamath Falls, Oregon.
One child had been born to the union-Alfred. He is now
17 years old and a wonderful pipe-organist. At that time
the search for God was still going on. For many years I
left the church completely alone, and did some investigating
and much research work. But the desire for God was still
there. And it was still unanswered. So I made up my mind
to give the church one mor,e chance to tell me what it had
to tell me about God. I joined the First Baptist church,
[ 29]
services of which were held in the Auditorium in Los
Angeles. That was a big congregation. The Rev. Whitcomb
Brougher was pastor. Whenever he spoke, he would come
out on the platform wearing a big diamond, and a spot-
light invariably played upon him.
When I joined that church, there was quite a bit of
skepticism manifested. I did not have even a job. It did
not take very long for me to discover that I was not wanted
in that church, having no job, and therefore unable to
pay my way, so I took refuge somewhere else. I went home,
broken-hearted and broken in spirit too. Here I was, fort y
years old, and from a tender age I had tried all my life
to find God. The churches had nothing to off er but the
"form of Godliness" Student A11enin Georgia writes about.
And so my mind was about made up that there was nothing
much to this "god" proposition. But I knew better. I could
recount here, and make a book out of my sufferings and
attempts to find God, but that must wait . I am anxious to
tell my readers the good news. So then, that Saturday
afternoon, no job, no God, nothing at all but a wife and
small son, I decided to send Mrs. Robinson and Alfred home
to her parents in Klamath Falls, Oregon. They were dark
days indeed. But I am so very glad I was called upon to
go through them, for as a result of my untiring efforts to
find God, the religious conception of God will be raised,
and a sensible, logical God will be presented to the world,
and that God, the world will accept.
I stood there, all alone in that little home at 500 Laurel
Avenue in North Hollywood. Wife and child gone- I could
not even support them. And yet, in that moment of misery,
my thoughts were still of God. I still knew God existed,
and I still believed I could find God. Wher,e?-I knew not.
Perhaps, as one minister suggested, I had committed the
unpardonable sin. Perhaps I was a doomed lost soul,
destined to frizzle and fry forev ,er in the midst of a burning
fiery furnace. For this, too, I had been told was my lot .
In any event, I looked up into the face of the blank
heavens and uttered then the last prayer I have ever
[ 30]
uttered to either an "unknown" or a "known" god. "Oh
Go~if I have to go to hell after trying for forty years
to find you, then I'll go to hell .still trying to find you".
This, in effect, was the prayer, the last prayer I ever
uttered to my God. Yet that prayer seemed to lift the load,
and instinctively I knew that I was on the way to find God.
And it did not take very long to find God either. For,
strangely enough, the load I had been carting about for
forty years disappeared instantly, and I was free. Hell-
fire did not bother me from that day on. In fact nothing
the r,eligious organizations through which I had tried to
find God-nothing they had ever told me appeared to me
now as the truth. I knew, and I knew full well, that God,
as that Great Spirit exists, is a totally different God from
the one the Baptist church and other churches had taught
me to try to believe in. The God I now found, was a very
present help in that time of trouble. I was happy indeed.
Of course, it took quite some time to become used to deny-
ing that the god of the church is the God of the universe,
but I had done plenty of studying in comparative religions,
and everything dovetailed together so beautifully that
there could be no mistake. I had found the true God. And
the True Spirit of God was not the God of the church.
What a, revelation. What a discovery. What a change will
come to civilization when the True God ~s made known to
all mankind. Why I had to be the one to bring this reve-
lation I do not know. God, I discovered, moves in many
mysterious ways in working out his laws, and if I was
to be a humble pawn for God-that satisfied and still
satisfies me.
I do not believe you would want me to go into detail
covering the days and the weeks and the months which
went by, ofter I had found God. The work is well known
all ov.er the world today. And the work proves the vision
was sure and clear. For the conception of God which broke
upon me, takes in the whole human race. It is big enough
for them all. In the Baptist church, and according to my
friend the Catholic priest in th~ Catholic church, only
[ 31 ]
those who w,ere "saved" and "baptized" and "a membe r
of the body of Christ" could ever be finally brought to a
true knowledge of God, and that could not be while the y
lived on this earth. It had to be somewhere "beyond the
tomb". Yet here was I, revelling in the newly found Power
of the Spirit of God, and I knew that the whol,e worl d,
regardless of what any church said, could know this power
also. That, my friend, is tr ue religion.
Any attempt to separate God from his creation must
fail. Such attempts have failed. The condition of the world
today is directly due to the fact that religious organiz a-
tions have attempted to "save" the human race ~by making
it conform to a god of their own making. For, as you have
suspected ,ere this, the God of this universe is not the god
of the churches. This need make none feel bad; quite to
the contrary. For if the true picture of God has not been
brought to the world, the re still is hope for it. If the
church has pres ented the tru e picture of God to this world,
there is no hope for it, for that picture has failed. And it
has m~serably fail ed. But God does not fail. Therefore, the
staggeringly important statement I am making to you now,
that the God of the universe is not the God of the church-
is tru e.
There followed here, quite a change in everything. The
owner of the home had taken it back again, and I had
secured a "position " or was it a "job" in San Bernardino ,
California, managing some drug-stores. If I remember cor-
rectly they were the "Allison" stores. I rented a little home
and sent for Mrs. Robinson and Alfie as soon as I could.
I remember the home, it was built as a model home, and
faced the beautiful mountains of San Bernardino. I stayed
at the drug-stores not long, for the Spirit of God had come
into my life. I saw, and saw very clearly, what my duty
was from that moment on. For the true picture of God
had been given to me, and with the picture came the duty
of passing that picture to the rest of the world. ·I knew
at once that my name would be in the headlines from one
end of the world to the other, and the responsibilit y,
[ 32]
especially when placed on the head of one who had made
such a failure of life, seemed heavy. But with that respon-
sibility came the absolute assurance of the Power of the
Spirit of God-in me, and so plans were laid to begin what
is now the fastest growing religious movement in the
world. And this means that I am doing my duty as I
should do it.
People come from all over the world to Moscow to see
me. Every Sunday all summer long, cars from out of town
by the hundreds can be seen driving slowly by the home,
trying to see if they can get a glimpse of Dr. Robinson.
If these good folks could only realize that Dr. Robinson is
the same Frank B. Robinson he ever was, plus the Power
of the Spirit of God, they would not come to Moscow to
get a glimpse of me, but would be finding and using the
Power of God themselves, and then, when they had found
it, they would find some way of telling others. Let none
think for one moment that I possess any super-ability.
I do not. The only thing that can be said in my favor is
that I had enough confidence in God to keep seeking him
until I found him. And then, when I did find God, I dis-
covered that it was an entirely different Deity from any
I had ever been told about.
The Spirit of God is behind this Movement-the re can be
no question about th at. But please let none make th e mis-
take of thinking that it is because of Frank B. Robin son this
Great Spirit is manif esting on this earth. Had not I found
the truths of God, someone else, who probably could tell
them to the world better than I can, would have seen them,
and his, or hers would now be the task of directing this
Great Movement of God on the earth. I do not crave honor
of men. I want no one to come to Moscow to see me. I want
to be left alone, with the Great Spirit of God, to do the
work that has been given me to do "while it is day-for the
night cometh-when no man can work." And there is not
too much time left. Unless the world catches this true pic-
ture of God ere long, I am afraid that the world may be
forced to accept the domination of these war-mad dictators.
[ 33]
That will not be for long, but the war, even though it is in
its fiercest stage now, could be stopped in 24 hours if those
who know only the church God knew the actual Power and
Presence of the Living God. For there is a difference I as-
sure. A wonderful difference.
What is that difference, do I hear you ask? Let me tell
you. The church God, and a hundred million followers can
do nothing to help this world, or to bring peace to it. With
the True Spirit of God - one man, coupled with that dy-
namic power, can bring to the world sufficient knowledge
of God to stop all wars and save mankind from itself .
Had the true God been preached by the Christian
church, for only one year, we should all be living in a para-
dise now-and living forever too. And that doctrine was
taught by the Hindoo 2000 years before the Christia n
church was ever heard of.
I at once began to lay plans for the distributing of the
knowledge of the Power of the Spirit of God to the worl d.
And here let me state that I was wise enough not to attem pt
to lead God. I had nothing more than a job. Certainly one
cannot start a world religious movement on a job? But we
did just that. The story in itself is remarkable. The Salt
Lake Tribune called it "A story which fades anythin g
Horatio Alger ever did into nothing." The Portland Ore-
gonian said "Whether we like it or not, here is a man and a
Movement which will have to be reckoned with." The Boise
Capital N ews said "Whatever the source of this man 's
Power, it must be potent." For although I did not hav e
$50.00 to my name, inside of one year, sixty-seven coun-
tries knew of this teaching, and had sent for informatio n
concerning it.
I cannot begin to tell you hundreds of newspapers and
magazines have publicized the founder of this Movement
and the Movement itself. Perhaps I may mention just a few,
such as Time, Newsweek, Th e Editor and Publisher, Adv er-
ti'sing Ag e, The Presbyt erian Banner, The Lutheran Com-
panion, The Sunday School Times , The Gospel Advocat e,
[ 34]
Walter Winchell, Westbrook Pegler, Harold Ross, The Mi"fr
waukee Journal, The Washington, D. C., Times-Herald, The
Pathfinder, Everybody's Weekly, The Toronto Star-but I
must stop. Yesterday, March 25th, 1940, our clipping bu-
reau sent us 86 clippings from different newspapers, each
of which has given headlines to the founder of this Move-
ment, and each of which had published a cut. Today, the
"Psychiana" Movement is not only the fastest growing re-
ligious Movement in the world, but it has, in a few short
years, jumped up to eighth, I think it is, in size in America.
One man and the True God together.
The trouble with present existing systems of religion
. lies in the fact that while they all want to know God, and
while they all try honestly to do something for God and
humanity, they set up the standard their God must conform
to. They are not satisfied to accept God as that great spirit
exists, they have to kill him, and then teU the world that it
cannot know God unless it accepts their definition of God.
The Christian religion, for instance, calls every other sys-
tem of r,eligion "pagan." Why? because these other sys-
tems of religion do not believe that God Almighty was
killed on a cross in the form of Jesus Christ. And you can
reverse the system. Each system of religion in existence
calls the others wrong, because they differ in the identity
of God. Religions far older than the Christian religion had
every detail of the Christian story 2000 years before a
Christian or Christ were ever heard of. Yet in spite of this
fact, the Christian religion tells the rest of the world that
unless it finds God the Christians' way, it will never find
God at all. The fact is that neither the Christian religion,
nor any other system of religion knows anything about any
god, other than a god of its own manufacture. Certainly
the god of the Christian Church cannot be the God of this
universe.
Leaving San Bernardino, I secured a place in Yakima, at
the Pioneer Drug Store, and it was while in Yakima that
the first faint outline of "Psychiana" began to take form.
[ 35]
Slowly, surely, working day and night, the outline was
pieced togiether. Then, desiring to find another place t o
work where the drug-stores closed at 6 p. m., I sent a wire
to the Spokane Drug Co. asking them if they knew of such
an opening. A wire came back that ther ,e was such an open-
ing in Moscow, Idaho, so to Moscow, Idaho, we came. I
commenced work at the Corner Drug Store the following
day.
Soon after arriving in Moscow, I borrowed an old typ e-
writer from a dentist her ,e, and later gave a clothes presse r,
Carey Smith $5.00 for it, for he owned it. As I worked in
the drug store, I was thinking how best to put this new
philosophy of God into print. I had never written anything
before in my life. All I had done was to clerk in drug stores,
and do far more distasteful work than that many a time.
But here I was, I had come to Moscow to write somethi ng
which would reveal the Spirit of God to the human race. I
carried a little red covered note book in my pocket, and
whenever I would get a thought, I jotted it down. At night,
just after having arrived in Moscow, I would rent the din-
ing room of the hotel and there would give "lectures" to
the townspeople, and if you think that didn't take coura ge
you make a mistake. But I meant business. I had found
God. So what did I care if the good people of Moscow
twisted their first fingers at their forehead? I had had an
experienoe. I knew the Power of the Spirit of God. That's
what I wanted to tell to the world, and, having come to
Moscow for that purpose, I thought I might just as well
start in. And I did.
Inside of three months I had written the first seri es of
"Psychiana" Lessons on the Spirit of God. Then I faced the
problem of naming the Lessons. I had, up to th at time, no
idea what the Movement would be called. Nor did I know
where the money would come from with which to laun ch
a world movement for God. And the funny thing about that
is that I did not care too much. I knew that the Spirit of
God would bring the money when I actually needed it. And
it did. It led me in an amazing manner. Perhaps it will not
[ 36]
be amiss to clutter up this book by telling you the story of
how the name "Psychiana" came to be in existence, and
how the Movement got off to its start. It might interest you,
especially how I got the name "Psychiana."
The complete manuscript of the first ten Lessons was
written, and I think I had about $35.00 in the bank. Throw-
ing the Manuscript on the kitchen table in the apartment
in which we lived, I said to Mrs. Robinson-"Well-there it
is." She replied, "Yes-but how are you going to finance
the printing and the rest of the expense of putting out
those lessons?" I replied that I did not know, nor did I
care. I informed the good Mrs. Robinson that I should have
no trouble in raising the money. Now Moscow is a small
college town. There are about 15 churches to a population
of about 5000 people. It's hard-shelled where religion is
concerned, and anything which even attempts to get off the
beaten path had better move from Moscow. I smile often
when I recall how hard they tried to move me.
According to all the rules of the game, no stranger could
come into Moscow and raise even $50.00. Y,et here I was,
knowing no one, and I had to make up my mind to raise
here enough money with which to finance this Movement.
And on top of that you must remember, they pointed their
first fingers to their foreheads. A few days before Xmas,
1939, I took my brief case with the MSS inside it and left
the house. In reply to a query from the good wife as to
where I was going, I informed her that I was "going down
town to raise $2500.00." She remonstrated with me. Why
did I not forget all about this writing business and save a
few dollars every month out of my salary-"why, in a few
years we can own our own home," she said. She is a good
girl. Very much respected and loved in Moscow today, and
very promip.ent in social and civic and church activities.
Her desire to own her own home was perfectly natural,
and under other circumstances what she suggested would
have been the thing to do.
However, I had kept my peace. I had not even told her
what I was going to do, nor had I informed her of the vast
[ 37]
Movement which I knew would spring from the vision of the
Spirit of God as that vision had come to me some years
before in North Hollywood. I replied to her remonstrations
that I could not get $2500 in Moscow with the statement or
rather the question "How long are you going to stay up?"
She replied "until ten o'clock." "I'll be back with the money
before that time," I replied. Then she made a very sig-
nificant remark. She said to me--"If you're in that frame of
mind you will get it." And I did.
Standing on the outside of the closed Corner Drug Store,
I met the manager of a grocery store here. Ned Phillips.
He still is manager of that same store and he knows me
personally probably better than anyone in Moscow outsi de
of the immediate family knows me. Remember, I had not
been in Moscow three months at that time. Asking Ned
right off the bat if he had any money, he r.eplied that he
had $500 in the bank and asked me what I had in mind.
Taking him into the drug store I told him and showed him
what I wanted to do. Ned said to me "Well, Frank-I don't
know you very well but I like you-I think you're all right."
And he gave me $500. But I wanted and needed $2500.00 so
I asked Ned if he knew of someone else who had $500.00
and he informed me that his brother-in-law to be had
$500.00 and he offered to call him up. He did and we went
to his apartment where the second $500.00 was secur ed.
George Benson is the name. He was then, and still is a
bookkeeper for the R. B. Ward Paint and Hardware Co.
here in Moscow.
That made the first thousand, and in a strange town, too.
The next man suggested was Elmer Anderson who at the
present time is Accountant for "Psychiana." He has been
here almost ever since the Movement started. He had
$750.00 and I got that. Then, after putting our heads to-
gether, we decided to take a cold ride into the country
about ten miles to see another good friend, Oscar Ander-·
son. Oscar had $750.00 and there was the $2500.00 secured
by a stranger in a small town, and I doubt if there is an-
other man alive who could have done that. But I was ap-
[ 38]
plying and using the Power of the Spirit of God, and was
following a direct leading of the Spirit of God throughout
the evening. I could not hav,e failed.
Then I made another world record. It must be remem-
bered that I knew and still know nothing about advertising
although I have been called "the world's cleverest advertis-
ing man." Certainly, with a lifetime spent in a drug store,
I could not know advertising, but I sat down nevertheless
and wrote a piece of advertising copy which immediately, on
its first insertion, broke all records for mail-order copy.
Operating entirely by mail, a charge has to be made for the
Teaching, but as I have explained, the entire Movement is
non-profit. The marvel to me as I look back is the unerring
accuracy with which the leads I received from the Spirit of
God came to me.
Some power certainly was guiding me for up to that time
my life had been one long complete failure. I spent it all
trying to find God and the Power of God. I see plainly the
object of it all now. I see the divine guidance behind it all.
I have suffered-yes-as perhaps few men have suffered.
But the breaking of the day brings me now plenty of hap-
piness. For I see, as few can see, the Day of God. In that
Day of God, what the church has for so long predicted will
come to pass. Not in the way the church thinks it will come
to pass, however. Had not the Christian church been "sick,"
it would be doing this work instead of me. I can't help the
fact that the church is sick. I did not make it sick. My work
is to diagnose its disease and give it the prescription. What
happens after that is no affair of mine.
And so the Spirit of God continued to lead. That one
national advertisement in one national magazine, has
grown until as I write this we are advertising the Power of
the Spirit of God in literally hundreds of newspapers and
scores, yes hundreds of magazines. There are more than
12,000 cities, towns and villages in the United States alone
where, in each, there may be found from one, to fifteen
Students. Certainly some power was behind me in those
days of eleven years ago, don't you think?
[ 39]
Let me give you the amazing story of the name '"
'Psy-
chiana" and how it was secur ,ed. The Lessons had been
written. The advertisement had been sent to the magazine
in the east-minus the name. I informed them I would send
the name later. It came close up to the time when I had to
get that name. I thought and thought and thought. I did
not know as much then about the operation of the Spirit of
God as I know now. So, instead of allowing the Spirit of
God to provide me with the name, which it did anyway, I
stewed and stewed . Then Mrs. Robinson said to me- "Why
don't you use the same philosophy you did to raise the
money?" I saw the point at once, and went to sleep, laying
a pencil and paper by the bedside. Early in the morning I
was having a very realistic dream. One of the most vivid
dreams I hav,e ever had. I seldom dream, by the way. I was
standing at the door of a small room, in the center of which
was a Helen Gould army cot. On the cot lay a corpse, and,
standing over the corpse, and making downward motions
with both hands over the head of the corpse, was a tall
thin young man. Entering the room I said to him- "Now
just what do you call that?" Turning from the corpse to me
he replied - "You ought to know-this is "Psychiana," the
Power that will bring new life to a spiritually dead world."
And then I tried to wake up, and did. If you ever tried to
g.et something across from the dream world to the conscious
state , you know what a job you have on your hands. Well, I
kept repeating the name "Psychiana," ''Psychiana," until I
was full awake. Then, turning to Mrs. Robinson I said-
"/ have it-I have the name-it's "Psychi ,ana"-what do
you think of it?" She replied it was "good." And it certain ly
was. For that name, dreamed into existence, means plenty
to the religious life of .this world.
Now let me tell you something about that experience.
It is hard to believe, but it is true nevertheless. A short
while after this experience, I happened to be walking past
the cashier's desk one morning. Seeing a photo there, I
asked who that Student was. She replied that it was a Stu-
dent in Alexandria, Egypt. I asked her at once to take a
[ 40]
letter to that gentleman. In that letter, I told him that I
wanted $40,000 with which to do what I wanted to do with
this Movement. I had no way of knowing whether he had
$40,000 or forty thousand cents or no cents at all. His appli-
cation for enrollment said he was a bookkeeper. In a few
weeks, the Spokane Eastern Trust Co. called me long dis-
tance from Spokane, and informed me they had some money
which had been telegraphed from Egypt. "How much," I
asked, "forty thousand dollars?" I was informed that the
sum was $20,000 with another $20,000 to follow imme-
diately. Now listen to this if you believe the Spirit of God
does not unerringly guide those who know this Great Spirit
-Th e man whose photo I saw on the C(ljshier's
desk was the
man who was making the motions over the head of the
corpse in the dream.
It is impossible to explain this happening away. "Chanc e"
won't do. "Nervous reaction" don't do either. This is definite
tangible evidence that the Spirit of God was guiding me,
even then at the very inception of the Movement. For by
the same circumstance there came to me, not only the name
of the Movement, but the money with which to put it on its
feet . Truly God moves in a mysterious way. I could tell you
of many other strange happenings brought to pass by the
Power of that same Spirit. But I have wander ,ed a lot so far
in this book. I shall get down to the subject matter of the
book now. I just want to say here that the "Psychiana"
Movement is recognized all over the world as the fastest
growing religious Movement there is, and the one which is
really accomplishing results. The reason for this is the fact
that the Spirit of God is behind it all. It certainly is not
th rough any super-ability I possess, I assure you .
Shortly after the first advertisements began to appear
nationally, it was evident that some ver y determined at-
tempts were to be made to stop the Teaching. I will not go
into these attempts at this time, any more than to say that
the attemps made to stop it, were pronounced by Senator
William E. Borah to be "t he most vicious and dastardly per-
secution ev,er to come to my knowledge ." The details of the
[ 41 ]
attempts to stop the Teaching would make a book in them-
selves, and some day I may write that book if I can ever
get the time.
Soon after the insertion of my first piece of advertisin g
copy, replies began to pour in to me. I worked all day in the
little drugstore and attended to the replies at night. With
the $2500 I had borrowed, I ordered one thousand sets of
my Lessons printed, and ten thousand each of the literature
which I sent to those who replied to my advertisemen t .
Then, I had about $425.00 left, and when the sum of
$400.00 was paid for this first advertisement, I think we
had $16.47 in the bank with which to buy postage stamp s.
I had rented a little office which cost $5.00 a month, and
after closing up the drugstore I would go up there and
answer the replies which had come in. I might add the re
that our system of mailing and accounting has been called
the most perfect in existence, yet the basis for it all started
in th at little room over the drugstore, ,eleven years ago.
Our accounting system now consists of many hundre ds
of different forms, etc., and all of these have been drawn
up by me. In our International Headquarters building here
in Moscow, are tens of thousands of different pieces of lit-
erature, but no one to date has ever written one thing for
me. Both the bookkeeping system and the entire maili ng
system were worked out under the direct Power of which
you will hear shortly. I have had no help. At the prese nt
time, in addition to guiding this Movement, and that is
more than one man's job by the way, I write every artic le
which appears in our Weekly magazine. That in itself is a
good job for several men.
In this little "office" over the drugstore, the "Psychiana"
Movement had its first start. The first piece of mail was
distributed from there. I called the boys who had loaned me
this money together, and with a few saws, nails, and ham-
mers, and some rough lumber, we built the shelves and the
tables. Various predictions were made locally as to just how
long this "thing," as they called it, would last. The longest
time given it by the town's most prominent lawyer was six
[ 42]
months. "People won't fall for that stuff," he said. Varied
were the emotions in this little University city, for what I
was doing was so very different from anything they had
seen here, that naturally the curiosity of all was aroused.
The advertisement, too, that created national and inter-
national comment. Nothing ever containing the statements
I made had ever before appeared anywhere. It was startling.
It was radical. It was differ.ent. Yet that piece of advertis-
ing copy, with one exception, broke all known advertising
records in the mail-order field. The piece of advertising I
am now using, is universally admitted to be the most pow-
erful of all pieces of reader copy. Yet it was written by a
man who knows absolutely nothing about advertising, who
had had no advertising training, and had little business
ability and no executive ability. Truly, the Power and the
ability needed to build, and to successfully prosecute this
Movement, comes from somewhere quite outside myself.
What I am relating to you here is direct evidence of the
operations of the invisible Spirit of the True God, about
which I shall have more to say to you later on in the book.
11
1 Talked with God"
(Yes, I Did-Actually and Literally)
and as a result of tb8.t little talk with God
some ten years ago, a strange Power came
Into my l!fe. After 42 year -
s of horrible,
slekening, dismal falJure and despair , ev-
erythtng took on a brighter hue . It's f8.Sc1-
natlng to talk with God, and lt can be done
very ea.elJy once you learn how. And when
you do, well, there wlll come Into your llfe
-
the same dynam ic Power Wlhlch came into
mine . 'l1be shackles of defeat which had
bound me for years went a-shlmmerlng-
and now?-well-I own control of the larg-
est circulating daily newspaper 1n my
County, I own the largest office building
In my City, I d-
rdve a beautiful l!mouslne,
I own my own home which has a lovely
pipe-organ In it, and my famlJy are abun-
dantly provided for af.ter I'm gone. And
all thls bas been made poss ible because
one day, te n years ago, I talked with God.
Actually and literally talked with God.
You, too, may experience that strange
Power which oomes from talking with God,
and when you do, If there Is poverty, un-
rest, unhapp!-ness, 111-he
alth or despair In
your l!fe, well-this same God-Power ts
able ,to do for you what lt did for me. No
matter ibow useless or helpless your l!fe
seems to be-all this can be changed. For
this 1-s not ·
a human power I'm talking
about-it's a God.Power, and, of course,
there can be no l!mltatlons to the God-
Po wer, can the ·
re? Would you l!ke to know
how you too may talk with God? Would
you like to kno w how th is God-Power may
come into your l!fe as It came into mine?
Th en write a letter or post-card to Dr.
Frank B. Robinson, Dept. 198, Moscow,
Idaiho, a,nd full particulars of thts st ran ge
Teachin g wm be sent you free of charge.
But write now-wh ile you are in the mood.
It only costs one cent to find out, and this
might easlJy be the best one cent you have
ever spent. It may sound unbelievable-
but It's true, or I wouldn't tell you It was.
Advt. Copyright 1939 Frank B. Robinson .
I reproduce here the present advertisement. You will note
from a reading of it that my whole desire is to b;ring men
and women to a consciousness of a Power which can do for
them what only God can do. There are no exaggerations
[ 43]
in this piece of copy. It speaks the plain truth, and while
it may seen inconceivable to some that these things can be
possible, it has been abundantly proven that when the
Power of the God I shall tell you about-the True God-is
known and used-All things are Possible. And that is what
I know. And that is the reason the True God can sav,e this
earth from the frightful slaughter of human beings which
is being witnessed, and which will be witnessed in greater
measure v,ery shortly. How I wish the church had discovered
the True God some few years ago. What a lot of bloodshed
could have been prevented.
We worked nights in the little room which we called an
"office" for several weeks, and the replies to .the advertise-
ment continued to pour in. It became evident at once that
more room would be needed, so we rented three more
offices on the same floor. Then, unable to work all day and
all night, I worked only half time in the drugstore, finally
having to leave and give all my time to what was then be-
coming known all over the world as "Psychiana." Inside of
six months it again became necessary to move to larger
quarters, and this time we moved across the street into a
building which looked so big to me that I wondered what
we would do with the extra space. However, inside of a
year another move became necessary, and this time I bought
a piece of property which had lot two-story building on it.
The building had been used as an undertaking parlor.
It was not very long until we were operating in that
building, first downstairs, then both up and downstairs.
Then it became necessary for us to put on two 8-hour shifts,
and then three of them. So we were literally working day
and night to get out the literature for the replies which by
this time were pouring in on us from every country in the
world and every city, town, and village in America. This
two-story undertaking parlor soon became too small even
though we were working three 8-hour shifts daily, so I
built another building which we now occupy. This building
is too small, and we shall build another one soon, three or
four times as large as this one. I expect, ere long, to have a
[ 44]
building ten or twenty stories high here in Moscow, de-
voted exclusively to "Psychiana." For when the fullness of
the Power of God we teach is fully known, Moscow, Idaho,
won't hold this Movement in its present quarters, I promise
you.
I wish, at this time, to answer a criticism I often hear.
You have probably heard it, too. The charge has been made
by those who know nothing whatsoever about this Move-
ment, especially those of other "faiths," that I have made
a fortune from this Movement. That is not true. At no time
has this corporation, or anyone connected with it, ever
taken one penny of profit from the Mov,ement. I receive a
salary of $750.00 a month, and Dr. Tenney receives much
less than that. Much of the insurance on my life it paid
out of that sum, and when we get through, there is v,ery
little left. I don't believe any fair-minded man or woman
will deny me that salary, especially when it is not as large
as the salary of a Methodist Bishop. This Movement is a
responsibility, and let none think it is not. It is, perhaps, the
biggest individual responsibility any man anywhere is
carrying. For, as a result of this Movement, there is being
brought to this world, for the first time in its known his-
tory, the actual truths of the existence of God. Those truths
will revitalize all religions, and will, through the Power of
the Spirit of God, bring God and man into actual contact,
and through this ever-abiding Presence of the Spirit of
God among men, peace, eternal and lovely will be brought
to the earth.
I ask for nothing out of the way from the Movement. I
ask a comfortable living. I ask for whatever things are nec-
essary for the successful prosecution of the Movement to
its high end. For myself, I want nothing more. I do not
even have a personal bank account. So any charges that I
have made, or am making a fortune from this Movement,
are made only by those who do not speak truly. I have re-
ceived many offers of far more money than I shall ever
make, but they have all been turned down, naturally.
[ 45]
Shortly after rnleasing this Teaching, it became evident
that the Power of the Spirit of God, as we teach tha t
Power, was beginning to manifest in the lives of thos e
who studied with us, all over the world. I shall never for-
get the first "testimonial" letter I received. It came from
Irontown, Ohio, and stated that through the Power of God,
as we teach it, a case of rheumatism of twenty years stand-
ing had immediately been healed. The object of this Move-
ment is to manifest and demonstrate the Power of the New
God, as we have discov,ered this Power to exist and as we
teach it. The manifestations are beyond our control. Fro m
the very first it was evident that healing of the body was
one of the first manifestations of this newly found Power.
Canoer cases, supposedly incurable, disappeared, to use the
words of one letter, "like a sea-aneomone." Every conceiv-
able type of illness began to go under the healing Power of
God. Wher,e poverty existed, that too was replaced by ma-
terial abundance. Letters of this type came in by the tens of
thousands. We kept track of 150,000 of them , and while
they still come to us every day, we have no room to keep
them any more. Last week we destroyed tens and scores of
thousands of them, to make room for something else.
What became evident at once, was the fact that this new
conception of God brought the Power of God with it. That
Power, was, and is, abundantly able to bring into huma n
lives, actually and literally, whatever those lives need. In
effect, how the Power operates, is this-it discloses to every-
one who wants to know, the actual Power of the Spirit
which is God. Naturally, that Power is more than able to
manifost itself in every life, and by its manifestation every
life has, at its disposal, more of the Power of God than it
can ever us~ or need. This is quite different from the god
of these various systems of "religion." I have nothing to
say against any system of religion-only this-they cannot
and they do not disclose any power of any sort . They hav e
buildings, they meet, they sing a hymn or two, and the y
listen to a sermon which may have something constructiv e
in it and which may not. They talk about their "crucified
[ 46]
god," the Christian about his, the Hindoo about his, the
Shintoist about his, and so on down the line. All they seem
to be interested in is in listening to some preacher or priest
expound the merits of someone who lived, perhaps, 2000
years ago. In the Catholic church it is the Virgin Mary.
In the Protestant church, it is Jesus Christ .
Neither of these branches of the Christian religion, how-
ever, can manifest one little bit of the Power of the Spirit
which is God. That is something they know nothing about.
All they do know is that they have a system of religion
which is based on the existence, either mythical or real,
of a god who, 2000 years ago, came down from heaven to
be crucified on a cross, for the "sins" of the world. And the
church expects to save the world with that story. Needless
to say, it cannot be done. For it will take Power to save
this world. It will takie the sort of Power that has been
manifesting through "Psychiana" for eleven years. And
that Power-the Power of the Living God-the church has
never had and never known. It does not even profess to
have any such Power. It has never claimed to have it.
When asked what the church is going to do about present
world conditions, it replies that most any day now, Jesus
Christ, its "crucified god," will return to the earth, and
everything will be fine from that day on. But that philos-
ophy is open to question and doubt. I have no faith in it.
If the god of the church is going .to stop this war in that
manner, then the blood of thousands must be on the head
of the God of the Christian church for delaying his coming.
And more blood must be placed there every added day he
delays. Thinking Americans, however, do not believe that
story. And they should not believe it. For it is not true.
That theory of God is nothing mor,e nor less than a church
imagination. It has no basis in fact, as I shall abundantly
prove before you close this book. When I have proved that,
the members of the church can then turn to the True God,
and there they can find the actual and literal power of the
Spirit of God, as we of "Psychiana" are teaching and demon-
strating that Power.
[ 47]
Chapter Three
MANY CRUCIFIED GODS
IT HAS become evident so far, that there is, operating on
this earth, a spiritual Power which must be God. It is also
evident that there has existed on this earth for the past few
thousand years, systems of religion, eleven major systems
in all, each of which claims that it is representing and
teaching the truths of God, for their doctrines differ. More-
over, they have different "gods." On the opposite page is
a list of the eleven major systems of religions operating on
the earth today, as Prof. Hume has it.
Now it is evident that all of these systems of religion
cannot be true. Either one is true, the rest false, or they ar e
all false. Which is it? Shall we see? Each of these systems
of religion claims the only truths of God, and so far as th at
individual system is concerned, it has a right to make such
a claim . It will be noticed there that these diff,erent systems
have different "gods." It will be noted that the Christi an
religion, with which we shall specifically deal, because we
are living in a Christian land, is, with one exception, the
youngest system of them all.
I have made probably as extensive a study of the origi ns
of all religions, as anyone has. I do not profess to be an
authority on these systems of religion, but I have read, and
digested whatever authoriti.es there are to be found . Know-
ing that the Spirit of God, as that Spirit is operating on the
earth today, is entirely different from anything any of the se
eleven systems of r,eligion have tau ght, and knowing furth er
that the manifestations of the Spirit of God today are com-
pletely lacking in any of the rest of these systems, today, I
have given careful study to them all.
This I have done with an unbiased mind. I wanted to
know where they came from . I wanted to know whether or
not they possessed the Power of the Spirit of God, as that
Power is manifesting on the earth today, or if they were
[ 48]
A CONSPECTUS OF THE ELEVEN LIVING RELIGIONS OF THE WORLD
Arranged in the Chronological Order of Their Origin
Date of Number in
Name Birth Founder Deity Present Scriptures Millions of
of Founder Location Adherents
Hinduism 1500 B. C. None Brahma, or India Vedas 217
various
Judaism 1200 B. C. Moses Jehovah Scattered; half Old Testament 11
in Russia
Shinto Nominally None Nature-gods Japan Ko-ji-di & 16
660 B. C. Ni-hon-gi
Zoroastrianism, 660 B. C. Zoroaster Ahura Mazda Persia & Avesta 1/10
Parsi Religion India
Taoism 604 B.C. Lao-tze The Tao China Tao -Teh-King 43
Jainism 559 B. C. Vardhamana, Originally none; India Angas 1
Mahavira now founder
Buddhism 560 B. C. Gautama, Originally none, The East Tripitaka 137
Buddh ·a now founder
Confucianism 551 B. C. Confucius Heaven, or China · Classics 250
founder
Christianity 4 (?) B. C. Jesus Christ Father-God World Bible 357
Muhammadan- 570 A. D. Muhammad Allah Moslem Koran 230
ism, Islam Countries (Qur' ·an)
Sikhism 1469 A. D. Nanak True Name India Granth 3
just "another system of religion." Many of these systems
are much older than Christianity. They have had much
longer in which to prove their claims to "divine inspira -
tion." Yet none of them have been able to demonstrate on
this earth, and spiritual Power of God which can drive
war, crime, suff,ering and unhappiness from off the face of
the earth. Now is this because the "god" they have adopte d
is not the True God, or what is the reason?
If any of these systems of religion had have possesse d
the Power which is manifesting through "Psychiana," cer-
tainly the whole world should have been brought to a re-
deeming knowledge of God long ago. But that has not hap -
pened. In spite of all of these systems of religion, our own
Christian religion included, one look at the world today is
quite enough proof that the Power of the Great Spirit--
God, is completely lacking. It does not exist anywhere that
I can find. These church,es, of course, will all fight this
statement vigorously. Each will claim that the "Divine
Spirit" has taken up its abode in that particular system of
religion, but in no other. But if that be so, then these sys-
tems certainly have been lax in demonstrating to this world ,
.any of the "divine power" they say they have. For, in spite
of all these systems of religion, this civilization is sinking
now. Not, as H. G. Wells said, five years or one y,ear from
now, but now. And every thinker knows that. Suppose that
the whole world comes under the domination of such men
as Stalin, Hitler, or Mussolini-where will religious organi-
zations be then? Where will the name of God be then?
So I consider it not only advisable, but absolutely essentia l
that we get to the bottom of the "god" proposition, especial-
ly since there is on the earth , operating today as never
before, a new system of religion. It is beyond the shadow
of questioning that the Spirit of God is manifesting its
Power through this new Movement. Then, for safety's sake
if nothing else, should we not make an honest attempt, if
for no other reason, to find out just what the truth about
God is? And should we not make that attempt regard-
less of what the members of these different religious or-
f 50 ]
ganizations think of us for "doubting" their "faith?"
Only the Spirit of God can bring eternal peace and hap-
piness from this world-chaos. And if none of these existing
systems of religion have a deity who can do that, then, un-
less some new conception of deity is found, is not this world
hopelessly lost? What other means of escape from this God-
less blight we now see, is there? I do not know where such
means of escape are to be found. Personally, I do not be-
lieve there is a power on the earth which can check these
mad-men. Maybe there is. But I know of One Power which
can do that. And the United States, and the church, had
better find that Power. For if it is not found, God Almighty
alone knows what the future of civilization will be. I would
like every reader of this book, church -member; or non-
church-member, to remember that in writing the book, I
am only trying to g,et at the liberating truths which must
exist in the Realm of God.
I am not interested in the traditional "god" of any sys-
tem of religion. I am interested only in the God who is big
enough to embrace all systems of religion, with the rest of
the world thrown in. If I can find that God, and if I can
bring to this earth a knowledge of the Power of such a God,
I shall owe this earth nothing. To that end I am striving.
That end, through the Spirit of God, will be attained. So
then, let none ascribe another motive to this book. If the
truth hurts you-if it upsets your most cherished traditions
-if you learn facts here about your religion which you
never knew before-it will be because what I write is true.
In the ,eleven years of pioneering this "Psychiana" Move-
ment, and in spite of the crystallized opposition of the
church, no one has ever yet successfully challenged one
statement I have written. And I hav,e written plenty of
them which are opposed to what the church teaches. It will
be impossible, in this book, to give every ref erenoe, but if
you want those references, they may all be found in "Cruci-
fied Gods Galore" which book may be secured from the
"Psychiana" Book Dept., Moscow, Idaho. So I shall, in this
bodk, give you the fundamental major findings. I think
[ 51 ]
though, they will be enough to convince you that the origins
of every system of religion on the earth today, the Christian
religion included, are not safe foundations upon which to
build a system of religion which is to be expected to man i-
fest any power of any sort, in this world ,emergency. I shall
write kindly, but firmly. I shall write in order that the
world may know the true from the false. That known, the
world will choose the true, and, through the Power of the
Spirit of the True God, it will be once and for all completely
saved from every force which seeks to rule under the absurd
theory that "might makes right ."
Inversely to the remoteness of time has been man's ascent
toward the temple of knowledge . Truth has made its in-
gress into the human mind in the ratio by which man has
attained the capacity to receive and appreciate it. Hence, as
we tread back the meandering pathway of human history,
every step in the receding process brings us to a lower
plane of intelligence and a state of mind more thorough ly
encrusted with ignorance and superstition. It is, therefore,
no source of surprise to learn, when we take a survey of
the world two or three thousand y;ears in the past, th at
every religious writer of that era committed errors on every
subject involving a scientific principle which employed his
pen. Hence, the bible, or sacred book, to which he was a
contributor, is now found to bear the mark of human imper-
fection. For the temple of knowledge was but partially
reared, and its chambers but dimly lighted up. The intellec-
tual brain was in a dark, feeble, and dormant condition.
Hence, the moral and religious feelings were drifted about
without a pilot on the turbulent waves of superstition, and
finally stranded on the shoals of bigotry. The Christian
bible, li~e other bibles, having been written in an age when
science was but budding into life, and philosophy had at -
tained but a feeble growth, should be expected to teach
many things incompatible with the principles of modern
science. And accordingly it is found to contain, like other
bibles, numerous statements so obviously at war with pres -
ent established scientific truths that almost any schoolboy
[ 52]
at the present day, can demonstrate their falsity. Let the un-
biased reader examine and compare the oriental and Christian
bibles, together, and he will note the following facts, viz:
1. That the cardinal conceptions of all bibles are essen-
tially the same- all running in parallel grooves.
2. That every chapter of ,every bible is but a transcript of
the mental chart of the writer.
3. That no bible, pagan or Christian, contains anything
surpassing the natural mental and moral capacity of the
writer to originate. And hence, no divine aid or inspiration
was necessary for its production.
4. That the moral and religious teachings of no bible
reach a higher altitude than the intelligence and mental de-
velopment of the age and country which produced it.
5. That the Christian bible, in some respects, is superior
to some of the other bibles, but only to the extent to which
the age in which it was written was superior in intelli-
gence and natural mental capacity to the era in which the
older bibles were penned; and that this superiority consists
not in more exalted religious conceptions, but only in the
fact that, being of more modern origin, the progress of
mind has worn away some of the legendary rubbish of the
past. Being written in a later and more enlightened age, it
is consequently a little less encrusted with mythological tra-
dition and oriental imagery. Though not free from these
elements, it possesses them in less degree. And by compar -
ing Christ's history with those of the oriental Gods, it
will be found :
1. That he taught no new doctrine or moral precept.
2. That he inculcated the same religion and morality,
which he elaborated, as other moral teachers, to great
extremes .
. 3. That Christ differs so little in his character, preach -
ing, and practical life from some of the oriental Gods, that
no person whose mind is not deplorably warped and biased
by early training can call one divine while he considers the
other human .
4. That if Christ was a God, then all were Gods.
[ 53]
A Word to the Clergy
I am sorry but I shall have to blast the hopes of thou-
sands and millions of people by telling them that the divine
claims of your r,eligion are all gone. I must say to you now
that your New and Old Testament claims are all swept
away by the logic of history and nullified by the demon-
strations of science. I am going to prove beyond the shadow
of a doubt that instead of your God being divine and super-
natural in origin, he was very human and pagan in his
origin. I am going to show you something else about your
God and ask you, once and for all, to stop preaching that
your religion is a divine production, obtained by super-
natural revelation, for as a matter of fact, your religion is
merely a human production, reconstructed from heath en
materials and from oriental systems many thousands of
years older than yours, and furthermore, you must accept
the logic of this book. Of course, there are some of you who
will continue, in spite of the unanimous and unalterable
verdict of history, science, facts, and logic, to proclaim to
the world the now historically demonstrated error which
you have so long preached, that God is the author of your
religion and Jesus Christ a Deity-begotten Messiah. You
probably have heretofore honestly believed these doctrines
to be true, but you can now no longer plead ignorance as an
excuse for propagating such gigantic and serious errors as
I shall overwhelmingly demonstrate to you that your claims
are untrue. You yourself seriously question the truth of
your philosophy. You yourself are not satisfied that you are
preaching the truth. You know that you are "blind leaders
of the blind" and you further know that if you continue to
disseminate the great religious falsehoods that you are dis-
seminating, your followers will sooner or later heap upon
your honored names their unmitigated ridicule and con-
demnation. When they know the truth as it exists, they will
charge you with being either deplorably ignorant or disloyal
to the cause of truth; and the United States in the year
1933, and the whole world for that matter, wants the truth.
[ 54]
Horace Greeley once said, "No .doctrine of Christianity
exists but what has been anticipated by the Vedas." The re-
cent translation for the first time of the Hindu Vedas (the
oldest bible now extant or ever written) into the English
language has revealed to the unwelcome gaze of the Chris-
tian reader the startling fact that "the heathen" has long
been in possession of "holy books," possessing essentially
the same character, and teaching essentially the same doc-
trines as the Christian bible.
If, then, this heathen bible, compiled, according to the
Christian missionary, Rev. D. G. Allen, 1400 B. C., contains
all the doctrines of Christianity, then away go over the dam,
all your claims for the Christian bible as an original bible,
as an original rev,elation or a work of divine inspiration.
Your bible is thus shown to be of heathen and human origin
instead of heavenly and divine authorship as claimed for it
by its disciples. This applies to all bibles, and your Christian
bible forms no exception to this statement. Your bible being
essentially like other bibles, it must, of course have had the
same or a similar origin-a fact which, though it may be
new and startling to millions, will be universally accepted
as truth in the immediate future. This fact will confront
and deny the claims of two hundred million Christian pro-
fessors who assert with unscrupulous boldness that every
doctrine, principle, and precept of their bible is of divine
emanation. How utterly groundless and untenable is such
a claim when arranged by the side of modern discoveries
in religious history.
Equally unsupportable is the declaration that "there is no
other name given under heaven whereby men can be saved,
than the name of Jesus Christ and Him crucified," when
in the light of modern explorations of Sir Godfrey Higgins,
which have disclosed the history of nearly a score of cruci-
fied Gods and sin-atoning Saviors who, we have equal proof,
died for the sins of mankind.
Thus, the two prime articles of the Christian faith-
Revelation and Crucifixion-are forever established as hu-
man and heathen conceptions. So, to the clergy, I say that
[ 55 ]
if you take all of the supposed facts you have in proof of
your New Testament story and compare those facts with
the past history of ·an r,eligious countries and their teach-
ings, antedating your teachings by hundreds of years, you
will find the sad proof that reason and logic, and even the
most cogent and convincing facts of science and histo ry
prove your theory to be powerless and untrue. I recognize
the fact that religious superstition or a religious convicti on
which has been stamped upon the mind for thousands of
years in the past and transmitted from parent to child until
it has grown to man's statu re becomes a part of the living
tissues of the soul.
No matter how glaringly absurd, how palpably erroneous,
or how false an opinion or doctrine is shown to be, there are
still some who cannot see it. There are a few members of
the clergy reading this who will continue to hug to their
bosoms as divinely revealed truth what this book will prove
to be a humanly origin ated pagan superstition.
Now there are several propositions quite fatal to your
claims for Christianity and these propositi ons ar e estab-
lished beyond confutati on by the historical facts cited in
this work. Now let us look at a few of them at this point,
for if after reading the following fifteen points you can
successfully convince people that your religious doctri ne
and your God are the only ones of divine origin, then you
ar,e a better man than I think you are. Kindly study these
fifteen points carefully and remember that I shall give you
history and proof of every one of them.
1. There were many cases of the miraculous birth of Gods
reported in history long before Jesus Christ was ever hea rd
of. Perhaps some of you know this, but if you do, you have
not the courage to tell it to your congregations.
2. There were many other cases of Gods being born of
virgin mothers-also long before your story of Jesus Chr ist
was ever heard of.
3. Many of these Gods, like Christ were (reputedly) born
on the twenty-fifth day of December. Suppose that the next
Christmas sermon you preach, you inform your congrega-
tion that you are talking about the last of about a score of
other crucified Saviors before him. See how they will like
[ 56]
that and also see how long you will hold your job. We are
dealing with facts here, however, and if your job is founded
in error and falsity, you ar,e better off without it.
4. The advent into the world of these other crucified
Gods, like that of Jesus Christ, is in many cases, claimed to
have been foretold by "inspired prophets."
5. At the birth of your Savior, Jesus Christ, stars figured
quite prominently, but stars figured equally as prominently
in the reputed birth of several other crucified Gods before
yours. At the birth of your God, angels, shepherds, and wise
men from the East made their appearance, but long before
your God was ever heard of, angels, shepherds, and wis,e
men of the East also heralded the births of many other "di-
vine sons of God" who were a part of the Trinity and who
came to the world to giv,e their lives that the world, through
them, might be saved.
6. Practically all of the many crucified Gods before
Christ, like Christ, were claimed to be of royal and princely
descent. I have never been able to figure out though how
Jesus Christ, if he had no human father, could by any pos-
sible means have had any of Joseph's blood in him, thereby
being the "seed of David." ·
7. Like your crucified God, the lives of these other cruci-
fied Gods were also threatened in infancy by the rulers of
the country which gave them birth.
8. Many of them, like Christ, gave early proof of "divin-
ity." Like him, they retired from the world and fasted, and
also, like him, they declared "My kingdom is not of this
world."
9. Some of them, like Jesus Christ, preached a spiritual
religion, and, like him, they were "anointed with oil."
10. It will probably inter ,est you to know also that the
rest of these crucified Gods were all "crucified for the sins
of the world."
11. After three days in the bowels of the earth, like
Christ, they all "rose from the dead" and finally, like him,
are reported as ascending back to heaven.
12. The same violent convulsions of nature at the cru-
cifixion of several of these other Gods are reported.
13. They were nearly all called "Savior," ''Son of God,"
"Messiah," "Redeemer," "Lord," etc.
14. Every last one of them, like Christ, was the second
member of the Trinity of "Father, Son and Holy Ghost."
15. The most amazing part about the rest of these cruci-
fied Gods, which antedated your God, lies in the fact that
[ 57]
they all taught the doctrines of "Original Sin," "Fall of
Man," "The Atonement," "The Trinity," "The Word," "For-
giveness," "An Angry God," "Future Endless Punishment,"
and so forth. All these things were a part of the religion of
each of these sin-atoning Gods as found set forth in several
ori,ental bibles and "holy books," similar in character and
spirit to the Christian's bible .and written like it by "inspired
and holy men," long before the time of either Christ or
Moses (before Moses, in some cases, at l,east). All these doc-
trines and declarations, and many others not here enu-
merated, the historical citations of this work abundantly
prove, were taught in various ori,ental heathen nations c·
en-
turies before the birth of Christ, or before Christianity, as
a religion, was known in the world.
Now, gentlemen, I ask you how you can, after learning
these facts, dar,e any longer to assert that Christianity is of
divine emanation, or claim a special divine paternity for its
author. Only the priest and preacher who loves his salary
more than the cause of truth-and I fear that this class is
very numerous-or who is deplorably ignorant of history,
will have the effrontery or audacity to do so. The historical
facts herein set forth clearly prove such assumptions to be
false. They prove this as clearly as figures can demonstate
the truth of any mathematical problem. You have no logic
or no sophistry which can refute, overthrow or set aside
these facts. It makes no differ ,ence whether you stand up in
your pulpit and prate Sunday after Sunday regarding the
divinity of Jesus Christ or not, the facts given in this book
will stand as facts to the end of time, in spite of your weak
efforts to evade, ignore, or invalidate them.
I trust, however, that you will be men enough to step out
of the flimsy protection or shell of the religious denomina-
tions which shelter your falsehood, and find the truth of
God as this gr.eat Spirit exists, will grasp that truth and do
your part toward bringing peace to a world sadly befuddled
by conflicting religious doctrines and dogmas, all of them
claiming "divine revelation."
There are many reasons why these ancient religions were
all alike. Perhaps the first cause is the fact that the primary
and constituent elements and properties of human nature
[ 58 ]
being essentially the same in all countries and all centuries,
and the feeling called religion being a spontaneous out-
growth of the devotional elements of the human mind, the
coincidence would naturally produce similar feelings, simi-
lar thoughts, similar vi,ews, and similar doctrines on the
subject of religion in different countries, however widely
separated. This accounts in part for the analogous fea-
tures observable in all the primary systems of r,eligious
faith, which have flourished in the past ages.
A more potent cause, however, for the proximate identity
extending to such elaborate detail as is evidenced by the
foregoing schedule is found in the historical incident which
brought the disciples of the various systems of worship to-
gether, face to face, in the then grand religious emporium
of the world-the royal and renowned city of Alexandria,
capital of Egypt. Here, drawn together by van.:ius motives
and influences, the devotee of India, the devout disciple of
Buddhism, the ever prayerful worshipper of "Mithra, the
Mediator," the representatives of the crucified Quetzalcoatl
of Mexico, the self-denying Essene, the superstitious
Egyptian, the godly Chaldean, the imitative Judean found-
ers of Christianity, and the disciples of other sin-atoning
Gods met and interchanged ideas, discussed their various
dogmas, remolded their doctrines, and recast and rehabili-
tated their systems of religious faith by borrowing from
each other, and from other systems there represented. In
this way all became remarkably similar and alike in all their
doctrines and details. Thus, the mystery is solved, and the
singular resemblance of all the ancient systems of religion
satisfactorily accounted for.
Now, as I close this chapter, let me ask you to note the
following points.
1. The religious conceptions of the Old Testament are as
easily traced to heathen sources as those of the New Testa-
ment. Unfortunately, I cannot include in this work such an
exposition, as my time is too completely occupied.
2. The comparative exhibition (originally designed for
this volume) of the doctrines and teachings of twenty bibles
which proves them to be in their leading features essentially
[ 59]
alike is found to be, when completed, of sufficient magnitude
to constitute a volume of itself.
3. I want to impress upon the minds of my clerical
friends the import ant fact that the gospel histories of
Christ were written by men who had formerly been Jews
(see Acts xxi. 20) who probably possessed the strong pro-
clivity to imitate and borrow which their bible shows was
characteristic of that nation; and since they were written
many years after Christ's death, according to that standard
Christian author, Dr. Lardner, it was impossible, under
such circumstances, to separate, even had they desired to,
the real facts and events of his life from the innumerab le
fictions and fables then afloat everywhere relative to the
heathen Gods who had pre-enacted a similar history. Two
reasons are thus furnished for their constructing a history
of Christ almost identical with that of other Gods as will
be shown in forthcoming chapters of this work.
4. We have known the singular and senseless defense of
your now tottering system to be attempted by members of
your order by the self-complacent soliloquy ·"Christianit y,
whether divine or human, is good enough for me." Such
subterfuge betrays both a weak mind and a weak cause.
The disciples of all the oriental systems cherished a similar
feeling and a similar sentiment. And the deluded followers
of Brigham Young exclaimed in like manner, "I want noth-
ing better than Mormonism ." A South Sea Islander once
exclaimed to a missionary, when a reform diet was pro-
posed, "Snakes, lizards and frogs are good enough for me."
Now such logic, if universally adopted - and thank heaven
it is not being universally adopted-would keep the world
eternally in barbarism. You cannot ·make any progress
where such sentiments prevail. The truth is that no system
of religion, whatever its ostensible marks of perfection,
can long remain "good enough" for aspiring and progres-
sive minds, unless occasionally improved, like other instit u-
tions. It should be borne in mind that our controversy does
not appertain so much to the character as to the origin of
the Christian religion. Our many incontrovertible proofs
that it is of human and heathen origin prov,es at the same
time that it is an imperfect system and as such, needing
occasional improvement like other institutions. Its assumed
perfection and divine origin, which have always kept it
from improv ,ement, quite well account for its present cor-
rupt, immora l, declining, and dying condit ion, and it will,
before long, die of paralysis unless its assumption of divine
[ 60]
perfection is exchanged for the principles of improvement
and reconstruction. This policy alone can save it.
5. We will here notice another feeble, futile, and foolish
expedient we have known resorted to by persons of your
order to save your sinking cause, when the evidence is
presented with such cogency as to admit of no disproof
that all the important doctrines of Christianity were
taught by older heathen systems before the era of Christ.
The plea is, that those systems wer,e mere types, or ante-
types, of the Christian religion. But this plea is of itself
a borrowed subterfuge of heathenism, and is, moreover,
devoid of ,evidence. The ancient Egyptians, also the Greeks ,
claimed that Brahaminism was a type, or antetype, of their
religious systems. And Mahomedans now claim that both
Judaism and Christianity were designed by God as fore-
shadowing types of the religion of the Koran. And the
disciples of more than a thousand systems of religion which
have flourished in past ages, could have made such logic
equally available in showing, in each case, that ev,ery sys-
tem preceding theirs was designed by Infinite Wisdom as
simply a typical or ante-typical forerunner of theirs. How
ridiculous and senseless, therefore, is the argument thus
shown to be when critically examined in the light of his-
tory! So much so as scarcely to merit serious notice.
6. Here permit me to say that I believe Christianity to
be not only of human origin but of natural origin also;
that is, a natural outgrowth , like other systems, of the
religious elements of the human mind-a hypothesis which
accounts most beautifully for the numerous human imper-
fections now visible in nearly every line of its teachings.
Those imperfections correspond exactly to the imperfect
minds which produced it.
7. And I believe that the principal teacher of Christianity,
"the man Christ Jesus," possessed a very exalted and super-
ior mind for that age in the moral and religious departments,
and in the intellectual to some extent also. But his superior-
it y in these respects was probably not greater than th at of
Zera Colburn or Henry Safford in the mathematical depart-
ment. And all probably derived their peculiar extraordinary
traits of mind from the same causes: that of strong psycho-
logical influences impressed upon the minds of the mothers
prior to their births. Had these antenatal influences been as
well understood then as now, we presume that Christ would
have escaped the fate of an exaltation to the Godhead.
8. Permit me to say that the numerous and overw helming
[ 61 ]
facts of this book render it utterly impossible that the exalt-
ed claims you put forth for your r,eligion and its assumed
author (that of a divine character) can be true.
At this point we shall look at the Christian Bible as it is.
We shall pay no attention to what we have been told it is.
We shall see for ourselves. Then, if we find evidence that it
is "the divinely inspired word of God, absolutely true from
cover to cover", we shall plainly and bluntly say so. If we
find the opposite to be a fact, we shall say so equally as
plainly and as bluntly. I am not charging, even though we
find the Christian structure unsound, that the Christian or
any other religion is a detriment. The letter of Dr. Allen is
of peculiar significance here. If, for instance, the Christian
had the dynamic Power this Movement has, it could bring
that Power to the world, and peace-everlasting peace could
come to the earth, and I'm not so sure it could not come, even
inspiteof the story of Jesus Christ. What that story actually
does, is to come between the Spirit of God and man. It is an
interpolation which we would be better without.
To recognize the fullness of the Power of the Spirit of
God, it is necessary, as I see it, to first recognize the open
channel which exists between the Spirit of God and man.
Once that is recognized, the realization of the Power and
Presence of the Spirit of God is easy. But-if the church
comes along and introduces another "god" as it has, th at
complicates the situation very considerably. Man does not
then know which "god" is true and which is false. The
Christian church has attempted to get around that by stating
that the Christi an "god" is a "trinity". And it was not too
long since John Calvin, the Founder of Calvinism, or Pres-
byterianism, condemned Dr. Michael Servetus to a brutal
death by fire, for writing a pamphlet against the trinitarian
doctrine. True, they built a monument to him later, but that
could not bring back the life to Dr. Servetus. That could not
course the blood through his veins again. (Did you ever hear
the Presbyterians tell you of Calvin's act?)
No. The trinitarian doctrine will not answer the problem.
There is one God. That God is an invisible Spirit. None has
[ 62]
ever seen God. We shall soon see where the claims of "God-
ship" for the many "crucified gods" came from. There is a
way which it can truthfully be said that Jesus Christ was
God. But if we admit that of Jesus, we must also admit it
of every human being. I wish the church would. It has ample
scripture on which to build a structure on that thesis. For
as a matter of fact, that is the exact situation as it exists
today. But more of that later.
Any philosophy of God which endows him with "trinity-
hood" is a false conception, for there can be none other ex-
cept one great and tru e God, the 1
spirit of eternal life. Re-
member that please. I realize that there is sentiment in the
old hymns of the church. I play them over and over again.
But that is merely because the Christian church is so close
to the truth. It is close. Far closer than it realizes . The only
thing which stands in the way of the Christian church, or
any other church saving this world by bringing it to the
knowledge of the Power of the Spirit of God, the "god"
the church has now. Jesus Christ. If then, I prove to you that
the story of Jesus Christ is absolutely without foundation,
and if I prove there is no historical truth in it, the church
then can equip itself with the Power of the Gr,eat Spirit--
God. Through that Power, it can bring to earth, the blessed
fullness of the True God. That fullness exists. It was only
awaiting one poor misfit to grasp it. And you see what
has been done by that poor misfit after he did grasp it.
If God Almighty could take a man like me, and could
bring hundreds of thousands the Power of the Spirit of God,
what can God do with a church which is willing to get rid
of its idols, and find and use the Living Power of the Living
Spirit?
The only possible chance this world has to be "saved"
through the Christian church is for its story to be true. But
we shall see as we progress that its story is not true. It is
not even original. Therefore, if the Christian story is not
true, from whence is "salvation" to come to the world? May
we look for it from one of the rest of the ten major systems
of religion? Can it come from there? I think not. The only
[ 63]
hope there is for this world, if the Christian story is true,
is through the personal return of Jesus to the earth. But
we shall see that the chances against that happening are
ten million to one. For there are many other "crucified gods"
we are told, who are to come back to save the world. And
there is just as much evidence of the veracity of the stories
of these other "gods" as there is of the story of Jesus Chris t.
So then, let us not bank too much on that. This world needs
Goti-now. It is in a critical condition. Its very peaceful
existence is threatened. If something should happen to
Jesus, and he never should come back, we should then be
forced right back where we are now-trying to find the
true answer.
Now the Christian's bible. What is it? There lies before
me now, an Authorized version of this bible. The first verse
of the first chapter of the first book in the bible states that
in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.
That is true. In the margin, however, a date is there. 4004
B. C. That, of course means that the date on which God
created the heavens and the earth was 4004 B. C. otherwise
it would not be there unless it was considered authentic. On
looking up the references of this date, I find that a Cathol ic
Bishop of Armagh, in Ireland, sat down and figured it out
under the "inspiration of the Holy Ghost". Here is what he
found. One Tuesday morning at 9 o'clock in the month of
October, God did all this creating, and the year was 4004
B. C. That is about 6000 years ago. That statement, in spite
of the "inspiration of the Holy Ghost" we cannot accept.
We know better.
As a sidelight on the "inspiration of the Holy Ghost" let
me tell you how the Latin Vulgate of the Christian bible was
translated from "manuscripts" which are all lost now.
Jerome, a pope, did the translating. He states that when he
was ready to go to work, he would pull a bell. Upon hearing
the bell, the "Holy Ghost", in the form of a dove, would
come down from heaven, fasten its feet in the pope's hai r ,
and, leaning over and sticking its bill in the pope's mouth,
would tell this pope what to write. This, then, is the Vulga te
[ 64]
translation of the Christian bible. If, however, the "Holy
Ghost" made a slight mistake in his "inspiration" as he did
when he told Bishop Ussher that the world was created in
the year 4004 B. C., this puts quite some doubt on the au-
thenticity, even of the Holy Ghost. We are, therefore, com-
pelled to look somewhere else for authentic information,
than the Christian Holy Ghost.
This Holy Ghost is the third party of the "trinity" of the
Christian religion. Jesus Christ is the second part. We shall
see the origin of both first and second parts are long, and
the reader may make up his mind whether these stories can
be expected to be the foundation of the religion through
which God can come into this woefully bad world picture,
and bring out of it-peace.
The Christian bible is not one book. It is a compilation
of many books, the origin of each is unknown. Not one single
manuscript covering one single writing in the Christian
bible has ev,er been known to exist. Not one. I am, therefore,
not required to prove or disprove the Christian theory of
God. It cannot be proven by anyone. Not even the church
which has builded its structure on the bible. If I ask for
the originals of any part of the bible, the church tells me,
"sorry-they all got lost". Therefore, the church itself
cannot prove the truth of the book on which its structure
is founded. I am well aware of the fact that millions have
been taught to respect and honor this book as "the divinely
inspired word of God". Nevertheless, proof that it is that
has never been known to exist. This requires the acceptance
of this book as the "word of God" on belief in the veracity
of those who told us it was just that, and nothing more.
The four gospels of the Christian bible being the only place
in the book where the story of J,esus Christ is to be found,
and these four gospels being completely anonymous, and
the original manuscripts all having been "lost", we find we
are left without evidence which proves the truth of the
Christian story. Herein comes the "faith".
It is undoubtedly the right of any man to believe anything
he chooses to believe about God, or about anything else. But
[ 65]
every man should know what the evidence is, either for or
against what he believes. This world will never know God
through any system of religion which has nothing more th an
"faith" to offer in its own support. It cannot point to the
bible and say "Why-it's in there", for no evidence has ever
been adduced which can even faintly pro ve that the bible
is the divinely inspired word of God. It may be looked upon
as the word of the church of God, in that case I ask you to
believe that a goose laid a golden egg, and in substantiation
of that, I point you to Mother Goose Rhymes. For the evi-
dence in each case is the .same.
It will not do to offer the excuse that "it must be true or
so many would not believe it". If you do that, I shall point
you to the religion of the Hindoo, and shall tell youthatmo re
people believe the god of the Hindoo than ever believed the
god of the Christian church. Believing in a thing does not
make it so. Millions today say they believe in a score of gods.
But look at the world. They may "believe" in these gods, but
they cannot get any action out of their gods. They are all,
the Christian god included, as silent as the tomb. And th ey
are si1ent when they should be heard from. Why?
Let us remember here that the Christian bible then, is
completely anonymous. It is completely unprovable . No
manuscript proving the writer of anything in the bible has
ever been known to exist. We have, therefore, nothing but
the belief of the Christian church to go on. Absolutely no-
thing more than that. And coupled with this fact, we ha ve
ten other major systems of religion making the same, or
similar claims to the Christian religion. Which is true?
Or is any one true?
Practically the whole of the New Testament and the
Christian story of God hinges on the four gospels. Matthe w,
Mark, Luke and John. Now where did they come from? Did
the divine inspiration of the Holy Ghost put them there, or
write them? Let us see. These four gospels were placed in
the New Testament canon because of a vote of Catholic
bishops and priests, held at the Council of Trent in the year
1145 A. D. Note the A. D. There were many anonymo us
[ 66]
"writings" which began to appear in the hands of priests
and monks about that time. No one knows where they came
from. They may have been written by these monks and
priests for all we know; they appeared nowhere else than in
their hands. Some they had had for some time, others, like
Topsy, just "came". Anyway, this Council of Trent took a
vote on which of these anonymous writings were to be
called "the inspired word of God" and as such placed in the
New Testament canon of scripture.
Some of them were rejected because "they will not be
believed". But they all were admitted to the "sacred" canon
by a vote of Catholic priests and bishops. That may be
"divine inspiration" and it may not be. At any rate, that is
the reason they are there. If you are a Catholic, (many
Catholics read what I write) ask your priest about this.
Some of the gospels upon which so much stress is laid today
by Christians, came pretty close to not getting in the
"canon" at all. Some of them left out are so manifestly im-
possible of belief that I don't blame those old priests for
leaving them out. The people would believe anything those
days, but I'm quite sure they would not have believed some
of the books which were left out. Incidentally, none of these
gospels were claimed to have been written till long after
the alleged time of the happenings recorded in them. The
word "Christian" was unknown till the second century after
these anonymous writings were voted into the Christi.an
bible by this group of pries~s and ,bishops. The doctrine of
the immaculate conception of a virgin was not broached un-
til the twelfth century, and it was accepted by the Francis-
cans, and rejected by the Dominicans, and it has been a bone
of contention ever since.
Pope Pius IX arbitrarily, and without the concurrence of
"the council", and on his own personal responsibility, pro-
. mulgated this virgin birth story, and it has become a funda-
mental part of the Christian religion-just because one
Roman Catholic .believed it, or said he believed it.
But to come back to the four Christian gospels, upon
which the whole fabric of Christianity is founded. There are
[ 67]
four gospels because "animals have four legs". This will
astound the Christian. Let him read the Catholic Encyclo -
pedia and other works governing the Council of Trent. At
that council, an argument started about how many of these
gospels there should be. foenaeus, Bishop of Lyons, in
charge of the council, made this statement - "the earth has
four corners, there are four great winds, animals have four
legs, so we must have four gospels". And those four gospels
are the foundation stones of the Christian religion today.
Do you think they are secure? Do you think the Spirit of
God, in sufficient measure to bring peace to this warring
earth, can be manifested on the earth through a system of.
religion which is based on the fact that anima~ have
four l,egs?
It took the Roman Catholic church until the year 1545
A. D. to decide what was, and what was not, by popular
vote, the "divinely inspirted word of God". So then, the
Christian bible is not nearly as old as we have been taught
to believe it is. Nor is it quite as authentic. It is completely
anonymous in the first place, and in the second place, the
four gospels, on which the entire fabric of Christian ity
is founded, are in the "word of God" because animals have
four legs. This fact will doubtless shock many. It should
shock them. Ministers and priests should have told them
these facts ages ago. Had they done this, I am of the opinion
that the world would not be in the God-less condition it is
now, as I write this.
When all error and mistake is removed from the Realm
of the Great Spirit-God, that Spirit can begin to be recog-
nized by the whole human race. Not alone the Christ ian
church. Not alone the Hindoo, or any other church, but by
the whole of humanity. And any system of religion which
does not appeal equally alike to all men, of every race, is
not the True Religion of the True God, regardless of the
claims of all systems of religion. This world cannot be made
whole by any picture of God which is not a universal pic-
tur ,e, and which does not appeal to all alike, moreover, we
see the results of the operations of eleven of these systems
[ 68]
today. None of them can be even faintly suspected of know-
ing anything about any Power big enough to bring peace
out of the present chaos.
They are all earnest. They all mean well. But they all have
believed what preacher and priest has chosen to tell them,
and the things I am telling you now, the church has re-
frained from telling you. Perhaps, when you know both
sides of the Christian story, you may change your mind
about its veracity and authenticity. Personally, and aside
from this Movement of the Spirit of God on the earth called
"Psychiana", I am not interested in any system of religion.
I know the foundations of them all. They do not appeal to
me. For I, personally, find nothing of God in them.
Let me at this point give you one of the stories of Jesus
which was voted out of the canon of scripture, "because it
would not be believed", and then when you have read it,
consider car,efully that the four gospels you have, stand
upon the same sinking sands as this story stands on. The
gospels the Christian church builds on,areno more authentic
than is this story, and several more in my possession. I shall
tell the story in my way, not injuring the meaning.
One day, Jesus was working at the carpenter business.
His boss told him to build some davenports, or beds, and
to make them say, six feet long. Jesus said to the other boy
who was working with him-"let's not take two boards six
feet long and nail them together, let's make one board five
feet long and the other six feet long". The boy working with
Jesus said, "what's the big idea" or words to that effect.
Whereupon Jesus said that they would nail together one
board five feet long, and another board six feet long, and
when they had them nailed together, each would get at one
end, and they would push hard, and push the long board
down to the size of the five-footer".
This story can be found in the books which were voted
on by the Council of Trent, but which were voted out instead
of being voted in. I cannot conceive of Almighty God, the
maker of heaven and earth, ever being cooped up in a
human body and engaging in such a conversation as that.
[ 69]
I care not what church advocates that theory of the Spirit
of God which made this earth-I do not believe it. Here
is another one of those anonymous writings, which com-
prise the four gospels upon which the Christian religion is
founded.
On this occasion Jesus was playing on the house-top with
a group of other little boys. (Remember, I'm talking about
God Almighty according to the Christian church now.)
One of the little fellows fell off the top of the house, and
was instantly kil1ed by the fall. Some of the other boys ac-
cused Jesus (Almighty God) of pushing the other boy off
the roof. This Jesus denied, but he was arrested neverthe-
less. (Imagine here, if you can, the Great omnipotent
Maker of this universe, being arrested and thrown into jail
for pushing one of his playmates off the top of a house) .
In an endeavor to prove his innocence, Jesus offered to raise
the dead boy and he could testify whether Jesus was wrong-
ly accused of murder. For that is what it was. The offer
was accepted and Jesus was taken to where the dead child
lay. Bringing him back to life, Jesus said to him, "Did I
push you off the top of the house or did you fall off?" The
boy replied that he fell off, whereupon Jesus was freed and
the dead boy went dead again.
I pass these two incidents on to you for what they may be
worth. They are of exactly the same material as the four
gospels. If you feel that this is evidence for the truth of
these gospels, that is for you to decide. Personally, to me,
these stories are but caricatures of Almighty God. The God
we of "Psychiana" teach, is an entirely different God from
this one of the New Testament and the Christian relig ion.
The conception of God given to the world by the "Psy chi-
ana" movement is a conception which is followed by Power.
Power enough to reveal the Spirit of God to anyone. Unde r
the Christian conception, we find the world of Christianity
in the horrible conditions of today. Perhaps Jesus Christ
was Almighty God. Perhaps he was not.
[ 70]
Chapter Four
CHRIST AND CHRISHNA
THE question of the truth and the originality of the god
of the Christian church enters her,e. I shall not burden you
by going into too much detail, but it is essential that we
briefly look at the main precepts and fundamentals of the
Christian r,eligion. Let me add here that the only reason I
deal with this particular system is because this land is called
a Christian land, and the facts of the Christian religion, and
what it teaches are better known than are some of the older
systems of religion.
Of great importance here is the fact that the god of the
Christian church, was about the thirty-second "crucified
god" to appear on this earth, according to traditions of other
systems of religion. As a matter of fact, there is no historical
evidence supporting either the birth or the existence of
Jesus Christ on this earth at all. Such evidence has never
been known to exist. Outside of the four Christian gospels,
you cannot find one single reference to Jesus Christ any-
where. Certainly not in history. This fact, I think, is abund-
ant evidence that his existence was not known to anyone,
and this proves the story to be but an origination of the
Christian church, just as other religions originated their
gods.
We know that the four gospels were voted into the
"canon" of scripture less than 400 years ago. That is not
very long when compared with the millions of years this
earth has been revolving on its axis. There were millions of
people living on this earth, long before 1545 A. D. But if
the Christian story of God is true, and if these four gospels
are the "word of God", then these millions of souls are
automatically doomed to a terrible death, even though they
never had a chance to hear "the only name given under
heaven among men, whereby men may be saved."
So there is much injustice there. And I don't believe
[ 71 ]
the Spirit of the Living God, which Spirit we are looking to
to bring peace to this earth, can be that unjust. It will be
discovered when the truth of the True God is finally known,
that every soul who ever lived upon the earth, will be just
as much a part of God as you and I may be, even though we
have to go through "purgatory" or "hell-fire" to make us
acceptable in the "sight of the Lord". It will be further dis-
covered these varying systems of religion, all of them
honest, all of them really trying to do what is right, have
fallen so far short of what they might have been, because
their conception of deity was man-made instead of being
God-made.
No god, pagan or Christian, can lift the human race any
higher than the level on which that god dwells. If the god
of the Christian church ordained that in order to know him
we have to submit to the doctrines and dogmas and creeds
of any man made church, you can depend upon it, all such
a god can ever bring to this earth, cannot be any higher
than man can conceive it. The true picture of God is so far
above anything any religion offors today, that these reli-
gions, at first, will not be able to recognize it . To them, it
will seem impossible. But to the rest of the world it will
at once appear as the only sane and logical conclusion one
can come to. That conception will save this world because
it will manifest the Power of the Spirit of God to man,
and through man.
It could do this world no good if the power of any church
god were to be thrown against world conditions, for there
would at once arise an argument among the gods as to which
is the correct god. If all the gods who are in heaven now,
were to come back to earth all at once, as we are told they
will, there certainly would be confusion amongst them . And
a confusion of gods cannot bring peace to this earth. It is
the confusion of man-made gods, and the confusion of re-
ligions which have brought this earth to the God-less condi-
tion it is in today. And all the while, the True Spirit of the
True God has been patiently waiting for someone to look
a bit beyond these man-made gods, the:re to discover in
[ 72]
plain sight, the Great Spirit which is God. Naturally the
churches cannot recognize God, for he is so tota lly different
from anything they have been taught to believe about God.
God, to be real to the church, must be a "mystery " far re-
moved from this earth. There must be a "mystery" about
Godliness. There must be a "mystery" about the church.
It tells us that it is the "body" of Christ. It claims that body
to be invisible. But we can see it. We know it. Well if Jesus
Christ ever lived, he di,ed a long time ago, and he has never
been heard from since. Neither have the thirty-two other
gods of ancient religious myth and tradition.
There is one "crucified" god I shall mention in detail.
In the study of this god, we find the answer to where the
Christian religion came from in the first place. If we suc-
cessfully find the answer to that, we shall have the answer to
the existence of the True Spirit of God. For it is needless
to say, that if we find another system of religion which is
far older than the Christian religion, yet which possesses
every fundamental of that Christian religion, it is at once
proven that the Christian story is not original. If it is not
original, it may not be true. Shall we see?
Fourteen hundred years before the time of Christ, there
was, on this earth, another god. This one was not called
"Jesus Christ" but he was called "J eseus Chrishna". Those
two names are quite similar. This god Chrishna has more
followers to day than Jesus Christ has. There are points of
similarity about these two gods which it may well to hastily
look at. Not that I shall go into this at any great length. I
have done that in two other books, "Gleams Over the Hori-
zon" and "Crucified Gods Gal,ore". So in this book I shall
just introduce enough evidence to prove my point that the
god of the Christian or any other church is not the God
of this universe. That God can, here and now, manifest
its Power to the full and free liberation of all from the
damnable chains which now bind them.
The Hindoo tells us, and was telling us 1400 years before
either Christ or Christianity was ,ever heard of, that Chris-
hna had an immaculate conception. He was born of a virgin
[ 73]
called, not Mary, but Maia which means Mary. The "Holy
Ghost" of the Hindoo "trinity" of gods, was the cause of the
birth. For, like Jesus , Chrishna was "conceived of the Holy
Ghost". He was born on the 25th day of December, like
Christ. His life was sought by the ruling King. Herod in
the time of Christ, and Cansa in the time of Chrishna. His
father was a carpenter, and he lived to about 33 years
of age. Then he went out into the desert and dropped from
sight for quite a while.
The birthplace of Chrishna was Mathura, which is the
same place, with little changing, as the Maturea where
Christ was supposed to have stopped. Jesus washed the feet
of the Jews, and Chrishna washed the feet of the Brahmins.
A woman came and anointed the feet of Chrishna with oil.
Another woman did that to the feet of Jesus too. Only that
was 1400 years later. After a short ministry Chrishna, like
Jesus, was crucified. He also descended into hell, preached to
the spirits there. Jesus did that too. Three days later, like
Christ, Chrishna rose from the dead, ascended into heaven
where he now is. If both of these stories are true, there are
two "crucified gods" that we know of in heaven, now. Chris-
hna was called "The Savior of Men" as was Jesus. He ha d a
fight with the "devil" just as J,esus had. He gave the same
commandments Jesus did, and he came to redeem man from
the curse God had place upon man, exactly as Jesus did.
This proves that all the fundamentals of the Christian re-
ligion were known to millions of people, fourteen hundred
years before the dawn of Christianity. This being true, we
may be excused if we do not accept the Christian story of
Jesus Christ as God. And we do not accept it any more
than we accept the story of Chrishna. God has never yet
been seen by anyone, let alone been crucified by the very
humans he made.
In the Christian bible, we find that after God made man,
in the year 4004 A.·D. he finally discov,ered that the man he
had made was not so good. Not so hot. He did all sorts of
things he had no business to do, and got himself constantly
into trouble. So then, to correct the mistake he had made ,
[ 74]
he decided to drown all men and women he created from off
the face of the earth. So did the Hindoo god decide the same
thing 1400 years before, according to the Hindoo bibles,
which are the oldest bibles extant, far antedating the bible
of the Christian. This is too bad for the Christian. Others
can now claim the truth on account of having the same story
long before.
According to the Christian bible, the first man and woman
were called Adam and Eve. But according to the Hindoo
bible they were called Adimo and Reva. Not so much dif-
ference. When the flood came, the only man found righteous
in the Christian bible was Noah. In the Hindoo bible, 1400
years before, it was Noe. Not so much difference there either.
Noah had three sons, the Christian church tells us. They
were Shem, Ham, and Japheth. But Noe, the other right-
eous man of the Hindoo, 1400 years before, also had three
sons. They were called Sherma, Rama, and Jiapheta. This
is more than coincidence.
As a matter of fact, there is so much similarity between
the Buddhism and Christianity that it bespeaks a common
origin. It has been possible to trace the two religions to a
common source and origin. I have done this in another book.
Whole pages of teachings are to be found in the Hindoo
bible; exactly the same teachings are in the Christian bible.
Christ was resurrected from the dead before hundreds we
are told, and Chrishna also rose from the dead, and as he
was raised by a supernatural power to heaven, the multi-
tudes exclaimed "Lo Chrishna's soul ascends its native
skies". The only question I want to ask here is this-how
can the Christian claim either originality or truth for his
system of religion, when every vital part of it was known,
under another name, to more millions than hav,e ever heard
of Christianity? By what logic does the Christian call the
religion of India "pagan", and by what authority does he
send missionaries into India, to convert those of that re-
ligion to the Christian religion, when every fundamental of
the Christian religion was known to those "pagans" with
·almost exactly the same name, 1400 years before. There is
[ 75]
a muddle somewhere along the religious line. And it is this
muddle we are attempting to untangle. I believe, before we
finish, we shall have it all untangled. Then, we can bri ng
to you, a far different set of facts. We can then bring to you
the knowledge of a God so big that no man could ever cru-
cify him. A god so big that acquaintance with him auto-
matically liberates mankind.
Every fundamental of the Christian religion was known
to other systems of religion, long before either Christ or
Christianity were ever heard of. Remember that please. I
give you here a list of thirty-two "gods" who, according to
their religious myth and traditions, were "crucified for the
sins of the world". And still there are more brutal "sins"
in the world than there ever could have been before th ese
"crucified gods" came on to the scene to save man. Maybe
if they had left man alone, as he came from the hand of the
Creator, and maybe if this world had never seen a church or
a system of religion, it would not be in the almost hopeless
condition it is in today. Certainly no system of religion, nor
all systems combined can bring peace to this earth now,
when we need it most.
It may be advocated that religion is not for the prese nt,
only for the future. I have been told that the work of re-
ligion is to "save the soul" after death. Well if that is so,
religion is useless here and now, when we need it most. For
no church in existence can tell us what the soul is. And if
the Creator of man and the universe can "save the soul"
after death, that Creator can also save both body and soul
while we live. To so limit God and say that the only time
we can know him is after we are dead and gone, is ad-
vocating a theology which, to say the least, admits it cannot
help this world today. And if theology cannot do someth ing
for man here and now, theology has not the right God.
Every fundamental of the Christian church is to be found
in the religions of the "heathen". There is not a single fund-
amental doctrine of Christianity which the heathen did not
know. The only difference between Christianity and the
l 76]
rest of these "supernaturally-revealed religions" is the dif-
ference in identity of their "crucified god".
We are told at the birth of Christ, shepherds and wise
men heralded his birth. A star shone overhead and guided
them to the place where the young child lay. But there were
shepherds too at the birth of the Hindoo "savior of the
world". And a star guided them also. So then, if the Hindoo
had all of these things long before the dawn of Christianity,
why spend good money to "save" the Hindoo when so much
of that money might be .spent here at home feeding the
American hungry? A couple of years ago while visiting in
Washington, D. C., my friend Sterling Wheelwright, the
pastor of the Westminster Chapel (Mormon), took me out
to hear an organ recital in the unfinished Episcopal church
there. The building cost millions and the organ cost about
$150,000. When the church, which is being built in the form
of a cross will be completed, no one knows.
On the way home, we picked up the vicar or the verger
or whatever it is he is called, and Wheelwright introduced
me to him. "What do you thing of our church?" he asked me.
I replied, "I think it is the greatest monument to paganism
I have ever seen". That is what I think. For if it should be
proven that the god of the Christian church must take his
place among the gods of other religions, and if they are
"pagan", is not the Christian god Jesus Christ "pagan" also?
The story of the serpent in the Garden is far older than
Christianity. So is the "mass" or sacrifice. The atonement
doctrine originated in heathenism, and also did the doctrine
of "inbred sin", the crucification, the virgin birth, the resur-
rection, and every fundamental of Christianity-the heath-
en had them all.
At this point I want to give you briefly a few of the
precepts of Jesus, for an examination of a man's philosophy
invariably discloses what that man is. That applies equally
to a god. If Jesus Christ was God Almighty, he made no
such errors as we shall see he did make. For one of the
attributes of God is perfection, and another is truth. If
therefore, there is one single thought in the precepts of
[ 77]
Jesus which is either unscientific or untrue, we may elimi-
nate him once and for all as being Almighty God, regardless
of how many people believe him to have been just that.
That Jesus Christ was neither a natural or moral philo-
sopher is evident from the following facts:-
1. He never made use of the word "philosophy."
2. Never gave utte rance to the word "science."
3. Never spoke of a natural law, or assigned a natural
cause for anything. The fact that he never made use of these
words now so current in all civilized countries, is evidence
that he was totally ignorant of thes-e important branches of
knowledge, the cultiv ation of which is now known to be
essential to the progress of civilization. And yet it is claimed
his religion has been a great lever in the advancement of
civilization. But this is a mistake, a solemn mistake, as else-
where shown.
4. Everything to Christ was miracle ; everything was pro-
duced and controlled by the arbitrary power of an angry or
irascible God. He evidently had no idea of a ruling princip le ·
in nature or of the existence of natural law, as controlling
any event he witness ed. Hence he set no bounds to anythin g,
and recognized no limits to the possible. He believed God
to be a supernatural personal being, who possessed unlimited
power, and who ruled and controlled everything by his arbi-
trary will, without any law or any limitations to its exer-
cises. Hence he told his disciples they would have anything
they prayed for in faith; that by faith they could rollmount-
ains into the sea, or bring to a halt the rolling billows of the
mighty deep. He evidently believed that the forked lightn -
ing, the outbu rsting earth-shaking thunder, and the roaring,
heaving volcano were but pliant tools or obsequious servan ts
to the man of faith. And he displa ys no less ignorance of the
laws of mind than the laws of nature; thus proving him to
have been neither a natural, moral, nor ment al philosopher.
He omitted to teach the great moral lessons learned by hu-
man experience, of which he was evidently totally ignorant.
5. He never taught that the practice of virtue contains its
own r,eward.
6. That the question of right and wrong of any action is
to be decided by its effect upon the individual, or upon
society.
7. That no life can be displeasing to God which is useful
to man.
8. And he omitted to teach the most important lesson that
[ 78]
can engage the attention of man, viz. : that the great pur-
pose of life is self-development.
9. That no person can attain or approximate to real hap-
piness without bestowing a special attention to the cultiva-
tion and exercise of all the mental and physical faculties,
so far as to keep them in a healthy condition. None of the
important lessons above named are hinted at in his teach-
ings, which, if punctually observed, would do more to ad-
vance the happiness of the human race than all the sermons
of Christ or Chrishna ever preached, or ever taught.
10. And then he taught many doctrines which are plainly
contradicted by the established principle of modern science,
such as,-
11. Diseases being introduced by demons, devils, or
wicked spirits. (See Mark ix. 20.)
Christ nowhere assigns a natural cause for disease, or a
scientific explanation for its cure.
12. His rebuking a fever discloses a similar lack of
scientific knowledge. (See Luke iv. 39.)
13. His belief in a literal hell and a lake of fire and brim-
stone (see Matt. xviii. 8) is an ancient heathen superstition
science knows nothing about, and has no use for.
14. His belief in a personal devil also (see Matt. xvii. 18),
which is another oriental tradition, furnishes more sad
proof of an utter want of scientific knowledge, as science
has no place for and no use for such a being.
15. Christ taught the unphilosophical doctrine of repent-
ance, as he declared he "came to call sinners to repentance"
(Matt. ix. 13)- a mental process, which consists merely
in a revival of early impressions, and often leads a person to
condemn that which is right, as well as that which is wrong.
16. The doctrine of "forgiveness," which Christ so often
inculcated, is also at variance with the teachings of science,
as it can do nothing toward changing the nature of the act
forgiven, or toward cancelling its previous effects upon
society. Science teaches that every crime has its penalty at-
tached to it, which no act of forgiveness, by God or man, can
arrest or set aside.
17. But nothing evinces, perhaps, more clearly Christ's
total lack of scientific knowledge than his holding a man re-
sponsible for his belief, and condemning for disbelief, as he
does in numerous instances (see Mark xvi. 16), for a man
could as easily control the circulation of the blood in his
veins as control his belief. Science teaches that belief de-
pends upon evidence, and without it, it is impossible to
[ 79 ]
bel,ieve, and with it, it is impossible to dwbelieve. How fool-
ish and unphilosophical, therefore, to condemn for eithe r
belief or disbelief !
18. The numerous cases in which Christ speaks of the
heart as being the seat of consciousness, instead of th e
brain, evinces a remarkable ignoran0e of the science of
mental philosophy. He speaks of an "upright heart," "a pure
heart," etc., when an "upright liver," "a pure liver," would
be as sensible, as the latter has as much to do with the
character as the former.
19. And in many cases in which he makes it meritorious
to have a right "faith," and places it above reason, and as-
sumes it to be a voluntary act, shows his utter ignorance of
the nature of the human mind.
20. And Christ evinced a remarkable ignorance of the
cause of physical defects, when he told his hearers a certain
man was born blind, in order that he might cure him. (Matt.
vii. 22.)
21. And Christ's declaration, that those who marry are
not worthy of being saved (see Luke xx. 34), shows that he
was very ignorant of the nature of the sexual functions of
the human system.
22. Nothing could more completely demonstrate a total
ignorance of the grand science of astronomy than Christ's
prediction of the stars falling to the earth. (See Luke xxi.
25.)
23. And the conflagration of the world, "the gathering of
the elect," and the realization of a fancied millennium, whi ch
he several times predicted would take place in his time, '~be-
fore this generation pass away" (Matt. xxiv. 34), proves a
like ignorance, both of astronomy and philosophy.
24. And his cursing of the fig tr ,ee for not bearing fruit
in the winter season (see Matt. xxi. 20), not only proves his
ignorance of the laws of nature, but evinces a bad temp er.
25. Christ indorses the truth of Noah's flood story (see
Luke xvii. 27) , which every person at the present day,
versed in science and natural law, knows is mere :fiction,
and never took place.
And numerous other errors, evincing the most profound
ignorance of science and natural law, might be pointed out
in Christ's teachings, if we had space for them. It has al-
ways been alleged by orthodox Christendom, that Christ's
teaching and moral system are so faultless as to challenge
criticism, and so perfect as to defy improvement. But this
[ 80]
is a serious mistake. For most of his precepts and moral
inculcations which ar,e not directly at war with the prin-
ciples of science, or do not involve a flagrant violation of
the laws of nature, are, nevertheless, characterized by a
lawless and extravagant mode of ,expression peculiar to
semi-savage life, and which, as it renders it impossible to
reduce them to practice, shows they could not have eman-
ated from a philosopher, or man of science, or a man of
evenly-balanced mind. They impose upon the world a system
of morality, pushed to such extremes that its own professed
admirers do not live it out, or ev,en attempt to do so. They
long ago abandoned it as an impracticable duty. We will
prove this by enumerating most of its requisitions, and
showing that they are daily violated and trampled under
foot by all Christendom. Where can the Christian professor
be found who, 1. "takes no thought for the morrow"; or,
2. who "lays not up treasure on earth," or, at least, tries
to do it; or, 3. who "gives up all his property to the poor";
or who, "when his cloak is wrested from him by a robber,"
giv,es up his coat also; or who calls no man master or mister
(the most common title in Christendom) ; or who calls no
man father (if he has a father) ; or who calls no man a fool
(when he knows he is a fool); or who, when one cheek is
pommeled into a jelly by some vile miscreant or drunken
wretch, turns the other to be battered up in the same way;
or who prays without ceasing; or who rejoices when perse-
cuted; or who forgives an enemy four hundred and ninety
times (70 times 7) ; or who manifests by his practical life
that he lov,es his enemies (the way he loves him is to report
him to the grand jury, or hand him over to the sheriff) ;
or who forsakes houses and land, and everything, "for the
kingdom of heaven's sake." No Christian professor lives up
to these precepts, or any of them, or ev,en tries to do so. To
talk, therefore, of finding a practical Christian, while nearly
the whole moral code of Christ is thus daily and habitually
outraged and trampled under foot by all the churches and
every one of the two hundred millions of Christian profes-
sors, is bitter irony and supreme · solecism. We would go
[ 81 ]
five hundred miles, or pay five hundred dollars, to see a
Christian. If a man can be a Christian while openly an d
habitually violating every precept of Christ, then the wor d
has no meaning. These precepts, the Christian world find-
ing to be impossible to practice, have unanimously laid upon
the table under the rule of "indefinite postponement." They
are the product of a mind with an ardent temperament, and
the religious facilities developed to excess, and unrestrained
by scientific or intellectual culture. A similar vein of ex-
travagant religious duty is found in the Essenian, Buddhist,
and Pythagorean systems. As Zera Colubn possessed the
mathematical faculty to excess, and Jenny Lind the musical
talent, Christ in like manner was all l'eligion. And from the
extreme ardor of his religious feeling, thus derived, spran g
his extravagant notions of the duties of life. This peculiarit y
of his organization explains the whole mystery.
Christ as a Man, and Christ as a Sectarian
To every observant and unbiased mind a strange contrast
must be visible in the practical life of Jesus Christ when
viewed in his twofold capacity of a man and priest. While
standing upon the broad plane of humanity, with his deep
sympathetic nature directed toward the poor, the unfortun-
ate, and the downtrodden, there often gushed forth from his
impassioned bosom the most sublime expressions of pity,
and the strongest outburst of commiseration for wrongs
and su:fferings, and his noble goodness and tender love
yearned with a throbbing heart to relieve them. But the .
moment he put on the sacerdotal robe, and assumed the
character of a priest, that moment, if any one crossed his
path by refusing to yield to his requisitions of faith, or dis-
sented from his religious creed, his whole nature was chang -
ed. It was no longer, "Blessed are ye," but "Cursed are ye,"
or "Woe unto you." Like the founders of other religious
systems, he was ardent toward friends and bitter toward
enemies, and extolled his own religion, while he denounced
all others. His way was the only way, and all who did not
walk therein, or conform thereto, were loadecl with curses
.( 82]
and imprecations, and all who could not accomplish the im-
possible mental achievement of believing everything he set
forth or urged upon their credence, and that, too, without
evidence, wer,e to be eternally damned. All who climbed up
any other way were thieves and robbers. All who professed
faith in any other religion than his were on the road to hell.
Like the oriental Gods, he taught that the world was to be
saved through faith in him and his religion. All who did not
honor him were to be dishonored by the Father. And "with-
out faith (in him and his religion), it is impossible to please
God." He declared that all who were not for him were
against him ; and all who were not on the same road are
"heathens and publicans." His disciples were enjoined to
shake off the dust from their feet as a manifestation of
displeasure toward those who could not conscientiously
subscribe to their creeds and dogmas. Thus we discover a
strong vein of intolerance and sectarianism in the religion
of the otherwise, and in other respects, the kind and loving
Jesus. Though most benignantly kind and affectionate while
moving and acting under the controlling impulses of his
lofty manhood, yet when his ardent religious feelings were
touched, he became chafed, irritated, and sometimes intol-
erant. He then could tolerate no such thing as liberty of
conscience, or freedom of thought, or the right to differ
with him in religious belief. His extremely ardent devotional
nature, when roused into action in defense of a stereotyped
faith, eclipsed his more noble, lofty, and lovely traits, and
often dimmed his mental vision, thus presenting in the same
individual a strange medley, and a strange contrast of the
most opposite traits of character. That such a being should
have been considered and worshipped as a God, and for the
very reason that he possessed such strange, contradictory
traits of character, and often let his religion run riot with
his reason, will be looked upon by posterity as one of the
strangest chapters in the history of the human race. But so
it is. Extraordinary good qualities, though intermingled
with errors and human foibles, have defied many men.
[ 83]
NOTE: One Christian writer alleges, in defense of the
objection able precepts of Jesus Christ, that "He taugh t
some errors in condescension to the ignorance of the peo-
ple." If this be true, that he taught both truth and falsehood ,
then the question arises , How can we know which is which ?
By what rule can we discriminate them, as he himself furn-
ishes none? Or how are we to determine that he taught th e
truth at all? And then this plea would account for and ex-
cuse all the errors found in the teachings of the orienta l
Gods. If it will apply in one case, it will in the other. And
thus it proves too much. --
There is also a physiological principle comprised in th e
doctrine of the Divine Incarn ation fatal in its practical and
logical application to the divinity of Jesus Christ, and all
the other incarnate or flesh -invested Gods of antiquity . It
is evidently fraught with much logical force. It is based
upon the law of ment al and physical correspondence. As is
the physical conformation, so is the mentality, is a law of
analogy which pilots us to nearly all our practical knowledge
of the natural world. A knowledge of either serves as an
index to the other.
When we observe an animal possessing that physical form
and construction peculia r to its species, we expect to find it
practically exhibiting the nature, character, disposition, and
habits peculiar to that class of animals. If it possesses, for
example, the conformation of a sheep, we infer at once that it
hasthedisposition of a sheep , and we are never disappointe d
in this conclusion. And when we encounter an animal wit h
the tiger form, we expect to see exhibited the tiger spiri t .
If it possess es the well-known physical conformation of th e
tige r, we are never deceived or misled when we assign it a
predatory disposition. If it is a tiger form, it is sure to be
a tige r in character and habi ts . And so of all the gener a
and species of animals that range upon the face of the globe.
We may travel th r ough the whole field of animated natur e,
and observe the infallible operation of this beautiful law
of corr espondence till we come, however, to the crownin g
work of God, called Man. Here we find this law, this beaut i-
ful chain of analogy, broken by the doctrine of the "divine
[ 84]
incarnation." God becomes a man, at least is made to exhibit
every external appearance of a man. All external distinction
between God and man is thus obliterated. So that the very
first being we meet in the street or on the highway possess-
ing the form, size, and physical conformation of a man, and
presenting every other external appearance of being a man,
may nevertheless be a God. And no less is this objection prac-
tically exemplified, and no less is the infraction of this
beautiful law of analogy observable in the case of Jesus
Christ, than in the numerous other incarnate Gods and
demigods of antiquity. Being in appearance a man, how was
he to be, or how could he be, visually distinguished from a
man? Or how could those men who were contemporary with
him, know, as they approach him, or as they approached
each other, whether they were meeting a man or a God?
Seeing that "he was found in fashion as a man" (Phil. ii. 8),
either he might be mistaken for .a man, or they for a God.
They were constantly liable to be confounded. If, then, the
infinite deityship was lodged in the person of Jesus Christ,
it is evident that that important fundamental law of na-
ture-"as is the form, so is the character"- was utterly
annulled, prostrated, annihilated and banished from the
world by the act. So that all was, and is henceforth and
forever, chaos, confusion, and uncertainty. For if the prin-
ciple can be violated in one instance, it may be in another,
and in thousands of cases, ad infinitum. If one case could
be allowed to occur, the principle is established, and nature's
universal chain of analogy is broken and destroyed; for to
intercept the law is to "break the tenth and ten thousandth
link alike."
Hence it is evident that if a being resembling a man may
be a God, an animal resembling a cow may be a horse, and
yonder stick a poisonous adder; and fatal may the conse-
quences, in thousands of instances, in judging or inferring
the nature and character of an animal by its form and size.
A supposed innocent animal might be a deadly enemy, or
vice versa. Can we then believe, or dare we believe, a doc-
trine so atheistical in its tendencies as t};ieInfinite Deity was
[ 85]
incorporated in the person of the meek and lowly Jesus,
when it would thus set at naught, violate, prostrate, and
utterly cancel from the world one of God's own funda-
mental laws, and one of the essential principles of natural
scienc,e, and banish forever the co-ordinate harmony of the
universe, and thus inaugurate a state of universal disorder,
incertitude, anarchy, and misrule into the otherwise beauti-
fully law-governed, well-regulated domain of nature? Cer-
tainly, most certainly not! If the incarnation of the Deity
should, or could take place, there should be something strik-
ingly peculiar, ay, infinitely peculiar, in his figure, size, and
. general appearance, in order to make him susceptible of
being distinguished from the human. Oth,erwise, men would
be liable to be constantly mistaking and worshiping each
other for the Great Almighty and Ubiquitous God, and thus
constantly blundering into idolatry. And we actually find
several cases reported in the Scriptures (mark the fact
well) of men, ay, the saints themselves, being led into this
error; being led to commit "the high-handed sin of idolatry"
in consequence of their previous acceptance of the belief in
a man-God-that is, a God of human size and type. St. John,
in two instances, was in the act of worshipping a being
possessing the human form, whom he mistook for the omni-
potent and omnipresent God. (See Rev. xix. 10, and xxii. 4.)
Having, perhaps, been taught that "the fullness of the God-
head dwelt bodily in Christ Jesus," he probably mistook the
being he met for Him, and hence offered to worship him .
If, then, Christ's own inspired disciples" could thus be
betrayed into "the sin of idoltary" by having abolished the
infinite distinction between the divine and the human, we
surely find here a weighty argument against such a leveling
and equalizing doctrine. And certainly nothing could be
better calculated to promote "the sin of idolatry" than thus
to obliterate the broad, the infinite grand line of demarka-
tion between the infinite God and his infinite creature man .
Indeed, may we not here find the very origin and the cause
of the new general prevalence of idolatry in pagan countries?
Is it not directly traceable to the demolition of the broad ,
[ 86]
high, and insurmountable wall of distinction which ought
forever to stand between a God of infinite attributes, and a
being caged up in the human form? Certainly, most certain-
ly it is. Hence here I would ask, How can Christians, after
subscribing to the doctrine, "that the fullness of the God.:
head dwelt bodily in the the man Christ Jesus" (as Paul very
appropriately calls him), condemn the people of any age or
nation for worshipping as God their fellow-beings-that is,
beings with the human form? Certainly the man who could
believe that the infinite God could be comprehended or in-
corporated in the person of Jesus, could easily be brought
to believe that the Grand Lama of Thibet is a proper sub-
ject of divine worship. He only lacks the substitution of
names. Substitute the Grand Lama for that of Jesus Christ,
and the thing is done. And idolatry thus becomes an easily
established institution, and its abolition in any country an
absolute moral impossibility.
At this point in our travels together into the realms of
religions, someone is bound to bring into the argument the
doctrine of "divine incarnation". This, however, is one of
the oldest heathen doctrines, and is to be found right at the
core of the religion of India, and other systems of religion.
Let me give you a few thoughts on that subject.
[ 87]
Chapter Fiv e
GOD IN ACTION
WHAT then is the religious situation as it exists through -
out the world tod ay? In a nutshell it is as follows-we hav e
eleven major systems of religion, all claiming to know God
and to be representing God on the earth. Many of thes e
systems, the Christian religion for instance, is divided int o
many branches or parts, and no two of those parts agree .
There are more than 400 different divisions in the Christian
religion, and the y continually squabble between themselves .
One tells the rest that it, and it alone is the only true churc h
-they tell the rest of us that God Almighty, in the form of
Jesus Christ ordained th at particular system, and they go
further and tell us that the head of that organization is th e
only one authorized to teach and act for Almighty God.
(In the form of Jesus Christ, of course.)
The rest of these sects, divisions, and denominations deny
this claim. So there is not unity, even among the differen t
branches of these religions as to what the truths of God are .
These eleven major religions have been operating on the
earth only for the past few thousand years. The Christia n
religion is the youngest of them all, excepting Moham-
medanism.
Now it will be obvious at once, that all of these system s
of religion cannot be true. They cannot have the one tru e
picture of God. For the "gods" they have are all different .
For example-if the claims of the Hindoo that Jeseus Chris -
hna is the true God are correct , the claims of the Christia n
that Jesus Christ is the true God, cannot be correct. Ther e
is a mistake somewhere. For eithe r one of these systems is
true, the rest false, or they are all false. They cannot all be
true. It takes no superability to see this, and, judging from
the condition the world is in today, I should say that none
of thes ·e systems of religion knows anything at all about
God. They may know, and do know all about the god they
[ 88 l
have adopted and tea ch, for the chances ar e that in every
instance thes e religi ous organizations originated their parti-
cular "god" themselves. We know that one bra nch of the
Christian religion, in 1545 A. D. decided by popular vote
of priests and bishops what the "word of god" was to be
from that time on. And we know that one of the considera-
tions for placing four gospels in the "canon" was because
animals have four legs. We know further, that in so far as
authentic history is concerned, they cannot prove that their
"god" ever had an earthly existence, for there is no record
among historians that God Almighty ever came to this
earth and performed miracles so stupendous that had the y
really happened, they would have been written across the
pages of authentic histo ry in letters of gold.
The only place where reference to any of these "gods" is
to be found, is in th e "bibles" or "sacred writings" of that
each particular system of religion. No religion ever heard
of the god of the other religions. The trouble with all of
these claims is that there have been too many of them. I
promised in a previous chapter that I would give you a list
of some of these "gods" and here is the list.
More than twenty claims of beings invested with divine
honor (deified)-have come forward and presented them-
selves at the bar of Christendom in having proclaimed Jesus
Christ "the only son, and sent of God" ; tw enty Messiahs,
Saviors, and Sons of God, according to history or tradition,
have in past times descended from heaven and taken upon
themselves the form of men, clothing themsel ves with hu-
man flesh, and furnishing incontestable evidence of a divine
origin, by various miracles, marvelous works, and super-
lative virtues; and finally these twenty Jesus Chri sts, ac-
cepting their character for the name , laid the foundation
for the salvation of the world, and ascended back to heaven.
1. Chrishna of Hindostan.
2. Buddha Saka of India .
3. Sallvah ana of Bermuda .
4 Zull s, or Zhule , also Oslri s and Oros ,
of E gypt.
5. Odln of the Scand inavlans .
6. Crite of Chald ea,
7. Zoroaster and Mithra of Persia .
8. Baal and Taut, "the only Begotten
of God ," of Phen lcla .
9. Indr a of Thibet .
10. Ball of Afghanistan.
11 . J ao of Nepal.
12. W1tt oba of the Blllngonese .
13 Thammuz of Syria.
14. Atys of P.hrygi a.
15. Xamo lxi s of Thrace
16. Zoar of the Bonzes.'
17. Adad of Assyr ia.
[ 89]
18. Deva Tat, and Sammonodadam of 26. Gentaut and Quetzalcoatl of Mexico .
Slam . 27. Universal Monarch of the Sibyls .
19. Alcldes of Theb es. 28. Ischy of the Island of Formosa.
20. Mikado of the Slntoos . 29. Divine Teacher of Plato .
:21. Beddru of Japan . 30. Holy One of Xaca .
22. Hesus of Eros, and Bremr!Hah, of 31. Goh! and Tien of China.
the Druids 32. Adonis, son of the virgin Io of Greece .
23. Thor , eon of Odin, of .the Gaul s. 33. Ixion and Qulrlnus of Rome .
24. Cadmus of Greece. 34. Prometheus of Caucasus.
25. HI! and F eta of <the Mandaltes . 35. Mohamud, or Mohamet, of Arabia.
These have all received divine honors; nearly all have
been worshipped as Gods, or sons of God; were mostly in-
carnated as Christs, Saviors, Messiahs, or Mediators; not
a few of them were reputedly born of virgins; some of them
filling a character almost identical with that ascribed by
the Christians' bible to Jesus Christ; many of them, like
him, are reported to have been crucified; and all of them,
taken together, furnish a prototype and parallel for nearly
every important incident and wonder-inciting miracle, doc-
trine, and precept recorded in the New Testament, of the
Christians' Savior. Surely, with so many Saviors the world
can not, or should not, be lost.
Yet the world is lost today if ever it was. And the reason
for its lost condition must lie in the real religion - for re-
ligion is the only realm which claims to know anything
about God. In this realm of religion, we must take all the
claims of all the religions, place them side by side, analyze
them all, and see which, if any, really knows God. It would
be manifestly unjust to take one system of religion, and
claim divinity for that, and at the same time deny divinity
to any other system of religion which has the same rules
for "salvation", and had them long before the other re-
ligion was ever heard of.
Each system of religion, with its followers, does just that.
For instance, those who live in countries which have the
Christian religions, swear by all that's holy that the Christ-
ian religion and the Christian bible are the only true
revelations from God to man. Yet we find, as we have seen,
every fundamental of the Christian religion in the religion
of the Hindoo, and we find it there long, long time before
Christ or Christianity or the Christian church were ever
heard of.
If the claim of any of these many systems of religion is
[ 90]
true, if it does really teach the truth of God, and if it does
actually rep!'lesent God on this earth, why is the world in the
condition in which we find it today? Cannot these systems
of religion find their god ?-do they not know where he is?
has he no power with which to step into this troubled world
picture and bring peaoo? I wonder. For certainly it is
ridiculous to even suspect that the "god" of any of the
eleven major systems of religion operating on the earth
today, including the Christian god-is the great creative
spirit behind this universe.
I shall have to take issue therefore with every system of
religion in existence which has a "crucified god" at the back
of it, for I do not believe any such story is true. Nor do
you if you give it one moment's thought.
This world is getting to a condition where it is not safe
for any system of religion-except the true religion of Al-
mighty God, and that religion has not yet been brought to
this earth. The only religions we have on the earth today,
are founded on ancient myth, and superstition, and can
easily be proven to be such. If you think that religious
superstition is still not rife in America today, read the
following A.P. dispatch which I cut out of the Seattle Post
Intelligencer yesterday:
Eve Acquitted,
Adam Guilty
Of Ori,
ginalSin
New Catechism Lifts Cloud
From Prominent Woman
of Ancient History
KANSAS CITY, Thursday, March 28.- of the tree of life, of knowledge of good
(AP)-All blame for the first sin of the and evil in the Garden of Eden.
world ls shifted to Adam, and Eve Is com- The acevlsed catechism, drafted by a
pletely exonerated In .the revised catechism committee headed by Bishop Edwin V.
soon to be released for use In parochla,l O'Hara of the Kansas City diocese, slmpll-
schools. fies much of the langua,ge and some theo-
Thls .precept ls in conformance with logical point s in the Baltimore catechism
orthodox Catholic teaching, said the Rev . w,
hlch has been In use fifty-five years.
Franc is J . Connell of New York in ex- The new catechi sm also contains lnfor
plaining the revisions today to the Na- matlon about St. Joseph as well as the
tional Catholic Educational Association con- Virgin Mary, and W
·arns against sinfulnes~
ventlon. Heretofore, Adam and Eve were of suicide and drunkenness. Obl!gatlons of
blamed jointly for disobedience to God's citizens and civil officials to their country
co=and when they partook of the fruit also are empha.s!zed.
[ 91 ]
Here we find one branch of the Christian church still
fooling around with the absurb story of Adam and Eve
and the talking snake in the Garden of Eden. And this
branch of the church goes so far as to absolve the woman
from all blame in this foolish story. But we have seen al-
ready that long before Adam and Eve were ever heard of,
Adimo and Reva, and another talking snake had a session
in another garden, 1400 years before Adam and Eve ap-
peared upon the scene, and were accepted by the religion
which calls itself Christian.
It is not coincidence however, that Adimo and Reva and
a talking snake are to be found in the "bibles" of the Hindoo
long before Adam and Eve were found in another bible.
It is not coincidence that the same flood story is told. It is
not coincidence that Noe was saved, with his three sons,
Sherma, Rama, and Jiapheta, long before the Christian
Noah with his three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth came
along. It is not coincidence that on the 25th day of Decem-
ber, 1400 years before Jesus Christ, that J eseus Chrishna
was born of a virgin caller Maia, nor is it coincidence that
they both were God Almighty in human form. It is not
coincidence that the God of the Hindoo is a "trinity" con-
sisting of Father, Son, and Holy Ghost as is the Christian
God. It is not coincidence that both were crucified on a cross
for the sins of the world nor is it coincidence that both rose
from the dead three days later, preached to the spirits in
hell, and later arose from the tomb, and ascended into
heaven where they both are now, sitting, we are told, at the
right hand of God. That, I say, is more than coincidence.
The one, the later one, must have been copied from the
earlier story.
When we take into consideration the fact that it is still
less than 400 years ago since one branch of the Christian
religion decided what the word of God was, and when we
take into further consideration that the only place where
the Christian story of Jesus Christ is to be found in the
four gospels, which were out there less than 400 years ago
[ 92]
by popular votes, we begin to see the story as it really
should be seen.
Some good Christian at this point will say to me-" Am I
to understand that you claim that Jesus Christ was not a
historical character and never lived?" That, my friend, is
exactly what I claim-and I claim further that none of the
rest of the world's "crucified gods" ever lived either . Let
us see.
The fact that no histo ry, sacred or profane,-that not
one of the three hundred histories of that age,- makes the
slightest allusion to Christ, or any of the miraculous inci-
dents ingrafted into his life, certainly proves, with a cog-
ency that no logic can overthrow, no sophistry can contra-
dict, and no honest skepticism can resist, that there never
was such miraculously endowed being as his many orthodox
disciples claim him to have been. The fact that Christ finds
no place in the history of the era in which he lived,-that
not one even of his life is recorded by anybody but his own
interested and prejudiced biographers,-settles the conclu-
sion, beyond cavil or criticism, that the godlike achieve-
ments ascribed to him are naught but fable or fiction. It
not only proves he was not miraculously endowed, but
proves he was not even naturally endowed to such an extra-
ordinary degree as to make him an object of general at-
tention. It would be a historical anomaly without a preced-
ent, that Christ should have performed any of the extra-
ordinary acts attributed to him in the Gospels, and no
Roman or Grecian historian, and neither Philo nor Jose-
phus , both writing in that age, and both living almost on
the spot where they are said to have been witnessed, and
both recording minutely all the religious events of that age
and country, make the slightest mention of one of them,
nor their reputed authors. Such a historical fact banishes
the last shadow of faith in their reality.
It is true a few lines are found in one of Josephus's large
works alluding to Christ. But it is so manifestly a forgery,
that we believe all modern critics of any note, even of the
orthodox school, reject it as a base interpolation. Even Dr.
[ 93 ]
Lardner, one of the ablest defenders of the Christian faith
that ever wielded a pen in its support, and who has written
ten large volumes to bolster it up, assigns nine cogent rea -
sons (which we would insert here if we had space) for th e
conclusion that Josephus could not have penned those few
lines found in his "Jewish Antiquities" referring to Christ .
No Jew could possibly use such language. It would be a
glaring absurdity to suppose a leading Jew could call Jesu s
"The Christ," when the whole Jewish nation have ever
contested the claim with the sternest logic, and fought it
to the bitter end. "It ought, therefore," say Dr. Lardner, for
the nine reasons which he assigns, "to be forever discarded
from any place among the evidence of Christianity." (Lif e
of Lardner by Dr. Kippis, p. 23.)
As the passage is not found in any edition of Josephu s
prior to the era of Eusebius, the suspicion has fastene d
upon that Christian writer as being its author, who argue d
that falsehood might be used as a medicine for the benefit
of the churches. (See his Eccles. Hist.) Origen, who lived
before Eusebius, admitted Josephus mak,es no allusion to
Christ. Of course the passage was not, then, in Josephus .
One or two other similar passages have been found, in other
authors of that era, which it is not necessary to notice here ,
as they are rejected by Christian writers. It must be con-
ceded, therefore, that the numerous histories covering the
epoch of the birth of Christ chronicle none of the astounding
feats incorporated in his Gospel biographies as signalizing
his earthly career, and make no mention of the reputed her o
of these achievements, either by name or character. The
conclusion is thus irresistibly forced upon us, not only that
he was not a miracle-worker, but that he must have led
rather an obscure life, entirely incompatible with his being
a God or a Messiah, who came "to draw all men unto him. "
And it should also be noted here that none of Christ' s
famous biographers, Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John, ar e
honored with a notice in histo ry till one hundred and ninet y
years after the birth of Christ. And then the notice was by
a Christian writer (Ireneus).
[ 94]
Add to this startling fact, the evidence of the religion of
India, and one cannot help but be struck with the self...
evi-
dent fact that in all probability, the Christian religion is
Hindooism under another name. Let it be distinctly under-
stood that I am not trying to destroy either the Christian or
any other religion. Not that the world would be any better or
worse without any of them. But that is not the object of
what I write. I do not believe the truths of God have ever
been brought to this world by any system of religion, re-
gardless of what it calls itself; and if these truths have not
been brought to the world, then this world has been existing
in complete ignorance of truths, so dynamic, so staggering
in their import, that, when the world does know them, it
will be completely liberated.
One look at the world today will convince even the most
optimistic that there is little of God in it. But with all these
varying systems of religion there should be a lot of God in
it-that is-if any of them have the true picture of God. I
have no fight with any system of theology. I love every hu-
man being regardless of what religion he or she belongs to.
But if I find that what has been offered, and what is being
offered to this world in the name of God Almighty is no-
thing of the kind, what sort of a traitor to humanity would
I be if I refrained from bringing these facts to public at-
tention?
In addition to this, it must be remembered that the
"Psychiana" Mov,ement is bringing to the world, for the
first time its history, the actual truths of the Great Spirit-
God. These truths do not jibe with the theologies of any
system of religion on the earth today. For under the Power
of the Spirit of God as revealed by this Movement, men and
women are being liberated. They are finding the actual
Power of God. No church has ever been able to do this to
date, in spite of all their claims.
So then, while what I write must cause eruption among
all religions on the fact of the earth today, let none say that
I am destructive. This world has never known a more con-
structive forces than the "Psychiana" Movement. And
[ 95]
whether it hurts the feelings of any church organization is
entirely beside the point. The one point involved so far as
my writings go, is-is the story of God taught by thes e
world religions true or fals e? I am convinced that these
stories are all false, the Christian story included. That
should not be cause for alarm though-that should be caus e
for great rejoicing-for those who know me best know full
well that I should never attempt to replace false theorie s
of God, unless I had the true conception of God. Thank God,
that vision was given me, and I must, and I shall bring it
to the world, regardless of what any existing system of re-
ligion thinks about it.
Let us take one more look at Chrishna and Christ before
I leave this subject.
"Brahminism or Buddhism in some of its forms is said to
constitute the religion of considerably more than half th e
human race. It teaches the existence of one supreme, eter -
nal, and uncreated God, called Brahma, who created th e
world through Chrishna, the second member of the Trinity. "
Paul says, God created the world through Jesus Christ, th e
second member of the Christian Trinity. (Eph. iii. 9.) How
striking the resemblance! "The doctrine of the incarnation ,
the descent of the Deity upon earth, and his manifestatio n
in a human form for the redemption of mankind, seems to
have existed in the shape of prophecy or fact in all ages of
the world. Hindooism teaches nine of these incarnations .
Furthermore, it teaches the doctrine of the Trinity, the fall
and redemption of man, and a state of future rewards and
punishments in a future life .... This religion in chief of
Asia is traceable to remote ages. The doctrine of the Trinit y
is represented in the Elephantine cavern, and taught in th e
Mahabarat, which goes back for its origin nearly two thous-
and years before Christ."
"In the year 3600, Chrishna descended to the earth for
the purpose of defeating the evil machinations of Chivan
(the devil), as Christ 'came to destroy the devil and his
works.' (See John iii. 8.) After a fierce combat with th e
devil, or serpent, he defeated him by bruising his head-
[ 96]
he receiving, during the contest, a wound in the heel. ('It
[the serpent] shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise
his heel.'-Gen. iii. 15.) He died at last between two thieves .
. . . He led a pure and holy life, and was a meek, tender, and
benevolent being, and enjoined charity , hospitality, and
mercy, and forbade lying, prevarication, hypocrisy, and ov-
erreaching in dealing, and pilfering, and theft, and violence
toward any being.'' (Lecture before the Free Press Associa-
tion in 1827.)
"The birthplace of the Hindoo here (Chrishna) is called
Mathura, which is easily changed, and by correct transla-
tion become Maturea, the place where Christ is said to have
stopped, between Nazareth and Egypt. . . . To show his
humility he washed the feet of the Brahmins (as Christ
is said to have washed the feet of the Jews-see John xiii.
14). One day a woman came to him and anointed his hair
with oil, in return for which he healed her maladies. One of
his first miracles was that of healing a leper, like Christ.
(See Mark i. 4.) Finally, he was crucified, then descended
to Hades. (It is said of Christ, 'his soul was not left in hell.'
-Act ii. 31.) He (Chrishna) rose from the dead and
ascended to Voicontha (heaven).'' (Higgin's Anacalypsis,
vol. ii. p. 239.)
Now, we ask, is it any wonder, in vi,ew of the foregoing
historical exposition, that Eusebius should exclaim, "The
religion of Jesus Christ is neither new nor strange"?
(Eccl. Hist. ch. iv.) Truly did St. Augustine say, "This, in
our day, is the Christian religion, not as having been un-
known in former times, but as having recently received
that name."
Here, then, we pause to ask our good Christian reader,
Wh ere is your original Christianity now? or what consti-
tutes the revealed religion of Jesus Christ? or where is the
evidence that any new religion was revea ied by him or
preached by him, seeing we have all his religion, as shown
by the foregoing historical citations, included in an old
heathen system more than a thousand years old when Jesus
Christ was born? We find it all here in this old oriental
[ 97]
stystem of Buddhism-ev 'ery eS'Sential p.
art, particle and
principle of it. We find Christianity all here-its Alpha and
Omega, its beginning and end. We find it here in all its
det.ail.s, its root, essence, and eternity,-all its "revealed
doctrines," religious ideas, beautiful truths, senseless dog-
mas and oriental phantoms. Not a doctrine, principle, or
precept of the Christian system, but that is here pro-
claimed to the world ages before "the angels announce d
the birth of a divine babe in Bethlehem." Will you, then,
persist in claiming that "truth, life, and immortality came
by Jesus Christ," and that "Christ came to preach a new
go,spel to the world, and to set forth a new religion never
before heard amongst men" (to use the language of Arch -
bishop Tillotson), when the historical facts cited in thi s
work demonstrate a hundr ,ed times over that such a position
is palpably erroneous? Will you still persist, with all thos e
undeniable facts staring you in the face (proving and re-
proving, with overwhelming demonstration, that the state-
ment is untrue), in declaring that "the religion of Jesu s
Christ is the only true and soul-saving religion, and all
other systems are mere straw , stubble, tradition, and super -
stition" (as asserted by a popular Christian writer), when
no mathematician ever demonstrated a scientific problem
more clearly than we have proved in these pages that all
the principle systems of the past, by no means excepting
Christianity, are essentially alike in every important par-
ticular-all of their cardinal doctrines being the same, dif-
fering only in unimportant details?
Seeing, then, that all systems of religion have been foun d
to be essentially alike in spir it and in practice, the all-
important question arises here, What is the true cause as-
signable for this striking resemblance? How is it to be ac-
counted for? Perhaps some of our good Christian readers ,
unacquainted with history, may cherish the thought tha t
all the oriental systems brought to notice are but imitation s
of Christianity; that they were reconstructed out of mate -
rials obtained from that source; that Christianity is the
parent, and they the offspring. But, alas for their long-
[ 98]
cherished idol, those who entertain such forlorn hopes are
"sowing to the wind, and are doomed to disappointment."
With the exception of Mohammedanism alone, Christianity
is the youngest system in the whole catalogue. The historical
facts to prove this statement are voluminous. But as it needs
no proof to those who have read religious history, but little
space will be occupied with citations for this purpose. With
respect to the antiquity of the principal oriental system, we
need only to quote the testimony of Sir William Jones, a
devout Christian writer, who spent years in India, and
whose testimony will be accepted by any person acquainted
with his history. He makes the emphatic declaration, "That
the name of Chrishna, and the general outline of his history,
were long anterior to the birth of our Savior, and probably
to the time of Homer (900 B.C.) we know very certainly."
(Asiat. Res. vol. i. p. 254.) No guess-work about it. "We
know very certainly."
And being a scholar, a traveler, and a sojourner among
the Hindoos, and well versed in their history, no person ever
had a better opportunity to know than he. We will hear this
renowned author further. "In the Sanscrit dictionary, com-
piled more than two thousand years ago, we have the whole
history of the incarnate deity (Chrishna), born of a virgin,
and miraculously escaping in his infancy from the reigning
tyrant of his country (Cansa). He passed a life of the most
extraordinary and incomprehensible devotion. His birth
was concealed from the tyrant Cansa, to whom it had been
predicted that one born at that time, and in that family,
would destroy him": i.e., destroy his power. (Asiat. Res. vol.
i. p. 273.) This writer also states that the first Christian
missionaries who entered India were astonished to find
there a religion so near like their own, and could only ac-
count for it by supposing that the devil, foreseeing the
advent of Christ, originated a system of religion in advance
of his, and "just like it." Stated in other words, he got out
the second edition of the gospel plan of salvation before the
first edition was published or had an existence. Rather a
smart trick this, thus to outwit God Almighty.
[ 99]
With respect to the vast antiquity of the Hindoo oriental
religion, which indicates it as being not only the source from
which the materials of the Christian religion were drawn,
but as being the parent of all the leading systems, with the ir
three thousand subordinate branches which existed at amuch
earlier period than Christianity, we need only to point to
the deep chiseled sculptures and imperishable monumen ts
enst amped on their time-honored temples, tombs, altars,
vases, columns, pagodas, ruined towers, etc., whichwithcon-
temporary inscriptions, warrant us in antedating the re-
ligion of the Himmalehs far beyond the authentic records
of any other religion that has floated down to us on the
stream of time. The numerous images of their crucifiedGods,
Chrishna and Saki, emblazoned on their old rock temples in
various parts of the country, some of which are constructed
of clay porphyry, now the very hardest species of rock,
with their attendant inscriptions in a language so very
ancient as to be lost to the memory of man, vie with the
Sanscrit in age, the oldest deciphered language in the wor ld.
All these and a hundred corroboratory historical facts
fix on India as being the birthplace of the mother of all
religions now existing, or that ever had an existence, while
the great worship in which they were subsequently re-
modeled was in Alexandria in Egypt, whose theological
schools furnished the model for nearly every system now
found noticed on the page of history-Christianity of course
included.
The foregoing evidence does not meant that the relig ion
of India is the true religion of the Spirit of God by any
means; what it does is to remove the last shadow of doubt
about the originality of the Christian religion, with which
we, here in the United States, are vastly interested. No
one will grant the truth of the story of the religion of India.
It must be classed with the rest of these systems of religion,
and if this hurts, I point once more to the condition of the
world today, and then to the condition of the Christian
church. Let me briefly at this point submit just a little
bit of evidence that shows beyond the shadow of a doubt
[ 100 ]
that unless something happens to the "Church of Jesus
Christ," the whole Christian structure will pass away, and
that perhaps faster than the Christian church realizes. I
am only trying to help it, and, by bringing to it the tru e
conception of God, I can help it-if it will be helped.
Leaders of the church everwhere are lamenting the fact
that the whole structure is passing. They do not seem to
know what to do to save it. Bishop Magee of the M. E.
church recently made the statement that in one year this
church lost about three -quarters of a million members and
closed up about three thousand Sunday Schools. The Right
Rev. Tucker, primate of the Protestant Episcopal church
in America, recently made the public statement that "unless
the Christian church develops an enthusiasm for its work
comparable to that of warring Japan or. Soviet Russia, the
Christian cause may fail and pass out of the picture". Dr.
Jean S. Milner, pastor of the Second Presbyterian church
of Indianapolis (Henry Ward Beechers old church) said
recently in his book "The Sky Is Red"-"The Spirit of God
(Christ) will not leave the earth, but the Spirit will mani-
f e.
st in institutions other than our own."
A conclave of Presbyterianism was held in Canada last
month, and there too the appalling condition of the Christ-
ian church was admitted and deplored. The remedy sug-
gested by the moderator was this-"We must lose no oppor-
tunity to spread 'Christian propaganda' wherever and when-
ever we can". Perhaps that is the answer and perhaps it is
not the answer. We shall see.
Here we have the sad spectacle of the only force in this
world which could be an influence to good, passing away.
And it is passing away because it thinks more of its man-
made and church-made traditions than it thinks of Almighty
God. It operates under the delusion, and the strong delu-
sion that all the truths of God have been given into its
hands, when as a matter of fact, none of these churches,
so-called "pagan" or Christian, know the first thing about
the Power of the Spirit of the Living, Saving God. That
is an experience they have not had yet. The gods of these
[ 101 ]
churches is "my god"-not the God of the universe--
but "mine".
But there is only one True God-and it is certain that
all eleven of these systems of theology cannot have that
one God. Equally certain is it that the Christian religion
cannot have that God-for everything that religion has was
known to millions, thousands of years before the Christian
church was ever heard of-how can it have the true God.
There is only one picture of God which can meet the
needs of this world, and that must be a universal picture.
It cannot be circumscribed with the confines of the Christian
or any other religion. Any attempt to tell the people of this
country that God Almighty may only be found through the
doctrines or creeds or dogmas of any church, is telling us
something which is not true. When the truths of God are
finally brought to the whole universe, it will be discovered
that they meet the needs of the savage in darkest Africa,
who, by the way, never had a chance to hear of Jesus Christ,
just as effectively as these truths will meet the needs of
the Chinaman, the Jap, the German, the Russian, and the
rest of the human race. Those truths were not given into
the hands of the Roman Catholic church, the Protestant
church, the church of India or the church of any other
country. If they had been, God would reign supreme on
the earth today, and there would be no more war.
All existing religious systems have looked for a God
everyplace except where God is to be found. They have
raised their hands to heaven like the Pope did recent ly,
imploring God to stop the war. That act in itself proves
conclusively that even the Pope does not know where God
is. They used to say, in olden days, that when it thundered-
God was angry. They used to see God in the storm. They
fled away from the "face" of God-for he was an "angry"
God. And the churches, capitalizing on that monstrous
theory of God, set themselves up as "agents" of God, and
drew up rules and regulations whereby they could open the
door to the kingdom of heaven, and allow those who sub-
scribed to what they asked them to subscribe to, to enter.
[ 102 ]
Even to this day, practically every system of religion in
existence, especially the Roman religion, bodily tells the
world that "God gave the keys to the kingdom of heaven
into their hands". And men and women by the thousands,
otherwise intelligent, actually believe that. All I can say
is that if any church organization actually posesses th e
keys to the "kingdom of heaven", it better get busy and open
the door so that the wholesale brutal murders which are
ruining this beautiful world may be stopped.
These religious organizations, not having the true God,
and not knowing anything at all about the Great Spirit,
proceeded to cook up a god of their own making, which
"gods" they still have. And the condition of the world tells
very plainly what sort of "gods" they must be.
Did you ever stop to think of what this earth would be
like if the Creative Spirit of God who made it were known
on the earth? Let us think for a moment or two. ,In the
first place-who and what is God? Let us see-an d in
endeavoring to find out, we shall not look to "the heavens"
and implore God to "speak", we shall see what God is like in
actual operation. Let us see how God operates in you.
Let's examine you and see who and what you re ally are.
We may find that God is a good deal closer to you than
you ever imagined him to be. In fact, what we discover
about God through the study of man, may stagger you.
What are you? Who are you? Where did you come fr om?
Who made you? Let me tell you. When your parents fell in
love with each other and were married, they complied with
the Law of God governing childbirth. They made the physi-
cal connection which is necessary for the sperm of the male
to meet the ,ovum of the female. You were unknown at that
time. Your parents did not even know what the result of
that union would be, male or female, for they had no control
over that.
All they did was to merely make it physically possible for
two little bugs to come together. So small are these little
bugs that millions of them can be placed on the head of a
pin. Two of those little bugs met, united, and nine months
[ 103 ]
after, you appeared on the scene. But did your parents
make you? I don't think so. When they had completed the
sexual act they had done all they could do. And what they
did was a long way from making the spanking baby boy or
girl which came along nine months later. Neither your
father or mother had anything to do with that. Their part
was purely physical. They caused the sperm and the ovum
to meet in the place where they were supposed to meet. Then
what happened?
At that point in the operations of making a baby from
two tiny little bugs, and after your parents had done all
they could do, isomeother power stepped into the picture and
took complete charge of the building operations from that
point on. Now what I am asking you is-what was that
power? There's another question I want to ask you-wher e
is that power now? In the building of your body from two
tiny little bugs, problems were performed which stagge r
the imagination. No chemist or physicist could ever hope
to duplicate the marvelous biological, physiological and
chemical actions and reactions necessary to build that mar-
velous· piece of physical mechanism called-you . Probl~ms
were solved during those nine months which human intelli-
gence never could solve. Yet there wasanintelligence present
which did solve those problems and which did bring into
existence a completely new and living soul. That soul is you.
Your parents know nothing about how the process took
place. They know nothing about biology or physiology or
chemistry. All they could do was to physically see that the
1lwoserums met and from that meeting there was made-
you. Now what Power, I ask again, was that? And there is
another question I want to ask you is which perhaps more
important than the first question-do you believe that when
this invisible spirit which can create life in a physical
body had completed its task, and made you-do you believe
it saidr-~'there you are-I've done rny job-I brought you
into being-you can paddle your own canoe from now on?"
Do you believe that the infinite Power of the Spirit of
Life, for that is what that Power is, left you at birth never
[ 104 I
to return again, or does that infinite intelligence still live
in you, continuing its amazing creative work? If it does not
-if it took its leave when you were born, then what power
is it which is giving you life, and intelligence, with all the
finer instincts which live in you?"
No other Power came into your life after you were born
did it? Then it must be a fact that the same invisible Spirit
which took those two little bugs and made you out of them,
still live.s in you with all its power, and still is available
to you any time you care to call upon it . We are getting
close to the answer to our problem now. This is a very dif-
ferent picture from that given us by orthodox religions, but
it does bring God, the Spirit of Infinite Life, very close
to you. It gives you just a faint glimpse of something of the
intelligence and Power that is God. More than that it brings
God back out of the heavens and put,,shim right in the midst
of the human family where he has ever been, and from
whence he never should have been t.aken away by any re-
ligious organization. It was not the "unsaved" which re-
moved God from His creation-it was the church-and its
up to the church to bring God back again. If it does not do
this, then, as Dr. Milner states-"The Spirit of God will not
leave the earth, but that Spirit will operate through insti-
tutions other than our own."
What would this world be like if God were known as this
Great Spirit exists? It would be a far different world from
what it is today. For peace-eternal peace, love, joy, happi-
ness, and eternal life would be known to all here on the
earth. There could be no wars-no unemployment-no
strikes-no national deficit of billions of dollars- no police
.-no jails-no whiskey-no prostitutes-nothing buteternal
peace, etBrnal love-and God living with man for ever and
ever.
But you may say-"that cannot happen on this earth, can
it?", to which I reply it would have happened a long time
ago if the religions of the world had known anything about
God. Why cannot it happen here and now? What is there to
prevent if from happening? Is there any Power superior
[ 105 ]
to the Power of the Spirit of God? Cannot the God who
made us take care of us? Cannot the infinite wisdom, intel-
ligence, and Power which is God bring such a state into
existence here and now? God can-and God will-and God
will do just that in the moment the human race is told who
and what God is, and for what purpos ,e God Almighty lives.
This information, no church has ever yet given to man. And
the reason that information has not been given to man is
because the churches of all religions have not had that
information to give.
Every time someone wanted to start a new system of
religion, he would copy from what some older system of
religion taught. And as a result of this copying or stealing,
this world has had to date more than thirty "crucified gods"
whether real or mythical, and they are just about as impo-
tent to bring a knowledge of the True Spfrit of God to the
earth as they might be expected to. I am sorry my good
Christian, Hindoo, Chinese, Japanese, Jewish friend-but
I shall have to include your "crucified god," if you have
one, in the middle of these God-myths-fo r that is all
they are.
To say that God Almighty lives "in heaven" and to say
that no one can find God unless he subscribes to the doc-
trines of some church or other, is to blaspheme and dishonor
God. To state to anyone that God Almighty, or anyone else,
ever founded a church, is to tell those good trusting souls
aomething which is not true. It never can be true. And just
so long as such false theories of God are taught, this world
will never know the True Peace of God among men, unless
God manifests His presence and Power through some organ-
ization entirely outside of any church. That is exactly what
Almighty God is doing today.
If the Spirit of God had ever been taught or known on
this earth, it would be a paradise right now. But, I repeat,
nothing any church can offer to the world can bring in any
such paradise. For no "god" can rise higher than his own
teachings. And the conceptions of all of these "crucified
gods" are very low. Think of it-God making man in the
[ 106 ]
year 4004 B. C. out of the dust of the earth, and then tak-
ing a rib from the man and making a woman. Why not the
woman from dust also. Then, God finds he has made a mis-
take when he puts Adam and Eve, the first two, in the gar-
den. It should not have taken much wisdom to know what
a naked man and a naked woman would do when they got
together all alone in a garden. That would be natural-that
would be only complying with the Law which is God. But
"god" did not see it that way. So he made a wholesale
drowning. Killed them all like rats in a trap. Brutally and
ruthlessly murdered the whole human race he had created,
just because he made a mistake and created a bad man
instead of a good man. Now, 6000 years later, one church
we have quoted says the woman was not to blame-just the
man. Then, later on, seeing the terrible condition of the
man he had created, God so ordained things that to save
man from "purgatory" or "hell-fire," he came down to earth
in the form of a man. However, that did not work, for the
man he had created killed the god who created him. They
killed him on a cross. Men and women of the United States- -
for God's sake, and for the sake of a dying civilization, please
use your God-given reason and once and for all thro w away
such pagan characterization and caricatures of Almighty
God. For something so much better can be yours here now.
What reason is there that this whole race cannot live
together in perfect peace, with each other, both individually
and nationally? There is only one reason, and that is be-
cause the true existence of God has not yet been brought to
the earth by anyone or by any organization. But the time is
here when the new conception of God will be grasped by
all. And then, when that day fully dawns, there cannot be
wars, there cannot be anything outside of the complete hap-
piness of the whole human race. And that can be possible,
and will be possible in this present era.
Think of it-no sickness-NO DEATH-no poverty-no
fear-no worry-no sorrows-no despair-no more subma-
rines with their damnable instruments of death. No more
Hitlers. No more Stalins. No more Mussolinis. Nothing but
eternal peace, eternal life-,;-ight here on this earth-----now.
[ 107 ]
Chapter Six
DECLARING GOD
WHAT then is God? What is this Power which can, even at
this late date, bring everlasting life and eternal peace, joy
and happiness to every living creature? What is this Power
which is demonstrating its Presence in so wonderful a man-
ner through the Movement which started in this little city
of Moscow, Idaho? For there can be no question but what
the new conception of God is manifesting its Power literally
in human lives, as no God-power was ever manifested on
this earth before. Nor is there any question but what th is
Power, which is God, is doing things which have not been
witnessed on this earth to date through any religious orga n-
ization.
Seemingly incurable diseases have disappeared before the
Power of the Spirit of God. Death has been thwarted many
times by that same Spirit. Poverty is being replaced by
material abundance, and sorrows are being changed into
inexplicable joy. Illnesses of long years standing disappear,
and hope and love and peace is being manifested on the
earth, all over the earth, through the Spirit of God. I think
at this point in this book, I shall give you just a few of the
150,000 cases which have voluntarily reported to us. We
cannot keep them any more-we do not have room for them.
Yet this has been going on for eleven years, only in ever-
increasing numbers. This, I think you will admit, is incon-
trovertible evidence that a new conception of God is being
brought to this earth, and the Power, the Spirit which is
God, entirely outside of any system of orthodox religion,
and without believing in one single thing any church teaches,
is manif.esting on the earth. It cannot be long now until all
men and women learn of the Power of the Spirit of God.
We are very anxious that this day come to pass speedily, for
when it does, this earth will be a paradise, for God-the
Spirit of the Infinite God- will live and manifest among
[ 108 ]
men, where it ever has been, and where it ever will be.
What a pity that while churches and religious organizations
have been looking "beyond the sky" for God, he actually was
right here on the earth, in the midst of them, but they could
not know it because of the man-made theologies of differing
religious systems.
In r,eading the few examples of what the Spirit of God
is doing on this earth, ~ay I admonish you not to attribute
these happenings to any individual. True, this Teaching
does disclose God to whoever seeks God, but the work is
not ours-nor is the Power which is operating ours. It is
the actual Spirit of God which is manifesting on the earth
in so remarkable a manner. We have been taught by the
various religious organizations that God Almighty can do
nothing for us here. What we make must be divided up with
"the church." It has been considered a "sin" to try to be
happy on earth, or to try to accumulate anything here on
earth. We have been told that "God will be angry with us"
if we do this.
There is only one way man can be happy on this earth,
and that is to know just who he is, and just what the rela-
tionship is which exists between man and God. No man can
be happy if death enters the picture. One cannot be happy
and be unemployed, or on strike. Man cannot be complewly
happy and at peace, without the Power of the Spirit of God
in him. So, as you read these few examples of what the
Spirit of God is actually doing for the human race, just
forget the word "Psychiana" wherever you see it, and re-
member that it is the Spirit of God, working through us,
which brings bountiful results, to all.
When you have read them I will show you who and what
God is, and how you too may come into the fullness of the
Power of the Spirit of God, with all the marvels that expe-
rience brings with it. If there is one single desire of any
human heart which has not been fulfilled by the Spirit
which is God-I do not know what that desire is.
[ 109 ]
ALICER. BIRD, Spokane, Washington: ·
My deepest gratitude expressed to you for your profound
loyalty to humanity. You have given to us a new love, a new
life, and a new world. Oh! That all the world could know
what I, just one obscure person, have already learned and
accomplished through your Teaching, this conception of
great Truth. There could be no more suffering or sorrow.
There could be no more wars.
Mrs. L. C. DOTY, Commerce, Iowa:
Thanks so much for your kind help. I know your and my
prayers were answered. Just a few months ago I was not
well-had a growth under my arm. I went back to the hos-
pital this last Thursday and the doctors could not find a
thing. They took an X-Ray picture, too, and you can imagine
how happy I am. I shall walk in the right pathway from
now on, and believe in that great Power of our Living God.
Thank you again and again for your Teachings and good
help.
MR.WALTER
VAUGHN,
Louisville, Ohio:
I had two strokes of para lysis, and was in pretty bad
condition. One of your Students told me I would get well
and said I should write to Doctor Robinson. I did this, tell-
ing you of my misfortune and sickness. Today I am feeling
fine. On Saturday, July 22, I had my doctor examine me
for blood pressure. He tested my heart and could fin d
nothing wrong. Then he used the X-Ray and found my hear t
in fine condition. I thank you, Doctor Robinson, and "PSY-
CHIAN A" for my speedy recovery.
ESTELLAM. ERTEL,Akron, Ohio:
First I want to say "PSYCHIAN A" is beautiful. Each
day I love "PSYCHIAN A" more and more. Almost an
invalid, my health is beginning to improve; but best of all,
Doctor Robinson, I am able to help others regain thei r
health. Just yesterday a lady came to me suffering with a
very painful growth on her breast. I used "PSYCHIANA'S"
Teaching - God's healing Power - and this morning she
called me to say that when she went to show it to her neigh-
bor this morning, to her great surprise it was gone. Not
even a scar there. Now she is persuaded she wants to stud y
"PSYCHIANA." I talk "PSYCHIANA" at every opportu-
nity. I'm beginning now to experience a new something I can-
not describe. Things are coming a bit better financially, too.
Many, many thanks.
[ 110 ]
MR. WALTER
STICKLEY,
Hurstville, N. s.,Australia:
Without a doubt, "PSYCHIANA" Lessons are wonderful.
When I re0eived the first Lesson of the first series, I was a
very sick and despondent man. It was wonderful the uplift
and peace of mind it brought to me, and this has remained
with me. My financial position has very much improved,
and I am just reaching out and building a home which has
been my greatest desire. It is astounding how everything
has been made so easy in connection with the loan of money
for the erection of the building. I sincerely thank you for
your teaching of the wonderful Power of the God-Law, and
wish you every success in your wonderful great work.
Mrs. EVELYNHAMMOND,
Hudson, Colorado:
I must write to tell you of my joy and gratitude at having
my little son, Richard, home again and well after six months
in Children's Hospital in Denver. The nurses and doctors
speak of his healing in such terms as "a modern miracle,"
"who's your guardian angel, Dick?" etc., and I shall never
cease thanking God, after seeing the Power of the Living
God defeat the "last enemy" for Richard.
LILLIANSCHEER,Detroit, Michigan:
Oh, Doctor Robinson, you are a wonderful man, and this
wonderful Truth you are teaching is worth a million dollars
to anyone who will believe it and try it. I could not go on
without it now.
Mrs. ROBERT
ANNALA,Longview, Washington:
When I began studying with you, I was not only the sad-
dest woman in the world, but a bitter one as well. Illness,
financial worries, and misery dogged my footsteps. Now I
have a new lease on life-no, a new life, and things are
rapidly taking form for a better, richer life still. I would
like to continue my studies with you and help to place this
Teaching in the hands of everyone I contact. I want others
to find peace and health in the Power as I have, and believe
it the best way to show my gratitude.
JOELH. C. BAHL,San Nicolas, Aruba, N. W. I.:
Allow me to thank you ever so much for the very many
experiences I have had since I have started my studies with
you. My whole life has changed; I have become more self-
confident, I now know who and what God is, where God is,
and now I can say that I do enjoy my happy moments spent
with God.
[ 111 ]
NEVAHANNA,Berberton, Ohio:
I am happy to tell you I have found, through "PSY~
CHIANA," the peace which passeth all understanding. I
look for my Lessons as letters from a dear friend, stu~ y
them quietly each day as you suggested, and get a new thrill
each time.
Mr. HENRYORME,Cheadle, Cheshir ,e, England:
Your Lessons are really wonderful. There's no doubt
about it they are God-inspired. Every Lesson is a gem, so
beautifully worded and so full of Power that one feels kind
of mentally recharged after reading them. Thanks a million
for introducing me to the God-Power. I've always believed
in God, but it took you to put me in real touch with him.
God bless you.
Mrs. BERTR. WATKINS,Austin, Minnesota:
I am glad to say that I am almost completely recovered
from a serious heart ailment and much credit goes to Doctor
Robinson for the understanding I have of the God-Law and
how to use it. We are v,ery sure of financial success as we
have a wonderful start along those lines.
MARYLEE GOODWIN,
Water Valley, Mississippi:
I am so happy I can hardly write. One of our state Sen-
ators whose name I sent in has just called to see me and
thank me for sending in his name. He said it was the most
wonderful thing he had ever conceived or heard of. My
father has had an illness the doctor said was asthma of the
heart. He is now able to lie down and sleep normally, and
is apparently well. We are so happy over his rapid recover y.
Thanks for the Power that works so effectively.
Mrs. ANNE PINTER,Sault Ste Marie, Mich. :
First I want to thank you millions of times over and over
again for your great kindness and good deed. My daughter
of four years of age was so seriously ill with complications
of a ruptured appendix that the rumors were that she didn 't
even have a chance. But I knew different. I just didn't be-
lieve in death with the presence of the great Life-Spirit and
its Powers. After three weeks of that most horrible illness
I wired you and got an immediate reply which I am so very
prou_dof. Now mf daughter is all through draining and is
playmg around with the other youngsters. Now I will close
with my husband's and my heartiest thanks to you for my
daughter has got to be strong and healthy. Thank you so
very much again and again.
[ 112 ]
Mr. LLOYD
w.CARTER,
Fairport, Iowa:
As I stated in my last letter, we have bought a little home,
thanks to the great God-Law. A few months ago I was
working on W. P.A., and my wife and I were asking God
for a private job and a little home of our own so we could
get away from paying rent. Two months ago I got a private
job, and now we have a little home of our own. I certainly
know that the great God-Power will do wonderful things for
you if you will only express your desires and expect them
to be answered. Thank the great God and you for these
wonderful Lessons.
LOLABARTH,Canton, Ohio:
I wish to send you this letter of thanks for the marvelous
results in healing for us through the Power of the living
God. We sent you a telegraph last Wednesday morning con-
cerning my nephew, three years old. He was crying with
pains in his abdomen and was a very sick child to all ap-
pearances, but soon after we sent you word the child fell
asleep and got better and kept improving rapidly, and now
is perfectly whole and well. We cannot thank you enough
for throwing the Power of God into play for this child of
ours. We will never forget this service, and hope to help
"PSYCHIANA" Movement along as much as possible finan-
cially and spiritually and all ways. Thanking you again,
we are grateful and will close knowing we are all one in the
Spirit of God and God's works.
HILDAARMSTRONG,
Camp Hill, Alabama:
Thanks many times for your wonderful help. I was very
ill when I first wrote you for help. The doctors had about
given me up. After you sent me the Lessons Numbers One,
Two, and Three, I made a big chang ,e. My doctor is amazed.
I shall shortly reveal to you who God is. For we want you
to know the fullness of the Power of the Great Spirit, from
this moment on. No attempt at literary skill has been made.
I could have couched the book in more academic terms I sup-
pose-I could have written more scholarly. But it has been
demonstrated during the past eleven years, that when I
write simply, straight from the heart, millions read what
I write, and that is what I want now. So I shall bring to
you, as simply as God will let me, the plain, simple, though
staggering truths of God, as those truths have come to us,
[ 113 ]
and as we are giving them to the world. May the infinite
Spirit God cause you to see them instantly.
Back of this wondrous creation there lies an intelligence.
Let us call that intelligence God if you wish-the name
makes no difference. This intelligence manifests first of all,
as the Spirit of Life. It is invisible, it is changeless, it is
deathless. Many other attributes are involved in this thing
we call "life" but the first thought you should understand
here is that Great Primary Cause of this whole created
scheme of things, especially so far as you are concerned, is
THE SPIRIT OF INVISIBLE LIFE. That Spirit is also the
Spirit of Invisible Peace, Invisible Love, Infinite Wisdom,
Infinite Power, Infinite Joy-in fact, the invisible Spirit
which created man, and the rest of the visible creation, is
the embodiment of everything which really is anything in
this universe.
I have a definition of God which I use frequently-
GOD IS LIFE CAPABLE OF EXISTENCE WITHOUT
PHYSICAL FORM. In other words, God is not "A" spirit,
but is "THE SPIRIT" which is responsible for us all being
here alive today. The infinite of life, the scheme of wisdom,
the ultimate in Power-yet invisible-this is God as you
can understand God. I have here before me, two barrels.
In one is soil, and in the other is sawdust. I bury a few
grains of wheat in the soil, and a few grains in the saw-
dust, and I wait to see what happens. Soon, in the barrel
containing the soil, little shoots will be seen pushing their
green arms up into the atmosphere. But I shall have to
wait a long time until I see any shoots in the barrel con-
taining the wheat and the sawdust.
Now let me ask you-which is it that has the intellig ,ence
in that growth? Is it the soil, the sawdust, or the wheat?
Neither one, for neither have innate intelligence. Yet, in
the barrel containing the soil, the wheat will grow. It will
not grow in the sawdust-barrel. Yet it grows, and neither
wheat, soil, nor sawdust have any intelligence in themselves.
But something causes life to come into those seeds. Some-
thing causes that wheat to grow-and no scientist and no
[ 114 ]
religionist to date can tell us what "that something" is.
Let me suggest to you that the Spirit which is God is the
cause of all life, then it must be the Spirit of God manifest-
ing in the growth of the wheat, only according to the
"wheat" phase of life and not the "human" phase. Some-
one will ask why then, does the wheat now grow in the
sawdust barrel? The answer is that if wheat would grow
in sawdust it would grow in the .tree from when the
sawdust came, and with wheat growing in trees, or in saw-
dust, the comfort of man would be greatly disturbed. For
this Spirit of God we are studying, operates as a LAW.
A SPIRITUAL INVISIBLE LAW WHICH IS GOD. Again
I repeat--it is changeless, it is time less, it is invisible and
it is deathless. But invisibility does not rub that Life-Prin-
ciple of its Power to cause and sustain life. It would not
cause or sustain life-OUTSIDE OF THE LAW WHICH
IS GOD.
In my back yard some few years ago, my little Alfred
(he's seventeen now) came running into the house so ex-
cited I thought his little face would burst. Two robbins
were tugging at a piece of string trying to break it or some-
thing. It was nesting time, and these two beautiful creatures
were building a nest in an apple tree. In due time, the robins
mated, and the tiny little blue eggs came. Then, the tiny
little robins. I wonder what those two parent robins would
have thought if, instead of their babies being robins, they
hatched out a pair of scorpions?
"But that is foolish" you say. Why is it foolish? Had
there not been the intelligence of the Life-Spirit which is
God guiding the growth of those eggs, scorpions might
just have easily appeared. But they did not. The wheat did
not grow in the sawdust. The robins did not raise scorpions.
The overruling intelligence which is God prevented that.
I might ask here what part of the egg it was which gave
birth to the tiny baby robins. Was it the shell. No-for that
is comprised of calcium salts mostly. Was it the albumin in
the egg? Hardly. Then what was it? Life came from some-
where did it not? Let us go back to the two little bugs which
[ 115 ]
turned into you. We saw the Life-Principle change, without
parental aid, those two tiny bugs into-YOU. And the same
infinite intelligence guarded that growth, so in no way,
when a human child was expected, could there be born- a
cat or a dog. Had not the infinite Spirit of God been there ,
that might have happened. But with the Spirit of God there ,
it could not, and did not happen.
We saw that the Life-Spirit, which we shall call God,
did not turn you over to your parents and take its departure
when you were born. It stayed right there, and continued to
manifest in you AS LIFE, until this day. And just as long
as you live, there IN YOU, IS TO BE FOUND THE SPIRIT
OF GOD AND ALL THAT GREAT SPIRIT IMPLIES.
More than that, THIS GREAT SPIRIT WHICH THE
LIFE OF YOU; WHICH IS INVISIBLE; WHICH IS ALL-
POWERFUL; WHICH IS THE INFINITE IN EVERY-
THING YOU NEED, CAN BE CALLED INTO PLAY BY
YOU ANY TIME YOU CHOOSE TO DO THIS. The Power
of the Spirit of God, and you know how powerful that Life-
Spiritis-LIVES IN YOU AND GIVES YOU LIFE EVERY
MOMENT, AND, STAGGERING THOUGH IT MAY
SEEM, GOD EXISTS IN YOU AS A GREAT SLEEPING
GIANT, MORE THAN READY TO SPRING INTO ACT-
ION WITH ALL THE POWER OF GOD, AND MAKE
POSSIBLE FOR YOU THE MEANS OF BRINGING
INTO EXISTENCE WHATEVER: IT MAY BE YOU
NEED THROUGH YOUR NATURAL LIFE HERE ON
THE EARTH.
This completely upsets the conception of God brought to
the earth by systems of religion. They have their god in
the sky. You must believe that their god was "crucified"
for the sins of the world. You must believe that YOU, the
greatest product of God Almighty, were "born in sin,
shapen in iniquity, and doomed to hell" unless you comply
with the requirements of some church organization or other.
But now, God, we find, exists in you, as the invisible source
of all power, all wisdom, and all intelligence. With such a
[ 116 ]
stream of surging Power at your disposal, in what way can
you fail in life?
It will be necessary for you to discard, absolutely and
completely, everything you hav,e been told about God by
any religious organization of any kind, if that organization
has a "virgin-born crucified god" in its teachings. For, with
all due respect to those systems of religion, the Christian
religion included, I must remind them that no evidence has
ever existed that the story of any of these "crucified gods"
is historically true. And the religion which calls itself Chris-
tian, is no exception. And, remarkable though it may seem,
the one organization in this world which is the farthest
away from God, is the church. I am speaking now of
churches of all denominations which have a "crucified god"
in their rituals. You cannot find the Power of the Spirit of
God through such teachings.
For two different "gods" are involved. In the True God,
who gave us life, we live and we move and have our being.
That Spirit of Life is the REAL INVISIBLE LIFE IN US.
The body means nothing at all. It is only the physical
vehicle through which the Spirit of God manifests all of its
power. Yet we may know the fullness of the Power of God,
and we must know it, through this physical body. The other
"god" -the one who died on a cross-is a pigment of the
imaginations and the inventions and the borrowings of one
system of religion from another one. That god, no one ever
has seen. Nor will anyone ever see him. And as far as be-
ing of any help to this world today, well-that is an utter
impossibility, for such a conception of any deity is not the
true conception. It is quite evident that after 2000 years of
Christianity, the world is no better off than it would have
been without it. The same thing applies to every other sys-
tem of religion which has God removed from the greatest
creation God ever made, and has him "seated on a throne in
heaven".
That, my friend, is paganism, pure and simple. That
philosophy of God it is which leaves this world in the con-
dition in which we find it, after 2000 years of it in the
[ 117 ]
Christian system, and 4000 of it in the system of India
and the rest of the nations having a similar story. These
"gods," with their "talking snakes" and their "virgi n
births" and their "crucifi xions," etc., never did exist. The
Spirit of Life-the Great Creative Spirit which is the Tru e
God-exists in every one of us, with all Its Power, here an d
now. And here and now, this Living Spirit which daily oc-
cupies our physical body, can bring into existence, and very
easily, too, whatever things are needed for our complete·
liberation and happiness, and it makes no differenc e
whether those things be material or spiritual. Fact is, you
cannot satisfy many without material blessings, just as long
as man is manifesting as a material body. Therefore, there
is nothing material the churches have ever been able to
attribute to their god.
Instead of telling the world that the Great Spirit of God
which made them can still sustain and keep them, they have
come to us with a cross in one hand, a Bible in the other
hand, and have told us that unless we believe "this" or
"that" we shall never be able to know God. We have had
to go to its priests and its preachers and "seek forgiveness"
and some of them have had the unmitigated gall to tell us
that, since they alone were "authorized to act and teach for
God," they would "intercede" with God in our behalf, in
order that our eternal souls may finally, some day, in
heaven, perhaps, be "saved. " To me-and with due respect
to every organization teaching such monstrous theories of
Almighty God-such preachments as this are pagan super-
stition and nothing more. When the American people as a
whole get away from that sort of thing, and find and use the
Power of the True God-the Spirit of Life in Them-then,
and not until then, will there be any life in anything re-
ligious in this fair land.
If I know that all the wisdom, all the intelligence and all
the Power of the Spirit of God lives in me, then I know
that I have all of that Power at my disposal. And if I know
that this Power is here in me, awaiting my call, most cer-
tainly I shall use that God-Power.
[ 118 ]
There are just two places the Spirit of God can manifest
in anyone. First-right here on this earth, and, second-
IN THAT MAN OR WOMAN. If you do not come to know
the actual abiding Power of this Great Life-Spirit here on
the earth, you will never have another opportunity to know
that Power. For you will only manifest once as a man or a
woman. The Life-Spirit, which is God, which built this body
of yours from two tiny little bugs, STILL LIVES IN YOU,
AND THROUGH THAT KNOWLEDGE, YOU CAN,
HERE AND NOW, OVERCOME EVERY UNDESIR-
ABLE CONDITION OF LIFE, AND BRING TO YOU
WHATEVER THINGS ARE NEEDED FOR YOUR COM-
PLETE HAPPINESS. Do you believe that? If you do, you
are beginning to believe in the invisible Spirit of God.
Now, just what does this mean? Taken literally, and
that's the only way truths of God can be taken, it means
that from this day on, if there is illness, poverty, distress,
sorrow, unrest in your life, such things as these can all be
driven out, through the Power of the everlasting, invisible,
all-powerful Spirit of God-IN YOU. For the only place in
your life where the Spirit of God has an opportunity to
manifest, is in you. And that Spirit, once you recognize its
presence, can actually and literally bring to you, what it is
bringing into hundreds of thousands the wide world ove1-
an abundance of everything.
Do you think there would be any wars today if the Pres-
ence of the Spirit of God were known in the world? Cer-
tainly not. For in addition to being the Spirit of Infinite
Life and Power, God is also the Spirit of Infinite Peace. And
the Spirit of Infinite Love. Where God is recognized in the
life, there cannot be even one thought of war. The trouble
with this world is that the true conception of God has never
yet been brought to it. These dictators all say they believe in
God. Even Stalin has said that. But what they do not believe
in is the God of the various churches.
That is not to be wondered at. For is there anything the
present religious organizations have ever done to bring the
knowledge of God to the human race? All any of them have
[ 119]
done is try to win converts to their own systems of religion.
But those systems know nothing about the God who lives,
with all His Power-RIGHT IN YOU. They have never
called the attention of the race to the present existence of
the Spirit of God-they have never known of such an exist-
ence. Their god is worshipped through the "Lord's Supper ,"
the "Mass," the "Prayer-meeting," and the rest of tha t.
You see--their God is somewhere else. He does not live here
on earth with his creation. He cursed that creation a long
time ago. Then he went away, and for over 2000 years no
Christian has ever seen hide nor hair of his "deity ." And
in the meantime, in spite of all the gods of all the systems
of religion, this world is lower down the scale today than it
has ever been. Civilization may perish.
Yet-and I'm hoping it will happen soon-one simple
recognition of the Power of the Spirit of God IN THE
HUMAN LIFE, would do more to eliminate wars, and
crimes, and all the rest of the things which are driving the
nations to distraction, than could all the "crucified gods"
the world has ever heard of. They can do nothing-th ey
never have done anything to reveal God to man here and
now, and it is here and now that man needs God. If the
Life-Spirit is in us as our very life-if it is actually and
literally the Great Spirit which is God, then no man need
worry about his "soul's salvation," for God is abundantly
able to take care of himself.
My friend-your whole future happiness or despair, suc-
cess or failure, materia l abundance or poverty depend upon
what I am saying to you now. If you can, and if you will,
recognize that there is, in you, all the Power of the Spirit
of God which gave you life in the first place, and if you
will but use that Power, then the world can be yours and
most of the things in it.
God in heaven is one thing; God in the human life is
another thing. The truth of the theory of God is just this-
God exists in you as the Spirit of Infinite Life. The God-
Law, I call it. It is not a personal "god," but you, as you
recognize the staggering import of God IN YOU, become
[ 120 ]
possessed of a Power this world to date has known nothing
about. It has never heard of this Power . All it has ever been
taught by "religions" is that some day, if they are good, and
if their names are "written in a book in the sky," well, then,
they MAY know God.
But there are a few of us left who have an absolute
knowledge that the Spirit of the infinite God exists here
and now. What few know, is that this Power, strong enough
to overcome even death-is available to all, here and now.
You will not come into the fullness of this recognition over-
night. For you have been steeped in "orthodoxy" for ages.
Heredity has left its mark on you. But the chances are you
are one of those real Amer icans who wants to know the
truth about God. You are not interested in "heaven." You
want to know something of the Power of the Spirit of God
here and now. You don't want to fail. You don't want to
be sick all the time. You don't want to be broke all the time.
YOU WANT TO KNOW THAT DYNAMIC POWER
WHICH IS GOD.
All right-that Power which is God LIVES IN YOU,
AND CAN BE IMMEDIATELY RECOGNIZED AND
USED BY YOU. First, think this thing out. Put as far
away from you as you can, any thoughts about the Great
Creator of this Universe ever being crucified on a cross or
born of a virgin . Just forget that sort of teaching, and
manifest your God-given American reason by giving the
Life-Spirit which made you a chance to manifest its Power
through you. And you will find that this Power is more
abundantly able to do this than you are to have it do this .
But the Great American Renaissance is here. The Spirit of
God is speaking on the earth. It is revealing Itself with alL
Its power to every man and woman who is interested
enough to rise to the top. Of course, if you are so soaked
in religious superstition and in churchism that you are abso-
lutely convinced that you cannot know the fullness of the
Power of God here and now- if you are the type which
believes that some church or other holds your spiritual
destiny in its hand - then I have no message for you. Just
[ 121 ]
plod along, and one of these days, if you don't die in the
meantime, you will discover your mistake,
But it would be a pity if you-yes, I mean YOU-were to
go through the remainder of your life ·without God, when
all the fullness and all the Power of the Spirit of God is
here awaiting you. For to know the Spirit of God means to
overcome. It means to be abundantly successful. It means
peace. It means love. It means happiness. And this world
needs happiness.
Here is about what will happen on this earth soon. I
make no attempt at prophecy. But I do predict this - unless
the churches of the world-and I mean no particular one
here-throw away their pagan idols and find and use the
Power of the Spirit of God, every single religious organiza -
tion now in existence will die, and in its place will rise a
movement which has the Power and ability to bring to
mankind, the fact that God was not crucified on a cross ,
but God lives here and now, with all His power, only wait-
ing for men and women to put that Power of the Spirit of
God to work. And that Power can do anything.
Now, how can you do this? Let me give you just a brie f
outline of the means of finding the Power of the Spirit of
God in you. I really have told you already. RECOGNIZE IT.
If someone gives me $1000, I know that I have it . I recog-
nize that fact. And I go and spend it. Then you, too, by thi s
time, must KNOW BY YOUR OWN REASON, THAT THE
SPIRIT OF GOD WHICH MADE YOU, STILL LIVES
IN YOU. How could you live if God had taken His depar-
ture? What Power is it which keeps you going? How can
you walk across the room? Your body, without God or Life ,
would fall flat to the floor this very moment, and the under-
taker would come along and bury it. But WITH GOD IN
THE LIFE, is there anything you cannot do? Let me put
it another way-is there anything God cannot do? And the
beauty of that is that when God is manifesting FOR YOU,
he is also manifesting IN YOU.
In other words - you have in you, every living moment,
all the Power of the invisible Spirit of God which made thi,s
[ 122 ]
universe, you included. You c.an, by recognizing that God-
Power, draw upon it in any emergency, for everything you
need. You can draw upon it to restore at once the physic-
ally ill. You can draw upon it to fill your bank account. You
can draw upon it to bring you infinite peace. You can draw
upon it to evade death, if you want to; and, by the way,
this world will not wind up by Jeisus Christ or any other
"crucified god" coming back to earth to set up his throne in
Jerusalem. That is the one city where they do not recognize
Jesus Christ. The Jews never have recognized him.
This world will finally wind up (to use a colloquialism)
by the whole human race finding the existence, in them, of
the Power of the Spirit of God. That Power can destroy
death, and can destroy it now. That Power, can destroy evil,
and can destroy it now. That Power, can bring to this earth
a reign of peace, and of eternal life, and can do it now. For
when the human race recognizes the fact that ALL of GOD
lives on the earth with ALL of MAN, death can be no more.
We are living in a period of time which will witness some
very remarkable demonstrations. These demonstrations will
be of the Power of the Invisible Spirit-God. That Spirit
which, even though you do not know it, actually lives in you.
And the final outcome of these troubled conditions will be
"The Day of the Lord," to steal so:qiething from the Chris-
tian Bible.
It will truly be "the day of God." There will, however, be
no "crucified god" in the picture. For, in that day, the church
as well as the world will know that they have been under
strong delusions. They have believed to be true what is not
true. They, too, shall know the Power of the Spirit of God
-free to all-open to all-and they, too, shall know that
wherever there is a human being, there, too, is God in that
human being.
Now, in closing, let me give you just a few simple things.
You will see, I am sure, that the secret of knowing God is
just simply the recognition of the fact that instead of God
being killed on a cross some few thousands years ago, ALL
[ 123 ]
OF GOD STILL LIVES. NO PART OF GOD WAS EVER
KILLED BY ANYONE. THEREFORE, THAT BEING A
FACT, AND ALL OF GOD BEING AT YOUR DISPOSAL,
THE WHOLE THING LIES IN YOUR ABILITY TO
RECOGNIZE THAT EXISTENCE OF THE SPIRIT OF
GOD IN YOU.
Let me suggest, as a little mechanical aid, on the star t,
that you do this. Let there be no suggestion of churchism
about it. You are a human being-you are the greatest and
highest creation God ever made; so stop thinking that you
are a "lost soul". Forget those theories, and, recognize the
fact that the Great Intelligence and Power which made you
STILL LIVES IN YOU. Then, every morning, eyes wide
open, be still, and with full recognition of what you are
doing and saying-repeat this little sentence a few times:
"I BELIEVE IN THE POWER OF THE LIVING GOD
IN ME". At noon, or whenever or wherever you have an
opportunity, repeat this little sentence. I know it is mechan-
ical. But it will awaken in you that SLEEPING GIANT
OF SPIRITUAL POWER WHICH IS GOD.
If you are out of work, and you go looking for work,
before you go, and on your way, keep still and repeat th at
statement. As you say it, recognize the truth of what you
are saying, and, knowing that the God in you is the all-
powerful Maker of both you and the universe, KNOW
THAT YOU WILL HAVE A JOB BEFORE YOU GO
HOME. For you will. That's the way God operates. And
this can be done in any other problem which needs more
wisdom and intelligence than you have. This simple little
statement, carried out thoughtfully, intelligently, and rea -
sonably, with full recognition of the nearness of the Spirit
of God, IS SUFFICIENT TO BRING TO YOU WHAT-
EVER IT IS YOU NEED, AND, MORE THAN THAT,
IT WILL REVEAL GOD TO YOU. ONCE YOU KNOW
GOD-THAT IS THE LIFE EVERLASTING. THAT IS
THE FULLNESS OF PEACE. THAT IS WHAT THIS
WORLD IS SEEKING.
[ 124 ]
Authors' Note
Nearly eleven years have passed since I advanced this
simple philosophy of the existence of the Spirit of God in
human lives. Many things have happened since that day.
Much water has gone over the dam. I have seen, in that
time, more manifestations of the Spirit of God on the earth
in human lives than all the church organizations in the
United States can show through their entire history. That
is a big statement. I make it carefully and thoughtfully.
This whole "PSYCHIANA" Movement knows that what I
have written to you here is true. We know, and we know
beyond a shadow of a doubt, that the Spirit of God is speak-
ing this New Power into all lives who will have it. Let none
think that he or she can attempt to find God and fail. For
this invisible Spirit is the most real thing which will ever
come into your life. There is nothing you cannot do when
you realize that God-the Great Spirit God-is in you, with
all His Power, and can throw that Power into play-fo r
YOU. The god of the "religions" is not the God of
"PSYCHIANA". These religions (God bless them) do not
know what, where, nor why their God is. They have
been taught a system of theology which has little truth in it.
Yet they say they believe it. Really they don't; what they
believe in is the system which teaches what they have been
taught. Do not confound the Power of the Spirit of God
with such philosophies . This Power i$ real. It actually
exists. You may have, free of cost, in the moment you recog-
nize its existence, here and now, IN YOU, THE FULL-
NESS OF THE POWER OF THE SPIRIT OF THE LIV-
ING CREATOR OF YOU. Think it through.
For the Spirit of God will be revealed to you by THINK-
ING I'l' THROUGH. Not by "sorrow for sin" or by "conver-
sion", but by THINKING IT THROUGH.For you will think
it through if you ever find God, and it would be a pity if
this remarkable revelation of the Power of God did not
come to you.
You know, your common sense tells you, that the Great
Spirit which created this universe, and you, STILL LIVES.
[ 125 ]
It still LIVES in spite of the attempts of the religions of
the world to kill God. . .. God still lives. And there is only
one place where God can live, and be of any use to you-
that place is IN YOU. And it so happens that there, IN
YOU, is the only place where you will be able to find God.
Do not confound the word "God" with any preconceived
religious notions of God you may have.
When I say "GOD," I mean the infinite Spirit which cre-
ated everything that was created, and which gave life to you
-and to me. Such a Power as that certainly is big enough to
bring to you here and now, the few things you may need to
make your life abundantly happy and successful. And you
may actually and literally know that Power, and the fullness
of that Power, while on this earth. And, knowing the fullne ss
of the Power of the Spirit of God which is in you, you can do
what you will-and you will never fail.
I wish I had vocabu lary enough to drive home to you the
fact that I am talking about a Power so dynamic that all other
powers and forces fade into insignificance beside it. I wish
I had words enough at my command to instill into your very
soul, the absolute knowledge that this staggering Power,
which is God, is instantly available to you, day or night. In
the absence of my being able to tell you as fully as I would
like to, the Spirit of the Living God itself will fill the lack,
and you will know, from this moment on, that you do possess
the greatest Power this world has ever known. And you can
use that Power-for it is God. It lives in you. True, you never
have used it. But you will from this moment on. You would
be foolish not to. For you have ambitions. You want peace;
you want happiness; you want perfect health; you want joy ;
you want an abundance of the very best things life has for
you. Then all these th ings can come to you ; they can all be
brought to you; or, rather, you can bring them all to you,
BY USING THE UNSEEN THOUGH DYNAMIC POWER
OF THE SPIRIT OF GOD, WHICH SPIRIT NOT ONLY
LIVES IN YOU-BUT IS THE REAL YOU.
Try throwing that Spirit into action tomorrow. Try it
tonight. Try it, by realizing Its presence. If you, in a busi-
[ 126 ]
ness deal, recognize the abundant Power of God, actually
operating and manifesting, invisibly, through you, believe
me, no power can withstand against that type of man. And,
after all, God only exists in you for one specific purpose-
. that is-to prove to you that you have at your disposal, always
-all the Powers of the invisible, dynamic Spirit of God.
This Spirit, I repeat, can drive out illness. It can destroy
death. It can make you an overcoming victor in life. If you
want wealth, the Spirit of the Living God-Law can bring
you wealth. No matter what you want, GOD IN YOU can
give you Power enough to go out and get what you want.
The thing we most need is more knowledge of the Power
of God itself. As you begin to put the Power of the Spirit of
God to the test, the more will you be convinced of its exist-
ence. Then, there will probably come to you a quietness. For
Power, and the consciousness of Power, always makes one
quiet. We know, through the indwelling Spirit of God, that
we can do whatever is necessary for us to do. We know we
can have anything we need. We know we have within us a
Great Power-and that makes us very quiet. There comes,
too, with knowledge of the Spirit which is God in us, a
great love for others. We want them too to know the pres-
ence of the Spirit of God in them. Fortunately, a discovery
of as great a magnitude as this discovery is, doesn't take
long to spread. One tells another, and the first thing you
know, knowledge of the Power of God is going round the
earth. That alone accounts for the phenomenal growth of
this Movement.
When you recognize the Power of the Life-Spirit in you,
you will be kind. You will be a literal dynamo of spiritual
Power, but you will be kind. In fact, what you will do is to
take on the likeness of God, and when you remember that
God is the Creative Spirit of all Life, you, too, will become
a creator.
When this knowledge of the Power which is God becomes
universal, as it must, and when, as a result of this dynamic
conception of God and his Power, the whole world is living
at peace with itself and God, then will begin the true
[ 127 ]
growth, and then will be made plain the true object of life .
That object cannot be known now. It cannot be made known
until the True God has become known. False ideas of God
must vanish. For God cannot exist where false impression s
of God are.
The reason every system of religion in the world is dying
is because the first faint gleams of the Power of the Tru e
God are shining over the horizon. As these gleams intensify ,
and as these false theories of God make their exit, then
will be known on this earth, something of the meaning of
creation. Man will change from the physical to the spiritual.
In other words, as man lives with God, they both will be-
come so like each other that the ills and the woes and th e
sorrows to which the physical flesh has fallen heir, will all
pass away.
If I were you, when you have demonstrated the presen t
existence of this dynamic Power of God in you, I should
work as hard as possible to help spread this Movement. It
is going very rapidly now, but not quite fast enough to suit
me. For I want to see this knowledge of the True God
brought to the world, replacing these false theories of "cru-
cified gods," before too long. I have now, hundreds of tho u-
sands of Students who are joining together in spiritual ex-
ercises. These all help this Great Spiritual Awakening. So
if you feel led to do so, after you have found the fullness of
the Spirit of God in you, you may write to me, for we shall
be happy to hear from all who find God through this book.
When the manifestations of the Power first come to you,
keep quiet. Do not get too exuberant. But do everything in
your power to understand the workings of this Power to Its
very full. It will surprise you what It will do for you.
There are many other things I could say to you, but time
and space forbid. I must bring the book to a close. But let
me leave with you one last thought, and that is, never tr y
to use the Power of the Spirit of God for evil. You can take
advantage of the man who does not know this Great Power
of God; but if you ever do, it will turn on you and you will
be sorry you ever used this Power against anyone. The
[ 128 ]
great danger lies in becoming over enthusiastic as the first
recognition of the Power of God comes to you. Don't do
that. Keep quiet. Let the indwelling Spirit of God lead you,
and take the Power you have discovered as being perfectly
natural and matter-of-fact.
It really is not a natural Power, it is the supernatural
Power of God. But cherish this great Power as you do your
life, for while you have it with you, it will lead you into
paths of peace, health, and power. It will lead you to first
tell others, and then do for them whatever you can to bring
them into the same wonderful knowledge which has come
to you. Do not argue with religious people. Simply tell them
of the Power of the Spirit of God in you, and let them see
by the way you "go places" that you actually know the
Power of the Spirit of God in your life.
Use this Power in your business. Use it in the manifesta-
tion of everyday life and affairs. That is what the Spirit of
God exists for. Your use. So then go, with this newly found
Power, and do what you can to tell others the "secret of the
ages," that secret being-THE POWER OF THE SPIRIT
OF GOD IN EVERYONE, AND AVAILABLE TO THEM
ALWAYS, AND IN ANY EMERGENCY.
"YE MEN OF ATHENS, I PERCEIVE THAT IN ALL
THINGS YOU A~E TOO SUPERSTITIOUS: FOR AS I
PASSED BY I BEHELD AN ALTAR WITH THIS IN-
SCRIPTION 'TO THE UNKNOWN GOD.' HE THERE-
FORE WHOM YE IGNORANTLY WORSHIP, THE SAME
DECLARE I UNTO YOU.''
The "Psychiana" Movement welcomes inquiries from
priests, ministers, and other religious leaders regarding
our work. We shall be glad to confer with you and to meet
with you in an effort to bring the truths of the Spirit of
God to the church. Nothing would suit us better than to
see the church save itself. It is almost too late. But there
still is hope. The Power of the True God is here, the ques-
tion is-WILL YOU ACCEPT IT. That is for you to decide.
Let nothing I have said in this book or in any of the rest
of my writings grieve you. If what I have written hurts,
[ 129 ]
remember that my only object is to make God real to th e
world. It is never to wound others. Where pagan supersti-
tion is masquerading as being of God, I must expose it. But
I love all-even they who are under the spell of pseudo-gods,
and ancient myths and superstitions. May the Spirit of God
reveal the priceless truth of God to you all.
FRANK B. ROBINSON
Moscow, Idaho, U.S.A.
[ 130 ]
April 1st, 1940
