{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__reddy___dawn_of_destruction.pdf","mytitle":"Dawn Of Destruction","mylang":"de"}
iihmtiii
A Forecast of Coming Events
by
Mrs. Merle Q. Reddy
Copyright 19U0 by
HARRY J. GARDENER
Printed in U. S. A.
Single copies of
THE DAWN OF DESTRUCTION
Twenty-five cents Postpaid
Quantity Rates Upon Application
HARRY J. GARDENER, Publisher
1044 South Olive Street
Los Angeles, California
The Dawn of Destruction
A Forecast of Coming Events
given through
M r s. M er l e Q . R eddy
Friday, December 29, 1939.
Good Evening, friends:
Once again you are gathered here to hear a
forecast o f events fo r the year o f 1940. In
giving this prophecy I w ill not confine m yself
strictly to this New Year, inasmuch as com­
ing events are closely linked w ith each other
in the years im m ediately follow ing this one.
In other words, this prediction w ill include
the years from 1940 to at least the year of
1944.
A s we look about us we see on every side
portents or The Signs o f the Times, indicative
o f calam itous events to come. The very
foundations o f the earth are being shaken
to th eir depths. In every social stratum fear
is being registered in the minds o f those who
stop th eir dizzy speed long enough to think.
A ll human a ffa irs are confronted by perilous
times. Those w ith vision can see only more
hazardous tim es ahead. One by one little
nations pass sw iftly through their last death
struggle and are swallowed up. Unrest and
confusion are universally distributed— omens
o f more direful tim es to come. Hum an gov-
T
a
p
eT
h
re
e
ernments, institutions and liberties, achieved
only at the expense of much blood, treasure
and painful sacrifice through a long period of
years, are suddenly destroyed and disappear
as if by the magic of a demon’s wand. Nation­
al crises are made to develop by sinister
hands in the background. Disorder and
tumult follow.
A new leader, previously unknown, appears,
seemingly from nowhere. Millions follow him
blindly, confidently depending upon his vi­
sionary and highly impracticable promises.
The deluded rabble places him in power, and
he, in turn, stops at nothing to eliminate all
resistance. The crowd claps its hands in
childish glee as he at once proceeds to liquid­
ate all restraint, destroy all opposition, and
completely efface all safeguards that have
been tested and established by well-ordered
and constitutional society. It is all so in­
credible—a fabulous monster. That which
has been decided as being worthy of contin­
uance only after centuries of heart-breaking
struggle against tremendous obstacles is im­
periled or even destroyed.
Liberty of religion, liberty of speech, lib­
erty of opinion, liberty of assembly, liberty
of the press, all considered as having been
permanently stabilized, are already seriously
restricted—in some countries they exist in
name only. The mob, clamoring for the wild
Page Four
fantasy of so-called social security, is w illing
to cast aside all these priceless liberties for
the p itifu lly small mess of pottage by dele­
gating to an irresponsible dictator unlimited
powers to absolutely control every detail of
their private lives.
The sense of balance is being progressively
lost. Things move at reckless and previously
unheard-of speeds. Mammoth projects, such
as the ill-fated Florida Ship Canal, and the
malodorous Passamaquoddy Dams are rushed
into existence and m illions spent fo r political
effect w ithout sober thought or well-con­
sidered plans, such as any w ell managed
private organization would carefully consider.
Disorder and turm oil reign everywhere. M u­
tual hatred and greed em bitters the relations
o f individuals, fam ilies, states and nations.
The destructive and corrosive influence of
S E L F pervades the councils of the rulers.
Fear, and dread, those most destructive of all
human emotions, fill men’s hearts. Revolt,
dem oralization and dissatisfaction are every­
where.
R elief projects fo r the alleviation of dis­
tress among the unfortunate poor, are honey­
combed w ith political corruption and graft.
Men in high places of honor, placed there by
the deluded people, are discovered to be
closely connected w ith underworld crime
racketeers. M inisters orate at great length
P
a
geFive
about the holiness o f th eir organizations
w hile deprecating the efforts o f sim ilar or­
ganizations teaching other religious creeds.
Fraternal and social organizations are rent
by internal dissensions.
Everything scintillates w ith brilliance and
jewels. Autom obiles are aglow w ith chrom ­
ium plate and b rillia n t colors. A ll is g litte r
and sheen. Women's: clothing is the most
violent in color in all history. D istracted and
bewildered people w ith taut nerves and no
particular destination, drive m adly along our
highways at dangerous speeds, and the inev­
itable result is death and in ju ry to many.
Children treat th eir parents and their' elders
w ith entire disrespect. Parents neglect,
abandon and not infrequently m urder th eir
offspring. Children do likew ise. :No place is
safe in w hich to livd£ neither is there security
fo r one’s possessions. Today no place is
secure from revolution, invasion, confiscation
o r destruction.
September 16, 1936 was the date o f the
ushering in o f great spiritu al change “ as a
th ie f in the night,” w hich m arked the begin­
ning o f the dow nfall o f the Piscean Age and
the commencement o f the A quarian Age. The
date of August 20,1953, m arks the end o f the
Piscean Age. It is also the date on w hich the
w orld enters into the fu ll influence o f the
Aquarian Age. The intervening tim e between
P
ageSix
these dates constitutes the transitory period
between the two ages, otherwise known as
The Battle of Armageddon. Th is presages,
N O T the end of the world, but a great world­
wide spiritual change.
Before beginning my prophecy, I wish to
state that there are a number here who w ill
not accept that w hich I am about to tell. They
w ill say that it is all highly improbable, if not
altogether impossible. Therefore, I wish to
call the attention o f those persons to some of
the developments that have taken place w ith­
in recent years. M any o f you here tonight
can remember when there were no automo­
biles. Then came those funny little red con­
traptions on high wheels w ith a one cylinder
engine, that chug-chugged nicely down h ill
or along the level road, but when it came to a
h ill the passengers got o ff to push. Many said
then that the automobile would never be of
any practical use, yet today, it has become a
necessity— not a luxury. When M arconi re­
ported that he had received signals from
across; the A tlan tic Ocean, the experts!?)
'said that that was impossible. Meteorites
were derided as non-sensical, the X-Ray§:
were ridiculed as am using but of no use to
surgery, and the telephone was scorned as
a Yankee toy.
I f the people had been told then that it
would soon be possible fo r one to sit in the
rageS
e
v
e
n
comfort of his home and listen to the news
of the moment, to the music of great orches­
tras, and to the chimes of Big Ben in London,
they would have sneered in derision, yet that
is exactly what is taking place today. And so
it is with hundreds of things that were con­
demned as being impossible by those who
had no vision, yet today those same things
are so commonplace that they attract no
particular attention. It might be well for each
one to read the 24th chapter of Matthew, the
13th chapter of Mark, and the 21st chapter
of Luke—then ask the question: Where will
all this end?
In giving forth this forecast, no attempt to
segregate the different countries will be
made, but will give the data as it comes into
my mind.
Beyond all doubt, 1940 will be a most
peculiar year—a very difficult year; in fact,
one of the hardest years since 1876. Condi­
tions will very likely be such that the people
will not know which way to turn or which
way to go. The President in Washington will
be reproached from every side, and his path­
way will be filled with many obstacles and
stumbling blocks. Congress will bitterly
oppose much of his program, and many of the
people will do likewise. If much diplomacy is
not used every step of the way, the United
States will be plunged into the European War
Page Eight
sometime during the interval between April,
1940 and April, 1941. 1939 saw the beginning
of the present series of wars in Europe. The
war had to begin on or before November 27,
1939, else it could not have been started,
inasmuch as that date limit was given in the
Great Pyramid of Gizeh. Please note that 27
is a “9” day, November an “11” month, and
1939 a “22” year; all mystic master numbers.
Germany has been set aside from the
world, in a way, by the sinister rulers of the
world behind the scenes, but she has some­
what checkmated her enemies by drawing
Russia in with her. It is the thought of that
country that she will use up the resources and
man-power of Germany, and then quietly ab­
sorb her. On the other hand, Germany is
planning to obtain the resources and man­
power of Russia and in the end, control that
country. One must not forget that Russia
has purged herself of the leaders and thinkers
in her country and is therefore devoid of
those capable of competent leadership. It is
therefore within the bounds of possibility as
well as probability that in the not far distant
future the German experts and technicians of
all fields will control and direct the immense
man-power and resources of Russia.
The indices are in favor of a prolonged war
extending beyond 1940. The time is not far
distant when Japan, Russia and Germany
w ill stand together as one. On the other side
England and France w ill rem ain as close
allies. There is great pressure and influence
exerted to bring the United States into the
w ar on the side o f the W estern A llies. To
overcome such propaganda, there is an in ­
creasing sentiment in the United States to
remember the form er disastrous experience
“ to make the w orld safe fo r democracy” and
remain aloof.
Strenuous efforts w ill be made to make
Italy see that it w ill be to the best interest
o f that country to join w ith the A llie s and to
forsake her place in the A xis. However, very
much depends upon the diplom acy o f Eng­
land, as w hile M ussolini is an opportunist he
is also very sensitive to coercion in any form .
N o doubt but that Italy w ill retain her con­
nection w ith Germany.
W ith conditions as we see them at present,
the indications are that it is very doubtful
w hether England and France w ill w in the
war. I f they do, the victory w ill be an empty
one, fo r England and France w ill be alm ost
exhausted as the losers. How ever the future
o f England looks exceedingly dark.
England is alm ost overcome w ith trouble
from all sides. She has been called the
M istress of the Seas fo r many years, but a
great deal o f that form er prestige has been
lost. Today England is confronted by the
P
age T
e
n
P*;,at f lf*}t o f her entire career and the
teaders of that unfortunate country are aware
into t t faCt Th,eir stul^orness drew them
into the war and they dare not jeopardiz™
their sta"ding by acknowledging
the r errors but w ith characteristic English
obstmacy w ill continue their present lin"e of
action, hoping to “muddle through” as they
have_in the past. Back to the cause of that
country s present predicament: her treatment
o f subject peoples and her arrogance in the
p a v i n g T h K UP 3 K a r m a W h ic h s h e is n o w
Paying Th is Karm a is merely the result of
the action of the Law of Compensation
There w ill be many changes in regard to
the Law of the Seas. These changes will be
made m ostly by England in her own favor
and the rights of neutrals will be brazenly
over-ridden by that country. England w ill
Z r Z T T C
htr°U
bleW
ithherf00d^PPly
for 1940 Many of her difficulties will be
minimized and hidden from her people as
much as possible. No doubt but that the
Duke of Windsor and his American wife will
quietly return to his country to aid his people,
cut it should not occasion surprise should the
man who was forced off his throne, but who
has the confidence and the love of the com­
mon people, go back to his native land as a
dictator to re-establish stability after the
reign of the politician.
P
a
g
eh
'lc
v
c
i
New methods of warfare that none of the
other countries know anything about, are
being developed by the Germans. One, for
instance, is somewhat on the order of the
cannon that was used to bombard Paris in the
first World War, only more powerful. They
are so thoroughly covered that one may get
within a few feet of them without being
aware of anything unusual. The present ones
are directed towards Paris, and will be dis­
charged only on direct orders from Der
Fuehrer. They are capable of destroying
Paris in a very short time. These implements
of death operate along unusual lines.
The government of France will likely col­
lapse and go down, but it will be re-organized.
There will be a number of such changes, but
eventually government will be re-established.
That country, also, has builded a Karma that
must be erased through suffering.
The Scandinavian countries will find it
necessary to be exceedingly diplomatic or
they will be forced into open warfare. If they
exercise much care and diplomacy they may
be able to remain out of it. It is also indicated
that the King of Denmark is likely to pass
out during this year. Holland is another
country that must exercise diplomacy and
forbearance with her neighbors, in order to
escape being over-run. Eventually Germany
will set back her colonies, and a t>lace in the
sun. This is what she has been demanding
for some time, but other powers refused to
understand.
It is not likely that England will obtain
help from India in this war, as that country
is interested in securing autonomy for her­
self ; not merely empty promises. Africa will
no doubt support England in the present
trouble, but that support will be much weak­
ened by internal opposition to giving any aid
to England. What is likely to occur eventu­
ally, is that smaller countries of Europe will
be absorbed by the larger and more powerful
countries. When this war is over, Europe will
be completely revolutionized. This will be the
last great war for a long, long time, and peace
and harmony will reign for another Age.
However, the revolutionizing process will
continue over the period of years extending
until 1953. For the five years from 1940
until 1945 a very different time is foreseen.
To everyone it will seem as though each suc­
ceeding year is worse than the preceding
one, but this cleansing process has been de­
creed by the Higher Powers as being neces­
sary. The work will proceed apace until 1945,
by which time that particular portion of the
work will be completed.
There are indications that the Americas
and Australia will enter into some sort of
pact, and they will all work together. Canada
w ill do the best she can to aid the M other
Country. Canada and the United States w ill
work am icably together fo r common cause.
Mexico is due fo r much trouble o f her own.
She is likely to encounter trouble w ith the
United States unless she uses more diplom acy
and loses some o f her recalcitrant attitude in
her dealings. There is much internal strife,
political scandals and religious conflict, coupl­
ed w ith labor disputes and unrest indicated
fo r the near future.
Eventually Japan may yet learn that she
will, not be able to crush China, as that coun­
try w ill keep rig h t on fig h tin g and sapping
the resources of Japan until she wins. The
malevolent portents show that three hard
earthquakes and two severe typhoons are
scheduled fo r the year o f 1940. W ith a ll of
these things combined Japan may fin d that
she may have almost all she can handle. That
country is looking towards H aw aii and the
Ph illipin e IslandsJw ith covetous eyes, and
today these islands are very w ell manned by
JapaneS^? nationals in preparation .for the
taking of them over if and when the tim e
seems propitious.
Here in our United States there w ill be
storms, cyclones, he|vy floods in a ll parts of
this country, w ith extrem ely cold and un­
seasonable weather fo r the early Spring in
the East and M iddle W est. D uring the sum­
P
ageF
o
u
rte
e
i
mer there w ill again be some very hot
weather along the Pacific Coast. Earthquakes
w ill likely be prevalent all over the world
during 1940, w ith Southern California due
fo r her share. There w ill be many earth­
quakes in parts of the world where such
m anifestations of nature have not heretofore
been experienced.
M any deaths w ill occur from drowning,
fires, poison, suicide, accidents, and from
every sort of violence. People w ill be killed
en masse. Three bad train wrecks are indi­
cated fo r the United States in 1940. As
stated above, there w ill be a great increase
in disasters of all kinds w ith trains, busses,
automobiles, airplanes and ships. Increases
in murders, suicides, crimes against the per­
son, against and by women and children, are
in store. It w ill be well fo r women and child­
ren to exercise unusual care in going out, to
let others know where they are going and
w ith whom even in daylight, and not to go
out after dark alone or in questionable com­
pany. Thefe are indicated increase^ in storms
on land and sea, and all kinds o f catastrophic
m anifestations of Nature, for". . . these are
the beginnings o f sorrows.” A re we not told
“ . . . when ye see Jerusalem compassed with
armies, then know that the desolation thereof
.Is nigh.” Do we not see exactly those con­
ditions today? We are in the beginning of
that great Battle o f Arm ageddon rig h t now !
It is on our own doorstep. N ot only in some
foreign country at a great distance from us,
but rig h t here! N O W !! It must not be fo r­
gotten that countries as w ell as individuals
reap that w hich they sow.
V irulent poison gases have been perfected
so potent in effect that only a sm all amount
w ill be su fficient to annihilate the population
o f an entire city. Germany and the United
States are the two countries that have the
really dangerous gases. Th is w ar w ill event­
ually develop into the most terrible o f all pre­
vious wars, and the people may w ell be glad
to follow the biblical injunction: “Then let
them that be in Judea flee to the m ountains,”
or other places o f refuge.
Now, let us look b rie fly at the accom plish­
ments o f science. Scientists are more or less
in obscurity as fa r as the general public is
concerned, but in these troubulous tim es, they
are the ones that are actually accom plishing
almost unbelievable wonders, all over the
world. Everything Germ any is doing w ith
regard to her w arfare is along scientific lines,
and they have perfected many new aids to
th eir m ilitary operations. Likew ise, the in ­
ventors o f the United States have perfected
many new things that w ill be used in hos­
tilitie s should this country become involved
in war, or revolution.
P
a
g
eS
ix
te
e
n
The medical profession is developing more
and more new methods for the successful
treatm ent of cancer, pneumonia and infantile
paralysis. Medical men have been making
exhaustive studies of these diseases and the
results o f their work w ill be a boon to the
ailing world. There are indicated many new
diseases, or perhaps I should say, new de­
velopments of older forms. A form of pneu­
monia that w ill cause death w ith scarcely
any p ain ; only a shortness of breath. A post­
mortem w ill show perforations of the lungs.
A lso indicated are different intestinal con­
ditions— an epidemic affecting the intestinal
tract. The throat w ll be greatly afflicted and
there w ill be much trouble w ith the liver.
M edical science w ill find it necessary to bring
fo rth new remedies and new form s of treat­
ment to cope w ith new form s of diseases
indicated fo r the next four years. A new
anesthetic w ill be perfected w ithin the next
two years that w ill be of unusual assistance
fo r m ajor operations. W onderful new surgical
instrum ents w ill be developed in Germany,
and many of the previous methods form erly
used in emergency operations w ill be cast
aside, and new methods that are very much
better than any heretofore known, w ill be
used. A ll in all, medical science w ill come to
the front w ith many new things w ithin the
next five years. There is likely to be a num-
P
a
p
eS
cv
e
n
tcf
ber o f epidemics, but in general people w ill
be wise to exercise care fo r th eir throats,
hearts, lungs, liver and intestinal tract.
There w ill be many changes o f a political
nature in the year of 1940. If President
Roosevelt manages to be “drafted” the in di­
cations at the present tim e are favorable fo r
his re-election. Th is w ill be especially true if
the United States is maneuvered into the war,
or even if there are too many rum ors o f war.
Also, one must not overlook the possibility
o f an opportune hand-made “ national emer­
gency.” However, whoever is elected to the
office o f President o f these United States,
w ill not live to complete his term o f office.
There are strong indications o f the advent of
a th ird political party fo r 1940, and its
activities w ill likely be the cause o f consider­
able disturbances o f the peace o f m ind o f
both Republican and Dem ocratic parties.
Labor in th is country is likely to become
very much disturbed, and fo r those along the
w ater-fronts constant dissension is in store.
Great diplom acy m ust be exercised every­
where, else some o f the w orst and most bitter
strikes known w ill take place on both the
La st and W est Coasts. Labor conditions are
likely to continue in a terrible turm oil. The
C.I.O. w ill lose a great deal of its prestige.
M any abuses that have been kept under
cover by pow erful politicians fo r many years,
P
ageE
ig
h
te
e
n
w ill be brought to light. Congress, as well as
the Dies Committee w ill bring out many
things that well may startle those who have
smugly expressed their satisfaction w ith con­
ditions as they have been. A new form of
taxation w ill likely be proposed, and also new
regulations regarding the holding of property.
A new proposal in regard to pensions fo r
elderly persons is indicated.
In 1940 the Navy w ill no doubt figure
prom inently in the news. The Arm y w ill also
come in fo r some attention, but not so much
as the Navy. Congress w ill give considerable
sym pathetic attention to the needs of that
arm o f the National Defense and much w ill
be done fo r it. Many new ships w ill be
ordered built, and new methods pertaining
to the conduct of war w ill be brought out.
However, not many o f the general public w ill
know much about the new features that w ill
be developed under cover, such as poison
gases o f a very deadly nature. It is predicted
that one, high in the councils of the Navy,
w ill pass on in 1940.
Indications point to a world-wide financial
and credit collapse w ithin the coming five
years. Th is w ill bring forth a new medium
o f exchange. Due to ensuing conditions it
w ill be to establish a new medium of exchange
in order to meet the new conditions. An
opportunity for the people to exchange their
rage .V
inrlrr
savings into the new type o f money or its
substitute w ill no doubt be given them, as the
present form o f money w ill become practically
worthless. In view o f the conditions in store
fo r those who have managed to accumulate a
quantity o f the present existing type of
money and the im pending change that is
indicated fo r that medium, it seems best fo r
everyone to procure whatever they may need
in the way o f commodities. It may prove to
be the part o f wisdom to get the things
needed, fo r then such needs w ill be provided
fo r when the existing type o f money is of
little or no value, and essential commodities
unobtainable w ith it.
A s is becoming increasingly well known by
the general public, there are sinster forces o f
great power and influence busily engaged in
“ boring from w ith in ” in an endeavor to break
down the laws and the C onstitution o f this
great country. A s was stated last year, the
Flag o f these United States w ill go down
almost into the gutter, but it w ill rise again
in trium ph over its enemies and become fa r
more pow erful and in fluential in the a ffa irs
o f the world, than ever before. It w ill be a
L ig h t to lead towards Lib erty a ll peoples.
Nations and individuals digress from th eir
plain path o f duty and therefore build up a
Karm a or debt to be paid in fu ll later. The
United States has also deviated from her
P
age T
w
e
n
ty
Path o f Destiny and must return to it. Bv
deb^rn'i0^ °f thf LaW of Compensation the
debt must eventually be paid in terms of
human blood, suffering and treasure. In time
ite Fla^h Stat6S W
i" C
°ntro1 the seas and
its lagr bec°me an inspiration to the world
and a Lig h t unto its path.
i i r au T Chj aS this great country was es­
tablished under the supervision of the Higher
S pintual Powers, the United States w ill not
be destroyed through the efforts of the dark
Ilso ew a°W >
;Si'y at Work' The Constitution;
also, was w ritten at the instance of S pirit and
therefore w ill endure. Under the control of
i?vprtlny ^i! Un'ted States wi" eventually
tha[ r e ^ . v lP ° T n rfU l invisible government
that really rules the world from behind the
scenes. Notw ithstanding the innumerable
safe-guards established by themselves these
Hidden Rulers w ill stand unmasked before
the powerful Lig h t of Understanding, and
thus their power w ill be destroyed. Thus
the need for a change in the medium of
exchange becomes apparent.
A t present many are evincing increased
interest m mediums or practicing pyschics
as they may properly be called, of which there
is a greatly increased number. This is in
accordance w ith ancient prophecies. The
consultation o f mediums originated in the
dim haze of antiquity. A t first, man was
in direct contact w ith his Creator and thus
received spiritual guidance as a divine in­
heritance. But man, through his develop­
ment of greed, hate and lust, gradually
separated him self from that spiritu al close­
ness w ith his Creator. Then it was that the
consultation o f mediums was instituted by
the H igher Powers fo r m an’s spiritu al guid­
ance. However, as the m alevolent instincts
of man increased, the spiritu al portion was
lost and there was developed an overweening
desire to obtain knowledge m erely to satisfy
man’s greed and acquisitiveness.
Unfortunately, a sim ilar state o f m ind
predominates today, and an overwhelm ing
percentage consult mediums m erely to learn
how to acquire m aterial w ealth w ithout re­
gard to the w elfare o f others. It is a source
o f deep regret to the H igher Pow ers that
many mediums foster such consultations and
cater almost exclusively to that sort of
clientele fo r the pecuniary gain o f the mo­
ment. The result o f that practice has been
that mediumship has been stigm atized as the
“ works of the D evil” ; and rig h tly so, when
those God-given faculties have been prosti­
tuted into an aid to man’s baser instincts.
Today, only a p itifu lly sm all num ber con­
sult mediums in quest o f spiritu al enlighten­
ment, w hile the percentage of mediums who
are actually doing the M aster’s w ork is
PageT
w
e
n
ty
-tw
o
proportionately small. On every hand one
hears the mediums referred to as doing the
Devil s work, and in confirm ation are pointed
to as usually being poorly dressed, chronically
financially embarrassed, occupying slum-like
livin g quarters, and alternate between worry
about their next meal and being torn by
m m ily dissensions. These conditions are re-
garded as conclusive evidence that medium-
Sh!p is essentially evil. But let us now look
at the other side.
It has long been taught by the lamas that
it is very injurious to one who possesses
an im pure mind or pursues evil connections,
therefore when you attem pt to pronounce
the sacred word be sure your thoughts are
pure and your desires are holy. I warn you
all that otherwise the results to yourself
w ill be dire. Therefore when mediums use
th eir holy God-given g ifts merely as a sordid
money-maker they must expect the inevitable
result. There is no escape from the result
o f wrong thinking and wrong acting.
Consideration o f the above statements w ill
show the necessity o f a complete and thor­
ough change to pure thought and action.
The new age method of w orking w ill be
essentially different from those in use for
the past age. Am ong other changes w ill be
the elim ination o f clairvoyance and clair-
audience as has been known. Instead the
I'agc Tirc
ntii-t
h
rrc
X- • „ rvsvrhics w ill not stop to “listen”
pr3f tlS ^ f’'Pasf they have been in the habit of
I f* * They w ill work w ithout delay, con-
dolf.g' „ nnsiffhtly grim aces. Instead they
t0Ml'°know” “ By th eir fru its ye shall know
them’^and people desiring to consult mediums
say, financial advice w ill not con-
S t one who fs finan cially broke. Such a one
is n o t dem onstrating the laws w hich they
claim to dem onstrate, by the exhibition of
‘S ’ instead of plenty. The m edium s do-
• t M aster’s work need not and will not
they » « t e taken care of
andam ply rew arded, spiritually and m ater-
f X A medium of the New Age wil per-
force need pure thought and pure l i f e -
there can be no other. . . . .,
Taking up the subject o f religion, it appears
as if the Roman Catholic Church is to ex­
perience much trouble beginning w ith 1940.
It has been prophesied that there w ill be
only two more Popes, afte r w hich there w ill
be rather radical changes in organization of
the Papal Church. In fact, prophecy reveals
such a complete reorganization th at it w ill
hardly be recognized as the original Catholic
Church. The changes m ust be accom plished
on or before 1953.
The Protestant Churches w ill also face
reorganization, as great inroads w ill be made
by a new religion that is forecast, w hich w ill
P
ageT
w
e
n
ty
-fo
u
r
sweep the entire world. It is sim plicity itself
and is that which was taught by Jesus the
M aster; it w ill teach that GOD IS W ITH IN
and N O T FA R , F A R A W A Y on a throne in
the sky.
In 1940 the people in general w ill begin to
evince more interest in religion and evidence
a strong desire to learn more about the
H igher Powers. If the present great church
organizations are able to rise to the occasion
thus presented and grasp the greatest oppor­
tunity ever presented by them, by teaching
that which they have in the past ignored
or suppressed — the PR E S E N C E of GOD
W IT H IN — they would at once save them­
selves from inevitable obliteration and in­
stead lead this distracted and distraught
w orld onward and upward to that immeasure-
able peace and harmony “ that passeth under­
standing.” It seems as if their lack of
understanding o f their opportunities an ina­
b ility to grasp the im portance of understand­
ing that peace which has prompted their
digression from the teachings of the Master.
I f the people o f these great United States
would really become spiritual-m inded and
unite, they could certainly keep this country
out o f w ar and trouble. Unless this is done
we see no other alternative ahead but— W AR.
The new religion mentioned above, in combin­
ation w ith the spiritual influences of the
P
a
g
eT
w
e
n
ty
-fiv
e
a „ w ill exercise a m ost pow erful effect
NeWf h
ge lives anTdestiny o f the people, and
upon, the orlcj a new, safe and sane
to live, wkere envy, grood,
fust hatred, malice and revenge w ill be
swept away and where instead peace, har-
m
<
Nevfdiscoveries w Tlfbe made in the Great
Pyram id of Gizeh w ith in the near future.
These w ill disclose very interesting in for­
mation hitherto unknown w ith in modern
Hmes A little later, perhaps between the
years'1948 and 1953, another cham ber w ill
be brought to light. T h is cham ber w ill not
be found in the direction m w hich previous
searches have been made in the past A s the
Secret Place of the M ost H igh or the K in g s
Chamber, as it is commonly known, is lined
w ith polished pink granite the new chamber
w ill be found lined w ith polished blue granite,
and w ill be known as The H a ll o f Peace.
In accordance w ith ancient teachings,
there is a secret passage in a very aged and
well known structure in Egypt. The entrance
to this passage is closed by a large stone.
Just inside and to the rig h t o f the entrance
is a small niche wherein reposes a receptacle
o f gold, w hich in turn holds an old manu­
script. Th is m anuscript contains complete
and long-hidden teachings about a m ysterious
power or force that once was w ell known and
P
age T
w
e
n
ty
-six
distributed among the faithful. About the
beginning of the fifteenth century the dom­
inant church suppressed such teachings,
liquidated all those which the church learned
knew of such powers, and destroyed all known
m anuscripts describing those forces and the
methods of attaining them ; probably because
their priests could not perform the demon­
strations o f those forces as did the masters.
B ut T R U T H crushed to earth w ill rise again.
Sometime during the period from 1953 to
1955 three lamas or masters, acting in strict
accord w ith ancient practices, w ill chant
before the stone closing the entrance to the
above mentioned passage the proper incanta­
tion, whereupon the stone w ill swing aside
and give free access to the passage and to
the discovery of the priceless manuscript.
In such manner w ill the teachings about the
acquirem ent and use of this great force w ill
again become available fo r the beneficent
use o f mankind.
Another thing I wish to bring to your
attention, and that refers to conditions
existing at your colleges wherein your youth
is being taught and prepared fo r their life
work. There w ill be much scandal and
exposure o f shocking conditions inim ical to
to the moral and spiritual welfare of your
youth and your country. These conditions and
the inculcation of foreign “ism s” are causing
P
a
n
eT
w
cn
ty-scvin
vour young people to d rift tow ards m oral and
patriotic ruination unless real e ffo rt is made
to elim inate such subversive influences. The
parlor pinks, reds, and scarlets w ill keep
right on forging ahead unless som ething
drastic is done to eradicate them. It should
be borne in mind that there is an invisible
government w hich is the R E A L ruler in
every country on this earth. It is here in
your United States, and the ones the people
have been fondly thinking are th eir rulers
are really not the real rulers in fact. That
has long been accomplished from behind the
scenes.
Fortunately the people are beginning to
awake to the true conditions. There are
various organizations w orking under cover,
some fo r good and some fo r evil, but a ll are
accomplishing much towards changing condi­
tions in the w orld in general. However, it
is only a question o f a com paratively short
time until the identity o f the Hidden Rulers
of the W orld w ll be clearly exposed and their
m achinations brought out into the ligh t. Th is
w ill effectually destroy th eir power, w hich
heretofore has been highly effective by virtue
of its being hidden and unknown to the
people.
There is indicated a sort o f false prosperity
in real estate that may develop during the
year o f 1940. It w ill have a tendency to
P
age T
w
e
n
ty
-e
ig
h
t
lu ll people into thinking that everything is
all right, only to be shocked into a realization
later of the true facts by the development of
a fall. In fact, there is likely to be three
such small booms during this year.
Again, I warn that it w ill be acting the
part of wisdom fo r everyone to purchase only
as much as they can pay for, and to keep
themselves clear of indebtedness. People w ill
eventually realize that it is an im possibility
fo r either individuals or nations to spend
themselves into prosperity.
The people should have a care as to the
one to be their next president, as the portents
lean towards the entrance o f the United
States into the war. It is already “ planned
that way,” by the Hidden Rulers already
mentioned. It must not be overlooked that
w ar w ill bring on a dictatorship that w ill be
as rig id as anyone ever read about. Under
the power of the act already w ritten your
B ill o f Rights would be indefinitely suspended
— perhaps never to be completely restored.
In any event, at least not fo r a long time, so
L E T T H E P E O P L E B E W A R E !
The hope o f this country and o f the world
rem ains in industry, fru gality — N O T in
politicians, diplomats, or government^- A rt,
Srscience, music, honesty of purpose, sincerity
in ideals, contribute much but, above all, must
be realization and understanding o f the GOD
P
a
geT
u
'cn
ty
-n
in
e
W ITH IN . The developm ent o f the Inner
Tru th becomes o f increasing im portance in
the lives o f governm ents as w ell as in the
lives o f individuals in the try in g years just
ahead. A nd th is B attle o f Arm ageddon is
the retribution that man has brought upon
him self, upon nations as w ell as upon the
individual, by his w ilfu l separation from
D ivine Guidance, w hich was the original
inheritance o f man.
P
age T
h
irty
