{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__ransom___the_music_of_peace.pdf","mytitle":"The Music Of Peace","mylang":"de"}
The Music of Peace
THE WORLD'S CONCERT OF NATIONS
By CAPTAIN SIDNEY RANSOM
WORLD PEACE DEPARTMENT
THEOSOPHICAL ORDER OF SERVICE
Eddington, Pa.
The Music of Peace
THE WORLD'S CONCERT OF NATIONS
By CAPTAIN SIDNEY RANSOM
The old phrase, " the concert of Europe,"
might seem almost a derisive one to-day, but
what is being increasingly realized is that
the ideal implied by such a phrase is right.
And further, that we should be thinking in
tenns of a possible concert of all the people
of the earth. In the analogy of a concert, an
orchestra, we have the thought that though
there are several different instruments, each
with its distinctive function, there is but one
composition being played out. Each instru·
ment has to offer its own efficiency, its own
influence, but beyond that giving of its own
individual efficiency it must be played as a
part of the whole symphony. An individual
elftcieney and excellence must not obviously
be allowed to upset the proper proportion
of the whole. The analogy also suggests that
there is a master-conductor who already
knows the whole piece of music to perfec·
tion, and whose function it is to harmonize
all the several instruments into the one pat·
tern. The score h as already been written, but
its manifestation awaits time ami experience.
With nations, each has its own contribu·
tion to offer; nay more, each is destined one
day to make that offering as a part of the
whole. In the national orchestra too often
we have individual instruments desiring to
play and to be heard at all times, and few
of such instruments have yet learnt that
often their best contribution may be in a
pause, a re&t. In Europe, a number of small
and large communities each claim the sov·
ereign right to declare war upon another.
That surely is an outworn, out-of-date right,
even if we admit it ever was a right. We
need to re-value such words as "rights,"
" freedom," "independence." All members of
an orchestra h ave rights, hut not to play at
their own sweet will; the only true ri~hts
are the rirrh ts to co-operate with the condnc·
tor. Natio
0
nalism has, of course, its place, but
nationalism and patriotism h ave often been
exaggerated and over-emphasized to a degree
that literally defeated its own ends. A school
or other community usefully has its own
loyalty, but it is a dis-service when such a
loyalty is allowed to encroach on one's loy·
alty to the larger group, of which the smaller
is but a part. Advocates of party issues must
be ready to let them take second place to
world issues. The leader we are looking for
is one who is big, big in viewe aud big in the
power to unify.
No one d,efinition of what a nation is hae
. ever been agreed upon. Religion, language,
territory, ethnic types, forms of government
-these may belong to a nation, but yet are
not the naLion. In earlier days, maybe, a
nation could be accurately defined in terms
of a religion, or even by a set of particular
custom s, but to-day a nation offers harbour·
age to many religions and to many different
types. Mankind is obviously far older than
any race or nation. T he many races come
and go as do the waves on an ocean, hut
there remains the continuing ocean on whose
bosom innumerable waves have their little
day. Is it not possible that a nation exists
primarily for SOULS, for giving particular
experience to souls (as a school does to
pupils) and hence the length of a nation'e
life depends upon the work intended to be
done?
So it is that the best historians are those
who speak to us in the form of poetry and
folk lore. Such poets give us an interpreta·
tion of those passing facts, which mostly fill
our school histories. The poets help us to
grasp the true meaning and purpose of any
great period; they help us to see the essen-
tial solidarity of mankind. Too often the
teaching of history has kept alive national
enmities. H. G. Wells says "a nation is a
spiritual entity." In studying nations we are
trying to read the pilgrimage of a spiritual
adventure.
The words "nationalism" and "internation-
alism" are not opposite words, they are
complementary. True nationalism implies
intemationalism. The word "international-
ism" means "between nations" so therefore
obviously presupposes a co-operation between
them. Th e word most certninly does not sur.·
~est nn-nationality; still less anti-nationality.
The one life, common to all, has infinite pos-
sibilities and aspects and any one individual
or any one nation can but express a few of
those aspects at any one time. In the early
stages of evolution the nations, in order to
become nations, had to develop separteness,
even selfishness, but as evolution proceeds a
new factor becomes important and co-opera-
tion rather than competition should be the
order of the day. Those in whom the pioneer
spirit consciously lives must ever be trying
to play out the yet unsounded note, knowing
that real progress will inevitably be in terms
of that new note. We need not condemn the
past deeds of the nations; to us, now, it seems
they followed lesser light than we now know
but let us at any rate determine to think and
act in terms of a greater light. Everything
that tends to Union now is on the line of
evolution, and everything that tends toward
separation is on the line of the past. The
old patriotism was "my country, right or
wrong" but the new gives way to the newer
patriotism which seeks to discover the note
that each nation has to sotmd in the concert
of the world.
So strong to-day is the feeling for inter-
nationalism, that some writers have even
gone to the extreme and condemned national-
ism. But true nationalism is a precious and
choice flower. Though we do well to discard
a counterfieit coin, yet the existence of a
counterfeit implies that a real coin exists.
An individual is born into a nation because
he needs to learn the lesson that nation can
teach, and it is high education that our
youths and maidens should be taught to be
finely and nobly national.
If every nation has a special word in the
world-song of life, may we make a humble
attempt to determine what that word is for
some of the nations in the world to-day?
Australia; the spirit of adventure and
brotherhood, and a wide-spread appre-
ciation of the beautiful. Also love of
the open-air.
Austria; the spirit of culture, into which
the spirit of the quest largely enters.
Belgium; the spirit of independence and
virility.
Holland ; practical idealism, the spirit of
common-sense.
Germany; the spirit of discipline, strangely
and wonderfully permeated by the spirit
of the Quest.
India; the spirit of the Aryan civilization
and culture- rightness and appropriate-
ness for every particular occasion.
England; the spirit of respect for law and
order and practical capacity.
Russia; the spirit of Holiness, mysticism,
culture. This I believe is the real Russia
which will re-emerge after its years of
obscuration.
Italy; is experimenting with new type na-
tionalism, which, whether we agree with
it personally or not, should not prevent
us from trying to understand it.
And what should a visitor, such as I am,
say of America? I believe that you h ave here
splendid evidences of a Quest of The New
Age, and of giving spiritual values to mate-
rial things. In material things, it may be
that yours is the work of solving the pressing
problem of distribution. Production h as been
solved, it has been said. How can these goods
and materials be universally and fairly dis-
tributed so that humanity may have leisure
rather than unemployment?
Whatever may be your contribution, it
must be for the whole world. Th ere is no
reality in isolation. T he only legitimate
isolation is the temporary one provided by
an Isolation Hospital. We all need to sit
round a common table. An attempt to do
this has been called a League of Nations.
I t was an experiment, an early experiment,
and being but an infant it has h ad many
tumbles. But is the idea behind it right ?
I believe it is. Let us re-name it, if need be,
re-constitute it, change its form; but it is
only as we strengthen the will for peace, or-
l,!ctnize for peace, want peace, be prepared
to sacrifice for peace, that peace will come,
and the true harmony, the symphony of the
Nations h eard to perfection.
(Radio Tnlk given hy Caplain Sidney Ransom at
Co lnmhu~, Oh io, Station WOSU, May 23rd, 1936,
nnd ovc1
· WKR C, Cinc·innali Ohio, May 28th, 1936.)
