{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__lewis___along_civilizations_trail.pdf","mytitle":"Along Civilizations Trail","mylang":"de"}
ALONG
CIVILIZATION’S
TRAIL
B Y
R A L P H M. L E W IS , F. R. C.
Imperator of the Rosicrudan Order of North and South America
So reign Regional Grand Master of the Martinist
Order for United States
Rosicrudan Library
Volume XIX
SU PREM E G R A N D LO D G E O F AM O RC
Printing and Publishing Deportment
San Jose, California
Copyright 1040
By A M O R C
Printed and BounJ in U. S. A. by
The RO SICRLJCIAN PR ESS. Ltd.
San Jose, California
D edication
V
T o M y F a th e r
YVfiose humanitarian spirit and genius made
me not alone proud to be his son hut
also to have had him as my
preceptor and ideal of
accomplishment
in life
I D ed icate T his B ook
A s a humble reminder of the light and
comfort he brought into the hues
of thousands of men and
women throughout
the world.
The Rosicrudan Library
V
I. Rosicrucian Questions and Answers with Complete
History of the Order.
II. Rosicrucian Principles for th^ Home and Business.
III. The Mystical Life of Jesus.
IV. The Secret Doctrines of Jesus.
V. "Unto Thee I Grant . . (Secret Teachings of Tibet.)
VI. A Thousand Years of Yesterdays.
(A Revelation of Reincarnation.)
VII. Self Mastery and Fate with the Cycles of Life.
(A Vocational Guide.)
VIII. Rosicrucian Manual.
IX. Mystics at Prayer.
X. Rosicrucian Healing. (In preparation.)
XI. Mansions of the Soul. (The Cosmic Conception.)
XII. Lemuria, The Lost Continent of the Pacific.
XIII. The 1 echnique of the Master.
XIV. 1 lie Symbolic Prophecy of the Great Pyramid.
XV . The Book of Jasher.
XVI. The Technique of the Disciple.
XVII. Mental Poisoning.
XVIII. Glands — Our Invisible Guardians.
XIX. Along Civilization s Trail.
(Other volumes w ill be added from time to time.
W rite for complete catalogue.)
Contents
V
CHAPTER PAGE
Introduction......................................................................................................... 9
I. W e Begin Our Journey................................................................... 17
II. Our Mystical Initiations.................................................................... 33
III. A City of Strange Contrasts.............................................................. 49
IV. Mother N ile......................................................................................... 65
V . Prophecy Day in the Great Pyramid............................................ 77
VI. Temples and Tombs.......................................................................... 91
VII. The Valley of the Kings.................................................................... 101
VIII. Strife in the Holy Land.................................................................... 113
IX. The Unknown Conditions of Palestine....................................... 125
X. Ancient Phoenicia............................................................................ 137
XI. The Oldest Inhabited City of the W orld...................................... <47
XII. Crossing the Mesopotamian Desert.............................................. 153
XIII. The City of the Arabian Nights.................................................. 163
XIV. Amid the Dust of the Ages........................................................... 173
XV. I Relive a Life..................................................................................... 183
XVI. The Vineyard of W isdom.............................................................. 193
Appendix........................................................................................................... 207
IL L U ST R A T IO N S
1 emple of Thutmose III.................................................................... 8
Filming Stonehenge........................................................................... 28
The Garret Laboratory of Cagliostro............................................ 59
Temple-Tomb of Queen Hatshepsut............................................ 103
The W ell of the M aai. ........................................................ 133
Once Mighty Babylon...................................................................... 178
W indows of the East......................................................................... 195
B SSB b u iH xm SEi
T E M P LE O F TH U T M O SE III
The cartouche of Thutmose III, used in North and South America as
part of the Rosicrucian emblems, is clearly shown in the carving around
and above the center portal of this Temple. 1he benediction and adora­
tions to the "God of all Gods, ruling forever and ever eternally” are
clearly seen.
(Photo by AM ORC)
IN T R O D U C T IO N
N o o n e p e o p le or race in the world s history stands alone
as civilized. If any single nation or people is to be designated
as representing civilization, then all organized society since the
advent of reason must likewise bear the same distinction. Civi­
lization is neither a state into which humanity is suddenly pre­
cipitated, nor is it indigenous to a location or race, nor confined
to a period of history. Further, it is not attained by a people as
a consequent reward for some conduct or sacrifices made. It is
a gradual growth, more appropriately an evolutionary process,
that has existed since the beginning of all human society.
The underlying factors of civilization are to be found wherever
people have striven together and exchanged the results of their
efforts. To point out a people as civilized is not to proclaim what
they have materialized, but whether the factors existed in their
society. If, for example, it is agreed that a man is in motion
when he runs, because motion, by its nature, no matter what its
extent, differs from inertia, then by the same reasoning, when
man walks or even crawls he is likewise moving. 1 his evolu­
tionary process of civilization is one of refinement — a refinement
of human existence. The refinement in its aspects is twofold.
One phase is tke external and the other we may term the
internal. This external refinement is brought about by man's
relationship to the world in which he lives. In its rudest form,
this relationship consists of utilizing the elements and resources
of nature to satisfy his elemental desires and appetites. In other
words, a primitive mind does not appraise the things of earth
because of their inherent beauty or because of any realization of
the majesty of their underlying natural laws. They are seized
upon or avoided only as the fundamental urges of man s being
cause him to be aware of their effect upon him. Thus a savage
will climb a tree when hungry to pluck wild fruit, but neither
the tree nor the fruit suggests anything else to his mind than
appeasement of his appetite.
The use of nature s resources requires exertion and expendi­
ture of effort. This exertion to which man is put is likewise of
two definite kinds. The first may be classified as instinctive.
This is defined as that exertion which is without volition, with­
out decision, and not of the influence of our wiII. It is a reflex
action, a simple, inherent method of response to a stimulus un­
consciously formed. Such exertion is displayed when we jump
when startled by a sudden loud noise or touch upon the back
by one whose presence was not known. The other kind of
exertion is that effort which is intentionally expended to accom­
plish an end. Such efforts are causative. They are expended
to produce something desired. W e consequently have control
over such exertions. They constitute our wilful acts. The satis­
faction we may derive from the expenditure of such efforts is
but an incidental to that expected from the result. ITie savage,
moved to climb a tree to pluck an apple, is not concerned with
the pleasures, if any, to be derived from climbing, but in eating
the apple when it is secured. In fact, most efforts expended to
gain an end prove to be, in themselves, annoying, irritating,
sometimes fatiguing, and more often just endurable. These wil­
ful efforts are just necessary exertions.
The aspect of external refinement of which civilization con­
sists, then, is the reduction of the effort necessary for any
accomplishment. A people which is said to be displaying signs
of being civilized will reveal in its habits and ways of living
a gradual departure from the crudest methods for gaining an
end. This external refinement is a process of improvement of
man s relationship to the physical world. Material civilization,
by this reasoning, is found to be a simplification of the methods
of living, combined, however, with an expansion of its joys.
Concisely, then, the results ol material civilization are found to
exist in a minimum of effort to live, and a maximum of the fruits
of living. W hen this is applied to the former analogy of the
apple tree, we find the civilized man having easier access by a
ladder, for example, to the higher limbs of the tree, and further,
being able at the same time to obtain more apples.
W hether this external refinement of man’s relationship to the
world, namely, physical civilization, as we shall call it, has made
any progress, need not be a matter of conjecture. It can easily
be determined by a comparison of the events, habits and cus­
toms of today with those chronicled in history. The advance­
ment of twentieth century civilization in this respect is quite
apparent. One cannot help, for example, but be fully cognizant
of the great advantages of conserving effort in tilling the soil
when using a tractor, as compared with the hoe culture of the
ancient Sumerians. However, hoe culture in itself is a trend and
product of civilization, it is a definite advance over those centu­
ries of darkness when man was incapable of even that simple
form of earth culture. The spirit that moved men forty centuries
ago to erect great stone temples along the banks of the Nile,
with their majestic hypostyles, is no less or ruder than that which
causes men today to construct the steel skyscrapers which tower
heavenward.
If we think — and if, in fact —-our modern achievements excel
those of the ages that have gone before, it is only because men
of today have had the added advantage of a vast heritage of
experience upon which to draw. 1 hese experiences, when added
to the natural resources of an area in which people dwell, are
an asset that their progenitors did not possess. A boy cannot
be called a poor specimen of a man, for the latter has attributes
which are not natural to the former. The technique of living,
the methods of refinement of man s relationship to nature, com­
prise a valuable and very useful asset which is the added advan­
tage an intelligent man in every age has. If this were not so,
native intelligence alone would be sufficient in each age 'or man
to rise higher than the preceding level ol civilization, and there
would not need to exist the assiduous attempt to preserve the
arts and sciences, to hand them down to future generations. He
,2 A L O N G C I V I L I Z A T I O N ' S T R A I L
who laughs at the efforts of men before his time is indicting
them for having been born in their age. The minds of each
age began where their predecessors left off.
The scientists of today, closeted in physics laboratories and
wrestling with the complex technical problems of television, dis­
play no more native intelligence than did Archimedes, the
mathematician of the third millenium B C. The Archimedean
screw which he devised and which, by rotating on an inclined
axis, raised water from one level to another by a mechanical
means for ihe first time in the history of the world, required a
profundity of original thought equal to what the best minds of
today may offer.
The other aspect of civilization, which we chose to call the
internal, is the refinement of man himself. Civilization is more
than physical environment. A savage may reside within the
shadow of a great cathedral or library, and his temperament
and comportment be untouched by their influence. Likewise, a
civilized man may reside in a savage environment, as, for in­
stance, if he be marooned upon an uninhabited island. Civiliza­
tion consists of the unity of internal and external refinement.
W hen one exists without the other, it is incomplete.
Physiologically there is no quality or attribute that dis­
tinguishes the savage from the civilized man. Mechanically and
structurally they are the same. Physically, one may be superior
at one time or another; this is dependent upon prevailing topo­
graphical and geographical conditions. 1 hus a modern athlete
may be in better health and a more superb specimen physically
than some of the present-day savage tribesmen who periodically
suffer from malnutrition and ignorant abuse of their bodies. On
the other hand, some aborigines, as the primitive Ethiopians for
example, are excellent types of virile manhood and put modem
civilized men to shame physically.
Psychologically, however, there is a vast gulf between the
civilized, cultured individual and the savage. The savage is
at all times moved only by the most primitive and powerful
forces of his nature. He obeys only the waves of passions and
appetites engendered by his instincts which surge over him.
Each act is egocentric. If it will not culminate in a personal
gratification, it is not entertained. In fact, only negative efforts
are expended. Such acts are not committed because of their own
merit, but because of a need to quiet a disturbing sensation of
some kind which provokes them.
Civilization, then, in its internal refinement, as in its primitive
external phase, is closely bound to individual exertion. Every
effort expended is principally required among primitive people
for the preservation of life, the providing for sustenance and
shelter and the protection of self against the ravages of the ele­
ments, beasts and man. Life consists of a series of cycles of
intense pains and pleasures. One is always contiguous upon
the other. Life is hardly ever upon an even plane. Conscious­
ness is precipitated from one extreme of sensations to the other.
The world of sensation, to the savage mind, is like a great sym­
phonic orchestra in which the brasses are played so loudly that
the soft and sweeter tones of the other instruments become in­
audible. The lesser emotions of the savage s being are com­
pletely submerged and unexpressed. They can never rise with
strength enough to reach the threshold of consciousness. B e­
cause of this, none of the finer sentiments which the reason
attaches to these more delicate emotions are ever developed;
consequently, the very savage human is never aware of such
feelings as loyalty, justice and pride. The consciousness, being
at all times agitated only by the grosser sensations ol the appe­
tites and the instincts, is incapable of a sensitivity to those im­
pulses which form our sentiments and our estimation of the good.
A reduction of the effort to cope with environment or the
gradual development of an ease in living makes for leisure
periods, periods of mental passivity, free of exhaustion or any
intense sensations. It is during such states that the mind has
receptivity to the finer feelings which bring about the refinement
of self — civilized man. A human who is not obliged to endure
hours of rigorous hunting and fighting while experiencing gnaw­
ing pangs of hunger will not drop from sheer exhaustion, neither
will he gorge himself into a soporific stupor. There will be
intervals when his consciousness will respond to new and per­
haps, to him, strange feelings aroused by conditions within and
about him, to which, hitherto, he never gave his attention.
It must not be presumed, from this, that a prolific nature,
where life naturally thrives, is essential to civilization. In fact,
the combination of an ideal climate and lush vegetation with
its plentitude of natural foods is really an obstacle to civilization.
A people whose existence began in an extremely favorable en­
vironment, where little or no effort is required to gain sustenance,
and where no dangers or rigors of life are encountered, even
though it is afforded greater leisure, is incapable of an apprecia­
tion of those finer emotions which rise to the border of its
consciousness. W here life is offered resistance, but where the
struggle for life is not continuous or too severe, the faculties of
the individual are challenged, and by their use are developed.
Opposition to desires sharpens the wits and develops the reason.
The consciousness becomes more acute, and is consequently
more susceptible to those impressions of the finer emotions.
VVhere there is not a sensitive mind, there is not the ability to
evaluate the delicate emotions, to form the sentiments, even if
they were experienced. In the South Seas are to be found
people who, though primitive in their method of living because
of the abundance and conduciveness to life ol nature, are quite
amicable and peaceful in their conduct. However, there is no
advancement, no refinement of self or of their external world
that could be considered the factors of a civilization. There is
no attempt to exnand the benefits of life, which we have seen
is one of the characteristic achievements of a civilized people.
It can be seen, therefore, that through external refinement, the
modification of environment, precedes internal refinement, one
is never truly a civilized individual until he is moved by the
higher sentiments which can more rightly be called the morals.
In a true state of civilization, where there is that lessening of
the expenditure of effort to preserve life and provide its funda­
mental needs, there is also an increasing moral effort. The
morals establish ideals which become ends sought, just as food
is sought to satisfy hunger. Effort is expended to realize these
ideals, and the individual s nature is refined, as were the things
outside of himself. W hereas external refinement was principally
motivated by necessity, a transition takes place and man chooses
to pursue the moral ideals. One may, for example, find it neces­
sary to devise a better means of trapping game, but it cannot
be said that when he beautifies his dwelling he is actuated by
necessity. It can be positively declared that the decadence of a
civilization begins when the effort to obtain the necessities of
life is diminished to a minimum and there is no corresponding
effort to attain moral idealism.
A strong civilization is one where the rise of moral effort
equals the reduction in effort fur physical existence. This be­
comes more of an individual or family responsibility than one of
society’s. A man who in his youth or early manhood experiences
some of the rigors of livelihood has the opportunity to develop a
moral sense and a strength of character by the demands made
upon his faculties and moral self. W rhen, then, a state of pros­
perity or greater ease of living is acquired, he is then fortified
so that he may divert his efforts into the higher channels of moral
idealism which make for the cultured, civilized, the self-re­
strained man. W here great wealth is inherited, and the indi­
vidual is born with the proverbial silver spoon in his mouth, the
intelligence is never apt to be really stimulated and the mind
never fully appreciates or rightly evaluates the sentiments, and
consequently a savage disposition may be clothed in silken rai­
ment. There are, of course, exceptions to this. Riches too easily
acquired in early life are equivalent in their harmful influence
to a large inherited wealth. The individual has not, in such
cases, had sufficient time to develop concepts for the governing
of his life, based upon his morals. The great influx of wealth
brought about by the conquests in wKicb the individual himself
did not participate or expend effort brought about the decadence
of tbe Roman Empire.
Tbere can be no inertia for man. He cannot be physically,
mentally, and morally inactive alike, without becoming de­
generate. A corrupt civilization is far worse than savagery. The
former finds pleasure in perversity, while the other is compelled
to action by forces beyond its control and understanding. W hen
moral idealism falls in a higher state of civilization, the lower
nature of the individual becomes dominant. Passions and appe­
tites reign supreme and the individual has in addition the power
of the highly organized means of society to satisfy them more
ruthlessly. He has, in other words, all of the attributes of civiliza­
tion at his disposal, the products of its arts and sciences, and
they are used not in further refinement of self or the world, but
in seli destruction — in war. W^hen moral idealism declines,
the products of civilization are eventually turned against it.
In going back ' Along Civilization’s Trail” we find the refine­
ment of man s world and the refinement of self vying with each
other for supremacy instead of keeping pace. A great military,
industrial and economic strength have often been eventually
acquired at the expense of the character of a peoole. W^herever
this has occurred, the trail has been eventually marked by the
ruins of another fallen civilization. There will be seen a debris
of a people, as well as their monuments. In this book it is hoped
the reader will observe the historical evidences of the cause of
this rise and fall of character as well as nations.
s)
Chapter 1
W e w a t c h e d Iier turn slowly and steam majestically in the
direction of the French Coast and Havre. Standing on the
rolling lighter heing towed to the Plymouth docks, a ten-minute
ride, we were suddenly conscious that we were now on our
own.” For seven days we had traveled on the great ship, hut
it seemed for the first time that we had truly left America.
There had clung to the ship since we left New York a dis­
tinctly American spirit, an atmosphere that was quite like home.
W e were not alone in this feeling, apparently, for the joyous
exclamations with which our fellow passengers had greeted out
arrival at the Plymouth harhor had ceased. They seemed con­
templating the severing of past ties and the assumption of new
ones. Finally, as one hody, the several hundred passengers,
crowded between stacks of baggage, turned and looked toward
the shore which we were rapidly approaching. Here was Eng­
land, and cliffs that looked chalk-like. They were not high, but
precipitous, and fringed with a green that was pleasing to the
eye after days of the blue-black of the Atlantic. Immediately
before us was a v-shaped cleft in the abrupt face of the cliffs,
in which nestled the city of Plymouth, from which the famous
Pilgrims to America had departed. Perhaps it was because it
was a sudden relief from the monochrome of the sea that the
roofs of the homes that spread up the incline of the cleft ap­
peared so brilliantly red.
W^e were soon milling up the gangplank behind our porters
who were heavily laden with our personal luggage and special
equipment. A s we looked about, a thousand strange sights
caught our eyes. The things were different, but not necessarily
inferior to things of our own land which served the same pur­
poses. 1 here was the waiting express that would take us to
London. The individual exterior door of each compartment,
and the side aisle of each car, made them different from our
end-door, center aisle American cars; but there could be no
question of their equality to ours in many respects. Again,
we noticed in the railroad yard a congregation of freight cars
of various heights, widths, lengths, and types of wheels, to
accommodate different kinds of cargo; they were strange in
comparison to our nearly uniformly designed b o x«
— and gon­
dola — cars, but this did not mean inefficiency or imply a lack
of modernity.
Unfortunately, the American has acquired the habit —
- per­
haps because of his geographical isolation — of thinking that
what he is accustomed to is the standard by which the rest of
the world should be measured; he fails to realize that other
peoples have needs in common with his own, and have de­
veloped systems for meeting those needs as satisfactory as his,
allhough different in manner of application. America is a
symbol of modernity to the American because there are no
monuments of the old order of things about him. Foreign
modernity does not appeal to him because he believes the New
Age is exclusively an American development. This is mainly
due to the fact that the American s interest in Europe has been
aroused by stories of the quaintness of its past culture. Because
of the exploitation of customs and styles of from two to five
centuries ago, that are nearly as strange in Europe today as
they are in America, the American imagination becomes actu­
ally shocked by the reality of European nations displaying a
modernity equal to his own. He vaguely knows it exists, but
prefers the picturesque conception of a Europe of the twelfth
century. Psychologically, such a conception gives him a feeling
of superiority which he tries courageously to cling to when
traveling abroad by purposely avoiding the new Europe
whenever he can.
Ours was more than a tour; it was a serious venture and a
responsibility. W e were to represent the A M O R C at a con­
clave including the highest officers of the oldest arcane societies
of Europe. Momentous questions were to be discussed that
would shape the future course of these organizations. W e were
signally honored, for we were the only representatives of any
occult, mystical, or metaphysical society in North or South
America to be invited by virtue of our credentials to participate
in such a conclave. Hundreds of societies in America claim
and have claimed world-wide connection of long lineage, but
none could produce the necessary authentic proof to receive
the coveted recognition.
I was to be tested, and, if found personally qualified, to
receive the honor of initiation in one of these esteemed brother­
hoods which traces its origin back into the centuries. The pros­
pect was thrilling, but there was always the sobering thought
of what might be demanded of me. I thought of the Imperator’s
first journey abroad, when he was given the authority to re­
establish tbe work and teachings of the Rosicrucian Order in
America; an d I felt with pride that in minor capacity I was
following in his footsteps. How high his hopes must have beenl
How he must have felt that destiny was his guidel*
I must confess that our greatest trepidation was for the success
of the other purpose of our venture; we were to capture on film
the spirit which had moved men and women to found and carry
on the Rosicrucian Order and its teachings. W e were to lind
its early landmarks, the places which harbored its temples and
shrines, and the site of civilizations and cultures which added
their wisdom to the glory of its teachings. W e were to trace the
development in wood, stone, art, and religion, of the conscious­
ness of man which led to the conceptions we hold sacred today.
The search for light, for knowledge, and the mastery of life had
carried man westward through the centuries. W e were to pho­
tograph the milestones of his trek across continents. Mechani­
cally, we were well-prepared for this phase of our venture; we
hacl a 35-millimeter professional-type Debrie motion-picture
This refers to tfie late linperutor, Dr. H. Spencer Lewis.
camera with extra-heavy tripod, equipped for tilting and
panorama views. In addition to a complete assortment of light
filters, meters, reflectors, and other necessary accessories, we
had an array of fast lenses, including a six-inch telescopic lens
for enlarging distant objects. Realizing that we needed an
excellent still camera to reproduce scenes which we hoped to
take for magazines and books published by A M O R C , we took
along a Graphlex. Not trusting to the possibility of being able
to secure the type of films we needed in foreign lands, we took
with us thousands of feet of super-sensitive panchromatic film
for the motion-picture camera, packed in hermetically sealed
cans to resist dust and thermal changes. Our film supply also
included dozens of packs for the Graphlex camera. Our
equipment luggage numbered ten pieces, varying in weight from
fifteen to fifty pounds. Our total baggage was twenty-one
pieces. Before we departed, Kendal Brower, fellow Rosicrucian,
Courier Car technician and member of the party, who was
familiar with photography and motion-picture equipment, had
spent weeks in becoming accustomed to the special eauipment
he was to use; but how different his preparatory conditions were
to those he was actually to encounter!'*’
The gods of fortune smiled on us, for after only a slight delay
in the customs we were comfortably seated in a compartment of
the "boat train,’ rushing through pastoral lands to London. Our
party was not large; yet it was representative of the activities
of the A M O R C in San Jose. It included Frater Harry Shibley,
president of the Rosicrucian Press, Ltd., which separate corpora­
tion is responsible for the tremendous task of printing millions
of pieces of literature yearly to supply the Rosicrucian Order s
needs; Mrs. Shibley; Frater Kendal I. Brower, to whom I have
referred; and Mrs. Gladys Lewis, member of the Board of
Directors of the Supreme Grand Lodge.
A s we fixed our eyes on the fleeting landscape, which was
bathed in the golden glow of a late summer day’s setting sun,
* Kendal Brower is now Cnrator of the Rosicrucian Egyptian Museum.
we commented on the intensive cultivation. Everywhere were
fields of grain, patches of vegetables, pretty gardens, and
meadows. Tb^re were no barren wastes, bad lands, and salt
beds such as we had seen for hours in crossing western United
States. How fortunate that England could utilize so much of
her small island home! The shortage of native timber was
brought to our realization by numerous hedge fences instead of
rail or post-and-wire ones to which we are accustomed in
America. It seemed a combination of utility and artistic grace.
Rushing along now through the twilight, we looked out into
the gathering dusk at twinkling lights in the distance. I recalled
bits of early English history; I thought of baronial halls, great
manors, intrigues against the crown, the three-cornered contest
for supremacy, with crown, barons, and churchmen aligned
against each other. It was not difficult to understand the con­
tempt this great nation must have felt in its state of security,
with its centuries-old customs and well-ordered society, for the
demands of a handful of colonists thousands of miles away in
the frontier country of America. W hat Englishman, secure in
English society and comfortably bolstered by the home land’s
reassuring traditions, would have given an inch of England for
the future of the religionists and self-exiled subjects who made
up most of the population of the N ew W orld in the eighteenth
century? Certainly the attitude must have been strongly ex­
pressed by the majority as, Let them have America.
Our first morning in London was sparkling in sunlight; Cali-
fornia-Iike blue skies were given motion by an occasional lazily
floating white cloud. For a moment, as we stood on the Strand
directly in front of the entrance to our hotel, we had a pang of
disappointment. I his was not the London that novelists portray
for the American imagination. W here was the yellowish, smoke­
like fog through which, we were told, even in the day only the
yellow aura of the street lamps is visible a fog that gives all
passers-by a wraith-like form? Reason then told me how fortu­
nate we were that such a condition did not prevail today, and
a i A L O N G C I V I L I Z A T I O N S T R A I L
how fortunate we would be if it did not exist during our stay in
England; for we were here to photograph.
Every large city throughout the world, it is said, has a
personality — certain characteristics; not physical form, but en­
vironment — which makes it distinctly different from every other
city, regardless of how similar they may be in skyline, industries,
customs, and general appearance. Every world traveler has felt
this and yet cannot definitely point his finger at the contributing
factor of a city s personality. It is undoubtedly, as it is in human
beings, the aggregate of unseen differences in character which
constitutes the personality. A s a city has a personality, so, too,
does it have a soul. In every city there is some site, some edifice,
historical monument or structure, which symbolizes it which
fairly breathes the spirit which it represents. Flash the Eiffel
Tower on the cinema screen and people do not merely know it
is of Paris; but it somehow fits into the niche of the subconscious
visualization they have of Paris. W e were now to visit the soul
of London, England.
A traditional high, box-like London taxi, with its odd luggage
railing framing its top, stopped with screeching brakes before
us. The driver poked his head through the window in our direc­
tion and said. See the sights, sir? Somehow this knowledge
which natives of every country have in some peculiar fashion —
or that at least seems peculiar r—
that you are a foreigner, and,
worse still, a tourist, is very deflating. One likes to imagine he
is quite at home, in appearance at least, in every land. No
matter how carefully, in your own opinion, you mimic the dress
and mannerisms of the citizens, in some mysterious way they
see through the camouflage.
W^hile I held the cab, Brower, with the assistance of several
very curious porters, loaded the bulky cinema equipment into it.
Nowhere, except perhaps in California, is professional motion-
picture paraphernalia taken casually; the farther one gets from
California, the more intense is the fascination for the devices that
make the fairy-land of the silver screen possible. W e rode for
ten minutes along crowded thoroughfares, winding in and out
between London s famed, giant double-decked omnibuses. W e
discussed the confusion we would personally experience if we
were to drive on the left side of the road, as we were now being
driven, just opposite to the side on which American traffic
travels.
Suddenly we were riding along the Thames with its low, gray,
stone retaining wall. A moment later we stopped with a jerk
at our destination — Westminster Bridge. Piling our equipment
in a confused mass against an abutment of the bridge, we turned
and gazed from our position of half-way across, straight ahead.
There they were — a compact unit: the Houses of Parliament,
Westminster Abbey, and Big Ben, the mammoth clock whose
chimes had resounded around the Empire. The slender turrets
which graced the sides ol the Houses of Parliament impressed
me as being like the delicate filigree wood carvings of some
Swiss antique; yet, with this finery, there was about them an
atmosphere of strength and solemnity.
Slowly, steadily, the 1 hames flowed by under our very feet.
Time, periods in English history, decades of strife and of pros­
perity had also moved by as unceasingly as this river; but there,
unchanged by it all, existed this soul of the British Empire.
From this dot in the world, millions of people at the far corners
of the earth were governed. New ideas, radical tendencies, un­
stable influences, were all tempered and steadied by its spell.
The spirit that was England’s dwelt within those gray walls.
Church and state, figuratively and literally, stood side by side.
Here was an example of the true value of tradition. No one
can deny the progress of England or its place in the foremost
ranks of civilization today; its advance has been sensational in
many ways. Yet, when upsets came, as they did at times, it
slipped back no further than the traditions which were bred in
the bones of its sons and which constituted the last high level
to which it had climbed. Traditions which do not retard but
24 A L O N G C I V I L I Z A T I O N S T R A I L
which act as a bulwark against decadency in eras of wreakness,
are tbe safeguard of a people or of a nation.
Simultaneously we stopped our musing and proceeded to seek
tbe best position for a shot, cinematograpbically speaking, of
wbat we saw. Our foremost thought was to reproduce on film,
if possible, enough of what we saw with our eyes to instil into
the minds of an audience the impressions we had received! But
therein lies the secret of the true art of photography. W hy, we
may be asked, were we filming the Houses of Parliament and
Westminster Abbey, and what relation had they to Rosicrucian
landmarks and personalities of the past? In reply to this, we
need go no further than the eminent Sir Francis Bacon, past
Imperator of the Rosicrucian Order and also Lord Chancellor
of England in the seventeenth century. Philosopher and mystic,
he was also an important factor in England’s political life, offi­
ciating on many occasions in these same dignified edifices before
us. As for Westminster Abbey, it is more than a church, a place
dedicated to worship, or even a monument; it is a pantheon.
Beneath its flooring lie England’s great. They are more than
England s ; they are the world s noble dead, for they made
contributions to humanity, to civilization s advancement. Among
them are those who were identified with past activities of the
Rosicrucian Order. W ,hat simpler respect could we pay them
than to film the place of their last rest to be viewed by their
brethren of today?
They were a good-natured crowd ^ these Londoners — as
they jostled one another to get a vantage position to watch
Brower grind out several hundred feet of costly film as we
recorded this soul of England. Big Ben was not to be forgotten;
through the telescopic lens we brought it to within a hundred
feet, visionally, of where we stood. W^e photographed the hands
in the position of the quarter hour and half hour so that the
sound of the chimes could later be synchronized with their
position.
In a series of short, rapid trips about tke keart of London, we
took several views of prominent squares and circuses, at one time
mounting our equipment on tke great library steps and filming
tke noted, busy, noisy Trafalgar Square.
W e were to leave London next day for a hundred-mile jour­
ney nortkward to Salisbury Plains. 1 he mysterious Stonehenge
was to be our destination. A s we expected, we had to first obtain
permission from His Majesty s Department of Public W^orks
before being allowed to take professional cinema pictures there.
Still-camera pictures were not ordinarily prohibited. A pre­
liminary investigation revealed that upon application by mail,
after a ten-day delay, we could expect a reply to our request.
Ten days! How disheartening! W ,e were scheduled to leave
England before tkat. Must we fail at tke very beginning of
our journey? W 7hat could be done?
There is no maze like the entwined activities of government
departments. It may seem strange, but in endeavoring to locate
His M ajesty’s Department of Public W orks, bobbies, guards,
and attendants at public offices gave us conflicting directions.
This condition is almost always experienced in conducting busi­
ness with departments of the leading governments of the world.
Each petty official or assistant is not made to familiarize himself
with the relationship of his department to any other, and usually
is in ignorance of the administrative structure. This condition
prevails in America as well. 1his isolation of departments makes
it exceedingly difficult to locate the required official unless
you know exactly the title of the department to which he is
attached. British officials are at all times courteous and respect­
ful, and unlike those of many other countries, are not unduly
impressed with the authority delegated to them. Presentation
of credentials showing that we represented a fraternity devoted
to the study of the sciences, and which maintained a free museum
of antiquities, and also disclosure of our connection as indi­
viduals with internationally known societies of research, ac­
corded us the needed exception to routine procedure. I he
Department of Public W orks immediately issued a permit to
take cinema photographs in SalislDury and vicinity. 1 omorrow
we were actually to begin photographing rare antiquities for
the Order. W e were highly elated at this, our first success.
There is something so gratifying about a rural motor trip in
England. 1he low, rolling hills with occasional wooded strips,
all intersected with winding streams, are enchanting. Every­
where were wild shrubs which seemed so perfectly trimmed and
artistically arrayed that it was as if man had undertaken a
gigantic landscaping project. However, it is not Nature which
lends England her greatest enchantment; it is the quaint villages
with which the country-side is dotted, with their century-or-more-
old churches and slender steeples. The public squares which
once formed the hearts of these villages ore framed by sloping,
two~story structures with high peaked roofs, tall windows, and
superimposed balconies. I he limber ends which protrude from
their fronts, and the lattice-like strips which form a design on
their faces, blackened wilh age, contrast with the grayish white
of the stucco-like plaster with which they are sealed against the
weather. One sees, side by side, on the lower floor of these
structures, the criss-cross leaded window of a bake shop with
all the appearances of Dickens time, and the modern large
plate glass front of a branch of England s popular-priced mer­
chandise chain store — a contemporary of our own American
Woolworth s. How incongruous the modern automobile seems
when parked belore tea rooms in buildings obviously of the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries! M any of these old dwel­
lings and buildings have long since ceased to serve any real
usefulness, although still occupied. 1 hey remain to mellow the
harshness of the New Age. and to remind one of the quiet ele­
gance that was once Old England s. Thoughts of a great wood
fire in an open hearth, planked floors and the wooden benches
of an old town tavern were engendered by a driving, cold rain
which caused us, although in summer, to pull our light top coats
about us as we drove rapidly along smooth, narrow highways.
Leaving behind us the historical town of Salisbury’ in W il-
shire, with its renowned cathedral, we headed out over the great
Salisbury Plains for Stonehenge. 1 hese were typical plains,
much like those one sees in W estern Canada and the United
States. They indicated the plentitulness of England s rainfall,
for they were covered with a plush of vivid green. 1 here were
to be seen no villages or farms — even few fences.
"There it is!” our driver suddenly exclaimed, pointing to the
left. It was still quite distant. W e looked intently at what ap­
peared to be large, oblong, grayish objects standing on end and
leaning against each other at rather a sharp angle. Candidly,
I was disappointed with my first view. This disappointment was
not shared by Brower.
“ Just as I visualized Stonehenge,” he declared.
A minute or two later we were outside the high wire enclosure
which surrounded it. one of England’s strangest untiquities, now
a government monument. Its setting was quite incongruous,
for a short distance away was a modern military7airdrome.
Our proximity had not changed my first impression. The
giant, roughly-hewn monoliths stood upon a level plain sur­
rounded by grass, cropped as closely as that 0! a golf course.
There was no approach to them, no fallen stones or fragments
of an ancient structure to quicken one s imagination and draw
attention to the principal antiquity as the climax of some great
achievement of a forgotten race. I here was lacking that dra­
matic setting one expected from so mysterious a relic of the past.
In effect, it was as though these gigantic stones had been trans­
ported from their natural surroundings and deposited here solely
lor exhibitional purposes.
W hat remains of Stonehenge is an inner semi-circle of huge
stone blocks which were crudely shaped by hand by some un­
known race. Each of the four-sided sandstone and bluestone
pillars penetrates the soil for a depth of about four and a half
Feet, and towers for a height of fifteen and a half feet, and
weighs approximately twenty-six tons. Nine still stand, and
eleven are recumbent. Several of tbe massive monolitbs are
joined at tbe top by horizontal stones of like nature, forming
cross ties or beams. Tbe uprights have a conical tenon which
dovetails into a mortise at each end of the horizontal stone. Some
distance from this inner circle there is the remains of an earth­
work which formed the foundation of an enormous outer circle
of pillars. Naught but the bases of this once great outer circle
are now to be seen. A t the northeast of the inner circle, two of
the uprights with their cross beam compose a crude pylon.
Standing in the center of the pylon one looks out at a distance
of about 100 feet at a great slab of recumbent sarsen, one end
of which is partly buried, and which is known as the Slaughter
Stone. An equal distance beyond, standing upright, is the
FILM IN G S T O N E H E N G E
Kendal Brower, the expedition photographer, taking professional mo­
tion pictures of tlie mysterious Stonehenge pillars on the Salisbury
Plains. England.
(Photo hy AM O RC)
Heel Stone. Tradition has it that when the rays of the rising
sun struck the Heel Stone and cast a shadow on the Slaughter
Stone, at that moment an animal (some say a human being)
was offered to the Sun God as a sacrifice. Large avenues of
stone columns, as roughly hewn as these monoliths, once
led to it.
Speculation is still rampant as to the origin and age of Stone­
henge. It has heen a battle ground for archeological theories.
One theory is that it was erected as a temple of worship by the
Romans during their occupancy of England two thousand years
ago. This is not logical for various reasons, primarily because
the workmanship lacks that mastery of masonry that wT
as the
Romans’. Again it is said to have been built by the ancient
Druids as a place of worship, or as a sepulchre. This theory
also lacks authenticity and has little to support it, even in
imagination. The most acceptable explanation is that it was
built during the latter part of the Stone Age and at a time when
civilization was dawning in Egypt. It is presumed that the great
circle constitutes the hub, and the radiating spokes or colonnaded
avenues led to the primitive huts of the neolithic builders. Frag­
ments of pottery and reindeer picks of that age were found in the
debris of the ruin. It was quite evidently used as a place of
mystical ceremony. Elementary as it is structurally, it is not,
symbolically. The great outer circle, the inner circle, the massive
altar, the entrance to the East, the stones erected to block the
sun s rays and cast significant shadows at a specific time, reveal
a worship not necessarily of the sun but of Nature s phenomena.
The Slaughter Stone is named not by fact but merely by specula­
tion. M ay it not have marked the place of initiation into mys­
teries long since lost to man? Perhaps the shadow of the Heel
Stone fell upon the brow of some humble neophyte who knelt,
with head bared and arms crossed in supplication, facing the
mighty globe of power, illumination and life-giving force which
gradually ascended from below the distant horizon. It was no
casual undertaking the building of Stonehenge. It represented
some tremendous expression of inner feeling — a people reach­
ing upward for something not quite comprehensible to them.
The task, with the very crude tools which they must have had
at their disposal, was enormous. It reveals that the place that
was to house the spirit of man s God always excelled in splendor
and majesty the edifices he constructed solely for himself. Even
the non-religious must admit this virtue of selflessness which
religion instils in the breast of man. It unites men to serve a
common ideal in a manner that private interests could not
inspire.
Brower took several Graphlex or still-camera photographs of
this impressive place from different angles. Then he frantically
assembled his cinema equipment and maneuvered for a position
which would reveal, photographically, a picturesque view of a
portion of the strange structure, while casting his eye upward
at the menacing rain clouds. Just as he began to crank his
camera, down came the rain, and we scurried to shelter. B e­
tween showers, and after shifting the camera equipment to vari­
ous positions in the center of the great circle and beyond it, he
succeeded in obtaining several hundred feet of worth while
scenes, which, when viewed weeks later, we considered com­
pensation for the effort in obtaining them.
It was several days later and we were resting in our hotel
after arduous photographic labors in London and environs. The
room telephone rang. I answered it, and was informed that my
visitors had arrived and were waiting for me in the lounge below.
I mused, as I descended in the elevator, that only a few days
before we had looked with the keenest of anticipation toward
the filming of Stonehenge and had thought of little else; and
now all that was past and we were on the eve of our departure
from England. Only one more act of importance required my
attention; that was to confer again, after several years, with our
good Frater Raymund Andrea Rosicrucian Grand Master of
the English jurisdiction, and author of several popular Rosicru­
cian works^—
and his London associates. They awaited me now.
I stepped into the spacious reception room, and they arose to
greet me. One cannot help being impressed by Frater Andrea.
Physically he is not large, but yet one is not conscious of his
stature. His eyes hold ones attention; they are keen, pene­
trating, and in a quick glance he seems to probe completely the
depths of your feelings and appraise you. A s piercing as they
are, there is dancing in them the light of merriment and kindli­
ness. Soft spoken, he speaks only to convey a worthy thought,
preferring to listen and weigh words. His quiet manner wins
confidence by the friendliness that radiates. One is impressed
with the thought, Here is a modern mystic.’ He wears no
strange costume and has no peculiar habits, and neither does
he resort to odd conduct. Dressed in a conservative business
suit, moving about in a twentieth-century world, he is able to
accomplish in a modern way among present-day peoples the
things we think of as having been possible only among the robe-
garbed mystics of the Middle Ages. However, strange rites and
queer methods of living, we know, do not make the mystic; such
things are practiced for the credulous who have a fantastic con­
ception of the mystic as a weird being, dropped from a place
far above the earth, to descend among mortals and by some
magical process elevate their consciousness.
The other Fratres — one an active and the other a past officer
of the London Rosicrucian lodge <
—could have, in appearance,
passed anywhere in either America or England as professional
or prominent business men, as they were, in fact, in private life.
Only by engaging them in conversation would a stranger realize
by their remarks that they had a far deeper philosophical con­
ception of life than that held by the average professional or
business man.
This meeting was truly a hands-across-the-sea. It made me
realize and feel proud of the extent of the Rosicrucian order,
A M O R C , and its influence. Here, thousands of miles distant
from San Jose, California, I was received as a friend and a
brother, because 1was a follower of the Rose and Cross. N a­
tionality and religious differences, if any, melted away into a
great, common understanding. It was beneficial to us all to
discuss tbe hopes and ideals of our respective jurisdictions which
embraced continents and nations as well as millions of souls,
many of whom were already traveling the path of light with us.
1 he early morning hours were beginning to crowd the night
before we bade farewell and parted.
It was only a matter of hours when we were once again on
shipboard; this time we were standing on the crowded deck of
a small channel steamer, plowing her way from Dover, England,
to Ostend, Belgium. The Channel, at one time a safeguard to
England, and an assurance against surprise attacks from a hos­
tile power on the Continent as long as England flung a cordon
of men-of-war about her island home, no longer conveys that
reassuring feeling of isolation. In less than an hour there can
roar over London, from European capitals, a mighty air fleet
of destruction, screened by fog, which could blast out — so Eng­
lish air authorities advise — the nerve centers of England. The
Channel itself is but a ten or twelve-minute crossing by air, and
therefore is neither a means of defense to England nor a barrier
to a hostile air fleet. It is of little importance in this age. The
nationalistic fences of a century ago are toppling. 1 rade and
industry, communication and transportation, are uniting the
powers of the world. The nations must either become a common­
wealth of humanity, or be destroyed by their own avarice, for
there is no wall they can build about themselves that can resist
the ingenuity of this scientific age, if that ingenuity is to be used
as an instrument of destruction.
The coast of Belgium framed the white-capped waves on the
horizon, and we knew that we were soon to land. W e were to
have, in this small, once blood-drenched country, experiences
which, though we did not now realize it, were to be unforgettable
and the beginning of strange yet illuminating mystic adventures.
Chapter H
O U R M Y S T IC A L IN IT IA T IO N S
W it h sighs of relief we sank back against the cushions of
our seats, attempting to make ourselves as comfortable in the
overcrowded compartment as possible. After a delay which
nearly caused us to miss the special Brussels Express we had
finally located our missing baggage on the dock and with little
opportunity for proper arrangement were obliged to pile it about
our feet and in the racks over our heads just as the train, after
a series of convulsive jerks, pulled slowly out of the domed sheds.
A sudden startling clatter of the door, and there stood on the
threshold the attendant or, as we term him in America, the
conductor. His expression was quite apparently one of dis­
pleasure. He glanced at the baggage and at us, and said noth­
ing. His silence and looks combined were more abusive, I am
sure, than any remarks he might have made at the moment. He
was, we were certain, not approving of this excess baggage in
a passenger compartment. W e were not left in doubt long as
to his annoyance. In a loud voice, mingling French with Eng­
lish, and gesticulating freely, he informed us of our wrongdoing,
but permitted us to keep our delicate equipment in the compart­
ment. W e were well pleased that we did not have to subject
it to the rough handling of the baggage attendants.
The weather was delightfully warm. I he late summer sun
seemed to have given the fleeting fields and pastures a mellow
appearance as though we were looking at them through an
amber glass. The country-side was level and but a few feet
above the sea. Artistic, rustic thatched-roof barns and houses
flashed by. Patient and plodding oxen pulled crude two­
wheeled carts laden with hay. Picturesquely dressed peasants
with wide baggy trousers walked slowly alongside with one
hand resting on the rack of the cart and the other holding a
wooden-pronged fork which seemed to lie heavily on their
shoulders. Frater Shibley remarked that it was an animated
painting, like a masterpiece from some famous gallery suddenly
become a reality.
A series of sharp, high-pitched blasts of the engine whistle
informed us we were approaching a station, and a few seconds
later we heard and felt the grinding of brakes as we pulled up
to a small red brick depot with a stone flagging platform. Sm all­
town train watchers and station hangers-on do not differ much
throughout the world. They are brothers under the skin regard­
less of their difference in costume and nationality. A number
of them seated on cases and crates were leaning languorously
against the wall, wearing wide-brimmed hats pulled low in front
to shade their eyes. They formed a soporific picture. Rosy-faced
children, with well-patched clothes, went through a pantomime
act attempting to interest passengers in their wares. The passen­
gers, behind closed windows, did not respond.
W e heard it coming — the distant faint tweet of the whistle
of the guard of the last car, followed by louder and shriller
tweets of the whistles of the guards of the successive cars, until
finally the engineer, who must have been counting each whistle
corresponding to the cars of the train, acknowledged them with
a shrieking blast from the engine. W^e were off again. To get
a train underway was indeed a ceremony. Frater Brower re­
marked that the delay in starting a train in Belgium must cer­
tainly be a boon to late commuters.
It was dark when we finally roared to a stop in the great
metropolis of Brussels, a city having a population of more than
seven hundred thousand. W e were pleased to learn that our
hotel was a few steps from the railroad station; in fact, located
on the same great cobblestone square which the station itself
faced. Several times before large parties of Rosicrucians from
America and various sections of Europe had gathered at this
hotel while attending important conclaves in Brussels. The Rosi­
crucians were well known to the management as an orderly.
congenial group of guests and his hospitality was accordingly
responsive. Our party had adjoining suites, ones that had been
occupied by the Imperator’s party but two years previously.*
I was late for an important engagement, how important I did
not fully realize. I called Mademoiselle Guesdon on the tele­
phone. She was residing at the same hotel, having come from
Paris for the same conclave and to kindly act as my official
interpreter. She excitedly asked that my wife and myself meet
her in the main lobby at once. 1o meet Mademoiselle Guesdon,
Grand Secretary of the A M O R C in France, is to know an
exceedingly intelligent and highly efficient woman with much
administrative experience. W ith all of her firmness and ability
to accomplish what seems the impossible at limes, she is refined,
kindly, and most considerate. Years of intimate association with
the commercial world in an executive capacity have not lessened
her mystic insight and her philosophic trend of mind. She has
performed innumerable services for the A M O R C of America
and its Supreme Officers.
Speaking in perfect English and in a hushed voice, she told
us that Hieronymus, the Rosicrucian Imperator of Europe, could
only attend that night s secret conclave of the F I D O SI, the
great federation of the arcane mystic Orders of the world. He
must leave early the next day for another city in Belgium. In
fact, he had been in conference for a day before we arrived and
had waited and was now waiting for us. W e felt grieved
that we had been a cause of delay, but Mademoiselle Guesdon
hastened to assure us that our schedule had been proper, but
that sudden unexpected affairs made it necessary for Hierony­
mus to depart sooner than he had anticipated.
Since we must leave at once, there was not time for prepara­
tion. M y wife and I hastily informed the other members of our
party where we were going and then hurriedly joined M ade­
moiselle Guesdon at the street curb. W e frantically signalled
* A party consisting of Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, late Imperator. and certain other IiigJi officials
of the Rosicrucian Order of America.
a taxi, and in my excitement I called to the driver in English,
whicH amused tke early evening sidewalk cafe patrons. To
them we were running true to form, like all Americans, in a
constant rush. W e feel that the speed with which we travel
through life is the cause of our accomplishments, and that these
accomplishments are the worthy ends of life. Our Belgian
friends shrug their shoulders and admit that Americans accom­
plish stupendous things, but are these things the true end of
life? is their query. Do they bring the American any greater
happiness and contentment than the quiet enjoyment of every
hour of living which the Belgian ordinarily experiences?
Speaking rapidly in French to our rotund chauffeur who looked
none too comfortable crammed into the very limited space be­
tween the wheel and the hard, upright seat back, Mademoiselle
Guesdon gave directions for reaching our destination.
Concerning exactly where we were going, and what was to
occur, I was still very much in the dark. I ventured to quiz
Mademoiselle Guesdon and finding her non-committal on this
point dropped the matter. This attitude only quickened my
imagination and further stimulated my enthusiasm. No further
words were spoken. W e, my wife and myself, sat in suspense,
each keeping to his or her own thoughts. W e drove across great
plazas walled in by massive stone buildings having medieval-
looking turrets and high iron gates. W alking rhythmically be­
fore them were uniformed sentinels carrying regulation rifles
with bayonets fixed. I could only conjecture that they were
guarding public buildings. The dignified solemnity of these
settings was broken by the clanging bells of high, narrow, but
short length electric trams which rocked from side to side as
they clattered along.
Suddenly Mademoiselle Guesdon tapped loudly on the glass
partition separating us from the driver. Bringing his cab to a
stop, he inquired in French as to her desires. After much hand-
waving on the chauffeur s part he was finally convinced by
Mademoiselle Guesdon that he was not taking us in the right
direction, and he turned to travel in a direction irom which it
seemed to me we had just come. I did not know what to look
for, but I was surprised when our cab stopped in a semi-residen­
tial shopping district. I hesitated before leaving the cab. Do
we get out here? I inquired. Yes, Mademoiselle Guesdon
replied, smiling at my bewilderment.
W e walked rapidly about a block, passing many attractive
little shops. Mademoiselle Guesdon stopped in front of one, and
looked in the doorway. I walked closer and looked into the large
plate glass window front. 1 here were platters of cakes and
large green bowls of delicious-Iooking salads. I looked at the
large block letters painted on the glass above me. The establish­
ment was a restaurant catering to those who preferred vegetarian
and fruit dishes. " But why are we stopping here? I wondered.
I turned, and looked in the direction of Mademoiselle Guesdon.
She beckoned to us to enter. This is strange,” 1thought. She
had been anxious to reach our destination — was in a hurry, in
fact — and now we were dining before proceeding. She ap­
parently realized my confusion and enlightened me. “ W e are
here, she said. “ The conclave — I began, and she motioned
for me not to speak for a genial hostess with a voluminous
colored apron was approaching us. The hostess was about to
accept us as patrons, usher us to a table in the large room in
which there were several tables already occupied by diners. but
Mademoiselle Guesdon stepped up to her quickly, and in a
manner that attracted no attention, spoke to her in a whisper
which I could not overhear. I he woman turned, looked at us
intently for a moment, and then nodded her head in the direction
of a small door at the opposite end of the room. W e followed
her in single hie toward it. Upon reaching the door she bowed,
turned, and left us. Mademoiselle Guesdon, turning to us, said:
W^ait here, please; I shall return shortly. 1he patrons, eating
in the leisurely manner which is the custom of the country, paid
us no attention, for which we were grateful, for our faces must
have revealed our pent-up emotions.
It seemed an age, but in reality the passing of time must have
been but three minutes before Mademoiselle Guesdon returned.
You shall follow me, ’ she said solemnly. W e did. W e entered
a short dark hallway. As I recall, it had a turn in it, because
I could not see the other end until suddenly I was standing in
an oblong chamber. 1 he room was about thirty-five feet in
length and about eighteen feet wide. It had, if memory serves
me well, a plank floor and a low-hanging plastered ceiling. It
was lit by candles located at the far end of the room. Shadows
danced about us on the wall with each flicker of the candle
flames, adding to the enigmatic atmosphere of the occasion. Our
eyes were rooted to the scenes which the candles illuminated.
There was a long but narrow U-shaped table with the open end
toward us. The table in reality consisted of a series of small
tables placed together and covered with a crisp and brilliant
white (in contrast to the yellow candlelight) table cloths.
Around the outer side sat a group of impressive looking men.
None was eating, although they obviously had been. They
looked straight at us. Their faces were expressionless but not
cold and steely. W e felt, standing there in the part shadows,
as though we were apparitions being looked upon by a solemn
committee of investigators into psychic phenomena. I stepped
forward and then stood hesitating. A s though this had been
a given signal, the gentlemen all arose at once, stood erect,
motionless, waiting. W aiting for what. I did not know.
Again Mademoiselle Guesdon came to our aid. In a low
voice she said, Permit me to introduce you. I was fascinated
by one personage. He stood behind the closed end of the U-
shaped table in the exact center. His position was directly in
front of me. I had tried turning my eyes from him. I did not
wish to stare discourteously, and yet, as if magnetically drawn,
I would become conscious that I had turned again to hold his
eyes. He would have attracted attention anyw here. He was tall,
stately, well-groomed, conservatively attired. He had a neatly
trimmed white beard which gave him an air of distinction with­
out being conspicuous. His complexion for a man of his age —
and he must have been sixty years — was startlingly youthful,
a healthful pink. I could not detect the color of his eyes from
where I stood. They were to me two radiant, scintillating gems;
points of light would perhaps better describe them.
Slowly Mademoiselle Guesdon led us down the center aisle
formed by the opening of the U, directly toward him. W hen
but three feet from him she stopped. Slowly, and in a quiet
tone of voice, Mademoiselle Guesdon spoke to him in French.
She was introducing me; then he spoke. I do not recall his
words; in fact, I did not, as I now recollect, remember hearing
words at all but it seemed as if I were hearing a voice calling
from a great distance, indistinct but melodious, soothing, some­
what like a chant. I seemed to understand inwardly what was
being said, rather than objectively perceiving it. He was extend­
ing greetings, then he smiled and put forth his hand in welcome.
A s he smiled, his whole face lit up with a beautiful glow. I
realized then what the master painters sought to capture on
canvas when they wished to have their subjects saints, mys­
tics, and great philosophers of old •— appear to radiate the eso­
teric light which had dwelt within them. It is something which
the chemical elements of paint and pigments can never portray.
In fact, it is more sensed than seen.
This man before me was the Imperator ol Europe, known
only by his symbolic name, Hieronymus. He was one of the
three Rosicrucian Imperators of the world, of which Dr. H.
Spencer Lewis of our jurisdiction is one.* I was not awed by
the occasion, but rather a great wave of humility swept over me.
I felt a keen sense of devotion to the Order which it is my
privilege and honor to serve. There flashed in my mind a vivid
picture of my obligations and duties, and the thought of the
many who had gone before me and had made possible what
we hold so sacred today.
* This occurred three years before the higher initiation and transition of Dr. H. Spcncer Lewis.
W e were now led to our places at this table; then each of
the gentlemen filed by us and was introduced to us in turn. W e
played with our food, hungry as we were and delicious as it was.
Somehow we thought that giving time to eating on such an
auspicious occasion would be nothing short of prolane, though
it would have been in proper order. A few moments later, all
arose at the sound ol the gavel, and quietly retired irom the
room. 1 was about to leave when a young man of about thirty-
three or thirty-four years ol age. slender, wiry, with high fore­
head and the lacial characteristics o( one who is distinctly a
student and devoted to a mental life, came forward and said in
English, Kindly wait with Mademoiselle Guesdon. You shall
be admitted later. 1felt a strong liking lor this I’ rater. He was
personable and understanding. He was our noted Frater
Mallinger. prominent in the legal profession of his country and a
moving spirit in the administrative affairs of F U D O S 1. 1 had
corresponded with him on numerous occasions relative to official
matters of our Order. In fact, I had with me at this time secret
and confidential documents to deliver to him. He was exactly
as I had visualized him — a human dynamo of energy and ac­
complishment. He left us and joined the others.
Once again we were alone — Mademoiselle Guesdon, Mrs.
Lewis and myself. I turned to Soror Guesdon questioningly.
Betore I could speak she anticipated my thoughts. ' You are
about (referring to Mrs. Lewis and me) to be inducted into the
thirteenth traditional historical degree of our Order. (Referring
to A M O R C .) "O nly a few members of every jurisdiction are
eligible to receive its honors, secrets and wisdom. W e were
more than elated and grateful. A few moments later a Prater
came through the portal which led to the chamber into which
all the others had retired. He spoke hurriedly in French to our
interpreter and guide, and returned. Once again Soror Guesdon
bade us follow her, which we did. 1 his became an unforgettable
evening in our lives. W e crossed the threshold and dwelt within
for nearly an hour, though we were not conscious of time. W^hat
transpired there must be sealed in my heart and mind. I can
only impart my experiences to those who are prepared to receive
them, and like me, they will never know when they will be con­
sidered prepared until the invitation has been extended to them
to receive this knowledge at a proper time and at a proper place.
M y next day was an exceptionally busy one; no time for sight-
seeing, no tours or ramblings. 1 here was too much to be ac­
complished. By appointment 1met Frater Mallinger at his office,
to which Mademoiselle Guesdon look me. There important
documents concerning the welfare and extension of A M O R C ,
the Rosicrucian Order in America, were signed and sealed.
Official communications from the Imperator of A M O R C in
America were personally delivered to Frater Mallinger for con­
sideration by the F U D O SI officers. 1he mutual plans and
problems of the Rosicrucian Order of the North and South
American jurisdiction and the Order of Furope were discussed,
and constructive ideas exchanged. For the first time 1heard the
phrase. And it shall be the duty of America to preserve this
for future generations.’ I thought it strange but passed it by
without question.
Later, Mrs. Lewis. Soror Guesdon and I were luncheon guests
of Frater and Soror Mallinger at their home. A delicious repast
was enjoyed in most pleasant surroundings, Soror Mallinger
being an excellent hostess. Immediately following luncheon,
Frater Mallinger, Mademoiselle Guesdon and I attended the
meeting of a special F U D O S I Convention Committee some
distance from the former s home, for a further consideration of
organization matters of importance.
Several days had elapsed since our arrival in Brussels, but
this night was to be an eventful one in this very eventful city.
Mrs. Lewis, Frater Brower and myself were to be inducted into
the Order of the M one of the oldest arcane Orders of
Europe. For centuries it had been a contemporary of the Rosi­
crucian Order, a body of preliminary training and preparation
for the higher degree studies ol the Rosicrucian Order, per­
petuating many noble traditions and ideals. It bad numbered
among its membership many learned men throughout Europe
whose names are milestones in history. Frater Brower, who
had never been abroad before, and had not previously had the
pleasure and privilege of meeting the dignitaries of these august
Orders of Light, was in a high state of expectation and en­
thusiasm. For him the hours of the day slowly waned as he
waited for the evening, when we were to go to our place of
initiation. W e had been advised to dress semi-formally for the
occasion, and we were dressed considerably in advance and
waiting with undue impatience in the foyer of our hotel for
Mademoiselle Guesdon, who, as usual, was most punctual.
It was dark and rainy when we left in a chugging taxi for our
destination. The streets, for so large a city, were quite deserted.
1be evening was one that induced a melancholy mood. Reflec­
tions of the odd-shaped street lamps cast grotesque patterns of
light on the slippery pavements. No one spoke. Each treasured
silence. To me it was an intriguing adventure. Some of the
streets through which we passed were so narrow that the
shadows of the houses on either side intensified the darkness
so that we seemed to be riding through deep canyons. The
streets twisted to such an extent that neither end could be visible,
which added to the realism of the impression.
I could not help but think of the sagas of the neophytes of
our beloved Order who, in the Middle Ages, seeking light as
we, crept from their homes in the dead of night — such a night
as this —
- and pulling closely over their heads the cowls of their
cloaks so as to partly conceal their faces, flitted along in the
shadows like things of another world, seeking others who would,
in the deep shadows of the eaves of some home, meet them.
Together they would secretly enter and surreptitiously conduct
a conclave of our Order, fearing any moment to hear the crash
of the door and find in their midst officers of church and state
who would arrest them for daring to go beyond, in their studies
and thoughts, the prescribed confines of the ecclesiastical and
state laws of what should constitute knowledge. Though I was
to experience no such danger, 1 thrilled with the thought of the
danger they experienced to gain what we, of the jurisdiction of
North and South America and the allied jurisdictions, enjoy so
freely and sometimes unappreciatively.
After a ride of about ten minutes we came to an abrupt stop
on a slight hill. Stepping from the taxi so as to avoid pools of
muddy water, we stood on the sidewalk in front of a brown
stone building that resembled the mental picture one gains from
the descriptions of homes in French novels, architecture of the
sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. It was quaint, intriguing—
the sharp pointed roof, the garret windows, the well-worn steps
leading to the main entrance, and the small doorway at the
left, below, with its heavy wooden door and small grated
windows.
Presuming that this was the place we were to enter, because
it seemed to have an atmosphere of mystery and secrecy, I started
in advance of the others to walk up the steps toward the large
doors which were closed, and through small glasses in the upper
portion of which was shining a faint light. Mademoiselle G ues­
don called out to me to return. I said, upon reaching her, Is
not this the place?” "Y es,” she said, "but not the entrance.
She turned, and we followed her. She approached the small
door at the left. In fact, to reach this door we had to go down
two or three steps. To me it had seemed like a servants or
delivery entrance. W e stood behind her, our coats drawn about
us tightly. It was still raining, and miserably uncomfortable.
Not a soul was to be seen on the street. It was exceptionally
dark because there was only a faint street lamp on either end
of the long block. She knocked three times. I recalled the sym­
bolic knock in one of our own rituals.
W e waited what seemed to me a great length of time. No
one spoke. She made no further effort to knock. Finally I heard
a bolt being drawn in the door, and the door must have been
heavy and not used frequently for it opened slowly as though the
44 A L O N G C I V I L I Z A T I O N S T R A I L
one who was opening it found it an effort to do so. It creaked.
W e looked in. 1 here was a hallway, a short one, well illumi­
nated by an odd electric fixture hanging on the high ceiling,
casting a peculiar pattern on the floor. To the right of the
entrance in front of which we stood was a stairway that led
upward, only one flight of it being visible. The hallway was
inviting. It radiated a spirit of friendliness, warmth, light, cheer­
fulness. Immediately before us stood a Frater, tall, well propor­
tioned, and wearing a flowing white gown, and a black mask
which concealed all of his face but just a slight portion of his
forehead and his mouth and chin. He said but one word —
' Enter. W e did. W^e filed in and lined ourselves against the
wall of the hallway. He closed the door, bolted it, spoke nothing
further, turned at right angles, walked slowly up the long stair­
way, we following him with our eyes as he did so. Again silence
reigned and no one made the effort to speak. Speaking seemed
to be out of order. No one seemed to want to shatter his im­
pressions with words.
In a few moments this Frater returned, and smiling, and
speaking in English, asked us to please follow. Mademoiselle
Guesdon led. 1he robed Frater took up the rear. W e climbed
the flight of stairs to another passageway identical with the
one below, except that in this hallway were two doors. W e
waited outside one. 1he robed Frater opened it just enough to
pass into the chamber, but we could not see in and knew not
what to expect. He returned a few moments later and had in
his hand three large white silk handkerchiefs. W^e were asked
to remove our coats and hats and then each of us was blind­
folded, and each of us was led through the open doorway into
the chamber of initiation.
Gently we were taken by the arm and led a few steps for­
ward and then turned at right angles and caused to move for­
ward in another direction. This was repeated several times in
the direction of each point of the compass. It was not a capri­
cious act, nor was it intended to confuse us. It was, I knew from
my experience with ritualism, part of some solemn ceremony. I
had by now lost my orientation. The stillness, tbe quiet, was
intense; it bad tbe feeling of heaviness; it seemed to be pressing
in upon me. I felt as though eyes I could not see, how many I
did not know, were not merely looking upon my form or my
partially concealed face, but were searching my soul. M y heart
thumped and a flush of warmth came over me. So carefully
had I been blindfolded that even no light penetrated to my
sight. I felt not as one whose vision was temporarily obscured,
but rather like a person groping in the dark of night, in a wild,
unknown terrain, not knowing but half sensing that perhaps a
precipice lay just ahead, over which one could plunge into
oblivion. Strangely I had no tear, my emotion was one of excite­
ment instead, that anticipation of some great revelation that
would thrill and amaze me. I heard a voice; I knew it was close
to me, yet it had that faintness of distance. It was not in a tongue
that I at first recognized; in fact, I was not attempting to under­
stand it. Its melodious tone enthralled me; it was that to which
I was listening. It was unmistakably a man s voice, yet there
was something not mortal about it. Perhaps I was overwrought;
perhaps again my imagination dominated my reason, yet as I
look back upon the experience now, calm, collected, I can not
help but feel the same about it today. I was being told and
asked something. Certainly they must have known that I could
not understand the tongue or what was being said. Suddenly
I was startled — I amazed myself — I did know! I did not actu­
ally comprehend words, but the inflections, the rise and fall of
the voice, the reaction of my solar plexus to the vibrations of
their intonations engendered within me sensations which caused
me to have a consciousness of their import, as thoroughly as if
I had understood the language. 1 he voice stopped as suddenly
as it had begun. I was now breathing heavily with intense
excitement. The sound of my own breath disturbed me for it
was disturbing the peculiar state of tranquility existing in the
room, of which I was so conscious. To my surprise I quickly
regained my composure. Then I had a sensation of numbness
come over me like that one experiences wbo is slowly being
frozen. I felt drowsy. It became an effort for me to concentrate,
I so wanted to relinquish consciousness, to sort of slip olf into
an effortless state, into comfortable oblivion. Something, how­
ever, kept me from doing that. W hat it was I cannot recall —
something within me perhaps. There flashed into my mind the
command to answer. They were waiting and I must answer the
charge given me, the questions asked of me. I was, however,
powerless to speak; I could not even move my tongue — it was
an inopportune time to be inarticulate. 1 he answers, as
thoughts, welled up within my consciousness. It seemed as
though the very words themselves which 1 was mentally framing
choked me. A titanic struggle was going on within me, yet I
was aware that outwardly I remained motionless and perhaps
gave no indication of this conflict. Then a voice spoke in Eng­
lish; it was a woman’s. She said: “ You have answered aright.
It did not occur odd to me then that they were aware of my
answer, which was unspoken, and which had become nothing
more than an intense thought within me. I felt bands tugging at
my blindfold. A few seconds later I looked out upon my sur­
roundings.
In point of time, only a short period had elapsed since we had
entered the chamber and finally left these quarters on the
Rue . . . . , but in that interval and after the removal of our
blinds we had such experiences as made it seem that we had
lived for centuries and travelled to other worlds. And this con­
cluded my first initiation in the Order of the M I was to
have still others.
The next night was to be our last one in Brussels. It was to
be one of merriment, sociability, brotherhood. During the next
day Mrs. Lewis and Mrs. Shibley were free to visit some of the
excellent shops in Brussels, noted for their fine laces and needle­
work. They had to return early, however, to prepare for the
official F U D O S I banquet, a banquet which concludes all these
official sessions.
At 7:00 P. M. on that evening. Mademoiselle Guesdon again
acted as our guide. Our party, however, was increased in num­
ber this time. W e drove along one of the main boulevards in
Brussels, well illuminated with sparkling, scintillating electric
signs as modem as any we find in America. Along this boule­
vard there prevailed the typical continental atmosphere. There
were blocks dotted with little sidewalk cafes, little tables over
which there were awnings, and about which people sat sipping
wines, drinking coffee, and watching humanity file by.
W e eventually came to our destination, a well-illuminated
and fashionable-appearing restaurant — a large place. W e
entered, and the maitre d hotel escorted our party to the second
floor where, in a large dining hall, the convention tables were
spread. There were hosts of representatives of the various occult,
mystical, and arcane Orders of Europe and the world gathered
there. Some were in full dress, wearing their emblems of office,
and some wore their ritualistic capes. Among tbose present was
the eminent Grand Master of the Order of M into which
1 had just been inducted — a man of prominence in his own
country, an outstanding figure in the political world. More about
him will come later. I was introduced to a kindly old soul, well
over eighty years of age. Grand Master of the hermetic brother­
hood, a master of occult lore. He spoke English, and I spent
a very pleasant half-hour discussing the work of the A M O R C
in North and South America with him.
There were also many others there who were distinguished
personages. I had the pleasure of meeting our good Frater
Greuter of Southern France, who holds a prominent A M O R C
office in that country, and who is also active in the work of the
F U D O SI. A delightful banquet was served. There was enter­
tainment, and there were speeches in various languages. I had
the pleasure of addressing this congregation, and Mademoiselle
Guesdon interpreted my address to those present who could
not understand English.
W e returned to our hotel in the early hours of the morning
feeling that we had concluded a very successful stay in Brussels,
and had had an experience that made life worth living. Late as
was the hour, or rather I should say, as early in the morning as
it was, we were obliged to pack and prepare for an early morning
journey to France — to Paris.
Chapter III
A C IT Y O F S T R A N G E C O N T R A S T S
I M ERE is a charm about Paris that is part imaginary and part
actual. M any Americans think of Paris as synonymous with
Europe, and their first trip abroad is centered in and about Paris.
Actually, however, Paris differs only slightly from many of the
other great cities of Europe. O f course, its customs, language,
and historical background are different, but in reality there is
little more of interest to the traveler or even to the tourist than
one vvouId find in London, Berlin, or Rome for example.
France, it is said, is a nation that desires to live in the past,
in the glory of past achievements and accomplishments, the
romantic settings of previous centuries, to dwell upon her great
personalities of yore, and thus she turns reluctantly to the pres­
ent, and to the future. It has also been said that the average
Frenchman devotes himself to (he things of the day and to
modem affairs by necessity, but prefers living in the memories
and glory of the France of the past. And since France has been
a battleground for centuries, and a prize which various powers of
Europe at different times sought, the French people are instinc­
tively on their guard, and one gathers the impression that many
of them are suspicious. They are constantly, it seems, on the
alert for those who would take advantage of them. This sus­
picion affronts many visitors, though the effrontery is uninten­
tional on the part of the Frenchman.
This suspicion is manifest in national affairs. It casts a burden
on her industry, finance, and full cooperation with other powers.
Time after time France has been trampled upon, her national
honor insulted, her people enslaved, her institutions destroyed
by the greed and avarice of hostile powers, and each member of
a family has taken an unexpressed oath that it shall never
happen again, and this obligation colors their views. France
is, therefore, a militaristic nation, not because of a desire to
conquer or even to expand herself, but for self-defense alone.
She feels that if she can command the greatest air force and one
of the best equipped and manned armies in Europe, as well as
having the most extensive fortifications, she will be safe from
the crushing blow which she feels other powers are waiting
to give her to further their own ends. The people as a whole
are extremely emotional, but this emotionalism is not evidenced
except in emergencies, in crises. There are other peoples of
Europe as emotional and they display their emotion more fre­
quently in the commonplace affairs of the day. The average
Frenchman is quiet, peace loving, even tempered, except when
extraordinarily provoked. Then the emotions. like pent-up furies,
break loose, and perforce they sweep away the usual very logical
reasoning of the people.
The impression the visitor gets is that Paris is a city of two
classes only: those who are wealthy —
- or at least have a very
substantial income and are able to enjoy the better and finer
things of life, the luxuries — and a great multitude who are
struggling along, barely able to provide the necessities of life.
There does not seem to be that dominant class which we, in
America, say is the great middle class, or the bourgeoisie. That
is particularly noticeable in the material aspects of the city. On
the great boulevards we find every evidence of wealth and pros­
perity, large buildings with marble and tile fronts and chromium
plating, modernistic lighting effects and decorations, broad
streets and sidewalks, shops displaying articles of every con­
ceivable kind, exquisite jewelry, clothes — both men’s and
women s — of the latest fashion, rare perfumes, gems, restau­
rants and cafes whose cuisine caters to the epicurean. The pas­
sers-by are well dressed, alert, cultured, refined; but if one steps
off the boulevard, in many of the side streets he finds squalor,
dust and dirt, congestion, old buildings with old plumbing and
light fixtures, crowds, suggestions of poverty or at least want.
There is not the same sparkle of life, and hope, in the faces one
sees. There is more of an indication of drudgery and life without
the light of culture. O f course, there are many sections of Paris
which have beautiful apartment houses, and private homes, but
these again represent the opposite class, the other extreme. I here
is, apparently, no intermediate class, or at least a dearth of it.
One is also impressed by the comparatively few Frenchmen
that speak English, or in fact any other language than French.
This is noticeable in contrast to London, Berlin and Rome, for
the people of those cities almost all speak another language in
addition to their own. It is not that Frenchmen cannot be lin­
guists, because many of them speak several languages, but the
Frenchman has an exceptional pride in his language, a tradi­
tional pride, and many feel it beneath their national dignity to
express themselves in any other language than their own, except
when obliged to by commercial reasons or some other equal
necessity. 1 hus we find that in the French colonies, the man­
dated territories of France, the Frenchman does not make it his
business to learn the language of the native but attempts to
oblige the native to learn French. England, on the other hand,
takes a distinctly different position. She feels it is her duty and
obligation to become thoroughly conversant with the language
of the people of her colonies, and every public servant is obliged
to do so. Thus we find that England has a better understanding,
generally speaking, of the problems of the people of her colonies
than has France.
W e had arrived in Paris early in the afternoon. The day was
bright and warm, the sort of a day one looks forward to ex­
periencing in Paris. W e loaded our luggage in three taxis (and
I might add that in the last few years Paris has done away with
her traditional taxis which seemed like relics of the past, and
has adopted a style of taxi which is more like the American one
than any others to be found in Europe) and were soon on our
way. Visitors to Paris five years ago know it was the custom
for taxicabs to have mounted on them the early type rubber bulb
horn in addition to their modern electric horns. Taxis were for­
bidden to operate tbeir electric borns witbin tbe city limits, and
were consequently continually obliged to blow the bulb horn
at least two or three times in each block, and each one had a
different pitch or note. At first the visitor would find it amusing,
and finally extremely annoying and irritating. W ith the increase
of motor cars and taxis, the noise became a menace and finally
was done away with. Actually the visitor senses a quietude
which is unnatural for Paris. After a short winding trip through
the streets of Paris from the Gare de Lyon, then along the Rue
de Rivoli, we pulled up at our hotel opposite the famous Tuil-
erie s Gardens, which were palace grounds for centuries and
now form a beautiful park.
I he balance of that day and part of the next day were to be
free. W^e were to devote them to our own interests before we
began again filming historical sites and continuing interviews
with officials of the Rosicrucian Order and allied mystical or­
ganizations in Paris. W e hurried from our rooms after arrang­
ing our luggage, and decided at the curb that we would visit
the majestic Notre Dame Cathedral on the little island in the
Seine River which flows through the heart of Paris. A s we
rode toward the Seine, I recalled how this little island in the
heart of Paris, according to traditional history, was at one time
all there was to Paris; that the Roman generals in their accounts
to Rome, when they occupied France, told of a tribe ot people,
barbarians, who lived on the islands in the Seine. Then again
I thought of that medieval philosopher, Abelard, who had nu­
merous controversies with the Roman Church during the
eleventh century and who, because of his advanced ideas,
jeopardized his life, and how he went to Paris to study logic and
rhetoric and finally his teacher, W illiam of Champeaux, ad­
mitted to him that he could teach him no more. Abelard then
established his own school, and it is said that from the nucleus
of his school, which he also established on the island of the
Seine, later went forth students who took part in what finally
was the establishment of the famed Oxford University.
It is said that everything we see, every scene or place or thing
leaves a color impression on our minds, suggests either two or
three pronounced colors or combinations of them; that aside from
the details of the thing we have a memory of it in color; that it
suggests color or light shading to us aside from its form. W e
all agreed that the grey stone walls along the Seine with their
points or bridges of stone which have been there for several
centuries, and the other stone, grey, cold, uninviting buildings
on either side, gave us an impression not ol form particularly,
but of just black and white. W e later seemed to have the
memory impression of our experiences as darkness with just
patches of light representing the blue sky and the sun’s rays
which found their way between the mass of buildings and walls
and were reflected on the muddy waters of the Seine.
M an s works are mighty when they can instill within him the
same feeling of awe as do the great things of nature. The Notre
Dame Cathedral does that. Its great height, rising hundreds of
feet over the Seine, the massive stones, the height of the center
nave, the diffused lighting caused by the beautiful stained glass
windows, tbe great flagging, the grotesque gargoyles looking as
though they were leering down at you, leave one feeling small,
insignificant. And yet the greatness of the structure, the stability
and beauty of it, causes one to realize that with all that we are
able to accomplish today, we can not greatly improve upon this
beautiful example of Gothic architecture. W^hen one realizes
that this great edifice was built without the use of steel or girders
and that the great arches which press against them are the flying
buttresses or oblique, separate outer walls supporting the inner
ones, one marvels at the ingenuity of these early builders. Every­
where there are, in this great edifice, suggestions of wealth,
power, and strength. The early church had need of such lavish
display, for strung about these great cathedrals in Europe in the
Middle Ages were the squalid shacks, one might call them, of
the populace. In them people led a sordid life; gloom, dirt, filth,
fear and superstition existed in them. I he average person s
clothes were not much more than just what was necessary to
cover his body. There was nothing that represented beauty.
People had no beautiful furniture or jewels or paintings. They
had no musical instruments except a few of the very crudest
kind. Everything in life was dull and uninspiring. Life itself
seemed to be hardly worth living. 1 here was nothing that could
awaken within people who lived at that time an appreciation
of the magnificence of God, of the beauty and splendor of the
things which he had created. Naturally before they could ap­
preciate the divine, they had to realize something which sug­
gested, by its very nature and difference from their ordinary life,
that it was divine. T herefore, the church, collecting the pennies,
the coppers. the sous of these people, was able to build in their
midst a temple of such splendor and magnificence and majesty
as depicted the God to which it was devoted. And on religious
holidays or when the people gathered in these big temples for
worship they truly felt that they were in a sacred sanctum ol
God, for the world of the church was so different from theirs.
There was beautiful music, such as they never heard elsewhere,
magnificent paintings and murals they could not see any­
where else; there was a structure, stable, strong, representing
eternity, and the reliability and dependability of God Himself
in contrast to their frail structures which were like unto the life
of man. And so, though we may condemn the early church,
on the one hand, for taking the few miserable coins that these
people had and using them to build such lavish structures, yet
they received in return more spiritual benefit and more of an
awakening of their inner natures through that means than they
could have through the expending of their pennies, their cop­
pers, in any other way. So we can say that the church was
justified in its expenditures for these beautiful cathedrals.
The hour was late before we returned to our hotel, and we
were glad to retire.
The next day was not so pleasant a one. 1he skies were
leaden, and the smoke of the city was more visible against them
than the day before. There was a slow rain, one that seemed
ceaseless, and it bad a depressing effect upon the mood. How­
ever, we determined to visit another historical site. This was
the so-called Temple of Justice on the opposite side of the Seine.
Again we set out in a taxi. 1he taxi is the most dependable
means of transportation in Paris with the exception of the sub­
way, and as taxi fare is so cheap, the average visitor prefers it
to traveling in the congested subways, which, like most subways,
usually do not have terminals or stations within the vicinity of
the place you wish to visit.
The Temple of Justice is visible for quite some distance before
you arrive at it. It is a large, imposing building. Each corner
of it is flanked with a tower-like turret so that it looks like a
medieval castle. It apparently bas never been cleaned by sand
blasting as are many of the old stone buildings in America, for
its walls are extremely black, as though they had been coated
or painted with a black pigment. One gets a chill in looking
at it, a sort of dread feeling. In the center of the square building
between the two large turrets or towers is a great gateway, mas­
sive and composed of an iron grill. 1 he bottom of the grill has
spikes, and the whole gate itself is studded with bolts which are
apparently hand-riveted. This Temple of Justice, as it is now
called, was used during the French Revolution as the place
where royalty was confined, where aristocrats were imprisoned,
before their trials or, as we might say, 'mock trials, and before
they were led to the guillotine. A s you approach the large gate­
way, you feel your spirits ebbing; whether it is the suggestion
of the building itself, its cold atmosphere, or whether it is knowl­
edge of the fact that thousands were confined there before they
lost their lives through political upheaval. M any were tortured
there. Most all were led from there to their deaths. Political
prisoners during the French Revolution who were led into that
gateway knew it meant the end of freedom and the end of life.
It was like crossing the threshold from this life to another.
W e passed through the gateway into the courtyard. The
courtyard consisted of cobblestones irregularly laid, and not even
uniform in height. About the small quadrangle were the four
walls of the structure, all of the same cold appearing stone. One
felt so physically oppressed that it seemed even difficult to
breathe, though of course the courtyard was open to the sky.
1 he only openings in the walls of the building were long narrow
apertures about three feet in length and perhaps eight or ten
inches in width. Behind these slit-like windows were little al­
coves in which a man could stand and look out, and shoot from
them if necessary without exposing himself too greatly. If one
looked up at these apertures which were dark, because of the
shadows of the interior, one almost felt as if eyes were piercing
him, as if he were being scanned by an invisible person. W e
quickly crossed the cobblestone courtyard to a low arched door
way typical of Gothic architecture. W e stepped down three
well-worn steps and pushed heavily against a plank door with
its strap iron braces, which creaked on its rusty hinges as it
swung open. W e looked into an enormous subterranean cham­
ber with a vaulted ceiling, with many squatty columns of great
circumference. I hese columns supported the entire structure
in the manner of Gothic buildings. I he columns were joined at
their tops by arches forming a series of pockets or vaults in the
ceiling. It was very dark, except for the yellow light of a small
gas jet. One could easily see that the gas light had been added
some time later lor the pipe was strung between and fastened
to the columns. The flame was flickering considerably because
of the drafts that came from this great underground area. W e
closed the door behind us, which left us alone in this great
chamber.
For no reason whatsoever we spoke in hushed voices as
though we were afraid of awakening someone or attracting at­
tention to ourselves. Finally, realizing that there must be an
attendant in the place, I called out. The echo of my voice seemed
to spring back toward us lrom every corner as it resounded
throughout the stone chamber. It was flung back at us from the
vaulted ceiling, from the stone floor, from the many pillars. It
was as though we had awakened a thousand demons wlio were
jeering at us. It was a startling effect. However, it had the
desired result, for there approached us an attendant in a tattered
uniform who, though he was there tor that purpose, and must
have received visitors frequently, seemed rather curious because
we were there. W e explained the best way we could in rather
broken French what we desired: that we wanted to be shown
about; particularly did we want to see the famous cell of Marie
Antoinette. He motioned us to follow him, which we did, and
we wended our way among the forest of massive columns to a
circular stone staircase. At the bottom of the stone staircase
was another heavy plank door with an enormous bolt and chain,
crude but very substantial. In the upper center of the door was
a grill or aperture about ten inches square with three stout bars
in it. They were so rusty that the metal was crystalizing or flak­
ing away. Over the grill opening was the remains of a small
shutter, apparently so that it could be closed and the prisoner
in the cell could not see out. This, the attendant explained, was
the cell of the famous and beautiful Marie Antoinette. She was
confined for quite some time before she was taken from the cell
and led in a rough, high wooden-wheeled cart through the streets
of Paris before the shouting, screaming throngs to the guillotine.
1 here was her stone couch, and the little shrine at which she
prayed daiIy. T he vibrations were intense, acute. W e had
engendered within us in that cell, mingled feelings of fear,
hatred, and of remorse. There in the cell also were big iron
rings driven into the stones, to which unruly prisoners could be
chained. 1 hen we were led to another cell, and still another,
and finally again back into the great subterranean chamber, the
dungeon-like vast hall. It was in this great chamber that the
aristocrats, the ladies and gentlemen, the counts and the count­
esses, sat about playing cards, talking in low voices, weeping,
consoling each other, praying, hoping, while several times a day
the bolts and chains would rattle on the outer gate and in would
comp officers of the Citizens’ Guard who would read from a long
scroll the names of those who were next to be tried in a court
composed of the Revolutionaries. W hen their names were read,
shrieks would read the stone chamber, for all knew that when
they were led before the tribunal they could expect no mercy
and no justice, for there was no trial. They were all condemned
to death, and it was just the formality of passing in review be-
fore the judges — the butcher, the baker, and the candlestick
maker — and almost before the name of a defendant left the
lips of the clerk of the court a cry would arise from the court.
Guilty — the guillotine.
Tbere is a fascination about a gruesome place such as the
I emple ol Justice. One would imagine that he or she would
be anxious to leave, flee from the place, seek the fresh outdoors,
or that even the rain would be welcome and refreshing. But
instead you are drawn to investigate further. The horror of it
seems to grip the mind; draw you on and on.
W e finally returned to our hotel, and Frater Brower and I
prepared our photography equipment, for the next day was to
be a busy one for us. The third day was in our favor, photo­
graphically speaking. T ne sun shone brighi and the atmosphere
was unusually clear of the customary smoke. W^e set out in
search of the quarters of the famed Count Alessandro Caglios-
tro, prominent in the annals of the Eighteenth Century. W e
could not describe to our driver that we wanted to go to the
formr r residence and garret laboratory of the renowned al­
chemist and mystic Cagliostro, for Cagliostro is not even known
to the average Frenchman except to those who have studied
mysticism and philosophy and the history of that period thor­
oughly. So we had to give him the name of the rue or street.
It was quite a drive; it took us approximately half an hour to
reach there. W^e found ourselves in the heart of bustling, noisy
Paris. It was a light wholesale district. The houses of the street
were all one hundred to two hundred and fifty years old. Most
of them liacl been converted into factories for manufacturing
of fabrics. It was now strictly a commercial center. W e im­
mediately found tbe place we sought because of its unusual
appearance. Tbe building was recessed, surrounded by a high
cement wall. On top of the cement wall, which was about
twelve or fourteen feet in height, was an iron railing, and back
from that iron railing we could see the upper two stories of the
building. The garret story was quite eerie looking. It consisted
of a series of super-imposed windows, that looked as though
they were fastened or attached to the stone building, and
T H E G A R R E T LA B O R A T O R Y O F C A G L IO ST R O
In the heart of bustling, noisy Paris, this solemn, attention-arresting
residence of a famed mystic of nearly two centuries ago. Onto the super­
imposed garret balcony, the alchemist philosopher, Count Allesandro
Cagliostro, hoisted from the cobblestone court below his kegs of chem­
icals used in his secret experiments.
(Photo by AM ORC)
extended from the face of it. But what principally caught our
attention and definitely identified it as the place we sought was
the garret balcony. It was a little porch that extended out from
the edge of the top story, and over this porch which had a simple
iron railing about it was a low narrow roof, and projecting from
the edge of the roof was a metal bar about four feet in length
from which hung a pulley, and from which dangled a strand
of cable. It was from that balcony that Count Alessandro C agli­
ostro hoisted from the cobblestone courtyard below his kegs of
chemicals and boxes of instruments used in his secret alchemical
experiments.
Cagliostro in his youth had gone to the Orient and studied
in the mystery schools there, and became well versed in the secret
laws of nature. Returning again to Europe, he became re­
nowned as a healer. He effected miraculous cures. He seemed
always to be in possession of great wealth, jewels and gems,
and he was lavish in his contributions to the poor and needy.
His demonstrations ol natural law gained for him the reputa­
tion, on the one hand, of being an astute philosopher and al­
chemist, and on the other hand he was accused by those who
feared his powers of being a black magician and of practicing
the arts of Satan. From where his tremendous wealth came,
which seemed endless, no one quite knew. It was said that he
had discovered the means of transmuting the baser metals into
gold and thus could make gold at will. Because of the great
cures he effected, it was said that he had also found the elixir
of life. Kings and potentates sought his counsel and his help,
but as bis fame spread, so did also jealousy and fear of him. It
is said he entered Paris riding in a great gold coach laden with
gems, and with chests of gold. He was charged with many
crimes and successfully defended himself against them. Some
of his greatest accusers were those who held high positions in
the church. I he persecution became more intense, and finally
he was dragged bodily from his garret home and wrongly im­
prisoned for 1 e. For years the only historical accounts were
those which came down to us from prejudiced persons, declaring
him to be a charlatan, a mountebank, a fraud, and an imposter.
Since that time other facts have been found which revea 1 that
he was not a charlatan, not a fraud, but a true mystic >
— one who
used his wealth for the benefit of others and most certainly had
a mastery of natural law which he sought to teach and which
caused mingled feelings of respect and fear toward him.
W ith these thoughts in mind we entered the courtyard and
looked about. Everything was disillusioning. Along the three
sides of the courtyard were doorways that originally had perhaps
led into private chambers of his residence. Now they were door­
ways leading into shops, and over the doorways hung either
brass or wooden signs, and through some of the partly open
doors we could see women working at sewing machines manu­
facturing garments. From some of the windows overhead wear­
ing apparel was hanging and modern household utensils were
evident. There seemed to be no appreciation of the fact that
they were living in what was at one time the center of the
greatest mystery of Europe — the residence and the garret labora­
tory of Cagliostro, the man who held the respect, fear and
admiration of the crowned heads of Europe. Most of them did
not even know that this old building had been the property of
Cagliostro. A s we stood looking about, a man approached us
from one of the shops. Fie appeared to be the superintendent,
and asked us what place we wished. W e explained that we
were merely visitors and desired to take a few photographs. He
seemed puzzled as to why we wished to photograph these small
places of business or shops. W re explained that we were here
because of its historical interest; that we knew, in fact, that this
was the former residence of the mystic and alchemist Cagliostro.
He looked quizzically at us for a moment and replied that it was,
but that no one except himself and one other of the attendants
knew anything about it, and they said nothing about it as they
did not want to attract visitors who would interfere with the
business activities. He said we could not enter the garret because
it was occupied by a tailoring establishment and the tailor him­
self had never heard of Cagliostro and did not, of course, know
that he was occupying the laboratory of the alchemist. It seemed
such a travesty, that nothing was done to respect the memory
of this character. A t least — we thought — a brass plate could
have been erected to his memory somewhere in the courtyard.
I had known from my studies and from our Rosicrucian
archives that there was a secret passageway and stairway which
led to the garret, and that the passageway also led out bom
this court for several blocks to some other residence in the city
that Cagliostro would use when desiring to evade the curious
throngs who used to collect about the outer wall either waiting
to see him or to solicit his gold. M y attention was attracted to
one of the doors in the corner of the courtyard. It was a little
smaller than the rest, but particularly was it noticeable because
it was not wooden like the others, but was all metal, a solid
sheet of metal. It looked like a fire exit, such as we use in
buildings today, with a metal door to prevent the spread of fire
from one building to another. I pointed to it. And that? I said.
He seemed to sense what I thought and he said. That is not
in use any longer. It used to be a tunnel or passageway that led
out somewhere into this district, but long ago a portion of it
caved in and so it has fallen into disuse, and we keep the iron
doorway closed so that it will not be used by anyone, thus they
will not be injured.
' Cagliostro s? I asked. He replied, Most likely, as no one
remembers when it was constructed and apparently it was made
at the time this building was erected several centuries ago.” W e
had all the information we needed and we immediately took
photographs.
On the final afternoon of our stay in Paris I met Mademoiselle
Guesdon at a pre-arranged time. She accompanied me to an
appointment with Frater B , Sovereign Supreme Master of
the Order of M . . . . into which I had been duly initiated in
Brussels. Frater B . . . . holds a prominent position in France.
He is Secretary of the Archives of the French Government, a
department containing the records, manuscripts, books and
papers, and documents of State — a most responsible and im­
portant position. The Library of Archives is located in the
Chamber of Deputies Building in Paris, an historical place, once
a palace. After a short ride we arrived at the Chamber of
Deputies and Mademoiselle Guesdon and myself were escorted
into the private office of Frater B ..........
Frater B . . . . is a very dynamic and forceful man, a man of
approximately fifty years of age but with the vitality, stamina
and energy of a much younger man. He speaks quickly, he acts
quickly, he thinks quicklv. Life holds two principal interests
for him besides his family — his work, the responsible position
he has in the French Government, and his mystical philosophical
studies and office in the F U D O S I and the Order of M ............
Our exchange of ideas was a little difficult as Frater B . . . . spoke
no English and I no French. So again Mademoiselle Guesdon
came to my aid. W e discussed at length the work of the
A M O R C in America, and the work of the Order of M . . . . in
Europe. Frater B . . . . explained that he had conferred upon the
Imperator of the Rosicrucian Order of A M O R C certain au­
thority to establish in North and South America the Order of
M ...............and that before I left France I, too, would receive
authority to assist the Imperator in the establishment of this
Order.*
Seeing my great interest in the Chamber of Deputies because
of its historical significance, and because it is one of the impor­
tant departments of tbe French Government, he personally
escorted me throughout the old building into what formerly were
the ball-rooms and library and music rooms of the nobility that
occupied it before the Revolution. Then he took me into one of
the alcoves of the archives and there were great bound volumes,
scrolls, manuscripts, dating back for centuries. M any of these
* This reference to the Imperator refers to Dr. H. Spencer Lewis.
volumes and manuscripts are priceless because of tbeir historical
value. For example, he showed me the handwritten court record
of the trial of Marie Antoinette, whose cell we had visited but
two days before. He pointed out in this old manuscript how
every time any defense was raised in her behalf, the jurists
would cry out. Guillotine, Guillotine, and there in black and
white appears this blemish on justice. It was a strange sensation
to look upon such a manuscript and to visualize the scene that
took place when these events were recorded. Things of the
greatest historical importance seem commonplace to Europeans,
for there they have so much that is of the past —
<surrounded
with history. Any one of the things would demand considerable
attention in our new America. The very chair which Frater
B . . . . used as his personal office chair was an antique that
would gladden the heart of any dealer in America or elsewhere,
and would bave brought an enormous sum in sale. 7 he chair
came from the private library of King Louis VIII of France,
yet I rater B . . . . was using it as just another piece of office
furniture, and he smiled at my amazement at his commonplace
acceptance of this antique.
W hen we finally left it was dusk, and we were caught in the
throngs returning to home from work. 1 he jostling, pushing,
scurrying crowds at 6:00 P. M. in Paris are no different in their
anxiety to return home after routine affairs and enjoy their fire­
sides and their personal interests than the office and work-a-day
crowds one finds in any city in America or Canada. This night
we could not enjoy strolling along Parisian boulevards, up the
Rue de Rivoli or along the Madeleine, nor could we sit at tbe
Cafe de la Paix where it is said the world passes by, and which,
it is also said, is the most cosmopolitan spot in Europe, for we
had to pack and prepare for a long journey. W^e were truly to
start Eastward on the morrow — Egypt was beckoning. Our
trek along the trail of civilization was to begin in earnest.
C hapter IV
M O T H E R N IL E
The w a t e r FRONT of any large port of the world is fascinating.
The bustling, the clatter of carts, trucks and dorries over cobble­
stones, the deep-throated whistles of chugging tugs, the raucous
cries of longshoremen and teamsters, all add to the undercurrent
of excitement. Sham, hypocrisy, and shallow conventions drop
by the wayside. The stark realities of life are revealed. W hen
men go to sea they are compelled to struggle with one of the
earth s greatest untamed elements. Preparation for its conquest
requires strong will and matter-of-fact conduct. Passengers may
have idealistic illusions about traveling the high seas, but the
men who load cargo and make the great vessels ready for de­
parture know that with all the safety devices provided by modern
science, the event is fraught with dangers.
The port of Marseilles in Southern France, a city of nearly
a million population, impresses the traveler with the fact that it
is more than a shipping center or a great port of call, but a gate­
way to the East. Here the flotsam and jetsam of North Africa,
and from East of the Suez, meet with the backwash of Occi­
dental Europe. A s we stood on the pier surrounded by large
cases which, from their size, may have contained airplanes or
automobiles, and leaned languorously against bales of cotton
from French Morocco, we studied the flow of humanity past us.
Through one of those unexpected events of travel, the ship
we were scheduled to take was called suddenly from the service
and we were forced to delay our sailing several hours. W^e
were the only ones waiting who looked strictly, shall we say,
like passengers. Tall Algerian blacks, with tattered, ill-fitting
French army uniforms, shuffled past. Their eyes stared vacu­
ously ahead. W^hat did life hold for them? Plucked from their
native environment, these simple souls were enlisted in the
French army; fed poorly, and paid badly they existed, aim­
lessly following the orders of white masters. Trained to use
modern arms and methods of warfare against European white
armies if necessary, they could be a menace to France, if ever
it dawned in their consciousnesses that they were being made
puppets for the avarice of white men. Children of their appe­
tites, they are content if these appetites are regularly appeased.
To maintain the necessary quietude among them, liberal France
does not even draw the racial line. In cafes and on streets,
Algerian native officers and French white girls enjoy each other s
company without apparent social detriment to either.
Scores of unkempt and gaunt priests gathered in knots, talking
profusely, gesticulating freely, their personal belongings in black
cloth bundles at their feet or dangling from their hands at their
sides; solemn faced plump nuns wearing frayed grey tunics,
methodically climbed the gang-plank. Each looked, even before
departure, as though sorely affected by nostalgia. Ihese were
Christian missionaries, their dangling crucifixes, and well-
thumbed Bibles which they clutched, were to them torches, to
be carried to dark Africa to — as they believed — a heathen
people. Such a simple faith carried to an irrational extreme has
been the unfortunate cause of untold deaths, bloody orgies, and
gruesome massacres. The ideal of spreading Christianity is
noble, but the attitude of damning the beliefs of others to further
it is ignoble. To most of these missionaries, as to thousands of
others of different Christian denominations, their duty was the
condemnation of the beliefs of simple-minded natives, and then
t le substitution of Christianity. To rob a man of his God, and
his belief in the nature of divinity, is to throw him on the mercy
of his own resources until, if and when, he can accept a change.
To term the God of the Buddhist, Confucian, Mohammedan,
Brahman, or even that of the primitive African a false deity, is
to them a sacrilege equal to making a like statement to a Chris­
tian. It arouses resentment, that another may dare to name his
God as superior and suggest abandonment of one’s own. Others
than ( hristians are lovers of sacred traditions and have Bibles
and temple teachings which they cherish as the words of the
Omnipotent. The order or request that they lay these aside is
an effrontery which is not taken lightly. W hat end does Chris­
tianity serve by this? Education, sanitation, hygiene, culture, can
be advanced equally well by other methods and by non-sec­
tarian movements which do not antagonize. If Christianity is
to gain converts in non-Christian countries, let her do it by
examples of tolerance, mercv, and understanding, not through
ridicule and the undermining of sensibilities. The former traits
are, after all, the true implements of Christianity.
Hilarious voices, loud laughter, attracted our attention. Open,
smiling faces passed. There were several families; rotund fathers
heavily bearded, with funny round caps and tight trousers —
mothers in voluminous skirts which they held outstretched to
sweep along before them dirty-faced, wide-eyed youngsters,
much like mother hens gathering in their chicks — peasants
bound for Syria and colonization. Syria offered them lower
taxes, more land, fewer conveniences, the same labors — life
the same, but the scene changed. Mingled feelings arise in the
breasts of the more fortunate who watch such parades as these.
Vanity struggles with compassion, but reason tells us that the
gulf between was bridged only by the flimsy structure of oppor­
tunities which the past afforded us or our progenitors.
A shrill blast awakened us to the need to scurry aboard. Our
baggage had been loaded some time previously. The prospect
of our journey on the S. S. Providence of the French Line was
not promising. Frater Brower, having had nautical experience,
observed that the exterior of the ship was quite lacking in order­
liness. Her steel plates were well-rusted; the former white of
her upper hull and super-structure was now a dirty grey and
badly chipped. Her stacks were smeared with soap and her
stanchions bent in several places. W^ith an air of contempt, he
murmured a tub, which to him was a sufficient expression to
convey conclusions of his appraisal of her. W e stepped on deck
and looked about. Everything was confusion; no stewards to
direct us to our staterooms, no signs pointing out directions.
Ropes, cables, blocks and tackles and piles of weather-torn
canvas lay strewn about. In contrast to the clean and efficiently
organized British liners, this made one think of the old Atlantic
cattle boats. The lack of cleanliness was only lo be equalled
by the discourtesies of the crew who were sullen, and accus­
tomed to herding about passive peasants and clerics.
It was the third day out. The sea rose and fell with a slight
quiver, like gelatin. I have never seen it so glass-like. The sky
was a magnificent blue, without the flaw of even one white
cloud. The sun was on our starboard side, and shone warmly,
but not uncomfortably, upon us. It encouraged rumination. On
this same sea, this great Mediterranean, men had ventured as
early as thirty centuries B. C. W hat crude craft they must have
possessed, what indomitable courage, to push out into a vast
area like this not knowing what lay beyond, or even if there
was a beyond. M any fathoms below us in this blue black,
fringed with white frothy foam, were perhaps the remains of
the early Greek vessels that plied between the homeland and
ancient Syracuse. Perhaps, too, there were fragments of proud
Roman galleys, sunk in conflict with their mighty Carthaginian
foes. W hat a story the Mediterranean would tell if she regurgi­
tated all she had swallowed during the centuries! This sea must
have looked the same to the admirals of many armadas and to
conquering Caesars. Nations and civilizations had crashed and
fallen upon her bosom, but she gave no sign of the centuries
she had witnessed. Ceaseless and unchanging, she was an
example of how little man’s puny efforts affect nature.
Though land was nowhere in sight, I thought of the favored
spot of the land surface of the earth toward which we were
bound — the cradle of civilization, as historians refer to it —
the great fertile crescent; that fringe of grass land that extends
from the northern tip of the Red Sea to the mouth of the Nile.
North of it are mountains, and south of it a great bay of sand,
as the eminent archaeologist, James Breasted, described it. At
its southwest extremity is the great Nile River Valley, and at
the eastern end of the crescent, the Tigris-Euphrates River
Valley. In these two valleys began the oldest civilization of
which we have any record. How and why they began there we
can only conjecture, but nature apparently arranged her forces
and elements to make them conducive to the development of
man. This is obvious, as we shall later see.
One tires of sea journeys, especially after several days of
rnal de mer or, in other words, seasickness. The sea had sud­
denly changed one night to a plunging, swirling fury which
tossed the fairly large ship about with ease; raising it to heights,
the sea would let it slide with a sickening shiver, wallowing in
a deep trough, the next moment to boost it up, suspended, it
seemed, in mid-air, and then to let it fall again, it rolling dizzily
all the while as if trying vainly to steady itself. A ll this was
now past. The sea had quieted except for choppy waves which
were whipped by a brisk breeze. W e were recuperating, finding
pleasure in the thought that in a little more than an hour we
were to come in sight of the shores of Egypt. The very word
Egypt” electrified us. Fratres Shibley, Brower and myself went
below to prepare our baggage for custom inspection, expecting
considerable difficulties with the customs because of the great
amount of cinema equipment and films. After tedious packing
and a lapse of considerable time, we returned to the deck. The
ship had slowed her speed. W e peered southeastward and
thrilled at the sight. There was a long sandy strip of land hardly
above the surface of the sea. It was the entrance to the port of
Alexandria. On this sand strip there stood a moderately tall
lighthouse. It was in this vicinity that the famed island of Pharos
was located. On that island in the entrance to the mouth of
the Nile, during the Hellenistic period about 300 B. C., was
erected the first lighthouse of the world. A great structure, it
rose to a height of some 370 feet, or about thirty stories, equalling
many of our skyscrapers. The ancient mariners could see its
great light far out at sea, and were guided safely in with their
strange cargoes. Its Oriental design later became the basis of
the Mohammedan minarets commonly seen today as a part of
tbe architectural structure of their great mosques or temples. It
finally fell in 1360 A . D. It was the last of the great tower struc­
tures influenced by the Babylonian tower builders.
W e thought of the thousands of ships through the centuries
that must have approached this port as we were doing. W e
imagined Cretans laden with finely carved earthen vessels and
vases, and beautiful necklaces and bracelets of gold and of
bronze; Greek ships with statuary and marble; Egyptians re­
turning after trading hardwoods from up the Nile, and papyrus
from the delta, and copper from the ancient mines on the penin­
sula of Sinai. At that time, Alexandria was not only a seat of
learning but was. as Breasted puts it, the N ew York or Liverpool
of the ancient world — a great shipping or trading center.
A s the ship maneuvered into position for tying at the dock,
a motley crowd gathered to welcome it, shouting, screaming,
jumping up and down, waving their hands. They were anxious
for their prey — the passengers. Egyptian fellahs who served
as porters, Nubians, Arabs, Jews from Palestine, and Syrians,
either wishing to act as guides or assistants, jostled each other
for vantage positions. Some wore tarbooshes (fezzes), others
low turbans of loosely wound and much soiled linen. Still others
were bareheaded. Some were clothed in awning-like striped
gowns and barefooted, and the majority wore what appeared
to be open necked flannel nightgowns which nearly trailed in
the dust of the waterfront street. Native police were finding it
difficult to maintain any semblance of order though they were
freely applying bamboo-like canes to heads, backs and shoul­
ders. After much explanation, annoyance, and a liberal distri­
bution of bakshish (native vernacular for present or money), we
were seated in a modern, comfortable railroad coacb wbicb sped
southward along tbe great Nile toward Cairo.
Tbe Nile is one of tbe greatest rivers in tbe world. It begins
tbree degrees soutb of the equator, and flowing northward at­
tains a length of some four thousand miles. It, the W hite Nile,
is joined by two tributaries >the Blue Nile, its affluent, from
the east, and one hundred and forty miles below this union, the
Atbara joins it. The volume of the Nile is not great, but it has
influenced the destiny of man more than any other river in the
history of the world. For centuries it carried its alluvial soil to
the sea from equatorial Africa, each season periodically over­
flowing its channel and depositing on either side, on top of the
parched Libyan and Arabian desert sands, a black, smooth film
of the most fertile soil of the world. Inch by inch, year by year
it grew deeper, pushing the desert back from the river channel
itself. Vegetation flourished in this black rich soil; it grew right
up to the edge of the desert itself.
Here in this valley the early Stone Age man, who in some
manner crossed the Mediterranean from Central Europe ahead
of the great glacial descents, found himself in an ideal environ­
ment. Egypt is not visited by any severe storms. 1here are no
frosts or snows. Having once arrived in Egypt, he was protected
from tbe ice, from the glacial movements, by the great natural
barrier of the Mediterranean; and on either side of this Nile
strip were great almost uncrossable deserts which protected him
from enemies, and he was at peace with the world for a con­
siderable time. W^hat he was able to accomplish within each
decade and century remained. Civilization was able to build
on the accomplishments of those who had gone before, instead
of having all torn asunder by ravishing hordes or the destruc­
tion of nature, and being forced to begin again. Thus civilization
prospered, flourished, at a time when the rest of the world was
either wholly barbarian or extremely primitive.
A s we sped southward, we found that in many respects the
customs of these simple people had not changed with the years.
On either side of us was a network of small canals, irrigation
canals. Irrigation began in the Nile V alley and was developed
to a science at a time when men in other parts of the world were
still chipping flint hatchets. W e could see small brown-skinned
men standing knee-deep in the water close to the banks and
working lifts — long poles, each having a mud basket fastened
on one end, and on the other end a mud ball as a counter weight
—-and by manipulating this sweep or pole they would lift bas­
kets of water from the Nile up to the level of the irrigation
ditches, keeping a steady flow running through the intensely
cultivated lands.
Further on we could see the application of the simplest me­
chanical form of pumping water, water wheels, to which were
fastened buckets which would scoop up the water, and which
were kept in motion by docile water buffalo ■
—
<the great beast
of burden of the Egyptian — walking about in a circle, blind­
folded to keep from becoming dizzy from the incessant circular
motion. In the days of the Pharaohs taxes began with this sys­
tem of irrigation. It was an intricate system. Th^ ditches and
dykes had to be constantly protected and maintained. The
Pharaohs and the nobles maintained a corps ol what we may
call engineers and constructors to build new irrigation dams and
ditches and to maintain those in existence. They in turn exacted
taxes from the peasants in return for the use of the canals and
the water. 1 hese taxes amounted to a certain portion of their
crops which had to be delivered at a given time. If they were
not, officers of the nobles or the Pharaoh would seize the peasant
and bring him to the royal or feudal court for reckoning.
Frequently we passed beautiful groves of tall, swaying palm
trees, native to the country. A ll about us was green, though not
many miles away on either side was the lifeless glaring desert.
A ll this life, this coolness, this vegetation, was dependent upon
this one source, the Nile.
It is not surprising that the Egyptians worshipped the Nile.
They regarded it as the god of fertility and life itself. It provided
them with food, with drink; its rise and fall made it possible
for them to tell the passing of time. It carried them to the sea.
Their whole existence was bound up in it.
The Egyptians were not always a united people, however.
There were at one time many little kingdoms that spread along
the Nile. Then, in a later period, these kingdoms united into
two great ones — the kingdom of the Upper Nile and the king­
dom of the Lower Nile. M any wars were waged for the con­
quest and sole control of this fertile valley.
Occasionally as we concentrated on what we were passing,
we would have a fleeting glimpse of native mud villages, houses
constructed much like the early Cal romia adobe ones, bricks
made of the thick alluvial soil, reinforced with straw, which
would become baked by the sun, hard and resisting. A s Egypt
is never subject to rain they were quite durable, and an insula­
tion against the terrific heat of the summer months. Domesti­
cated animals, poultry, and children freely walked in and out
and around the houses of the village. The streets were but deep
ruts in the mud. Soon we were to reach Cairo. It is said that
before reaching Cairo and just as one is approaching, the great
Pyramids of Gizeh can be seen rising above the flat table lands
of the desert. However, we were not favored with seeing them.
Cairo is a tremendously large city and is affected greatly by
European customs, architecture, dress, methods of transporta­
tion, etc. In modern Cairo one feels as though he were in a
city such as Paris, Naples, or some other metropolis of the world.
Street cars jangle by, taxis are honking, people are well dressed
in the Occidental sense, streets are well paved. One finds a
tremendous modern influence in architecture. Beautifully de­
signed apartment houses, towering several stories, are to be seen
in various sections of the city. The designs show the invasion
of German architectural ideas and are of a style that is just
making itself known in the bigger cities of the United States.
It must be quite deflating to American egotism tbat considers
American structures and buildings tbe most advanced. Here
were apartment buildings equal, in tbeir exterior part at least,
and superior in many ways to tbose in our American cities. Tbey
are mostly occupied by wealthy persons who spend two or three
months of the year in Cairo, taking advantage of its salubrious
climate. The only suggestions in modem Cairo of the Orient are
the robes and tarbooshes worn by native Egyptians and by the
Arabs. Most of these robes are worn by the dragomen or the
Egyptian guides who adopt native costume in Cairo to attract
the attention of tourists and travelers. Their robes are highly
ornamental, made of heavy silk, with beautiful linings, and
artistically embroidered brocades. Most of the Egyptian business
men in Cairo have adopted the western style of dress. A few
still cling to the tarboosh because it is a symbol of Mohamme­
danism. It is more than just a hat; it designates one s religious
belief.
After locating at our hotel, we immediately proceeded to make
inquiries about the city itself. The first point of attraction is
naturally the native section of the city. One feels that he must
not be disappointed. He must not remain in the modem section
of Cairo for it is too much like his home country, his own city.
He does not want to spoil the mental picture he had of Cairo,
and so he quickly seeks the native section, which more conforms
to his concept of what Cairo should be like.
The native bazaars are little changed by the years. The shops
— on either side of narrow streets, many of them covered by
dome-like roofs — are but small cubby-hole-like rooms, in front
of which are suspended on chains and ropes, or stacked on
wooden shelves attached to the wall on either side of the door­
way, samples of all the merchandise which the shop-keeper has
for sale. Naturally, as you walk through the streets you are
immediately recognized as a foreigner, as a European, if not
an American, and the hawkers begin crying their wares and
their prices, rushing out to grab you by the elbow, trying to
escort you into their shops, proclaiming to you that their wares
are the best if not the most reasonable. How unfortunate one is
if he makes a purchase at the first price quoted. Unlike our
merchants in this country, they have no fixed prices for any of
their wares. Their price is whatever they can get from the buyer.
Usually there are from four to five reductions before a sale is
consummated. The visitor does not learn this at first, and he
usually pays six or seven times the value of an article. These
Cairo bazaars, because of the influence of England and the
modern Egyptian government, are quite clean and neat in con­
trast to bazaars in Asia Minor, Damascus, and Baghdad, about
which we will have more to say later. The visitor to the Cairo
bazaars does not realize this. He thinks them quaint and un­
touched by modern civilization as he naturally has not seen
anything by which to make comparisons.
W e returned quite late to our hotel, dining on the terrace
and watching Cairo move by. Tomorrow was to be a busy day
<
—
>a thrilling one. Tomorrow was the eventful September 16th,
1936, the day recorded in symbolism in the Great Pyramid
itself, the day that might shape the destiny of the world. And
we were to visit that edifice upon that day, after arranging for
the special concession. The sense of responsibility that rested
upon us, the realization that the world, through the press, was
considering the significance of this date prophesied in the Great
Pyramid, occupied our thoughts until we lost consciousness in
restful sleep.
eg^^rasBsagBaBiBsnaEi
C hapter V
P R O P H E C Y D A Y IN T H E G R E A T P Y R A M ID
T hough an extremely inviting breakfast bad been prepared
for us, we were not in a mood for tbe consideration of food.
W bat lay ahead of us occupied our thoughts. A ll through our
travels there had been in the back of our consciousness the
thought of the Great Pyramid and September 16, 1936, the
eventful day prophesied by the Pyramid itself to have a tre­
mendous future effect upon the races of mankind and our present
civilization. Even as we hurriedly ate and glanced through a
Cairo newspaper we observed that the press of that city had
taken cognizance of September 16 and, in a long article, quoted
different authorities’ interpretations of the symbolism of tbe
Great Pyramid with respect to this particular day.
Sheikh Abdul, our personal guide, called for us in a modern
automobile of American make in which we placed our various
cinema equipment, tripod, camera, accessories, lens, films, filters,
and then crowded ourselves in as well. W e were soon speeding
toward the Great Pyramids.
O f course, from what one has read and pictures one has seen,
one realizes that the Pyramids are the greatest edifices ever built
by ancient man — as far as we now have knowledge of the past
— and that they are massive structures today, even in comparison
with the skyscrapers and big buildings of our modem cities. But
this realization is nothing to the actual experience of seeing
them. A s one approaches they grow monstrous and seem to
loom out of the very sands upon which they are erected. Most
paintings of the Great Pyramids make them seem very colorful,
yet in the glaring sun, even in the early morning, to the eye
they are white with just a slight tint of yellow. They reflect
the brilliant sunlight on the sands.
The Pyramids are built on a great high plateau >
—the plateau
of the Sahara. They are not in the Delta region of the Nile. In
a sense, in their present state of preservation they appear crude,
like an enormous pile of gigantic blocks tumbled upon each
other and assuming, it seems, by accident the general shape of
the Pyramid. But this impression is only gained when one is
close to them. From a position close to them there seems to be
little difference in size between the Great Pyramid of Cheops
and the Pyramid of Chephren.
A s one starts to walk about the base of the Cheops Pyramid
there soon dawns upon him tbe realization that it does, as esti­
mated, cover an area of some thirteen acres. The great sand­
stone blocks of which it is composed are about the shoulder
height of an average man. For a height of about fifty or sixty
feet around the entire Pyramid, the great blocks are quite jagged
and protrude. Above that, with the exception of the one corner
or side of the Pyramid which is exposed toward the open desert,
the sides are quite smooth and almost inaccessible. The exposed
corner, however, has been whipped by the elements and the
sands for years, and it is so jagged that its blocks form a natural
stairway or steps to the apex. It would seem as though it would
be quite simple to ascend the Pyramid by this means, yet to the
inexperienced it is a tedious task. Native Arab boys for a few
piastres willingly race to the top and return in the short time
of seven minutes.
The top of the Great Pyramid is now flat, but originally is
said to have had a gold apex, portions of which were removed at
different intervals in the past. From below one can see a slender
mast rising from the top. This steel mast, it is said, was affixed
to the top of the Great Pyramid by Napoleon and from it flew
the French flag during his occupation of Egypt.
One of the mysteries of the Great Pyramid for a considerable
time, even in late centuries, was the location of its entrance.
There was nothing visible from the outside to indicate the proper
entrance to it. I he Caliph, El Mamoun, made a false entrance,
and this false entrance is still used today as the main entrance
to the Pyramid. It was through this false entrance that we made
our entry, climbing up to it over two or tbree of tbe large blocks,
each weighing two and a half tons, wbicb is tbe average weight
of all of them, and of which there are some two million, three
hundred thousand in the Great Pyramid — enough to form a
stone wall, four feet in height, from new York to San Francisco
and half way back.
W e entered the jagged aperture of the mammoth structure,
and then our party of four cautiously walked along a semi-dark
and narrow stone passageway which led to the ramp of what is
known as the Grand Gallery. After walking along this passage­
way for a short distance we were obliged to stoop and crawl
through a circular-like tunnel for a distance of about twenty-
five or thirty feet. W hen we stood erect again we were at the
beginning of the Grand Gallery. It was a most awe-inspiring
spectacle. W 'e thrilled to the thought, as we looked upward
along this steep narrow passageway and saw above us and on
either side massive highly polished limestone blocks, that we
were in the Great Pyramid of Egypt. Mystery of mysteries?
One feels helpless, surrounded by this wall of stone. He feels
insignificant; humble. It is peculiar but true that the Great
Pyramid inspires in man that same feeling of humility as do
some of the great works of nature. Slowly we began our ascent
up the rough stone ridges which are in the form of steps, and
which are the only means of reaching the top of the Grand
Gallery. It is a steep ascent and you feel, after five or ten
minutes of climbing, that the height of the Great Pyramid is
under-estimated and certainly must exceed by several hundred
feet the nearIy five hundred feet accredited to it.
Suddenly your attention is called to an almost obscure hole-
Iike aperture to your right as you ascend. A s you look at it, it
seems as though it was not an intentional opening but perhaps
the result of damage in later years, but you are advised that this
is the true entrance to the Great Pyramid. A s you peer into tbe
inky blackness and feel a cool draft of air upon your face, you
think of the hundreds of neophytes of the mystery schools of the
past who were led up from the Chamber of Darkness below
after taking their original obligation at the altar between the
paws of the Sphinx and after having performed certain rites
in the allegorical world of darkness depicted by the lower
chamber. They were then permitted to ascend the very narrow
and low passageway into which we looked and to enter the
Great Pyramid itself through this jagged opening. How pleasing
it must have been to them to know that they had attained that
degree of illumination and understanding and worthiness which
permitted them to travel further, physically, mentally and
spiritually!
So with the most solemn spirit and in utter silence we pro­
ceeded. The entire experience invited silence. Ordinary con­
versation and comments would have seemed so absurd, so
meaningless in contrast to the thought that was put into this
stupendous structure, the wealth of knowledge it represented, the
experience of those who had gone before us in this same place.
Finally, with gratitude, we came to a rest at a level stage.
W alking along this level pathway, which was considerably
more narrow than the Grand Gallery, we entered a portal >an
opening seemingly cut through a sheer block of limestone, of
about seven feet in height and three feet in width. Passing
through this we came into a large chamber known as the
Queen s Chamber, about twenty-five feet in length and sixteen
or twenty feet in width, with a comparatively low ceiling, abso­
lutely plain, no inscriptions, no symbolism, nothing to indicate
either the life or death of its builders.
It must be explained at this point that the prophecies of the
Great Pyramid are not based upon inscriptions found on tbe
walls or in papyrus scrolls, for there was practically nothing left
or found in the Great Pyramid to reveal anything of the times
of the Pyramid itself or of the future which the Pyramid prophe­
sies. The prognostications are based upon the dimensions and
the arrangement of the dimensions of the Great Pyramid, its
passageways, their height, length, and breadth, the height of
the Pyramid, length and breadth of the stones, the distances
from one passageway to another. There is a numerical uni
formity to the dimensions, and this uniformity has given mathe­
maticians, scientists and others a mathematical key, and with
this key the different proportions and mathematical arrange­
ments of the Great Pyramid have been used to reveal events of
the future. This is not merely speculative or fantastic, because
tbe events have definitely come to pass, one after another. It is
one more indication of the fact that the Great Pyramid was used
not only as a temple ol learning but as a monument of learning
to inform future generations of the knowledge of the basic sci­
ences had by the mystery schools at that time.
Other facts are that the Pyramid is in the exact center of
the land surface of the earth; the fact that the weight of the
Pyramid is the same as the weight of the earth in proportion
to its size; and further, that it was used as an astronomical ob­
servatory, showing knowledge of astronomy. A ny engineer
knows that the builders of the Great Pyramid must have been
possessed of exceptional engineering skill and ingenuity to build
the structure. Its great blocks of stone are perfectly mathe­
matically proportioned. Their ends are fitted together so per­
fectly and held by such a thin and yet exceptionally adhesive
mortar that not even a sheet of paper can be inserted between
them. They were hewn out so accurately that each block of stone
does not vary from a straight line and an accurate cube more
than a hundredth of an inch in a length of six feet.
After leaving the Queen s Chamber we returned to the Grand
Gallery once again and continued our ascent for a few minutes
longer. Except for the feeble torch-like lights every fifteen or
twenty feet, fastened by metal brackets to the smooth stone sides
in recent times, the passageway would have been inky black.
Finally the uneven flooring, which really consists of stone blocks
of which the Pyramid itself is built, with niches to keep one from
slipping because of the steep incline, levelled out and a few feet
ahead of us it appeared as though the passageway with the
walls converging to a width of about four feet was blocked by
a huge stone, one of the masonry blocks upended. A s we ap
proached it we noticed that (here had been carved through it
also a tunnel-like passageway, the deeper shadow of the en­
trance not having been noticeable further back. 1 be height of
this tunnel-like passageway was not sufficient to allow us to
walk erect and we were again obliged to crawl on hands and
knees. W e crawled a length of about sixteen feet, then stood
upright in a large chamber, the height of which was about
twelve or fourteen feet, length about thirty feet, width about
twenty feet. This was the King s Chamber, known as the Hall
of Illumination. It, too was perfectly bare of all furnishings,
inscriptions, hieroglyphics,^- in fact, everything with the excep­
tion that at the end opposite from which we entered was a large
sarcophagus of stone. 1 be sarcophagus, in fact, was one of the
blocks of masonry of which the Great Pyramid is constructed,
and it was lying in a horizontal position in the center of the end
of the chamber. 1 he upper portion of the block had been sawed
or cut away, and the remainder had been hollowed out to con­
form to the general contour of the human body, and thus it
formed the sarcophagus or coffin of some pharaoh or eminent
person so relate the sagas. M any believe it was the burial
place of the Pharaoh Cheops. However, there is nothing in the
sarcophagus at this time, nothing inscribed upon it that would
confirm this theory, and there never has been found anything
that would definitely establish the fact that the Great Pyramid
was built solely as a burial place, with this tomb-room as its
final purpose. One immediately gains the impression, which
supports legends that have come down through the ages as well
as the more recent discoveries of which we will speak later, that
this sarcophagus was used for initiation.
In this Hall of Illumination, this King’s Chamber, (here met
at intervals only the highest adepts and the most highly de­
veloped and learned of the members of this mystery school, this
early Egyptian Brotherhood of learning. It was in this King s
P R O P H E C Y D A Y I N T H E G R E A T P Y R A M I D 85
Chamber that the council meetings were held, where policies
were decided upon which shaped tbe course of many human
lives at that time. It was in this chamber that all the facts of
reality, all the knowledge which man had acquired by virtue
of experience and investigation, were classified and related and
made into an understandable, livable philosophy of life. In the
lower chambers the students were taught facts, the result of
inquiry and investigation, made to prove the laws, made to apply
them to their own lives, and as they learned these lessons they
advanced, degree by degree, chamber by chamber, until eventu­
ally they were permitted to share in the council meetings of the
Hall of Illumination, and from there they went forth in the world
to spread tbe knowlndge they had learned, to gather about them
other neophytes whom they sought out and to teach them as they
had been taught. All around this great temple of learning, this
Pyramid, at that time greed, fear, avarice, ignorance and super­
stition prevailed. These dual conditions have always existed.
I he learned men of that time — those who had attained tbe
Hall of Illumination .—could not go out among the multitudes
and immediately convert them to understanding. They would
only have lost their lives if they had attempted it, and nothing
would have been gamed.
So the real purpose of the Great Pyramid was kept secret. To
many at that time it was considered merely a place of worship
where mysterious religious rites took place, and tbe ambassadors
of light and wisdom of that period were forced to seek here and
there one who was ready or worthy to take the vows at the altar
between the paws of the Sphinx at a certain hour at night, and
then be led through the secret passageway — discovered in re­
cent time by Selim Hassan, eminent archaeologist, to have led
into the Great Pyramid itself.
W e stood about, none of us speaking, just thinking, each
within the world of his own thoughts trying to visualize what
had occurred in this very stone chamber, in this heart of a past
civilization centuries ago. There also flashed through our minds
the fact tfiat many occult and mystical organizations, so pro­
claiming themselves, had prophesied a dire event for the world
upon this very day, September 16, 1936. They had contended
that it meant, if not the end of the world, a serious catastrophe
which would shatter civilization; that it would mean the ruina­
tion of humanity, or perhaps the very atoms of the Great Pyra­
mid itself would fly asunder. W e recalled, all of us, to ourselves,
articles we had read within the last forty-eight hours in maga­
zines, in newspapers, setting forth these prophecies by leaders
of various sects and cults from every part of the world.
I recalled in particular some of the absurd articles I bad read
not more than a month ago in various magazines issued by
American and English occult societies, telling at length what
was to take place on this day. The authors even went so far
as to describe the King s Chamber, just what it would look like
at this time, as though something or other was going to change
the appearance of this Hall of Illumination. Their description
was fantastic imagination of the weirdest sort. Not one article
that I had read accurately described the interior of these cham­
bers. W^hat the authors had written consisted of borrowed facts
from other writings, which they distorted in order not to disclose
that they had borrowed them. Each one of these schools of oc­
cultism professed to be perpetuating in some way or another
some of the ancient rites or teachings of the ancient mystery
schools of Egypt. Each also inferred that the world catastrophe
which they told their readers was to occur on this day would not
affect the followers of their particular school or society, but rather
give them some power or influence withheld from others. I further
recalled reading an article by the leader of another occult society
who declared that his society had been waiting weeks, months
and years for this moment — it was the most sacred occasion
for them — yet neither his nor one of the other organizations had
a single representative within miles of the Great Pyramid on
this eventful day. The eyes of the world were on this Pyram id.
It gave me a sense of satisfaction that we had been chosen
as representatives of the Ancient, Mystical Order Rosae Crucis,
the authentic, world-wide Rosicrucian Order — the largest mys­
tical order in the world with an authentic historical background,
and which had its traditional origin in this ancient land *—to be
present in this Hall of Illumination on this September 16, 1936.
W e were, for A M O R C , to see the fulfillment of a prophecy
of the Great Pyramid. A M O R C had long contended, based
upon its heritage of knowledge which included truth about the
prophecies of the Great Pyramid, that this was not to be a day
of disaster, ruination, and destruction, but the beginning of a
world transition >
—a new era. There would be cycles of evolu­
tion an d devolution again, the world would again know war,
pestilence, poverty, and strife: but out of it all, within the next
century, would come the greatest sincere understanding between
nations and peoples — the greatest world unity civilization had
ever known. W hat greater faith could A M O R C display in its
ancient records than that we be here in this chamber, the very
soul of the G reat Pyram id, at this fateful moment, when thou­
sands, perhaps millions, elsewhere in other lands waited fear-
fu lly -for what? they did not know!
There was no feeling of depression, but a feeling of elation,
of intense excitement, like the minute of full before a great storm
when the boughs of trees are motionless, when not even a leaf
can be seen to move, when all nature seems in suspense, waiting
for a signal to release her fury. This suspense did not instil fear,
but rather expectancy that something stupendous of a Cosmic
nature was taking place, or would, shortly.
It was then that there was performed a ceremony that none
of us shall ever forget, and it was the first time that it had been
performed since the days of the activity of the Great Pyramid
itself — the time when the mystic brotherhoods held their regular
ceremonies in it. I assumed the office of Master of the Temple.
A s if in one of our modern Rosicrucian lodges throughout the
world, I directed by the motion of my hand where the others
should be stationed in tbe chamber. I was here for the first time,
in this incarnation at least, and fully cognizant of the import of
the moment. Yet, it was with a strange ease that I proceeded
with the brief arrangements for the ceremony — this initiation >
for that is what it truly became to me. Had I officiated here
before? Had I been honored over 3000 years ago by being per­
mitted to induct some other fratres or sorores into the highest
degrees of the Order Rosae Crucis within these very stone walls?
Had I once before been an instrument in this chamber, by which
another attained the highest state of Illumination — Cosmic
Consciousness? Perhaps I sensed a time in centuries past when
my own eyes, for the first time, were permitted to rest upon (lie
walls of this Sanctum Sanctorum. A s I looked about me, I
realized that the great stone blocks before, back, beneath, and
above me were unchanged. The eyes of hundreds of ancient
neophytes who struggled to attain, who studied and labored,
and who evolved mentally and spiritually, had received identical
visual impressions to mine in this chamber, for time had not
altered its physical appearance. From where I stood the cen­
turies fell away. There was nothing more here to suggest the
Twentieth Century than the Eighteenth, the First, or one 2000
B. C. A candidate of 1350 B. C. during the reign of our Illustri­
ous Grand Master, Amenhotep IV, standing where I now stood,
thirty centuries ago, would have been occupied with about the
same thoughts as mine as he looked about. There was nothing
here to suggest the era or the events occurring outside of this
mass of masonry. Myriads of changes in civilization had taken
place since these chambers first assumed their form, yet they
still reflected the concept of their creators, resisting the influences
of nature and man. Here, then, was a timeless, eternal environ­
ment in which all men found themselves in a like state of con­
sciousness, regardless of temporal changes. A Hall of Illumina­
tion it truly was, for in the state of Cosmic Consciousness, which
it depicted, all other things drop away or are absorbed as one.
I next directed that each of us assume the symbolic positions
of forming a Rosicrucian Lodge. This was accomplished by the
manner in which we placed our hands in relation to our bodies
and the position of our feet. W e offered a silent prayer to the
Cosmic, and then, in accordance with the time-honored Rosi­
crucian ritual performed here in ancient times, Frater Brower
stepped forward for the intonation of the mystic vibratory vowel
sounds. Standing with his back to the center of the great sar­
cophagus, symbol of earthly transition, he proceeded to intone
the sacred vowels, the vibrations of which have a definite effect
upon the emotional and psychic natures of man. The vibrations
under ordinary circumstances are intended to, and do, excite
these centers of man’s sympathetic nervous system and have a
tendency to elevate his consciousness, to exhilarate him, tran­
scend him above the ordinary mundane feelings and sensations
which he experiences daily. But none of us expected the result.
W re heard, not alone Frater Brower s intonations, but it seemed
the chorus of a million voices besides. W ith the very utterance
of the first vowel it seemed as though he had struck a key which
unlocked voices that had been imprisoned in stone for centuries
awaiting a magic word or tone for release, and the sounds came
back to us from the walls and the floor and the ceiling like a
chorus of cries of freedom, as though we had liberated im­
prisoned beings. It was startling. He continued the vowel
sounds for a period of at least five minutes. W re seemed to
sway. W e lost sense of time and space. W e were swept along
with this strange current of psychic emotionalism, and it seemed
that for several minutes (it must have been just seconds) after he
ceased his intonation the sounds continued to reverberate from
wall, ceiling and floor. Then all was quiet; the silence was
deeper and more obvious by contrast than it bad been before.
W^e felt rejuvenated. Fatigue from the ascent was gone. Any
fear that any of us may have had with respect to the stories of
what was to occur in the Great Pyramid seemed absurd to us
now. W e felt secure, and a sense of contentment and peace
came over us as though, unwittingly, we had accomplished a
great good, which we may come to realize in this lifetime or
we may not.
Our guide was waiting for us outside the low circular pas­
sageway. A s we started through it, he begged me to stop in
the middle of the passageway in my crouched position until
he crawled through, reaching me. W e could not pass each
other. He looked into my face from this position on his hands
and knees and said, "A t this particular point where you are
you can safely arise and stand erect.’ I twisted my head into
a position so that I could look above, and there to my surprise
immediately above me was a small shaft just large enough to
accommodate my body. I moved into position so that as I arose
the upper portion of my body would rise into the shaft over
head. It was inky black, because I could not then see the light
of the circular passageway in which I stood. It was as though
I had a hood of stone over my head. He said. Reach above
you witb your right hand as far as you can.” I brought my right
hand up close to my body until I eventually stretched it far
above my head. He said, Now place your hand against the
stone wall immediately in front of you. I his I did. He con­
tinued, Now, move your hand until you feel a projection of
stone, about the size of your hand.” I moved my hand slowly
against the cold, smooth, stone surface until it struck against an
oblong projection. He said, Place your hand upon it. I did.
I noticed that it fitted my hand as though it had been shaped
to be held in a closed hand like something that was intended
to be carried by the hand. I pulled against it to see if it was
loose. I commented on this. He explained. W hat you feel
has been shaped out of the stone block of which it is a part.
The block has been cut away from the raised portion. Your
hand now rests on the exact center of the Great Pyramid. It is
the mathematical center. The distance from the point of your
hand to the apex of the Pyramid and to the base and to the
various sides is exactly the same. Furthermore, you are now
grasping what is known as the Pyramidal inch. I hat stone,
that particular size, was the unit of measurement used by the
Egyptians in building this very edifice, and to commemorate
that unit of measurement it was carved on tbe side of one of
tbe blocks of the Pyramid and placed in the exact center where
it now rests.
W hat master mathematicians, what genius in a time and an
age when the world likes to think of mankind having dwelt in
utter ignorance! W ith a feeling akin to reverence, I rejoined
the party, and soon we had left the coolness of the Great Pyra­
mid with its constant temperature of 68 degrees Farenheit for
the now blistering desert outside. This temperature oi the Great
Pyramid is what is recommended by air conditioning engineers
today as the ideal temperature for human comfort. Is it coinci­
dence or did the genius of the Pyramid builders foresee it!
The party then returned to Cairo with tbe exception of Frater
Brower and myself. W e proceeded to locate one of the huge
exterior blocks of stone of the Pyramid, in the shade, and there
we sat and ate our lunch overlooking the plateau of the Sahara
Desert and the green Nile and Delta; also looking down toward
the mud huts on the site of the old city of Gizeh.
Early in the afternoon we sought out the recent excavations
of that eminent archaeologist, Selim Hassan. W e climbed down
and through the Pyramid Temple. This Temple was quite some
distance from the Great Pyramid itself, and originally was con­
nected with it by a long ramp or causeway. M any preliminary
ceremonies were held in this Temple, and then from there the
participants, candidates, and neophytes, in a picturesaue pro­
cession walked along these ramps and causeways to the Great
Pyramid and concluded their rites. Just recently, in this Pyramid
Temple, there was excavated the sarcophagus and mummy of
a princess, a daughter of Cheops. W^e photographed hundreds
of feet of film of the more recent excavations of the Sphinx,
showing how tbe paws were not hewn out of a promontory of
stone as is tbe upper portion of tbe body, but consisted of flat
stones about four inches in thickness, laid one upon the other,
forming layers, and then shaped as we now see them. W e
commented upon the great crime committed by Napoleon when
he ordered his men to fire upon the Sphinx, defacing it, to show
his disrespect for the Egyptians veneration of it.
After filming with professional cameras, by special permission
from the Egyptian government, many other structures in and
around the Great Pyramid, we went closer to examine and
photograph with still camera the colonnaded court or entrance
to a newly excavated temple, at the base of the Pyramid. O f a
different type stone than the Pyramid itself, it seemed marble­
like against the background. W e commented upon the fact
that this very ancient structure had Doric-like columns, the archi­
tectural form credited to the much later Grecian period. W^e
were to discover, however, that the Egyptians used this type of
column quite commonly, and it is still believed by some archae­
ologists that there is no connection between tbe Doric column
and the column to which we have referred.
It was late in the day when we prepared for our return. W e
departed by camels to where the roads began and again loaded
our equipment into a modern motor car. W e looked up at the
Great Pyramid. It had changed. It was now colorful. The
setting sun had given it a golden glow. Its ragged contour,
caused by the exposed blocks of masonry, cast patches of deep
shadow, purple in hue. The shadows seemed to be creeping
from the desert itself, rapidly approaching, soon to engulf it
in darkness.
W^e retired to our hotel early, for tomorrow the Nile was to
reveal another chapter of civilization s tale. Each mile almost,
as one travels along that great river, one has unfolded to him a
story of man’s past accomplishments, glory, power, failure,
hopes and misfortunes. Therefore we now looked forward to
Luxor, or the ancient city of Thebes, once glorious capital of
Egypt when in all her power and splendor.
T E M P L E S A N D T O M B S
I MAD, in my semi-conscious state of h a lf sleep, a sensation of
choking. It was undoubtedly this laborious breathing, with the
addition of stifling beat, that awakened me at an early hour. I
lay still for a moment trying to swallow; my mouth was parched,
and a deep inhalation made me sneeze. The compartment was
filled with fine dust. I could feel it in my ears and on my hands.
Kicking off tbe remaining cover, I sat up and, leaning for­
ward, raised the blind at the window. The sight (hat greeted
my eyes made me forget the discomfort of an Egyptian train
in the late summer. Paralleling the track, one hundred yards
distant, was a twisting brown ribbon of water. Bowing grace­
fully on either side of it were palms, bending far over the em­
bankment as if admiring their beauty in the water below. B e­
yond, the sand stretched into the distance and finally disap­
peared at the horizon into the rosy radiance of the morning sun.
It was a scene that would tax your credence if it were upon
canvas. Egypt was beautiful in a wild sort of way. Its beauty
lay in its extremes; there was no attempt at compromise. Each
element gave vent to its powers, and the aggregate was the
majestic splendor of uncontrolled nature.
A s we rushed and swayed along, eddies of air sprayed the
window-pane with sand, which clung for a few seconds and
then dropped away revealing new charming vistas. Beautiful
islets dotted the center of the Nile, crowded to the water’s edge
with tall palm trees. W ater buffalo looked lazily up at us as
the river lapped at the ridges of their backs; and little naked
brown skinned boys pulled at ropes fastened to tbe animals'
nostrils. Little girls stopped in their tracks and, turning, un­
consciously posed with earthen water-jars on their heads, to
stare with mingled expressions of curiosity and perplexity at
this modern invader of the land of their ancestors — ancestors
of which we, from another land, knew more than they.
On either side of this road of steel upon which we traveled,
the scene was little changed from the time the pharaohs had
thundered over the same sands in chariots, or haughtily surveyed
them from royal barges which were leisurely propelled along
the Nile. W hat little inroad the centuries had made —<the
progress of five thousand years was symbolized and embodied
in this metallic, speeding serpent this Cairo-to-Aswan E x­
press. Like a single thread of different color in a great fabric,
it was noticeable, but other than that, there was little effect upon
the surroundings. The de luxe trains of Egvpt are as yet un­
touched by such improvements or embellishments as air-condi­
tioning, ice-water, or club cars. You either remain confined to
your own red-plush, heavily-laced, and French mirrored com­
partment, or stand swaying in the narrow aisle outside. It was
with welcome relief that we arrived at Luxor.
The platform of the Luxor depot paralleled the train for only
the length of one car. If you were fortunate, you stepped from
this one car onto brick surface; otherwise, into the soft, powdered
dust of the ground. Each step, no matter how easily taken, sent
a puff of the flour-like substance over shoes and trouser legs.
W e had become accustomed to being besieged by dragomen
(guides) and natives in soiled, long, flowing robes with bare feet
and shaved heads, who wished to carry luggage or perform
some actual or imaginary service for bakshish (money). At first
the pitiful state of their appearance — which was often height­
ened by their dramatic gestures and poses — had invoked our
sympathy, and as an act of charity we would engage a retinue
of boys” from six to sixty to do trivial or unnecessary things
for us. Time, and the experience of having our generosity taken
advantage of, had hardened us, and we coursed through the
group around us, saying, Imshil Imshi (Begonel).”
W^e were escorted to a row of four or five waiting, dilapidated,
single-horse and team-drawn surreys. It was not the state of
tke conveyances that attracted our attention, but tbe wretched
condition of tbe animals themselves. They were a greater evi­
dence of the poverty and deplorable state of welfare of the
Egyptian fellah than his own personal appearance, llie horses
were not all aged, but were mere frames, covered with tightly-
drawn flesh. The whole skeletal structure was, it seemed to us,
visible. Most of the unfortunate beasts suffered from mange,
and large areas of their bodies contained cankerous sores over
which the large, leech-like flies of Upper Egypt hovered. The
spirit of dejection of the animals was contagious, and it was
several minutes before we felt inclined to comment on our sur­
roundings.
After riding for a few minutes, we stopped before a high
stucco wall in which there was a large arched portal. W e liter­
ally had to push our way through a throng of mendicants and
peddlers of scarabs, necklaces, beads, counterfeit amulets, and
relics. Once having passed through the gateway, we were free,
for apparently a well established law or custom exacting some
severe penalty of which we were not aware, forbade them to
enter. W e were in a charming garden and grove. Tall, stately
palms, grouped closely, cast a pleasing shade. Strange foliage
offered relief from the glaring white of the sandy road outside.
W e recalled the story of "The Garden of A llah,” the site of
which existed but a scant mile from where we were. The ground
was moist, having been watered recently. The hotel hallways
were like those one imagined the hostelries of tbe tropics woulH
have — irregular-tiled floors and glazed-tile walls, with excep­
tionally high, white plastered ceilings. The crepuscular light­
ing made them invitingly cool. Behind us a native attendant
glided silently. The manner in which he appeared suddenly,
seemingly out of nowhere, and almost anticipating our needs in
advance, was uncanny. In contrast to the natives of tbe village
— and those who waited outside the courtyard below — these
attendants were immaculately groomed and spoke excellent Eng­
lish. Their pay, though a paltry sum, exceeded by far that of
their less fortunate brothers, and they were envied. The heavy,
white fly-netting which was suspended over the beds, and the
large balcony in each room, from which one could look over the
gardens below, gave ample suggestion of insects and heat to be
endured here at this season, both day and night.
Our first duty was to obtain the necessary permits to take pro­
fessional cinema photographs of the monuments. ( The Monu­
ments is the official term given to all ancient ruins now super­
vised by the Department of Antiquities in Egypt.) The one who
held supreme authority here was the Inspector of Antiquities
of Upper Egypt —Labib Habachi. After a brief respite, we
drove to his office.—-a low, one-story, gray stone-and-stucco
building, exceedingly quaint, surrounded by a spacious garden
in whicb stood statuary, busts of Egyptian figures of different
dynasties. They, of course, immediately aroused our interest.
This personal office consisted of a random-sized-plank floor,
bigh ceiling, and I rench windows. At the opposite end from
which we entered, seated behind a well-worn, flat-topped desk,
and framed by book-cases, facing us, sat Inspector Labib
Habachi. He was a surprisingly young man, in his late twenties,
medium height, close-cropped black, curly hair, deep-set, dreamy
eyes; and the heavy, dark-rimmed glasses he wore gave him
the look of a scholar — which we found him to be. He was so
different from the others we had met that in our minds we
likened him to tbe ancient Egyptian nobility, or tbe scribes of
tbe past. Lying open before him were text books on Egyptian
hieroglyphs and archaeology, and apparently he bad been
identifying inscriptions on small bronze statuettes which stood
before him on the desk when we entered.
He was exceedingly gracious, and spoke in the soft, mild voice
of the cultured Egyptian. He was a graduate of the University
of Cairo, spoke several languages fluently, and was specializing
in the study of archaeology, which made it possible for him to
bold his present responsible position. It was, however, more
than a professional interest; this one could easily ascertain from
fiis conversation, for ke had a deep reverence for the achieve­
ments of His ancient progenitors.
W hen he learned that we, too, had a love for the accomplish­
ments of past great Egyptian personalities, and were not there
to exploit his country, but to make her former glories known
throughout North America by means of motion pictures we
hoped to take, be was exceedingly congenial. He spent nearly
an hour in comparing for us certain bieroglypbics with the later
Hieratic or Demotic writing. In addition to bis studies, he bad,
fortunately, the hobby of photography, but he was just a be­
ginner, and tbe science of photography was still quite a mystery
to him. Our complex equipment interested bim immensely. He
had apparently never before had the opportunity to examine
sound cinema apparatus. This interest made bim, after a care­
ful examination of our credentials, enthusiastic in bis desire to
obtain from bis superiors in Cairo the permits which we needed.
After the custom of an Egyptian host, he had us served with
cold lemonade by one of his slippered attendants. W^hen we
left, be bade us return early in the morning to learn whether he
had received a telegraphic order to issue the coveted permit.
1 he following' morning we were presumptuous enough to have
our guide instruct the native porters to load our cinema equip­
ment in the old-model American automobile which was to serve
as our conveyance to the Inspector s house. W e hoped the per­
mission had arrived, and if so, we were prepared to proceed
immediately. The morning light was best for photography, af­
fording more contrast than the glaring midday sunlight. Inspec­
tor Habachi met us in the court-yard and, smiling, said in a
quiet manner, ' Your wish has been granted. The Minister of
Antiquities, my superior in Cairo, has granted you permission
to photograph all the monuments with your cinema equipment.
I have here the official permit. W^e gratefully accepted it and
our spirits were jubilant.
Turning to Frater Brower, Inspector Habachi said, I ask of
you one personal favor. M ay I accompany you on your expedi­
tion? I feel I could profit by watching you operate your equip­
ment and in turn I may be useful in explaining more thoroughly
the monuments to you and reading different inscriptions which
have not been generally translated.
W e were elated, and gladly accepted this most satisfactory
arrangement.
Tbe present city of Luxor is located on the East side of the
Nile. Eastward, looking toward the horizon, one sees the dis­
tant Arabian desert, and beyond lies the Red Sea. W estward,
one looks toward a range of limestone mountains — the mys­
terious and famed Valley of the Kings. W here are now located
the city of Luxor and the temples of Luxor and Karnak, there
was once the major portion of the great city of Thebes, the former
capital of the great empire. The city of 1hebes also spread over
the W^est bank of the Nile.
Our first site to be photographed was the mammoth Karnak
Temple, which beggars description. The actual significance of
the word, Karnak, is not definitely known; it is said the literal
translation means windows.’ This splendid edifice was built
from the wealth accumulated from the early Egyptian campaigns
in Asia. The entire length of tbe Temple — or shall we say,
series of temples — is a quarter of a mile, and it took some two
thousand years to complete construction. The oldest portions of
it were begun by the early kings of the feudal age of Egypt.
Later portions were completed by the Greek kings, or the
Ptolemies. The first Ptolemy was a former general in the army
of Alexander the Great. Originally, the entire structures were
done in magnificent colors and gold. They were the most beauti­
ful and decorative of all the architectural works of ancient man.
In the center of one of the temples stands the enormous obelisk
of Egypt s most famous queen, Hatshepsut. Its size can better
be realized by the fact that its base is eight and a half feet thick.
The most impressive edifice of this collection of edifices is the
great colonnaded hall or Hypostyle. This hall is 338 feet wide
and 170 feet deep. Each one of the enormous columns rises to
a height of 69 feet; and the capitals of the columns, which are
ornamented after the shape of the lotus flower, are sufficiently
large to accommodate on their tops, 100 men standing in close
formation. The entire floor area of this colonnaded hall is equal
to that of the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris. 1he center
aisle, or nave, consists of twelve columns in two rows, seventy-
nine feet in height. They rise slightly higher than the rows of
columns of the aisles on either side and thus really form the first
clerestory which was finally incorporated as part of the later
Greek basilica, and which style comes down to us in our Gothic
church architecture of today. This clerestory', by rising higher
than the walls on either side of it, permits light to enter through
the elevated sides and thus enter the lower halls.
The walls around this colonnaded hall are deeply etched with
inscriptions and reliefs dealing with the early campaigns and
wars of the past kings and pharaohs. Here, cut out of mammoth
stone blocks, weighing from eighty to a thousand tons, are colos­
sal portraits of these rulers of a past civilization. It would be a
considerable engineering task today to quarry in one piece such
enormous blocks, and to move them from tbe quarry, intact, to
the place of their erection. One is forced again to admire the
skill and ability of these ancient builders.
A s we stood at one end of the nave of this great temple and
looked upward, we saw, high above our heads, at the opposite
end, a stone lattice window — the only remaining one of several
windows which originally surrounded that portion of the nave
which rose above the halls on either side of it; and it is believed
that from these windows or grills the temple gained its name
of Karnak.
W e profited greatly by the detailed descriptions and explana­
tions of our eminent companion, Inspector Habachi, and were
able to make many notes to incorporate in tbe dialogue of tbe
motion-picture wbicb at tbis time is being edited for exposition
purposes. Furtbermore, we were permitted to set up our equip­
ment in, and enter, places — inner sanctuaries of tbis Karnak
Temple — usually forbidden tbe average visitor or traveler.
W itb tbe passing of eacb bour, tbe beat increased. Tbe tem­
perature rose to nearly 120 degrees Fahrenheit; and our native
porters wbom we bad engaged to carry our equipment luggage
were reluctant to continue, as it is tbeir custom to take a siesta
from noon until four in tbe afternoon. Our time was limited;
we were allowed just one week; and so we bad to disappoint
tbem and oblige tbem to continue.
W e entered tbe beautiful little temple of Thutmose III, who
was related to tbe early foundation of the Rosicrucian Order.
I here, outside of the portal, in pure white, in contrast to the
gray stone columns and pylons about it, was the little altar of
tbis early mystery school. It seemed like a dream — so quiet, so
peaceful, so sturdy, and yet representing a people and a time of
thousands of years ago. It did not seem possible that something
constructed so long ago could be in such a perfect state of preser­
vation. In this ideal climate of Egypt, where rain falls every
thirty or forty years (which makes of the land a warehouse kept
at a constant temperature, free from moisture) all antiquities will
remain in an excellent state of preservation perhaps for centuries
to come. Approximately 1,000 feet of film were ground out
within this edifice alone. W^e reluctantly returned to our hotel,
but were assured that we would find additional splendor in
Luxor Temple on the morrow.
1 he next morning at the same hour we were once again ac­
companied by Inspector Habachi. and went immediately to
Luxor Temple, also known as El Aksur, or the castles. The
length of Luxor Temple, from front to back, is three hundred
yards, and it was built mainly under the direction of that famous
builder. Amenhotep III. During tbe campaigns of Alexander,
the Great, it was partially destroyed, and temples of the Greeks
were set up within its midst. At a still later period, the Chris-
tians entered this magnificent structure and defaced portions of
its beauty by chiseling hieroglyphics and inscriptions from its
walls, and covering them with crude, coarse plaster on which
they painted even more crude murals depicting incidents of the
Christian Bible.
To us, this seemed a sacrilege, not because Christianity es­
tablished itself in Egypt and attempted to further its ends; but
because there was more to these temples than the worshippers
religion, their beliefs in the hereafter, or their interpretations of
a god: there was their physical beauty, their architecture, their
art. These things belong to all religions, and not to any sect;
and it is the duty of religion to preserve beauty, because, as
Plato has taught us, through beauty of the external world man
can come to have greater appreciation of the better life — those
things which represent the beauty of his inner nature or bis soul.
And we felt that this desecration on tbe part of tt e early Chris
tians was not to their credit.
Our companion also showed us other chisel marks on the
side of a great stone wall. These marks were made during the
time of our venerated Rosicrucian Grand Master, Amenhotep
IV. Centuries before Christianity, as we know, he had tbe first
monotheistic conception r—the belief in a single or sole God.
He was so inspired by this thought that he attempted at once to
reform the religions of tbe land — to make all the peoples of
his empire realize I he One G od — a mighty and just God;
and he ordered the destruction of the pagan gods, idols, and
statues in the temples, and even ordered the immediate eradica­
tion from the walls of the great temples of prayers of adoration
to the false gods. And these chisel marks, deep etchings into
the stone wall before us, were made by those acting under his
command to remove tbe tribute to the false gods. Nothing else
did he destroy; all other art he preserved. W e could not fail to
admire the courage of a man who dared to change overnight,
one might say, the religion of the people — to lift them boldly
from their superstition and ignorance to a higher and loftier
plane — who incurred the hatred of the priesthood by these acts,
and who brought about the ruination of his power.
A n entire day was spent at Luxor Temple —<an insignificant
period to appreciate properly its history or even to attempt a
careful study of its architecture and any portion of its inscrip­
tions, but sufficient time, with the ideal lighting Egypt affords,
for considerable photography.
Leaving Luxor Temple, we turned again to look W estward.
Ever since our arrival, we seemed to have been drawn to those
purple hills, rugged cliffs across the Nile. Although they were
foreboding in appearance, we always felt a strange fascination
for them as the sun set behind their crowns. Tomorrow, we
would succumb to this magnetic attraction and cross the Nile
to them.
C hapter VII
T H E V A L L E Y O F T H E K IN G S
B y A R R A N G E M E N T , early in tke morning we met tke Inspector,
our dragoman, and porters on tke bank of tke Nile. W e were
fascinated by tbe quaint little boats witb tbeir patched sails, and
tbeir one-man crews, fighting the tide trying to reach a point
directly opposite on tbe other shore. W e watched patient little
burros tread along the bank, laden with bales or crates, wits
masters who either walked along in front, or behind, tapping
them on their flanks with a stick to keep their pace constant.
Groups of native women sat in little circles on the road edge,
waiting for the return of someone patient, impervious to sun,
flies, and insects. Their faces were covered, with the exception
of their eyes. Most of them, unfortunately, had diseased eyes,
due to the water in which they wash — when they do <
—
■and
due to infection and lack of knowledge of sanitation and hygiene.
Finally we climbed aboard our frail craft with our equipment,
and started across the Nile from a point where for centuries the
Egyptians had crossed. A s we were swept along, there came
to our minds the legends of the great ancient funeral processions
which had crossed this same body of water. From the East bank
of the Nile — the city of the living, because the sun rose with its
life-giving rays in the East they floated across, on great
decorated barges with the sarcophagus of the departed, always
at dusk, representing the closing of life and the crossing from
this world of the living to the world of the-dead. The W est
side of the Nile, therefore, or the city which existed there at that
time, was called the City of the Dead, because it was in the
W est where the sun set at the close of day, and where dark­
ness came.
It must have been a magnificent ceremony. W^e could imagine
the chanting, the sound of strains ol music on tbe river. In our
minds we could hear the wailing of bereavement. W e could
mentally see tbe unloading of (be sarcophagus see it being
carried on backs and shoulders of great Nubian slaves. W e
could see priests in ornamental costumes, bedecked witb jewelry,
emblems of their office, marching two abreast ahead, swaying
from side lo side in time witb tbe rhythm ol chanting and music.
Behind came tbe military escort, tbe members of tbe court and
the family ol the departed. Behind tbem came, piled high on
the backs of personal slaves, tbe intimate belongings of the de­
parted — great alabaster chests inlaid with ivory, hand-beaten
gold masks and vessels, gems, rare woods, frankincense, pottery,
beautiful tiles, magnificent furniture, hand-carved, showing
great skill and craftsmanship. The procession would wend its
way into tbe bills that became the tombs ol tbe great — of the
kings of the eighteenth, nineteenth, and twentieth dynasties.
Our musing soon ended as our boat slid alongside tbe crude
landing. W e loaded our equipment into a ramshackle car to
be driven over a rough, ungraded road as far as possible, and
from there to be packed on the backs of our porters. W e started
through this little valley with its towering limestone cliffs. Here
were buried the Theban kings — some forty-one of their tombs
have now been located. W e eventually entered various ones,
going down their long, sloping passageways or ramps, observ­
ing painted on tbe walls the original diagrams showing the plan
of construction. W^e learned that these plans were quite fre­
quently deceptive, intended to mislead any vandals who might
break into the tomb, as to its real arrangement. Treasure rooms
were usually sealed in such a manner that it would take con­
siderable investigation to locate them. W hen our torches were
temporarily extinguished for a moment, and we realized the inky
blackness of these underground chapels and mortuaries, the sen­
sation was real.
On the walls were prayers in adoration of the gods, also in­
scriptions from the rituals which the deceased would have to
perform in the after-world. There still remained some of the
great stone sarcophagi or coffins from which the mummified re­
mains had been recently removed, or which were empty when
recently excavated. These tombs of kings were not as interesting
historically, nor did they contribute as mucb to our knowledge
of the times and of the people and their customs, as the tombs
of the lords or noblemen. The inscriptions and hieroglyphics on
the walls of these tombs of tbe kings were mostly concerned
with tbeir personal accomplishments, and self-aggrandizement,
and with phrases from the great Book of the Dead, a book
containing the rituals and ceremonies of the after-life. However,
we did film the tombs of Rameses III, Seti II, and the one of
the renowned King Tutankhamen, and others. I be heat was
unbearable to us who were not accustomed to it. I he only shade
was that afforded by the interior of tbe tombs themselves. The
cliffs were barren, rugged, ghastly. They suggested another
world — a world of the dead. They were used principally be­
cause they were the only stone hills in the immediate vicinity
which would afford construction material for tombs.
W e went, then, after a few minutes journey, to the tombs
of the nobles — that class of individuals who sprang up during
the feudal age of Egypt and became wealthy and powerful, and
who rivaled the power of tbe kings. They owned great estates,
worked by both freemen and slaves, and built luxurious palace
homes with mosaic floors depicting the cool waters of tbe Nile,
and tbe green grasses which grow about it. The wa 11s were
ornamented with paintings of water fowl common at the time.
These nobles enjoyed all the luxuries which the time afforded —
beautiful furniture, tapestries, fruits, wines and vegetables —
<
many of which we have inherited, such as romaine salad won-
derful jewelry made of gold and rare stones. They bad great
crops of grain, and skilled workmen, basket makers, cabinet
makers, metal workers. These craftsmen had tools of bronze
— saws, hammers, and many implements similar to those we
employ today.
On the walls of the tombs of these nobles, painted in vivid
colors — startlingly vivid to us, for it seemed almost unbelieve-
able that the colors could be so bright after the centuries that
had passed over them — were incidents in the lives of the people
of the estates. Thus we know bow they were employed, what
they did. There are scenes showing the gathering of grain,
showing the scribe recording the bushels. Scenes showing the
crushing of the grapes, and making of wine. Others show the
tilling of fields with ploughs; and we see in these first ploughs
used a similarity to ours of today. The Egyptians of tbis period
had gone beyond hoe-culture and had developed agriculture.
W e see irrigation canals, the first in the world. W e see the
chariot makers; we note the fishermen preparing to set out with
their nets. W e note the intimate family life of the noble. Here
he is entertaining guests, with children playing in the same room
at a game that resembles our draughts or checkers. W e observe
that the noble had but one wife, whom he respected and who
shared equally with him all of his powers, privileges, and
property rights. Here, on the walls of these tombs, history is
unfolded.
W e then visited splendid Der-EI-Bahri, or the mortuary
temple of Queen Hatshepsut. This great tomb-temple, now
being restored to its original condition as nearly as possible, was
built for Hatshepsut by her architect and vizier, Hapuseneb.
Considerable enmity and jealousy existed in later life between
her King husband and herself. It is related that he was envious
of his wife s power in the Egyptian empire. And later, when she
died, he ordered her cartouche or signature eradicated from the
great obelisks which she had erected during her time.
On either side of the great ramp which leads to the outer
court-yard of this temple-tomb we saw what seems to be just
a great, dry root protruding from the sand of the desert. These
two roots are all that is left of two great trees which were once
on either side of that ramp and which had been imported from
far up the Nile, from equatorial Africa, by emissaries of tbe
queen so that sbe migbt bave shade. It is also said, tbat where
now there is naught but desert surrounding this temple-tomb.
there were once flourishing gardens. 1 he tomb itself is deep in
the face of the cliff which is immediately behind the temple.
Our journey next brought us to the temple of Medinet Habu.
which was built to the god, Amon. 1hough mammoth in size,
with gigantic columns and pylons, it reveals a decadence in ar­
chitecture. The reliefs tell of the great campaigns of the
pharaoh; show bis naval battles; we see his mercenaries or hired
soldiers capturing the revolting subjects of the countries which
comprised his empire; we study the weapons they used ^ spears.
TEM PLE-T O M B O F Q U E E N H A T SH E P SU T
In the awe-inspiring Valley of the Queens, surrounded by age-old,
gnarled, and worn cliffs, is this temple and tomb of Egypt s most power­
ful Queen, Hatshepsut, wife of Amenhotep III.
{Pkoto f>y AMORC)
shields, swords, armor; we examine the type of war galleys. The
architecture is decadent in comparison with that of other temples
we have seen because there is no uniformity of design. One
finds square columns, short, ill proportioned ones, others tall
and graceful, with capitals of different design, some plain, others
highly ornamented.
Climbing to the top of a great pylon through a narrow stone
passageway, we had an excellent view of the plain around it,
and the Nile a mile or two distant. W here we stood, some
seventy-five feet above the ground, had stood the defending
warriors many times before, hurling stones or spears at the at­
tacking invaders below.
W e left Medinet Habu, and finally the Valley of the Kings,
to admire — at a distance of some several hundred yards — the
Colossi of Memnon. These enormous statues were erected by
Amenhotep III as an outer gateway to a great temple which is
no longer in existence. They were surrounded by water as the
land around them was inundated by the rising Nile. It made a
thrilling picture, for the clear, still water reflected their mysterious
images. Completing a full day, we returned again to Luxor,
but on the following day went back for further detailed photo­
graphing, as our first trip was only sufficient for us to plot out
those sections or portions of all the things we saw which we be­
lieved to be the most impressive and which would convey, to
future audiences who would see our films, a better impression
of the greatness of that which we had the privilege of seeing
personally.
It was while crossing the Nile after our second day on the
W ’est bank that Habachi said to us suddenly, 1believe I can
arrange to have you film with your cinema, for the first time, an
interesting demonstration which I feel will prove of interest to
your friends and your countrymen.
W e asked him what it was, and he stated, I cannot com­
ment more freely at this time, for I must inquire further before
I can be certain. But if you will come to my office early tomor­
row morning, I will be prepared to tell you more, I am sure.
His way of arousing our interest to a certain point and tben
telling us no more was exciting, and the following morning found
us early at Iiis office. W e did not know what to expect, because
for the last few days he had given us entree into tombs which
were ordinarily locked and barred to the public; he had ordered
attendants and guards to make available to us places which
are recorded only in historical texts and have never before been
photographed for public examination; so we felt this would truly
be something unusual.
Habachi began, There is an Egyptian by the title and name
of Sheikh Moussa-EI-Hawi, who has an unusual power ol sens­
ing or detecting by smell and other means — perhaps you will
call them mystic — the presence of venomous snakes and insects.
He also has the means of subduing these snakes, making them
docile, although at times I understand he has been bitten by
them, and in fact has lost his two sons who inherited his power
of detecting snakes; they were seriously bitten.
Immediately there flashed into our minds the accounts that
had been published of this individual in American magazines at
different times, though of course we had never seen a picture of
him and no picture had ever been published of him. I asked,
He will perform for us? He said. Yes, gladly, as a courtesy
to me." “ W hen? we chorused, and he replied. He awaits in
the courtyard and will accompany you to wherever you wish.
I asked if the demonstration could be delayed for a few
minutes while? we rushed to the hotel to obtain the balance of
our party — Frater and Soror Harry L. Shibley and Soror Lewis.
He consented, and in a few minutes we returned, breathless, for
the demonstration. Naturally we wanted to assure ourselves
that this was to be a genuine demonstration and not the trickery
common among snake charmers in the Orient. Habachi said,
He is not a snake charmer; he has no snakes with him. He
will gladly remove all kis garments for your inspection and ex­
amination. And, in fact, ke did remove all kis garments except
kis loin clotk to assure us none were concealed on kis person.
Habacki continued. He will go wkerever you wisk, to call
out tkese snakes, so tkat you may be certain tkat ke kas not by
any prearrangement placed snakes in places wkere ke would
recommend tkat tke demonstration be keld.”
Tkis was fair enougk. Tkere could be no trickery under suck
arrangements. W e suggested, therefore, tke interior of Luxor
Temple. W re all accompanied Skeikk Moussa-EI-Hawi to
Luxor Temple. He was a strange individual; kis very presence
caused one to skiver, to kave a frigid feeling along tke spine.
His eyes were like a reptile s, piercing and black. His face was
strange, sligktly distorted; kis clotkes kad a peculiar odor. He
looked neitker to rigkt nor to left, nor even at tke ground before
kirn as ke walked akead of us. Suddenly ke stopped and said
in broken English, to no one in particular but audible to all of
us, 1 shall now, witk your consent, proceed.”
Frater Brower asked Inspector Habacki, ‘W ill tke snakes and
insects wkick ke calls out from tke debris of tke ruins be witkin
ten, twenty-five, or fifty feet of us as we wisk to know just exactly
wkere to set up our cameras? W e kad tkree cameras to record
tke incident — a professional cinema, a Graphlex still camera,
and anotker.
Habachi spoke to him in Arabic, and then said to us in Eng­
lish, He says he knows there is a scorpion right near him and
a cobra not far distant.”
Moussa, tilting his head backward and sniffing the air as a
bloodhound would, apparently caught the scent, as he called it,
of what he was searching for, and then he broke out in the
weirdest chant I ever heard — a chant in Arabic, starting slowly
with deep intonation, and increasing in rapidity and pitch till it
eventually reached a frenzied shrill tone; repeating again and
again. The man was obviously working himself into some sort
of emotional state. A t the height of this frenzy, and after walk­
ing about in circles from ten to twenty feet distant from us, he
suddenly stopped before one of the rocks at his feet, reached
down, rolled up his sleeve, baring his arm. tugged at the rock,
tbrew it backward, and reaching in the cavity it had made sud­
denly brought forth a hideous golden-colored scorpion. He held
the scorpion in his hand so that it was visible to us and easily
photographed. W e noticed that it was continually striking at
him with its barbed appendage. W^hen it pricked the flesh of
his finger, he would wince at the pain, but showed little or no
concern otherwise. A t first this was repulsive to all of us, and
yet it was so awesome and fascinating that we could not turn
from his further demonstrations.
Returning the scorpion to its place, he then walked ahead for
perhaps thirty-five or forty feet. W^e followed him. Suddenly
he stopped and again went through the peculiar gesture of de­
tecting some strange scent, and also broke forth with his incanta­
tion. Frater Brower, with my aid, hurriedly again set up the
cinema equipment.
Habachi turned to us and stated, This time it is a cobra.
How, I whispered, do you know?
He stated, His chant is different.
W hat is this strange incantation?’ I asked. Habachi said
he was calling these serpents, as representatives of Satanical
power, in the name of Allah, to expose themselves, to come
forth —
<that a greater power than they was giving the command.
Finally he stepped over to a little embankment. W e noticed the
embankment was pock-marked with holes. Rolling up the sleeve
of his robe again, he plunged his bared arm down one of these
holes to the depth of his elbow. He was apparently struggling
with something. I turned to Habachi with a quizzical look on
my face. Anticipating my question, he said. He has one.”
W e formed a semi-circle at a safe distance behind Sheikh
Moussa-El-H awi, and finally out it came. He had pulled the
cobra by its tail out of its biding place. He threw it before him.
Immediately it endeavored to get away; it started to crawl back
toward its hole. He increased the rapidity of his chanting and
a strange light was in his eyes; his face was twisted and gro­
tesque, and as if in a fury he jumped up and down in his bare
feet in the dust before the reptile, calling it in the name of all
the powers that he knew to return to him. Slowly the snake,
as if it had been drawn against its will, turned and crawled back
toward him, apparently fighting against some influence stronger
than itself. W hen immediately before him, it coiled and swayed
from side to side. Continually chanting, he slowly reached
down, picked up the reptile which coiled its body tightly around
his arm, and held it before his face. The cobra had inflated its
hood and struck at him several times, but by a twist of his wrist
he threw the reptile off balance so it would miss its aim and he
was not bitten. A ll this time Frater Brower was faithfully re­
cording this strange incident on cinema him, and as we today
see the same scene on the film, we recall the strange feeling we
had that this individual was not just a snake charmer but did
exert some strange power over these reptiles.
The demonstration was repeated from time to time, and at
the close of the last demonstration we offered him compensa­
tion, but he haughtily refused it, waved us aside with his hand,
and marched on, apparently indifferent to our words of appre­
ciation and gratitude for his demonstration. W e were deeply
grateful for this unusual opportunity to record this scene, and
thanked Inspector Habachi profusely. (Note: Sheikh Moussa-
EI-Hawi died in Gizeh of a cobra bite a few months after our
return, so a news cable reported.)
The balance of the day was spent in negotiating for the pur­
chase of an unusual collection of exhibits for the Rosicrucian
Egyptian Oriental Museum relics worth a considerable sum
because of their age and because they were the property of re­
nowned personages. Each of these antiquities had to be in­
spected by Habachi before being exported from Egypt, as it is
now tbe custom of the Egyptian government to permit the ex­
portation of only those things of which it may have a likeness,
and those things which are authentic, so as not to bring ridi­
cule upon Egypt.
I will never forget the stroll we took with Habachi down to
the edge of the Nile just as the sun was beginning to set. Its
rosy glow spread over the water; the air was now cool and
pleasant. It was our last night in Egypt; we were reluctant to
leave. W e were thankful to the Inspector for what he had done
and had helped us to accomplish. W e had just finished again
expressing our gratitude, and were about to return to our hotel,
expecting him to accompany us part way, when he said, I
leave you here. I am crossing the Nile.
W e were surprised, and said. At this hour? It will be quite
dark before you return.
W ith a peculiar smile he looked straight into my eyes and
said, I am not returning tonight. I sleep on the W est Bank.
Frater Brower stated. Oh, then you have another office, or
an abode across there.
He said. M y abode shall be the Temple of Medinet Habu.
Frater Brower and I looked at each other. You are sleeping
in that great temple tonight, by yourself? W rhy?
Smiling again, he said, You are students of mysticism; you
are Rosicrucians, are you not?
Yes,” was our reply.
Then you have my answer.
W e were astounded. Apparently he was returning to spend
the night in an environment and atmosphere of his ancient an­
cestors, to be surrounded by memories of their achievements, to
dream of their hopes, and aspirations, to try and visualize the
scenes that took place there, to gain from those great stone walls
and the inscriptions, dark shadows and absolute silence, some
idea of their inner ideals, of things left undone <
—perhaps to
quicken his own consciousness, to help him carry on, to keep
alive in Egypt what they had begun centuries before.
Slowly we turned and in silence left him, we to leave Egypt,
to pass another milestone along civilization s trail.
C hapter VIII
S T R IF E IN T H E H O LY L A N D
W a r in J e r u s a l e m !
The land where the Prince of Peace had expounded His
message of hope for humanity was now ridden by riots and
burning with the flames of hatred! Nearly twenty centuries ago.
from the same land, went forth the doctrine that a brotherhood of
man, and good will on earth toward all, would be the highest
manifestation of the divine in man s nature. Today the authori­
ties in Cairo warned us that we would enter Palestine and Jeru­
salem at our own risk, for the populace were aligned against
each other. Racial and religious prejudices had swept all bar­
riers of reason and tradition away.
W^e thought, as we determinedly signed papers releasing the
authorities from responsibility for any possible injury to our per­
sons in Palestine, that it is remarkable how well religion has
survived, promising peace, love and compassion in a world
where on every side reality portrays envy, greed, jealousy, and
strife. Still the illusion goes on. But then, are not many worthy
ideals illusions only because they are not possible of actuality
under existing circumstances? The illusion exists not in their
worthiness but in the belief that they are possible of attainment
in our own lifetimes.
The Egyptian press substantiated the dire warning of the rail­
road representatives. Articles told of troop movements in Pales­
tine, of the concentration of armed forces in Jerusalem, of pil­
laging and Arab atrocities. As we rode through the night, look­
ing up at the dark blue canopy overhead with its scintillating
specks, the tales of war and bloodshed seemed fantastic and
distant, like a horrible dream when one awakens in a room
bathed in warm, courage-giving sunlight. The press exag­
gerates,’ was our self-encouraging thought as we settled down
for a monotonous railway journey of a night and a day.
Kantara at last! W e rose stifly after our journey of several
hours, shook the desert dust from our clothing, feeling much as
the Nomad must feel who pushes his way across the desert
wastes on the back of a camel. Here was relief; we were to
ferry across the celebrated Suez Canal, point of international
controversy. The coolness of the water would be refreshing.
W e — Fratres Brower and Shibley and I ' juggled our luggage
through the open compartment windows to jabbering, fezzed,
native porters who eagerly seized it and fought among them­
selves for the privilege of carrying the pieces and earning a
small fee in compensation.
A queer spectacle greeted our sight as we trailed behind our
porters. The Suez at this point was exceedingly narrow and
unimpressive. Its width seemed to us not greater than many of
the principal irrigation canals of W estern United States. Except
for three Iow-wattage flood lights mounted on slender, obliquely
fastened poles, which cast small circles of a yellow haze on the
sluggishly moving water, the canal was inky black and free from
even the outline of any craft. Parading down a rickety plank
ramp, we walked on board the ferry. The ferry was like a
continuation of the ramp; the flooring consisted of rough planks,
fastened with hand-wrought nails, protruding in many places,
over which passengers stumbled. The only support on either
side was a railing, much like a crude fence but having only
a top bar. The ferry had neither prow nor stern. It was, in fact,
but a raft some thirty-five feet in length and twenty-five feet in
width. The passengers crowded against the railings to permit a
lumbering truck the center.
W^hile humanity and vehicles were being compressed into
the small area, we looked at our fellow passengers. W e felt
conspicuous; our garb was so strictly Western. Not another
of the perspiring group was attired in a like manner. On my
right stood a swarthy native woman, with shiny brass earrings
and a voluminous skirt of brilliant hues. A striped shawl draped
her head and partly shaded her darting eyes. On my left was a
Bedouin, Arab Nomad, wearing leather sandals, each with its
supporting thong tightly drawn between the large and next toes
of his broad feet. Covering his gaunt rame was an awning-like
linen robe, and hanging from his black rope belt was a dirk,
the scabbard of which was inlaid with mother-ol pearl, causing
it to shimmer with reflected light. He, and many of his kind
who crowded us, were apparently oblivious to our presence.
They dwelt on thoughts not agreeable, for their faces were dis­
torted by scowls. 'None too pleasant company, I thought as I
recollected tales of hatred which the Arabs were said to harbor
for us Occidentals at this time.
The pleasing coolness of the air was mitigated by the ravenous
mosquitoes, and the pernicious sticky black flies. W e felt further
uncomfortable, for we were aware that we were now becoming
objects of exceptional curiosity to several.
It was but a matter of moments before we had crossed the
Suez and were aboard the sleeper which was to take us into
Palestine. A s I lay listening to the high-pitched shriek — rather
than whistle — of our engine as we sped across the Peninsula
of Sinai, I thought of its ancient copper mines. For centuries
these great mines had provided the pharaohs with the metal
so badly needed for implements and weapons alike. All the
peoples of the then-known world bartered for this Egyptian
copper. No one knows how and when ore was first discovered,
but it is thought to have been first found on this peninsula in
the dim past. Some prehistoric Egyptian — perhaps a late stone-
age traveler — found one morning, glistening in the still-warm
ashes of his fire, one or more beads of metal which had gone
through the process of smelting in the roaring flames of the night
before. Repeated findings of these beads in the remnants of
the fire on this peninsula caused him and his companions to
experiment with heating the loose surface stone. Such experi­
mentation resulted in eventually learning how to extract the
metal crudely from the ore. W ith that simple discovery, the
world advanced tremendously. New accomplishments were
possible, for the age of metal had arrived!
W e rose early to greet the rising sun tinting the distant East­
ern hills a delicate shade of pink. The land was desolate, like
our Bad Lands of Nevada — table-like, hard packed with tuHs
of parched vegetation, with a sprinkling of round pebbles, a
little larger than commercial gravel. Not a sign of life was ap­
parent. This vista did not complement our glamorous concept
of what the Holy Land should be. The uninteresting view
turned our attention to our reading matter, by which we hoped
to break the monotony of the ride.
Our attention sometime later was drawn from our books to the
outside again by a sudden slowing of the train s speed to a crawl.
The hills were now closer very near, in fact and on both
sides of us. W e were traveling through a narrow valley. The
floor of the valley was covered by short grass stubble, still brown­
ish in hue. There before us was what we had expected to see
in Palestine <
— a flock of sheep and herd of goats being driven
by a nodding Semitic, riding astride a small, trotting burro. The
bare feet of the shepherd nearly dragged in the dust; it looked
as though, if he stood upright, feet on the ground, the burro
could have passed easily between his straddled legs. A s we
looked, more flocks came into evidence, some descending from
nearby hills. A ll seemed to be converging.
So slowly had we been traveling for several minutes, that
the halt of the train was hardly noticeable. Here was the first
stop we had made during the day. W e left our compartment
to crowd in the aisle of the car, and leaned far out of the lowered
windows. Parallel with the track, for about the length of two
cars, stretched a board platform, open to the sky. A hundred
yards back of it were eight or ten tents, somewhat squattier than
our American Indian tepees and less graceful, of a black
material which we later learned was tanned goatskin. Aligned
in front were small children in tbe customary tattered clothing
of the East, some partly naked; but unlike the children of the
Egyptian fellahs, these were quiet, and almost motionless. Near
them were groups of adults, either astride burros or sitting on
their haunches.
Loud voices and the clatter of heavy boots on the platform
caused us to turn our heads in the direction of the rear of the
train. There were two soldiers British tommies. They wore
the regulation tropical uniform of the British soldier —<khaki
shorts and shirt, high socks, trench shoes, and tan cork helmet.
Each had, slung across his back, an automatic rifle with bayonet
affixed. The men themselves particularly attracted our atten­
tion. They were, in fact, boys; neither of the lads was over
nineteen at the utmost ^-fresh-faced, bright eyed, the kind of
youthful, intelligent face you see in a college sports event and
little expect to find in a military expedition of this kind.
A n incident occurred in the few minutes of our stay which
caused us to lose admiration for them and their superiors. Per­
haps it was exceptional; at least, we hoped so. A n Arab lad,
about sixteen or seventeen, sauntered over to the platform, with
ragged turban, legs and feet bare. Upon his approach, the
young tommies stopped their bantering and watched him. A s
soon as he stepped upon the platform they were upon him.
Each grabbing one of his arms, they pulled bim in opposite
directions, then shoved him so violently toward each other that
he nearly fell. He was finally pushed off the platform. One
then struck him with his open hand across the head, as he vainly
tried to protect head and shoulders with his arms. Retreating,
he never once offered resistance. The other ran after him, kick­
ing him as he fled. W e were astounded. W hy this brutality?
The Arab boy had said or done nothing. Assuming that his
presence was a menace to the train because of danger of sabo­
tage, could they not have ordered him away, enforcing their
orders with the presence of their weapons? W as Great Britain
countenancing such conduct on the part of her troops? O r were
these, as their youth indicated, just raw troops unjustly display­
ing their new authority and might? Such actions, whatever their
cause, would only breed further hatred and difficulty in Pales­
tine for Britain, we thought.
W e rode on in silence for nearly another hour at a snail-like
speed. The next stop was at Lyda —
<a larger platform, crowded
as the previous one, having a partial rain-shed down the center.
The hills had closed in on us. Lyda was a junction point; our
train was to go to Haifa and the sea; we must change here for
Jerusalem. No porters clamored at the windows for our bag­
gage. After quite some labor, we unloaded our assortment of
twenty-one pieces, including the delicate cinema equipment, into
a pile on the platform. Our Jerusalem train had not yet arrived.
W^e looked about us. W e were in an armed camp, it would
seem. One end of the narrow, rough shed was supported by
additional posts, and on top of it, behind a rampart of sand bags,
a machine gun was mounted, and behind it sat two alert tom­
mies — about the same age as those we had previously seen.
From their position they commanded full view of the rocky cliffs
which frowned down upon us, and they were alert, watching
for Arab snipers that had been harassing the railroad crews.
The platform was crowded with troops carrying full equipment,
waiting as we were for the train to Jerusalem. A drone overhead
caused us to look upward. 1 here a lone plane — a scout —
circled high over the depot and adjacent hills, ready to signal
the troops below of any Arab movement in their direction. W^e
scanned the clefts in the scarred hills. There was no life visible;
yet we had the uneasy feeling that eyes from the dark shadows
of the hillsides watched our movements, perhaps sighting at us
along rifles they hesitated to fire at the moment.
The piercing shriek of the dumpy engine, pulling rickety
wooden cars toward us, was a welcome relief. Our party was
separated; we were all fortunate to find space on board. Tbis
was a troop train, and passengers — of wkicH we were the only
ones — were incidental, and tbeir comfort not considered. Tbe
troops were all in good bumor; tbey bad just arrived on the trans­
port from England, and were on tbeir way from Haifa to various
zones in tbe trouble area in tbe vicinity of Jerusalem and Bethle-
bem. None was over twenty-one, or so it seemed, witb tbe ex-
ception of tbe officers. W e learned tfiat tlie youthfulness of tbe
troops was due to tbe fact tbat England bas found tbat men over
twenty-five years of age do not, unless tbey bave lived for some
length of time in the tropics, readily adjust themselves to ex­
tremes in temperature.
In the aisles outside of the compartments in eacb car were
stationed four men. rifles ready and at rest on window bars, as
they peered into the hills for signs of Arab hostilities toward the
train. On a sharp bend I saw, through our open window
(through which dust and cinders poured) a gasoline truck travel­
ing on the rails about a hundred feet in advance of our engine.
On it was mounted a rather heavy-calibre machine gun, and
three armed Tommies stood by. This, we learned, ran in ad­
vance of the train to ward off attacks on it and to sight any
damaged rails or bridges intended to derail the train, which had
been the recent practice in these canyons.
The viciousness of the rocky hills through which we were
winding was finally broken by patches of vegetation. W re were
nearing Jerusalem. 1 he sloping sides of the hills were now ter­
raced every ten or twelve feet, with three-foot walls made of
irregular stones plucked from the surrounding surface. Between
each wall and the one above was a thin veneer of soil; in these
rims of soil grew the grapes of Palestine, and much of the grain
and truck which the Holy Land depended upon. In Biblical
times the peasant of Palestine found the thin coating of soil
on the rocky cliffs hardly sufficient for his actual needs; centuries
of rainfall had washed nearly all the remaining soil away. The
land in this vicinity would have been completely impoverished
but for these stone retaining-walls, built as a last protective
measure. Hardy Hebrew women turned from their task of hand-
cultivation to stare at the train of singing armed men that passed.
W e wondered as we looked at their solemn, weather-beaten,
dull faces, whether they saw in these troops new bope or further
disaster for their land and race.
W e swung suddenly from the open country into the yards
of Jerusalem s only depot. Crowds on the platform cheered the
troops who detrained with the light-hearted spirit of a crowd of
Sunday excursionists. Our only conveyance was an old private
car; the Arab taxi drivers were on strike as were all other Arab
employees. The Jews dared not supplant them or operate their
competitive enterprises for fear of Arab reprisals, which meant
bloodshed for both sides. In consequence, all shops, factories,
mills, banks, and industrial places were closed and had been
for months. Hunger and disease were rampant, and tension was
growing stronger. Outbursts were frequent, loss of life
considerable.
A s we sped at fifty miles an hour along one of the main
thoroughfares with a young Hebrew at the wheel, who furtively
glanced toward the boarded shop windows on his left and right,
we studied the buildings as best we could. Their fronts were
plastered and white-wT
ashed, which made them gleam in the
hot afternoon sun. They rose to a height of two or three stories.
M any had dome-like roofs and minaret-like towers, revealing
the Moorish and Byzantine influence. Others had red hand­
made tile and wrought-iron balconies, upon which ordinarily
doors opened but which were now boarded closed. This street
was macadamized, but side streets, of which we had but fleeting
glimpses, were cobble-stoned, narrow, crude.
Our destination, one of the most prominent hotels in Jeru­
salem, was gratifyingly modern. After an exceptionally appe­
tizing and well served meal, we retired. Several times 1 was
awakened during the night by rumbling, indistinct voices and
the thud of feet below in the corridors and upon the street be­
neath my window. Fatigue overcame curiosity, and I would
lapse again into sleep. In the morning we discovered that night
had brought about a startling transformation of our hostelry. It
had been converted into a military headquarters for the high
staff of the British Palestine expeditionary force. Uniformed
army messengers were running up the broad staircase bearing
side arms. High-ranking officers stood or sat in groups in the
main foyer, talking in low voices. All the rooms were occupied
by the military staff, and would be, with the exception of those
held by our party. An indication of the seriousness of events
was the low sandbag rampart on the sidewalk immediately in
front of the main entrance, behind which a sentry patrolled. W e
were allowed free exit and entry, but must return before 8:00
p. m. or be barred from entry. Each time we desired admittance,
we had to secure the permission of the armed sentry.
Turning the corner to cross the street to secure the services
of a guide whose name had been given us, we saw directly be­
neath the balcony of our rooms twT
o armored trucks bearing one-
pound cannon and regulation machine guns. These were riot
cars which patrolled the streets at night and rushed to areas of
disturbance until the arrival of the infantry. A state of war truly
existed.
‘‘W ill we be allowed to film even the historic and mystical
places under such conditions? asked Frater Brower, putting into
words my own thoughts.
“ Probably not,” was my pessimistic reply.
By appointment, a representative of the American Express
Company met us, and after greeting us he said, Our office is
closed and all ordinary business is suspended. It is a special
concession that I meet you here. 1 cannot assure you any success
in your enterprise, for the High British Commissioner of Jeru­
salem has declared the city under martial law.
" Shall we seek to obtain permission to take our cinema pic­
tures? I asked.
Such channels of authority do not exist at present,” he said.
I would suggest that you proceed as usual unless ordered to
cease by tbe military authorities.
I suddenly became aware of someone standing close behind
me. Somewhat startled, I turned quickly to look into the face
of an Arab, bowing graciously to me. He was attired nattily
in a business suit such as any young American or Englishman
might wear. The only touch of the Oriental in his attire was his
tarboosh (fez). He was a young man of thirty-five. Particularly
impressive were his large, expressive eyes and his exceptionally
fair skin for one of his race. The extent of his lavish bow and
his genial smile caused me involuntarily to bow slightly in re­
turn. Noticing our confusion, the American Express representa­
tive stepped forward and introduced us; he was to be our guide.
W e shall call him Sule, which is not his true name. Not a
pleasant prospect, I contemplated; an Arab guide, and we
Americans —
- the next to being English in the minds of most of
the peoples of the levant, and the English were far from being
in favor with the Arabs at that time.
My musing was interrupted by his question, Shall we pro­
ceed on our journey at once?”
Before I could reply, the American Express representative was
bidding us farewell and hastily retiring. Turning to Sule, I an­
swered with a question. Shall we take our cinema equipment
with us now, or just our still cameras?”
Let us investigate the sites now. Therefore, take your still
cameras; tomorrow, the cinema,’ he said in his charming accent.
In less than half an hour we were off. Sule had engaged two
robust Arab porters to carry our Graphlex, tripod, plates, and
other paraphernalia. No automobiles being available, we
walked, feeling quite uncomfortable in the hot sun. The heat
discouraged unnecessary conversation. Our comments were in
monosyllables.
W e stopped before one of Jerusalem s historical and massive
triple gates — now but a great stone arcbway through which
pedestrians and pack burrows alike tread. Everywhere shop
windows were boarded, creating a depressing atmosphere, im­
pressing one with the fact that danger lurked near at hand or
was expected momentarily. Natives stood idly, leaning against
shop fronts or buildings. To us they all seemed to be Arabs,
solemn, unexpressive, staring into space. Some slowly turned
their heads and looked after us. Beggar boys ran up to us hold­
ing out dirty hands, chattering in Arabic, some proffering cakes
for sale in filthy straw baskets which bad been sitting on the
curbs of the gutter, and over which flies hovered, many already
covering the wares. The whole scene was, however, picturesque:
the remaining portions of the once great walls of King David s
temple; the alley-like streets; the roofs of houses on either side,
leaning until they nearly touched, as though supporting each
other in their stage of near-collapse. Burros were the only means
of conveyance, walking patiently, their ears flapDing. flies buz­
zing about their heads, trudging under swaying, cruel burdens.
The commercial life of the city however, was obviously para­
lyzed, and there were no tourists, no outsiders but ourselves.
I H E U N K N O W N C O N D I T IO N S O F P A L E S T IN E
T u r n i n g down a steep incline, we entered nt the bottom a
large flagged courtyard, closed in on either side of us by a
massive, sombre, granite-block wall. In tront ol us, the tkird
side of the courtyard was a fairly large edifice of tbe same de­
pressing hue. 7lie natural gray of the stone Iiad been darkened
by years of rain which had streaked the stones with black. It
reminded me, with its arched entrance reached by descending
the flight of well-worn steps, of the I emple of Justice in Paris,
former prison during the French Revolution. 7 his fortress-like
structure was the Church ol the Holy Sepulchre. 1 he authen­
ticity of this purported tomb of the Christ is much disputed.
Now lying in the center of modern Jerusalem, it at one time
was just outside the walls of the city. The Christian literature
of the first three centuries made absolutely no reference to the
’ empty tomb” ; if it had been known in the past and venerated,
it certainly would have been destroyed —
- so historians state —
during the destruction of Jerusalem by T itus (70 A . D.) and the
great devastation of the Bar Koklos Rebellion.
The Roman emperor, Hadrian, restored the city in 135 A . D .,
and erected over the tomb a temple, dedicated to the pagan
goddess, Aphrodite. 1wo hundred years later, Macarius re­
moved the temple and found an ancient Jewish tomb. Rock
was cut away from the tomb and a circular building — the Anas-
tosius — was built around it. Over this was built the present
medieval building. That the tomb inside is the one located by
Macarius is undisputable, but there is no proof, it is argued, that
it was the Christ s tomb. Speculation runs high as to outside
of just which gate of Jerusalem the Crucifixion actually took
place, for that fact would assist in determining the site of the
actual tomb.
The inside of the rotunda was dimly lighted by candles. On
either side, against the walls, like concessions at an exposition,
were the altars and accoutrements of the various Christian sects
which have property rights in the buildings and share the honor
of preserving the site. Even to one who might not be strictly
orthodox, and therefore not unduly sensitive, the ostentatious
display was offensive. Each sect had tried, not to make its shrine
more dignified or symbolic of the sanctity of the place, but more
pretentious, just as a merchant would, to dominate the attention
of passers-by. This obvious competition within the confines of
the sacred shrine itself has led to many disputes, culminating in
bloodshed. How disillusioning, was our paramount thought
as we left the edifice, must a visit to the place be to religious
pilgrims!
W e discussed the circumstances and our impressions freely
in the presence of our guide, Sule, as we prepared to take photo­
graphs of the exterior. He had been attentively listening, for
he said, Your views are different from many who come to visit.
To you, God does not bestow blessings only upon those who
profess to know His ways, but as well upon those who follow
them, whether they know they are His ways or not.”
W e explained that we were not creedists, feeling that we
could understand God without reducing our understanding to
dogma. W e further explained that in our opinion, the errors
which existed in any religion were not in motive but in interpre­
tation and application.
'Precisely,” he replied. "A nd so I shall express myself in
my book.”
You are writing a book?’ I queried, studying carefully his
enigmatic face.
I am now a Christian, although 1 am an Arab. I was a
Mohammedan, and I feel qualified to make a comparison be­
tween these two great faiths, and of this my book shall consist.
"And is it possible that your book might bring greater har­
mony between your people and the Jews? I asked, risking a
challenging question.
If my question surprised him, his face did not reveal it; but
his eye held mine, as he replied in a deliberate manner, You are
Americans, not involved in the situation which exists here. 1
feel that I can speak freely to you
This he did, giving us an understanding of the turbulent state
not obtained from the others, whose views have been more publi­
cized because of the means at their disposal.
“ The conditions which exist in Palestine, he began, are not
solely due to religious differences between the Arabs and Jews,
as many of the leading newspapers of the world would have
their readers believe. W e have had as nextdoor neighbors for
decades, Jews who deal with us and we with them. Our mutual
respect has been heightened by fair dealings and an equal as­
sumption of social, political, and economic responsibilities. In
the controversy that exists, these Jews, our neighbors and our
friends, support us. Palestine is a land which, even in your
short stay, he continued, his voice now quivering with emotion,
you must have already observed is incapable of supporting
agriculturally a numerous people. W ith the exception of the
Jordan Valley, a fertile strip, it is nearly a barren land and re­
quires a very hardy people to subsist on it. W e and the Jews
who have been established here are not selfish, but we know
that an influx of population will bring ruin to all here who are
now enjoying no more than life’s necessities.’ W e listened in­
tently, impressed by his earnestness.
“Propaganda in England and in America, and conditions in
Germany, have encouraged thousands upon thousands of Jews
to enter Palestine with the belief that it was to become a new
kingdom of Judea, a land of affluence. This migration has been
encouraged by certain money interests that have bought worth­
less lands in Palestine and sold them, sight unseen, to the im­
migrants before they left their homes in other lands. These new­
comers are mostly not agriculturists — are even unaccustomed to
manual labor. They arrive nearly destitute. A few weeks hard­
ship on the soil of Palestine proves to them that they cannot sup­
port themselves upon it. and being financially unable to return
to their original homes, they move into our cities and towns.
They, by nature, are barterers, merchants, and they set up nu­
merous little stalls (one cannot call them shops). They are forced
to live like cattle by circumstance, and thus undersell by far the
rest of us — even their own kind who have been established
here. 1 his unfair competition reduces living standards, wages
fall, business suffers, and we all starve. Still they keep pouring
in, to be in turn deceived.
“Not a word of these conditions reaches the outside world.
The British press and others continue to tell the world at large
how Palestine is fulfilling a prophecy of becoming a new king­
dom of hope and prosperity for the Jews. W e have pleaded
with England, which exercises the palestine mandate, to restrict
immigration and to establish a quota for Palestine, allowing a
limited number to enter annually. A number that new business,
industry, and development can rightly assimilate. This has been
promised periodically, but still there is actually no quota in
existence.* A people can stand only so much deprivation; then
the law of their being causes them to retaliate, to struggle for
survival and for those little things which make life worth living.
If, we reasoned, we could paralyze transportation and all com­
merce in Palestine, we could force the world to realize our des­
perate circumstances. W^e no longer operate the railroads;
those that are operated are done so by the British army. W e
permit no trucking, manufacturing, or conducting of usual
business.
This is very harsh and lawless you may think, but we fight
for life and the lives of our loved ones. Britain and other nations
* Efforts are being made now by the British Government to fix a quota and to portion Pales­
tine into sections for the Jews and the Arabs,
have great interests here. Their financial resources are affected
by these conditions. Pressure was brought upon the British
Parliament to establish normalcy. W e have been threatened but
have not complied with the demands. The military force has
undertaken to operate mills and supervise institutions. 1 his dis­
play of force has caused hatred, and my people have resorted
to the same means. They harass Britain s troops. They prefer
to bring about a settlement by treaty and compromise, but their
pleas are met by a cruel overriding by the military might. In the
national treasury of Palestine there was a small reserve sum of
six million dollars. W re are being penalized for our attempt at
existence; the expense of transporting troops, supplies, and war
materials here from England to oppose us is being paid out of
these reserve funds. W e shall never surrender or submit to
such conditions! Our people are used to these hills; they were
raised in them. Armed and in them, they can resist a trained
and fully equipped British force of fifty thousand troops
indefinitely.
‘America.’ he stated, apparently to placate us if anything he
had said might have offended, "would surely be more consider­
ate of our needs. W^e selected her at the close of the W^orld
W^ar to exercise the mandate over Palestine, but she refused.
"Fortunately,” I replied, for undoubtedly she might have
confronted the same conditions and how she would have reacted
to them one cannot truthfully say. Is there I asked, much
loss of life?
Listen tonight, an hour after sunset. You will hear the crack
of rifles from various directions, he said with a glint in his eyes.
The chattering reply you will then hear is the machine guns of
the British. W hen British troops rush one section, Arab snipers
harass them from another. W e do not like these methods, but
our conduct is the cry of a people in distress. W e have the moral
and material support, he proudly added, of all the Islamic
peoples of Syria. Turkey, Egypt, Iraq, and Arabia.
I he British are usually fair in their dealings,’ I began.
He interrupted. I speak no condemnation of the British
people as a whole; they have been our friends. 1 hose who have
lived here before, and understand, have deplored their country s
action and protested. But mercenary interests have stifled their
pleadings, and the homeland knows not the true facts.
W e had walked as we talked. Carefully we plotted our cam­
paign for the next day. Bidding Sule good evening, we retired
to our hotel. That evening we dined with the most prominent
British officers stationed in Palestine, in the simple, unpreten­
tious dining salon of the hotel. A British officer of rank is a cul­
tured gentleman; no matter how far from his native land, he
never relaxes his customs, manners, or poise. Each evening,
though men only were present, every officer dressed for dinner
in his dinner jacket as meticulously as though visiting some
smart restaurant on the Strand with his lady.
An Englishman never permits himself to become influenced
by environment and social conditions into which he is thrust.
It can be said, that wherever an Englishman is, there is England.
This reveals a most pure strain of nationalism. It does not mean
superiority, but rather a stronger allegiance to a chain of tradi­
tions. An American is more easily swayed by environment and
will assimilate the customs and practices about him quickly,
sometimes good, sometimes bad. For example — though the
clocks of the hotel had accurate Palestine time, these officers
gathered about the single radio receiver which the hotel afforded
to secure London time by short wave, and then adjusted their
watches accordingly for the number ol hours difference between
that and the local time. W^hat American would set his time in
Palestine by a New York broadcast if he could obtain it from
the local clocks? Such is the influence tradition asserts on a
Briton.
The brilliant sunlight of the next morning was encouraging
W e had feared it would be overcast, from the appearance of
the skies in the evening. Our equipment was all prepared. W e
carried with us four magazines of film, representing several thou­
sand feet, and all of the necessary shades and filters and acces­
sories for the successful operation — we hoped of our equip­
ment. A twenty-minute walk brought us to what had originally
been the outskirts of the ancient city of Jerusalem. Before us
was an attractive tower-like church — a gift to the Roman
Catholics of Jerusalem by the former Kaiser W^ilhelm of
Germany.
Passing through a large gateway, we entered a pleasant gar­
den, quiet and serene. Crossing this to the Gothic doorway, we
pulled on a weather-beaten rope hanging there and heard from
the interior the distant tinkling of a small bell. A few seconds
later, the door opened disclosing a pleasant faced father, middle
aged, portly, wearing sandals and clerical garb. Our guide ex­
plained to him in French our purpose — that we desired to as­
cend to the top of the tower, which structure had the greatest
height in that vicinity, to photograph views of the surrounding
terrain. It was rather an unusual request, this we realized.
After studying us carefully for a moment or two, he kindly con­
sented. After winding our way to the top of a tower by means
of a circular stone stairway, which permitted the passage of just
one person at a time, we were rewarded for our effort. There
before us was spread a goodly section of modern Jerusalem. In
the great distance could be seen a portion of the Dead Sea.
Slightly to our left was a hill, not great in height, but higher
than the surrounding land. It was perfectly bare. At one time
it was covered with olive trees, and was, in fact, the Mt. of
Olives upon which had been located the historical Garden of
Gethsemane. 1 urning to our guide I stated, I presume that
the olive trees were removed centuries ago. To the contrary,
he replied. The Mt. of Olives was covered with olive trees
until during the world war, when Palestine was occupied and
dominated by 7urkish lorces. Due to the embargo by British
ships, the 1 urks were not able to obtain coal to operate the
trains through Palestine, and being badly in need of fuel, the
olive trees were felled by the Turks and used to fire their
locomotives.
Here again was another indication of the fact that war is no
respecter of traditions, historical sites or even sacred places.
Being satisfied that we could get no better view than this, we
spent considerable time filming the vista before us. I was par­
ticularly impressed with this little church. After departing from
the tower, I entered the chapel. Its simplicity was impressive,
restful, a place where one could quickly depart in thought and
feeling from the rest of the world. No lavishness, no attempted
display, just the cool, gray walls, the plain hardwood pews the
high altar beautifully carved of teakwood. High above it some
light filtered through a stained glass window, forming a geo­
metrical pattern on the mosaic floor and heightening the shadows
on either side of the chapel. But we had to hurry away, for
our time was limited.
From here we were to proceed to the historical town of Bethle­
hem. The only transportation was burros. Getting astride these
small animals we jogged the entire distance of six miles along
a modern highway to Bethlehem. To passing troops in motor
lorries, we must have presented an amusing spectacle, but the
only means of transportation were these burros, with the excep­
tion of the military trucks and lorries. W e felt fortunate that we
could go even by this means. W e were accustomed to horse­
back riding, which we enjoy, but there is a great difference in
riding a horse and a burro, as one soon learns. The stride of
the burro is shorter, more jerky and far more breathtaking. A
ride of three or four miles by burro is as fatiguing to one not
used to it, as a ride of several hours on horseback.
Midway we stopped at the W^ell of the Magi. This well today
is the same in appearance as it must have been in the time of
Christ and before. Back of it is a grove of olive trees. There
have always been olive trees there as far back as local history
goes. The well is now dry and has been dry in the memory
of the oldest inhabitants. There is no doubt as to its authen­
ticity, for historical records as well as legend point to this well
as the common meeting and stopping place of travellers and
those going to and fro from Jerusalem or Bethlehem. Caravans
used to pass there, as well as those driving their flocks from one
section to another in search of new pastures. I was deeply im­
pressed as 1 sat on the edge of this well and thought of the
brethren of the mystic schools who conversed here while re­
freshing themselves with the well s cool water.
Further on, we passed the round, silo-like tomb of Rachel,
another truly authenticated historic place — although unimpres­
sive — along the same famous highway. Rounding a bend in
T H E W E L L O F T H E M AGI
Tradition states that the wise men of the East, on their way to Bethle­
hem to visit “A new-born King." drank of the water from this well.
(PJiolo by AM O RC)
the roacl, we had a panorama of the hills surrounding Bethle­
hem, to which so much reference is made in the New 1estament.
W e could visualize the shepherds there watching over their
flocks. W e could realize why, since the shepherds played such
a prominent part in the life of the people of that time, there
were so many parables concerning their conduct. It was simple
for people to grasp the significance of such parables.
Lorry after lorry of troops and armored cars passed us, hurry­
ing to Bethlehem. Once the highway over which the wise men
travelled, those predicting the coming of the Creat Avatar, and
the road over which the Christ himself rode and preached to
the passers-by of the coming of a new era, it is now an avenue
for the quick moving of machinery of destruction and the armies
of war.
W e were more impressed with our entrance into Bethlehem
than into Jerusalem. A ll streets were exceptionally tortuous,
twisting, winding and rough, with cobble and flagstones. Hardly
anyone in W estern garb was to be seen. All were robed much
like the pictures and paintings we have of the people of Biblical
times. W re were held up occasionally to let a herd of goats or
a flock of sheep pass us by. Finally, the narrow street on which
we travelled opened into a wider thoroughfare and there before
us was the Church of Nativity, the birthplace of Christ. Im­
mediately before it was a large plaza, elevated just a few feet
above the approaching street. Like most all of these ancient
buildings, it was not welcoming, but sombre, depressing, the
very massiveness of the stone conveying the feeling of coldness
and dreariness. 1he windows were small and slit-like. The en­
trance into the church itself was so low that one had to bow
his head to enter.
Most astounding to us, however, was the fact that the lorries
which had been passing us with troops and war supplies were
making this plaza before the Church ol the Nativity their des­
tination. IL is great space was to be used as a temporary bar­
racks and storage area for war materials. Stacked high were
cartons, cases and bundles and the black, ugly, large metal con­
tainers of crude oil and gasoline needed for the mechanized
equipment of the British troops. Stacked also ~ almost in front
of the very entrance into the Chuch of the Nativity — were rifles.
The troops stood idly by awaiting further orders. Machine guns
were mounted on the adjacent wall, surveying the whole area
as a protective means. A goodly portion of the Hebrew popula­
tion stood by, curiously watching.
W e entered the Church and walked from chamber to cham­
ber. From these very chambers each Christmas morning a ser­
mon is broadcast throughout the world. In fact, ninety days
later, during the greatest strife in Palestine, with all of these
armaments about, a message of peace and hope was issued to
humanity. Fortunately, the listeners throughout the world could
not see the conditions existing where this message originated or
they would perhaps have had their faith in the message some-
w’hat shaken.
W e were permitted to take pictures of this place, and found
it extremely difficult to avoid including modern troops and war
paraphernalia in the scenes of this holy site.
Returning once again to Jerusalem, and after visiting many
other historic places about which there is dispute as to their
authenticity, we were fortunate in being able to photograph the
building which legend and tradition declare is the place where
the Last Supper of Christ was held. Even most historians are of
the belief that this structure was undoubtedly the original edifice.
Strange, that this chamber which means so much to Christians,
to philosophers and mystics who are all somewhat in dispute
as to the real purpose and objects of the Last Supper, is now
a Mohammedan Mosque. The Mohammedans themselves con­
firm the legend that it is the place where Christ s Last Supper
was held. They appreciate its sacredness to Christians. Every­
one is permitted to visit it. It is a chamber about sixty feet in
length and about forty feet in width, with two rows of rather
stout columns down the center. It Has a very low, arcKed ceiling
and is dark, except for two narrow windows at one end
which admit very little light, and candles which are placed
about the wall. The stone floor is covered, as is the custom in
mosques, with exquisite and very old and valuable Oriental
rugs. Unlike many of the other sites of interest to tourists and
Christian pilgrims, now controlled by Christian sects, no fees
were asked for admission. One could make a contribution as
he left but the Mohammedans did not seem to expect it, or ask
for it. This contrast in custom was very noticeable to us, and
certainly complimentary to the Mohammedans.
W e returned to the hotel just before the curfew hour. W e
found a flurry of excitement. The high commissioner had re-
quested additional troops for Palestine. During the night before
an attack had been made upon his executive mansion, and the
rebellion was growing. Tomorrow we would begin our journey
away from Palestine into the interior of lands populated by
people thought by Christians to be heathens, even pagans, or
at least enemies of that for which Christianity stands. Had
Christianity set such a marvelous example for them to aspire
to? Had it succeeded as well as one would imagine from the
reading of its literature and its glowing terms of promise, when
the birthplace of its idealism and its greatest exponent was
steeped in war and bloodshed, and seething with hatred?
C hapter X
A N C IE N T P H O E N IC IA
R a c i n g through bowers of fragrant shrubs, and then sud­
denly sweeping upward to skim along the crest of rocky slopes
overlooking the broad expanse of the Mediterranean, our spirits
rose with each turn in the road. Not more than two hours pre­
viously we had been in Palestine, but its blue skies had been
colored by our feelings, a pall of dejection had hung over us,
because of our intimate experiences with its bitter revolution.
How can one doubt that we mortals are torn by the strong in­
fluences of environment and our mental attitudes? The most
dominant factor in life is our attitude toward things and people,
our personal interpretations. If we are confident, cheerful and
courageous, every obstacle is but another stride to be taken in
our progress. The most sordid environment, even the darkest
hour becomes but a background by which to contrast our radiant
spirits. Let hope and self-assurance ebb, however, and the
slightest change in circumstances becomes to us a wave of ca­
lamity by which we are completely engulfed. This but proves
that the world is impartial. It never intentionally oppresses the
individual nor does it favor him. Time either sweeps the indi­
vidual along with it, or passes him by. The mentally alert,
visionary individual is prepared to strike out and swim with the
current. He is never content to bewail his lot on the bank,
watching life flow by.
The Mediterranean was exceptionally blue, rather of the
colored postcard hue, almost unbelievably brilliant. The sun­
light seemed to dance upon its glass-like surface. This coast
line of ancient Phoenicia, now Syria, was amazingly like that of
California. The mountains seemed to plunge into the sea no
gradual approach, but an abrupt demarcation, a bold precipice
submerging itself in the waters. It was as if the parched desert
far inland had, by a series of undulations, sought to reach the
sea and, suddenly coming upon it. one of its crests had slipped
beneath the water.
1 he surrounding terrain was little changcd. Nowhere for
miles along this coast were evidences of human progress, except
for the pavement upon which we travelled. The coastal hills
were uncultivated, although spotted with verdure, but, unlike
our California Coast range, they were unfenced. Beautiful
sandy beaches marked the erosion of the rocky shore by the sea.
beaches which in a more commercialized land would have been
marred by gaudy concessions. Little harbor-bays were formed
by jutting rugged arms of the coast. In these still waters, about
lOOO B. C., floated the sturdy, but small craft of the Phoenicians.
At that time black-bearded men, %vho but a few centuries pre­
vious had been desert wanderers, nomads, directed the loading
of the boats. They carried cargoes of mother-of-pearl inlay fur­
niture, ivory combs, household utensils, gold trinkets, frankin­
cense and other luxuries with which to barter with the peoples
of distant countries bordering the shores of the Mediterranean.
I hey were at that time the greatest navigators ol the world.
They ventured as far W est as what is now Spain and carried
on an extensive trade with the early Greeks who were greatly
influenced by the Phoenician dress and customs. It is said that
the early Greeks borrowed their style of costume from the Phoe­
nicians. A s they prospered in their trade, they colonized many
towns along the coast of the eastern end ol the Mediterranean.
Cars were now passing us rather frequently going in the op­
posite direction. W^e were approaching Beirut, the principal
seaport of Syria, or the state of Lebanon. In a few moments we
were slowly moving through the streets of this city, which was
quite evidently influenced by W estern ideas and practices. 1he
change in the appearance of shop windows Irom those of Egypt
and Palestine, the large paved thoroughfares, elaborate cafes,
spacious lawns, even public trams, did not give us the impres­
sion ol the W estern W orld attempting to invade the East, but
rather that it had already arrived, and the East was trying to
survive the influence. Originally captured by the British in
October, 1908, the country is now a French Mandated territory,
but the city of Beirut is exceptionally Americanized because of
the great American University now established there, whose
faculty members are mainly Irom the United States. 1 hese in­
structors brought with them their manner and methods of living,
and, with their families, gradually impressed the natives with
their superior way of living, to which the natives have taken
readily.
Our stay in Beirut was brief, lor it was not our immediate
destination. W e were bound for (he inland. Leaving the sea
level we began a very steep ascent, winding our way over the
high mountains. Lebanon, as this section is known, is renowned
for being the site of the once famous cedar trees, by the same
name, for centuries used extensively in the building operations of
the ancient peoples whose countries bordered the Mediterranean.
But one small grove of the great trees still remains and it is
preserved as a monument ol the past. Centuries before Christ,
the Egyptians put out expeditions to this coast to fell the great
trees and float them back to the mouth of the Nile, thence up
the great river for hundreds ol miles. I he writer recently had the
opportunity ol examining thoroughly several sarcophagi (mum­
my coffins) being installed in the new addition of the Rosicrucian
Oriental and Egyptian museum. 1hese sarcophagi date back
to approximately looo B. C. Each of them was made, as practi­
cally all of them were during that time, from planks ol cedar
brought Irom Lebanon, centuries ago. Even though they were
about thirty centuries old. they were yet in a lair state of preser­
vation. M any of the early fleets that plied the waters of the
Mediterranean were built of the cedars of Lebanon. It was a
rare wood and much sought after. I ovvard the South end of
the Lebanon mountains, towers Ml. Hermon, reaching a height
of qooo feet. 1 he mountain is frequently mentioned in the Chris­
tian Bible by other names. Around its base are to be found the
ruins of the Temples of Baal. G en erally speaking, Baal is an
ancient sun god, but genetically speaking, Baal was the Syrio-
Phoenician word meaning G od. T h e ancient Sidonians had
named this mountain Syrion. It is without vegetation of any
kind, except a plant life resembling our N orth Am erican sage
brush.
To this point in our travels, our roads had been remarkably
well paved and graded. Now, they narrowed and were fre­
quently pitted. The hills were growing brown, as though they
needed rain badly. The country was becoming more desolate
and it had its effect upon our moods, and our conversation be­
came less frequent. About two hours after having left Beirut,
and having just made a turn on a high mountain pass, we
looked down from an altitude of several thousand feet upon a
broad plateau stretching into the distance. Far below our road
continued, like a gray ribbon stretching for miles across the
waste. Toward the horizon a great green patch was visible.
Soon we were entering this patch, the outer edge of a fertile
area, and the age-old city of Damascus, which is on the fringe
of the great Mesopotamian desert. Damascus, 57 miles east
of Beirut, has a population of about 188,000; 21,000 of which
are Christians and about 160,000 Jews. It is the oldest inhabited
city in the world. In the T el-EI-Amarna tablets or letters, the
first letters of state in the history of the world, exchanged between
Queen Nefertiti and the rulers of her subordinate states or col­
onies in 1 330 B. C., Damascus is mentioned. At that early time,
according to translations, it was termed Dimashka. The same
name, referring to the same city is found inscribed on the walls
of the Temple of Rameses III in Upper Egypt. It was the scene
of many wars mentioned in Biblical literature. David had cam­
paigned against it, but without a great deal of success. French
troops were garrisoned there as elsewhere in Syria, but were
unsuccessful in accomplishing much with Damascus, or any
of Syria in fact, because of an antipathy held toward them by
the native Syrians. Various political influences, which we will
describe later, caused the French much unrest and a regret that
they had ever assumed the mandate.
O u r first impressive sight after entering this ancient city, was
a large cemetery near the city’s center, the tombs of which were
fashioned like small mosques with their customary domed roofs
and spiral minarets. 1 hey w ere so diminutive that I likened them
to the ovens one sees used for the manufacturing of tile and
brick. Around the w hole cemetery was an artistic Byzantine
brick wall, the top of which was crenellated. W h e n our car
stopped before the principal hostelry which the city afforded,
located in a plaza directly across from the depot of a narrow
gauge railroad originally built by G erm any before W^orld W ’ar
I, and now used for the transporting of freight from Beirut to
Damascus, w e were greeted by a now fam iliar sight. Porters in
w hite linen robes which looked not unlike the old fashioned
night gown tied around the m iddle with a soiled red sash, and
w earing M oham m edan tarbooshes, shuffled up and sought our
baggage.
W^e paid little attention to the interior of the hotel, that is.
the main foyer, until our return from our rooms above where w e
had im m ediately retired to remove some of the grime of travel.
Intensely hungry, w e sought the dining hall. W^e were ushered
into a spacious interior court. Courts are exceptionally common
in these Eastern countries, because they are cool, inviting and
traditional. 1 he walls were all white, against which pots of
flowers and climbing vines appeared refreshingly cool. T h e ceil­
ing was constructed of hand-hewn timbers. Between the tops
of the walls and the ceiling was a stone grill work which allow ed
am ple ventilation. A t either end was a high, narrow window,
hardly large enough to permit the passage of a man. T h ey were
w ell shaded and kept out the m id-day heat and glare. M ost
surprising was the great number of persons that were crowded
in this fairly large dining hall. Th ere must have been at least
400 persons seated at long tables somewhat like those one would
find in an army or construction camp. Instead of being seated on
cbairs, they w ere seated on benches which were a part of the
table. M ost of the d iners were in W estern attire, a sack or
business suit, and all w ore tarbooshes. It is a custom not to re­
move the tarboosh when indoors, or when dining.
A n amusing incident was that all were eating as rapidly as
they could, and not a sound of a voice was to be heard. N o one
was conversing, all infently concentrating upon the consump­
tion of food. It seemed as though they were given a limited time
to eat and could not afford to indulge in conversation. It was so
different from the leisurely dining of Europe, where eating is
an art and a social event as w ell. W^e later learned that it is
not a custom among the Syrians and the peoples of the Levan t
to converse when eating, but rather to devote their attention to
food first, and then converse at length afterward. I was also
surprised to find a hotel so crowded in such an out of the w ay
place as Damascus. M a n y of the big hostelries of Am erica and
the W estern world would have been grateful for such patronage
as this hotel was apparently enjoying at this time. If w e had
seen a similar sight in Am erica, w e w ould have thou ght a con­
vention was in session. Conventions seemed to be such a W e s t ­
ern mode, that w e did not entertain the thought in this instance.
L^pon inquiry, w e found that this was a momentous occasion in
Syria, and that an election was to be held for the president of
Syria. T h e hotel was more than a mere hostelry, it was used
as an administration building by government officials and politi­
cal parties, and in fact all of the principal affairs of state were
conducted there. A s soon as lunch was finished, the guests all
crowded into the hallways, lounge and foyer to congregate in
groups, gesticulating w ild ly w ith their hands, which is custo­
mary among a very highly emotional people such as they are.
Suddenly, w hile w e w ere studying these people, who, al­
though mainly dressed as w e were, yet w ere so different in m an­
ner, a hush came over the entire assembly. Everyone stood rigid
as though for an inspection and immediately ceased talking.
W e looked about to see the cause of the sudden suspension of
activities and conversation. A ll eyes were fastened upon a large
French doorway that led into the dining hall, from whence we
had just come. 1 he doors were thrust open and a dramatic
entry was made, in ceremonial fashion, by a person whose very
appearance indicated a regal position and birth. He was an
Arab prince, we learned. He had travelled several hundred
miles from a desert area over which he had dominance, to par­
ticipate in these conferences and the election. He was in fact
a royal nomad, a desert chieftain. He had control and direction
over some 15,000 Bedouins. His costume was impressive and
picturesque. He wore a heavy silken robe, full at the bottom,
and the conventional Bedouin sandals inlaid with sterling silver.
His turban was of a brilliant hue and affixed to his head with
the argila. Around his girth he wore a twisted silk cord like a
cordelier from which hung, on his left side, a beautiful dirk.—
although highly ornamental it undoubtedly was quite practical.
His wearing of such large sun glasses was unusual. Typical ol
the Bedouin, his hands were quite large and gnarled. His face
was long, slender, and with a large aquiline nose characteristic
of the Semitic race. He spoke with a soft, vibrant voice and
was very graceful in his walk. He had a definite positiveness
and self-assurance, and reflected the attitude of one accustomed
to respect and obedience to his least command or wish. He had
descended from a long line of nobility. In the open desert his
word was absolute law. He was the highest court of appeal and
made decisions which would shape the course of the lives o*
those who depended on him.
In this election which was now taking place, he could have
easily influenced the thousands who were his followers and sub­
jects to vote as he wished, for either candidate. Looking neither
to the right nor left, he strode out of the hotel toward a waiting
carriage, followed by his personal bodyguards, two huge mem­
bers of his race, dressed like himself, but not having such
ornamentation because of their lesser station. In addition to
carrying dirks, the bodyguards also wore, crisscrossed over tbeir
cbests, bandoliers containing large calibre shells, and slung
across each of their backs was a modem repeating rifle. Be­
coming more curious about the situation we determined to learn
further facts. Later that evening we made the acquaintance of
the British Vice Consul of Damascus, who frequented our hotel
because it was the center of local social life, and because the
few foreigners or Europeans who visited Damascus for a brief
stay, whether on business or pleasure, located there.
France, we learned, was anxious to make Syria profitable to
her — to develop it in some way so that it would not become an
enormous expense or burden to the home land, as it very evi­
dently now was. She could not, however, gain the confidence
and respect of the people of Syria —■primarily because of her
foreign policies and her refusal to oblige her officials, both mili­
tary and diplomatic, who were stationed there, to learn the native
language. It is related that she considers it beneath French
dignity and obliges the natives to learn French, if they wish
to transact any business or affairs with her. This attitude caused
a resentment which could not be bridged over by any protesta­
tions of friendliness. On the other hand, two other interests
were seeking control in Syria. Turkey, who during the Ottoman
Empire reigned supreme in Syria, as almost everywhere else in
the Levant, had her agents constantly fomenting discord and
dissatisfaction among the people, agitating against France and
urging an overthrow of the French mandate and the return of
Syria to 1urkish rule. The more intelligent of the Syrians oppose
this move. They either recall experiences with 1urkey in the
past or are very familiar with the history of Syria under Turkish
domination, and they desire Syrian independence, a complete
Nationalistic government.
One of the two candidates for president was definitely a tool
ol the French government, and would have been in accord with
any move France wished to make. The other candidate was
said to be a tool of the N ationalist party tkat sought complete
independence trom France. T he Nationalist party dared not run
one of its own principal supporters, for France w ould have
definitely prevented the election. T h e tool of the Nationalist
party had to appear to be sympathetic toward France, but as
w e later learned, was really powerless to speak and act without
consulting his supporters.
T h e president-elect of Syria resided at our hotel, and by a
coincidence his quarters were directly across from ours. H e was
a small man, one who appeared to be more impressed with his
own importance than with the w elfare of the state. H e was an
enthusiastic motion picture fan, particularly upon those occasions
when the only theatre of the city exhibited news reels in which
he appeared. 1 he local cinema was in the same block and only
about two doors from the main entrance of the hotel, yet upon
his frequent w eekly visits to it, a car of state w ould pull up to the
main entrance of the hotel, the president s uniformed military
guard of six w ould stand at attention and present arms, w hile he
entered the car and was driven about 400 feet further down the
block. Th en the car w ould stop, the military guard would march
up to it, stand at attention, and again present arms while he left
the car. A t the end of the performance the w hole ceremony was
repeated. It was like a scene from a comic opera.
It seems as though the citizenry know the status of the situa­
tion and more respect and aw e were shown for the Bedouin
chieftain, and for the principal political supporter of the N ational
party, the power behind the scenes, w ho used the hotel lobby
and foyer for his consultations. This political leader and hero
of the N ational party, who is said to pull the strings that actuate
the president, is a very intellectual type — eyes far apart, deep
set, visionary, dreamy. Dressed in W estern attire, he never
m ade dramatic entrances, nor was he ostentatious in his
mannerisms.
H e had been incarcerated a number of times by the French
authorities for inconsequential offenses, mainly, of course, for
political reasons. H e was the author of a number of books hav­
ing considerable circulation in Syria and elsewhere, written
mainly to reveal the purported oppression of Syria. O n e often
reads of these political fracases and intrigues, but one very sel­
dom has the opportunity to see them demonstrated and enacted
in such intimate quarters as the lobby of a hotel, and so openly
disclosed. Syria, politically, has not yet acquired the subtleties
or diplomacies of her larger sister nations of the w orld where
the same things occur, but are rather more carefully staged.
T H E O L D E S T IN H A B IT E D C IT Y O F T H E W O R L D
O u r n e x t d a y was spent mainly in making preliminary
preparations for Mr. Brower s and my departure for the strange
land of Babylonia, known as Iraq or Mesopotamia. 1he follow­
ing day was devoted to photographing some of the historic sites
of this most historic city of Damascus with our Graphlex still
camera. W e visited the “ Street Called Straight,” a very long
and actually very straight street, which bisects the city from the
Eastern to the W estern gate, a street which has been in exis­
tence for several centuries. I he major portion of this street is
covered over with an arched ceiling, forming an arcade in which
there are occasional skylights permitting a soft light which pene­
trates the dust and smoke fumes from the bazaars and shops
below. On either side of the narrow street are little shops, most
of them mere closets or cubbyholes, niches in the wall, over
the entrances of which are suspended striped awnings of
vivid hue.
The proprietors are frequently in native costume. They sit
on their haunches before their shops, with knees up under the
chin i
— the most uncomfortable posture for a Westerner, or one
unaccustomed to it i—
<or they sit upon small stools, the seats of
which are of woven fibre, like the stools of antiquity, or strips
of leather. A s you pass, they pull at your garments or run in
front of you trying to block your way in as gracious a manner
as they possibly can, endeavoring to have you turn and enter
their shops. If they think you are English or American, or if
they understand any English whatsoever, they cry “ best goods,
meaning that their particular bazaar or shop contains the best
wares of its kind. The “ best goods” cry, of course, is not to be
relied upon, for four or five doors further on another one of these
shops, with equal service and wares, can be found.
T h e city of Damascus has long been noted for its steel. A
particular process was used by the early Damascans in making
steel which caused it to be renowned among the ancients. E xcel­
lent cutlery, knives, swords and dirks, marvelous examples of
craftsmanship, may be purchased at ridiculously small prices, if
one is accustomed to buying in these bazaars, which m eans not
purchasing at the first price demanded. T h e Syrians are also
noted for their native candy which has a remarkable combination
of flavors and is very attractively prepared. If one can overlook
the methods of making it, and uncleanliness is not too repulsive
to him, the candy is very enjoyable. A number of the bazaars
specialized in the sale ol rugs, hand-woven and having beautiful
hues and a variety of design w hich w ould delight any lover of
O riental rugs. Although the prices were considerably less than
any w e had seen previously, these rugs were yet much higher
in price than those which w e were to see later on.
In the center of the city is a great mosque, originally a Chris­
tian church built by Constantine. Around the mosque are the
original w alls built by the crusaders. T h ey are still in an excel­
lent state of preservation. O n e enters the great arched gateway,
and there before him is an enormous plaza of original flagging.
T h e high w all surrounding it has, on each of its four corners, a
minaret tower from which the M euzzin, a M oham m edan priest,
calls the faithful to prayer several times daily with his musical
chant. T h e area within the w alls would comprise the equivalent
of at least three or four of our modern city blocks or squares. In
this area are also two or three small buildings, some partly in ruins,
which are now shrines because of some historical significance.
T h e great mosque itself is to the left of the court and runs the
full length of it. There are several entrances typical of Byzantine
architecture. W e were amazed upon entering to find an enor­
mous room without partitions and supported by Byzantine
columns or spiral columns, graceful, tall and impressive. These
columns supported timbers, upon which the flat stone roof rested.
T h e entire area of this great space which must have been at
least 500 feet in length and about 100 feet in width was covered
by rare Oriental rugs, not only rare because of excellent material
and design, but because they were several centuries old. One
of them was the largest single woven rug I have ever seen. It
did not consist of several sewn together. It was one continuous
weaving and was nearly 200 feet in length and the complete
width of the structure. Although showing considerable wear,
it was still in an excellent condition. B y a rubbing of the hand
over the surface of the rug and brushing the nap back, in a few
moments the original colors would return with brilliance. W e
were informed that a wealthy English nobleman some fifty years
ago had offered the Mohammedans of Damascus ten thousand
pounds, or about $50,000.00 for this rug and the Mohammedans
were quite offended, because no price would be accepted for
such a mg, having been so long in such a sacred place.
Toward one end of this great room were four wooden shafts,
like posts, reaching to the roof from the stone floor. Around
these shafts which were set about eight feet apart, forming an
eight foot square, was an Arabian grillwork of wood, through
which one could look. The floor of the center was a mosaic, the
colors were a delicate pastel shade, and the design consisted of
flowers, vines, and clusters of grapes. On the center of this
mosaic floor sat a small gold chest, about two feet in length,
one foot wide, and about eighteen inches high, apparently of
hand-beaten gold. Our curiosity was naturally aroused by the
special prominence given this chest and we engaged one of the
Moslems in conversation. Speaking fair English he advised us
that the chest was supposed to contain the head of St. John, the
Baptist, and beneath the mosaic floor was the tomb of St. John,
the Baptist. It may seem strange to many Christians to know
that St. John the Baptist, as an individual, is venerated by these
Moslems as well as by the Christians, not because he was a
Christian but because he was a holy man to them because of
his deeds, and the accomplishments of his life were highly re­
spected by the Mohammedans. No one has ever opened this
chest, according to historians, to determine whether or not it
does contain a skull which might be in some w ay identified with
St. John, the Baptist. W h e th e r or not St. John, the Baptist s
remains are beneath the mosaic floor no one knows, but history
does recount the legend that St. John the Baptist was en­
tombed there.
O u r journey carried us through a number of little w inding
cobblestone streets, all filled w ith small bazaars and shops, and
containing a jostling crowd of jabbering citizens, w ho turned to
stare at us. Foreigners, particularly Europeans and Americans,
do not frequent Damascus since it is far off the popular tourist
track. Those few who do come do not go into the native quar­
ters, as w e were doing. W^e finally stopped before a large wall,
more rightly the side of a building. It was covered with a white
stucco, badly soiled and which had broken aw ay in part, expos­
ing mud brick behind it, with an occasional natural stone pro­
truding. W^e walked to the entrance w ay which consisted of two
large w ooden doors, planks hung on crude hinges, suggesting
no evidence of the beauty and quaint interior w e were to see.
W h e n the doors were opened, w e unconsciously gave vent
to words and phrases that indicated our pleasure at w hat w e
saw. Before us was one of the most attractive gardens I have
ever had the pleasure ot view ing. It was not as elaborate or as
expansive as many of the spacious lawns and gardens which
w e find in Am erica or England — in fact, it wras rather small,
but it was as though w e w ere looking at an old Persian print,
or as though there had materialized before us, a scene out of
the A rabian Nights. H ere was a true Persian G arden, such as
fabled in song and story. In the center was a mosaic pool. T h e
artistic design consisted o- A rabic characters and geometric sym­
bols. I he center of the pool had a bubbling fountain. In its
center were lotus and water lilies and water plants with which
w e were not familiar. The flagging which was uneven in the
courtyard was of a variety of stones of beautiful natural colors,
some a light shade of blue, some terra cotta, some slate, some
almost as black and shiny as onyx. About the flagging were
large vases, terra cotta, evidently hand-made, because they were
not of uniform shape or size, and did not sit level on the flooring.
Some of them showed indentations, traces of the potter s finger­
prints, and in these vases there were growing shrubs and flowers
of brilliant hues, and vines which climbed the walls and high
windows.
Toward one end of this patio — or more properly Persian gar­
den, and of which we were to see many in the near future —
was an arched walk. Stepping up onto the walk and walking
its extreme length, we entered another doorway into a very small,
but high chamber, which housed a huge sarcophagus which
was quite plain, without color or design. In fact, the tomb
chamber itself was without any ornamentation, without any
splendor of any sort, and yet it contained the remains of one of
the most famous characters in history and the most beloved by
the Mohammedans. It was the tomb of Saladin who lived
between 1158 and 1193, A. D . and who died in this city of
Damascus. He was a great military lord and defender of the
Moslem faith and renowned for his opposition to the crusaders.
Although fierce in warfare, in actual combat, he was noted not
only for his bravery, but for his kindness to prisoners, to the
men, women and children whom he captured, and for his high
idealism. His word was his bond and he countenanced no lies
or treachery. He despised the breaking of promises wh ich was
common among many of the crusader leaders, who would resort
to any means to accomplish their end in the name of
Christianity.
Our party was to be further divided in Damascus. Frater
and Soror Shibley had remained in Jerusalem, Frater Brower
and I were to take our elaborate cinema camera equipment and
photographic apparatus and paraphernalia with us further East
on our venture across the Mesopotamian desert. Soror Gladys
Lewis was to remain in Damascus, awaiting our return some
ten days later. Damascus was hardly the place to leave an
unescorted Am erican or European woman. Even native Syrian
wom en were infrequently seen out of doors, or in public places,
except when escorted by their husbands or some male member
of their immediate families. O n such occasions they w ere veiled.
Am erican and European wom en are accustomed to greater free­
dom and dislike being confined, and yet it w ould be obviously
dangerous to go about these bazaars and the native district, and
even the main thoroughfares, without an escort. Soror Lew is,
however, insisted that w e proceed as scheduled, so w e prepared
for our departure, and one of the most exciting adventures w e
w ere to experience on our entire journey. W e retired early that
night, as w e were to leave at sunrise the next morning.
C hapter XII
C R O S S IN G T H E M E S O P O T A M I A N D E S E R T
T h e h o u r was early, the sun already uncomfortably warm,
and the streets filling with garrulous Arabs, w hen a motor bus
rumbled up. This was to be our mode of transportation to dis­
tant Baghdad, the glamorous city of A rabian N ig h t’s fame.
U pon a first examination, it was a typical motor coach, such as
one sees racing along the modern highways of the larger nations
of the world. This symbol of the Tw entieth Century dampened
our spirit of adventure for the moment, and jarred the mental
picture which w e had of ourselves reliving the experiences of
ancient travellers to Baghdad. A motor coach does not com ple­
ment a M arco Polo mood. Frater Brower called my attention
to the exceptionally large wheels of the coach — over four feet
in height, and having tires with a peculiar lateral tread which
I had never seen before. W e conjectured that they w ere de­
signed to afford traction in the soft sands w e expected
to encounter.
A fte r securing our seats and supervising the careful loading
of our camera equipment, still having a few moments before
departure, w e carried our examination further. T h e windows,
w e now observed, were smaller than the conventional ones of
other busses. Surprising was the fact that they w ere hermetically
sealed, and w e were to travel in desert heat —<not a pleasant
thought. Sm all louvers, above each w ir low, afforded the only
ventilation when the car was in motion. T h e driver and his
relief assistant had not entered, so w e took the opportunity of
inspecting the driving and control panel. Just above the panel,
and on a line with an aperture in the windshield, now closed,
was a metal turnbuckle, mounted on a swivel and ratchet, much
after the kind used as a machine gun mounting in the cockpits
o f military aircraft. This was ominous and w e looked at each
other significantly. Th e thought had passed through my mind
that perhaps this journey w ould not be so uneventful after all.
W e retired to our fairly comfortable, individual reclining
seats upon the entrance of the drivers. Th e drivers now received
our attention. Both were obviously English. N o t only was this
apparent from their accent, but from their fair complexions, by
contrast with the dark-skinned Syrians and Bedouins of D am as­
cus. T h ey were dressed in khaki shirts and shorts, exposing bare
knees above woolen socks, a customary tropical attire for the
British, but one which the Am erican never quite seems to get
accustomed to. T h ey were tall, about thirty-five years of age,
robust and deeply tanned, with eyes that squinted — the result
of a continuous attempt to keep out the glare of the desert sun.
I ravelling slowly to avoid striking indifferent children and ani­
mals that straggled down the center of the twisted streets, w e
headed toward the desert.
N airne, an Englishman, so w e had learned, had left the com­
forts and conveniences of his home land to promote this modern
transportation in a land whose history dates back to the earliest
civilizations. H e had become particularly impressed with the
Am erican advance in the automotive industry and had used
Am erican-built motor coaches exclusively. This coach was built
in Philadalphia, Pennsylvania, from his own specifications. H e
had been advised that attempting to operate a passenger line
across this desert w ould be risking human lives as w ell as proper­
ty. M arauding bands of A rabs and Bedouins w ould pilfer and
lay to waste each caravan. H e made the attempt, it is said,
and found the predictions true. U n able to secure adequate pro­
tection, it was reputed, he was com pelled to pay tribute to
certain Bedouin chieftains who in some mysterious manner
influenced the marauders to give his drivers and property im ­
munity to attack and seizure.
l~or the last few minutes w e had been whisking through the
outskirts of this ancient oasis-like city. Suddenly our speed was
so quickly checked that the momentum carried us forward in
our seats. Looking ahead for the cause, w e saw the pavem ent s
end. H ere was no graded road or w inding ruts stretching out
toward the horizon, but a vast expanse of hard, table surface,
giving little indication, even at this close proximity to the city,
of any vehicular travel. W e craned our necks, looking out of
either side of the coach. Th ere was no telltale mark of our des­
tination or direction. In a moment w e were again travelling,
attaining a speed of about forty miles an hour over this open
desert, heading due E a s t<
— but where was the road ? There
were no sign posts or even tire tracks. T h e driver caused the
coach to w eave from side to side occasionally, to avoid depres­
sions in the surface. T h e riding was not uncomfortable — in
fact, more comfortable than over some of the pitted streets of
Damascus. O u r curiosity was great, but the timidity of reveal­
ing our inexperience with this sort of travel kept us from ques­
tioning the driver at first — this, and the fact that his relief
assistant had reclined his chair and from all appearances was
sleeping.
Turning, w e looked over our fellow passengers with the intent
of questioning one of them. Six other men shared the bus with
us — four seemed to be Syrians or possibly A rabs or Iraqians.
Th eir faces were immobile. A ll were looking across the wastes
buried in abstraction. T h e other two men were Europeans.
T h ey were, in fact, Englishmen. O ne, w e learned later, was an
army officer returning from leave to a post near Baghdad, and
was not a very sociable chap, compared to British officers w e
had met in Palestine. T h e other young man, in his twenties,
was bound for the wells of a British Petroleum Com pany, East
of Baghdad. H e had made this journey before, and from him
came the answers to our questions. W^e were navigating our
w ay across this desert. T h e driver was guiding the car by com ­
pass as a mariner does a ship at sea. 1 hese motor caravans,
then, were truly ships of the desert.
T h e M esopotam ian desert at this point was some six hundred
miles wide. U nlike our deserts of N orth Am erica, it was abso-
Iutely barren. N o cacti, sagebrush, or even birds or reptiles
w ere visible. Except for an occasional swell it was as level as
if graded by man. T h e surface was so hard that walking hardly
made the impression of footprints. U n like the Sahara, here
there w ere no sand dunes. A s the great car rolled along, now
travelling nearly a mile a minute, it caused a fine dust to swirl
around the windows and w e w ere thankful that they w ere
sealed. Small, almost perfectly round gravel, as though shaped
by hand, was scattered on the desert floor. Th e striking of this
gravel by the fast revolving wheels caused the pieces to ricochet
against the heavy w indow glass w ith startling revolver-like
cracks.
Just as the sameness of the scene began to become monoton­
ous and the steady hum of the motor lulled us into drowsiness,
w e saw w hat looked to us like little dots in the distance, slowly
bobbing up and down. Th ree or four minutes later and w e were
approaching them. It was the first of many camel caravans
which w e were to see on this journey. W a lk in g in single file,
w ith their peculiar, forward lurching gate, were a dozen giant
drom edary camels. I o us they were enormous, in comparison
with the riding camels w e had seen and used in Egypt. These
were pack camels, far larger and much stronger. Lashed to their
backs and suspended on either side, swayed their great cargo
packs, done in huge bales. D an glin g from the lead camel was
a hand-hammered brass bell, having a clear and more melodious
note than our cow bells. Im m ediately preceding the lead camel
on a fast-trotting burro, which appeared exceptionally dim inu­
tive in contrast to the size of the camels, rode the leader of the
caravan, a heavily black-bearded A rab. O n one side of the line
of camels rode three of his companions, also astride patient little
burros.
T h ey w ere follow ing the ancient caravan trail that had led
for centuries from Damascus to Baghdad, thence to Persia and
Arabia. E ven today, nearly all of the freight between these cities
and countries is still transported via camel caravan in the same
manner as in antiquity. Cam els, although considerably slower
than motor trucks, are far more economical and dependable on
the desert. In this great open space there are no service stations
or repair shops, and the hauling of fuel is a considerable item.
T h e camels require little food, as w ell as water, for their journey.
T h e products of the W estern w orld are being carried in this
primitive manner to the East in exchange for the things in which
the cryptic East still excells. Each night, the cumbersome bur­
dens are removed from the camels backs and stacked in a large
pile. T h e camels are sometimes tethered. Drivers pitch low tents
of goat skins into which they crawl to sleep on crudely-made,
but richly designed hand-woven rugs. A s soon as the sun drops
beneath the horizon, the desert begins to cool, and late at night
the temperature drop is considerable. Bedouin encampments can
be detected by flickering camp fires. T o approach them un­
announced in the dark w ould mean death, for during the long
hours of the night, some keen eyes are keeping vigil and steady
hands grasp high calibered rifles. Even today, as in the cen­
turies past, the law of the desert is mainly an individual inter­
pretation of what is right, and might still rules.
A n unusually sharp veering of the bus from its course caused
us to look ahead, and on the horizon straight before us was a
dark cloud, rising from the floor of the desert to a great height
and m oving with rapidity in the direction w e had been travel­
ling. W^e were now going at nearly right-angles to our previous
course. T h e driver, whom w e had finally engaged in conversa­
tion. knowing our interest, said laconically, Dust clouds.
C an w e avoid them ?” w e asked.
These w e can, w e w ill drive around them, but it w ill put us
about ten miles out of our way, he replied. Here, then, was an
advantage in not being obliged to travel a road or definite course.
W^e could cruise at will, in any direction, without thought of
roadw ay or embankment. "W ^hen w e are caught in these storms,
w e are sometimes forced to w ait for a relief caravan to aid us.
1he dust, despite our precautions, chokes our motor,” the driver
further volunteered.
For the first time, the thought of food entered our minds. I
glanced at my watch, and it was nearly noon. W e w ere not due
in Baghdad, if on schedule, until tomorrow morning. Certainly
food must be provided some way. H o w foolish not to have
thought of it before. Suppose. I thought, w e had been expected
to bring our own. M entally, I was reproaching m yself when the
bus came to a stop. T h e relief driver stretched, and then, stand­
ing in a stooped position facing us. said. W e w ill eat here.
Frater Brower and I looked at each other, and in unison looked
out of the windows at the glaring desert, white with the noon­
day sun, the heat radiations visibly rising, no habitation, no
sign of life, no shelter, no water. W^here were w e going to eat?
W h y stop here.
W^e w ere soon to learn. Liftin g a trap in the door of the
driver s compartment, the assistant removed a number of card­
board containers, like the commercial size workman s lunch
boxes. In fact, they were specially packed, individual lunches.
This, and exceedingly cold w ater from a refrigerator tank, con­
stituted our noon repast. W h e n the car was not in motion, the
heat became intense, as very little air entered through the lou­
vers. W e stepped out, but the sun s direct rays made the com­
parative cool of the car’s shade welcome. W^e were about to
climb aboard again when w e heard the distant sound of a
motor. C om ing from the North, still several miles distant, was
a dark spot. A few moments later an open, specially built auto­
mobile came to a stop a few feet from us. It was evidently very
high powered, and was armored with light steel plates. In w hat
would be the tonneau of an ordinary car, was mounted a light
cannon for firing one pound shells. Attached to a steel plate
on the back of the driver s seat, was a heavy-calibre machine
gun.
Solem nly the three occupants got out and approached the
bus. 1hrough the white dust that covered them, w e recognized
that they wore the French regulation army uniform. They also
wore the French Legion cap which has a heavy cloth fastened
to it that drapes down over the nape of the neck and sides of
the face. Removing their goggles which made them appear
grotesque — for the area around their eyes was the only portion
of their faces which appeared white -
— they looked at each of
us, then peered into the bus windows and under the coach.
Without a word or further ceremony they climbed aboard their
car and roared away toward the South in a cloud of dust. They
were certainly symbols of the silence of the desert. Our driver
explained that they were members of the French Desert Patrol.
Seeing our bus stopped, and believing that it might be attacked,
or in some trouble, they came to investigate. Seeing no difficulty,
they did not find it necessary to converse. This desert patrol is
to a great extent ineffectual, because there are an insufficient
number of these armored cars to patrol the vast area, and travel­
lers can be attacked, robbed and murdered, and hours, even
days, pass before their remains are located.
W e had been riding for hours, passing only an occasional
camel caravan. As it grew dusk, we saw lights far ahead. A
town,’’ I said to Frater Brower. “ C an ’t be, ’ he said. His clipped
sentence reminded me of the disinclination of anyone aboard the
bus to converse freely. Nothing between here and Baghdad,
he continued. It was not really a town we came to, but a great
desert fortress, a frontier post manned by French officers and
Singhalese troops. 1his mud-brick, one-story building, with high
walls and corner watch-towers surrounding it, was known as
RutbaAVells. Here in this sea of sand, was the only well of
drinking water for miles around. The water had produced no
natural oasis, but the white man had created one. To make the
water available to caravans and the nomads of the desert, and
to prevent marauders from seizing or despoiling it, the French
had built this fortress. It was really a garrison in the middle of
the desert. The water made it possible for French troops — be­
fore the advent of the motor car or plane, which could now bring
military relief quickly >
— to hold out against a siege for many
days. C om pletely surrounding the fortress, whose white w alls
glistened in the sun, were barbed wire entanglements, the only
entrance through them being a narrow path to the heavily bar­
ricaded gates.
Sentries peered down at us from the corner towers in which
w e could also see menacing rapid-fire guns. Behind the parapet
of the w alls within the gates was a cat-walk, on which troops
could stand and fire through apertures if the fortress were at­
tacked. In the center of the enclosure was a radio short-wave
antenna mast, the only means of dependable communication
with the outside world. O utside of the barbed w ire were
sprinkled the black-skinned, crude tents of the desert wanderers.
T h ey w ere allow ed to stay as long as they desired, but were
permitted to enter the enclosure only to fill their earthen vessels
from the single well. A n armed sentry always accompanied
them, and waited w hile they pumped the w ater into jug or vase.
W e w ere besieged by the vain sentries w hen they saw our pho­
tography equipment. W e w ere about to photograph one, when
the corporal of the guard came forward and abruptly shoved
aw ay our subject and posed himself. It wras his photograph
which w e finally took. W ith in the cool walls of the officers’
dining quarters w e enjoyed a meal which would have done
credit to prominent Am erican hostelries. Th e prices were ex­
orbitant, but, considering the circumstances, w e offered no
complaint.
N ow h ere do stillness and quiet enchant, as in a desert night
under a full moon. T h e car swept along with a steady drone
of which w e finally became no longer conscious. T h e floor of
the desert was bathed in moonlight which looked surprisingly
like a blanket of snow. T h e stars were so bright that many had
auras w hich enveloped each other to cause the sky to shine with
irregular, luminous patches. W^e had left R u tb a A V ells several
hours ago and w ould in a short w hile reach the Euphrates, one
of the great twin rivers. M ore than alluvian soil had been swept
along the Euphrates and its sister river, the T igris. Barques of
many nations had sailed down these rivers. Races had died by
their sides; civilizations had lifted their proud heads from the
black mud that was regurgitated on the surrounding plain. Like
two great arms these rivers had entwined and held humanity
in a protective embrace for centuries. Here, according to many
archaeologists and historians, was the cradle of civilization, the
site of the original Garden of Eden. 1he plain between the
1igris and Euphrates River, formed by the alluvian soil brought
down from the North, forms the South end of a great fertile
crescent, which fringes the deserts. The greatest distance be­
tween the two rivers hardly exceeds forty miles.
It was not until about two thousand years B. C. that this
plain received the name Babylonia. Before, it was known as
the Plain of Shinar. In the dim past, no one knows just when,
persons of the great white race of the highlands, far to the North,
came Southward and followed these rivers to their outlet at the
mouth. Perhaps they were driven Southward by the descending
glaciers that swept all life before them. These peoples we call
the Sumerians and they were not of the Semitic race. They
were even thought by some to antedate the earliest Egyptians.
Gradually they crept North again, along the banks of these
twin rivers, building thriving towns and developing the land in
between into a great and thriving agricultural center.
W e had now crossed the Euphrates. It was dawn, and we
were encouraged that we were ahead of our schedule, for we
had encountered no severe dust storms. The distance between
here and Baghdad was but twenty-five miles. The Tigris and
Euphrates veered sharply toward each other from this point
Southward. The desert was now intermittently broken by spots
of green, where irrigation canals brought the life-giving water
to the parched soil. Soon we began to bounce through ruts
which followed the contour of a road, and to see straggling riders
on burros and camels. Baghdad was now a matter of minutes
away. It is the foremost city of Mesopotamia, which name
means, it is said, oil. The present population is in excess of
250,000. The city is also now the capital of Iraq which is said
to be the old name of this land, and which was restored to it
after the recent world war. The ruts now gave way to a fairly
well graded, but unpaved road. W e came to a stop at a one-
story, white stucco building around which stood a number of
persons dressed in W estern attire. This was the end of our
present desert journey. Baghdad? I inquired of the driver.
No, he replied, the military airport and customs.’ W^e
cleared the customs remarkably soon. Our unusual amount of
camera equipment aroused considerable curiosity, but no official
protest. Negotiating the rental of a small, private car of Ameri­
can make, we proceeded with a native driver to Baghdad, a
quarter of a mile distant. Suddenly, we came upon the wide
expanse of the historical 1igris River. Murky brown and fast-
moving, it was a welcome sight after the long hours of the desert,
especially since its shores were fringed with brilliant, refreshing
green vegetation, a relief to our eyes.
C hapter XIII
B e f o r e u s, stretcking across tkis historical Tigris river and
joined togetker at tkeir ends, was a parallel line of pontoons,
floating inflated metal tubes. H ea vy planks w ere fastened across
tkem horizontally. Tkis was a pontoon bridge which Am ericans
or Europeans never see, except during military campaigns or in
times of emergency. Across it, in both directions, flowed a stream
of humanity. A s our car entered upon the first unit of it, the
bridge sank deeply into the water, but did not submerge and
easily held the weight. A s the car ran upon the next section,
the preceding one w e had left rose again. It caused a peculiar
bobbing motion, which agitated the river’s surface and sent out
a backwash or current on either side. Looking down and up
stream, w e saw, at about quarter-mile intervals, three other simi­
lar bridges. These bridges, the only ones of any kind in exis­
tence there, were put down by the British during the last W o r ld
W^ar for the movement of their troops and armament across the
large river. In their cam paign against the Turks, G reat Britain
lost a great number of men within the vicinity of Baghdad, but
was eventually successful. These pontoon bridges w ere very
crude, and very old, but far superior to the ancient ferry methods,
and were now maintained by the Iraqian government.
A h ea d of us, on the East bank, lay Baghdad, a strange sky­
line indeed. T h e structures were of no particular design; they
w ere not definitely Oriental, Byzantine, M oorish, or European,
but a sort of abortion — as though they were going through a
transition of Eastern architecture into W estern . T h e hotels,
so-called, had strange and crude balconies superimposed, which
hung, so it seemed to us, precariously over the banks of the river.
M ost of the structures were very low, shanty-like, and sprawling,
without any particular design, and even at this distance sug­
gested neglect and perhaps filth. Originally, Baghdad lay en­
tirely on the Eastern bank of the river, but for the past thousand
years it has been partly on the East and partly on the W est. A
traveler who visited it in 1583, said of it, " A town not very great,
but very populous, of great traffic between Persia, 1urkey and
Arabia. Time has not changed this. Baghdad is the gateway
for caravans to Persia, the border of which is but a few miles
distant. Southward lies Arabia and northward, Turkey. In the
Eighth Century it was purely an Arab town; in the Ninth Cen­
tury it had reached the height of its power under an enlightened
Caliphate, and was a center of power and learning. It was rich
in silks and tile buildings, and it was of the Baghdad of the
Ninth Century that the glamorous tales of the Arabian Nights
were written. Its downfall came about 1258 when Hulaku and
his Mongols swarmed over it and ruined the network of magnifi­
cent irrigation canals which had converted the parched land
around it into a rich and fertile plain. In the Fifteenth Century
it succumbed to Turkish invasion. The nearby little village,
Hilla, preserves more of the original, truly Oriental nature of the
ancient city than does Baghdad, which is a hodge-podge of in­
fluences, the result of numerous conquests and migrations.
Perhaps one of the most impressive things to see in Baghdad
is what is known as a Caravanserai, which operates in the form
of a bank, and in which money customs and trade are carried
on in the same manner as they have been for centuries. T o visit
one of these places is to be transplanted backward, in point of
time, for centuries. O n the outside it is just another mud-brick
building, substantial, somewhat resembling our large w are­
houses in Am erica. W h e n you enter it takes you a moment or
two to get adjusted to the darkness inside, in contrast to the
glaring light from which you entered. Th ere before you is a
great area >no partitions or rooms, just high posts, at intervals
of a few feet around the w all, which support a mezzanine floor
about half the height of the entire building. In this great area
before you are piled bales, w rapped in skins of animals, or in
w hat looks like coarse burlap. A pungent odor prevails, a
m ingling of pleasant spices and not-too-pleasant smells. U p
above on the mezzanine floor are little dingy booths — w e might
term them “ offices — in which banking operations are carried
on, using the same primitive methods of several centuries ago.
Th ese men are financiers, and they loan money for the or­
ganization of caravans to go to distant lands perhaps Persia
or A ra b ia « there to purchase, as cheaply as possible, and bring
back such cargoes as they feel can be sold to the best advantage.
W h e n the cargo is returned, it is brought into this huge building
and sold to the highest bidder. From the receipts, the banker
or financier takes his principal and his interest, if there is suffi­
cient to meet both; and the caravan organizer receives w hat is
left, if any. If he is fortunate, he makes a substantial profit; if
unfortunate, he not only makes no profit but finds himself still
indebted to these financiers, most of whom are Persians. H ere
one sees trade and barter and business undisturbed by the m od­
ern methods of the W estern world.
W it h the exception of Rashid Street, which is the main
thoroughfare of Baghdad, the majority of the streets are very
narrow, alley-like, dark, unclean, swarming with flies attracted
by refuse w hich is permitted to lie until it becomes putrid. A ga in
one is attracted by the great number of natives with infected
eyes — men, women, and children. A clear, normal pair of
eyes is an unusual sight, strange as it m ay seem. T h e lack of
sanitation and hygiene causes this infection of the eyes in early
childhood. H avin g a superstitious fear of medical treatment,
they avoid physicians, of which there are only a few anyway.
W e noticed a number of these natives with a painted red circle
around the infected eye. W^e were informed that some few who
had received medical treatment had had applied to their eyes
some medicine which colored the skin temporarily with a red
hue, and because it gave them relief, they attributed to the red
some efficacy; and thus they used a red ink of their own making
to paint around tke eyes, believing the color itself, rather than
the ingredients, to be remedial.
No attempt was made in any of the native markets to keep
the food clean or to protect it from filth. Hawksters sold their
bread and cakes from curbs, stacking them on the walks and
peddling them with their filthy hands.
The craftsmanship of these people, however, is remarkable
and is extremely educational to watch; especially is this so in
the copper bazaar. This bazaar is really like a street covered
with an arched roof. It is divided into little pens. In each of
these little pens, or booths, some craftsman sets up his shop
in which he manufactures his wares. A ll of the wares in this
bazaar or street are made of copper. Here one finds magnificent
copper samovars, copper teakettles, basins and bowls, ornaments
and candlesticks. W alking down this alley-street, one can see
copper being fashioned in every form and see it in different
stages of manufacture. Back against the wall, in the darkness
01 the booth, at midday i—
>which is ordinarily extremely hot even
in the open r
-—are little boys, not more than eight or nine years
of age, who are earning their apprenticeship by pumping the
bellows of charcoal fires to keep tools hot or to heat copper plate.
One can hardly see them tor the smoke and metal fumes which,
even where we stood, caused us to turn our heads away so as
not to inhale them and irritate our throats. W^e can understand
when we see this why so many of these people die of consump­
tion early in life. It is remarkable that anyone survives these
conditions to reach manhood.
They are a jolly lot, good-natured, curious about Westerners.
Very few tourists ever reach Baghdad; it has not quite the atmos-
phere for the one who likes his tennis courts, swimming pools,
afternoon tea, drives, cocktail hours, and a few holes of golf.
These things do not go with Baghdad; here is the East un-
\eneered. If one accepts a drink, either water or a local concoc­
tion — sweet, brightly colored — he is taking his life in his hands,
for the W esterner’s system is not immune to the things which the
natives survive. In the hotels — that is. the two where O cci­
dentals stop when they do visit Baghdad — the water is purified
through a special process. T o drink any other water is risking
one s life in no uncertain way.
In Baghdad there is also one of the largest leprosy hospitals
of the N ea r East; the contributing conditions w e saw about us
at every step. A n d yet there are some inspiring sights as w ell.
To M iss Gertrude Bell must go credit for establishing in the
N ea r East one of the first museums for the collection of the
antiquities of this ancient land. A n attractive building, unusu­
ally clean, houses her marvelous collection. Th e palace of the
late king of Iraq is also an unusual place to visit, as it is now a
state museum, and is so simple in contrast to what one imagines
the ancient caliphs had. M ost of the exhibits, unfortunately,
consist of just his own personal belongings — his riding habit,
the costumes he wore on different state occasions. and little
personal trinkets given to him as gifts by the Shah of Persia,
Sultans of Turkey, and some of the K i ngs of Europe.
O n the W estern edge of Baghdad lies the great race track.
Here, each year in the fall, are races in which the horses are
entered by Bedouins, Chieftains, Khurds, and Persians. It is
purely sport with them, and is not the commercial venture that
racing is in the W estern world. Th e finest blooded A rabian
stock is entered, and buyers and breeders of horses from all over
the w orld come to this annual series of races to bid for the winner
for breeding purposes. A s the racing was to begin about a week
after w e were to take our departure from Baghdad, several were
already training their horses on the track, and w e m arveled at
the speed, grace and beauty of these rather small horses.
A fte r having taken a number of still photographs of unusual
places and scenes in Baghdad, w e entered a small doorway on
Rashid Street and found in the dim interior the most magnificent
display of Persian and A rabian rugs w e had ever seen. Th ere
was no attempt at ostentation; the m gs were piled high over the
floors and fastened on pegs around the walls. A brass, hand-
hammered, ancient oil lamp was the only means of illumination.
I he rugs were covered with dust, yet were in excellent condition.
Pricing a large rug of beautiful design, I was surprised to learn
that all the rugs were thirty-five years or older. M ore surprising
still were the unbelievably cheap prices. T h e large rug before
me cost but $20.00, and in Am erica, England, or C an ada it
w ould have brought easily twenty-five times that price. Seeing
that I was interested, the gracious proprietor drew the rug out
from the others and bade us follow him, which w e did. G oin g
through a little passageway, w e suddenly came out on another
of the splendid little gardens which are in back of the home of
each fairly prosperous merchant in Baghdad. N o matter how
dark, how filthy, or how squalid his place of business or his
living quarters, if he can at all afford it you w ill find in back
of them a gem of a little Persian garden — mosaic tiling, running
water, fountain, and an artistic array of green shrubbery, open
to the blue sky above.
C lapping his hands in Eastern fashion, he summoned his
assistants and ordered them in A rab ic to clean the rug. This
they did by filling their mouths with w ater from a pail, and then
spraying it out on the rug. 1hen, taking their hands, they rubbed
the nap vigorously, which brought back the brilliance of the
colors. 1 he rugs were all made from cam el’s hair, and in broken
English he explained that most of these rugs are not m ade by
factories or any place organized for the commercial production
of rugs, but are a pastime and a fam ily or tribal industry. T h e
rugs are brought in by the Bedouins, or desert wanderers, two
or three at a time, and for these they receive a paltry sum. This
merchant exported his rugs to various parts of the w orld where
they would sell at fabulous prices.
B y this time w e had visited a number of mosques, but no
mosque was more splendid, more lavish, more like a jew el set
in squalor, than the G old M osque of Kadhim ain. T h e towers
and minarets, and the central dome itself, were all of pure gold
and fascinated the impoverished natives —
>a symbol of wealth
and riches surrounded by poverty, disease, and filth. It was
something, however, to lift the thoughts o the people from their
circumstances — to give them some appreciation of the beautiful
and the sublime, something they could not bring into their own
lives, something that could not exist in their homes. W e stood
and listened to the intriguing wail and prayer of the muezzin
(the Mohammedan priest). It was with extreme difficulty that
we were able to take cinematographic pictures of this mosque,
as one must avoid offending the religious principles of these
people.
A t night the scene changes. Peaceful side streets have lurk­
ing assassins in them. A person who dares to venture down
them unarmed will be slain and robbed. The Iraqian police
force, efficient in many ways, is incapable of policing the entire
area. The people are mostly barbarians, and seem strangely
attired even when they do wear W estern clothes. The Bedouins
who bring cargoes across the desert, or who came to trade with
the city dwellers, enter the city nightly for entertainment, and
they visit the native cabarets or cafes in which dancers go
through sensuous gyrations which, in addition to the native
liquor, help intoxicate their senses. 1he Bedouins are power­
fully built men, all of six feet or more in height, large boned;
typical of their racial characteristics they have large aquiline
noses, big, bony hands and large feet. Ordinarily they are mild
mannered and extremely generous, but temperamental and
easily offended. Frater Brower and I visited a native eating
place one noon and were the only Westerners present; had we
known this, we would not have entered. A ll the rest were
Bedouins attired in flowing robes, sandals, armed with dirks.
Looking us over curiously, they immediately came forward, prof­
fered us cigarettes and cups of Arabian coffee which one must
acquire a habit for over a long period of time; and since I had
not been in Baghdad that length of time, I could not become
accustomed to the molasses-like substance and quinine-like taste.
Another unforgettable scene is the river with its strange modes
of transportation. Very few motor craft are seen -
— mostly barges
that are moved by long skiffs or poles. 1 he strangest boat of all
seen anywhere in the world is the gufah. It is a sewing-basket-
Iike boat, about six feet in diameter, and woven of a river reed;
being perfectly circular it has neither bow nor stern. It is guided
by a pole, and it is indeed an amusing sight to see these baskets
floating downstream, loaded with cargo and with their one-man
crew. These strange boats have navigated the Tigris River for
centuries. Herodotus, ancient historian, in his accounts of his
travels through Babylonia, mentions these gufah boats and ex­
plains how the natives far North of Baghdad make these boats,
put on board their wares and a burro, and sail downstream with
them for miles to market; there they sell their wares, break up
the boat, sell it as firewood, and ride home again on the burro.
Burros are not common in Baghdad, and neither are trucks.
Human beings are the cargo bearers. Here we see coolies for
the first time in the East •— white men staggering along under
unbelievable burdens, enormous timbers which must weigh at
least 300 pounds or more. These men will carry anything that
it is humanly possible to carry, and for a few cents a mile they
carry coal, iron, or cans of petroleum. The muscles of their legs
and backs are abnormally developed, and unless they cease
their activities of carrying these tremendous weights day in and
day out early in life, they soon die. Most of them become
afflicted with varicose veins, the result of overdevelopment of the
muscles and the consequent causing of an exceptional flow of
blood through the arteries.
It is pitiful to see a human being competing with animals as
burden bearers. You can hire a human being to carry cargo .—
•
furniture, case goods, anything — cheaper than you could pos­
sibly hire either a camel or a burro for short hauls in and around
the city. T hey live on rice and water ■
—unclean water. Their
income hardly exceeds thirty-five or forty cents a week if they
work steadily; and yet they seem muck more intelligent tkan
peoples we kad seen in otker lands. 1 key do not kave tke vacu­
ous look in tkeir eyes >
—tkat kopeless, despairing look. Tkev
are bright and ckeerful. Tkeir fatkers and grandfathers before
tkem kave carried loads as tkey do. A steady stream of tkem
cross pontoon bridges from one bank of tke river to tke otker,
like ants, carrying for a mile or more wkat an ordinary man
could kardly lift.
But Bagkdad was not our final destination in tkis country.
W e were to go Soutkeast to Babylon — the Babylon of Biblical
times tke Babylon of kistory. It was with enthusiasm and
expectancy tkat we prepared for our next adventure. W e found
it difficult to secure porters to accompany us. Always entkusi-
astic, koping to earn some extra money, until tkey learned tkat
our destination was Babylon; tkey offered tken excuses tkat
seemed strange to us ,
—
■no, tkey did not wisk to go to Babylon.
W e tried to draw out of tkem wky. W^e would pay tkem
well; it was not a great journey; our equipment was not unusu­
ally keavy. Tkey avoided making any explanation — and would
look at eack otker as we urged tkem, witk a knowing, furtive
glance tkat was not only annoying but uncanny. If we skowed
irritation at tkeir reluctance to aid us, tkey kastened to suggest
someone else wko —
>perhaps — would go instead. 1 keir con­
duct keigktened an emotional state I was experiencing, wkick,
so far, I kad carefully concealed from my companion, because
if it kad become visible. I would not kave been able to explain
it. For tke last twenty-four kours, in fact, since crossing tke
Mesopotamian Desert, I was conscious tkat I was suppressing
an intense excitement tkat kept my celiac plexus in constant
agitation. I kad endeavored to analyze tkese strange feelings
and pkysical discomforts I was undergoing. It was not fear *—
for wkat kad I to fear It was not exuberance, for tkere was no
reason to anticipate tkat tkis next episode in our adventures and
travels would be more thrilling tkan wkat kad gone before —
<
yet tke sense of excitement and agitation was peculiarly familiar
to me. The sensations were like those I had often experienced
when returning after an absence of several months at school
to rejoin my parents. The gripping in the region of the solar
plexus and the quickening of the pulse were also like the sensa­
tions I had often had when anticipating, at any moment, the
presence of a deeply loved personality, or again seeing a scene
ot which I was very ^ond, or about which I had pleasant memo­
ries. It was with difficulty that I controlled my speech, so as not
to reveal these feelings. Something, somewhere in this environ­
ment or in the thought of our forthcoming journey, was stimulat­
ing and arousing to great intensity the psychic centers of my
being 1 was not conscious of the reason for it or the source
ot it — at least not at this time.
J
C hapter X IV
A M ID T H E D U S T O F T H E A G E S
T he p a v e m e n t had ended nearly an hour ago. Baghdad was
no longer in sight. Riding, even though in a modern car, was an
exertion rather than a pleasure, and we were thrown violently
from one side to another as the car attempted to negotiate the
ruts that served as a road. The actual distance from Baghdad
to the ancient site of Babylon is but sixty miles, but it requires
nearly three hours to make the journey. Though it was only
10:00 A . M. the sun had already become uncomfortably warm,
and the powder-like dust of the plain over which we traveled,
churned by the wheels of the car, choked and irritated our
throats and eyes. W e had left the Tigris River and were head­
ing westward toward its twin, the Euphrates, on whose banks
the city of Babylon was originally located. W^ith the waters of
the Tigris we left behind us all vegetation, all vestiges of life,
even color. Before us was a flat terrain covered everywhere
with the whitish dust. It was, strange to say, not desert-like in
appearance, not like a land that had always been barren, but
like a place that had been laid to waste. I thought of it as some
vigorous being that had been trapped and, after life had ebbed
from its form, had gradually crumbled until its impalpable parts,
flung free, had settled down on all things around.
In my imagination I visualized that a deluge of water here
would cause not only a cohesion of these dust particles, but a
magical reassembly and restoration of the magnificent forms that
once composed the civilization of this region.
The stillness, when we stopped for a few moments, was appal­
ling and hung heavily about us. W e felt as though we were shut
within a glass sphere which the slightest sound might shatter,
permitting the inrush of strange cries, freakish laughter, and the
wails of the millions who had lived and died here centuries ago.
Ominous as the quiet was, we contributed to it by not speaking,
because tbe human voice sounded unnatural, even hideous, like
a cry from the depths of a cavern.
I was not unmindful of the predictions of the Hebrew prophets
taken into captivity by Nebuchadnezzar when he destroyed
Jerusalem in 586, B. C. that the splendor and glory of Babylon
would so crumble that future man, looking at its utter desolation
and ruin, would marvel that such a place could have ever been
a site of power and beauty. It truly was as though that land had
been visited by the wrath of a god. W e were not alone in our
feelings, for our native porter and driver was strangely quiet
as well. He seemed to have a reluctance to reach our destina­
tion quickly, and even when the roadway permitted he did not
accelerate the car speed. W as there, I wondered, any connec­
tion between this combination of sentiments which we had about
the land and the difficulty we had experienced in engaging a
porter for the journey?
Rising suddenly into view about a mile to our right were a
series of mounds. At this distance they never would have at­
tracted the attention of tourists or casual travelers, but to us who
knew of their existence they were the remains of Babylon which
we sought. Babylon was of little importance before the Third
Millennium B. C . In fact, its prominence came with Ham ­
murabi s rise to power, and when it became the capital of Baby­
lonia, it dominated this whole surrounding land.
Babylonia owed its importance to three conditions; namely,
geographical, political, and spiritual. Preceding Babylon in im­
portance was the city of Kish, not far distant, located on the
banks of the Euphrates at that time. Later the river changed
its course away from Kish to Babylon, and because of this Baby­
lon acquired suzerainty of the entire land. At this point but a
narrow stretch of land separates the two big rivers of the vaHey,
the Tigris and the Euphrates. To the north originally was the
great fertile area of the Tigris, and to the south, the wide plain
that borders on the Persian G ull. Travel centuries ago, as now,
was best along the river edges in the valley proper. 7his forced
all traffic through Babylon, in the middle, and gave Babylon
her dominant political position.
The third factor, or the spiritual one, was the city religion of
Babylon. The principal god of Babylon was Marduk. The
people had personal pride in him, and desired that he be given
priority over the other gods of the entire country, and its sur­
rounding nations. Even kings and princes were forced to submit
to the rites of respect to this god, which amounted nearly to their
coronation by the priesthood. No ventures or activities were per­
mitted which were not done in the name of this god. For a great
time this religious influence bound all contemporary life closely
with Babylon, and made her a religious mecca, as well as a place
of commercial importance. This religious supremacy was made
possible mainly by fear. W hen any prominent person who had
not recognized Marduk or his priesthood suffered a calamity,
the priesthood attributed the misfortune to a punishment by the
god. W ,hen the Assyrian king, Sennacherib, who leveled Baby­
lon in his siege of that city in the Sixth Century B. C. died, his
death was said by the priesthood to have been caused by his
failure to pay homage to their god Marduk.
W e had come to an abrupt stop at the foot of one of these
mounds which were about twenty-five feet in height, and now
that we were close to them we observed that they were about
one hundred yards in length, and fifty yards across. Viewing
them from where we stood, they seemed to be a natural forma­
tion — certainly not man-made Actually, these mounds covered
by debris and the dust of the centuries, were the remains of
palaces, walls, canals, temples, and towers of Babylon and
later civilizations. W e struggled up the steep sides of one, lug­
ging our heavy camera equipment, and sneezing with the dust
raised by our feet which broke through the surface crust baked
by the sun. W e perspired little for the air, as in Egypt, was
exceedingly dry and absorbed the moisture as it appeared.
The sun s rays were now fierce; their burning effect on our ex­
posed skin was like that of drawing a sharp blade across the
flesh, smarting and stinging.
From our elevation the whole plain for miles around was re­
vealed. To our W est some distance from these ruins was a
fringe of green grass and palms stretching in a straight line
nearly North and South as far as the eye could see. This growth
marked the banks of the Euphrates River. Its course in ancient
times ran close to these mounds and fed the canals of the ancient
city. The brilliance and varied shades of green of the vegeta­
tion caused us to realize how magnificent the gardens and sur­
rounding terrain must have been during the glory of Babylon
when she was queen of the ancient world.
After she was demolished by Sennacherib, Nebuchadnezzar
in 604-561 B. C . returned from his destruction of Jerusalem to
restore Babylon s splendor, and the temples of her revered gods.
There before us, like a refuse heap, lay part of his handiwork,
the ruins of his great palace. It looked like a crater caused by
the explosion of a great shell, for it was merely a large ugly hole.
It must have been two hundred feet square. From where we
stood it looked as though heaped high in the center was a mass
of rock or chunks of dried soil. Adjoining this large crater were
smaller ones, subdivided with partially-upright partitions or
walls. These were the remains of the same structure and parts
of others. Towering above all to the right, the largest structure
still standing in Babylon was the Ishtar Gate. The remains are
two square-like towers of mud-brick, once faced with splendidly
glazed and colored tile and ornamented with figures of animals,
a few of which are still visible.
Nebuchadnezzar had married a Median princess of extreme
beauty and culture, whom he greatly loved, so the legends tell
us. He brought her from her mountainous and beautiful
home country of Persia to the flat, dusty, and ugly land of Baby-
Ionia. He set about rebuilding Babylon, and he constructed
great walls of defense, one within the other, making it the
greatest fortified city of antiquity. Meanwhile, his beautiful bride
pined for the beauty of the mountains of her homeland with
their fragrant shrubs, flowers, and refreshing verdure. Learning
of her loneliness, it is recounted that he decided to build her an
artificial mountain on which she could dwell. Thus was begun
his great palace which became one of the seven wonders of the
world which we refer to as The Hanging Gardens of Babylon.
The structure, as most of them in Babylon and Assyria, was
built of mud brick and then fired to compose a tile or faience.
It was built in tiers each slightly recessed so that the whole com­
posed an enormous terraced tower, and along each terrace were
planted magnificent trees and tropical plants and vines which
hung low on the sides, causing it to be known as The Hanging
Gardens. At the top of the tower was the palace and living
quarters of Nebuchadnezzar and his bride. He had the waters
of the Euphrates diverted into great canals around the palace
base, and on either side of them were magnificent tiled walks,
and in them artistic boats leisurely floated carrying musicians
and men and women of his court.
The great Ishtar Gate was built to commemorate the Baby­
lonian goddess Ishtar, a composite of all the female Babylonian
goddesses. She was a deity of nature and beauty, also known
as the weeping mother because it was thought that she inter­
ceded in behalf of man whenever he was to be punished severely
for his sins against Marduk. A planet was named after her,
and it is thought it was the same one which the Greeks later
called Venus. In fact, authorities believe Venus was the Grecian
counterpart of Ishtar. From this gateway to his palace, Nebu­
chadnezzar built a roadway which became known as the sacred
way. Along it at the new year festival in March a processional
carried an image of Marduk. After homage was paid to him
at the numerous temples, he was then placed on the river barge
and conveyed to the northern section of the city. Through this
gateway, which we carefully photographed, had marched the
conquering army of Xerxes, and later. Cyrus, who successfully
in the Sixth Century B. C. routed the combined Lydian, Baby­
lonian and Egyptian forces which opposed him. Also through
this gateway tramped the legions of Darius. Cyrus’ successor.
Darius, admiring the beauty and culture of the city, attempted
to preserve it.
W e endeavored to persuade our porter to climb among these
ruins with us. W e offered him an additional fee to carry the
camera equipment. He refused. Fearing that if we insisted too
strongly, he might leave entirely, we desisted and slid with an
O N C E M IGH TY B A B Y LO N
O f all of the remains of civilization to be seen in A sia Minor and
Egypt, those of Babylon, shown above, are the most demolished and
depressing, as captive Hebrew prophets predicted they would become,
centuries ago.
(Photo by AMORC)
avalanche of dust and hard particles following us down into
the center of the demolished Nebuchadnezzar’s palace. The
surface blocks in the piles about us were just mud bricks, sev­
eral of them still adhering to each other, and slowly returning
to the dust from which they were made, and they received little
attention from us. Slowly we began the laborious business of
digging deeper in the thousands of years old rubbish about us
for what might have been left or overlooked by the German
archaeological expeditions of 19 14 and earlier which had
worked here. Since the W orld W ar, no real attempt had
been made to continue the great excavation work jn Babylon
begun by the Germans. The Iraqian government, which con­
trols the ruins, discouraged further excavations, not by its atti­
tude or by actual prohibition, but because of the instability of
the government. A n expedition might obtain a permit from the
present government to excavate extensively and establish a re­
search base at the site of the ruins, with thousands of dollars
worth of equipment, work diligently for several years and recover
much valuable material, and then suddenly a government upset
occur, and the succeeding authorities prohibit the excavators
from continuing or from removing the fruits of their labors; or
might even, as has been done elsewhere, give the materials
which they recovered to some other institution or country.
W e worked diligently, our thoughts occupied not with what
w e now saw before us, but with a mental picture of this site in
ancient days, the days of its magnificence. W e thought of the
great engineering skill of these people, how they had driven into
the Tigris and the Euphrates rivers piles to enlarge their land,
how they had built beautiful parks laid out in geometrical de­
signs. W e thought of the splendid gold work which they ac­
complished, of the gorgeous jew elry and furnishings with which
the palaces were am ply supplied, of swimming pools, race
courses, fields of grain and vegetables, herds of cattle and sheep.
W e also thought of the Ham m urabi code of laws, with its ex­
cellent system for courts and judges, its protection of the person
and of property rights, with its sound provisions for divorce, its
regulation of taxes, and of the stern punishment it meted out.
W e thought of the temple liturgies, the chanting and singing,
the wailing and prayers.
A cry from Frater Brower brought me to his side. He had
found the first of what we had hoped to find, a large mud brick,
a building block about a toot square inscribed in cuneiform, the
peculiar wedge-like writing of the Babylonians and Assyrians.
A s we held held it in our hands we diligently and reverently
examined it. Nearly four thousand years ago, some human like
ourselves, a craftsman, had carefully written this inscription with
his reed stylus in preparation for including this block with
thousands of others in the walls of the palace of Nebuchadnez­
zar. W hat was he like, this ancient craftsman? W^hat was his
life, and what did he think of the future, four thousand years
hence? Could he have imagined a people from a very distant
land, like ourselves, examining his handiwork centuries after
his death? From the time the workman cemented this block
in place, using the natural soil, until now, when we lifted it
from the dust into which it fell, it is very probable that no other
hand had ever touched it. W e were at this moment living in
another world, seeing and feeling things which represented life
and power to another people, that seemed as much a part of a
continuous existence to them as the things of our world do to us.
Around the ancient maker of this block, the writer of this in­
scription, had been such activity, such examples of strength —
that is, buildings, temples, troops, broad avenues, teeming thou­
sands of humans — that although he could have imagined
changes, a state of such utter desolation, oblivion, nothingness
as that into which his civilization eventually fell, would have
been beyond his thought — as far beyond it as is a similar
thought to fhe mind of the average resident of cities like New
York, London and Paris. Time had made the impossible pos­
sible; it had vanquished all, and we very forcefully realized
that it could do so again with the powerful civilizations now in
existence.
It is surges of thought such as we now experienced, stirring
emotions such as those we now felt, that have led archaeologists
to the far corners of the earth to wrest from the past the story
of men of other times. Here, then, was another example of uni­
versal brotherhood, but universal in time as well as extent. In
archaeology we find a love not only of those who work, play and
pray today throughout the world, but a sympathetic understand­
ing of the human race since it began, and a desire to bind the
past fast to the present. The archaeologist has a pride in all
human achievement. He believes, and rightly so, that we have
as much right to share the experiences of our fellow men of
thousands of years ago as we do those of today who are thou­
sands of miles distant from us. After all, no experience is per­
sonal unless we participate in it. Thus, what others have done
before us can be as interesting and as intimate to us as those
experiences of our foreign contemporaries which we seek to know
through our news channels.
In the broader sense, humanity has no periods. It is a con­
tinuous flow from its beginning to its ultimate end. Only when
we confine ourselves to a consideration of the things of our indi­
vidual lives do we get that narrow concept of humanity as hav­
ing periods or eras and assign them a relative importance to our
own day. If we think the Egyptian and Babylonian vain and
lacking in forethought because he concerned himself so fully
with only the things of his own period, then, in light of what time
has since done to his civilization, let us not make the same mis­
take of occupying ourselves solely with the things of the present
time. To us belongs a consciousness of thousands of years of
human endeavor, not just of the meager span of the few years
that compose our individual lives. If we live in the past as well
as in the present, we can live ten thousand years in one lifetime.
In other words, life begins not with our infancy, but with the
earliest birth of humanity of which we have record.
i R E L IV E A L IF E
W e b o t h c o n c e n t r a t e d our digging and proLing in the one
place in which we had made our discovery. W e were soon
rewarded for our efforts and we turned up brick after brick, each
weighing about ten pounds, all deeply and clearly inscribed in
cuneiform, some bearing the inscription of Nebuchadnezzar s
name. Turning them over, we saw that they had a sticky black
substance smeared on them. Looks and smells like asphaltum, ’
said Brower.
It is, I replied, the Babylonians had asphalt or bitumen
pits, and they used this substance to coat their bricks just as we
use the same material today as a preservative on our roads and
highways. And you will observe,” I continued, that it has
done an excellent job.” W e hurried, for the bour was getting
late, to reduce the size of the bricks —' because of their weight w
with a hammer we had for the purpose. W e knocked away all
except the area containing the inscriptions. W^e soon had a very
representative collection, and one quite heavy. W e intended to
take them back with us to America for the Rosicrucian Museum.
In fact, they are now part of the collection to be seen in the
Babylonian and Assyrian gallery of the Rosicrucian Museum.
In this same palace where we were making our discoveries an
outstanding tragedy had happened. Alexander the Great, after
successfully putting to rout the army of Darius, the Persian king
who occupied Babylon at that time, and taking over Babylon
himself, was murdered in this palace at the height of his power,
and, it is said, while in a drunken stupor. Near here, in this
series of earth mounds, was the ruins of a library. Ashurbanipal,
last Assyrian king, and grandson of Sennacherib, built himself
a great library at Nineveh, Assyrian city located north of the
present city of Baghdad. This was centuries before the great
Alexandrian library of the Greeks. He had thousands of clay
tablets inscribed in cuneiform writing placed in jars. These
stone books, for this is what they were, were placed in rows on
shelves, properly classified. There were thousands of them, de­
voted to the subjects of science, history, various phases of litera­
ture and religion. Hanging from the top of each was a little
straw tag giving the title of the tablet, or the subject of the book.
Some of these books were later filed in a library in Babylon, and
they have not yet been discovered.
1 he great library of Nineveh has been found; that is how we
know of these books and their classification, and most of its stone
books which lay in a heap when the building crumbled are now
in the British Museum in London. On some of these tablets are
found parts of the story of the flood mentioned in the Old Testa­
ment. The legend, as it also appears in the Old Testament,
tells of the hero building a large boat on which he took his wife
and a pair of each of the animals, and that all other humans,
and animals were destroyed by the deluge, and that finally when
the flood subsided, he and his wife and tbe animals were left
to perpetuate themselves as the only living things. This story
is undoubtedly based upon an actual local flood within that
region, and of course it was thought by the early writers to have
been a deluge of the whole world. It was passed perhaps by
word of mouth, or even by tablet, to the Egyptians, thence to
the Hebrews, and it was finally incorporated in the Christian
literature.
W e loaded our camera equipment into the car, also the in­
scribed stones, for our porter would not help us with them. They
were to him taboo; that is, untouchable. A curse, so the natives
believed, would be inflicted upon those who disturbed the prop­
erty of the dead. The Assyrians, like the Egyptians, threatened
trespassers and those who would violate their sacred precincts
with oaths of vengeance. Ashurbanipal, for example, declared
in cuneiform writing on each stone tablet of his library (each
took in other words), that whosoever shall carry off this tablet
or shall inscribe his name upon it side by side with my own, may
Assur and Belit (gods) overthrow him in wrath and anger, and
may they destroy his name and posterity in the land. Now we
began to realize wby they feared to visit this site. Strange, too,
since working in the palace rooms I felt rather ill. M y heart
was palpitating. I could no longer control physical evidence of
the intense excitement I felt, the uncontrollable feeling of sus­
pense — as though any moment something unforgettable was
about to occur. Beads of cold perspiration stood out on my fore­
head, unusual for this climate. I felt exceptionally tired. My
head throbbed slightly. I laughed to myself, and said, the
power of suggestion.
Relieved of our burdens, we climbed over several mounds to
another large pile of crumbling brick. It is referred to by some
authorities as the remains of the Tower of Babel, mentioned in
the Old Testament. The Babylonians, contrary to popular
knowledge, built many large towers. 1he one to which the Old
Testament refers was just one of many similar structures. The
predecessors of the Babylonians were the Sumerians, a people
who came from a mountain land far to the north, and finally
settled on this plain which they named the Plain of Shinar. In
their home land they worshipped in temples on mountain tops
a god named Enlil. He was the god of the earth. To simulate
the mountain temples they built great tower temples which were
cube-like in shape. The base was nearly as large in area as the
height of the structure. Surrounding the base was a great stone
courtyard. On one side three large inclines or ramps made it
possible to reach the first two levels of the tower, and from there
a gradual incline continued around the entire structure, making
it possible to reach the tower top. On the top was the actual
temple itself in which dwelt the priests, and in which the cere­
monies were conducted.
Koldewey, German excavator and archaeologist, has recon­
structed, from the plans he made of the ruins of Babylonian
tower temples, complete models showing how they actually ap­
peared in ancient times. The highest of these towers was prob­
ably some four hundred feet, which, like the great Pyramid of
Gizeh, looked by comparison to the surrounding level terrain
much greater. O f course, to the captive Hebrews, this god of the
Babylonians was a false one, and the worship of him on such a
high edifice, reaching, it seemed, into the clouds, was a defiling
of the sanctuary of their own god, consequently the story of the
Tower of Babel. These tower temples contributed to later ar­
chitecture and were first copied during the Hellenistic period.
The worlds first lighthouse, on Pharos Island, outside the an­
cient port of Alexandria, Egypt, was a copy of these tower
temples. It, in turn, became the model for the Mohammedan
minarets. In the Babylonian-Assyrian Gallery of the Rosicru­
cian Museum, which collection is now one of the largest in
W estern United States, is a great number of these tablets and
cones having inscribed on them liturgies and commercial cor­
respondence; all of which were removed from the ruins of these
ancient temples.
A s we pondered among these ruins, in our mind s eye we
could see the Hebrew slaves, naked except for loin cloth, with
matted hair and beards, fettered with bronze chains and anklets,
toiling, sweating, and stumbling in their misery and near exhaus­
tion, in the blazing sun under the lash of the whips of their
Babylonian captors, making and carrying the brick which was
raising a tower for the worship of the god of their oppressors,
offering prayers silently for their deliverance—prayers, the echoes
of which still ring in the chapters of the Old Testament. Cruelty,
yes. Unnecessary — yes, also. But the custom neither began
with the Babylonians nor did it end with them. This much
can be said of the Babylonians: Their persecution of the Jews
was not primarily a religious one, but a political one. Judea
being a subordinate state and a rebellious one, its warriors
became political prisoners of the Babylonians, not religious ones.
Other prisoners were treated likewise by them. Today, now,
the Jews suffer persecution again, but in this day and age it is
not principally political persecution but religious or racial perse­
cution, which is a far greater reflection upon the level of intelli­
gence of an age than the punishment of a people because of
political uprising.
I now felt rather faint — yet I was surprised that I was not
alarmed at my condition. There was a proclivity to let go — to
slip into either sleep or oblivion. To watch Frater Brower and
listen to him seemed such an effort. On the other side of my
objective consciousness, and seemingly deep within, was an
appealing sense of ease, of comfort, of relaxation, that tugged
strongly at my consciousness. The world around me was per­
turbing. I was like one on a threshold of a portal leading to a
chamber of quiet and soothing atmosphere, and yet reluctant
to cross over and leave my present distraction. 1 be struggle
was tremendous — but objectively I was losing. It was too diffi­
cult to draw myself back into my immediate surroundings. I
must submit to the impelling urge. W ith that ultimate resigna­
tion came not just gratification but afflatus. Ethereal throngs
pushed by me, jostled me. Familiar sounds came to my ears.
W^as 1now awakening from a dream? There before me were
the citizenry of my home land going to and fro, attired as I had
always seen them, occupied with their daily interests 1 so well
knew. I was with them — and yet I was an unseen spectator.
Vaguely I recalled another place and different peoples But to
think of them, place them, was now an effort. And why try?
Here I belonged—in Babylon. I did not want to participate in
the activities before me. just to drink them in, and each sound
and sight gave me new life, seemed to lift a burden from my
soul, and my spirits rose. I could remain this way forever, yet
something was continually annoying me—a voice, faint, distant,
but distinct, kept calling me. I could not avoid it. If I listened,
this joyous procession of my friends, Babylon itself, to which I
bad just returned, became hazy. I decided to get away from
this voice, to move along with people about me, to be myself
again, to enter into their spirit and mood. I rose, but I seemed
to float; surprising to me, yet a pleasure, was the sensation.
Here then was a pleasing freedom. I could mingle with the
throngs unobserved. I could satisfy my curiosity as I entered
the various craftsmen’s stalls. I was amused at the conversations
I overheard as I stood with the spectators who watched the
armorer fashion new shields, and who lamented the added
weight and reminisced when leather was sufficient for even the
king s guards to protect their persons when doing battle. I saun­
tered on, to come to rest before an aged lapidary worker.
Around him were grouped his keen-eyed and agile apprentices.
I marvelled again, yes, as I had on many occasions, at the sym­
metry of design and the details carved in such hard stone and
with such unvarying accuracy. I was proud of the age in which
I lived—for had we not advanced far? Certainly long shall we
endure. Nowhere, not perhaps even in the land of the tyrants
of Mizraim, are men as progressive as we. I looked up in ad­
miration at the magnificent varicolored tiled walls of the Great
King s Palace. They sparkled like the rays emanating from
Marduk when they plunged into the waters of the canals. I
turned to watch the orderly steps of a squad of stalwart bowmen
as they passed to enter the portals of the sacred way of the
Goddess Ishtar. Above my head and fastened to the mass of
inner walls which secured our city, beloved of the God Marduk,
against the ravages of the Northern invaders, was a proclama­
tion to all free men guaranteeing tbem the protection of the God
of living things and his earthly ambassador, my most powerful
and glorious king. I had achieved, my tongue could express it­
self in signs, my words could go far beyond the sound of my
voice. I could read as well. Few could equal me. I had read,
and I had written often; my livelihood depended on my writing.
M y words shall live beyond my time. I recalled how I was often
sought to leave my message with my seal impressed, with those
who wished to ponder over my thoughts. I was more than a
scribe bound to the Temple or the court of the King—
1 was a
counselor on the ways of living. It was my art to translate into
understandable language, into a code of practice and into a use­
ful order of living, the enigmatic words of Marduk which his
priests spake high in the tower temples. I was not unaware that
I was disliked, envied, possibly feared. The mighty of Marduk s
sacerdotal army resented by intervention, my mediation between
them and my fellows. I was not of their holy sect. I was not
appointed for ministrations to God, yet I spake and wrote words
of wisdom as I knew them. M y thoughts were just of earth, of
man. However, I took comfort that my words in writing had
been commanded for examination by the great Lord and King.
He had favorably accepted them, for had he not given me re­
ward and the generous sanction allowed one who is honored
as a sage? He had encouraged me in an epistle from his supreme
minister to freely give my thoughts animation and permanency
—but to be ever mindful that I did not offend Marduk, creator
of all. and himself, Babylonia’s Lord and King.
Again, once again, that fretful disturbance, that distant echo,
that now indistinct cry, seemed to possess me. I shook my head
repeatedly as though trying to shake off some physical bondage.
Then the sound of my name crashed down upon me like a bolt
of lightning. It shattered the vista before me; towers, palaces,
streets, peoples, slaves — they all fell into mere parts like a
jigsaw puzzle dropped abruptly on pavement. They melted be­
fore my eyes, and through the mist there appeared the face of
Frater Brower. He was speaking, but his voice was still distant;
then it gradually grew stronger as though it were approaching
me from afar. He was shaking me by the shoulder and saying,
‘W h a t is the matter with you? W h y don t you answer me?
W e must get back. Are you ill? You are extremely pale. I
*
realize now that I must have been in a state of semi-conscious­
ness. Objectively I had not been aware for several minutes,
perhaps, of my actual surroundings. For while I had this vivid
experience, this transition to an era of nearly four thousand
years ago, my body had been seated right where it now was,
on the sub-foundation wall of this tower temple. And yet, how
clear had been my experience in all its details! Hardly like an
hallucination that comes from an ordinary lapse of objective con­
sciousness. I was ill. extremely so; I burned with fever. M y
mouth was parched and I was badly nauseated.
Two thoughts now dominated my consciousness. First, over
and over again, like a leer, the words of the Babylonian execra­
tion imploring the gods to punish despoilers coursed through my
mind. I attempted to ridicule myself as I lay in the back of the
bouncing car heading again toward Baghdad. I thought of the
dozen or more volumes I had read quoting the authorities of the
world, and of the Rosicrucian teachings, all of which discredited
this superstitious belief, yet mocking me was this ailment, the
discomfitures of which gave the oaths a more vivid realism to
my semi-delirious mind than anything which I could recall hav­
ing read or studied. Reason gave way to fantasy. I pictured
myself as the victim whose life was to be given to prove the
mysterious potency of these ancient curses. J had been chosen
to vindicate the Babylonians, to discredit the stigma modern
science had placed upon the forces which they were said to
invoke! Second was the realization that all I was now perceiv­
ing in this awakened state seemed more unreal, more dreamlike
than what I had just experienced. In fact, I felt that instead of
returning to normalcy I had lapsed into delirium, and that the
preceding occurrences were my natural state — I even yearned
to return to them. The details of what I had seen and heard
clung to my memory like a deep fragrance to the air after flowers
have been removed. Reason told me that I had, during the
entire time, been seated on that mud-brick foundation, and yet
I knew, a conviction that I could not shake, that my inner con­
sciousness had relived, not in imagination but in memory, what
it had once registered as an actual experience.
Several days of quiet, after a diagnosis of my case as mild
tropical fever combined with intestinal influenza, caused pos­
sibly by an insect bite on the desert, saw me rally sufficiently
to prepare for the trek back across the desert. Our trail was now
to lead northward and westward like the flow of the ancient
civilization whose sites we had been visiting.
So C E A S E L E S S and yet so unchanging is the sea. To ancient
eyes that peered across its wastes from the bows of frail craft,
it too, was either a roaring fury with deep valleys whose moun­
tainous walls were tipped with lacy foam, or a placid glass-Iike
calm. O f all of the things of the world, the sea alone seems un­
touched by the moods of man or nature. As we gaze into it
today we see, mirrored in our consciousness, the same vision
which men who looked upon it in centuries past experienced.
It remains an unbroken, unscathed bond with the beginning of
time. Perhaps it was the spirit of oneness with all that had gone
before, which the inky waters instilled in me as I looked over
them from the deck of our motorship, that made me think of the
great personalities who had sailed this same sea.
Just a few hours before we had departed from the modern
docks of Istambul and now we were leaving the sea of Marmora
and entering the straits of the Dardanelles. At this point, two
great continents, Europe and Asia, were separated by a scant
watery thread three to four miles m width. It was as if nature
had symbolized, by this geographic arrangement, that the
peoples of these enormous land areas should often embrace each
others’ customs and habits and yet by the slender thread of racial
differences ever be separated.
The ancient name of the Dardanelles — a narrow body of
water forty-seven miles long — is the Hellespont. It separates
the Marmora and /Egean seas. It is related to have derived its
modern name from the city of Dardonis. Here, too, Xerxes,
Persian King in the Sixth Century7B. C., built a floating bridge
— composed of a series of small boats lashed together — and
crossed with his vast Army of the East for one of the earliest
invasions of Europe. This same site, within the century, had
been the scene of other great armies struggling for possession
of its natural gateway to the Black Sea, and the great territory
of Russia.* During the first W orld W ar. the German and
Turkish powers had fortified the slopes on either side of tlie
Dardanelles, so as to make it almost impregnable. The British
N avy was mainly assigned the task, by the allies, of penetrating
the Straits, running the gauntlet, it may be said, and opening
the water route to the Black Sea. Russia, an ally, needed this
outlet to the Mediterranean very badly. British ships were blown
to bits in the mine-infested waters and by the bombardment of
heavy land batteries.
The strategy of the Turks, under German military guidance,
cost England thousands of Canadian and Australian troops.
After severe return assaults on the land batteries by the British
cruisers, one suddenly ceased firing, and after a length of time
it was believed to have been silenced. The troops prepared to
land and when they had but touched the shore an inferno broke
loose. Heavy artillery shells crashed about them and machine
guns rattled, mowing down wave after wave of men. Retreat
from the trap was impossible and advance was suicide. Britain
became the eventual victor of the engagement by a small margin,
for which she paid a terrific price in human lives.
Turkey remains today a steadfast ally of Germany, though
making overtures of friendship to England. Every third man
in impoverished Turkey is in uniform and all have the military
bearing and stamp of German training. After the W orld W ar
1urkey solicited a continuation of German officership of her
forces, in exchange for certain trade concessions to the Reich.
At this time, the system is so thoroughly organized that in only
the highest ranks, and then in an advisory capacity, is it neces­
sary for German officers to remain. 1urkey s own officers now
know only one military technique — German. In Turkey, also,
* World W ar numLer two finds preparations for tHis struggle again resumed.
the army has the same outstanding prestige that it does in G er­
many. No other class of citizenry receives the privileges or the
distinctions of the army. To Americans and to Canadians, this
may seem deplorable and indicating a warlike spirit. On the
other hand, our survival-of-the fittest contest is strictly along
economic lines — clashes between capital and labor — attempts
at an adjustment of consumption and production, but with these
other powers, it means a fight for actual existence as a sovereign­
ty. To become weak in military strength is to be absorbed liter­
ally over night by a stronger nation; consequently the attitude
W IN D O W S O F TH E E A S T
From a grilled arch of the quadrangle of the blue Mosque, vve look
out upon the stately, impressive beauty of Saint Sophia, the greatest of
all of the mosques.
<Plu>to by AMORCj
is: defense of national existence must precede economic and
cultural interests.
A slow rolling of our ship accompanied our entrance into the
/Egean Sea. To our starboard side, but two or three miles dis­
tant, were the rugged mountains of the Island of Lemnos. Frater
Brower and I stepped to the railing to scan them through binocu­
lars. Deep in their clefts, near the shoreline, here and there,
were small villages appearing as though they had been washed
down from the heights to wedge fast, and there, like sheltered
vegetation, flourish. To the northwest, not more than fifty miles
beyond our range of vision, lay historic Macedonia. In what is
now known as the Thessalonike Peninsula, of Macedonia, once
existed the small outpost colony city of Stagira. In it, about 384
B. G . was born a man who was to fashion the thought of the
world for over 2000 years and command its respect for centuries
more. It was here that Aristotle, son of the physician to the King
of Macedonia, and descendant of a long line of physicians, be­
gan his career.
Each island, each peak, bay or inlet about us constituted a
landmark, not in the history of races, nations, or men, but of
thought. Surrounding this small sea were born and lived more
men who contributed to the advancement of thought than in
any similar area on the surface of the earth and in the history
of man. Genius after genius sprang from the hearty mountain­
ous region. It was as though it had been impregnated by Divine
touch with the seeds of wisdom.
Over the port side loomed the silhouette of another nearby
island. Its coast line was so precipitous that it plunged from a
height directly into the sea, affording little beach. The late after­
noon sun was concealed behind its hills, causing a back-lighting
and a radiant aura to extend around and sharpen its rugged
contour. This was Mytilene or the renowned island of Lesbos
which played a prominent part in Aristotle’s life. Students of
philosophy and of Aristotleanism divide Aristotle s life into
three distinct periods. The first and perhaps the most prominent
was from his seventeenth to thirty-seventh years, when he was
a disciple and constant companion of Plato. His writings during
this period had the formal pedagogic style of Plato’s dialogues
and his doctrines reflected the principles of his teacher. He lived
in Athens and never journeyed far from the academy.
The second period, called the W anderjahre, was after his
master s death and was devoted to travel. His contact with other
schools of thought, and his own experiments and conceptions,
caused his writings of this period to contrast sharply with his
former ones. It was during this period of travel that he spent
two years of study on Lesbos, the island before us. Here he
gathered specimens of marine life and carefully observed their
habits. It is said that from these obser\ations there came about
his famous doctrine of development, which was the first theory
of evolution. He attempted to unite by his theory two realms
of reality — mind, or the initial ideas as Plato called them, and
matter. W hat a surge of wisdom flowed through the small chan­
nel of this one human mind! He attempted the first classifica­
tion of all natural phenomena — grouping inanimate matter,
plant and animal life, into separate divisions and making pos­
sible the first truly scientific study. He devised the term meta­
physics, meaning beyond physics, to define the study of the
causes of physical phenomena, in fact, the first causes of all
being. He gave the name psychology to that branch of study
concerned with the Soul and the functions of mind, thought,
sensation, perception. Merely as an aid to assist his reasoning
and to make his insight into the profound problems which he
considered clearer, he invented the system of formal logic, which
is still in use today with slight variation.
No greater test of wisdom or its relevancy to truth can be
had than that it be subjected to the passing of time. The titles
which Aristotle bestowed upon the divisions of reality he made
have endured, and many of his fundamental doctrines remain
unshaken by sieges of controversy. It seems incredible that one
mind could conceive such truths, become so enlightened by its
own efforts during one normal life’s span. As further tribute
to his greatness, may it be said that he, far more than his con­
temporaries and his later followers, realized and admitted his
limitations, this bleak body of land, therefore, seemingly
spewed up from the sea, provided not a source of great mineral
or vegetable wealth to protect or sustain the bodies of men, but
a natural laboratory from which came ideas that nourished the
minds of men for centuries.
Eighty miles west of Stagira, Aristotle’s birthplace, was
located the City of Pella, the ancient capital of Macedonia, over
which presided Phillip II. His fame having spread, Aristotle
was urged by Phi(lip to become the private tutor of his son,
Alexander, who was destined to become a world conqueror.
It was said he accepted the appointment because of the oppor­
tunity it provided to test his political theories. His pupil, later,
while on an expedition of conquest, had a selected staff of sages
collect and send back to Aristotle, for his examination and study,
strange plants and specimens of minerals and soil. Vicious
gossip and the jealousy of Alexander poisoned his mind toward
his master and teacher, while he was on a distant campaign.
Eventually Aristotle fled to Chalcis, on the elongated island
of Euboea, which was now directly west of us, but beyond our
vision. There he died in 322 B. C. In recent years, just outside
of where existed the small colonial city of Eretria, about twelve
miles south of Chalcis, excavators unearthed a gold stylus, ring,
and pieces of pottery which were said to be Aristotle’s. In the
grave was also found a skull, which is believed to be his as well.
The eastern shore of Asia had faded from our view. W e
were now directly off the coast of the ancient Ionians. During
the glory of the Greek schools of philosophy it was said that,
of all of the colonies of Attica, Ionia provided those who excelled
in the love of inquiry into nature — in other words, those who
T H E V I N E Y A R D O F W I S D O M .99
inclined toward what we consider the physical sciences. The
principal city and capital of Ionia was Miletus, in which
flourished the earliest school of philosophy. The founder was
Thales, 585 B. C., who is said to have predicted an eclipse.
There began with him a transition from the theogony of the
gods, the common belief in Greece at that time, to physical
philosophy, which sought to explain the universe along rational,
and what we might term scientific, lines. Thales sought an ulti-
mate substance, a primary element from which all things came,,
ancl he finally concluded that substance to be water. The school
ceased with the destruction of that city by the Persians in 494
B. C. Nearly opposite from Miletus, across the /Fgean, was
the City of Megara, where certain lesser Socratic schools, those
expounding a version of the Socratic philosophy, came into ex­
istence but never into prominence.
W ith such enjoyment had I lived in my mind the lives and
accomplishments of these astute personalities of thousands of
years past, that I had not become conscious of the hour. The
clashing sound of the dining steward s dinner gong brought me
to an awareness of a keen hunger induced by the invigorating
sea air.
W*e retired to our stateroom early, but I could not sleep. M y
imagination had been stimulated by these monuments, these
reminders of a great past civilization. Perching myself on the
berth, in a position so I could look out of the porthole, I opened
it and stared down at the water a few feet below, which seemed
to rush past. The light of the stateroom cast a faint glow upon
the sea. The small circle of light was sufficient to intensify the
darkness of the water and give the foam a contrasting scintil­
lating whiteness. W ith my back to the room, and before me
visible only this small illuminated circle of the sea, and with
the freshness of the salt air stinging my face, I had a full sense
of appreciation of the beauty, majesty and wildness of this
element. For miles, on and on, the water rolled, rose to crests,
broke, IasHed, and slid into great w allow s: the sky reaching
down on all sides was its only container. W h a t it held close
to its bosom fathoms below and im m ediately beneath me, per­
haps no man w ould ever know. I thought if there is on earth
any power or agency of nature which displays a spirit of com­
plete freedom and a disregard for the efforts of man to control
it, it is the sea. U se it man can, but never is he its master.
The following morning the decks were bathed in sunlight.
It was enjoyed in sheltered corners for the air was biting. Land
had not been seen for hours, but there was no possibility for
monotony as preparations by passengers and crew alike were
being made tor the arrival at the port of Piraeus. By the time
Frater Brower and I had repacked our cinema equipment, after
having filmed the notable sights we had passed, we were enter­
ing the G ulf of /Egina. In this gulf some of the greatest naval
battles of the ancient world were fought. These battles gave
Attica the supremacy that assured her independence and per­
haps preserved her spirit of inquiry and love of knowledge.
Persia had constantly menaced the security of Attica, under the
leadership of Darius. Xerxes, his son, at the death of his father,
continued the campaigns against Greece. Success crowned first
the efforts of one side, then of the other. A powerful Persian
fleet sailed one day into the port of Piraeus, and only the strong
Athenian army stationed on the shore kept it from landing.
Themistocles, great statesman of Athens and Arcon, head of
the state, proposed that the Athenians build a large fleet to
dominate the surrounding sea and keep the Persians from cross­
ing, as in only that way, he believed Athens safe from invasion.
His proposals were well received and finally 180 ships were
built and put to sea. The Athenian fleet eventually met and de­
feated the Persian fleet in a great naval combat in the waters
immediately surrounding the Island of Salamis, slightly north
and west of Piraeus, whose harbor we were now slowly entering.
W e had been standing in line alongside w ooden benches in
the customs shed, w here our baggage was piled awaiting in­
spection, for nearly an hour. Our estimation of the department s
efficiency was greatly diminishing, as was our patience. There
was an obvious shortage in personnel, which at the time ap­
peared to us an imposition on travelers. The inspectors were
gracious enough, but their courtesy did not lessen our agitation.
It was not until the next day that we became aware that Greece s
severe economic plight was responsible for the under-manned
staff. For centuries Greece had been under the domination of
Turkey. During the Ottoman Empire it was divided into many
districts by Turkey, and like other subjugated nations of the
Ottoman Empire, it was bled of resources and of the opportuni­
ties of internal expansion. Not long after obtaining its inde­
pendence and following its participation in the W orld W^ar,
it was plunged into revolution — a struggle between monarchy
and republic. Its people are thrifty and its resources, though not
many, are in demand, but it has been and is still at the mercy
of its more powerful neighboring states, which prevent it from
obtaining the concessions it needs for a successful economic life.
Archaeological collection began in Greece as early as the
Seventeenth Century. The ruins of its great edifices were so
impressive that they were bound to excite curiosity and interest.
It was not until the Nineteenth Century, however, that a real
scientific examination of the antiquities of Greece was begun.
To Lord Byron, English poet, 1788-1824, must go the credit for
reawakening world interest in the magnificent history that was
Greece's, and the decaying arts which lay in Athens just below
the debris of centuries.
Byron, a cripple, who travelled for health, romance, and ad­
venture, through Europe where his works were more appreciated
than in England, visited Greece and immediately felt a strong
affinity for its traditions and people. 1 o commemorate an his­
toric event, he swam the Hellespont. Inspired by his studies
there, he returned to England to compose his greatest works.
Later he returned to Greece to interest himself in its political
strife. He spent a considerable amount of his personal fortune
to aid in her liberation. He was once offered, in return, the
Governor-Generalship.
Athens nestled between two mountains. Mt. Hymettus and
Mt. Pentelicus, the former having always been renowned for
its honey and the latter for its excellent marble. Nature had
endowed Athens with excellent elements for defense. Slightly
inland, with elevations that made the sea visible and prevented
sudden naval attack, and with a surrounding plain whose soil
provided essential foods, such as olives, fig groves, vineyards,
and good pasturage, its people were soon able to give themselves
over to pursuits other than the mere acquiring of sustenance.
Speaking of the climate, which is never extreme, one of the
ancient philosophers wrote of it: The clear bracing air fostered
intellectual and esthetic pursuits and endowed them with mental
energy.
Our stay in Athens was not to be lengthy and we had much to
accomplish. Consequently, after depositing our baggage at our
quarters, we immediately set out to photograph those things
which would be representative of the Hellenic civilization.
Sporadic showers did not discourage us. The most commanding
and never-to-be-forgotten sight is the Acropolis, a large promon­
tory, 1000 feet in length or about two of our city blocks, on
which temples to the gods and fortresses with protective walls
have been erected since Neolithic times.
Modern Archaeology has located the remnants of the numer­
ous gates of Themistocles’ wall which surrounded it and through
which trod many of the eminent of Greece’s past. Not far from
the Dipylon Gate was the Academy of Plato, where his students
came to hear his learned discourses and to hear him inveigh
against the Sophists. But a short distance from still another gate
is said to be the site of the Lyceum, the school of the peripatetics,
where Aristotle expounded truths to his disciples, as they walked
to and fro with him.
W e wended our way up and through a wooded section known
as the Pynx. After a brisk walk we stopped before an enormous
rock pitted with age, in which there are two cave-like chambers
with benches hewn out of the living rock and giving evidence
of once having been occupied by humans. The entrances now
have iron gateways, which are opened by attendants. An ex­
hilarating sensation swept over me when I was told that I stood
in the prison cell of Socrates in which — Plato s dialogue, the
Phaedo, informs us — the great Sage drank the hemlock. It
is difficult to express the emotions we felt, as Plato s masterfully
drawn word picture of the execution of Socrates occupied our
thoughts in the very place where it is supposed to have occurred.
However, we reluctantly drew ourselves back to the reality of
fact, that in all probability, from an Archaeological point of view,
these caves, of which there were others, were part of a prehistoric
city which surrounded the Acropolis.
Nearby was the Aeropagus, commonly called Mars Hill, on
which, it is generally held by historians, the Apostle Paul
preached to the Athenians. The structures which now stand
upon the Acropolis were built after the Persians had destroyed
all of the previous edifices and left them in smoldering ruins.
Conceded to be one of the Seven W onders of the W orld is
the magnificent Parthenon, the great temple erected, on the
Acropolis, to the glory of the Goddess Athena. One stands
before it overwhelmed at its beauty. Even though it is in partial
ruins, there clings to its great Doric columns an atmosphere, in
effect, like a heavy perfume, which so overpowers the senses
that naught but its exotic presence can be realized. A s I walked
along the marble flagging of a peristyle and gazed between the
graceful columns at the city lying below, I wondered what
thoughts must have occupied the great minds which assembled
here on occasion. W ere such idealists limited in the range of
their concepts to a mere consideration of the problems and affairs
of their day, or did they at times separate themselves in mind
from their environment and in suck an inspiring setting envision
the future of the world 2500 years hence? Could they have
imagined that men of other races, centuries later, would pass
through the structures they had planned and built? Could they
feel that their work in many of the arts was so original, so far-
reaching, that their influence would be felt thousands of genera­
tions into the future? W ould these men, if alive today, choose
our times in preference to the times in which they lived?
After the destruction by the Persians of the earlier structures
of the Acropolis, Pericles, Fifth Century B. C., statesman, orator,
and lover of culture, began a great campaign for the beautifica­
tion of Athens. From the campaign came artistic developments
which, even today, remain foremost in the records of the achieve­
ments of man. Appropriating the enormous sum, for that time,
of over two and one-half million dollars, which was derived
mainly from the Athenians, he engaged the greatest Greek
craftsmen and artists of the day to perform the work. Ictinus
was the architect who designed and supervised the building of
the Parthenon. Phidias was the sculptor who beautified it.
Architect and sculptor worked hand in hand in creating these
masterpieces. The columns, for the first time in the history of
architecture, were caused to incline inward at the top, to give
the structure the appearance of stability. To prevent the illusion
of concavity they were gracefully tapered, giving the whole a
symmetrical balance. Phidias sculptured a frieze of idealistic
figures around the top sides of the temple. The figures, though
human in form, were so perfect, depicting the ideal man and
woman for which Greece strove, that they became a symbol of
beauty which inspired the citizenry to emulate them. The sculp­
ture at the gabled ends depicted the birth of the Goddess Athena
and her struggle with Poseidon, God of the Sea, for possession
of Attica.
W ithin the temple there had stood a magnificent gold and
ivory statue of the Goddess Athena, thirty feet in height and
wrought by the genius of Phidias. Outside of the temple was
also a colossal bronze statue of this protectress of Athens. This,
too, was the work of Phidias. Rising to a height of seventy feet,
the figure held her shield and spear upraised in an attitude of
protection of the city below. It is said that sailors returning home
could see the tip of Athena’s spear glistening in the sun like a
beacon of welcome when their ships rounded Mt. Hymettus.
Is it a wonder that the Periclean period of history is referred
to as the Golden Age?
The days had swept by so rapidly that it was extremely diffi­
cult for us to separate them into periods spent in one country,
on one continent, or in one place. W e had, it seemed, in the
months of our travels witnessed not a series of disconnected past
events, but a continuous parade of human adventure. A t no
time had the threads of man’s efforts been entirely lost in the
transition from one fabric of civilization to another. Decline had
meant a paucity of material, a few minds working to preserve
the heritage of wisdom against the contaminating influences of
ignorance and superstition. 1 hese threads of genius were sur­
rounded, in the eras of stagnation, by the drab incidents of the
deterioration of human morals and thought. Let a time be favor­
able and the threads transformed all they touched into beauty,
illumination and splendor.
Civilization is a great force put into motion by the concerted
actions of men. 1 he momentum of that force can carry it forward
or backward. It depends upon the direction in which it is started.
It is individual human intelligence, inspired intellect, virgin ideas
and concepts which determine the direction that civilization
shall take. Civilization itself does not produce this intelligence,
but merely provides it with an excellent tool with which to work.
Only in a degeneracy of life itself can this intelligence ever be
destroyed. Civilization can and will fall again and again, and
time after time from the purged ashes will arise, phoenixlike, a
mind or minds which will develop another civilization, founded
upon those instincts and precepts which draw men together in
the hope of attaining a common good not individually possible.
The only fear, and that is a remote one, is that some civilization
may pervert all of the human race simultaneously and close the
channels from which spring the visions which move men up­
ward and onward.
Our journey was completed. Homeward bound, we sailed
past the Rock of Gibraltar, through the legendary gates of
Hercules, toward the W estern world and the New Age.
Explanatory
V
T H E R O S IC R U C IA N O R D E R
Anticipating questions which may be asked by the readers
of this book, the publishers wish to announce that there is but
one universal Rosicrucian Order existing in the world today,
united in its various jurisdictions, and having one Supreme
Council in accordance with the original plan of the ancient
Rosicrucian manifestoes.
This international organization retains the ancient traditions,
teachings, principles, and practical helpfulness of the Brother­
hood as founded centuries ago. It is known as the Ancient M ys­
tical Order Rosae Crucis, which name is abbreviated for popular
use into A M O R C . The North and South American jurisdic­
tion of this Order maintains National Headquarters at San Jose,
California, with branches distributed throughout the United
States, Canada, and Mexico. Those interested in knowing more
of the history and present day offerings of the Rosicrucians may
have a free copy of the book entitled. The Secret Heritage,”
by sending a definite request to Scribe A . C. T., A M O R C
Temple, Rosicrucian Park, San Jose. California.
Ji>7
The Rosicrucian Library
Consists of a number of unique books which are described
in the follow ing pages, and w hich may be
purchased from the
R O S IC R U C IA N S U P P L Y B U R E A U
San Jose, C alifornia
V
V O LU M E I
Rosicrucian Questions and Answers with
Complete History of the Order
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
This volume contains the first complete, authentic history of the Rosicrucian Order from
ancient times to the present day. The history is divided into two sections, dealing with the
traditional facts and the established historical facts, and is replete with interesting stories of
romance, mystery, and fascinating Incidents.
This book is a valuable one since it is a constant reference and guide book. Questions
that arise in your mind regarding many mystical and occult subjects are answered in this
volume.
For many centuries the strange, mysterious records of the Rosicrudans were closed against
any eyes but those of the high initiates. Even editors of great encyclopedias were unable
to secure the weird, fascinating facts of the Rosicrucian activities in all parts of the world.
Now the whole story is outlined and it reads like a story from the land of the “ Arabian
Nights.”
The book also outlines answers to hundreds of questions dealing with the history, work,
teachings, benefits, and purposes of the Rosicrucian fraternity. It is printed on fine paper,
bound in silk cloth, and stamped in gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.00.
VOLUME II
Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business
By H. Spencer Lewis. F. R. C., Ph. D.
This volume contains such principles of practical Rosicrucian teachings as are applicable
to the solution of the every-day problems of life in business and in the affairs of the home.
It deals exhaustively with the prevention of ill health, the curing of many of the common
ailments, and the attainment of peace and happiness as well as the building up of the
affairs of life that deal with financial conditions. The book is filled with hundreds of practical
points dealing especially with the problems of the average business man or person in business
employ. It points out the wrong and right ways for the use of metaphysical and mystical
principles in attracting business, increasing one's income, promoting business propositions,
starting and bringing into realization new plans and ideas, and the attainment of the higher
ambitions in life.
"Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business” is not theoretical but strictly
practical, and is in its fourth edition, having had a wide circulation and universal endorsement
not only among members of the organization, who have voluntarily stated that they have
greatly improved their lives through the application of its suggestions, but among thousands
of persons outside of the organization. It has also been endorsed by business organizations
and business authorities.
The book is of standard size, well printed, bound in sillt cloth, and stamped in gold.
Price, postage prepaid, $2.35.
VOLUME III
The Mystical Life of Jesus
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
This is the book that thousands have been waiting for — the real Jesus revealed at last!
It was in preparation for a number of years and required a visit to Palestine and Egypt to
secure a verification of the strange facts contained in the ancient Rosicrucian and Essene
records.
It is a full account of the birth, youth, early manhood, and later periods of Jesus’ life,
containing the story of His activities in the times not mentioned in the Gospel accounts. The
facts relating to the immaculate conception, the birth, crucifixion, resurrection, and ascension
will astound and inspire you. The books contains many mystic symbols, fully explained,
original photographs, and a new portrait of Jesus.
There are over three hundred pages with seventeen large chapters, beautifully printed,
bound in purple silk and stamped in gold.
Here is a book that will inspire, instruct, and guide every student of mysticism and
religion. It is one of the most talked-about books ever written on the subject. Read it and be
prepared for the discussions of it that you will hear among men and women of learning.
Sent by mail, postpaid, for $2.50.
The Secret Doctrines of Jesus
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
Does the Bible actually contain the unadulterated words of Jesus the Christ? Do you
know that from 325 A. D. until 1870 A. D .p twenty ecclesiastical or church council meetings
were held, in which man alone decided upon the context of the Bible? Self-appointed judges
in the four Lateran Councils expurgated and changed the sacred writings to please them­
selves. The Great Master's personal doctrines, of the utmost, vital importance to every man
and woman, were buried in unexplained passages and parables. “ The Secret Doctrines of
Jesus.*' by Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, eminent author of 'The Mystical Life of Jesus," for the
first time reveals these hidden truths. Startling, fascinating, this new book should be in every
thinkers hands. It is beautifully bound, illustrated, of large size, and the price, including
postage, is only $2.50 per copy.
V O LU M E V
Unto Thee I Grant . . .
By Sri, Raraatherio
This is one of the rarest Oriental mystery books known. It is translated by special per­
mission of the Grand Lama and Disciples of the Sacred College in the Grand Temple
in Tibet.
Here is a book that was written two thousand years ago. and was hidden in manuscript
form from the eyes of the world and given only to the initiates of the temples in Tibet to
study privately.
Out of the mystery of the past comes this antique book containing the rarest writings
and teachings known to man with the exception of the Bible. Hundreds of books have been
written about the teachings and practices of the Masters 0/ the Far East and the Adepts of
Tibet, but none of them has ever contained the secret teachings found in this book. This
book is divided into many parts, each part containing a large number of sections or divisions
and chapters.
The book deals with man’s passions, loves, desires, weaknesses, sins, strengths, fortitudes,
ambitions, and hopes. All are treated in detail with illuminating simplicity. The book is
beautifully printed and bound in stiff cover, and contains also the strange mystic story of
the expedition into Tibet to secure this marvelous manuscript.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only $1.25.
VOLUME VI
A Thousand Years of Yesterdays
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
Here is a book that will tell you about the real facts of reincarnation. It is a story of
the Soul, and explains in detail how the Soul enters the body and how it leaves, where it
goes, and when it comes back to earth again, and why.
The story is not |ust a piece of fiction, but a repeJaNon of the mystic laurs and principles
known to the Masters of the Far East and the Orient for many centuries, and never put into
book Form as a story before this book was printed. That is why the book has been trans­
lated into so many foreign languages and endorsed by the mystics and adepts of India, Persia.
Egypt, and Tibet.
Fascinating — Alluring Jnstructii.’e
Each who has read the book says that he was unable to leave It without finishing it
at one sitting. The story reveals the mystic principles taught by the Rosicrucians in regard
to reincarnation as well as the spiritual laws of the soul and the incarnations of the soul.
It is well printed, bound with a stiff cover, and worthy of a place in anyone s library*.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only $1.00.
VO LU M E VII
Self Mastery and Fate with the Cycles of Life
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C.. Ph. D.
This is entirely different from any ever issued in America dealing with the secret periods
in the life of each man and woman wherein the Cosmic forces affect our daily affairs.
The book reveals how we may take advantage of certain periods to bring success, happi­
ness. health and prosperity into our lives, and it likewise points out those periods which are
not favorable for many of the things we try to accomplish. It does not deal with astrology
or any system of fortune telling, but presents a system long used by the Master Mystics in
Oriental lands andwhich is strictly scientific and demonstrable. One reading of the book
with its charts andtables will enable the reader to see the course of his life at a glance.
It helps everyone to eliminate "chance** and ’luck," to cast aside fate and replace these
with Self Mastery.
Here is a book you will use weekly to guide your affairs throughout the years. There is
no magic in its system, but it opens a vista of the cycle of the life of each being in a
remarkable manner,
W ell printed, bound in silk cloth, and stamped in gold to match other volumes of the
Rosicrucian Library. Price, postage paid, $2.25.
V O LU M E VIII
Rosicrucian M anual
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
This practical book contains not only extracts from the Constitution of the Order of
Rosicrucians, but a complete outline and explanation of all of the customs, habits, and
terminology of the Rosicrucians, with diagrams and explanations of the symbols used in the
teachings, an outline of the subjects taught, a dictionary of the terms, a complete presentation
of the principles of Cosmic Consciousness, and biographical sketches of important characters
connected with the work. There are also special articles on the Great White Lodge and its
existence, how to attain psychic illumination, the Rosicrucian Code of Life with thirty laws
and regulations, and a number of portraits of prominent mystics, including Master K. H.,
the Illustrious.
The technical matter contained in the text and in the hundred or more diagrams makes
this book a real encyclopedia of Rosicrucian explanations, aside from the complete dictionary
it contains.
The “ Rosicrucian Manual’* is of large size, well printed, beautifully bound in red silk
cloth, and stamped in gold. The fifth edition has been enlarged and improved in many ways.
Price, postage prepaid. $3.35.
Mystics at Prayer
By Many Cihlar
Austrian Philosopher and Mystic
The First complete compilation of the famous prayers of the renowned mystics and
adepts of all ages.
The hook. "Mystics at Prayer," explains in simple language the reason for prayer, how
to pray, and the Cosmic laws involved. You come to learn the real efficacy of prayer and
its full heauty dawns upon you. Whatever your religious beliefs, this hook makes your
prayers the application not of words, hut of helpful, divine principles. You will Ieam the
infinite power of prayer. Prayer is man s rightful heritage. It is the direct means of man’s
communion with the infinite force of divinity.
"Mystics at prayer" is well bound, embossed in gold, printed on art paper in two colors,
with deckled edge and tipped pages, sent anywhere, postpaid, $t.to.
VO LU M E XI
Mansions of the Soul
TH E CO SM IC CO N CEPTIO N
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
Reincarnation! The world s greatest disputed doctrine. The belief in reincarnation has
had millions of intelligent, learned and tolerant followers throughout the ages. Ringing through
the minds and hearts of students, mystics, and thinkers have always been the words: "W hy
Are W e Here?’ Reincarnation has been criticized by some as conflicting with sacred literature
and without verification. This book reveals, however, in an astounding manner, the many
facts to support reincarnation. Quotations from eminent authorities, from Biblical and Sacred
works substantiate reincarnation. This volume PR O V ES reincarnation. It places it high
above mere speculation. This book is without exaggeration the most complete, inspiring,
enlightening book ever written on this subject. It is not a fiction story, but a step by step
revelation of profound mystical laws. Look at some of these fascinating, intriguing subjects.
The Cosmic Conception; The Personality of the Soul: Does Personality Surpine Tran-
stfton?; Heredity and Inheritance; Karma and Personal Epolufion; Religion and Biblical View­
points; Christian References; Between Incarnations; Souls of Animals and the "Unborn” ;
Recollections of the Past.
The book contains over three hundred pages, beautifully printed, neatly bound, stamped
in gold; it is a valuable asset to your library, economically priced. Price, per copy, postage
prepaid, only $2.33.
Lemuria — The Lost Continent of the Pacific
By Wisliar S. Cerve
Beneath the rolling, restless seas lie the mysteries of forgotten civilizations. Swept by the
tides, half buried in the sands, worn away by terrific pressure, are the remnants of a culture
little known to our age of today. Where the mighty Pacific now rolls in a majestic sweep
of thousands of miles, there was once a vast continent. This land was known as Lemuria, and
its people as Lemurians.
W^e pride ourselves upon the inventions, conveniences, and developments of today. We
call them modern, but these ancient and long-forgotten people excelled us. Things we speak of
as future possibilities, they knew as everyday realities. Science has gradually pieced together
the evidences of this lost race, and in this book you will find the most astounding, enthralling
chapters you have ever read. How these people came to be swept from the face of the earth,
except for survivors who have livings descendants today, is explained. Illustrations and expla­
nations of their mystic symbols, maps of the continent and many ancient truths and laws are
contained in this unusual book.
If you are a lover of mystery, of the unknown, the weird — read this book. Remember,
however, this book is not fiction, but based on facts, the result of extensive research. Does
civilization reach a certain height, and then retrograde? Are the culture and progress of
mankind in cycles, reaching certain peaks, and then returning to start over again? These
questions and many more are answered in this intriguing volume. Read of the living descen­
dants of these people, whose expansive nation now lies at the bottom of the Pacific. In the
minds of these descendants is the knowledge of the principles which in by-gone centuries
made their forebears builders of an astounding civilization.
The book, "Lemuria, the Lost Continent of the Pacific," is beautifully bound, well printed,
and contains many, many illustrations. It is priced economically at $3.30, postpaid.
VOLUME XIII
The Technique of the Master
THE W AY O F COSMIC PREPARATION
By Raymund Andrea, F. R. C.
A guide to inner unfoldmentl The newest and simplest explanation for attaining the
state of Cosmic Consciousness. To those who have felt the throb of vital power within, and
whose inner vision has at times glimpsed infinite peace and happiness, this book is offered.
It converts the intangible whispers of self into forceful actions that bring real joys and
accomplishments in life. It is a masterful work on psychic unfoldment.
It 19well bound in cloth, with deckled and tinted edge paper. Secure this treasure for
yourself. Economically priced, postage paid, at $2.00.
VOLUME XIV
The Symbolic Prophecy of the Great Pyramid
By H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C., Ph. D.
The world’s greatest mystery and first wonder is the Great Pyramid. It stands as a
monument to the learning and achievement of the ancients. For centuries its secrets were
closeted in stone —
' now they stand revealed.
Never before in a book priced within the reach of every reader bave the history, vast
wisdom, and prophecies of the Great Pyramid been given. You will be amazed at the
Pyramid s scientific construction and at the tremendous knowledge of its mysterious builders.
Who built the Great Pyramid? W hy were its builders inspired to reveal to posterity
the events of the future? What is the path that the Great Pyramid indicates lies before
mankind? Within the pages of this enlightening book there are the answers to many enthrall­
ing questions. It prophesied the World W ar and the great economic upheaval. Learn what
it presages for the future. You must not deprive yourself of this book.
The book contains over two hundred pages, is excellently printed, is well bound with a
hard cover, and contains all necessary charts and illustrations. It is priced at only $2.35
with postage paid.
VOLUME XV
The Book of Jasher
THE SACRED BOOK WITHHELD
By what right has man been denied the words of the prophets? W ho dared expunge
from the Holy Bible one of its inspired messages? For centuries man has labored under the
illusion that there have been preserved for him the collected books of the great teachers and
disciples — yet one has been withheld — "The Book of Jasher."
Within the hallowed pages of the great Bible itself are references to this lost book which
have puzzled the devout and students for centuries. As if by Divine decree, the Bible appears
to cry out to mankind that its sanctity had been violated, its truth veiled, for we find these
two passages exclaiming: 'Is not this written in the Book of Jasher"—
-Joshua X. 13; "Behold,
it is written in the Book of Jasher"— II Samuel I. 18.
Alcuin discovered this great lost book of the Bible written by Jasher. He translated it
into English in 800 A. D. Later it was suppressed and then rediscovered in1829, and once
again suppressed.
But now we bring to you an Actual Photographic Reproduction of this magnificent work,
page for page, line for line, unexpurgated. This enlightening work, bound in its original
style, is priced at only $2.00 per copy, postage paid.
The Technique of the Disciple
By Raymund Andrea. F. R. C.
"The Technique of the Disciple" is a hook containing a modern description of the
ancient esoteric path of spiritual illumination, trod by the masters and avatars of yore. It has
long been said that Christ left, as a great heritage to members of His secret council, a private
method For guidance in life, which method has been preserved until today in the secret,
occult, mystery schools.
Rnymund Andrea, the author, reveals the method For attaining a greater life taught in
these mystery schools, which perhaps parallels the secret instructions of Christ to members
of His council. The book is enlightening, inspiring, and splendidly written. It is handsomely
bound with a stiff board cover and the material of the cover is woven of silk thread, and
stamped in gold. Postage paid on shipment to you. Priced at $2.15 per copy.
VOLUME XVII
Mental Poisoning
TH O U G H TS TH AT EN SLA V E M IN DS
By H. Spencer Lewis, F, R. C , Ph. D.
Tortured souls. Human beings, whose Belf-confidence and peace of mind have been tom
to shreds by invisible darts ■
—the evil thoughts of others. Can envy, hate, and jealousy be
projected through space from the mend of another? Do poisoned thoughts like mysterious
rays reach through the ethereal realm to claim innocent victims? W ill wishes and commands
born in hate gather momentum and like an avalanche descend upon a helpless man or woman
in a 9eries of calamities? Must humanity remain at the mercy of evil influences created in
the minds of the vicious? Millions each year are mentally poisoned — are you safe from this
scourge? "Mental Poisoning" is the title of a new book just written by Dr. H. Spencer Lewis,
which fearlessly discloses this psychological problem. It is sensational in its revelations. Read
it and be prepared.
This neatly bound, well printed book will be sent to you for the nominal price of only
$1.25. It has been economically produced so it can be in the hands of thousands because of
the benefit it will afford readers.
Order yours today. Price includes postage.
Glands — Our Invisible Guardians
B y M . W . Kapp. M . D .
You need not continue to be bound to those glandular characteristics of your life which
do not please you. These influences, through the findings of science and the mystical prin­
ciples of nature, may be adjusted. The first essential is that of the old adage: “ Know
Yourself." Have revealed the facts about the endocrine glands know where they are
located in your body and what mental and physical functions they control. The control of
the glands can mean the control of your life. These facts, scientifically correct, with their
mystical interpretation, are for the first time presented in simple, non-technical language, in a
book which everyone can enjoy and profit by reading.
Mystics and metaphysicians have long recognized that certain external influences and
powers of a Cosmic nature could be tapped; that a Divine energy could be drawn upon,
which aFfects our creative ability, our personality, and our physical welfare. For centuries ihere
has been speculation as to what area or what organs of the body contain this medium — this
contact beKveen the Divine and the physical. Now it is known that certain of the glands
are governors which speed up or slow down the influx of Cosmic energy into the body.
What this process of Divine alchemy is and how it works is fascinatingly explained in this
book of startling facts.
Dr. M. W\ Kapp. long held in high esteem by the medical fraternity, and yet having
a deep insight into the mystical laws of life and their influences on the physical functioning
of the body, is author of this work.
INTRO D U CTIO N BY H. SPEN C ER LEW IS. F. R. C . Ph. D.
Dr. H. Spencer Lewis — first Imperator of the Rosicrucian Order (AM ORC), of North
and South America, for its present cycle of activity, and author of many works on mysticism,
philosophy, and metaphysics — wrote an important introduction to this book, in which he
has highly prajned it and its author.
The book ii well bound with a hard cover; price only S i.30 with postage paid.
H O W T O O R D E R B O O K S
IF your regular book dealer does not have these books in
stock, and you do not care to wait until he secures them For
you, you m ay save time by sending your order direct, with
remittance or C . O . D ., postage prepaid by us.
R O S IC R U C I A N S U P P L Y B U R E A U
Rosicrucian Park San Jose, California
