{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__johnson___psychic_experiences_and_memoirs_of_my_life.pdf","mytitle":"Psychic Experiences And Memoirs Of My Life","mylang":"de"}
Psychic Experiences
and
Memeirs eff My Life
by
PERCY JOHNSON
HILLSIDE PRESS
3, LANSDOWNE. ROAD.
HOLLAND PARK.
LONDON. W.ll
ENGLAND
The Author
PREFACE
In April, 1933, there came from the hand of Ernest
Child Meads a book published by the Unicorn Press en—
titled THE WHITELOTUS.
This book contained some of the experiences which
the Authorand I shared during many years of friendship
and in. the investigation of Spiritualism, but one can easily
understand that a period of over thirty years brings with
it more than can be told in one book.
On several occasions I suggested he should continue
the subject in a further book, as there was so much left
unsaid thatcould be told, and he was so well qualifiedfor
the task. I feel he would have done so had his life been
spared, but he was suddenly called to the Higher Life on
the 25th Ianuary, I937.
At the time, I felt that a great many incidents that
could be helpful to many would be lost, and more thanone
medium told me to pick up the threads of his life, and to
carry on with the work, but in view of my limited experi-
ence I thought it might be more than I could accomplish.
However, asking for help from the many unseen
friends,I took up my pen and wrote a little bookletentitled
LOOKING BACK,‘ in which I gave many experiences that I
had had with Ernest Meads and which I knew he would
have liked to have given to the world had he lived.
LOOKING BACK was published in October I938 by the
Hillside Press, and soon after its publication it was sug-
gested by many kindfriendsthatlshould put on record my
own private spiritual experiences, so now I endeavour to
give a briefoutline of my life, showing some of the psychic
and spiritual events thathave come by the wayside.
P.].
CONTENTS
My Early Life - - - -
“
Thought Reading ”
a Passing Stage of My Mediumship
The Answer to a Mother's Prayer - -
A Turning Point in My Life - -
How My Trance Mediumship was Developed
My First Three Guides - - -
My Profession Planned by Spirit Friends -
A Mother’s Great FaithRewarded - -
Manifestations in a Midland Village -
War Work at the Queen Alexandra Military Hospital
Our Home -Circle - - - -
Rescue Work in the Streets of the City of London -
The Need for Forgiveness Emphasised by an Unexpected
Incident — - - ~
Unforgettable and IlluminatingExperiences at Brighton
From Dover Castle to Canterbury Cathedral
With Ernest Meads in the Isle of Wight -
Bluebell Time at Kew - — -
A New Movement Springs Into Being -
Mission Work at Purley and Caterham -
My Last Address in Public -
.
~ -
A Blessed Friendship and Happy Reminiscences
7
11
15
24
28
33
as
43
49
63
72
77
85
92
96
104
113
119
124
134
142
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 7
MY EARLY LIFE
If anyone had been walking down London's Picca-
dillyon the 14th June, 1864, and had stood for a moment
at the corner of SackvilleStreet, he would have heard a
childscreaminga proclamationof its arrival on thisearthly
plane. On thenext day he might haveseen an announce-
ment in THE. TIMES that at I, SackvilleStreet, William
and Sarah johnson had been presented with a son.
I should have likedvery much to say here a littleabout
my mother,but am unable to do so, owing to the factthat
from thetime of my birthshe was a confirmed invalid and
was only able to leave her bed on very rare occasions. I,
beingso delicate and frail, had to beleft mostlyto thecare
of others, and so I never knew the love and remembrance
of an earthlymother, as she passed away on the 3rd July,
1869.
My earliest recollection is of being at a Dame School
on Brixton Hill, under the care of a Mrs. Marriot, who
was, l believe, the widow of a Wesleyan minister. l re-
member more clearly the day when my stepmothercame
to fetch me to thenew home at Ulster Place, Regents Park.
(I believetheyear was thatof my father'ssecond marriage,
I870.)
These recollections all belongto a far-awaypast, and
theyear 1940 finds me 76 years of age and still able to do
a bit of shouting of anotherkind when theoccasion arises !
There is no need to say much about my early boy-
hood. Being delicate, l contracted more than my share of
infantilecomplaints and fevers, thus causinga lot of inter-
ruption to my education. During some terms I was unable
to attend school at all, while others were interrupted by
8 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
many weeks at home.
To help me to a better state of health, my fathersent
me to a Wesleyanboarding school at Richmond, and here
I had themisfortune to meet a master lackingin self-control
and witha great beliefin theuse of thecane and theboxing
of ears.
Three years later, at the age of sixteen, I left school,
to face the world ignorant and unnerved, and served for
another three years as office boy in an accountant's firm.
During this time my health greatly improved and I was
able to pick up a little of theeducation I had lost.
The age of twenty—one found me a private in the 19th
Middlesex Volunteer Corps, and an energetic worker in
the Sunday School at Hinde Street Wesleyan Chapel,
Manchester Square, W.
I look back with no small joy to the influenceof a
Christian home. My father was a fine personality, born
in the strict school of oId~fashioned Methodism—a man
of sorrows and acquainted with grief——but with all his
troubles, which were many, he trusted God to see him
through, and He did. He passed away on June 10th,
I889,aged sixty—eight years, loved and honoured by every-
one who knew him. During the last day of his earthly
life he was heard to repeat the second verse of the hymn
"
Jesu, Lover of my Soul "
:
Otherrefuge have I none,
Hangs my helpless soul on Thee.
Leave, ah, leave me not alone,
Still support and comfort me!
All my trust on Thee is stayed,
All my help from Thee I bring,
Cover my defenceless head
With the Shadow of Thy Wing.
So falls the curtain on my boyhood. It is only a
brief outline, but I feel the intermediate details are not
needed, nor are they of much consequence. Those who
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 9
might have been kinder to me I forgive, and to thosewho
stood by me in times of misunderstanding I am grateful
for their protection and love. If I have failed to thank
them in their earthly,Iife, may God bless them in the
spiritual life, and remind themof His own words :
“
Inas-
much as ye have done it to the least of these My brethren,
ye have done it unto Me I" ’
During theyear that my fatherdied, I married a fel-
low teacher in the Sunday School, Miss Florence Emma
Fussell. The ceremony took place in the Hinde Street
Wesleyan Chapel, Manchester Square, where we worked
side by side for so many years, and the service was con~
ducted by the Reverend John Telford, B.A. The choir,
of which we both were members, sang an anthem and
led hymns. Mr. Barlow presided at the organ, and with
the pealing out of the Wedding March we left the place
of prayer we loved so much to start our new life. After
our honeymoon,spent in Hastings, we settled down in our
new home, No. 33, Lavender Sweep, Battersea, and there
my son Leonard was born on the 5th December, 1894.
I have given this short account of my early life, not
only for the sake of keeping a record, but also to show the
ground—work upon which it was built. The surveyor,
when called upon to inspect and give judgment on a struc-
ture, must carefully study the foundation before reporting
on the edifice. I leave the inspection of my early life to
the reader. I know not what his judgment on subsequent
events will be: I only ask him to bring to his reading an
open mind.
The only psychic experience that I remember during
my boyhood is thatincident recorded in my book LOOKING
BACK, when, at the age of nine, I saw a spirit form in
MaryleboneBurial Ground in Paddington Street. I have
not said much about the influenceof that incident on my
young mind, but at thattime my desire lay in the direction
of becominga Wesleyan Minister, and thereis little doubt
that,withsome kindlyleadingand training, I should have
endeavoured to enter the Ministry if theforegoing incident
10 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
had not occurred. Seeing a ghost, of course, not onlyup-
set the teaching of my Church, but also the Theology
taught in thoseVictorian days, or so it appeared to me.
Nevertheless, I feel deeply indebted to the teachings
of Methodismand their influence on me. Later on, my
wife and I were membersof the MethodistChurch for the
whole thirty-nine years of our married life, and for a
period of three years I was Society Steward at Broomwood
Wesleyan Church, Clapham Common.
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 11
“
THOUGHT READING ”
A PASSING STAGE
OF MY MEDIUMSI-IIP
My psychic powers developed in the early years of
my married life and came as much of a surprise to myself
as to others, as I knew nothing of Spiritualism, nor did
I expect to do so, as my teachinghad been against it.
At the time of which I am writing, there was a man
gaining much notorietyon themusic hall stage witha show
he called “
Thought Reading." Whilst standing blind-
folded on the stage, he would do thingssuggested by the
thoughtsof peoplein theaudience,such as findingarticles
or quoting the page—numberof an open book, leaving the
method adopted shrouded in mystery. One felt that
doubtless there was a trick employed, or a code passed on
to him, but whatever it was, his performance gave plenty
of scope for conversation in many homes.
Whilst spending the evening with some old friends
around their fire, we started a conversation on the subject.
We all had been giving our opinions without coming to
any definite conclusion, when one of the company thought
it would be interesting to try it ourselves, and I was chosen
to make the first attempt.
I was shut outside thedoor whilstthosewithinthought
of an article for me to find. On being brought into the
room and having given my word that I had not listened
or looked through the keyhole, I was blindfolded and
turned round three times. The gas ‘being turned low (for
what reason I do not know, as it was impossible for me to
see anythingwithmy eyes bandaged)completesilencewas
called for. I am unableto recall now just what was found,
but I remember its whereabouts came as clearly to me as
12 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
if I had been toId, and the result gave great satisfactionto
those present. Of course, the first question was
"
how
did I do it?" And I had to say that I did not know.
On another occasion I was again in thehouse of some
friends, but with one or two strangers present, and they
suggested I should give theman exhibitionof my thought~
reading, to which I consented. They also said that if I
had no objection theywould Iike it to be a test case, and I
readily agreed, as it was quite immaterial to me whether
success was achieved or not. It was then decided that I
should belocked in a room on theground floorof thethree-
storey house, whiIe thecompany remained in thedrawing
room on the first floor. After a decision had been come
to, I was brought upstairs and once more put through the
performance of beingbIindfoIded and turned round three
times whilethelights were turned Iow.
I first requested that the door should be opened, as I
felt it was shut, my reason being, as I explained to them,
that I had a feeling that whatever it was I had to do had
nothingto do with that particular room. I also asked for
a body-guard to act as guide to enable me to roam the
house. I soon felt an inclination to go upstairs, and not
beingsatisfied withthesecond floor, made for the top one,
which was the servants’ quarters and in total darkness. In
thebedroomof one of themaids I founda pin-cushion, and
amongst several pins a bent one, which I felt satisfied was
the required article. This I brought downstairs to my
host, to the great surprise of all present, for I had suc-
ceeded in finding the hidden object. That was all that
took placeon thatoccasion, as, for some reason, I felt tired
and begged to be excused from any more attempts.
The evening continued withmusic and recitation, and
I think it was whiIe the refreshments were being handed
round that one of the strangers present asked me if he
could speak to me aIone for a moment, so we went down
to the haII. ”
I want to ask you," he said, "
how you
found that pin?" AII I could teII him was that I made
myself passive and foIIowed my inclination, at the same
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS I3
time knowing I was on theright track. “
It creates a little
fun," I said, “
and at the same time causes no harm."
”
I am not so sure on that point," he remarked; ‘ ‘
do you
know anything about Spiritualisrn?" "
No, I do not,”
I replied, f‘ and I have no wish to do so, as I understand it
is very wicked."
“
Will you take a little advice from me?" he said,
‘ ‘
and thatis, don’t attempt to do thisagain untilyou know
thelaws thatgovern it.’’
I never tried it again after that until some years later,
when I wanted to give a little amusement at a Christmas
Party. I then found the power had gone and finished up
by making myself Iook ratherfoolish. I have often won-
dered why such a power should have crossed my pathway,
and the only reason thatpresents itself to me is thatit was
sent to Irift me up out of thenarrow groove into which I was
getting at that time. I was working long hours in a fac-
tory, suffering from the monotonous routine of thejob and
from lackof fresh air, surrounded by the same people day
after day, and with no inclinationto read and expand my
mind. I can see now that my spiritual facultieshad to be
aroused—somethinghad to be done to save a wasted life,
and so a manifestation of psychic power showed itself Iike
a flash from a lighthouseon theheadland of a dangerous
‘
coast, showing the mariner which way to steer. But
although this caused me much thought, I did not at the
time realise its import.
The next few years passed without any spiritual de-
velopment taking place, to my knowledge. My life con-
sisted of the same factory routine, the same long hours,
and returning home tired and worn out. I was very fond
of theviolin and piano, and my sole recreation at thistime
was music. I was at times able to join other instrumen-
talists and attend local concerts at Churches and Chapels
in the neighbourhood, also to play at the Crystal Palace
Festivals.
At thistime I was interested in running a band in con-
nection with a
“
Pleasant Sunday Afternoon "
at Queens
I4 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
Road WesleyanChapel, Battersea. It was at one of these
meetings that l was asked to go as organist to a little mis-
sion connected with the Chapel. This mission in Broom-
wood Road, Clapham Common, was only a little iron
building then, but developed later into a large Wesleyan
Chapel attached to the Clapham Circuit. My post as
organist did not last long, but long enough for my wife
and myself to make many friendsand to becomeinterested
in thework. So we settled down and workedside by side
for many years, and during thattime I was elected Society
Steward, a post l held for three years. I look back now
on many happy years spent in connection with this place
of worship.
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS I5
THE ANSWER TO A MOTHER’S PRAYER
An incident happened during my stewardship which
again made me thinkon spiritual things,and I should like
to record it here.
My ofiice, as can be easily understood, brought me
into touch withall theworkingsof the Church, and a feel-
ing that too much stress was being laid on the social side
was often on my mind. This, of course, is a controversial
subject which need not be gone into here, but I often felt
that God was not the Personal Presence He should be,
also that He was sometimes a long way off, and I think
others were of thesame opinion.
With thoughts such as these I found the holiday
season had arrived. I had had, a trying time in business
and, with my wife and two children, made my way to
Bognor for a fortnight’s rest.
The first few days were devoted to theconstruction of
many a wonderful castle, surrounded by trenches and forti-
fications intended to keep the sea back, but without suc-
cess, and the castles, like many others built in the air,
soon fell to the ground. It is not surprising that after a
day or two spent in thisway I felt I needed a change, and
one bright morning I left my wife to see if she could
achieve greater success with the castles than I had been
able to do, and went to Portsmouthfor a few hours.
For some while I sat on the pier, watching the many
activities that may be seen from there, and then made an
inspection of the Docks, which impressed me as being
worthy of Britain. Having satisfied my curiosity, I went
back to the Pier Station to catch the train to Brighton,
where I had to change for Bognor.
16 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
It was then that the incident that I. wish to record
happened.
The train was on the move when the door was Hung
open and a seafaringman, whom I judged to beabout fifty
years of age, jumped into thecarriage.
“
That was a narrow shave," he said; “
another
half-minute and I should have lost the train." After
pausing to recover his breath, he turned to me and said :
“
Some few years ago I caught this very train under very
different circumstances.’'
Then, withhis facebrightening
with a smile, he asked me if I would like to hear an old
sailoris yarn. Upon hearing that I should be delighted to
-listen, he began :
“
Well, when I caught this train to Brighton some
years ago, I was a very different man from what I am to-
day, and I doubt very much if you would have cared to
occupy the carriage with me, as you are doing now. At
that time I was like many another Skipper—a drunken,
swearing man, not to mention being a bully and a fighter.
You can quite understand thatI was not loved by my crew,
nor by anyone else. I gloried in being looked upon as a
strong devil-don't—care, and anyone who contradicted me
soon felt theforce of my fist—therewas no argument with
me. As for feeling and sympathy,I knew not what they
were. I cared for no-one and no-one cared for me.
"
At the time of which I am speaking, I had just
brought a vessel home from India with a valuable cargo.
During the greater part of the early voyage I had been
drinking very hard, and if it had not been for a most ex-
cellent first mate I doubt if I should have been talking to
you now. But a time came when we passed Gibraltar
and the corner of Spain into the Bay of Biscay. I was
sensible enough to know that the most dangerous part of
the voyage Iay before me, and that soon I should need
I
any skillI possessed to go up the English Channel safely.
You may think,Sir, as you stand on thebeachof the South
Coast and see thevast stretch of sea, thatit's all deep water
out there, but you are mistaken. In many places, large
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS I7
stretches of sand come ‘to withina few feet of the surface,
and it needs a clear head to find the channels through.
which you can go. The Goodwin Sands are a nightmare
to most of us.
“
It so happened that after a day or two of sobriety
and much tea-drinking,we rounded the French Coast and
entered the English Channel. I was walkingthe deck at
the time while my mate was on the bridge, and for some
unaccountablereason I beganto thinkof my Mother. The
thoughtwas not a pleasant one to me, as I had broken the
old woman's heart with my reckless life."
Then, withtears coming into his eyes, he told me that
with all his bad qualities, there always lingered with him
his love for his Mother. So thethoughtof her coming to
him then brought with it many sad reflections.
‘ ‘
My thoughtswent back to theold home in Brighton
and the bedroom in which I slept. I rememberedhow in
thatroom Motherwould take me on her knee and, placing
my hands together, would say with me :
Gentle fesus, meek and mild,
Look upon a little child.
Pity my simplicity,
Teach me, Lord, to come to Thee.
Then also came the remembrance of how, after placing
her own hands together, she would say :
‘
Oh, God, make
Tom a good boy.’ You can understand, Sir, that with
thoughts such as these, and the remembrance of the
wicked life I had been leading, there came over me a
depression almost unbearable.
” i
If I could only make a fresh start and wipe out the
past, what would I give I’ I said to myself. So I walked
the deck with a feeling more awful then I can describe,
and was suddenly aroused from my day—dream by my
mate calling from thebridge :_
‘
Captain, look I’ and at the
same time pointing astern, where I saw a very severe storm
coming from theWest.
18 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
”
As I have said before, my cargo was a valuable
one, and beingin the most dangerous stage of the voyage,
I had to make a quick decision, rememberingvarious sand-
banks and finallytheGoodwins. I felt disinclinedto take
any unnecessary risks, so went up on the bridge and de-
cided to make for shelter. Calling for more steam, I
headed for Southampton,beforewhat I knew was going to
be a dreadful storm. Just off the Isle of Wight the storm
overtook us, and being unable to enter Southampton, I
.did thenext best thingand got into Portsmouth,experienc-
ing great relief when we dropped anchor in theriver.
”
Feeling thatI had better send a wire to the Owners,
informingthemof what I had done, I went ashore withthat
object in view, and told my mate that I should not return
that night. This was no surprise to him, as it was my
custom when in port to make for the nearest public house,
from which I often had to be helped on board again. But
on this occasion I had no desire for drink, as the depres-
sion I had already experienced still clung to me, together
with a feeling that intoxicants would only make matters
worse. Strangely enough, a desire came over me, why I
cannot say, to see my IVIother'sgrave in Brighton, so, after
going to the Post Office to send my telegram, I made my
way to thestation and caughtthisidentical 6 o'clock train.
I have often wondered whysuch an impulse came over me,
but I have since learned that ‘
God moves in a mysterious
way His wonders to perform.’
“
How well I rememberthatnight I On my arrival
in Brighton the storm was at its worst. It rained in
torrents, with thunder and Iightning—-one of the worst
nights I have ever known. I knew a small public house
close to the station, one I had often used, and there I went.
The landlord knew me and was surprised to see me,
thinkingI was abroad.
“
Owing to my wet condition, and excusing myself
by saying thatI was tired, I asked for a bedroom, to which
I was shown. I don't remember much about the room,
apart from theusual large doublebed and chest of drawers,
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 19
but the thingsthat attracted my attention were an old arm
chair and a homelyfeeling about the place, and I was glad
to be alone. I had the opportunity to thinkwithout being
disturbed, and mostly about my Mother, whose own life
had ended in sorrow through my reckless one. I seemed
to. hear again her gentle voice saying her prayer once
more :
‘
Oh, God, make Tom a good boy.’ What would
I have given at that moment to wipe out the past I The
storm outside was nothingto thestorm withinmyself.
‘ ‘
Sinkingon my knees, I knelt down by theold arm-_
chair. I wanted to pray, but knew not what to say, and
then there came to me my IVIother’s voice: ‘
Oh, God,
make Tom a good boy.’ I tried to say something,but no
words would come, and placing my hands together I re-
peated theprayer thatMotherhad taughtme years ago :
Gentle fesus, meek and mild,
Look upon a little child.
Pity my simplicity,
Teachme, Lord, to come to Thee.
“
Then, Sir," he said, "
a very strange thing hap-
pened, which I am afraid you will not believe. While I
was saying my simple prayer, a mist came over the back
of the old armchair, and in that mist I saw theform of my
IVIother. ‘
Oh, Mother,’ I cried, ‘
forgive me I’ Then a
change seemed to take place, and I saw Christ as plainly
as I see you. I know you won't believe it, Sir, but it is
so
true.
I‘
Yes, I do, Tom," I replied.
He rememberedno more, he told me, until“he found
himself lying on the floor beside the chair. The night
had passed withthe storm, and the sun was just beginning
to peep through the blinds. “
I Iittle thought then," he
said, "
thata day was dawning which was to reveal to me
a new life. It's hard to describe my feelings just then,
but there came to me that peace of God which passeth all
understanding, and I felt my burden gone. Like Peter,
20 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
who heard a voice from the shore saying ‘
Follow thou
Me,’ I Iikewise got up and foIIowed~I'Iim. As the candle
I had brought with me had burnt itself out, so my old life g
was dead and gone.
“
After I had ruffled thebed up and washed myself,
I crept quietly downstairs and made for the cemetery. I
soon found IVIother’sgrave, and kneelingdown on thesod-
den grass, I offered up my first prayer to God, asking for
help and strength, and at the same time holding up my
hands and saying 2" Mother,by whose grave I stand, thou
who hast held my hands in prayer, hold thou my hand in
weakness and temptation.’ Then, Sir, it might have been
a fallen Ieaf from a tree, but I certainly did feel something
touch me.
‘ ‘
I had to make aII speed back to Portsmouthto pick
up my ship. You should have seen theexpressions on the
faces of my crew, who were waiting to help me on board
and see me safelyin my cabin, as was their custom ! ‘
It's
alright, mates,’ I said, and jumped on the bridge. An
hour afterwards, with full steam up, we were making for
the open sea and home.
“
During all thetime of weighing anchor and casting
off, not one oathhad passed my Iips, much to the surprise
of all. After we had rounded Selsey Bill and all was
cIear-sailing for a bit, I went down on deck and shook
hands with all my men, expressing my regret that I had
been such a bully,and explaining how I had made up my
mind, withGod's help, to lead a new life. ‘
Three cheers
for the Captain,’ someone cried, and, Sir, it was a cheer !
“
That night we made fast in theLondon Docks, and
the next day brought with it many tasks to be attended to,
but the time came when I was free and the crew paid off.
The next thingwas for me to report to the Owners in the
City. They were pieased to see me and trusted the
voyage had been a pleasantone, expressing their gratifica-
tion at my forethought in putting into Portsmouth during
thestorm. Theythenasked what I thoughtabout signing
on for anothervoyage.
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 21
656
Not at present,’ was my reply.
You feel you want a little holiday, Captain?
Well, come back soon and we will give you thefirst vessel
going.’
“
So I left the Merchant Service, never to return.
“
Making my way to Trinity Square, I entered the
oflice of the Mission to Deep Sea Fisheries, and told them
of my experience in Brighton and of my desire to devote
my life to the Master's service.
'
“ ‘
It's strange,’ they said, ‘
that you should have
come here to-day! We want a man like you at once.
Would you be prepared to take our Mission Boat to the
North Sea in a few hours’ time?’ ‘
I am ready at once,’
I replied.
666
“
So it happened that a space of a few hours found
me making for the open sea again. It felt strange having
such a small craft in my charge, but I never felt more
happy. How often I read that story of the Master asleep
on board with His disciples. I felt, as I went down the
Thames that time, that He was very near me.
“
I shall never forget that night when we dropped
anchor in themidst of theNorth Sea Fishing Fleet. It was
a lovelyevening,witha calm sea, and themoon just break-
ing through the clouds and making its silver pathwayfar
away to the great unknown horizon. I soon put up a
signal thatwe would have a
‘
sing—song ’
for all thosewho
cared to come aboard, with the object of getting to know
those amongst whom I was working. They were on their
part anxious to see the new Skipper, so a goodly number
arrived and filled our foredeck. The evening was very
enjoyable,-——first one sang, then another. This had been
going on for some time, when a request was made that
the new Skipper should give a turn. You can imagine
that this was somethingquite out of my line I I knew no
song, neither could I recite, and the request was quite un-
expected, but as they kept on calling, I had to do some-
thing. Jumping on an upturned tub, I explained my
22 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
dilemna. ‘
You are askingme to do somethingI am quite
unable to accomplish,’ I said, ‘
but as you insist, how
would you like if I were to tell you a tale?’
“
And so, Sir, I told them the story I have just told
you—-The Answer to a Mother's Prayer. As I have said
before, I shall never forget that night. Above us was no
towering Church spire, neitherpealing organ nor surpliced
choir, but in the stiII calm of an open sea with only the
sound of the ripple on our bows, two of those fishermen
gave their hearts to God. Then the silence was broken
by someone starting the Glory Song, with its rousing re-
frain, ‘
And thatwillbe Glory for me.’ You should have
heard it, Sir. I find it hard to describe, but over and over
again it rolled out on that starlit sea. My heart was too
full to say another word; my thoughtswere checked with
tears. Lifting up my eyes to Heaven I said: ‘
Mother,
can you hear it?'—and, Sir, I believe she did! As the
boats returned to their smacks,again and again to thebeat
of the oars there rose therefrain '
And thatwill be Glory
for me.’
“
Sir, I hope I have not tired you with my saiIor’s
yarn?"
“
No, Tom, no! You have done my heart good.
God bless you !" And I took his hand.
“
It may be, Sir, that you have a Mother who has
prayed for you.”
”
I have never known a Mother'sIove, Tom," I said.
' '
She died in my infancy, but I do know she was a
Christian, and I am sure of one thing—-thatshe would ask
God to take care of theboy she was Ieaving behind. And
He has, Tom."
50 we parted at Ford Junction.
I thankGod thatsuch an experienceshould have come
to me. When the work of an earthlylife is ended, when
its storms and tumuIts are over and I enter the Harbour of
the Eternal Life, I trust that amongst those whom I have
"
Ioved long since and lost awhile "
therewill be a sailor
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 23
named Torn.
That night, when the children were in bed, my wife
and I strolled down the Bognor Parade. It was a lovely
summer night, and again themoon touched thesilverway,
fillingone's soul with peace.
“
You are very quiet to-night,’’
said my wife. “
Has
your outing tired you?"
“
It is not that,"I replied, "
but I have had an extra-
ordinary experience," and I told the Skipper's story.
That night on Bognor Parade, as we talked together
of God's love, stands out as one of the pleasantest in my
memory. Yearsafterwards, I visited thesame spot again,
but alone. As I sat on the old seat, with my mind wan-
dering back to the past, Tennyson's lovely little poem
came to me :
Break, break, break,
On thy cold grey stones, 0 sea!
And I would that my tongue could utter
The thoughts that arise in me!
0 well for the fisherrnarfs boy
That he shouts with his sister at play.
0 well for the sailor lad,
That he sings in his boat in the bay!
And the stately ships go on
To their haven under the hill,
But 0 for the touch of a vanished hand,
And the sound of a voice thatis still!
Break, break, break,
At the foot of thy crags, 0 sea!
But the tender grace of a day thatis dead,
Will never come back to me.
34 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
A TURNING POINT OF MY LIFE
I must now say somethingabout a man who passed
through my life and with whom I becameacquainted in a
very strange manner.
On a Saturday evening during the summer, I felt
tired after a week’s work in a stuffy factory,and I strolled
withmy wife on ClaphamCommon, seeking rest and fresh
air. The sun was about to set, and we sat down on one
of thewooden benchesto watch the ever-changing colours
and glory of the sky. I remember it as one of the most
wonderful sunsets I have ever seen.
While we were seated thus, an old man, deformed
and crippled, sat down at the other end of our seat. He
was not a pleasant spectacle, as apart from his deformity
he was very ugly,and by his ragged appearance we took
him for a beggar. Whilst I was calling the attention of
my wife to some changing beautyin the sky, he turned to
us and said how he, too, was enjoying the sunset, making
a remarkthatsomewhat startled both of us. He said that
“
a sunset made him feel nearer to God." I was lost for
a reply for themoment, but further conversation followed
which revealed thefactthathe was an educated man, and,
what was more, a Christian. We talked on in thetwilight
for some time, and my wife was as interested in his con-
versation as I was. Upon leaving him I offered him a
coin, which he kindly refused. This surprised me.
“
But surely you are poor," I said.
”
Yes, Sir," he replied, “I am very poor. I live
mostly on bread and water with a little fruit, which is
bought from an allowance sent to me by an old school-
fellow."
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 25
I learned that his name was Francis and that he was
theson of a solicitor. He had had a public school educa-
tion, too, but his brother,who was his trustee, had robbed
him of everything.
"
It was the fault of a surgeon that I am crippled as
you see me now,
' ’
he said. “
During an operation, some-
thingwas cut that should not have been. So here I am I
The world has treated me badly,but for all that, God has
been good." He then went on to tell us that he lived in
a garret in a slummy part of Stockwell.
On leaving him, we told him how much we had en-
joyed our little chat, and hoped we should meet him again.
When he said "
good-bye," he took my hand, and Iook—
ing into my face asked if I was a Spiritualist.
“
No !" I replied. “
Are you?"
"
Yes. I have made it a study for years.’
“
Then how can you be a Christian?"
“
For the simple reason that I cannot be a Christian
withoutit."
“
You surprise me," I said, and we passed on our
way home, thinkingharder than we had done for some
time. In fact, it rather disturbed me, and I found myself
askingwhat had Spiritualismto do with religion?
9
Some time elapsed before I met this man again, as,
soon after the incident described, I had the misfortune to
lose my employment. But one day whilst I was seeking
work, I chanced to be walkingdown ClaphamPark Road,
and, casting my eyes down a side street, I saw Francis
shuffling along on his crutches. Hurrying towards him,
I found him as pleased to s-ee me as I was to meet him,
and for a long time we stood talking on the pavement.
We recalled our meeting on Clapham Common, and
I told him how I had thought about his remark that the
Christian life was helped by Spiritualism, expressing the
desire to go a little further into the question. So we stood
in that street for an hour, but it was an hour that’Ieft its
26 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
markupon me for the rest of my life, for he proved to me
that Spiritualism was not the work of the Devil, but the
very essence of the Christian life.
Each one of us has some pleasant recollections upon
which we look back withjoy, occasions when thingshave
occurred toibring us a little nearer the Divine. It may be
that some who read this will recall times similar to the
occasion I have described. Clouds were hanging thickly
over my life, and everythingseemed black. I looked up
to Heaven to ask “
Why?” and no answer came. How
often when we thinkGod has forgotten us do we find Him
nearer ! So it happened thaton thatmorning, standing in
the street, the conversation turned on prayer.
“
What is prayer, friend?" asked Francis. “
Is it
some form of words spoken to a Christ Who is far away
beyondthe sky? What is the blue sky but space that no
man can measure! The nearest star is thousands and
thousands of miles away, and is it there that we would
placeour Christ'9”
As I write these records, I can still see poor Francis’
distorted face light up, and the torn clothes shake with
emotion, as, with eyes sparkling, he said: “
No, friend,
no ! I don’t want a Christ who has gone and left me in
my trouble. I don't want to be told of unlimited space.
I want a Christ Who is with me in my garret, One Who
willstand by me and listen to my faintest whisper.''
Then,
turning and pointing upwards towards Clapham Church
spire, he said :
"
Is thatan emblem pointing to Heaven?"
He lowered his voice, and placed his hand on my arm.
”
The thought, however beautiful to some, is wrong!
The Church has yet to find a Christ Who is near us when
we pray, One Who willenter a garret as He does mine.’
I thinkthat talk with Francis was one of the turning
points in my life, and I could not help feeling that he was
inspired to give me a message. Out of the clouds of
earthly darkness, I turned my face to Him Who said “
I
am with thee to the end," and understood more fully the
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 27
words of the Psalmist :
“
He is a present Help in the day
of trouble."
I saw a good deal of Francis after this. At times we
would meet an Clapham Common, at others I would go to
his little room, and there, on an old tea-chest turned up-
side down, we would read and study the Bible togetherby
the light of a candle. I remember that one night the
candle burned right away, and being the last one and the
hour too late to buy more, I had to leave him, but I took
good care thata liberalsupply was taken to him next day.
I should like to mention here thata tradesman in the
neighbourhood took an interest in poor Francis, and made
life a little happier and more comfortable for him. Not
only did he surround him withodds and ends of old furni-
ture, but also went to a lot of trouble and expense to find
his wife, who had lefthim, and persuade her to come back.
He had two daughters, too. One was never heard of
again, but the younger one was located with a Ballet and
Chorus Company in Spain. About this time the theatre
at which theywere performing was burnt out, and as they
had lost all their possessions, theBritish Consul sent them
home. So it came to pass thatI was able to sit round the
fire with Francis, together with his wife and daughter,
under happier conditions.
Soon after this I had to leave home; then the Great
War commenced, and so I lost sight of them. On making
enquiries some time later, I heard that Mrs. Francis had
died of consumption in the infirmary, and had passed on
whilst holding her husband's hand. So the curtain fell
on an interesting friendship, and one that left its mark
upon my life.
28 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
HOW MY TRANCE MEDIUMSHIP WAS
DEVELOPED
I must now retrace my steps and fill in some details
concerning the outcome of this new knowledge that came
to me. As can beimagined,it made me somewhat excited.
Moreover, I was anxious to tell my brother about it, as
there was never much in life that he did not know, and
he was always the first to join in my joys and sorrows.
So one Saturday evening I went to his home to tell him of
thestrange events thathad happened, and of my discovery
concerning Spiritualism. This was no easy matter, as my
brother was a far more intellectual man than myself,
having been an interested reader of classics and ancient
history. Consequentlymy courage failedme, as I doubted
my abilityto put a subject like this before him, and I felt
he would laugh and tell me not to listen to such nonsense.
I tried several times to make a start, but to no avail, and
eventuallymade up my mind to lock my secret away and
keep quiet.
By the time supper was over, I had almost forgotten
the original intention of my visit, and was somewhat taken
by surprise when my brother rose from the table, and
placing his hand on my shoulder, said he would like a
little talk withme in his private writingroom. Wondering
what he wished to say, I followed him, and was made
rather uneasy when I saw him securely fasten the door.
He asked me to beseated, and took a chair beside me. He
said he wished to discuss a subject with me, and was not
sure how I should react to it. A subject, he said, thathad
been brought to his notice both by his reading and by his
association with men of thought and intellect. The sub-
ject, in short, was SpiritualismI
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 29
“
Why, Bert. !" I exclaimed. “
How strange I That
is the very subject I myself have been wanting to broach
to you all theevening,but have not had thepluck. I have
had some strange experiences.”
“
Not more strange than I have had,” he replied;
‘
now, Percy, listen to what I have to tell you. For some
time past, unknown to you, I have been investigating the
subject, and to prove the truth of it I have visited several
mediums, who have convinced me beyonda doubt. But
thechief thingI wish to say is this—morethanone medium
whilst under control has spoken of a younger brother of
mine who must be brought into the knowledge and truth
of Spiritualism. So I want you to come with me and
visit a certain IVIr.
3° PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
age, but also said thathe had a cataractin one eye and that
his death was caused by a sudden chill, which developed
into somethinglike pneumonia before the end. He then
went on to say that my brother owned a gold watch that
had been given him by Father,and told me that the gold
signet ring on my finger had belonged to him.
It can be easily understood that I was very much
taken aback at this information, as I knew nothing of
Speirituallism. My Fatherthen controlled the medium and,
turning to me, said how much he liked to hear me play the
organ. It so happened that at that time I was playing the
American organ at a mission, and I often felt that I should
like him to know that I was trying to carry on in his foot-
steps, so this message confirmed that he did know. A
very good description of my Mother was also given, and
then the medium said thattthepresent time was a very
important period in my life. Instructions were given that
I was to sit in a harmonious circle, and that if this were
done I should develop into a trance medium and also
become clairvoyant. '
My brother and his wife had already ccmmenced a
familycircle, but up to this time no results had been ob—
tained. At this meeting with Vango it was said that I
was to betaken into thiscircle and developed, and although
it would delay theprogress of the circle for a time, power
would come presently.
I find notes to the effect that on July I5th, after some
weeks of apparently fruitless sitting, there was a slight
movement of the table around which we were placingour
hands, and it was noticed that much power was present.
This was encouraging, becausefor monthstherehad been
no phenomena, only the feeling that many spirit friends
were present in the circle. Another note in my brother's
records mentions thatI was partiallycontrolled threetimes
on April I4th, 1908, and on this occasion the table tilted
and we were able to get our Father'sname by calling over
the letters of the alphabet. The tilting of the table went
on every week after this, with some very interesting evi-
PSYCHIC EXP-ERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 31
dence, of which records have been kept.
One evening during the autumn of I908, whilst sit-
ting as usual waiting for thetable to tilt, thereseemed some
delay as the movement we expected did not come, and
then I was suddenlyseized withwhat I thoughtwas faint-
ness. I jumped up from my chair, beggingto be excused
and saying that I felt a little queer, and so the sitting was
closed with prayer, in accordance with our usual custom.
My brotherwas anxious to know thecause of my faintness,
and theonly thingto which I could attribute it was a slight
digestive disturbance. I promised to eat more carefully
and give better attention to my diet on a Tuesday,the day
when we held our circle. As I left thethousethat night,
my brother expressed the hope that I was feeling better,
also surprise that I was able to enjoy my supper whilst
suffering from an attack of biliousness. I told him I felt
better and was very sorry that I had spoilt the sitting.
“
But I really did feel funny at the time,” I said; “
it was
as if I was falling under the table. I will see it never
happens again."
“
I should like to suggest," said my brother, “
that
should such an attackcome on again at any time, thatyou
just let‘ yourself faint. You are surrounded by those who
will take care of you and give you every attention."
Don't let it worry you," I replied. “
It's not going
to happen again. I willwatch thatI"
The next Tuesday came round again, and after care-
ful preparation I sat with the others round the table.
Prayerhad been offered, and we were waiting for the table
to tilt, when, much to my surprise, the same strange feel-
ing came over me.
“
Oh, I feel faint," I said, and for a
moment or so all went blank. When I opened my eyes
again I expected to find myself in someone's arms or on
the couch being carefullylooked after. but to thecontrary,
no—one seemed to be taking any notice—in fact, they
seemed ratherpleased.
I was unable to understand it, and asked what had
happened. “
Are you alright?" my brother asked.
32 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
“
Yes,” I replied, “
I am quite aIright." "
Well," said
my brother, ”
our Fatherhas controlled you and spoken
throughyour body. It was onlya word or two, but there
it is. You have entered into trance mediumship. Let us
close thecircIe withprayer and thanksgivingI"
I am quite unable to describe the feelings I experi-
enced at this time, but I did realise that a great gift had
been given to me by God, that it was my responsibility,
and that some day it would have to be accounted for. So
withthese thoughts I started on the road of mediumship,
clingingto theHand of theMaster, and trusting Him at all
times. As I write these Iines, I can Iook backupon many
years of mediumship, during which I found many danger—
ous places, many obstacles, and had much criticism and
doubt thrownat me. And thenthewords of thePsalmist
would come to me :
"
I will Iift up mine eyes to the hills,
from whence cometh my heIp," and a still small voice
would say :
“
As the hills are round about Jerusalem, so
am I around those thatlove Me."
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 33
MY FIRST THREE GUIDES
During my early mediumshipitheconstant care and
frequently the sole control of my Father, came to me as a
surprise. For some time he was my keeper, and I was
very thankfulfor this, as it gave me not only an assurance
of safety, but added confidence. As in my early years
he would often put out a hand whilst I was trying to walk,
to steady me and help me over difficultplaces,so he seemed
to be doing now in my early days of mediumship. The
thingthat surprised me most was the fact that during his
earthly life he was the last man who would have enter-
tained the idea of spirit return, having been bred and
born in old-fashioned Methodism. There were only two
placesafter death,accordingto his idea—-Heaven and Hell.
Heaven was for those who were saved, Hell and everlast-
ing torment for those who were not! Then he also
believed, as we all did at that time, thatthe earthlybody
rested in the grave until the day of resurrection, and that
on that day the trump would sound, the graves open, and
our bodies rise to meet theirjudgment. I have frequently
heard him say, whilst standing by the graveside of a
friend :
"
Good—bye, friend, until the Resurrection Day."
Knowing what I did, then, of his life, the reader will
readily understand how surprised I was to find that he
should at once come forward to help me in this new ex—
perience, and I again emphasise the great confidence it
gave me.
I should liketo add herethatin after—years I had many
spirits come to me who, during the earth life, had abso-
lutely refused to recognise the truth of spirit return. For
‘instance, many a time during a prayer or an address, I
34 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
have been controlled by Roman Catholic Priests and
Sisters and Mother Superiors of various orders, all of
whom during their earthly experience, condemned such
a practice, apart from the Catholicdoctrine of Intercession.
It may be of interest to the reader to know thatduring the
whole of my experience with mediums, and I have known
a great many, only once have I met with one who came
out of theCatholicfaith. The greater numberof our finest
and most spirituaIIy—minded mediumshave come from the
.7-Nonconformist’Churches withtheir environmentof Metho-
dist meetings and Prayer Circles. If I were to be asked
what I considered had done more than anything else to
bring Spiritualismto our modern world, I should say with—
out hesitation that it was the simple trusting faith of those
who believed in the near presence of the Master and who
made many a chapel ring with the strains of “
Nearer,
my God, to Thee."
The fact that many who were Catholicsare so active
on the spirit plane rather goes to prove that theyare now
’
anxious to help us to spread the Truth of Spirit Com-
munion.
‘For some two years my Father took sole control of
me, and thena strange thinghappened.
One of thegreat interests of my life had been painting
and drawing, and whilst my lack of training and instruc-
tion has prevented me enjoying the success I might have
had, yet my amateur efforts have brought me much
pleasure and happiness. I was painting one day in an
empty bedroom that we used as a kind of study, and
my little daughter, then about five or six years of age,
was recovering from a cold in a room below. My wife
wanted to go out for a short while, and she asked me to
bring my easel down and work in the child's room. This
I did, and as she was busy WlItl'l her toys and doll, there
was little need for conversation or attention.
I continued withmy painting whileshe was engrossed
with her playthings, and a state of peace and quietness
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 35
had reigned for some time when I heard her soft voice
coming from the cot and saying :
“
Daddy ! Daddy I" I
looked round and saw that to all appearances she was
asleep, so seeing no cause to reply, I remained quiet.
Aftera minute she again called out :
‘ ‘
Daddy ! Daddy I"
“
Yes, dear," I replied very softly, “
is there any-
thingyou want?"
”
There is a little Indian boy standing behindyou.’9
It is difficult to explain how surprised I was, and did
not know for a moment what to reply to her.‘ Conse-
quently,it was no smalljoy to me to see her open her eyes
and continue playing with her toys. I went over to the cot
and asked her if she was alright, and whethershe had been
to sleep, but she informedme she had not, and I was satis-
fied that she was quite ignorant of what had happened.
I did not know what to make of all this, and after
considering the matter for some time, I decided to see a
medium whom I knew, Iiving close at hand, and tell him
of the incident in the hope thathe might throwsome light
on the subject. That evening I called on him, and had
hardly spoken when he suddenly went under control and
my Father spoke through him. He said how he had
looked after me and had stood by thedoor of my medium-
ship. "
Now a time has come," he said, "
when I must
hand over that duty to another whose experience is wider
than mine, and one who is more able to guide you in your
further development. If I had known more of this Truth
in the earth life I might have been able to continue longer,
but as thingsare it is better to stand on one side and Iearn.
The one who is to take my place is a Red Indian named
Black Hawk, a lover of the Great White Spirit Whom we
know as God; he is also a man of great magneticforce."
I asked him if the incident of thatafternoon had any-
thingto do with what he had just told me.
“
Yes," he
said, “
it had ! It was done to draw your attention, and
a boy was shown to thechildso as not to cause unnecessary
fear."
36 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
Soon after this, Black Hawk showed himself to me.
He appeared to be a tall man of about 6 feet 4 inches
in height, and wearing all his feathered head—gear. He
was, as he explained, thechief of a North American tribe.
I subsequently executed an impressional painting of him,
which now hangs in my brother’s house, and I then saw
the wisdom of showing my daughter the picture of a Red
Indian boy, to save her from being frightened.
My daughter clearly possessed strong mediumistic
power at this time, which I have since discovered is not
unusual in a child. I could give many instances of this,
but one must suffice.
One day in summer I had just returned home and
was standing on a small grass plot in the garden. She
was dancing around in a playful manner, and came and
told me that Doctor C. had arrived. I was rather sur—
prised, as no Doctor was on the premises, but afterwards
traced the Doctor referred to, and learned that previous
to his death, which took place a year or two before the
incident described, he had practised in a surgery which I
had passed on my way home thatday. At our next meet-
ing he came to us in great trouble, and confessed that he
had failed to give proper attention to a patient in whose
willhe was interested.
This was only one incident in which her mediumship
was displayed, but as she grew up she became nervous,
and her clairvoyance left her. Afterwards, her education,
and later on the charge of her children, filled her life.
Soon after Black Hawk had taken control of my
mediumship, a further development took place. I have
already mentioned that Black Hawk had great magnetic
force. Now anothercontrol came, who spoke at several of
our meetings on somewhat medical lines, so much so that
my brotherasked him if he had been a doctor. He replied
“
Yes," but at the same time withheld his identity, his
explanationbeing that the time had not yet come for him
to reveal it. Many weeks went by, during which time
Dr. Thomas Henry Haslem’s grave
in Brompton Cemetery
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 37
we only knew him as
“
Doctor," but he soon gained our
love and confidence.
One day my friend Ernest Meads and myself were
strongly impressed to go to Brompton Cemetery, and
during that visit I was controlled several times by various
spirits. Then, taking my friend’s hand, l led him to the
northern part of the ground, and there on a side path a
very strong control took me. He spoke to my friend and
told him that for some time he had watched me and had
been interested in my work, and that now the time had
come for him to reveal his identity—that of the strange
Doctor at our sittings. With this he pointed to a head-
stone on a grave near which we were standing. The stone
told of a Doctor Haslem, lVl.R.C.S.,late of Harley Street,
the son of another Doctor Haslem of the same address.
We learned that he died quite young, as the result of
poisoning contracted at a post mortem operation. The
inscription on thestone read as follows :
IN LOVING MEMORY
o1=
THOMAS HENRY HASLEM, M.R.C.S., L.S.A.,
WHO DEPARTED THIS LIFE IN THE DISCHARGE
OF HIS DUTY
ON THE 27TH FEBRUARY, 1878, AGED 28,
BELOVED AND DEEPLY REGRETTED BY ALL WHO
KNEW HIM.
So the two great guiding spirits, Doctor Haslem and
BlackHawk, took possession of my mediumship.
38 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
MY PROFESSION PLANNED BY SPIRIT FRIENDS
From this time onwards all my mediumship was .
under the guidance of either Black Hawk or Doctor
Haslem. It was explained to us that Black Hawk
administered the magnetic force that kept me in trance,
while Dr. Haslem looked after other things, such as
medical advice and clairvoyance.
Their methodof using me seemed very strange to us,
and I have never found an explanationfor it. At our own
private family sittings on Tuesday evenings, after my
brother's prayer for protection, during which I generally
went into trance, BlackHawk would come withsalutations
and kindly wishes, shaking hands all round, and then
nothing more was heard from him until the close, when
he wished us
“
Good Night." Dr. Haslem took sole con-
trol during the intervening time. But as time went on,
and I was able to give private sittings apart from my own
familycircle, it was Black Hawk who took sole control,
and the Doctor was seldom heard unless it was a matter of
health. This may be of interest to any reader who has
noticed a similar puzzling condition in the lives of other
mediums.
I must now go backto the time when Dr. Haslemfirst
took charge of me.
Soon after the new joint control there came a request
thatfell like a bombshell in our midst. We were told that
as Healing would be a special feature of my mediumship,
it was essential that I should be protected against the law,
and that some certificate must be gained in order that I
should not be accused of quackery. To myself and all
who knew me theproblem seemed insoluble, as I had seen
littleelse thantheinside of an office and factoryall my life.
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 39
With such a lack of knowledgeand experience, I felt that
I had been brought up against a blank wall, and my
thoughts were very occupied in wondering how I was to
comply withthe Doctor’s request.
With this matter upon my mind, I went one day to
pay a visit to Vango. He and I had becomequite friendly
since our first meeting, and I felt I should like to see him.
I intended to keep my anxiety to myself, however, being
unemployed at the time and unable to afford a fee to con—
sult him. I had no wish to impose upon Vango, whose
mediumship was his means of livelihood. Consequently,
I was much surprised when, shortly after my arrival, he
suddenly went under control and began to rub his arms
and legs.
“
What are you trying to tell me, friend?," I asked.
“
You must learn to do it,” replied the control.
”
Rub I’ '
and without another word he left the medium.
I said nothing to Vango of what had occurred and
returned home even more perplexedthanbefore, but pray-
ing that if I had sufficient "faith, some way out would
present itself.
Earlier in these records I have mentioned my interest
in Church work, and at the time of which I am writing I
was acting as secretary for the Magazine of the Church I
attended. On publishing day, which fell a day or two
after my visit to Vango, I attended the distributing com-
mittee, and was very taken abackwhen one of my principal
workers and best helpers handed in her resignation.
I made every effort to persuade her to reconsider her
decision, but she told me that, much as she regretted the
fact that she must resign, it was necessary, as she had
before her twelve months of very close study. She had
entered a Medical School at Charing Cross Hospital to
enable her to take a certificate for massage.
"
You must
understand," she said, ”
that the science of massage is
now taken over by the medical profession, and only those
who hold a certificate are allowed to practise it. The
4° PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
V
examinationis a diflicultone.’
This conversation gave me food for thought, as it
seemed to show me a way out of my difficulty, but the
prospect of so much concentrationand mental effort to one
who had had so littleopportunity in life was decidedly dis-
turbing. I remembered how ill-healthin my youth had
robbed me of so much of theeducation thatwas needed as
a foundation to a course of study such as I contemplated.
'
Then, too, I had to consider the requisite fees, as I was
unemployed and my wife and two children required the
little money that I had. Nevertheless, if only it could be
accomplished,this appeared to betheway to complywith
the Doctor's wishes.
Considering every side of the question, I decided that
there was only one way open to me—-to have a chat with
someone who had taken the Massage Certificate and was
able to advise me.
Following up this idea, I made due enquiries, and
eventually heard of a medium who was a qualified mas-
seuse and in charge of some Medical Baths in Great Port—
land Street. Wishing to leave no stone unturned, I
decided to see her, and one day found myself in a waiting
room at theBaths. Aftera few minutes, someone, whom
I supposed to be a nurse, came into the room. She wore
white witha white veil, somewhat resemblingthe habit of
a nun, and withoutwaiting for me to introduce myself, she
took my hand and said :
“
We don't mention the subject
here. At the top of the street you will find the London
School of Massage, and the Principal is a Dr. Fletcher
Little." She said good-bye, and left me to beshown out.
In view of the fact that we were complete strangers and
that during this very brief interview I had not spoken a
word, I was naturally overcome with astonishment. I
have never met her since and have never discovered how
she knew either my identity or my mission.
Deep in thought, I strolled up thestreet and presently
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 41
found myself facinga large brass plate bearingtheinscrip-
tion :
THE LONDON SCHOOL OF MASSAGE.
PRINCIPAL—DR. FLETCHER LITTLE.
Those who know me best can bear witness to a certain
impulsiveness in my nature, which quality probably mani-
fested itself now. Without thinkingtwice, I knocked at
the door, which was opened by Dr. Little himself, who
happened to be in the hall at that moment. It is strange
how we sometimes meet people to whom we are instantly
drawn. This was thecase with me on this occasion, and
when, after a little chat, the Doctor put his arm through
mine and led me into an adjoining cIass~room, I knew I
had found a friend.
50 withinan hour of seeing my advisor at the Baths,
I was seated in the cIass—room of a medical school with
an opened book of anatomy before me ! Had anyone told
me when I rose that morning what that day would bring
forth, I should not have believedhim.
As I had been informed, I found it very hard work.
Without any educational advantages on which to rely,the
Latin and Greek names presented insuperable difliculties,
and I could not see how I was going to manage it. Here
was I—a man who had worked in a factoryfor years and
been restnicted to the same routine day after day—sitting
in a medical school and confronted by a great subject like
Anatomy1.
As I write these lines, I recall themany occasions on
which I used to return home tired out from the Hospital
and Classes, and when the whole outlook seemed hope-
less, but still I determined to fight to the end. The chief
reason for my determination was the fact thatmy fees had
been paid for me, and consequently I felt I must try my
hardest, but at the same time I feared the prospect of
failure. The fact that I had passed my intermediate
examination kept my spirits from failing completely, and
I felt that if I could get my
"
leaving medical school "
certificate, it would be all thatI could hope for. That was
42 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
thevery lowest qualificationthatwould enable me to prac-
tise, but not of much avail to compete with other people
holding higher honours.
At last therecame a day,about the Christmas time of
my second year, when I entered the class-room as usual
after returning from the London Temperance Hospital,
where I had to attend four hours a day as a working
student, and received a surprise almost amounting to a
shock. It was caused by Dr. Little coming towards me
at theclose of thelecture and placinghis hand on my own,
whilsthe said :
‘ ‘
I want you to sit for your L.S.IVI. (London
School of Massage) next Easter." This was the highest
examinationat thattime and recognised by the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons. Dr. Little gave me no time to dispute
his decision, but walked away, saying it was settled.
I think the intervening time before Easter was the
most trying period I have known. I isolated myself from
all society in order to facethehardest task of my life. The
time flew only too fast, and in the first week of March,
I912, I sat down, feeling a mass of nerves and thoroughly
out of place, with many others from various parts of the
country, to face the L.S.M. examination, which lasted for
five and a half days.
The markswere read out every night, to enable those
who had failed to fall out of the ranks and return home.
The subject for thefirst two days was Anatomy,for which,
to my surprise, I obtained highest marks. The third day
was Physiology,for which I once more came top, and the
fourth day Electrical Treatment,when again I got through.
I pulled through again on the fifth day, when we were
examined in Deformities and Injuries with diagnoses; and
theNursing Examination,which came on thelast haIf—day,
I found easy, and finished my course withhonours.
On the IZth March, I9I2, I received my Diploma,
markedby Dr. Fletcher Little "
HighlySatisfactory,"and
at the present time it hangs on my wall to remind me of
one of the hardest battles of my life, but one in which I
know Dr. Haslem played a big part—if not the greater
part I
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 43
e
A MOTHER’S GREAT FAITH REWARDED
It is difficult to describe my feelings when I visited
the School the next morning to collect my belongings and
say
“
good-bye "
to many friends. I hoped to be able
to keep in touch withsome of the people withwhom I had
formed friendships, but whilea few remained in London,
several went out to the Colonies, and many settled in
America, where massage was in more general use and
appreciated more thanit was in England. So in time they
all vanished.
The thingthat stands out in my memory before any-
thingelse was my interview with Dr. Fletcher Little. As
I write, I can see him now, with his white hair and kindly
smile, coming forward and placing one hand on my
shoulder whilst he shook mine with the other. “
Good-
bye, Johnson," he said, “
I wish you every success, and
if at any time you would like to come to me in any per-
plexity, remember that my door is always open to you.
I must say I am pleased that you came through the
examination in the way you did, becauseI know it was a
great strain on you." He again wished me good-bye,
and so I left a man whose memory I cherish to this day—
one full of sympathy and kindness. If only I had met
with such a teacher in my school-days, what a difference
it would have made in my life I Some three years later I
followed Dr. Littleis body into Golders Green Crema-
torium, and saw the iron doors close on one of my best
friends and one to whom I owed much.
With my new mode of life came many perplexities.
First of all, the Medical Profession made me sign an agree-
ment to the effect that I would not work without the
sanction of a doctor. There were also so many various
44 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
restrictions placedupon me, and my hands tied to such an
extent, thatmy healingpowers were severelyhandicapped.
This left me to solve the puzzle of how to find work and
give full vent to my mediumship. Needless to say, I have
at times been in trouble with doctors, been told to mind
my own business, and once threatened with breach of
contract and disqualification, but at the time of writing,
over twenty years later, I stillhold my certificate, and hope
to do so until the end.
I now wish to say something about my first case,
which gave me some amusement and an insight that I
never expected into Journalism.
The case was a man who had been secretary to a
Bishop and had retired. On entering his study, I saw the
bookshelves full of Continental Guides, time-tables, and
prospectuses of hotels, mostly of Switzerland, but also of
other countries, including Norway and Sweden. On one
occasion I made theremarkthat I could see he had been a
great traveller. "
What makes you think so?" he said.
"
Why," I replied, ”
the many continental guide—books
that you have in your study show me that you have tia-
veIIed a lot and have been amongst most beautiful
scenery." ”
That is not so," he said. ”
It may sur-
prise you to learn that I have never been out of England
in my life. But I have added to my income by writing
for magazines, and working up holiday trips as if I were
a great traveller. I plan a route, giving times of trains
and fares, and also hotels at which to stay, together with
the cost per day. Then I give a description of the
scenery, which knowledge I obtain in various ways, and
add to it a little imagination. In this way I increase my
income."
This informationamused me, and the reader may be
interested to learn that I heard later that thewriter and his
articIes met their end owing to a fall from a train whilst
it was in motion.
At this time I was getting a few minor cases, but one
which I found very interesting and helpful is worth’
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 45
recording.
One Saturday, when I returned home for lunch, my
wife informed me that a man had called. He seemed
anxious to see me, and left word thathe would call again,
which he did before long. He wanted me to go and see
his little daughter at his home, about a mile away, and I I
naturally enquired what the trouble was.
"
I know, from what I have been told by a friend,
that you are a Spiritualist,” he said, “
so, if you will
excuse me, I would prefer that your guides advised me,
without saying anything more myself. My wife would
like you to come and have a cup of tea with us, if con-
venient to you, when you can see the child and give us
some advice."
At the appointed time I arrived at his house, and had
a very kindlywelcome from the wife. As tea was await—
ingme, I just made a few casual remarksabout theweather
and other trivialities, and sat down. I noticed that no
reference was made to the case all through the meal, but
at theclose my host rang a bell, and a maid came into the
room, holding by the hand a small child of about five
years of age.
I saw immediatelywhat the trouble was-—-a very bad
case of adenoids, which I explained to the parents after
the child had left us, at the same time expressing my re—
gret that I was unable to do anythingto help, it being a
case for a surgical operation. Since the time of which I
write, other methods of dealing with adenoids have been
discovered, but at that time the only cure was by an
operation.
“
But can't you do anything? Surely there is some-
thing you can do I" they said.
"
No," I replied, “
I'm sorry, becauseI quite under-
stand how anxious you must be. I should feel thesame in »
your position, but there is only one cure for adenoids—
they must be cut away."
I gave themsome details of the operation in question,
46 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
telling them that it was a daily occurrence in a hospital
and thatfatal cases were very rare. Having nothingmore
to say, I prepared to leave, when my host and hostess
asked me not to go until I had seen their garden. After
I had walked round and admired their flowers, they again
asked me if therewas anythingI could do, and once more
I had to tell them how helpless I was to deal with such a
case, and thatif therehad been any other remedy, nothing
would have prevented me using it.
I knew that 'no useful purpose could be served by
prolongingtheinterview, so again I wished themgood-bye
and picked up my hat with a view to leaving, but whilst
passing along their hall to the front door, I was taken by
the arm and drawn into their front room. They closed
thedoor, and then my host said :
”
Mr. Johnson, may we
enquire what is your religion, or should I say, to which
sect you belong'9” “
I am a Wesleyan,"I replied. “
We
are Roman Catholics,so it seems we are thetwo extremes,
but we both kneel to God in prayer, and does it matter how
we commune with Him?" "
Not in the least," I said.
"
Then we take it thatyou believein prayer, whatever the
creed or denominationmay be?’' ”
Most certainly I do !' '
“
Well then," said the mother, placingher hand on
my arm,
"
I have no doubt in the efficacy of our prayers
if we ask God to help us in our desire to relieve our child.
With that thought in my mind, I ask you to massage my
child three times, and ask your earnest prayer on her
behalf.' '
After considering the matter for a few moments, I
agreed. “
The treatment," I said, "
will certainly be of
benefit to her and strengthen her for any strain she will
have to undergo in the event of an operation. At the
same time, I am taking upon myself a great responsibility,
because, apparently you are expecting a miracle to hap-
pen, and should I fail, your faithwillbe injured."
“
There will be no failure, Mr. Johnson," she said.
“
God is a living personalityto me, One Who is near, and
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 47
a Friend Who.has promised to help all who trust in Him
at times of need and trouble. And I do trust I Mr.
Johnson, will you come in His Name and help me?"
“
Yes," I replied, “
I will come."
If I were asked to describe my feelings as I left that
home, it would be difficult. Are there ‘not times in the
lives of all of us when the inner feelings and aspirations of
our souls are beyondall explanationor expression? Like
Samuel of old, I heard a voice calling me to service and
I answered :
"
Speak, Lord, for Thy servant heareth I"
The first massage treatment took placethenext morn-
ing, withno result, and a second occasion also appeared to
be fruitless. I expressed the hope that the mother’s faith
would not beshaken if I had no success.
”
Oh, Mr. Johnson,” she cried, "
where is your
faith? I know that my Redeemer livethI"
It was withvery mixed feelings that I stood upon the
doorstep of that house on the occasion of my third visit.
Upon entering, I was informed that there was no altera-
tion in thechildiscondition. How thatmorningstands out
in my memory I I see again the dimly—Iit room with the
blinds drawn, the child lying with closed eyes, and the
mother placing her crucifix upon the child's breast before
kneeling in prayer. A coldness came over me as I placed
my hands on the child's body to begin the treatment.
Presently the silence was broken by the mother's voice:
"
See, Mr. Johnson, my prayer is answered I" Running
from the child’s nostrils and over the cheek, was a yellow
mattery substance tinged with blood. What I discovered
later to be a very rare occurrence had happened-the
adenoids had burst I
It was no time for conversation—my mind and heart
were too fulI—so I left without a word.
Later in the day I called to see how the child was.
"
Come,” said the mother, and she led me into the gar-
den. There, dancing on the lawn and perfectly happy,
was my little patient. Upon examination, I found the air
48 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
passages free, and feeling there was nothing else for me
to do, recommended a visit to the sea, which advice was
taken.
Years later, as I write these records, my little patient
is the mother of two children, after a brilliant career at
school and some years as clerk in an Insurance Office.
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 49
MANIFESTATIONS IN A MIDLAND VILLAGE
For some time I had beenlistening to much concern-
ing the haunted conditionof our villagesand countryside,
and whilst I did not doubt thatmany of theseghost stories,
as told by the village folk, had been exaggerated by the
simple and uneducated, I felt thatsome of them were not
without foundation. At that time, although interested in
what I was told, I had no desire to delve into this aspect
of Spiritualism. I suppose the real reason was that I had
very little knowledge or experience of villagelife, as my
holidays were always spent at some large seaside town.
The beauty of those more remote spots appealed to the
artistic side of my nature‘, but apart from that, I regarded
them as dull, lonely and quiet, until the day came when I
was to make a professional visit to a country village.
Whilst I was a student at the School of Massage, a
doctor in Wimpole Street obtained my name witha recom—
mendation from Dr. Little, and asked me to go to a Mid-
Iand villageto give a five-weeks’ course of treatment to the
Rector. So I arrived in a very lovelylittle villageof some
three hundred inhabitants. It was three milesaway from
a station, with one shop, which acted as post office and
general store, and a few cottages clustered around the
villagegreen, at the end of which was the church.
I discovered that some of thestories I had heard con-
cerning the haunted condition of villages were perfectly
true, and the Rector, whom I found to be a most lovable
and sympathetic man, was interested in Spiritualism.
This enabled me to confidein him and tell my experiences.
During my visit he made notes of what I told him, and has
since kindlywritten a few for me to reproduce in thisbook.
I wish he had supplied more, but old~ageand failingsight
5° PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
(he is almost blind) have made it difficult for him. This
is his report, written years later.
“
Mr. Percy Johnson, who came to give me a course
of massageon two occasions, in I91 I and I912, and stayed
in my villagewhilst doing so, has asked me to give some
account of theremarkableexperienceshe had whilst there.
“
I was at thattime Rector of a Midland Parish,’ and
it may be well to state that I had had no previous experi-
ence of spirit manifestation, and merely relate what he
told me. For obvious reasons I withhold all names, my
own and others.
“
Mr. Johnson related to me a very large number of
spiritual manifestations which he saw whilst he was with
me in my viIIage—so many that I can only give a few of
them. He told me he saw at least fifty or sixty spirits at
a Harvest Festival on Sunday, October I5th, I91 I ,
while
I was preaching in the pulpit. He also saw behind me
a clergymanwhose appearance exactlyanswered to thatof
a former incumbent,and who was clearlyencouraging me
in my work. He was seen more than once, and as
describedwasat oncerecognisedby thosewho had known
him in life. I had never seen him. On anotheroccasion,
during my nightly massage treatment, Johnson described
an old man with a muffler round his throat, a short stout
figure withRoman nose, whom I recognisedas my father.
Later he described a grave near a church porch, and inside
a church a brass tablet to my father's memory, also an
organ in a church similar to that in which my father
ministered, all known to me, but which Johnson had never
seen.
“
A former incumbent of this village was correctly
described; also the son of another Rector, earlier still, was
seen in the uniform of a midshipman, in the upper part
of the Rectory, where he was known to have died young
of consumption. At another time, an elderly lady was
seen in thechurch, sitting in the choir with a book, which
had some connection with myself, in her hand. I recog-
nised her as a lady who had taught in the Sunday School
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 51
for years, and the book was one given to me after her
death,just before Johnson's last visit to me.
”
A man had committed suicide in the village, of
which Johnson knew nothing, but on walking down the
villagestreet after his arrival, Johnson passed by the vil-
lage public house, and saw a man with head and hair
dripping wet, and a look of despair on his face. The man
had drowned himself in a tub of water, and the inquest
was held at the public house mentioned above. Johnson
also saw him in the church during a service.
”
One morning during my early massage, Johnson
described a man who had been in the Navy, of fine big
appearance and who used to limp. He also saw the
medals he wore, for he had taken part in the ChineseWar,
and he gave thename of his ship as Albatross. In private
life he had one big trouble. He lived a straight life with
not much to regret, and was fond of a special dog. This
all referred clearlyto my grandfather,an old sea captain.
"
Towards the end of his stay withme, Johnson saw
many spirits gathered around his bed (he slept in a room
next to the Churchyard), and at the last service at which
he was present in the church, there was a large number,
including an elderly figure of a sacred character, lifting
his hands in a blessing as a closing mission among them.
"
These are onlya few instances of all the manifesta-
tions of which Mr. Johnson told me, but sufficient to prove
the interesting experiences we had when he was with me.
I am an old man, and I Write with difficulty, or I would
add much more, but have said enough, I think,to prove
the reality of the Unseen World to which we shall all
S0011 pass.
THE RECTOR OF A MIDLAND PARISH.
As the Rector has said, these are only a few of the
manifestations, and I know that many interesting facts
have been omitted, perhaps because the notes have been
lost, but more probably becausehe felt the strain of writ-
ing to be too much for him. Whatever the reason may
52 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
be, I know it has been an effort, prompted by love and
enthusiasm. As I write these words, my thoughts go
back to the old village church with its ivy—covered walls,
and again I seem to hear the bells calling the people to
prayer. But more distinctly stands out the figure of the
Rector withhis white hair, standing in thepulpit without-
stretched hands, saying: “
Come to Me all ye that are
weary, and I will give you rest I" That voice is silent
now, but its echo stillrolls on, and who can tell its limits?
Ring on, oh village bells, over the graves of many who
were sad and weary I Remind us once again of the hour
of prayer, and that “
unto us is born in the City of David
a Saviour Who is Christ the Lord."
During my absence from home, I tried to furnish my
brother with details of the phenomena that were taking
place. It appears that, unknown to me, he kept this cor-
respondence, and has now handed it back to assist me to
compile these records. These letters not only confirm
the Rector’s report but bring to light further details that
I had forgotten.
I quote from some of my letters to my brother:
OCTOBER IST, 1911.
As I told you, this is a lovely spot, and very old.
The cottages are most interesting, and, from the point of
View of a painter, perfection. It would be hard to find
any spot that could not tell a tale of long ago. Genera-
tions have come and gone, and as I walk about, many
strange pictures present themselves.
The old church looks down on a villagefast going to
decay, and the history of the church has long been lost.
Some of the stones date back to 1700, and others have
decayed and gone. The Rector tells me that often, when
they dig a new grave, they find they have opened an old
one. You will understand that from a church like this
I feel a mighty influence. The Rector has promised to
show me all the records that he has, so I shall be able to
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 53
tell you more at some other time.
A strange thing has happened, of which I must teII
you. I have taken very great care not to say a word to
the Rector about the subject so dear to us; yet, strange to
say, thefirst sermon thismorning had “
Life after Death"
as its subject. He pointed out how our friendscome backto
work and help, and that if our eyes were only opened we
should see them close to us, and so on. It showed me
how he had been reading on the same lines as we have,
and thathe is a believerin spirit return. Anotherstrange
thing is that he has sent me an invitation to supper for
to-night, after church, so it looks as if the friends have
some work for me to do.
OCTOBER 8TH, 1911.
Whilst attending service at South X. Church, the
spirit form of an old man was seen standingin thechancel
close to theRev. B. ,
and seemed to be taking great interest
in the service. I took a careful note of the description,
and then saw a tomb~stone rather worn and old. This I
felt had to do with the spirit form of the old man.
The next day I placed the matter before the Rector,
giving him full description of the form, which turned out
to be correct and withoutdoubt that of the former Rector
of the Parish. I then spoke to him about the tomb-stone
I had seen, and, whilst talking, I saw the place and posi-
tion in which the grave stood, and also the kind of tree
which grew by it. This turned out correct in every detail,
being the grave of the old Rector. Later on, the Rev. B.
took me to see it.
OCTOBER 9TH, 1911.
During the night I awoke to find the spirit form of a
young man, a soldier in a red coat, standing at the foot
of my bed. He pointed in the direction of thechurchyard
and went away. The Rector was always anxious, when
I went to give him treatment in the morning, to know what
my experiences had been during the previous night. So
54 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
I told him of having seen this soldier, as I had done in
other cases.
“
What was the description of this soldier?" asked
the Rector. “I don't know of any military connections
withthisvillage!"
"
He was a smart, fever-stricken sort of chap," I
replied.
”
A what?” asked the Rector.
“
A smart, fever—stricken sort of chap," I said again.
This time the Rector started to roar with laughter.
"
Well," he said, "
I never heard of a man being smart
and fever-strickenbefore.’ ’
Not beingable to see thejoke
myself, I said that was what he was—a smart, fever-
stricken sort of chap.
"
Well, we will leave it at that," said the Rector,
"
but it's the most funny description I have ever heard.
How a man can be fever-stricken and ‘smart I cannot
imagine."
I was very pleased to let thematter drop, and turned
the conversation into other channels, as I did not see the
cause for laughter.
When I went in the evening to give my usual treat-
ment, I found the Rector standing witha thickparchment
book under his arm.
"
I have somethingto show you,"
he said, producing the Burial Register. "
Being some-
what amused thismorning at your description of a
‘
smart,
fever—strickensort of chap,’ I turned up this register to see
what it might Iead to. Read this!" And he pointed to
an entry :
SMART. LATE or . . . .
REGIMENT.
CAUSE or DEATH-—FEVER CONTRACTED ON
FOREIGN SERVICE IN INDIA.
Then followed the number of the grave.
We went togetherto try to find his grave, which dated
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 55
back about thirty years. There being no stone and the
number gone, we could only guess its possible location,
over which the Benediction was pronounced.
OCTOBER ZZND, 1911.
I feel I must write and tell you that the Rector's wife
sent for me to-night and said she felt she wanted to tell
me how very pleased she was at theway her husband had
improved under my treatment, and how much brighter he
was. I thankedher for her kind remarks and told her I
had done my best, to which she replied that the case did
me great credit.
Now, you know as well as I do that it is not I, but
the good friends who have stood by me unseen, and also
the prayers on my behalf that I have so often felt from
all at home. I thinkthis should be the means of giving
us all strength and a greater faith, and as you will not be
at home when I return, let me thankyou and all at home
for theway you have helped me in a lonelystruggle.
I will now tell you what has happened nearly every
night. Soon after I get into bed I hear three loud raps
under the bed, then holding in my hand the cross (which
I always carry), I await results. Soon I see blue Iights in
a corner of the room, then one after another the spirit
people show themselves. Some of the faces I have got
to know, others have shown me the gravestones in the
churchyard, and I have found themthatway. In one case
I was shown a tree, which I found afterwards in thechurch-
yard over a stone thatwas worn out withage. I find that
in the morning I cannot remember much of what has
taken pIace—oneor two thingsremain faintly.
Mrs. M. (my Iandlady)tells meI talk in my sleep and
sometimes wake them up. On one occasion they heard
someone walk about downstairs, and they all got up to
look.
The second night I was here I went into the back
room to have a talk with Mrs. M.'s father, a very fine old
56 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
man. As I sat down in an old arm-chair, I found a very
strong power around me, which made me shiver from head
to foot. To pass the event off withoutnotice, I remarked
what a comfortable chair it was. Mrs. M. then told me
thatthe chair had a history and that her grandfatherwas
found dead in it, sitting just as I was at that moment.
You can fancy I went to bed feeling rather cold I
SEPTEMBER I 6TH, 1912.
Spent nearlyall themorningtaking photographswith
Mr. B. One broken-down old house, or part of a house,
very much took my fancy, thinkingit would work into
some painting I might do at some future time. So at my
request we photographedthisold place. During thenight
I saw in my room a tombstone of rather strange shape.
The next morning I told Mr. B., but he knew nothingof
such a stone in thechurchyard, so thematter was forgotten.
On Thursday I went to the church alone for private
prayer, and for some reason I cannot explain, I started to
walk amongst the graves. I came to a large bush and
found that it covered a stone. In pulling the bush to one
side to see the name, I at once recognised the stone-it
was thesame as theone I saw in my bedroom. The name
on the stone was William Pearson. I entered the church
and knelt down, not forgetting my new friend, William
Pearson.
In the evening I told Mr. B., who said that William
Pearson was an old Rector. “
He was very fond of
astronomy," he said, “
and built that place you were so
anxious to photograph. Miss Clarkewas a great chum of
his, and the Clarkeslived in the cottage in which you are
staying." I learned that I knelt in the church just under
a brass plate to his memory, withoutknowingit.
SEPTEMBER, I912.
After attending the Rector,
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 57
about a mile I came to the Ievel crossing, where I stopped
just to pass the time of day with the man in charge of the
gate. Then, mounting thehill, I enjoyed a good view of
the surrounding country and returned home to dinner,
having only met the man at the Ievel crossing. In the
evening I told Mr. B. about my enjoyablebut Ionelywalk.
During the night, I found a young girl standing by
my bed. She was about sixteen to twenty years of age,
but her description does not matter. I got the name of
Clarke. In the morning I told the Rector what had hap—
pened and gave him all details. Aftera little thinking,he
asked me if I knew the name of theman at thelevel cross-
ing, to which I replied :
“
No, I know nothingabout him."
Then he said :
“
You may be surprised to learn that his
name is Clarke." At Mr. B.'s request, I am leaving the
matter in his hands to investigate.
Two letters from the Rev. B. to my brother.
NOVEMBER, 1913.
Dear Mr. Johnson,
I was very much interested and pleased to receive the
contents of your letter. The message of "
May," or,
more correctly, "
Sarah Anne," was perfectly clear and
merely confirmed my own opinion at the time. Your
brother had already received something similar at South
X., althoughnot so definite or personal to myself.
I am glad to have had this message, and hope she
may have found the forgiveness she sought, which, so far
as I am concerned, she may certainly have.
Dr. Pearson's message was extremely interesting and
encouraging as well. Your brother, on his last Sunday
at South X., saw an appearance in the church, which I
was certain related to him, and this proves it.
You are welcome to see the notes of what your
brother has told me from time to time—though they are
only more or less in the rough. They are certainly very
58 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
remarkable, and as nothing of that nature has come my
way before (though I had always believed in such a pos-
sibility),they are the more interesting.
Thanking you for your convincing letter,
I am, etc.
DECEMBER, 1913.
Dear Mr. Johnson,
Thank you very much for your letter and communi-
cation and the trouble you have taken. The last com-
munication regarding Mrs. G. is a very interesting one—
knowing all the circumstances as I do; she died about the
time I wrote to you last, and every particular is correct.
Your brotherhad tried his battery on her fingers when he
was here. One would like to repeat the message to her
husband, but I fear it would not be understood. Her re-
mark, or rather the medium's remark, that she comes
from a placeof great ignorance on the spiritual plane, hits
thenail on thehead—which none know better than I.
The whole series of manifestations during the last
three years has been very wonderful and extraordinary.
As you say, thepart played by thehuman agency is a puz-
zling problem and the most difficult part to understand.
If you have anythingfurther relating to South X. that is
worth recording, I hope you will let me know.
Thankingyou for thetrouble you have taken,
Believe me. etc.
And now, before I close thischapter, I should Iikesto
relate an incident which, althoughvery amusing, will not,
I am afraid, stand much to my credit as a medium.
It happened one Saturday night. Having finished
giving my treatment to the Rector, and left him settled for
thenight, I wished him God's blessing as was my custom,
and asked if there was anythingI could do for him.
"
Thank you, Johnson," he said; "
now you men-
tion it, there is something I want, and I cannot very well
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 59
ask the maids. Would you mind fetching me a book I
left by accidenton the vestry table after prayers this morn-
ing? They have not brought me thekeys yet, so you will
find thechurch open. You don't mind, do you 2)" “
Cer-
tainly not," I replied.
I must explain here that to get to the church from the
Rectory it was necessary to cross the garden lawn, which
was a large one, go througha smalldoor at thefurtherend
leading into the churchyard, and to follow a narrow path
amongst the tombstones, which led to another small door
opening into thechancel of the church.
On this particular night it was very dark, with the
wind blowing up for coming rain. Those who have been
in the country on such nights will appreciate the difficulty
that one who was used to the lights of London streets
would have in trying to find his way into a dark church-
yard. My first obstacleproved to be a croquet hoop that
had been left on the lawn. It not only threw me down,
but upset my calculations for finding the Vicar's door, as
it was called, in the side wall, and I found myself thinking
lovingly of Oxford Street or Piccadilly,and comparing
them very favourably with the beauties and quietness of
the country I After trampling over sundry flower beds, it
was no small joy to me to find the door I was seeking.
This I opened, and found myself under a yew tree, the
leaves of which were dripping with dew and rustling in
the wind. I noticed a little trembling in my legs, and
fearing that my clairvoyant faculties might come too
forcibly into action,I kept my eyes half closed. With my
will—power asserted to the utmost, I went on step by step,
realising the pathwas much Ionger than I had thought.
I eventually reached the sanctuary door, where an
unlucky incident occurred. The latch of the door was of
the old—fashioned variety, frequently found in churches,
consisting of a large iron ring, which when turned lifted
the latch. This particular one was rusty with age and
exposure to the weather, and sadly needed oiling. I
grasped thering, eager to enter thechurch and escape from
60 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
thechurchyard, when therecame a most unearthlysqueak,
followed by a bang as thelatch struck thetop bar. I make
no excuse for my lackof courage, but thesqueak and bang,
combinedwith the rustling leaves and dark stillnessof the
churchyard, caused me to lose my nerve. I did not pause
to reason it out, but ran for my life to get back, stumbling
over mounds and collidingwith head-stones in an attempt
to find thedoor throughwhich I had come. Whilst doing
so, I took an unluckystep on the mound of a newlymade
grave, lost my balance and came down on a jam-jar full
of water, which overturned, Ieaving me sitting in a pool of
very liquid mud, the discomfort of which was not miti-
gated by thethintrousers I was wearing.
A few minutes later, much to my relief,I again found
myself on thelawn of theRectory, wiping theperspiration,
which, unlike that of LongfeIIow's Blacksmith,was not
caused by honest toil, from my brow. Twothoughtswere
uppermost in my mind, firstly that I had not got the book
I went to fetch, and secondly that my reputation as a
Spiritualist would suffer if this incident became ‘known.
Whilstdwellingon thesethings,I saw a light in thekitchen
window of the Rectory, and it occurred to me that that
was what I needed. Why had I not thoughtof it before?
I made for the kitchen entrance and the cook answered
my gentlerap withsurprise.
"
Is that you, Mr. Johnson,” she said; "
what are
you doing here?"
"
I came to ask you if you could lend me a light, as
the Rector has asked me to fetch a book he has left on the
vestry table."
“
Certainly," she replied, and asked me in, and the
housemaid, entering behind me, caught sight of the
unhappy condition I was in.
"
Whatever is the matter, Mr. Johnson? You are
dripping with mud at the back I"
"
Oh," I said, going very red, "
I had a Iittle slip
coming up the path."
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 61
"
But thereis no mud on thepathI It is of concrete.''
"
Well, it is of no consequence. I will wipe it off
when I get back. All I want is a lamp."
"
But I must wipe some of it off, Mr. Johnson," she
said. “
You can't go about like that. I’ll get a clothand
wipe you down."
This she did, and in theprocess raised my coat.
"
Whatever have you here?" she said, and extracted
from beneathmy coat a bunch of flowers bearing a label
“
-to darling Mother !"
By this time I was surrounded by the servants, to
whom, amid peals of laughter, I had to confess what I
had been doing. The gardener, who was fetching fuel
for the greenhouse, kindly offered to go for the book, and
at my request sent it up to the Rector as coming from me.
So I returned to my lodgings, feeling very thankful
and somewhat ashamed of my own weakness. I hoped
I should not hear any more of it, but this was not to be.
I had a standing invitation to supper at the Rectory after
Sunday evening service, and theevening after the incident
recorded found me, as usual, seated at the supper table,
the Rector at one end, his wife at the other, and myself
between them. We were discussing the usual trivialities,
and I was helping myself to some potatoes from a dish
which was held by that very maid who had wiped me
down on the previous evening, when the Rector suddenly
said :
“
Oh, Mr. Johnson, I never thankedyou for fetching
that book for me last night."
The maid laid the dish down and ran from theroom,
I suppose to prevent herself from laughing aloud, while
my own face went crimson.
“
I cannot understand the behaviour of the maid,"
said the Rector's wife. “
Neithercan I,” said theRector,
gazing at my red perspiring face.
I -thoughtfor a moment, and then decided to make an
open confession, and when thesecond course appeared we
I were all laughing loudly, while from the kitchen there
62 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
came a faint a.nd answeringecho.
“
I am gladyou told me of your adventure," said the
Rector. "
May I ask what you did withtheflowers?"
‘ ‘
I understand theywere thrownover the churchyard
wall, as it was not known from which grave theycame,"
I replied.
He then explained that it was a custom amongst the
villagersto placeflowers upon thegraves of their relations
on a Saturday evening.
“
So you see, Mr. johnson, in all probabilityI shall
hear more of thisin the morning."
And so he did. A woman came to him in a very
distressed state, complaining that someone had upset her
water jar and taken the flowers from her mother's grave.
‘ ‘
You can see his footprintswhere he trampledon thevery
top,” she said.
The Rector thought it best that I called on her and
explained matters, which I did, and finished the interview
with a nice little chat and a cup of tea by the fire of a
cottage home.
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 63
WAR WORK AT THE QUEEN ALEXANDRA
MILITARY HOSPITAL
I now come to that unforgettable year in English
history, I914, when England was plunged into war with
Germany. Apart, however, from the influence the war
had upon my own life, I do not intend to dwell much upon
thatanxious and trying time.
Just before the outbreak of war I had two dreams.
One Sunday night, in May, 1914, I had thestrange experi-
ence of findingmy spirit leaving my body and of standing
beside my bed and seeing myself asleep. I next sensed
thatI was beingcalled, as it were, to go on a journey, and
found myself upon a seashore. The shingleon thebeach
appeared to sparkleand glowwith many colours, and the
sea which rippled on the shore was of a crystal-blue that
I find difficult to describe. I was conscious of a wonder-
ful peaceand calm, and realised I had beenled to thisplace
by an unseen hand. Whilst standing there I became
aware of a small group of people sitting in a circle on the
beach, found myself being led towards them, and dis-
covered theywere my own family. They were my father
and mother, my brother and sister who had passed over
beforeI was born, and several othermembersof thefamily
who had died manyyears previously. My motherwas the
first to speak, and in a cheerful voice said :
“
Now we are
all complete." I told her I realised the trial it must have
been to her to leave a child behind, but to this she only
gave a gentlesmile. Then I said how much I had longed
for her love and sympathyduring my life, and approached
to kiss her, but she said: “
Not yet! Your work is not
finished.’'
Then thiswonderful dream began to fade and
theunseen power thathad brought me seemed to draw me
64 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
back. I longed to stay, but could not. A kind of fog
closed the whole scene out, and thelast thing I saw was
my mother'ssmilingface.
It is not easy to give an account of a dream such as
this,but thefactthatI wrote it down at thetime has helped
me. The thing that struck me most then was my
mother's remark that my work was not finished. As I
had qualified as a masseur eighteen months previously,
I had a feeling that some new development was to take
place.
A few weeks later I had another dream. This time
I stood upon an open space, watching the movement of
troops, and amongst them was theBrigade of Guards with
the commanding officer leading on horse-back. As I
watched, something,I knew not what, seemed to hit this
officer, and he fell to the ground. Then a voice said:
"
Come on, johnson I Run and pick him up I"
I often thought of these dreams later, and I did not
doubt theyheralded, and were sent to prepare me for, the
great work of my life that soon followed. The war com~
menced, and I, like many others, was called upon to report
to Headquarters. My notice came from the Medical Staff
at the War Office, saying I was to interview the com-
mander of the Guards Hospital, Millbank (the Queen
Alexandra Military Hospital and the Headquarters of the
R.A.lVl.C.). At that interview I found I had to undergo
a Government test at the nearby R.A.lVI.C. College. I
passed the examination and was enrolled at the Hospital
on a month'sprobation. This, as I have mentioned, was
the Guards Hospital, and although I was intended for
transfer to other places, strange to say I never left it for
seven and a half years.
During my month's probation, I had the misfortune
of contracting fever, which left me with deafness, from
which I have suffered all the rest of my life.
The dream I had came to pass, for I had the Com-
manding Officer as a patient for some months.
I was, of course, kept very busy withvery little spare
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 65
time, but throughit all I tried to keep my Tuesday nights
free for the weekly sitting at my brother's house. I was
only absent at those times—which were frequent—when
epidemics broke out in the hospital, and I feared to carry
infection to my family. In spite of thevarious contagious
diseases I encountered, not one memberof my famiIyever
caught them, and in the whole time subsequent to my
period of probation,during which I myself had fever, I was
only absent from my post two days and a half with colds.
During my second year I was promoted, and became
head of the massage staff with an honorary rank and a
staff of "fifteen assistants.
I was demobilisedin June, I92] , only to be called up
again on the reserve three days later, and sent for night
work to Tooting Neurotic CIinic. This gave me an oppor-
tunity to study nervous diseases, in which I was very
interested at the time, also Mesmerism and hypnotic sug—
gestion. After eighteen months at Tooting, I was dis-
charged right out of theArmy and Reserve, having served
for about ten years altogether.
My spiritual experiences during this time are too
numerous to describe here—a volume could not contain
them—but I wiII mention one or two, which I feel wiII be
of interest. One of these cases concerns a Private who
came to me with a paper marked Infantile Paralysis.
I found Iack of sensation in theIegs and difficultyin walk-
ing on the Ieft side, but from the commencement I was
sure therewas a mistake in theDoctor’s diagnosis. Never-
theless, I carried out the instructions, but without success.
In my perplexity I asked Haslem to help me and distinctly
heard theword “
head." When the doctor inspected my
work a few days Iater I had to say there was no improve-
ment, and asked if the trouble might not be in the nerve
centre of the brain. “
Nothingof the kind," he replied.
"
It is InfantileParaIysis I"
As time went by and still brought no successful
resuIts, I again asked the Doctor the same question, and
thistime he was very annoyed and suggested my own brain
66 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
needed attention ! This time I heard Haslemsay
° ‘
brain.'
When thepatientcame for treatment next day I asked
him to sit down as I wanted to ask him a few questions.
"
Have you ever had a fall'9’ '
I said. ‘ ‘
Not thatI remem-
ber," he replied. “
Have you at any time had a blow on
the head or knocked it?" "
Not that I remember," he
said again. "
The only thing I do remember, and that
was a mere nothing,was while I was in the trenches. A
.~shell burst some distance from me and a lot of stones were
throwninto theair, one of them hitting me and cutting my
.head very slightly. It was dressed and was soon alright
again. I thanked him for this information. "
Now,"
I said, “
I have somethingon which to work !"
I obtained an order for his head to be X—rayed, and
received a report next day that a splinter of shrapnel had
been found just beneaththe scalp and thatthe patient was
to be retained for an operation. This, with a few days’
massage treatment, put matters right, and he returned to
his home in Glasgow, cured. The Doctor and I had a
laugh over our little difference of opinion, and all ended
well.
Thiswas one of many incidents where Haslemhelped
me, but I had other cases where the spirit friends did all
the work without any action on my part. One day l was
giving out some work to an assistant in a ward of thirty
beds, when the Captain in charge requested a little talk
with me. He pointed to a bed in the far corner and told
me that in it lay a man who had lost the use of his legs.
”
It is supposed to be shell—shock," he said, "
but there
is a difference of opinion on it. It has been suggested,
upon consultation, thatby rest and quiet thingsmight right
themselves, but the outcome of that has been that for six
weeks he has Iain there without any sign of action or
return of nerve power. I feel that the time has now come
for somethingto be done, but I don't know what steps to
take. You go and look at him, and see what suggestions
you have to make."
Upon interviewingthepatient, a bank clerk from Mel-
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 67
bourne, I found him a very nice, weII-educated young
fellow. My sympathy was aroused and I felt a strong
desire to try to do somethingfor him. When I saw the
Doctor again I expressed a wish to do what I could if he
would put the patient in my hands. This he agreed to,
but naturallywanted to know what I proposed to do. ‘I
To
apply Radiant Heat," I said, “
for a start, but I have not
the convenience to apply it in the ward. He will have to
be carried to the electrical room."
I made an appointment for that afternoon, and a
stretcher party brought him to me. I was busy at thetime,
and asked themto lay him on a bed until I could give him
my attention. A moment later he gave a tremendous
scream and kicked his legs in the air. This not only
frightened me, but everyone else present, and the room
was full at the time. Fearing some mental derangement,
I hurried to him, demanding an explanation of his con-
duct. Very quickly he replied: "
I'm very sorry, Stir,
but I- really could not help it I" "
You don’t expect me to
believe that?" I said. "
I assure you it is true. I could
not control myself." "
Well then, after frightening the
life out of us all, let me see how much damage has been
done."
I pulled his legs over the side of the bed to test the
muscles and look for any dislocation. To my very great
surprise, he placedhis feet upon the ground, stood up and
walked across the room I
"
How long is it since you did that?" I asked. “
I
don't quite know, Sir. It seems years, but I suppose
about three months. I was brought to England from
France on a stretcher.” "
Well," I said, “
cheer up!
You will soon be on the sea again, on your way home.
I will ask the Captain for your discharge." When the
str-etcher bearers came for him, I told themto walk slowly
back to the ward whilethepatient followed on foot I
It was not long before the Doctor came bouncing into
my room, saying excitedly: "
Johnson, what is this you
have done?” “
Well, Doctor," I replied, “
are you satis-
68 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
lied?" "
Why, of course, I am. I thank you very
much.” “
There are no thanksdue to me, Sir. I have
not touched him !" "
Then how has it happened?" he
asked. I took theDoctor’s hand and, lookinghim straight
in theface, replied :
“
Doctor, I cannot say I"
Without anotherword we parted, and the patient left
for home a week later, discharged from further service. I
have since thoughtthere may have been a mother's prayer
at theback of it all, and I feel thatthisis theexplanation.
The next case I wish to relate was also a leg trouble.
It must not be supposed thatall my cases were confined to
the limbs. I had many medical cases, also surgical ones,
and a few mental patients, but I thinkI liked dealing with
the surgical cases best.
This case was a sergeant who had been blown up by
a shell. Several operations, which had left adhesion and
stiffness in the tendons and sinews, had been performed
to extract pieces of shell from bothlegs. I had been treat-
ing him for some time with massage when,,_one morning,
I found on my desk a complaint from the ward sister to
the effect that he had disturbed the other patients during
the night by shouting and kicking his legs in the air. I
could not help feeling there must be some exaggeration,
as I knew his inabilityto move his limbs. However, I
went to see him, and told him it must not occur again or
I should beobliged to punish him, althoughI felt inwardly
that he had been punished quite sufficiently by his long
period of suffering. He apologised, and said he was quite
unable to control himself. On treating him a few hours
later, I found the leg much better, and regarded the inci-
dent as closed.
The next day the Captain of the ward came to me,
saying :
‘ '
I believeyou had a complaint about Sergeant A.
What have you done in the matter, because he has done
the same thingagain." I told him thatas thepatientwas
unable to move his legs, he was unlikely to kick during
thenight, and thatI thoughttherewas some mistake in the
report of the sister. "
Come with me," he said; "
we
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 69
willgo and see theSergeant together."
This we did, and
theCaptain severelyreprimandedhim and ordered twenty-
four hours without smokingor reading. I
"
I think, while I'm here," said the Captain, ‘
we
willjustexamineyour legs to see how theyare getting on.
"
This we did, together, and much to our surprise found
all joints free and muscular stiffness gone. Upon the
Captain asking him to get out of bed in order to see if he
could walk a little, he did so, and walked thewhole length
of the room.
"
Well," said my superior turning to me,
"I don’t know what has happened, but the patient is
cured. I shall discharge him I" It was no small joy to
lmeto see him walk to a taxi on his wife's arm, a few hours
ater.
A month or two after this incident, I was told that a
gentlemanwished to see me, and upon going into my little
cubicle, I found that my visitor was my old patient the
Sergeant, dressed in civilian clothes.
”
Excuse me taking this IIi'berty, Sir," he said, "
but
I am a civiliannow, and as such thought I might have the
pleasure of your company to dinner."
Needless to say, I went, and in a restaurant near
Victoruia we talked over our old troubles. Whilst we were
taking our coffee he leant across and said :
”
Now tell me
how I was cured!" "
Friend," I replied, "
there are
many questions in this world that must go unanswered.
Yours is one !" In this particular case I felt impressed
not to broach thesubject of psychic matters.
How many incidents connected withthoseyears spent
in the Queen Alexandra Hospital come to my mind, some
of them humorous, but most of them sad! There was
that six—foot Australian who, in delirium, struck me down
in the ward, mistaking me for a German. Even now I
can‘ smilewhen I thinkof theDoctor and two nurses fishing
me out from under a bed. But, strange to relate, I never
felt theblow, nor was therea bruise I Having been given
leave for theremainder of theday to rest my nerves (which
were not affected), I sat in a cinema, rubbing my jaw to
7° PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
make sure it was all there. A little stiffness for a few days
whilst eating was all I noticed from the blow.
Then, again, I remember the officer who blew his
brains out on the staircase, just as I was passing him, the
bullet missing me by a few inches.
The padded room comes to my recollection, where a
Tommy confessed to me the murder of a baby, which he
left in a brown paper parcel in a station. He was handed
over to thepolice, and I heard he died in an asyluma short
time afterwards, but whether or not his story was true, I
cannot say.
Then, last but not Ieast, I remember the three men
who died in my arms.
50 we willlet the curtain drop at the end of the play,
and I find myself wondering what has becomeof all those
who played their little part. Let us trust they have all
reached home I
It was in July, I92I,
when I saluted my commanding
officer for the last time and said "
good—bye." “
I thank
you," he said, “
on behalf of the Army and myself, for
the work you have done here." He presented me with
a travelling clock, subscribed for by the staff of which I
had command. I tried to express my gratitude for the
kindness and sympathyI had received, not only from him
but from thosewho had stood by me in many trying times.
When leaving him he called me back: ”
Johnson," he
said, “
just a moment I I will write you a letter, which I
trust will be a. help to you in your civilian practice upon
which you are now entering."
His letter read :
”
Mr. Percival H. Johnson has been
doing duty as masseur and electro-therapeutist at the
Queen Alexandra Military Hospital since September,
I9I4, and I have much pleasure in bearing testimony to
his zeal, skilland indefatigableattention to his duties. He
has only lost two and a half days during the whole of the
war and post—war periods, and has gained the confidence
and affection of all his fellow workersand patients. I wish
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 71
theKing many such servants.
”
(Signed) C. M. PILCHER, Colonel,
July 9th, I92] . Consulting Surgeon to theArmy.
Having been clemobilisedon Zlst September, 1921,
I was, as I have said, called up again within a week, to
serve on the Pensions, and was sent to the Tooting Neu-
rotic Hospital. This was, unfortunately for me, night
work, and meant thatI had to rest during the day and was
cut off from my familysitting on Tuesday evenings.
In the Spring of I924 I obtained my final discharge
from I
the Army. Thereafter private work was fairly
plentiful and kept me employed, and I was able to return
to my circle, which delighted me after so much inter-
ruption.
72 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
OUR HOME CIRCLE
In thischapter I want to speak about the home circle.
It must be remembered that in any work that was done,
both in the rescuing of patients and in medical diagnosis,
the home circle was the source and pivot of the strength
supplied. At times it becamea confessional,where many
sad stories of wasted lives were unfolded; at others it was
a platform from which many an eloquent address was de-
livered, or yet again, a surgery where medical matters were
discussed.
It is true that I was the medium, but where should I
have been without the support and strengthof those who
surrounded me from week to week? My brotherwas not
only the Chairman and founder of the circle, but through
his love, sympathy and desire to help us all, the main-
spring of all the work. The notes and record of every
sitting over a period of years willalonestand as a memorial
to his energy and zeal. He developed my mediumship,
and I owe him much.
It is not my intention to say a great deal about my
friend Ernest Meads, as I have already written about our
work together in my book LOOKING BACK, and his own
book, THE WHITE LOTUS, contains much more. Those
of my readers who are acquainted with these two books
will know and understand what his friendship meant to
me. Much of the work I have been able to do has been
accomplished under his protection and care. Time after
time, when I have been controlled in the street and in
public buildings, he has stood by me and protected me
from the public gaze, therebysaving me from theindignity
of being considered intoxicated. I could give many in-
stances when I might have been in sad trouble caused by
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 73
violent controls had it not beenfor my friend,and for many
years he sat at my side in our familycircle.
Our circle consisted of my brother and his wife, my
own wife and myself, Ernest Meads, my niece, who made
the notes, and my nephew. In after years, a vacant seat
was caused by thepassing of my wife, and later still, the
transition of my sister-in-law caused another. These
seats, even to the present day, have never been filled.
One Sunday evening, during the service at a Wes-
leyan Church, I saw John Wesley standing near the front.
This was in the early stages of my mediumship, and I
wondered at the time why he should have shown himself
to me, and later, when he made his presence known in our
circle. We were the fourth generation of our family to
beassociatedwithMethodism,and thisfactmay have con-
tributed towards it, but whateverthereason may havebeen,
John Wesley's offices in connection with the circle have
been entirely connected withthespiritual side of thework.
For some time he only spoke brieflyat the close of a meet-
ing, beforepronouncingtheBenediction,but in more recent
years he has given long addresses and sermons.
Black Hawk, my Indian guide of whom I have
spoken, acted as protector or doorkeeper, no-one entering
the circle without his sanction, and Doctor Haslem was
always the principal speaker. It would be impossible to
speak with too much gratitude of the help rendered by the
Doctor, by whom so many sufferers have been aided.
The reader will understand why I withhold names
when mentioning visitors to our circle. Many came with
sad stories of misspent lives, others with a desire to rectify
their mistakes.
My own father, who had faithfully protected me
during theearly stages of my development, was the first to
speak through me whilst I was in trance. This was an
expression of gratitude for the united love and service of
thefamily.
It is surprising to see what love and prayer can do to
help the many in the Spirit World who are in trouble, but
74 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
thecircle must be conducted on spiritual Iines. One often
has cause for regret, when seeing how frequently those
who might be the means of helping and comforting many
in distress, are seeking after material things. I have often
returned home after a meeting, feeling sad about things
that I have heard said on the platform, and thinking“
If
only they could realise how many thousands are calling
out :
‘
Oh, that I knew where I might find Him I’ "
One evening, whilst we were sitting in circle, a spirit
came through, saying: "
I ask you to pray for one who
needs to find thatwhich he knew not when on earth . . .
I have sought it and now come through this medium to
plead forgiveness for the destruction of the temple of my
earthly body." After the circle had prayed, a woman
came, who said :
"
I come to thank you for your help to
one whom I Iove—-my husband. The trial has taught me
much, and above all, the realisation of the nearness of
the Master in the day of trouble."
On another occasion, we had a man come who said :
“
I am an Egyptian, and my earthlylife was stained with
blood. I have sent many innocent peopleout of thebody.
I would now kneel and ask for pardon, thatI may find that
which is higher. Pray, not only for me, but for all who
have the ruling and control of hundreds."
It appears from this and many similar experiences
that we have had, that confession must be made in order
thatthe distressed soul may rise to higher things.
But it must not be thought that our circle was only a
confessional. At times, we had some lovely stories told,
that uplifted and strengthened us. One of these came
from a musician, well known in musical circles, who told
us the following :
"
I was musical, and my fatherand mother, deeming
it God's Will thatsuch talent as I had should be developed
to its greatest capacity,spent all the money that could be
spared upon my education and musical training. I had
the best that my parents could afford.
“
We lived in a small house in a northern suburb of
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND, MEMOIRS 75
London, and after the day's work was done, my mother
would take her Bible and sit by the window, to catchthe
last gleam of light by which to read. At her request I
closed the day by playing her favourite hymn, ‘
When I
survey theWondrous Cross.’ I often returned home tired
after my studies, but never too tired to playwhen she asked
me.
‘ ‘
With thepassing of theyears, I saw thatshe whom
I loved most on earthwould soon be called away from me,
but I tried to close my eyes to the fact. At thistime I was
organist at a college, and also gave lessons, and at last the
day came when I received the message
‘
Come at oncee
Mother dying.’ I hastened home, and as I entered her
room, she held out her hand and in a feeblevoice requested
me to play the old hymn she loved so much.
“
Afterwe had laid her earthlyremains in the grave,
I turned my face towards a world that seemed empty and
void. Unable to facetheold home, I made my way to the
college. The sun was setting at the close of a beautiful
'
day, and as I opened thechapel door to enter, I saw a boy
passing, and asked him to blow the organ for me.‘ Yes,
sir,’ he replied, ‘
but the light is poor.’ '
Never mind the
light,’ I said, and went up the stairs to the old organ seat.
I placed my hands on the keys withonly one thought-—-"of
the one I had loved and thought lost. Presently there
came the old meIody—' When I survey the Wondrous
Cross,' but it was not I thatplayed it, but mother, through
me I"
Thecommunicatingspiritgave his name as
' '
Farmer,'
and it is interesting to note thata John Farmerwas organist
at Harrow School, and whilst there wrote an oratorio en-
titled "
Christ and His Soldiers." All who have heard
this work will rememberthe beautifulsetting of the hymn
"
When I survey the Wondrous Cross "
as a tenor solo.
In my early musical days, I played in the Farmer
Festival at the Crystal Palace. We rendered this oratorio
in the afternoon and his “
Hymn of Praise "
in the even-
ing, with a choir from Nottingham. At a later date we
I
76 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
repeated "
Christ and His Soldiers "
at the Alexandra
Palace, and on that occasion I played the viola, which
placed me in the centre of the orchestra. At one time
during the performance I was so carried away with emo-
tion thattheconductor leaned forward and asked me which
of us was conducting. It occurred to me afterwards that
'
Farmer had probably taken hold of me.
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 77
RESCUE WORK IN THE STREETS OF
THE CITY OF LONDON
As I have already stated, thekeys to all spiritual con-
tact are love and sympathy,and no work can be done with-
out them. Love governs all, and thereare many who have
that love only where they have left it. ‘
For where a
man's treasure is, there will his heart be also." A man
who passes on with a strong earthly love or passion is
blind to all else, and thework of thecircle lies in attracting
that man with sympathetic feeling, and prevailing upon
him to look higher.
Let us take the case of one who has a love for drink
when on the earth plane. He returns to the place where
he built up his intemperate habits, to see others do like-
wise, and he experiences pleasure thereby. It can be
readily understood that a mediumistic person takes great
risks when he or she enters a public house !
There are many ways by which men and women
buildup earthlyloves and become '
earth—bound,' as that
state -is called when, after death, they return in order to
enjoy through others those things they did whilst here.
Take for example theaccumulationof money. When this
is done with a pure motive—to care for thosewho are de-
pendent upon us, or to provide for themwhen we ourselves
pass on——then there is nothing un-Christian in so doing.
This is not love of money, but love for those to whom we
wish to bring comfort and security, and frequently entails
much self-sacrifice. But those who hoard money with
miserly or selfish motives, frequently becomeearth—bound
after passing out of the body, and spirits of this type can
cause much trouble by hauntingtheoflices and warehouses
of our big cities, or the placewhere that money was accu-
mulated or hoarded.
78 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
I will give an example of this by relating an incident
that happened in our family circle. We often received
instructions to go to various places, and one night I was
told to go into the City of London with Mr. Meads. All
who know the City with its high—ways and bye—ways
crowded withthosewho sell and buy,will understand how
much courage I had to muster in order to go there with a
view to giving myself up to control in such surroundings.
I must confess that I did not like the idea at all and would
have avoided thetask had I been able. Nevertheless, the
experience gave me an insight that few are privileged to
have into certain conditions in the Spirit World.
A day and time were fixed for our visit, and knowing
the risk I was running, I expressed a wish that we should
first of all go to St. Paul's Cathedralto ask for Divine help
and protection. After a short time spent in this way, we
crossed the road to Cheapside. In this crowded street it
was not easy to put myself into the necessary passive con-
dition, and we had reached the corner of Wood Street be-
fore a spirit controlled me. It must be rememberedthat
Wood Street is the great market for the drapery trade,
and its warehouses receive merchandise from all parts of
England. At the corner of the street I was seized by a
very strong control, and my friend pushed me into a door-
way and enquired his identity.
“
Do you want a parcel of gloves?" said thecontrol.
"
I have a line that is not only good but cheap." “
But,
friend,” said Meads, “
you are surely not thinkingabout
gloves now? Do you realise that you are in the Spirit
World, and speaking through the body of an earthly
man?"
9
“
I know what I am doing,’ said the control, “
and
it may surprise you to know that I find I can still control
my business, to some extent, through the mediumship of
a member of my staff, who will buy what I impress him
19
to.
l\/leads talked to him at some length,directing him to
higher things. The control gave the name of a well-
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 79
known glove firm, and said he was the founder. My
friend checked up on thisinformation,and learned thathe
had passed on some forty years previously. Afterall this
time, he was still following his earthlylove, and trying to
do business in Wood Street, Cheapside !
We passed up the street, and every few yards l was
controlled by first one and then another, the details of
which would merely weary the reader, but it is interesting
to note that in every case the desire of the spirit was to
carry on, or help in, the making of money, or to influence
in some way the firm that had employed or been owned
by him.
There was one case, however, that differed from the
others. ‘At the end of the street, just as we turned into
Gresham Street, we passed a large depot of Carter Pater-
son, and I was controlled by a spirit who seemed anxious
to know what had become of his horses. We took him
to be one who had in earth life been foreman or overseer
to the stables of Messrs. Carter Paterson. My friend
talked to him and explained that conditions had changed,
and that motors were now used instead of horses.’ He
must have been a man well suited to his work, with a love
of horses that had been the ruling passion of his life and
had caused him to haunt the stables after passing into
spirit.
This new phase of our missionary work gave us both
food for thought. We had had many examples during
our work in so-called “
haunted "
houses of how love~ties
held spirits to their old haunts, and how the home-lover
or enthusiastic house—wife would revisit the home, or a
mother still try to help her children. But the knowledge
that those on the spirit plane will still endeavour to carry
on business and make money came to us as a shock. Yet,
after a little consideration, is it reallyso strange? We each
build our own little temple of love. How many of us
have at some time changed our home and found our minds
drifting back to old conditions? Perhaps we thought of
-the old garden, and wondered if the plants we left behind
80 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
were receiving the care that we ourselves bestowed on
them. And how often, in a foreign land, has the old re-
frain been sung:
“
Think of the old friends at home !"
Most of us like to look back into the past, and is it not
reasonable to suppose that this desire still exists in the
next world? As an artist, upon completing a picture, will
placeit in a different light for a final examination, so shall
we view our earth life when we pass on. And if thatlife
shows a sole desire to make and accumulate money, is it
not probable thatthatdesire will survive thechange called
‘ ‘
death?' '
There is another side to the question. Some look
back on selfish and wasted lives, and I regret to say I have
found thousandsof these, not onlyin the City of London,
but wherever else I have gone.
IVIeads and I visited the City many times, and were
surprised and interested at what we found there. I often
wondered what the passers-by thought about it I Picture
us on a warm summer afternoon standing in front of the
RoyalExchange, and myself beingcontrolled by a solicitor
who had a sad story to tell. The tears ran down his face,
as he confessed to having robbed a widow by a billof
excessive costs. He related how, in the spirit world, he
had been led to see the injury he had done, how he had
been taken to the very home he had robbed andseen its
poverty, and then been shown the large sum total of his
own estate.
"
Friends,” he cried, "
I am in Hell !" I
say again, I wonder what the public thought, seeing my
friend praying over a poor soul in front of the Royal
Exchange!
This was only one of many such cases. Of course,
professional men have many temptations thatdo not assail
ordinary individuals, but when one considers that they
usually have University or College educations, an advant-
age not shared by their less fortunate brothers, one cannot
help feeling thattheyshould use thatadvantage to thebest
of their ability. Moreover, many have said in confession
that their own remorse is not so hard to bear as having to
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 81
witness thegriefof thosetheyleave behind,and thestigma
attached to them. The man who blew out his brains in a
cab came with the same tale. He thought the secret of
his life had died withhim, but his last actionmade things
worse. He saw his home sold up, his children despising
him, fleeing to strange lands, trying to hide their identity
under false names. He likened his sin of suicide to the
act of throwinga stone into a pond, and the ripples ever
widening until they reached the bank. “
Friends," he
said, “
the pond is large and thebanks far distant !”
Ernest Meads found it diflicult to deal with many of
these souls. As I have said, many were educated men
with University degrees and knew as much, if not more,
of theteachingsof OrthodoxReligion as we did. A num-
ber of them came to the familycircle, in the quietness of
which we were better able to advise them than we had
been in theturmoil of a City street.
One fact that impressed us strongly during all these
experiences was how frequently those who came, earth-
bound and seeking salvation, had been rich or prosperous
when on earth. We did not often encounter those who
had been poor, and came to the conclusion that in all
probabilitythey had found the earth life so little to their
liking thattheyhad no desire to approachus. We began
to realise thetruth of the Master's remarkto His disciples
concerning the rich young man who came to Him :
"
It is
easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than
for a rich man to enter into theKingdomof God."
Before leaving this account of our experiences in the
City, I wish to mention two interesting cases.
On one of our journeys, Meads and I were standing
at the corner of Cheapside opposite the Mansion House, at
about mid-day. Down a side street, against a blank wall,
was a bookstall belongingto Messrs. Stonehams. I men-
tioned to my friend how, in my younger days, I would
often stand at that particular stall and read scraps from
various books, and so we found ourselves wandering in.
that direction. I picked up a book as I had so often done
82 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
before, and was gradually controlled by one who said he
was a solicitor. My friend asked him if he fully realised
he was in the Spirit World, and why he was standing
about the City streets. “I am not standing about the
streets," he replied, “
l am working in the Court." it
appeared thatwe were close to theside wall of theMansion
House Police Court, in which, he told us, he had worked
for years, prosecuting and defending. He was an eloquent
speaker, and his work became the ruling passion of his
life, so much so, that after passing over he returned to
the Court, and had found a medium through whom he
could speak and inspirewithas much eloquenceas he him-
self had possessed. He appeared quite happy, and Meads
asked him if he thoroughlyunderstood the nature of his
medium's cases, as there was the risk of doing a lot of
harm. This fact did not seem to worry him—his sole
interest was his medium's eloquence.
My friend tried to point him to higher things, but to
no avail, and in discussing the matter afterwards we both
came to the same conclusion—thatthis spirit would not
progress untilhis mediumhad also passed over. We could
not help wondering how many thousandsthere were like
him. I
There is a very valuablelesson that we both learned
during our work in the City that I should like to pass on
to others. Some of those who tried to help "showed a
friendly spirit and often gave us financial advice. We
were told to buy this, that and the other, and whilst we
did not doubt thatthe advicewas well-meant and given as
a return for the help we tried to render, we never took
advantage if it, as we had no money we could afford to
play with and, most probably, lose. We wondered why
they should do this, and recalled cases of people who had
beenruined by takingbusiness advice given from theSpirit
World. Considering the cases with which we had dealt,
we came to theconclusionthatthesphereof actionof these
spirits is limited, much of their experience beingconfined
to thelife of the medium, and thatit is impossiblefor them
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 83
to keep up-to-date with the ever-changing money market
unless the medium has done so. If the spirit is ignorant
of essential facts, his advice, though probably given
kindly, is unreliable. The following case may explain
this more fully.
One afternoon my friend and I went into the neigh—
bourhood of the Stock Exchange, and whilst in Copthall
Court I was controlled by a man who said he had been a
stockbroker. Upon enquries, Meads learned thathe quite
understood he was using the body of another man, had
done so before, and hoped to do so again. He said that
in the earth life he had so loved the Exchange with its
bustle and excitement, that he was always the first in the
office in the morning, and regretted having to leave in the
evening. Meads spent some time in trying to get him to
look to somethinghigher, but he seemed to be enjoying
conditions as he found them and, like so many more
cases with which we had dealt, was quite contented and
had no desire for other things. After prayer had been
said and we were leavinghim, he turned and said :
"
You
are very decent people-—I will put you on to something
good." He mentioned some South Wales Mining Shares
and told us we could get them at par.
Some months after this incident I ‘became acquainted
with a stockbroker's clerk, and mentioned these shares to
him. He said his firm did not deal in mining shares, but
gave me thename of one that dealt with little else. Feel-
ing that I should like to carry the investigation further, I
went one day to thefirm in question and was received very
kindlyby an elderlyman, who was head partner. He told
me to be very careful in taking advice relating to these
things,and said he had a considerablenumberof theshares
mentioned, purchased by his fatherand left to him. “
At
that time," he said, “
these shares caused considerable
attention and stood at a high price, but a day came when
the mining concern smashedup. That is many years ago,
but I still have the shares, and if you'd like one to light
your pipe with, you are welcome I I keep them as a
84 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
9
memento of a time when I lost a lot of money.’
Now, why did this spirit advise us to buy shares in a
concern that had been ruined and wound up? I feel that
the answer is that he did not know of the failure of the
mine, and was merely passing on to us what he knew at
the time of his death. It is impossible for these spirits
to keep in touch with the financial world and its many
activities, hence the risk that so many-peopleon earth run
when theytrust too implicitlyin thebusiness advice given
them through mediums.
Having read the foregoing account of some of our
experiences with earth-bound spirits, the reader may find
the question arising in his mind as to how an earthly
medium can help them. This is difficult to explain, but
the fact that time and again they came back to thank us
for our prayers and intercession proves thatthey do derive
help thereby. Much has been written on this subject by
writers who are better qualified to deal with it than I, but
I may mention that rescue work can be done only by
mediums of special aptitude. Sympathyand courage are
essential, with absolute faith in one's guides, also the
necessary strength of mind and will to throw off condi-
tions afterwards. Then, with God's help, much can be
done to make our world a better place and to free many
poor souls from bondage and earth ties.
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 85
THE NEED FOR FORGIVENESS EMPHASISED
BY AN UNEXPECTED INCIDENT
One evening, after a visit to the City, we joined the
home circle and Wesley addressed those spirits who had
evidently followed us home. '
"
It is, as always," he said, “
a pleasure to be here.
I wonder on what lines I can speak to attract the attention
of those around. I find in the‘Old Book several tales of
beauty. There have beenblacknessand hardship, as well
as much unkindness that need to be forgotten in the lives
of thosewho stand unseen around me now.
“
One may well be surprised at the artistic quality
shownby theauthorsof the Scriptures, and thereare many
points that are studied by the writers and novelists of to—
day. Many modern themes are taken from those of the
Bi|ble—letus look at one !
“
The evening is drawing to a close after a hot, sultry
Eastern day. The Master, tired after His day of mission
work, sits by the wayside of a village and the children
come out to play. They are very ordinary children, not
unlike your own. There are chasings and the cry of
‘
You are not playing fair,’ and then a tussle and handi-
cuffs. There is, of course, the bully——there always is a
bully in the gathering. He gets on a mound and cries
'
I'm king of the castle,’ and anothertries to mount, crying
'
Come down, you dirty rascal !'
‘ ‘
The day is drawing to a close. Are you not feeling,
all you who gatheraround, feverish and tired with theex—
citement of the game? Have you noticed there is Someone
sitting by the wayside? He has been watching you, men
of business, you who have dealt in stocks and shares.
Your minds have been concentrated on the game and the
86 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
fight for supremacy. Have you forgotten the man sitting
under the tree yonder? Listen—He is speaking !—Come
unto Me, all ye thatare weary and heavy-laden, and I will
give you rest‘. Can you hear Him? You who find you
are the king of the castle, what has the game cost? Re-
member,friends, He called the children from their games
~
and, taking them on His knee, He blessed them. The
night is now far spent, but rememberthere is room at His
knee for you ! Amen."
Then followed this prayer by Cardinal Newman :
"
Lead, kindly Light, lead Thou us on amidst
encircling gloom. The road is rough and we are far
from home. However rough it may be, and we know
it is, lead Thou us on o'er moor and crag to thosewhom
we loved and lost awhile. Help us by Thy Holy Spirit
now and for evermore. Amen."
-.-.
it is interesting to note how Wesley and Cardinal
Newman spoke at the same meeting, being one more
proof amongst so many that in the Spirit World there are
no conflictingcreeds amongst the servants of the Master,
but only love for Him.
I should like to record another address given by
Wesley at the home circle, after one of our City tramps,
on May 8th, 1934.
Addressing the unseen crowd that was evidently
around us, he said :
"
Now friends, I want to say a few words to you on
a recorded incident that occurred after the death of the
Master. l speak of the time when the two disciples were
joined by the unrecognised Presence during their walk to
Emmaus.
" ‘
Did not our hearts burn withinus as He talked to
us on the way?’ I have often wished during my earthly
life that we had more detail of the words which brought
the disciples such joy and comfort, but the fact remains
that He made their hearts burn within them. Evidently
some marvellous things were said that have since been
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 87
lost. Here we find two men who have just passed through
the awful experience of losing thebodilypresence of their
nearest and dearest Friend, and the world is dark and
lonely. We can imagineone saying to the other :
‘
Have
we been true friends and disciples?’ and while they talk
a Stranger joins them, to Whom theysay :
‘
Oh, have you
heard the news ?' And they tell Him about Himself!
How at the close of a day He sat under a tree resting, and
the childrencame running about in their play, and some,
thinkingit would disturb Him, bade the childrenbe quiet
and go away, but He said: No! Suffer the children to
come unto Me, and He took them up in His arms and
blessed them.
' '
They go on to tell Himhow He had healedthesick,
restored sight to the blind, and even raised the dead to
life. '
Oh, Stranger, we have lost a Friendindeed ! We
tried to save Him at the end, but could do nothingbut
pray. We thoughtat one time thatour prayers would be
answered, because Pilate said: “I can find no fault in
Him," but the mob cried: “
Away with Him, crucify
Him, give us Barabbas I" '
And the Stranger replies:
‘
ls not the law of life Love? And don't you think He
heard your prayers? Was not your presence on theedge
of the crowd a comfort to Him? Does not Love numb
pain and overrule an angry crowd?’ And He vanishes
flrlomtheirsight, leavingthemwithhearts thatburn within
t em.
“
Have you noticed, friends, that the first thing the
Master did was to come back to His loved ones to soothe
them in their agony when the world was at its darkest?
Now, does some empty oflice chair claim you? ls there
an echo of some old app1ause—some monument—some
biography? We think that there are many like the dis-
ciples of old, who are trying to find their way home to
Emmaus at the close of this earthlyday, those who find
the way hard and stoney, those who are lonely and sad.
Oh, friends, leave the attractions of the old earthly life!
Be the stranger to those who are sick and faint, and there
88 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
- willcome to you avoicesaying : Inasmuchas ye have done
it unto the least of these My brethren,ye have done it unto
Me I"
* it *
From the beginning of my development, the whole
of my mediumship has been on the lines of rescue and
missionary work, and such has always been my wish. In
my book, LOOKING BACK, l have told how 1 dedicated my
powers to the Master's use under the trees in Hyde Park,
and that pledge l have always kept. l have never been a
popular medium, nor has there been any humorous side
to my meclriumship. I have met many who have been
very entertaining in their mediumistic work, but such has
not been the case with me. I have frequently tried hard
to be unemotionalboth on the platform and in the private
circle, but have often finished by leaving my company in
tears.
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 89
quite unknownto him, who lived in a house facingI-lamp-I
stead Heath. She had heard that he was a lecturer on
Spiritualism, and said thatshe herself knew nothingabout
it. She told him thatfacingher house was a pondin which
a poor soul had committed suicide, and she was sure that
the spirit of this woman was visiting her and walkingher
house. She asked for IVIeads’s help and guidance in the
matter.
My friend showed me theletter, and after a little talk
we felt the only thingto be done was to go to the house
and find this poor soul. An appointment having been
arranged, Meads and I journeyed to the haunted house,
where we met our hostess, who was a widow and seemed
to bein very comfortable circumstances.
Every effort was made to find the spirit of the poor
suicide, but without success, so it was at last suggested
thatwe should all threetake hands whileI gave myself up
to control. Aftera few minutes a very strong control took
me, giving thename of John, withan accurateand detailed
description of himself, which, with other data, proved his
identity to be that of my hostess's husband. She, of
course, was very pleased, and asked him if he was happy.
”
Yes,"he said, "
but Iwant you, dear, to go to your
home."
"
Oh, John I How can you ask me to do thatwhen
you know how we have suffered?"
After I had come out of trance, our hostess explained
to us that her father had been very opposed to their mar-
riage, and one night, in a fit of temper, had turned them
both out of thehouse and slammed the door in their faces,
in consequence of which theyhad been faced mith many
hardships. ”
That is only a few years ago," she said,
“
and since then I have lost my husband. We always
agreed we would never go near or see any of my people
again. Now he comes back and says
‘
Go home I’ "
“
Well," said Meads, “
it seems to me thatyour line
of action is quite clear—you must go home. It is your
husband's wish."
90 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
"
No, I never will,"she replied. "
I willstand alone
to the end, and never face any of them again. Oh, how
we have suffered !"
We left our hostess in great distress, and went away
from thehouse withouthaving found thepoor woman who
had committed suicide. When we were well clear of the
house, I turned to l\/leads and asked him what he thought
of it all. “
I don’t know what to think,"he said, “
but I
am sure of one thing—thatshe wishes she had never seen
us. Let’s go and have a cup of tea at the nearest tea-
shop and forget it all I" This we did, little thinkingwe
had just left one of our most interesting and convincing
sittings.
A week or two later we received a letter from our
hostess at Hampstead, saying that she had reconsidered
her decision and felt she could not rest until she had been
home. She went on to say that she had been, and upon
reaching there, found her fatherdying and longing to see
her. Before passing, he asked her to forgive him, which
she did. A few days later a wreath, marked with his
daughter’sname and her love, lay on a newly-madegrave.
The foregoing incident may be regarded in various
ways, but however we view it, there still stands out the
emphasis laid on the necessity of forgiving and making
peace. _]ohn must have suffered much, and was doubtless
quite rightly indignant at the treatment he and his wife
had received from her father. He probably felt it all even
more keenly at the time of his passing, and yet in a com-
paratively short time he comes back desiring his wife to
go home! Why should he have done this? There can
be no other answer than thatthe unfortunatecircumstance
was holding him down, also his desire to save others from
a like condition.
How many, in the course of theirlives, have repeated
theLord's Prayer, withthe sentence
“
Forgive us our tres-
passes as we forgive them that trespass against us,"‘ and
yet it has become a mere form of words that have lost
theirmeaningby frequent repetition. As theMaster hung
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 91
on the Cross, He said : Father, forgive them, for they
know not what theydo ! How many times, in theinvesti-
gation of Spiritualism, have I met withhatred and malice,
and how many have I seen passing on with slates un-
cleaned! To all who may read these lines, I pray you
stop and thinkin theturmoilof life, and let therebewritten
on thewalls of every home theword FORGIVE.
92 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
UNFORGETTABLE AND ILLUMINATING
EXPERIENCES IN BRIGHTON
The year 1937, when Ernest Meads passed suddenly
into the Spirit World, was a time not to be forgotten by
the home circle nor myself. It caused a blank which we
could not fill. I personally look back on many years of
loving companionship and help, and without that friend-
ship theserecords would never have beenwritten. Meads
was the strong man who lived to serve his Master, and it
mattered not to him what the surroundings or conditions
were. The crowded street or market place were just as
sacred to him as the placeof prayer, the quiet of the great
cathedral, or the lonely country church. He felt the call
of theMaster—‘ ‘
Co ye into thehighwaysand byways and
compel them to come in I”
There comes to my mind the memory of one dark
night when we stood side by side on theend of the Palace
pier at Brighton. The saloon was brilliantlyilluminated
and from the distance came the sound of dancing and the
shouts of the show-holders around, but in the darkness of
the landing stage came the cry of a poor soul :
"
God be
merciful to me, a sinner." It came from a control—a
London barmaid, who, one night, had dropped a parcel
into thesea containing her newly-bornchild.
The band ‘still played while the dancers whirled
round, and the coloured lights flickered in the evening
breeze, when two tired men made their way home to their
lodging. “
God save the King "
came faintly from the
distant ball-room, but from our hearts came a prayer:
“
God save Madge !" The night was dark and the sea
rough, but we felt therewas rejoicingamongst the angels
in Heaven over a repentant sinner, and that poor Madge,
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 93
weary and calling for help, would not be refused entry.
Many visitors to Brighton are familiarwith the walk
along the Eastern Parade where, from thePalacePier and
Aquarium, the ground gradually rises to a cliff. Looking
back from thegrassy plateau, thewhole of Brighton Town
lies at one's feet. Black Rock has brought many a tired
city worker peace and quiet as he has listened to the voice
of thesea which breaks amid therocks at its base. Meads
and I have stood many times at this spot, remembering
how those who felt they were unable to face the future
have dashed theirbodies on therocks below. Theunmar-
ried and expectant mother, perhaps—the deserted lover,
the thief,the bankrupt—some of those to whom life had
become unbearable. There, among the beauties of
Nature, we have found their spirits tied to the place of
their passing.
My friend said it was very sad to listen to the various
controls, but he could not help feeling that in many cases
theirconditionwas not entirelytheirown fault. It seemed
to him thata little kindness and forbearanceshown to them
during their earth life might have saved much of what we
found on BlackRock. Is it possiblethatsome of us, when
we pass into spirit, may have to face a charge of murder
throughneglectingto be kind here? Certainly, my experi-
ence in the rescue work has shown me a great possibility
of thisbeingso.
i ‘
I am glad I am not theirJudge !" said
Ernest Meads.
Upon this occasion Wesley gave one of his finest ad-
dresses, lasting about twenty minutes. Notes were taken
at the time, but much to theregret of all concerned, many
records, amongst which were these, were lost at the time
of my friend's death.
We found a great deal of haunting in Brighton——
spirits shill clinging to their old lustful and intemperate
lives. I suppose it is only to be expected in a town that
is within easy reach of London, and a popular seaside
resort. One cannot shut one's eyes to the danger of such
spinits who return to try to enjoy their earthly appetites
94 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
through others, as we are all more or less mediumistic.
It is a danger that this generationshould understand, and
shows thegreat need for a greater insight into Spiritualism.
To illustrate my meaning more fully I will give you
an instance. We were leaning on a hand rail, looking
out to sea. The light was just beginning to fail when I
was controlled by an old Army Captain—an officer of the
Bodyguard during the Regency Period when the Court
visited thePalace, now known as theRoyal Pavilion. He
still seemed to be dwelling on the good time he had had
whilst in the body, and had much to say concerning
women and wine. In conversation with this spirit, who
spoke at some length,Ernest Meads gained some valuable
information. After urging him to let his thoughts dwell
on higherthings,he asked him how it was thatsuch attrac-
tions of the flesh should still appeal after so many years
had elapsed. The Captain told him that alcohol fre-
quently furnished a condition for control, so much so that
the spirit of a like nature could not only get the flavour of
the drink but also join in theconversation. This may be
the explanationof why an intoxicated man will often talk
above his own mentality and sometimes give expression to
opinions that he would not hold normally. We have all
known or heard of cases where a man would be a com-
pletely different personality from his normal self whilst
under the influence of drink, and it is not unusual for a
man, when sober, to deny the things he has said whilst
intoxicated, having, we assume, no recollection of having
said them. The information that Meads obtained from
this control led us to believe that the strange things that
may happen when a person is intoxicated can be largely
explained by the influenceof some controlling entity.
My friend next mentioned the subject of immorality.
The control likenedit to a partialityfor sport. The young,
he said, join in various games which theyenjoy,but as the
body a vances in age they can no longer take an active
part, although the love of the game continues. So they
look on, still enjoying the game and feeling the old thrill
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 95
of youth. This information was a great help to us both
when, on other occasions, we visited the Royal Pavilion,
where we found a very undesirable and distressing state of
haunting. The Court went there to have a good time,
and they certainly seem to have had it! We found that
one of the chief reasons for the trouble was the desire to
get into royal favour, which alone brought to us many
confessions of blackmail,bribery and forgery. Women
of title stood out foremost in this class, and theygave their
names with accounts of their deeds. These names must
of course bewithheld,but at thetimemany officers of high
rank and position were ruined, banishment and sometimes
suicide frequently resulting. The distress of some of
these spirits would be difficult to describe, and it is not
my wish to do so. The servants of these people were
frequently little better than their masters, and here we
found them, all clustered together, trying by confession to
wipe out thepast thatwas holding themdown.
One titled lady tried to materialise in my bedroom
after one of these visits, lbut only succeeded in showing
her arm and hand—the hand which had written the lie
to the ruin of some officer of the Court. This physical
phenomenon lasted some thirty seconds, floatingover my
body in bed, and was one of thevery few cases of physical
phenomenaI have experienced, theothersoccurring in the
early years of my development, probably to strengthen
my faith.
Again I have to regret the loss of many notes of
addresses and prayers thatwere given on these occasions.
One early evening we turned our way homeward.
It had been a time of very strange experiences, full of in-
terest and bringing us considerable information of value.
As we approached the terminus at the top of West Street,
Wesley controlled and withoutstretched hand pronounced
the Benediction. “
God bless Brighton," said Ernest
Meads, to which I said "
Amen."
96 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
FROM DOVER CASTLE TO
CANTERBURY CATHEDRAL
To give a detailed account of all the towns and vil-
lages which my friend and I visited would take up con-
siderable space, but we had a host of experiences similar
to those related in thelast chapter.
I look back on a most enjoyable sojourn in Kent,
during which we visited many of the surrounding towns
and villages. One of our visits was to Dover Castle,
where we expected to find many spirits still clinging to
their old associations. But we walked about the battle-
ments for some time withoutfeeling anythingin the nature
of haunting. Thiswas surprising, and I began to wonder
if the fault lay withme and that somethingwithin myself
was preventing it.
We were wandering round the walls when we came
to a hole which opened on the slopes outside. And here
a control took me, saying :
"
I am an old soldier andwas
here in the time of Charles I. They were rougher times
then, and we often caroused in thebanquet—haIl you have
visited. But there was little vice, for we were alwaysin a
state of warfare here———armed and ready for work in case
of an attack. Nor were women allowed here. Whatever
vice we indulged in was not associated with this place,
but in the town and surrounding villages. But things
were different in those castles where the King and his
Court lived. Luxury and vice were rampant there. I
know, for I was stationed for a time in one of them. This
hole was made in case escape should be necessary, and
here we threw much of our refuse."
Whilst having tea, however, in a small hotel nearby,
I saw clairvoyantlya facein a glass menu—hoIder, and this
‘I
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 97
revealed a condition of hauntingwhich took us some little
time to deal with.
During our stay in Hythe, we were sitting overlook—
ing thetown one day, and close to us was a very finegrove
of trees. l was speculating as to how it came there, when
I went under contol. It was not very clear who the conn
trol was, but Meads assumed him to be Dr. Haslem.
“
You have been speculating as to how this grove
came into existence," he said. "
There was a parent tree
somewhere in the neighbourhood, perhaps at some little
distance, and birds which had fed upon the fruit congre-
gated on this spot and evacuated. In certain cases the
vital germ of theseed had not beendestroyed by thediges-
tive juices, and passed with the excrement of the birds,
falling on a favourable soil and taking root. Nourished
by the atmosphere, the seeds grew into saplings, some of
which developed into the trees you see now. It would be
much the same if human excrement were scattered on the
ground. Wild tomatoes, for instance, might result in
cases where the vital germ had escaped the destruction of
the gastric juices. It is a symbol of the indestructibility
of Nature and should be a sign to you of the love that is
indestructible that can and will transform and beautify
human nature."
On anotheroccasion we went to look at old Saltwood
Castle, and whilst sitting on the grassy slopes that sur—
round it, a control took me.
"
l was a Frenchman," he
said, "
and came over here as falconer to the Lord of the
Castle. l was a spy and in touch withthe Pope. At the
time of which I am speaking,thiswas an important Castle,
being situated between those of Hastings and Dover.
Viewing with dismay the growth of Protestantism, we
hoped to land a force here which should come up the
valley to the Castle. A tunnel was constructed from the
coast to the Castle, and men were smuggled across the
sea." He went on to tell us how, apart from reporting
regularlyto thePope, therewas little for him to do, except
to live a somewhat idle and luxurious life. Although
98 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
great preparations were made, nothing of importance
occurred, and after his time the Castle became a
monastery.
During the afternoon anothercontrol came, who gave
us more details concerning Saltwood Castle. "
1 was the
oflicer of the Keep," he said, "
and the old Keep looked
much as it does to-day. Abbot Mercier ruled the Castle
and the Monastery attached to it. An effort was made
to take the Castles of Hastings and Dover, the intention
being to march on into Canterbury and depose the
Protestant Archbishop. The men were quartered in this
valley and the officers in the Castle, which was strongly
protected. Cross-bowmen were at every porthole and
men in armour guarded the gates. A battle was fought
near Hastings, and efforts were made to take us here, but
they failed, for we passed troops through the tunnel and
attacked them from behind, so that the greater number of
thebesiegerswere slain.''
He told us about the making of the tunnel. It ap-
pears it took twenty years to buildand cost over threehun-
dred lives. To keep its existence a secret, it was neces-
sary to cover the ends, and the men lost their lives owing
to poisonous air. Those who died during its construction
were brought out and buried in the valley. The Castle
has since gone to ruins and the tunnel has fallen in.
Meads and I tried to trace this tunnel, but were unable
to do so. We found a mound of earth that might have
had somethingto do with it, but time had overgrown it
with
ihrulbsand undergrowthand we had to abandon the
searc .
One lovelysummer evening,we sat on a seat just out-
side the churchyard wall of the old HytheParish Church,
watching the sunset. We had had a tiring time in the
church, where many souls had come to us, some in sorrow,
but others with happy reflections they wished to speak
about. We were sitting quietlywhen I went slowlyunder
control, and the controlling spirit turned out to be an old
lady.
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 99
”
I am -an old woman," she said, "
and it was a hard
climb at times up to the church. When I passed from
earth I did not want my name to be remembered, but
wished to leave a token of my thoughts for others, so I
left the seat on which you are sitting, thatothers, old and
feeble, might sit near Cod’s altar and the symbol of His
Love. I had a life of trouble and hardship, Ibut His Love
never failedme—it was with me as a child when I played
amongst the flowers and in the grass, and it was with me
when, as a woman, I faced trials and troubles. Then,
when old age came, He upheld me in my feebleness and
sustained me as I grew infirm. Now again I hear through
mortal ears those old sweet bells. How I love them I I
have stood in themorning light and listened to theirvibra-
tions, and heard their clang in the mid-day sun. I have
stood in the twilightwhen work was over, and listened to
their sweet tones, as they raised my soul to God I Let us
kneel and listen to the call which summons us" to the
loving Presence of Him Who gave us work, peace and
rest. Clang on, oh bells, to all eternity I"
At another time we sat on the grassy slopes at the
back of thetown, watching some sheep under theshadow
of the trees. Another unknown control said :
”
See,
brotherI From the heat of the sun a shade is provided I
Love provides thus for the animal world. Is it not so in
human life? During the conflictof dailyroutine the Holy
Spirit provides a refuge, a calm and peaceful shade. Oh,
Lord, let us rest under theshadow of Thy Wings I"
Whilst sitting on the beachone Sunday afternoon, I
was controlled by the Reverend Lyte (authorof "
Abide
with Me "). “
See I" he said, “
here are stones—some
Ibig, some small, some dull and others bright. Oh, what
illustration of human life have we here! These stones
in my hand are clean—so clean that they would not soil
the purity of even a baby’s hand. The sea ever dashing
its waves over them has rendered them no longer foul.
Some stones never see the sea, but are dirty and covered
with the mud in which they lie. The sea is a great puri—
100 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
fier, though sometimes its waves are rough. So let our
prayer bethatall theUniverse may bedashed by thespray
and purified I In some of these there are no rough edges,
owing to the friction and tossing of the waves, and mark,
too, how they glisten in thesunlight. So, oh Lord, grant
that Thy Holy Spirit may wash every soul of man, that
all, as thesestones on thebeach,may lbewashed clean and
rough edges may be made smooth, even though it be by
theactionof thewaves of adversityandtrial, thusreflecting
the light and thesunshine of Thy Love."
One bright -morning we went into "Canterbury by
coach to spend what proved to be one of the busiest days
we had. Soon after leaving the coachwe were stopped in
front of a shop by a control telling us that in the time of
the Reformationsome young man set fire to a house on the
spot on which we stood. It was the home of a widow
and only son, and they had to flyby the back door from
destruction. It seemed this control was tied to the spot
of his misdeeds, and asked for our prayers that he might
be forgiven.
Soon after this we_ became aware of the presence of
Charles Dickens, but our records do not mention that he
said anythingat thistime, althoughwe have had messages
from him in our home circle. We entered the Cathedral
by the nave, walkingalong the south aisle to the chancel,
then into Trinity Chapel. Here I was controlled by one
who termed himself Edward the Black Prince, and who
spoke thus :
“
Oh, man of the earth, I know thee not, but I feel
there is sympathy,and though I am in no way attached
to this place, I hasten to respond to love. I lived in very
different times from these, hard times, in which everything
worth living for had to be fought for. A symbol of the
times and of my life may be seen in the armour of my
statue. Country, Home, King and Religion had to be
fought for, and lbelieveme, Religion is worth fighting for.
I have beenblessed indeed, for I have seen theFaceof the
Master I"
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 101
Archbishop Tait then greeted us and exhorted us to
pray for peace. He was followed by Thomas 1‘: Becket,
who controlled me whilst I was standing in the north aisle
between the tomb of Henry IV and the chantry built to
his memory.
“
Oh, man of the earth," he said, "
the
chanting of priests availethlittle, but the love of a sympa-
theticheart helpethmuch. It is not thesinging of masses
nor the prayers of priests that can wipe out the sins of life
and wrongs done. I know now, and am striving to wipe
them out by humblehelp to others."
Then followed one who may have beenthespirit who
spoke to us in the town.
“
I am in trouble," he said.
i‘
I helped to burn an old woman's home and am chained
to its door. Thanks, thanks, for your love and the help
it gives.” Then another spirit spoke, and his words
would no doubt have been interesting had they not been
broken off by some people passing quite close to, if not
touching,me. The little he said was this:
"
Mark the «beauty of the colour, the noble architec—
ture I Thinkof the love and labour which brought it into
being, Think of the fighting, of the streams of blood
which ran down the gutters of the city. I lived in times
different from these." We much regretted that this
speaker was interrupted. Whoever he was, there is no
doubt thathe intended to give us some historical informa-
tion. Some others followed, mostly of the confessional
type.
By this time the guides called for a rest, so Meads
took me into the garden and we sat down near the War
Memorial for some time without speaking, until the bell
rang for the service in the Cathedral. In the quiet and
peace of this secluded spot there came these words from
Latimer:
“
Oh bells, ring out that all may hear thee! You
hear the bells calling the people to prayer. One is
cracked,but it serves its purpose. The call is heard and
many respond. Here is a parable of life which, though
warped, may yet be sincere and serves to call people to
102 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
the Master and to remind them of the knowledge of love
which He brought and bestowed on men. Oh, privileged
people, to have such a reminder ! l had no bell, no organ,
to tell me, ‘but in solitude and on my knees I found the
Love of the Master. May my life, though cracked, be
rememberedas an effort to point to HimWho loves us all.' '
Beforewe left our resting placeat theWar Memorial,
there came to me a strong desire to pray aloud. Someone.
uttered a prayer for those who were remembered there,
and thiswas followed by thewords of Cardinal Newman's
hymn, “
Lead, kindlyLight."
After a light lunch, we again returned to the Cathe-
dral, when two addresses were given, one by Archbishop
Tait and the other by Dean Farrar, who will be remem-
bered as the authorof THE LIFE OF CHRIST, and also as
editor of CHATTERBOX,the children’s paper of Victorian
times. Unfortunately, the notes of these two addresses
are also lost.
We then went into theCrypt, where an address was
given us by Oliver Cromwell, who said :
' '
I am pleasedto speakthroughthe‘body of a mortal.
l have seen some of theearlyfights and tussles of England.
We fought for the Bible, for Religion, and for Christian
Faith. Little do the men of -to—day realise their privileges
and what it cost to gain them. I have fought, and others
havefought, bled and laid down theirlives, but therecome
to me His words :
‘
Inasmuch as ye have done it for the
sake of and unto these, my brethren, ye have done it unto
the highest and holiest.’ Praise the Lord, oh, my soul,
and all thatis withinme, praise His HolyName ! I would
praise theLord indeed for all His goodnessand mercy. A
thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy
right hand ! Friend, I have~seen these thousands fall—
some at my right hand and some at my left, not heeding
whether they lived or whether death overtook them—so
theywon theVictory.
“
l see to—day that my life, efforts and desires were
spent in laying the foundations on which the great
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 103
Christian faith is built. So, fniend, enjoy the privileges,
make rich the harvest which the lives and deaths of the
saints have prepared. My desire is that all men should
walk and not stumble. It is written :
‘
He shall give His
Angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways,
lest thou dash thy foot against a stone.’ So trust, and
have all faith to walk the path made for thee with blind,
unquestioning self~sacrificeand love, ready in all things."
So the day, withits experiences, ended with Wesley
giving a verse of thehymn ‘ '
When I survey theWondrous
Cross," and so we returned to our hotel in Hythe, tired.
but feeling thatGod had indeed talkedto us by theway.
I04 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
WITH ERNEST MEADS IN THE ISLE OF WIGHT
One of my most pleasantrecollections is an enjoyable
holiday I spent with my friend Meads in the Isle of Wight
during the year I932. The previous winter had ‘been a
very trying one, not in the sense that it had been severe,
for we had had little frost or snow, and withthe exception
of some easterly gales it might have been called a mild
season. But we had had a bad epidemic of influenza. It
had swept the country, paralizing business arrangements
generally, and leaving behind it many broken family
circles by the number on its deathroll. I was fortunate,
escaping with only three days in bed, but, like many
others, looked and longed for the summer withits warmth
and sunshine.
Expecting there would be a rush for the seaside, I
made an early start, and the first week in June found me
making for the Isle of Wight, and owing to it being so
early in the season, alone. I arrived at Shanklin Station,
and whilst looking for apartments in High Street, I
noticed a cottage with a card in the window. I knocked
at the door, and much to my surprise it was opened by a
haIf~caste Indian woman, evidently of North American
origin. Her broken English was difficult to understand,
but I was ableto gatherthatshe was unable to take me just
then. I also understood that she was very sorry, as ap-
parently she liked me. I thankedher and left the house,
but before I reached the little garden gate, she closed the
door, and, coming after me, touched me on the shoulder
and said: “
Follow me! I see you comfie." Just at
this moment, a big black cloud that had been hanging
over the town burst, and the rain came down in torrents.
I had my macintosh and umbrella and was thus protected,
but she, with only a cotton frock and bare arms and legs,
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 105
was getting soaked. To make matters worse, she was
leadingme across some open ground or fieldto theextreme
north~west of the town. I begged her to return, but all
I could get was
“
No ! Me no afraid.” So she landed
me at a charming little private house in the far north—west
of thetown, where I spent two weeks of comfort and enjoy-
able rest at a moderate fee. I think I can still see that
woman standing at the door of my apartments, with her
darkfeatures, high cheek bones, jet blackhair and flashing
darkeyes, dripping withrain, her soaked skirts clingingto
her body, and an artificial giltbraceleton her wrist. How
often I have wished I could produce on canvas a replica
of her as she stood there, refusing my tip for her kindness,
and raising her hand in prayer or a blessing, which she
spoke in her native language. Then she left me, and with
bowed head turned back into the storm.
I did hope that during my stay in the town I should
see some more of her, but strange to say I never saw her
again. Upon making inquiries I was informed that she
was a strange individual, greatly loved and respected by
those who knew her, but seldom seen about. Being half-
caste, she had met with much persecution in her native
country, America. It seemed she had wonderful healing
powers, and gave her time to restoring thosesuffering with
consumption, meeting with no small success, for which
she charged no fee. Her money came from an unknown
source, and none knewwho her benefactorwas. She was,
I learned, a student of the occult, also a herbalist, and had
knowledge of some of the secret remedies of the Indians.
So I came to the conclusionthata very remarkablewoman
had crossed my path!
I did not hurry to get about the Island, as the house
had a nice garden withshady trees, under which one could
rest in a deck-chair, but even resting can get monotonous
and I began to wish to see somethingmore.
So I started to travel about the Island, and the thing
that struck me most forcibly was the haunted conditions I
encountered in all parts. At times I was quite alone, and
106 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
a nervousness would come over me, making me wonder if
I was wise to be withoutsomeone withme. Whilst walk-
ing round such places as Carisbrooke Castle, Osborne
House, and some of theold parts around Ryde, the near
presence of haunting spirits was somewhat alarming, so
much so that at times I considered packing my bag and
going back home. However, I stayed my two weeks, but
wrote to Meads and told him all about it.
On my return home no time was Idst in giving my
experiences to my friend, and at the family circle my
guides spokeof thedangerous spots I had visited, and how
theirconstant care had beennecessary. Also, some of the
spirits I had encountered there came to the circle asking
prayers and help. It was very certain that I had found a
spot that was sorely in need of rescue work, and we won-
dered what was the best thing to be done. Mrs. Meads
solved theproblem by offering to give up her holiday,and
suggesting that in the near future Ernest and I should
return to the Island and have what she termed “
a good
time !" I am not so sure about the "
good time," but it
was certainly a very busy one I
A week or two later, I was sitting in a train at Water-
loo, withMeads at my side, returning to theIsle of Wight.
By this time it was August. Every place was very full,
but we succeeded in securing a double room with break-
fast at the back of Shanklin village.
I well rememberthe First night. We were both very
tired after thejourney and the search for accommodation.
We turned in about ten o'clock, and Meads, who was the
first in bed, was soon fast asleep. I followed shortly
after, but had no sooner blown out the candle than I saw
the spirit form of a woman standing at theend of thebed.
I called gently: ”
Ernest," but all I got was heavy
breathing, denoting he was fast asleep. I called again,
but withno result, so, feelingit was a shame to wake him
up, I asked the spirit form to come some other time as we
were worn out. I wished her Cuod’s blessing and was
soon asleep myself.
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 107
Whilst dressing the next morning, I told my friend
about it, and as I was recording the event, the spirit sud—
denly controlled me. It seemed that in some part of the
house were a young couple and a baby. The spirit was
the grandmother,who wished us to inform them thatshe
knew all about the child and had kissed it. As we knew
nothingabout the other inmates of the house, we did not
know what to do. The woman was right, however, be-
cause as we were going out after breakfast we passed a
young mother in the hall tucking her baby up in a pram
to take it out. On returning at night we found thatthey
had returned to London thatafternoon, so what might have
been an -interesting experiencecame to naught.
We were very much struck by what I willcall ‘ ‘
small
controls "
thatwe encountered all over the IsIand——those
who just wished to make themselves known and to say
that they were alright. At God's I-Iill we found an old
woman who thought she was still sitting in the porch of
her cottage, and we had to listen to details of all her
children. In the same village, by the gate of a field,
was a man who could not find his cows.
“
Why trouble
about cows now?” said my friend, but from what he told
us we gathered that his sole thought during his life had
been his cows, practically’from the cradle to the grave,
and so it was now. All he knew about religion was what
he had been told, as he could neither read nor write.
We had several cases like this,withwhich my friend
had great difficulty in dealing. Here again we found a
similar state of affairs as we had done in our City experi—
ences, the memory of the material life retarding progress
after passing into the Spirit World. Years roll on, but to
many of these there is no change. The spirit seems to
live in the past as it knew it. Lands may change hands,
fields may become streets, villages turn into towns, but
there are those who know it not. The reader may find
this very strange and hard to understand, as did we. But
that is as we found it, and remains one of the many
problems thathave yet to be answered.
I08 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
Afterleavingthispoor soul in better hands, we turned
to the villagemain street. Here in the middle of the road
we had a control, evidentlya local or lay preacher belong-
ing to a littlemission hall we were thenpassing. He spoke
for some twenty minutes, but not withthe eloquence of a
trained speaker, and my friend felt he was a local man,
probably rough and uneducated. Nevertheless, he had
the real thingin his heart, and in the centre of Gods Hill
villagestreet thererang out the old words : Come unto Me
all ye thatare weary and heavy laden and I will give you
rest. "
Oh, how that control did plead," said Meads;
“
the way he shouted ‘
Come !' It seemed to echo on the
old church itself! God bless you, friend, whoever you
are !” So two silent men went home to Shanklin, feeling
. a blessing had lbeen given to both of them.
We had another busy day at Osborne House. This
being the favourite residence of Queen Victoria and the
Prince Consort, it brought us into touch with many of the
Royal Familyand numbers of high officials and retainers
of the Court. Although their talks, some long, others
short, were taken down at thetime, I feel it is wise to refrain
from giving them here, owing to the political nature of
many of them. One thing that interested us was to dis-
cover that the Queen and many more of the Court were
interested in Spiritualism. Certain information on this
subject was given us, also the name of their medium, but
this, too, I feel it better to withhold. The subject was dis-
cussed at the familycircle on our return home, and it was
decided that it would be wise to destroy the notes, which
we did. This day, however, will always stand out as one
of themost interesting thatl\/leads and l spent together.
On another occasion we went to Ventnor, which, as
V
many know, is a place very much used for the treatment
of lung and chest trouble, owing to its mild climateand its
situation on the southern coast of the Island. We en-
deavoured to enter the town with blank minds, but never-
theless could not help feeling that we were walking into
exceptionallypainfuland sad surroundings, and 1, person-
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS I09
ally, could not help remembering some who had come
here to regain healthbut had never returned to theirearthly
homes.
We first of all walked through the town, and then
went into thelnvalids’ Garden, known to many as a beauty
spot, but here nothingof importance occurred, except that
a few spirits manifested. Later on we made our way
towards the Cemetery, which I consider one of the finest
view-pointsof the Island. I do not suppose many visitors
thinkof going there, but thosewho can manage the climb
will be repaid when they see the view from the Burial
Ground on the top of the hills at the North of Ventnor.
After leaving the station, w ich is itself very high, one
turns to theright where a pathleads up a very steep incline.
I had to stop many times before reachingthe top, and my
friend, while discussing our visit afterwards with some
friends, said it was like walkingup theside of a house !
Theafternoon of our visit was very hot and close, and
necessitated a rest on a bank before entering the gates.
When we had cooled down, a prayer for protection and
guidance was offered and we entered the so-called last
resting placeof hundreds—thosewho had fallenvictims to
thescourge of consumption. It would be monotonous to
read a detailed account of all thevarious controls to whom
my friend listened over some two hours, as so many were
in thesame strain, but thereis one incident I should like to
record, as it was not only pathetic but in some ways
amusing.
We entered the Cemetery just past mid~day, and
chose this time as we felt that we should probably have it
to ourselves and be free from onlookers and passers~by,
who might cause interruption and possilbly stop the con-
trol. We found we had chosen the right time, as the
grounds were empty with the exception of one old woman
tending a grave by the side of the path where we were
walking. She seemed to bepoor, probablyone who would
get her living by helping in thebackgroundof the kitchen
in one of the hotels in the town. As we passed her she
no PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
was patting and making smooth the surface of a mound,
her hands all clogged with clay and mould. Nature's
tools, her fingers, seemed to be all she had. She did not
appear to notice us and seemed quite engrossed in her
work.
Soon after this the controls came along, and my
friendlistened to many sad tales and confessions. By this
time we had reached the far end of the grounds and felt
we needed a rest, and whilstso doing, Meads noticed that
the poor old woman was making for us as if she wished
to speak. Approachingus, she began to tell us how she
had been tidying up her brother's grave, and after one or
two remarks,we soon found a desire on her part to unbur-
den her heart. “
Ah I" she said, “
he was a good sort
was Tom, one of the very best, a kind and gentle heart,
and a smilefor everyone. Even the children loved him.
I feel so lonely without him." And here the tears ran
down her cheeks. “
But I did the best I could for him.
I nursed him to the very end, and he died in my arms."
Here the old lady quite «broke down, and for some reason
t(;0l{my hand whilst she wiped her face with a dirty bit
o rag.
”
I am so sorry for you," said my friend, "
that I
want to say a word of comfort to you. Have you ever
heard about Spiritualism?" The rest of theconversation
was lost to me, as, for some minutes, I found myself going
into trance. It must have been of short duration, and I
came round suddenlyto find theold woman gone.
‘ ‘
How
do you feel?" said my friend. "
Quite alright, after a
little rest," I replied. Then he went on to tell me how
the control was her brother Tom, and how he had con-
vinced her of the truth of his presence.
“
Moreover,"
said Meads, "
you got hold of her and gave her a good
sound kiss I" “
No!" I said, “
surely not!" “
You
did," said Meads, “
andshe kissed you back." ”
What,"
I cried, “
thatdirty old woman kissing me I" “
Yes," he
replied, ‘ '
she was convinced withoutdoubt thatit was her
brotherTom. She left us saying :
‘
God bless you Tom I
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS III
I knew you would come to me some day.’ And the last
I heard was
‘
God bless you, Tom !’ with a wave of the
dirty rag, as she went down the pathfor home."
Amongst other controls who came to .us were some
who felt theyhad beenhardlydealt within having to leave
this life with its experiences, some of them sweethearts
who were looking forward to marriage and the making of
a home, and mothers trying to send messages to their
children. Some wished us to tell their friendsand parents
of their visit to us, but of course it was impossible to pass
on messages when we knew nothing of the people for
whom they were intended, nor where to find them. One
control, the husband of one of my own friends, gave me a
message for his wife, which I went to some trouble to
deliver, only to have it refused and doubted.
My friendexplainedto themthatour objectin seeking
themwas to help themto get away from earthlyconditions
and so seek a higher life, and withprayer and supplication
we left themin the hands of themany spiritual workers—
the mission lband—who were working with us, carrying
out theMaster's instructions to
‘ ‘
go into thehighways and
byways and compel themto come in."
It was alwaysa great joy to bothof us to feel ourselves
surrounded by those who counted life not clear and have
carried theirenthusiasminto the Spirit World, still trying
to help those who find it hard to leave the material things
of earth. '
As we were leaving Ventnor Cemetery and passing
the chapel, an address was given on the chapel steps by
the late Reverend W. L. Watkinson, ex—president of the
Methodist Conference, whose grave was close by. This
address was no doubt intended for the unseen people
standing around, and he spoke for some twenty minutes,
taking for his text :
“
As the hills are round about ]eru-
salem, so am I round thosewho love Me." Aftera most
earnest appeal, he made a fine point of a thoughtnot gen-
erally met with, and that was
“
that there were no gaps
in those hills." "
Oh, lift thine eyes to the hills from
112 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
whence comeththystrength,' '
he said, ‘ ‘
for He came that
ye might have life and have it more abundantly." Then,
extending my arms and using all the power that was left,
he concluded in a strong voice by saying :
“
Angels, ever
bright and fair, take, 0, take us to thycare ! Amen.”
So ended our visit to Ventnor Cemetery. Tired, we
made for the station, casting our eyes on the hills as we
left the town and thinking of what Mr. Watkinson had
said.
A few days later we returned to London, and as I
write these records I can see my friend saying good—bye at
WaterlooStation. "
Good-bye, old chap," he said. “
We
have had a most wonderful time !" And indeed we had.
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS H3
BLUEBELL TIME AT KEW
There are few people, I expect, particularly Lon--
doners, who have not at some time spent a few hours
amid the beauty of Kew Gardens. Their easy access,
away from the turmoil of London, has made them a
favourite place of rest and quiet, and many of us, now in
advanced years, look back on our childhood when we
played amongst their bushes and woodlands.
Every season of the year brings its own beauty to
Kew, but none more so thantheSpring. The new green,
blended with the shades of almond blossom, lilac and
lalburnum, to name only a few of the many flowers to be
found there, provide a thrillfor the artistic eye, and lift
one’s soul in thankfulnessto the Creator for such a gift of
beauty. One is reminded of the words :
“
Consider the
liliesof thefield—theytoil not, neither do theyspin. But
I say unto you thateven Solomon in all his glory was not
arrayed like one of these !"
For some years, Ernest Meads, my brother and my—
self made an annual pilgrimageto the Gardens to see the
bluebells. In a corner close to the Thames is a space
where theyare allowed to grow wild, at the request of the
late Queen Victoria, and in thatallotted space is a cottage
which was built for her own use. Apart from one occa—
sion when she inspected the Gardens and took tea in the
cottage, it has never been occupied. One Saturday after-
noon, known as Bluebell Day, or rather the day on which
they are advertised as being at their best, Meads, my
brother and I were paying our annual visit. We were
walkingdown thepathleadingto thecottage withits won-
derful carpet of Ibluebells on either side, when we noticed
coming towards us a small company of people. Much to
II4 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
our surprise, we found as they approachedthat the party
was that of King George V and Queen Mary, who, with
their attendants, had been enjoying the beauties of the
placeas we were doing.
A little further along this path, after the Royal party
had passed, I was controlled by one whom we took to be
Queen Victoria, and I see no reason why we should doubt
thatit was she. She started by saying she was pleased to
have the opportunity of speaking to us, as she had done so
before. (This undoubtedly referred to the incident at
Osbome.) Meads took notes at the time, which I repro-
duce here.
“
Some speak of these as my gardens," said the
Queen, "
but I say No I They are the people's gardens.
It is a pleasureto me to see my peopleenjoyingthebeauties
of Nature. I tried to realise my desire to do the best I
could for them, but it is not the King or Queen who can
raise the people. We are, as it were, on a platform above
them—¢hey are frightened of us. Whence came about
thepresent state of thingsI cannot say, but from thebegin-
ning there seems to have been a reverence and obedience
to thosein position. Some may have enjoyedand liked it,
but it was not so in my case. I was keenly anxious that
my life should be a means of blessing and help to those
below me——the humble and lowly. That was my ambi-
tion, but my position made it difiicult for me to realise it.
I recognised that education was a valuable and primary
thing,but I always felt that to bring the people into touch
with Nature and Art was to give them spiritual power.
Therefore I took great pleasure in throwing everything
open to the public, to enable them to appreciate the
beautiesof Nature around them and to enjoy the charm of
colour. I felt that this would bring about a desire to be
clean, and I wanted science and education to fill in the
background. Pretty flowers and rich colours show us that
in order to get perfection there must be no dirt.
"
It was a great pleasure to me to throw open my
grounds, and I would have done more, but I was pre-
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS H5
vented from doing so by those around me. There was a
strong tendencyin my time, as in other times, to discord,
to envy those in better conditions. I tried my best to
overcome this by showing that what was mine was also
theirs. I wanted the people to enjoy England, to enjoy
life, and to rise above jealousy.
"
I realise also that the uncultured have not the
strength, the ambitionand the environment to develop in
one, or even two generations. Education alone cannot do
it. The great emancipation and upliftment is, I believe,
to be obtained throughtheeye ratherthan throughthe ear
or any other sense. The English people will rise to their
highest level througha love of beauty——-beautyof flowers,
mountains, sunrises and sunsets. As in thepast, so is my
present desire for thisto come about. The raising and up-
liftingof thepeople is more important, in my opinion, than
whether there is a Conservative or a Liberalreturn." She
then turned her attention to politics, but I feel there is no
need to repeat what she said.
It has been my custom when visiting these gardens
to take withme a littlecamera withwhich to snap anything
thatarrested my attention, and whilst doing so on thispar-
ticular afternoon, I had left my brother and Meads, who
had walked on, leaving me to catch them up. It seemed
that during my absence a conversation had sprung up be-
tween them on the subject of "
Spiritualism in relation to
the Church." I knew nothingof this at thetime, but on
rejoining them I went under control, and my own guide,
Dr. Haslem, joined in the conversation. Notes were taken
at the time which enable me to give his remarks fairly
accurately.
"I have been listening to your conversation," he
said, ”
and you have stated one of the great fundamental
truths in saying that some like and others dislike thesub-
ject. This is a law that holds throughout the Universe
and is one of thegreat difliculbieswhich arise in connection
with religious subjects. The importance of helping and
doing the work all rests on that, and more especially in
116 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
theSpiritWorld. But however anxious and desirous peo-
ple may be, they cannot all do it—we have to find one
who can.
"
ln earth life you often hear it said—' You go and
speak to him or her; it is of no use for me to do so,’ and
this iscommon in other things. All have each a special
line and sphere, and in thisworkof spiritual development,
bothin the earth life and in the spirit world, it is a pity to
force others to go round a certain path, a pathwhich is not
allotted to everyone. Those who could, often will not,
and those who cannot, often desire it. This constitutes
our perplexityin helping thosewho are low down. There
are many saintly people, both in the flesh and in theSpirit
World who would help if they could, but theycannot.
"
It may be a question of social position. The rich
may wish to do good. They may build churches, schools
and institutions, theymay feed and educate, but theyhave
not done much-—theyhave not got to the spirit. It is fre-
quently one of his own class who can help a man, as on a
stairway, as it were. Those on a level, or nearly so, are
the ones who can help."
A little later on, Dr. Haslem was asked if a spirit
could see the beautiesof Nature as we do. “
Yes," he
replied, “
a spirit standing in the aura of a medium can
see thenaturalbeautythatis around. A mortal is a spirit,
though encased in a material body, and we can talk, see,
influence and direct a spirit which reacts upon the body
itself."
The surroundings of these beautiful gardens fur-
nished me withideal conditionsin which to work,probably
because my own love of beauty produced an emotion
which opened the door to thatwhich was holiest and best.
Unfortunately, only a few notes remain of the numerous
talks and addresses given within these gardens, as many
were destroyed, either by accident or through ignorance of
what they contained, in the clearing up that took place
after my friend's death.
Before l close this account of our visit to Kew, l
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 117
should liketo mentionan old woman who came. It would
have been interesting to know who she was, but we were
unable to find out. Perhaps she wished to remain anony-
mous.
"
I am an old woman,” she said. “
I have seen life
from many standpoints, and have experienced many diffi-
culties and reverses, but I come to sit in this garden and
my heart is full in an earthly sense. Everything was
twisted and crooked in my time, and I see through the
medium no straight lines. I see curves and twists; even
thepathsmade by earthlyhands are not straight, any more
than those made by heavenly hands. No flowers are the
same, for I see around me theytwist and turn. The skies
above are bright, whilstunder thebranches it is very dark.
I see theleavesflutterin thewind in joy for theirlittlelives,
and I feel it is a comfort and joy to be here. Life is
crooked. Even the prettiest and most beautiful things
made by God Himself bendwiththewind, which cometh
whence it listeth. It blows upon leaves and grass causing
them to bend to the earth, but when it is gone theypoint
upward once more. The wind blew upon me and caused
me to point to the ground, but I am thankfulthat at times
l was able to lift my eyes to the heavens. I am only an
old woman trying to do my best, which I feel is very poor,
but I would ratherbe a blade of grass, bent to theearthby
cutting winds, withtheopportunity to point up to the sun—
shine, than be protected by glass. My life was open to
the heavens, not spent under glass."
The old woman's talk was the prelude to a very sad
confession by a man of title and rank, the subject of which
it is impossible to record here. We felt there was a link
between him and the old woman, and who knows? He
may have been brought by her to confess his sin, and that
she was, as we felt, leadinghim home, not to a castle made
by earthlyhands, but to one that the Master had gone to
prepare.
So as we left Kew Gardens at the close of “
Bluebell
II8 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
Day,"thewords of T. E. Brown came to our minds—-
A garden is a lovesome thing,Got wot!
Rose plot,
Fringedpool,
Ferned grot_
The veriest school of Peace; and yet
The foal contends that God is not!
Not God in Gardens, when the eve is cool?
Nay, but I have a sign—
’Tz's very sure God walks in mine!
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 119
A NEW MOVEMENT SPRINGS INTO BEING
During the Summer of I926, my friend Meads told
me that he had heard of some ladies who were holding a
family circle in Balham, in a neighbourhood quite close
to my home. "
Their methodsare strictlyreligious," he
said, ‘ ‘
and I am told thattheresults are simplywonderful,
thecontrols being of the very highest." As we ourselves
were workingalong the same lines, we found it interesting
to learn of otherswho were seeing the need for prayer and
a religious atmosphere in connection with Spiritualism,
which was still regarded by many outside the Movement
as Black Magic and quite apart from religion, while to
many withinits ranks it was to all intents and purposes a
thingmore for scientific investigation.
There were many who regarded our own familycircle
unfavourably,for we were all, withtheexception of Ernest
Meads, Wesleyan Methodists, but it is not my wish to say
anythingabout the criticism we received from others who
had not the knowledge that we had——knowledge that we
had learned in a hard school and by the graves of many
loved ones. It is not everyone who has been blessed by
having theveil lifted and by beingshown a little of thelife
beyond, and so we treated any unkind word or thought
with sympathy.
When Ernest Meads heard of these ladies in Balham
who were striving to serve the Master in the same way as
we were, he said :
”
I mean to End out something more
about these people." When Meacls said he intended to
do something,he generally did it, so I was not surprised
to hear later thathe had not only been introduced to them,
but also had an invitation to the circle. “
Don't forget
your old pal when you do go," I said. He promised he
120 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
would not, and some months later, in I927, I received an
invitation to go with him.
The year I927 is a very black one in my history, for
it was on the2 I st January in thatyear thatmy wife passed
suddenlyinto theSpirit World, withouta moment's warn-
ing. This was a blow indeed, and much as I tried to be
brave, a sudden loss like this after thirty-nine years of
companionshipstrained me bothphysicallyand spiritually.
On looking back upon this time, I see how much I
owed both to my brother and to Ernest Meads. My
brother was with me at the inquest, and again, with
Meads, by the graveside. As the words rang out on the
frosty air, "
Ashes to ashes, dust to dust," I felt a touch
on my arm. I know not from whence it came, but there
came to my mind thepromise, “
I will be with thee in the
day of trouble."
It was a few weeks before I could take my place in
thefamilycircle again, althoughmy wife frequentlymani-
fested her presence to me. » It was in St. Albans Cathedral
thatshe spoke for thefirst time, threeweeks after her pass-
ing. My friend had asked me to spend a few days with
him in his home at Hampstead, feeling thatit would help
me during this trying time, and one day we took a 'bus
ride to St. Albans. That day in February, I927, will
always be remembered by me, for not only did my wife
speak for the first time, but The Master revealed Himself
to me, standing near one of the altars in a side chapel.
This was thesecond time He had done so, the first being
in Westminster Abbey.
I will now draw a veil over this sad experience in my
life. As days went by, my wife repeatedly made herself
known, not only in our own circle, but through many
mediums at meetings which I attended, and when I was
sitting alone my clog would often run and spring up at
somethingunseen in the corner of the room, wagging his
tail as he did so. Then he would come back to me, seem-
ing a little frightened, and I would pat him on the head
and say :
"
It's alright, Jim——l know all about it I"
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 121
A monthor two later, my friend Meads came to me,
saying :
"
I have kept my promise, and have an invitation
for you to thecircle I told you about," and so it happened
thatI entered thehomeof Miss Winifred Moyes and shook
hands with her for the first time. It was, as he had said,
a wonderful circle, and the most harmonious conditions
pervaded the whole place. As I write these lines I can
again see Miss Moyes standing entranced by her control
"
Zodiac," and while there have been many times in my
lifewhen I have been thrilledby a speaker, yet therecame
to me that night a peaceful joy that I had not felt before
and which I cannot explain.
In the life of Wesley we read how one night, at a
meeting in Aldersgate Street, ”
he felt his heart strangely
moved," and my heart was also “
strangely moved "
as
I sat thatmight in Miss Moyes’s home, listening to Zodiac.
Not one of us who sat there dreamed or thoughtthatfrom
thatroom would spring a religious movement thatwould
stretch throughoutthe world, but it was to be, and to-day
the GREATER WORLD CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST LEAGUE is
known and loved by hundreds all over the world, with
Miss Moyes as its leading medium.
It was not long after my visit to the circle that this
Movement started, for it was founded on Good Friday,
I928. Little mission halls and rooms sprang up all over
the country, and to-day there are more than five hundred
branches of the League. I have always felt that this de-
velopment of Spiritualism should have been taken up by
theChristian Church, and cannot understand why theyIet
such an opportunity slip.
I have often wondered from whence John Wesley got
theidea of his “
Class Meeting."
Here we have a gather-
ing that is in every respect a Spiritualist circle, and every
member of the Methodist Church is asked to join such a
meeting, which generally takes place in a small room or
Vestry at a given time once a week, on thechurch premises.
It is an hour devoted to prayer, and in which each member
is asked to give his or her experiences of a spiritual nature
122 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
that have taken place during the past week.
I was once asked to lead in prayer at one of these
meetings, before I knew much of what we call the occult,
and I did not feel thatit was a very successful attempt. My
mind seemed to get mixed and bewiIderedand I stumbled
on without really knowing what I was saying, so much so
that I felt nervous and ashamed of myself afterwards.
The factthatI held an office in the Church at thattime did
not Iessen my discomfort. Upon rising from my knees,
I noticed several of the company present wiping theireyes,
and at theclose of the meetingthe Minister of the Church,
who was presiding, came to me and thanked me for my
Iovely prayer.
"
I did not know you were so gifted at
impromptu prayer," he said. “
I must remember your
gift at some future time." This he did before the whole
congregation, for the next Sunday evening he called upon
me to close the service with prayer. I rememberrising to
my feet and going cold all over, and thatwas_ all, but after-
wards came thereassurance thatall was weII, for my wife,
who was by my side, Iaid her hand on mine.
AII this was a Iong while ago, and my sole object in
giving this incident now is to show how vital a force the
Methodist CIass Meeting should and could be to—day. A
Bishop once said :
“
I have nothingI can offer to buiId up
the spiritual Iife and strengthen the Christian better than
the Methodist CIass Meeting."
Ernest Meads and I were amongst the first to join the
new Greater WorId Christian Spiritualist League, and my
friend, with his gift of oratory, never missed a Sunday in
addressing one of the new societies. I often joined him,
‘but remained a silent member of the congregation. At
one of these meetings a medium singled me out from the
congregation, and said that a time was coming when I
should stand on the platform of a SpirituaIist meeting and
address theaudience. I remarkedto my friend afterwards
thatwhoever it was themediumintended to speak to, it was
certainly not I, as I was the least gifted to speak from a
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 123
platform. But nevertheless -it came true, and in a very
short time, for I was taking services and conducting a
mission.
I24 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
MISSION WORK AT PURLEY AND CATERHAM
In I929 I sold up my home in Balham and joined
my daughter, who had married and taken a house at
Purley, in Surrey. I also retired from my profession,
with the exception of a few cases that I felt I could not
leave, and this left me free to give my mind and time to
my spiritual work and healing, in which I found my medi-
cal training very useful.
My brother moved to Sutton, too, about this time,
and as his house was only about four or five miles away
from ours, our familycircle was able to continue.
Soon after my removal to Purley, a Mr. and Mrs.
Bentley opened a branch mission of the Greater World
Movement in the High Street. I soon joined and became
an activeworker in thehealing and diagnosing, under the
control of Dr. Haslem. Another very interesting feature
of this mission was the after-circle, which was open to all
comers. I was often asked to be chairman and take con-
trol of thisafter-circle, and I look backon some very happy
times, which were not only helpful to me but were so, I
am sure, to others.
One night, while sitting in this circle, there came to
me something about "
donkeys." I at once thought it
was some sillyinterference, and endeavoured to push the
matter on one side, but I stillgot
‘ ‘
donkeys ' '
very clearly.
I wondered what it could mean and whence it came, and
in lookinground thecircle of some twenty members, I cer-
tainly did not see any who were likely to be interested in
or connected with donkeys. Sitting by my side were a
very nice young fellow and his lady friend, both clerks in
the City. Feeling it might amuse him and at the same
time relievemy own mind, I whispered to him :
"
I'm get-
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS I25
ting a most sillything,and I can’t throwit off—it’s about
donkeys!" “
Oh, do go on with it," he said, ”
it's my
father, and he kept the donkeys at (naming a well-
known seaside town). He was one of the best and I’ve
been longing to hear from him I" In a few minutes his
father had me under control and spoke to his son. This
was naturally a great joy to me, and only one of many
interesting thingsthat I could relate about Purley Mission.
On another occasion a medium on the platform
described a dog that she saw with me, and described the
very dog that I have previously mentioned as having so_
often brought to my notice the presence of my wife.
When I left Balham, I was obliged to give him away to
some friends as, owing to the chalky condition of the un-
maderoads and gardens at our new home, animalsbrought
so much white in on therugs and carpets. So I found Jim
a comfortable home, and I knew that he was well and
happy at the time when this medium described him.
Thinking it strange, I made inquiries a few days later as
to his welfare, and learned that Jim was quite alright, but
that the woman who had charge of him had committed
suicide. At the next family sitting, this woman came
along, pleading for our prayers and help. The strange
part about this was that if the medium had not described
the dog, I should not have enquired about him, and there—
fore should not have heard about the suicide. Moreover,
it was only throughJim that the poor soul could be identi-
fied, as I knew very little about her, and she would prob—
ably have been numbered as just one more of the many
such cases who came to our familycircle.
Another thing that struck me forcibly at the open
after-circle was how frequentlya spirit belongingto some-
one in the group would come asking for forgiveness and
help. This was often very embarrassingbefore strangers,
and thespirit would remain unclaimed. I have had sitters
come to me saying that they did recognise the spirit I
d<i:scribed,but for private reasons theyfelt it better to keep
31 ent.
126 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
To illustratemy meaning, I will give one experience.
It was one Sunday evening, and having given the address
myself during the service, I also took the after—circle. I
described to a woman a pawnbroker'ssign that I saw with
her, i.e., three golden balls on an iron rod. After a little
reflection she disowned it. The next Sunday,at the open
circle, the same thinghappened, and again she disowned
it. On another Sunday, it happened yet again, for the
third time. "
Well," said the woman,
“
this is the third
time that this has happened to me, so I must tell you that
I was |brought up by a pawnbroker'sfamily,and my early
years were not very happy." I pointed out to her that
whilean experiencelike thatwas difficult to forget, yet she
could forgive, and it appears thatI rose from my seat, and
going to the woman, was controlled by the pawnbroker,
who came back pleading for forgiveness.
The meeting closed after this, and a beautifulprayer
was offered, probablyby one of theband of rescue workers.
WhileI was workingwiththePurleyMission, an inci-
dent occurred which, though not directly connected with
the Mission, may be interesting to the reader. For some
time I had been workingrather hard, and felt that a little
break from things and change of thought would do me
good. So I decided to go away to Brighton for a week and
allow my mind to dwell on otherthings.
Not having settled where I should stay, I strolled
along the front, and a little Private Hotel facing the pier
attracted my attention, probably because it was newly
painted and looked fresh and clean. I was soon comfort-
ablyinstalled there, and during theevening,whilsthaving
a smoke in the lounge before going to bed, the proprietor
came and sat down beside me and entered into conversa—
tion. He told me he had only recently taken over the
lease, and had been very much handicapped by the fact
that his wife had been ill from the start, and for the last
six weeks had not left her bed. I said I was very sorry
to hear about this, particularly as the season was just be-
ginning and would entaila great strain upon him. ' '
What
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 127
is the nature of the complaint, may I ask?" I said. “
I
thinkit is the worry of taking over this hotel," replied the
proprietor. “
Just at present she has lost the use of her
left leg. The Doctor calls threetimes a week, but nothing
seems to happen in the way of improvement. I don't
know what to do, because I cannot keep this place going
without her.”
Without thinkingtwice, I turned to him, and said:
"
May I see her? I am a qualified Medical Masseur."
"
What is your fee?" he asked. ”
Nothing,"I replied.
”
Well, I shall have to mention the matter and talk it over
with her. Let it stand until to-morrow."
The next morning I found a letter beside my plate
from the proprietor, saying that his wife had consented to
see me at I I o'clock, if I would come in at thattime. This
I did, and on entering theroom I found a much younger
woman than I had anticipated. After a few general re-
marksand also hearing a history of thetrouble, I expressed
my sympathyat her beingso severely handicappedjust as
theywere entering on a new enterprise.
"
If convenient to you," I said, "
I should like to
inspect this troublesome leg."
I had no sooner placed my hand on the limb than I
experienced a similar condition to that which I described
when relating the case of the childearlier in these records.
I went cold all over, with a severe tremlbling of my whole
body. I did not know how to hide thiscondition from the
patient,and I cut theinterview short by saying thatI would
see her again.
I lost no time in making for a deck-chair at the end
of the pier, where I fell into a deep sleep, waking just in
time to hurry back for lunch. On leaving the dining—
room after the meal, I met the proprietor in the hall and
expressed the hope that his wife was none the worse for
the excitement of an interview with a stranger.
“
Sir,"
he said, “
you will be surprised, as I was, when I tell you
that at the present moment she is in the kitchen preparing
the dinner for to—night. You had not left theroom many
128 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
minutes before she got out of bed, dressed, and came
downstairs without aid, giving us all a shock."
The reader will probably expect me to express some
opinion upon this extraordinary incident, and to say what
I consider happened. I believethat by Cod’s Grace the
patient was cured by Divine Power. My diagnosis of the
case was Hemiplegia, and I had the impression that the
Doctor thoughtthesame, as no massage had been ordered.
That night, whilethinkingthingsover, I realised that
I was in an awkward position. AII masseurs are under an
agreement not to touch or interfere with a Doctor’s case
without his consent or advice. Thinking of this, which
in my excitement over the case I had forgotten, I saw
clearlyI could be called up for breach of agreement. Not
wishing to facetheDoctor in thesecircumstances, I packed
my bag and made for home as soon as I could, and on
paying my account I found it had been reduced to half the
amount and initialled by the proprietor.
After some weeks, not having heard anything,I felt
it safe to pay anothervisit to see how thingswere going on.
I found, to my satisfaction, that all was well at the Hotel,
and the proprietress, who was the main—spring of the con-
cern, had not suffered the slightest discomfort since her
extraordinary recovery. I
Christmas time generallybrings me a card from them,
with their best wishes, although the healing took place
some years ago.
To return to the PurleyMission, I look back on some
very pleasant friendships formed there. I thinkof Mrs.
Eaton with her wonderful clairvoyance, also of an old
Welsh miner named Mr. Pate, who was a trance speaker
and gave us some very interesting times.
One friendshipwhich played a bigpart in my Iife was
theoneI formed with Mr. and Mrs. Stanley. In theearly
days of the Healing Circle Mr. Stanley worked with me,
being himself a healer and under the control of a Red
Indian named White Feather. For some time we worked
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS I29
.
side by side.
‘At this time Mr. Stanley had a business at Caterham,
about five miles away, and although I lived quite close to
thistown, I had not visited it for some years. It happened
thatin March, I93] ,
when spring was beginning to show
itself and a little sunshine was trying to wake Nature from
her winter's sleep, I went for a walkover theSurrey hills,
starting at Riddles Down. I wandered on and on until
I found mystelf in Caterham, and feeling the need of a
rest, I stood in the High Street wondering where I could
get a cup of tea. Whilst standing there, a strong spirit
influence came over me, and had my friend Meads
been with me, I should have given myself up to control.
As it was, all I could sense was that it was an old Rector.
At the same time, I felt that the town was badly haunted,
which did not surprise me as it was a military depot. On
turninground suddenly,I was surprised to find I was stand-
ing outside StanIey’s shop, and thathe was beckoningme
to come in. I did so, and soon found an arm—chair and a
cup of tea, which was refreshing after a good five-mile
walk over hillyroads.
After a rest, Mr. Stanley asked me down to a stock
room in the basement, and told me he intended to make
it a little prayer room with an altar and reading desk, for
private sittings and meditation, and that the room should
be used for no other purpose, with which idea I agreed
most heartily.
So it came to pass thatthisbasementwas cleaned, dis—
tempered, carpeted, and chairs were placed around the
walls and an altar made from a table at one end. Some
friends gave a brass cross on a stand and others gave two
brass candlesticks, and these, together with a white altar
cloth, an electric light to shine on the cross, and a gramo-
phone to lead the singing, gave us a perfect little church.
A Sunday was fixed for the dedication, and it was re-
quested that I should conduct the service, so it happened.
thatfor the first time in my life I stood before a Spiritualist:
audienceand took an evening service.
I30 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
These meetings, which we held from time to time,
were most helpful and encouraging. Once a month,on a
Sunday, we had professional mediums to visit us, many
of whom gave their services to help us. On Mondays we
held a devotional meeting, at which I generally presided.
I tried to conduct it on the lines of the Methodist Class
Meeting, but instead of experiences being given, Stanley
did healing, whilewe all joined in silent prayer.
I shall never forget the lovely conditions of these
Monday night meetings. We openedwitha hymn, aided
by the gramophone; then prayer was offered by myself,
frequently under control. Then came diagnosis by Dr.
Haslemof new cases, and during thisthelight was lowered
and complete silence maintained, all being in prayer for
the patient. After a hymn I gave clairvoyance, closing
the meeting with prayer, and the benedictionwas always
given by a CatholicPriest who controlled me. Our num-
bers beganto increase, and we were very much encouraged
by the fact that some came long distances to our little
.Church, from places such as Sevenoaks, Godstone and
Red Hill.
Viewing these gratifying results, we began to think
it wise to extend our field of labour, and one night when
I attended the Healing Circle I learned that some of the
members had been in conference and had decided to start
a regular Spiritualist Mission in the town, and, much to
my surprise, had nominated me as President. I was very
much taken aback at this, as I felt I was not the right man
for such a post, and I explained to them that while I was
most willingto help in any way thatI could, yet I preferred
to work in the background. But the Committee turned a
deaf ear to this, with the result that I found myself in a
position for which I was sure I had not thenecessary quali-
fications. I comforted myself with the thoughtthatas the
spirit friends had never failed me yet, I was sure they
would not do so on this occasion, andfneitherdid they.
The opening service of our new venture was held on
the 24th November, I935, in a hall facingthe Eastbourne
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 131
Road, in thecentre of Caterham, and conducted by a depu-
tation sent down from the Greater World Association.
Having had to go away on that particular Sunday, I was
unable to be present, but the Committee arranged for me
to take theservice on the followingSunday. So thewords
of the medium who said that I should one day stand on a
Spiritualist platform, came true.
This, however, was the part of the work that I did
not like, and I must admit I dreaded it, feeling thatthere
would bemany who would come to hear thenew President
speak, and conjecturing in my own mind all kinds of fan-
tastic opinions that would be formed about me ! The de-
cision I came to was that I had better set to work at once
and write what I had to say, then commit it to memory.
I had heard thatthis was frequently done by speakers.
So I plodded on for a week, altering and addingto the
address, giving it my whole attention, and the dreaded
Sunday came aII too soon. On that Sunday morning, I
took my address withme on to Riddles Down, and therein
quietude made sure that I had it all by heart. At Iast the
time came when I stood on the platform, facingthe newly
formed Caterham Spiritualist Society, and I decided at the
last moment to read what I had written, in case some short-
hand writer in the audiencefelt inclinedto put in a report
for the local paper. Just as I was about to start, I had
occasion to wipe my glasses, and whilst doing so, a
draught came from somewhere, with the result that the
sheets of paper were blown about all over the platform.
Probablyas a result of this catastrophe, my memory failed
me, and the address that I thought I had Iearned by heart
was forgotten. I could not even rememberhow it started,
but knew I had to say something,which I did. However,
what I did say seemed to be a success, if judged from the
general verdict, and when I had finished I found myself
standingon a mat formed by the paper of my manuscript !
I wrote several addresses after this for other occasions,
but none were ever read, and I thinkthey all found their
'
way to my garden to start a bonfire. I carried one in my
I32 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
pocket for months, in case I was suddenly called upon to
take theplaceof a speaker who failedto arrive, which often
happened, but the address never came out of my pocket
until, dirty and worn, it joined its fellows in thefire. When
the time came for me to speak, I always found something
to say, and this is a striking illustrationof how the spirit
friends can help us when we need them.
The Mission had not been long started before we
found severalcoming to us from theAnglicanChurch, also
a few Roman Catholics,who were doubtless worried about
the views of their own Church concerning the after-life.
A Mrs. Halsey from Codstone Church very kindlyplayed
the harmonium for us, and not only became organist but
also a memberof the Committee. There were also a man
and his wife who were Roman Catholics. We had been
the means of saving the wife from an operation, and she
soon developed mediumship and frequently gave clair-
voyance after my address. One night her husband took
theplaceof thespeaker and gave the story of his own con-
version to Spiritualism.
One of our members presented us with a white cloth
withembroidered edging for the table we used as an altar,
and anotherbrought two brass candlesticksto be placedat
each side of thereading desk. A thirdfriendgaveiusa large
brass cross to hang on the wall at thebackof the speaker,
and an incident occurred in connection with this that I
should like to mention. One Monday evening before the
healing service commenced, I was talkingto a friendwhen
the cross arrived and was shown to me. Taking it in my
hand for a closer inspection, I was instantly controlled by
a very strong spirit, who revealed his identity as that of
Cardinal Vaughan. Much to our regret we were unable
to take notes of what he said, as he caught us unprepared,
without notebook or pencil, but I was told that the few
words he did say were very beautifuland thathe dedicated
the cross to the healing of the body, closing his remarks
with prayer. Then an old monk pronounced the bene-
diction. After this a very strong element of Roman
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS I33
Catholicismpervaded the healing circle. A Sister Agnes
of St. Peter's, Rome, was found to be a guide of Mrs.
Stanley, the wife of thehealer, while the same old monk,
in a deep bass voice, always pronounced the benediction.
We never learned who he was, but we knew he was one
who was -interested in our work for theMaster, and we left
it at that.
Aftera periodof nearlytwo years theleaseof our Hall
expired, so we did the best we could by taking a large
room over some stores. But this entailed a lot of stair
climbing,which was not liked, and after a vain effort to
find anotherplace,thefinancesran out and we had to close
down. Althoughwe had to close at Caterham, however,
we nearly all were able to keep together, and returned to
thePurley Mission, which at that time was in need of any
help we could give it..
I34 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
MY LAST ADDRESS IN PUBLIC
The reader may be wondering what was happening
in the familycircle during the times when I was active in
other directions. He must not thinkthatthis,thefounda-
tion of all thework, was neglected. Every Tuesdaynight
at 7 o'clock we were in our places in my brother’s house,
and theonlyoccasions when thesittings were unableto be
held were when sickness interfered or when I was away.
My Army work, as I have stated earlier in this book,
causedmuch interruption, and therewere a few weeks after
my wife’s passingwhen I did not feel able to attend. Some
may consider this weakness on my part, but I will leave
the reader to placehimself in my position and to judge for
himself.
Our Tuesday meeting was looked upon as being
sacred. Many poor souls who were crowded out at the
Sunday circle seemed to follow me, for they would come
to the home circle and private confessional. Then there
were occasions when I was quite unable to do rescue work
in front of so many strangers, some of whom seemed quite
unableto grasp thefactthattherewere many, even among
their own friends and relations, who had sins to confess
and needed help. At times such as these, I would ask
the spirit to come to my home sitting, which they usually
did. I wonder when we shall all realise that theslate has
to be cleaned? I have already dealt with this subject at_
some length, and feel that I have shown the reader that
settlement has to take place, however distasteful the
I
thoughtmay be, so let us always be guarded against that
which is displeasingin the sight of God.
On the Zlst of August, 1935, our circle sustained a
great loss by the passing of my sister-in-law, which ren-
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES. AND MEMOIRS I35
dered another chair vacant. This was a great sorrow to
us all, and we missed her bright and cheerful presence,
which alwaysseemedto furnish thebestconditions,especi-
ally for me, as I acted as the medium. I often wondered
afterwards if we ever realised what a prominent part she
playedin thecircle, but thoughwe sadlymissed her earthly
presence she very soon returned in spirit, and the chair she
had occupied was alwaysallowed to remain empty.
At this time many addresses were given us from the
Spirit World, and it was from these that my friend Meads
gatheredthe subjects of his Sunday talks. I doubt if the
congregations who enjoyed his eloquence ever knew that
his last sermons were largely drawn from suggestions he
received in our home circle from the Spirit World. My
friend was a great lover of Nature, and one of the finest
addresses I heard him give was on the words “
Consider
the lilies. They toil not, neither do they spin.” This
address was based on one of Wesley's trance talks that
was given in thehome circle, and I am sure thatthosewho
heard it, and the way in which my friend worked it up,
showing God’s Love to mankindand His Finger pointing
throughNature to thespiritual life, willnot readilyforget it.
In 1936 the circle had a serious set-back owing to the
illness of my brother. He had been in failing health for
some time, causing us some uneasiness and anxiety, and
‘eventually.he had to undergo a major operation, which
laid him on a bed of suffering for many months. As he
got a little stronger, thesitting was transferred to his bed-
room, but these times were, of course, short and infre-
quent. Dr. Haslem would come with advice and cheer
to thepatient and assure him that “
he was not done yet,"
also speaking of Black Hawk's power to sustain strength.
This proved to be true, for as I write these records he is
now able to get about thehouse and do his correspondence
with the aid of strong glasses, besides being moderately
free from pain.
Allowing for all the best of medical skill on the part
of theearthlydoctors, it is impossibleto get away from the
I36 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
part thatDr. Haslemand thespirit friendsplayed in bring-
ing about my |brother'srecovery when in his eighty-fourth
year. It was a great joy to us all to see him take his place
at the head of our very depleted circle after an interval of
more than two years, and later there came a clay which
found us walkingside by side in the garden of his home,
thanking God and the Spirit World for all the mercies
bestowed upon us.
These occasions when the familycircle was prevented
from sitting proved to me the important part it had played
in my work, and how it had been the means of supplying
strength and support. It had been indeed as a charging
station from which I had drawn my supply of magnetism
every week, and where I had been able to cleanse myself
from those thingsthat might have been harmfuI—-a place
where I could leave distressed souls who might otherwise
have clung to me. It can readilybe understood thatthese
interruptions of the circle occasioned me much distress,
particularly after Ernest Meads had passed on and I felt
I was standing alone.
How often at these times was my prayer in thewords
of the hymn :
I do not ask, 0 Lord, that life may be
A pleasant road.
I do not ask that Thou wouldst take from me
Aaght of its load.
I do not ask thatflowers should alwaysspring
Beneath my feet-
I know too well the jzoison and the sting
0}‘ things too sweet!
I do not ask my Cross to understand,
My way to see-
Better in darknessjust to feel Thy Hand
And follow Thee!
MISS A. A. PROCTER.
During the trying years of my brother’s illness, and
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 137
especially after Ernest Meads's passing, I was not able to
take a very active part in Spiritualistic vxork, but Sunday
after Sunday found me sitting amongst the congregationof
the Purley Mission. Aftertheservice I tried to give some
comfort to those whom I felt needed it, and I was able to
bringa littlejoy to many a poor soul by giving a clairvoyant
description.
Only once after my friend Meads’s transition did I
take a service, and that was at the Purley Mission on
Christmas Day, I938, when I gave theaddress. For some
time previous to this I had taken the Christmas service at
Caterham. It happened that I had a long-standing en-
gagement to go to a Christmas Tree Party on that date,
and I was rather anxious about the service, as I felt that
the party might not furnish ideal conditions. A feeling
came over me thatI did not want to go, but I knew I must,
and leaving the games and shouts of happy children I set
off for PurleyMission.
Some time had elapsed since I stood on a public plat-
form, and my nervousness was accentuated by the fact
that I had forgotten what I intended to say. Whilst I was
in theVestry ponderingon how I should begin, the Chair-
man reminded me that it was time to commence the ser-
vice. “
Wait a minute," I said; “
shut the door !"
Then, liftingmy eyes, I prayed for help.
There happened to be a shorthand writer in the hall
thatnight, who took notes of my address and gave it to me
some time afterwards, so I am able to quote from it—
probably my last address in public.
As I stood before the congregation, a text from the
Gospel according to St. Luke came into my mind: If ye
then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your
children, how much more shall your HeavenlyFathergive
the Holy Spirit to them thataskHim? I explained that
I had just left a Christmas party and how thechildren had
clustered around the tree, some hoping for one thing,
others for somethingelse; also how one had sent a letter
to FatherChristmas requesting a special toy. This led me
I38 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
to the subject of prayer, and I said that as I had stood in
thatroom withthem, I had felt thatthechildrenwere por-
traying their future years. I could see them going, not to
an earthlyfather not yet a Father Christmas, but to their
HeavenlyFather. What would theyask for? Some flimsy
toy, soon to lie broken on the nursery floor of life, soon
to be discarded and forgotten? Or yet asking for some-
thingthatmight satisfy a sudden and harmful infatuation?
“
Might I Ibe allowed," I said,“ to give an experience of
my own early life? One of my own early ambitions,like
that of many another boy, was to possess a pen-knife. I
had seen the one I wanted in a shop, but had no money
with which to buy it. I had some money in a box, it is
true, but was not allowed to touch it. After puzzling my
littlebrain, I at last decided to go and askmy fatherto give
me the knife on my birthday,which was near at hand. So
one night I approached him with the request.
‘
Father,’
I said, ‘
I want a pen-knife. Will you give me one for
my birthday?’ ‘
Fancy a little chap like you wanting a
pen-knife,’ he said. ‘
And what do you want it for?’
‘
I want to make myself a little boat, like my friend John,’
I replied. ‘
You will give me one, won't you?’ I can
see him now, as he shook his head. ‘
No, my boy, not
yet I When you are older and know how to use it, I may.
Do you know what might happen? You might cut your—
self, and maybescar or maim yourself for the rest of your
life. No, Percy boy ! Not now I' I remembergoing to
bed in tears and feeling that my father did not love me
one little bit.
“
How often in after years did I think of this inci-
dent! And how wise he was to say
‘
no I’ Did it cost
him anythingto say it? I think it did. Is it not a fact
that we in this hall to~night look back on times when we
have asked our Heavenly Fatherfor things, and have had
no reply? Is it not a factthatwe have resented thissilence?
Might it not be that we have asked for something that,
unknown to ourselves, would be harmful to our spiritual
life? Oh, friends, let us give Him credit for knowingbest,
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 139
as indeed He does I
"
During my life I have heard of some wonderful
answers to prayer, and I am sure that He listens to our
faintest whisper. Allow me to repeat a story which some
of you may have heard before. It is about an old woman,
named Ann, who got her living by selling flowers outside
one of our London termini. One night, after a long day
standing in a bitter east wind, she returned to her little
back room in a poor street off the Strand, to find she had
contracted a chill and subsequent rheumatism.
“
The next morning she was unable to get up, so her
hand had to go into the little bag of savings for her daily
needs, and for several mornings thesame thinghappened,
until at last she came to the end and the bag was empty.
There was onlytheWorkhousefacingher. So she turned
her thoughtsto God, seeking help in this time of trial, and
in her extremity she called out aloud :
‘
Oh, God, send me
some bread !' This she repeated several times.
“
It so happened at that moment thattwo boys were
coming down the stairs from a tenement above, to spend
a little tip theyhad received during the morning. ‘
What
is that?’said one named Jim, listening to poor Ann calling
to God for help. ‘
Why, that’s old Grannie calling to
God to send her some bread.’ ‘
What do you say,’ said
Jim, ‘
if we have a larkand get a little loaf and put it out—
side the door?’
”
This being agreed upon, a loaf was soon procured
and placed, as suggested, outside the door; then giving a
knock, they flattened themselves against the wall to see
the result.
" ‘
Come in,’ called Ann, but all was silent. Again
theyknocked, harder than before :
‘
Come in,’ old Ann
called again, but as no-one opened the door, she crawled
to open it herself, and there on the floor was the loaf she
had prayed for. ‘
Oh, thankyou, God, for answering my
prayer,’ she cried, ‘
oh, thank you !’
“
To the boys, standing flattened against the wall,
I4° PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
theincident was not so funny as theyhad thoughtit would
be, and Jim stepped out, saying :
”
Don’t be silly,Gran-
nie, God has not sent you that loaf; we put it there, and
bought it ourselves.’
5:5
I don’t mind what agent He used,’ said Granny,
‘
but I know God has answered my prayer—Thank you,
Jesus, thankyou I’
"
The two boys went silently into the street. Pre-
sentlyJim said to his friend :
‘
Did you notice what Granny
said about lbeingagents for God?’ The thoughtremained
with him for therest of theday.
“
That might, when the rush and turmoil of the day
was over and all was peaceful, in that tenement garret
could be seen a boy named Jim kneeling by his bed. ‘
Oh,
God,’ he said, ‘
is it true you made me an agent, to answer
the oId,Iady’s prayer?’
“
Years later, Jim, as a Missioner, stood in an East
End chapel, and told the story of his conversion and con-
secration in a tenement off Drury Lane. Old Ann called
for bread, but God gave more—HisHolySpirit,andin that
East End chapel therewas joy in thepresence of theangels
for those who turned their thoughts towards a better life.
Was old Ann therethat night? Yes, I feel she was—very
near to Jim I"
In conclusion, I told theaudiencehow I often went to
tidy my wife's grave in Morden Cemetery, and how on
one occasion, after finishing my task, I strolled round and
looked at other gravestones. Suddenly my eyes alighted
on a headstone‘to an old lady. Aftergiving her name and
the dates of birthand death, thesewords were written—
I lived to have the joy of seeing my four sons
converted to God, especially my first-born, for
whom I prayed twenty years.
Mothers, pray on I
Finally,raising my voice, I shouted :
”
Let therecome into
thishall to—night an echo from thatstone in Morden Ceme-
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS I41
9
tery—Mothers and Friends, pray on ! Amen.’
After a short pause, I asked the congregation to re-
main seated and sing two verses of “
Nearer, my God, to
Thee," my wife's favourite hymn, as it was Christmas
Day. I cannot say the response was very good, but I
know they did their best. After a short prayer and the
well-known hymn, “
Abidewith me,” I stepped down
from the Spiritualist platform. I feel it was my last
address given in public. ~
Soon after thisI had a bad attackof bronchitis,which
left a weakness in my voice, and a huskiness, and in con-
sequence I had to refuse all other requests to take a service.
But it is a great joy to thinkof thatChristmas Night.
I42 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
A BLESSED FRIENDSHIP AND
HAPPY REMINISCENCES
I thinkthere can be very few who, at some time in
theirlives, do not pause to look backon theway theyhave
come and to view the twists, turns, sharp corners and ob-
stacles that have been in the way, and the many places
where theroad has led uphill. John Bunyandid not exag-
gerate in his P1LcR1M’s PROGRESS when he described the
journey thatmany of us have to take.
Some have likened life to a school-room, where we
are being educated for somethinghigher and better, but
how hard are some of the problems we have to define!
Yet methinksthere are times when we get a glimpse of
theplaygroundoutside, and when we see thosewho have
passed out after theirfinals—thosewho have come through
great tribulation. '
My life has been no exception to the general experi—
ence of others, and, like many more, I look back on days
thatstand out in prominence, days thathave beenhard and
have brought their lessons with them, to be learned and
understood.
One of these times came on January 25th, I937. On
the evening of that day, as was usual on Mondays, I was
taking the devotional part in the healing circle in our little
basementSanctuary at Mr. Stanley'shome. Our meeting
had commenced with the singing of that well—known
hymn, ”
At even ere the sun was set,” and followed by
a prayer under the control of Wesley. I can see again that
little room with its distempered walls, the table altar in
the corner with the brass cross reflecting the rays of the
solitary candlewhich was our light, and Mr. Stanleystand-
ing with uplifted hands over the patient, while we with
Ernest Meads (left) and Percy Johnson
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS I43
bowed heads joined in silent prayer. Then, after a few
clairvoyant descriptions, the meeting closed with Cardinal
Newman’s hymn, "
Lead, Kindly Light." Little did I
think, as I went home after the meeting, that I should
shortly berepeating thosewords as a prayer for myself.
Lead, kindly light, amid the encircling gloom,
Lead Thou me on.
The night is dark and I am far from home,
Lead Thou me. on.
Keep Thou my feet, I do not ask to see
The distant scene, one step enough for me!
During my absence a message had come to the effect
that my friend Meads had suddenly passed away whilst
sitting in a 'bus by the side of his wife. No words can
express what a blow thiswas to me ! For over thirtyyears
he had been my constant friend and helper, standing by
me in hours of danger during the investigation of haunt-
ings, and in the hours of my own sorrows and troubles.
He was always by my side and the first to give a cheer
and a handshake at my successes.
Standing in the hall of my house next morning, and
feeling how empty theworld had }become, I was suddenly
aroused by a voice calling, “
Percy, Percy I” I did not
have to thinktwicewho was caIIing—-I recognisedthesame
voice thathad swayed so many a congregation and moved
it to tears.
“
It’s alright, Ernest,” I replied, “
I will carry
on alone. God be with thee !" ’
But am I alone? I think not. Many a time he has
been described as standing by my side, and many times
since thenhave I felt his presence. Even in writing these
records I have felt his prompting.
Miss Winifred Moyes wrote an article in THE GREATER
WORLD on February 6th, I937, which I reproduce here.
She has very aptly expressed what I should like to say.
“
The transition of Ernest Meads, which came so un—
expectedlyon January 25th, brings to light how deeply he
was loved. How much we shall miss him words cannot
I44 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
express, and we can only try to imagine the joyous wel-
come he must have received in the Spirit World from all
thosewhom he has helped over years.
“
Here was a man of many gifts, the greatest being
perhaps dramatictalent of a high order, Mr. Meads having
portrayed most of the chief characters in Shakespeare's
plays. Undoubtedlytherelay before him the opportunity
of gaining renown before the footlights, but there was
somethingthat was nearer still to his heart, and thatwas
communing with the Spirit World. Mr. Meads, realising
that he could not serve two masters in a whole-hearted
manner, renounced his theatrical career and disappeared
from thestage for twelve years, althoughlater he used his
fine talents in thecause of charity.
‘ ‘
As theyears went on, his enthusiasmfor missionary
work grew and grew, and inevitablythe time came when
no longer could he ignore the fact that a public awaited
him, but this time it was one that hungered for spiritual
truth. If ever a man responded to the Love Rays of the
Christ, Mr. Meads is thatone. His loving attitude towards
his fellow-men became second nature to him, yet with a
touching humilityhe did not seem to realise how much we
all loved him.
“
In looking back over his life, what is it that stands
out most distinctly? I thinkit is his kindness. A wonder-
ful orator he was, yet in spite of theshower of appreciation
thatfollowedhis inspired addresses, he always had time to
step out of his way to shake hands with someone in the
backgroundwho did not like to intrude.
“
As I stood beside the still form in the little Chapel
of Richmond Hospital, I realised that ‘
death '
could not
touch him. When the summons came from the Master
-——‘ Come up higher,’ there was no struggle, no holding
back; he was ready to respond instantlyand to set to work
anew in wider realms of opportunity.
“
What a record to leave behind!"
Highgate Cemetery looked beautiful on the follow-
ing Saturday, the30thJanuary; nothingmarred thewhite-
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS I45
ness of the snow as I followed my friend's body to the
grave. There had not been a vacant seat during the ser—
vice in the Chapel, which was conducted by Mr. H. F.
Bendall. Many years previously, my friend and I had
made a promiseto each otherthatwhichever one died first,
the other would repeat the Twenty—ThirdPsalm over the
grave. This I regret to say was never done. The crowd
was so dense with his many admirers, I was unable to get
anywhere near and was obliged to stand on the outskirts
of the throng. I tried afterwards to push myself through,
but was soon recognised as his medium and found myself
surrounded by many sympathetic and kindly wishing
friends, foremost among whom were Miss Moyes and the
staff from The Greater World Association.
So the curtain fell ! The actor had played his part,
and played it well I '
It is not surprising that Ernest Meads, after many
years of investigating Spiritualism, should lose no time in
communicating with his loved ones. Being invited by
Mrs. Meads to go back to the house for lunch after the
funeral, I soon became conscious of my friend’s presence,
and it happened that within a short time of his funeral he
controlled me and spoke to his assembled family. It was
said afterwards that the control was so complete that his
voice was recognised as being different and distinct from
my own.
A few days later on, I paid a visit to a mutual friend
who, like myself, was deeply grieved at theloss of Ernest
Meads. I was once more controlled by him, and notes
were taken at the timeof what was said. An article, also,
containing an account of it, was publishedin THE GREATER
WORLD, written by a friend. After an eloquent intro-
duction, he wrote: i
“
On thefirst occasion of my speaking withthatgreat
missionary Ernest Meads, since his call to the Higher
Service, and on his controlling our mutual friend Percy
Johnson, his experiences suggest so keenly how many do
fall over earthlyobstacles. A fCW Words from a sympa-
I46 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
theticsoul might have minimised the trouble and set them
quickly on their pilgrimage again. I feel that I cannot
do |better than give Ernest Meads's words, conveying not
only his experiencesin ‘
passing,’but also, in a way, illus-
tratingwhat I am endeavouringto express. Undoubtedly,
the more we give services to others, the more will oppor-
tunities occur and power be given us for the purpose.
Ernest Meads, controllingPercy Johnson, said :
‘I cannot say exactly what were my feelings in
passing. I had none of the mysterious feelings of
death, only a profound sleepiness which, after a time,
gave way to the feeling of the absence of a body, a feel-
ing of freedom from obstacles, and the possibilityof
greater work. I looked on the path I had come as that
of a pathwayup a hill,and I saw thoseI had helped, and
also some who had left the pathway,and I, too, on the
journey had stumbled, but had been upheld by the
angels, as we are told : He shall give His angels charge
concerning thee, lest thou dash thyfoot against a stone.
God's help has kept me all the way.
'
And I saw other pathways where others had
fallen, and were lying‘on theobstacles,and it was a great
help to investigate their falls. Some of these people I
had helped. Thousands are still clinging to the work
of thebody, and the conditions of many who pass over
are like those of men coming out of a railway station,
who, not knowing which way to go, look thisway and
that,failingto find or ask theright way. So theyreturn
to the old life, earthbound, and wander back to the old
office or warehouse, trying to carry on as of old. The
cities and villagesare full of such.
‘I am still on this rescue work, and am -in close
touch withit now. I no longer desire theold joys of art
from an earthlypoint of view, but leave that for the en-
joyment of others. I cannot express my outlook more
clearly;thesame work I did on theearth has my present
efforts in thislife. C:ood—bye-—God bless you !' "
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS -147
Then my friend closes his article with theseremarks,
which clearlyexpress my own feeIing—
“
If I may close with a few thoughts on our friends
welcome words, do we not see so convincinglythe joy he
feels in thecontinuationin the Higher Life of the greatly
lblessed service that he had rendered to his fellow beings
for the greater part of a Irife—time! Right from the days
of the Master on earth until to-day thevalued testimony of
othersreiterates thetruththatthehappiness of thatsense of
having been of service to our brethrentranscends all other
joys. Do we all render all the service we might to those
we meet? I fear not I Let us each and everyone try to
extend our help in all ways to our fellow beings. It was
never more needed than now. Let us realise the com-
mand, ‘
Bear ye one another’sburdens, and so fulfilthelaw
of Christ,’ and the blessed assurance to us in our Lord’s
words: He who hath done it unto the least of these My
Brethren hath done it unto Me I"
=1: :1: :1:
As I stood in the Queen AlexandraMilitaryHospital,
in the year 1918, and heard the great shout go up at the
proclamationof peace, I never thoughtthenthatwe should
be again at war with Germany in I940. But so it is.
Descriptions of the times in which we are living will
be wnitten by more able pens than mine, but when the
public reads them I wonder if it will realise what we poor
mediums have to face with the sorrowpof broken hearts
and the bitterness and hatred that charge thesurrounding
atmosphere. _
Few of the uninitiated will realise how difficult condi-
‘
tions are for mediums during such times as these, and it
is not easy to try to explain these things.
When war broke out again I did my best to return to
hospital work, feeling that I could be of service, but
although the reply I received from headquarters was most
kindly worded, my application was refused owing to my
age. So I have to stand aside and look on at the most
awful spectacletheworld has ever known, and as I ponder
I48 PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS
on the thousands who, in their full manhood, have been
suddenly hurled into the Spirit World, I wonder if the
rising mediums of to-day,who are our hope for thefuture,
fully realise their duty and call to God's work? If these
lines should meet theeye of any such, I pray you stop and
think! The cannon’s roar is not so deafening that there
cannot be heard a voice saying : I have loved you with an
everlastinglove—Come unto Me all ye thatare weary and
I willgive you rest.
How I long thatstrengthwill yet be given me to help
in this rescue work ! But what the future holds for me I
cannot say. However, as I look back, I can see how God's
Hand has gently led me all the way, and many things
stand out in my memory that are pleasant to remember.
I thinkof thatnight in my brother'shome, when I thought
I had fainted but found myself controlled for thefirst time.
Then again, my meeting with Ernest Meads in Regent
Street, when I shook hands for the first time with a man
who became my friend and stood by me for over thirty
years !
I thinkof the many friends who have passed me on
theway, and some I have loved long since and lost awhile.
More distinctly than anything else, perhaps, stands out
that afternoon under the trees in Hyde Park, when Ernest
Meads and I joined hands and consecrated our medium-
ship to theservice of theMaster. I little thoughtthenwhat
the future would reveal to me, and how a new world was
about to open out.
It has not always been an easy path to tread. I can
remember times of danger and perplexity, periods when
criticism and doubt have been thrownat me by thosewho
forgot to be kind. But very clearlyto my vision come the
footprints of the angels who have held me up, those who
have sustained me lest I dash my foot against a stone.
And I have heard a voice saying :
"
As the hills are round
about Jerusalem, so am I with those who love Me I" As
I lay down my pen I lift my eyes to thosehillsfromwhence
have come my help and strength.
PSYCHIC EXPERIENCES AND MEMOIRS 149
If I am ésked whether I regret giving the best years
of my lifeto Spiruitualism, my answer is “
No," becauseit
has taught me withouta doubt thegreat truth that—
There is a green hillfar away
Withouta city wall,
Where the dear Lord was crucified
Who died to save us all.
We may not know, we cannot tell,
What pains He had to bear,
But we believeit was for us
He hung and suffered there !
Oh, dearly, clearly has He loved,
And we must love Him too;
A nd trust in Hisredeeming Grace,
And try His works to do.
MRS. C. F. ALEXANDER.
14th June, 1940,
Purley, Surrey.
