{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__fox___power_through_constructive_thinking.pdf","mytitle":"Power Through Constructive Thinking","mylang":"de"}
Power
Through Constructive
Thinking
by
EMMET FOX
H ar per & Row, P u b l is h e r s
New York, Hagerstown, San Francisco
POWER THROUGH CONSTRUCTIVE THINKING
Copyright, 1932, 1933, '934, >933, >937, >938, >939, >94°
by Emmet Fox
Printed in the United States of America
Other Writings by
Dr. Em m et Fox
WHimmvMWVvvnvvvmvvmuuwvwwwuvvvwvwumuvvvwwwwvvwvwwvwvvvvmvvwwvvwwww
T he Sermon on the Mount
( Available in Cloth and Student’s Leather Editions)
Le Sermon Sur L a Montagne
Sparks of T ruth
Alter Y our L ife
T he Magic of T ithing
T he Zodiac and the Bible
T he H istorical Destiny of the United States
T he First Sparks Book
T he Second Sparks Book
T he T hird Sparks Book
T he Fourth Sparks Book
T he F ifth Sparks Book
T he Sixth Sparks Book
T he Seventh Sparks Book
T he A merican Spirit
H ow to G et a Demonstration
K eep on the Beam
Four H orsemen of the A pocalypse
Make Y our L ife W orthwhile
T he Seven Main A spects of God
Adam and Eve
C O N T E N T S
wvvvvvvwvvvuwuvvwwvvmnvvwuwvvvuwuwvvvwwwwvvwvvvvvvwvvvwuvvwvuwwvvvwvvmwvwvw
T he W onder C h i l d .............................................................. i
T he L ord’s Pr a y e r ...................................................................... 13
T he G ood Sh e p h e r d ................................................ 47
T h e Secret Pl a c e .............................................................................53
Be St i l l ................................................................................................. 69
L ight and Sa l v a t io n ......................................................................81
T he E verlasting G a t e s ...............................................................91
D a n iel in th e L ions’ D e n ................................................ 101
T he G arden of A l l a h ............................................................. n o
T he G olden K e y ...........................................................................137
G etting R esults b y Pr a y e r ................................................ 141
T he G reat A d v e n t u r e ............................................................. 146
Y o u M ust B e B orn A g a i n ...................................................... 150
D ick W h it t in g t o n .................................................................... 154
T he Y oga of L o v e ...........................................................................160
Y our H eart’s D e s i r e ....................................................................168
T he B ogey M an U nder th e St a ir s .........................................178
N o R esults W ithout Pr a y e r ............................................... 182
F a i t h ................................................................................................185
T he Seven D a y M ental D i e t ................................................188
L if e A fter D e a t h ....................................................................201
R ein c a r n a t io n ..................................................................................233
Sowing and R e a p in g ....................................................................265
v
W hat Is Scien tific P rayer? .................................. 267
T he P r e s e n c e ....................................................... ...... . . 269
T he W ord of P o w e r ....................................................................271
B lessing and Cu r s in g ....................................................................273
T he G olden G a t e ...........................................................................275
T rea tm en t for D ivine L ove . 276
G od in B u s i n e s s ...........................................................................278
F ifteen Po in t s ................................................................................. 280
vi Contents
IN TRO D U CTIO N
T
his book is designed to teach the principles of life
building through constructive thought. All power
lies in creative thought. Thought is the key to life; for
as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. People are begin­
ning to understand today something of the power of
thought to shape the individual’s destiny—they know
vaguely that thoughts are things—but how the Great
Law of thought is to be applied they do not know.
This book shows that your destiny is really in your
own hands, because it is impossible to think one thing
and produce another, and that by the selection of cor­
rect thought a harmonious and happy life is produced.
It shows that weak and fickle thinking produces a drift­
ing and wasted life, and that positive thinking produces
success and happiness. It shows that fear is the ultimate
cause or Tap-Root of all sickness, failure, and disappoint­
ment. And it shows the only possible method of over­
coming fear.
What you really think about any person or any situa­
tion is your “treatment” of that condition, and if you
wish the condition to change you must know how to
“treat” it differently by a change in thought.
But it is also true that the fixed general convictions of
your life, as distinct from your current thinking, make
vii
Introduction
you what you are. Your Mental Conduct, your hour-by­
hour thinking, produces specific conditions, and may be
thought of as the weather of your soul. Your fixed con­
victions concerning the things that really matter are
seldom changed and may be called the climate of the
soul, and it is these that mould your destiny.
What do you really believe about the great problems
of life? What do you think about your relationship to
God? What sort of God do you worship? Do you think
that prayer really makes any difference? Are you merely
praying to a magnified edition of yourself; or are you
worshipping the true God in spirit and in truth? What
do you think about fife after death? Do you think that
you have ever lived before? Are you nourishing a griev­
ance at the bottom of your heart because you think you
were bom into unfavorable conditions?
W hy is one man sick and another man well? W hy
does one man five in a happy, comfortable home and
another drag out a meager existence in a slum? W hy is
one man popular and respected and another man dis­
liked, or at least ignored? W hy does one man produce a
great work while another falters through life without
ever doing anything worth while? W hy are so many
sincerely religious people unhappy and frustrated? W hy
are many earnest Bible students unable to solve a single
one of their own problems? W hy is it that learned men
and philosophers are notoriously unsuccessful in the
business of personal living, if it is really true that “knowl­
edge is power” ?
It is necessary for you to realize that it is your con­
sidered attitude to such questions as these that ultimately
viii
Introduction IX
determines everything in your life from the state of your
body to the daily work that you do and the kind of
people that you meet.
This book is intended to help people to clarify their
thinking on these important points. It is an attempt
to explain the fundamental Truth of Being in the simple
language of everyday life. The author has always be­
lieved that it must be possible to explain the most pro­
found truths of religion and philosophy in the simplest
language; and he has made it a rule both in his writings
and on the platform never to employ any word that is
not in common use in offices, workshops, street cars, and
so forth.
Some knowledge of metaphysics or spiritual truth is
absolutely essential if you are to understand yourself
and to take over effectual control of your life, and this
book deals with the subject from several different angles.
The teaching in this book is founded on the Bible. The
Bible is not like any other book; it is a spiritual vortex
through which spiritual power pours from heaven to
earth, and the reason why most people derive compara­
tively little profit from its study is that they lack the
spiritual key.
You can have power to make your life healthy, happy,
useful, and outstandingly successful, if you will study
the laws of life, and apply them faithfully.
All the essays in this book have previously been pub­
lished as separate pamphlets and are still obtainable in
that form. This collected edition is put out in response
to very many requests from all over the world.
Power
Through Constructive Thinking
T H E W O N D ER CHILD
S
trange as it may seem to you, there exists a mystic
power that is able to transform your life so thor­
oughly, so radically, so completely, that when the
process is completed your own friends would hardly
recognize you, and, in fact, you would scarcely be able
to recognize yourself. You would sit down and ask your­
self: “Can I really be the man or woman that I vaguely
remember, who went about under my name six months
or six years ago? Was I really that person? Could that
person possibly have been I? ” And the truth will be that
while in one sense you are indeed the same person,
yet in another sense you will be someone utterly dif­
ferent. This mystic hut intensely real force can pick
you up today, now, from the midst of failure, ruin,
misery, despair—and in the twinkling of an eye, as Paul
said, solve your problems, smooth out your difficulties,
cut you free from any entanglements, and place you
clear, safe, and happy upon the highroad of freedom and
opportunity.
It can lift you out of an invalid’s bed, make you
sound and well once more, and free to go out into the
world to shape your life as you will. It can throw open
the prison door and liberate the captive. It has a magical
healing balm for the bruised or broken heart.
i
This mystic Power can teach you all things that you
need to know, if only you are receptive and teachable.
It can inspire you with new thoughts and ideas, so that
your work may be truly original. It can impart new
and wonderful kinds of knowledge as soon as you really
want such knowledge—glorious knowledge—strange
things not taught in schools or written in books. It can
do for you that which is probably the most important
thing of all in your present stage: it can find your true
place in life for you, and put you into it too. It can
find the right friends for you, kindred spirits who are
interested in the same ideas and want the same things
that you do. It can provide you with an ideal home. It
can furnish you with the prosperity that means free­
dom, freedom to be and to do and to go as your soul
calls.
This extraordinary Power, mystic though I have
rightly called it, is nevertheless very real, no mere
imaginary abstraction, but actually the most practical
thing there is. The existence of this Power is already
well known to thousands of people in the world today,
and has been known to certain enlightened souls for
tens of thousands of years. This Power is really no
less than the primal Power of Being, and to discover
that Power is the Divine birthright of all men. It is your
right and your privilege to make your contact with this
Power, and to allow it to work through your body,
mind, and estate, so that you need no longer grovel
upon the ground amid limitations and difficulties, but
can soar up on wings like an eagle to the realm of
dominion and joy.
2 Power Through Constructive Thinking
But where, it will naturally be asked, is this won­
derful, mystic Power to be contacted? Where may we
find it? and how is it brought into action? The answer
is perfectly simple—This Power is to be found within
your own consciousness, the last place that most people
would look for it. Right within your own mentality
there lies a source of energy stronger than electricity,
more potent than high explosive; unlimited and inex­
haustible. You only need to make conscious contact
with this Power to set it working in your affairs; and
all the marvelous results enumerated can be yours.
This is the real meaning of such sayings in the Bible
as “The Kingdom of God is within you” ; and “Seek
ye first the Kingdom of God, and all the rest shall
be added.”
This Indwelling Power, the Inner Light, or Spiritual
Idea, is spoken of in the Bible as a child, and through­
out the Scriptures the child symbolically always stands
for this. Bible symbolism has its own beautiful logic,
and just as the soul is always spoken of as a woman,
so this, the Spiritual Idea that is bom to the soul, is de­
scribed as a child. The conscious discovery by you that
you have this Power within you, and your determina­
tion to make use of it, is the birth of the child. And
it is easy to see how very apt the symbol is, for the
infant that is born in consciousness is just such a weak,
feeble entity as any new-born child, and it calls for
the same careful nursing and guarding that any infant
does in its earliest days. After a time, however, as the
weeks go by, the child grows stronger and bigger, until
a time comes when it can well take care of itself; and
The Wonder Child 3
then it grows and grows in wisdom and stature until,
no longer leaning on the mother’s care, the child, now
arrived at man’s estate, turns the tables, and repays its
debt by taking over the care of its mother. So your
ability to contact the mystic Power within yourself,
frail and feeble at first, will gradually develop until you
find yourself permitting that Power to take your whole
life into its care.
The life story of Jesus, the central figure of the
Bible, perfectly dramatizes this truth. He is described
as being born of a virgin, and in a poor stable, and we
know how he grew up to be the Saviour of the world.
Now, in Bible symbolism, the virgin soul means the
soul that looks to God alone, and it is this condition of
soul in which the child, or Spiritual Idea, comes to
birth. It is when we have reached that stage, the stage
where, either through wisdom or because of suffering,
we are prepared to put God really first, that the thing
happens.
The Christ Child was born in a stable, though all the
world had anticipated that when He arrived it would
be in a palace; and we deeply appreciate the significance
of this point as soon as the Holy Child comes to birth
in our own soul, for with the natural consciousness of
our own unworthiness we feel only too keenly that once
more He is indeed being born in a stable. Here we
have the inspired intimation that this fact will not pre­
vent His growing up to be the saviour of our own
individual world.
The Bible directly and indirectly has a good deal
to say on the subject of the birth and growth of the
4 Power Through Constructive Thinking
child, and what it can mean for us. One of the most
significant pronouncements on this subject is given in
the Book of Isaiah, Chapter 9, verses 2, 6, and 7, and it
will amply repay us to consider that statement in some
detail.
Isaiah says: “The people that walked in darkness
have seen a great light: they that dwell in the land of
the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined.”
This is a marvelous description of what happens when
the Spiritual Idea, the child, is born to the soul. Walk­
ing in darkness, moral or physical, dwelling in the
land of the shadow of death—the death of joy, or hope,
or even self-respect—describes well the condition of
many people before this light shines into their weary,
heartbroken lives; and the Prophet rises into a paean of
exultant joy as he contemplates the deliverance wrought
by the mystic Power: “For unto us a child is born, unto
us a son is given: and the government shall be upon his
shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful,
Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father,
The Prince of Peace.”
This description begins by giving the gist of the
whole matter, simply and concisely-—that the govern­
ment is to be upon bis shoulder. This really covers the
whole business. Correctly understood, this statement
tells the entire story without need of any further com­
ment. It means that once you have contacted the mystic
Power within, and have allowed it to take over your
responsibilities for you, it will direct and govern all
your affairs from the greatest to the least without effort,
and without mistakes, and without trouble to you. The
The Wonder Child 5
government shall be upon his shoulder. You are tired,
and driven, and worried, and weak, and ill, and de­
pressed, because you have been trying to carry the
government upon your own shoulder; the burden is too
much for you, and you have broken down under it.
Now, immediately you hand over your self-government,
that is, the burden of making a living, or of healing
your body, or erasing your mistakes, to the Child, He,
the Tireless One, the All-Powerful, the All-Wise, the
All-Resourceful, assumes it with joy; and your difficul­
ties have seen the beginning of the end.
The Prophet next goes on to speak of the “Name”
of the child, and if we know something of Bible sym­
bolism, we know that we are now going to learn some­
thing fundamental, for in the Bible, the nanne of any­
thing, means the character or nature of that thing, and
so we realize that a name is not merely an arbitrary
label, but actually a hieroglyph of the soul. W e are
given no less than five names or qualities of the child.
Let us examine them and see what they tell us. First
of all, Isaiah says that the name of the child is Wonder­
ful, and this in fact is the first and the outstanding
quality; this child is a Wonder Child. The word “won­
derful” used here requires to be carefully scrutinized.
As employed in the Bible, it implies simply and plainly
a miracle—a miracle, just that, and nothing less, be­
cause you have to realize that the Bible teaches the
miracle from the first page to the last. The Bible re­
peatedly says that miracles can happen, and that they
do happen; and it gives detailed and circumstantial ac­
counts of many specific cases. And it says, many times,
6 Power Through Constructive Thinking
that miracles always will happen if you believe them
to be possible, and are willing to recognize the Power
of God, and to call upon it.
There have been many efforts during the last two
generations to divorce the Bible teaching from the
belief in miracles. Attempts have been made to show
that in some unexplained way the Bible can be true
and useful, and yet mistaken in its teaching of the
miracle; in other words, that it can in some mysterious
manner be an edifying conglomeration of truth and lies.
Indeed, one famous Bible critic said blandly: “ Miracles
do not happen”—thus dismissing the whole matter
with a wave of his hand. The obvious rejoinder to this
is that if it were true that miracles do not happen, the
Bible would be a mere meaningless jumble of pointless
fables. But they do happen, and even as Galileo termi­
nated the other controversy by saying, “nevertheless it
revolves,” so when all controversy finishes, we may say
of miracles “nevertheless, they happen.”
Well now, just recollect the first quality that Isaiah
gives for the child. It is a wonder child; that is to say,
it is a miraculous child; it is a worker of miracles.
This means that as soon as the Wonder Child is bom in
your consciousness, the miracle will come into your
life—a real miracle, remember. This does not mean sim­
ply that you will become resigned to your present cir­
cumstances, or merely that you will then be enabled
to meet the same difficulties with a higher courage or
a clearer brain. It means the miracle. It means that the
Wonder Child, not in any figurative or metaphorical
sense, but plainly and literally, in the most matter of
The Wonder Child 7
fact meaning of the term, will work miracles in your
life. It will do these things absolutely, irrespective of
what your present conditions are. It is in no way con­
strained or constricted by your present circumstances.
The whole point is that the Wonder Child can lift you
out of those very circumstances, and set you down
in different circumstances. The Wonder Child is the
Miracle Child.
Now let us take the second point that the Prophet
gives us concerning this Wonder Child. He calls it
“Counsellor,” and a counsellor, you know, is one who
gives advice or guidance; and so you see that once the
Child has been born, you need never again lack either
of these things. The Child will be your infallible coun­
sellor. If you are worried because you do not know
whether or not to take some important step, to accept
or reject a business offer, to sign or not to sign an
important document, to enter upon or to dissolve a
partnership, to resign your position or not, to go abroad
or to stay at home, to trust someone or not to trust
him, to say something or to leave it unsaid, the Wonder
Child will be your Counsellor, and the Wonder Child
is never mistaken.
It is in the third point that the Prophet reveals to us
who the Wonder Child really is. It is no less than God
Himself, “The Mighty God,” as Isaiah reminds us, and
truly the mystic Power that transforms, and transmutes,
and transfigures, is God Himself, always present with
you, and always available, once you have understood
and accepted the Spiritual Idea. And it is because He
8 Power Through Constructive Thinking
is God, that the work of the Child is independent of
all conditions.
The fourth name that the Prophet attributes to the
Child is that of Everlasting Father. This point estab­
lishes our relationship to God in unmistakable terms.
As Jesus so clearly pointed out, God is our Father, not
merely our Creator, and we as the children of a good
Father may expect to find ourselves provided with
everything that we need for body or soul. But since
we have to establish for ourselves our own conscious­
ness of this fact, and as our demonstration is just the
measure of our understanding of it, our concept of
the Divine fact is the fruit of our own soul, and may
mystically be called our child.
Finally, in the fifth point, we receive what is perhaps
the greatest name of all. Here the Child is called “The
Prince of Peace.” Just try to realize a little what this
title must mean for you in practice—nothing less than
that the Wonder Child, the Spiritual Idea, born to
your own soul, is the Prince of Peace. Now think what
perfect peace of soul, if you could attain it, would
actually mean to you. If your soul were truly at peace,
what in your life could go wrong? If only you had
real peace of soul, do you suppose that your body could
be ill? Given real peace of soul, how easy it would be
to find your true place in the world, which would mean
prosperity as well as happiness. How easily, how quickly
and efficiently you could perform your work, work
such as you have never done yet, and in less than half
the usual time. Of course, everybody knows that this is
The Wonder Child 9
what would follow the attainment of soul peace, but
there is still much more in it than that. What you per­
haps do not know is that once you have attained true
peace of soul, you have made it possible for the Mystic
Power, the Wonder Child, to teach you new things,
utterly beyond the compass of your present under­
standing, enabling you to do things in the world, if
you should wish to, that nobody would have deemed it
possible that you could do. Well, it is in the very na­
ture of the Wonder Child to give you just that very
soul peace, and it is because of this function that it is
called “The Prince of Peace.”
Isaiah goes on to tell us that this is no limited demon­
stration, but that once it begins, it goes on and on as
we rise higher and higher in consciousness, increasing
and expanding more and more unto the perfect day.
“ Of the increase of his government and peace there shall
be no end, upon the throne of David, and upon his
kingdom, to order it, and to establish it with judgment
and with justice from henceforth even forever.” The
throne of David is of course Jerusalem, which is Uru-
Salem, the city of peace, this very peace that we have
been discussing; and Jerusalem symbolically is the awak­
ened consciousness. There shall indeed be no end to the
increase of that government, and in view of the possi­
bility that the weaker souls, the fearful, and the unbeliev­
ing, and the depressed, should find it impossible to be­
lieve that such good tidings could possibly be true, the
Prophet clinches the matter with the definite assertion:
“The Zeal of the Lord of Hosts will perform this.” This
io Power Through Constructive Thinking
should remove all sense of personal responsibility for the
demonstration, the bugbear of so many seekers. Have
we not seen that the gist of the whole matter is just
this very point—that the government shall be upon his
shoulder.
The Wonder Child u
Our Father, which art in heaven, Halloaved be
thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be
done, in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this
day our daily bread. And forgive us our tres­
passes, as we forgive them that trespass against
us. And lead us not into temptation; but de­
liver us from evil: For thine is the kingdom,
the power, and the glory, for ever and ever.
Amen.
T H E LO RD ’S PR A Y ER
He prayeth well who loveth well
Both man and bird and beast;
He prayeth best who loveth best
All things both great and small:
For the dear God who loveth us,
He made and loveth all.
—Coleridge
T
he Lord’s Prayer is the most important of all the
Christian documents. It was carefully constructed
by Jesus with certain very clear ends in view. That is
why, of all his teachings, it is by far the best known,
and the most often quoted. It is, indeed, the one com­
mon denominator of all the Christian churches. Every
one of them, without exception, uses the Lord’s Prayer;
it is perhaps the only ground upon which they all
meet. Every Christian child is taught the Lord’s Prayer,
and any Christian who prays at all says it almost every
day. Its actual use probably exceeds that of all other
prayers put together. Undoubtedly everyone who is
seeking to follow along the W ay that Jesus led, should
make a point of using the Lord’s Prayer, and using it
intelligently, every day.
In order to do this, we should understand that the
Prayer is a carefully constructed organic whole. Many
13
people rattle through it like parrots, forgetful of the
warning that Jesus gave us against vain repetitions, and,
of course, no one derives any profit from that sort of
thing.
The Great Prayer is a compact formula for the de­
velopment of the soul. It is designed with the utmost
care for that specific purpose; so that those who use
it regularly, with understanding, will experience a real
change of soul. The only progress is this change, which
is what the Bible calls being bom again. It is the
change of soul that matters. The mere acquisition of
fresh knowledge received intellectually makes no change
in the soul. The Lord’s Prayer is especially designed
to bring this change about, and when it is regularly
used it invariably does so.
The more one analyzes the Lord’s Prayer, the more
wonderful is its construction seen to be. It meets every­
one’s need just at his own level. It not only provides
a rapid spiritual development for those who are suf­
ficiently advanced to be ready, but in its superficial
meaning it supplies the more simple-minded and even
the more materially-minded people with just what they
need at the moment, if they use the Prayer sincerely.
This greatest of all prayers was designed with still
another purpose in view, quite as important as either
of the others. Jesus foresaw that, as the centuries went
by, his simple, primitive teaching would gradually
become overlain by all sorts of external things which
really have nothing whatever to do with it. He fore­
saw that men who had never known him, relying,
quite sincerely, no doubt, upon their own limited in­
14 Power Through Constructive Thinking
tellects, would build up theologies and doctrinal sys­
tems, obscuring the direct simplicity of the spiritual
message, and actually erecting a wall between God
and man. He designed his Prayer in such a way that it
would pass safely through those ages without being
tampered with. He arranged it with consummate skill,
so that it could not be twisted or distorted, or adapted
to any man-made system; so that, in fact, it would
carry the whole Christ Message within it, and yet not
have anything on the surface to attract the attention
of the restless, managing type of person. So it has turned
out that through all the changes and chances of Chris­
tian history, this Prayer has come through to us un­
corrupted and unspoiled.
The first thing that we notice is that the Prayer
naturally falls into seven clauses. This is very charac­
teristic of the Oriental tradition. Seven symbolizes in­
dividual completeness, the perfection of the individual
soul, just as the number twelve in the same convention
stands for corporate completeness. In practical use, we
often find an eighth clause added— “Thine is the king­
dom, the power, and the glory”—but this, though in
itself an excellent affirmation, is not really a part of
the Prayer. The seven clauses are put together with the
utmost care, in perfect order and sequence, and they
contain everything that is necessary for the nourish­
ment of the soul. Let us consider the first clause:
Our Father
This simple statement in itself constitutes a definite
and complete system of theology. It fixes clearly and
The Lord's Prayer 15
distinctly the nature and character of God. It sums up
the Truth of Being. It tells all that man needs to know
about God, and about himself, and about his neighbor.
Anything that is added to this can only be by way
of commentary, and is more likely than not to com­
plicate and obscure the true meaning of the text. Oliver
Wendell Holmes said: “M y religion is summed up in
the first two words of the Lord’s Prayer,” and most
of us will find ourselves in full agreement with him.
Notice the simple, clear-cut, definite statement— “ Our
Father.” In this clause Jesus lays down once and for
all that the relationship between God and man is that
of father and child. This cuts out any possibility that
the Deity could be the relentless and cruel tyrant that
is often pictured by theology. Jesus says definitely that
the relationship is that of parent and child; not an
Oriental despot dealing with grovelling slaves, but
parent and child. Now we all know perfectly well that
men and women, however short they may fall in other
respects, nearly always do the best they can for their
children. Unfortunately, cruel and wicked parents are
to be found, but they are so exceptional as to make
a paragraph for the newspapers. The vast majority of
men and women are at their best in dealing with their
children. Speaking of the same truth elsewhere, Jesus
said: “ If you, who are so full of evil, nevertheless do
your best for your children, how much more will
God, who is altogether good, do for you” ; and so he
begins his Prayer by establishing the character of God
as that of the perfect Father dealing with His children,
Note that this clause which fixes the nature of God,
16 Power Through Constructive Thinking
at the same time fixes the nature of man, because if man
is the offspring of God, he must partake of the nature
of God, since the nature of the offspring is invariably
similar to that of the parent. It is a Cosmic Law that like
begets like. It is not possible that a rosebush should pro­
duce lilies, or that a cow should give birth to a colt.
The offspring is and must be of the same nature as the
parent; and so, since God is Divine Spirit, man must
essentially be Divine Spirit too, whatever appearances
may say to the contrary.
Let us pause here for a moment and try to realize
what a tremendous step forward we have taken in ap­
preciating the teaching of Jesus on this point. Do you
not see that at a single blow it swept away ninety-nine
per cent of all the old theology, with its avenging God,
its chosen and favored individuals, its eternal hell fire,
and all the other horrible paraphernalia of man’s dis­
eased and terrified imagination. God exists— and the
Eternal, All-Powerful, All-Present God is the loving
Father of mankind.
If you would meditate upon this fact, until you had
some degree of understanding of what it really means,
most of your difficulties and physical ailments would
disappear, for they are rooted and grounded in fear.
The underlying cause of all trouble is fear. If only you
could realize to some extent that Omnipotent Wisdom
is your living, loving Father, most of your fears would
go. If you could realize it completely, every negative
thing in your life would vanish away, and you would
demonstrate perfection in every phase. N ow you see
The Lord’s Prayer 17
the object that Jesus had in mind when he placed this
clause first.
Next we see that the Prayer says, not “M y Father,”
but “ Our Father,” and this indicates, beyond the possi­
bility of mistake, the truth of the brotherhood of man.
It forces upon our attention at the very beginning
the fact that all men are indeed brethren, the children
of one Father; and that “there is neither Jew nor Greek,
there is neither bond nor free, there is neither chosen
nor unchosen,” because all men are brethren. Here
Jesus in making his second point, ends all the tiresome
nonsense about a “ chosen race,” about the spiritual
superiority of any one group of human beings over
any other group. He cuts away the illusion that the
members of any nation, or race, or territory, or group,
or class, or color, are, in the sight of God, superior to
any other group. A belief in the superiority of one’s
own particular group, or “herd,” as the psychologists
call it, is an illusion to which mankind is very prone,
but in the teaching of Jesus it has no place. He teaches
that the thing that places a man is the spiritual con­
dition of his own individual soul, and that as long as
he is upon the spiritual path it makes no difference
whatever to what group he belongs or does not belong.
The final point is the implied command that we
are to pray not only for ourselves but for all mankind.
Every student of Truth should hold the thought of the
Truth of Being for the whole human race for at
least a moment each day, since none of us lives to him­
self nor dies to himself; for indeed we are all truly—
18 Power Through Constructive Thinking
and in a much more literal sense than people are aware
—limbs of one Body.
Now we begin to see how very much more than
appears on the surface is contained in those simple
words “ Our Father.” Simple—one might almost say
innocent—as they look, Jesus has concealed within
them a spiritual explosive that will ultimately destroy
every man-made system that holds the human race in
bondage.
Which art in heaven
Having clearly established the Fatherhood of God
and the brotherhood of man, Jesus next goes on to
enlarge upon the nature of God, and to describe the
fundamental facts of existence. Having shown that
God and man are parent and child, he goes on to
delineate the function of each in the grand scheme of
things. He explains that it is the nature of God to be in
heaven, and of man to be on earth, because God is
Cause, and man is manifestation. Cause cannot be ex­
pression, and expression cannot be cause, and we must
be careful not to confuse the two things. Here heaven
stands for God or Cause, because in religious phrase­
ology heaven is the term for the Presence of God.
In metaphysics it is called the Absolute, because it is
the realm of Pure Unconditioned Being, of archetypal
ideas. The word “earth” means manifestation, and man’s
function is to manifest or express God, or Cause. In
other words, God is the Infinite and Perfect Cause of
all things; but Cause has to be expressed, and God ex­
presses Himself by means of man. Man’s destiny is to
The Lord's Prayer 19
express God in all sorts of glorious and wonderful
ways. Some of this expression we see as his surround­
ings; first his physical body, which is really only the
most intimate part of his embodiment; then his home;
his work; his recreation; in short, his whole expression.
To express means to press outward, or bring into sight
that which already exists implicitly. Every feature of
your life is really a manifestation or expression of
something in your soul.
Some of these points may seem at first to be a little
abstract; but since it is misunderstandings about the
relationship of God and man that lead to all our diffi­
culties, it is worth any amount of trouble correctly to
understand that relationship. Trying to have manifesta­
tion without Cause, is atheism and materialism, and we
know where they lead. Trying to have Cause without
manifestation leads man to suppose himself to be a
personal God, and this commonly ends in megalomania
and a kind of paralysis of expression.
The important thing to realize is that God is in
heaven and man on earth, and that each has his own
role in the scheme of things. Although they are One,
they are not one-and-the-same. Jesus establishes this
point carefully when he says, “ Our Father which art
in heaven.”
Hallowed be thy name
In the Bible, as elsewhere, the “name” of anything
means the' essential nature or character of that thing,
and so, when we are told what the name of God is,
we are told what His nature is, and His name or nature,
20 Power Through Constructive Thinking
Jesus says, is “hallowed.” Now what does the word
“hallowed” mean? Well, if you trace the derivation back
into Old English, you will discover a most extraordi­
narily interesting and significant fact. The word “hal­
lowed” has the same meaning as “holy,” “whole,”
“ wholesome,” and “heal,” or “healed” ; so we see that
the nature of God is not merely worthy of our venera­
tion, but is complete and perfect—altogether good.
Some very remarkable consequences follow from this.
We have agreed that an effect must be similar in its
nature to its cause, and so, because the nature of God
is hallowed, everything that follows from that Cause
must be hallowed or perfect too. Just as a rosebush
cannot produce lilies, so God cannot cause or send
anything but perfect good. As the Bible says, “the
same fountain cannot send forth both sweet and bitter
water.” From this it follows that God cannot, as people
sometimes think, send sickness or trouble, or accidents
—much less death—for these things are unlike His na­
ture. “ Hallowed be thy name” means “Thy nature is
altogether good, and Thou art the author only of per­
fect good.” Of purer eyes than to behold evil, and canst
not look on iniquity.
If you think that God has sent any of your difficul­
ties to you, for no matter how good a reason, you are
giving power to your troubles, and this makes it very
difficult to get rid of them.
Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, in earth as it is
m heaven
Man being »Mraifestation or expression of God has
The Lord’s Vrayer 21
a limitless destiny before him. His work is to express,
in concrete, definite form, the abstract ideas with which
God furnishes him, and in order to do this, he must
have creative power. If he did not have creative power,
he would be merely a machine through which God
worked—an automaton. But man is not an automaton;
he is an individualized consciousness. God individualizes
Himself in an infinite number of distinct focal points
of consciousness, each one quite different; and there­
fore each one is a distinct way of knowing the universe,
each a distinct experience. Notice carefully that the
word “individual” means undivided. The consciousness
of each one is distinct from God and from all others,
and yet none are separated. How can this be? How can
two things be one, and yet not one and the same? The
answer is that in matter, which is finite, they cannot;
but in Spirit, which is infinite, they can. With our
present limited, three-dimensional consciousness, we
cannot see this; but intuitively we can understand it
through prayer. If God did not individualize Himself,
there would be only one experience; as it is, there are
as many universes as there are individuals to form them
through thinking.
“ Thy kingdom come” means that it is our duty to
be ever occupied in helping to establish the Kingdom
of God on earth. That is to say, our work is to bring
more and more of God’s ideas into concrete manifesta­
tion upon this plane. That is what we are here for.
The old saying, “ God has a plan for every man, and
he has one for you,” is quite correct. God has glorious
and wonderful plans for every one of us; he has planned
22 Power Through Constructive Thinking
a splendid career, full of interest, life, and joy, for each,
and if our lives are dull, or restricted, or squalid, that is
not His fault, but ours.
If only you will find out the thing God intends you
to do, and will do it, you will find that all doors will
open to you; all obstacles in your path will melt away;
you will be acclaimed a brilliant success; you will be
most liberally rewarded from the monetary point of
view; and you will be gloriously happy.
There is a true place in life for each one of us, upon
the attainment of which we shall be completely happy,
and perfectly secure. On the other hand, until we do
find our true place we never shall be either happy or
secure, no matter what other things we may have. Our
true place is the one place where we can bring the
Kingdom of God into manifestation, and truly say,
“T hy kingdom cometh.”
W e have seen that man too often chooses to use his
free will in a negative way. He allows himself to think
wrongly, selfishly, and this wrong thinking brings upon
him all his troubles. Instead of understanding that it
is his essential nature to express God, to be ever about
his Father’s business, he tries to set up upon his own
account. All our troubles arise from just this folly.
W e abuse our free will, trying to work apart from
God; and the very natural result is all the sickness,
poverty, sin, trouble, and death that we find on the
physical plane. We must never for a moment try to
live for ourselves, or make plans or arrangements with­
out reference to God, or suppose that we can be either
happy or successful if we are seeking any other end
The Lord’s Prayer 23
than to do His Will. Whatever our desire may be,
whether it be something concerning our daily work,
or our duty at home, our relations with our fellow
man, or private plans for the employment of our own
time, if we seek to serve self instead of God, we are
ordering trouble, disappointment, and unhappiness, not­
withstanding what the evidence to the contrary may
seem to be. Whereas, if we choose what, through prayer,
we know to be His Will, then we are insuring for
ourselves ultimate success, freedom, and joy, however
much self-sacrifice and self-discipline it may involve at
the moment.
Our business is to bring our whole nature as fast
as we can into conformity with the Will of God, by
constant prayer and unceasing, though unanxious,
watching. “Our wills are ours to make them Thine.”
“ In His W ill is our peace,” said Dante, and the
Divine Comedy is really a study in fundamental states
of consciousness, the Inferno representing the state
of the soul that is endeavoring to live without God,
the Paradiso representing the state of the soul that has
achieved its conscious unity with the Divine Will, and
the Purgatorio the condition of the soul that is strug­
gling to pass from the one state to the other. It was
this sublime conflict of the soul which wrung from the
heart of the great Augustine the cry, “ Thou hast made
us for Thyself, and our hearts are restless until they
repose in Thee.”
Give us this day our daily bread
Because we are the children of a loving Father, we
24 Power Through Constructive Thinking
are entitled to expect that God will provide us fully
with everything we need. Children naturally and spon­
taneously look to their human parents to supply all their
wants, and in the same way we should look to God
to supply ours. If we do so, in faith and understanding,
we shall never look in vain.
It is the W ill of God that we should all lead healthy,
happy lives, full of joyous experience; that we should
develop freely and steadily, day by day and week by
week, as our pathways unfold more and more unto
the perfect day. To this end we require such things as
food, clothing, shelter, means of travel, books, and so
on; above all, we require freedom-, and in the Prayer
all these things are included under the heading of bread.
Bread, that is to say, means not merely food in general,
but all things that man requires for a healthy, happy,
free, and harmonious life. But in order to obtain these
things, we have to claim them, not necessarily in detail,
but nue have to claim them, and, we have to recognize
God and God alone as the Source and fountainhead
of all our good. Lack of any kind is always traceable
to the fact that we have been seeking our supply from
some secondary source, instead of from God, Himself,
the Author and Giver of life.
People think of their supply as coming from certain
investments, or from a business, or from an employer,
perhaps; whereas these are merely the channels through
which it comes, God being the Source. The number
of possible channels is infinite, the Source is One. The
particular channel through which you are getting your
supply is quite likely to change, because change is the
The Lord's Prayer 25
26 Power Through Constructive Thinking
Cosmic Law for manifestation. Stagnation is really death;
but as long as you realize that the Source of your supply
is the one unchangeable Spirit, all is well. The fading out
of one channel will be but the signal for the opening of
another. If, on the other hand, like most people, you re­
gard the particular channel as being the source, then
when that channel fails, as it is very likely to do, you
are left stranded, because you believe that the source
has dried up—and for practical purposes, on the physi­
cal plane, things are as we believe them to be.
A man, for instance, thinks of his employment as the
source of his income, and for some reason he loses it.
His employer goes out of business, or cuts down the staff,
or they have a falling out. Now, because he believes that
his position is the source of his income, the loss of the
position naturally means the loss of the income, and
so he has to start looking about for another job, and
perhaps has to look a long time, meanwhile finding
himself without apparent supply. If such a man had
realized, through regular daily Treatment, that God
was his supply, and his job only the particular channel
through which it came, then upon the closing of that
channel, he would have found another, and probably
a better one, opening immediately. If his belief had
been in God as his supply, then since God cannot change
or fail, or fade out, his supply would have come from
somewhere, and would have formed its own channel
in whatever was the easiest way.
In precisely the same way the proprietor of a busi­
ness may find himself obliged to close down for some
cause outside of his control; or one whose income is
dependent upon stocks or bonds may suddenly find that
source dried up, owing to unexpected happenings on
the stock market, or to some catastrophe to a factory
or a mine. If he regards the business or the investment
as his source of supply, he will believe his source to have
collapsed, and will in consequence be left stranded;
whereas, if his reliance is upon God, he will be com­
paratively indifferent to the channel and so that channel
will be easily supplanted by a new one. In short, we
have to train ourselves to look to God, Cause, for all
that we need, and then the channel, which is entirely
a secondary matter, will take care of itself.
In its inner and most important meaning, our daily
bread signifies the realization of the Presence of God—
an actual sense that God exists not merely in a nom­
inal way, but as the great reality; the sense that He is
present with us; and the feeling that because He is
God, all good, all powerful, all wise, and all loving,
we have nothing to fear; that we can rely upon Him
to take every care of us; that He will supply all that we
need to have; teach us all that we need to know; and
guide our steps so that we shall not make mistakes.
This is Emanuel, or God with us; and remember that
it absolutely means some degree of actual realization,
that is to say, some experience in consciousness, and not
just a theoretical recognition of the fact; not simply
talking about God, however beautifully one may talk,
or thinking about Him; but some degree of actual ex­
perience. W e must begin by thinking about God, but
this should lead to the realization which is the daily
bread or manna. That is the gist of the whole matter.
The Lord's Prayer 27
Realization, which is experience, is the thing that counts.
It is realization which marks the progress of the soul.
It is realization which guarantees the demonstration.
It is realization, as distinct from mere theorizing and
fine words, which is the substance of things hoped for,
the evidence of things not seen. This is the Bread of
Life, the hidden manna, and when one has that, he has
all things in deed and in truth. Jesus several times refers
to this experience as bread because it is the nourish­
ment of the soul, just as physical food is the nourish­
ment of the physical body. Supplied with this food, the
soul grows and waxes strong, gradually developing to
adult stature. Without it, she, being deprived of her
essential nourishment, is naturally stunted and crippled.
The common mistake, of course, is to suppose that
a formal recognition of God is sufficient, or that talking
about Divine things, perhaps talking very poetically, is
the same as possessing them; but this is exactly on a par
with supposing that looking at a tray of food, or dis­
cussing the chemical composition of sundry foodstuffs,
is the same thing as actually eating a meal. It is this
mistake which is responsible for the fact that people
sometimes pray for a thing for years without any tangi­
ble result. If prayer is a force at all, it cannot be pos­
sible to pray without something happening.
A realization cannot be obtained to order; it must
come spontaneously as the result of regular daily
prayer. T o seek realization by will power is the surest
way to miss it. Pray regularly and quietly—remember
that in all mental work, effort or strain defeats itself—
then presently, perhaps when you least expect it, like
28 Power Through Constructive Thinking
a thief in the night, the realization will come. Mean­
while it is well to know that all sorts of practical diffi­
culties can be overcome by sincere prayer, without
any realization at all. Good workers have said that
they have had some of their best demonstrations with­
out any realization worth speaking about; but while it
is, of course, a wonderful boon to surmount such par­
ticular difficulties, we do not achieve the sense of se­
curity and well-being to which we are entitled until
we have experienced realization.
Another reason why the food or bread symbol for
the experience of the Presence of God is such a telling
one, is that the act of eating food is essentially a thing
that must be done for oneself. No one can assimilate
food for another. One may hire servants to do all sorts
of other things for him; but there is one thing that one
must positively do for himself, and that is to eat his own
food. In the same way, the realization of the Presence
of God is a thing that no one else can have for us. We
can and should help one another in the overcoming of
specific difficulties— “Bear ye one another’s burdens”—
but the realization (or making real) of the Presence
of God, the “substance” and “evidence,” can, in the
nature of things, be had only at first hand.
In speaking of the “bread of life, Emanuel,” Jesus
calls it our daily bread. The reason for this is very
fundamental— our contact with God must be a living
one. It is our momentary attitude to God which gov­
erns our being. “Behold now is the accepted time; be­
hold now is the day of salvation.” The most futile thing
in the world is to seek to live upon a past realization.
The Lord's Prayer 29
The thing that means spiritual life to you is your reali­
zation of God here and. now.
Today’s realization, no matter how feeble and poor
it may seem, has a million times more power to help
you than the most vivid realization of yesterday. Be
thankful for yesterday’s experience, knowing that it
is with you forever in the change of consciousness
which it brought about, but do not lean upon it for
a single moment for the need of today. Divine Spirit is,
and changes not with the ebb and flow of human ap­
prehension. The manna in the desert is the Old Testa­
ment prototype of this. The people wandering in the
wilderness were told that they would be supplied with
manna from heaven every day, each one always receiv­
ing abundant for his needs, but they were on no account
to try to save it up for the morrow. They were on no
account to endeavor to live upon yesterday’s food, and
when, notwithstanding the rule, some of them did try
to do so, the result was pestilence or death.
So it is with us. When we seek to live upon yester­
day’s realization, we are actually seeking to live in the
past, and to live in the past is death. The art of life is
to live in the present moment, and to make that moment
as perfect as we can by the realization that we are the
instruments and expression of God Himself. The best
way to prepare for tomorrow is to make today all that
it should be.
Forgive us our trespasses, as we -forgive them that trespass
against us
This clause is the turning point of the Prayer. It is the
30 Power Through Constructive Thinking
strategic key to the whole Treatment. Let us notice here
that Jesus has so arranged this marvelous Prayer that it
covers the entire ground of the unfoldment of our souls
completely, and in the most concise and telling way. It
omits nothing that is essential for our salvation, and yet,
so compact is it that there is not a thought or a word too
much. Every idea fits into its place with perfect harmony
and in perfect sequence. Anything more would be re­
dundance, anything less would be incompleteness, and at
this point it takes up the critical factor of forgiveness.
Having told us what God is, what man is, how the
universe works, how we are to do our own work—the
salvation of humanity and of our own souls—he then
explains what our true nourishment or supply is, and the
way in which we can obtain it; and now he comes to
the forgiveness of sins.
The forgiveness of sins is the central problem of life.
Sin is a sense of separation from God, and is the major
tragedy of human experience. It is, of course, rooted in
selfishness. It is essentially an attempt to gain some sup­
posed good to which we are not entitled in justice. It is
a sense of isolated, self-regarding, personal existence,
whereas the Truth of Being is that all is One. Our true
selves are at one with God, undivided from Him, express­
ing His ideas, witnessing to His nature—the dynamic
Thinking of that Mind. Because we are all one with the
great Whole of which we are spiritually a part, it follows
that we are one with all men. Just because in Him we
live and move and have our being, we are, in the absolute
sense, all essentially one.
Evil, sin, the fall of man, in fact, is essentially the
The Lord’s Prayer 31
32 Power Through Constructive Thinking
attempt to negative this Truth in our thoughts. We try
to live apart from God. W e try to do without Him. We
act as though we had life of our own; as separate minds;
as though we could have plans and purposes and interests
separate from His. All this, if it were true, would mean
that existence is not one and harmonious, but a chaos of
competition and strife. It would mean that we are quite
separate from our fellow man and could injure him, rob
him, or hurt him, or even destroy him, without any
damage to ourselves, and, in fact, that the more we took
from other people the more we should have for our­
selves. It would mean that the more we considered our
own interests, and the more indifferent we were to the
welfare of others, the better off we should be. Of course
it would then follow naturally that it would pay others
to treat us in the same way, and that accordingly we
might expect many of them to do so. N ow if this were
true, it would mean that the whole universe is only a
jungle, and that sooner or later it must destroy itself by
its own inherent weakness and anarchy. But, of course,
it is not true, and therein lies the joy of life.
Undoubtedly, many people do act as though they be­
lieved it to be true, and a great many more, who would
be dreadfully shocked if brought face to face with that
proposition in cold blood, have, nevertheless, a vague
feeling that such must be very much the way things are,
even though they, themselves, are personally above con­
sciously acting in accordance with such a notion. Now
this is the real basis of sin, of resentment, of condemna­
tion, of jealousy, of remorse, and all the evil brood that
walk that path.
This belief in independent and separate existence is the
arch sin, and now, before we can progress any further,
we have to take the knife to this evil thing and cut it out
once and for all. Jesus knew this, and with this definite
end in view he inserted at this critical point a carefully
prepared statement that would compass our end and his,
without the shadow of a possibility of miscarrying. He
inserted what is nothing less than a trip clause. He drafted
a declaration which would force us, without any con­
ceivable possibility of escape, evasion, mental reserva­
tion, or subterfuge of any kind, to execute the great
sacrament of forgiveness in all its fullness and far-
reaching power.
As we repeat the Great Prayer intelligently, consider­
ing and meaning what we say, we are suddenly, so to
speak, caught up off our feet and grasped as though in a
vise, so that we must face this problem—and there is no
escape. W e must positively and definitely extend forgive­
ness to everyone to whom it is possible that we can owe
forgiveness, namely, to anyone who we think can have
injured us in any way. Jesus leaves no room for any
possible glossing of this fundamental thing. He has con­
structed his Prayer with more skill than ever yet lawyer
displayed in the casting of a deed. He has so contrived
it that once our attention has been drawn to this matter,
we are inevitably obliged either to forgive our enemies
in sincerity and truth, or never again to repeat that
Prayer. It is safe to say that no one who reads this essay
with understanding will ever again be able to use the
Lord’s Prayer unless and until he has forgiven. Should
you now attempt to repeat it without forgiving, it can
The Lord's Prayer 33
34 Power Through Constructive Thinking
safely be predicted that you will not be able to finish it.
This great central clause will stick in your throat.
Notice that Jesus does not say, “ forgive me my tres­
passes and I will try to forgive others,” or “I will see if
it can be done,” or “I will forgive generally, with certain
exceptions.” He obliges us to declare that we have actu­
ally forgiven, and forgiven all, and he makes our claim
to our own forgiveness to depend upon that. Who is
there who has grace enough to say his prayers at all,
who does not long for the forgiveness or cancellation of
his own mistakes and faults. Who would be so insane as
to endeavor to seek the Kingdom of God without desiring
to be relieved of his own sense of guilt. N o one, we may
believe. And so we see that we are trapped in the in­
escapable position that we cannot demand our own re­
lease before we have released our brother.
The forgiveness of others is the vestibule of Heaven,
and Jesus knew it, and has led us to the door. You must
forgive everyone who has ever hurt you if you want to
be forgiven yourself; that is the long and the short of it.
You have to get rid of all resentment and condemnation
of others, and, not least, of self-condemnation and re­
morse. You have to forgive others, and having discon­
tinued your own mistakes, you have to accept the for­
giveness of God for them too, or you cannot make any
progress. You have to forgive yourself, but you cannot
forgive yourself sincerely until you have forgiven others
first. Having forgiven others, you must be prepared to
forgive yourself too, for to refuse to forgive oneself is
only spiritual pride. “And by that sin fell the angels.”
W e cannot make this point too clear to ourselves; we
have got to forgive. There are few people in the world
who have not at some time or other been hurt, really-
hurt, by someone else; or been disappointed, or injured,
or deceived, or misled. Such things sink into the memory
where they usually cause inflamed and festering wounds,
and there is only one remedy—they have to be plucked
out and thrown away. And the one and only way to do
that is by forgiveness.
Of course, nothing in all the world is easier than to
forgive people who have not hurt us very much. Nothing
is easier than to rise above the thought of a trifling loss.
Anybody will be willing to do this, but what the Law
of Being requires of us is that we forgive not only these
uifles, but the very things that are so hard to forgive
that at first it seems impossible to do it at all. The despair­
ing heart cries, “ It is too much to ask. That thing meant
too much to me. It is impossible. I cannot forgive it.” But
the Lord’s Prayer makes our own forgiveness from God,
which means our escape from guilt and limitation, de­
pendent upon just this very thing. There is no escape
from this, and so forgiveness there must be, no matter
how deeply we may have been injured, or how terribly
we have suffered. It must be done.
If your prayers are not being answered, search your
consciousness and see if there is not someone whom you
have yet to forgive. Find out if there is not some old
thing about which you are very resentful. Search and
see if you are not really holding a grudge (it may be
camouflaged in some self-righteous way) against some
individual, or some body of people, a nation, a race, a
social class, some religious movement of which you dis­
The Lord’s Prayer 35
approve perhaps, a political party, or what-not. If you
are doing so, then you have an act of forgiveness to
perform, and when this is done, you will probably make
your demonstration. If you cannot forgive at present,
you will have to wait for your demonstration until you
can, and you will have to postpone finishing your recital
of the Lord’s Prayer too, or involve yourself in the
position that you do not desire the forgiveness of God.
Setting others free means setting yourself free, because
resentment is really a form of attachment. It is a cosmic
truth that it takes two to make a prisoner; the prisoner
— and a gaoler. There is no such thing as being a prisoner
on one’s own account. Every prisoner must have a gaoler,
and the gaoler is as much a prisoner as his charge. When
you hold resentment against anyone, you are bound to
that person by a cosmic link, a real, though mental chain.
You are tied by a cosmic tie to the thing that you hate.
The one person perhaps in the whole world whom you
most dislike is the very one to whom you are attaching
yourself by a hook that is stronger than steel. Is this
what you wish? Is this the condition in which you desire
to go on living? Remember, you belong to the thing
with which you are linked in thought, and at some time
or other, if that tie endures, the object of your resent­
ment will be drawn again into your life, perhaps to work
further havoc. Do you think that you can afford this?
Of course, no one can afford such a thing; and so the way
is clear. You must cut all such ties, by a clear and spiritual
act of forgiveness. You must loose him and let him go.
By forgiveness you set yourself free; you save your soul.
And because the law of love works alike for one and
36 Power Through Constructive Thinking
all, you help to save his soul too, making it just so much
easier for him to become what he ought to be.
But how, in the name of all that is wise and good, is
the magic act of forgiveness to be accomplished, when
we have been so deeply injured that, though we have
long wished with all our hearts that we could forgive, we
have nevertheless found it impossible; when we have tried
and tried to forgive, but have found the task beyond us.
The technique of forgiveness is simple enough, and
not very difficult to manage when you understand how.
The only thing that is essential is 'willingness to forgive.
Provided you desire to forgive the offender, the greater
part of the work is already done. People have always
made such a bogey of forgiveness because they have
been under the erroneous impression that to forgive a
person means that you have to compel yourself to like
him. Happily this is by no means the case—we are not
called upon to like anyone whom we do not find our­
selves liking spontaneously, and, indeed, it is quite impos­
sible to like people to order. You can no more like to
order than you can hold the winds in your fist, and if
you endeavor to coerce yourself into doing so, you will
finish by disliking or hating the offender more than ever.
People used to think that when someone had hurt them
very much, it was their duty, as good Christians, to pump
up, as it were, a feeling of liking for him; and since such
a thing is utterly impossible, they suffered a great deal of
distress, and ended, necessarily, with failure, and a result­
ing sense of sinfulness. W e are not obliged to like anyone;
but we are under a binding obligation to love everyone,
love, or charity as the Bible calls it, meaning a vivid sense
The Lord’s Prayer yj
of impersonal good will. This has nothing directly to do
with the feelings, though it is always followed, sooner
or later, by a wonderful feeling of peace and happiness.
The method of forgiving is this: Get by yourself
and become quiet. Repeat any prayer or treatment that
appeals to you, or read a chapter of the Bible. Then
quietly say, “I fully and freely forgive X (mentioning
the name of the offender); I loose him and let him go.
I completely forgive the whole business in question. As
far as I am concerned, it is finished forever. I cast the
burden of resentment upon the Christ within me. He is
free now, and I am free too. I wish him well in every
phase of his life. That incident is finished. The Christ
Truth has set us both free. I thank God.” Then get up
and go about your business. On no account repeat this
act of forgiveness, because you have done it once and
for all, and to do it a second time would be tacitly to
repudiate your own work. Afterward, whenever the
memory of the offender or the offense happens to come
into your mind, bless the delinquent briefly and dis­
miss the thought. Do this, however many times the
thought may come back. After a few days it will
return less and less often, until you forget it altogether.
Then, perhaps after an interval, shorter or longer, the
old trouble may come back to memory once more, but
you will find that now all bitterness and resentment have
disappeared, and you are both free with the perfect
freedom of the children of God. Your forgiveness is
complete. You will experience a wonderful joy in the
realization of the demonstration.
Everybody should practise general forgiveness every
38 Power Through Constructive Thinking
day as a matter of course. When you say your daily
prayers, issue a general amnesty, forgiving everyone
who may have injured you in any way, and on no
account particularize. Simply say: “I freely forgive
everyone.” Then in the course of the day, should the
thought of grievance or resentment come up, bless the
offender briefly and dismiss the thought.
The result of this policy will be that very soon you
will find yourself cleared of all resentment and con­
demnation, and the effect upon your happiness, your
bodily health, and your general life will be nothing less
than revolutionary.
Lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from
evil
This clause has probably caused more difficulty than
any other part of the Prayer. For many earnest people
it has been a veritable stumbling block. They feel, and
rightly, that God could not lead anyone into temptation
or into evil in any circumstances, and so these words do
not ring true.
For this reason, a number of attempts have been made
to recast the wording. People have felt that Jesus could
not have said what he is represented to have said, and so
they look about for some phrasing which they think
would be more in accordance with the general tone of
his teaching. Heroic efforts have been made to wrest
the Greek original into something different. All this,
however, is unnecessary. The Prayer in the form in
which we have it in English gives a perfectly correct
sense of the true inner meaning. Remember that the
The Lord's Prayer 39
Lord’s Prayer covers the whole of the spiritual life. Con*
densed though the form is, it is nevertheless a complete
manual for the development of the soul, and Jesus knew
only too well the subtle perils and difficulties that can
and do beset the soul when once the preliminary stages
of spiritual unfoldment have been passed. Because those
who are yet at a comparatively early stage of develop­
ment do not experience such difficulties, they are apt to
jump to the conclusion that this clause is unnecessary;
but such is not the case.
The facts are these—the more you pray, the more
time you spend in meditation and spiritual treatment,
the more sensitive you become. And if you spend a great
deal of time working on your soul in the right way, you
will become very sensitive. This is excellent; but like
everything in the universe, it works both ways. The
more sensitive and spiritual you become, the more
powerful and effective are your prayers, you do better
healing, and you advance rapidly. But, for the same
reason, you also become susceptible to forms of temp­
tation that simply do not beset those at an earlier stage.
You will also find that for ordinary faults, even things
that many men and women of the world would con­
sider to be trifling, you will be sharply punished, and
this is well, because it keeps you up to the mark. The
seemingly minor transgressions, the “little foxes that
spoil the vines,” would fritter away our spiritual power
if not promptly dealt with.
No one at this level will be tempted to pick a pocket,
or burgle a house; but this does not by any means imply
40 Power Through Constructive Thinking
that one will not have difficulties, and because of their
subtlety, even greater difficulties, to meet.
As we advance, new and powerful temptations await
us on the Path, ever ready to hurl us down if we are not
watchful—temptations to work for self-glory, and self-
aggrandizement instead of for God; for personal honors
and distinctions, even for material gain; temptations to
allow personal preferences to hold sway in our counsels
when it is a sacred duty to deal with all men in perfect
impartiality. Above and beyond all other sins the deadly
sin of spiritual pride, truly “the last infirmity of noble
mind,” lurks on this road. Many fine souls who have
triumphantly surmounted all other testings have lapsed
into a condition of superiority and self-righteousness
that has fallen like a curtain of steel between them and
God. Great knowledge brings great responsibility. Great
responsibility betrayed brings terrible punishment in its
train. Noblesse oblige is preeminently true in spiritual
things. One’s knowledge of the Truth, however little it
may be, is a sacred trust for humanity that must not be
violated. While we should never make the mistake of
casting our pearls before swine, nor urge the Truth in
quarters where it is not welcome, yet we must do all
that we wisely can to spread the true knowledge of God
among mankind, that not one of “these little ones” may
go hungry through our selfishness or our neglect. “Feed
my lambs, feed my sheep.”
The old occult writers were so vividly sensible of
these dangers that, with their instinct for dramatization,
they spoke of the soul as being challenged by various
tests as it traversed the upward road. It was as though
The Lord's Prayer 41
the traveller were halted at various gates or turnpike
bars, and tested by some ordeal to determine whether he
were ready to advance any further. If he succeeded in
passing the test, they said, he was allowed to continue
upon his way with the blessing of the challenger. If,
however, he failed to survive the ordeal, he was forbidden
to proceed.
Now, some less experienced souls, eager for rapid
advancement, have rashly desired to be subjected imme­
diately to all kinds of tests, and have even looked about,
seeking for difficulties to overcome; as though one’s own
personality did not already present quite enough material
for any one man or woman to deal with. Forgetting the
lesson of our Lord’s own ordeal in the wilderness, for­
getting the injunction “Thou shalt not tempt the Lord
thy God,” they have virtually done this very thing, with
sad results. And so Jesus has inserted this clause, in which
we pray that we may not have to meet anything that is
too much for us at the present level of our understand­
ing. And, if we are wise, and work daily, as we should,
for wisdom, understanding, purity, and the guidance of
the Holy Spirit, we never shall find ourselves in any diffi­
culty for which we have not the understanding necessary
to clear ourselves. Nothing shall by any means hurt you.
Behold I am with you alway.
Thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for
ever and ever
This is a wonderful gnomic saying summing up the
essential truth of the Omnipresence and the Allness of
God. It means that God is indeed All in All, the doer;
42 Power Through Constructive Thinking
the doing, and the deed, and one can say also the spec­
tator. The Kingdom in this sense means all creation, on
every plane, for that is the Presence of God—God as
manifestation or expression.
The Power, of course, is the Power of God. W e know
that God is the only power, and so, when we work, a?
when we pray, it is really God doing it by means of us.
Just as the pianist produces his music by means of, or
through his fingers, so may mankind be thought of as
the fingers of God. His is the Power. If, when you are
praying, you hold the thought that it is really God who
is working through you, your prayers will gain immeas­
urably in efficiency. Say, “ God is inspiring me.” If, when
you have any ordinary thing to do, you hold the thought,
“ Divine Intelligence is working through me now,” you
will perform the most difficult tasks with astonishing
success.
The wondrous change that comes over us as we
gradually realize what the Omnipresence of God really
means, transfigures every phase of our lives, turning
sorrow into joy, age into youth, and dullness into light
and life. This is the glory—and the glory which comes
to us is, of course, God’s too. And the bliss we know in
that experience is still God Himself, who is knowing that
bliss through us.
The Lord’s Prayer 43
In recent years, the Lord’s Prayer has often been
rewritten in the affirmative form. In this style, for in­
stance, the clause “Thy kingdom come, thy will be
done,” becomes, “Thy kingdom is come, thy will is
being done.” All such paraphrases are interesting and sug­
gestive, but their importance is not vital. The affirmative
form of prayer should be used for all healing work, but
it is only one form of prayer. Jesus used the invocatory
form very often, though not always, and the frequent use
of this form is essential to the growth of the soul. It is
not to be confused with supplicatory prayer, in which
the subject begs and whines to God as a slave pleading
with his master. That is always wrong. The highest of
all forms of prayer is true contemplation, in which the
thought and the thinker become one. This is the Unity
of the mystic, but it is rarely experienced in the earlier
stages. Pray in whatever way you find easiest; for the
easiest way is the best.
44 Power Through Constructive Thinking
Come unto me all ye that labor and are
heavy laden and 1 will give you rest.
The Lord is my light and my salvation;
whom shall 1 fear? The Lord is the strength
of my life; of whom shall 1 be afraid?
Though an host should encamp against me,
my heart shall not fear: though war should
rise against me, in this will l be confident.
When thou passest through the waters, 1
will be with thee; and through the rivers, they
shall not overflow thee: when thou walkest
through fire, thou shalt not be burned; neither
shall the flame kindle upon thee.
As long as he sought the Lord, God made
him to prosper.
1. The Lord is my shepherd; l shall not want.
2. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he
leadeth me beside the still waters.
y. He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of
righteousness for his name’s sake.
4. Yea, though 1 walk through the valley of the shadow
of death, 1 will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod
and thy staff they comfort me.
y. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of
mine enemies: thou anointest my head with oil; my cup
runneth over.
6. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the
days of my life: and l will dwell in the house of the Lord
for ever.
T H E GOOD SHEPHERD
A Meditation on Psalm 23
The Twenty-third Psalm is a spiritual treatment in the form of a
poem.
You should read this meditation through several times, dwelling on
each statement and endeavoring to realize the significance of what you
are reading.
The Lord Is My Shepherd. The Lord means God, in
particular my own knowledge of Truth, as that knowl­
edge is the Presence of God in me, my indwelling Christ.
This is my shepherd. The shepherd takes care of his
sheep, and the Lord will take care of me because I am
now seeking Him through this meditation. I have only
to realize sufficiently this Truth, that the Lord is my
shepherd, and every negative thing in my life will vanish
away.
/ Shall Not Want. I really believe this, and I fully
accept it, so I am not going to be afraid of anything.
I firmly believe that I shall not want for any good thing.
He Maketh Me to Lie Down in Green Pastures. Green
pastures symbolize an abundance of all good things that
I need, and perfect all-round harmony in my life. They
are to be mine permanently and forever, and not merely
as a temporary demonstration; that is why I may be
said to lie down in them.
47
He Leadeth Me Beside the Still Waters. Water in the
Bible symbolizes the soul. To lead me beside the still
waters means that the power of God in prayer sets my
soul at rest, giving me perfect peace. I know that when
once my soul is at peace my demonstration must come,
and that my only task is to bring about this peace. By
this meditation I am practising the Presence of God.
That is, I am praying for peace, and I know that this
prayer will be answered.
He Restoreth My Sold. This is my promise of com­
plete salvation. M y prayer is now being answered. The
peace of God is filling my soul. All my difficulties have
arisen from my soul having separated herself in belief
from her Living Source. I have thought myself to be
separated from God, and, therefore, for practical pur­
poses, I was separated, and this has meant for me a load
of responsibility, selfishness, fear, and limitation; in other
words, the “Fall of Man.” This text, however, definitely
promises the restoration of my soul to her original Divine
understanding, and is a guarantee of freedom. I affirm
that this is now true. I claim full salvation from all my
difficulties. I claim perfect health, happiness, and pros­
perity. I am free.
He Leadeth Me in the Paths of Righteousness for His
Name’s Sake. Righteousness means right thinking, and 1
know that to think rightly about any condition means
healing and safety. All evil is wrong thought, all good
is right or true thought. Christ in me, my Good Shep­
herd, is now guiding me in the path of Right Thought;
so all will be well. In the Bible “the name” of anything
is the nature or character of that thing. The nature of
48 Power Through Constructive Thinking
God is all-powerful, omnipresent good, boundless love.
I know that this Boundless Love is now taking care of
me, and arranging my affairs.
Yea, Though l Walk Through the Valley of the
Shadow of Death, l will Fear No Evil: for Thou Art
with Me. I am never again going to be afraid of anything,
because Thou, my Good Shepherd, art with me. I know
that Thou who art all Love, and hast all Power, pro-
tectest me, and that we are One forever and forever.
I know that I never can find myself anywhere but Thou
wilt be there too. I know that because Thou art Life,
there is no death, and I note that the Bible speaks not
of death, but of the shadow of death, which is our false
belief. There is no death, but the seeming loss of Thy
Presence.
Thy Rod and Thy Staff They Comfort Me. I know
that T hy Law changeth not, because Thou art Divine
Principle, and I know that my word shall go forth in this
meditation, and that it shall not return unto me void,
because I am T hy child and the heir of Thy Kingdom.
Thou Preparest a Table before Me in the Presence of
Mine Enemies. M y enemies are my own thoughts: my
doubts, my fears, my thoughts of criticism of others, and
self-condemnation—the only enemies I can have. “A
man’s enemies shall be those of his own household.” But
these now no longer have any power to hurt me because
I am speaking the Word of Truth, and my Good Shep­
herd will bring me a glorious demonstration in the teeth
of every difficulty.
Thou Anointest My Head with Oil. In the Bible, oil
and ointment are symbols of gladness, praise, and thanks­
The Good Shepherd 49
giving. This line assures me that I am to be rescued from
all my difficulties. Anointing with oil is also a symbol of
consecration, and by meditating in this way on the Truth,
I am reconsecrated as the perfect child of God. I bless
God for His perfect goodness. I thank God for His
perfect, unceasing care for me. I praise Him for the
glory of His Name. I thank Him in particular for a
perfect and generous demonstration over my present
difficulties.
My Cup Runneth Over. This is an additional assurance
of the thoroughness and fullness of my demonstration;
not simply that God will rescue me from my difficulties,
but that I am going to receive a clear, full, and all-
satisfying solution of my problem, and of the unseen
causes underlying it, so that it will disappear forever out
of my life. When my Good Shepherd replenishes my cup,
it is not merely filled; it runs over.
Surely Goodness and Mercy Shall Follow Me All the
Days of My Life. Because I know that every good prayer
should finish with thanksgiving and a declaration of faith,
I now give Thee thanks, Infinite Divine Love, for the
accomplished fact, and I praise Thy glorious, unbounded
perfection, for the flawless harmony, and peace, and tri­
umph that shall surely be mine. I affirm this triumph. I
claim it. I appropriate it. It is mine.
I Will Dwell in the House of the Lord For Ever.
Thank God that I now know indeed that the Lord is my
Shepherd, and that I never shall want any good thing. I
know it and realize it. M y soul is rooted and grounded in
Truth. Thy Presence is with me and it gives me rest.
jo Power Through Constructive Thinking
Now no fear nor doubt can by any means creep in. I am
Thy child, the Son of Thy House, a house not made with
hands, Eternal in the Heavens, and in that house I dwell
with Thee forever and ever.
It is Finished. All is Well.
The Good Shepherd 51
/ . He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most
High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty.
2. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my
fortress: my God; in him will I trust.
3. Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the
fowler, and from the noisome pestilence.
4. He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his
wings shalt thou trust: his truth shall be thy shield and
buckler.
3. Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; nor
for the arrow that flieth by day;
6. Nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness;
nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday.
7. A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at
thy right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee.
8. Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold arid see the
reward of the wicked.
9. Because thou hast made the Lora, which Is my ref­
uge, even the most High, thy habitation;
10. There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any
plague come nigh thy dwelling.
11. For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to
keep thee in all thy ways.
12. They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou
dash thy foot against a stone.
13. Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the
young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet.
14. Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore
will 1 deliver him: 1 will set him on high, because he
hath known my name.
1$. He shall call upon me, and 1 will answer him: 1 will
be with him m trouble; l will deliver him, and honour
him.
16. With long life will I satisfy him, and shew him my
salvation.
T H E SEC R ET PLA CE
PSALM 91
T
h e Ninety-first Psalm is one of the very greatest
chapters in the whole Bible. It is one of those chap­
ters that everybody knows by heart. Yet, like so many
familiar Bible passages, it is unfortunately among the least
understood. It must, of course, be interpreted in the
spiritual way, and it is only thus that the true meaning is
arrived at. Like the rest of Scripture, the underlying
thought is developed through a series of symbols, and it is
by the appreciation of the values lying behind these that
the power of this prayer is appropriated.
The Book of Psalms has been called “The Little
Bible,” and it certainly forms a matchless treasure-house
of spiritual riches. This wonderful collection of poems,
lyrical, dramatic, elegiac, contains something to fit every
mood, and to meet every need of humanity. All through
the centuries of both Old Testament and Christian his­
tory, they have been a never failing source of inspira­
tion and comfort for men and women of every kind and
every walk of life, and it is safe to say that no soul in need
has ever turned to the Book of Psalms in vain.
The Ninety-first Psalm when scientifically under­
stood, is found to be one of the most powerful prayers
ever written. All sorts of people have got themselves out
53
54 Power Through Constructive Thinking
of every conceivable kind of trouble working on this
prayer every day, in the spiritual way. Other cases are
on record of people who had not prayed for years turn­
ing to this prayer in some great emergency and over­
coming their difficulty; with only the surface meaning
to help them. It will easily be seen, therefore, how well
worth while it is to make oneself thoroughly acquainted
with at least the principal ideas contained within it, for
then one has always ready to hand a practical prayer of
unparalleled power.
The best way to get the most out of this psalm is to
read it through quietly; pause after each clause to con­
sider the meaning as given in the commentary; assent to
this mentally; and then pass on to the next. Remember
that all this is praying. Prayer is, essentially, thinking
about God—not necessarily addressing God, helpful
though this may be at times—and while you are working
on this psalm, analyzing the text, and considering the
meaning in your own mind, you are praying, and in a
very efficient way too. If you are in a specific difficulty,
and particularly if you are rather fearful, you will find,
after working through the prayer once or twice or per­
haps three times, that most of your fear will have gone,
and that you are now looking at things from a different
point of view—and this is the change in mentality that
brings about results.
Let us then consider the prayer in detail, taking it
verse by verse.
He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High
shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. The Secret
Place of the Most High is your own consciousness, and
this fact is the most important practical discovery in the
whole science of religion. The error that is usually made
is to suppose the Secret Place of the Most High to be
somewhere outside of yourself; across the sea, or up in
the sky probably. This error is usually fatal to our hopes,
because our prospects of success in prayer depend upon
our succeeding in getting some degree of contact with
God, and since He is only to be contacted within, and
never without, as long as we are looking without we
must naturally fail in our objective. Jesus emphasized this
truth again and again; indeed it is the foundation-stone
of his whole teaching. “Seek first the Kingdom of God,”
he said, and, when asked where that kingdom could be
found, replied, “The Kingdom of God is within you.”
And again he said that when we pray we are to enter
into the closet and shut the door, meaning, to retire in
thought within our own consciousness and to withdraw
our attention from outer things. In fact, this doctrine of
the Secret Place and the wonders that Can happen therein
is taught right throughout the Bible.
T o abide under the shadow of the Almighty means
to live under the protection of God Himself. “ Under the
shadow,” is a dramatic, Oriental expression for safety.
Eastern people, and especially those with a desert back­
ground, such as the people of Palestine, look upon the
sun as a danger, even an enemy, from which they need
to be safeguarded. In the West, as a rule, we look upon
him as our greatest friend, and we can hardly get enough
sun to satisfy us; but in the East it is otherwise. There,
shade is sanctuary, or safety—“the shadow of a great
rock in a weary land.” The exhausted traveller, on
The Secret Place 55
56 Power Through Constructive Thinking
attaining his goal, sinks down in the shade for his long-
sought rest, feeling that now at last he is safe.
Let us note that here God is called “The Almighty,”
this title being selected from among the many other titles
that the Bible has for God, in order to impress us at this
point with the fact that He really is Almighty, and that
He can therefore overcome our present difficulty for us,
no matter how big it may seem at the moment—“With
God all things are possible.” Consider, however, that the
promise is made to “him that dwelleth.” If we only run
into the Secret Place now and again when we are in
trouble, we can scarcely be said to dwell there. God will
always come to our rescue whenever we pray, but if we
seldom think of Him at other times, we may experience
considerable difficulty in making our contact in an emer­
gency; or we may even be so perturbed as to forget
altogether to pray. By means of regular daily prayer
and meditation we dwell in the Secret Place, and then
we may expect to abide under the shadow, and to enjoy
the protection of the Power that is indeed All Powerful.
At this point we notice a change in the form of the
psalm from the third person to the first. This is a literary
stroke of rare skill. Observe that the poem opens by
definitely announcing the irresistible power of prayer. It
states a general Cosmic Law in a form of scientific detach­
ment. In order to bring home to you with unmistakable
clearness the fact that this law applies to you, as much
as to anything or anyone in the universe, and that by no
possibility could you be an exception, it now changes
over to the first person and makes you say “ I.” In the
language of metaphysics, it compels you to voice the
I AM.
I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress:
my God; in Him will I trust. The Lord means God, in
particular your own knowledge of Truth, as that knowl­
edge is in itself the Presence of God in the one who
knows it, his Indwelling Christ. How can knowledge be
a presence? Secular knowledge, which is intellectual, can­
not; but the true knowledge of God is not an intellectual
theory; it is an actual experience—not a thing of the
head, but of the heart—and this is indeed a Presence.
It is indeed one’s own higher, or Real Self. It is pure
Spirit. It is at one with God. As a general rule, people
contact this Real Self only vaguely and occasionally at
first, often calling the experience “intuition.” Then, if
they pray regularly in the scientific way, and especially
if they frequently pray for inspiration, the flickering
gleams of intuition gradually magnify and strengthen
into a clear and definite sense of the Presence of God,
when He really becomes their Lord. The student should
understand, however, that it is by no means necessary
to get this clear sense of the Divine Presence in order
to have the help of God. The very fact that you are
praying at all means that the action of God is taking
place in your consciousness, and the action of God must
have results.
In Him will I trust. However worried or depressed
you may be, however full of doubts and misgivings, still
the very fact that you are praying means that you have
at least enough faith for that. The faith to go on praying
in the midst of doubts about results is the tiny grain of
The Secret Place 57
mustard seed that Jesus says is sufficient for practical
purposes. “In Him will I trust” is an expression of your
determination to trust in God in spite of appearances. It
means that you have now determined to trust practically
in God by ceasing to worry and fear. This is the legiti­
mate and spiritual use of the will. Your will is a Divine
faculty, and has its own place in the spiritual life. Of
course, the will can be misused. W e must not try to
bring events to pass by the direct exertion of will power,
even to produce a bodily healing; but the will must be
employed to say whether we are going to pray or not to
pray; whether we are going to give way to fear or to
refuse to do so; whether we are going to yield to tempta­
tion or not. In the case of temptation, it is notorious how
often will power fails, but that is because the will should
be employed, not to fight the temptation directly, but
to choose to pray about it instead of giving way to it.
This phrase means, not that you have already attained
a sense of security, but that—though you still feel your­
self to be in danger—you are choosing by the correct
exercise of your power of will to put your trust in the
Love of God, instead of in the impending danger.
At this point the poem dramatically changes again,
this time from the first person to the second. You have
now voiced the I AM ; you have recognized both the
power and the goodness of God; and the fact of the
living Presence of God in you and with you. You have
determined, by a spiritual act of will, to trust in God,
and by this procedure you have brought the action of
God into play in your life. You have done your part.
Now the Word of Truth is represented as addressing
58 Power Through Constructive Thinking
you with an authoritative assurance that your prayer will
be answered, that in some way or other—not by any
means necessarily in the way that you expect, but in
some good way—you will be rescued from your diffi­
culty. Again the Eastern instinct for dramatic form drives
the great truth home with unequalled power in this
employment of the second person.
Surely He shall deliver thee -from the snare of the
fowler, and from the noisome pestilence. He shall cover
thee with His feathers, and under His wings shalt thou
trust: His truth shall be thy shield and buckler. Needless
to say, both the fowler’s snare and the noisome pestilence
are to be interpreted in the most general sense as including
any kind of danger, material, moral, or spiritual, that can
threaten your welfare; and very apt descriptions they are
of many of the perils that beset the children of men in
their daily round. You are, however, to have no appre­
hension, for your protection is now assured to you in
one of those beautiful illustrations from simple everyday
life in which the Bible abounds. What child has not
watched with delight the familiar farmyard scene in
which the motherly old hen, at the slightest threat of
danger, gathers the little chicks under her wings, cover­
ing them “with her feathers,” from any possible harm.
Thus does God shield you from all danger once you
have elected to trust Him. His truth shall be thy shield
and buckler. It is the knowledge of the Truth about God
and man that makes the demonstration. One does not do
something w'ith Divine Truth; it is the knowing of that
Truth that in itself heals the condition. Ye shall know
the truth, and the truth shall make you free.
The Secret Place 59
Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; nor
for the arrow that flieth by day; Nor for the pestilence
that walketh in darkness; nor for the destruction that
wasteth at noonday. These two verses together with verse
13, lower down, constitute a superb analysis of the
rationale of man’s psychological nature. The respective
characteristics of our conscious and subconscious minds
are contrasted with unsurpassed insight. For practical
purposes, all our troubles may be classified as belonging
to either the conscious or the subconscious mind, and
have to be dealt with accordingly. The arrow that flieth
by day and the destruction that wasteth at noon refer to
any difficulty of which you are consciously aware,
whether that difficulty be a physical ailment, a business
problem, trouble with another person, or what-not. The
point here is that you are aware of the difficulty, and
that you are seeking in one way or another to overcome
it. It is, so to say, a daytime problem.
The terror by night and the pestilence that walketh in
darkness, on the contrary, imply something that, un­
known to you, is working in your subconscious mind, or,
unsuspected by you in the world outside of yourself.
Modern psychology has shown conclusively that most
of our difficulties have their roots far out of sight in the
depths of the subconscious, and that these subconscious
minds, in fact, contain an enormous amount of material
whose presence we little suspect. These are indeed terrors
of the mental night and pestilences of the darkness. In a
less personal sense, they refer to any danger from out­
side of yourself of which you may be unaware. An
impending accident, for instance, would come under this
6o Power Through Constructive Thinking
heading, or any hostile activities by people secretly inimi­
cal to you. If, let us say, an enemy were covertly working
against you, or, as occasionally happens, a business partner
or an employee were acting to your detriment, unsus­
pected by you, such things would come under this head­
ing of hidden trouble.
A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at
thy right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee. Only
with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of
the wicked. This clause has been gravely misunderstood.
It has been taken to indicate some kind of favoritism on
the part of God, whereas, of course, such a thing is
utterly impossible. “ No respecter of persons.” It really
means, quite simply, that prayer does change things,
that those who pray are saved from trouble that would
otherwise overtake them, and that does, in fact, overtake
those who do not pray. The word “wicked” originally
meant bewitched, and the wicked need not necessarily
be conscious wrongdoers, but are much more frequently
just those who do not rely upon God, or trouble to
say their prayers, because they are bewitched or deceived
by materialism, or atheism, or by simple doubt in the
efficacy of prayer. Because they do not pray they cannot
expect to escape from trouble and do not succeed in
doing so.
Because thou hast made the Lord, which is my refuge,
even the most High, thy habitation; There shall no evil
befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwell­
ing. This is one of the most definite and concrete prom­
ises given in the whole Bible. In all the many declarations
of the nearness and certainty of God’s help, which
The Secret Place 61
abound in the Scriptures, not one is more precise or more
definite than this. It says that once you have made this
Divine Christ Power your refuge, by living regularly in
the spiritual consciousness—making it your habitation—
no trouble can touch you. Could the thing possibly be
more pointedly and convincingly stated?
The Bible has an idiom that is all its own, and in this
idiom the word “promise” is the name given to a state­
ment of some metaphysical law. It is not used in the sense
in which you promise a person to do something at some
future date, meaning an agreement or pledge. Such a
promise is supposed to be a matter of choice on the part
of its author who says in effect, “I am willing to do such
a thing next week or next year. I choose now to agree
to do it.” Thus one may promise to pay a sum of money
in six months’ time, or one may promise a child to take
it to a show next week. A Bible “promise” is a statement
of a natural law in metaphysics, just as a “law” of physics
such as Boyle’s law or Ohm’s law is a statement of the
consequences, upon the physical plane, that will natu­
rally follow upon certain other occurrences.
So, a Bible “promise” is a statement of the conse­
quences that naturally follow from certain thoughts and
states of consciousness. If Boyle’s law were written in
the Bible idiom, it would read something like this: “As I
live, saith the Lord, whenever thou shalt double the
pressure of a gas, thou shalt halve the volume, tempera­
ture remaining constant.” In the language of natural
science, our Bible promise would run: “By meditating
regularly on the Presence of God with you, and direct-
62 Power Through Constructive Thinking
Ing your life in accordance with that fact, you become
immune from any kind of danger.”
For He shall give His angels charge over thee, to keep
thee in all thy ways. They shall bear thee up in their
hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone. This is one
of the very loveliest of all the promises in the Bible. For
tender beauty it stands alone. Re-read it carefully now,
and ask yourself whether human language could possibly
say anything more exquisite than this, or promise any­
thing more wonderful. He shall give His angels charge
over thee to keep thee in all thy ways—and it is meant
for you and for me. It might have seemed appropriate
that some extraordinary or exalted Being should be given
an escort of angels, as a bodyguard, to support him, to
keep him in all his ways. But the Bible is the book of
Everyman, and this promise is given to you and to me.
It would be no bad thing if you made this single verse
the subject of careful meditation every day for a month.
If, in that way, you came to realize, however feebly, the
real significance of this promise—that you are to be in
the charge of angels and safeguarded in all your ways
(not merely in certain ways, but in all your ways); safe­
guarded for bodily health, for food, clothing, rent, and
the other necessaries of life; for right activity and self-
expression; for congenial companionship; safeguarded
from temptation and from fear as well—what a stagger­
ing difference this would make in your life.
Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young
lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet. Having
sung of the invincible protection and loving kindness of
God in this glorious burst of poetry, the inspired writer
The Secret Place 63
now re-states the same idea from the scientific or psycho­
logical point of view. The great Illumined Ones who
wrote the Bible under Divine inspiration well knew all
the teaching of modern psychology. They understood
human nature as no other teachers have ever understood
it, and they wrote of it in their own way as no others
have ever written of it before or since. The ideas con­
cerning the subconscious mind and the part it plays in
our scheme of things, which have lately been put forward
by investigators like Freud and Jung and others, novel
though they appear to the modern world, were all quite
familiar to the great Initiates of the Bible—that is to say,
the portions of these teachings which are correct, for, of
course, they are on many points at variance with fact.
Moses, Isaiah, John, and the author of this psalm, for
example, knew all that is to be known about the sub­
conscious mind and the way in which it functions. They
knew all about what we call complexes and neuroses, the
unconscious motive, the phenomena of dissociation and
splitting, and many other things too that our psychol­
ogists have not yet discovered. Here the Psalmist draws a
further contrast between the subconscious danger and the
consciously realized difficulty, as a development of verses
5 and 6. Now it is the adder and the dragon put against
the lion. The lion stands for a difficulty about which
we are informed; one of which we are so afraid that it
seems a very lion in our path. The lion has his faults; he
is indeed extraordinarily undesirable as a companion—
ferocious, pitiless, quick as lightning, strong as steel; but
credit he must be given for one major virtue—he is no
sneak. He rushes at you in the open; you know what you
64 Power Through Constructive Thinking
have to meet, and can take your measures. How different,
on the other hand, is the attack of the adder, or snake;
for it is hidden. It creeps upon you in the dark, and ordi­
narily you have no sense of danger until the blow falls.
You cannot fight this enemy squarely, because you can­
not see it. Here, of course, we again recognize sub­
conscious trouble, and in the repeated and parallel phrase
so characteristic of Hebrew poetry the lion becomes a
young or particularly vigorous lion, and the adder be­
comes a dragon, and this is the Bible term for what in
modem psychology is called a complex. A complex is a
group of ideas heavily charged with emotion and hidden
away in the subconscious mind. These emotions usually
have their roots in one of the great primary instincts of
human nature, and this fact endows them with what is
often a terribly destructive power.
And here you are promised that your complexes shall
be dissolved by the Christ Truth, the realization of God.
Utterly dissolved. Completely dispersed. Trampled under
;feet, is the telling phrase employed to express their com­
plete annihilation. There is nothing that can be done by
psycho-analysis or any other form of psycho-therapy
that cannot be much better done by Scientific Prayer,
or the Practice of the Presence of God. Prayer, which is
the appeal to God, as distinct from any form of mere
mental treatment, goes straight to the seat of the trouble,
wherever it may be, without need of any direction on
your part. When you pray about any specific difficulty,
enough prayer will remove that difficulty by removing
its real mental cause, whatever or wherever it may be,
even though you do not in the least suspect the cause,
The Secret Place 65
or even though you may be erroneously attributing it to
quite a wrong cause. However deep down in the sub­
conscious life the trouble may be, the Christ Truth
will find it and redeem it. {He descended into hell.)
The last three verses constitute the final stanza. They
are in themselves a glorious psalm of ringing joy and
triumph. Even when used alone, they form a complete
and wonderful spiritual treatment. Here once more we
find a dramatic change in the presentation, with the
object of compelling you to voice the I AM on the
highest note. Thus your simple prayer gradually develops
into nothing less than the Logos, the creative Word of
God, spoken through you.
Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will 1
deliver him. This is one of those gnomic sayings in which
the Bible abounds, where an ocean of teaching is crystal­
lized into a phrase. It is a definite statement that you are
to be delivered from your difficulty because you have set
your love upon God. That, definitely and simply. There
is nothing hypothetical or contingent here; no conditions
whatever either expressed or implied. The statement
indicates the accomplished fact—the fixed decision, as it
were—1 will deliver him. And why?—because he hath
set his love upon me. “But, alas,” you may say, “this can­
not apply to me, because, to be honest, I do not really
feel any very strong sense of love for God. How I
should like to!—but I do not.” To which the answer
is, that your love for God is not an emotion. It has really
nothing to do with the feelings at all. In these matters
emotion is too often misleading. We demonstrate and
66 Power Through Constructive Thinking
prove our love for God by praying, and by refusing to
recognize error as having any power over us; by de­
clining, out of loyalty to God, to accept anything less
than the perfect harmony which is His Will. If you love
Me, keep My commandments. By the very fact that you
have been praying about a difficulty, going through this
psalm, for instance, you have been setting your love upon
God, no matter how depressed or how doubtful you may
have felt. And, therefore, He will deliver you.
1 will set him on high, because he hath known My
Name. In the Bible the “name” of anything means the
nature or character of that thing. Now the nature of
God is perfect, omnipresent, all-powerful good, bound­
less love; and to “know” this is to be set on high above
all your difficulties—that is, to be taken out of them, into
freedom, security, and happiness. This is because, in
Biblical language, to know a thing is not a mere intel­
lectual apprehension, but involves a certain degree of
understanding and realization. So we see that when we
have, through our prayers, attained some real apprecia­
tion of the Allness of God, our troubles disappear.
The last two verses gather up, so to say, all the implica­
tions and promises of this most wonderful stanza, and
present them to the fearful or doubting heart as a song
of triumph; promising counsel, and guidance in per­
plexity, salvation in trouble, and a long and joyous career,
culminating in complete spiritual triumph. He shall call
upon me, and I will answer him: I will be with him in
trouble; 1 will deliver him, and honour him. With long
life will 1satisfy him, and shew him my salvation.
The Secret Place 67
1. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help
in trouble.
2. Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be
removed, and though the mountains be carried into the
midst of the sea;
3. Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled,
though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof.
Selah.
4. There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad
the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the
most High.
5. God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved:
God shall help her, and that right early.
6. The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved: he
uttered his voice, the earth melted.
7 . The Lord of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is
our refuge. Selah.
8. Come, behold the works of the Lord, what desola­
tions he hath made in the earth.
9. He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth;
he breaketh the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder; he
burneth the chariot in the fire.
¡0. Be still, and know that I am God: I will be ex
alted among the heathen, l will be exalted in the earth
11. The Lord of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is
our refuge. Selah.
BE ST ILL
PSALM 46
T
h e Bible teaches spiritual Truth in many different
ways. It gives direct teaching about God, as clear
and precise as any book on philosophy that ever was
written. It expounds the Great Message indirectly
through historical narrative and by means of biographi­
cal studies, for the Bible includes the most wonderful and
interesting set of human biographies that ever was
written. It contains an unmatched collection of essays
and treatises on the nature of God, and the nature of
man, the powers of the soul, and the meaning of life.
Consider John’s opening section in the Gospel, for
instance, or the nth chapter of Hebrews, or the 12th
and 13th of Corinthians I, or the 5th, 6th, and 7th of
Matthew, to name only a few. Each of these chapters in
a different way gives direct and simple teaching of the
Truth, unsurpassed in any work outside of the Bible.
But it is in its prayers and treatments that the Bible is
transcendent. It contains a large number of the greatest
prayers ever written—beginning, of course, with what
we call the “Lord’s Prayer”—prayers the like of which
have never been found elsewhere, for they go right
down to the depths of the human soul, meeting every
need that can arise, and providing for every possible tem­
69
perament and any conceivable contingency—in fact they
cater to “ all sorts and conditions of men.”
Among all the beautiful and heart searching prayers of
the Bible there is none that surpasses the wonderful
poem that we call the Forty-sixth Psalm. This is an
inspired treatment that will enable you to overcome any
kind of difficulty; if you can tune yourself in to the level
of consciousness to which it attains. It is the supreme
Bible treatment against fear.
Now the object of prayer or treatment is just this very
raising of the consciousness, and a good prayer is the
instrument that enables us to do it. We need not expect
to begin our prayer with a realization. If we already had
a realization we should not be needing the help of the
prayer; we do not need a step-ladder to reach a height
on which we are already placed. The ladder is employed
in order to enable us to raise ourselves, step by step, to a
height above the ground to which our muscles alone
would never carry us; and so a good prayer is a step-
ladder upon which we may gradually climb from the
low level of fear, doubt, and difficulty, to the spiritual
height where these things melt away in the Light of
Truth.
Our psalm begins, as do nearly all the Bible prayers,
with an expression of faith in God. This is extremely
important in practice. You need to affirm constantly that
you do believe in God, not merely as a vague abstract
concept, but as a real, vivid, actual power in life, always
available to be contacted in thought; never changing
and never failing. It cannot be too strongly emphasized
that it is not sufficient to take this for granted. It is not
70 Power Through Constructive Thinking
sufficient to accept the Truth once and for all, or once
a week; you must continually reaffirm it in thought, and
in words if necessary. You must constantly remind your­
self that you do accept this position, that you believe in
it, and that your conviction is good enough to build your
life and your hopes upon. All this is treatment, and very
powerful treatment too. It is treatment that really
changes the soul by clearing out those subconscious fears
that are the cause of all your difficulties.
And so the inspired writer starts his prayer by saying,
bluntly, God is our refuge and strength, a very present
help in trouble. You will see that he allows himself no
doubts at all about this. He does not dream of taking up
the timid, almost apologetic, attitude that some modern
divines seem to think appropriate in dealing with God.
He says firmly that God IS, that He exists indeed; and
then he enumerates three facts concerning God. He says
that He is our refuge; he says that He is our strength;
and he says that He is “ a very present help in trouble.”
This verse is really tremendous, is it not? If we get
through the crust of familiarity that tends to hide the real
meaning from us, and study these words with a fresh
mind, we shall be amazed, I think, at all that they imply.
Note that he says that God is our refuge. He does not
say that such may very well be the case, or that it is a
pious hope upon which we are justified in leaning; but
that, plain and plump, God is our refuge.
Now pause a moment to consider all that God is.
Review briefly, at this point, the principal aspects and
attributes of God as you know them, and then consider
that this Infinite Being is our refuge. That is to say, this
Be Still 71
Unlimited Power of Wisdom and Love is a refuge to
which we can go in any kind of difficulty. Many devout
souls have thought of God as a distant potentate dwelling
in the skies, to be dreaded and feared; but the Bible says
on the contrary that God is a refuge for those in diffi­
culty. It then says that this Omnipotent Power is nothing
less than our strength. This brings the idea home still
more vividly. God is not merely a matchless power that
will come to our rescue, but He will actually be our own
strength, operating through us to the overcoming of diffi­
culty when we call upon Him in the right way.
Every student of Truth must understand that God
always acts through us by changing our consciousness.
We learn in divine metaphysics that God never does
anything to us, or -for us, but always through us. The
writer drives these points home in the familiar Bible
manner by adding, “a very present help in trouble.”
The opening affirmation is followed, in the most scien­
tific way, by an excellent example of the use of what is
called in metaphysics the “ denial.” The next two verses
are a denial that there is any power in conditions to make
us be, or do, or submit to, anything short of the complete
all-round harmony that is the Divine Will for us all. It
says therefore will not we fear—as following logically
upon our opening affirmation—though the earth be re­
moved, and though the mountains be carried into the
midst of the sea; Though the waters thereof roar and be
troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling
thereof.
The “ earth,” of course, means manifestation. It is the
Bible’s term for all one’s manifestation, or expression—
72 Power Through Constructive Thinking
the body, the home, the business life, relatives and asso­
ciates, all come under the heading of the earth or the
land. W e know that all these outer things are but the
expression of inner states of consciousness, and here the
Psalmist makes us say that though the earth be removed,
though all these outer things seem to go to pieces, our
health break down, our money disappear, our friends
desert us, yet we are not going to be afraid. This attitude
is extraordinarily valuable.
When things are going wrong declare constantly that
you are not going to be afraid or intimidated by any
outer condition. The more afraid you find yourself, the
more need is there for doing this. The most important
time to say, “ God is my refuge, I am not going to be
afraid,” is when your knees are knocking together.
The Psalmist says that though the mountains be car­
ried into the midst of the sea, and the waters roll and
tremble until the very mountains themselves seem to
shake, he is not going to be afraid. The mountain, in the
Bible, always means prayer, the uplifted consciousness,
and this clause makes us declare that even when in the
midst of our prayers things seem to get worse, so that
the very prayers themselves are all but swamped by our
terror, or doubt, or despair; yet we are going to hold on
to the truth about God, knowing that even though it be
after forty days, the waters will subside—if only we
hold on to the thought of God. The waters, of course,
are always the human personality, and more especially
the emotions.
The man who wrote this, we will agree, had no small
Be Still 73
knowledge of the human heart, its difficulties, and its
needs.
There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad
the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the
most High. This is the capital river mentioned several
times in Scripture; the river of life that flows from the
throne of God. It means the understanding of Truth that
is verily the “Waters of Life” to those who attain it.
The river as a symbol is rather interesting. Primarily it
stands for purpose. A river means purpose because it is
always going somewhere. A river does not stay in one
place, like a lake, or even an ocean, but is always on the
way to a destination. In this respect it is a true type of
the dedicated life which every student of Divine Truth is
supposed to be living. In this teaching, if it really means
anything to us, we are no longer drifting about like a
log at the mercy of the tide, but are definitely headed
along the pathway of understanding and freedom.
“The City of God” is man’s consciousness. Your con­
sciousness, which is your identity in life, is called a “city”
in the Bible. “Except the Lord keep the city, the watch­
man waketh but in vain.” Now the consciousness in
which the Light of Truth begins to shine again after an
attack of fear or unhappiness, is a city purified by that
holy river, and it becomes a glad city, a city of God or
good, a holy place for the tabernacles of the Most High.
God is indeed in the midst of such a city, and when God,
which is to say, our realization of God, is in the midst of
our consciousness, then truly we shall not be moved.
God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved: God
shall help her, and that right early. Here the Psalmist adds
74 P ow er Through Constructive Thinking
one of those simple touches, expressed in the most direct
and childlike language, that go straight to the heart. He
says “ God shall help her—and that right early.” This
beautiful promise should remove the last traces of fear
and doubt that may linger in the dark corners of the soul.
The metrical rhythm of the poem is preserved by a
reiteration of the general theme in the next verse. The
heathen raged, the kingdoms 'were moved: he uttered his
voice, the earth melted. The heathen, needless to say,
means your own wrong thoughts, those fears, doubts,
self-reproaches, and shortcomings of every kind that
come between you and your realization of God—the
heathen forces that attack the holy city of your soul,
sometimes lay siege to it for days and weeks, and some­
times even capture and occupy it for a time. Only for a
time, however, if you hold steadfastly to God by con­
stant prayer, for sooner or later, as surely as God lives,
the kingdom of error shall be moved. He will “utter his
voice” through your prayers and affirmations, and your
salvation will come.
The third and last stanza of our treatment is an exer­
cise of thanksgiving and praise. These Bible treatments
are constructed with the utmost care and in the most
scientific way. Usually, though not always, for there
must be no hard and fast rules in prayer, they begin with
an affirmation of faith in God. Then they analyze fear
and worry, showing that God has no part in such things,
and that we, therefore, need not fear them. They go on
to remind us of the love and power and wisdom of God,
and of our ability, as the children of God, to call upon
His power in any kind of danger or trouble. They make
Be Still 75
these truths vivid to us with unexcelled literary skill,
using the most diverse images and examples to that end;
and then they commonly finish, as prayers nearly always
should, with a song of praise and thanksgiving.
Now the Psalmist makes us say The Lord, of hosts is
with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge. This destroys
the feeling of God being afar off. The “Lord of Hosts”
is the title for God that stresses His great power and
might. It is the omnipotence aspect of God, we should
say technically. So here we declare that omnipotence is
with us, and working through us; and he carefully adds
that It is also the God of Jacob. Now Jacob stands for
the soul that is not yet redeemed, the soul still struggling
in difficulty and conscious imperfection. Israel, “ the
Prince of God,” is the soul that has realized its Divine
nature; but Jacob is still in the midst of his troubles. So
the Psalmist here reminds us that God is the Great Power,
the Lord of Hosts, for Jacob just as well as for Israel.
Come, behold the works of the Lord, what desolations
he hath made in the earth. He maketh wars to cease unto
the end of the earth; he breaketh the bow, and cutteth
the spear in sunder; he burneth the chariot in the fire.
Here he continues with thanksgiving, saying, in effect:
Let us consider the power and the glory of this God who
is always with us; how His action in prayer transforms
our conditions, and makes desolate, or destroys, our
troubles and worries; how He makes the wars—a splen­
did name for that worrying and stewing in misery that
blights the lives of so many people—to cease in every
part of our consciousness; how He disarms all the things
of which we are afraid, not just putting them out of the
76 Power Through Constructive Thinking
way for the time being, but absolutely destroying any
power they ever had. When you captured an enemy
regiment in those days, smashed their bows and their
spears, and burned their chariots, you had put them out
of action pretty completely. That regiment could never
trouble you again.
Be still, and know that 1 am God: 1 will be exalted
among the heathen, I will be exalted in the earth. This
really is probably the most wonderful phrase in the
whole Bible. It really is the whole Bible in a nutshell. “Be
still, and know that I am God.” This is just the very last
thing that we want to do when we are worried or anxious.
The current of human thought that Paul calls the carnal
mind is hurrying us along to its own ends, and it seems
much easier to swim with it by accepting difficulties, by
rehearsing grievances, by dwelling upon symptoms, than
to draw resolutely away in thought from these things,
and contemplate God, which is the one way out of
trouble.
Train yourself to rise above this hurrying tide of
error—error is always hurried; to sweep you off your feet
is its master strategy—and, turning your back upon con­
ditions, however bad they may seem, be still, and know
that I am God.
Even in your prayers there is a time for vigorous treat­
ment, and there is also a time to cease active work and,
“ having done all, to stand”—to be still and know that l
am God.
This of course does not mean merely doing nothing, or
going away to concern oneself with some secular thing
such as reading a novel or a newspaper. It is being still
Be Still 77
to know that God is God. Such “stillness” is the reverse
of laziness or inaction. The still dwelling upon God is
the quietest but the most potent action of all.
The Lord of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is out
refuge. Here again metrical symmetry obliges the poet
to close his wonderful poem with a repetition of the
general theme. Spiritually, too, it is a most powerful and
effective ending to our prayer. The God of power who
helps weak and frail mortals in the day of trouble is
working through us, and so all will be well.
N o te : The word Selah is no part of the poem itself but a stage
direction to the temple musicians who chanted the psalms as part of
a liturgy.
78 Power Through Constructive Thinking
To be afraid is to have more faith in evil
than in God.
1. The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shcdl
I fear? the Lord is the strength of my life; of whom shall
l be afraid?
2. When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes,
came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell.
3. Though an host should encamp against me, my heart
shall not fear: though war should rise against me, in this
will I be confident.
4. One thing have 1 desired of the Lord, that will l
seek after; that 1 may dwell in the house of the Lord all
the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord,
and to enquire in his temple.
5. For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his
pavilion: in the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me;
he shall set me up upon a rock.
6. And now shall mine head be lifted up above mine
enemies round about me: therefore will I offer in his
tabernacle sacrifices of joy; l will sing, yea, l will sing
praises unto the Lord.
7. Hear, O Lord, when 1 cry with my voice: have
mercy also upon me, and answer me.
8. When thou saidst, Seek ye my face; my heart said
unto thee, Thy face, Lord, will 1 seek.
9. Hide not thy face far from me; put not thy servant
away in anger: thou hast been my help; leave me not,
neither forsake me, O God of my salvation.
10. When my father and my mother forsake me, then
the Lord will take me up.
11. Teach me thy way, O Lord, and lead me in a plain
path, because of mine enemies.
12. Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies:
for false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as
breathe out cruelty.
13. I had fainted, unless 1 had believed to see the good­
ness of the Lord in the land of the living.
14. Wait on the Lord: be of good courage, and he
shall strengthen thine heart: wait, l say, on the Lord.
L IG H T AN D SA LV A T IO N
PSALM 27
T
h e Twenty-seventh Psalm is one of the great
treatments or meditations in the Bible. Treatment is
a convenient technical term we use for Scientific Prayer,
which is directed to the overcoming of a specific diffi­
culty. When trouble of any kind comes into one’s life it
is because he has allowed his consciousness to fall to the
level where fear and limitation can reach him. A treat­
ment consists in working on one’s consciousness to raise
it to the spiritual level where the trouble, whatever it is,
disappears. Any mental activity which enables us thus to
raise the spiritual standard of the soul is a form of prayer,
and the Bible abounds in such forms.
The history of a problem or a difficulty is often this:
The student is worried about something, or he feels ill.
As soon as he realizes what has happened he, owing to
his knowledge of Truth, declines to accept the condition
at its face value in the way that most people do; and he
proceeds, in one way or another, perhaps with the help
of a prayer such as this, to bring about the necessary rais­
ing of his thought. He reads the Psalm carefully, inter­
prets it spiritually, allows his mind to dwell upon the
principles enunciated, appropriates them to himself, and
repudiates the negative suggestion, whatever it was, thus
81
regaining his peace of mind. And when this has been
accomplished the trouble is found to disappear.
The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I
fear? the Lord is the strength of my life; of whom shall 1
be afraid?
This one verse is a perfect little treatment in itself;
indeed it is one of the most complete texts in the whole
Bible. It is a text that might well be written up over
the portals of every church and every school in the land,
for within it is contained in embryo the complete Jesus
Christ message. Consider what it says. It postulates not
merely the existence of God, but the living Presence of
God in man, for the Lord here means your own Indwell­
ing Christ, the I Am. Then it goes on to state that God
in you, the Inner Light, is no mere passive or static pres­
ence, but a dynamic power to do everything for you
that you can possibly need to have done. Just consider
what this one phrase promises—light, salvation, and
strength.
You will find that these three words cover very com­
pletely everything that man needs, for they really mean
understanding, power, and demonstration— and what
more can you want than that?
To begin with light. “There is no darkness but ig­
norance,” and in the last analysis all human weaknesses
and tribulations are really but a lack of the Divine Light.
“Light, more light,” said the dying Goethe, and that has
been the intuitive cry of humanity through all its his­
tory. But God is Light, the Bible tells us, and in Him is
no darkness at all; and Jesus said, “I am the light of the
world.” If you look back over your own life, you will
82 Power Through Constructive Thinking
be certain to find that a great many of your troubles
arose through no intentional fault of yours but through
your ignorance or inexperience, or through your want
of realizing to the full the implication of some situation
which you had to meet. In other words, you suffered
through want of light. Well, here the Bible explains that
the Divine Power in you will be your light, and that you
can train yourself to utilize it as such at any time that
you need it.
The Lord is the strength of my life. Having promised
us light, the Psalm now goes on to promise strength or
power. We are to have power to do whatever we need
to do, to meet whatever we need to meet, to tackle any
problem or difficulty that can present itself in our lives.
We are, in fact, to be “ endued with power from on
high” and need no longer trust to our own inadequate
efforts. God will show us at any time the meaning of any-
thing that we require to understand, will show us at any
juncture what it is we ought to do, and He will furnish
us with Divine strength to do it.
This wonderful verse then sums up its great message
in the word “salvation,” which, of course, means all­
round harmony and demonstration; and with the pene­
trating psychological skill so characteristic of the Bible
when it deals with the soul of man, it obliges us to ask
ourselves, point blank, what there is now to be afraid of.
And anyone who accepts the premises will hardly have
any trouble in reaching the conclusion that there is
nothing to be afraid of, because God lives and reigns—■
and then the back of the trouble is already broken.
Light and Salvation 83
When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes,
came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell.
Of course, “ the wicked,” and “mine enemies,” as al­
ways in the Bible, stand for our own thoughts, for our
fears and doubts of every kind; and truly indeed do they
sometimes come upon us as though “ to eat up our flesh”—•
most people have at some time or other been only too
painfully conscious of the aptness of this telling simile—
and here you are promised that they shall stumble and
fall.
Though an host should encamp against me, my heart
shall not fear: though war should rise against me, in this
will l be confident.
Here the Psalmist reiterates his confidence and makes
us, his readers, reiterate ours. He makes us say that our
hearts shall not fear, and he makes us believe it too, and
can you think of any more beautiful assurance in the
world than just that one— “my heart shall not fear” ?
When you can say quietly and truthfully at any hour of
the day or night “my heart shall not fear,” the world has
no more power over you—you are free. W ar of various
kinds may rise up against you, but you will be confident,
and therefore you will be victorious.
One thing have 1 desired of the Lord, that will I seek
after; that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the
days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to
enquire in his te7
nple.
For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavil­
ion: in the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me; he
shall set me up upon a rock.
These two verses constitute a remarkable expression of
84 Power Through Constructive Thinking
what is often called the second birth. Briefly this means
that a man or woman has taken the most important step
that a human being can take, that vital step in comparison
with which all other experiences are of relatively minor
importance. The new birth or second birth, or what you
may be pleased to call it, means that you clearly under­
stand and definitely accept the fact that nothing matters
except attunement with God. When you can honestly
say, “I realize now that nothing in life really matters
except that I get my conscious attunement with God—
because when I have that, everything else will rightly fol­
low, and until I do get that nothing else can be right—
and I am going to make everything else secondary to
that,” then you have really experienced the new birth
whether the realization itself has yet arrived or not. When
you have reached that stage you do not allow any ex­
ternal happening really to grieve you, or frighten you, or
hurt you very deeply, because you know that external
things are but passing shadows of no permanent impor­
tance. And now because they cannot bind you they can­
not hurt you, and so you are free. And above all you do
not allow the delaying of the realization itself to fret you
or discourage you in the least because you know the
Truth, even if you do not feel it.
This steadfast determination to dwell in the house of
the Lord, to behold His beauty and to learn His secrets,
means that you are set upon a rock and that your house
of life is secure (see Matthew 7:24-27).
And now shall mine head he lifted up above mine
enemies round about me: therefore will 1 offer in his
Light and Salvation 85
tabernacle sacrifices of joy; I will sing, yea, 1 will sing
praises unto the Lord.
This verse closes the first section of the treatment with
a burst of that praise and thanksgiving that is so power­
ful for demonstration. Singing in the Bible is always
the supreme expression of joy and exaltation, as we know.
W e note here that to “ have your head lifted above your
enemies” is not merely a graphic figure of victory but is
an important metaphysical symbol. The head is the bodily
expression for man’s power of knowing Divine Truth—
his Christ faculty we call it— and it is, of course, by an
increase of understanding that we overcome limitation.
Hear, O Lord, when 1cry with my voice: have mercy
also upon me, and answer me.
When thou saidst, Seek ye my face; my heart said unto
thee, Thy face, Lord, will 1seek.
Hide not thy face far from me; put not thy servant
away in anger: thou hast been my help; leave me not,
neither forsake me, O God of my salvation.
When my father and my mother forsake me, then the
Lord will take me up.
The Psalmist here employs the dramatic form of ad­
dressing God. This gives the prayer vividness and in­
tensity; but he is really affirming that God does hear us
when we “cry with our voice” or “speak the W ord,” as
we would say. He goes on to claim in different ways that
God answers prayer. The actual affirmative form is usu­
ally the most effective form for healing a definite condi­
tion; but do not hesitate to address God when you feel
so inclined. Do not abandon any kind of prayer. In fact,
do not give up anything in your religious life that you
86 Power Through Constructive Thinking
find to be helpful. This Christ Truth comes to us not to
destroy but to fulfil; not to rob us of anything good, but
to give us more and more of the All-Good.
Seek ye my face. Of course, this does not mean that
God has a limited, material face like a man or woman.
It is a well known symbol. It is true that in many of the
great classical pictures, God is represented as a man—
usually a man round about sixty years of age, and wearing
a beard. But this was a well understood artistic conven­
tion. A man at that age was assumed to have attained the
maximum degree of wisdom, and so it was really a sym­
bolical way cf expressing Divine Wisdom. The face, in
fact, symbolizes the power of recognition. In everyday
life it is by the face that we recognize people, not usually
by their hands or feet, for example, and to seek the face
of God means to seek a recognition of God’s Presence
to the point of realization, so that we “know” Him by
experiencing Him. When we find a difficulty in getting
our spiritual contact, it is as though God had hidden His
face. Of course, God never does that, but we allow a veil
of selfishness, doubt, and fear to come between us and
Him. People sometimes speak of the sun having “ gone
in” when they really mean that a cloud has come between
the sun and them, but, of course, everyone knows that
the sun is shining unchanged on the other side of the
cloud.
The Psalmist now strongly affirms this fact that God
cannot and will not “hide His face” from His children,
and he drives his point home by saying that even if his
father and mother were to desert him, God would not do
so. In the Orient where the family link is so strong that
Light and Salvation 87
it overrides all private and personal considerations, this is
a very telling statement indeed.
In other words, this section of the treatment shows us
that doubts and fears may assail the Psalmist in the midst
of his prayer—as they assail us all at times—but that he
meets and vanquishes them in the scientific way.
Teach me thy way, O Lord, and lead me in a plain
path, because of mine enemies.
Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies: for
false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe
out cruelty.
The Psalmist now prays for spiritual understanding
and for peace of mind. The enemies, as always, are his
own fears, and these fears take their rise in the fact that
“false witnesses” rise up and confront him. And no one
who has been through this experience will doubt the
appropriateness of that telling phrase that our fears are
things “ such as breathe out cruelty.” Verily, doubt and
fear are the crudest things that can come into the life of
man.
1 had fainted, unless l had believed to see the goodness
of the Lord in the land of the living.
Wait on the Lord: be of good courage, and he shall
strengthen thine heart: wait, I say, on the Lord.
Here, the Psalmist following up the rhythmical play
and interplay of thought, characteristic of the Bible, once
more makes it clear to his own mind that his reliance is
indeed entirely upon the Divine Power, and not upon
his own limited resources, his intellect, or his will power,
for instance. He says that unless he had believed God
88 Power Through Constructive Thinking
would perform the necessary miracle, he would not have
expected it to happen at all.
The closing phrase is a powerful exhortation to be
active and steadfast in prayer—that you ought always to
pray and not to faint. To “wait upon the Lord” does not
in the least mean neglecting a problem in the hope that
God will come along and solve it for you. It means
intensifying spiritual activity. Waiting on the Lord means
praying constantly and systematically about your prob­
lem. The effect of this will be to “strengthen your heart,”
which means that you will receive encouragement and
power to continue your prayers; and that your con­
sciousness will be gradually changed until your problem
melts away altogether in the realization of restored har­
mony and peace. Thus does God answer prayer.
Light and Salvation 89
1. The earth is the Lord’s, and the fulness thereof; the
world, and they that dwell therein.
2. For he hath founded it upon the seas, and estab­
lished it upon the floods.
3. Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? or who
shall stand in his holy place?
4. He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who
hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceit­
fully.
$. He shall receive the blessing from the Lord, and
righteousness from the God of his salvation.
6. This is the generation of them that seek him, that
seek thy face, O Jacob. Selah.
7. Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lift up, ye
everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in.
8. Who is this King of glory? The Lord strong and
mighty, the Lord mighty in battle.
9. Lift up your heads, O ye gates; even lift them up, ye
everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in.
10. Who is this King of glory? The Lord of hosts, he
is the King of glory. Selah.
T H E E V E R L A ST IN G G A T ES
PSALM 24
-L through the Bible we are taught that the demon­
stration of harmony, that is, health, prosperity, and
happiness, is God’s Will for man; because until he has
attained all-round harmony, man is not expressing God—
and to express God is his destiny.
The Twenty-fourth Psalm is the great summing up of
the Bible teaching on this subject. In the unique Bible
idiom it explains harmony, which is the true meaning of
salvation; and it analyzes in a masterly fashion, as only
the Bible can, the causes that produce harmony. In its
literary form the Psalm is a magnificent prose-poem in
five stanzas. The first verse constitutes a concise, and,
at the same time, exhaustive statement of the great meta­
physical law. Let us consider what it really says, or, in
other words, let us translate the technical terms employed
into the common phraseology of modern life.
The opening verse forms one of the best known phrases
in the Scriptures.
The earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof; the
world, and they that dwell therein.
These words are constantly quoted on all sorts of occa­
sions, but the context in which they are used seldom
gives evidence of any spiritual understanding of theif
true import. At worst, I have seen them used as an at­
tempt at consolation in the face of death or of great
financial misfortune. The implication seems to be that
as everything belongs to God, He is entitled to destroy
whatever He pleases without consulting the feelings of
mankind. At best, they are taken in the sense of pious,
but rather vague, recognition of God as the general source
of our supply. O f course, even the vaguest recognition
of this primary fact is better than no recognition at all;
but unless we get a definite, scientific understanding of
the meaning underlying the words, we shall derive no
real profit from them.
T o suppose that God, the Great Source, Substance
Itself, could cause, or even endorse death or misfortune,
is the deadly error that lies at the root of all our troubles;
and it is characteristic of the carnal mind thus to pervert
a text which, above most others in the Bible, explains the
real Law of Life and Prosperity. This carnal mind, as
Paul calls it, is, of course, nothing but our own restricted
and ignorant manner of thinking. T o be ignorant of the
laws of life, or to misunderstand them, cannot, it is true,
change those laws; but it can and does cause us suffering
and deprivation of every kind—even to the death-belief
itself—until such habits of thought are corrected.
The key to the true meaning of this first stanza is found
in the two pivotal words, “Lord” and “ earth,” and here
at the very beginning we must pause and ask ourselves
what we mean by the Lord. “ God, of course,” we will
say, and that is true; but in the Bible the word “ Lord,”
as a rule, means God in the special sense of our own
Indwelling Christ; our own true identity, the Divine
92 Power Through Constructive Thinking
Spark—the I AM. So this verse states, once and for all,
that the “ earth” which, as we know, is a general term
covering all our expression or manifestation, is under
the jurisdiction of the I AM . Now all trouble of every
kind really arises from the belief that the “ earth” is sub­
ject to the dominion of some outer power or law which
is able to govern it independently of the I AM, or to
destroy it altogether. But the Law of Being is, that man
is the image and likeness of God, and has full dominion
over all his conditions—all of them—and our Psalm em­
phasizes this wonderful fact by adding the world, and
they that dwell therein. Our earth, which is our world,
down to every detail of our lives, is really under our own
dominion, and is made and unmade by our word.
For he hath founded it upon the seas, and established
it upon the floods.
Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? or who
shall stand in his holy place?
He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who hath
not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully.
The hill of the Lord, or His holy place, means the
realization of God. It is that vivid, real sense of the
Presence, that wonderful experience of security and joy
that is truly the peace that passeth all understanding.
When one attains to this he knows indeed that all is well,
and that nothing can by any means hurt him. At such
times too he has a marvelous power of helping and heal­
ing others. This state of mind is really the one thing that
is worth possessing, for having that, one has all; and lack­
ing that, he has nothing. To reach this state is the real
object of all our prayers and treatments. It is nothing less
The Everlasting Gates 93
than the dominion that we are promised in Genesis; and
here the Bible impresses this truth upon us, and also in­
structs us how we are to get it. It is indeed a “holy” place
because nothing defiled in any way can reach us there.
Sickness, poverty, and sin cannot enter; that is to say, we
cannot feel that such things are real while we are in this
state of mind, and, as soon as we feel that they are not
real, they disappear into nothingness.
The inspired writer then goes on to tell us how we are
to raise ourselves into this wonderful consciousness, and
it is splendid to note that he makes a point of affirming
that it is founded upon the seas, and established upon the
floods. This means that people like ourselves with all sorts
of limitations and difficulties are the very people for
whom the promise is intended, and that in spite of all our
shortcomings we may reach it too; for it is founded upon
the waters—and water is always the human soul as we
know it, subject, as we are only too sadly aware, to
storms, floods, and sometimes even typhoons. So we see
that there is not the slightest reason to be discouraged
merely because one’s present demonstration seems to be
very poor and spiritual power seems entirely lacking. It
does not matter, because the high consciousness is built
upon just such stormy seas as this. “ Many waters cannot
quench Love, neither can the floods drown it.” Having
thus indicated, as the Bible does on almost every page,
that God’s salvation is for anybody and everybody, “the
wayfaring man though a fool shall not err therein,” it
goes on in its usual practical way to explain exactly how
the thing is to be done. It says that for the great task we
require clean hands and a pure heart, and that we must
94 Power Through Constructive Thinking
not lift up our souls to vanity, nor swear deceitfully.
These instructions are certainly definite, and it will pay
us to study them in some detail.
First in logical order comes the need for a pure heart—
“Blessed are the pure in heart—for they shall see God."
I suppose it is only life-long familiarity with this state­
ment that blinds us to its staggering importance. Just try
to realize for a moment the thing that is said here—“they
shall see God." Think what that must mean, and think
whether any price could be too much to pay for that
experience—to see God. Well, the Bible promises that
on certain terms the wayfaring man, you and I, may see
God. O f course, you will understand that there is no
question of “seeing God” with the physical eyes as one
sees a man or a house. With the physical eyes one can see
only physical things, and God is Spirit, and spiritual
things have to be spiritually discerned. Also, spiritual
perception is not a matter of apprehending outlines and
surfaces as physical sight is. Spiritual perception is direct
spiritual experience in which the subject and the per­
cipient become one. Therefore, to see God means—as
far as our restricted and crippled human speech can ex­
press the thing at all—a realization of perfect essential
unity with Divine Goodness Itself.
But who are the pure in heart? In the Bible use of the
term, the words “ pure” and “purity” are not confined to
physical purity, absolutely essential as that is; they are
expanded to include freedom from every kind of error
and limitation. N ow all error arises from a belief in the
possibility of a cause other than God, and so, fundamen­
tally, purity means complete loyalty to the belief in one
The Everlasting Gates 95
single, all-embracing, Omnipotent Cause, which is ut­
terly good—God, Our Father which art in heaven. To
believe in God as the only cause, and absolutely to reject
any claim for a lesser cause of any kind; to refuse to
concede the power of causation to such things as climate,
germs, man-made medical laws, or laws of poverty or
decay; to refuse to concede reality to the race limitations
of time and space; and, in the face of appearances, to
judge righteous judgment, and hold unswervingly to the
One Cause—this is purity.
In the Bible, the heart usually stands for what we call
the subconscious mind, and it is our subconscious men­
tality that we have to redeem and purify. T o keep one’s
mentality consciously loyal to the One Power is only
half the battle, though it is the first and therefore the
more important half. The other half is to purify and
re-educate the subconscious from the errors which have
accumulated there in the course of time. If we do this
work faithfully, we shall sooner or later arrive at the
point where we really have a pure heart in the full Bible
sense, and then we shall see God. Jesus had reached this
stage when he said “the prince of this world cometh and
findeth nothing in me,” meaning that his subconsciousness
was so purified that no limitation thoughts could have any
effect upon him; although at one time he was “in all
points tempted like as we are.”
This purifying of the soul, not merely from the grosser
sins which everybody recognizes, but from the thousand-
and-one concessions to limitation belief that fill the every­
day life of humanity, is the one and only pathway to
freedom. It is a wonderful beginning when we accept
96 Power Through Constructive Thinking
the Spiritual Basis of the Allness of God; but it is only
when we have begun to apply this truth in every prac­
tical detail of our lives, day after day—when we are not
in the humor to do so as well as when we are—that we
really begin to get results. This is to have “clean hands.”
The hand is always the power of manifestation or expres­
sion, and unless our expression— our all-day thinking—is
“ clean,” that is to say, spiritual and true, we have not
clean hands, and we cannot expect to ascend that won­
drous “hill of the Lord.”
This wonderful lesson receives its emphasis by repeti­
tion in a slightly different form, as in the Hebrew literary
tradition. So we are told that the redeemed, or saved, is
he who does not give his soul unto vanity—another way
of saying one who does not look for his happiness to
manifestation instead of to Cause, or believe in more
causes than the One. To swear deceitfully is to pin your
faith to error, to have a real conviction, as so many people
have, that evil is true.
He shall receive the blessing from the Lord, and
righteousness from the God of his salvation.
This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek
thy face, O Jacob. Selah.
T o many it may seem that the purification of the heart,
or the redemption of the subconscious, will be a long and
wearisome task, but we have to remember that when we
pray it is God who works and not we, and that tasks
difficult or impossible to us present no difficulty to Him.
If you will use the power of the Word to declare that
God is purifying you, that God is setting you free, that
God is inspiring and enlightening you, you will be
The Everlasting Gates 97
amazed how seemingly impossible difficulties will be
overcome; how old habits of thinking will fall away and
new ones come in; and this is because you will receive
your righteousness, or right thinking, from God. You
have “sought His face,” and, under the Great Law, you
must begin to express something of His nature, for we
always grow like unto that which we contemplate. Here
the expression “ O Jacob” means “ O God of Jacob.”
L ip up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lip up, ye
everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in.
Who is this King of glory? The Lord strong and
mighty, the Lord mighty in battle.
Lift up your heads, O ye gates; even lift them up, ye
everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in.
Who is this King of glory? The Lord of hosts, he is the
King of glory. Selah.
This, the third stanza of the poem, is a glorious state­
ment of the power of prayer. It is not exaggerating to say
that it is probably the most glorious tribute to the power
of prayer ever written. Gates and doors always symbolize
understanding. A little thought will show the good logic
of this. The gate or door is the place where we pass in or
out of a city, in or out of a house, or a field, from one
room to another, and so forth. In other words, it marks a
change of consciousness. The place that you are in at
any moment is really the state of consciousness which you
have at the moment, and what we know as movement
through space from one place to another, from Europe
to America, or from the dining room into the drawing
room, is really a partial change of consciousness. Of
course, the only change of this kind which has any true
98 Power Through Constructive Thinking
value is the absolute change brought about by an in­
crease in the understanding of Truth, and every time that
we do gain such an increase we enter a fresh stage upon
the Path. Lift up your heads, O ye gates is a dramatic
way of telling us that it is only by the attainment of a
higher degree of understanding that the King of glory—
the vivid realization of God which we are seeking—can
come to our souls. The gates and doors are told to lift up
their heads, that is to say, to become loftier. In order that
there may be no possible room for any misunderstanding
of the mighty import of the message, we are then told to
ask ourselves who the King of Glory is, and for what He
stands; and it is impressed upon us that He is nothing less
than the Lord, and that He is strong and mighty in bat­
tle. Not just a figurehead potentate, but a man of war,
and the battle He fights, of course, is our battle for the
overcoming of sin, sickness, and death.
The poet concludes with the re-affirmation that the
power we contact in prayer is the Lord of Hosts, which
is the Bible term for the aspect of God as Power.
These Bible Treatments are not mere literary exercises;
they are definite methods for bringing about a change in
consciousness. That means that it is of very little use
merely to read one of them through hurriedly and then
put it aside. A Treatment such as this Psalm should be
read over slowly many times. As you read, you should
pause frequently to become receptive for a moment in
order to give a chance for inspiration to come through.
Do not make these pauses too long. Pause for an instant,
long or short, according to whether you are a slow or a
The Everlasting Gates 99
quick thinker, and then, if nothing comes, continue
reading.
Always, when reading the Bible, put in between the
lines, so to speak, the thought that God is inspiring you.
This is the way to get direct illumination on the Bible
teaching, at first hand. Remember that other people’s
interpretations of the Bible, however helpful and stimu­
lating they may be, can never be as valuable as those that
you get for yourself. The Bible will give you new and
wonderful knowledge having a direct bearing upon your
own personal and private problems and difficulties, if
only you will make that possible by adopting the right
attitude of mind.
When your usual methods of treating a problem do
not seem to be bringing results, it is a good plan to dis­
continue them altogether for a time, and to work exclu­
sively for inspiration instead. This can be done by open­
ing the Bible at random and reading whatever texts your
eye falls upon. If the first page opened does not interest
you, try elsewhere, and continue to do so until you do
find something that gives you a new light. Note care­
fully, however, that it is a change in consciousness that
you are now seeking, a change that will enable you to
pray more freshly and effectively, and to be more sensi­
tively receptive. You are not now seeking precise prac­
tical instructions. Do not take the wording of any text
literally as a direction for conduct, as such a practice
easily ends in superstition. It is the letter of the Bible that
killeth, the spirit that giveth light.
ioo Power Through Constructive Thinking
D A N IEL IN T H E LIO N S’ D EN
DANIEL, 6
h e story of Daniel in the lions’ den is one of the
half dozen best known stories in the Bible. I imagine
there are very few people who have not heard it. It is a
particular favorite with the children, and children are
great judges of literary and dramatic power, as every­
one knows who has ever tried to entertain one of them
with a story. Now we learn from the Jesus Christ teach­
ing that there is no such thing as chance. Everything
happens in accordance with the law of cause and effect,
and, therefore, when a story or a legend is found to
have a world-wide circulation, and when that circula­
tion continues generation after generation, we know
that it must contain something of great importance to
humanity. So it is with the story of Daniel’s great dem­
onstration. It contains within it a wonderful lesson in
the Truth of Being, and for all these centuries it has
helped and comforted millions of people, even though
they did not have the scientific key to its meaning.
Let us now consider in a little detail some of the
principal points of the story as it is given in the 6th
Chapter of Daniel. W e are told that Daniel was made
what would be called nowadays Chancellor, or chief
Secretary of State, under Darius. This was a position
I OI
ioz Power Through Constructive Thinking
of great honor and responsibility, but also one involv­
ing great personal danger to the holder. One could not
occupy such an office without making many powerful
enemies, and in that ancient Oriental world they were
apt to make short work of inconvenient officials in high
places, more particularly when the incumbent was a
foreigner. The sword or dagger, poison administered
in food, and even through wearing apparel such as
gloves or boots, were freely employed in such cases,
and, above all, political intrigue was used to bring the
obnoxious official to his end.
In the case of Daniel we are told that a carefully
engineered plot was carried through, which placed his
patron, Darius, in the position of being absolutely help­
less to save Daniel. Such plotters would take the char­
acter of the monarch into account when laying their
plans. A small-minded, jealous man would be handled
in one way, a religious fanatic in another. Darius, who
was neither of these things, but an intellectual formalist
of a rigid type, was trapped in his own weakness. Daniel
was arrested, taken down to a pit of lions, and thrown
in. Such a pit of wild animals was sure to be found
near most Eastern palaces of those days, the animals
being required partly for display, and partly, as in the
present instance, to furnish terrifying examples of politi­
cal punishment. Daniel, however, instead of being
promptly tom to pieces, remained untouched, and in
due course was liberated from the lions’ den without
so much as a scratch.
Spiritually understood this is one of the greatest les­
sons in the Bible. Daniel is Everyman. The story of his
great tribulation is the story of any difficulty that can
come into your life, or into mine. Incidentally, it is the
story of the whole of your human experience in gen­
eral, but it applies also to each individual difficulty that
you have to overcome. Remember that every individual
problem that you have to face is but a tiny model, as
it were, of the great problem of overcoming our human
belief in limitation, sickness, sin, and death, that is called
in theology the Fall of Man.
When some great problem or trouble comes into
your life you are, figuratively speaking, thrown into
a pit of lions, and many fearful hearts have felt that
this is indeed a very graphic description of the state
of mind they have experienced.
Now let us look for the key to the story and we shall
find it here in verse 10. Daniel had acquired the habit
of prayer. Daniel was a man who practised the Presence
of God, not now and again, but constantly and regu­
larly. This verse is very illuminating. W e are told that
Daniel knew that the warrant for his arrest was signed.
(When you are working and praying regularly, along
the right lines, you will always get to know anything
which it is necessary that you should know; you will
not be taken by surprise.) Daniel knew that trouble
was pending, and immediately he started praying, or
treating, about it. He did not pronounce an affirmation
once or twice and expect it to work, like an incanta­
tion. He prayed, clearing up his consciousness, three
times a day. “His windows being open in his chamber
toward Jerusalem.’’'’ Of course the “ chamber” is the
“secret place” of Jesus, or one’s consciousness. Jerusalem
Daniel in the Lions’ Den 103
is always the highest part of man’s nature or personality,
short of the actual realization of God; and so Daniel,
three times a day, turned in thought to God and raised
his thought as high as he possibly could. No one can
do more than this. It is a mistake to think that you
must get a wonderfully vivid realization of Spirit in
order to overcome any difficulty. Prayer will get you
out of your difficulty whether you get any realization
or not. You can always open your window toward
Jerusalem. Whether you ascend Mount Zion, which is
the realization of God Himself, does not lie in your
hands—the turning toward Jerusalem does.
In the same verse it says “as he did aforetime.” This
tells us that Daniel was in the habit of thus praying
scientifically. Some people pray only when they are
in trouble, and then, naturally they do not find it easy
to get any sort of contact. One would not expect to
practise on the piano only occasionally, and yet play
well on any desired occasion. Daniel made a regular
practice of prayer and meditation three times a day,
and when the dark hour came, this practice stood by
him. He knew beforehand that trouble was coming.
He probably knew almost exactly what it would be.
And he met it by working steadily on his own con­
sciousness in order to get rid of fear. He probably suc­
ceeded in doing this even before his arrest, and was
able to rejoice in victory well before the victory itself
made its appearance.
O f course, the real causes of all our troubles lie within
ourselves. The only enemies we have to overcome in the
long run are our own fears, doubts, selfishness, and so
104 Power Through Constructive Thinking
forth. These are typified by King Darins and the plot­
ters. All your enemies are within yourself—“a man's
enemies shall be those of his oum household." Darius
represents, in particular, our belief in the power of
the external world to limit or injure us. He represents
none of the things that are usually called evil, but
rather our limiting belief in the fixed and unchangeable
character of outer things that are in themselves good.
The truth is that no outer conditions have any power
in themselves, no outer laws need bind us, when we
appeal to the supreme Christ Law of Divine freedom and
harmony; but we do not know, or we forget this great
truth, and so we go on believing in and submitting to all
kinds of supposed laws of limitation. W e believe that
we are too old to do something that we could very
well do. We believe that a certain climate can adversely
affect our bodies, when in truth it has no such power.
I knew a man in London who was working for the
municipal government, a service which is swathed in
red tape and vexatious restrictions of every kind. Feel­
ing this fact acutely, he remained in a subordinate
position for three years through being under the im­
pression that his qualifications did not admit him to a
certain higher grade, the work of which he knew he
could do very well. After these three years he learned
accidentally that there was in fact no regulation such
as he had supposed to prevent his holding such a posi­
tion, and he promptly applied for it, and was appointed,
with a considerable increase in salary. This is an ex­
ample of a belief in an outer limitation which in reality
could have been overcome at any moment. It is a good
Daniel in the Lions' Den 105
example of Darius. The supposed rule concerning quali­
fications was not, even supposedly, an evil thing like dis­
honesty, deceit, or murder, but a rule, good in intention,
to insure the appointment of suitable people.
The plotters represent essentially evil things, such as
the above mentioned sins, and of course Everyman has
to reckon with these too. “ The law of the Medes and
Persians, which altereth not," is a splendid expression of
our usual notion of these outer limitations as beincr im-
D
possible to overcome, of there being things and condi­
tions that we just have to “put up with.”
There is a well known picture of Daniel in the Lions’
Den, which was certainly painted by an inspired artist.
Most of my readers will know it, and I always keep a
copy of it in my room. Daniel is shown not looking at
the lions, but turning his back on them! What a lesson
in Scientific Prayer or Treatment; what I have elsewhere
called “the Golden Key.” The more we think over any
difficulty the more we amplify it, and staring at our
lions causes them to grow and grow until they are as
big as elephants. Daniel is shown looking upward toward
the light—a graphic representation of the Practice of
the Presence—and the lions, instead of looking fero­
cious or angry, seem good humored enough as they
stroll about or stand watching him curiously.
Those who have had much to do with wild animals
in their native jungle always insist that no wild animal
will attack a man who is not afraid of it. In India many
stories are told of true Yogis (that is those who follow
the Rajah or royal Yoga which is the search for reunion
with God, and not just the acquiring of the power to
io6 Power Through Constructive Thinking
play tricks on the etheric plane) living among tigers
and other beasts of prey in perfect safety, and the Bible
itself tells us that a time will come when the lion shall
lie down with the lamb, because man has gotten fear,
and hatred, and jealousy, and co^uemnation out of his
own heart, and has thereby changed the whole moral
and spiritual climate of this planet.
When you are in trouble you are Daniel in the
Lions’ Den. The lions will seem terribly ferocious; but
pray until fear has begun to go; keep knowing the
Truth, in the face of all appearances; and you will come
out of the lions’ den safe and sound, without a single
scratch, as Daniel did. N ay more—you will come out
stronger and better for the ordeal, because no problem
that we meet in the light of Truth ever leaves us where
it found us. Every problem thus overcome is a definite
step upward in the growth of the soul.
It is significant, is it not, that being unable to accuse
Daniel of any of the ordinary transgressions, his enemies
proved beyond a shadow of doubt that Daniel was a
man who declined to worship (to believe in or trust)
any power but GOD. In the sight of the world this was
an indictable offense, but in the light of Truth it was
shown to be Daniel’s salvation.
The longer one continues in the Truth teaching the
more convinced he becomes of the fact that this is a
mental world, and that man’s dominion lies within his
own mentality. When once we have grasped this fact
clearly and have determined to put it into operation
in our lives, it seems as though our difficulties were
over, and theoretically this could be the case. Prac­
Daniel in the Lions’ Den 107
tically, however, it calls for the most rigid and persist­
ent watchfulness on our part, if we are not to be
constantly straying from the true path of correct
thought. “Watch and pray,” said Jesus, knowing how
subtle are the temptations to step aside into old errors.
“ The price of liberty is eternal vigilance,” said an an­
cient sage, and never was this truer than in the life
of the soul.
If you really want to demonstrate health, happiness,
and true prosperity—and every student of Truth knows
that it is his duty to demonstrate these things as soon
as he possibly can—you must set aside a definite time
every day for prayer and meditation, and for checking
up upon your own daily conduct and demonstration, or
want of demonstration. You must conduct the affairs
of your soul in a businesslike way. Too many religious
people fail to realize that the business of spiritual growth
calls for order, method, and intelligent organization,
just as much as does any commercial business or engi­
neering enterprise, or any other important activity, if
it is to be a success.*
So great is the power of prayer that not only will
it get you out of any difficulty, but the things in your­
self which produced that difficulty will be utterly de­
stroyed forever, with all their associated thoughts and
fears; and all consequences or collateral effects that
might arise from the problem itself will be taken care
of too—“and brake all their bones in pieces or ever they
came at the bottom of the den."
* The Fifteen Points should be studied on this subject (see page 280).
108 Power Through Constructive Thinking
There is no end to a prayer. It echoes on forever in
your soul. Long after the visible demonstration has
been made and forgotten, the prayer that produced it
continues to work for your spiritual advancement, for
the creative power of a God thought is unlimited and
eternal.
Daniel in the Lions’ Den 109
T H E G A R D E N OF A LLA H
ISAIAH, 35
There is no god but God. Koran
Thou shalt have no other gods before Me. Bible
E
ven those who love the Bible most are apt to make
the mistake of looking upon it as merely a book,
the greatest book ever written, no doubt, but still a
book; whereas the truth about the Bible is that it is
really a spiritual vortex in which spiritual power pours
from the Absolute or Divine Plane into the physical
plane or plane of manifestation.
But the Bible is not only the great source of spiritual
truth, it is also the greatest collection of literary mas­
terpieces that we possess. Almost every literary form
is represented in the Bible, both in prose and poetry.
History, biography, philosophy, the short story in its
perfection—re-read some of the parables, for example
—the epic, and even that supposedly modern form, the
novel, are all found there. The Book of Job is really
a play; and Revelation is a drama in form so strange and
unprecedented that it remains in its entirety almost
incomprehensible to most people, however much they
may appreciate its separate details.
Above all, the Bible abounds in beautiful and power-
i io
1 1 1
ful prayers or treatments, and this alone makes it for
us the most important book in the world. This is be­
cause prayer is really the only thing that matters. The
only way in which man can improve himself or his
conditions, get a better knowledge of God—save his
soul, in short—is by prayer. Prayer indeed is the only
real action there is; that is to say, it is the only action
that makes things different.
Whenever you pray, you change your soul for the
better. If the prayer is very short or the degree of reali­
zation very poor, the change it brings about may be
small, but it occurs. It could not by any chance happen
under any circumstances that any man or woman could
pray for a single moment without some result for good
following. Whenever you pray, your whole subsequent
life is, as a consequence, somewhat different from what
it would have been had you not prayed.
Now prayer is the only thing that does change the
quality of the soul. Any other activity may make a
quantitative change in the soul by adding experience,
or by extending one’s fund of knowledge; but it does
not change the quality. Only prayer does that, and it
is the quality of one’s soul that determines his destiny.
As long as there is no qualitative change in your soul,
you will, under any given circumstances, say or do the
thing that such a person as you are would say or do in
such a case, because we never really act out of character.
We are never other than ourselves. When we try to
be other than ourselves by an effort of human will, we
are just being ourselves all the more on that account.
When you pray, however, you by that act become at
The Garden of Allah
least a slightly different man and, therefore, all your
subsequent activities are different too. So prayer is the
only thing that matters.
The word “treatment” is a technical term that many
of us use for prayer that is directed to the overcoming
of a specific, practical difficulty, and the Bible is full of
prayers and treatments of every kind.
When you find yourself in any kind of trouble, no
matter what it may be, whether you think it is caused
by somebody else’s conduct, or whether you feel that
it is your own fault, or whether it seems to be no one’s
fault; in any case the only possible thing to do is to
treat yourself about it. If you give yourself an efficient
treatment—or it may be that several treatments will be
necessary—then the difficulty, whatever it is, will pres­
ently disappear and you will find yourself out of your
trouble. In other words, your prayer will be “answered,”
or, as we often say, you will make your demonstration.
But what is a treatment? Well, briefly, a treatment
means that you recollect and realize the Truth about
God until you have brought about a change in your
own consciousness, whereupon, as a result of this change
in yourself, the outer things completely change too.
Note particularly that this does not mean merely that
you gain courage or fortitude to meet your difficulties
in a new spirit. That would be better than nothing, but
not much better. The tremendous fact is that prayer
does change things. As a consequence of the change in
your mentality that results from your treatment, outer
conditions change completely. Other people change
their conduct and their attitude toward you. Unpleasant
1 12 Power Through Constructive Thinking
things that would otherwise have happened do not hap­
pen, and good things that would not have happened
had you not prayed, do happen—brought about by
prayer alone. Prayer does change things.
N ow how is the necessary change in consciousness
to be brought about? Or, in other words, how is a treat­
ment made? Well the first thing to realize is that merely
repeating a form of words is seldom any use at all. (That
is better than nothing if you should be so frightened or
worried that you cannot do anything more. In fact, to
cling to a single phrase may be the only thing that can
save you in a great emergency; but fortunately such
an extreme condition is very exceptional.) It is the
change in feeling and conviction that matters. Any
means that brings this about—and whatever means does
it most quickly—is the best treatment. Whatever will
raise your consciousness from the lower level of trouble
to the higher level of freedom is a treatment. In many
cases the quiet, thoughtful repetition of certain affirma­
tions of Truth is sufficient, such as: “ I am surrounded
by the Love and Peace of God” ; or “Divine Intelli­
gence opens my way.” Sometimes, and especially if you
are faithful in daily prayer and meditation, the mere
momentary “feeling out” for God will clear the most
formidable difficulty with lightning-like rapidity; feel­
ing out in thought, that is to say, without formulating
any words at all. The reading of a page of any spiritual
book that appeals to you or, above all, a few verses or
a chapter from the Bible often constitutes a most power­
ful treatment. It is for this reason that the Bible has so
many prayers and treatments included in its pages.
The Garden of Allah 113
The literary arrangement in which we have received
our Bible is very misleading in many instances. The di­
visions into chapters and verses was made comparatively
recently. The original writers had nothing whatever to
do with it, and it was done in an arbitrary fashion that
paid very little attention to the subject matter con­
cerned. So it happens that with a writer, such as Isaiah,
for instance, his works have been run together with
little or no regard to sequence of subject or chronologi­
cal order, and then, so to speak, chopped up into ap­
proximately equal lengths which are called chapters. In
addition to this, a great deal of material, splendid in it­
self but not belonging to the prophet called Isaiah, has
been included. Of course this makes no practical dif­
ference at all, as long as we know about it. The actual
writer of anything in the Bible does not matter in the
least, because the true author of it all is the Holy Spirit.
One of the greatest prayers or treatments ever writ­
ten is included among the writings of Isaiah, and is
known to us as Chapter 35. This chapter number, as
we have seen, is purely an arbitrary designation. The
chapter itself has nothing in particular to do with either
Chapter 34 or Chapter 36. That number has no more
intrinsic significance than the number a book may bear
on the shelf of a library. As this chapter constitutes a
particularly beautiful and effective treatment for any
purpose, we shall now consider it at some length.
The first thing we notice is that in its literary form
it is a glorious poetic rhapsody. The writer, in contem­
plating the wonder and the love of God, rises to a
white heat of spiritual exaltation. The leaden shoes of
1 14 Power Through Constructive Thinking
fear and doubt that glue man to the earth in his every­
day life are cast aside, and he rises on the pinions of
Divine Inspiration into the region where all his petty
limitations and handicaps vanish in the splendor of the
Divine Presence. For the time being he leaves behind
him every small and mean thing that keeps a man from
God, from joy and freedom. And as he has succeeded
in enshrining this transcendent experience in words that
still live and glow today with much of his own original
Divine ecstasy, it becomes possible for us in using this
prayer with spiritual understanding, to kindle our own
torch from the same fire, and, if we can tune ourselves
in with his note, to transcend also any particular diffi­
culty or group of difficulties that may be oppressing us.
The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad
for them; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the
rose. The first thing that strikes us here is that the writer
is, of course, as all Bible writers are, an Oriental, and
therefore he will give his message in the language and
idiom of the Orient. This is so obvious that it would be
unnecessary to mention it did we not know how many
European and American people down to the last gen­
eration were in the habit of taking every Oriental simile
and flourish at its face value, and often trying to apply
it with the utmost literalness to some condition of life
in London, or Manchester, or Chicago.
He begins his prayer in the best possible way that a
prayer can begin, by a splendid act of faith in God.
Always begin your prayers with an act of faith. Re­
member that Jesus tells us that faith in the Love of
God will literally move mountains. And so our Oriental
The Garden of Allah i i j
Prophet starts with what is doubtless the greatest af­
firmation of faith in God of which an Oriental is capa­
ble. He looks to God and cries: The wilderness and the
solitary place shall be glad . . . and the desert shall re­
joice and blossom as the rose. Think of it; the Oriental
desert to become a garden, to blossom as a rose, to be
a center of prosperity and riches. Nothing in our human
experience can seem on the face of it less probable than
this. No human trouble could be more difficult than
this problem of turning the desert into a smiling garden.
But with God all things are possible, absolutely all
things, anything; and so to Him the redemption of a
desert wilderness is just as easy as anything else.
The Bible is predominantly the book of a desert peo­
ple. Always as the great drama of the Bible story moves
across the stage of time, we are conscious of the desert
as the background against which it moves. Palestine, a
narrow strip of land not much bigger than Wales, was
hemmed in by a desert on three sides, and by the un­
familiar and to them unattractive sea on the fourth. Al­
most everything that came into Palestine came across a
desert. Goods and merchandise made their slow way
in the leisurely desert caravans. All visitors who came
to that country came through the desert and arrived
wearied and parched with its sand and dust; and any
new ideas that might filter into the world of Palestine
had to filter through the desert too, and would inevita­
bly arrive, like the travelers themselves, bearing about
them something of the same desert atmosphere. For,
just as to people living in the British Isles the sea is al­
ways the background—it is the sea that has moulded
n6 Power Through Constructive Thinking
their history, and conditions their everyday lives, even
though they may live so far from the ocean that they
have never seen it—so the people of Palestine though
they might never venture into the wilderness itself, were
shaped and governed from first to last by the eternal,
unchanging desert, and the conditions of life that spring
from a desert home. Always the desert haunted them.
There is not a page in the Bible in which we do not
vaguely sense the eternal sands and hear the distant
tinkle of the camel bells.
And so for us of the West it calls for a distinct effort
of the imagination truly to appreciate this splendid
declaration with which the Poet opens his prayer. He
takes the one condition above all others with which
man had been totally unable to deal, much less to con­
quer—the desert; the one condition perhaps which
would seem to him as an Oriental to be eternal and un­
changeable, the one condition, we may say, that it would
be utterly hopeless to think of changing: and he declares
that the goodness and love of God shall completely con­
quer this. How complete and thorough that conquest
is to be is signified by piling up, in the Eastern way,
symbol upon symbol—it shall rejoice and blossom as the
rose—one of the richest and most splendid of God’s cre­
ations, calling for a special quality of soil and particular
care in its culture.
It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy
and singing: the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto
it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon, they shall see
the glory of the Lord, and the excellency of our God.
On and on he goes in pursuit of his great theme. The
The Garden of Allah 117
1 1 8 Power Through Constructive Thinking
glory of the desert redeemed is to be in proportion to
its former barrenness. It shall rejoice with joy and sing­
ing. Glory of every kind shall be heaped upon it, the
especial glory that the Poet knew in his time as only to
be found among the cedars of Lebanon; the austere
grandeur that he felt only in Carmel; and the sweet,
fragrant peace that he had known among the beauti­
fully kept gardens of Sharon. He closes this first stanza,
his opening declaration of faith, by reaffirming They
shall see the glory of the Lord, and the excellency of
our God.
In reading this carefully we begin to catch something
of the Prophet’s own Divine faith in the goodness of
God, and as faith is infectious, we find the power of
his understanding gradually fanning our tiny spark of
it into a flame.
Below each level of thought in the Bible there always
lies yet a deeper level for those who can find it, and so
it is here. Lebanon, Carmel, and Sharon in detail stand
for certain spiritual faculties in the soul of man that
gradually develop as he persists along the pathway of
spiritual awakening, and the Prophet here implies, for
those who can understand, that these definite spiritual
gifts are the outcome of such prayers as this. Of course,
the desert or wilderness is a general term for any kind
of trouble or difficulty. It may be a specific problem
that you have to overcome, or, in the wider sense, the
general state of feeling cut off from God, of which we
are all so conscious to our sorrow.
It is interesting to note that, in a very wonderful and
different sense, the desert may be taken to symbolize
that state of mind in which man has attained to a high
degree of concentration upon God. Sooner or later you
will have to put God first in your life, that is to say,
your own true spiritual development must become the
only thing that really matters. It need not, perhaps had
better not, be the only thing in your life, but it must
be the first thing. When this happens you will find that
you have got rid of a great deal of the unnecessary junk
that most people carry about; mental junk, of course,
although physical junk is very apt to follow upon this.
You will find that you will do a great deal less running
about after things that do not matter and only waste
your time and energy, when once you have put God
first. Your life will become simpler and quieter, but in
the true sense, richer and infinitely more worth while.
This has usually happened in the desert. The true
desert wanderer has few physical possessions, none of
our artificial needs, and few of our so-called comforts;
yet he is among the happiest of the human race. Com­
monly he fears nothing in life or in death. It was an
Arab sitting at the door of his tent at night, free from
the burden of useless possessions, his mind and heart
clarified by simple living, who gazed up at the myriad
golden stars so bright in the eastern sky; looked about
him with uninterrupted gaze to the distant dusky hori­
zon; and said, “The desert is the garden of Allah.”
Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confinri the feeble
knees. Say to them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong,
fear not: behold, your God will come with vengeance,
even God with a recompense] he will come and save
you. The first stanza of this wonderful poem-prayer
The Garden of Allah 119
having led the reader to make a splendid declaration of
faith, this, the second stanza, takes up definitely the
task of working upon his consciousness direct. It says
strengthen ye the weak hands. Here we meet one of
the most important symbols to be found in the Bible—
the hand. The hand, briefly, stands for the power of
manifestation, or the capacity to express God’s ideas on
the physical plane. It is the power of getting things
done. It is the power of making demonstrations, as we
say, or of getting answers to prayer, and so the ex­
pression, strengthen ye the weak hands, is a command
that we are to rise up out of limitation, refuse to put
up with it, and insist upon harmony and freedom; that,
in fact, we ought always to pray and not to faint. Jesus
has told us by means of two separate parables that we
are not to accept less than harmony; that we are to go
on praying until we make our demonstration; that we
are not to take “no” for an answer. And here the in­
spired writer teaches the same lesson. You should never
“ put up” with anything. You should never be content
to accept less than harmony, peace, and freedom. Until
you get these things you must be insistent in prayer.
This particular symbol is a very interesting one. Man
is, in his true nature, a spiritual being, a spark from the
Divine Fire, but this divine spark, the I Am, has to be
embodied, and the human body with which we are
familiar, which we all carry about with us, is really but
an embodiment of the various faculties and capacities
of the Divine I Am. Actually we are at present seeing
this embodiment in a very, very limited way, even in
the case of the most healthy and beautiful bodies; never­
120 Power Through Constructive Thinking
theless that is what it is. The Real Self, or I Am, has the
power of manifesting absolutely any idea or set of ideas
which it can understand, even to some extent; and this
power we see embodied as the hand. In all ages the
hand has been understood symbolically in this way. We
speak of a thing being handy. A person who performs
all sorts of essential business for another is often spoken
of as his “right hand.” At banquets the guest of honor
is placed at the right hand of the host. The Christ Truth
“sitteth at the right hand of God, the Father Almighty”
—it is the Christ nature that manifests God through
man. The word for hand, in Latin, is mcmus and this is
derived originally from a Sanskrit word meaning the
thinker. Our English word “man” ultimately derives
from the same root and carries the same implicit mean­
ing. And we know that it is man’s raison d'être to mani­
fest God. Man the manifestor is or should be the hand
of God through which God works, and this he is
through his power of thought, because he is essentially
a thinker. When we wish to paralyze a man’s activities
we handcuff him, thereby putting his hands out of ac­
tion, and to have both hands amputated is reckoned as
almost complete disablement.
Confirm the feeble knees. This is a very obvious
figure for getting rid of fear. There are not many of
the sons of men who have not at some time or other
known what it was to feel their knees almost literally
going from under them through nervousness or fear.
Such a condition, unless overcome, is the prelude to
the total collapse of the body in what we call a faint.
Now when people are in grave difficulties and are be­
The Garden of Allah 121
ginning to lose their courage—and to lose courage is to
lose all—the soul may very aptly be described as being
in this condition. The Prophet therefore strikes boldly
at our weak hands and feeble knees and proceeds to
confirm them, or make them firm, by bringing to mind
the truth about God. One might well say indeed that
essentially Scientific Prayer or Treatment is just this thing
of pausing to recollect the truth about God. W e do not
try to do something with our prayers in the sense of
seeking to manipulate things to our liking. Such a pro­
ceeding would be will power and not prayer, but we
pause in the current of material things and recollect
what we know to be the truth about God. This accepta­
tion and re-affirmation of the Truth is what brings a
spiritual demonstration.
The Prophet says with unanswerable simplicity: Be­
hold, your God will come with vengeance, even God
with a recompense; he will come and save you. And
why? Because you are saying your prayers. Because,
instead of being carried away in the tide of difficulty as
the “ heathen” or non-pray-er is, you have paused to
recollect the truth about God. You have made the
magnificent declaration of faith in the first stanza, and
so the action of God will now come into your life with
rengeance or vindication.
People sometimes wonder why a loving God should
allow them to get into trouble at all in the first place,
or why He does not help them without waiting for
their prayers. The answer is that we have free will.
This is the most precious of all things for us because it
is our identity in God as the I Am. If God were to
122 Power Through Constructive Thinking
interfere in our lives without our having called upon
Him through prayer, our free will would be abrogated,
and we should lose our identity. Actually this could
not happen, because it would be against the Law of
Being. We have to know here that this word “ venge­
ance” in the Bible is a technical term meaning vindi­
cation. Needless to say, God, Infinite Mind, is not capa­
ble of approaching anything like what is known among
men as revenge. What happens is that the action of
God following upon your prayer vindicates the Law
of Being, and as this Law is the law of perfect good you
are saved. The demonstration may figuratively be de­
scribed as the recompense for your treatment.
Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the
ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. Then shall the lame
man leap as an hart, and the tongue of the dumb sing:
for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams
in the desert. These two phrases constitute one of the
most wonderful passages in the whole Bible. There is
no other that can quite be put beside it. It is a song of
triumph, and joy, and liberation, probably the most
glorious celebration of the power of God in prayer that
ever was written. Think what it promises, what it an­
nounces to be the natural result of spiritual prayer: The
eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the
deaf shall be unstopped, the lame man shall leap as an
hart, and the tongue of the dumb shall sing! Is this
a sufficient manifesto of spiritual healing? Is anything
of importance left out? Can we, in the face of this, de­
clare that any physical condition is beyond the reach
of prayer? Can we dare say or think any more that with
The Garden of Allah 123
God some things are possible, and some things are not?
The blind, the deaf, the dumb, and the crippled are to
be set free and restored to health by the power of God.
Physical healing is one of the most glorious mani­
festations of the Universal Christ. It is the Beautiful
Gate of the Temple, but it is not everything. It is the
spiritual gift that has been most emphasized in the meta­
physical movement for two or three generations, but
as Paul was careful to imply in his enumeration, it is
only one gift. The healing of the body is essential, but
the thing that really matters of course is the spiritual
development of the soul. What is a physical healing but
the outer evidence that a step in spiritual development
has been taken; and the physical healings enumerated
here fully and beautifully as they apply to the physical
body, are still more important when raised to a higher
level.
It is glorious that the physical eyes of the physically
blind should be opened, but the physical eyes also sym­
bolize man’s power of spiritual perception; and the mag­
nificent promise of these two verses particularly implies
that the gift of spiritual perception is to be acquired
by prayer; and that when we earnestly pray for it noth­
ing can prevent our getting it.
It is glorious that the ears of the physically deaf
should be unstopped; but hearing, on the higher level,
stands for spiritual understanding, and it is ten times
more important that spiritually obtuse people should ob­
tain an understanding of the truth about God and about
life.
It is glorious that the physically crippled should re­
1 2 4 Power Through Constructive Thinking
gain his strength so that, throwing away his crutches
and straightening his back, he shall assume the birthright
of healthy manhood and run and leap like a deer. But
it is ten times more important that moral and spiritual
cripples should succeed in surmounting their infirmities
and rise up in the free exercise of spiritual faculty and
prayer.
It is glorious that the physically dumb should acquire
the power of the physical word to speak and sing; but
the tongue stands also for man’s spiritual dominion or
power, and it is a thousand times more important for
the spiritually dumb, those men and women who have
no power of spiritual demonstration, to acquire the
power of the Logos or Creative Word which is their
Divine inheritance, and learn to use it with telling effect
for themselves and others.
Never before or since has the importance of these
things both physical and spiritual been brought home
so convincingly to men’s hearts as here. And by way of
a final emphasis on these transcendent truths the Ori­
ental Prophet repeats his supreme argument: For in the
wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the
desert. And the parched ground shall become a pool,
and the thirsty land springs of water. To the Oriental
reader no claim for Divine Power could seem to out­
reach this.
As we have seen, the sandy desert is to him the one
eternal and unchanging fact, and to say that it shall be
plenteously filled with water is to include all promises.
W e need to remember that, in that Eastern land, water
is considered the most precious of all substances; com­
The Garden of Allah 125
paratively small quantities are often transported miles
upon miles upon the backs of camels and mules, and in
remote desert places a cup of water is literally worth
its weight in gold—far more perhaps, for it may mean
the difference between life and death. W e in the West
who seldom know a real shortage of water, whose cli­
mate is, if anything, a trifle too wet for comfort, have
to use our imagination again in order that we may
realize how powerful and telling this simile really is,
and all that it conveys of the power, and majesty, and
resources, and love of God.
In the habitation of dragons, where each lay, shall be
grass with reeds and rushes. As the result of prayer, of
the recollection of the Omnipresence of God, and the
affirmation of faith in His goodness, we are to lose our
fear; regain our power of manifesting harmony and
peace; obtain our physical healing, no matter what the
malady may have been; and, above all, we are to develop
spiritual perception, spirtual understanding, the power
of speaking the Word with effect, and to acquire the
capacity to develop new spiritual faculties altogether,
for which there are no words in ordinary language.
(We are but lame men without these faculties.) And
now the Prophet says significantly: In the habitation of
dragons, where each lay, shall be grass with reeds and
rushes. This is a very remarkable and significant state­
ment. The writer of this wonderful treatment knew all
there is to be known about human nature. Our psycho­
logical experts are just beginning to scratch the surface
of this subject; nevertheless much good work has been
done by what is called the new psychology, in spite of
I2Ó Power Through Constructive Thinking
its manifest errors; and people are just beginning to
realize the existence of those “ dark unfathomed caves”
of our nature that are nowadays called the subconscious
mind. We are beginning to realize that a thought is not
dead or powerless merely because we are not consciously
thinking it; but that it has simply floated out of sight
under the ice, as it were, carrying with it all the poten­
tialities that it had for evil, and much more in addition,
now that it is out of sight. We are beginning to un­
derstand that a thing is not destroyed because it is
suppressed, but, on the contrary, just as compression
increases tremendously the detonating power of an ex­
plosive, so thoughts and feelings, and especially feelings
that for one reason or another we do not care to face
frankly, acquire an incalculable access of power for
evil when they are suppressed into the subconscious
and become what we call complexes. Indeed, psycho­
therapeutics has proved that a very large share of all
our temporal ills spring from these very things. Now,
Isaiah knew all this, and his name for these complexes
is dragons, and a very good name too. It would be
difficult to find a better one. And here he promises that
as a result of prayer the dragons shall be cleared out and
destroyed, and the watery depths where each lay shall
become a secure and peaceful mead—quiet with grass
and reeds and rushes.
And an highway shall be there, and a way, and it
shall be called The way of holiness. W e now come to
one of the transcendent revelations of the Bible. For
sheer power and splendor this passage stands alone. The
whole stanza is quite unmatched either in Scripture or
The Garden of Allah \2j
elsewhere. The Prophet rises higher and higher on the
inspirational tide that bears him onward as he envisions
the complete salvation of mankind that shall be. His
eye sweeps along the whole flood of spiritual evolution,
right on to the uttermost bounds where the human and
the Divine shall be merged in final Unity.
For the individual, too, it is the promise and the
means for the triumphant journey back to God. It is the
great manifesto of salvation, the complete statement of
the way of escape from limitation, sin, sickness, and
death.
And cm highway shall be there, and a way, and it shall
be called The way of holiness. This is a definite and,
one may say, businesslike statement that there is to be
a way out. It means that it is no longer to be necessary
for man to put up with anything less than perfect har­
mony. It really means that resignation to anything less
than peace, health, and harmony—so far from being a
virtue—will be known as what it actually is, a breach
of the Law of Being. Let us make no mistake about this.
Now that this way has been opened, resignation to
limitation and inharmony is nothing but a fine name for
laziness and cowardice. The Prophet definitely says that
there shall be a highway. Now what is a highway? Is it
not a public main road, accessible to everybody, which
all those who observe the law use with equal right. No
one has any authority to put a barrier on the highway,
to fence it off to the exclusion of certain people, or to
exercise any kind of proprietary rights whatever. That
is what a highway is, and the Prophet here definitely
says that the Path of freedom and salvation is to be a
128 Power Through Constructive Thinking
highway. No man, no organization, no rules and regu­
lations of either the dead or the living, have any power
or authority whatever to forbid anyone to that highway,
or to make any terms upon which he shall enter it. No
conditions of membership, no entrance fees or entrance
ceremonials have any authority from the inspired word.
It is public. It is open. It is free.
Having prophesied a highway, the writer then def­
initely states that it will be a W ay. Now a “way,” of
course, is a technical term meaning a way back to the
consciousness of the Real Presence of God. It is what
we often call the Path. And we may pause for a moment
here to realize the tremendous importance of the state­
ment that the Path is a highway. Most religious move­
ments, at any rate the older and greater ones, have
taught of the Path and how to enter upon it. But al­
ways they treated it, not as a highway, but as a private
road fenced in by themselves, to the gates of which they
alone held the keys. The Bible, however, came to the
world to break down this exclusiveness and to say that
the W ay is a highway. It is really impossible for the
student to overstress the importance of this fact. Again
and again and again throughout history the open high­
way has been given to the people for a short time, only
to be closed up again, and before very long, and usually
by the very people who had opened it. So grave are the
dangers that attend organized religion, so powerful and
so subtle are the evils resulting from the accumulation
of much property (an evil which overtakes almost every
well organized church sooner or later), that unless we
The Garden of Allah 129
keep this point constantly fresh in our minds, we may
be in danger of repeating the old mistakes.
The Prophet goes on to say that the W ay or the
Path is the path of holiness. Now, of course, we need
to understand that the Bible uses the word holiness in
a very much wider and more far-reaching sense than
the usual one. The word “holiness” really means whole­
ness, not just holiness of character, rare and wonderful
as that is, but complete holiness of life. This includes
perfect bodily health—no invalid is holy in the Bible
sense, however spiritual he may be in other respects—
it includes the idea of happiness or true peace of mind,
of prosperity, which means freedom from nagging fears
concerning the necessaries of life; in fact, holiness means
all-round health, prosperity, and spiritual harmony. A c­
tually the words whole, holy, wholesome, heal, and heal­
ing, all go back to the same Old English root, because
they are but different aspects of the same thing.
This does not in the least detract from the transcend­
ent importance of what is usually designated holiness,
the thing to which a great modem Rationalist referred
sadly when he said “Holiness, deepest of all words that
defy definition.”
The Prophet goes on to say of this glorious highway,
the unclean shall not pass over it. Now exactly what
does this mean? Too often it has been supposed to
imply that the ordinary human being, full of faults and
shortcomings, and, still more, one conscious of graver
sin, has no chance upon that highway; that it is reserved
for the saint and the spiritual hero—for those who are
indeed clean. Yet nothing could possibly be farther
130 Power Through Constructive Thinking
from the truth. What point could there be in providing
a highway for those who are already “saved” ? Did not
our Lord say, “The well need not a physician, but those
who are sick.” And indeed to suppose otherwise would
be like saying that one should not use soap until his
hands were clean. The fact is, you do not bring a clean
heart to God that He may love you for it; you bring
your unclean heart to Him in order that He may cleanse
it. The real meaning of this magnificent statement, the
real bearing of this whole glorious final stanza, is that
the highway shall be provided for the average human
being, the “wayfaring man,” you 2nd me who stand in
need of purification and salvation. The “unclean” are
those very thoughts and beliefs of limitation, sin, sick­
ness, fear, doubt, and so forth, that are the only things
keeping us out of the Kingdom of Heaven today. These
are the unclean; and once we are upon that highway
they have no more power to hinder our progress. Their
power of keeping us back in the darkness is gone.
No longer need frail, weak human beings fear to ap-
proach the highway. It shall be for those.
The wayfaring men, though fools, shall not err
therein. Having shown that no degree of weakness or
guilt can keep a man off the Path, if he really wants
to enter upon it, Isaiah here takes up the other point
that no lack of intellectual power or intellectual train­
ing can exclude him either. No want of what is called
cleverness, or what is generally called education, makes
any difference here. The most brilliant academic career,
and the simplest unlettered background, are equally un­
important, provided there is the right intention, rein­
The Garden of Allah 131
forced by right application. As a matter of fact, intel­
lectual brilliance and much secular knowledge have kept
many people off of this Path because, under our modern
system of education, these things are very apt to beget
spiritual pride. On the other hand, a good sound intel­
ligence, while not in the least a guarantee of spiritual
power, is likely to be very helpful in spiritual develop­
ment, because it enables the candidate to appreciate the
need for thoroughness, faithfulness, and disinterested­
ness; and it leads him to check up his results in order
to insure that he really is making progress as time goes
on. It saves him from living in a fool’s paradise by sup­
posing that he is demonstrating when he is not. It en­
ables him to distinguish between spiritual progress and
mere emotional indulgence. The great point is that we
do not have to bring knowledge or wisdom to the Path,
but that it is the function of the Path to equip us with
these things.
No lion shall be there, nor my ravenous beast shall go
up thereon, it shall not be found there; but the redeemed
shall walk there. Here the whole story is repeated in
another form, in accordance with the Eastern poetical
tradition, which drives home its points by means of
variety of iteration. Once upon the Path, troubles
and difficulties will indeed still come to us, for a time at
least; but now they come up from the inside, so to say;
they emerge from the depths of our own personality,
because they have no business to be there, and are to
be dealt with once and for all. No longer are they lions
or ravenous beasts from which we need to be protected;
132 Power Through Constructive Thinking
but rather are they problems to be solved once and for
all, that we may be free forever.
And now this wonderful poem finishes up with one of
the supreme verses of the whole Bible. Having entered
and walked the Path, learned the lessons, and won the
crown of completed understanding, our limitations and
our spectral fears—for spectres they are, that and noth­
ing more—disappear forever; and the glory of the
Union, the grand transformation, is completed. Old
things are passed away and the ransomed of the Lord
return, and come to Xion with songs and everlasting joy
upon their heads: they shall obtain joy and gladness, and
sorrow and sighing shall flee away. Did ever man write
like this? The “ransomed of the Lord” are of course
those who have realized, not merely believed, but real­
ized their oneness with their own Indwelling Christ; real­
ized that that Indwelling Christ is in reality and truth
themselves, not near to, not belonging to, but identical
with themselves. Such are they who really have demon­
strated the I Am.
And they shall return and come to Xion. Zion is the
direct realization of God. Jerusalem is the highest thing
in the human consciousness less than the Divine contact,
but Zion is the realization of God Himself. It is to this
that the Souls Triumphant will come, and, says the poet,
with songs and everlasting joy upon their heads. They
are to come singing, he says, and this is significant, for a
spontaneous song is our natural expression of the highest
joy. The instinct of the human soul which has not been
cramped by taboos and inhibitions is to burst into song
when it feels happy and free; and so the Bible rightly
The Garden of Allah 133
uses the idea of singing to express utter and spontaneous
joy. And note that it says “ everlasting” joy, no joy that
may fade away with the lapse of time or the coming of
some unexpected cloud. This joy is to be the joy of
God, that never can and never will wane when once we
have found it. So precise and thorough is the Bible’s
expounding of the way of man’s salvation that here it
makes a point of putting the joy upon their heads. Now
the human head symbolizes always the Christ under­
standing of Truth, as distinct from mere blind faith,
or simple emotional groping; and so here we see that
this Divine joy is to be the joy of perfect understanding,
which is the only real guarantee of permanence.
Our poem terminates its glorious upward sweep with
a final clinching assurance, much as one might comfort
a doubting child, an assurance that all this is really true,
saying in the simplest language: Sorrow and sighing
shall flee away.
134 P ow er Through Constructive Thinking
Thou hast made us for Thyself, and our
hearts are restless until they repose in
Thee. Augustine.
1 have compressed this essay into a few
pages. Had it been possible 1 would have re­
duced it to as many lines. It is not intended to
be an instructional treatise, but a practical
recipe for getting out of trouble. Study and
research are well in their own time and place,
but no amount of either will get you out of a
concrete difficulty. Nothing but practical work
in your own consciousness will do that. The
mistake made by many people, when things go
wrong, is to skim through book after book,
without getting anywhere.
Read the Golden Key several times. DO
exactly what it says, and if you are persistent
enough you will overcome any difficulty.
FOREWORD TO THE GOLDEN KEY
THE GOLDEN KEY
S
cien tific Prayer will enable you, sooner or later, to
get yourself, or anyone else, out of any difficulty on
the face of the earth. It is the Golden Key to harmony
and happiness.
T o those who have no acquaintance with the mightiest
power in existence, this may appear to be a rash claim,
but it needs only a fair trial to prove that, without a
shadow of doubt, it is a just one. You need take no one’s
word for it, and you should not. Simply try it for your­
self, and see.
God is omnipotent, and man is His image and likeness,
and has dominion over all things. This is the inspired
teaching, and it is intended to be taken literally, at its
face value. Man means every man, and so the ability to
draw on this power is not the special prerogative of the
Mystic or the Saint, as is so often supposed, or even of
the highly trained practitioner. Whoever you are, wher­
ever you may be, the Golden Key to harmony is in your
hand now. This is because in Scientific Prayer it is God
who works, and not you, and so your particular limita­
tions or weaknesses are of no account in the process. You
are only the channel through which the Divine action
takes place, and your treatment will really be just the
getting of yourself out of the way. Beginners often get
D7
startling results at the first time of trying, for all that is
absolutely essential is to have an open mind, and suffi­
cient faith to try the experiment. Apart from that, you
may hold any views on religion, or none.
As for the actual method of working, like all funda­
mental things, it is simplicity itself. All that you have to
do is this: Stop thinking about the difficulty, whatever
it is, and think about God instead. This is the complete
rule, and if only you will do this, the trouble, whatever
it is, will presently disappear. It makes no difference
what kind of trouble it is. It may be a big thing or a
little thing; it may concern health, finance, a law-suit, a
quarrel, an accident, or anything else conceivable; but
whatever it is, just stop thinking about it, and think of
God instead—that is all you have to do.
The thing could not be simpler, could it? God Himself
could scarcely have made it simpler, and yet it never fails
to work when given a fair trial.
Do not try to form a picture of God, which is, of
course, impossible. Work by rehearsing anything or
everything that you know about God. God is Wisdom,
Truth, inconceivable Love. God is present everywhere;
has infinite power; knows everything; and so on. It mat­
ters not how well you may think you understand these
things; go over them repeatedly.
But you must stop thinking of the trouble, whatever
it is. The rule is to think about God, and if you are think­
ing about your difficulty you are not thinking about God.
To be continually glancing over your shoulder, as it
were, in order to see how matters are progressing, is fatal,
because that is thinking of the trouble, and you must
138 Power Through Constructive Thinking
think of God, and of nothing else. Your object is to drive
the thought of the difficulty right out of your con­
sciousness, for a few moments at least, substituting for it
the thought of God. This is the crux of the whole thing.
If you can become so absorbed in this consideration of
the spiritual world that you really forget for a while all
about the trouble concerning which you began to pray,
you will presently find that you are safely and comfort­
ably out of your difficulty— that your demonstration is
made.
In order to “ Golden K ey” a troublesome person or a
difficult situation, think, “Now I am going to ‘Golden
K ey’ John, or Mary, or that threatened danger” ; then
proceed to drive all thought of John, or Mary, or the
danger right out of your mind, replacing it by the
thought of God.
By working in this way about a person, you are not
seeking to influence his conduct in any way, except that
you prevent him from injuring or annoying you, and
you do him nothing but good. Thereafter he is certain to
be in some degree a better, wiser, and more spiritual per­
son, just because you have “ Golden Keyed” him. A pend­
ing law-suit or other difficulty would probably fade out
harmlessly without coming to a crisis, justice being done
to all parties concerned.
If you find that you can do this very quickly, you may
repeat the operation several times a day with intervals
between. Be sure, however, each time you have done it,
that you drop all thought of the matter until the next
time. This is important.
W e have said that the Golden Key is simple, and so it
The Golden Key 139
140 Power Through Constructive Thinking
is, but, of course, it is not always easy to turn. If you are
very frightened or worried it may be difficult, at first, to
get your thoughts away from material things. But by
constantly repeating some statement of absolute Truth
that appeals to you, such as There is no power but God,
or I am the child of God, filled and surrounded by the
perfect peace of God, or God is Love, or God is guiding
me now, or, perhaps best and simplest of all, just God is
with me—however mechanical or dead it may seem at
first—you will soon find that the treatment has begun to
“ take,” and that your mind is clearing. Do not struggle
violently; be quiet but insistent. Each time that you find
your attention wandering, just switch it straight back
to God.
Do not try to think out in advance what the solution
of your difficulty will probably turn out to be. This is
technically called “ outlining,” and will only delay the
demonstration. Leave the question of ways and means
strictly to God. You want to get out of your difficulty—
that is sufficient. You do your half, and God will never
fail to do His.
Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall
be saved.
G E T T IN G R ESU LT S BY PR A Y ER
great deal of confusion seems to exist in many minds
concerning the precise avenue through which the
Divine Power is to be approached, and realization and
harmony attained. So many schools of thought seem to
be competing for the attention of the student; so busy is
the printing press; so many new books and pamphlets are
written; so many magazines come and go; that people
have told me that they have felt quite in despair of ever
discovering what it really is that they must do to be saved.
Sometimes it seems as though the story of Babel were
repeating itself in the metaphysical movement—and yet
we all know in our hearts that the true Gate is narrow
and the real W ay strait. One well known Eastern teacher
of great spiritual power has actually published a pamphlet
from which it appears that the genuine criterion of
authenticity is to have no Path at all. This is the reductio
ad absurdum which pulls us up short and restores the
light.
The truth, of course, is this, that the only solution of
the problem is definitely to contact the Divine Power
which dwells within your own soul; and, having con­
sciously done that, to bring it to bear upon the various
difficulties in your life, taking them in due order, that is,
attacking the most urgent first. This is the right way of
working, and it is the only way that can possibly help
you, or your affairs, in the long run. The real remedy
for every one of your difficulties is, as we are told on
every page of the Bible, to find and know the Indwelling
Presence. Acquaint now thyself with Him and be at
peace. In His Presence is fulness of joy. Behold, l am with
you alway.
This, then, is the task, and the only one—to find, and
consciously know, your own Indwelling Lord.
You see now how the confusion disappears, melts away,
and the perfect simplicity of the whole thing emerges
once you realize this fact. From this it necessarily follows
that all schools and churches; all teachers, under whatever
name they may be called; all textbooks, magazines, pam­
phlets, and what-not; are but temporary expedients for
enabling you to make this contact. In themselves they are
of no importance except as a means to an end. The best
mode of approach to Divine things for you is the one
that happens to make it easiest for you to locate the Inner
Light within yourself.
Such things as temperament, education, family tradi­
tion, and so on, will make one book, or one teacher, or
one school, more useful than another; but never as any­
thing more than the means to a certain end. That end is
effective self discovery. “Man know thyself'—thy true
self which is the Divine I Am. And so we see that the best
“movement,” the finest textbook, the greatest teacher, is
just the one that happens best to fit the individual need.
It is entirely a practical matter, and the only test that
ever could or ever will be of any use, is the practical one
of judgment by results. Of course, Jesus anticipated this»
142 Power Through Constructive Thinking
difficulty, and met it, as he has met all our difficulties. He
gave us the simple and perfect standard: By their fruits
ye shall know them.
The great peril to true religion has always been the
building up of vested interests in wealthy organizations,
or in the exploitation by individuals of their own person­
alities. An organized church is always in danger of devel­
oping into an “industry” which has to provide a living for
numerous officials. When this happens the rank and file
are sure to be severely discouraged from seeking spiritual
things for themselves at first hand. A tradition of “loy­
alty” to the organization is built up as a means of self
protection. Not loyalty to Truth, or to your own soul,
be it remarked, but to the ecclesiastical machine. Thus
the means becomes an end in itself and spiritual power
then fades out. Rash promises and vague claims take the
place of real verifiable demonstrations.
In the case of leaders who exploit their own person­
alities, the student is discouraged from going elsewhere
for enlightenment or help; and here again “loyalty” to
something other than God is allowed to block the avenue
of Truth, and therefore becomes antichrist. What is this
but the jealousy of the petty tradesman who warns a
doubtful customer of the danger he runs in going to the
“shop next door.”
Remember that you absolutely owe no loyalty what­
ever to anything or anyone but your own soul and to the
furtherance of its spiritual development. Your most sol­
emn duty is to make everything secondary to that. “To
thine own self be true; and it must follow, as the night
Getting Results by Prayer 143
the day, thou canst not then be false to any man.”—
Shakespeare.
The first step that the earnest student must take is
to settle on a definite method of working, selecting
whichever one seems to suit him best, and then giving it
a fair trial. That means that you must acquire a definite
method or system of spiritual treatment or Scientific
Prayer. Merely reading books, making good resolutions,
or talking plausibly about the thing will get you no­
where. Get a definite method of working, practise it con­
scientiously every day; and stick to one method long
enough to give it a fair chance. You would not expect to
play the violin after two or three attempts, or to drive a
car without a little preliminary practice.
Having got your method, set to work definitely on
some concrete problem in your own life, choosing pref­
erably whichever is causing you the most trouble at the
moment, or, better still, whatever it is that you are most
afraid of. W ork at it steadily; and if nothing has hap­
pened, if no improvement at all shows itself within, say,
a couple of weeks at the outside, then try it on another
problem. If you still get no result, then scrap that method
and adopt a new one. Remember, there is a way out; that
is as certain as the rising of the sun. The problem really
is, not the getting rid of your difficulties, but the finding
of your own best method for doing it.
If ill health is your difficulty, do not rest until you have
brought about at least one bodily healing. There is no
malady that has not been healed by someone at some
time, and what others have done you can do, for God is
Principle, and Principle changes not.
144 Power Through Constructive Thinking
If poverty is the trouble, go to work on that, and clear
it up once and for all. It can be done. It has been done.
Others have done it, and you can.
If you are unhappy, dissatisfied with your lot, or your
surroundings, above all, with yourself, set to work on
that; refuse to take no for an answer; and insist upon the
happiness and satisfaction that are yours by Divine right.
If your need is self-expression—artistic, literary, or
otherwise—if your heart’s desire is to attain to eminence
in a profession, or some kind of public career, that, too,
approached in the right spirit, is a legitimate and worthy
object, and the right method of Scientific Prayer will
bring you the prize.
Keep a record of your results, and on no account be
satisfied with anything less than success. Above all things,
avoid the deadly error of making excuses. There are no
excuses for failing to demonstrate. When you do not
demonstrate, it never by any chance means anything
except that you have not worked in the right way.
Excuses are the true and veritable devil, who comes to
tempt you to remain outside the Kingdom of Heaven,
while the Gate stands open. Excuses, in fact, are the only
enemy that you really need to fear.
Find the method that suits you; cultivate simplicity—
simplicity and spontaneity are the secret of effective
prayer—work away steadily; keep your own counsel;
and whatsoever ye shall ask in My name, that will l do.
Getting Results by Prayer 145
T H E G R E A T A D V E N T U R E
M
a n y people seem to have the impression that the
sole object of metaphysical study is the overcom­
ing of difficulties; but to suppose that, is to lose all sense
of proportion. The Truth is to be sought for its own sake.
The knowledge of Truth is its own reward, and that
reward is health, harmony, and prosperity, to begin with;
but this is only the beginning. The real object of the
seeker should be the development of his own higher facul­
ties and powers; in a word, his Spiritual Evolution.
N ow it so happens that as fast as one acquires spiritual
understanding, his circumstances improve in every re­
spect—his health, his temper, his happiness and his mate­
rial surroundings rapidly and automatically change for
the better. Per contra, a want of true understanding auto­
matically and necessarily expresses itself in some sort of
difficulty on the physical plane, culminating in sin, sick­
ness, and death.
When people find themselves in any difficulty, should
they have some glimmerings of spiritual truth, they
realize, however dimly, that a way out is to be found
along the path of spiritual enlightenment, and conse­
quently they study books, consult friends in the move­
ment, ask for treatment or guidance, or take whatever
step appears to be appropriate at the moment. This is the
146
natural and proper course to pursue, and, provided they
understand what it is that they are doing, it is only a
matter of time before their difficulties—their ill-health,
their poverty, their trouble, whatever it is—must dis­
appear. They are, in fact, seeking spiritual enlightenment;
they are working for a change in consciousness; and one
cannot seek for an improved consciousness without get­
ting it, nor get it without making a demonstration.
Misunderstanding and disappointment arise when peo­
ple mistake the teaching for some kind of elaborate con­
juring trick. When a man supposes that by a wave of the
hand, or the repetition of an incantation, his circum­
stances can be changed for the better without any cor­
responding change in his own mentality, he is doomed to
disappointment. He has not come into Truth, and the
Truth movement has nothing for him.
During the past few years a large number of people of
all sorts have consulted me about their difficulties, and
they easily divide themselves into those two groups. Some
people, for instance, are in trouble owing to some very
obvious defect in character, but are quite unwilling to
overcome this defect, or even, in many cases, to acknowl­
edge it; they wish to continue in their mistake and to
have prosperity or happiness as well. Needless to say, for
them there is no relief until they have suffered a little
more, and have been punished sufficiently to make them
do what is necessary. The man who drinks, for example,
is certain to ruin his business, and you cannot help him
as long as he prefers whiskey to prosperity. Of course, if
he is trying to give up whiskey, you can help him to do
so, and then all will be well, but otherwise he will just
The Great Adventure 147
have to go on suffering until his lesson is learned. Other
people complain that they have no friends, cannot keep
servants, and that they live unhappy, isolated lives; and a
few minutes’ conversation makes it obvious that there is
an atrociously bad temper there which has driven every­
one away. If such people are prepared to work to change
themselves, the road is clear; but until they are, there is
very little to be done for them.
Most of you who read this, however, will be seeking
the Truth in the right way, and to seek the Truth in that
spirit is really to have come into Truth. “You would not
have sought Me had you not already found Me.” That
being so, you should not allow yourself to be worried
or depressed merely because the demonstration is delayed.
If you have sufficient understanding <0 believe in treat­
ment, you have sufficient understanding to know that it
must be only a matter of time before you are out of the
wood—and what does it really matter whether it is a
little sooner or a little later. Any delay in getting results
can only be due to one of two things: Either the mental
cause of your difficulty is very deeply seated in your
consciousness and is requiring a good deal of work; or
else you are not yet working in the best way, and if this
is so, again it will be only a matter of time before you
find what is the best way for you. In other words, once
you are on the Path there is no hurry. “Oh, but,” says
someone, “in my case there is the most urgent hurry,
because unless I make my demonstration by Saturday the
verdict of the Court will be given against me,” or “my
creditors will foreclose,” or “ I shall lose the boat,” or
what not. But the answer in Truth is still—There is no
148 Power Through Constructive Thinking
hurry, for the gates of hell shall never prevail. Let evil
do its worst on Saturday; let the Court give its verdict; let
the creditors strike their blow; let the boat sail. When
Monday comes, prayer will still put everything right, if
you can get your realization, and if not on Monday, then
Wednesday, or Friday, or the week after next. Time
does not really matter, for prayer is creative, and will
build the New Jerusalem for you anywhere, at any time,
irrespective of what may have happened, just as soon as
you can get your realization of Truth, Omnipresent
Good—Emanuel, which is God with you. This is the
New Jerusalem which comes down out of heaven like a
bride adorned for her husband, and is independent of
any conditions on the physical plane.
When you are in difficulties, look upon the overcom­
ing of them as a great adventure. Resist the temptation
to be tragic, to give way to self-pity or discouragement;
and approach the problems as though you were an ex­
plorer seeking a path through Darkest Africa, or an Edi­
son working to overcome difficulties in connection with
a new invention. You know that there is a way out of
any difficulty whatever, no matter what it may be,
through the changing of your own consciousness by
prayer. You know that by thus raising your conscious­
ness any conceivable form of good that you can desire
will be yours; and you know that nobody else can by
any means hinder you from doing this when you really
want to do it—relatives, customers, employers, the gov­
ernment, bad times, so-called—nothing can hinder you
from the rebuilding of your own consciousness—and
this rebuilding is the Great Adventure.
The Great Adventure 149
YO U M U ST BE BO RN A G A IN
W
e are told concerning the teaching of Jesus that
common people heard him gladly. This could
easily have been inferred from the most superficial study
of the Gospels. The “man in the street,” unsophisticated
by theology or philosophy, has an intuitive perception
of fundamental Truth when he meets it, that is often
lacking in highly trained minds. Intellectual attainments
may easily beget spiritual pride, and this is the only sin
upon which Our Lord was severe. Yet among the
learned, too, there were those, the more spiritually
minded, who felt themselves attracted to the new
Teacher. He was unconventional, hopelessly out of
favor with the ecclesiastical authorities, a flouter of hal­
lowed traditions; and yet, deep calleth unto deep, and
so he had his friends and followers in high places also.
One of these who felt irresistibly drawn to seek for
further light was Nicodemus. He had the thirst for
Divine things that will not be denied, but moral courage
was not his strong point, and so he sought out the
Teacher by night. That he should have gone at all was
proof of the compelling power of the urge. Clearly the
unfoldment of his spiritual nature was, in spite of de­
fects in character, the principal thing in his life, and
clearly he was dissatisfied with the progress he was
making. Jesus, he believed, had something to give that
was vital, and that gift might be just the secret that had
hitherto eluded him, just the key he needed to unlock
the spiritual treasure-house of his soul. Jesus might be
able to show him why he had so far failed to attain; why,
as we should say in modern phraseology, he had failed
to demonstrate. And the Master’s explanation was sim­
ple, concise, almost overwhelming in its directness. He
said: U
Yoil must be bom again.'’'1
This statement sums up the whole science of demon­
stration as it is practised on the spiritual basis. It is verily
a textbook on metaphysics compressed into five words.
It tells the whole story. You stand where you do today,
wherever that is, because you are the man that you are.
There is only one way under heaven by which you can
be brought to stand anywhere else, and that is by be­
coming another man. The man you are cannot stand any­
where else; a different man cannot stand where you are
now. If you wish to go up higher you can do so, and
there is no limit to the height which you can attain
upon that flight; but you must be bom again!
W hy is it that we make so little progress, compared,
that is to say, with what we might and should make in
view of the knowledge that we all, in this teaching,
possess—at least in theory? W hy do we not change day
by day and week by week from glory to glory, until
our friends can scarcely recognize us for the same men
and women? W hy should we not march about the world
looking like gods, and feeling it; healing instantaneously
all who come to us; reforming the sinner; setting the
You Must Be Born Again 151
captives free; and generally “ doing the works” ? “Who
did hinder you?”
And the reply is that demonstration, like all other
things, has its price; that the price is that we be born
again, and that in our secret hearts, too often, that is a
price that we are not prepared to pay. We are in love
with the present man, and all the things that constitute
him, and we are not prepared to slay him that the other
may be bom.
W e come into Truth with our little finger, and the
great things will not come to us until we come in with
the entire body; and there’s the rub.
To come into Truth with your whole body is to bring
every conscious thought and belief to the touchstone of
Divine Intelligence and Divine Love. It is to reject every
single thing, mental or physical, that does not square
with that standard. It is to revise every opinion, every
habit of thought, every policy, every branch of practi­
cal conduct, without any exception whatever.
This, of course, is something absolutely tremendous.
It is no mere spring cleaning of the soul. It is nothing
less than a wholesale tearing down and rebuilding of
the entire house. Is it any wonder that all but the very
strongest spirits shirk it. And yet, is it any wonder that
without it one never really does get anywhere.
It means, as Paul said, “ dying daily.” It means part­
ing with all the prejudices that you have inherited
and acquired during all your life long. It means taking
the knife to all the little faults of character, petty vani­
ties, minor deceits, and all those lesser forms of selfish­
ness and pride that crystallize your spiritual joints, and
152 Power Through Constructive Thinking
are so dear to you. It may mean giving up the biggest
thing in your present life, but if it does—well, that is
the price that must be paid, and that is all about it.
If you are not prepared to pay this price, well and
good; but you must not expect to receive from the
Law more than you pay for. A little finger in Truth
is well, but it can only produce a little finger result.
For a full-length demonstration the whole body must
be full of light. You must be bom again.
You Must Be Born Again 153
DICK W H IT T IN G T O N
C
h r i s t m a s is the season of Pantomime, in London
at any rate, and few Christmases pass without
the story of Dick Whittington being told again at
some theatre or other. The children never tire of hear­
ing the story of little Dick and the chimes—and chil­
dren as a rule are good judges of Spiritual Truth.
Although we shall never be sure of the cold facts about
the Sir Richard Whittington who flourished at Guildhall
so many years ago, the Spiritual Truth about little Dick
Whittington and what happened to him that evening
on Highgate Hill is eternal.
For the benefit of any who may not have heard the
story, it can be said that Dick Whittington was a little
boy who lived in Old London in the Middle Ages, that
he was an orphan, and quite friendless, and that he
was working in the scullery in the house of a wealthy
merchant of Cheapside. He was very cruelly treated,
however, by the other servants, and so at last, in des­
peration, he decided to run away. He had no one to
help or advise him, no one to whom he could look for
shelter or encouragement, and the place in which he
found himself having become intolerable, little Dick
did what so many other people do— he ran away from
his problem.
Of course, he had not the faintest notion where he
was going to run to, or what he would do when he
got there. He just felt that he must move at any cost,
and so he ran away. This running away from one’s
problem is probably the most futile thing in the whole
world, for the simple reason that all your problems
are really in your own consciousness and, your con­
sciousness being the essential You, it is not possible
to run away from it. It does not make the slightest
difference how fast you run, or how far you get; you
will have to stop running some time, and when you
do stop, there you will find your problems all lined
up waiting for you. Having brought your conscious­
ness—that is, yourself—along, you will naturally have
brought your problems along too, unless and until you
have solved them—in consciousness.
And so Dick started off, malting a beeline away from
Cheapside, and striking due north into the open fields,
which he very soon reached, for all this happened
a very long time ago. He followed a country road until
presently he reached Highgate Hill, which he climbed.
Beginning to feel tired by this time, he sat down near
the top of the hill to rest. W e are told that it was a
beautiful summer evening, and presently as the sun
began to set, the chimes of Bow Church came floating
across the fields to where he sat. Bow Church stands
in Cheapside, just near the house from which he was
running away, and, after St. Paul’s itself, it was, and
perhaps is, the most important church in the City of
London. If you are born within the sound of Bow
Bells you are a genuine Cockney, but if not, not; so
Dick Whittington 155
you will see how important it is. For Dick Whittington,
however, the chimes of Bow Bells were to mean a very
great deal more than that, for, in spite of all his troubles,
Dick had the spiritual faculty all but matured, and
was ready to speak in the New Tongue (Mark 16:17).
“But how can it be,” you may ask, “that anybody
with a spiritual consciousness should be having diffi­
culties? Are we not taught that health, happiness, and
prosperity are the fruit of just this thing?” And this
is an important point, and worthy of consideration.
It is perfectly true that the possession of the spiritual
faculty does guarantee, and is in fact the only possible
guarantee, for all these things. But the spiritual faculty
has to be recognized, realized, and brought out into
manifestation. In its latent state it cannot demonstrate.
It is proverbial that most people who do develop the
spiritual consciousness through “ coming into Truth,”
do so as a result of finding themselves in difficulties, or
being down and out, to use the colloquial phrase, either
physically, financially, morally, or otherwise. The reason
for this is obvious once you have the key to it.
The children of this world are wiser in their genera­
tion than the Children of Light. Worldly, materially
minded people—not necessarily evil people in any sense,
but people without much spiritual development—are
well adapted to worldly conditions, and, if they are
reasonably sensible folk, they get on well enough with
the world as it is. Those, however, who have developed
and brought into manifestation the spiritual faculty are
of another order. They are the Children of Light, and
they can no longer live or move, or breathe freely in
156 Power Through Constructive Thinking
the pagan atmosphere of mammon. They are no longer
under the lower law, but under Grace. And being
under Grace, which is the Divine polity of God—
gracious, and graceful too— all goes well, and all things
are added as the needs arise.
But between these two states there is a transition
stage, when the spiritual faculty has been developed,
but is, so to say, still in the matrix of the soul—not yet
bom onto the plane of manifestation; and this is the
stage where so much trouble appears. In this stage your
spiritual faculty, the Wonder Child, is mature enough
to have unfitted you for the atmosphere of the world,
but it is not mature enough to take charge of and man­
age your affairs in the fight of the Spirit. And now you
are likely to have a bad time. Because you do not
belong to the world, it will kick you about like a foot­
ball, and the harder you straggle, the worse will things
get. This, nevertheless, is the time to rejoice and lift up
your heart, for now, if you are faithful, your salvation
is very nigh. These hard knocks are the indication that
you are no longer in bondage to material law. The
darkest hour is always just before the dawn.
As little Dick Whittington sat on Highgate Hill, the
bells rang out the call to evening prayer. How many
thousands of other people around London heard those
chimes too, but found in them nothing out of the
ordinary? How many tired and heavy laden men and
women in the streets and alleys of the great city, or
out in the fields and lanes adjoining, heard the very
same sounds that summer evening as they floated over
the roofs of the houses, and across the quiet English
Dick Whittington 157
countryside; and yet received from them nothing to
help them on their way? Dick, however, had the spiritual
faculty well developed, although as yet he knew it not,
and to him they spoke out clearly and unmistakably,
pulling him up short, drawing the scales from his eyes,
and showing him with instant clearness the next step
he had to take. They said distinctly, startlingly, “Turn
again, Whittington, thrice Lord Mayor of London.”
Dick was thunderstruck at this message, but at the same
time so completely convinced that he never for a mo­
ment doubted what he had to do. He immediately re­
traced his steps; hurried back to Cheapside, and, so
the story goes, not only faced up to the problem from
which he had been running away, but solved it in the
most complete and far-reaching manner. The Wonder
Child was bom.
It appears that he first demanded and obtained his
rights in the kitchen, then graduated into the shop,
gradually rose through a combination of inspiration
and industry to be a partner in his master’s firm, mar­
ried the daughter of the house, became the leading
merchant of the City of London, and, finally, as the
bells had foretold, Lord Mayor.
It is interesting to note here that the old legend
bears the hallmarks of its inspiration in detail. The step
that Dick had to take was the last thing that he would
have thought of doing on his own account. That is
usually what happens when the Holy Spirit is guiding.
When self-will whispers, the message is generally the
kind of thing that we want to hear, the kind of thing
158 Power Through Constructive Thinking
that we have always approved of, the kind of thing
that we should have done in any case. The Holy Spirit
more often tells us to face right about and reverse
our policy. Again we notice that, having received his
guidance, there was no shadow of doubt or wavering in
his mind. When you are doubtful or confused about
a thought, it is probably not from God. When the
Voice of the Lord speaks it is likely to be clear and
unmistakable. It is by no means true that the thing
you want to do is necessarily the wrong thing, but it
may be. Some people have made a rule for themselves
of thinking that the thing they want to do is probably
wrong. This is a relic of the old theology. If you
have been praying regularly, especially in the scientific
way called Treatment, it is quite likely that the thing
you wish to do is the right thing, but you have to make
sure. The way to make sure is to go on praying until
you get a really clear lead. When you feel confused
or uncertain, pray for peace of mind. Usually it is
better to take no steps as long as you are in doubt.
Do not hurry; God never does.
If your guidance is not coming through, it is either
because in your heart you do not really want it, having
already made up your mind; or it is because you are
too worried and tense to hear it. If the latter is the
difficulty, claiming peace of mind will overcome it.
When I treat for guidance, I always say: “The Holy
Spirit is God, and God always finishes His Work, and
delivers His messages satisfactorily; so my guidance
must come through in a way that will be quite clear
to me; and I say that it will.” And it does.
Dick Whittington 159
T H E Y O G A OF LO V E
Many waters cannot quench love, neither can the floods drown it:
if a man wotdd give all the substance of his house for love, it would
utterly be contemned.
All the old traditions tell us that there is more than
one path to the Great Goal. Just as there is more
than one road up every great mountain, and yet all
roads meet at the top, so in the Spiritual Quest there
are several roads, all of which lead in due season to
the One Great End.
There is the path of knowledge. True knowledge
of Divine things is one of the appointed paths to at­
tainment; but that path is by no means for everyone.
And there is the pathway of action— of organized ac­
tivity, perhaps one had better say—and the world
needs this too; but this again usually calls for a special
gift, and special circumstances in which to apply it.
And there are others.
The shortest and the easiest pathway of all is the
Pathway of Love. This really is the Royal Road to the
attainment of the Great Goal. It is the simplest of all
the paths, and it is the most direct and the easiest
too. And it is the one pathway which is open to all,
everywhere, irrespective of what their personal con­
ditions or surrounding circumstances may be. For
j6o
1 6 1
Everyman, everywhere, the true Initiation, through the
Yoga of Love, awaits every day.
In metaphysics we understand that Divine Love is
the complete expression of all that is meant by the word
Religion; that having that we have all, and lacking that,
we have nothing. It, therefore, behooves us to give
some little attention to the consideration of what we
really mean when we talk about Love.
O f course, it goes without saying that we do not
mean personal love. That is well in its own time and
place, but it is not what we are considering here. In
the Christian teaching, Love stands for something much
bigger and finer and more powerful than any merely
personal sentiment. Unfortunately, as with many other
spiritual ideas, there is no word in the language which
is perfectly appropriate to express it. Material language
is made to fit material needs, and it simply will not sat­
isfactorily express true spiritual ideas. For these we
need the new Tongue of which Jesus spoke. We seldom
realize, I think, how very much we really are in the
hands of the dictionary. W e think certain thoughts; we
have certain experiences; and then language, with its
hard and fast boundaries, says, “You shall not say that
wonderful thing—you shall say only this”—and we find
on paper the pale lifeless shadow of the thing that came
to life in our soul.
So there is really no word in modern English to ex­
press the true Christian idea of Love. Our English
Bible uses the word “Charity,” and while no doubt
this word fitted the need fairly well hundreds of years
ago, it has since changed so much in connotation that
The Yoga of Love
there is now hardly a word in the dictionary more re­
moved from the thing that we really wish to express.
“As cold as charity,” has become a by-word. The
very thought of charity—that is, of needing to receive
charity—has alone led thousands of people to take their
own lives sooner than have to contact the dreadful
thing. And yet, in its true meaning it should convey
just what we mean by Love.
Perhaps we can best approach the idea by saying that
Christianity understands by Love the idea of universal
good will, but plus something very much more than
ordinary good will—that something which is nothing
less than God, Himself.
Love is the motive power in Mind, and it is the
quality of Love in Mind that leads it to seek for fuller
and fuller expression, for Love always must be ex­
pressed. What we call Service, to use the term that
has happily come into very general use of late, is really
Love in action.
The principal aspects of God are: Life, Truth, and
Love. These are the great Trinity in which Mind ex­
presses itself, and we shall see now in what sense they
are one and the same thing. Life is existence, and this
is the Truth of Being. Naturally Life must have free
expression, and Love is just this very thing, this perfect
expression of Life. In other words, what we call Love
is really the full and unrestricted expression of Divine
Life itself. That is why it always means perfect peace,
perfect holiness, perfect beauty, perfect joy—and why
Jesus said, “ I am come that they might have Life, and
that they might have it more abundantly.”
162 Power Through Constructive Thinking
N ow we see why the converse of Love is fear; and
why fear is the supreme enemy of mankind. Everybody
recognizes this fact today. All academic psychology
is turning its attention to the overcoming of fear, and
most schools of philosophy too now teach that fear
is the thing that has to be rooted out. And fear turns
out to be simply the absence of Love. “Fear hath tor­
ment but perfect Love casteth out fear.”
The only reason we have any fear at all is because
we do not love God enough. If we really loved God
one-half as much as we love ourselves, of what should
we be afraid? A great mystic said, “Love God—and
do what you please,” knowing that with the love
of God in our hearts our expression could only be
perfect; and a modern seer has told us, “You can get
rid of any difficulty whatever from your life as soon
as you can love God more than you love the error.”
Anger, spite, resentment, and hate—all such things—
are just so many alternative expressions of fear. Jealousy,
malice, and “all uncharitableness” denote a belief that
there is not enough good to go around and, therefore,
if the other fellow gets all that he wants of good, we
shall have to go short; and what is this but to constrict
the expression of Life in one’s own soul? If you tie a
ligature very tightly around a human limb you know
what happens; first it becomes paralyzed, and ultimately,
if the process is kept going long enough, the limb
withers away altogether.
Now, the absence of Love has exactly this effect upon
the Soul. Condemnation, resentment, ill-will, are just
so many constrictions upon the free flow of Life, and
The Yoga of Love 163
since they are allowed to exist, more or less, in so
many human souls, is it any wonder that the world is
filled with sin, sickness, and death?—that men and
women grow old, and tired, and wrinkled, and worn,
and ultimately lose their bodies altogether?— that the
earth is desolated by wars, and famine, and pestilence?
Thus we begin to see the reason why the Jesus Christ
teaching, under whatever name it may have been given
out, has always laid so much stress upon the outstand­
ing importance of Love. Unless we build up within our
own souls a real and practical Love-consciousness, our
other activities will be more or less futile. If we have
the impersonal Love-consciousness sufficiently well de­
veloped toward all, everything else will follow. Indeed,
many students have found that very remarkable things
have followed upon even a few days’ special work done
on this subject. All sorts of personal difficulties simply
vanish away after people have treated themselves a
while for Love. As the months go along their faces
sometimes alter in a remarkable way, for the body is
almost the first thing to respond to freedom from fear
and resentment. People have told me that they have
felt twenty years roll off their shoulders, after treating
themselves for a few days along these lines—and as
they were their shoulders, they should know.
The more you learn of your religion, the more meet­
ings you attend, and the more books you read, the more
powerful becomes your thought, and the more sensitive
your soul. You cannot afford today to hold wrong
thoughts that would have mattered very little five years
ago. You will be much more severely punished for
164 Power Through Constructive Thinking
every lapse now than you would have been in the
beginning, and this is altogether well.
The Pathway of Love which is open to everyone in
all circumstances, and upon which you may step at
any moment—at this moment if you like—requires no
formal introduction, has no entrance examination, and
no conditions whatever. It calls for no expensive labora­
tory in which to work, because your own daily life,
and your ordinary daily surroundings are your labora­
tory. It needs no reference library, no professional
training, no external apparatus of any kind. All it does
need is that you should begin steadfastly to expel from
your mentality every thought of personal condemna­
tion (you must condemn a wrong action, but not the
actor), of resentment for old injuries, and of every­
thing which is contrary to the law of Love. You must
not allow yourself to hate—either person, or group,
or nation, or anything whatever.
You must build up by faithful daily exercise the
true Love-consciousness, and then all the rest of spiritual
development will follow upon that. Love will heal you.
Love will comfort you. Love will guide you. Love
will illumine you. Love will redeem you from sin,
sickness, and death, and lead you into the promised
land, the place that is altogether lovely.
You may say to yourself definitely: “M y mind is
made up; I have measured the undertaking; I have
counted the cost; and I am resolved to attain the Goal
by the Yoga of Love. I can do this, and I will. Others
may pursue knowledge to the farthest reaches of its
wondrous growth; others again may organize great and
The Yoga of Love 165
marvelous enterprises for the benefit and uplifting of
humanity; and still others may teach, and heal, and
explore, or—if they feel the call—may scale the austere
heights of asceticism; but I have chosen the Yoga of
Love. Henceforth my field of work is right here in my
own consciousness, and all my efforts and energies
shall be directed to the cleansing and purifying of
that from all that is not Love. Moment by moment,
day by day, and week by week, I shall root out from
my own heart, every atom of condemnation of my
brother man, no matter who or where he may be, or
what he may have done; every atom of resentment for
any unkindness or injustice that has ever been shown
to me, or to one that I love; every particle of jealousy
of others, however cleverly it may be disguising itself;
every smallest thought or feeling, in short, which is not
an expression of Divine Love. M y own heart is to be
my workshop, my laboratory, my great enterprise and
contribution to humanity.”
This is the Yoga of Love, and while it requires no
equipment beyond the readiness to practise it, yet that
readiness is likely to cost so much in the way of effec­
tive self-sacrifice that those who truly seek it are com­
paratively few. It is not only the simplest, it is the
greatest of all the paths, great in the magnitude of its
individual results, and great in the work that it ac­
complishes for the whole race. T o practise effectively
the Yoga of Love is the quickest way to demonstrate
over all your own difficulties, and because your mind
is part of the race mind, it is actually the quickest and
166 Power Through Constructive Thinking
most far-reaching way in which you can elevate the
race too.
It is the one path that is in practice open for every
one to enter, at any moment. Here the isolated student
is at no disadvantage as compared with him who can
command efficient teaching. Here the poor man has
perfect equality with the millionaire, and the dull has
exactly the same advantages, no more and no less, as
the intellectually brilliant.
The plain man earning a modest living in the factory
or store can practise the Yoga of Love right there
among the very surroundings in which he finds him­
self. The housekeeper at home, the sailor on the high
seas, the farmer in his field, the nurse or the doctor in
the ward, have all around them in their duties the
perfect material for the Yoga of Love. The only ques­
tion is whether one is really willing to pay the price
—is really prepared to put God first.
The Yoga of Love 167
YO U R H E A R T ’S D ESIRE
A n o l d adage says: “ God has a plan for every man,
and He has one for you,” and this is absolutely
correct. Your real problem, therefore, in fact the only
problem that you ever have, is to find your true place
in life. Find that, and everything else will follow al­
most automatically. You will be perfectly happy; and
upon happiness, health will follow. You will be really
prosperous. You will have all the supply that you re­
quire to meet your needs, and this means that you
will have perfect freedom; for poverty and freedom
cannot go together. Until you do find your true place
in life, however, you never will be really happy, no
matter how much money or distinction you may ac­
quire; and until you are happy, you will be neither
healthy nor free.
Whoever you are, God has not made you without a
definite purpose in view. The Universe is a universe;
that is, it is a unified harmony, a Divine Scheme. There
can, therefore, be no such thing as a misfit, or an un­
wanted or unneeded piece. It could not happen that
God could create a spiritual entity such as you are,
without having a special purpose in view, and this
means that there is a special and particular place in it
for you. God never repeats Himself, and so He has
168
never made two people alike, and it is for this reason
that no two people could ever do quite the same work,
or express themselves in quite the same way. That is
why, rightly understood, there really need be no com­
petition. There need be no such thing as, say, two
thousand people struggling for the same place in life.
Whatever the place may be, there can be only one
person who can fill it perfectly; and there are one
thousand, nine hundred and ninety-nine other places
somewhere waiting for the other people if only they
will find them.
But how is one to find his true place in life? Is there
any means whereby you may discover what it really
is that God wishes you to do? You may feel inclined
to say: “Even if it be true that God has some splendid
thing that He wishes me to do, and to be, how can I
possibly find out what it is?” Perhaps you may even be
tempted to add: “I am a very plain, everyday sort of
person; my circumstances are extremely restricted; the
conditions of my life are just drab commonplace. How
then can there be something wonderful, beautiful, splen­
did awaiting me? Or, even if there were, how could I
possibly get to know about it?” And the answer is
Divinely simple— Already in your past life from time
to time, God Himself has whispered into your heart
just that very wonderful thing, whatever it is, that He
is wishing you to be, and to do, and to have. And that
wonderful thing is nothing less than what is called Your
Heart’s Desire. Nothing less than that. The most secret,
sacred wish that lies deep down at the bottom of your
heart, the wonderful thing that you hardly dare to look
Your Heart’s Desire 169
at, or to think about—the thing that you would rather
die than have anyone else know of, because it seems
to be so far beyond anything that you are, or have
at the present time, that you fear that you would be
cruelly ridiculed if the mere thought of it were known
—that is just the very thing that God is wishing you
to do or to be for Him. And the birth of that marvelous
wish in your soul—the dawning of that secret dream
—was the Voice of God Himself telling you to arise
and come up higher because He had need of you.
God is Infinite Mind, and that Mind is ever seeking
for more and for new expression. “For such the Father
seeketh to worship Him.” Now, because you are a
human being, you are intended to be a new point of
expression for God—a focal point in Infinite Mind, in
fact, somewhat as an electric lamp may be regarded as
a focal point for the manifestation of the electric cur­
rent in the circuit. A focal point for the Divine Self-
expression—that is what you are intended to be; and if
you are willing to become that, then you will be ful­
filling your destiny, and you will experience absolutely
perfect and unalloyed happiness and harmony, and
eternal and unrestricted development. A few people
have attained to this, but they are still comparatively
few. The great majority have lives full of problems
of one kind or another that they have yet to work
out. If one has perfect bodily health—and how few
have even this, really perfect health—then he prob­
ably has financial difficulties; or it may be family trou­
bles, an unhappy home life. If health, finance, and home
relations are satisfactory, there can still be a sense of
170 Power Through Constructive Thinking
frustration in other directions. In any case, in the ab­
sence of all-round fullness and harmony of expression,
there is frustration; and frustration means trouble.
Modem psychology has been slowly realizing that
many human ills are traceable to mental suppression, but
our study of fundamental Truth teaches us that all
trouble of every kind is really failure on the part of the
individual to be a completely free focal point of ex­
pression for God.
You say that you are unhappy, dissatisfied, perhaps
ill or impoverished, a failure; and this is simply another
way of putting the fact that you are not allowing the
Will of God to have free play in your life—you are
not doing the thing that He meant you to do. You are
drifting; or else you are trying to do something that
He never intended you to do, and doing it badly, and
distorting your soul in the process.
It is useless to blame Providence for your troubles,
or to endeavor to saddle the responsibility upon other
people. The universe operates strictly in accordance
with Law, for God, among other things, is Principle,
or Law, and where law obtains there can be no room
for the idea of blame. If you break a law, you suffer
the consequences, and that is all there is about it. It is
not a matter of blame or punishment. It is just an
impersonal question of cause and effect. This may seem
hard at first sight, but actually it is your certain
guarantee of ultimate victory and freedom. Impersonal
Law is certain to hurt you when you work against
it, but, for the same reason, it is equally certain to
help you and heal you when you work with it.
Your Heart’s Desire 171
A human soul may be thought of as an opening
through which Infinite Energy is seeking a creative
outlet. If that outlet be a clear, open channel, all is
well. If, on the other hand, it should become obstructed
by any means, then the Infinite Energy, the Life Force,
is frustrated, dammed back—and all sorts of local stresses
are set up in that soul; and these we see as sickness, pov­
erty, fear, anger, sin, and every kind of difficulty.
Now we are in a position to understand what the
real art of living must be. It must be to make this
channel clear, and to keep it clear; and if only we will
do this, we shall find that health, prosperity, full self-
expression—true happiness, in short—will then follow
automatically.
People work so hard to bring health to their bodies;
to bring prosperity, to bring happiness, to bring success
into their lives; to bring artistic or literary gifts or talents
within their grasp, to bring great new ideas from the
outside; and, of course, they continually fail, because
we cannot “bring” a single one of these things from
the without to the within. The actual development is
just the very reverse—they have to be released from
the within that they may appear on the without. In
short, we have not to build on from the outside; our
task, as Browning says, is “ to set free the imprisoned
splendor.”
This process, the true manner of nature’s working,
is well illustrated by a simple anecdote. A certain
man was working in his garden, assisted by his little
girl. She had undertaken the interesting task of water­
ing the lawn by means of the usual rubber hose. Mat­
172 Power Through Constructive Thinking
ters proceeded harmoniously enough until she suddenly
cried out in disappointment: “Daddy, the water has
stopped.” The father looked over, and, taking the sit­
uation in at a glance, said quietly, “Well, take your
foot off the hose.” The child had inadvertently placed
her foot and most of her weight upon the soft rubber
pipe, and thus, by her own action, shut off the water
that she needed. She, of course, removed her foot at
once, whereupon the water again flowed freely.
Five minutes later, she once more cried plaintively:
“Daddy, the water has stopped again.” Her father
glanced across and observed that now she had placed
her other foot upon the hose. He replied: “Well, take
your foot off.” The child did so, and again the stream
flowed freely, and, as she had by this time learned her
lesson, she did not repeat the mistake, and completed
the interesting task she had chosen, with much satis­
faction to herself.
The ultimate cause of all our troubles is just this.
Behind all secondary and proximate causes lies the
same primary mistake. W e have been acting like the
little girl in the story; we have been pressing our feet
and the whole weight of our mentality upon the pipe
line of life, and then complaining bitterly because the
water does not flow. Man’s business is rightly to handle
his Divine Spiritual Energy, and when he does this,
he has found his true place, and then all goes well.
There is only one Fundamental Energy in the uni­
verse, but this energy may be applied by us either con­
structively or destructively, because God has given us
Free Will. When we use it constructively, we are
Your Heart's Desire 173
acting in harmony with the Will of God, and we are
improving ourselves and our lives in every possible re­
spect, and we are helping the world in general too.
When we use it destructively, we damage ourselves,
retard our progress, and waste an opportunity of help­
ing mankind at large.
W e use our energy destructively whenever we think
or talk fear and limitation; whenever we grumble, or
give way to self-pity, or indulge in useless regrets, or,
in fact, in any form of negative thinking. Most of all
do we use our God given energy destructively when
we hold thoughts of criticism and condemnation of
others. All bitterness, resentment, spiritual pride, and
self-righteousness, are peculiarly disastrous methods oi
misusing the Great Power, and that is why such think­
ing causes the terrible havoc that it does in people’s
lives.
When we are in a condition of fear, anger, or worry,
our Divine Energy, instead of flowing in some positive,
creative work, becomes dammed up within ourselves,
like the water in the garden hose, and produces all
sorts of trouble in soul and body. Meanwhile, our true
work in life is either missed altogether, or, starved
of the supply of Life Force which it should receive,
it languishes accordingly, and we get mediocrity, pov­
erty, and failure.
This is why all true spiritual leaders are so insistent
upon the need for unselfishness in motive, for forgive­
ness of others, and of ourselves too, and for a general
attitude of peace and good will toward all; for only in
this way can we get that sense of true harmony and
174 P ow er Through Constructive Thinking
freedom that will permit the clear unobstructed flowing
of the Divine Mind through us. Only in this way can
we become a free channel for the Divine Energy to
express Itself at the point of Being, which is our Selves.
This spiritual state of consciousness in which the Life
Force finds the unrestricted outlet which is so essential
if we are to experience any kind of good, is technically
known as serenity, and serenity, the great mystics are
never tired of telling us, comes from within. It is not
to be imposed from without by manipulating conditions
or circumstances, or by any exercise of the will, but
can only be derived from the natural, free flowing of
our Divine Energy.
It is important to understand also that, for practical
purposes, the amount of this Energy that one has at
his command is limited, and, therefore, all that is frit­
tered away in unnecessary or trifling activity or thought
is so much taken out of one’s capital, so much withdrawn
from the things that really matter in life. If only people
understood this, they would save themselves a great
deal of wear and tear in the course of the day. And,
if all waste is foolish, how much more deadly is it to
squander one’s resources upon the kind of thinking that
is absolutely destructive. Yet, I have known people, as
I suppose we all have, actually to rehearse trouble be­
forehand—thereby, of course, bringing it upon them­
selves—through saying such things as that they never
had any luck, that they felt quite sure that some im­
portant scheme would fail, that they expected to be
ill, and so on. One who understands the Law of Being
and how it works would no more think of wasting
Your Heart's Desire 175
176 Power Through Constructive Thinking
thought by allowing himself to occupy his mind with
inharmony than a business man would dream of throw­
ing away money into the gutter as he walked along
the streets.
As far as God is concerned, our supply of Divine
Energy is, of course, absolutely unlimited; there is no
check of any kind upon the amount of it that we can
appropriate, or, therefore, upon the things that we can
do or be. Yet, for practical purposes, it remains that
at any given time you can draw from the inexhaustible
Source only in accordance with the measure of your
understanding, just as you can draw water from the
Atlantic only in accordance with the size of the vessel
that you use. If you have a pint pitcher you can get
only a pint of ocean water, although the number of
pints in the Atlantic runs into inconceivable figures.
At the same time, it is well to remember that very
few people do, in fact, draw anything like as much
of the Divine Energy as they could draw, even with
their present understanding. Almost everyone is fool­
ishly content to fill his pitcher, small as it may be, to
somewhere very far short of the top.
It will now be clear to the student that discontent
is not necessarily a bad thing. On the contrary, it is
your duty to be discontented with anything less than
complete harmony and happiness. Discontent is an evil
only when it takes the form of discouragement, cyni­
cism, or despair. A wholesome discontent with dullness,
failure, and frustration is your incentive for overcom­
ing such things. Without it, you would never find your
true place. But, whoever you are, your true place is
calling, calling; and, because you really are a spark of
the Divine, you will never be content until you answer.
Remember that this call is the call of God, and when
God calls you to His Service, He pays all the expenses
in whatever kind of coin. “What soldier goeth to war
at his own charge?” Whatever you may require to
answer that call, God will provide. Money, opportunity,
introductions, knowledge, training, freedom, leisure,
strength, and courage—all will He furnish, if you be
about His business and not your own.
Your Heart’s Desire is the Voice of God, and that
Voice must be obeyed sooner or later.
Your Heart's Desire 177
T H E BO G EY M AN U N D ER T H E STAIRS
T
his chapter is intended for people who are worried
about something. I never tell people not to worry.
To do that is to kick a man when he is down. Is it to be
supposed that he is worrying for the fun of the thing,
because it amuses him? If so, the malady would not be
worry, and would call for different treatment. Of course
there are people who grumble and whine because they
like to do so. That is a bad condition to be in, and
urgently needs attention, but it is not a case of worry.
No, worry is hell, and a hell from which the victim is
only too delighted to escape when he sees the faintest
shadow of a chance. Is it really possible to get rid of
worry? That depends altogether on whether or not you
understand the Truth of Being. If you do, the answer
is, Yes.
Consider the following: A bogey that you do not
believe in has no power to hurt you or worry you. The
Bogey Man who lives under the cellar stairs cannot
frighten or deceive you now, because you do not believe
in him; but when you were three years old it was very
different. Then he had the power to raise your heartbeat
to a gallop, draw all the blood out of your cheeks, set
your knees knocking together, and literally curdle the
food in your little stomach. Given favorable conditions
178
he could have stopped your heart altogether and killed
you. Yet today he cannot cause one flicker of an eyelash
—because you do not believe in him. That is the whole
difference. Nothing in reality has changed. There is no
Bogey Man there, and there never was one at any time;
the difference is in you. You have now changed your
thought. You have found that he was only a bogey, and
so you are free.
Now it is exactly the same with any other kind of evil
that may seem to be showing itself in your experience,
for all evil is a bogey. It is there only because you believe
in it, and it will disappear directly you cease to believe in
it. The only “life” it has is what it receives from you.
The only power it has over you is what you give it in
belief.
Any material object or situation can be changed into
something else by Spiritual Treatment or Scientific
Prayer. No matter what the present state of any object,
say an organ of the body, may be, it can be changed
for the better by Scientific Prayer. N o matter what may
have taken place at some past time, it can now be
changed into a different happening by Scientific Prayer.
No matter what might happen tomorrow, without
prayer, it can be made to happen quite differently by
means of Scientific Prayer. Your sprained ankle, or the
consequences to you of having ruined your frock with
the ink-bottle, can be completely transformed by Scien­
tific Prayer. Last week’s law-suit, or next week’s opera­
tion, and all possible consequences arising therefrom,
can be completely wiped out of consciousness, every­
body’s consciousness; or they can be so changed in
The Bogey Mm Under the Stairs 179
character that they are seen as a blessing for all con­
cerned. It sometimes happens, for instance, that you buy
some article, paying, perhaps what is for you a consider­
able sum of money for it, only to discover when you
have got it home that you have changed your mind, and
wish, too late, that you had not bought it. Never mind.
Pray scientifically, and you will presently perceive that
it was the right thing to get after all, and you will rejoice
over the purchase, or in some other way you will obtain
satisfaction concerning it. Of course, matters can only be
changed for the better by Scientific Prayer.
Since these things are true, and they are, it becomes
clear that the material plane cannot be “real” in the
sense of being fixed or permanent; and once we grasp this
fact it no longer has any power to hurt us. The truth is
that our material conditions have no identity in them­
selves, being but the outpicturing of the convictions in
our minds, and, as we always have the power to change
our convictions, it follows that we can always change
the outer picture too.
So your present trouble, whatever it is, is exactly like
the Bogey Man under the cellar stairs. It is only a bogey,
and the only power it possesses is the power you are
giving it by believing in it. You must stop believing in
it, and to do this it is only necessary to pray enough, or
to get someone else to do it for you, and that unhappy
picture will change, gradually or quickly, into something
quite different from what it is now, or else disappear
altogether.
With sufficient Scientific Prayer you can even make
it vanish completely from memory, but that will prob­
180 Power Through Constructive Thinking
ably not be necessary. You do not want to forget the
Bogey Man under the stairs; you are quite indifferent
about him because you really do know that he is only
a myth.
N ow you will see why it is possible to get rid of worry.
When you can say confidently: “Yes, at the moment
this looks a bad business, but l know that by an active
spiritual treatment 1 can change it into quite a different
situation,'” real worry is at an end for you, and it is only
a question of time before all-round health, happiness,
and prosperity become the rule of your life.
“The name of the Lord is a strong tower; the righteous
(Right Thinker) runneth into it and is safe.”
The Bogey Man Under the Stairs 181
NO R ESU LT S W ITH O U T PR A Y ER
T
h e r e is only one method of spiritual progress, and
that is by the Practice of the Presence of God,
whether we call this Scientific Prayer or Spiritual Treat­
ment. There is no other way. Mankind is continually
seeking to discover a short cut of some kind or other,
because the carnal mind is constitutionally lazy; but as
usual the lazy man takes the most pains in the long run,
and having wasted his time in wandering up by-paths,
he is ultimately driven by failure and suffering to the
realization of the grand truth that there is no substitute
■for prayer.
This does not mean that any particular form of prayer
is essential, but prayer there must be; that is, the conscious
dwelling upon the Being of God. I have heard people
say: “ I did not treat when such a problem arose; I just
knew the Truth about it, and the trouble disappeared.”
But this, of course, is exactly what Scientific Prayer or
treatment is, and in its most beautiful and effective form.
Such a person really means that he has not used some
rigid or crystallized form of expression, which, needless
to say, is not in the least essential. Formal or set treat­
ments are useful things to have by one, to fall back upon
when spontaneity fails. Then they help to focus the
thought, and usually set the natural well a-bubbling. But
1 8 2
No Results Without Prayer 183
—the thought’s the thing—and the simpler and more
spontaneous it is, and the more quickly it comes the
better.
If your intuitive nature is well developed, you will
seldom need to use formal statements at all. This is excel­
lent—for who will trouble to climb a ladder when he is
strong enough to leap over the wall? Unfortunately,
however, there are a great many people with little or no
intuitional development as yet, and many other people
lose the ability to receive intuitional messages when
worried or frightened. Then the ladder will probably be
their salvation.
It must not be overlooked that very many people
actually do all their work with formal statements of
Truth, and get consistently good results by working in
this way. Not through repeating affirmations like a
parrot, it is needless to say. Those who work like a parrot
inevitably make the parrot’s demonstration—they remain
in the cage. Of a good worker who used the same
phrases many times it was said by a friend: “ He con­
stantly uses the old affirmations, but he stuffs them with
fresh feeling every time.” For one who has neither very
much intuitional power at his command, nor yet the
ability easily to express his thoughts in words, this is a
model procedure. Meanwhile, in such a case the student
must be particularly careful not to accept his want of
intuitional power as a fixed thing, but to recognize it
merely as a temporary disability to be gradually over­
come. In fact, such a person should make a special point
of treating himself for intuitional power regularly every
day—by claiming it, of course—/ have conscious Divine
184 Power Through Constructive Thinking
Intelligence. I individualize Omniscience. 1 have direct
knowledge of Truth. 1 have perfect intuition. 1 have
spiritual perception. 1 know.
Thus we see that practically all students of Truth do
in fact employ treatment in one form or another, even
though they may disclaim it. There are, however, a few
people who actually refrain from all treatment on princi­
ple, but since one has never heard of their healing any­
one, and they seem to be continually in personal diffi­
culties of all sorts, the facts speak for themselves, and
only go to prove the rule that treatment, or the Practice
of the Presence of God, is the only road to harmony.
FA IT H
Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things
not seen.
For by it the elders obtained a good report.
—Hebrews 11:1-2
T
h e r e is a good deal of misconception among stu­
dents of Truth upon the subject of Faith. Some of
those who are on the Spiritual Basis confuse the idea of
Faith with the conventional type of faith healing which
always fades into disrepute sooner or later because it
cannot be relied upon to give steady results. Neverthe­
less, Faith, properly understood, is a necessary part of
every demonstration.
The confusion arises because blind Faith is not really
Faith at all, but quite a different thing; namely, Hope.
Now Hope is not of the slightest use in demonstrations—
frail, anemic, unfruitful in results, she it is who maketh
the heart sick. It is her elder sister, Faith, who is the
substance, the evidence, the sure and certain forerunner
of victory. This is so because Faith properly understood
is the result of the understanding of Principle. When
we have an adequate understanding of the true nature of
Being, we have Faith that the Law, properly applied,
cannot and will not fail us; and so, when a practical
problem presents itself, a call for healing or supply, per­
haps, a sound comprehension of this Law produces the
scientific conviction, and then the demonstration neces­
sarily follows. Thus it is the Elders, those in the posses­
sion of spiritual understanding, who receive the true
report or demonstration.
The New Testament, among many other things, is a
healer’s case book, and in most of the instances cited,
Faith was regarded as being a necessary preliminary—
“Stretch forth thy hand.” The essential doctrine on the
subject is presented in the dramatic episode of the
withering of the fig tree. The Master was desirous of
proving to his students the power of understanding
thought. For this reason he destroyed the fig tree. He
naturally would not select an animal for this purpose,
and a mineral would have been useless. A plant was the
proper thing to experiment upon.
The following day the Disciples were amazed to dis­
cover that the tree against which the word had been
spoken was destroyed. Upon calling his attention to this,
he said in effect— “Yes, and that shows you the power
of trained thought—you are surprised at this, but I tell
you that you could order that mountain itself to be
thrown into the sea, and it would happen, if you really
believed it, and did not doubt in your hearts.” Then he
added significantly— “Before you practise the power of
the word, if you are not at peace with everybody, treat
yourself until you are.” * This episode is so dramatic and
so outstanding once we understand the nature of thought,
that we are astonished that the world could have missed
it so long.
•Matthew 21:19. Mark 11:12-14; 20-26.
186 Power Through Constructive Thinking
Faith 187
The closing incident is particularly notable—he warned
them of hostile or critical thoughts, because of the harm
they would do to themselves. Many people are greatly
afraid of other people’s thoughts, but there is no need
for any such fear.
Nothing can come into your experience unless it first
enters your mentality, and nothing can enter your men­
tality unless it there finds something like itself to which
it can attach itself. As long as your heart is really clear of
ill-will, you are perfectly safe. On the other hand, the
use of the power of thought in hostility to others could
only result in very severe suffering and punishment for
yourself. According to your belief is it done unto you.
To think evil of Tom, Dick, or Harry, is to think evil;
and to think evil, ipso facto, is to call it down upon
yourself.
There are many who appreciate the power of Faith,
but lament that they do not possess it, and fear that
because of this they can make no progress in Truth.
There is no need for such apprehension. The Will to
Faith in itself constitutes Faith, for the purpose of a
metaphysical act or treatment, and is sufficient. Dis­
sociate yourself from your own doubts. Remove your
consent, and they lose all power. You are not your mind
—you are not your thoughts—you are not your doubts.
Say: “Yes, my mind is full of doubts, but / am not. I am
not consenting to it—I have spoken the word, and it shall
not return void.” This is the substance of the thing you
hope for. It is the evidence of the thing not seen. No
power can hinder it.
T H E SEV EN D A Y M EN T A L D IET
T
h e subject of diet is one of the foremost topics of
the present day in public interest. Newspapers and
magazines teem with articles on the subject. The counters
of the bookshops are filled with volumes unfolding the
mysteries of proteins, starches, vitamins, and so forth.
Just now the whole world is food-conscious. Experts on
the subject are saying that physically you become the
thing that you eat—that your whole body is really com­
posed of the food that you have eaten in the past. What
you eat today, they say, will be in your blood stream
after the lapse of so many hours, and it is your blood
stream that builds all the tissues composing your body—
and there you are.
Of course, no sensible person has any quarrel with all
this. It is perfectly true, as far as it goes, and the only
surprising thing is that it has taken the world so long to
find it out; but in this pamphlet I am going to deal with
the subject of dieting at a level that is infinitely more
profound and far-reaching in its effects. I refer of course
to mental dieting.
The most important of all factors in your life is the
mental diet on. which you five. It is the food which you
furnish to your mind that determines the whole char­
acter of your life. It is the thoughts you allow yourself
188
ro think, the subjects that you allow your mind to dwell
upon, which make you and your surroundings what they
are. As thy days, so shall thy strength be, which, in
modern language, may be translated as thy thoughts so
shall thy life be. Everything in your life today—the state
of your body, whether healthy or sick, the state of your
fortune, whether prosperous or impoverished, the state
of your home, whether happy or the reverse, the present
condition of every phase of your life in fact—is entirely
conditioned by the thoughts and feelings which you have
entertained in the past, by the habitual tone of your past
thinking. And the condition of your life tomorrow, and
next week, and next year, will be entirely conditioned by
the thoughts and feelings which you choose to entertain
from now onward.
In other words, you choose your life, that is to say,
you choose all the condition of your life, when you
choose the thoughts upon which you allow your mind
to dwell. Thought is the real causative force in life, and
there is no other. You cannot have one kind of mind
and another kind of environment. This means that you
cannot change your environment while leaving your
mind unchanged, nor—and this is the supreme key to
life and the reason for this pamphlet—can you change
your mind without your environment changing too.
This then is the real key to life: if you change your
mind your conditions must change too—your body must
change, your daily work or other activities must change;
your home must change; the color-tone of your whole
life must change—for whether you be habitually happy
and cheerful, or low-spirited and fearful, depends entirely
The Seven Day Mental Diet 189
on the quality of the mental food upon which you diet
yourself.
Please be very clear about this. If you change your
mind your conditions must change too. We are trans­
formed by the renewing of our minds. So now you will
see that your mental diet is really the most important
thing in your whole life.
This may be called the Great Cosmic Law, and its
truth is seen to be perfectly obvious when once it is
clearly stated in this way. In fact, I do not know of any
thoughtful person who denies its essential truth. The
practical difficulty in applying it, however, arises from
the fact that our thoughts are so close to us that it is
difficult, without a little practice, to stand back as it were
and look at them objectively.
Yet that is just what you must learn to do. You must
train yourself to choose the subject of your thinking at
any given time, and also to choose the emotional tone,
or what we call the mood that colors it. Yes, you can
choose your moods. Indeed, if you could not you would
have no real control over your life at all. Moods habitu­
ally entertained produce the characteristic disposition of
the person concerned, and it is his disposition that finally
makes or mars a person’s happiness.
You cannot be healthy; you cannot be happy; you
cannot be prosperous; if you have a bad disposition. If
you are sulky, or surly, or cynical, or depressed, or
superior, or frightened half out of your wits, your life
cannot possibly be worth living. Unless you are deter­
mined to cultivate a good disposition, you may as well
give up all hope of getting anything worth while out of
iço Power Through Constructive Thinking
life, and it is kinder to tell you very plainly that this is
the case.
If you are not determined to start in now and care­
fully select all day the kind of thoughts that you are
going to think, you may as well give up all hope of
shaping your life into the kind of thing that you want it
to be, because this is the only way.
In short, if you want to make your life happy and
worth while, which is what God wishes you to make it,
you must begin immediately to train yourself in the habit
of thought selection and thought control. This will be
exceedingly difficult for the first few days, but if you
persevere you will find that it will become rapidly easier,
and it is actually the most interesting experiment that you
could possibly make. In fact, this thought control is the
most thrillingly interesting hobby that anyone could take
up. You will be amazed at the interesting things that you
will learn about yourself, and you will get results almost
from the beginning.
Now many people knowing this truth, make sporadic
efforts from time to time to control their thoughts, but
the thought stream being so close, as I have pointed out,
and the impacts from outside so constant and varied, they
do not make very much progress. That is not the way to
work. Your only chance is definitely to form a new habit
of thought which will carry you through when you are
preoccupied or off your guard as well as when you are
consciously attending to the business. This new thought
habit must be definitely acquired, and the foundation of
it can be laid within a few days, and the way to do
it is this:
The Seven Day Mental Diet 191
Make up your mind to devote one week solely to
the task of building a new habit of thought, and during
that week let everything else in life be unimportant as
compared with that. If you will do so, then that week
will be the most significant week in your whole life. It
will literally be the turning-point for you. If you will do
so, it is safe to say that your whole life will change for
the better. In fact, nothing can possibly remain the same.
This does not simply mean that you will be able to face
your present difficulties in a better spirit; it means that
the difficulties will go. This is the scientific way to Alter
Your Life, and being in accordance with the Great Law
it cannot fail. Now do you realize that by working in
this way you do not have to change conditions? What
happens is that you apply the Law, and then the condi­
tions change spontaneously. You cannot change condi­
tions directly—you have often tried to do so and failed—
but go on the s e v e n d a y m e n t a l d i e t and conditions
must change for you.
This then is your prescription: For seven days you must
not allow yourself to dwell for a single moment on any
kind of negative thought. You must watch yourself for
a whole week as a cat watches a mouse, and you must
not under any pretense allow your mind to dwell on any
thought that is not positive, constructive, optimistic,
kind. This discipline will be so strenuous that you could
not maintain it consciously for much more than a week,
but I do not ask you to do so. A week will be enough,
because by that time the habit of positive thinking will
begin to be established. Some extraordinary changes for
the better will have come into your life, encouraging you
192 Power Through Constructive Thinking
enormously, and then the future will take care of itself.
The new way of life will be so attractive and so much
easier than the old way that you will find your mentality
aligning itself almost automatically.
But the seven days are going to be strenuous. I would
not have you enter upon this without counting the cost.
Mere physical fasting would be child’s play in compari­
son, even if you have a very good appetite. The most
exhausting form of army gymnastics, combined with
thirty mile route-marches, would be mild in comparison
with this undertaking. But it is only for one week in
your life, and it will definitely alter everything for the
better. For the rest of your life here, for all eternity, in
fact, things will be utterly different and inconceivably
better than if you had not carried through this under-
Do not start it lightly. Think about it for a day or two
before you begin. Then start in, and the grace of God
go with you. You may start it any day in the week, and
at any time in the day, first thing in the morning, or after
breakfast, or after lunch, it does not matter, but once you
do start you must go right through for the seven days.
That is essential. The whole idea is to have seven days
of unbroken mental discipline in order to get the mind
definitely bent in a new direction once and for all.
If you make a false start, or even if you go on well for
two or thiee days and then for any reason “fall off” the
diet, the thing to do is to drop the scheme altogether for
several days, and then to start again afresh. There must
be no jumping on and off, as it were. You remember
that Rip Van Winkle in the play would take a solemn
The Seven Day Mental Diet 193
vow of teetotalism, and then promptly accept a drink
from the first neighbor who offered him one, saying
calmly: “ I won’t count this one.” Well, on the s e v e n
d a y m e n t a l d ie t this sort of thing simply will not do.
You must positively count every lapse, and whether you
do or not, Nature will. Where there is a lapse you must
go off the diet altogether and then start again.
Now, in order, if possible, to forestall difficulties, I will
consider them in a little detail.
First of all, what do I mean by negative thinking?
Well, a negative thought is any thought of failure, dis­
appointment, or trouble; any thought of criticism, or
spite, or jealousy, or condemnation of others, or self-
condemnation; any thought of sickness or accident; or,
in short, any kind of limitation or pessimistic thinking.
Any thought that is not positive and constructive in
character, whether it concerns you yourself or anyone
else, is a negative thought. Do not bother too much
about the question of classification, however; in practice
you will never have any trouble in knowing whether a
given thought is positive or negative. Even if your brain
tries to deceive you, your heart will whisper the truth.
Second, you must be quite clear that what this scheme
calls for is that you shall not entertain, or dwell upon
negative things. Note this carefully. It is not the thoughts
that come to you that matter, but only such of them as
you choose to entertain and dwell upon. It does not mat­
ter what thoughts may come to you provided you do not
entertain them. It is the entertaining or dwelling upon
them that matters. Of course, many negative thoughts
will come to you all day long. Some of them will just
194 Power Through Constructive Thinking
drift into your mind of their own accord seemingly, and
these come to you out of the race mind. Other negative
thoughts will be given to you by other people, either in
conversation or by their conduct, or you will hear dis­
agreeable news perhaps by letter or telephone, or you
will see crimes and disasters announced in the newspaper
headings. These things, however, do not matter as long
as you do not entertain them. In fact, it is these very
things that provide the discipline that is going to trans­
form you during this epoch-making week. The thing to
do is, directly the negative thought presents itself—turn
it out. Turn away from the newspaper; turn out the
thought of the unkind letter, or stupid remark, or what
not. When the negative thought floats into your mind,
immediately turn it out and think of something else. Best
of all, think of God as explained in The Golden Key.
A perfect analogy is furnished by the case of a man who
is sitting by an open fire when a red hot cinder flies out
and falls on his sleeve. If he knocks that cinder off at
once, without a moment’s delay to think about it, no
harm is done. But if he allows it to rest on him for a
single moment, under any pretense, the mischief is done,
and it will be a troublesome task to repair that sleeve.
So it is with a negative thought.
Now what of those negative thoughts and conditions
which it is impossible to avoid at the point where you
are today? What of the ordinary troubles that you will
have to meet in the office or at home? The answer is, that
such things will not affect your diet provided you
do not accept them, by fearing them, by believing them,
by being indignant or sad about them, or by giving them
The Seven Day Mental Diet 195
any power at all. Any negative condition that duty com­
pels you to handle will not affect your diet. Go to the
office, or meet the cares at home, without allowing them
to affect you (None of these things move me), and all
will be well. Suppose that you are lunching with a friend
who talks negatively—Do not try to shut him up or
otherwise snub him. Let him talk, but do not accept what
he says, and your diet will not be affected. Suppose that
on coming home you are greeted with a lot of negative
conversation—Do not preach a sermon, but simply do
not accept it. It is your mental consent, remember, that
constitutes your diet. Suppose you witness an accident or
an act of injustice let us say—instead of reacting by
accepting the appearance and responding with pity or
indignation, refuse to accept the appearance at its face
value; do anything that you can to right matters, give
it the right thought, and let it go at that. You will still
be on the diet.
Of course, it will be very helpful if you can take
steps to avoid meeting during this week anyone who
seems particularly likely to arouse the devil in you.
People who get on your nerves, or rub you up the
wrong way, or bore you, are better avoided while you
are on the diet; but if it is not possible to avoid them, then
you must take a little extra discipline— that is all.
Suppose that you have a particularly trying ordeal
before you next week—well, if you have enough spir­
itual understanding you will know how to meet that in
the spiritual way; but, for our present purpose, I think
I would wait and start the diet as soon as the ordeal is
196 Power Through Constructive Thinking
over. As I said before, do not take up the diet lightly,
but think it over well first.
In closing, I want to tell you that people often find
that the starting of this diet seems to stir up all sorts of
difficulties. It seems as though everything begins to go
wrong at once. This may be disconcerting, but it is really
a good sign. It means that things are moving; and is not
that the very object we have in view? Suppose your
whole world seems to rock on its foundations. Hold on
steadily, let it rock, and when the rocking is over, the
picture will have reassembled itself into something much
nearer to your heart’s desire.
The above point is vitally important and rather subtle.
Do you not see that the very dwelling upon these diffi­
culties is in itself a negative thought which has probably
thrown you off the diet? The remedy is not, of course,
to deny that your world is rocking in appearance, but
to refuse to take the appearance for the reality. (Judge
not according to appearances but judge righteous judg­
ment.)
Keep your thought positive, optimistic, and kindly
while the outer picture is rocking. Keep it so in spite of
any appearances, and a glorious victory is certain. Every
side of your life will radically alter for the better.
A closing word of caution—Do not tell anyone else
that you are on the diet, or that you intend to go on it.
Keep this tremendous project strictly to yourself. Re­
member that your soul should be the Secret Place of the
Most High. When you have come through the seven
days successfully, and secured your demonstration, allow
a reasonable time to elapse to establish the new mentality,
The Seven Day Mental Diet 197
and then tell the story to anyone else whom you think
is likely to be helped by it.
And, finally, remember that nothing said or done by
anyone else can possibly throw you off the diet. Only
your own reaction to the other person’s conduct can
do that.
198 Power Through Constructive Thinking
LIFE A F T E R D EA T H
RESURGAM
There is no death! Our stars go down
To rise upon some fairer shore;
And bright in heaven's jewelled crown
They shine for evermore.
There is no death! The dust we tread
Shall change beneath the summer showers
To golden grain or mellow fruit,
Or rainbow-tinted flowers.
The granite rocks in powder fall,
And feed the hungry moss they bear
The fairest leaves drink daily life
From out the viewless air.
There is no death! The leaves may fall,
The flowers may fade and pass away;
They only wait through wintry hours
The coming of the May.
And, ever near us, though unseen,
The fair immortal spirits tread;
For all the boundless universe
Is life; there are no dead!
Attributed to Bulwer Lytton
LIFE A F T E R D EA TH
Into the hand that made the rose,
shall 1 with trembling fall?
—George Meredith
T
here is absolutely no reason to fear death. The
same God is on the other side of the grave as on
this side, and the Bible tells us that God is Love, and we
know that He is also boundless Intelligence and Infinite
Power. It is true that most people do fear death more or
less, but this fear is partly that normal fear of the un­
known that is apt to affect us all—the fear, as it were,
of taking a leap in the dark—and partly it is the result
of the false teaching on the subject that most people
acquire in their youth. In the hope of disciplining them
and frightening them into good conduct, people have
been taught throughout the ages to regard death with
horror.
Such, of course, is a mistaken policy, because good
never comes out of evil, and fear in particular is never
constructive. Nevertheless, men have been taught in most
places and in all ages to fear death, in the hope that
under the shadow of that fear they would behave them­
selves better during life.
The time has now come, however, when the mass of
the people no longer believe in these threats but are
prepared to hear the truth.
201
The actual truth is that there is no death. When a
person seems to die, all that happens is that he leaves his
body here and goes over onto the next plane, otherwise
unchanged. He falls asleep here to wake up on the other
side minus his physical body (which was probably more
or less damaged) but enriched with the knowledge that
he has not really died.
This is the story of what we call “ death,” and in
most cases it is easier than being born.
To understand clearly how this process comes about,
you have to realize that you really possess not one body
but two. It may surprise you to be told that right here
at the present moment you have not only the physical
body that you know about— the thing that you see when
you look into the glass—but a second body which is none
the less substantial because you cannot see it, and that
this body is made of ether. This statement may surprise
you, but it is true. The etheric body is the same shape as
your physical body, but it is slightly larger and it inter­
penetrates the physical body as air fills a sponge. It does
not surround it but interpenetrates it. It may help you to
think of it as a replica of the physical body in ether. There
are a few people who can see the etheric body when they
concentrate for that purpose, because they have the
power of contacting much finer vibrations than can be
perceived by the ordinary physical senses, but of course
the vast majority lack this power.
All the time you are awake, your two bodies remain
together interpenetrating each other, but when you fall
asleep the greater part of your etheric slips out of the
physical; and in reality this slipping out of the etheric is
202 Power Through Constructive Thinking
what constitutes sleep. The same sort of thing happens
when you become unconscious either from taking an
anesthetic or from a blow on the head, or if you fall into
what is called a trance, or into some form of coma. All
these conditions differ somewhat one from another, but
they all have this in common, that more or less of the
etheric slips out of the physical body taking conscious­
ness with it.
The etheric body is not a simple homogeneous thing
but is composed of several different ethers of different
densities. Nevertheless, for our purpose we shall treat it
as one. The physical body is composed of solids, liquids,
and gases, and of many complicated and distinct organs,
but in studying the biography of a man we treat his
body as a unit, and in the same way we shall treat the
etheric as one.
Now, it is this etheric body which is the repository of
all your thoughts and feelings. It includes what are often
called the conscious and the subconscious minds. It is the
“psyche” of the psychologist, and it is in fact, your
human personality. That is why personality survives
death; because it resides in the etheric which passes over
intact, and not in the physical which breaks up into de­
composition when it is left alone.
I have said that your etheric is the seat of all feeling,
and this is true. It may surprise you to hear that there is
no sensation in the physical body, but such is the case.
When you think you have a pain in your physical body,
that pain is really in the etheric counterpart, and that is
why anesthesia is possible. When you take a general
anesthetic, the etheric is thrown out and therefore you do
Life After Death 203
204 Power Through Constructive Thinking
not experience bodily sensations. People undergoing a
major operation under an anesthetic have sometimes re­
mained perfectly conscious, but out of the body, and
have watched the surgeon at work with interest and
attention. When you take a local anesthetic such as
novocaine, the local part of the etheric is driven out and
you have no feeling there; but as the effect of the novo­
caine wears off, that portion of the etheric returns and,
as those who have been in the hands of the dentist know,
the pain gradually comes back.
In all these cases when the etheric leaves the physical
body, it remains attached to it by an etheric ligament
very much like a boy’s kite floating at the end of the
string which he holds in his hand. This etheric connection
is called in the Bible the Silver Cord. It is bluish gray in
color and is so elastic that the etheric body can go very
long distances away and still remain attached to the
physical corpus. In sleep, by far the greater part of the
etheric slips out. In very materialistic and otherwise unde­
veloped people the etheric remains only a yard or two
from the body, usually floating overhead; but with
people of some degree of mental training, and especially
with those who have some spiritual development, it passes
right over onto the next plane, and sometimes beyond
that. The difference between normal sleep, and anesthesia,
and the different kinds of trance,* is a question of how
much of the etheric goes out at that particular time—•
that is all. When we see people nodding asleep and then
waking up and then nodding again, it means that the
etheric is wabbling in and out. So your etheric slips out
* Numbers 24:4; Acts 10:10; Acts 11:5; Acts 22:17.
every time you go to sleep and returns when you wake
up again—that is, as long as the Silver Cord remains
unbroken.
Now, what is death? Well, death is the breaking of
the Silver Cord. As long as that remains intact you are
alive, whether you are conscious or not; but once it is
broken you are dead. Death is the severing of the Silver
Cord. As soon as it is cut you are dead; you are definitely
cut off from your physical body and your life on this
plane is over.
So this, then, is death. Your etheric body, which is
your personality, has severed its connection with the
physical body, and as that body is your only means of
functioning on the physical plane, you have finished with
your earth life.
N ow we come to the vital question: What precisely
is it that happens to a person when he dies—when the
Silver Cord is severed? What does he think? What does
he feel? Well, as a rule, he immediately falls into a state
of total unconsciousness which may last for days or even
weeks. During this time the etheric (that is he himself)
passes over onto the next plane, and he is in the next
world. Here in due course he wakes up very much as we
wake up from sleep on this plane, and his new life has
begun.
It is an interesting fact that at the instant preceding
death, the whole of the past life unfolds before the mind
exactly like a moving picture reel flashing by. The actual
speed is so great that it all happens in a split second. Yet
the mind sees every detail clearly. It is possible to come
so near death that without actually dying one can still
Life After Death 205
come back and continue to live after this has happened,
but usually only in cases of near-death from asphyxiation.
Only in near-drowning, suffocation, or gassing, as a rule,
is the process slow enough to admit of this. This expe­
rience is really, of course, the unfolding of the subcon­
scious mind, the “Judgment Books” of Scripture, and an
exceedingly awe-inspiring and sometimes terrible expe­
rience it is, as one can easily imagine. It is with this
authentic inside story of his life fresh in his memory,
that the traveler begins his life on the other side.
Here, it is natural to ask: Where is the next world
situated? Is it up in the sky? or down under the ground?
The answer is that it is in neither of these places. The
next world is actually all around us here. The so-called
dead are carrying on their lives right here where we are
now, but in their own world and in their own way. The
reason we do not see them around us or collide with them
is the same reason that one radio program does not inter­
fere with another—they are on different wave lengths.
There is not merely one etheric plane as many people
think, but many, each one less dense than the previous
one, going on to infinity; and they all interpenetrate one
another. The activities of any one plane do not interfere
in any way with those of any of the others for the reason
just given. There is relatively a very great difference
between the density of any one of these planes and that
of the next one to it, so that normally there is no passing
from one to another.
Upon waking up on the next plane, the “ dead” person
notes certain familiar aspects in the world about him,
but remarks some curious differences too. If he has been
206 Power Through Constructive Thinking
very ill, or if he is an elderly person, he is agreeably
surprised by a sense of well-being and youth. This is
because, having left the worn-out body on the earth
plane, it no longer restricts the full functioning of his
mind. He is able to see his etheric body and it now seems
to him as substantial as the old physical body seemed.
Again, one of the principal differences between this
plane and the next is that there are four dimensions over
there, whereas here, of course, we know only three. All
objects there are four-dimensional, and it takes him some
time to get used to that. Of course, a four-dimensional
object cannot be described here in words, but you will
easily see that it means an enormous extension of expe­
rience and therefore of interest. Consider how tremen­
dously the world of a two-dimensional being—say a
worm—would be expanded if he became three-dimen­
sional, and you can realize something of the enhanced
interest of the next plane when one of us goes over there.
Some writers unfortunately are in the habit of speak­
ing of Heaven as the fourth dimension. This is quite
wrong, because Heaven is a world of infinite dimension.
What metaphysical writers say about Heaven is usually
correct except that it is not the fourth dimension.
Also, there are new colors and new sounds on the next
plane far surpassing in beauty the colors and the sounds
which we have here, and it is a fact that new experience
of every sort awaits the traveler on his arrival.
Perhaps the most startling change that the traveler has
to meet is the fact that over there thought reading is the
normal means of communication. In the next world
thoughts are read directly, and therefore there is no
Life After Death 207
deception. Everyone is seen to be just what he is, and
there is no room for hypocrisy or pretense. All the labor
and nervous strain of “keeping up appearances” that
wears out the lives of so many foolish people over here
is unknown there. You pass for what you are and that is
the end of the matter. One soon gets accustomed to this,
and then no one there would wish it to be otherwise.
There are no old people on the other side, for the
following reason. What we see here as an elderly gentle­
man is in fact a man of mature mind whose body has
begun to decay so that all his faculties are dimmed. He
sees poorly, is almost deaf, moves about with difficulty,
finds his memory impaired, and in many cases it is diffi­
cult to make him understand things we wish to say to
him. These conditions are simply due to the decay of the
physical body preventing his etheric from functioning
efficiently, and now that the physical body is thrown
away, he naturally regains the full use of his powers.
And so, in the next world he will be a man in the prime
of life. On the other hand, children who pass over, not
having yet reached maturity of mind, continue to grow
up on the other side until they too reach the prime
of life.
There are many different localities on the next plane,
differing very much one from another just as in this
world we find countries as different as Sweden and Italy,
for example, and even in the same city we find such
different conditions as the squalid streets of slumland
and the beautiful sections occupied by wealthy and cul­
tured people. Indeed, there is a much greater variety
of living conditions over there than anything that we
2o8 Power Through Constructive Thinking
find on this earth, so that one might compare the going
over to the experience of a man who spends most of his
life on a small island here, and then suddenly leaves that
island to explore the whole world.
What is it that determines the kind of place to which
you will go after death, and the sort of people among
whom you will find yourself? Of course, it is not a matter
of chance or luck any more than is the nature of your
surroundings here. You will go to the sort of place, and
be among the sort of people for whom you have pre­
pared yourself by your habitual thinking and your mode
of living while on this earth. No one “ sends” you any­
where. You naturally gravitate to the place where you
belong. You have built up a certain character, that is, a
certain mentality, by your years of thinking, speaking,
and acting on this plane. That is the kind of person you
are at the moment, and you find yourself in conditions
corresponding to your personality.
Remember that death makes positively no change in
you; you are just the same person that you were before
it happened. You have your full memory and you re­
member the general events of your life just as well, and
often somewhat better, than you did toward the end of
your life here. Students of metaphysics understand that
all our conditions in this world are the result of our
thoughts and convictions; and precisely the same thing
is true of the next world. On this plane, people with the
same interests tend to attract one another. The law that
“birds of a feather flock together” holds throughout the
universe.
There is, however, one extremely important difference
Life After Death 209
—on the other side your thoughts are demonstrated
immediately. In this world, as we know, it may take days,
weeks, and even years, before mental states come out into
manifestation, but over there they demonstrate at once.
Whatever you think or feel strongly you experience
instantly as an outer condition, and this is rather con­
fusing at first.
To those on the other side, the ether seems just as solid
as physical matter does to us, and in the beginning they
expect it to have the inertia which it does not possess.
They are surprised and disconcerted when they con­
stantly find that it submits immediately to the moulding
of their thought. They feel rather like a person whose
automobile gets out of control and runs away with him.
They think—and something happens to correspond. This
surprises or frightens them, and this fright causes an in­
tensification of the phenomenon, or perhaps a seeming
cataclysm; and “ confusion worse confounded” multiplies
until the new-comer pulls himself together and learns to
control his thinking. One would naturally suppose that
under these conditions he need only be very careful what
he does think, and all will be well; and this is perfectly
true, but in practice it is difficult instantly to change
one’s habits of thought in this way. If we have accus­
tomed ourselves when on earth to negative thinking—to
thoughts of fear, criticism, ill-will, or sickness—it takes
some time to overcome such habits when we get across.
Most of us know only too well (particularly those of us
who have tried The Seven Day Mental Diet) that chang­
ing our current of thought is not an easy matter; but, of
course, it has to be done
210 Power Through Constructive Thinking
211
At this point let it be clearly understood that this next
plane is not “ Heaven,” or the conscious Presence of God.
Those people who work through great difficulties in this
world and go over with an enlightened consciousness,
find themselves so much better off that they sometimes
think it must be Heaven; but it is not. It is a limited
etheric world—less limited than is this plane, but limited
nevertheless, and just as liable to discord and decay.
Indeed, objects over there decay much more quickly than
do objects on this plane. Instead of broken or worn-out
objects lying about for a long time as they do with us,
the forms in which people are no longer interested melt
right back into the ether immediately, and this makes
new-comers think that there is no decay there; but there
is, only it is ended much more quickly. In our world,
for example, a chair, let us say, or a suit of clothes, is
manufactured, whereupon it immediately begins to wear
out. This process, however, is a very slow one, so much
so that even after it becomes too shabby or damaged for
further use, the fragments of it still lie about for years
and years before falling into dust, if not otherwise dis­
posed of. On the next plane a discarded etheric form
fades out very quickly.
You do not “ meet God” on the next plane any more
than you do on this plane. God is everywhere. Of course,
He is fully present on the next plane just as He is on
this plane; but there as here, He is to be contacted only
in one’s own consciousness by some form of prayer or
spiritual treatment. Heaven is that perfect state of con­
sciousness in which one is in full realization of the Divine
Presence. In that consciousness there is no limitation, or
Life After Death
evil, or decay of any kind. When one attains to that con­
dition he has finished with etheric planes just as surely as
he has finished with the plane of physical matter. If you
can reach to that level of consciousness while still in this
world (and a few have succeeded in doing so), you do
not “ die” or go across to the etheric planes at all; you
go straight to Heaven from this earth. Moses did this,
and Enoch, and Elijah, and a few others. This is what is
called translation or dematerialization. It is accomplished
by the overcoming of the sense of separation from God
which is really the “fall of man.” It means overcoming
selfishness, sensuality, criticism, fear, and other such
things. It means living nearer and nearer to God every
day. Of Enoch,* the Bible says, “he walked with God,”
before he was translated—and indeed there is no other
way to freedom.
There are some very unpleasant localities in the next
world (it is no use ignoring this fact just for sentimental
reasons), but the average person does not go to any of
them. People who lead very evil lives on this earth, whose
minds are chiefly given up to hatred, deceit, or sensuality,
will find themselves in such places. This does not mean
the average man or woman who may fall into wrong­
doing under the pressure of severe temptation, but people
whose whole lives are deliberately wrong. These are the
places referred to as “hell” by the orthodox preachers.
They are not places of vindictive punishment, and they
certainly do not last forever, but only until the delinquent
has seen the error of his ways and has reformed. Let me
repeat that no one “sends” anyone to these places; they
* Genesis 5:24.
212 Power Through Constructive Thinking
are merely the natural surroundings of a soul which has
gotten itself into that condition by repeatedly choosing
the lower in preference to the higher. Neither does any­
one determine when the punishment will cease; the escape
from such conditions takes place automatically as soon as
the soul is sufficiently changed.
Someone may be inclined to ask whether it is appro­
priate to speak of “localities” on the next plane since such
places are really but the out-picturing of the subject’s
own thoughts. The answer is that this is all that localities
are on this plane. What we call a country, or a city, or a
house, or a room, in this world is but out-pictured
thought—nothing more—and indeed the only funda­
mental differences over there are the absence of inertia,
which makes things happen almost instantaneously; and
the existence of the extra dimension.
So it happens that once people wake up in the next
world and begin to get used to the conditions, they usu­
ally have a great sense of physical well-being, and a most
interesting and instructive life. The conditions of living
are utterly different from ours. There your money is no
longer of the slightest use to you—“you can’t take it with
you”—and only the mental and spiritual wealth that you
have accumulated can go along. There is no money as
we understand it because, thought being immediately
demonstrated, there is no need to purchase objective
possessions. What you are able to think of clearly, you
have. Many fine things will still be out of the reach of
many people there, because they cannot clearly conceive
them: and is not this the exact truth about our own
Life After Death 213
world also? In this world, anything that you can clearly
conceive comes into your possession if you really want
it, and anything that you truly understand becomes yours
in a still deeper sense, for you never can lose it. The
chief difference between the two worlds is, once more,
that results come so much more slowly in this world,
owing to the inertia of physical matter, which over there
they do not have to meet.
There is no childbirth on the next plane, and therefore
no marriage or family life as we understand it; and when
you consider the extraordinary importance of the family
on this plane, you will see that without it the whole
scheme of living must be different.
Will you meet your relatives and friends when you go
over? People naturally wonder whether they will see
again those whom they loved who have passed out of
sight; and to tell the truth, many are quite apprehensive
of having to renew their contact with people whom they
have disliked—members of the family perhaps whom
they would much prefer never to meet again. The fact
is, that where there is a strong emotional link either of
love or hatred there is likely to be a meeting. Where
there is a strong link of genuine love there is sure to be a
meeting. Where there is no particular feeling between
two people there will not be a meeting. Of course, love
will take care of itself, but there is a real danger that if
you allow yourself to indulge in hatred of anyone, you
will meet when you have both passed over. T o prevent
this happening, destroy the link by ceasing to hate. For­
give the other person and set him free in your thought.
2i4 Power Through Constructive Thinking
You do not have to like him, but you must wish him
well.*
Do not imagine that your family will ever be re­
assembled on the other side. Family relationships are for
this plane only and have no existence there. Your father
will not be your father on the other side, but a friend
who played the role of father over here. Your daughter
will no longer be your daughter there, but a friend who
enacted the part of daughter to you for a number of
years on the earth. Some people imagine that the whole
earth family must be reassembled as a family over there;
but consider what this would mean: You had two
parents, and probably some brothers and sisters; each of
your parents had two parents and probably some brothers
and sisters; and so forth; and so you will see what the
compulsory reunion of families would involve in a few
generations. The actual fact is, as I have stated, that the
relationships of parents and children, brothers and sisters,
uncles and nephews, husbands and wives, are but tempo­
rary arrangements for this life only. If two brothers, or
a parent and child, have a strong bond of sympathy in this
life, they will meet again and perhaps be closely associated
on the next plane; but this will be because of the bond
of sympathy and not because they happened to be mem­
bers of the same family here. When a marriage is satisfy­
ing to both parties here, the partnership can continue by
mutual consent on the other side; otherwise death dis­
solves a marriage, and the two need never even meet
again, much less resume any kind of mutual bond.
Beyond the next plane there are other planes, and after
* See essay, The Lord's Prayer.
Life After Death 215
a certain length of time over there most people develop
mentally and spiritually so that they graduate out of that
plane onto the next higher one. That plane has five dimen­
sions, and the ether composing it is far less dense than
that of the one next to us, and it in turn presents many
new opportunities to the developing soul. After “ death”
one’s instinct is to lead somewhat the same type of life as
he has been accustomed to here, and this is why some
intellectual or artistic training, and particularly some spir­
itual development, makes so much difference.
There is no limit over there to the opportunities for
intellectual study and attainment. Most of the age-old,
and to us insoluble, problems of philosophy and religion
can be answered on the next plane with some study and
trouble. Of course, this only means that new ones then
come up for consideration, because, as we lengthen our
vision so does the horizon but grow. Nevertheless, won­
derful progress in the understanding of life can be, and
is made along these lines. The artist and the musician at
last begin to get things their own way. The lack of com­
mercial aptitude which usually marks the genuine artist
and for which he is so often punished in this world, is
no detriment over there. And the etheric conditions pre­
sent little or no difficulty such as physical matter does to
the development of literary, artistic, and musical gifts. It
is worth mentioning that even a little study along intel­
lectual lines while in this world, and even a very little
genuine interest in art or music is sufficient to start off
the new-comer over there under very favorable auspices.
On the other hand, those who know nothing whatever
about these things find it much more difficult to make the
216 Power Through Constructive Thinking
beginning over there than they would here. Scientific
studies such as chemistry, physics, electricity, and so
forth, can be tremendously developed over there since
the nature of vibration is far better understood on the
other side than it is with us.
The man who benefits least by the change to the new
world is the materially minded person who has developed
no mental or spiritual resources whatever while on this
plane. Being interested only in material things, in food
and drink, and money, in social success, worldly honors,
and material possessions in general, he naturally finds him­
self rather stranded in a world where none of these things
have any meaning. Nevertheless, if he has led an average
honest, clean life, and on the whole behaved decently
according to his lights, he will be nothing worse than
extremely bored until his higher faculties begin to unfold
in the course of time.
N ow consider the man or woman who lives wholly
for the body and is dominated by it—the sensualist, the
dipsomaniac, the drug addict. Physical cravings, being
part of the mentality, are, of course, carried over to the
next plane, but there there is no physical body through
which these appetites may be satisfied, and so the victim
is tormented by desire but unable to satisfy it, until, in
the course of time, these desires fade out by starvation.
This is the natural punishment for allowing the physical
body to assume control, and surely it is punishment
enough. Indeed, we find what is called poetic justice run­
ning right through the universe. The rewards of positive
thought and action are the natural consequences follow­
ing upon these things, and the punishments following
Life After Death 217
upon wrong doing or neglect are natural consequences
too. Like begets like. Take care of your body and you
are rewarded with the joy of health, not with money.
Take care of your business and you are rewarded with
prosperity, not necessarily with health. Work hard at
your music, and the reward is to be an accomplished
musician; neglect it, and no money will buy the pro­
ficiency that you have failed to earn. Ill-treat your body,
and the natural punishment is sickness and discomfort,
not a falling-off in the value of your stocks and bonds.
And so on through the whole gamut of life, we reap as
we sow, whether it be on the earth plane or on any of the
etheric planes which lie beyond. It may be said here that
it is not necessary to lead an ascetic life in this world in
order to be happy in the next one. All the ordinary harm­
less pleasures of life may be enjoyed in reasonable modera­
tion without involving any suffering or hardship after­
ward.
It sometimes happens when a person “dies,” that in­
stead of his going into a coma immediately after the
Silver Cord is broken, there may be an interval of hours
or longer in which he retains full possession of his facul­
ties; and sometimes he does not even realize that he is
“ dead,” though as a rule he sees his physical body lying
prone, and knows what has happened. In such cases he
will make a strong effort to communicate with his closest
friends. Suppose, for example, that a man died in the
street, and retained his faculties in this way. He would
immediately try to get home to his wife to tell her what
had happened. Let us suppose that his home was ten miles
away in the suburbs. Having now only an etheric body,
218 Power Through Constructive Thinking
he would really need but to think strongly of his home,
and he would find himself there in a few seconds or less,
because his etheric body could pass through houses, hills,
or any other physical obstruction that might lie in the
way. As a matter of fact, however, habit might lead him
to go through the motions of walking to the nearest rail­
road station and getting into a train, or he might clamber
onto a street car. On entering his home he would instinc­
tively shout to his wife, but having no physical organs,
no sound would be produced—the effort would be purely
mental and she would hear nothing. He would then prob­
ably walk over to her and attempt to grasp her arm. But
his etheric substance would simply pass through it with­
out making any impression. It might happen, however,
in such a case that the strong mental effort would reach
the consciousness of the wife or whomever he was
endeavoring to reach, and then she would afterward say:
“M y husband appeared to me for a moment at the time
he was killed.” His thought would be so charged with
emotion that it would be strong enough, upon reaching
her, to cause her to project a momentary thought form
of him. It might, however, not be strong enough for this,
and then she would merely say: “I knew that something
had happened to my husband long before I got the
news.” This is the explanation of most such stories which
are so constantlv met with.
j
In the same way, people have sometimes attended their
own funerals before passing over. It is worthy of note
that, since death makes no general change in us, those
who possess a sense of humor retain it, and those who do
not, continue in the lack; and on such an occasion as
Life After Death 219
this, those who do possess that useful gift are sometimes
much amused at the proceedings, and those without it
react also as might be expected.
Where there is a strong sense of bereavement; or where
the survivors are left in tragic circumstances, the dead
person will of course suffer acutely. As a matter of fact,
the so-called dead are very sensitive to our thoughts for
a considerable time after they have passed over to the
other side, and for this reason excessive grief is to be
deprecated. It saddens them and prevents their focusing
their attention as they should upon the new life which
they are starting. Of course, it seems very hard to tell
people not to grieve when one whom they have dearly
loved passes out of sight; but the fact remains that exces­
sive grief is bad for both parties. Remember that if there
is a link of love you will certainly meet again, and that
nothing that is good, or beautiful, or true, can ever be
lost. On this plane we often see our friends or our dearly
loved ones go away to live in a distant country knowing
that we shall not see them again for several years—and
death is really nothing more than this. Here I would
impress upon those who are responsible for the support
of others—husbands or fathers of families, for instance—
the duty of making what reasonable provision they can
for those who may be left behind without resources in
case of their unexpected decease. It will save them a great
deal of remorse and self-reproach on the other side if
they can feel that at least they did what lay in their
power to ease the burden of those who were dependent
upon them.
At this point it may be well to explain that when a
220 Power Through Constructive Thinking
221
person is passing on, the body often undergoes violent
twitchings and contortions, and most distressing moans
may be emitted. This, however, need cause no uneasiness
because such actions are purely reflex—the patient is
totally unaware of them and is slipping gently and com­
fortably away.
In a very small proportion of cases it happens that after
death people become what is called “earth-bound,” which
means that they remain on this plane for an indefinite
length of time, being unable to go on. This is simply due
to the fact that their emotions are so fixed on something
in this world, that they cannot fall into the coma in which
one passes across. It is exactly parallel to the case of a
person who cannot fall asleep at night because his mind
is so full of some dominating interest. A man can be so
emotionally bound up with something here that he can­
not get his attention off it even when he loses his body.
Such an absorbing interest may be a piece of property,
or it may be a person, or it may be some dominating activ­
ity, or it may be a crime which he committed here. In the
last case his thoughts anchor him to the neighborhood of
the scene of the crime. As times goes on, this effect fades
out and he passes over, sooner or later, but in extreme
cases it may last for quite a long time. The moral of this,
of course, is that you must not allow any one thing in
the world to monopolize your attention to the exclusion
of all other interests.
The one thing that is worthy of unlimited devotion is
the search for God; but this can possess our lives and yet
never make us unbalanced. Nor does this mean that we
ought to go through life without taking very much inter­
Life After Death
est in anything in particular, for such a life simply would
not be worth living. On the contrary, we should take a
strong interest in all the events of life as they come to us,
and the more things we are interested in the better it will
be, provided that interest is within the bounds of reason.
In particular, we should be enthusiastically interested in
our daily work, whatever it may be; but again—always
within the bounds of reason. Nothing must have such a
strangling grip upon the heart that the loss of that par­
ticular thing would make the rest of our lives to be mean­
ingless. This is the true understanding of the Eastern
virtue of detachmeitt, namely, a keen, intelligent interest
in the things which are with us while they are with us,
with complete readiness to pass on to new things when
the signal comes. Living in this way there will never be
any possibility of being earth-bound.
W e can pray for those who have passed on, and indeed
it is a sacred duty to do so. Prayers for the so-called dead
have been used in most parts of the world in most ages.
The practice was generally discontinued after the Refor­
mation because it had been greatly abused and commer­
cialized, but, nevertheless, it is an excellent practice in
itself. You should pray for your friend who has passed
on exactly as you would pray for him if he were living
in some distant spot on this globe, say China or South
Africa. Realize peace of mind, freedom, and understand­
ing for him, and that God is Life, and Intelligence, and
Love. The Presence is excellent for this purpose. Read it
to him silently, saying, “You” where the text says “I.”
Now I come to the problem of the disposal of dead
bodies and of funeral arrangements in general. Here let
222 Power Through Constructive Thinking
me say bluntly that most of our accepted burial customs
are really pagan survivals and are wanting both in intelli­
gence and in decency. W e tolerate them only because
we are more or less accustomed to them, and, indeed,
when it comes about that thoughtful people attend a con­
ventional funeral for the first time, they are invariably
both shocked and repelled. The whole thing really im­
plies that the deceased person is there in the grave, al­
though hardly anybody nowadays believes that. W hy
Christians, who profess to believe in the immortality of
the soul, should treat the physical remains as though they
were something sacred, passes comprehension. Such an
attitude is neither logical nor intelligent.
You should realize this fact very clearly—there is
nothing whatever sacred about a dead body. It is a col­
lection of physical matter for which the ex-owner has no
further use, and it should be disposed of in as cleanly and
expeditious a manner as possible, and that is all. Its late
owner wore out a number of physical bodies during his
life (as you probably know, we get a number of new
bodies by gradual replacement as we go through life),
and this is only the last of them that is being buried cere­
moniously, that is all. Remember that the beauty of a
beautiful body comes from the soul that shines through
it, and does not lie in the body itself. That soul with its
beauty and joy has now gone on, and the body left is but
an old garment which has been discarded. This garment
should be disposed of (for the sake of the living) with
respect, but not with reverence; and the proper method
of doing this is by cremation. One should be quite clear
about this. The disposal of the body is simply a duty to
Life After Death 223
the living and not in any way an honor to the deceased
who takes no further interest in it. Fire is cleanly, puri­
fying, and respectful. The body should be cremated after
a lapse of about three days, except in cases where rapid
decomposition has set in, when cremation may take place
immediately.
The body having been cremated, it is better not to
preserve the ashes. Only a morbid satisfaction can come
from keeping these gruesome relics. They should be scat­
tered over some growing grass, or thrown on the sea, or
on a river or lake; of course, with a prayer. For the same
reason monuments of any kind in cemeteries are out of
place and should, if it is at all possible, be avoided, even
where family considerations have made burial unavoid­
able. A little reflection will show you that to erect a
monument over a cast-off body is just as unreasonable as
it would be for you to bury an old suit of clothes and
then put a monument over that.
Certainly you should avoid visiting the grave of your
loved one. You know that he is not in the cemetery; so
keep away from it. Pray for him in the sanctuary of your
own home. N o other place is any more sacred or more
appropriate for prayer than your home. On his birthday,
or any other significant anniversary, have a bunch of
flowers in remembrance of him, but let this be done at
home and not in the graveyard. If you happen to have a
portrait of him, you can put the flowers in front of that.
Of course, this should only be done occasionally and not
kept up as an everyday practice.
You should avoid wearing mourning. Do not swathe
yourself in black for the sake of your loved one who is
224 Power Through Constructive Thinking
not dead but very much alive; and at this point I may
mention that it is not well, in a general way, to keep
personal things belonging to the deceased, if you are
doing this in a sentimental or morbid spirit. Here you
will need discrimination. There is no objection to keeping
a few mementoes if you are certain that you are not doing
it in the spirit of mourning, thinking that he is dead. On
the other hand, the idea of maintaining his room or his
books, and so forth, “just as he left them,” as some people
do, is completely wrong and pagan. The deceased would
not wish it, and would probably laugh good-naturedly at
you if he could make you know it. All conditions belong­
ing to the past should, as far as possible, be broken up to
make way for the living present.
Here I wish to explain that while the foregoing instruc­
tions are what really should be done, yet in certain cases
it will not be possible, for family reasons, to carry them
out. If other members of your family are old-fashioned
in their views, particularly the older members—parents,
for instance—then it is often well to give way and do
what they expect, rather than wound their deepest feel­
ings. It may be that while you know better, they do not;
and so if cremation would shock them, have the body
buried and attend the funeral in the name of Christian
charity. Of course, the expressed wish of the deceased
should always be carried out. W e should do ail that we
can within reason to avoid giving pain in these matters
to parents and older relatives. On the other hand, do not
compromise in order to spare the feelings of young
people, because they ought to learn better; and never
Life After Death 225
consider the opinions of neighbors or distant relatives in
such matters.
A man in New York told me that he was not wearing
black because he knew that his recently deceased sister
was not dead, but that on visiting his parents’ home which
he did every few weeks, he wore mourning to avoid
scandalizing them. I told him that he was quite right, and
that such was the course I always advised in these matters.
A word had better be said here about suicide. The
majority of those who take their own lives are so worried
or terrorized at the time that they are not morally respon­
sible for the act, and so it is not really suicide but rather
death by misadventure. Such people fare on the other
side like anyone else. In a genuine case of suicide, how­
ever, it is very different. Conscious and intentional self-
destruction is a crime severely punished by Nature. It is
a refusal to meet the problems of life, and obviously it
cannot be possible to do that successfully. Those who
seek this way out do not meet their friends on the other
side. They are lonely and unhappy and are apt to find
themselves in a confused mental state which is really sub­
jective—a kind of vague dream which sometimes makes
them think they are wandering about in a dense fog. Of
course, they can be greatly helped by prayer as can all
others. Ultimately they have to face all over again pre­
cisely the kind of problem they have run away from,
with time wasted and suffering experienced for nothing.
N ow I reach the problem of whether it is possible
or not to communicate with those who have passed on
into the next world. On this subject an enormous num­
ber of books have been published, and a most acrimoni­
226 Power Through Constructive Thinking
227
ous and bitter controversy has raged up and down the
world for a very long time. Indeed, many people seem
unable to touch on this subject and at the same time
retain either their common sense or their good manners.
The most violent epithets are hurled at one another by
controversialists on both sides, and I have known several
long standing friendships to be severed over just this
question of whether or not it is possible for us to
communicate with the so-called dead. Extremists on
one side say dogmatically that it is absolutely impossible
to do so. Enthusiasts on the other side claim that they
are in clear and intimate communication with their
deceased friends as frequently as once or twice a week
or oftener. What is the truth? Well, the truth is that
communication does occasionally take place, but that
it is far rarer than most believers in it suppose, and that
it is always accomplished with considerable difficulty
and uncertainty. It is not in the least like telephoning
from New York to Chicago. It is more like the very
early days of Marconi’s experiments in wireless when an
occasional and very broken message came through; but
much more often mere atmospheric disturbances and
meaningless movements of the instruments were all that
could be registered.
Do not dabble in psychic things. If you wish to in­
vestigate thoroughly and scientifically, well and good,
but this will be the work of years, and will call for
scientific conditions. The chief objection to the run­
ning after mediums that so many people practise is that
it is really a running away from the responsibilities of
this life. Professional mediums say that they seldom get
Life After Death
a client who is happy, whose life is full of prosperity
and self-expression. On the contrary, it is those whose
lives here are frustrated and unhappy, irrespective of
a particular bereavement, who are always trying to
communicate with the next plane. Thus it becomes
what is called in psychology, an escape mechanism, and
it can be almost as disastrous as taking to drink or nar­
cotic drugs. Your business is to live here in this world
while you are here; to face up to your problems here
and to try to solve them; and to live in the next world
when you get there.
There is a truly spiritual mode of communication
from which nothing but good can come. It is this: Sit
down quietly and remind yourself that the one God
really is Omnipresent. Then reflect that your Real
Self—the Divine Spark of you—is in the Presence of
God now, and that the Real Self—the Divine Spark—
of your loved one is also in the Presence of God. Do
this for a few minutes every day, and sooner or later
you will get a sense of communication. However, no
detailed message will come, as a rule—only a definite
and unmistakable sense that he knows you have thought
of him and that he is thinking of you.
People often ask what they should do to prepare
themselves for the next world. The best way to pre­
pare for the future is to live rightly today. Lead a
clean, honest life, embodying in your conduct the
highest that you know at the time. Be as useful as you
can to others. Do all that you can to help other people
in any way that is open to you. Everyone has some
opportunity of service—physical, mental, or spiritual—
228 Power Through Constructive Thinking
and these opportunities must be used. If you seem to
have no opportunities to help others, go to work and
manufacture some.
Learn the Truth of Being. Learn as much as you
can about the nature of God—the only thing really
worth knowing—and learn what man is, and what life
really means.
This world is a school, that and nothing more, and
provided you learn your lesson, nothing else matters.
It does not really matter whether you are rich or poor,
cultured or simple, a king or a scavenger. These are
only the roles that men enact on the stage of life. How
the role is acted is what matters. The two supreme
lessons set for this school are the lesson of the Omni­
presence of God, and the lesson of the power of thought.
Every negative or difficult thing that enters into your
life marks your inability to realize the Presence of God
at that point, and it is therefore but the signal for
another step to be made. Make that step in spiritual
understanding, and never again throughout eternity will
that particular task have to be done.
The power of thought is the second great lesson that
we have to master, and here again, as Jesus told us, the
tree is known by its fruits.
Now that you understand these things in some degree,
it should be possible for you to go through life and to
meet death with that “ even mind” to which a modem
seer referred. You should be habitually cheerful and
happy, neither unduly elated by seeming good fortune,
nor unduly depressed by temporary adversity—because
you assess both of these things at their correct value. You
Life After Death 229
should never be so completely wedded to any particular
set of conditions—to a house, or a district, or a job, or a
vocation, or to any earthly arrangement—that you can­
not part from it without undue regret. You should not
be dependent for your happiness or self-respect upon
human praise or approval, though such things may be ap­
preciated in their place. Your attitude should be:
I do my duty and enjoy myself where I am; I do my
job and pass on—to another. I am going to live forever;
in a thousand years from now I shall still be alive and
active somewhere; in a hundred thousand years still alive
and still active somewhere else; and so the events of today
have only the importance that belongs to today. Always
the best is yet to be. Always the future will be better than
the present or the past because I am ever growing and
progressing, and I am an immortal soul. I am the master
of my fate. I greet the unknown with a cheer, and press
forward joyously, exulting in the Great Adventure.
Armed with this philosophy, and really understanding
its power, you have nothing to fear in life or death—
because God is All, and God is Good.
N O T E
I w o u ld im press u pon read ers o f this essay th at n o w ritte n descrip­
tio n can re a lly do justice to the su b ject. It can b u t h in t and suggest
the tru th .
H o w e v e r correct the itin e ra ry o f a jo u rn e y m a y be, it is lik e ly to
seem som ew h at d r y and u n attractive w h en read , since the b eau ty and
jo y o f the n e w ad ven tu re m ust evad e the w ritte n w o rd .
T h is essay, o f cou rse, d escrib es th e exp erien ces o f th e Soul b etw een
incarnations.
230 Power Through Constructive Thinking
R EIN C A R N A T IO N
T H E IMPRISONED SPLENDOUR
Truth is within ourselves; it takes no rise from
outward things, what e'er you may believe.
There is an mmost center in us all,
Where truth abides in fulness; and around,
Wall upon wall, the gross flesh hems it in,
This perfect clear perception—which is truth.
A baffling and perverting carnal mesh
Binds it, and makes all error; and to know
Rather consist in opening out a way
Whence the imprisoned splendour may escape,
Than in effecting entry for a light
Supposed to be without.
Browning
REIN C A R N A T IO N
H
ave you ever asked yourself why there should be
such a difference between one human lot and
another? Have you ever wondered why some people
seem to be so happy and fortunate in their lives, while
others appear to undergo so much undeserved suffering?
I am sure you have, because only a very selfish or a very
thoughtless person could fail to be challenged sooner or
later by this problem.
W hy is one person so well placed in life, having ap­
parently everything done for him; being born into a nice
family, carefully brought up, given every advantage that
money and culture can confer, sent to good schools, and
launched into life with every advantage?
W hy is another boy or girl born into very difficult
circumstances, where it is all but impossible to make any
advance in life?
W hy is one child bom a cripple, or bom blind, or
bom with some horrible disease; while another child
arrives in this world with a strong, clean, healthy little
body, certain to grow up well and sturdy?
W hy does one child reach manhood or womanhood,
and live to a ripe old age, whereas another child is bom,
and after only a few weeks, or a few months, or even a
few years, dies, without seemingly having lived to any
233
purpose? In a certain old country churchyard, there is a
tombstone dating from the seventeenth century. It marks
the grave of an infant who died after three weeks, and
the epitaph reads: Since so soon done, why was l begun?
And, indeed, the question is an extremely searching one.
Such questions call urgently for an answer if we are to
believe in the existence of God, and in a universe gov­
erned by law and order. To the honest and fearless soul,
the problem of the inequality of human lives is one that
clamors for solution.
Men and women are not born free and equal. They are
created free and equal, but they are not born so. The
Declaration of Independence does not say that men are
born free and equal. It says that they are created so, which
is quite a different thing. Men and women are not boro
free and equal but start this life like horses in a handicap
race—no two bearing an equal burden. Now, why should
this be, if indeed God is Love, and if God is just, and
if God is all powerful?
Well, the answer is that this life that you are living
today is not the only life; and that it cannot be under­
stood when judged by itself. The answer is that you have
lived before, not once, but many, many times, and that in
the course of these many lives you have thought and said
and done all sorts of things, good and bad, and that the
circumstances into which you were born are but the
natural outcome of the way in which you have lived and
comported yourself in your former lives. You are reap­
ing today, for good or evil, the results of the seeds that
you have sown during these many previous lives. The
Bible says, “Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also
234 P ow er Through Constructive Thinking
reap” ; and that text states the truth, and it cannot be
made to mean anything else.
You who read these words have lived many, many
times before, in different ages, in different conditions,
under different skies, and in different civilizations. Many
times you have been a man, and many times you have
been a woman. You have probably been very rich, and
very poor; and probably, you have sometimes been highly
placed in the world, and sometimes your place has been
lowly. Some of those who are at the bottom of our social
ladder today have walked the earth as kings, and presi­
dents, and generals, and admirals, and high priests; and
some who now sit in the seats of the mighty, surrounded
by pomp and circumstance, have toiled as simple peasants
in days gone by, pulled at the oar of a galley, or worn the
chains of the slave. And you, yourself, in future ages,
centuries from now very likely, will return to this earth
planet and be born again as a baby in some family; and
grow up, and probably marry, and live out another life.
And the conditions under which you start that life will
be the outcome of the lives you have already lived; but
most particularly will they be the outcome of the life
which you are living at the present time. That, briefly,
is the story of the life of man. What is customarily called
a lifetime is really but a comparatively brief day in a long,
long life.
This is the glorious truth, and it is the most wonderful
and beautiful thing that you could ever discover. It is the
door of liberation. It is your Charter of Freedom, your
passport to Fullness of Life. It means nothing less than
that your destiny is in your own hands, and that you
Reincarnation 235
may determine that destiny—that you may really make
your future life, beginning today, the sort of thing that
you wish it to be.
You arrived in this world as a tiny baby, unconscious;
and then came consciousness with the first breath; and
then your new life had begun. Probably the first thing
that happened to you when you came into the world was
that they spanked you, and in most cases, until you know
the Law and practise it, the world will go on spanking
you until the very end—until nature gets tired of you
and turns you out. You came into the world with a
cry—with the very first breath you drew you gave a
cry—and many people spend their whole lives crying
and protesting, right down to the grave. When, however,
you understand that this present life is only one day in
your long life, and that at the change called death you
simply disappear onto the next plane, to come back again
later on, then the events of this particular life appear in
their true proportion, and then you begin to have domin­
ion. The events of this life will not appear less important
because of your new knowledge, but they will no longer
intimidate you, because you will know that you can con­
trol them. No seeming misfortune will any longer have
power to break your heart or weaken your courage. You
will understand life as the wondrous opportunity and the
glorious gift that it is.
People often say that they are sick of this life anyway,
that they do not like the world, and that they do not
want to come back; but this attitude usually arises from
a misunderstanding. It is not really this earth life that they
dislike, but the limited or unsatisfactory conditions in
236 Power Through Constructive Thinking
which they are finding themselves at present. They fail
to realize that they will not, in any case, come back to
anything like their present conditions.
You, personally, will probably come back again; but
you are not likely to come back for five hundred years or
so anyway, and so, obviously, you will not come back to
the world you know today. You will return to a very
different world, with different conditions, different ways
of life, different institutions, different food, and clothing,
and social customs, and, above all, to a world full of new
and different problems. Most, if not all, of mankind’s
present problems will have been worked out in one way
or another by that time. Most, if not all, existing institu­
tions will have disappeared. All the things that you dislike
or disapprove of in the world today will have gone, but,
by the same token, most or all of the things that you par­
ticularly like and approve of will have gone too— and so
when you do arrive it will be for a completely fresh start.
It is true that you will have to meet the same types of
problem, the fundamental types that arise out of the es­
sential character of human nature; but the conditions will
be utterly different; and the experiences of this life, and
all the things that you learned this time will be with you,
and will stand you in good stead.
You will not only come back, but you will probably
meet some of your present associates again, particularly if
there is an emotional link either of love or hatred be­
tween you. Love will take care of itself; but you must get
all hatred out of your heart, if you do not want to renew
disagreeable contacts.*
* See essay, The Lord’s Prayer.
Reincarnation 237
In the same way, some of your present associates are
sure to be people with whom you had dealings in a pre­
vious life or lives. Your son today may have been your
father, or merely an acquaintance in days gone by, and
a close friend today may in other times have been a rela­
tive or a husband, or wife. The general tendency is for
people who live and move in the same groups to reincar­
nate about the same time, though, of course, there will
always be exceptions.
I said that you personally will probably come back
again, and here the question naturally arises—is it abso­
lutely necessary to come back? Must we positively come
back whether we wish to or not, or however strongly we
may prefer not to? And the answer is, no, it is not abso­
lutely necessary to come back, but the only way to avoid
doing so is a way that hardly anyone will take. You need
not come back if you will concentrate your whole heart
upon God, seek His presence until you realize it vividly,
and live to do His Holy Will, and that alone; first, last,
and all the time. If you can really do this, and it is of all
tasks the most difficult, then you will leave this earth
planet to enter into full communion with God, and you
need never come back. You will be, as the Bible says, a
pillar in the house of God, and need go out no more.
Hardly anyone, however, is really prepared to do this at
present, and so we have to go on by stages, gradually
getting nearer to God as the ages go by, learning slowly
from experience or rapidly through study, prayer, and
meditation; living life after life until at last we “grow up”
spiritually—when the day breaks and the shadows flee
away.
238 Power Through Constructive Thinking
The reason why the Bible nowhere definitely teaches
Reincarnation and, in fact, avoids the subject, is because
the Bible teaches us to concentrate on the task of achiev­
ing our reunion with God instead of postponing this
indefinitely as many Eastern people do. The doctrine of
Reincarnation when not thoroughly understood some­
times tends to make people apathetic and fatalistic. The
Bible encourages men to seek actively to liberate them­
selves from all limitations.
At the same time, it must be remembered that this
earth life can be a most interesting and joyous process in
itself, for this is a wonderful world (of which even now
man only knows about five per cent) and your sojourn
here can be a series of wonderful and joyous adventures,
if only you will learn the laws of life and apply them.
You are not obliged to be sick, or sad, or lonely, or frus­
trated, or unsuccessful. This life and the lives that follow
it can be made interesting, and joyous, and free.
When I speak of seeking whole-heartedly for God,
and putting Him first, I do not mean that you have to
spend all your time in church-going, or even in prayer
and meditation. That would be unwise. It would be doing
as the Anchorites and Hermits of ancient times did. They
went into the desert, or climbed on top of a tall pillar to
be alone, to get away from temptation and difficulty—
but that is not the way. In most cases they merely spent
the time in thinking about themselves all day long, and
this naturally brought serious troubles upon them. Prog­
ress is made by overcoming the practical difficulties of
our everyday lives, not by running away from them.
Jesus, knowing this, said that he would not pray that his
Reincarnation 239
followers should be taken out of the world, but rather
that they should remain in the world and develop natu­
rally there. And, indeed, that is just what the world is for.
Practical life is the school for spiritual development and
the overcoming of selfishness and fear. Your duty is to
fill your place in life, whatever it may be for the time
being, to the very best of your ability, and to try sin­
cerely to live up to the highest that you know at the mo­
ment.
Of course, a definite time must be set aside daily for
prayer and meditation, but the rest of the time must be
used for incorporating your spiritual understanding into
your practical life; for thus only can you yourself pro­
gress and help the world too.* So, far from being a re­
cluse or an Anchorite, you can make friends, go about
the world, visit the theatre, read the newspapers, travel
abroad, join clubs and associations, and do all the cus­
tomary things that people do, but you must do them in
the light of your spiritual understanding. Your under­
standing must mould your activities and your environ­
ment; you must not allow your environment to mould
you. You must live, so far as you can, as consciously the
expression of God, and as His witness and representative.
W hy is Reincarnation necessary? W hy should life
have to develop in that particular way? The reason is
this: W e are here on the earth planet to learn certain
lessons. W e are here to develop spiritually. We are here
to acquire full understanding of and control over our
mentality; and this cannot be done in one lifetime. W hy
not? W hy do we come back, and back, and back many
* T h e F ifte e n Points (p age 280).
240 Power Through Constructive Thinking
rimes to this earth for short excursions of perhaps seventy
or eighty years instead of. let us say, finishing it up in
one very long lifetime of perhaps a thousand or even
several thousand years? The explanation lies in man’s
mental laziness and inertia; in his reluctance to change
himself radically, to pull himself out of a rut when once
he gets into it, to adopt new ideas and adapt himself to
changing conditions. The explanation lies in man’s con­
servatism and tendency to self-satisfaction and, above all,
in his ignorance of his own unlimited potentialities—and
these are just the very things that he is here to overcome.
Consider again the life of man as we know it in almost
every case. He arrives as a new-born baby with no con­
scious memory of the past. Even his consciousness of the
present is at first very limited. Then gradually that con­
sciousness expands and he begins to know his surround­
ings, to recognize his mother or his nurse. He smiles at
them and understands their smiles and caresses. He begins
to learn elementary facts concerning life on this plane.
He learns to judge distances by feeling out with his
hands, discovering that he can touch the side of the
cradle, but not the ceiling. He experiences both hunger
and satisfaction, both pain and bodily ease.
Gradually he learns to talk, and with the equipment of
even a few words his means of communication and of
control over his little life is immensely enhanced. He
learns the very difficult business of walking. (You have
forgotten about it now, but it was a terrible job at the
time, that learning to balance and to walk. You tumbled
about and bumped your head and cut your knees for a
while, but presently you got tired of that and learned
Reincarnation 241
to walk safely.) Presently the baby learns to read and to
write. These again are very difficult accomplishments—
at the time. (You scribble off a letter now, or you skim
through a newspaper at great speed, but there was a time
when words like “cat” and “dog” presented a real diffi­
culty either to read or write.)
The child goes on learning. Being young, he is inter­
ested in everything and wants to know about everything.
He pesters his elders with questions on every conceivable
subject. (Parents are never tired of telling about their
children’s thirst for knowledge. “What do you think
Johnny asked his father last night?” mother will say.)
So the child has this insatiable curiosity, the ceaseless
desire to see everything and go everywhere and handle
and experiment with everything. W e call it play, or get­
ting into mischief, but it really means tasting and investi­
gating life.
So he grows and expands, goes through school and
perhaps college, and then out into the world. Here the
same process continues. He seeks new experience, wants
to do things in new ways, looks at old things with a fresh
mind, and wants to improve everything. Of course he
gets snubbed and rebuffed a good deal, but at first he
does not allow this to daunt him. He is young, in the
twenties let us say, and to be young is just this very thing.
To be young is to have this interest and joy in living for
its own sake, to have this appetite for new ideas and new
ways, this freedom from fixed mental habits and emo­
tional commitments. That is youth, and that is the con­
sciousness where the morning stars sing together and the
children of God shout for joy.
242 Power Through Constructive Thinking
But presently something happens. The glory that is
youth lasts for a time, and then . . . and then . . . well
then something else begins to happen. That avid interest
in all things, that readiness for the new and the untried,
begins—insensibly at first—to fade a little, and discour­
agements and disappointments of one kind or another
gradually begin to tell.
The strong race suggestions all around him gradually
get their way. He begins to acquire vested interests (men­
tally) in the status quo. He begins to settle down. He
drops emotional anchors into the sea of life, and these
things lead, psychologically, to a diminution of energy.
The idea of letting-well-enough-alone begins to appeal
to him—and the malignant disease called middle age has
set in.
As a boy of twelve he thought he could do anything
he wanted to do, reasonable or unreasonable, from being
a lion tamer in the circus or the driver of a fire engine,
to President of the country. A t twenty he thought he
could do anything within reason—and he probably could.
He might be a little nervous about it, but in his heart of
hearts he really thought that he could do anything that
any other fellow could do—and that is youth. When he
read or heard of some brilliant achievement, no matter
how magnificent, he whispered to himself “Well, I could
do that too”—and that is youth. But “shades of the prison
house begin to close about the growing boy,” and now
the time has come when he thinks instead, “How wonder­
ful that is; of course I could never do anything like that;
I am not in that class; I haven’t the ability, or the train­
ing, or the money, or the right contacts,” or else, “It is
Reincarnation 243
now too late.” That is middle age, and it comforts itself
with all kinds of promises and deceptions and foolish
rationalizations as the wheels of life slow down toward
the end.
N ow you will see that nature could have no object in
keeping this middle-aged man alive for hundreds or thou­
sands of years, because he is no longer of much use to
her. Nature wants to do new things in new ways, always
something new and something better; and the crystallized
mentality is not ready for this. So her only remedy, when
crystallization sets in, is to remove him from the earth
plane altogether; send him to the etheric planes for rest,
reflection, assimilation, and general readjustment; and
then bring him back again once more as a baby, to
experience a new youth and a new period of true spiritual
production.
There are other reasons why the reincarnating of the
ego many times is necessary, although they really arise
from the fact which we have just been considering.
Nature wants you to have all kinds of experience in order
to develop every side of your character. You need to have
been a man and you need to have been a woman, to have
been a parent and also a child. You need to learn lessons
of discipline and self-restraint, and you need to learn to
use authority in the right way. You need to learn the
lesson of getting on with other people, and you must also
learn to be alone. You must learn to value health and
rational living even if you have to learn it through the
discipline of sickness. You must learn to bear failure and
disappointment with fortitude and you must learn to
stand success without allowing your head to be turned.
244 P ow er Through Constructive Thinking
You have to develop such an understanding faith in the
unseen that you can find the things that are seen slipping
away from you without panic. You have to learn the
lesson of patience, and the lesson of enterprise and adven­
ture too; and, above all, you have to move about in time
and space that you may learn that nothing that God made
is really strange or foreign or separate—and this could
not be done in one incarnation.
This is why Reincarnation is necessary. You will see
now what a simple and natural process it is. The idea
seems a strange and startling one at first only because we
in the West have been totally unaware of it. But in the
East it is as familiar a fact as the rising and setting of the
sun, and it is probable that the majority of mankind have
always believed in Reincarnation.
People who accept this truth sometimes prefer to call
it by another name—Reproduction, Counterfesance, or
Metempsychosis, or some other title—but the principle is
the same; the reappearance on the earth of the same indi­
vidual, time after time.
W hy do you not remember your previous lives? Well,
you do not remember the early days of this life. For
various reasons Nature has drawn a veil of forgetfulness
over our beginnings on this plane, and for excellent rea­
sons she hides away the memory of previous lives until
we are sufficiently developed to be ready to remember
them. It would not be well for most people to be able to
recollect their previous lives, because at the present time
they simply could not stand it. Consider how prone peo­
ple are to worry and grieve foolishly over the past
events of this one life. Think how they fume and fret
Reincarnation 245
over some incident of twenty years ago when they
themselves said or did something rather foolish, or when
someone else ill-treated them, or what not. Think how
they sentimentalize and mope over “the dear dead days
of long ago” ; and imagine the state they would get them­
selves into if they had the material of many lives to
handle in this way. Obviously they would destroy them­
selves very quickly.
The woman who cannot forget or at least forgive a
mistake her husband made twenty years ago, would have
a bad time with the memories of all the mistakes made by
even a dozen husbands or wives in the past. The man
who cannot overlook the bitter thing that his wife said
ten years ago, or forgive some grievance which he holds
against one of his parents, could hardly survive the accu­
mulated remembrance of many husbands, many wives,
and many parents.
And so the past is mercifully withheld from us until
we reach the stage when we can regard our own histories
impersonally and objectively, and when we do reach
that stage it is possible to remember our previous lives.
This very faculty of being able to look at our own lives
in a detached way, to consider impersonally our own
deeds and the things done to us by others is one of the
most difficult of all things to acquire. Indeed, most people
who have not studied philosophy would not even dream
that such a thing could be, and yet some day you will
have to attain to this, and some day you will. A time will
come when you will be able to look back and consider
every incident in all your lives with great interest but as
calmly and unconcernedly as though they had happened
246 Power Through Constructive Thinking
to the man next door. That is the prelude to Liberation.
Meanwhile, some people do get an occasional glimpse of
their past incarnations in one way or another, and, if
wisely handled, such glimpses can be extremely useful.
And there are those who get more than a glimpse.
As a matter of fact, the whole history of all your past
lives is stored away in the deeper levels of your subcon­
scious, and thus it is that your mentality today—and
consequently your destiny—is the logical outcome of all
the lives that you have lived up to the present.
O u r deeds still tra v e l w ith us fro m afar,
A n d w h at w e h ave been, m akes us w h a t w e are.
Now we must consider the question of how the baby
comes to be bom in the particular family in which it is
born; how you, for example, came to be born into the
particular family into which you were born. Let us
consider how you came to be a Jones, or a Dumont, or
a Hapsburg, or whatever you are. W hy, out of all the
races and nations and families on the globe, were you
bom in just that particular family where you were born?
Let me begin by saying that the stork never makes a
mistake. Each one of us is born into the conditions which
exactly fit his soul at the time of incarnation. He naturally
gravitates to the exact spot that belongs to him.
Of course, we do not choose our parents. W e go to
the parents whose nature and conditions correspond with
the state of the soul when it incarnates. And often that
family is anything but what we would choose at that
time.
It should be understood that incarnation takes place at
Reincarnation 247
the moment of conception. When the male principle
punctures the ovum, it sets up a powerful vortex in the
finer ethers, and a soul is, so to speak, sucked onto this
plane and attached to the fertilized cell. Just before this
the soul was waiting on the next (etheric) plane ready
to incarnate. It was at that time fully conscious and it had
a clear recollection of its recent life on the etheric planes,
and of the main events of its last earth life. N ow it is
drawn onto this plane and attached to the fertilized ovum
which is the nucleus of its new body. For a moment it
has a preview of what the general conditions of its new
life will be, and then it falls into a state of coma from
which it only begins to emerge when it is bom, and from
which it does not completely emerge until the age of
puberty.
The subconscious mind is active all the time and from
the moment of incarnation it is busily building the new
body, for it is the baby’s own subconscious that builds its
body in the uterus, and it builds it in its own image and
likeness—that is why our bodies express the things that
are in the soul. The mother supplies the material but the
child’s own soul builds its little body, and we learn in
metaphysics that our environment is always but the out-
picturing of our soul.
No one “sent” you to that family or selected it for
you. Being the soul that you were, it was as natural and
indeed as inevitable that you should go there, as it is natu­
ral for a certain drop of water on the Continental Divide
to find its way ultimately into the Pacific or into the
Atlantic, according to circumstances. Always remember
that at the moment before birth, one is dealing, not with
248 Power Through Constructive Thinking
a new soul, but with a mature soul—the product of many
lives. That soul has certain dominant characteristics, both
good and bad, and under the Cosmic Law that Like At­
tracts Like, it finds its own place. N ow its own place is
not only the place that fits it at the time, but it is the
very place that furnishes it with just the opportunity it
needs to develop still further its good qualities and to
overcome its weaknesses, if it so desires.
The soul gravitated to that particular family because at
the beginning of its present life it had certain fundamental
things in common with it. It is true that sometimes a child
seems to be very much out of place in its family, but this
is only an appearance. Underneath there is a fundamental
family resemblance or the child would not be there. It is
also true that as children grow up they usually grow
apart from one another and from their parents, but, never­
theless, at the time of incarnation, there were certain
fundamental similarities. Again, it is true that children
are often drawn into their families by what is called a
karmic link, as I shall describe later on. But this link is
merely another aspect of the fact that like attracts like.
As with most of the laws of nature, the law of Reincar­
nation is simple in outline but extremely complicated in
detail. Nevertheless, for practical purposes, a general
understanding is quite sufficient. Your soul is extremely
complicated. The whole of your environment and all
your experiences are but the out-picturing of some of its
aspects, for most of it has not come into manifestation
yet. One aspect of your soul is clearly seen in your physi­
cal body, and certain underlying similarities with your
parents and brothers and sisters come out in what we call
Reincarnation 249
250 Power Through Constructive Thinking
family likenesses—family features and family manner­
isms. Of course, we pick up many of these things by
copying our elders while we are still young, but some
are obviously inborn.
Now we are ready to understand the startling state­
ment that there is no such thing as heredity. This state­
ment will surprise many, but it is true. No one ever
“inherits” anything from his parents or his ancestors. He
already had certain mental tendencies before he incar­
nated this time and these tendencies guide him to a family
where similar tendencies existed—that is all. The gouty
subject, or the soul predisposed by its own nature to pro­
duce weak lungs, gravitates to the family having these
conditions. One does not “inherit” gout or tuberculosis
from his father or his grandmother; he joins a family of
that type because he already has these conditions poten­
tially. Like attracts like all through the universe, or, as we
say more picturesquely, birds of a feather flock together.
John, with a mental quality that produces weak lungs,
or gout, or a certain type of face, is taken by the stork to
a family in which such mental qualities are common and
which therefore out-pictures these things; but that is just
his opportunity to overcome the tendency to gout or
tuberculosis, or to overcome or develop the particular
characteristic which produces that type of face. If he
does this once and for all, he will never have to meet that
problem again; but he has free will and if he is foolish
he will probably do nothing about it, and postpone that
overcoming to a future time. It often happens, of course,
that a particular child arrives in a family noted for some
so-called hereditary ailment, and yet is quite free from it,
though his brothers and sisters do not escape. This only
means that this particular soul was not subject to that
physical weakness but had other characteristics in com­
mon with that family. Jane, whose trouble is emotional
instability, lands in a rather hysterical family in the same
way, and this too furnishes her with just the material for
understanding and overcoming her own weakness, if she
wants to.
Thomas has certain lessons to learn which call for the
struggles and difficulties that the humble people of the
world have to meet, whereas William, who has already
overcome these, is bom into easy and comfortable cir­
cumstances—though, note carefully, he now has to learn
to handle these conditions, and this may be a more diffi­
cult lesson than that of Thomas. Also William, though he
is now in affluent circumstances, may someday be re-born
as poor as Thomas if he does not in this life make good
use of the prosperity that is his.
Social standing and human learning are of no impor­
tance in themselves except as they provide opportunities
for the growth in wisdom of the soul. They come and go
throughout the long life in accordance with the need
of the day. The simple laboring man of today may well
have been a prince in days gone by, a prince maybe who
led a good and useful life in his own sphere but needed
certain lessons that are only to be learned among the rank
and file—and, incidentally, he may well be a far happier
man now. The reigning prince of today may yesterday
have been a poor fisherman who qualified in that charac­
ter for a larger role upon the stage of life. W e must never
seek to gauge eternal values by the passing standards of
Reincarnation 251
time. So you yourself are your own ancestors, and at
some time or other you have produced your own personal
character; and all your external conditions arise out of
that.
So we see how absurd it really is for people to be, as
they often are, either stupidly proud or stupidly ashamed
of their parents or their home. W e may well be rightly
proud of spiritual growth, and especially of any rapid
progress that we may make, but outer conditions are in
themselves of no importance. W e may be wisely'proud
of having had worthy parents, of course, because it
proves that there must have been worth in us to have
deserved to have parents like that. And it is for us to see
to it that we do them credit.
Reincarnation explains at once the differences in tal­
ents which we find between one man and another, just as
it explains all the other differences. W hy has one man a
special aptitude for music, another for engineering, and
yet a third for farming, while so many seem to have no
particular aptitude at all? Differences in talent, like dif­
ferences in opportunity, are the result of our activities
in other lives. The born musician is a man who has studied
music in a previous life, perhaps in several lives, and has
therefore built that faculty into his soul. He is a talented
musician today because he is reaping what he sowed
yesterday. It may even be that in previous lives, circum­
stances, despite all he could do, were too strongly adverse
to permit of his actually studying music; but in that case
he must have had a steady, continuous desire to do so,
and persistent desire has brought its fulfillment at last.
Child prodigies are always souls who have acquired
252 Power Through Constructive Thinking
their proficiency in a previous life; and it is noticeable
how often such children are bom into circumstances fav­
orable for their talent. The child violinist often has a
father with musical tastes who puts a fiddle into his hand
at the earliest possible moment. The gifted child actress
appears in a theatrical family, or is born right on the
doorstep of Hollywood.
An understanding of Reincarnation not only solves
most of life’s riddles but serves as a sign-post for all sorts
of questions of policy. It constantly furnishes us with
guidance for the conduct of social and political life. As
for one’s private life, it utterly changes the perspective
of the whole thing. It is the sovereign remedy for depres­
sion and discouragement and regret. It is the gospel of
freedom and hope. It makes us realize that there is no
mistake that cannot be repaired, that it is never too late,
and that no good thing is out of reach of intelligence and
work and prayer. It shows us all a future in which there
is no limit to the glorious things that we may be and do.
A thorough understanding of this doctrine will prob­
ably do more than anything else to improve one’s char­
acter. For instance, it inevitably makes us more tolerant.
W e cannot but be more merciful toward other people
when they displease us if we realize that very largely
they are working out personal difficulties that they made
in the long ago. W e can realize too that no man can act
“ out of character,” and, as misconduct or a bad disposi­
tion inevitably brings its own punishment, there is no real
reason to be annoyed. When people act badly toward
us, we usually think that we know better, and now we
shall realize that if this is so we must not retaliate in
Reincarnation 253
kind. Someone said, “When a dog bites you, you do not
bite the dog to get even,” and there is a great moral lesson
in this. See the Presence of God in the delinquent, and
forget him. Of course, this does not mean that we shall
allow him to impose upon us in any way, but we shall no
longer be tempted to regard him with resentment.
In general, an understanding of Reincarnation will
lead us to do everything we possibly can to make the path
of others easier so as to facilitate their personal evolution
and that of the race. In our own lives we shall make the
most of whatever talents we possess without either sigh­
ing for the impossible or fleeing from the inevitable. W e
shall face up to our difficulties courageously, knowing
that there is no problem without a solution and that to
run away is to postpone the day of reckoning.
In politics, the implications of Reincarnation are un­
mistakable. The best political system is the system that
will give the greatest personal freedom to the individual.
Each one of us must be free to work out his destiny with
as little hindrance as possible from outside. Each must
have every possible opportunity to exercise the qualities
of initiative, self-reliance, resourcefulness, and courage.
And these qualities can only be developed where the
individual is free. Each must have the chance to make
mistakes—and to learn from them. Each must be able to
reap the fruit of his own efforts; and those who for one
reason or another will not make an effort, must realize
that they have to forego the fruit. No political system
should put a premium upon idleness, or inefficiency, or
stupidity. All the incentives should be in the direction of
encouraging intelligence and industry.
254 Power Through Constructive Thinking
The State, of course, should be conceived as existing
for the benefit and protection of the individual; never
should it be supposed that the individual exists for the
sake of the State. On the whole, we may say that the less
a government interferes in the life of the private citizen,
the better will it be for all concerned. Under the compul­
sion of force, the individual may actually behave very
correctly, because he is obliged to, but because this
behavior does not arise from his own desire and initiative,
it makes no permanent improvement in his character, and
therefore he does not evolve.
Just as all the events of your present life are recorded
in the nearer strata of the subconscious mind, so all the
events of your past incarnations are recorded in much
deeper strata below that. These, however, are not acces­
sible except in very exceptional circumstances for reasons
already given. Nevertheless, they are there and help to
make you what you are today.
Reincarnation insures your getting all kinds of experi­
ence by playing all kinds of roles in the great human
drama. And for this reason souls usually change their
nationality each time they incarnate because the different
nations afford different opportunities for development.
The Latin race affords certain opportunities not to be
found in the Teutonic race, for example, and the Teu­
tonic race furnishes conditions that are not to be found
among Latins. In the same way, the old world of Europe
presents an environment not found in the new countries,
and in the New World we have opportunities, and also,
of course, problems, that the people in Europe are not
required to meet. W e have already seen that the circum-
Reincarnation 255
256 Power Through Constructive Thinking
stances into which a soul is bom are the natural results
of his previous conduct, but this is only another way of
saying that these circumstances will supply just the mate­
rial he needs for further development if he will take ad­
vantage of them.
Here it may be well to issue a word of warning. There
are people who make fools of themselves about Reincar­
nation. This is only to be expected because every great
universal truth is sure to be misunderstood or misapplied
by some people. A fool will wrest any piece of knowl­
edge to his own confusion, no matter what it is. All the
great truths of religion and philosophy have been cari­
catured by immature minds from time to time, and so we
sometimes find obviously undeveloped souls claiming to
be reincarnations of some of the most distinguished fig­
ures in history. I suppose we have all met the feeble­
minded individual who was Shakespeare or Napoleon in
his less developed days. And self-styled reincarnations of
Cleopatra and Joan of Arc adorn many small tea parties
up and down the country today, and bore people with
their foolish talk. Of course, all this means nothing except
that foolish people are finding one more opportunity to
be foolish. People who really can remember previous
lives are excessively reticent concerning any reference to
them. Reincarnation is true and none the less so because
it is sometimes misunderstood.
As you think over the truth of Reincarnation and
gradually assimilate it—for an adequate realization of
what this great truth really means is not to be obtained
in a day or two—you will be astonished at the number
of otherwise insoluble problems which it clears up. The
major problems of life are logically and satisfactorily
explained by Reincarnation, and all sorts of minor diffi­
culties which have puzzled you from time to time fall
easily into place too when the great scheme of things is
understood.
Consider the problem of the rise and fall of nations,
for example. All through history nations and empires
have risen into prominence and power, have flourished
for a time, and then gradually decayed. But why should
this be the case? Historians have described the process,
but the reasons for it have completely baffled them. The
Roman Empire is an excellent example. W hy did the
Roman Empire “ decline and fall” ? Orthodox historians
have not the faintest notion. They describe the fact but
cannot explain it. The Goths and Vandals were able to
destroy it—but why? And why not several generations
sooner or later? Nobody who does not understand Rein­
carnation knows. Various reasons for the fall of Rome
which were put forward in the past are seen today to be
absurd (some people in the Middle Ages were convinced
that the fall of Rome was due to the unnatural Roman
habit of constantly bathing, especially in hot water!) and
the experts remain baffled.
The fashion today is to make economic conditions
responsible for everything, but this is to confuse cause
with effect, to put the cart before the horse, because
economic conditions do not produce man’s mentality; it
is the human mentality that produces the economic en­
vironment. The materialist conception of history* is one
more superstition on its way to the ash-can. (The Indians
* K a r l M arx.
Reincarnation 257
258 Power Through Constructive Thinking
lived in the same material environment that we do, but
our conditions of life are entirely different from theirs
because our mentalities are entirely different.) The real
cause for both the rise and fall of Rome, was this: For
several hundred years advanced and capable souls rein­
carnated in the Roman nation because that group pro­
vided the best opportunity for their further development,
and for the development of the race. Being the kind of
people they were, they built up and organized that great
world state, doing a work for humanity second to none
in importance, and making great progress themselves.
Then, having worked out this phase, they passed on to
other activities, and an inferior grade of souls incarnated
in the Roman nation, and she gradually declined. That is
the true and simple explanation.
Many of us have ourselves seen a similar process at
work on a small scale. An able and energetic man spends
his life building up a successful business. Then, his work
done, he passes on, and he is succeeded by his son, or
someone else, a person of mediocre talents or weak char­
acter, and at once the business begins to go downhill,
ending finally in the bankruptcy court. One often sees
the same process in connection with a social or political
club or other organization. It is formed and made success­
ful by a few capable individuals, and then for one reason
or another they gradually drop out, and, being succeeded
by inferior people, the enterprise gradually fails.
This, again, is the explanation of the decay of classical
Greece. “The glory that was Greece” preceded “the
grandeur that was Rome” into oblivion because the glori­
ous souls who made Greece glorious went onward, and
were followed by much younger and less developed souls.
Of course this was really no tragedy. There would be no
point racially or individually in those Greeks going on
doing the same things over and over again. They passed
on to learn new and different lessons, and their successors
obtained an opportunity to take, what was for them, the
next step. For example, Praxiteles having learned so well
the lesson of artistic expression, may have reappeared hun­
dreds of years later to learn the lessons inherent in the
life of a farmer or a sailor or a merchant.
Just as like attracts like, so like produces like. This is
what is called a Cosmic Law, which means that it is uni­
versally true throughout the whole of existence, not only
throughout the entire physical universe, but right up
through the higher planes to the Heart of God Him­
self. Always, like produces like. As Jesus put it, you do
not gather grapes from thorns or figs from thistles; and
he also said, by their fruits ye shall know them* So it is
with our thoughts and words and deeds. As we sow, we
reap. When we sow good, we reap good, and when we
sow evil, we reap trouble and suffering. When we sow a
little good, we reap a little good; and when we sow a
great deal of good, we reap a great deal of good. When
we sow a little evil, we reap a little suffering; and when
we sow a great deal of evil, we reap a great deal of suf­
fering. This is the great Law of Cause and Effect, and it
is amazing that people seem to understand it as little as
they do. No one expects to sow one plant in the ground
and reap another. N o one expects to mix copper and tin
together and get steel. No one expects to put apples and
* R e a d M atth ew 7 :15 -2 0 ; L u k e 6:43-45.
Reincarnation 259
dough in the oven and get out pumpkin pie; but in the
less tangible region of deeds and events, almost everyone
seems to think at times that he really can sow one thing
and reap another. Yet the truth is that as we sow, so shall
we reap, sometimes almost immediately, sometimes after
a long, long interval; but always, sooner or later, like pro­
duces like.
In the East this law of cause and effect is known as
Karma and the term is a convenient one. But whatever
we choose to call it, the law of nature still stands, that as
we sow, we shall reap. As we have seen, the conditions
into which you were born in this life are the outcome of
the way in which you have lived in previous lives, and
your circumstances today are the outcome of your life
up to the present. It naturally follows therefore that you
can be happy and well in the future if you will begin
now to try to live up to the highest that you know, and
take every opportunity to help and serve others in any
way that may be open to you.
No matter what mistakes you have made in the past
or what opportunities you have wasted, you can over­
take them all now; for your future stretches out to
infinity and it is never too late with God. If you have
a bad conscience about something, no matter how much
evil you have sown, you can be free. Cease the wrong
conduct, make whatever reparation, if any, is possible,
make your peace with God, and then turn your back on
the past and never think about it again. Remember that
to harbor useless regrets is remorse instead of repentance,
and remorse is a sin.
Note very carefully that Karma is not punishment. If
zòo Power Through Constructive Thinking
you touch a red hot stove, you will bum your finger.
This will hurt you, and perhaps incapacitate you for a
few days, but it is not punishment, only a natural con­
sequence. Nevertheless it is a benign and reformative
thing, for after one or two such experiences in childhood,
you learn to keep your fingers away from hot iron. If
that stove did not hurt you, you would some day have
your whole hand burned off before discovering your
loss. So it is with all natural retribution—you suffer be­
cause you have a lesson to learn, but when the lesson
is learned, the ill consequences cease, for nature is never
vindictive.
Karma, you will now see, so far from being a punish­
ment, is really the perfect opportunity that ever-kindly
nature gives us to acquire just the knowledge and expe­
rience that we need. Human beings punish one another,
grown-ups punish children, and society punishes crimi­
nals; but, though we seldom suspect it, these punishments
are inflicted chiefly from a desire for revenge, “to get
even” with the culprit for the annoyance he has caused,
even though we rationalize it in various ways. Nature
never punishes; she teaches.
It is unfortunate that some people talk so much about
“ bad Karma.” T o begin with, you have seen now that
no Karma is bad at all, and, further, such people are
dwelling exclusively on the suffering that follows wrong
conduct, and ignoring the happiness that follows upon
good conduct. It is just as much the Law of Karma
that every good and kind and wise thing you have ever
said or done has brought you fruit of its own kind and
will continue to do so. Especially every moment in your
Reincarnation 261
life tnat you have spent in prayer or meditation will con­
tinue to bless and enrich you to the end of time. Here
I wish to make it as clear as I possibly can that there is
nothing fatalistic about the Law of Karma. You have
free will—not omnipotence, but always a choice within
reasonable limits—and always you can choose the higher
or the lower.
The Law of Karma teaches that by making the best
use of whatever talents or advantages we have, even
though they be small, we shall win still greater talents
and opportunities.* On the other hand, if we neglect to
make the best use of our talents and opportunities, we
shall lose even what we have. The healthy man who
neglects his health will lose it. The man with a musical
gift who never practises his music will find some day
that his gift has atrophied. The rich man who hoards up
his money or spends it all selfishly on himself, instead of
using it to do good to others, will either lose his money
in this life or else will be born into poverty next time.
God gave him that talent and he “buries it in a napkin.”
Most of the trouble in our lives is not caused by
Karma at all but by lack of wisdom in the present. The
conditions in which you began your life were karmic,
but your everyday experience is made by yourself as you
go along. It is a common failing for people to behave
unwisely, and then grumble at their difficulties and lay
the blame on Karma. “ I must have been a dreadful sinner
in my last life,” a person will say, “my conditions are so
miserable now.” And yet nine times out of ten, his
miseries have nothing to do with Karma but are caused
* Jesu s teaches th is in M atth ew 2 5 :15 -3 0 .
262 Power Through Constructive Thinking
solely by poor judgment now. I knew a student of this
subject who constantly talked in this way. He was the
proprietor of a small business which was steadily failing,
and he was surrounded by debts and other embarrass­
ments. He was full of self-pity and he would enlarge
upon his worries, and say what a terrible sinner he must
have been in his last life to be “punished” in this way.
N ow the fact was, as some of his friends well knew, that
he had no idea of running a business properly. His shop
looked neglected, and the quality of his goods was
inferior to that obtainable elsewhere at the same price.
He was constantly out of stock of the commonest things
that customers would ask for, and he was constantly bor­
rowing money at high interest to overtake other debts.
Obviously, all this had nothing to do with Karma. His
Karma, as far as it went, was good, because it had given
him a business of his own in which many men would
have made a great success. His trouble was poor judg­
ment and, to some extent, laziness. Tw o or three of his
friends who realized these facts and grew tired of his
complaints, once made an effort to bring the truth home
to him for his own good, but their efforts were not well
received, and he could not or would not face the truth.
Success in your present life calls for good judgment,
industry, and the knowledge that you are really the
expression of the Living God; and no stable success can
be achieved without these things.
Finally, and perhaps this is the most important point
of all, you do not have to accept any set of conditions or
any kind of Karma if you will rise above it in conscious­
ness. Any difficulty, any dilemma, can be surmounted by
Reincarnation 263
whole-hearted prayer. A given difficulty can only con­
front you on its own level. Rise above that level through
prayer and meditation and the difficulty will melt away.
You do not, as so many people think, have to sit down
and eat your Karma with as good grace as possible, if
you can rise above that situation in consciousness. On
its own level you have to accept it—you cannot trans­
mute it there. But rise above any ordeal in consciousness
and you will be free from it—for the Christ is Lord of
Karma.*
Our birth is but asleep and a forgetting
The Soul that rises with us, our Life's Star,
Hath had elsewhere its setting,
And cometh from afar;
Not in entire forgetfulness,
And not in utter nakedness,
But trailing clouds of glory do we come
From God, who is our home.
—Wordsworth
* See The Sermon on the Mount, C h ap ter S ix ; and What Is Scientific
Prayer? (page 267).
264 P ow er Through Constructive Thinking
SO W IN G A N D R EA P IN G
Whatsoever a man soweth that shall he also reap.
T
here is no such thing as luck. Nothing ever happens
by chance. Everything, good or bad, that comes into
your life is there as the result of unvarying, inescapable
Law. And the only operator of that law is none other
than yourself. No one else has ever done you any harm
of any kind, or ever could do so, however much it may
seem that he did. Consciously or unconsciously you have
yourself at some time or other produced every condition
desirable or undesirable that you find in either your
bodily health or your circumstances today. You, and
you alone, ordered those goods; and now they are being
delivered. And as long as you go on thinking wrongly
about yourself and about life, the same sort of difficulties
will continue to harass you. For every seed must in­
evitably bring forth after its own kind, and thought is the
seed of destiny.
Yet there is a simple way out of trouble. Learn how
to think rightly instead of wrongly, and conditions at
once begin to improve until, sooner or later, all ill-
health, poverty, and inharmony must disappear. Such
is the Law. Life need not be a battle; it can, and
265
266 Power Through Constructive Thinking
should be a glorious mystical adventure; but living is
a science.
This is one way of stating the Great Law. Read and
re-read it at regular intervals, and it will inevitably change
your outlook on life.
W H A T IS SCIEN TIFIC PRAYER?
S
c i e n t i f i c prayer or spiritual treatment is really the
lifting of your consciousness above the level where
you have met your problem. If only you can rise high
enough in thought, the problem will then solve itself.
That is really the only problem you have—to rise in
consciousness. The more “ difficult,” which means the
more deeply rooted in your thought, is the problem con­
cerned, the higher you will have to rise. What is called
a small trouble, will yield to a slight rise in consciousness.
What is called a serious difficulty, will require a rela­
tively higher rise. What is called a terrible danger of
hopeless problem, will require a considerable rise in con­
sciousness to overcome it—but that is the only difference.
Do not waste time trying to straighten out your own
or other people’s problems by manipulating thought—
that gets you nowhere—but raise your consciousness, and
the action of God will do the rest.
Jesus healed sick people and reformed many sinners
by raising his consciousness above the picture they pre­
sented. He controlled the winds and the waves in the
same way. He raised the dead because he was able to get
as high in consciousness as is necessary to do this.
To raise your consciousness you must positively with­
draw your attention from the picture for the time being
267
(The Golden Key), and then concentrate gently upon
spiritual Truth. You may do this by reading the Bible or
any spiritual book that appeals to you, by going over
any hymn or poem that helps you in this way, or by the
use of one or more affirmations, just as you like.
I know many people who have secured the necessary
elevation of consciousness by browsing at random
through the Bible. A man I know was saved in a terrible
shipwreck by quietly reading the Ninety-first Psalm. An­
other man healed himself of a supposedly hopeless disease
by working on the one affirmation, “God is Love,” until
he was able to realize something of what that greatest of
all statements must really mean.
If you work with affirmations, be careful not to get
tense; but there is no reason why you should not employ
all these methods in turn, and also any others that you
can think of. Sometimes a talk with a spiritual person
gives you just the lift that you need. It matters not how
you rise so long as you do rise.
“I bare you on eagles' wings, and brought you unto
Myself.”
268 Power Through Constructive Thinking
THE PRESENCE
o d is the only Presence and the only Power. God
is fully present here with me, now. God is the
only real Presence—all the rest is but shadow. God is
perfect Good, and God is the cause only of perfect
Good. God never sends sickness, trouble, accident, temp­
tation, nor death itself; nor does He authorize these
things. W e bring them upon ourselves by our own wrong
thinking. God, Good, can cause only good. The same
fountain cannot send forth both sweet and bitter water.
I am Divine Spirit. I am the child of God. In God I
live and move and have my being; so I have no fear. I am
surrounded by the Peace of God and all is well. I am not
afraid of people; I am not afraid of things; I am not afraid
of circumstances; I am not afraid of myself; for God is
with me. The Peace of God fills my soul, and I have no
fear. I dwell in the Presence of God, and no fear can
touch me. I am not afraid of the past; I am not afraid of
the present; I am not afraid for the future; for God is
with me. The Eternal God is my dwelling place and
underneath are the everlasting arms. Nothing can ever
touch me but the direct action of God Himself, and God
is Love.
God is Life; I understand that and I express it. God
is Truth; I understand that and I express it. God is Divine
269
Love; I understand that and I express it. I send out
thoughts of love and peace and healing to the whole
universe: to all trees and plants and growing things, to
all beasts and birds and fishes, and to every man, woman
and child on earth, without any distinction. If anyone
has ever injured me or done me any kind of harm, I fully
and freely forgive him now, and the thing is done with
forever. I loose him and let him go. I am free and he is
free. If there is any burden of resentment in me I cast it
upon the Christ within, and I go free.
God is Infinite Wisdom, and that Wisdom is mine.
That Wisdom leads and guides me; so I shall not make
mistakes. Christ in me is a lamp unto my feet. God is In­
finite Life, and that Life is my supply; so I shall want for
nothing. God created me and He sustains me. Divine
Love has foreseen everything, and provided for every­
thing. One Mind, One Power, One Principle. One God,
One Law, One Element. Closer is He than breathing,
nearer than hands and feet.
I am Divine Spirit, the Child of God, and in the Pres­
ence of God I dwell forever. I thank God for Perfect
Harmony.
270 Power Through Constructive Thinking
THE WORD OF POWER
P
ray regularly for the ability to pray in the right way:
I am Divine Spirit. In God I live, and move, and
have my being. I am part of the self-expression of God,
and I therefore express perfect harmony. I individualize
Omniscience. I have direct knowledge of Truth. I have
perfect intuition. I have spiritual perception. I know. God
is my Wisdom; so I cannot err. God is my Intelligence;
so I am always thinking rightly. There is no waste of
time, for God is the only Doer. God works through me;
so I am always working rightly, and there is no danger
of my praying wrongly. I think the right thing, in the
right way, at the right time. M y work is always well
done, for my work is God’s work. The Holy Spirit is
continually inspiring me. M y thoughts are fresb, and
new, and clear, and powerful with the might of Omnipo­
tence. M y prayers are the handiwork of the Holy Ghost
—powerful as the eagle and gentle as the dove. They go
forth in the name of God Himself, and they cannot
return unto me void. They shall accomplish that which
I please, and prosper in the thing whereto I send them.
I thank God for this.
271
The Holy Ghost, 'whom the Father will send in my
name, shall teach you all things.—John 14:26.
And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will
I do.—John 14:13.
If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye
shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you.—
John 15:7.
Ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full.
—John 16:24.
BLESSIN G A N D CU RSIN G
“ E is a reflex of mental states. As far as you are con­
cerned, the character that things will bear will be
the character that you first impress upon them. Bless a
thing and it will bless you. Curse it and it will curse you.
If you put your condemnation upon anything in life, it
will hit back at you and hurt you. If you bless any situ­
ation, it has no power to hurt you, and even if it is
troublesome for a time it will gradually fade out—if you
sincerely bless it.
W e are told, you remember, that whatever name
Adam gave to an animal—that was its name; and of
course you know that the name of a thing means its
character. Adam said to one animal, “You are a tiger,
ferocious,” and so it was. To another, he said, “You are
a gazelle, gentle and kind,” and so it was. Now, Adam
is Everyman, and until we learn to give good names, to
“ christen” everything, we shall have enemies of various
kinds to deal with.
Bless your body. If there is anything wrong with a
particular organ, bless that organ. (Of course, you must
bless the organ and not the disease.) Bless your home.
Bless your business. Bless your associates. Turn any
seeming enemies into friends by blessing them. Bless the
climate. Bless the town, and the state, and the country.
Bless a thing and it will bless you.
So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth:
it shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish
that which l please, and it shall prosper in the thing
whereto l sent it.—Isaiah 55:11.
But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even
the hidden wisdom, which God ordained before the world
unto our glory.—I Corinthians, 2:7.
Be not afraid nor dismayed by reason of this great
multitude; for the battle is not yours, but God's. . . .
Ye shall not need to fight this battle: set yourselves, stand
ye still, and see the salvation of the Lord with you, O
Judah and Jerusaletn: fear not, nor be dismayed; to mor­
row go out against them: for the Lord will be with you.
—II Chronicles 20:15, I7-
Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous
man his thoughts: and let him return unto the Lord, and
he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will
abundantly pardon.—Isaiah 55:7.
THE GOLDEN GATE
God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God and
God in him.
" 7E is by far the most important thing of all. It is the
Golden Gate of Paradise. Pray for the understand-
ing of love, and meditate upon it daily. It casts out fear.
It is the fulfilling of the Law. It covers a multitude of
sins. Love is absolutely invincible.
There is no difficulty that enough love will not con­
quer; no disease that enough love will not heal; no door
that enough love will not open; no gulf that enough love
will not bridge; no wall that enough love will not throw
down; no sin that enough love will not redeem.
It makes no difference how deeply seated may be the
trouble, how hopeless the outlook, how muddled the
tangle, how great the mistake; a sufficient realization of
love will dissolve it all. lr only you could love enough
you would be the happiest and most powerful being in
the world.
275
The two keys of Hell are condemnation and resent­
ment. These can be destroyed permanently by such a
treatment as the above.
J esus said: A new commandment l give unto you,
That ye love one another; as I have loved you. . . . By
this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye
have love one to another.—John 13:34, 35.
God is love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in
God, and God in him.—I John 4:16.
There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out
fear: because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not
made perfect in love.—I John 4:18.
Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God;
and every one that loveth is bom of God, and knoweth
God. He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is
love.—I John 4:17.
For this is the message that ye heard from the begin­
ning, that we should love one another.—I John 3:11.
We love him, because he first loved us.—I John 4:19.
T R E A T M E N T FO R D IV IN E LO V E
M
y soul is filled with Divine Love. I am surrounded
by Divine Love. I radiate Love and Peace to the
whole world. I have conscious Divine Love. God is Love,
and there is nothing in existence but God and His Self-
expression. All men are expressions of Divine Love;
therefore, I can meet with nothing but the expressions of
Divine Love. Nothing ever takes place but the Self­
expressing of Divine Love.
All this is true now. This is the actual case, the actual
state of affairs. I do not have to try to bring this abojit,
but I observe it already in being now. Divine Love is the
actual nature of Being. There is only Divine Love, and
I know this.
I perfectly understand what Divine Love is. I have
conscious realization of Divine Love. The Love of God
burns in me for all humanity. I am a lamp of God,
radiating Divine Love to all whom I meet, to all whom
I think of.
I forgive everything that can possibly need forgiveness
—positively everything. Divine Love fills my heart, and
all is well. I now radiate Love to the whole universe,
excluding no one. I experience Divine Love. I demon­
strate Divine Love.
I thank God for this.
277
GOD IN BUSINESS
A
large proportion of what are called business prob­
lems really consist in negotiating with other people.
All salesmanship, of course, is negotiation between the
seller and the purchaser. And successful salesmanship
means bringing that negotiation to a termination satis­
factory to both parties.
Whether you are seeking a position for yourself or
engaging someone else to work for you, the ultimate
outcome will depend upon negotiation. You want to find
the right person to fill your vacancy or you wish to be
engaged for a certain position that you think would suit
your requirements very well, and in either case the out­
come is a matter of negotiation. Disputes and misunder­
standings often arise between two business firms or be­
tween a firm and a customer, and here again harmonious
relations in the future—which means more business—
will depend upon how the present negotiations are
conducted.
In fact, every relation in life will be found to depend
upon the ability to make harmonious personal adjust­
ments, which is negotiation. In such matters as family
and personal disputes, as well as in those things more
usually considered under the head of business, the same
278
God in Business 279
principle will be found to apply with even greater force
if possible.
Now, the secret of successful negotiation can be put
into a nutshell. It is this—See God on both sides of the
table. Claim that God is working through both of you,
through yourself and through the person with whom you
are dealing. Do not seek by will power to get your own
way, but affirm that God’s will in that particular matter
is being done. Remember that your own way may not
be at all good for you. The very thing that you want
today may turn out next week to be a nuisance or even
a misfortune. Do not try to overreach the other man, to
persuade him against his will, or to take the slightest
advantage of him in any way. But state your case
honestly to the best of your ability; do only what you
think is right; and know that God is living and working
in your life. Then if you do not make that sale, you will
make a better one instead. If you do not get that job,
you will get a better one. If you do not make the arrange­
ment that you sought today, a better one will present
itself tomorrow.
Never allow yourself to be strained or tense or over-
eager. God never hurries; He works without effort. In
dealing with fellow man put God on both sides of the
table, and the outcome will be true success for both
parties.
F IF T E E N PO INTS
I A m R e a l l y on th e Path :
I
f I always look for the best in each person, situation,
and thing.
If I resolutely turn my back on the past, good or bad,
and live only in the present and future.
If I forgive everybody without exception, no matter
what he may have done; and if I then forgive MYSELF
whole-heartedly.
If I regard my job as sacred and do my day’s work
to the very best of my ability (whether I like it or not).
If I take every means to demonstrate a healthy body
and harmonious surroundings for myself.
If I endeavor to make my life of as much service to
others as possible, without interfering or fussing.
If I take every opportunity wisely to spread the knowl­
edge of Truth to others.
If I rigidly refrain from personal criticism, and neither
speak nor listen to gossip.
If I devote at least a quarter of an hour a day to prayer
and meditation.
If I read at least seven verses of the Bible every day.
If I specifically claim spiritual understanding for my­
self every day.
280
Fifteen Points 281
If I train myself to give the first thought on waking
to God.
If I speak the Word for the whole world every day,
say, at noon.
If I PRA C TISE the Golden Rule of Jesus instead of
merely admiring it. He said, “Whatsoever ye would that
men should do to you, do ye even so to them.” The
important point about the Golden Rule is that I am to
practise it whether the other fellow does so or not.
If, above all, 1understand that whatever 1 see is but a
picture which can be changed for the better by Scientific
Prayer.
If you want to demonstrate, ask yourself once a week
bow far you are observing these points in your life.
