{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__doreal___spiritual_power_magnetic_healing.pdf","mytitle":"Spiritual Power Magnetic Healing","mylang":"de"}
f\F1
Jf{J.
-rU;-\L ?0 YY
Er~
___,
};\ ;-\G1\J
ETJC J-J
EJ-\
LJNG
!-
DO ri F ,\ I
J\ -' .r\ -.,
S P I R I T U A L - P O \/J E R
MAGNETIC HEALING
AND
SC)IJ\E srECIFIC D!St.ASEs·
\JVI TH
HEALING METHODS
M. DOREAL,Ms.D., Psy.D.
COPYRIGHT 1940
By
BROTHERHOOD OF THE WHITE TEMPLE, INC •
:..,,,
. _·;
~;..-
._-;__.
SP1R1TUAL PovvER-
-MAGNETIC HEALING.
By
Doreal
Part One
As a preliminary before we begin to dis-
cuss specific diseases, I wish to talk
to you about certain 'Of the healing
forces which are inherent in the indi-
vidual body.· It is a known fnct thntthe
human body, has, at least to a certain
degree, the power to rebuild, reyital-
ize, and rejuvenate the cells and tis-
sues of ·the body when they have been
either destroyed or injured through
sickness or disease. Until a short time
ago it was not definitely known. just
what·particular energy or force in the
body· had definite healing and rebuild-
ing power, but today through scientific
experiments we have learned just what
and where .the rebuilding, healing ener-
gies _and forces of the body lie.
Scientifically speaking, the healing
·power of the body lies in what is called
the mitrogenetic rays. These are rays
which appear for the first time in the
brain. It has been found that when the
frontal lobes of the brain are closer
together more of the mitre-genetic .rays
are released, therefore, we know that
the mi tro-genetic ..rays in both quality
-3-.
and quai1tity_ have: somcthi:ig t• do with
the polarities of.the body. It must be
understood that ·the human body is in
effect a battery, containing not only
electricity and magnetism but other
forces akin to them, yet not exact-
ly like them. In the first place science
does not know what electricity is. It
can be studied in manifestation but
there are many qualities of electricity
which as yet have not been determined.
Some of those qualities are found in the
human. body. It is c.onsidered that the
mitre-genetic rays are, an offshoot of
electricity. released by the body. The
brain gives a hotter spark, or releases
more of the electric energy, or rather
the quality of electrical energy_ which
we call mitre-genetic rays. The body
has two . polarities •. The right side is·
the positive, the left side is the neg-
ative polarity. It has been found by
experiments conducted in some of our
leading universities that there are cer-
tain and definite emanations from the
right side of the body which have the
power to destroj micro-organisms.
One experiment at Cornell.University has
determined that emanations from either
the _right hand or- right eye may destroy
the niicro-organi.sms -in yeast, and they
have found ·that when those emanations
are directed by the will, the time re-
quired to destroy the micro~organisms
is considerably reduced.· ··. ·
'I'he occu3:,:tis_t understands 1tha t 1,here are
certain ene~:gies. in the body, and cer-
-4-
tain channels of force and expression
which enable him to re-vitalize, rebuild
and regenerate the physical body and
also to eliminate the germs of various
diseases which may be there, and to
cause the various organs of the body to
work, or function, correctly. This in-
cludes the endocrine gland system and
also the nervous system of the human be-
ing. In the hmnan body there is a cer-
tain force or energy that we call mag-
netic energy. Magnetic energy may be
used in most cases of healing. There
are certain oases or conditions which
pave to have what we call spiritual-
healing employed, but· there are few
cases where we cannot heal by the mate-
rial forces and healing power of the
body. Some people say that the spirit-
ual power of healing should always be
used, but there are. some conditions
which require material forces and powers
while others require the spiritual power
of healing. In reality, the spiritual
power of healing is any law through
which the Div:ine Consciousness manifests
the healing gualities. Too many people
make too many separations in the various
aspects through which God manifests. In
my philosophy, all things of whatever
nature and plane they may be, are ccn-
s idered as having their foundation and
source in the spiritual, and are there-
fore spiritual in quality Q • We say there
can be nothing which is not of God., If
that be true, all of the healing quali-
ties and energies in the material body
are spiritual qualities of healing, only
waiting releasement to bring about the
-5-
condition of healing.
The primary force that I wish to speak
of is the magnetic energy. The occult-
ist knows that the magnetic energy. of
the body is tho particular energy which
is accumulated in the head of man and
passed along, the major nerve paths and
into the minor nerve paths, carrying
with its current the human thought im-
pressions.
In occultism it is considered that there
is a certain force which is drawn in, or
manif0sts within the head of ma.n as an
emanation from the ego or consciousness;
this particular force is called odic
force. In the ancient wisdom odio force
was considered as the brain cell sensi-
tizer. It is the particular energy or
force which penetrates every cell in the
brain, into, and on which, the impres-
sions are impressed, · and are indelibly
implanted and recorded: never to be cin-
tirely disintegrated or dest1•oyed while
the body exists. Thhse remain as per-
manent impressions.
In addition to odic, force there is an-
other force which /pour•s through the
human body. We niight literally call
that other f oroe ;the/earth magnetism be-
cause the magnet1.c torce or cu:r•rent is
drawn in thro~h the left side of the
person and paa'ses 1out through the right
side. The magnetic cur1•ent in itself
has no he~J.43:g PO/VO:'
what~oever, but it
does hav_~ .this quality - it passes along
every ner.v'e pa th in the human body and
-6-
is the carrier of released odic impres-
sions from the brain cells.
Frontal
Lobes.
Pituitary & Optic Chiasma
I am going to draw a diagram hore. We
will say that this figure represents a
brain and from tho top you can see that
the frontal lobes of the brain are di-
vi.ded. Here wo find the pituitary gland
and optic chiasma. We find a definite
gap betv:.reen the lobes and it is :In this
particular region that the mitro-genotic
rays are generated and housed. It is
measurable in quantity.
Some people have a great deal more of it
released than others. This is the rea-
son that some people have natural heal-
ing power. We have learned now how to
trace these powers back to their source.
They are merely laws and principlos of
manifestation which man is just begin-
ning to understand in the Western world.
We say that the healer whether he uses
medicine or occult power is just as
-7-
scientific if he really understands his
work. The occultist, or metaphysician,
oan~eally work with more definite laws
than the M.D. because he can trace these
laws to their source.
The place of manifestation of the mitro-
genetic rays is between the two frontal
lobes of the brain in what they call the
transverse fissure. Leading from the
~rain are 12 major nerve channels. The
~rain is the largest nerve center in the
pody, the solar plexus is the second
';largest. The magnetic energy is drawn
±n through the left side of the body.
J.:hese energies are literally what we
,might call qualities of the conscious-
, ness, or soul, while the rea0netic energy
·· is, we might say, ear.th magnetism. That
does not mean that this force is exactly
the energy that allows the material mag-
net to attract a piece of iron. We
might compare a person who has not
learned to direct the forces that they
have in their body to a piece of ordi-
nary soft iron. Place it in a rel~tive
position to another piece of iron and it
has no attractive power at all; but send
a current of electricity through that
iron and it becomes a magnet. In an
ordinary soft bar of iron all the mole-
cules are turned every which way and
ther.efo1°e, the magnetic force which pen-
etrates all of the ether does not come
through; it leaks through, but if you
se~d ·a current of eleotrici ty through
that iron it causes the molecules .to
turn in one direction, leaving a free
passage for the flow of ··magnetic force
-8-
-------
--- .
and we have a magnet. In analogy, we
have the same thing in the hwnan body.
The average person who has not learned
to direct his force is like that ordi-
nary piece of soft iron in which the
molecules are turned in every direction,
and therefore, the magnetic force which
they manifest is weak. It is not strong
enough to be felt, but under the proper
stimulus of thought and will the mag-
netic energy can be so increased in flow
that it can literally be felt. I use
that same magnetic power to heal people.
Leading from the brain are 12 major
nerve paths which branch off and radiate
to all parts of the body, Certain of
them go to the solar plexus· and are
joined to them. The solar plexus of
course has its own nervous system which
.is the· automatic, or involunta.ry nervous
system, while the brain controls the
voluntary. The important thing is this:
the nerves, varying in size, from a tiny
fraction of an inch in length to as long
as three feet, are· separated or divided·
at various points by what are called
neurons. Those neurons are in effect,
little trap doors that swing -both ways.
The magnetic current pas~es along the
nerve channels just as electricity
passes along the wire. That magnetic
force is a conveyer of thought in this
respect that when we think of any
object, or thing, tiny particles, or re-
flections, or radiations of a particular
image or scene which we think· of,. c:rl:l
radiated from the brain cells. This re-
le!3-sed image moves into the nerve paths,
-9-
drawn by the magnetic energy, and moves
along the nerve path, carried by mag-
netic energy to the part in the body
where it manifests. This is the reason
our thought can cause our muscles to
contract. What makes them draw up? We
will consider these .nerve paths joined
at various points by neurons, which are
like trap doors which swing both ways.
There is a two way current in the nerv-
ous system.
An atom is an element. of a particular
kind, or quality, because of the size of
the nucleus of that atom. Science knows
now that there are 96 different kinds of
atoms or elements. As a matter of fact,
the occultist knows that there are 144.
For a long time science thought that
there were only 92, but they have had to
add 4 to· their tables. One· of our great
occultists of 150 years ago John Dalton
revealed the atomic tables, which are
still in use today with very few changes.
By the size or quantitative anount of
the nuceleus in the a tom, electrons are
attracted: from these a group will form
a cell of one particular element. A
numbe·r of these cells will make a quan-
tity of calcium or phosphorus, but in
the,.uman body those cells are more com-
ple. They are grouped in ·a cooplex
mas's . around a nucelus of v'i tal life
I
fofce, or spirit. The nerves terminate
i,n the center of various cells in the
body.
-10-
Nerve
Path
.Cell
-Nucleus
Atoms
We will say that in the cell is a point
of terminus at the nucleus that the
nerve path runs tbrough. Wb.en you by
your thought release the image of a par-
ticular muscle contracting, the follow-·
ing action takes place. The odic imprm-
sions are released from the brain cells,
pass along the nerve paths until they
strike the cell nucleus, impinging upon
the vital energy, which is the nucleus
and is very sensitive to the odic force
carried by the magnetic energy. The
nucleus in turn contrac·ts, until instead
of being large it draws in, as it con-
tracts the atoms around it and are drawn
into a more compact form. It is in this
manner that the actual thought of the
person, co.nsciously or unconsciously,
affects the particular organisn, be-
cause, when they think, the odic impres-
sions are released and manifest into the
particular part of the body that they
are thinking of.
In any form of spiritual healing the
-11-
first thing we have to do is to get the
person to mentally release the condition
they have in their body, then we send
magnetic force to that part of the body
with the willed thought and picture of
that part as changing to the new con-
dition we wish to manifest there. We
deny the right of a diseased or dis-
ordered condition to continue to exist
when we do not desire it to.
If something happens to cause one or
more of those neurons to be blocked,
then the magnetic current cannot pass
through it and no radiations· of bdic
impressions can be carrieJ to that par-
ticular part of the body. rrhat is what
happens in paralysis. Paralysis .is
nothing more or less than the neurons
being blocked off so that the magnetic
current cannot flow to that particular
part of the body. In infantile paral-
ysis a germ attacks those neurons. In a
case of paralysis; healing may be brought
about by the increase of the magnetic
force to such a degree that it will break
open the blocked neurons and allow the
magnetic force to flow through freely.
Healing power, so far as we may use it
to work upon our own body, so far as the
mental force is concerned, and so far as
the carrier is conoerned, lies in the
increase of the magnetic current, and
the proper direction of it. The mag-
netic force or current flows through the
right hand. It is drawn in from the
left side, and may be sent from the
right -eye, also.
-12-
There are certain methods by which we
can develop or increase the magnetism in
our body. One of these methods is by
the expansion and contraction of our
solar plexus. This is merely drawing
the·muscles in and contracting the abdo-
men, and then relaxing it. In healing
we. find that we can actually draw in the
magnetic current in increased quanti-.
ties. First, whenever using the healing
force either on ourselves or someone
else, be sure you are breathing through
the right nostril when you are givinga
healing treatment. Second, stretch your
open hands over your head, and will for
the magnetic force and energy to be
drawn through the left hando Do this
for two minutes and you will actually
feel the force coming in through the
left hand. It has been found that the
arm extended in that manner from the
body, opens certain nerve paths · and the
will of drawing in will cause a:sudden
inflow of magnetism.
One thing that many healers have trouble
with is that they take on the effects of
the condition that they are healing. I
do this myself sometimes for the purpose
of diagnosis. To accomplish·this I take
a person's left hand in my right hand
and their right hand in my left hand and
allow the magnetic current to flow from
their right hand to my left~ then I will
relax and feel in my body the reaction
that that person is having in their own
body. I do not want to keep that con-
dition in my body so I clench the right
hand and open the left hand and will for
-13-
the current to be reversed in my body,
and will for it to flow out through the
left side. When this is done all the
effects of the condition I have taken on
are gone. Remerr.Der that the right hand
is used for healing and the left hand as
a receptive agent·. I put my right hand
in their left hand, or opposite side of
the peI'son, but the force flows from my
right hand, when I direct the flow from
my right hand it flows into ·that per-
son's pody and I receive the reaction
through my left hand.
Sometimes when I give a healing treat-
ment "i will work very hard and find I
cannot break through in that treatment;
but I;can always tell the instant I am
getting the reaction, and I know the
treatment is beginning to take effect,
then,iI have no trouble in relieving_the
person of the condition.
A pepson sometimes has a little trouble
in directing this magnetic force out of
their body. A great part of this. abil-
ity flies in the concentration of your
mind. You first image in your mind. the
condition that you want to manifest.
For instance, if you treat a person with
bad eyes, when you treat that person you
will for the eyes to. be in the condition
that you will for it to be. Do not even
consider the eyes as they are. The per-
~on has had enough of that image fixed
in their mind already. What you want to
do is supplant that condition with the
~hought of eyes that see perfectly,
-14-
When this force is sent. through the
right hand., all you have to do is to
will for the force to flow down the arm
and out through the finger tips. There
is always a certain amount of magnetic
energy present whether you feel it or
not. Experiment with this; take a glass
of water.,- and put your hands on both
sides of it, and then will the thought
of the water as having a certain flavor.
Do this for about four minutes and then
take a taste of it.
Many people don't know that there are
two other kinds of water besides that of
ordinary water: light water and heavy
water. There is a certain quality of
water that if you extract it and drink
it., the more you drink, the thirstier
you get, that is ·heavy water. The
proper use of heavy water is sometime
going to be one of the greatest dis-
coveries that man has had in 2000 years.
We find that one way that you can hold
magnetic force in your hand, is to hold
that hand out and will for it to flow., at
the same time tense the muscles. You
have to think of the arm and hand to
hold the muscles tense. This is merely
so you can concentrate on the force or
flow pouring down the arm.
-15-
SP/R/TUA.I_ POWEk
NtAGNETfC HEALING
PARTTWO
SPECIFIC DISEASES
Now I. want · to talk to you for ..
a time
about some particular physical diseases
and conditions. One of the first that I
wish to talk about is a condition which
is very prevalent. That condition is
acidosis. A great many people have what
they call an acid condition. We know
that the actual ph:1sical cause of a.ci-
do sis is that. the proteins and fats in
the diet are not oxidized. 1
Nhy they are
not oxidized is another matter. We know
also that the acid condition, or in
other words, · the inability to oxidize
the proteins, and fats is ordinarily
caused by two conditions; one glandu-
lar, v-1hi
ch in turn is induced by a ner-
vous or nerve condition. Acid stomach
or acidosis is invariably accompanied by
conjested nerves or by extremely high
tension of the nervous system. We find
accompanying an acid condition, an in-
ability to r•elax mentally or physically,
therefore, we lmow that in order to .
!·each the cause of the condition, a per-
son must learn to relax mentally as well
as physically. One of the reasons there
has been such a great increase in aci-
dosis in the past few years :is that there
has been an increase in the nervous ten-
sion as a whole. We may say literally
-17-
that acidosis can be traced to the ner-
vous system, but it has what we call a
secondary cause, that is, the pancreas,
one of the endocrine or ductless glands
which lie right under the rib case on
the left side. The reason that it is
not functioning normally is that because
of the high condition of nervous tension
the proper automatic impulses from the
solar plexus have not been conveyed to
it. Often we have to trace a·disease
back through a number of symptoms. If
there is a condition that may be alle-
viated by physical means we use those as
a means of resting, or relaxing the con-
dition, or removing it from the mind
while we are trying to eliminate the
cause. One of the great faults of medi-
cal science is that they treat the symp-
tom and not ti1e cause. :No matter what
the condition that manifests there has
been some balance. which has been dis-
turbed, or that condition cruld not mani-
fest. If we treat th$ symptom only,
without getting at the actual cause,
that symptom may be eliminated but we
know that sooner or later another symp-
tom, maybe not the same, · but. some other
condition will manifest in the body from
that same cause, therefore, when we work
to bring about a healin~ we try to elim~
inate the cause as well as the symptom
and thus our healings are permanent.
There are many people who can dismiss
the thought· of the condition from the
mind for a little time. In treating_the
symptom of acidosis we recommend that
one cut down on the proteins and fats in
their diet becalisB they are having
-18-
trouble oxidizing them. Eat as alkaline
a diet as p.ossible. Increase the alka-
line content of the diet, cut down on
proteins and fats, then we want to relax
the mind and body as much as posstble.
Try to encourage the habit of doing
whatever you have to do during the day
with the body relaxed instead of tensed.
The average person burns up five times
as much energy in doing things as they
need. If an individual could relax per-
fectly both in the body and mind it
would be impossible for them to have any
condition of disorder in the body or
mind. I know in the work that I am do-
ing, if.I allow my body and my mind to
get in a state of tension, I cannot talk
very well, but if I let my body and mind
relax while I am talking, I will have no
particular outpouring of energy which is
going to hurt me in the least, or lower
my vitality. Try to r•elax as much as
possible. Use tnat method as part of
the treatment of any physical condition.
Try to form a habit of watching the mus-
cles of your body. · If you fino. them
tense, let them go limp. Let all of the
muscles relax as much as possible.and
maintain the posture that you desire to
assume. Then we want to treat the local
condition, the gland itself that is not
functioning properly, therefore, we ·use
a magnetic stimu·lus ·on the gland. This
magnetic stimulus is given with the
right hand. When we treat the pancreas
it is from the right hand that the ema- ·
nations flow. Place the hand over the
organ and then hold the thought of that
organ working perfectly, think of it as
-19-
being an absolutely perfect organism.
If you hold your hand there and continue
that thought for as long as three min-
utes you will find that there will be
set up in your entire body a vibration
from the heat which is generated from
the strong odic impresslons released by
the ~itrogenetio.rays of the brain.
Close your eyes and hold in your thought
the thought of a nornally functioning
organ and feel as if there was an elec-
tric force flowing down you~ body and
centering in that position, and you will
find ·tha t heat -will begin to be genera-
ted in your body, and you wi11 find that
there will come an electric tingling,
and you will find that after each con-
cen.tration on it, after each treatment,
that there will be a progressive better-
ing of the conditj_on. I know that these
things work because they have been prov-
en, not in on~ case but literally in
thousands.
Let us take another condition. For in-
stance, asthma nnd bronchitis. Now we
lmow that asthma, bronchitis, hay fever
and sinus trouble or catarrh are very
closely related to each other. We know
for instance that the material symptoms
of asthma are spasmo4io contractions of
the smaller bronchial tubes and that
~ame condition occurs often in bron.chi-
tis. We know that in asthma, attacks
are brought on by sudden changes of :tem-
perature, also moist and cold air, and
changes in weather will often bring on
an attack, or if one has been in cold
air and oome into a warm room or vice
-20-
versa. Asthma attacks are usually ac-
companied by sudden changes in tempera-
ture. Again we know that attacks are
often·brought on by certain foods, or by
odors, or by inhaling dust or certain
pollens .. This gives us a key that asth-
ma like sinus trouble or hay fever is a
condition· of allergy. The doctor will
tell you that you have hay fever·because
you are allergic to orris root, sun-
flowers, etc., but that does not tell us
what the cause of hay fever is.
Oklahoma City has one of the best hay
fever; and sinus specialist, in the
world. ?eople come from all over the
world for one particular Doctor to treat
them and a course of his treatments will
cost froni anywhere from 500 to 5,000
dollars. The method that Doctor uses is
to take a skin tissue test of the person
by injecting the various pollens and
watching the reactions of them till they
find the one the person is allergic to,.
and when they know definitely theycan
send that person to a special climat·e,
or else prepare a serum of the parti-
cular thing that they are allergic to
and sometimes brings about a c1u,e. I have
found however that· even though the hay
fever was supposed to be cured that they
began to have attacks af asthma or simi- ..
lar trouble. In other words, the symp-
tom was alleviated but the cause remain-
ed just as it had before.
Now we know that there are certain
things that are used as remedies$ For a
remedy as a means of alleviating the
-21-
condition while the cause is being
straightened out the person needs fresh
air, also relaxation is very necessary,
because invariably a condition of ner-·
vous tension will bring on an attack.:
Changes in temperature should be avoided
also certain foods. These are: · coffee,
tea, fruits, strawberries, peas, beans,
of all kinds, lentils, oysters, eggs,
nuts, fresh pork, and milk. · Those
foods aggravate ·sinus trouble, asthma
and hay fever. Men are more subject to
those conditions than women are.
Now what is the cause? Medical science
as yet does not know. They ,just say an
allergic condition causes it but that is
the symptom, not the cause. The cause
lies in tho adrenal or supraronal glands
in the back. They are found like caps
just over the kidneys. Among other
things which they secrete into the blood
stream is adrenalin, Now adrenalin is
the energizer of the blood stream. If
we have a defective pair of adrenal
glands we do not secrete the proper
amount of adrenalin into the blood
stream. Lack of adrenalin into the
blood stream invariably causes an aller-
gic condition. An attack of hay fev'er,
sinus trouble or asthma may be stopped
almost instantaneously by the increase
of adrenalin in the blood stream. In
conditions of allergy there is a lack of
that particular substance in the body •
. We often find that one of the reasons
··there is an insufficiency of adrenalin
into. __
the blood stream is because there
-22-
is too little of three elements in the
diet. In other words, that the body
does not have the necessary elements to
manufacture adrenalin fromo Those ele-
ments· are found in foods rich in flu-
orine, manganese and potassium, there-
fore, those foods should be increased in
the diet of one who is afflicted with
one of those conditions. Again, a mag-
netic stimulation of the adrenal glands
will aid in increasing that secretion.
There are times when those conditions
are not caused by a lack of proper ele-
ments but when there has come a stoppage
in the nerves of the adrenal glands,
One cause of High Blood Pressure is an
over secretion of adrenalin into the
blood stream. It is possible to cure
High Blood Pressure without any more
pain than pulling a splinter out of your
finger, by severing one nerve in tho
adrenal cortex, the occultist uses mag-
netic force by sendi.ng along the mag-
netic current the will for the gland to
be either stimulated or slowed down,
with the thought of the condition that
he wishes to manifest. When he thinks
that, a mental image is immediately sent
along the magnetic current that flows
into the cortex and impacts upon the or-
gan that it is being directed to, and
thor~ is an instantaneous action in that
organ. 1/'Jocan do it externally to the
body of another person ty directing the
magnetic flow, or internally to our own
organs. We might say that low blood
pressure is caused by too little secre-
tion of the adrenal glands.
-23-
Now I want to talk about another very
common condition that confronts us.
That condition is constipation. Con-
stipation may be caused by any one of a
number of causes. It may be caused by
nerve tension, most stomach or intesti-
nal disorders, or it may be caused by a
prolapsed colon. A prolapsed colon is
usually found in Vl[hat is called : the
transve1 1 se colon. It might also be
caused by on~ becoming a laxative ad-
dict. It is remarkable how many ·people
use laxatives day in and day out, week
in and week out. There is actually sold
in the United Statas millions of dollars
worth of laxatives,· And yet no person
needs a laxative if they are taking care
of themsetves properly. The reason that
they need them is because sometimes may-
be they have a little blockage, they
take a laxative, and gradually the mus..:
oles become atrophied and the person be-
gins to dep(;lnd more and more- on laxa-
tives, Same teachers· of Hatha Yoga
teach that·/ enemas should be used every
day. They may be alright occasionally,
under certain conditions, but by no
means shot,ild · they be _a habit. Wehave
clinics ftn California that just lit-
erally t\irive on colonic irrigations,
If the ;nuscles of the·body'are in proper
· eon.di tj:.on constipation cannot be pres-
ent, ;and even prolapse of the colon
only ;come·s about when· there is a relaxa-
tion/!of' the mus·cles which help to hold
the/:f.ntest;i.nal · region · in its proper
po/4:itiorio We have. found that it is
p6.asible to raise a_prolapsed colon.·· It.
-24-
is pos si:ble. in this - manner·: Clasp the
hands. together and press the thumbs
about the middle of the solar plexus.
Then stand erect and pull in as hard as
you can. Then rise on your·toes., pull-
ing as hard as you. oan. ··when you rise
.up take a· deep breath and when you let
down you let your breat:l:l out. This will
throw the muscles into their proper
position. If you oontinue this exercise
ove1• a pe1•iod of four. to ,six weeks you
will straighten the prolap.sal transverse
colon.
We know too that sometimes constipation
is caused because the liver is not func-
tioning properly. The liver should se-
c1•ete as much as three quarts· of . bile
into the intestines every 24 hours, It
is t.11at bile which is· used to cleanse or
keep open the intestinal tract., there-
fore., among other things, when there is
a.condition of constipation Vie work ·with
magnetic radiation to stimulate the fuho ...
tion ·o.f the liver.
Now I want to talk to you for a while
about skin diseases. I will tell you
,this: that· two out of every five women,
in certain localities, have some form of
1
skin. disease. We-· have found that the
Jieople in certain localities 11 ve under
much .greater· nervous tension than in
.qthers. It is · considered as being a
proven ra·ct medically· that every· skin
di.s:ease, of whatever type or ld.rid., has
an origin in the nervous system. I had
·one. lady-, - _8:.very prominent · person, a
name that is nationally known, that nad
-25-
a skin disease for mnny years nnd sho
had tried everything. We worked on the
nervous system ~nd as we began to open
the blocked nerve passages, the condi-
tion began to pass away, and as it pass-
ed> ·the skin disease just faded, there-
fore, we say that by all means, any skin
dtsease should be treated as an affec-
tion of the nervous system,
,.
hen again, too, we say that the reason
hat a nervous condition manifests as a
kin disease is often because of lack of
care of the skin, or because of improper
diet. ~ny cause reacts in the weakest
part of the body. In other words, the
part which has opened itself to the re-
ception of that thing more than any
place else,
We say that in a condition of ~kin dis-
ease, fat forming substance shpuld · be
eliminated from the diet if one; is over-
weight, and starches and sugars/ added if
underweight; also constipation/should be
avoided. Iron foods should be dominant
in the diet, and raw .foods should be
ea ten very little. Ago/in, the nerves
should be relaxed and magnetic t11 eatment
given with much relaxa~ion _·_
of the mind
and body as possible. Also; the use of
water· should be avoide~ on the affected
parts, especially where there is itching
or burping. Cold crearb. should be used
inste)d, and pork,. fish and cabbage
shoqld not be eaten, When one bathes,
in 1.tha t condition, fa. pound of corn
st)lrch should·be added to every 15 gal-
~ns of water, or if they wash the face
-26-
with water they should add corn starch
to the water. If soap is used at all it
should be an alkaline soap. Then again,
in addition to the iron foods, Hydrogen,
Nitrogen and Flourine foods should form
a major part of the diet because those
foods act as a nerve soother or nerve
relaxing agent,
-27-
f,...-'.,.
I. '::t·:·
./1\
.......
~
.f.·
.. ~ I ;
...
,.;-·--
..:'.••.-
!
