{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__dingle___how_to_meditate.pdf","mytitle":"How To Meditate","mylang":"de"}
- A BOOK FOR ALL THINKING PEOPLE
How to
-Weditate
BY
EDWIN J. DINGLE, F. R. G. S.
J,otuto:ffltbitatt
(A.Scientific Treatise on the little-known
method of Going into The Silence.)
By
EDWIN J. DINGLE, F.R.G.S., R.A.S.
(DING.LE.MEI)
Founder of the Science of Mentalphysics-
the Faultless Philosophy of Life,
International Headquarters:
Los Angeles 4, California, U.S. A.
NOTE ON EDWIN J. DINGLE
(DU1t1°Le-Mel)
Edwin/, Dingle, F,R.G.S., R.A.S, (who,e Oriental
name u Ding.Le.Mei), not only ha, a 11ery di,rin.
gui,hed record of achie11ement a& a geographical
e%plorer, but ha, e%plored the realm of thought and
,pirit in China, India and Tibet. He i, probably the
only white man who li11ed in a Tibetan Monastery for
nine month, and emerged again to mingle acti11ely
in the e11ery.day affairs of the busy We,tern world,
In penetrating the myaterie, of the imcrutable Ea,t
he acquired a fund of 11aluable knowledge regarding
the 11eritie1of life which 10 often find no place in the
philosophies of the Occident. This knowledge he
presents in a moat entertaining and ,cientific way, for
Ding.L,e.Mei i, not only a forceful and dynamic
•peaker, but is a born interpreter of thing, pertain.
ing to the spirit.
During hi, ,ojourn in the United States he ha,
helped thousand, to ,ol11e their life problem,, and
it is confidently belie11ed that, no matter whether
YOUR problem, be in the physical, mental or spir.
itual realm, Ding.Le.Mei will point the way to enable
you to make your life an i~finitely more abundant
1ucce11,
In a word, the truth& that he impart, in hia teach.
ing, lead first to per/ ect phyaical de11elopment, then
to intellectual impro11ement and true spiritual illu.
mination, To those who are aeeking health, ,ucceu,
the unfailing ,ecret of remaining young and full of
11igor, together with the tran,cending knowledge of
the Art of Lilling, we would e%tend a moat hearty
in.,itation to read thi, modern teacher, For it i, ,el.
dom that Oriental philoaophy and strictly ,cientific
thought are interpreted and made perfectly clear to
the Wes tern mind, so as to be readily adapted to our
busy, everyday life. Many of the Oriental mystics
find it difficult, if not impossible, to accomplish this
purpose.
It can only be emphasized that Ding.Le.Mei, on
the other l,and, is an eminently practical man who,
throztgh experience, has a comprehensive grasp of
Occidental psychology and American aims and ambi.
tions, His own life rvas literally transformed by the
philosophy that he teache&, and it is a tribute to
his intere&t in humanity that his greatest desire is
to help his fellows,
As a result of many years' experimentation with
his own body, Ding.Le.Mei evolved Mentalphysics,
which is so fascinating in ita appeal that it is not to
be wondered at that his lecture halls are usu'ally
crowded to the doors. On the Pacific Coast and in
the Eastern States, Ding.Le.Mei has a host of friends
wl,o can trace their change in general outlook on
life to the first lecture they heard him deliver. As
an author he has a string of books to his credit,
many of which are standard work& on various phases
of the Orient.
Me11talphysics has developed during the fi.rst dee.
ude of its existence into a great spiritual science avith
many thousands of students throughout the avorld.
THE SCIENCE OF MENTALPHYSICS
MENTALPHYSICS is that interpretation of
all religions and philosophies which is
being sought by everyone. Here their inner truths,
their practical application in everyday life, and
their reconciliation with Science, are embodied.
Mentalphysics is the key which unlocks the door
to the hidden meaning of the Bible and all Holy
Books. It is, in fact, the Gospel of the New Age-a
power in the hands of those who faithfully follow
its principles which leads to self-mastery, the
realization of our highest capabilities, and their
actual demonstration in physical vitality, pro•
longed youth, intensified talents, superior intel-
ligence, growth of character, nobler and more
abundant lives.
Happiness, joy, peace, harmony and the victor•
ious accomplishment of our worthy aspirations,
all reside in the power to which Mentalphysics is
the guide. The practices taught have been found
by hundreds to be revolutionizing in their effect.
A method is taught, rather than a creed, a method
which has been used by wise men for thousands of
years to avail themselves of powers little known to
the multitude, to approach greater knowledge of
the immensity of man's true capabilities, to rise
victorious over sickness, and want, and unhappi--
ness-to realize the final Truth of Life and the
final Victory of Man.
5
How to Meditate
By EDWIN J, DINGLE, F.R.G.S., R.A.S.
(DING-LE-MEI)
Founder of the Science of Mentalphydc,
DURING the past few years, on bun·
dreds of occasions, I have been
sorrowfully impressed with the difficulty
experienced by all sorts and conditions
of people when they commence to medi•
tate,
It is generally believed that Meditation is
an easy thing to do. But it is not. Medi-
tation may he regarded as a strictly scien-
tific means of entering that deep spiritual
state where all things are made known to
us. In Meditation we open the channels
6
MENTALPHYs1cs-T he Faultless Philosophy of Life
through which we may / eel the .Spirit
within us. Through Meditation we come
to know, and later to direct, that Force in
which we live and move and have our
being. We
may have a well-stored mind,
may know all that there is to he known
about the ologies and isms, and yet, when
we attempt to meditate, we fail.
But HOW Do I Meditate?
That is the reason why people so often
say: "I believe what you say is true, hut
how do you meditate-what do you do?
••• what must I look for?" .•• and so on.
In short, people who are spiritually in-
clined and honestly wish to make prog-
ress along the higher lines of thought,
seem to he at a loss as to how to com-
mence the practice of Meditation. This
booklet is prepared in response to many
7
MENTALPHYSics-T he Faultless Philosophy of Life
inquiries, and is issued in the hope that
many may find herein the modus oper-
andi of successfully Going Into the Si-
lence and entering the Very Holy of
Holies. To those who have tried to medi-
tate and have failed, let me offer a word
of encouragement: When we seek we
find, hut it is also true that, while some,
through a sudden fl.ash of intuition, seem
to obtain their hearts' desires without
uny great effort, there are others who find
it necessary to gain illumination only by
long toil and struggle along the Path.
May You Find Light on the Path
It is to this class of seeker that this
little hook is o~ered, with the assurance
that they will find Light on the Path if
they persevere.
Those who have so far developed as to
8
MENTALPHYsrcs-The Faultless Philosophy of Life
he able to settle all their problems by the
operation of Life's higher laws will agree
that Man's greatest gift is his ability con-
sciously to enter the Silence. In the
Silence all Power resides. In the hurly-
hurly of life-and especially our hustling
Occidental life-most of us find only the
manifestation of Power, or its objectifica-
tion. We need to tap the Subconscious!
The Inevitable Result.
When we know how to tap scientifically
the sources of Power through Meditation
we discover ourselves to he already far
along ThePath-Hf e then holds no dis-
harmony for us, we are free from the
ravages of worry and time, we come
closer and closer to the very forces that
propel us in our journey from shore to
shore, and enter consciously and grate-
9
MllNTALPHYs1cs - The Faultless Philosophy of Life
fully upon the Life Abundant-which
can only be known th ough expe!"ience.
It is, however, self-evident that when we
place ourselves in the attitude to medi-
tate, we must be shorn of all false pride.
We must come as little children, trust•
ingly, reverently, humbly, in the Spirit of
true simplicity.
But We Must Persevere
There must also be with us the will to
control. We may commence haltingly,
we may find our minds apparently im•
possible to control, but perseverance on
our part will magnetize the Force which
later on will bring us perfect suecess, so
cl
that we shall be able to enter into medi•
tation even on a street car or on a subway
train.
10
MENTALPHYsics - The Faultless Philosophy of Life
"Thou hast -to reach that fixity of
mind in which no breeze, however
strong, can waft an earthly thought
within. Thus purified, the shrine
must of all action, sound and
earthly light be void; e'en as a but•
terfly, o'ertaken by the frost, falls
lifeless at the threshold,-so must
all earthly thoughts /4ll dead before
the Jane."
•
HOW TO MEDITATE
(Follow these instructions carefully if you
would have rapid success,)
(a) Sit in a comfortable chair, with the
spine erect, (It is better, if you can, to
sit on the :floor "tailor fashion," perhapli
11
ME:'.'.TALPHYsrcs
- The Faultless Philosophy of Life
with a small cushion under you, so that
your legs are slightly lower than your
buttocks. But the SPINE MUST BE
STRAIGHT.) It is likely that some dis·
comfort may be experienced at the start,
for the reason that the legs may get stiff
and a "pins-and-needles" feeling set in • .
If so, gently move the position of the legs
and watch closely to find your most com•
fortable posture. If you persevere,
absolute comfort will come in time, and
you will be able to sit in this position for
a long time.
Relaxing the Body
(h) Take three or four lo:s;i.gbreaths
through the nostrils; as you exhale, flex
the body, so that it becomes quite limp.
The tenseness of all the muscles is with-
drawn. Place your hands on your knees
12
MENTALPHYsrcs-T he Faultless Philosophy of Life
-it is a strange "electrical" connection
about which you know nothing yet. Sit
still, breathing gently without effort.
WHAT YOU ARE DOING NOW IS TO
LOSE ALL SENSE OF THE BODY.
Relaxing the Mind
(c) Now do with the MINDwhat you have
done with the body. Flex it. Just let all
go. Don't try to think-don't try not to
think. At this stage all kinds of ideas
will surge up in the mind. Pay no atten-
tion-let them surge. Don't resist. Sit
quietly and watch the show, so to speak.
After a time, however, without stirring,
take possession, and say, in a low, firm
voice, slowly hut audibly, "Peace he still
••. I am still ... I AM AT PEACE ... I
am at Peace •·. . Peace . . . Peace • . •
Peace." (You must not think of time,
13
•
•
MENTALPHYSics-The Faultless Philosophy of Life
for you are about to lift your conscious-
ness into a super-physical realm, where
time does not exist.)
That Breath Which ls Life
In Mentalphysics as taught by its founder,
great importance is given to the Breath,
which forms the basis of all occult work
in India and Oriental countries. It is not
possible in this booklet to teach breath
control and retention,* but ihe sincere .
seeker is urged to commence his attempts
in Meditation by first "watching the
Breath" to see if he can irace any mani-
festation of any force in the body. Ifs~,
watch it more closely; follow it, familiar•
ize yourself through feeling with the
beautiful rhythm of breath.
( d) As soon as you are still, Take the
•u you arc not Camllior with Mentalphydcs, you should eend
( nr literature.
14
M!:NTALPHYsics-T he Faultless Philosophy of Life
DENIAL (quoted later in this booklet)
and in a firm low voice, not even audible
to others, repeat a few times the words of
the Denial. The object of this is to "lay
the ghost" of the old ideas--to kill them.
For you are now reversing your old way
of thinking in relation to life. DON'T
HURRY. Then stop, be quiet, very peace•
ful. Let the Denial sink in. If there is
a tendency for the Mind to wander, draw
it hack again by repeatin~ the words of
the Denial.
You Must Use Sound
(e) Now, take your Affirmation, very res-
olutely, and treat it in the same manner.
Let the tone be decisive, positive, yet
reverent. Then sit still, VERYstill, very
peaceful and still, and let the Affirmation
sink in. WAIT-LISTEN ••• after some
practice-it may take a week, a month:
15
MENTALPHYsrcs-The Faultless Philosophy _
of Life
men vary-you will hear a voice speaking
to you in the Silence. That is the Voice
of the soul.
Never Hurry • •• Be Patient!
NOTE.-Do not be disappointed if your
mind is hard to control at the start. .lf
you make any progress in the first week,
be glad and grateful. Be ASSURED
THAT IT WILL COME ALL RIGHT IN
TIME. If you have any difficulty sit and
imagine that you are looking within you,
watching your own Breath. Notice how
even it is-how beautiful-and imagine
that the life force is coming in with every
breath that you take, and that it is going
all over you, remaining with you like a
Great Light within.
16
MENTALPHYSics - The Faultless Philosophy of Life
( f) Always sit in the same place. You
will know later on why this is desirab)e.
If you are fortunate enough to hear the
Voice referred to in (e) realize that it is
the Voice of the Spiritual Man speaking
to the Physical Man.
Try To Feel Rather Than Thi11li·
This may take you out of your ab~trac-
tion with a start. Never mind: try again.
Assume a grateful mood and gin• thanks.
You are to learn in a way that you have
never learned before that the INFINITE
WISDOM,of which yon are a part, Knows
All There Is To Be Known. Therefore,
when you are in touch with it consciously,
there is nothing that YOU cannot know.
Your connection with it now is UNCON-
SCIOUS, instinctive.
Those who have gained success in being
able to induce the state of abstraction
17
MENTALPHYSics-The Faultless Philosophy of Life
will, I repeat, agree that Meditation is
man's greatest blessing. When we get
some control of our mind, we should he
grate£ ul and give thanks. We are making
progress. If you fail, try again. Do not
despair. Sit quietly and make audi _
hly
your Affirmation in perfect confidence-
"I am Health," or whatever you may
wish, and feel the sound of your voice
riding out on the breath, so to speak. A
proper appreciation of the power of our
Breath will enable us to enter the Silence
with ease,
My Mind Creates My Universe
Most people are woefully ignorant of
their True Nature. We do not see things
.
in life as they are, hut only as they ap-
pear. Indeed, there is no evidence to
show that any two people-you and I, for
18
MENTALPHYsrcs-The Faultless Philosophy of Life
example-looking at the same objects,
sense them in the same way. As we are,
so they appear. The senses are the ave-
nues by which the Mind observes
phenomena, and as we do not sense things
as they are the Mind has to .correct our
observations or properly interpret them.
Meditation Brings Reality
In Mentalphysics we learn that it is an
illusion that the Universe-our universe
-exists externally. It has to be inter•
preted by our reason. Very few people
receive this correction, and so they con•
tinue all through life to retain a false
idea of the Reality of things, and of
themselves. Meditation is the key to the
realities of life.*
*The Science of Mentalphy sica discloses In a series of tran-
acendentally beautlCul lessons in manuscrJpt form what all people
dissatisfied with life are unconecloualy seeking. You are ad•bed
to write regarding the Home Study Course in Mentalpbyale•.
19
MENTALPHYs1cs-The Faultless Philosophy of Life
TO DE-HYPNOTIZE TIIE MIND FROM
ITS SENSUOUS ENMESHMENT
The average person is quite unconscious
of the fact that he can know anything,
except that which is received through the
senses. He is just as ignorant, too, that
his senses are deceiving him every
moment that he lives. He is subject to
this constant betrayal. And this must,
unfortunately, continue until such time
as he is able to realize what his senses are
doing with him. How frequently do we
hear people say, "Oh, how beautifully
those flowers smell." Reason dictates,
however, that flowers do not and cannot
smell. And so on.
Deceptions of Intellect
If you will sit and think a .little you will
find that there are thousands of similar
20
MENTALPHYsrcs-The Faultless Philosophy of Life
apparently unimportant deceptions of
mind created thus by the senses. During
the next day or two watch the conver-
sation of yourself with other people and
see how many things we say which are
not correct, and consequently (as words
~re the containers of Thought, so to
speak) our minds are deceived.
Constant Fight Against Unreality
Mentalphysics, again, is the key to enable
us to unlock the realities of our own
lives.
You will find that the Mind is enslaved,
deceived by these expressions into a state
of auto-hypnosis. It would he easy to fill
volumes with evidence of the Illusion of
the Senses. The great majority of man-
kind are in urgent need of correcting
their present ideas of their own very ex•
21
MENTALPHYsrcs-The Faultless Philosophy of Life
istence and their own powers. We have
supposed that we live in our senses; thus,
unless our senses are being occupied in
some pleasing manner, we are unhappy,
some people even quite miserable, not
knowing that WE ARE MIND, and the
senses merely the avenues by which we
are related to the world of objects that is
other than ourselves. This does not mean
that we are to decry or belittle the
senses as something had or useless. No,
the senses are a part of us, hut not the
REAL part. Our blessing in Mental·
physics is to EMANCIPATE THE MIND
from their dominant control. INSTEAD
OF THE SENSES MASTERING THE
MIND; THE MIND MUST MASTER THE
SENSES.
Now, all this may see mto he simple, hut
you are what your mind makes you.
That is self-evident.
22
MENTALPHYSics-The Faultless Philosophy of Life
BUT THE MIND CANNOT BE MASTER
UNTIL ·IT RECOGNIZES ITS POWER.
JUST AS THE HORSE WILL REMAIN
THE SERVANT OF MAN BECAUSE IT
IS NOT AWARE OF ITS SUPERIOR
STRENGTH, SO MAN WILL REMAIN A
SERVANT, BEATEN ABOUT WILLY.
NILLY BY ANY WIND THAT BLOWS,
UNTIL HE REALIZES THE GLORY OF
THE HIGHER POWERS OF THE REAL
SELF OF HIM.
Read this quoted paragraph most care•
fully-we must become dehypnotised.
"To de-hypnotize the Mind from its sen•
suous enmeshment and to awaken it to
the consciousness of its real inheritance
-
· OMNISCIENCE-means Eternal Life,
here and now." This is a stupendous
thing to do, but the process as taught in
Mentalphysics will yield a wonderful in-
23
MENTALPHYSics-The Faultless Philosophy of Life
terest, inspiration and a more abundant
life. Meditation is the secret to uncover
our hidden power.
GOING INTO THE SILENCE
Go Into Thy Closet and Shut Thy Door.
Few people know what Meditation means.
Similarly, Going Into The Silence is little
understood.
Let me repeat - sit in the same place,
as near as possible at the same tim; of
day, in the same position. To undertake
the work indicated in Mentalphysics so
that real benefit may be derived, it is ad-
vocated that one hour each day for at
least a month, is the least that the Stu-
dent should devote to his practice; after
the first month he will feel so much ·
24
I MENTALPHYSics-The Faultless Philosophy of Life
better for Meditations and the new reali-
zation of Knowledge that is gradually
coming to him that he will not need to be
counseled to practice, for his own Mind
will dictate this, and he will receive great
pleasure in Going Into The Silence.
Mentalphysics Awaits You
Mentalphysics is for those Students who
are pre-eminently interested in health
and life, Success and the Art of Living.
If you are interested more in the sub-
ject of strict material success-the mak-
ing of money, becoming a master sales-
man, becoming a great musician, or a
· writer, or an artist, you may change the
wordings of the Denials and Affirmations
to suit your own needs.
What we do in this Scientific Teaching is
to uncover the One Principle, the One
25
MENTALPHYsics-The Faultless Philosophy of Life
Lau, u,hich can be made to apply in the
realization of any ambition.
It must he emphasized that to gain suc•
cess and mastery, in no matter what we
may undertake, it is essent~al that the
knowledge must he so gradually ab-
sorbed as to irrevocably become a part
of the New Consciousness we are setting
out to build.
Importance of Diet-Remember That
You Are Physicall What You Eat
Care should he taken with the diet. In
a very real sense we can only he what
we eat-we KNOW that we are actually
WHAT WE TIIlNK, hut what we eat is
the result of our thinking. In this
writer's opinion, tested over a period of
some years, the "raw food plan" is the
best. In any case, temperance in diet is
the golden rule.
26
--r-'
MENTALPHYsics-The Faultless Philosophy of Life
There is an abundance of literature on
how and what to eat, so that we will
dismiss the matter here by advising the
Student, especially if he or she is suft'er-
ing from disease in any form, to inves-
tigate the subject of food from his or her
own particular standpoint.
Do Not Meditate Soon After Eating
Meditational exercises should never be
undertaken until three hours after a
meal, and more rapid progress will be
made at the start if the food bulk be
considerably reduced.
But REMEMBER:
YOU are to decide what are your
own particular needs.
IT IS YOU who must live your own
life.
YOU must do your own thinking,
and you are the sum total of your
own Thought.
ALL that any teacher can do is to shed
Light upon the Path: you yourself
must tread The Path.
(The Denials and A.J1irmatlona trhkh /ollow ,hould be mrm•
orised and repeated in Meditation u:ithout any phydcal e6ort.)
27
MENTALPHYsics-The Faultless Philosophy of Life
DENIAL No. I
DEATH IS NOT A LAW OF LIFE.
MAN IS NOT SUBJECT TO DECAY, SICK-
NESS OR OLD AGE.
THERE IS NO OLD AGE ** THERE IS NO
DECAY** THERE IS NO DEATH-There
IS NO DEATH.
I AM NOT SUBJECT TO DECAY AND OLD
AGE.
-NOW I AM FREE-FREE-FREE-FREE
FOR EVERMORE.
AFFIRMATION No. I
THE LAW OF CREATION IS LIFE.
I AM LIFE - GLORIOUS - WONDROUS-
VIBRANT - LIFE.
I AMYOUTH.
I AM BEAUTY - STRENGTH - POWER.
I AM FREE - FREE - LIFE - LIFE.
AFFIRMATION No. 2
I AM LIFE ETERNAL-BOUNDLESS-LIM-
ITLESS - EVERLASTING - NEVEREND-
ING - WONDERFUL LIFE.
I AM FREE •.• FREE ... FREE!
28
MENTALPHYs1cs - The Faultless Philosophy of Life
AFFIRMATION NO. 3
I AM WHOLE.
I AM PERFECT.
I AMSTRONG.
I AM POWERFUL.
I AM LOVING.
I AM HARMONIOUS.
I AMRICH.
I AM YOUNG.
I AM HAPPY.
Think of the transcending beauty of the
very words. While in meditation feel the
radiant Truth of the fact that "I am
WHOLE"-Whole ! Nothing has to be
added to wholeness. Nothing is to he
sought. You do not have to go elsewhere
for it, for "I AM Whole." Be thankful
-give thanks.
Think of the word "Powerful." Full of
Power, and "I AM POWER."
Contemplate the inner meaning of the
words, and you will gather strength from
day to day from this simple, yet truly
29
MENTALPHYsrcs-The Faultless Philosophy of Life
vibrating Affirmation, which, if you will
look deeply enough, you will find covers
every avenue of your life.
AFFIRMATION No. 4
THE CREATIVE SPIRIT DID NOT CREATE
DISEASE, SENILITY, OLD AGE ANDDEATH.
THESE IDEAS ARE SUPER-IMPOSED BY
THE MIND OF MAN-I REFUSE TO AC-
CEPT THEM.
THEY HAVE NO POWER OVER ME.
I AM FREE-FREE-FREE I
AFFIRMATION No. 5
I AM AN EMBODIMENT OF THE CREA-
TIVE SPIRIT.
I AM THE CENTER OF ATTRACTION.
I AM A MAGNET.
I EMBODY MYSELF IN YOUTH AND
BEAUTY.
I EMBODY MYSELF IN THE SUBSTANCE
OF BEAUTY.
30
M11NTALPHYs1cs-The
Faultless Philosophy of Life
INFINITE BEAUTY OF THE TEACH-
INGS OF MENTAi.PHYSICS
In closing, I would like to ask you
whether this little booklet has any mes-
sage for you? Look within yourself as
you read and see whether you are hear-
ing the Voice speaking to you. You may
he prompted to make inquiry regarding
the infinite beauty of the teachings of
Mentalphysics, through our headquar•
ters at Second and Hobart, Los Angeles,
California, U.S.A.
EDWIN J. DINGLE
(DING-LE-MEI)
Neu, York, Oct. 1930.
31
LIST OF MENTALPHYSICS
PUBLICATIONS
Written by
EDWIN J, DINGLE, F.R.G.S.
Founder of the Science of Mentalphysics
COMPLETE LIBRARY .... $13.50
Breathing Your Way to Youth .. $7 .50 ( )
Your Sex Life . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.00 ( )
Guide to Your Chemical Type. . . 1.00 ( )
Imagination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0,5 0 ( )
How to Meditate . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0.50 ( )
Your Mind and Its Mysteries. . . . 0,50 ( )
Information on Diet ........ , . 1.00 ( )
Lesson on "Supply" . . . . . . . . . 1.00 ( )
Lesson on "Constipation" , . , , 1.00 ( )
Lesson on "Your Eyes" . . . . . . 1.00 ( )
Lesson on "Your Ears" , ..... 1.00 ( )
THE LIVING WORD . . . . . . . . . 2.00 ( )
International Headquarters
213 South Hobart Blvd.
Los Angeles 4, California, U.S. A.
32
-~
,,
