{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__de_claremont___7_keys_to_power.pdf","mytitle":"7 Keys To Power","mylang":"de"}
LE~S
eCLAREMO
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
The Masters Book of Profound Esoteric Law
• • •
by
LEWIS de CLAREMONT
Author of
The Ancients Book of Magic
The Master's Course of Lessons in Hypnotism
Legends of Incense, Herb and Oil Magic
The Home Herb Doctor
Secrets of Attraction
How to Get Your Winning Number
The Ten Lost Books of the Prophets
The Seven Keys to Power
Inventor of Hypnopoule
..Oh, eyes that are weary and hearts that are sore,
Look unto God and sorrow no more."
DC
• • •
I
Order & Reorder From
POWER
&CHARM
HOUSENe.
1577 MILWAUKEE
AVE.
CHICAGO 22, ILL.
"This book is herewith dedicated to the great
~sistanct given the author by hisspirit guide."
.. APPOLLONIUS OF TAYANEUS"
Copyright 1936
1st Printing Dec. 1936
2nd Printing Jan. 1937
3rd Printing Feb. 1937
4th Printing May 1937
5th Printing Aug. 1937
6th Printing Sept. 1937
7th Printing Dec. 1937
8th Printing Feb. 1938
9th Printing Feb. 1938
10th Printing March 1938
11th Printing March 1938
12th Printing April 1938
13th Printing May 1938
14th Printing June 1938
15th Printing July 1938
16th Printing Aug. 1938
Revised Edition
Copyright 1938
DORENE PUBLISHING Co., INc.
1st Printing Sept 1938
2nd Printing Jan. 1939
3rd Printing April 1940
4th Printing Sept. '1940
\
.J
V
FOREWORD
Every single thing in the world has an opposite. Every
~ood has a bad counterpart. Every positive has a nega-
tive. Every good power may be turned to evil ends, even
·so, it is, with the powers of the mind. The great power of
good which the thoughts of men have evoked, can influ-
ence the sinister and opposite power of evil and it is this
infiuence, this evil power which we know in the East as
Black Magic. Black Magic signifies the destructive use of
Mental and Occult Power. It is the misuse of spiritual le-
velopment for, contrary to popular ideas, spiritual thinW'I
are by no means always good things. This book reveals
what Black Magic can do and uncovers the unseen power•
that are spurring the world on to madness and evtl. Noi
only, forcing individuals to be Evil but also invoking col•
lective evil out of the uncontrolled telepathic forces which
individual evil releases.
Black Magic is a terrible curse, a· ghastly blight and the
power of that malevolent influence is everywhere. Men
sicken and die under the curse laid upon them. Nations
stagnate and suffer underneath its spell. Wake up! people
of the earth, do not blame others for the sins that beset
you, look at your own hearts and minds, therein lies the
.secret springs of all your troubles and of the woes of this
suffering world. There are Black Magicians in the world
who are deliberately carrying on their terrible work. But
there are also millions and millions of ordinary people who
are busy laying grievous burdens upon_ the wor.ld and upon
s
THE SEVEN KEYS ·TO POWER
their fellowmen. Be not intolerant of the unknown. Let
not your materialistic civilization blind you to the forces
of the unseen and the supernatural.
By constantly holding forces of anger, of hatred, lust
and envy, people are constantly emitting cursed influences •
without knowing that the devastating work they are so
~ffectively doing. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.
LEWIS de CLAREMONT.
6
INTRODUCTI01'
The 7 Keys to Power as given to me in silence by the
great Solar Intelligence Phi-Rhi through a Soul Vision and
as contained in ancient secret writings which I covered
with great effort and painstaking care, which were known
mainly by the ancient priests in their mystic records cen-
taining rare and secret formulas known thousands of years
before Moses ; by the Egyptian Chaldean, the Sumarians,
Hebrews, Babylonians, and other ancient priests in their
'
magical practiees. And from which the laws of Moses and
Solomon were obtained and known only to those high caste ;
things so as to show how the hand of God guides and con-
trols all things as shown by the great and many scientific
discoveries made to the bette~ understanding and advan-
tage of all, and for those who will read and study this lit-
tle book, herewith known as the Seven Keys to Power, so
that he may learn of the divine power at the command of
all, which has heretofore kept sacred in Silence, so that he
may enjoy the Blessings of Power, Truth and Understand-
ing as He desired for All and so that He need not no long-
er bind his Soul and keep the vow of silence to keep these
after a vow of silence was taken and they ascended the 7th
heavens to receive the blessings of Isis, Asoris, and Tefod,
who bound their souls as a security against any violation
they might be found guilty of and passing down these mys-
~ teries through the ages to a chosen few until the begining
of the present age when the vow of silence was broken and
the great secrets were revealed so that his promises as
told by Mathew 10:26, Luke 12:2 to uncover all secret
7
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
Wife, husband, sister, brother, mother, or father, for if he
things secret, though the wise will continue to keep the
desires to help them, let them secure their own copy or
vow in silence and never revt::l.£1
to any, his knowledge so
that the Power herein contained in these secrets may n<'>t
be removed, and the wise will never loan nor give his copy
of this little Book to anyone, no matter how close, whether,
carry out the work for them. For the loan of the book to
another gives them power which they use for evil to cross
or bind-them, therefore destroy them by bindi'ng telepathic
infiuences and inducing psychometric contact.-Beware I
If you wish to succeed in your work, you must follow
the directions and then you may gain all your desires t.o
win in the field. It is well that you should always use the
things recommend.ed in this book for they are sensitive to
the proper vibrations so that you may have better results,
for they have been tested, and have been found correct in
everything that they have intended them for, as thou-
sand who have used them will testify,
This book will tell you-When to do a certain thing-
How to do it. It will give you instructions and directions
as to the hour, day, or night, whether to use the light of
the sun, the light of the moon or in the deep darkness of
the night. When there is no visible moon ·or the correct wea-
ther or to use the light of a candle. As all these things,
according to ancient legends, have a powerful influence on
the results obtained or desired for all things may have cer-
tam natures that will permit them to work better under
8
)'HE SEV~N ~EYS TO J~OWE_R
,certain conditions. As Bernard Trevesan, who it is claimed
invoked Amon to bring back the lover of a certain Duke,
he usen a purple candle and no other light, for that he
believed nelped him conquer Amon. so as to force him to
do his bidding, and bring back the Duke's lover willingly.
MYITIJIIUM
'-,--·•,~J'J
~ ... 'f ....,..
,..........
,...,,,
. ·:..
,· -~·':~ •. _: ....... ~~~, ~. f
h---oi_
1-,,
__
....jj_.,.'.__..i,~.,._--.,.
..
~:--,......---11.. . • .-'. ' - , £
""- • ~ •i. c.!.. c....l ,..__ ..... [
- -... . .. ..
•- .... ,~ ............ •., l)'fJ!A.lo-
•
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
KEY NUMBER ONE
How to find the proper hour for all magical under-
takings:
First, if you desire to do something that involves you
alone then you add up the month, day, and year of your-
birth to one number and that is the magical hour of all
practices involving yourself, as-
.Day of birth-March 24th, 1912.
March equals 3rd months equals. 3
24th day equals 2 plus 4 equals 6
1912 yr. equals 1 plus 9 plus 1 plus 2 equals 13
equals 13 equals 1 plus 8 equals 4 equals 4
*lS
thus *4 is,the magical hour to do all things for this person.
That would be 4 o'clock, in the afternoon, or 4 o'clock in the
morning. If the exact date is not known, the birth month
of the year would then be used. As-:-
'
Birth Month of the year-March, 1912.
'
March equals 3rd month equals 3 j!.
1912 yr. equals 1 plus 9 plus 1 plus 2 equals
13 equals 1 plus 3 equals 4 equals 4
7
thus, 7 being the hour, when to start. When the date is
10
T J-fE SE V E_N ~-E Y S_ TO POW I;.R
not known divide the number of the days in the month by
the key number, 7. March has 31 days; therefore, divide
31 by 7. 7 into 31 equals approximately 4:38.
Note: The single number 4 is gotten by reducing 13,
thus;
13 equals 1 plus 3 equals *4
Four is the number to start all mystical operations in.
A person can start their magical work at four in the af-
ternoon or four in the morning. If the exact hour of the
birth is known then use the articles at that hour in the
night ..As if a person was born at 5 o'clock in the evening,
\
then they must use the articles in the light of the moon
at 5 in the morning.
If you desire to succeed in your undertakings be sure
that you repeat the prayers as given, regardless of the
number of times you use ceremony in any given case.
These are the things that will greatly help you to succeed,
in your undertakings. This is knowledge known mostly by
masters and kept secret by them, so that now I reveal to
you the first key. If you follow it right and all 1the other
6 keys, you can become a Master of Power. Remember
it is always not what you say, but the way you say it that
·counts most. Remember that you must never make a
statement or say a thing unless you have made up your
mind to mean it and then, when you say it, you must nev-
er change it until you have gone to the end. If you are
11
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
teaching an animal to do your bidding, or if you wish to
subdue one to do your bidding, you must let them know
that you mean all you say and that you will carry it out
to the end-that your will can do anything for it is limit-
less. You can take any stone, earth, stick or article re-
gardless of what it looks like or size and by holding it in
your hands you may impart into it your will so that the
person taking hold of it will secure yot,Ir will or desire. It
is wise not to tell anyone when you do this for they will
fear you and maybe prevent you from carrying out what
is in your mind. Anyone can become an adept if they
will carefully study this book, but do not go around telling
people what you are doing for they might try to prevent
you, and you may fail to get what you are seeking. But
if you follow the directions in each of the Seven Keys you
will be able to _wo;rk
out anything you desire. You will be
able to cast out devils, put them into people, overcome
enemies, uncross people, cross people and make anyone do
your bidding without knowing it. You can
gain control and
master all these things and make your life just what you
want it to be, but you must follow directions in order to
succeed in your undertakings. The person who owns this
book need n-aver be in want nor desire anything without
getting it.
There will be certain things to use so as to retain the
proper influence, until you know how to make them your.
12
."I"
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
self. So that you make no serious mistakes, I urge you to
follow the formulas carefully or obtain your supplies from
a reliable supply house.
In every corner of the earth, there are people who de--
vote much time in stirring up trouble of all kinds: that
bring sorrow and suffering to the many innocent people,
and the quicker we learn how to control them and make -
them behave, the better off we will be. That is one reason
I wrote this book, so as to make people aware of these
evil-doers. To show you what I mean, a great mystic,
philosopher, investigator, and teacher was consulted by a
Peer of the Realms of England, who while visiting Egypt
with his wife in the Spring, entered the ~emple of Luxor
for the purpose of seeing it as tourists. They fou:ad some
' kind of a religious service in progress, attended by a num-
ber of people with wreaths of roses on their heads, a:ad
reciting curious incantations and performing strange rites.
Lord X and his wife moved about them looking at the
Temple. Their actions appeared to disturb the worship-
pers. One of them requested, that the two visitors leave
the Temple. His Lordship protested on the grounds that
the Temple was open to the Public and that he and his
wife had as much right of entrance as the worshippers had,
who it appeared belonged to a secret order of Black Magi-
cians and were moreover worshippers of Isis, to whom the
Luxor Temple is dedicated. The visitors took no notice of
the request and continued to talk and move about. This
13
THE SEVEN KEY·S TO'POWER
annoyed the worshippers, who again requested them to
leave. His Lordship grew angry and a rather heated ar-
gument followed. Her Ladyship became uneasy and there-
fore left the Temple. Leaving her husband in the Temple,
for he had become obstinate and was determined to re-
main there as long as he cared. He had with him a small
camera, and it appears, he tried to photograph some of the
worshippers during their rites. This so infuriated them,
that their priest interrupted the sermon and advancing up-
on his Lordship solemnly, waved his hand and wand in a
strange manner, repeated certain words and staring in-
tensely at him cursed him and his entire family.
The following December his Lordship's second son was
killed in a street accident ; his wife was killed in an air dis-
aster the following July. Three weeks previously his lit-
tle nephew died while undergoing an operation. The next
year his father died, and there has been scarcely a mem-
ber of the family who has not been afflicted by either sick-
ness or death. His Lordship has since tried to get in touch
with the sect, in order to make his peace and ask for for-
giveness and for the removal of the curse, but the worship-
pers have since scattered over the wide world never to re-
unite again in Egypt and leaving no trace. His Lordship
has been unsuccessful in communicating with them. lt
has also been established since then that the sect had n<;
right whatever to wo1·ship in that or any other of the
Egyptian Temples, as a strict law of Egyptian Government
14
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
is that no service of any kind may be held in any ·of the
temples.
This Peer wrote to Dr. Cannon, and he begged and im-
plored him to help. Dr. Cannon was happy to aid and was
glad to comply with that request. The curse finally was
removed. A petition to God never fails, for it is written:
"Whatsoever ye ask the Father in my name, he will give
unto you." (John 14:13).
To the Black Magacians who cursed this Nobleman in
that Luxor Temple, were solemnly telepathized the follow-
ing words of Isaiah : "My word shall not 1·eturn unto me
void, but shall accomplish that wherever it is sent" (John
22 :25), and he, therefore, sent forth these further words
to that Black Magacian : "Thy word shall also return un-
to thee, and the curse that thou has placed upon the head
of this man, our most noble and respected Lord, now re-
turns to thee and lies upon thine own head and upon thine
own house."
HOUR OF OCCULT POWER
Curses, like chickens, come home to roost, therefore, let
me conclude the first Key of Power by saying, if someone
,,- is using their evil forces against you, do not hesitate, do
not wait, do not go to someone to do this work for you, for
no one will hold your interest at heart as you will, and
therefore, you must find out if possible the hour of their
15
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
birth, or the date, month and year, whether they are born
in the day and year, whether they are born in the day
time, on a moonlight night, or in the dark moon. H you
eannot get this information, get the day of the week and
whether it was daylight or at night, and find their mystic
number as I have shown you before how to find yours; add
te your own number and that is your mystical hour of
work. As 3 being YOUR number, 2 being THEIRS, there-
fore 6 is the hour for work, day or night, or both .
•_.-,-,- ?" -~
jEWISJi CABBALIST HOLDl"G THE SEPHIROTIC TREE ·;
16
j
I
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
KEY NUMBER TWO
If you know the date of the person that you are working
on, you will find below a list of candles, with the days of
the week corresponding to the proper candles.
Use one candle corresponding to that day; one candle of
your day, and one white candle if +.heir birth is in the day
time, add one blue candle if it is in the afternoon, add one
red candle if it is in the evening, add one black candle.
l'hus, you set up a trinity binding your work with the per-
son you are working on, plus the spirit at the time of their
birth. After you have consecrated these candles, whicb
you will learn later under another Key, you set the candles
to form a trinity, thus, in the center, on pure virgin sheep-
skin parchment you write out your wishes in ink, and place
1t in the center of the candles and say the 18th Chapter
of· Job, seven times and at the end of each prayer, you
must ask your desire be granted in the following words:
"Oh Lord, Father, Protector, King of Kings, may it please
you to listen to your child who is in sorrow, suffering the
torments of evil. I beg thee, in the name of Jesus, to
grant me my prayer and make me happy and rich by re-
moving from my path all evils-never to return and tor-
ment me. 1 am a true righteous child, and thus fulfill
your promise and add glory to thy holy name. Tetragram-
maton, El0him, Adonai, Echod, Amen, Halalula."
When you have. completed the above, repeat the 18th
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
·- --
Psalm, 3 times before you leave t~e altar or the place you
are carrying on your services. You may sprinkle the
parchment with one of the sachet p_owdersas listed in My
Book of Legends of Incense Herb and Oil Magic according to
your desires. If you want it to go OUT to the person,
place some in your hand and blow it out saying as you do,
"May this powder carry with it m~ desire, and my wishes :>
and my will to do my just bidding no matter, where or
how."
It is wise to use the Perfumed 7 Holy Spirit Baths (See
Legends of Incense Herb and Oil Magic) before starting
any work so as to cleanse and protect you from dirt and
evils. On the day before you start any work, it is wise
to fast for 12 hours.
HOW TO REMOVE CONDITIONS KNOWN AS CROSS
CONDITION, AND AS KNOWN IN THE ORIENT
AS THE EVIL EYE.
This condition has been known to occult science for many
years whereas modern science calls this superstition and
subjective states of Neuroses. That condition which so
dreadfully hampers a person spiritually as well as material
welfare because of the negative nonplussed state of mind
and body-withdrawing the will and power of the individual,
so that another may control and hamper them, may now
be overcome. But do not think that this is an easy situa-
tion, for it is not so. In fact, ancient priests worked harC,
18
I
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
·-- -
and long to succeed in this undertaking, but if you start by
using the thought that no power can control you but God
himself and retain this belief you will start on the road to
overcome this situation.
Hold this thought and repeat the 121st Psalm. S times,
then the 23rd Psalm, 3 times for 28 days, this is the first
step. You will then pnd a strong new force taking hold of
you and will give you strength and courage. When you
have finished these prayers, anoint your body with Holy
Sanctuary Oil (See my book "Legends of Incens~ Herb and
Oil Magic") so that from then on you must be,lieve that
nothing can harm you. On the noon hour you should repeat
the 25th Psalm 3 times, and the 26th Psalm, S times. Then
in the evening repeat the following 7 times. Holding in one
hand the Holy Power, (See my book "Legends of Incense
Herb and Oil Magic") in the other hand some dirt. "Ob
Lord, my God and Mast:r hear me-(son) or (daughter)
, free me from all enemies who seek to harm me, free me
from those who wish to harm my soul, body and mind, free
me so that in the name of Jesus, I may be clean of evil." And
so saying you mix the dirt from one hand in to the other
and repeat,. "Bless me, God as you are blessing this unclean
earth to clean earth, cleanse me, My Lord, as vou cleanse
this earth of evil, help me, My Lord, as you help those
that are faithful. (Then throw away the mixed dirt and
say thus;) "Scatter this evil that has been placed me as
you scatter this earth to the corners of the wodd." Then
19
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
- . -
repeat:-
"Scatter evil, scatter, go with this dirt to the corners of
the earth or return home to your server, just as a chicken
returns home to roost. Thank you, Oh Lord."
When this is done, take a bath of clean water' in which -.,
Chinese Wash (See Legends of Incense of Herb and Oil
I
Magic) has been placed into, then wash the floors of your
home by putting Chinese Wash in the water, and spray'
the house with it. When this is done, take another bath,
placing an additional amount of Chinese Wash into it, say-
ing, "I am clean my Lord; Thank you, Thank you,'' and
begin your feast.
There are many ways that these crossings are broµght
about and I will now reveal how the old priests treated
these cases and did the crossings in other ones. One way
was to ·take a fine piece of hemp string, cut it in short
lengths and to scatter them in the path that the victim
walked. This was for the purpose of entangling the feet. •
A little further on they would place a gummy stuff, close
enough together to be stepped on. This was intended to
gum the feet or shoes. They would use Gum Acacia, or
Gum Myrrh, or Oriental Gum, which would gradually pick
up the hemp and make a tangled. mess, that often tripped
the one they sought to cross. When this happened, the
victim was considernd to be fully under his spell, and this
was largely so, from the fear that one was under this an-
20
./
I
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
looked for crossing and the danger that may be near. Now
the way that the uncrossing was usually done, was to take
all the accumulation of hemp and gum and whatever else
was found on the feet of the person, put it in a basin and
burn it to ashes, bejng careful not to inhale any of the
fumes of the substance while burning. When reduced to
.ashes and cold, fold it in a paper with one end open, pray
the 7th Psalm, 3 times, with this prayer: "Oh El-yon, Opa
may it be Adonai, thy holy will to wet this dust with the
tears of thy displeasure, thereby restoring the irum hemp
so that _the feet of him or her who would entangle, cross
or hex thy servant may be entangled, crossed or hexed in.
21
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
KEY NUMBER THREE
During many years of Occult Investigation and Research
into the laws of ancient occult usages i:q relation to their
workings as far as Magic and other occult purposes, I have
compiled this following list of remedies and things said to
be used for them in old and ancient times by many priests
and devotees of the occult and mystic arts.
For Calumniation or Slander
In olderi times a good remedy to get for Calumniation or
Slander. If you are calumniated or slandered to your very
flesh, to your very bone, take off your shirt and turn it
wrong side out and then turn your hands along your body
close under the ribs, starting at the pit of the heart down
to the side. Many people use uncrossing powder and mag-
net (for Formula see "Legends of Incense Herb and Oil
Magic") to overcome these difficulties and believe faith-
fully in these preparations.
An anciP.nt precaution against these injuries was: Who-
ever carries the right eye of a wolf faatened inside his
right sleeve remains free from all injuries. Many people in
order to obtain things which they desire would do as fol-
lows: If you call upon another, to ask for a favor you may
carry a little of the Five Finger Grass with you and it was
believed you shall certainly obtain what you desire. My
Ancient Book of Magic says that for gaining a lawful suit
22
•
/
THE ,SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
in court, if anyone has to settle any just claims by thlf.'i
way of a law suit, let him take some of the largest kind of
Sage and write the name of the twelve apostles on a leaf
and put them in his shoe, before entering the court house,
and he shall favorably gain this suit.
In my researches of the ancient books, a morning prayer
was spoken of which would save the person from any mis-
hap. Below is a copy of the prayer.
I (her~ the name is to be pronounced) will go on a
journey today. I will walk where God himself did walk, in
our dear· Lord Jesus Christ and our dearest Virgin with
her dear little baby, with her seven rings and her· true
things. Oh Thou, my dear Lord Jesus Christ I am thine
own, t~at no dog 1'ay bite me, no wolf may bite, and no
murderer secretly approach me. Save me, Oh my God,
from sunset. I am in God's hands, I am Just, Pure and
protected. That any gun or any other arms may not do
me any harm than the virginity of our Holy Virgin Mary
was injured by the same saver, or her beloved Jesus. Af-
ter this, say the Lord's prayer. The Ave Maria, and the
articles of Faith. A prayer against evil spirits and all
manner of witchcraft was as follows: Sanctus, Spiritus,
all this be guarded herein time and there in eternity.
You must write all the above on a piece of white paper
and carry it about you. The characters of the letters
above signifies God bless me here in time and there etern-=
ally.
23
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
Many ancient priests used the following benedicti.on for
all purposes.
"Jesus, I will arrive, Jesus, do thou accompany me. Jesus
do thou lock my heart to thine and let my body and my
soul be commended unto thee. The Lord is crucified, may
God guard my sense that evil spirits may not overcome me,
.in the name of God, Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost, Amen.''
A prayer against e:very evil influence would be: "Lord
, Jesus, thy wound so red, will guard me against death!'
Many priests in order to obtain the right court counsel
repeated the following:
Jesus, Nazarenus let Judeorum, first carry these char-
acters with you written on parchment paper and then re-
peat the following words:
I
''I, (name), appear before the house of the Judge, three
wise men look out of the window, one having no tongue, the
other having no eyes, and the third was sick. This is in-
tended to be used when you are standing before a court, in
your right, and the judge not being favorably disposed to-
wards you: While on your way to the court you may re-
peat the benediction already given above.
Many ancient priests advising people how to prevent
themselves from being cheated, charmed, or bewitched and
24
I
i
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
to be at all times blessed, repeated the following:
"Like unto the cup and the wine and the holy supper,
which our Lord Jesus Christ gave unto his dear disciplea
,on Mondayi Thursday, may the Lord Jesus guard me in
<laytime, and at night, that no dog may bite me, no wild
beast tear me to pieces, no tree fall on me, no water rise
.against me, no fire injure me, no weapon, no iron nor steel,
icut me, no fire burn me, no false friends call upon me, no
false friends injure me, no rogue enrage me, anq. that no
:fiend, witchcraft or enemy can harm me."
Different directions to enfold the same: "The Holy Trin-
ity guard me, be and remain with me on the water and up.-
on the land, in the water or in the fields and sftting or go-
fag through the whole world wherever I am, the Lord Jesus
Christ, will turn me against all my enemies, secret or pub-
lic and may he eternally guard her, also guard me through
the bitter sufferings of Jesus Christ, his holy blood shed
,on the cross, assist me, Jeri, Jeri, Jesus has been crucified,
tortured and died. These true words are put in the same
way, which are here put thou, and spoken in prayer by me.
This shall assist me, that I shall not be in prison, bound or
overcome by anyone. Before me all guns, or other weapona
shall be of no use or power, firearms hold your fire with
the mighty hands of God, thus all firearms shall be charmed.
When the right hand of the Lord, Jesus Christ, was fas-
tened to the tree of the Cross, like unto the Son of the
heavenly father, who was obedient until death, may tu
25
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER-
eternal God have presented me by the rosy blood, by the
five holy grooves of the tree of the cross and thus, must I
be blessed and well protected, like the cup, the wine and
the genuine true bread which Jesus Christ gave to his dis-
ciples on the evening of Monday and Thursday. Another
similar direction is: "This day and night Thou mayeth
not let any of my enemies force me, approach me and they
do 'lot attempt to bring me what was suspended from the-
holy altar, because God, Our Lord, Jesus Christ is ascended
into heavenly, in his living body. Oh Lord, this is good for
me this day and night, Amen.
The charm to gain advances from a man of superior be--
ing: I (name) grieve upon thee. Three drops of blood I
take from thee, the first out ·of thy heart, the other out of'
thy liver and the third out of thy vital power, and in this I
deprive thee of thy strength, and m_anliness.
A benediction for and against all enemies : The cross of'
Christ be with me, the cross of Christ overcome all water
and every fire, the cross of Christ overcome all weapons,
the cross of Christ is a perfect sign and blessing to my soul.
May Christ be with me and my body during all my life, at l
day and at night. Now I pray loudly, to God, the Father
who·is so faithful and I pray God, the Son, who is the Fa- "
ther's faith, and I pray God the Holy Ghost, for the Father
and Son's faith and the Holy Cross, that God may bless me
against all evil things, words and work. The Cross of
26
;
,,.
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
Christ open unto me future work, the cross of Christ be
with me, above me, before me, behind me, beside me and
everywhere, and all my enemies visible and invisible van-
ish from me, as soon as they hear this ordeal. Enogh,
Elian, two apostles who were never imprisoned, nor bound,
nor beaten and never out of their power, thus, no one of
mine enemies must try to injure or attack me, my body or
my life in the Name of God, the Father, the Holy Ghost,
Amen.
Thus I have revealed to you some of the ancient bene-
dictions of prayer as used by priests of olden times in their
practices in mystical Art and the occult firm.
The evils that upset the human race, its people and i;he
woes that it caused; there is much misery caused by Black
Magic in the love affairs of the human race· and from all
other causes combined. The main reason for this is due to
the lack of proper care in the selection of the loved ones
in the first place. Few people ever think of the results that
can happen in a mismated couple's life, and when it is too
late there is trouble. The wise course is to be sure that
you are right, then go ahead, but if not sure, just take
time to find out, but do not' be in a hurry to mate with the
first man or woman that comes your way. You can be
fooled very easily and it costs money and a lot of trouble
to straighten out some of these matrimonial affairs, that
people are so often getting themselves into. The next thing
27
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
to know before you join your life with man or woman is,
Are they the right mate, and are they fit to be the mother
be a credit to you and your mate to be·careful, and arrange
or father of your children. If you expect to marry, it wm
it with all the care that you put into the matter or you
can be fooled, for ~he reason that some old trace of some-
one in either the father's or mother's family will· ceme to,
the surf ace in some one of the childr1m and cause trouble.
I
You can see this on every side, among; neighbors next door
to you, if you have not it in your own family. If you wm
note certain things in the child, while very young, then
you can do a lot to rid them of old family traits that wiU
cause trouble, if not overcome while they are young. This
.
you can do for the child and save trouble that may come
later. Follow these directions carefully.
While the child is small during the nursing periods sing
the child to sleep using words as follows : You are going t0.
sleep, and when you are asleep mother will talk to you.
and you will answer me but you will not remember it. Just
think of it, you will talk to motheir when you are asleep-,
.
..
and when you wake up you will not :remember what mother t
did or told you, when you were asleep or what you toldi.
mother. This is a form of Mazmarism. It has also been
applied to grown up people when they are asleep. One is
able to talk to them and after a series of many nights can
instill within that person their will and their desire. Say,
of a woman who tries to overcome some difficulty with
28
•
'
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
her husband. While her husband is asleep she will repeat,
You ,are under my power, you will be my servant, you will
do my bidding, you will do as I tell you ; continuously for
a number of nights and she will find that he will gradually
i adopt the suggestion, such that he will carry out her
every word that she requests, no matter h(j)Wdifficult or
how·tiring, for it is beyond his control t1refuse her. If a
person, or child or anybody asks you how you can talk to
a person when they are asleep, or how you can do such a
thing, just say that it is a heavenly secret, but that you
will tell them how it is possible to do this wonderful thing
when the angels give you their consent, out that is not
now, therefore, they must sleep, sleep, sleep.
You must be very patient, do not scold them in their
sleep, nor scold your child, if it does not go to sleep at
once or if they do not respond immediately to your re-
quest, you must just keep repeating over again and again
and they will talk to you or the child will talk to you when
it goes to sle~p.
It takes several evenings to get a child to talk back to
you and it takes much longer to get a grown-up to talk
back to you. After this has been perfected, you will find
! that the grown-up will answer your questions· or the child
will answer your questions, but you must be very patient
and still very persistent in your suggestions; that it can
·and will answer and in a few days or evenings you will be
29
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
surprised to see how clear the person's answers will come
to you. When the child has gotten to where it can and
does answer you, you must be careful not to startle the
child or a grown-up by any abrupt or loud questions for
fear of awakening it, for setting up a nervous reaction,
just be gentle and very careful not to startle it in any way.
Suppose a person or a grown-up or any person whom
you desire to try this work on is in the habit of telling
untruths. When they are asleep just repeat over and over,
I
you can talk to mother now, and tell me what I want to
know and you will not wake up for ·you are fast asleep.
Now you can answer mother and you will tell her all she
wants to know, for you will never tell any more untruths.
Substituting in the name of mother, if it is a wife,-wife;
or if it is a sister,-sister; brother,-brother; etc. Come
now, darling, answer me, for you can. Keep this up until
the person answers you, which will be in a whiaper at
first, but will grow stronger as you urge it and in few
evenings you will have the person talking to you in: their
sleep. When this is accomplished you can in a gentle but
firm way ask them what it did at a certain time and when
they have given the answer, say firmly, well, you will never
do that again, because you are going to be truthful and
never tell untruths again. If you do not like to tell lies, ~
you will do so no more ; you will also be truthful, honest
and kind, loving and just in all your ways. Your natural
loving nature will always guide you right, you will do no
30
.,I
t
1
I
i
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
evil to anyone, but always be kind, and loving to all, and
thus, you will always be happy.
With a little study you will soon become expert in these
practices, and thus, you can manage them into anything
you desire.
The main thing is to be very patient, but very persistent,
and therefore you cannot fail. By this same law you can
change the very nature of. any one man or woman, any-
where, whether they are with you or at the other side of
the world. To do this you must have a well formed picture
of the one you are going to work on in your mind. If you
can get hold of a photograph of the person, so much the
,.
better. Sit down where you will not be disturbed, study
the picture, and when you have it, it will develop in your
mind. Put the photograph aside and call up the picture
from memory. Speak to the person as plainly as possible,
just as if they were present with you, slow and firm.
First ask them to identify themselves, so you can call
the name as follows: You are So and So, and you will
answer my question and do my bidding. Then proceed to
tell them in a firm but gentle manner what you want.
First call them by name and make them acknowledge them-
.selves; second, proceed to give them whatever it is that
you wish to tell them and when you are through dismi&1
them and say, wi_llsee you at a ,certain time and you must
never fail to keep this appointment, because if you do,
32
J
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
you will break the chain of communication and spoil your
work. Be sure that you speak distinctly, but not loud, so
that every word is heard and understood by the sleeping
person or the person that is at a distance.
One in this particular subconscious state can be changed
in all the habits of their conscious mind, and this can be
done at. a distance as well as when you are near them. It may
take a little longer to accomplish the task, but it is certain
to bring results in the end. This is the law of Mesmerism,
which has been so successfully used the last half century
by several millions of people, large cults, and healers.
Forming a clear picture in your mind of any other
person no matter where, which can cause them to show
themselves to you at a time when you desire them to do
your bidding and execute your every demand, this way,
you can, if you are patient, in time, learn every secret of
theirs and can force them to respond to your every desire.
Of course, this takes some time because you have to cul-
tivate your will, so that you can hold the picture of the
person, and a thought of what you desire them to do.
If you s~cceed in causing them to appear and acknowl-
edge at the first time you try, you will have little trouble,
but if they do not respond clearly and willingly you must
proceed to break down all opposition from their will and
make them' respond to your command. You should never
give a command for them to execute until they appear in
33
I.
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER i
a plain, clear manner because otherwise your results will
not be satisfactory. Once they do appear, they will obey
your every wish. The past method has been known by
great Masters, but not by most of the so-called spiritual
workers. So you will find failures all around you, and
those people will never be able to do anything, until they
have learned this secret. This has always been known as
a Secret of the Master, and with which one can obtain a
true answer to all their questions, and a willing slave to
all their wishes. Mistakes cannot happen, unless you are
very careless in how you do the work, so be sure to follow
directions.
After you have the vision well developed, tha.t is, when
the person you are seeking to have appear, has come
through clearly, compel them to identify themselves, so
that there can be no mistake. When this is done, tell them
that they are now subject to your will and that they will
obey you in all things. Have them confirm this by what-
ever sign you adopt. Say, by a low bow of your head or
some other motion when you have this well worked out,
by repeated responses on their part, then proceed to give
your directions and commands and be sure never to change
your system once you have gained agreeable results.
One of the great causes of so many failures is the habit
that people have of always changing tlie one thing to an-
other, or of one way of doing a thing to another. God made
34
l
t
.
.s
J
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
the world m one wa~, and only one way; and anything that
interferes with that will bring forth an abnormal product.
That is the reason so many things are wrong in this world.
They are only half formed, so we would have to build insane
.asylums, to hold the undeveloped minds. Be sure you are
tight before you start to do any work, otherwise you will
find yourself under the wrong influence, with no way to get
out, without doing great harm to yourself and others. Re-
member there is nothing so perfect as spiritual development
and the power to make things do your bidding. When you
know how to use it according to its. own laws, the invisible
laws, the laws of the Ancients, the laws of the Masters, you
will then be a_bleto help people. But if you do not follow
these laws, you are sure liable to burn your fingers. So, use
care, follow directions, they will lead you right, seek by
every means to understand just what is meant by these
mstructions, step by step when their meaning will come
dear so you will not make any mistakes.
If a man should seek to know divine law, the law of the
.ancients right, there would be no ill fault of unsound bodies
or minds in all the universe. The man through his per-
severance and disregard of the laws of being has caused all
abnormal products and death of the great sufferers from so
many practitions by the Black Magic of evil, so I warn you
to know, what you are doing before you come up to practice
this science on anyone. Always be sure that you are right,
thei. go ahead. This is the truth that should always be
35
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
- kept well in mind before one starts doing anything that in-
volves these ancient scientific practices, otherwise you
mirht fail, and at times do great damage. I am also aware
that very few people have a small idea of the scientific prin-
ciples enabling us to carr:y out this work in whole and in
part. As from a practical standpoint, to go slow until you
have grasped the facts and it stands up as it should. It is
well to know that the mis-direction of a simple prayer would
,,
the power to settle one into the ranks of non-believers,
and that very thing has happened in thousands of cases,
that are today a matter of record. The great trouble with
most people is that they have a very limited power of the
use and understanding of simple terms, and that they get
nowhere because of the fact. You must have persever-
ance, and you must continue to have faith in your own
work, in your own self and in the Lord.
God has given you capacity to recognize all that anyone
else can know, but you have failed to take advantage of this
fact and so you are at the tail of the class. It may be that
you have not awakened to the fact that all of these things
in life are of great importance. Knowledge is the most im-
portant. It is possible that when you went to school, you
failed to study as you should have done, and lost most of
the things that would have done you most good. You may
have had indifferent teachers who did not give you the right
help and as a result you are far behind, than where you
ought to be. Now do not let them get in your way, because
36
..
THE SEVEN_ KEYS TO POWER
it makes no difference in the years that have past, just for-
get it and make a new start now, and in a short time you
will be. with the best of the class. Get a good dictionary,
and when you're reading go to work to learn, and in a very
short time, you will be surprised to learn what you have
gained. Put your will to work to know the secrets of life,
and you can't fail to get anything that you want or desire.
No matter what it is, but do not ask for big things at the
...
start, just be content with the blessings 'that come each
day in the regular .order. Remember the world was not
made in a day, and that it took the divine mind working in
the laws ·of nature, nine months t~ bring you forth to start
you on your journey to life and giving you the capacity to
acquire all knowledge, and that God never put a limit on
your ability to know all the hidden things; the mysteries
and the wonders of the mighty creation.
'All you have to do is just go to work and the revelation
will unfold before your very eyes, your mental vision, so
clear that it will astonish you. Do not attempt to do won-
ders until you understand what they mean. Use care to
know that you fully understand what you are attempting
to you. You can get no results from prayers, unless- you
prr.y right. Silent prayer is the most powerful of all prayer,
because you can get much quicker and better results. The
fact is well known to those who have much experience in
healing the sick, when it comes to doing any other kind of
spiritual work, it is absolutely necessary to do the work in
silence.
~ME SEVE·N KEYS TO POWER
People will not understand what you are trying to do, and.
because of that fact, cause you to fail. It will be very valu-
able for you to remember, that all things are conceived
from silence of darkness and when all is formed to the di-
vine silence, of darkness, they are brought forth into the
light, not before. Therefore, if you keep this well in mind,
you will have many more chances to succeed, than if you.
will tell all about it before you start to do the work. Never
let other people know what you are doing. Not that it ii.
wrong, but for the reason that they will cause you to fail
in your undertakings .
•
This is the reason that doctors do not let their patients·
know what they give, or to make any explanations to the
sick or their families. Ignorance is the cause of most of
our troubles in life, but if you seek to use spiritual things
as you would the ordinary things, you will have no success
and the reason is that nearly all people are in an opposite
state, that is they see things exactly opposite to what they
are like. People as a rule are lacking in the fine percep-
tive sense that enables them to see things as they are. This
is, the reason that nearly all our faults by these simplest
kind of tricks, that anyone is supposed to know, but you
can go right back and fool them over and over, even when
you are trying to do them good, they will not understand;
therefore, it is wise to make no explanation of what you do
38
J'HE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
and by following this rule you have no bother getting the
desired results.
Lay out a plan, that is very important, of. what you are
supposed to do. This is very, very important. That you
~
require them to do and see that they follow directions and
ask no foolish questions. In the case of anyone that you
.
, are called to help, it requires, that they do exactly as you
tell them to do, and tell no one, for ,if they do, they will
fail to get the results they are seeking, and the fault will
rest on them and not on you. Otherwise if things go
wrong wouldn't you get the blame? Be careful about this.
Give them certain prayers or repeat at certain times. Make
them burn one or more candles at certain hours of the
day or night. Candles burned at midnight or near the
hour are always the best. For the reason that the person
goes to sleep, with the subject fresh in his mind and the:y
will live throughout the day, to do the work you gave them
to do, much more completely than if the candles are burned
at any other hour. If you studied the first part of thesf
lessons regarding the time of the day, you will quickly see
:l. the reason for the above. All spiritual work should be
done during the night season to get the best results, but
you will find in some cases where you can do much better
'in the daytime, but in only those cases where the party
was born during the day.
If one is born in the daytime, have them pray at that
39
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
hour ..nd also at the same hour at night. That j_s,just 12
hou:n,;later. Do not change this rule, no matter: what yon
think about the matter. If you do, you will not be able t.o
do sati_sfactory work. Remember you are seeking to ac,.
complish the wonderful results of the Masters of Old·,and
the only way is, to do as they did without change. Never
let anyone or someone who knows less than you do, tell you
how a thing should be done. Your understanding is the
\
thing you are seeking to enfold, not that of someone else,
so the less you discuss these things with those who kno-w
nothmg about the matter, the better off you and those you
are seeking to help will be. That you may fully under-
stanct this matter ·as to silence in all phases of this work,
it has always. been known by Masters, that without silence
(spiritually speaking) you could accomplish nothing. No
Doctor or Scientist no matter what he is doing can hope-
fully succeed, when he keeps telling to others the inner
secrets of what he seeking.
The ignorant mind will always oppose you, so it is much
wiser to keep all secrets to yourself. The old saying, "a
still tongue, a wise head," is true and especially, in all
spiritual practices.
40
l
...
..
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
KEY NUMBER FOUR
One of the finest methods I have obtained when in com-
munication with the Appolianus of Tiana in spirit, was his
instructions to me of the Silent Period in Obtaining Power.
I believe that the information given me in Silence and in
· Vision was the secret of obtaining all Power from the Uni-
verse which is limitless. He revealed to me that Power is
in the air, just as electricity. That the mighty creative
force and energetic force of mankind is in this air, the
aame as music is in the air. These mighty forces are in
the air to be harnessed and used by man.
Many oriental mystics who knew of this great limitless
power, used it and therefore we have the account of the
miraculous deeds of some of the Yogis and the Lamas of
the old school. You will recall hearing of men who walked
on beds of fire, who were able to snuff out the physical life
and travel in spirit and also ascend to the heavens. You
will remember hearing of men whp could breathe life into
aead animals. Men who had such power as would seem
limitless, to the average layman. Men who have such
power from the Great Intelligences, which were all about
us and took their main power out of Silence, therefore; ·1
have dedicated this fourth key, in the secrets of power, to
the Key of Silence, as the great secrets of obtaining power,
to do all things and have the power .to suc~eed in all un•
dertakings. . J
41
TH'E SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
I recall that when I started to write my Book of Magic.
I went into silence for a period of Six Months and did not
enter into conversation with anyone. In silence I perceived
and understood all the limitless ·knowledge necessary to
compile this book, where the information can be obtained~
and then I compiled what I thought was the greatest book.
explaining to all the secrets of holding the power and ob-
taining the use of the power of the Intelligences all about
us. I have also unfolded in silence, the method of obtain-
ing power in every day practice. I make a habit person-
ally, in order to obtain power, to sit in Silence three hours
each day. I enter a dark room with my feet stretched out.
my hands crossed and place a glass of water between my·
legs and there sit in Silence three hours without any con-
centration or anything entering my mind and without be-
ing disturbed by anybody or anything. After this period
of Silence, I go about accomplishing that which I wish to
accomplish and the Power that I obtain in Silence those
three hours, is the power that I owe to all the successful
undertakings of which I have attempted. This is the Lim-
itless Power to Succeed in all undertakings.
Take an hour each day to meditate all by yourself; let
nothing bother you during that hour. Put your mind on
the subject and keep it there, until you unlock the mys- .;;
tery to your entire satisfaction and you will find that the e
Divine Mind will guide you right, no matter where. If the
mind power is weak and wanders, grasp it back as if by
42
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
I
your hands and pull it back into the place you want it. It
will be just as if someone else does the work to be done,
for God has, always, for each one according to the order
of his own being, and this order is never changed. One
man is left handed, another is right handed, one is blind.
another one is deaf, but all do their work with equal skill
But these men can change to the determining order of
their pasture, each must follow the det-erwined plan of
their own being, and if they do, they will all succeed.
You can make nothing out of an oak, and so it is with
all other nature living things, and it is because of this that
man has much" trouble, for he is always trying to change
things to suit his converted or invertive angle of vision.
Whenever a man tries to improve on God's creation, he al--
ways gets into trouble, and brings upon himself a penal~r
for his crime. The correct way is to study nature and life
as you find it. Seek to know and understand their secretl!I
as far as possible especially seek to know and to apply these-
forces for the good that you can do. Remember alwaya
that you cannot change their nature but that you can learn
to direct them along their natural course and thus ovel'-
come evil, with good. Do not get the idea in your heacl
that you are a creator for you are not, but that you are a
manifestation working through the Divine Guidance, Md
the more you know, the better you can do your work.
There is a certain class of so-called spiritual teacheni,
that would have you close up every book and depend cm
43
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
what they call the Spirit Tells You, and if you will folio"°
up these people, you will find that they are true in their
sense, but that they can tell you nothing that comes by
oriental knowledge. They never have learned to keep in,
Silence, nor have they extracted the wisdom from the Bi-
ble that might have helped them to understand thmgP
worth while. All they can do is to keep making motions
and noises, not fully understanding their worth nor then
means. A very important thing to remember is that ev•
erything has a double meaning, I may even say a three-
fold meaning and use.
Everything that is of common use is divided into a
threefold use, just the same as those things that are con•
sidered complicated in their nature; it is very necessary
that you know something of this threefold nature, for the
very good reason, that you will be very much successful in
your work if you do.
If you pay strict attention to people when they talk you
will perceive that these people have a threefold graded
modulation, to their voice and that very few are aware of
it. Watch them when they are excited-you will notice it
at once, if you are looking at it. And the more you pay
attention to the matter, the clearer you will understand it,
and in a little while you will be able to read their thoughts
from the inflection in their voice as they talk, and more so,
the more excited they get. The reason this is so is due
44,
4
.
,
J
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
to the fact, that few people are clear thinkers, and they
will give them their thoughts into pounds of words and
never know that they have betrayed themselves. If you
give this matter the study it deserves, you will soon see
that you are gaining a very great power over hidden things
than you ever had before. This is called the physical
plane, the mental plane and the cosmic plane.
This knowledge gives you confidence in, yourself, that
you can gain in no other way. Therefore, it is worth
much to, develop this faculty at the very start of your
work, because you can charm things very much more
quickly and completely, once you know this and are able to
understand its meaning and greatly improve your work.
That is how you become vastly more successful in your
undertakings.
The day of poor service is past when people were satis-
.fiedwith mere guessing on the part of an advisor. People
in these days want sure results in regards to their de-
mands and the spiritual advisor today must be able to
give it or get out of the work. Hoodwinking people and
faking will no longer be tolerated by well·informed people.
So get busy and improve your work. All improvements
require efforts and study, without which you will be a
failure no matter what you think and in spite of what the
spirit tells you, therefore-STUDY. No Spirit Guide that
comes to anyone can be of benefit, unless they ~ave learned
the true secrets of life and are able to give them to you
45
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
in a form that you can understand. A spirit that s1ieak8
Arabian, unless you know Arabian, will do you no good,
unless you can comprehend its meaning. You can not do
good work on a poor machine. You are a poor machine
unless you seek to educate yourself in every way. You
must, so as to be an instrument, that can give true advice
to all those that come to you for help. This holds good in
everything that you will ever be called upon to do in this
life, and this same knowledge will advance you in the
heavenly kingdom, to heights you oculd not reach without
it.
1 have known medlums who though they have never·
travelled there yet have told me of their knowledge of the
lives of many races of people that live on in many worlds
of this universe. Who they are, what their habits are,
what they do, what they think, and how they live. Every
detail; you can learn all this and do all these things if you
follow the directions in this little book. It would be very
wise to get and study the Ten Lost Books of the Prophets,
you will get things there, worth hundred of dollars to you.
The mysteries contained in that book, are the wisdom of
ages and no one can afford to be without it, as it will take
the place of all other books on spiritual science. Within
you is dormant all wisdom of the Ancients. All that is
needed is for you to awaken the causes of memory, so that
they wll vibrate to the wave length of spiritual substance1
t.hat flows all around you. Once this unity is established
46
•
THE.SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
you can hear and understand all things on both the earthly
and heavenly plane. This unity in earth and heaven that
J:Jlendsin every soul once establish~ restores to that soul
the state of paradise that is their natural il'lheritance, for
he was born for this and nothing ~lse, therefore everything
a man lends his hands to do, either to restore this state
• .of being or divorce him from it and that is the reason the
I
world is in its present turmoil.
The Great Secret of Life is to get ourselves adjusted to
the Divine Rhythm of things so that we can understand
what is meant by the changing forces that are all around
us. If we know these things, we can read the lives of all
that come to us for advice and be of real service to human-
ity and the people of ths earth who are in great need ot
this help can come to us for we shall be able to help them.
You cannot get results in any occupation or profession
unless you know what its underlined science consists of.
Many people have lost their lives from a slight scratch, be-
cause of some poison on the substance that caused the cut
and rubbed aganst the sore. For this reason many people
i die from poisoning and no one. seems to have been able to
see the cause and change its course so as to help the sick
ones in time.
As a man thinketh in his heart, so he is. From this
we can learn the secret of transferring forth from our-
eelves into anything that we touch. Or we can chanare
47
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
people with any thought that we wish to influence them
to live out. If we will concentrate our thoughts on people
while they are going to sleep, and talk to them just as
you would if you were trying to put one to sleep while you
were with them, and have them talk to you, they will never
remember what they have done, or said. The first thing
to is to school yourself in the art of concentration so that
your mind will not wander from the person that you wish
to control during sleep. Work out what you are going to
say to them, do not change your line of talk but be sure
that you speak your orders in the silence or in a very low
tone of voice so that no one can hear you. As quick as you
have made contact control, so that you can hold the picture
of your subject in mind for any length of time, go -into the
silent methods and send out your thoughts with All the
will that you can command, using as few words as will
enable you to put over the impression you wish to get.
Remember too many words will confuse your subject
and cause you to fail in your enterprise. Words are more
powerful if they are spoken in the right way and must
be used with caution. Say only what you mean, and keep
on repeating until you are satisfied that you are getting
results. This you will soon learn because of the wonders--
that seem to spring up between you and your subject and
which you will feel as soon as this harmony is established.
No matter how far you are apart. This all takes a little
time to establish, but it pays you a thousandfold.
48
..
I•
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
Let me caution you in one thing in particular and that
is never use anything that is the least bit dirty or polluted
because you can do great harm and. you can get yourself
into all kinds of trouble if you do. Use nothing that is
not absolutely clean and of the best quality in all your
work. This will assure success, otherwise you may cause
failure as well as geat hardship to your subject. Let no
one handle anything that you use, because some people
make evil by their touch. It is wise to never let any
unholy hands come in contact with holy things.
Before you undertake any enterprise, hold the silent
prayer service, and think with all your mental power·of
the things that you desire to accomplish. Form the
are naturally polluted and anything they handle, they
picture that you want and hold it-letting nothing inter-
fere, until you are sure of every detail. When you have
the picture well formed in your mind, send it forth to
the subject that you desire to influence with perfect con-
fidence that they will get the full force of meaning of
what you have in mind. If you form this picture right
you can call the subject to obey your force or idea no
matter where you are. This is not so hard as it may
seem to you until you have made demonstrations. Then
you will see how easy' it is, but you cannot do it until you
have known your own mind and have trained it so well
that you can hold onto the subject you are working on
without ·interruption. The thought must be steady' and
49
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
to the point. You must know that it is absolutely :nee-
itSsary to do anything and everything right.
You mu.9t not let your mind wander from what you are
doing. All expert workmen know this to be true and t~
same principle holds good in all scientific workmanship,
Any surgeon knows that unless he knows his landmarks
that he is liable to seriously injure or kill his patient. So,
to avoid an accident he learns exactly where to cut in a
given operation. This same rule holds good, only more so
in mental operations, that you are called upon to perform,
no matter how simple it may appear upon the surface.
If you are going to use anything that you hope to pro-
duce a given result with, you must know all you can about
the inherent nature of that article, so as to be able to
make such changes and modifications in its operatio• so
as to enable you to produce the results you are seeking
and this holds good with your thoughts as it does in all
other things.
Study carefully all things that you are about to do and
you will not go astray no matter what you want to accom-
plish in the line of work you undertake.· The following
example will make this clear to you so that you willl have
no trouble in putting these instructions into practice. It
is said by some people that otherwise it will only have
a local effect, that is it will not penetrate below the surface
of the skin, but this is a mistake, aa anyone ca11 p~ove.
50
.
,,,
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
It is true that some things have a greater penetrating
.. power than others, some almost none at all, for the fact
ia that some pieces are like words, they have a far reach-
ing effect when spoken in the right way. The same i8
..
\..
true of action when properly executed. They can say
the meam;ngs and exercise a very great power over the
mmds of people when properly done. One of the most
important things you should learn, is to read people from
their actions for you could get into their subconscious
mind and plan their inner secrets. Especially, if you will
note them at the time they do any particular thing or say
anythmg. You must exercise great patience, using much
care to draw them out in a manner that will not excite
their suspicions of what you are trying to do, but gently
manifest the great interest in what they are telling or
doing. lf you will use the proper care, you can reduce this
simple method to a fine art in any· knowledge that you are
seeking and your subJect will never know what you are at.
All great detectives and successful professional people
!lave this well developed. You must learn this before you
can be successful m your work. The first thing is to learn
to concentrate your mmd on just what you are doing at
any g1ven trme and keep it on the subject. Do not let your
mmd wander all over. This will teach you patience, for it
~
r.akes time to cultivate all things'. Just the same as it does
tio learn a trade, raise a crop, or do anything well. Fail-
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
ures are due to people getting into too big a hurry and
thereby, spoiling everything. Do not let anyone mix in
your work, for too many cooks spoil the broth.
Depend upon yourself, take your time to work out your ,
plan in an orderly manner. If a doctor is called on a case,
and he does not know what to do, he would be a fool to say
so. He may be stuck, but he ip.ust keep it to himself, and
m his work, everything will come out alright. If he gets
excited and shows he is not master of his art, then another
doctor is called.
Never let anyone disturb you in your work, never lose
your patience, keep cool, steady and sure in all that you do
for you can acquire this skill only when you are absolutely
sure of yourself. You are sure of yourself, only, whEmyou
can keep balance and let nothing disturb you, no matter
what may be said or done by others around you. Either,
in your meeting, your office, or outside, when you are
called to help, if you are in this state of mind by complete
study and divine will, you will succeed in your undertakings.
Nothing gets past by as one of no importance, but every-
thing is worth your deep and careful study until you un-
derstand just what it is all about. Be willing to give every
little detail careful attention, for every grain of sand holds
a secret unsolved. Let this be your life's work and learn
what the secret is and how it may be used to benefit your
brother-man.
52
.
,.
I
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
In the days, of old it was well known among the masters
that dreams were a potent force in all the affairs of men,
and they were appointed to accomplish many wonders
with. Nearly all the wonders of those days were accom-
plished through the mediums of dreams and the art o1
dreaming became a profession amongst men, prophets and
masters of that time. But as the world became more and
more material, and lost more and .more of the sense of
spiritual thinking, it lost the art of dreaming right. So as
'
to retain a medium of communication between the heavens
and the earth, the art of dreaming was at that time, like a
newspaper on a stand, all one had to do was to be able to
dr~am right and they would know all that was going on in
the seen and the unseen world. But man has lost the fac-
ulty to dream right in most cases, and is dependent for
telling gossip from news he gets and this gossip is more
· unreliable than most dreams, so the world is all haywm
There is a little book called, How to Makes Dreams Cc,me
True, published by the People who Publish this Book and
will teach you how to dream right and you
•
.should study it until you know it by heart and you will
learn how to dream right. One should think with all their
mental and soul power to dream true, without doubt, the
exact facts of life, so that when he makes a statement on
any subject, that it should be facts and not guessing. Then
and only then will things come true. Remember dreams
53
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
are facts, so far, as they can be demonstrated in lifEi and
no further. So if you want to let your dreams ·come true.
remember to put your mind well centered on things that you
want and are true at the base, or you will dream to no
purpose. But if you will do as directed, you will soon learn
to bring every dream true without fail and they will prove
blessings inst~d of curses. As soon as you become con-
scious of this fact, you will be shown the next step that
you should take in your upward climb. Remember do not
get in a hurry, prepare yourself fully and completely in
every detail before you tr.y to do a thing, a big thing for
they will follow, if you do the little things right.
You can't jump up a whole flight of stairs at one time,
you can only go so far without stumbling, so use time and
care and you will gain much faster. It is never safe to take
another mouthful of food until you have masticated the
first, for you can easily choke yourself if you do, but get
rid of the first, before taking a second and thus avoid mak-
ing mistakes. In most cases, you will find that very few
I
words will be needed to work the change you are seeking
..
to bring about, while many will confuse your subject and '<7
cause you to lose the trend of your thought, thus failing to T
ge\ the results your are seeking. It is wiser to go slow
until you have mastered every detail of instructions, then
there will be no possibility of failure .
. I have dwelt on the need of much care in the doil~gof
54
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
spiritual work, for the reason that we want you to succeed,
concentrate your mind on one thing at a time, until yoa
can pick up the trend of your thoughts, no matter what ia
going on around you. You can do the same if you try hard
enough, in a way that you can get yourself so int.erest.ad
in your subject so that you can forget all other things that
may be going on around you at the time. Keep this In
mind, and then after awhile, you will be able to not only
keep the subject of your thoughts well at hand, but you
will find yourself able to follow the thread of all that ii
going on around you at the same time.
As you practice in the art of self-consciousness and self.
,control, that is, able to control your thoughts and direct
them to any point or to any one thing and hold it there,
you will find that you can observe all that is going on
around you and retain a much more perfect memory of
what is passing than before you mastered the trait.
This may give you what may be called double-conscious•
ness, both working at the same time, and while apparently
.separate there will not be two but only one conscious mind,
because your spiritual mind and your body mind will have
to count as one. In other words, you will have become
whole, and thus see things divided. This is the profit by
which one becomes united with their true selves. One with
'uist, God. This is what takes place when you pass
h..J:h iritn_.._J nd ... .,.,. H.A Ab>e ,,..LJo_...,..__.,~~----
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
come one in itself, in the enfoldness of your spiritual un--
derstanding includes the power to portray forth the very
nature of an article from one condition to another.
When you have supplied yourself with articles that you
\
require for your work as listed, you must proceed to )work
with them the very inner essence of your concentrated
thought. This same transformation can be brought iB
common things that you will find in every hand, but it is
better to ·use things, that have been prepared for each .spe-
cial purpose, until you have developed your power to do the
same things and this comes with practice.
Do not use anything that will harm or cause harm to
anybody, but only such that will bring good to all that you
ase it for. When you get your supplies .proceed as fol-
lows: Take a full portion of powder preferably No. 1 (See
Legends of Incense Herb and Oil Magic) used for a distant
crossing, wash your hands perfectly clean, put the powder
in the palm of your left hand_,cupping your hand so that
it will not f~ll off: Sit down where you will not be dis-
turbed and repeat the following prayer.
Oh Mighty God~and heavenly father, may it please thee
to hear and answer my prayer (call the pers_on by name
that you seek to help) who is suffering from ( )
and is calling for help. I therefore ask that thou cause thy
holy healing power to pass through me, thy servant, int
this powder, with the strength to heal ( ~-
56
,.
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
name of My Lord -and Saviour, Jesus Christ, Amen.
Hold this in your hand for a few minutes and then put
it into a clean piece of paper and place it over your heart,
but where you can get it without anyone seeing you. When
you have come to the place where you want to use it, take
1t out and hold it in your bare hand without the paper, and
~ at the moment you wish to apply it, do so in such a man-
ner that no one ·sees what you are doing. You will not
.need much\ of this powder at any time, so use care to get
his or her troubles. I thank thee, Oh My Father, in thE
it just where you want it to be. It will not be noticed
if you will use .care and in a short time you will see the
\
results you desire and they will be permanent and certain.
The holy Powder No. 1, see Legends of Incense Herb and
Oil Magic is a very po,werful article. It is perfectly harm-
,. Jess and therefore perfectly safe to use, for no injury can
be done with it under any circumstances. The same is true
,of all other articles put out in this connection.
The great aim in this practice is to teach you the use of
your own mental :faculties and how to use them just right
to do the work that the Lord has called you to do and the
great work of redemption of the world and its people. It
will pay you to practice with this No. 1 powder, see Leg-
ends of Incense Herb and Oil Magic until you can make it
work to your perfect satisfaction and those you apply it to.
After this is well worked out you should go to Liquid
57
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
No. 1, see Legends of Incense Herb and Oil Magic and use
it the same way by applying two or three drops on the
left hand, holding the right hand over it, repeating the
same prayer, as with the powder. The slight odor acts as
incense and thereby a carrying agent and it will go where
it is sent. Place your left hand on the neck and the right
hand over· the eye for a moment, this gives· you the direct
contact with the brain and body.
If you wish to use it separately, put your left hand over
the back of the subject barely touching him; when you are•
leaving shake hands and put your hand over their rigli\:.
hand and as near as possible. By this means they will ab-
sorb the spiritual essence of the article without knowing it
and the results will be obtained. A little practice will make·
you certain of every little move that you make and you
will soon be an expert Jn the work. You should never
change the practices, as laid down here, unless shown by·
your spirit guide a better way, and that is not -~lways cer-•
tain, for this reason. The spiritual guide may not know-
the importance of the following of well established land-
marks. No surgeon or physician ever changes well es-
tablished systems in the healing art without very good rea-
sons. So use care and you will succeed in this. It will be
much better for you to follow the same theory, with every
one of the articles listed, because if you do you will have
fewer mistakes.
Habit is very powerful and the habit of doing a thing
58
.
,,
'
I '
I
I
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
just the same way all the time will make you an expert bi
.a much shorter time when to try to improve and thus, fail,
For you will find it hard to improve on the old Masters, ac-
it is best not to try.
The first great secret is to learn to make your mind obey
.and when you set it to a certain task, then you should nev*
-er let up until you have accomplished the task because, jJ
you will find it much harder the next time to try. Put
your mind to the task and keep it there, until you have
won the battle. A very few trials will prove to your satht-
iaction that you are on the right track. The house dog
that lays down to rest after it has started a rabbit or deer
·on the run seldom catches either, it is only· the dog that
.keeps on the trail that wins out and comes home with the
,game. The mud turtle who makes a goal, while the faster
runner will fail, because_the turtle keeps forever on the go.
'This lesson should never be forgotten. If you want to suc-
·ceed in this work. It is not so much that what you know,
but whether you know it well, and how well and how con-
,sistent you ca:napply it. A simple task well done, is much
better than a big one poorly done, so go slow until you
have learned every little detail, so that you know it in
your sleep as well as when you are awake, thus, you will
make no failures, but create a wide demand for your ser•
vices.
The articles that are put out for the uses that this little
59
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
book speaks of, were experimented with by craftsmen who
have been successful in the spiritual art and are sensitive
to the vibrations given forth by them. The instructions
are for the purpose of guiding you in their prooer use, and
so that you can gain that success that you are seeking. So
be careful t~at you follow the instructions herein contained
so that you will not bring failure to you and those you
seek to help. God made the world in one way .only and all
things have certain definite principles and are to be used
accordingly and in no other way. You cannot change divine
law, but you can get into trouble by trying, so don't let
yourself fall into these conditions and .follow the directiona
.as disclosed in this book.
The great ·secret is to learn what is hidden in the inner
·parts of all things and apply them according to the act of
principles and their being. Once we can read the heart-
break of a rock or the wild plant we will know ho~ to use
them correctly. Where otherwise we may get hurt. Every-
thing has an inner as well as outer life. So that every
word that you speak has a double meaning. Your business
is to learn what these meanings are. This once done you
become master of the secret and you can apply it to its
own uses. It is a misapplication that causes harm. You
ean take a handful of mud and do wonders with it if yoUI
know how to direct its forces. But if you do not you will
fail, so watch your step, because we want you to be a
60
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
.success,for this reason, we repeat these warnings, so often.
Every soul inhabiting a human body was intended to be-
a success but so many have failed for the reason that they·
failed to give the proper attention and study to little,
things. Thinking that because they are small, they do not
amount to anything. Whereas, it is the little things that
make up the large ones, in all things spiritual for it is the·
small detail that counts, just the same as in ay.material•
things, if you make bread you must know how t~ put the
different articles together right, for your bread will not be-
much use to you if you do not do this. So, use the same-
eare, only more so, in this .way. It takes a little longer to
learn a thing right, but it pays much more.
Much more can be said in this matter, than what is her•
told, but ~wehave ~aid enough for those who arewilling to.
study and only by studying can you learn.
61
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
KEY NUMBER FIVE
• • •
POWER OF DREAMS
The ancient Occult Magician always regarded the rich-
est of treasure chest that man can obtain. In history, al-
most anyone, at one time or other, becomes aware of the
great power of dreams. Thousands of people will ~ell you
of the innumerable cases and premonitions ~hat they have
learned of through dreams. Only recently a medical doc-
tor told me of an occurrence that happened to him. One
night he awoke suddenly and found himself dazed and per-
spired and with the feeling of· nervous agitation. He had
just had a realistic dream, and he couldn't understand what
this dream meant to him. He had just dreamt that he had
seen his mother, stagger out of her bed and took a few
steps weakly and then fallen to the floor calling his name.
He had imagined, seeing his mother dying with his name
upon her lips. Now this medical doctor had had no experi-
ence before with Occult matters. Whenever the subject waa
approached he had always scoffed and laughed at it, but
the dream he had just seen was so vivid and clear, that he
had a strange feeling that HE HAD ACTUALLY WIT-
NESSED THE OCCURRENCE. That night he could not re-
turn to sleep. The very next morning he heard someone
knocking at the door, and opening the door, he saw a tele-
'
gram messenger boy boy facing him with a telegram in hia
62
·THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
hand, and opening the telegram he found these words,
"Mother passed away during the night, calling your name,
Your Brother."
Experiences similar to this are not uncommon and only
tend to reveal the extreme power and magnet known as
the mystery of dreams. Another woman told me of an
occurrence that happened to her. She was accustomed to
frequently dreaming of numbers during the night. Usu-
ally it appeared that some person who had died and to
whom she had been kind to either before or after deatht
came to her in a dream and told her to play a certain num-
ber. The next day upon arising she would play that num-
ber and behold that number would come out. It seemed,
as though this woman was addicted to the habit of playing
the policy numbers, which is illegal in many places. It is
not our intention to foster playing of numbers as we wish
to impress upon our readers, the importance of respecting-
the laws of his or her community. Now this lady had a.
rooming house in which she had several boarders. Now
one day she had got into an argument with one of the·
boarders, who was an ugly, nasty, evil-minded woman, and
she told this boarder to move, saying that she did not want
her bad influence in her house. This evil woman stared at.
her landlady a moment in silence and then turned and went
into he1 room, and then brought out a box. Taking the box
in the left hand, she threw a white powder at the landlady
63
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
,nd cried, "You, are now cursed, the black unholy cross ii
upon you" and ''You will never prosper." Soon after that
the landlady noticed she did not get any, more number
dreams, and the dreams she did have she could not remem-
ber, or usually she dreamt of snakes. Once she dreamt she
heard a voice crying to her. It sounded like a dead man
who had often come to her 'in her dreams. The voice waa
wailing and crying it said, "F1lth Dirt, remove the curse.
'-)h! Lord help me." Not long after it, the same-voice ap-
pt:ared again one ;night and said: "Bathe, seven times, sev-
en oils, pray to the Lord and his holy spirits will anoint
and purify you." Then she heard the name, "Rose." The
woman did just as she was told in her dreams, she mixed
these oils together and bathed seven times and prayed
each night and soon her dreams came back fresher,
stronger, and just as before.
WHAT ARE DREAMS?
The occult significance of dreams-Have you ever won-
dered how it is when people die and go to heaven or hell,
how these who have lived fo Germany and only speak
German, and how those who have lived in France and
have only learned to speak French, or so on; how these
people can talk to each other and understand each other.
You see there is no such thing as language in the spirit
world, the only language the spirit world knows is the
,language of dreams, that, the language of vision. Dreama
64
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
are the language of the spirits and that is how the spirits
communicate with the mortal flesh. It is through this
power of communication that the human being learns of
the future and learns of the past and by controlling this
tremendous force of vision and •power the human being
can control his destiny and become successful in life and
happy.
What untold riches and what untold power one can have
tf one were only able to completely control the power of
dreams. It is a worthwhile study that man should lend
himself to.
Now the first step to become a master over the power
of dreams is to always remembeir your dream. Certain
Voodoo masters like to anoint their foreheads at night
before going to bed, with anoi~ting oil. It is said that
Gelles de Ritz always anointed his forehead with a special
oil. Another tradition claims that Count Cagliostro always
rubbed the temples of his forehead with a potion which he
called Peace Potion. This was a mixture made up of Rose-
mar leaves, lavender, cinnamon and Bilberry leaves. He
would first prescribe with oil the magic triangle upon his
forehead and outside the triangle he would then form the
sacred circle; and then would command himself thusly:
To remember his dream, and to write them down just as
soon as he awoke.
65
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
It nas been revealed to me in silence by 'the great spirit,
Phi-khi, a formula of Dream Power (See Legends of In-
cense,Herb & Oil Magic Bookh for it is my belief that
the great mind is capable of controlling a:nd commanding
all of the great spirit power.
I like to bathe my hands, forehead, temples nightly with
a tea made of Rosemar leaves, Lavender flowers, Master-
wood root, and Caliman'11root. This I filld clears away
the ora of Carnin, inducing fresh spirit vibrations. Then
I burn Power Brand Incense but before burning it, I hold
it in· my palm, with my palm closed, rut bing my right
palm.over my left palm and circle the motion about seven
times. This I believe is to retain the unity. After lighting
this incense, I next anoint my forehead and temples with
Seven Circle Oil (See Legends of Incense, Herb and Oil
Magic Book), and with this Circle Oil, I command thusly:
Jehova, Jesus, Adonai and Alah, Oh Prophet, Oh Seer, thy
force is incarnate, thy power complete. I beseech thee, I
desire the light in the darkness of my dreams, I desire-
the Omen of th_e Iraculum, I desire a fulfillment of thy
visitation. Oh! Lord, Prophet and Seer, I am grateful for
thy aid. This I repeat seven times.
I am only too glad to hand down to my friends this.
secret for anyone who cares to use it. I warn you that it
must be used and said alone and it will be of service to
you.
66
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
Ii there are any evil influences or cross conditions in the
,home, this may tend to confuse the dream and it is best
to wash the home out thoroughly. I like to wash with
Chinese Brand Wash, (See Legends of Incense, Herb and
-Oil Magic) which I find emits· a pleasing vibration and
wonderful sensation. Remember cleanliI}.essis next to God-
Uness.
I had been discu~sing the dr~ams of King Nebuchaduzzar
with another in the Book of Daniel (Chapter 1 to 6) with
,my spirit guide Appollianus. Especially his two very mysti-
fying dreams which were carefully analyzed by Daniel t,o
have a very realistic meaning and came true, when we had
.an unexpected visit from the Master Knight Commander
whom we were delighted to have the pleasure of meetiq.
I had been able to confirm his telepathic communication that
I had been made knight commander of an ancient order of.
venerable masters.
The coat of arms and weapons of war which went with
this noble office has been already given me, so our conver-
,sation drifted into the value and meaning of dreams. Do
you know, said the master, that Brieere de Boismont first
. '
pointed out that there were well known dream pictufes
which are not recognized as dreams and are believed to be
in reality in waking life? The border here between hallu-
cinations and delusions and normal life is very fine. It is
67
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
common knowledge with us that even well educated persom
are influenced by dreams. I have known people to be de-
pressed, the whole of the next day following an unpleasant
dream. How active is the unconscious mind during the
sleep state. People who dream of their complaints are def•
initely worse during the next few days. It is as if the
unconscious mind had undivided sway over the whole mind
and for the time being was ruler.
The person who is lame will walk more lame for the
next few days. Analogies of this are to be found in the
post-hypnotic suggestions. A person dreams of having
been cured of Neuralgia and has afterwm·ds been freer
from pain for months and maybe forever. This is how
some people interpret being cured by divine power during
their sleep of the night.
The same thing happens in post-hypnotic suggestions.
Many phenomenal cures are daily brought about in this
way. On the contrary a person who drEJaID.S
for more
than one night in succession that he is being chased by
pirates will beceme more exhausted each day. The person
probably will not remember the dream in tha waking state, ~
but during hypnosis will no doubt clearly recall the whole
dream, so that one can get at the root of the trouble.
"The earliest signs of mental diseases frequently reveal
themselves in dreams and therefore a str.dy of dreams,
especially by subsequent hypnotical produced state will.
68
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
more quickly elucidate most of the patient's trouble. Aris-_
totle wrote that a number of our dreams were responsible
for our subsequent actions. As a man dreameth, so will
he be; and is it not also true that as a person is directed
in the hypnotic state so will he surely ·be?"
HOW VISIONS HAVE TO BE
The one armed Master Knight (for he had only one arm.·
the right arm), for he belonged to the Order of the Right·
Hand, symbolic of the fact that he could destroy the power ·
of the
1
"Order of the Left Hand,!.U
or the Black Magician.
He had long ago had his left arm removed by a meana
which would not be accounted for, humanly speaking, said ·
it was a long time since he had had what he termed a
childish evening, so we decided to make that one, an eve-
ning of simple, interesting, childish experiments, which to
_ the uninitiated may seem of great interest for psycholog- ·
ically speaking theY have much to teach us. That evening··
we had a re-union dinner and dined well, and also wisely.
I now gave the Knight Master an imaginary glass
of ale, but he deliberately scorned me for having stated an
untruth, and demonstrated that he had nothing in his hand.
• 1 took no notice of his emphatic denial and raised his hand
to his mouth, so that he would drink slowly and with much
hesitation he drank the ale from the imaginary glass, mak-
ing the proper swallowing movements with' his throat and
pulling a face; intimating that he had a very nasty taste
69,
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
in his mouth. When asked why he pulled such a face he
aaid he had a horrid taste in hia mouth, just as if he had
drunk something very tart and bitter. The suggestion had
-worked in spite of his reason. This is the very beginning
of ·essence in most hallucinations.
Later, I told the Sage that he saw a cat sitting on the
mantle-piece. This suggestion was at first rejected. He
told me not to talk nonsense, for I need never to believe
such a silly thing. However, I repeated thia suggestion
several times, and the Sage repeatedly denied its existence.
But then I made him agree to nod his bead several timea,
each time I referred to the imaginary cat a:nd he did as :re-
quested; the nodding of the head gradually induced the
Sage to accept such a hallucination, which he now clearly
saw. He said, "Oh I yes, I know, but you have just put the
cat there since you tried to pull my leg. You can't deceive
me." Nevertheless there was no cat there.
The Master Knight Commander was grossly interested
in these simple experiments and said: "How do you ac-
count for these phenomenons?" I explained: "I firmly be-
lieve that all hallucinations are primarily the result of s~
gestions, either through dreams or through the suggestion
of others (hereto--suggestions) or the suggestion of the
person to himself (auto-suggestions).
It is interesting to relate that even these hypnotic hal-
lucinations frequently tend to perseveratE,: This further
70
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
explains the hallucinations which sometimes come to sta)'
~ in the insane. "A post-hypnotic hallucination can be pro-
duced by mere suggestion during the hyponosis that a per-
son sees or hears or feels a certain thing when he wakes
up. A person is told in good faith, that the limb he had
Jost through accident would regrow during the night and
that in the morning he would have two normal legs, when
.
>- he awoke. In the morning he awoke-delighted (the hyp-
notic sleep was allowed to continue into the ordinary sleep).
believing that his leg had regrown, he having visual and
.kinaesthetic hallucinations (he could both· see and feel
this effect) for a long time aft.erwards, he even said he
could walk better, as he was at times quite unconscious of
his absent leg and could therefore keep his balance per-
fectly, using a stick as he was accustomed to carry.
NOT SEEING THAT WHICH ONE SEES
In order not to see a thing, that thing must first be seen,
and the result is a negative hallucination. Contradiction
in·terms, seems evident but this is nevertheless true. Take
.as an example the experiments conducted upon Alexander
Cannon's chief boy, when he told him to open his eyes but
• not awaken; and that he would only see a column of figures
on the right side of the paper, when he opened his eyes; he
obviously must have seen the left-hand column to know and
.add up the right-hand column of figures only.
The Sage, interrupting, said: "Could a person without
71
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
hypnotic training be made not to see things.. in a room? H
so, demonstrate it to us on the house boy,"
The house boy was called forth and as we had only once
hypnotized him deeply, I wondered for the moment how the
experiment would succeed. However, nothing attempted,
nothing done; so on with the work! '!'o my gratification,
I soon placed the house boy again in a prclonged hypnotic
sleep; and then said, "You will now open your eyes, with-
.out· awakening,· and you will be surprised to find that I
alone remain in the room; the others having suddenly de-
parted." Altho_ugh there were four of. us in the room, as
well; the Knight Commander, the Sage, the chief boy and
myself; to command he carefully walked about the room,
avoiding all of them, except myself whom he could see,
hear and touch. He never by accident, once bumped into
one of them: it is therefore obvious that in order not to
see and not to hear and not to feel them; he must first be
able. to see, hear and feel them. The point is that con-
sciousness only records what it has been told by the un-
conscious mind to record. illustrations to this effect can
be numerated ad infinitum.
HOW DISEASE CAN BE PRODUCED AND DISPERSED
Without awakening the house boy who was in mental
communication with me, I handed him over to the Knight ·
Commander;, whereupon the Distinguished Guest immedi-
ately produced an intense toothache in the boy, which ap-
72
Croup of Arabian m.lg1c111.ns repenting of their sorceries
.THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
r,eared, to us all; and without a doubt to the subject hlm-
seif. The Knight, with a silent mental determination dis-
persed the toothache and produced a feeling of great pleas-
ure instead; without one word being spoken. He then made
this boy suffer from pneumonia; and, behold, the signs and
symptoms of pneumonia were soon classical. Then with a
solitary wish, the pneumonia was dispersed. Many well-
known diseases were likewise produced at will, and also,.
dispersed by a single silent command.
"So you see," said the Distinguished-Guest, "symptoms
of disease can be cultivated in the way hallucinations are
produced ; and symptoms can be dispersed in exactly the
same way, as negative hallucinatio:?. {r produced."
In this careful study lies the secret to the workings of
many a man's mind; to many a man's sorrow or happiness.
It lies within our power to turn thls sorrow into happiness.
HIDDEN MEMORIES AND TALES
OF THE DAYS OF LONG AGO
Hidden memories can easily be brought out during the
hypnotic state by merely telling the person in confidence
what you wish him to remember; and assuring him that
he will remember the facts which are so helpful, in his
case. As if he had placed his hand on so::ne magic key,
the hypnotized subject speaks, without hesitation, of these
hidden memories; just as if he were recalling the events of
74
L
>
THE SEVEN KEYS 'TO POWER
the day in question. This increased power of memory is
known as hypermnesia. In this direction Benedikt's time-
honoured case is an excellent example. Hansen hypnotized
willfully an English officer', while in Darkest Africa, who
to his surprise spoke in a strange tongue; which was iden-
tified as the Welsh language. His history revealed that
when a little child, this officer had learned to speak Welsh;
but now he had long since forgotten that he had ever learnt
such language. I find that that deep hypnosis is sometimea
essential for this phenomenon to be produced and that even
then, some cases where the patient has a strong auto-aug.
restion that you shall not know, he will still refuse to tell
you, in no polite manner, under hypnosis; although on
aw~ening he has no recollection whatsoever of what he
has said. But the memory can be made to perseverate at.
terwards as a post-hypnotic suggestion; as can hallucina--
iion.s and so forth; hence hypnosis, in these cases, has an
excellent therapeutic use. Hypnotism, even if used in its
most simple form, is of great service to makind."
AUTOMATIC WRITING
Now the Master Knight Commander was discussing hid-
den memories. The Sage was listening intently and at the
same time drawing a castle on a piece of paper; and when
'
challenged with the fact that he could hardly believe it.
"That is the same thing as automatic writing," I said.
"The basis of automatic writing," I' continued, "is disso-
75
)'HE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
out realizing that he is doing it, at the same time. If in-
eiatio.n of the mind, as is evidenced even in slight degree1
where a person can be seen while he is talking or listening
to a speech to be scribbling something either legible or
illegible on the table, or some scrap of paper at hand ; with- ·
stead of merely scribbling; words or even letters are act-
ually written, without the person being conscious that he
has written such, words or letters, then automatic writing
·has taken place."
Here the Sage chimed in: "Moll, Schille1~and Max Dea-
soir have tried out the very simple experiment such as the
following: A person in the waking state, as in. every-day
life was handed a pencil and was asked, to reply to some
que_stions on paper .. However, he must leave his hand still
holding the pencil and forget about it. It would not be fair
to make a person write down something which passes
through his mind that is, of which he is thinking. But
when I meanwhile talk to the person of various shows he
has attended, of various functions that he has figured in,
and so forth he unconsciously writes down, 57,235 pounds
----ham1-----kill i•----this iB a very differ-
ent matter. It appears that the sum refers to his hope in
the Calcutta sweepstake; th.at ham is what he ate for
breakfast; and that kill it, refers to some crime which a
friend of his had been briefed for. This is true automatic
writing. Many wonderful cases can be recorded. In hyp-
76 ,
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
nosis, writing can be produced at will, which to all intent.&
and purposes is automatic, but is different from the above."
We now went to visit a large isolated farm some few
miles away. ·The evening was delightful and we all en-
joyed the walk, although there was no real footpath and
one had to be guided there by pure observatism and in-
stinct. As we drew nigh unto the farm, we heard the
note of a singing bird. The Sage commented, "How true
is the adage that, "As a bird is known by its note; so ia
a man known by his conversation!" At last we arrived
there ; and as we entered the gate a hen crossed our path.
ANIMAL EXPERIMENT
''Have you tried any of your experiments on any ani-
mals ?" asked the Knight turning to the Sage and myself.
'Yes," replied the Sage. "You may recall that in 1631, the
'
Jesuit Kircher recorded the experimentum mirabile Kir-
• cheri. Schwenter's first experiment is the famous hen
hypnosis: he held a hen so that its head iq particular was
pressed on to the ground. With the other hand he then
drew a thick straight white chalk line on the ground, from
l the hen's beak to a distance of three feet away; direct ill
line with the hen's line of vision. The hen remained mo-
tionless, so long as he left it there. In the first experi-
ment it remained so for half an hour. It could not move.
He believed that the hen thought that it was fastened to
77
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
the ground and so did not try to move.
.In 1872 Czermak repeated this experiment with man;y
other animals and birds ; and also produced this hypnotic
state in them.
1n 1880 Preyer began to perfect his experiments which
be had been interested in for a few years; not only did he
confirm Czermak's work, but also noted that two mental
sta~s could be produced ; one of catalepsy, in which the
animal kept its limbs in any position in which they were
placed, and this state he believed was due to fear, and the
true hypnotic state, in which the animal went as if to sleep.
You will remember also that Danilewsky, Heubel, Moll,
Richet and Rieger also interested themselves in such ex-
periments later. Moll specialized on frogs, guinea-pip
and crayfish. In each experiment the cataleptic (rigid)
states produced resembled the condition produced by Char-
cot school, Paris.
Richet demonstrated that a sudden Drummond limelight
produced exactly the same effect on a clock as it did on an
hysterical patient.
With these few remarks the Sage immediately proceeded
to experiment in like manner with the hen and some other
of the farmyard stock, much to the amazement of our hosts
·who looked upon us even now as the Wizards of the North.
· 78
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
KEY NUMBER 6
KEY TO THE POWER OF COMMANDING
Influence, that word of nine letters carries a potency so
terrible that kings reel off their thrones, armies stand
aghast before its pitiless command, electrified as it were
into obedience, and all this effect is produced by the pow&
of one's influence over another. -
History has recorded many instances of such men and
women who dominated all by their }nfluence. What is this
subtle, intangible power which affects man's relationship
with man? It is the power to rein a thousand horses while
permitting one to be the dominant leader and guide, until
all the rest of the thousand are in mental harmony with
the lead.
Scientific Hypnotism and Art of Telepathy, and the Mas--
ter of Destiny, date back more, than three thousand years.
The Aryan Hindoos (ievoted centuries to unravel the s&-
crets of the control of the human mind, and to divulge
those secrets meant more than the forfeiture of life itself.
They realized that human intelligence is small and finite,
but life infinite. They knew that every moment of one's
life had to be accounted for; that they must lean on no
one, yet not stand aloof; that rust destroys more than use.
Their philosophy was and is one of deeds, ~ot words; they
understood that impossible is the adjective of fools; fear
is the proof of a dengenerate mind; speech is silver, silence
79
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
is gold; that one mu~t be master of his own faculties and
heart, so will he become, and that every act .on is the result
ef a preconceived idea. ·They taught that. a great char-
~ter founded on the living rock of principl !3, i1i a fact, not
a solitary phenomenon, to be at once perceived, limited, 1..
and described. It is a dispensation of Providence designed
to have not merely an immediate but a continuous, pro-
gressive, and never-ending agency. Such a character sur-
vives the man who possesses it, and leaves its imprint not
slave to none of his desires; that as a man thinketh in his
holy upon the sands of time but upon ete1'1lity.
These Hindoo adepts were a cultivated su:t when West-
ern people were almost barbaric. Music i.nd all the re-
finements of taste, architecture and the like were in ex-
quisite development when England was ruled by Boadicea,
and had the Druids as the heads of their religious faith.
These adepts of a Hindoo religious sect not only knew the
secrets for the government and control of th•~mind of man,
but also sway over the animal kingdom. They used th~
aleep state of hypnosis in serious cases of palsy or paral-
ysis, althoug most of their work was, and Li, among their
descendants today performed without sending the subject
t.o·sleep. The adepts now as of old, first h;rpnotize them-
selves while in that state communicate with their subject's •
unconscious mind by telepathy and so cause any hallucina-
tion, illusion or delusion they think fit to suggest. They
80
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
,
are very powerful, and their works extend from the North,
to the South, and from the East to the West. These great
wise n1en of the East know that a stream of consciousness
embraces unknown powers. In England there are very few
•.. men who know the powers of hypnotism. They are indeed,
masters of the mind of man and can use hypnotism in the
waking and sleeping states to a degree that is indeed un
canny.
We are taught that it is extremely doubtful whether the
11ersonswho think more, that is, those who have most con-
seious-thoughts passing through their minds, do the most
ff,lental work. The Sage tells us that the tree we plant
grows while we are sleeping: so it be with a new idea that
is planted in a real thinker's mind. It will be growing when
rte is least conscious of it. An idea in the brain or mind,
1B not a legend carved on a marble slab: it is an impres-
sion made on living tissue which is the seat of active nu-
tritive processes. Will not the initials I carved in the bark
of the tree increase from year to year with the growth of
that tree, and shall not my recorded thoughts develop in-
to new forms and relations with my growing mind? The
Yogis, who are the wise men of the East, tell us that works
o-fgenius instead of being the result of an infinite capacity
for taking pains, are due to the intelligent action of a sec-
&ndary consciousness. The labor is performed in a "sub-
tierranean workshop," as it were, and then presented in
81
THE SEVEN .KEYS TO POWER
complete form to the normal consciousness. It might be
even claimed that every deeply hypnotized subject shows
evidence, if in memory changes alone, of the existence of
a dual or secondary consciousness, which we term the un-
conscious mind. The phenomenon of automatic writing
shows not only that such a ~econdary consciousness exists,
but also that it may be in action simultaneously with the
normal one. These Yogis are truly wonderful men.
Would you like to use the knowledge of these men that
they have used for centuries? Would you like to attain the
power with its limitless performances, to do good? Would
you like to attain the ability. the knowledge to carry on
all things. Just follow these rules carefully and you shall
see the road and the road will show you the way and the
way will lead you to power. Let me tell you a story. A
famous judge, whom I know well, assures me that while
travelling home one night in his spacious car, as he came
to a small bridge over which he had to pass, he saw (as
did the other occupants of the car) .a great fire rose up ill
front of them; and although the temperature was well over
one hundred degreesFahrenheit, every member of the party
began to shiver, just as if they had suddenly plunged in-
to an icy region. The driver of the car was brave, how-
ever, and "stepped on the gas," it seemed as if, momen-
tarily, t'he car would not pick up speed. He then suddenly
switched his head-lights, whereat the fire died down and
82
r-
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
the feeling of cold passed off. Not one of the party ever
t touched alcohol, and none of them were in the least cred-
ulous ; yet this phenomenon appeared without warning or
suggestiv~ allusion. Afterwards it was ascertained that
the Black Magicians (whom we shall visit soon) had cast
R spell upon this bridge, and it was only the light, that by
'
Its brilliance, had been able to dispel the magicians of dark-
ness. The Hindoo belief that light will always disperse
the working of evil, may not necessarily be founded on oth-
er than fact. In Great Britain we are too materialistic,
far too incredulous, to appreciate half the wonders of the
world of the vast unseen around and about us: mighty ia
its influence, that Invisible Influence which controls us,
whether we like to admit it or not.
Compared with these great Adepts we are but children
in our knowledge of the human mind. Listen to this story
of Professor X. For years I had known this distinguished
gentleman, who to the outer world was just an ordinary
man; for these sages aim at avoiding anything spectacular,
do nothing for the sake of show, but only for the good of
mankind. Daily he went about his wqrk teaching his stu-
dents; while in the evenings, in the manner of an ordinary
man, he would visit the theatre and talkies (for we have
good talkies in the East and the Far East), else go to
dinners and dances. There was however, something very
out of the ordinary about this gentleman. His face wore
83
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
the kindest of expressions; he was calm always. cool and
oollected. Nothing ever could, it seemed, disturb him ; no
misfortune ever upset his equanimity. But in the hours
of darkness he experimented, this modest and unassuming
Professor X, with the very soul of man. Nightly he left
in the bed his body, unconscious to external things (as we
all do each night); and as he and I both studied pre-emin-
ently the mind of man, he confided in me and I in him. One
day he said to me, "Do you realize that we die every night,
and we are resurrected each morning? That to die iE<
merely to leave the physical body, ·as we do at night; re-
turn to the body next morning, as is customary after sleep
on this our Mother Earth. I admitted that I had not looked
upon the transit of the soul in this light before. That is
an arresting thought! Death is just the continuance of
the sleeping state of our earthly bodies, while our mind
goes on its ever important journeys as it has done for many
years each night when we have closed ow· eyes in sleep.
But he went further and said: "You should know that the
reason why so-called ordinary men understand not thest!
..
things, is because they have never trained their minds to ,.
1
that mental height of being able to recall what happens
during the unconscious state. Most people can only ex-
perience this phenomenon by being hypnotized; the hyp-- •
nologist being able to extract from the subject in that
state of mind, the workings of the real mind, which ii'
84
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
Eternal, neve:r dies, but goes on living throughout tht:-:
.ages." Then he continued, "To me, sleep is just a departurt-
_frommy physical body into countries far distant, to friend!!
1 have long since met, to loved ones who are no longe,
imprisoned in the flesh of this material world ; but whc.,
now live in their ethereal bodies and know neither time.
1nor space, for time is only a material measurement, and
,space means nothing where matter as such does not exist
demonstrate, in secret, to me, his wondrous powers. Hav•-
1older than we did twenty years ago? To us age haa
,ceased to count; the years matter not--1 am now over one
Have you realized that neilher you nor I look one day
.hundred years old; but I dare not tell the mu:ititude that.
•becausethey would come miles to gaze upon me with won
,der, for I look not a day more than forty years of ~ge
How great are the secrets which one can learn through the
imind of man, and reaching beyond that to the Universal
,mind of God who know.sall things." He then proceeded to
ing first asked if I really believed that the great Yog-i o1
,old, our Lord Jesus Christ, did make the fig tree withe1
.away, and would I consider ~uch an act a miracle today
<hethen proceeded to walk into a neighbo1·'s vineyard, ano
..atthe bottom of this vineyard crune to an aged tree whic:h
must have weathered some hundreds of years, and as ht-
yet. stood afar off he thus addressed this tree: "Thou hast
done well; thou hast weathered the storms of life, thou
hast comforted and protected my soul. Now hast thy
85
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
time come to depart from this w'orld of vanity and noth-
.ingness. Die now, and come to life no more!" To my
amazement th_etree did immediately wither, and I was able
to go up to it and examine its withered state; as were
others. .So be it! the miracles of the Bible are as true
today as they were in the days of old. The tree withered
and today in· its place is but a piece of bare ground; no
life whatsoever has taken root again on the spot where
it so long stood.
Photographs were actually taken from this miracle, and
the camera recorded the withering of the tree. By even
this it is not proven that the whole thing was not an in-
J'enious illusion which even deceived the photographic
plate? You say, Oh! how absurd, of course it must be an
actual fact." May I remind you always that the mirror
you look in produces an image of yourself which appears
to be behind that looking-glass. The Camera.can photo-
graph that image and the phot~graph looks real, and it
appears to be a photograph taken of yourself, but it is not:
it is but a photograph of your image which is something
which is not real, and cannot be felt, and in fact is only
imaginary. It appears to be behind the looking-glass, yet
\
I can prove to you that there is no image behind the
looking-glass and that you see what is not there. I men-
tion this .fact, because it not only helps us to throw new
light on the possibility ot'the performance of miracles, but
86
J
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
it also throws light on the ingenious ways in which the
senses can be illusioned. It is possible that the s~lled
reflection of the few of the many greater things w!lich
exist in the World-to-come.
We shall return later to learn many things from the
great master of the East. Let us pause at this moment
to investigate if there is really·things of account in Black
Magic.
BLACK MAGIC
There are Eastern Adepts belonging to the "Order of
the Left Hand Path," who practise Black Magic. It is
known by these, that these powers can destroy life by the
concentration of their own will without the aid of hypno-
tism. They exceed if they so desire to an age far ex-
ceeding that of my friend previously mentioned. They die,
as a rule, quite naturally at a great age from the wearing
out of the physical body, as recorded innumerable times.
'Th.e Black Magicians of this Order of the Left Hand
Path can, and actually do, destroy life, as I have already
stated, by a certain method of clairvoyance. The Magi-
cian links his mind, at a distance, with that of his intended
victim; he without any visible hypnosis whatever, cause'!
an idea to enter the other party's mind, producing a vi-
bration of thought which we call telepathy (a process
which was well described in a work by Pythagoras in 562
B. C.)
87
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
The Justice of the High Court of Justice, vouches for
the accuracy of the story given below. A wife's husband
lay sick of a fever and dying. This husband had a
_vounger brother, who would become heir to his elder
brother's possessions; seeing that in India a wife does not. l •
mherit her husband's belongings but, after his death, is
at the mercy of her relatives. The wife resented the idea. 1
11fthe younger brother displa~ing her. What steps could
she take to avert this disaster? "This will I do," she said
to herself, "I will go to the street of the Black Magicians
at Surat 1
near Bombay. There I will inquire for the-
greatest of these adepts of Black Magic, or this Order of
the Left Hand, and ask for help." She went on her way.
en this errand of destruction; but it was so strange to
see so respectable a person walking in this district that
a large crowd was attracted; in which, incidentally, was
the younger brother, who happened to be passing that
way. He followed the woman, at a distance, into this
street of the invisible underworld where Devils reign in
all their glory. The yoµrig wife went to one house,
I
knocked at the door and asked, "Can you tell me where
the chief of you all lives, Sir?" The Black Magician
pointed to a house a little lower down the street, across
the road, and replied: "Yonder lives the Master of the
most powerful of Black Magicians. He can do with ab-
solute ease what even we find difficult to accomplish; so,
if it is anything of supreme importance, go to him and
88
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
.maybe he will pay attention to your desires. Begone!"
Having reached the house 0f the leader of this Order
<0fthe Left Hand Path, the woman asked if the great ma11
were in. I Eventually she was shown into a room whieh
was dimly lit, hot and stuffy; despite the fact that all the
windows were open, so hot was the day. With slow stepa
the puissant one of the evil world, an uncanny look in hi•
eyes, that seemed as if they could pierce the very walls;
·observing the woman he said : "Woman, _I take it that
thou hast come to entreat me to take the life of thy
·younger brother-in-law, he to whom all thy wealth and
.power should go when thy husband dies on the morrowf'
I'he wife, much astonished, murmured, "But, Master, how
1mowest thou that this is my errand, and how art thoo
aware that my husband lies sick of a fever?" The Black
Magician stared at her so steadily that she was paralysed
for the moment. Then the great Master of the Under-
world said : "Woman, have I not spoken correctly?" She
l!"eplied, "Indeed, as though thou hast knowledge of all
that was within my mind." The Sage replied, "Truly hast
thou spoken! This mind is to me an open book; and at
any hour or moment that I please, I can read its contenta;
no matter where you are; to me there is no time, no space.
I travel through space a thousand miles, in the twinkling
of an eye ; I take no account of the ignorant clumsy wan
of those who know naught of the mysteries of the in-
89
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
visible world above, or of that below to which I reign." The
Black Magician then entreated her to cross his palm with
three hundred rupees (twenty pounds sterling), that he
might feel the impulse to go and work the magic of magic.
Again he spoke to her, "Thou still desirest in thine heart
that it commit the supreme act, the Art of Death!" H..
itatingly she said, "I do, Sir." "Then I will evoke the
Angel of Death this coming night, woman," said the Ma-
gician, "and the morrow will find thy husband's younger
brother also dead, as he-thy husband-will be by that
time, having departed to another world, as yet unsighted.
by thee." The young wife then went on her way and
eventually arrived home to make her plans for the future.
It so happened that the younger brothir who managed
to follow the crowd out of curiosity, went to hide in the-
house where the Magician lived. He overheard the con-
versation between the Black Magician and his Sister-in--
law. He was so dii;;tressed that he hastened to the High,
Priest of the Holy Order. After a long wait, the High.
Priest sent for the one whom he was initiating, he then
revealed all that was worrying him so that he might come
to his aid. Having heard· the whole story, the great man
of the unseen world spoke with a voice so grave that even
the atmosphere became disturbed; the walls shook, and
the floor did quake. The High Priest admonished: ''Thou
must strictly observe all the instructions. One slip in the
90
..
1...
r
l
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
carrying out of these instructions and thou wilt surel:y
die. Therefore take heed lest thou easily forget. Thon
must dine well this evening, and then thou shalt go into
the spare room where a fire must be lit and the floor·
overlaid with white sheeting. In the centre of that room
.a white table-cloth shall be spread as if for a feast i
J around the table-cloth will be hung a rope, held there by
.stakes, and in the centre thereof thou shalt kneel in med-
itation. Kneeling so, upon the table-cloth, thou shalt face·
ithe East; and on no account must thou sleep, for not even
.. one blink of the eyelids, lest in that fleeting moment thine•
,enemy slay thee. Thou shalt continue meditating without.
a break, until the morn when thy life shall be spared.
.Now go your way and do as commanded!" The boy r&-
turned home and did as he was told. It was well put.
midnight and he still meditated unharmed. Then unex-
pected there appeared on the Eastern side of the rope a.
black horse so large as to terrify the most brave; the
beast spit fire from its mouth, and the rider was clad In
sable and carried a sword of flaming fire. The rider reined.
his horse nearer and nearer his victim; but as he reached
the rope on the Eastern side, the horse each time stepped
back, in spite of the efforts of its rider to reach his vie--
tim. This battle raged between the powers of evil and
the powers of good for three hours-from· midnight until
three in the morning. As the hour of three struck, the
rider and his horse vanished into the bowels of the Earth
91
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
- -
whence they had come. Though the enemy departed the
youth, as commanded, protracted his meditations until the \
sun had risen, when he realized that the great God had
spared his life. Now, it has to be remembered that once•
the great Black Magician evoked a spirit from the under-
world and promised a certain thing, that particular thing·
must be given to the spirit ere it will again depart. This,
time the Angel of Death had been promised a life, and a.
life he must have! Therefore, having failed to secure the-·
life which had been promised, the Dark Angel took the•
life of the Great Master who had failed in his promise.
This Angel of Death evoked by the ceremony of black.
mass and of black magic acts under cover as I have im-
plied, leaving no trace of any physical cause; so to this-
very day these deaths remain unsolved, and their recur-
rence is a veritable nightmare to Judges, Coroners and
~agistrates of the Mystic East. This is but one of many
such stories that could be told, upon good authority. This..
proves the power of thought for good or evil in the mind·
of man. How profound is the moral which can be learned
from this lesson. He that hath ears to hear, let him hearlt
92
----
~
.c.·'·.,
.
..
'
·,.
'
',
j
..
{;,
+
'
I
,t.'
'"
t;
,,
i
I~
,
...
~
•/
,
e
~
c
,.
;i
<
:l
tj
;,
f
"
.ill
•/,
...,
..,
.
ii
7
"
C),
,
..
,
<
,.
a:.
<
:.,
~-
u
'/
<:
'/l
.,,
7·
"
...
C
c
C
Q.
.
1-11
"'
7
I-
.••
•lit~
..
I
I
)'
..
,\.
11.11-~:
11~~
,,,
Hlt~
'I
.
.,
.
i
-;!,!;~,I..
-
£
:
·,
f,:i-J.
....
;
0
t::
•.:.
~
.
;:
t~
·\
.,,
iilH
..
,
___L;i.~.~-
~
"·
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
KEY NUMBER SEVEN
MAGIC SEVEN
Seven is the holy number. There are 7 days in creation,. •
7 days in the week, 7 phases of the moon, every 7th year'
was sabbatical, and 7 times 7 years was jubilee. There are
7 ages in the life of man, 7 divisions in the Lord's Prayer,
7 bibles, 7 churches of Asia, 7 Graces, 7 Deadly Sins, 'l
Senses, 7 Sorrows of the Virgin, 7 Virtues, 7 Joys of the
Virgin, 7 Precious Things of the Buddhas, 7 Sleepers of
Ephesus, 7 Lamps of Architecture. The apostles chose 'l
deacons, Enoch, who was translated was 7th from Adam;
Jesus Christ was the 77th in a direct line. Our Lord spoke
7 times on the cross, on which He was 7 hours; He ap-
peared 7 times; and after 7 times 7 days He sent the Hob-
Ghost. There appeared 7 golden candlesticks and 7 stan
in the hand of Him that was in the minds; 7 lambs before
the 7 spirits of God; the book with the 7 seals; the lamb
with 7 horns and 7 eyes; 7 angels bearing 7 plagues, and
7 vials of wrath. The vision of Daniel was 70 weeks; and
the elders of Israel were 70. There were also 7 heavens.·
7 planets, 7 stars, 7 wise men, 7 champions of Christian-
dom, 7 notes in music, 7 primary colors, 7 sacraments of
the Catholic Church, and 7 wonders of the world. The ·J
7th son was considered endowed with pre-eminent wisdom;
and the 7th son of a 7th son is still thought to possess the
power of healing diseases spontaneously.
94
·THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
And the opposite sides of the dice total 7.
REVELATIONS SECRET
THE GREATEST KEY TO CONTRACTING POWER
Every thing that has been printed in the unfolding of
of the great Secrets and Customs can well be omitted.
They have been placed in this book for the purpose of
showing the devious ways that people 1lave approached the
fulfillment of their life's destiny towards success, happi• ·
ness, wealth and good cheer.
To my mind these people are lost people, for THERE IS
A SURER and GREATER way to power, which YOU can
contract, once you know how, and yet strangely enough,
this secret has never once been hidden.
The revelation of this secret has been going on for 1988
years, but in our material civilization we have forgotten it.
ANYTHING YOU WANT, YOU CAN HAVE, BY ASK-
ING FOR IT. THIS MAY SOUND VERY STRANGE TO
YOU, but just look into your bible, for the following mes•
sages revealed there:
St. Matthew: 7-7:
Ask, and it shall be given you ; seek, and ye shall find ~ .
knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
St. Matthew: 7-8:
For every one that asketh, receiveth; and he that seeketh
findeth; and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.
95
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
Again, ~t. John: 11-22:
But I know, that even now, WHATSOEVER thou wilt ask
of GOD, GOD will give it to thee.
Again, St. John: 16-23:
And in that day, ye shall ask me nothing, VERILY, verily,
I say unto you, WHATSOEVER, ye shall ask the Father in
my name, he will GIVE IT, to you. /
So you see, there is a sound proof, that what everyone
has been promised in this life, whatever they ask for; but
of course, they must understand the secrets of asking, and
this secret I will now unfold to you ; it is BELIEVE THAT
YE HAVE, AND YE SHALL HAVE IT. You must not
ask, but believe that you have it, and you will HAVE IT,
already, for in :
St. Marks: 9-23:
Jesus said unto him, if thou canst believe all things ARE
possible to him th;l.t BELIEVETH. (emphasis, my own)
St. Marks: 11-23:
For verily I say unto you, that whosoever shall say unto
this mountain, be thou removed, and be thou cast into the
Sea; and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall BELIEVE,
that those things, which he saith, shall come to pass; he
shall have WHATSOEVER he saith.
St. Marks: 11-24:
Therefore, I say unto you, what things soever ye desire,
when ye Pray, BELIEVE, that ye receive THEM, and ye
shall have THEM.
May I say to you my friends, that FEAR is the basis ot
your failures for it has been your inability to BELIEVE
that you can succ~ed in your desires whether you have to:
Gain the love of the opposite sex
Unite people for marriages
Obtain property
Make people to do your bidding
Make any pe1·son love you, no matter whc
Get any job you want
Make people bring back stolen goods
Make anyone lucky in any games
Cure any kind of sickness without medicine
96
-Ti HE SEVE.L KEYS TO POWER
Cast ·~a spell on anyone, no matter where they are
·Get 1 'leople out of law suits, courts, or prison
Banisi '1 all misery
Bring happiness to broken lives
Know \ what others ar.e-'doing
Gain th ...,, mastery of all things
Bring happuie ss to broken homes
Remove the s• ource of unhappiness
Regain your J routh and vigor
Choose your , ,vords according to ancient, holy methods of
the old Pr :iest~
Chant your c.esires in the silent tongue.
But, one tl 1ing .Y,,11 must understand and that is: What
I
you want mui,,t be good and righteous, you must not use
it wrongly, f01 • Lhen this power which is so POWERFUL
TO HELP YOU, ;tnl;'~also, POWERFUL TO HARM YOU.
Fear has hypnotized us for ...
~ es, and its effect, are as
noticable now as ever. We have taken in Fear with our
mother's milk-Yes, even before birth w---.e
have been cursed
with this thing. We have had it sugge. ,t.ed into us from
childhood. The "ifs," "supposings,'' "buts,'' " . !-la s,"
and "aren't you afraids" have always been with_ us. We ,_
have been taught to fear everything in the heavens above,
the earth beneath and the waters under the earth. 1£.~-
bugaboos of Childhood-the things-to-be-feared of Man- _
hood-are all off the same piece. We are told all our lives
that "the goblins will catch you if you don't watch out."
Turn which way we may, the suggestions of Fear are con-
stantly being poured into us. Any one who knows the
power of repeated suggestions can realize what all this hrui
97
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
meant to the world. The brave band of Revelations P ower
people-Don't worry people-and others of this 1i .ne of
thought are ·doing mucli toward pouring a stream o' f clear,
living water into the muddy, stagnant pool of Fear. thought
that the world has allowed to accumulate, f md
others are
adding to the stream every day, but the poo 1 is enormous.
Fear never accomplished any good and ne, 1er will. It is
a negative thought which has dragged its slirr,'Y form along
the ages, seeking to devour all which prorr rlsed good to
Mankind. It is the greatest enemy of progrr ~ss-the sworn
foe of Freedom. The cry, "I'm afraid," hr :lS always been
- <t
heard, and it is only when some mP>llfi
oi-woman, or a num-
ber of them has dared to lall~ in its face, that some bold
,,,
deed has been done that, has caused the world to go for-
( ward a notch or so. •Let some one advance a new idea cal-
, culated to benefit{the world, and at once you hear the cry
_,,
of Fear; y.v1lll th(: accompaning yells of the whelps, Hate
~fi"ger, filling the air and awakening echoing yells,
growls and snarls from all the Fear-kennels within hearing
distance. Let any one try to do a thing in a new way-
improve upon some accepted plan-teach the Truth in a
new way-and the yell goes up. Fear is the curse of the
race.
The man who is in bondage to Fear is a very slave, and
no crueler master E>ver
existed. In proportion to his fear,
Man sinks in the mud. And the pathetic, although some-
98
I
[
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
" what humorous part of it all is, that all the time the man
has sufficient power to rise up and smite his task-master
a blow betwe,en !he eyes which will cause him to retreat in
a h~rry. Man is like a young elephant which has not yet
recognized its strength. When one once realizes that noth-
ing can hurt him, Fear Flees from him. The man who rec-
ognizes just what he is, and what is his place in the Uni-
verse, parts company with Fear forever. And, be-
fore he reaches this stage, Fear loses its hold upon him as
he advances step by step toward that recognition:
And not only on this plane maY, Fear be defeated, but
even on the lower plane of self-interest and self-advance-
ment Fear may be gotten rid of. When Man recognizes
that Fear is a sort of home-made, pumpkin-headed jack-o'-
lantern, instead of the fiery-eyed monster of the night he
had supposed it to be, he will walk up to it and knock it
off the fence post where it had been placed to frighten him.
He will see that the things that happen are never so bad
as the things that were feared. He will see that a fear
of a thing is worse than the thing itself. He will see that,
as the anticipation of a desired- thing is greater than the
realization, so is the anticipation of a fea1;ed thing worse
than the happening of it. And he will find that the ma-
jority of feared things do not happen. And he will find
that even when things do happen, somehow matters are
straightened out so that we bear the burden much better
99
T H E S E V E N K E Y S T O P O \V E R
than we had dreamt would be possible-God not only tem-
pers the wind to the shorn lamb, but he tempers the shorn
lamb to the wind.
And Man finds .that the very fearing of a thing often
brings it upon him while a fearless mental attitude sends
the things flying away often at the last moment. Job cried
out, "The thing that I feared hath come upon· me."
Some one has said and I have often repeated it: "There
is nothing to be feared but Fear." Well, I go further than
that now and say that there is no sense in fearing even
Fear, for as Ti;irrible as he appears on the outside, he is
made of the flim.tjest material on the inside. He is "a
lath painted to resemble iron." A few strong blows will
smash him. He is a fraud-a yellow dog wearing a lion's
skin. Stand up before him and smile boldly in his face-
look him in the eyes and smile. Do not mind his fright,..
ful form-his hideous mask-he is a weakling when
matched with Courage and Confidence. All these negative
thoughts are weaklings when compared with their oppo-
sites on the positive plane.
Would you know how to get rid of Fear? Then listen.
rhe way to get rid of fear is to ignore his existence and
to carry before you, and with you always, the ideals of
Courage and Confidence. Confidence in the great plan of
which you are a part. Courage in your strength as a part
100
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POWER
t of the whole. Confidence in the workings of the Law.
...
Courage in your ability to work in accordance with law.
Confidence in your destiny. Courage in your knowledge
of the reality of the whole and the illusions of separate-
ness. Courage and Confidence arising from the Power of
Revelation-force. Confidence and Courage in your knowl-
edge that the Positive always overcomes the Negative.
Men often say that The Revelation-Power principles are
beyond them-that they cannot comprehend-that they
want something that will be of use to ·them in their every
day lives. Well, here is something for such people. This
idea of the abolishing of Fear will make them over aild will '
give them peace of mind that they have never been con-
scious _ofbefore. It will give them sweet sleep after busi-
ness hours; it will give them an even mind during business
hours ; it will make their paths smoother and will obviate
friction: it will soon be used to cause things to "come their
way." And while it is doing these things for them it will
be making better men of them. It will be preparing them
for the recognition of higher truths.
'you neophyte, who are standing at the door of the se-
cret chamber longing to pass through its portals and thence
to knowledge and freedom and power, be not dismayed at
the sight of the Dweller of the Threshold. He is merely
"gotten up for the occasion." Smile· in his face and gaze
steadily into his eyes and you will see what an old humbug
THE SEVEN KEYS TO POvVER
he is. Push him aside and enter into the room of knowl- f
ledge. Beyond that are other rooms for you, which you
will pass through in turn. Leave the dweller for timid
mortals who ·are afraid that the "goblin.s will get them."
Faint heart never won fair lady nor anything else worth
having in this world. And "none but the brave deserve
the fair," or anything else. So drop your whining cry of
"I Can't" or your sniveling "I'm afraid," and, shouting
boldly, "I CAN AND I WILL," brush past the Dweller of
the Threshold, crowd him up against the doorpost with
your shoulder and walk into the Room.
102
LEGENDS ~
<.9ncense ~ c)r/er.b and <!lit
l
.=..J ) How to uae Ro:>tt, Hl'rbe, &rka, .J'"1
~
~ Uerrl1,.
.. nnd Seeds accordina: lo
~
WholtholookPV<po,t,toT,IIAbo,t M. A-~1c~
, andenl lt'S(end,.
I How lo ... Aoolotl"R 011,. Rt,, L~·w1"d CLAREMONT
{;;. ~~: ¾~~~;ii~!d:;di!
!:i:J:~e. ,:7 L J e
~,/ H~!"'u~~~:~~"'t~~~!:!~:•
made Here is a book that thousands of people everywhere in the Country
,, now 10 uk Gr•vt"yard
Dust. · have written that they have waited many years for. The book con-
t~::
!:~i~k~•ai;,d~f
1
~·mnns. tain~ many hunareds of interesting facts regarding Occult. Pro-
When to use mch John the con- cedure and hundreds of form-
queror. ulas for the preparation of
w:~~ro~.use Low John the Con- Mystic _Ceremonies. The Author
How to fix Devil', Sh~strinir. has cI0:1med !O h~ve spent many ILIE46IENID§\
How to u•e Crain, or Paradise years mvestigntmg the uses of
How to make 11.1ccn1~nce111c. those ?>reparations claiming to
H~':'n!!. make Compdhn~ In- have found, how Mast~rs of the
How tu make Commanding on. Occult used certain Roots,
l-luw to make Altn1ction Oil. Herbs, and Oils with such great
ti
0
h~/;.~i~.H~~-~-!~~h
cerlo.ln sudc~t~h He clai~s·hed~as l"er
'l'h~~-■nd hundreds or other In- :~lfor~~~a
5
s~~:ci
5
offer if~no;
l"rHt.lnc !Reta and formulas are for the first time to all sincere
.:.~tamed In thil'Ibook students.
t ~~o~!~t!.~~!~hfbc!i~~~m~n!
all Countries, Oils, Incenses, Roots, Barks, and Herbs
have been used in various forms o! magic to aid and
invoke natural and supernatural forces. He says, "The
Egyptians, Hindus, V0odooists, Brahmans, Hebrews,
all lenew of the power of these Occult Aids; even in the
days of Exodus formulas for Holy Oils were known,
OF
€ ,
H!~~ui~l1:bo!~\~r:i~t1~fe t~ith
?~~
5
o;~~fi~~~:~d~h~~:;~:r:r
e~~:~~ti~-;
BookSel\t Post•
that ever!( Medium, Spiritualist, Magician should know that they should paid.on Receipt
not be wilho~t it. of •••••••••••
I
~''';~~1..;;:r~sECR~TS
Of. PSALmS"
~..
";.~:§~;
~ Ii THE . .
:'Ar~~:t c ~ ~ Confrey Sf'hg, lect1irei- and tl anslator IS behPVCdto be the or1g1nal h·anslator
; ~•§' ] V,. ~--,,::. ~ of thl,; book from th<?German It is supposed to be a fragment of the Practical
: t ~cl AV,,.,,1 Kobala, wtth C')Ctracts from other Kabalistic WI
1tmgs as translated by the
: ~.,,,- A I"' E autho1 (Thoughts hidden by Moses.) ...
: , ,.I p c,;J...t/1( ~ -A legend abootl this book says. "That
~ J'9 flt' t!.fft/'~ ~ this was given Mm;es 1111Mt Sinai and
0 ._
A·,,il ~ when he descendl)d he saw the Hebrews
~~//, JV" f ~~ breaking their vow. He hill ,t away
v~ • ~ from them in a (8V(! on Mt Sinai-for
~/1111 ........ ,i\\~ he Is ,upposed to have sn;d, thnt ,! lus
Table of Contuts
PH1m ror lu.-k.
Ptalm '"' Court C.U"I.
Phll'II tor trou cortdition.
Pulrn for tlY•rcemlna •rtunl"I.
Pulm for aueuu In bu11na1.
PM Im lo ovtrcornf an e"'il 1pirlL
PaaII" tn IIOP ftar and
Pfrt«:utlon,
Paalm tn turn 50rrow to Joy
PMIm to kttp HCret frGm nil.
Pu!~.~
keotpall ml.,ortun~
Pulmforlov•.
PHlm(ormoney.
P1almlor!obl.
people could not be trusted then they
da~ not have so powerful a work. The
book gives the so-called Proper Psalm
to say for .any condition what Holy
Words. Prayers, to say with it to re-
ceive its fo1lfi11ment.
fhought Hidden by Many
The Book strikes at the very Heart of
Kabbalesta writings and should be
welcome in every home.
•••• Seat Poafpald H ltctlpt of................. , ••••
$}.00
IN A CAVEAT MOUNTSINAI
LONGTHOUGHTLOST
The Jost myste.ries of the prophets-things never told before, the secrets
the Almighty was supposed to hove revealed to the three great Prophets.
These t;reat esoteric leo.chings are at last FOUND FOR YOU-The Trans-
lator shows how these wonderful works which God himself was supposed to
have given Moses and who in turn transmitted them on lo Aaron, to Da\'id,
to Solomon and other Saints, Spirits, Patriarchs nnd Prophets revealing the
· true divine art. The Translator clnims that these secrets were bequeathed by
Abraham unto Lemach, his Son, who it is said, lost or buried them-Contain-
ing the Divine Secrets for overcoming obstacles, Hidden Fears, Enemies, Evil
Misfortune, Disasters-to obtain Money-Good Fortune-Luck-Power-Suc-
cess-Love-Health-Wealth.
Known only to those few Masters, Saints, Prophets and ~atriarchs who
were so blessed by having been given these great S«rets to help them and
those who came to them-to overcome Misfortune and bring Good Fortune.
NOW at last the world's greatest esoteric author and editor Lewis De
Claremont makes available his edition o! this MASTER WORK OF WORKS.
Things considered hidden for
centuries-NOW sought after by
magicians - Neophytes. - Stu-
dents - Adepts and Sffrs, for
these are considered the authentic
maa-ic works of the Masters. From
these works it is said they obtained
the Mastery of the unknown-im-
mense wealth -rpower was theirs.
Kings-Princes, Rulers came to
them for help and councit
Things Never Told Before
I
......
..........
.....I
"ALL 'DOS CAN TE
DO AMD NOIIE."
What ♦ht look Purporh
♦ o Tell Altout
To _know all lhlr.p pa~t and future
Th,n.-. pan and to,,:ottrn
Trib11la\o0n, lo C'Wl'I~
To obtal" 1nforrn.alim or markal
ICH'nc-"
Thintt rroi•iti""-l, 10 ('Offlt'
TH! MUTIC ,owH OF MOSIS
To lo.now about i:na•W-al OP<tt•tlon.t
ol '11rro" -- Cl--. - Ctystal.t -
About Alt-Rina-1-C,rdn-Wu:-
F,,._Moon-Waltr-tbnd t.o undo
•nY ma•ic wha~ ~ c-r. tuc-h •• Evil
Eye-Ctou C4ndltRln-H,x Cu"l'I-
Shakr, - Wi1chc-N.!l - Bl"k Mask:
- Ak·hrmy - Rata - Ba~ - Toacb
- ExotciJm - N«romanc-y - Hindu
Maaic-To Htal OW ~wircbC"d-Un.
c-rm ■ - Corw;hdons - Giv, Back
Po•tr - VQion- Luck - Good
Fortunt:--Lo,,, rte,
To mak, rnae-ical storms cnse
To dil('(lvtr any mask,
THI SICUT ART Of SOLOMON
To hfftffr 9'0rt"tNn
To know 1hf, M"trtt or kttnt
To know lb• SffN"t of lov•
To know "'bat ri.chft a per.on
-..
-
To know tht .-rrtb of lM HU
To be Ml<,v,-dby one"a wift or tn,,.
band
For s,;.m• t1'«iail IOT~
Dy • matdt>n in Cfllf"nl. b,- a mJJ.
t.rto. by ~ ..-oman, for adultri..,
MTSTUIU OF THI ADl"S
.\bout th,- Kabalh.hc- St,,-N'h oCNum.
bt n, for Ftitmhhlp--Richn-Hoa.
ors-CamH and all sort.I of thinc-
sood and rv1I
To inlttOrfl. drnnu numnot'ally
To ca ■ t • ap,11 on an C'Q.tff\)' no mat.
tn whrn tJor..yane
R,rmo,., unhappin._
Casl nul dtoYil,
About 1yinJ!"witdlC'ttft li:not.
Ac-quirt n("he:s- Succn. - Luck -
Fortun,
SlCHT POWH OF JESUS
""ld Ans,b in )"O\lt powtt and com.
m,nd
Sn IM.lt v;.inn~-•boul hnlinsr
steins o, THI ,u.Lws
f'or L~k- F'or Court Ca- _.For
Hnlinl' - For Cl"'OI-Wd
Condition.J -
Ov~m, Ent'ffl~-t.o bf. S\U'("~r.,t
fn bwin--Ovrrc-on,-, E-..11Spit•ts-
0..-rcom.- Pr~ban-Turn MTtOW
t.o Jo,-K""P lh,rort•l'Ot A••Y-1•
formauon lhraurh • Or,..,.
'the Mystery and Secrets or Sinai sought for thou:-.and<.or yean-
now the Author claims placed before you in every day English, ex~
plains the secrets of the magical power of Mose,. How ht>acquirNI it-
what he used lo bring do--.'TI
the ten plagues on the Egypti■n$-th'° Sec.
rets of How he crossed the Red Sea on Dry Land-about the Magical
Rites in Solomon's Temple-His Sttret Formulas for Magic- His
Sttret Procedure-the Wonderful KnowlNlge or the Queen of Sheba
considered more precious !or man or "·oman than Cold or Rubies-
How Jesus was able to heal the sick-Restore Sight to the Blind-
Help the Halt and Lame--Rai5e the Oearl All thi•, the Author daims
to reveal in th~e books. He n}·.·, "The Hobr of M!'Ckoning
is at hand,
time and tide wait for no man." NOW you can unlock the door to this
treasure house o! knowledge and po--.·er.The keys whic-h you arr '°
sincerely e.ntitltd to~ he claims are enc-lowd in the-se books. He :says.
uNow you may escape the darJ.:.nt>ssin ,1,hich you find younelf ■ Dd
start on the road to suct'eSSwhich your heart so fully delires to do. by
following the ancient wisdoms 1·evealed in these h'n voluml'"!'for be
claims, UNTO YE THE POWER SHALL BE ~fANIFESTED. •
Set of 10 Books Sent Postpoid on Receipt of ....................... ... SZ.39
