{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__dare___indian_underworld.pdf","mytitle":"Indian Underworld","mylang":"de"}
INDIAN
UNDERWORLD
A first-hand account of Hindu saints,
sorcerers, and superstitions
By
M. PAUL DARE,
Late News Editor of the "Times of India"
NEW YORK
E. P. DUTTON & CO., INC.
1940
0)22
COPYRIGHT, 1940
BY B. P. DUTTON ft CO., INC.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
PRINTED IN THB U.S.A.
FIRST EDITION
To
MY WIFE,
BUT FOR
WHOSE CONSTANT
ENCOURAGEMENT
AND
PRACTICAL AID
THIS BOOK WOULD
NEVER HAVE BEEN
COMPLETED
CONTENTS
CTAFTM rACt
I. THE ROPE TRICK AND OTHER MYSTERIES . 1
3
II. THE SUPERSTITION RACKET 4°
III. CRIME AND SORCERY .... 56
IV. HUMAN SACRIFICE 8 1
V. ANIMAL SACRIFICE . . . . 107
VI. THE MAGIC OF IMAGES . . 131
VH. MYSTERIES OF THE SERPENT . 1 62
VIII. BEYOND THE VEIL . . . 1
87
APPENDIX A 213
APPENDIX B 214
APPENDIX C 2l6
APPENDIX D 2l8
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
MOB
A typical Faqir ...... 32
A holy-man doing penance on a bed of spikes 96
A rolling ascetic, who rolls hundreds of miles
from one holy place to another . . 96
A Jaipur ascetic, reputed to have spent 30
years without leaving his bed of nails . 152
A Yogi breaking stones by blows of the fist :
magic or muscle? 152
A Yogi meditating ..... 204
INDIAN
UNDERWORLD
CHAPTER I
THE ROPE TRICK AND OTHER MYSTERIES
"T THERE does genuine magical power end and
VV the realm of frankly theatrical conjuring begin ?
This is perhaps the biggest mystery of all to be solved
in probing the magical performances of "the mysterious
East", and any consideration of it must inevitably
involve a discussion on that perennial source of con
troversy, the Indian rope trick ; and the author of
any book on Far Eastern mysteries and beliefs feels
that he owes it to his readers to start them off with
this subject, since the first question always flung at
anyone rash enough to admit having lived in India
is : Did you see the rope trick ? Can it be done ?
In case there should be anyone who has so far
managed to escape seeing the periodical fiery disputes
on the subject in the Press, it will be as well to explain
exactly what is alleged to occur in this famous per
formance. Briefly, the conjuror throws into the air a
thin rope, or stout twine, which defies the laws of
gravity by staying stiff and upright, its top vanishing
out of sight in the open sky. The assistant, a boy aged
about twelve, shins up the rope and likewise dis
appears. He refuses to come down despite repeated
commands, so the magician, a knife between his teeth,
14 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
goes up after him—and then bits of dismembered boy
fall to the ground amid piercing shrieks ; after which,
the conjuror descends to earth, cleans his hands and
the knife, and the boy appears, whole and undamaged,
from among the crowd. There are variations, but that
is the essence of it.
During the years the present writer worked in India
the controversy became so acute, following reviews
of Lt.-Col. R. H. Elliott's sceptical book The Myth of
the Mystic East, that the Times of India newspaper
offered 10,000 rupees (about £750) for a genuine, un
challengeable performance of the trick before a public
assembly in Bombay ; but no Indian conjuror came
forward to take up the challenge, nor has one responded
to offers from the London Magicians' Circle and other
bodies. There
is,
however, nothing surprising in this,
for two reasons
:
one, that the true holy men of
India, instances of whose undoubtedly genuine occult
powers are given later in this book, do not perform for
money
;
and the other, that the wandering Indian
conjuror, even when he can read at all, which
is
rarely,
does not read the English papers.
It will perhaps be instructive and amusing to sum
marize the mass of correspondence and news-items
which appeared on the subject in the Times
of
India
and Evening News
of
India during the last burst of
controversy, in 1934. The ball was set rolling by an
article in the Spectator by Lt.-Col. Elliott, in which he
discarded the evidence of
a
woman who declared she
saw the trick in 1892 in Madras (where Elliott was
then serving) because no report of
it
appeared in the
newspapers at the time
;
his argument, a very thin
one, was that the papers would certainly have reported
such
a
performance. Would they
?
Extraordinary
THE ROPE TRICK 15
conjuring feats may be seen on the Maidan (an open
space equivalent to a recreation-ground) in Bombay
any day, but the newspapers do not bother to send
out a reporter, in a land where such things are as much
a commonplace of daily life as murder, which has to
be very juicy indeed to be worth more than a para
graph ! A similar claim by a man who said he saw
the rope trick in Secunderabad during the 1914-18
war was airily dismissed by Elliott for the same reason
as that of the woman ; and he was sceptical ofa further
account, by a woman of sixty-odd, who described the
trick as she saw it when she was a child ofsix.
The immediate outcome of this article was that the
Magicians' Circle in London, of whose "occult com
mittee" Lt.-Col. Elliott was chairman, generously
issued a challenge offering 500 guineas for a genuine
performance. The famous psychiatrist, Dr. Alexander
Cannon, under the misapprehension that £50,000 had
been offered, was about to take up the challenge and
bring over yogis who could do the trick —until he
discovered that the sum was only a paltry 500 guineas,
whereupon he withdrew, saying it would be an
insult to the yogis. All this, of course, proved nothing
except the worthy doctor's utter ignorance of the
habits of true yogis and their contempt for money.
Lt.-Col. Elliot characterized as "impossible" the
theory which attributes a spectator's conviction that
he has actually seen the trick to clever mass-
hypnotism on the part of the magician ; thus
influenced, the Magic Circle came to the conclusion
that the rope trick never has been done, and never
will be.
Meanwhile, the controversy got into full swing in
our Indian newspaper columns. Mr. G. Annaji Rao,
l6 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
of Bombay, declared he had seen the performance, not
by a solitary conjuror, but by one of the numerous
troupes of magicians in Malabar and Kanara, and he
recalled the "terrible suspense? felt by himself and
the rest ofthe audience during the performance, which,
he said, took place at Cundapur, S. Kanara, in the
compound of the bungalow then occupied by Mr.
K. Krishna Rao, the District Munsiff (magistrate),
and occupied in 1934 by a High Court advocate named
S. Udpa. We will quote Mr. Annaji Rao's own account :
"Here, then, is what actually took place, and
what very often takes place down south, where this
trick is of almost daily occurrence in the festive
season. The drummer shouts to everyone to note
that their chief is very good at bragging, but slow at
performing. The urchin is then called, and told
by the performer to 'go to heaven'. 'What, right
up ?' asks his critic. 'And why not—when I order
it V asks the performer, cracking a huge whip.
'Why not, indeed ? Then let us all go with him !'
says the critic, attempting to be jocular.
"The audience, of course, laughs, but the per
former alone is stern. 'No,' he declares. 'This boy
shall go alone. I order him to go. If not . . .' and
his whip is raised.
"The critic expostulates : 'But how ? Give him
something to climb by, at least.' 'Well, here goes !'
exclaims the performer, and with that he throws a
ball of rope high in the air, holding one end in his
hand. The ball mounts up, up, and up, unwinding
itself and lengthening the rope as it goes, until —
wonder of wonders —it is lost to view.
"I could not explain it then, being a boy. I
THE ROPE TRICK »7
cannot explain it now, being a man, and an old man
of experience. There was no tree, no smoke (to
cover the boy's disappearance), nor any cover.
The ball of rope ascended the clear sky till it was
lost to view. 'Now get up that rope,' says the
performer, cracking his whip. The audience gapes
spellbound, knowing it is possible for the boy when
that man orders it.
"I feel ashamed to state what is very likely to be
disbelieved. The boy caught hold of that slender
rope and ran up it like a monkey. It is a well-
known trick ; we all flocked to see
it,
and we
wondered.
I
had developed enough scepticism even
in those days, and
if
anyone else had told me such
a
thing was seen by him
I
should certainly have
disbelieved him
;
but there
I
was, in
a
group of
nearly 200 people of my acquaintance.
"The boy ran up the rope until he was lost to
sight. Then the rope was drawn in, and the performer
announced amid the thunder of the triumphant
drum that he had actually sent the boy to asman
(heaven). The drummer, being assured that the
boy has now gone, begins to weep, and, throwing
down his drum, threatens to give up service
if
the
lad
is
not brought back, adding naively
:
'What
you can do, you can also undo.'
" 'Would that
it
were always so,' piously utters
the chief performer
;
but he condescends to call
back the boy, who, to the obvious relief of everyone,
answers back from somewhere in the crowd, and
trips up to the performer's ring."
This very clear and detailed account was followed
by
a
brief letter from
a
Jubbulpore Anglo-Indian, Mr.
l8 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
J. D. Jenkins, asking Lt.-Gol. Elliott to "get down to
brass tacks" as to whether the trick had ever been
done, and find out who had seen
it,
before speculating
on the alleged impossibility of an Indian holy man
upsetting Newton's law of gravity
;
and the writer
declared that he himself had seen the trick done three
times, at different places
;
further, he had the written
evidence of four other persons who had seen
it,
with
corroboration of their statements.
Another correspondent, by way of counterblast to
this, drew attention to a book Indian Conjuring, by
Major L. H. Branson,
a
member of the Magicians'
Circle, who devotes a whole chapter to the rope trick,
stating that he had searched high and low in India for
twenty-five years without ever being able to witness
a
performance of
it,
and offering
a
reward of 5000 rupees
to anyone who would show him the trick performed in
the open
;
it
had never, said this correspondent, been
claimed.
Messrs. Rao and Jenkins, however, received backing
from our next correspondent,
a
barrister named Gulam
M. Munshi, who sent in a condensed version of
a
letter the Times
of
India had printed from him in
1930, when there was a previous outbreak of contro
versy. He declared that when, in
1
895-6, he was staying
at the Great Western Hotel in the Fort area ofBombay,
he saw the trick from the verandah there. He wrote
:
"An up-country conjuror came with
a
boy about
ten or twelve years ofage, and sat down on the path
round the garden, about 15 or 20 feet from the
bottom ofthe staircase.
I
was sitting on the verandah,
about 30 or 40 feet from him. He performed his
tricks on the open ground, with no chairs or tables,
THE ROPE TRICK ig
and no covering (awning) over the site on which he
was performing.
"The last trick he performed was the rope trick.
He threw up a ball of thin thread. The thread stood
perpendicularly, without any support from the top
or sides. I saw it hanging straight up. Then the
boy who was with him went up the thread. As
he went up he was speaking loudly to the conjuror.
His voice became less in pitch as he went up higher.
In a few minutes it was inaudible. Then the
conjuror showed his anxiety as to the whereabouts
of the boy, and in a few minutes there was a noise
as of something falling from above. This noise was
repeated three or four times. During these incidents
the conjuror declared that parts of the body
of the boy had fallen from above. Then he
covered these 'parts' with his basket and chanted
some mantras (spells) ; then the boy emerged from
the basket hale and hearty and salaamed the
spectators in the usual manner. As it was 10 a.m.
there were not many spectators."
A correspondent who used a pen-name next com
plained, reverting to Mr. Annaji Rao's letter, that he
travelled all over Malabar regularly, and the reply
he always got to repeated requests to be shown the
rope trick was that only a few big conjurors could do
it. "One never seems to meet these big men," he
remarked. As an antidote to this there came a letter
from "A European", backing up Messrs. Rao and
Jenkins, and stating that he himself saw the rope trick,
with the boy disappearing in the air and reappearing
among the crowd, when in the Army and stationed in
the United Provinces some twenty years ago.
so INDIAN UNDERWORLD
Another correspondent spoke to seeing the rope trick
done in the open in Oilmonger Street, Georgetown
(formerly Blacktown), Madras, in 1892, as a boy,
adding that it was so frequently seen that they did
not give the conjuror any bakhshish for doing it !
After one or two letters with a metaphysical turn,
dealing with the question of visual hallucination, with
which I shall deal later, and a flood of jocular com
munications from sceptics, a Mr. V. Rebeiro came
forward to say he had seen the rope trick done as a
boy in the Portuguese territory of Damaun, near
Bombay. He had a vivid memory of the performance,
in which he saw a fairly thin rope thrown up ; the lid
of an oblong basket lying near was then thrown open,
and a boy aged about ten darted out of
it,
up the rope,
and disappeared, after the conjuror's boast that he
could send him to heaven and bring him back. "A
minute or two later, at our earnest request," said Mr.
Rebeiro, "the rope was thrown up again, and the boy
climbed down
it
and back into the basket. This
is
the
real story —call
it
mass suggestion, optical illusion, or
what you like."
A hard-headed police officer of Bangalore wrote
describing the trick as he saw
it
at Malappuran,
Malabar, on the police parade-ground in 191
2,
in
the presence of members of the constabulary. In this
case there were two men, one of whom threw up
a
rope about thirty feet long and half an inch in diameter
;
a lad of about six climbed up
it,
disappeared in the
air, and reappeared from a ditch about two furlongs
away. The only explanation this correspondent
could get as to how the trick was done was the in
formation, from the jugglers themselves, that they
were endowed with certain supernatural powers which
THE ROPE TRICK SI
enabled them to make their living by this performance.
Finally, a Mr. F. R. Jangalwala, of Nagpur, gave a
description of the trick as he saw it at Palghat in
1
92 1, which corresponded almost identically with the
experience of Mr. Annaji Rao.
We need not take any serious notice of the arguments
used by Lt.-Col. Elliott, who refuses to believe the fact
of the rope trick being done simply because (a) the
claim to such powers is what he calls "fantastically
improbable" ; (b) the trick upsets the so-called laws
of gravity ;
(c)
the witnesses "failed to publish what
they saw in the newspapers at the time of seeing it"
;
(d) the witnesses "in all cases of abnormal phenomena
of this sort are generally the victims of trickery and
deception"
;
and
(e)
there
is
no corroborative evi
dence.
Better arguments than these must be advanced before
we can say so boldly that the whole story of the rope
trick
is
a
complete myth. As for (a), if Lt.-Col.
Elliott had seen so many queer demonstrations of
power in the East as the present writer has, he would
not be so ready to dismiss the claim to abnormal powers
as fantastically improbable
;
but the English military,
a race heartily, and not without reason, detested by the
Hindu, are the very last people to be given the facility
ofseeing such demonstrations. Regarding (b), not only
have we no evidence that the "law of gravity" obtains
utterly and without exception, but we have plenty of
evidence that in certain conditions
it
can be upset by
supernormal powers
:
I
would here merely quote the
case, classic to all students of occultism, of the medium
Home's levitation, and
a
demonstration
I
have myself
witnessed in India, related later in this chapter, of
a
sadhu walking across
a
200-foot ravine in mid-air.
32 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
In this case I have positive evidence that there was no
deception of the senses.
Argument
(c)
is
most feeble
;
why, at
a
time when
there was no Press-manufactured controversy about a
trick which all our witnesses above-quoted agree was
a
commonplace when and where they saw
it,
should they
bother to communicate an account to the papers at the
time
?
They did so when controversy later arose.
Statement (d)
is
a sweeping assertion on deception for
which Elliott produces no specific evidence of fraud
;
and
(e)
is
best answered by Mr. Jenkins's communica
tion, stating that he had the corroborated accounts of
four other witnesses besides himself.
Having so far criticized Lt.-Col. Elliott's views,
it
is
only fair to him to say that
Ihave never seen the rope
trick myself, but have had the usual experience, which
is
the grievance of investigators in the matter, of only
getting accounts of
it
at second or third hand.
I
have
only met people who knew
a
third party who had seen
it
;
this, ofcourse,
is
not evidence —and there one must
agree with Elliott. The nearest "contact" was
a
wandering Austrian artist who told me his brother had
seen the trick and taken a photograph, in which neither
rope nor boy appeared on the plate, though the juggler
and the crowd came out clearly. This, one often hears,
is
the mystifying experience of other people who have
tried to photograph it. In another chapter, however,
the reader will find recorded
a
curious experience in
what may be called "photo-tabu", which might cast
light upon this.
The question as to whether the whole story of the
rope trick
is
itself a myth
is
a very interesting one, and
investigation of
it
takes us far back into oriental
historical literature. It
is
often stated that the whole
THE ROPE TRICK 23
thing is a "yarn" invented by the famous Arab
historian and all-India traveller of c. a.d. 1350, Ibn
Batuta, while Chinese scholars who have gone into the
matter tell me that a Chinese magician is first credited
with having performed the trick, and that a distorted
legend about this filtered through to India by way of
the ancient Great Silk Road (rediscovered by Sir
Aurel Stein), and was heard by Ibn Batuta.
It is certainly very curious that the trick does not
figure in an apparently genuine list of tricks described
by the Mughal historian Wahiniya Ali as being per
formed before the Emperor Jehangir ; and what is
even more curious is that the Bakhsh family, the
doyens of Indian magicians, quite frankly told the
American illusionist John Mulholland (who printed
their statement a few years ago in the New York
Herald-Tribune) that neither their family nor any
Indian conjurors known to them had ever seen it done.
As Mulholland became a kind of blood-brother of this
family, he learnt many of their stage secrets.
Mr. J. D. Jenkins, however, whose letter we have
already quoted, pointed out during the newspaper
controversy that the rope trick is mentioned in ancient
Indian literature long before the time even of Ibn
Batuta, and fortunately he was able to quote chapter
and verse, drawing attention to the passage, in Sutra
17 of the Vedanta Sutras of Shankaracharya :
"Even as the illusory juggler who climbs up the
rope and disappears differs from the real juggler who
stands on the ground."
He added that there is also a reference to it in the
Sutras of Patanjali, and that writers in the ancient
s
24 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
Hindu Shastras refer to the rope trick in the language
of eye-witnesses.
The spring of 1935 saw a revival in London of the
controversy, which, through no-one coming forward to
accept the Times of India's offer, had fizzled out in
India. Sir Ralph Pearson, formerly Lieut.-Governor
of the N.W. Frontier Province, wrote to the Morning
Post claiming actually to have seen the rope trick
carried out at Dondachia, a station on the then new
Tapti valley railway line in West Khandesh district,
in 1900 ; and he added that his wife had also seen
it,
at another station further down the line. It
is
to be
presumed that Lt.-Gol. Elliott would accept this
English military man as a credible witness
!
A year elapsed, then the subject was brought up
again, in February 1936, in
a
lecture in London to the
East India Association by a Major G. H. Rooke, who,
while admitting that he had no first-hand evidence,
stated that an Army officer was said to have taken a
photograph of the performance, which plate showed
neither boy nor rope. He also told
a
very curious
story of how
a
friend of his, in the political service,
wanted to take a photograph of
a
group of Indians.
One of them objected, but ultimately consented to
stand in the group, warning the Englishman
:
"You
cannot photograph me !" When the plate was
developed the spot where this man should have been
shown was blank
!
This experience should be com
pared with that of my friend Vishnu Karandikar,
related in another chapter, in his fruitless efforts to
photograph a certain image.
Here, then, the matter for the moment rests, and
probably will continue to rest until some genuine yogi,
sadhu, or faqir, having first been obtained by the
THE ROPE TRICK 25
impossible method of town-crying all over India, can
be persuaded to cross the "black water" —which would
mean the unheard-of breaking of his caste in the case
of a Hindu—to give a demonstration before the
sceptical Magicians' Circle in England. Meanwhile,
there does remain the question of whether we can.
without prejudice, find some explanation of the
mystery. The usual one, hazarded by those who very
foolishly refuse to allow that an Indian holy man or
magician of any kind possesses occult powers that
enable him to set at defiance the phenomena regarded
as "laws" in the West, is that one's conviction of having
seen the trick done under one's nose is produced by
clever mass-hypnotism on the part of the performer.
This is too conveniently glib ; it has yet to be proved
that it is possible for any one man to hypnotize to the
same degree, so that all see the same thing, a whole
crowd of persons of very diverse mental capacities.
While it is quite possible for a yogi, whose whole
life is passed in the exercise of mind- and breath-
control, to hypnotize a small crowd of Indian village
peasants, a class whose mental calibre is extremely low,
one is very dubious of his being able equally to affect
such members of the audience as a hard-headed
lawyer or a European police officer —and these are
two types of witness whom we have quoted as seeing
the trick.
I feel, however, that there may be another explan
ation, which does not necessarily involve supernormal
power on the part of the performer. A very able
German doctor practising in Bombay told me it was
a proved medical fact that in the East the conscious
brain, even ofthe European, has far less hold upon the
subconscious than in Europe. In his own case this took
36 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
the form of a necessity when in India to consult his
text-books with distressing frequency on fine technical
points ofresearch, a thing he never had to do to refresh
his memory in Europe. What, then, if this peculiar
atmospheric condition makes it possible for the yogi
orfaqir to make you think you have seen the trick by
mass-suggestion ?
Finally, on the subject ofthe rope trick, since writing
this outline I have met the famous illusionist Horace
Goldin, who now, after many years of research, claims
that he can do the trick in the open air. He showed
me correspondence on his request to the Office of
Works last year to be allowed to demonstrate it in
Hyde Park. Naturally this was refused, since it is
not permissible to have performances in any of the
royal parks ! Mr. Goldin has not subsequently offered
to do the trick in the open anywhere else ; he is a very
fine showman, and a demonstration of his claim is
awaited with interest by stage magicians and students
of Indian magic alike.
To return, in connection with Indian conjuring, to
the idea of mass-suggestion. It may sound curious to
the Western mind, but there is at least one ubiquitous
trick of the Indian magician in which it is pure sug
gestion that produces the result, following very clever
sleight-of-hand. This is the famous mango trick, in
which a mango-plant apparently sprouts from a
handful of earth or sand, which, together with an old
flower-pot or tin, you are at liberty to provide yourself
ifyou think the conjuror's is doctored. It is one of the
most familiar stock tricks of the strolling conjuror, and
the credulous theosophist, Madame Blavatsky, was
easily taken in by it (which, to those who have read
her outpourings, is not surprising).
THE ROPE TRICK
The performer, having passed a dry mango-stone
round the audience, buries it in the earth or sand,
waters
it,
and obscures the receptacle from your view
by means of a light cloth thrown over
a
small triangle.
After patter and incantations, he draws aside
a
bit of
the cloth, allowing you to see
a
young shoot that has
sprung up, with two leaves of blackish brown. He
repeats this by-play several times, until finally there
stands before you, apparently grown from the mango-
stone, a sapling about
a
foot high, with a fine cluster
of genuine mangoes on it. The magician himself
"plucks" them and hands them round for you to eat.
I
was once fortunate enough to be able, from a
concealed vantage-point, to focus a powerful pair of
field-glasses on the finished product while the conjuror
was concluding his patter, in which he made the usual
boast that
if
you cared to wait long enough he could
grow a mango-tree twenty feet high
;
and the glasses
revealed plainly that the mangoes had been most
ingeniously tied on to the stem by a lightning sleight-of-
hand many a Western stage conjuror might envy.
The leaves and stem are tough, and their concealment,
even in a loincloth, presents no problem to the Indian
performer. Now, the curious thing about this perform
ance
is
that even Europeans who had been watching
it
closely declared afterwards that the stem did grow up
out of nothing under the cloth, while five Indian specta
tors to whom
I
spoke after the conjuror had packed up
and departed, well rewarded, were convinced that he
had grown
a
mango-tree twenty feet high. It was all
pure suggestion.
I
had an even more extraordinary personal experience
of the power of suggestion from
a
Punjabi faqir with
whom
I
was very friendly, and who taught me a
28 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
number of his "stage secrets". This man, while
declining to commit himself on the subject of the rope
trick —he would not even say whether it could be
done or not, let alone how it was done —admitted that
many of his own tricks, and those of all his fellow-
conjurors, are worked purely by suggestion, without
even troubling to use hypnotism properly so called.
One day he gave me a demonstration, seated in a
corner of my bungalow lounge, and with my own
property. In the opposite corner from where we sat
side by side on the mats stood, on its wooden stand, a
large brass tray of Jaipur-ware, with a very heavy
brass vase to match in its centre.
"Now, sahib," said my faqir, "I can will that vase
to ascend from the tray to the ceiling."
The vase thereupon rose gracefully into the air
before my eyes, and I actually heard the metallic
tinkle of its lid touching the ceiling.
"I now will it to descend," said the magician, "and
to halt a short time in mid-air on the way down."
It did, and again I heard the tinkle when it touched
the tray on coming down.
"Now, sahib," said my old friend, with a mischiev
ous grin, "I will do it again. This time, while the vase
is in mid-air, please walk across the room to the tray."
I did, keeping my eyes glued on the vase, which,
defying Newton and all his works, remained parked in
mid-air without visible means of support, and steadily
nearing the ceiling again.
"Please put out your hand to the middle of the
empty tray, sahib."
I obeyed —and touched the vase, which at the same
time seemed to vanish from above my head. Bewil
dered, I turned round, exclaiming that I could have
THE ROPE TRICK 29
sworn the thing had been in mid-air over my head a
second before.
"That, sahib," smiled theold fox, "was the suggestion.
The vase has never left the tray."
It only remains to add that this wily old conjuror, a
familiar figure on the sands of Juhu, Bombay's lido,
disappears from his native shores every monsoon to
perform on the halls in Europe, where he has picked
up perfect French and Italian, good German, and a
passable fortune by his art.
My wife had an experience similar to mine, though
perhaps it comes nearer the realm of actual hypnotism,
while staying for a short time at Ganeshkhind, where
one afternoon an old sadhu entertained a small circle of
friends in the garden of Government House. Among
other things he made them believe that bananas were
growing in luscious clusters on a tree known to have
been long barren. One of the officials present even
sent for the mali (gardener), who, on seeing the bananas,
expressed his astonishment that the tree had borne
fruit overnight. He was told by the sadhu to get a
ladder and cut a bunch. The man went up and sliced
carefully at what he judged the finest bunch of the lot,
then let out a yell ofterror and nearly fell off the ladder,
shouting : "They aren't there !" All the Europeans
watching, except my wife, whom it is impossible to
hypnotize, swore they saw a bunch of bananas fall to
the ground when the mali sliced at them ; needless to
say, on inspecting both the tree and the ground
beneath it there was no sign of a banana on either.
The holy man next gave the party a scare by willing
a cobra to appear at their feet from under a few leaves
on the gravel path in a part of the grounds where
snakes were never seen —apart from the fact that a
30 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
snake will not go over gravel and similar rough sur
faces. Having found it impossible to subject Mrs. Dare
to hallucination, the sadhu asked if she would object
to the snake going over her feet, to prove it was real.
She consented, remarking that she knew she would not
be able to feel the creature ; and on looking down she
actually saw it sliding across her feet, but did not feel
its cold skin, though wearing open sandals and no
stockings. As the king cobra is the only known snake
of India which will attack a human being on sight
without provocation, the rest of the party had an
unpleasant few minutes of apprehension ; but the
brute was then permitted by the sadhu to depart into
the shrubbery, whither it went with a very realistic
rustling, and to this day we cannot decide whether it
was a real snake or an image-projection.
When all the cases of suggestion, hypnotism, and
sleight-of-hand have been ruled out, however, all who
know the East, and who do not possess a biased, bull-
headed mentality, are bound to admit that there is
left in all oriental magic a very considerable residuum
only explicable by allowing to its exponents the posses
sion of supernormal power, that can and does set at
defiance those "laws" which the West, in its self-
sufficiency, thinks are immutable.
Although falling outside India, it cannot be out of
place here to cite that classic case, known to students of
occultism and actually on record in the sober annals of
the S&reti (the Scodand Yard of Paris), the case of the
transported portrait. This occurred only a few years
ago in the French Congo, where a district administrator,
hearing tales of the great powers possessed by the local
witch-doctor, was sceptical, and went along to his hut
to tell him so and challenge him to a demonstration.
THE ROPE TRICK
First the witch-doctor bade him think ofsomeone he
knew very well ; the official thought of his fiancee,
whereupon the medicine-man, who could not read or
write, spelt out the name of the woman in roman
capitals with his stick in the sand. "This," he said,
"was too easy —-just mind-reading. Think of some
object in your house in far-off Paris that you much
prize."
The administrator concentrated his thoughts on a
valuable old master, a portrait hanging in his Paris
home, without, of course, telling the magician of what
he was thinking.
"Look," said the old man, "there is your picture."
And there, standing in a corner of the mud hut, was
the picture.
The French officer declared it must be hallucination,
but the witch-man shook his head. "No," he said, "it
is real—go and pick it up for yourself." The amazed
European walked across the hut and actually picked
up the picture, complete in its familiar frame, which
he thought was hanging in his home thousands of
miles away.
He thought he must have caught a touch of the sun.
Dazed, he dashed down to the station telegraph-office
and fired off a wire to Paris inquiring if this painting
were still in its place. Fairly quickly there came a
reply stating that it had been missed shortly before his
cable arrived, and that the S&reti was at that moment
turning the place upside-down investigating the theft,
as the portrait was ofgreat value.
Still more dazed, the official collected a number of
reliable European acquaintances and friends, who
accompanied him back to the witch-doctor's hut and
there saw for themselves the picture still standing in the
32 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
corner. Some of the men were brother-officers, who
had actually seen the thing in the house in Paris when
on leave. They wanted to pick it up, but the medicine
man would allow only the owner to do that.
Finally, the magician was asked how long he could
keep the picture there, and replied, "Till sundown."
Returning just before sundown, the Frenchman con
firmed that his treasure was still there ; and as the
sun sank it melted into thin air before his eyes. He at
once cabled Paris again, asking if the picture had yet
been found, and in due course came the reply that it
had mysteriously reappeared in its accustomed place,
while the S&rete was still combing the underworld of
the Parisian antique-dealers for it. The family
thought a servant had tried to purloin
it,
but had lost
courage at the police activity and replaced
it
on the
wall.
Almost as queer was a feat witnessed on the Indian
frontier by one of my colleagues, who, when serving
there in the Army, himself assisted in the performance.
One evening, he relates,
a
genuine faqir strolled into
the camp and, declining reward, offered to entertain,
saying money meant nothing to him, and he would
merely ask a little food
if
they were pleased with what
he could do. The officers sat in
a
semicircle, the faqir
some thirty feet away from them
;
he said he would
not move, or even touch anything involved in certain
tricks.
After
a
number of minor stock feats he asked for the
use of
a
very distinctive ring the colonel was wearing,
which bore his monogram on a shield —so that no
substitution was possible, as might have been the case
with
a
plain gold band. Thefaqir asked the colonel to
hand the ring to any officer he wished. He chose the
THE ROPE TRICK 33
adjutant, who was then requested by the conjuror to
find any bit of paper and screw the ring up in
it,
under
the eyes of yet two other officers (of whom my narrator
was one). This done, the adjutant was told to throw
it
down a thirty-foot well, at least twenty feet from
where the faqir was sitting, the two other officers acting
as witnesses. My colleague vouches for having tested
that the ring was really screwed up in the bit of
newspaper, and for seeing and hearing
it
flop into the
water of the well, where
it
sank.
The faqir next asked the colonel to send for
a
mess
orderly and tell him to bring a new, uncut loaf. This
was done. "Now," commanded the magician, "cut
the loaf, and you will find your ring inside it." And
the colonel did
!
There
is
no explaining a feat like
this by any theory of hallucination or hypnotism
;
thefaqir touched nothing whatever in the performance,
and
it
can only be explained by
a
frank admission that
some of these holy men of India do actually possess
the power to dematerialize and rematerialize objects
at
a
distance.
There was living at the Railway Colony, Sukkur,
Sind, in 1934, an occultist calling himself Muzzaffer
(which means "the traveller"), who in that year proved
his powers to a sceptical Hindu merchant of my
acquaintance by emptying that worthy's office safe,
which was in an office over
a
mile away from where
they both were at the time, and rematerializing the
whole of its contents, including heavy ledgers, under
the astonished trader's nose. He was even able to
confirm the genuineness of the feat by telephoning his
clerk on the spot to open the safe
;
the latter did so,
and 'phoned back in great distress that
it
had been
burgled, though the lock was intact. His employer
34 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
reassured him, explaining the position. Muzzaffer
then "dematerialized" the property again, and on the
merchant then telephoning the clerk to reopen the
safe, that astonished individual reported that the whole
ofthe contents were back in
it,
apparently undisturbed.
Then there
is
a celebrated, and perfectly true, story
of a sadhu in a Madras gaol, sentenced to
a
short term
for theft, who completely mystified warders and
officials by being found each morning seated in an
attitude of meditation outside his locked cell, with the
lock untouched. This Indian Houdini threatened that
this would happen every day unless they ceased to
"insult" him by locking the door
;
so
it
was left
unlocked, and the man completed the rest of his sen
tence in sublime peace, never attempting to escape.
It
is
such occurrences as this which cause one to wonder
how much of the great Houdini's own escapology was
pure science and lock-breaking, and how much he may
have learnt, from his Eastern mentors, of other and
more occult methods. His own book does not reveal
the answer, but Indian magicians with whom
I
have
talked tell me he was the only Western adept who ever
mastered these secrets.
Mention of Houdini brings us to another of the great
puzzles of Indian magic—the claim ofyogis to remain
in
a
state of suspended animation for an almost
incredible period. Houdini himself undoubtedly
learnt part of their secret, but not all of
it,
for he has
left
it
on record that his narrowest escape from death
was on the last occasion he ever consented to be buried
alive in a coffin, in
a
six-foot grave. He confessed
that his nerve failed him, with the result that he nearly
did expire.
An oriental scholar and artist with whom
I
became
THE ROPE TRICK 35
very friendly in India, Mr. Fyzee Rahamin (the
Bombay painter responsible for some of the New
Delhi frescoes), told me of an amazing case, to which he
himself was witness, that occurred some years ago in
the State of Rampur, where the records of it exist,
duly attested by the official doctors and a number of
scientists. Here a. yogi insisted on being buried for a
year and a day. He went into samadh (trance), and
was certified to be dead, medically speaking, and by all
known tests ; and he was interred in a proper grave
six feet deep. Mr. Rahamin was present at the
interment, and at the exhumation of this living saint
a year and a day later, and states that when the coffin
was opened the man got up, emaciated, but otherwise
well and normal, after taking some two hours to come
out ofhis samadh. This is no ordinary case ofcatalepsy,
the longest recorded duration of which is a few
days.
In the same class of supernormal phenomena may
be placed levitation, of which the first demonstration
in the West under test conditions satisfactory to
science was the now classic case of Home, the
American medium, who rose from his chair in a fifth-
floor flat, straightened out into a horizontal attitude
above the heads of the observers, departed feet fore
most out of a window, and re-entered the room head
first, still horizontal, by the next window. This is a
well-attested case in western psychic annals, and at
the time it naturally caused a sensation, but to the
yogi it is almost a commonplace, everyday accomplish
ment.
I was personally given a demonstration of it by a
learned Swami, or teacher, of the colony of holy men
who live in the caves of Jogeshwari, near Bombay.
36 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
He stood discussing these phenomena with me on the
edge of a 200-foot ravine, smiled very sweetly at the
western scepticism expressed—and then proceeded to
walk across the ravine in mid-air. This was certainly
not hallucination. He had definitely left my side, and
was talking to me the whole time he was "levitating".
Arrived on the far brink, he turned round, delivered
himself of a few home-truths on the subject of western
science, and returned. This man is a very great
scholar, with a complete contempt for the bestial
accretions with which the teaching of Hinduism has
become overlaid, and, incredible as it may seem to a
prosaic Londoner, not only claims to be over 150 years
old, but can prove it by records, and looks no more
than sixty.* I leave it to the reader to "believe it or
not", only cautioning him against the inconsistency of
admitting the claim of Christ to walk on the waters,
and yet denying the possession of similar power to
other oriental adepts in the occult.
Our old Arab traveller, Ibn Batuta, cites the case
of a yogi who took the form of a cube at will, while a
story savouring strongly of the Arabian Nights is told
by another Muslim historian, Mas'udi, j concerning a
certain Jew of Surarah, a village in Kufa district.
This man raised a number of apparitions, and made a
phantom king of colossal size gallop on horseback
round the mosque courtyard at Kufa. In the presence
of Walad-ud-Din Akbar he then turned himself into a
camel and walked on a rope ; made the "ghost" of an
ass to pass through his body ; and finally slew a man,
* Mokam Singh and Pandit Panna Singh, two yogis who made
a world tour in 1934-5, state that in Tibet they met yogis 200
years old.
t Les Prairies d'Or (Ed. B. de Meynard & P. de Courtaille).
Paris, 1863. Tome
ii,
398 seq. (Kitab rnurujadh-dhahab).
THE ROPE TRICK 37
cut off his head, passed the sword over head and body,
and reunited them, so that the man lived again. This
last feat very much recalls our Indian rope trick, and
it is even more strikingly reminiscent of certain feats
performed many centuries before in ancient Egypt,
according to a papyrus describing a magical perform
ance said to have been given before the pyramid-
builder Khufu.
With regard to the claim of the yogis to perform
levitation and suspended animation, Major Rooke, to
whose lecture we have alluded, gave much evidence
which, while he claimed no first-hand knowledge, led
him to conclude that these feats are actually accom
plished, and that the secret lies in constant practice of
the subjection of mind to matter, and the cult of
will-power.
This, indeed, is the chief object of Yoga, the Hindu
"science ofbreath", and most of Hindu occultism may,
without any disparagement, be described as methodical
self-hypnosis to induce a state ofecstatic contemplation.
All the training of the potential yogi is directed towards
this, the concentration of the will, and the subjection
of the conscious personality and material self to the
subconscious, leading ultimately to Sat-Anandi, the
Supreme Bliss—a spiritual state similar to that called
by the Arabs Khayf, for which there is no adequate
word in English.
The basis of the several Yoga systems appears to be
the intention to liberate what western psychists call
ectoplasm (which has been actually photographed by
German scientists as a kind of aura surrounding the
body and taking its shape at the point of release) by a
system of concentration on certain nerve-centres,
aided by rhythmic breathing and the repetition of
38 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
certain phrases and incantations to the point of self-
hypnosis. The Buddhist monk's constant repetition of
the sacred Om mani padmi Om is an illustration ; it is
based on knowledge of sound vibrations, that of Om
being held the symbol of world perfection. It is rather
curious that the six nerve-centres on which concentra
tion is made are as familiar to the Guatemala and
Yucatan Indian witch-men, and to the Zoroastrian
mystics, as they are to the student of the Hindu occult
teaching.
I can assure anyone who cares to try sitting for half
an hour in one of the attitudes so familiar to us in the
statues of Gotama Buddha that, to begin with, it is
extremely painful, producing the sensation known as
"pins and needles", felt when one's foot "goes to sleep".
The Yoga system deliberately induces this condition,
and as each ofthe six nerve-centres controlling different
limbs and functions is put to sleep, the ultimate result
is a rigid state corresponding to what one may term
localized catalepsy. That is why Indian fanatics are
able to hold their arms rigid for days without tiring,
and why they can produce prolonged states of
trance.
Here we come to the darker side of the subject, the
very real and terrible black magic of India ; for in
this strange land, where the highest spiritual truths not
only walk side by side with darkness and bestiality,
but in many cases are even wrapped up in, and sym
bolized by, grossness, the two are linked in the
practice, by evil adepts, of the lowest form of Yoga, the
Prayanayoga, whose powers are obtained by intense
concentration on the lowest of the six nerve centres,
that of the sexual organs. There are some aspects of
this black magic, and its technical details, which the
THE ROPE TRICK 39
present writer, in common with others who have
made a long study of oriental occultism, declines to
publish, feeling that such knowledge is best lost to the
world ; but there are other features of it whose recital
is not only harmless but instructive to the student of
anthropology and belief, and to these we will now turn.
CHAPTER II
THE SUPERSTITION RACKET
APART
from the many strange occurrences to be
found in India which, as we have seen, do admit of
serious inquiry by students of occultism, there is a side
to the widespread belief in the supernatural which
becomes frankly amusing, but which cannot be alto
gether ignored even by the student, for the credulity it
reveals naturally has to be taken into account in
assessing the credentials of more serious happenings.
Modern America is usually supposed by Europeans
to be the birthplace of what is vulgarly known as the
"racket", but it must surely give the palm to venerable
India, where they have a racket more novel in
character than any yet tried in America, with the
possible exception of the foundation of crank religious
sects for which the United States are famous.
This is the superstition racket, most lucratively
practised by astute rogues and vagabonds in the guise
of the holy man, styling themselves sadhu or faqir
according as they be Hindu or Muslim. The chronic
extent to which the Indian mind is gullible may be
judged from the fact that the Penal Code actually
contains a section providing for the punishment by the
courts of anyone who "induces a person to believe that
he may become the object of divine displeasure" ; and
very illuminating are some of the cases of the super
4o
THE SUPERSTITION RACKET 41
stition ramp that actually came before the courts
during the time I was working in India.
One of the most ingenious of such cases occurred at
Nagpur in October 1934, and the sessions judge made
strong comments on the credulity of the Indian rustic.*
He had before him the appeal of four men who had
been sentenced for fraud—which sounds prosaic
enough until we see how the fraud was accomplished.
It appears that the news spread round the Central
Provinces village of Wandongri that a deity named
Mahishur Dev was going to make a "personal appear
ance" in the district to cure the defective eyesight of a
woman, the wife of a peasant named Pandaria. In
case a large crowd should gather and perhaps become
a little unruly by reason of religious fervour or toddy-
drinking, or both, the local police sub-inspector
decided to be present at the demonstration of the
miracle.
The alleged god, clad impressively in black, duly
made his appearance at the appointed time, and the
villagers started doing puja (worship) to secure his
blessing. In the crowd were two men named Gangaram
and Shripat, who subsequently found themselves in the
dock on a charge of complicity. Mahishur Dev, in
sepulchral tones, duly offered to cure the woman's
eye disease completely, but no one except the observant
police officer seemed to think it at all curious that a
god should, as he did, demand a fee of ten rupees a
time for his cures. The amount was paid up, where
upon the supposed deity did a most ungodly and
athletic sprint. Then the villagers realized that all
was not as it should be, and chased him. On being
captured the "god" was unmasked as a man named
* Times of India, I Nov., 1934.
42 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
Sudama ; the ten-rupee note and his black get-up
figured as exhibits in court !
Investigation revealed that his modus operandi was to
go round the villages in this attire, his accomplices
having first salted the ground well by wondrous tales
of the god's healing powers, and his promise to appear.
A magic line was then drawn, beyond which the
villagers must not go, on pain of being devoured by a
demon, while the "cures" were in progress. This, of
course, was to facilitate the quick get-away. A man
named Sadashive aided in the game by commanding
the god to appear at a magic summons.
In the appeal court this man's sentence of a year's
gaol was upheld, but that of Sudama was reduced from
two years to one, and Gangaram and Shripat were
acquitted for want of evidence. The judge observed :
"The faith of simple villagers is so boundless that what
might appear to a civilized man foolish may appear full
of sense to them. There is not the least doubt that the
people of Wandongri honestly believed the apparition
was really Mahishur, and made offerings in that
belief."
Even a large modern city like Bombay is by no means
free of such extraordinary credulity, as witness a case
in March 1 934, when a man who claimed that he was
a bhagat (magician), and could at will take the life of
any person by black magic, was sentenced to a day's gaol
and a fine of 200 rupees, or four months' imprisonment
in default, at Dadar police court on the prosaic charge
of cheating.* This man, in collusion with two others,
deprived an ignorant cotton-mill worker of 750 rupees
by posing as a magician. His accomplices approached
the victim, telling him they were the employees of a
* Times of India, 24 March, 1934.
THE SUPERSTITION RACKET 43
rich merchant living at Walkeshwar (the West End of
Bombay), who wanted to get rid of his adopted son at
all costs. They asked the victim if he knew of any
magician who could help in the matter, and promised
a large reward.
The next step was that the alleged bhagat made the
acquaintance of the victim and impressed him as a
sorcerer, being consequently recommended by him for
the "job" at Walkeshwar. Some days later the
accomplices sought out Krishnaji, telling him that the
merchant's adopted son was dead as the result of the
magician's art, and they brought a bundle which they
said contained 20,000 rupees, the promised reward to
the mill-hand. Before giving him the parcel, however,
the swindlers asked him to give them 45 rupees, needed
for stamp money, and a cheque for 700 rupees ; this he
managed to raise from his friends. The racketeers took
it and vanished, and, of course, when the simple
mill-hand opened his parcel it contained only slips of
crisp blank paper.
The success in India of one of the most common
forms of swindling, by trading on a belief in magic, is
due almost wholly to the Indian's chronic love of
money. It used to be said that you could get a murder
done anywhere in the country for 40 rupees ; I believe
it is now much cheaper ! The word paisa (cash) is the
most frequently heard in any conversation, and the
subject is the cause of most of the quarrels that break
out every five minutes. Even shrewd moneylenders
and stockbrokers, accustomed to piling up wealth
themselves by every known questionable trick, seem
to "fall" for the many variations of India's prize
confidence-trick : how to get your money doubled.
One Bombay merchant I knew was so shrewd that he
44 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
had made a fortune of over £2,000,000, yet so mean
that, clad in a disreputably dirty dhoti and shabby
sandals, he would haggle with a gharry-driver over
two annas in the amount of a fare, and was once
handsomely rooked of jewels worth some £3,000 by
the ancient trick of gold-multiplying !
There was a great ramp in this form of criminal
activity in the town of Surat in August 1934, which
only came to light when one of the victims, a Hindu
woman, went to the police, the others having kept
quiet for fear of being made to look foolish through the
publicity of a court case.* An extraordinary story of
an elaborately stage-managed performance in alchemy
was revealed in court. The woman was supplying
passers-by with water when a sadhu (as she thought)
approached and spoke appreciatively of her benevolent
work. In recognition ofher services to mankind, he said,
he proposed to give her a quantity of gold to utilize
for religious purposes, and he further revealed that he
would do this by causing whatever gold she herself
possessed to be doubled.
Next day he turned up and asked her to supply him
with pieces of gold, silver, and copper, which she did.
He then prepared a small furnace of mud and put the
metals into
it,
together with some powder and pills, as
the result of which a large piece of gold, certified by
a
jeweller as genuine, came out of the furnace when
it
was cooled down.
This, of course, inspired confidence. The sadhu
departed, saying he would return next day and make
more gold. The woman, believing he had super
natural powers, offered him, on his return, all her gold
ornaments, worth about 500 rupees, tempted by the
*
Times
of
India, 28 Aug., 1934.
THE SUPERSTITION RACKET 45
prospect of getting back their value 100 per cent. The
so-called holy man performed much hocus-pocus,
chanted incantations, prepared a big furnace, and
apparently put all the ornaments into it in a big pot,
with bits of copper. He then asked the woman to
fetch some flour and molasses. This she did, and from
them he prepared an image of the elephant-god
Ganpati, or Ganesh, which he placed near the furnace
as a symbol of good luck and wealth. After this he
departed, promising to come next day and open the
furnace. Of course he did not, and the poor woman,
growing suspicious, opened the furnace herself, only
to find the pot empty and her jewels gone. She did
not at once inform the police, but kept her eyes open,
and six weeks later caught sight of the sadhu. Con
fronting him, she demanded her jewellery, whereupon
he turned and bolted, but was seized by passers-by.
A similar incident occurred in a neighbouring town,
Rander, where another sadhu robbed a gardener of the
whole of his life-savings, about 600 rupees. These
were simple country folk, but the hard-headed Mar-
wari class, whose god is money, prove equally gullible.
A case occurred in April 1934 at Hyderabad, Deccan,
capital of the Nizam's dominions, where a wealthy
Marwari merchant, living in the Sultan Bazaar, com
plained to the police that he had been robbed of
jewels worth 8000 rupees by an astrologer's confidence-
trick. The reader of stars (who, by the way, was not
caught) called at the Marwari's shop, waved a coconut
round the victim's head, mumbled spells over
it,
and
broke
it
open, whereupon a liquid the Marwari
thought was blood spurted forth from it. This bit of
stage conjuring convinced the Marwari that the man
possessed magical powers.
46 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
Seeing that he had created a deep impression, the
astrologer offered to double all the jewellery in the
Marwari's safe. The merchant allowed him to inspect
the jewels, all of which, he swore, were then securely
locked up again in the safe. The astrologer, after
muttering divers incantations, said he would return
again next day, and that if the
'
Marwari then opened
the safe again he would find double the amount of
jewellery in it. The man did not return ; doubts assailed
the merchant, and he opened the safe, to find it empty.
To anyone who has seen the marvellous sleight-of-
hand performed by Indian conjurors, as, for instance, in
their mango-tree trick described in our first chapter, it
is not at all surprising that the astrologer managed to
make off with the trinkets from under their owner's
nose. Nor is it very surprising that a business man
should have been gulled despite the frequency with
which such cases are reported in the papers, for
Hyderabad is a god-forsaken place to reach, and few
of these merchants, for all their wealth, are literate ;
and, moreover, the least "odour of sanctity" completely
asphyxiates their sharper senses !
These "doubling" tricks occasionally lead not to a
prosecution, but to a civil court suit, in this land of
queer anomalies. Thus in June 1934 a plaintiff sued
for recovery of an amount which, he alleged, he had
handed to the defendant to be taken to a magician for
the purpose of being multiplied tenfold, at Sinnar.*
The aggrieved one alleged that the defendant, a
relative who lived in the same village, told him that
there lived at Jayagaon a magician who turned every
100 rupees handed to him into 1000 rupees by the
exercise of his black arts.
* Times of India, 27 June, 1934.
THE SUPERSTITION RACKET 47
The plaintiff", seeing a chance to get rich quickly,
sold his patch of land for 200 rupees and handed
150 rupees to his relative for the purpose of getting the
magician to multiply it to 1500 rupees. He told the
court that he neither got back his original capital nor
received the magical increase, so he promptly sued his
relation for the original 150 rupees. The defence
made a complete denial of any such transaction, or
even of being handed the cash. The defendant
added that a magician from Jayagaon went to the
village and deceived a number of people by a similar
confidence-trick, but that he (defendant) had nothing
to do with it ; and finally he advanced the subtle
argument, worthy of a Jesuit seminary, that even if
the plaintiff had advanced the amount to him it was
irrecoverable, as it was advanced for a purpose the
law held illegal !
There seems no end to the variety and ingenuity
displayed by the rogues and vagabonds of India, in
the guise of holy men, to part fools rapidly from their
money. The lure of buried treasure is a frequent
bait, easily swallowed owing to the habit in many
parts of the country of burying one's valuables under
the earthen floor of the hovel to safeguard it from
wandering bands of dacoits, the highway robbers who
frequently cut the throats of everyone in the house,
then dig up the whole floor searching for gold and
jewels. Hence, if a man is told treasure is buried
under the house he is occupying, it does not sound
very fantastic.
From Kasur, a Punjab town in Lahore district,
there came an amusing story in April 1935 of how a
Harijan (a member of the outcaste depressed classes,
regarded as pariahs by the caste Hindu) swindled a
4« INDIAN UNDERWORLD
Muslim, who got the idea there was treasure buried
beneath his floors, but did not know exactly where to
look for it.* Hearing of this foible, the wily Harijan
approached the Muslim, who, of course, had no caste
scruples about contact with a man of this class, and
told him he had received an astrological revelation
that treasure was undoubtedly buried there. Not
being very well up in astrology, however, he said, he
would offer to bring his guru (religious teacher) to the
house, as the latter would by divination be able
to indicate the exact spot ; and doubtless the
follower of Allah would mark the service by a little
present ?
The Muhammedan agreed, and the swindler there
upon brought along another Harijan, whom he intro
duced as the holy guru, safe in the knowledge that one
who was not a caste Hindu would not detect the fraud.
The second conspirator performed divining hocus-
pocus, and finally ordered that a certain spot in the
floor be dug, declaring that treasure would be found
below. He told the Muslim to fetch a white hen and
fifteen tolas of gold (2700 grains). Building castles in
the air, the old fellow dashed off, procured the hen,
and also laid hands on all his wife's jewellery. The
pseudo-garw sacrificed the white hen in the hole,
muttering impressive spells the while ; after which
he asked the Muslim to watch the hole, saying he
would complete the process of divination in a near-by
stream, into which he would throw the sacrificed hen.
The other Hindu also departed, on a pretext of getting
something requisite for the ritual. Needless to say,
they did not return, and after dutifully watching the
hole in his floor for some time the Muslim became
* Evening News of India, 9 April, 1935.
THE SUPERSTITION RACKET 49
anxious and inspected the box in which he had
brought his wife's jewels—to find it empty.
Apart from its illustration of human gullibility, this
affair has a moral, which is that no true Muslim
ought to countenance rites involving the universal
Hindu sacrifice of poultry ; but Islam in India is
extraordinarily full of Hindu superstitions and corrup
tions.
Occasionally we do meet with a case of treasure-
hunting into which supernatural powers appear
genuinely to enter, when there is no question of
divining, either real or pretended, being used. Such
a case occurred in Thaton, Burma, in January 1934,
when a search was made by digging in front of the
Indian cemetery for the treasure of a Karen family
who escaped, after burying
it,
in the Shan rising of
half
a
century ago in Tenasserim.*
One of the surviving sons of this family, eighty
years of age, told
a
friend named Saya U Thaung Pe
that they buried their valuables under
a
sawmill in
Thaton and evacuated the village to go to Kyaukta-
lone, five miles away
;
so Saya offered prayers to the
spirits to be shown the actual place where
it
was
buried, and they are said to have shown him the spot,
with the result that he and the family gathered
a
party,
dug there, and found the valuables concealed under
big flat stones.
Equally inexplicable was a curious incident which
occurred in November 1934 at a village called Dura-
mari, fifty miles from Gauhati, where the foundations
of a stone-built temple containing three images of
the god Siva were discovered as the result of
a
dream.
Bhagavati,
a
form of the mother-goddess, appeared
*
Times
of
India,
6
Jan., 1934.
50 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
in a dream to a villager, and indicated a spot at one
corner of the local ghat, or sacred tank, as the site of a
temple ; and when the man and his neighbours
excavated there, they actually found the remains. So
far as I can discover, there was no record of the
temple's existence, and the only local tradition was
that the tank had been made ages ago by a Hindu
king called Arimatta, of whom the villagers knew
nothing.*
We must now return to our swindlers. It is not
always that visions come off so happily, and they
sometimes end in civil lawsuits which provide a wel
come comic relief to the way in which religion and
crime intermingle in the more sordid setting of the
police court. The most famous of such suits in
modern times was a case which dragged on for years,
and was still in progress when I left India in 1935 ; in
it a motor-driver of Amritsar, in the Punjab, sued his
guru for alleged failure to carry out a promise that he,
the driver, should see God face to face—which unique
experience, apparently, had been promised the driver
in many weird and wonderful visions. Not only did
God most disobligingly remain invisible after eight
years of laborious search, but the driver, in the first
completed stage of the affair, was ordered to pay
damages to the sage, who was the head of the Radha-
swami sect of Hindus,
f
Bold and simple was the device employed in 1934 by
a Bombay rogue named Purshotamdas Muni to
acquire the wealth of the simple-minded. J Posing as
a mahatma, or saintly religious teacher, he gained
admission to the household of one Kallianji Walji, a
* Times of India, 15 Nov., 1934. t Ibid.. 13 June, 1934.
X Ibid., 13 Nov., 1934-
THE SUPERSTITION RACKET 51
devout Hindu dealer in electrical goods. During
his stay as a guest he gave religious discourses, which
were well attended and which impressed both Kallianji
and his wife Kasurbai ; and among his followers
was an aged Gujarathi woman named Chhaturbai
Nensi.
Having gained the confidence of his little circle,
Muni announced the forthcoming advent on earth
of the king-god Ram Raj, prophesied that a son born
of Kasurbai would occupy the throne at Delhi, fore
told the collapse of all banks, and asked his followers
to withdraw their cash from the banks and deposit it
with him for safety. Anyone with more critical acumen
than a religion-crazed Hindu would have demanded
some details as to how, for instance, the British power
was to be got rid of; why the king-god would not
himself mount the throne ; and why on earth the
ancient Muhammedan seat of Delhi should be chosen,
anyway ! To minds hypnotized by a mahatma, however,
such things do not occur ; and Chhaturbai fell a
ready victim to the "prophecies". She handed over to
Muni all her jewels, worth nearly 2000 rupees, and
1 000 rupees which she drew from the bank. Of course,
with this and other hauls, he vanished. When caught,
he had the dubious pleasure of spending seven months
in a verminous Indian gaol awaiting trial, so the
judge took this into account, and only gave him a
day's imprisonment, but fined him heavily on three
fraud charges.
The universal Indian belief in astrology is one of
the most prolific causes of deception. An alleged
astrologer named Pandit Mayadhari, who had been
reading other people's future with considerable advan
tage to himself, but failed to read his own, was given
52 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
nine months' hard labour at Amritsar in 1934. The
bizarre story told in court* was that a villager, Maha-
ditta, worried over domestic trouble, consulted the
Pandit about his horoscope. The astrologer under
took to consult the gods if Mahaditta would bring
twenty-seven tolas of gold (worth about £70), which,
he said, would be thrown into the river.
The poor peasant pooled all the jewellery in his
home, but could muster only some fourteen tolas in
gold-weight, which he took to the astrologer, who
said it would have to suffice, and the pair took the
train for an "auspicious spot" on the River Beas,
after Mayadhari had apparently put the gold into a
dumpling of flour, the idea being to throw this into
the river as an offering, with incantations. On the
journey, however, Mahaditta became suspicious, and
wanted to make sure his gold was there, but the
astrologer refused to let him see
it,
whereupon the
peasant seized the ball of flour by force, broke
it
open, and found
it
stuffed with bits of old iron. He
raised the alarm, pulling the communication-cord,
and the Pandit was handed over by the railway guard
to the police, who found the gold in his house.
The greatest and most audacious mass-ramp that
came within my experience in India occurred in
Bombay during the same year,f when the police
rounded up nine out of a gang of twenty men, alleged
to have used magic, drugging, and sorcery in system
atic cheating for nearly two years. The chief of the
gang was a bhagat (sorcerer), who played on the fears
and superstitions of mill-hands, gardeners, and others
of low intelligence. Selecting
a
victim, an accomplice
*
Times
of
India, 30 June, 1934.
\
Evening News
of
India, 24 Dec, 1934.
THE SUPERSTITION RACKET 53
would approach him on his way to work, stating that
he (the accomplice) and his associates had secured a
contract for building-construction which would earn
them thousands of rupees. The only snag was that
they had to find a small sum of money, some 200 rupees,
to be deposited with the landlord to enable them to
draw the sum contracted for. In return for providing
the deposit-money the victim was offered a partner
ship in the contract.
If the victim showed any reluctance, the swindler
would express his regret that both of them would
lose so golden an opportunity, and depart sadly ; but
the victim, going on his way, would be met further
along the road by the bhagat, accosting him with the
news that he would shortly be rich. There was nothing
suspicious in this : in India these wandering sorcerers
and "holy-men" frequently accost one in the street
with news as to one's future. One told me, quite
gratuitously, that I was due to be run over by a car
in Bombay, and should never leave India.
Meanwhile, the bhagats next accomplice comes up,
in time to hear the prophecy ; he questions the
sorcerer's powers, whereupon the latter pretends to
be deeply offended, and, muttering dire spells, ap
parently casts the accomplice into a trance. He then
stresses that what he has foretold will assuredly happen.
"I further read," says the seer, "that you have had an
offer. You would do well to accept it."
The victim's doubts are now silenced, and when he
has had time to think things over he is again "acci
dentally" met by the man who first accosted him, and
eagerly makes an appointment to meet this and other
members of the gang ; they take him to a part of
Bombay where building operations are in progress —
54 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
there is always plenty of this in the city. He is relieved
of his "deposit-money", and the gang, on pretext of
going to pay it to the landlord, enter one of the build
ings and vanish out of the back door before the victim
has time to recover the few wits he possesses.
Another ingenious scheme employed by this gang
was worked on rich invalids. Getting an introduction
to a selected victim, a member of the gang would
declare that his illness was the work of an evil spirit
and that it could be exorcized by a bhagat. The victim
agreeing, our sorcerer turned up on an appointed day
with a disciple and, after performing puja (rites of
worship), offered the invalid and his family alleged
holy water from the Ganges. The water, of course,
was doped ; the inmates of the house fell unconscious,
and the gang cleared the place ofall portable valuables.
In one case, so potent was the drug that the gang
narrowly escaped a charge of- murder, for the invalid
was saved only with difficulty.
Sometimes duping by Indian knaves is carried too
far, and actually does end in tragedy, and a charge
far more serious than that of fraud. One such case I
recall was in the State of Hyderabad,* where a
villager died in hospital after an operation which
revealed that he had been forced to swallow 105 copper
coins and a quantity of hot green chillies. Death
came to him thus horribly as the penalty of his swind
ling schemes.
This man had convinced a Marwari acquaintance
that he possessed occult powers whereby he could
double the amount of money and ornaments. So
well did he "tell the tale" that not only this Marwari but
also three others handed over jewels, worth in all some
* Evening News of India, 29 May, 1934.
THE SUPERSTITION RACKET 55
5000 rupees, for a demonstration. The "magician"
buried them in a wooden box, at a spot known to all
the men, and performed puja, warning the Marwaris
that they must not, for fear of breaking the spell,
attempt to dig up the box before three months had
elapsed, at the end of which time they would find
double the amount of jewellery they had buried.
When the great day came, they naturally found in
the box only stones and a few copper pice ; their
sorcerer was evidently an expert at sleight-of-hand.
Keeping quiet about the affair for fear of public
ridicule, the Marwaris swore revenge, combed the
whole of Hyderabad State for the man, found him,
and forcibly took him back to the scene of the swindle.
Here they bound him hand and foot and, it was alleged,
made him swallow the chillies and 105 half-anna
coins. When set free, he had only enough strength
left to stagger to the nearest police-station and gasp
out his tale. Only one of the four Marwaris was
caught, and he was charged with culpable homicide.
The papers failed to record the result of the case.
CHAPTER HI
CRIME AND SORCERY
CRIME,
religious belief, and magic are entangled
together in Indian life to a degree absolutely
inconceivable to the western mind ; a man thinks
nothing, for instance, of trying to obtain the aid of
his deity in hushing-up a murder. We had a good
instance of this at Ratnagiri in 1933, where the bizarre
circumstances lent interest to an otherwise commonplace
and sordid story ofillicit passion and murder.*
A peasant from a village of the district was on trial
for the murder of a man with whose wife he was
alleged to be on adulterous terms, and for robbing the
man's house into the bargain. Among the prosecution
witnesses was the priest of the village temple, who
said the prisoner visited the temple and actually
asked him to offer prayers to the goddess to secure
her aid in getting the murder hushed-up, promising
a reward of gold in return for the service.
The same town was the scene only six months later
of an amazing court story of how one man believed
another had sent an evil spirit to trouble him, obtained
from the god of his village an oracular sign confirming
that belief, and was alleged to have forthwith mur
dered the supposed worker of spells. f
The victim was a rich landlord, and the accused
* Times of India, 18 July, 1933.
I Evening News of India, 23 Feb., 1934.
36
GRIME AND SORCERY 57
was a peasant. In this case also a temple priest was
called as witness, and he stoutly maintained that the
village god did give the peasant a sign (though un
fortunately for occult science he omitted to describe
the nature of
it)
confirming that the landlord had
sent the evil spirit
;
and another witness corroborated
this miracle. Up to this point the story reads like an
English witch-trial of the seventeenth century, but
then transpires the prosaic information that the land
lord had obtained a decree evicting the peasant from
his farm-holding, which provided a mundane motive
for the alleged crime.
About the same time as the first case we have
quoted there was one before the sessions at Nagpur*
in which
a
man was charged with murdering his
neighbour, who, he alleged, had put the evil eye on
his wife, causing her to be ill. This, of course, comes
more strictly under the heading of ordinary witch
craft, while the first two cases strikingly demonstrate
the widespread belief in the magical power of images,
a subject we shall examine in another chapter.
In such terror does the Indian hold even a mere
threat to conjure a demon that he who utters
it
not
infrequently loses his life. In one such case, in Patiala
State, two Harijans, or members of the Depressed
Classes (the caste-less pariahs of Indian society), were
quarrelling, when one threatened to cause
a
demon
to enter into the son of the other. The latter decided
that the only way to lay the demon was to lay low the
threatener, which he did with
a
knife. He then went
and confessed to the police, saying he committed the
murder to save the life of his son.f
*
Times
of
India, 29 June, 1933.
I
Evening News
of
India,
2
June, 1934,
58 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
The wild jungles of Hyderabad State provided a
weird court story of a plot to do away with a police
Patel (district head-constable), in which both magic,
bizarre jungle ritual, and mundane cheating, figured. *
Four villagers wished to get rid of the police officer,
against whom they had a grudge, so they applied to
a notorious sorcerer of the district, who consented to
"eliminate" the unfortunate officer by magic, if the
four clients would meet him in the jungle by moonlight,
bringing with them 300 rupees, his fee. He also gave
them a lime, which he said they must bury in the
compound of the officer's house—the burial of an
object near the victim is a common feature of sym
pathetic magic the world over. The men managed
to scrape together the cash, and buried the lime-
fruit.
In the jungle clearing, the sorcerer made the four
men sit at the corners of a square, lit fires all round
them, and chanted spells. He then gave them toddy
to drink, saying it would protect them from the evil
spirit which would kill the police officer the moment
their incantations were finished. The toddy was
doped with dhatura poison, and the sorcerer was able
to make off with the men's money, leaving them in a
state of stupor. Curiously enough, the affair only
came to light when a dhobi (washerman) employed
by the Patel, who had helped the conspirators bury
the lime in his master's courtyard, committed suicide
in a well, fearing the vengeance of the gods.
For a story of black magic run riot and ending in
murder, however, I have never met with any case to
excel a trial that opened in April 1934 at Nasik, the
most holy (and, as a natural corollary, the filthiest)
* Evening News of India, 10 April, 1934
CRIME AND SORCERY 59
"city" of western India.* In the dock stood Ramji
Babu Warli, charged with the murder of a widow
named Chimi, who was undoubtedly the victim of the
man's belief that she was the cause of his domestic
troubles, and that she had put a spell upon him by
black magic ; and the case illustrates the old proverb
about the fury of a woman scorned.
The trouble started with Chimi, a brazen young
thing (as many girl- widows are in northern India),
proposing that she should become Warli's mistress, an
idea he rejected with horror. As she continued to
pester him, coming to his hut and stripping herself
naked, he threatened to report the matter to the
police. She retorted with the threat, "If you do, I
shall harm you," and to avoid her attentions he left
the village. Soon after this one misfortune after
another overtook him. His first and second children
died in rapid succession ; within a few days he lost
his brother ; three of his bullocks and two cows died
mysteriously, and his crops were blighted.
In despair Warli took the only course he could
think of : he consulted the bhagat, who strongly sus
pected that the "woman scorned" was responsible for
this trail of misery. Warli, on his advice, got in
touch with a renowned witch-doctor, who soon got
busy on the grain-threshing floor with magical prepara
tions. Putting a sour lime into a small bowl, he
sprinkled gulal, a red powder, over
it,
and chanted
incantations and mantras to a deity. The wizard
then directed his assistant to hold his left hand just
above the bowl and follow it.
Then, Warli told the court, an incredible thing
happened. The bowl left the floor and began to move
*
Times
of
India, and vernacular press, n April, 1934.
60 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
through the air of its own volition. First it went to
the shrine of the village god in the temple, and after
stopping there awhile continued its uncanny progress.
The witch-doctor remained behind, and Warli and the
assistant followed the bowl, which travelled for nearly
two miles, near the ground, until it reached the house
of the woman Chimi, when it refused to move further.
Chimi was at home. Warli and the assistant then
returned to the witch-doctor, still waiting at the for
mer's house, and he declared that Chimi was the
witch who had caused all the trouble.
Soon after this Warli's wife died, his crops failed,
and he was a ruined man He fell ill, and every night
saw a phantom ride through the air and sit on his
chest. At last he could stand it no longer, so on
14 December, 1933, after harvesting, he took his
scythe, sought out Chimi, and demanded point-blank
to know who had been persecuting him with curses
for the past three years. She angrily replied that if
he tried to find out she would "utterly destroy him
and his household". This was the last straw, and
Warli lashed out with his scythe, killing the woman.
He then went to the police, stating that he had not
meant to commit murder, but his sufferings made him
lose his self-control. Sentencing Warli to death, the
judge remarked that his confession and remorse were
no excuse for the crime, "especially when crimes
impelled by superstition are common in this district",
but he recommended the poor wretch to mercy.
The judge, by his remarks, seems to have thought
the crime due to mere "superstition" —but when I was
staying in the hinterland of Goa, almost the last
remains of the great Portuguese Indian empire, my
host, Senhor Francisco Rodrigues, chief landowner of
CRIME AND SORCERY 6l
the village of Curtorim, showed me extraordinary
evidence, in a neighbouring jungle village, as to the
power of a curse. He pointed out one of the largest
houses, crumbling to decay, the compound of which
looked as though every tree in it had been blasted by
lightning, while on either side of it were compounds
luxuriant with fertile coco-palms and mango-trees.
Then, about a mile away, he showed me holdings
of palms and paddy-fields, equally stricken in appear
ance, right in the middle of fertile belts belonging to
himself and his neighbours ; and this is the story he
told, on the authority of village tradition, to account
for it : The great residence and lands, equivalent to
an English manorial property, belonged to an ancient
family of descendantes, landowners of mixed Portuguese
and Indian descent, whose head, nearly a century ago,
was notorious for his brutality, greed, and harshness
to his tenants. The whole village got together and
enlisted the aid of the witch-doctor, who cursed the
family in the following terms : The landowner should
die by his own hand ; nothing his descendants did
should prosper ; no land of theirs, or any they sold,
should ever thenceforth be fertile ; and the family
should die out within a hundred years in poverty and
insanity.
The reader may hold what opinion he chooses as
to the power of curses, but the fact remains that in
1934 the last remnants of that family were the feeble
minded old mistress of a manor-house tumbling about
her ears, and her imbecile son, living in dire poverty ;
and that their compound, and the patches of land and
palm-grove sold by them and their predecessors for
two generations, lay utterly barren in the midst of
abundant fertility, for no reason scientifically explicable.
62 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
It is not uncommon in India to find a god blamed for
murder. One such case I recall was at Allahabad,
where a man named Nar Singh was sentenced to death,
but reprieved, for killing one Kalu Singh with an axe.
When two of Nar Singh's children died, he thought
Kalu had invoked a god against him, and that the
deity was thus jointly responsible. A soothsayer
whom he consulted agreed with this theory, and went
so far as to declare his belief before the panchayet, or
village council of elders, two days before the murder.*
An even brighter idea prevails among the Kalian
tribe of Madura, who are mostly professional robbers.
If the road to a thieving expedition passes the shrine
of a strange deity, they enter the temple and take the
god into their confidence, promising him a sacrifice, or
a percentage of the spoils, if he does not interfere with
the enterprise ; and they always keep their promise,
returning after the raid. Before the offering is made,
the god tells the dacoits, through the medium of his
priest, exactly what they did at the robbery. This is
easy, as such forays are always identical in procedure.
The god then says he is willing to accept the gift,
which is nearly always money or a goat.f
From such a proceeding to the actual deification
of a dacoit is not a very far cry, and investigations show
that there are cases of the latter actually occurring.
For instance, among the minor godlings of South
Bihar are two, Goraiya and Salesh, which are frankly
admitted by their worshippers to be the deified spirits
of two ancient dacoits who appear to have played a
kind of Robin Hood role, robbing the rich to aid the
poor. The same tribe-group has another godling,
* Newspapers of 17 July, 1934.
f Miles, A., Land of the Litigant (1933).
GRIME AND SORCERY 63
Sokha Baba, who turns out to have actually lived as a
very skilful doctor.*
Being a sorcerer is in India a profitable, but often a
very hazardous, occupation, and almost every week
one reads in the papers cases of alleged magicians
losing their lives. Early in 1935 a sensational story of
double murder was revealed in court at Broach, where
a man was charged with killing his two cousins, whom
he suspected of having directed against him muth, the
Indian equivalent of voodoo,
f The only feature at
all out of the common in this case was the accused's
evidence that he had been to a native doctor, who had
tried to cure him of illness by tying a charmed thread
round his arm, and endeavoured to get rid of his evil
spirit by means of spells conducted with the aid of the
time-honoured broomstick.
Out of hundreds of records of such cases we need
only cite a few more. One is of interest as illustrating
the deep dread ofwitchcraft in which live the primitive
Dravidian tribal group known as the Khonds, whose
sacrificial practices are described in our next chapter.
The Madras police reports record that in the Vizaga-
patam hill district the youngest ofthree Khond brothers
died of fever ; when the body was cremated the upper
part would not burn, so his brothers held that the death
had been caused by the witchcraft of a man of the
community. This individual they killed ; they cut
the body across into two halves and took the upper
portion to their village, throwing it on the spot where
their brother's corpse had refused to burn. The men
were arrested and sentenced to death.
Even in the "civilized" environs of Bombay, fatal
* Information from Mr. Sarat Chandra Mitra.
t Times of India, 21 Jan., 1935.
64 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
cases of violence from the fear of witchcraft occur.
Thus a carpenter named Govind, belonging to the
village of Borivli, only fifteen miles out of the city,
was "taken for a ride", beaten up, and murdered in
the approved American manner, because he was held
to have caused the death of a neighbour by black
magic.*
Another case was that of a man of the Pannan caste,
who was one morning found dead on a hillock in the
Malabar village of Mandaka-Pallipuram. Five Mop-
lahs (Malabar Muslims) and two Hindus were arrested
in July 1934 in connection with the death ; the only
motive discoverable was that the man was much feared
as an Odiyan, the Malabar term for a sorcerer, and
was reputedly able to change into the shape of a cat or
dog, in which guise he prowled round his enemies'
houses at night, f We shall have more to say of the
Odiyans a little later.
Although the widespread terror of superstition has
caused Indian jurists to insert in the penal code a
section (508) whereby it is an offence to "induce a
person to believe that he will become the object of
divine displeasure", to give its exact wording, this
does not always provide complete protection. Thus
there were two cases at Sinnar within a year, both
brought under this section. In the first, which also
involved a complaint of house-trespass as the result of
the trouble, two men forced their way into the house of
the complainant, a woman, alleged that she was a
witch, accused her of having "possessed" them, and
demanded that she remove the spell. J They did a
* Evening News of India, 11 July, 1934.
t Times of India, 3 July, 1934.
j Ibid., and vernacular press, 24 June, 1933.
CRIME AND SORCERY 65
hideous dance, acted as though under demoniac
possession, threatened that unless the woman broke
the spell they would devour her, and finally pulled her
hair, beat her, stripped off her bodice, and danced on
her breasts. Naturally, she went to the police after
all that ill-usage. In the second case, in the same town,
a woman accused a villager, his daughter-in-law, his
son, and two other men of calling her a witch and of
alleging that she had caused her own daughter, who
was a congenital idiot, to be possessed by an evil spirit.
In this case the affair led to a hearty family brawl,
which was finally dealt with under the mundane
charge of rioting.*
A riot on a larger scale, also caused by a belief in
magic, occurred at Ambali, a village of Borsad district,
when the caste Hindus got the idea that an epidemic
among the cattle was caused by the sorcery of the local
out-castes, or Harijans, and demanded that they stop
the magic. The Harijans caustically retorted that the
disease would cease if the caste Hindus were clean, and
the result was a pitched battle with the long Indian
bamboo staves known as lathis,
f
The Sinnar "witches" got off lightly. I heard of a
case in Gujerat in which a suspected witch was stripped
naked and spreadeagled over a fire, in which chillies
and other pungent substances were put, to see if she
were affected by the smoke. This is very reminiscent
of our own barbarous English ordeal by swimming,
which persisted right down to the early years of last
century, the last recorded case of English witch-
ducking not occurring till so late as 181 3, when an
old woman of Wellingborough was the victim.
The witch of India seems in attributes very much
* Times of India, 15 May, 1934. t Ibid., 6 Aug., 1934-
66 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
like her western counterpart. Sir Herbert Emerson,
Governor of the Punjab, who takes a more intelligent
interest in Indian customs and beliefs than most
English officials, told the Lahore Rotary Club in 1935
the story of a famous witch ofthe river Sutlej, who had
very long claws. This witch wanted to join a party
on the far side of the river, who seemed to be throwing
choice bits of food about. There was no bridge or
boat, but she had a bright idea : there was a large
rock on the opposite bank, so she shot out her great
tongue till it reached the rock and walked across on
it,
presumably rolling up the tongue after her like
a
carpet. This story incidentally illustrates the wide
spread belief that things of evil cannot fly across
a
water-barrier —but that
is
an aspect of folklore which
is
out of our context in this chapter.
Though hardly falling under the heading of serious
crime and sorcery, a case from Secunderabad
is
worth
recording here, because divination was involved, and
combined with rough handling to lead to
a
court case.
A Goanese, a Christian of sorts (being descended from
the wholesale converts made at the point of the sword
by the Portuguese), accused two lads of stealing his
wrist-watch. He took them to a house and there per
formed
a
very ancient Christian rite of divination,
known as "Bible and key". This was employed so
late as the 1840's in our English Midlands, but was
there only used for the harmless purpose of finding out
the initials of one's lover on Midsummer Eve and
Hallowe'en. The Goanese used a pair of scissors
instead of
a
key, suspended in the Bible by string, but
the process was the same. He held
it
over
a
fire
containing incense, muttering a number of names, and
when he came to those of each of the two boys the
CRIME AND SORCERY 67
Bible turned. He thereupon found them guilty, and
caned them.*
An extraordinary affair, which incidentally shows
the savage brutality too often exercised by the Indian
native policeman, was reported from Katni, in which
a woman and her daughter, members of the retrograde
tribe known as the Ghonds (who are widely feared as
magicians), nearly lost their lives through a belief in
sorcery.
"j"
Being told that the death of his son and the illness
of other members of his family were due to witchcraft,
a
local Muslim police sub-inspector,
it
was later
alleged in court, summoned these two women to appear
before him. His infant child died while they were
there, whereupon his staff took the women to an
empty room, stripped them stark naked and flogged
them, made the mother drink water from a cesspit,
and then, in turn—five men were concerned—raped
the daughter. Accustomed as the Indian woman
is
to frequent and violent copulation, this was a bit
too much, and the girl was dangerously ill as the
result. So scandalous
is
the state of affairs in country
districts that the native police managed to hush the
matter up by their influence and the terror in which
they are always held, until rumours came to the ears
of a European deputy inspector-general from Nagpur,
who had the whole affair investigated and the men put
on trial.
However brutal and damnable the action of the
police sepoys in this particular case, their terror of
witchcraft was not a blind, unreasoning fear, for the
witch-doctors of India, known in different districts
by various names, such as Bhagat, Ojha, Dugpa, and
*
Times
of
India, 16 June, 1934.
t
14 Dec., 1934.
68 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
(in Malabar) Odiyan, are a very real cause of fear to
the populace, and the methods they adopt to procure
the gruesome materials for the working of their magic
lead to the most revolting crimes.
The Odiyans, who take their names from odi (black
magic), chiefly belong to out-caste sects living on the
slopes of the Western Ghats, and they are fully con
versant with the magical use of images to compass an
enemy's death, or even to commit murder obligingly
for a good client. Although we discuss the magic of
images in another chapter, it is appropriate here to
deal with the practices of the Odiyan. He makes a
wooden image of the victim, drives nails into
it,
and
burns
it
with special ceremonies and curses
;
and within
the time prescribed the man dies, though he may not
consciously know he has been bewitched. A variant
of this
is
to bury
a
small frog, into the eyes of which
nails have been driven, in an earthen pot covered by
a
new cloth
;
when
it
dies, the enemy also dies. This
process
is
familiar to students of our English witch-
trials, and even of harmless country leechcraft, a good
instance of the latter being the belief that to cure a
disease you must imprison a spider in
a
nutshell and
put
it
in the chimney, whereupon the disease will abate
as the spider dies.
When
it
is
desired to inflict
a
punishment short of
death, the Odiyan makes
a
series ofmystic diagrams on
a thin sheet of copper and buries
it
with incantations
at a spot over which the victim
is
wont to pass, such as
his own hut-threshold. On crossing
it
he crumples
up and falls down, a cripple for life.
I
have met hard-
headed Europeans who can vouch for this happening.
To accomplish his murders by sorcery the Odiyan
first obtains a human fcetus of seven months' growth.
CRIME AND SORCERY 69
He walks furtively at night round the hut of a woman
in her first pregnancy, softly tinkling a low-toned bell
and chanting mantras. Thus he casts the inmates into
a deep sleep, and hypnotizes the woman into coming
out of the hut, naked, in a state of trance. The
sorcerer then forcibly removes the fcetus from the
poor wretch's body by making a few crude incisions
in the womb ; and many a woman has been found in
Malabar outside her hut thus mutilated and dead
from the ordeal. From the fcetus the Odiyan ex
tracts a magical oil, believed to give him the power of
rendering himself invisible at will, or to take the shape
of any animal he desires, the favourite shapes being
of a dog, cat, or bull. We have seen how a man was
murdered under suspicion of practising this sorcery.
The idea of magical properties inherent in the
human fcetus if obtained pre-natally is probably con
nected with the conception among the primitive races
that the female vagina, rather than the male organ, is
the actual "giver of life",* on the theory that the fcetus
must be seized and infused with the magician's per
sonality before it acquires by normal birth its dis
tinctive personality in this world. It is rather strange
to find that less than forty years ago the older genera
tion of English sailors still believed that the caul, a
membrane which covers the heads of some infants at
birth, and is rare to obtain, was an infallible charm
against drowning ; and they would often pay a high
price for oncf In European magic I have rarely
encountered a record of obtaining a pre-natal fcetus,
though allegations of the murder of new-born children
are common enough in its historical trial-records.
* See Perry, W. J., Origin of Magic and Religion (London, 1923).
f Folklore county vols., Leicestershire (1894), p. 62.
70 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
The belief in the efficacy of homoeopathic magic
worked in the cause of crime by means of the dead or
the unborn is very widespread, the object being to
cast into deep sleep the inmates of a house to be
burgled. Thus south Indian robbers will sprinkle
ashes from a funeral pyre on their victim's doorstep ;
in Europe we had the famous Hand of Glory, a torch
made from the withered hand of a malefactor who had
died on the gallows ; in the seventeenth century it
was believed that the thief's candle should be made
from a finger of a new-born child, or, better still, one
unborn, and the robbers therefore murdered pregnant
women to obtain from their wombs this material.*
We thus gain some light on the reason for the Odiyan's
practices.
In India, to this day, the quest by sorcerers for the
body of a new-born infant is a frequent source of child-
disappearance and murder. In September 1934 there
was a casef at Nayyattinkara, Travancore, where an
Odiyan, who had promised certain men powers that
would enable them to render people senseless and rob
them, told his assistants to procure a child just born,
so that it could be sacrificed and its brain used to
prepare a potent drug. The man who tried to steal
a child was caught in the act, and revealed the whole
plot.
In the same part of India, earlier in the same year,
an extraordinary story was told in court when a
Syrian Christian (a misnomer, for the Christians of
Cochin and Travancore are not Syrians, but Indian
converts whose Christianity is a weird polyglot with
Hinduism) was charged with roasting a baby for eight
* Frazer, J. G., The Golden Bough (Abridged edn., 1924), pp. 30-31.
"f Times of India, 21 Sept., 1934.
GRIME AND SORCERY 71
days in order to extract oil for the purpose of black
magic*
This, it was alleged, he had actually done on the
advice of a Christian priest, whom he consulted as to
the best method of getting power to seduce a woman
he wanted. It was never discovered whether the
Christian and the two men who aided him actually
killed the child or acquired a newly dead one ; they
told the magistrate that they took a dead body and,
after roasting it for eight days, extracted a liquid sub
stance from the head, and another from the trunk,
which they put into separate bottles. These they hid
in the earth, after throwing the roasting-pans into the
river.
The past history of witchcraft, and practices else
where even today, show that very often in rites like
this a live body is deemed requisite. A terrible case
occurred in the Borgville district of Natal, reported
by Reuter and printed in the newspapers in July 1933,
in which a witch-doctor cut off a hand, ear, and the
private organs of a little child while still alive ; and a
few days later there came from Swazililand the report
of a chief and four other men being sentenced to death
for the ritual murder of an infant for the same purposes
of black magic.
Coming back to India, we had a case at Poona
in November 1934 when a charge of murder and
robbery was brought against several men alleged to
have killed a young girl-wife, f One, a rural herbal
doctor, was stated to have told the others that if they
provided him with the little toe of the left foot, the
ribs, and a few locks of the hair of a young married
girl, he would unearth buried treasure from the house
* Times of India, 18 Jan., 1934. t Ibid., 7 Nov., 1934.
72 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
of a certain woman. Later a young wife was missing
from the village, and found to have been murdered.
While there is a class of men called Jaduwalas,
which means "sellers of magic", who are more or
less harmless quacks dispensing magical remedies for
disease, love-potions, and the like, these individuals
learn much that is not so harmless from their teachers,
the Dugpas, who may be described as master-magicians.
The Dugpa himself usually keeps in the background,
and works through the Jaduwala as his emissary ;
but if there is lucrative inducement, he sometimes
takes a hand in the devilry himself. The Hyderabad
State police reports contain some very gruesome
instances, and one may be quoted here as fairly repre
sentative.* The crime arose out of a rich woman's
desire to appease evil spirits supposed to be guardians
of treasure.
This woman, Radhama, asked a woman of the
Kunbi (agriculturist) caste to procure for her a first
born infant for the purpose of unearthing a treasure
buried in her house, promising a reward for the service.
Awaiting her opportunity, the Kunbi woman managed
to kidnap the eighteen-months-old female child of a
local goldsmith while it was playing in the street. She
took the child to Radhama, who hid it in the upper
storey of her house, giving the brat a strong dose of
opium to keep it quiet. At night Radhama went to
the spot where the treasure was supposed to be buried,
accompanied by four men, three of whom dug while
the fourth chanted mantras.
When the treasure had been found, the child was
carried to the spot, brutally sacrificed to appease the
guardian spirits, and buried in the hole from which
* Hyderabad State Police Report for year 1333 fash (a.d. 1926).
CRIME AND SORCERY 73
the treasure had been taken. When the case ulti
mately came to light, the Nizam, after much legal
argument, appointed a commission to, inquire into
it ; but its findings are not known to the public.
Enough came out, however, to show that this case was
typical of the methods of the Dugpa ; remaining in
the background, the magician here concerned got his
client, Radhama, to depute the Kunbi woman to
procure the child, and he it was who suggested to the
client the need for sacrifice.
A child-sacrifice is often performed for other reasons,
such as a Dugpa's mere love of causing terror in his
district ; the appeasement of the wrath of the gods—
an aspect of it with which I shall deal in the next
chapter, as it more properly falls under the heading of
religious human sacrifice —or the healing of an ailing
person, which is invariably bound up with a belief
in witchcraft causing illness, and which therefore comes
into the category of crimes caused in connection with
sorcery. I recall a case of this a few years ago in
Hyderabad State, where a village woman was charged
with murdering her own child. She was alleged in
court to have sacrificed it to the local gods, on the
advice of a witch, to cure a relative's illness. The
woman was acquitted, however.
Cases of infanticide performed by barren women
in the hope of securing children of their own are very
frequent, and instances are recorded where the mur
deress bathed her own body in the still-warm blood of
her victim, in the hope that this would result in the
rebirth of the dead child in her own womb—a most
interesting illustration of the primitive belief in blood
as the giver of life.
An illuminating case of human sacrifice to cure ill
74 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
ness is recorded by Somerville* from Mandla, in the
Central Provinces, where a whole family was put
on trial in March 1925. According to the evidence,
a government servant named Mulchand lived at
Mandla with his family, consisting of three sons
(Chotey Singh, Bhopat Singh, and Lukhman Singh),
his daughter Rukhman, and a daughter-in-law, Janki,
wife of Bhopat Singh. In December 1924 Lukhman
Singh, a mere boy, fell ill, and, medical treatment
proving ineffective, the family believed the lad was
possessed by an evil spirit and that human sacrifice
was necessary.
The woman Janki, it was alleged, first severed one
of the girl Rukhman's little finger-tips and put some of
the blood on a piece of bread, which was taken to a
place where a certain holy man usually sat. Finally
the girl was killed as a sacrifice to the goddess Kali,
embodiment of the powers of darkness and divine
vengeance.
When even this proved ineffective, the boy Lukhman
Singh was starved and, despite the bitter cold, was
taken naked, bound hand and foot, and deposited
in the open near the spot where the holy man sat, in
the hope that this would drive out the devil—but
actually it caused the boy's death from exposure.
The other members of the family were arrested and
tried on a charge of murder before four assessors
(who in the Indian system function as a cross between
a preUminary-trial jury and a bench of magistrates).
The assessors found them not guilty, on the ground
that although the boy died from cold and exposure, it
was not intended to cause his death ; and as regards
* Somerville, A. {Crime and Religious Belief in India. Calcutta,
1931. 154 sqq.)
CRIME AND SORCERY 75
the killing of the girl Rukhman, they actually held
that the guilt of the accused was excused, because they
all believed that by this human sacrifice they were only
obeying the dictates of a divine being ! The sessions
judge, to whom the case then went, rejected this view,
but agreed with the assessors regarding the death of
the boy, and he sentenced the family accordingly in
the case of the girl.
Another case, also cited by Somerville,* came from
Kishoreganj in May 1925, but, unfortunately, neither
the motive for the murder nor the result of the trial is
known. The newspapers said a report had reached the
town that a twelve-year-old Sudra (servant-caste) boy
was sacrificed before the image of Kali in a village
three miles away on the previous Amavasya (full
moon) day ; his corpse, with flowers and betel-
leaves on it, was found next morning under a
tree.
Sometimes death is caused through a belief not in
sacrifice but in violent methods of leechcraft, and when
this happens the plea, as in the Mandla case above, is
one of "good faith". For instance, a woman charged
at Nasik in 1934 with homicide as the result of the
death of her daughter-in-law, Laxmi, told the court
that she branded the girl with a red-hot implement
because it was a very effective cure for many ailments,
including the kidney disease from which the poor
wretch was suffering. She said she had first obtained
the girl's consent to the branding..!"
Even the expert exorcist sometimes overdoes his
treatment ; in a Calcutta case, which happily did not
end fatally, an Ojha was called in to drive out the evil
spirit believed to be possessing a young Bengali mother,
* Op. cit. f Evening News of India, 10 May, 1934.
76 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
who, a few days after giving birth, developed signs of
mental aberration. The magician arrived at the house
with a weird assortment of animal skeletons and other
charms, which he spread on the floor, reciting spells.
He then put a piece of camphor on the palm of the
girl's hand and set fire to
it,
ignited some cotton said
to be Brahmin sacred thread in the flame, and pressed
it
to the lips of the patient. As we may expect, the
poor girl was rather badly burnt, and had to be rushed
to hospital
;
but the Ojha was very disappointed, and
declared that she was not possessed of an evil spirit,
because
if
she had been she would have remained
untouched by the fire. The man was detained by the
police on a charge equivalent to "causing grievous
bodily harm".*
While the branding in this incident was purely
superstitious, the Nasik woman who accidentally killed
her patient at least had the sanction of oriental medical
practice, for branding was formerly widely resorted to
in India for the cure ofjaundice. Moreover,
it
is
not
unknown in our own old English leechcraft; until the
development of modern veterinary science
it
was
common in the Midlands to brand cattle to cure the
disease known as blackleg. They were branded
through the ear or dewlap, usually on the first Friday
after the birth of the calf found suffering from the
complaint. Evans, the great Midland authority on
folk-customs, tells usf that by 1880 the practice had
almost died out. Comparable with
it
was the custom
of driving cattle through "need-fires", or the smoke of
them, as
a
charm in time of cattle plague—for which
*
Times
of
India, 22 Nov., 1934.
f
Leicestershire Words, Phrases and Proverbs (1880), s.v. "black
leg".
CRIME AND SORCERY 77
there was probably a scientific basis, if the smoke acted
as a germicide.
The dreaded Odiyan of Malabar is an expert
exorcist, and this is almost his only function beneficial
to his fellows. The Odiyans hold that an evil spirit
possessing a person can be made to leave him, enter the
magician, and drink blood ; so the Odiyan, after
doing a devil-dance, bites the necks of many live
fowls, or a sheep, and sucks the blood, to achieve the
transference of evil.
The most elaborate of his rites, however, involves
self-torture. Driving into a Malabar village one day
I was greeted by a most unearthly din of drums and
trumpets, as though the whole place was going mad
in some festival tamasha, and my anthropologist's
curiosity was aroused, as it was not the season of any
usual festival. I was told a particularly malevolent
brand of evil spirit had taken possession of three men,
and even sent some of the cattle mad, and I was just
in time to see the beginning of the hired Odiyan's
performance.
Driving a knife into his arm, he smeared his face with
the warm blood. He was then swathed in a kind of
winding-sheet, to incantations and a long, low note
from the trumpets, and lowered into a grave, which
was filled up. I was told that several hours later he
would be exhumed and brought out of his cataleptic
trance by a blare of alleged music, and that thereupon
the spell would be broken. The idea, of course, was
that by the transference of the evil spirit to his own
body, attracted thither by the blood he had drunk,
and the sympathetic-magic process of counterfeiting
the death and burial of that body, the spirit would be
"killed" and buried in the earth. Apparently for the
78 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
same reason of blood attraction, the Odiyan, when
called upon to exorcize a village from an epidemic,
slashes his head with sacrificial knives, and in addition
frightens off the disease demon by a terrific noise with
drums and bells.
The Badagas, an agricultural caste of the Talamalai
hills, live in constant terror of the witch-doctor and his
power to open all locks and bolts by magic, as is the
case with the Malabari Odiyan. The usual purpose of
the Badaga sorcerer's housebreaking, however, is less
fiendish than that of the Odiyan ; it is merely to
ravish the women, who, owing to the subtle quality of
the magic, and the invisibility ofthe Badaga wizard, do
not know they have been ravished ! This, of course, is
a very good excuse if the results of misconduct become
evident some months later ; and as for the girl's
ignorance ofwhat has happened, well, one sarcastic old
Badaga told me that the women "do it so often that
they don't feel the difference" !
The Badaga caste employ the services of the sorcerer
when any member of the family is suffering from the
evil eye, or demoniac possession. If they get the idea
that the witch-man is playing into the hands of the
demon, and not trying to remove
it,
they set upon him
and subject him to
a
kind of ordeal by battle. Every
Badaga family pays a yearly "subscription" to the
dreaded necromancer, and woe betide anyone who
forgets, or
is
not generous enough, for then spells fall
thick and fast upon him.
One very excellent way to get rid of
a
demon appears
to be by competition
!
The Pazhur Kaniyans of
Travancore, who, in addition to being
a
famous caste
of astrologers, are practitioners ofsorcery and exorcism,
achieve this by sending several of their number to the
CRIME AND SORCERY 79
house of a person possessed of a spirit, disguised as still
more fearsome demons, and perform a devil-dance
before the house, whereupon the original demon
departs in a great fright. The homoeopathic reasoning
which lies behind this is undoubtedly the same as that
which impelled our ancestors to carve the nightmare
forms of their gargoyles to keep evil spirits out of the
churches in medieval Europe.
The greatest experts in this class of exorcism,
however, are the medicine-men of Ceylon, in their
capacity of devil-dancers. The masks they use when
dancing in a frenzy as demons to drive out the evil
spirit possessing a sick man are the weirdest in the
world, and the Cambridge artist, Justin Pieris, who
returned to England in 1935 after risking his life to
paint and collect these masks in the depths of the
Sinhalese jungle, tells strange stories of the power of
these men. He relates* how one of them, walking
along the street, was stumbled against by a man who,
instead ofapologizing, uttered an insult. The medicine
man merely smiled, and said : "You may need me
tonight, my friend. You had better take my address."
That same night the man was taken violently ill and,
remembering the old man's words, sent for him, a
distance of some ten miles. When the medicine-man
arrived the man who had offended him was writhing
in the grip of a terrible fever ; but the witch-doctor
refused to lift a finger to save him, and stood smiling
while he died.
The Travancore Kaniyans, in addition to their
devil-dancing, claim to cure disease by a process well
known in sympathetic magic. They cut a rope the
length of the sick person, which is a variation of
* The People, 28 July, 1935.
80 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
making an image ; they then make knots in
it,
pre
sumably to tangle up the demon when
it
leaves the
patient and enters the rope, and pass
it
several times
through the smoke from burning goat-hair on which
drops of blood from a sacrificed chicken have been
sprinkled.
I
have never been able to discover why
goat-hair
is
so favoured in this and other fumigation
rituals, and the magicians themselves frankly admit
they do not know
;
but
I
would suggest that its origin
lies in the goat being a milk-giver, and therefore a
magical surrogate of the cow, the universal symbol of
life-giving and the mother-goddess in early culture.
However, the mention of a slaughtered chicken brings
us now to that great and dark feature of Hindu ritual,
human and animal sacrifice.
CHAPTER IV
HUMAN SACRIFICE
ENGLISH
officials in India often complacently
state that British rule has wiped out both human
sacrifice and sati (suttee), the practice ofself-immolation
by a widow on her husband's funeral pyre, but cases
of the latter persistently occur, and the former also
goes on to an extent not often realized. The ultimate
abolition of both would have to come from within
Hinduism itself, if at all ; the plain truth is that the
English are thoroughly detested in India, and all
attempts to interfere with basic practices of the Hindu's
faith only deepen the hatred and drive those rites
underground.
The problem of human sacrifice cannot logically be
regarded with the Anglo-Saxon eye, which looks upon
all taking of human life as a crime. Western science
does not, and never will, know what power the ancient
earth-forces may possess, and is not entitled to declare
that the sacrifice of a victim does not, for instance,
terminate a drought. The western administrator has,
therefore, no moral right to interfere ; and every
sentence imposed upon those concerned in ritual sacri
fice only increases the Hindu's hatred. The western
mind cannot possibly conceive the intense belief the
Hindu holds, that the very stability of the universe
depends on the regularity of sacrifice, since the gods
82 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
live upon the spiritual portion of the victim. This is
just as reasonable to the Hindu as the doctrine that the
bread and wine in the Mass become the body and blood
of Christ is to the Catholic. Who shall say with proof
that either belief is untenable ?
As a proof that if the concepts of Hinduism alter,
relevant practices may also alter, we may cite the case
ofsati. This is chiefly prevalent in northern India and
Bengal, where the lot ofthe Hindu widow is so miserable
as to be practically a living death ; it is very rarely
heard of in south India, where there is widespread
matriarchy, and where, for the most part, the widow has
her independence and the right to remarry.
The latest case of human sacrifice on record has
occurred as I write this chapter, at Gunpur, in Nahan
district, where five men have just been sentenced to
long terms of imprisonment in connection with it.*
To end a drought, which caused great distress in the
village, the priest advised a human sacrifice to the
rain-god. A young man of twenty-three was decoyed
from a neighbouring village by the headman, kept in
chains in a locked room for three days without food
or water, then led through the village street in chains,
garlanded, his forehead smeared with vermilion and
ashes, and finally beheaded in front of the temple.
His wife committed suicide at the police-station when
informed of his death.
The reasons for which human sacrifice is committed
in India are highly instructive to the anthropologist,
going back far beyond the present elaborate structure
of Hinduism ; hence, the only grounds upon which
the scientific mind can condemn the practice is not
because it is any "crime", but merely that it belongs
* The People, 9 Jan., 1938.
HUMAN SACRIFICE 83
to the most primitive stratum of cultural belief, and
that Hinduism would, by abolishing
it,
become more
enlightened intellectually. The basic origin of the
rite, as Frazer has shown very fully,* lies in the wide
spread agricultural ritual of the earliest Mediterranean
culture, in which the king was actually killed after
a
certain term, or when he became old and feeble, so
that the life of his community and the fertility of the
crops, held to be bound up with the living person of
the priest-god-king, should not die. Striking proof of
this has been found in the seventy wholesale royal
burial-pits discovered by Woolley at Ur, and there
is
evidence that this early culture spread eastwards from
its original home in the Nile valley,
f
Later,
a
scapegoat for the king, in the person of a
sacrificed human subject, was substituted, his blood
ensuring by proxy the fertility of the crops, and in
Egypt particularly the regular recurrence of the
inundation
;
and further afield, the necessary rains.
On a further extension of the original concept, coming
with the later development of the idea of individual
deities, we -find human sacrifice applied for the appease
ment of the gods and goddesses of disease.
The connection ofkingship and tribal life in the early
ritual
is
well illustrated by the practice of the Naga
tribal group living in Manipur, Assam. HodsonJ
states that among these Nagas a chief's funeral
is
incomplete without the head of a human victim, and
he suggests that the victim
is
killed by the community
"as a solemn communal act, so that
it
may get power
over, and, as
it
were, retain possession of, the great man
*
The Golden Bough, passim.
f
See Perry, Origin
of
Magic and Religion.
I
Hodson, T. C, The Naga Tribes
of
Manipur.
84 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
who has been reft from the tribe". For this purpose
head-hunting prevails among the Nagas ofthe southern
portion of the unadministered territory west of the
Hukwang river. In the northern part of that territory,
however, they do not go head-hunting, but buy or
kidnap a victim for the sacrifice. When they purchase
one he is apparently obtained from the head
hunting Nagas, the price being about 500 rupees
GC40).
For a fortnight before the date of the sacrifice the
victim is stupefied with drink ; then on the great day
he is led to the top of the steps of the officiant's house
and his head is cut off. The blood, spouting down the
steps, is held to keep away evil spirits from the house.
The body is then cut into pieces, which are hung up in
houses at the entrance to the village, at cross-roads (a
spot universally feared as a haunt of evil), and in
the fields, to ward off blight and to ensure good
crops.
The same agricultural background is seen in most
of the Indian rites of meriah, as the human sacrifice
ritual is called. One of the Bengal castes practises it
quite avowedly to ensure abundant crops, declaring
that human blood is the only thing that will increase
the harvest. * The offering is made to the earth-goddess,
here called Tari Pennu, and the victim will not be
"recognized" by the goddess unless he is born in the
subdivision of the caste particularly ear-marked for
sacrifice. The victim in this case is held most holy, as
by his death he benefits all mankind. In this he most
strikingly resembles Osiris and Tammuz in their
function of the dying but ever-living redeemer-god,
from which originated the Christian legend of the
* Miles, A, The Land of the Lingam, 25 sqq.
HUMAN SACRIFICE 85
sacrifice of Jesus as saviour, an inescapable fact,
however little the devout Christian may like to stomach
the statement.
Certain of the consecrated victims-to-be among the
Tari Pennu worshippers are kept for years before they
are sacrificed, and are treated with all honour. Until
the appointed time for his fate, a victim's hair is
allowed to grow ; it is then shorn and distributed to
the people, who plant it with their seeds. The significance
of this is obvious.
Wild debauchery precedes the final rites. The
victim, dressed in a new garment, is paraded before
the devotees and taken to the spot in the jungle chosen
for the sacrifice. He is tied to a tree and anointed
with ghi (clarified butter), turmeric, and flowers. The
use of the turmeric, or saffron, paste is a little obscure,
but it figures so widely in Indian ceremonies that there
can be little doubt that it is a much-distorted surrogate
of a "giver of life" in the early magico-religious ritual,
possibly by association of its colour with gold. This
is a very complicated subject, for which the reader
had best refer to Perry's illuminating Migrations of
Early Culture.
Anything taken from the victim at this time is
sacred. The worshippers* almost suffocate him as
they close in and try to get a drop of his spittle to rub
on their hair, or a smear of the turmeric to rub on
their bodies. Prayers are addressed to the earth-
goddess, and a very primitive earth-dance is performed.
This adoration of the saviour-victim lasts several
days. On the final day he is again anointed with oil,
and each member of the crowd rubs his hand on the
oil and smears it on his own person. Then the victim
* I am indebted to Miles, op. ext., for this description.
86 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
is strangled, the usual mode of execution, though there
are others.
At a sign from the officiant, each worshipper rushes
up and tears from the victim's body a lump of flesh,
which he will later throw on his fields to enrich the
crops. The head and intestines must not be touched,
otherwise the sacrifice will not be acceptable to the
goddess. This is a somewhat unusual provision, as
regards the head, for there is reason to believe that in
the early world it was the head of the victim —in the
first instance the feeble old king—that was thrown on
the fields to ensure fertility. An undoubted survival
of it is seen to this day in certain folk-customs of
England, notably the curious and famous ball-game
known as Haxey Hood at Haxey in Lincolnshire,
and the equally famous Bottle-kicking of Hallaton in
Leicestershire.
In the old days, Miles states, the victim in the Bengal
rite was cut up alive, and his flesh distributed among
the caste, or he was slowly burned to death, when,
the more he struggled and screamed, the more abund
ant would be the harvest. In the latter case the head
and intestines were never given to the caste ; they
were burnt three days after the sacrifice, and the ashes
scattered on the fields or placed before the idol of the
goddess.
In both methods we have the reservation of the
intestines. This, combined with the complete resem
blance of the victim to Osiris, seems to suggest a dim
survival of the original Egyptian culture, since in
Egypt the intestines were specially preserved and
placed under the protection of certain guardian gods,
one for the small and one for the large intestines, and
placed with other organs in the so-called Canopic
HUMAN SACRIFICE 87
jars. There seems to be some idea with the Bengal
caste that part of the personality of the saviour-victim
must be thus preserved.
The fierce Khond tribes, whose chief centre is the
Khond Hills, some 400 miles south of Calcutta, no
longer dare to practise their meriah openly, but pretend
to be content with sacrificing buffaloes, goats, and
sheep since about 1870, before which time it was
customary often to immolate three men at a time on
the altars of the earth-goddess, variously known as
Pari Pennu, Bera Pennu, or, among the Maliah
Khonds, Thada Pennu. One of the three victims
was for the sun —the only instance of this that I can
find in Indian records —another to the east end of the
village, and the third to its west end, but all were
really offerings to the earth-mother.
In the meriah rite of the Khonds, a wooden post
some six feet long, with a crossbar near the top, was
sunk into the ground, and to it the sacrificial victim
was tied by his long hair. A narrow grave was dug
under the post, and four men held the arms and legs of
the human offering, who was suspended horizontally
over the grave. The officiating priest hacked pieces
out of the victim's back while reciting a long invoca
tion. The goddess was implored to eat the offering,
and in return to give the Khonds swords and victory
over other castes, and there was always a special
prayer for the preservation of the caste from the
tyranny of kings and governments.*
The "scapegoat" significance of the ceremony is
emphasized by the curious apology made to the
victim, when almost cut to pieces, by the priest, saying :
"Be not grieved, for the goddess will eat thee at
* Miles, of. cit., 79-80.
88 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
once. We bought thee from thy parents, who knew
we intended to sacrifice thee, and therefore there is no
sin on our heads, but on the heads of thy parents."
After this speech the priest decapitated the victim,
the body rolled into the grave, and the head was left
hanging on the post till the wild beasts and vultures
devoured
it,
while the knife was stuck into the post
and left until required for the two sacrifices that
followed.
Frequently the victim was saved by the frenzy of
the worshippers from being cut to pieces alive. They
often surrounded him first, and killed him by beating
his head with brass bangles made for the occasion,
and if that did not kill him they finished him off by
strangulation with a split bamboo, after which the
priest cut up the body and distributed the fragments,
with which the Khonds dashed off to the stream
irrigating their fields, and hung the pieces of flesh
on
a
pole over the water. The mangled remains of
the corpse were finally buried with funeral obsequies,
as the Khond does not burn his dead. It will be noticed
that in the final address to the victim, stress
is
laid
on his having been purchased, while we have seen that
the person for sacrifice among the Nagas of Assam
is
sometimes bought. The idea of this seems to be that
of removing the blood-guilt from the sacrificing tribe
or sept by making the victim one not of its division.
This
is
not always so, however
;
at the census of 1901
no fewer than twenty-five descendants of persons
who had been reserved for sacrifice at a former Khond
meriah rite, but who were "rescued" by government
officials, returned themselves as meriah.
The agents sent to investigate meriah have left
it
on
record, in the Vizagapatam district manual, that there
HUMAN SACRIFICE 89
was reason to believe that a former Raja of Jeypore,
when installed on the throne of his father, sacrificed
a girl of thirteen to the goddess Durga, a form of Kali,
who is herself the chief form of the earth-goddess, in
the town ofJeypore. Several cases ofhuman sacrifice,
presumably to obtain victory, were discovered in the
Rampa rebellion of 1880, and in the same year two
persons were convicted of attempting to carry out
meriah near Ambadala, in the district of Bissamkatak.
Three years later a man was found murdered, in
circumstances pointing to meriah, in a Jeypore temple ;
a formal inquiry in 1886 showed that there was reason
to believe victims were being kidnapped for the
rite in Bastar ; and so recently as igo2 the district
magistrate of Ganjam was openly confronted with a
petition asking him to sanction a human sacrifice.
Female infanticide, Miles states,* was formerly so
common in the Jeypore territory as to be farmed out as
a paying business. The Raja himself is said to have
made money out of
it,
thus
:
The custom was to consult
the priest concerning the fate of the expected child,
before its birth. If he decided
it
was to be killed, the
parents had to pay the headman of the caste division
a fee for the privilege of killing
it,
and the headman
paid the Raja a fee of 300 rupees a year for renting
the privilege to perform these ritual killings. In
connection with this, Macpherson has recorded that
the area ofthe Khond country where female infanticide
was known to prevail was about 2000 square miles,
that the population was about 64,000, and that some
1200 to 1500 infants were sacrificed annually.
No light on the offering to the sun-god of the first
of the three meriah victims
is
cast by the fact that
*
Op. cit., 80-81.
90 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
certain divisions ofthe Khonds worship the sun-god, for
these divisions make no sacrifices. The septs which
practised female infanticide, however, believe that
the sun-god deplores the birth of females, because the
female creation has caused all the trouble in the world.
Even these divisions, though, did not practise adult
sacrifice. There seems scope here for some research,
as it is generally conceded that the Khonds belong to
the Dravidian stock ; they are found scattered over
Orissa, Bengal, Ganjam, and the Central Provinces,
and are differently called, according to their district.
The Maliahs of Gumsur, who are also Khonds,
sacrificed annually to the earth-mother under the
form of Thada Pennu. Several villages in a group
would contribute to the purchase of a victim ; no
criminal or prisoner, and no victim who had not been
fully paid for, was acceptable to the goddess, and
grown men were most esteemed for sacrifice, because
they were the most expensive.
When children were purchased for the purpose
they were reared by the family who bought them, and
were treated with kindness and honour till they grew
old enough to know their fate, then they were guarded
against escape. Finally, on the first day of the
ceremonies, the victim was stupefied with toddy or
opium, and seated, garlanded, against the meriah-
post, while the worshippers danced round him
chanting : "O Thada Pennu, we offer thee this
sacrifice. Give us good crops and good health."
The victim was then dragged home ; on the next
day, having been again doped or intoxicated, he was
anointed with oil, each worshipper touching the
anointed part and rubbing the oil on his own body.
The crowd then formed a procession round the
HUMAN SACRIFICE 91
village, carrying both the victim and the mertaA-post,
which had been dug from its hole and which was
decorated with a tuft of peacock-feathers at its top.
When the procession returned to the meriah ground
the priest cut a piece of flesh from the victim and
buried it under the village idol. He then presented
each of the villagers with a piece of flesh, with which
they ran post-haste to their land, to bury it before
sunset.
There was a peculiar end to this ceremony. After
the human sacrifice, the priest and his men killed
a pig and let its blood flow into the human victim's
grave before burying him. On the next day a buffalo
calf was taken to the post, to which it was tied, its
forefeet were cut off, and it was left there till next
day, when drunken women, in male attire and armed
with sticks, danced and sang round the dying creature.
It is difficult to see the significance of the pig in
connection with the crop-fertility ritual.
An interesting case of human sacrifice in which
the victim's remains are not thrown on the land is that
alleged still to be practised in secret by a hill-tribe near
Vizagapatam, called Kotia Kudulu, whose offering
is, however, known to be made to the god Jankari to
secure good crops. The features of the actual cere
mony correspond largely with those we have described :
the man is bought, he is kept in a state of stupefaction,
and is decorated with turmeric, but he is allowed
complete liberty, even to the right of copulating with
any woman he may meet while wandering about the
village.
"On the day set apart for the sacrifice," states an
English official who made a report on the matter,
"he is carried before the idol in a state of intoxication.
92 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
One of the villagers acts as priest, who (sic) cuts a
small hole in the stomach of the victim, and with the
blood that flows from the wound the idol is smeared.
Then the crowds from the neighbouring villages rush
forward, and he is literally cut into pieces. Each
person who is so fortunate as to procure it carries
away a morsel of flesh and presents it to the idol of his
own village."
Some years ago an English Army officer stationed
among the hill-tribes of Khondistan actually ordered
his men to destroy the sacred effigies of elephants
because human offerings had been made on them.
The "elephant in India is the symbol of the god Ganesh,
or Ganpati. According to his account, the man to be
sacrificed was tied to the trunk of the elephant effigy
and whirled round until, at a given signal from the
priest, the crowd rushed in with knives and chopped
off all his flesh.
The Khonds' own legend of their origin is one of
human sacrifice, and is a very interesting form of
creation legend to the student of folklore.* In the
beginning, it runs, when the earth was all wet, there
were only two women living on
it,
each of whom had a
son. They and their children came from the interior
of the earth, bringing with them two plants which
were their food. Cutting one of the plants one day,
one of the women accidentally cut her finger, and the
blood dropped to the ground, which at once became
dry. Cooking the plant, the woman gave
it
to her
son, who asked why
it
tasted so much sweeter than
usual. She said she did not know, but expected to
have
a
dream, and would tell him next day.
As the result of the vision, she next morning made
*
Quoted by Miles, op. cit., 88-89.
HUMAN SACRIFICE 93
her son promise to do as she told him if he would
prosper in the world. He must forget that she was his
mother, and must cut the flesh from her back and
bury it in the earth. This the son did, whereupon
all the wet soil dried up and became hard, and the
animals, birds, and trees of the world came into
existence. A partridge then scratched the ground,
and millet and rice grew. Up to this point the story
bears a suspicious resemblance to the germination of
corn from the body of the dead king-god Osiris.
The two sons, the tale goes on, agreed that, as
the sacrifice of the woman had brought forth abund
ance from the ground, they must sacrifice a human
being once a year. Here a god named Bura Panu
and his daughters appear on the scene, without
explanation, as is usual in Indian mythology, and we
find them living with the earth-men. Naturally,
the god's daughters gave birth ! When these children
grew up there was a dispute as to which should be
sacrificed, and as they could not decide the point,
the fathers sacrificed a monkey instead.
This made the goddess of the earth very angry, and
she at once demanded the sacrifice of a proper human
victim. The two fathers, still unwilling to give up
their own children, searched for ten years for a victim,
finally finding one in the five-year-old son of a man
who was persuaded to sell the lad for the purpose.
Where these two human beings came from, or how
they came to be on the earth, is left unexplained,
with the usual inconsistency of Indian myth.
The boy was fettered to prevent his running away,
toddy was made from grain, and a post was erected —
the first meriah-post —at which a pig was sacrificed.
Two days before being offered up, the boy was tied
94 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
to the post, and on the night before his immolation
the priest poked a stick into the earth until the earth-
goddess answered ; round the hole from which she
had spoken pieces of wood were arranged in criss
cross fashion, and an egg placed on the structure. On
the next day the boy was made to lie face downwards
on the wood ; pieces of flesh were then removed from
his back and buried, thus creating the place of worship
for the caste, while other portions were put into the
ground near a drinking-well, to increase the water.
The remains of the corpse were then burnt on the
pile of wood, and on the next day a buffalo was
sacrificed and a feast given.
Another community with a legend of human
sacrifice is the labouring caste of Malas, whose story
seems to be a garbled version of the biblical Red Sea
myth—and, indeed, as it does not seem very ancient,
it may even owe its invention to contact with early-
Christian wanderers in south India. According to
this legend, the Kapus and the Balijas were fleeing
from the Muslim invaders, when they came to the
Pannar river, then in flood. Their pursuers were on
their heels ; while they were debating what to do, a
man named Mala offered up one of his children as a
sacrifice to the river-goddess Gauthi. The waters at
once divided to let the fugitives cross in safety, and
obligingly closed up again to obstruct the Muham-
medan pursuers.
In addition to the original motive of crop fertility,
there are two other, and, of course, later, motives for
meriah in India : divination, and the appeasement of
the disease-deities. For the former we may cite the
instance of the Lambadis, the carter-caste found all
over western and southern India, whose women never
HUMAN SACRIFICE 95
wash their bodies, and stink at a distance of several
hundred yards if the wind is favourable. Formerly it
was an open practice of the Lambadi, when starting
out on a journey, to bury a child up to its neck in the
ground and drive his bullocks over
it,
the thoroughness
or otherwise of its trampling determining the success
of the journey. In the old days the Lambadis and
the Khonds were the people chiefly active in the
business of stealing or buying human sacrificial
victims.
As
is
the case all over India, the Lambadis have
been reduced by the government ban to substituting
animal sacrifice for human in such rites as are openly
carried out. Thus, if they become ill, this caste
believe they can avoid death by moving to another
village, and they sacrifice a goat or chicken midway
between the two places
;
sometimes
it
is buried alive,
and formerly this was done with a human victim as
the scapegoat of the disease-demon. He was interred
up to the neck, and a crude lamp, formed ofa hollowed
lump of paste containing oil and four lighted wicks,
was placed on his head, the plague-fleers dancing
round him until he died.*
Coming to the aspect of meriah as
a
talisman against
disease, an interesting case of this came to fight in
1932, when a priest of
a
village in Goimbatore district
was tried for murder after sacrificing his twelve-year-
old son to appease the wrath of Kandi-amma, the
goddess of disease, who insisted on
a
libation of blood.
At the inquest the priest said that the jagganaut (the
car-festival) had not been celebrated for two years,
which provoked the wrath of the goddess, who
threatened to wipe out the village in an epidemic
*
Miles, op. tit., 168.
"
96 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
unless she were appeased with human blood. She
appeared to the priest in a vision, and told him only
the blood of his own son could expiate the sin of
failing to hold the car-ceremony ; so he decapitated
the boy with an axe and poured his blood out before
the idol.* When one realizes how important a son is
to a Brahmin, who is in danger of not reaching heaven
unless the son carries out his obsequies, and when one
knows the store which all Hindus set by the possession
of a son, it is obvious that this was no case of wilful
murder, and that the man should never have been
placed in the dock.
Animal sacrifices in connection with disease, all of
which have their origin in the offering of a human
victim, will be dealt with in the next chapter. Before
we leave the present aspect of the subject, however,
there are a few miscellaneous instances of human
sacrifice for reasons that fall under none of the headings
we have been considering. A rather long-winded
legend of the Palli caste, for example, relates how in
the dim past the Palli jagganaut car was stuck fast
owing to the spells of a rival caste of weavers, and
how it could not be moved until one of the Pallis, a
Prime Minister of a distant state, sacrificed his own
pregnant wife and her unborn child to the goddess, as
the result of her command in a vision.
Sometimes sacrificial infanticide has a most trivial
and inexcusable motive. A few years ago a woman
named Musammat Umrai, of Sujauli village, Lucknow,
suddenly lost her voice while singing with other
women. After consultation the women decided a
sacrifice must be made to the goddess Bhagavati ;
whereupon Umrai decoyed a little girl named Kunia
* Miles, op. cit., 27.
E.N. A.
A HOLY-MAN DOING PENANCE ON A BED OF SPIKES NEAR KALI GHAT,
THE FAMOUS SHRINE OF KALI AT CALCUTTA.
E.N.A.
A ROLLING ASCETIC. IN THIS WAY, AN ASCETIC ROLLS HUNDREDS
OF MILES FROM ONE HOLY PLACE TO ANOTHER.
HUMAN SACRIFICE 97
to a ntm-tree, sacred to this goddess, felled her with
a spade, and hacked the body to pieces. On trial,
Umrai stated that this sacrifice was efficacious, all the
women being able to sing much better after
it,
but
that did not save her from the death sentence.
This provides an interesting instance, apparendy, of
human sacrifice in tree-spirit worship, the wide
distribution of which
is
well attested. Originally the
tree itself
is
looked upon as an animate thing
;
a later
stage of belief
is
that
it
is
the abode of a spirit
;
and
later still comes the view that only certain species of
trees have spirits dwelling in them. An example of
this last
is
found in the Kangra Mountains of the
Punjab, where a girl used to be sacrificed annually at
an ancient cedar-tree (the cedar is sacred throughout
India), the families of the village taking
it
in turn to
provide the victim
;
the tree was cut down many
years ago.*
The case of the singing woman, of course, was of a
nature almost bound to come to light, but there
is
many an alleged virgin sacrificed in the dry river
beds in India at dead of night when the annual
flooding fails to take place
;
and such
is
the religious
nature of this immolation that the whole of the caste
will naturally form a conspiracy of complete silence
on the matter. Practices such as this, of course, are
allied to that of the human offering to the rain-god,
and another in the same category
is
the frequent
kidnapping and sacrifice of
a
boy to appease the god
of a new water-tank, the body being buried in the
foundations.
Mr. Sarat Chandra Mitra, an Indian anthropolo
gist, in a paper to the Anthropological Society of
*
See Frazer,
J.
G., The Golden Bough (Abridged edn.), ch. ix.
0,8 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
Bombay, which I heard in 1934, expressed the opinion
that an ascetic of Aligarh, in the United Provinces, a
strong centre of Kali-worship, actually sacrificed to
that goddess his chela (disciple), of whose murder he
was found guilty, being sentenced to death. This
ascetic had built a shrine to Kali, with an underground
cell below it in which he lived with his disciple, who
vanished. He was convicted on the evidence of a
bloodstained knife in his possession, and on the dis
proving of his story that he had been attacked by two
robbers. He told the court that the goddess appeared
to him in a vision, demanding sacrifice, but he thought
it meant the offering of cockerel or animal, and carried
this out ; he could not explain the disappearance of
the disciple.
To the scientific inquirer, there is at least the moral
justification of honest motive for the good of the
community behind the human sacrifices carried out in
the agricultural ritual, but there can be no such
justification for the most terrible of all human immo
lation in India, that of a Devadasi, or temple dancing-
girl and official prostitute, who is slain if she fails to
please the god at her initiation.
There are very few temples now at which the once-
famous Devadasis are maintained officially and openly
as part of the temple establishment, but two of them
are, strangely enough, in the heart of the jungles of
Goa, that part of India which has been officially
Christian for the longest time. In the Goan hinter
land are these two very ancient temples, those of
Kamaksha, with a wealth of fourteenth-century
sculpture, and Shiroda ; they are the only ones
the buccaneering Portuguese spared when they
Christianized the country at the point of the sword
HUMAN SACRIFICE 99
under that ruffian admiral of the sixteenth century,
Affonso de Albuquerque, and the fanatical "Saint"
Francisco Xavier. Here are gathered amazing ancient
Hindu treasures, some of which I was privileged to
see, thanks to a custodian who did not object to
western archaeologists (especially one who took the
trouble to appease the deity with several rupees) .
The temples are close together, and to the establish
ment are attached Devadasis, with their own houses ;
the girls I saw were of breath-taking beauty as to face
and figure, and they extended seductive invitations ;
but one resisted, bearing in mind that eighty per cent
of the Indian population have some form of venereal
disease.
In exploring the jungle region around the temples,
but tactfully out of sight of them, in daylight, a
European companion and myself accidentally
stumbled upon a shrine of Siva, which consisted of a
built-up stone platform some three feet high and three
feet square, surmounted by a lingam, the conical stone
erection which is the symbol of Siva and represents the
human penis. This lingam was about three times the
size of the human organ, and as it bore fairly fresh
bloodstains, and we had heard rumours regarding
sacrifices, our suspicions were aroused. Through the
mysterious way in which whispers circulate in India
we learned a little later that this was the spot chosen
for the initiation of Devadasis, and that an initiation-
rite was due to take place at the full moon, a few nights
thence.
We said nothing, but on the appointed night, having
first witnessed quite openly one of the oldest dances
in the world, a mere foot-shuffling movement around
a huge kind of maypole in one of the temple court
IOO INDIAN UNDERWORLD
yards —a crop-fertility ritual dance—we crept away to
a place of safe concealment in the jungle from which
we could witness the Devadasi ceremony.
What happened is not to be forgotten to one's dying
day. The rite proceeded in a normal way, with
mantras and a mock-marriage to Lord Siva, who is
the apotheosis of all the sex-symbolism in Hinduism,
and who was represented by a sword. Then came a
trial by ordeal, to discover if each girl candidate in
turn was acceptable to be the bride of the god. This
was performed by stripping the girl naked after the
mock marriage, and, after one of the priests had
sucked her nipples to arouse passion (presumably for
the god), forcing her down upon the stone lingam until
its whole length, over a foot, was inserted in her body,
so that she sat on the platform.
One girl alone made a sound ; she let out an
agonizing scream, which is not surprising, since the
Devadasis are supposed to be virgins at their initiation,
and her agony on the breaking of the membrane and
distension of her organs by this huge lingam can be
imagined. She was instantly removed, and the priest
slit her throat with a knife, offering the body to Lord
Siva at the foot of the platform with loud apologies,
while another officiant placed the next shuddering
girl on the phallic symbol, down which her prede
cessor's vaginal blood was still running.
It was not until later that I learnt by very guarded
inquiries that any girl who utters a sound during the
ordeal is deemed thereby to be rejected by the god as
unfit to be his bride, and must be sacrificed ; any
Hindu will vigorously deny the whole ceremony.
Needless to say, my friend and I did not go to the
police ; had we done anything so foolish, our lives
HUMAN SACRIFICE 101
would not have been worth an anna. Moreover, we
had both lived in India long enough to know the
unwisdom of encouraging interference by the "secular
arm" in a Hindu ritual, however unfortunate its
consequences in this case ; and I must admit we took
the view that the girl was better dead thus than
exposed to almost certain death from syphilis as a
priestly prostitute, anyway.
The form of purely voluntary human sacrifice called
sati, a widow's self-immolation on her husband's
funeral pyre, is an act of renunciation that cannot be
regarded as felo-de-se, as all suicide is by the Anglo-
Saxon alien rulers of India who try to suppress it.
The basis of Hindu thought and belief is that one can
never cease to exist ; the body is burnt to ashes, but
somewhere beyond, there is a conscious existence in
which one may enjoy the company of the loved one
just as in this life. Nothing is more natural, says the
Hindu, than that his wife should wish to enjoy his
company in this future state. Moreover, the practice is
by no means so terrible as English officials try to make
out, for the Brahmin priests have knowledge of certain
herbs, whose juice, rubbed into the woman's skin with
sandal-paste, makes her insensible to fire. My friend
Levante, the great western illusionist, was able while
touring in India to prove that this or a similar juice was
used on the soles of many of the fire-walkers, who show
no traces of burns after walking across a bed of red-hot
coals.
The practice of sati will die hard ; not only is it
fully supported by Indian orthodoxy, but in some
castes, such as the Tottiyan and Uppara, the household
gods are actually representations of female relations
who committed sati ; and as recently as June 1932,
102 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
a widely signed subscription list was circulated at
Masulipatam, seeking funds to raise a monument to
the memory of a Hindu girl-wife who had committed
the act in the previous May, and the scene of whose
sacrifice was a daily resort of large numbers of
pilgrims.*
The most bizarre practice in all the world con
nected with the notion of human sacrifice is to be found
in India. It is based on the weird belief that a leper
never dies completely, and even the most educated of
Indians affirm this. Consequently, as a last resort in
case of a prolonged drought, when all other magic has
failed, the agricultural population of south India dig
up the body of a leper (since these unfortunates
are not cremated), and either burn the corpse or
throw it to the jackals or into the river. The men
of the hill-tribes explain this by avowing that this
ceremony "almost equals human sacrifice", and
declare that, unlike other corpses, those of lepers are
found undecayed if dug up a month after burial, f
The people clearly believe they are sacrificing an ever-
living being. Incidentally, an Indian leper is always
buried with a quantity of salt, with an eye to the
future use of his cadaver for the rain-magic, it being
thought that the rite will otherwise be ineffective.
Salt probably acts somewhat as a preservative, but I
should think the real reason for its use lies in the
universal belief that evil spirits fear salt, and that they
will not, therefore, devour the corpse ; in either case
the motive is to have a nice, juicy leper-carcase handy
and more or less undamaged in case of need.
Finally on the subject of human sacrifice, there
frequently occur in India cases of what might be
* Miles, op. eit., 39. f Ibid., 256.
HUMAN SACRIFICE 103
termed ecstatic suicide. I recall in particular three
instances, which show the lengths to which the Hindu's
beliefs will carry him. One, which reads like a page
from the Middle Ages, comes from the town of Chanda,
near Nagpur, where stands the ancient temple of
Mahakali, a form of the primitive earth-mother
goddess. Here a worshipper named Rameshwar, who
was in financial difficulties, prayed to the goddess for
relief, but his prayers were unanswered, and his
moneylender continued to dun him. Enraged,
Rameshwar dashed into the temple and hurled a
stone at the image of the goddess, just grazing its face.
Later, he was overcome by remorse, and took his life.
The second case provided a Bombay Hindu hotel
with a first-class sensation and wide, if undesirable,
publicity. A Hindu lawyer staying there dreamed
that his favourite god, Balareshwar, called on him to
leave this mortal plane and join him in heaven. This
the lawyer did by swallowing opium, after leaving a
note for his friends explaining his action.
The third example came from Papanasam, south
India. A young Brahmin of the Vaishnavite sect (the
worshippers of Vishnu) made a fire near a neighbour
ing village, where he was leading a life of meditation
and devotion to his family god, Sri Ramachandra,
and jumped into the flames, calling "Rama, Rama !"
He died despite the efforts of a passing Muslim to
rescue him. The suicide left a letter stating that he
took his life deliberately, in order to reach heaven.*
Hindu fanaticism, in addition to the actual taking of
life, leads its devotees to perform the most amazing
self-tortures, chiefly in south India, and mainly in
connection with the worship of Kali in her various
* Times of India, 16 May, 1934 '• 20 June, 1933 ; and 12 July, 1933.
104 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
forms. Even readers almost totally unversed in
Indian matters will have heard of those extraordinary
sadhus who pass their days sitting on a bed of spikes,
or with long pins stuck through their flesh ; but these
performances are nothing, and the men assure one
that through long practice ofyoga and intense concen
tration they feel no pain and suffer no harm.
To such a pitch did self-mutilation by devotees of
Kali in the southern Mariamman rites attain at its
celebration in May 1933, however, that in consequence
of a fanatic fatally injuring himself the Coimbatore
police chief interfered, with one of those peremptory
emergency orders beloved of the British official in
India, forbidding the practices of self-mortification,
and putting a posse of police on guard. I have
information that the order was apparently obeyed
openly, but disregarded in secret at dead of night—as
such orders always will be. The police cannot forbid
a Christian nun to wear a hair-shirt if she wants to ;
why, then, should they have power to poke in their
infidel noses if a few fanatics choose to torture them
selves, or even by their sacrifice to reduce the over
population of 350,000,000 in India, eighty per cent of
whom have syphilis, anyhow ?
The chief self-tortures indulged in at this Mariam
man festival of Tirupur were the dragging of the great
jagganaut, the car of the god, by ascetics pulling it with
ropes attached to hooks piercing the muscles of their
backs. They even brought the practice up to date ;
one devotee was thus seen dragging along a heavy
motor-bus loaded with worshippers, and another a
lorry, to attain merit with the goddess. In view of
what we have said of the Khonds and their beliefs, it
is of interest to note that this Mariamman festival,
HUMAN SACRIFICE IO5
which is undoubtedly an attenuated substitute for
human sacrifice, is held to be definitely of Dravidian
(and therefore pre-Hindu) origin ; and the wor
shippers are principally non-Brahmins, of Dravidian
stock. Hence, in the present writer's view, those who
hold that the Brahmins are responsible for the con
tinuance of these and other rites of self-torture are
mistaken, for the roots of the practice lie in far more
ancient and primitive magico-religious practices than
the Hindu superstructure.
An individual act of worship involving self-torture,
which is still practised in regions remote from the
authority of a magistrate, is that known as Chidi-Mari,
in which a temple attendant beats the devotee's back-
muscles into insensibility, and then hoists him, by
ordinary butcher's hooks stuck through his back, some
ten feet into the air. This is entirely voluntary, and
is usually undertaken as a kind of penance, as, for
instance, when a man believes that his poor crops
are due to the displeasure of the gods, and that nothing
will overcome it but the intervention of Mari-amma
(Kali), who must be persuaded by this sacrifice to
act on his behalf. Nearly always the devotee works
himself into such a state of ecstasy that he professes
to feel no pain after the ordeal, and he will often walk
as much as twenty miles home immediately afterwards.
Owing to police interference, the sacrifice is
becoming modified in the more populous district, a
little wooden figure being substituted for the human
body and subjected to the hook-swinging.
Sights to which the European can never quite get
accustomed without feeling sick are witnessed in south
India during the full-moon period of February, in
connection with another torture-sacrifice known as
106 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
Taipusan, a form of pilgrimage under torture. The
devotee will walk miles to a shrine on spiked sandals,
the spikes sticking into his feet, with many pounds of
lemons pinned or hooked into the muscles of his
body ; sometimes, too, he carries on his shoulders a
spiked board on which is mounted a heavy erection of
teakwood. Other fanatics cover every available inch
of their bodies with pierced tridents of Siva, only
leaving their legs free for walking, and balancing
on the tridents a heavy brass vase full of sacred ghi
with which to anoint Siva's lingam, symbol ofthe penis.
Not satisfied with this, they brand large patches of
their legs with red-hot irons before starting out, to
increase the torture.
Another common spectacle is that of a man with
skewers piercing his cheeks from side to side, under
taken as a vow of silence to paralyse the tongue, and
endured for days, during which time the devotee is
fed only with liquid poured into the mouth. After
these instances it can well be imagined what sufferings
are inflicted upon "lower orders" than man, the
unfortunate animals whose sacrifice has always been
coincident with, and is now largely substituted for,
human offerings in Indian temple rites.
CHAPTER V
ANIMAL SACRIFICE
AS
we have hinted in the preceding chapter, animal
sacrifice is in the majority of cases a substitute for
the human offering, a fact well demonstrated in the
mime-magic performed by the Malayali caste of
Salem district to fool a demon when it demands a
human sacrifice. Weird designs are drawn on the
ground with yellow paste, and a man, much camou
flaged with paint, leaves, and rags, dances among
these patterns. His left arm is cut with a knife, and
when the blood spurts out he covers his face with it
by waving the arm about. A chicken is then decapi
tated, and the performer sucks its blood from the neck.*
We have already noticed a somewhat similar case of
substitution in the Lambadi's plague-fleeing ceremony.
Another clear demonstration of origins is seen in a
widespread south Indian custom, since the banning
of meriah, of shaving a sheep or goat, draping a man's
dhoti garment round its body, putting a hat on its
head and a caste-mark on its forehead, and then
sacrificing it as a human being. Again, the Khonds
today use buffaloes, goats, and sheep in their sacri
fices to the earth-goddess, admittedly as substitutes for
the meriah.
As is to be anticipated from its origin, the chief and
* Miles, op. tit., p. 30.
107
108 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
most ancient purpose of animal sacrifice in India is to
ensure the fertility and health of the crops and cattle,
or to bring down the rain. The later stages of belief,
in their probable order of succession, are : to purify
a family after death —this being connected with ancestor-
worship ; to appease tree- and other spirits for taking
their dwelling, as when bamboo is cut ; for divination
in illness and other matters ; and to placate the deities
of disease in an epidemic.
It should here be remarked that there seems to be
no significance in the use of a particular animal ;
where one caste or tribe will kill a buffalo, another
may use a pig, sheep, goat, or chicken indifferently, it
being the fact of blood that matters in every case. One
looks in vain for such definite evidences of totemism
in this respect as are found elsewhere in primitive
cultures, and one can only conclude that Hinduism
has absorbed aboriginal totemism into its pantheon.
This will be clear from a very simple instance : the
monkey is nowhere sacrificed in India except in the
very low-culture Nayadi caste, who offer its flesh to
their own three godlings and prescribe it as the food of
a pregnant woman in her sixth month ; it is every
where sacred, not by virtue of being the totem of any
particular caste or tribe, which it is not, but because it
is the symbol of the god Hanuman.* I can only find
in all Indian customs one definite instance of a tabu in
the subject under examination : in ancient days the
Malayali of Salem used, like the Greeks, to sacrifice
horses annually to the sun, but now worship the horse ;
* There can, on the other hand, be little doubt that Hanuman only
became a god after being a human leader of a tribe using the monkey-
totem ; his part in the great Mahabharata epic points clearly to this
origin, and the same applies to the Nagas, or cobra-clan, discussed in
Chapter VII.
ANIMAL SACRIFICE 109
and the Masulipatam weaver caste of Kurubas do not
ride the horse because it is the vehicle of their gods.*
Taking the rough classification of animal sacrifice
above in the order given, we find several examples
that well illustrate its agricultural significance. The
Khonds have a buffalo-sacrifice in this connection.
Having first danced in drunken frenzy round the beast
until it is stupefied, they smother it with caresses, and
then sing over it a dirge entreating it not to blame
them for what they are about to do, after which the
animal is taken to a sacred grove and tied to a stake.
Here the men throw off to their women all possible
clothing and again enact the frenzied dance, at the
end of which the one acting as priest hits the buffalo
on the head with an axe, and the dancers hack at it
with their knives. Each man, as soon as he secures a
lump of flesh, rushes off to bury it in his fields, f
There is a filthy and primitive tribe in south
India, the Kuruvikkaran, who, when it is time for their
festival to Kali, pile seeds into five heaps ;
if,
on being
counted, their number does not agree with
a
forecast
by the diviner, the festival
is
put off for
a
year. When it
does take place, nine goats and buffaloes are sacrificed,
and a member of the caste, after sucking the blood
from the throat of
a
goat,
is
able to answer oracular
questions regarding such matters as crops (though these
people are now mostly nomads).
A rite performed ostensibly to ensure the health of
the cattle for the ensuing year, but which seems to
have originated in the crop-fertilizing ritual,
is
seen at
*
Even the present immunity of the horse from sacrifice can hardly
be totemistic, as we have the evidence of the Ramayana epic for
the royal performance of horse-sacrifice in the earliest days of
Hinduism.
t
Miles, op. tit., p. 84.
110 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
festivals in the Godaveri district, where a pig is buried
up to its neck in the earth, and cattle are driven over it
until it is trampled to death.*
Undoubtedly agricultural ritual lies behind at least
the climax of a long seven-day festival held yearly by
the Nayars of Calicut in honour of Bhagavati, whom we
have already noticed as a form of the earth-mother,
and who, in Indian legend, slew the giant demon
Asura.f At this climax, on the final night, after a
devil-dance by two lads got up to represent the boy-
satan Kuttichchattan and his friend the demon
Gulikan, four goats, one given by each of the owners of
the temple, are decapitated by the priest, who wears
red silk robes. Several cocks are next slaughtered,
and the priest sprinkles charcoal powder and saffron
over their bodies. The carcase of one goat is then
dragged out of the temple by the priest's assistants,
who are blindfolded and taken three times round the
building, to the chanting of mantras. After this the
assistants uncover their eyes and cook some of the goat's
flesh with rice. This mixture, with much saffron
powder (the use of which is probably, as I explained
earlier, to serve as a "giver of life"), is then buried in the
ground. Finally, the priest simulates demoniac posses
sion, running wildly round the temple scattering rice
and yelling mantras, and all that remains is to remove
the corpses and clean up the mess for normal worship
on the morrow. J
In another cock-sacrifice ceremony, in Cochin
State, the worshippers, both men and women, publicly
make water and evacuate on the idol before slaying the
* Miles, op. ext., p. 30.
f The illiterate in Malabar also regard her as responsible for small
pox, and propitiate her with goats and fowls,
I Miles, of. cit., p. 259.
ANIMAL SACRIFICE III
birds, with the utmost indecency, yet solemnly, as an
act of devotion. I can only conclude that this ritual
pollution of the shrine, never allowed at any other
time, is a survival of sympathetic magic based on the
idea of producing fertility by imitative manuring.
An illuminating seed-planting ceremonial survives
among the Cheramans of Malabar. They assemble for
it in front of a barn door that has been painted with
rice-water. A lighted lamp is placed on the floor near
the door, and cups are made out of leaves for as many
varieties of seeds as there are in the barn. The owner
of the barn, accompanied by a man who carries the
cups in a new basket, opens the door, and the others
follow them in and fill the cups with seeds, calling on
the gods and ancestors of the caste.
All then proceed to the fields, where part of the
ground has been decorated with flowers and leaves. A
new ploughshare is fastened to a new plough-frame,
and a pair of bullocks is harnessed to the latter. Both
bullocks and plough are painted with rice-water, and
the man carrying the cup-basket makes a mound of
earth on which he sprinkles cow-dung and throws a
handful of seeds. The bullocks are then driven in one
wide turn with the plough, the furrow forming a circle,
inside which seven smaller furrows are ploughed.
The plough-handle is next dropped, and puja done
to Ganesh, the elephant-headed god. A coconut is
broken on the ploughshare, and from this divination
is done. If one piece be much larger than the others
the harvest will be moderate ; ifthe eye of the nut has
been broken through, it bodes misfortune. Into the
piece of coconut holding the most milk, a leaf of the
tulsi plant (a symbol of fertility throughout India) is
dropped. Ifthe leaf turns to the right there will be an
112 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
abundant harvest, but if to the left, calamity is foretold.
At the end of the seeding ceremony a goat is sacrificed
to Muni, the protector of bullocks and farmers, and its
blood sprinkled on the ground.*
We next come to sacrificial ceremonies of which the
basis is ritual purification ; their origin is ancestor-
worship and the ghost-propitiation that is its natural
corollary. This being one of the earliest forms of
religious belief, it is not surprising to find these rites
only among the very lowest groups, least touched by
Hinduism, such as the Nayadis, Khonds, and Todas.
The Nayadis are indeed the lowest of all ; they eat
lizards, rats, and crocodiles, and "pollute" Brahmins
at a greater distance than any other community. Their
own three godlings, Mallan, Malavazhi, and Para-
kutti, are very obscure, and they chiefly worship ances
tors, whose souls are represented by mere piles ofstones.
During worship these stones are sprinkled with the
blood of a sacrificed chicken, and the ancestors are
asked to drink it and to protect the tribe from wild
animals and snakebite,
f
The funeral ceremonies of the Dravidian Khonds
are very interesting, and differ from those of any other
caste ; they will be discussed in detail in a later chap
ter, but a point which interests us here is that a death
requires a purification ceremony by the family, for
which purpose a buffalo is killed on the seventh day
after death, except when a man was killed while
hunting, in which case a pig is sacrificed. The head
of the animal is cut off and passed between the legs of
the men assembled for the occasion, and if it touches
anyone's legs it is a very bad omen. J This ritual is
similar to that of certain Nigerian tribes which drive
* Miles, op. ext., p. 264-5. t Ibid., p. 128. J Ibid., p. 87.
ANIMAL SACRIFICE "3
the ghost through a cleft bamboo to get rid of
it,
and
the Khond idea appears to be that the ghost departs
thus in the head of the slain animal, since a loud noise
is
then made to frighten away the spirit. The Khonds
also make doubly sure by providing
a
scapegoat in the
shape of
a
sheep, which
is
tied to the feet of the corpse
and trots along with the bearers to the burning-ground,
where
it
is
left until five days later, when
it
is
sacrificed
with corybantics similar to those we have described as
occurring round the meriah-post.
Among the Todas, that aboriginal tribe of the
Nilgiri hills whose origin is
a
matter of great interest
and perplexity to anthropologists, a buffalo
is
usually
sacrificed to conclude
a
funeral ceremony.
A
bell
is
tied to its neck, and its horns are smeared with butter
before
it
is
finally despatched by blows from
a
club.
This
is
generally done before the cremation, though
sometimes afterwards
;
in the former case the deceased
is
laid out on the animal's back, with his feet on its
horns and his head on the rump. Very often the
Todas disinter the skull from the spot where the
cremated bones have been buried, which
is
a good
instance of ancestor-worship in embryo, but
I
have
never heard of their preserving a series of family or
headmen's skulls, as do many African tribes.
A more advanced group, the Kuruba caste of
weavers, who bury their dead and take precautions
to prevent the spirit from troubling its relatives, kill
sheep and chickens after the funeral and give the whole
village
a
feast, but
it
is
not clear whether this has much
to do with either purification or spirit-appeasement.
One Indian caste, and
I
believe only one, sacrifices
an animal as scapegoat for the purpose of purification
when
a
woman
is
discovered "misconducting" herself.
114 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
So low are sexual morals throughout India that no
notice is usually taken of such a matter. However,
in this caste, the Kapu, the members of the household
concerned, sit round, and a black goat is carried thrice
in a circle, then decapitated, and its head buried ; and
on that spot the guilty couple must tread, while water
mixed with turmeric, which has been previously
offered to the god Ganesh, is poured out. Usually
the "shame" is purely formal, and is made the excuse
for the inevitable feast, "a happy time being had by
all", as the reporters would put it.
Along with the conception of wandering ancestor-
ghosts needing propitiation goes a belief in equally
exacting tree-dwelling spirits (often inaccurately called
animism) ; of the two, it is impossible to say which,
if either, is the later development. In the Guntur and
Bellary districts is found the tribe called Bonthuks,
who are mainly nomadic, though they do cultivate
to some extent. Their chief occupation is collecting
bamboo, straightening it by fire, and selling it in the
bazaars. Before collecting it they always sacrifice,
ostensibly to the local god, but obviously to propitiate
the spirit dwelling in the bamboo, a sheep, a goat, and
a few chickens ; the god is merely represented by
a heap of stones.*
The Kalians of Madura, whose bargain with any
strange god on a thieving expedition I described earlier,
have a very ill-defined religion. Ordinarily classed
as Saivite, they are really devil- worshippers. They
believe that certain trees are occupied by demons, to
which they make offerings of rice and milk under such
trees, with a little fire lit so that the demon can see the
oblation. If such a tree grows in the jungle, and is
* Miles, op. cit., p. 162.
ANIMAL SACRIFICE "5
thus off the beaten path, a sheep or goat is sacrificed
and its blood spilt at the roots. The devil, the Kalian
says, will then come out of the tree and enter the body
of the worshipper, who thus becomes the devil's
mouthpiece and can act as an oracle on events of the
immediate future ; and on the devil returning to its
tree, the man comes out of his trance.*
This belief differs from the usual idea that the spirit
enters the body of a slain animal, probably because
there is here no question of a scapegoat or a magical
act to drive the spirit away. The beliefs of the Kalians
need more investigation ; they make animal sacrifices
to rather vague river-deities, but none to their own
caste-god Alagarswami —because he is held to be
a vegetarian !
We may here conveniently consider a few mis
cellaneous cases of animal immolation which fall into
no definite class. The most naive of these is undoubt
edly that practised by the sect of mendicants known
as the Donga-Dasari ("servants of the god").f Their
chief deity is the monkey-god Hanuman ; they are
professional burglars, and before setting out on a
thieving expedition they ascertain by divination if it
is his pleasure ; this they do by placing a turban on
the head of a sheep and then sacrificing it by decapi
tation. If the turban falls off on the right side the
expedition may safely proceed, but if on the left it is
an ill omen, and the gang returns home to await more
favourable auspices.
Divination ofanother kind is employed in association
with animal-sacrifice by the Badagas and other south
Indian castes whose gods are mainly agricultural.
They throw water over the animals selected for sacri-
f Miles, op. cit., pp. 139, 140. J Ibid., p. i2(j,
Il6 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
fice, and accept only those which shiver when it falls
on them. Whether this is connected with ideas of
ensuring rainfall by homoeopathic magic, or whether
it is associated with the widespread primitive notion
of a "water-barrier" against evil spirits, I have not
been able to ascertain. The Badagas worship the
lingam and have elaborate milk tabus, but have no
other water-rites.
A definite water-rite, practised chiefly among the
maritime states of the Kathiawar peninsula in north
India, is the sacrifice of a goat at the launching of a
new lighter or a fishing-boat, the sea-mother goddess
being invoked under the name of Mata. Our European
custom of breaking a bottle of champagne at the
launching and naming of a new ship is a relic of such
practices, common throughout the seaboard of pre-
Christian Europe, and derived from the Viking
sacrifice of a horse to Thunor before crossing the seas
on a raid. Rather remarkably, since they are an
inland people, members of Nepal missions to Europe
always do puja to the sea-god at Bombay harbour
before leaving, and on their return.
So influenced has Muhammedanism in India been
by Hinduism, that when in January 1934 Dureshwar,
a daughter-in-law of the Nizam of Hyderabad, the
greatest Muslim ruler in India, returned from a
voyage to Europe, four goats were placed before her
on disembarking at Bombay, and she performed over
them a magical rite called sadka, to ward off the evil
eye.* These animals were not killed, but Islam does
indulge universally in a goat-sacrifice at its great
annual festival of Baqr-Id.
Sacrifices to fire, though it has its own god, Agni,
* Evening News of India, 8 Jan., 1934.
ANIMAL SACRIFICE 117
are not common in India. One recorded by Miles*
as witnessed in a southern jungle involved the following
ceremony : a sheep was rubbed with oil and painted
with vermilion stripes ; its horns were garlanded with
flowers, and its ears, nostrils, and mouth stuffed with
dried grass. After several men had dealt it heavy
blows with sticks and stones, one choked it to death
by pressing his knee into its throat. The worshippers
then cut open its stomach and pulled out the entrails
and all the fat they could tear loose. They held the
fat over a fire of brushwood, letting it liquefy and fall
into the flames ; finally they hacked the carcase to
pieces, some frying huge lumps in ghi before eating
it,
and others devouring
it
raw, letting the blood trickle
down their faces. No god was invoked, nor was an
image of one visible.
This, there seems no doubt, was a fire-purification
rite
;
but occasionally we hear of a case in which
a
sacrifice
is
performed as a malicious act of defilement.
One such case, which had a touch of humour, resulted
in a number of men being charged in court at Sinnar
with criminal intimidation and "disturbing an assembly
engaged in religious worship". Arising out of a family
squabble, the defendants, hearing that the complainant
was preparing for worship of the family god, sacrificed
a goat on the doorstep and tied its corpse before the
door, just as everything in the house was ready for
the ceremony, with the result that the whole place
was effectively polluted, and the priest could not
enter,
f
Throughout India
a
vast number of castes and
tribes propitiate their tutelary deities with animal
sacrifice simply to keep in their favour
;
a few examples
*
Op. ext., p. 29.
t
Times
of
India,
5
Jan., 1935.
Il8 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
will suffice. The Pongalas, a division of the Reddis or
Kapus, who number more than 2,000,000 and are
the largest caste in the Madras region, do this at their
central temple, Perambalur, by drinking goats' blood
before the idol of their goddess.
Those members of the Valmikudu hunter-community
who annually propitiate their village goddess by
giving a buffalo for sacrifice are exempted from paying
house-rent. These people have an interesting tabu :
the priest must not be seen, for fear of misfortune to
the village, while he is engaged in the sacrifice, or
when he subsequently delivers a chunk of the carcase,
with some of the blood, at each house in the village.*
The Valmikudu also propitiate a number of minor
deities with goats and sheep.
Kali is worshipped with animal sacrifices by the
Devangas of Madura district under the name of a
tribal goddess, Chaudeswari. The whole community
attends here ; there are elaborate pollution tabus, and
after the slaughter the rest of the ritual is chiefly a
sword-balancing feat by the priest to divine whether
the temple has been polluted or not. The Brahmin
priest, for all his hauteur, is not above accepting a
nice fat sacrifice even from a polluting caste, such as
the Paidis of Ganjam, who have to pass in their
offering of a goat or sheep to the temple, and must
watch the rite from beyond polluting distance of its
doors. Being "unclean", they can only share the
benefits vicariously, which they do by taking home
a pinch of the earth outside the temple and placing
it on a clean cloth, with offerings, before their village
god Takurani.f
The most quaint reason for any animal-offering in
* Miles, op. tit.,, p. 99. t Ibid., p. 262.
ANIMAL SACRIFICE "9
India is that of the dhobi, or washerman, when during
January he propitiates his caste-god Madivalaya, in
whose honour he makes models of his boiling-pots
and the slabs on which clothes are beaten, with
offerings of eatables. He sacrifices a sheep or goat,
and sprinkles the blood over these images ; he stoutly
avows that this is not done to propitiate the god,
but to ensure that the clothes will not be burnt or
spoilt in the boiling-pot. It seems rather a farce, for
no Indian dhobi will ever boil clothes properly, and the
ceremony makes no difference to his absolute genius
for ruining one's shirts and sheets by bashing holes
in them on the jagged rocks of the seashore. You
are compelled to impose a scale of fines for damage,
and one month these were so heavy that they com
pletely cancelled the wash-bill, a fact which my dhobi
accepted with philosophical resignation !
It is now time to examine the last class of animal
sacrifices, those connected with disease, whether of
cattle or of the human community. An amusing
incident occurred when I was staying in so-called
Christian Goa, which illustrates how thinly the veneer
overlies the latent paganism of the Goanese. My host
kept missing some of his finest white cockerels, for
several days in succession ; he had his suspicions,
so finally, on the night ofthe full moon, we kept watch,
hidden in the deep shadow of the steep verandah
steps to this fine old Portuguese manor-house. In
due course a dim cloaked form emerged at the side
of the house leading to the servants' quarters, making
frantic efforts, as it slunk across the compound, to
stifle a clucking noise emanating from under the
cloak.
It proved, as we had suspected, to be my host's
120 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
native butler, making off with another choice cock.
Seized, and frightened into a confession, this worthy
admitted that he took the birds to the village witch
doctor for sacrifice and divination on his wife's illness.
This was a Sunday night ; that same morning the
butler, got up "regardless" in an amazing medley of
bits of European costume, his Sunday best, had dutifully
attended Mass at Curtorim church as a good Catholic.
Even the village priest in Goa rarely knows who the
witch-doctor is, and even when he does he shares the
villagers' terror of that individual too deeply to betray
him, for most of these priests themselves are Goanese
sons of the soil, half educated and as superstitious as
the Hindus they are supposed to convert. We could
extract from the butler no details whatever as to the
form the divination took.
Although he maintained a grim silence, however,
one can conjecture the probable method from the
practice of the Paidis of Ganjam, who consult a
sorcerer
if
anyone of the caste
is
seriously ill. The
magician goes to the patient's house and draws on
the floor, with rice,
a
square divided into several
compartments, in each of which he puts copper pice,
while a dish of cooked rice
is
put on one side of the
square. A fowl
is
then sacrificed, and its blood poured
round the dish. The sorcerer then throws rice into
the dish, a grain at a time, uttering the name of
a
god or goddess at each grain. If a grain sinks, the
deity whose name was mentioned when that grain
was thrown in has caused the illness, and must be
propitiated as the sorcerer directs.*
To preserve their villages from both cholera and
cattle disease the Chembrambakam caste of south
*
Miles, op. tit., p. 262.
ANIMAL SACRIFICE 121
Indian Lingayats propitiate their god Namamdamma
with a blood-sacrifice. A goat is killed and its intestines
placed in a pot, which is covered with a piece of the
goat's skin. A low-caste man must then carry the
pot to the village boundary and bury it there. It is
believed that anyone passing the man while he is so
engaged will fall seriously ill and probably die ; once
the pot is buried at the boundary the goddess gives
her promise that no cholera or cattle-plague will
break out in the community. Here we have two
features of interest : first the significance of the
intestines, which should be compared with that in the
meriah rite, and probably has the same origin ; and
second, a tabu similar to that against seeing the Val-
mikudu priest operate. The latter feature seems to
involve an idea that, should the man with the pot be
met, the potential evil imprisoned therein might
escape and transfer itself, whence it is necessary to
bind it firmly by burial outside the boundary.
When an epidemic of any kind has actually broken
out among the Madiga, a leather-working caste of
the Telugu country, they sacrifice a buffalo to their
god. Its head is cut off, and the blood is poured over
boiled rice. The head, with one of the legs stuck in
its mouth, is then placed before the shrine in one basket,
and the rice and blood beside it in another. A devotee
next puts the animal's head on his own, with a lighted
lamp on top of it. He twists round his waist a rag
which has been dipped in the blood ; ropes are tied
to his body and held by men who follow him ; and
limes are cut into pieces and thrown into the air all
round him to prevent the evil spirits, who watch from
behind all the trees along the road, from following him.
The man then passes in front ofthe houses whose owners
122 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
have subscribed to the ceremony. This festival was
actually witnessed during a plague epidemic in a
southern village by Miles, who states* that he was told
that sometimes, instead of the bloody rag being worn
round the waist, the animal's intestines were pulled
out and the devotee draped round his middle with
them, the ends trailing in a gruesome fringe.
There has of late years been an increasing tendency
among the more enlightened Hindus themselves to
agitate for the abolition of the mass-sacrifice ofanimals
which takes place during cholera and smallpox epi
demics, and of which the chief centres are Nasik in
the west, Kali Ghat at Calcutta in the east, and the
Ellore temple in the south. Thus, late in 1933, the
Hindu reformer, Sir Purshotamdas Thakurdas, suc
ceeded in persuading the priests to abandon the
centuries-old animal-slayings in the temple of the
goddess Singotari at the seaboard town of Hajira
in Gujerat ; here, following a signed agreement on
the matter, a procession was made to the kund, or
sacrificial slab, and it was solemnly destroyed by the
pujaris (temple priests) themselves, f It was a small
beginning, certainly, but it was the only kind of
approach that will effect any change. English methods,
such as the favourite magisterial ban, and proposed
legislation in provincial Assemblies, do nothing but
"set up the backs" of the orthodox, and substitute, for
open slaughter, the secret jungle rites of torture.
This statement is not made in prejudice —indeed, the
present writer has no concern with politics, and is
wholly free from prejudice on the ethics of animal-
sacrifice one way or the other, his sole business being
the cold, scientific examination of customs —but is
* Op. (At., pp. 29, 30. f Times of India, 2 Jan., 1934.
ANIMAL SACRIFICE 123
made in the light of what has happened time and
again when such prohibitions have been imposed.
Speaking of prejudice, this is usually so violent on
the part of western observers that it is but fair to give
a statement of the Brahmin's case for animal-sacrifice.
This, in a sentence, is the belief that, having been
sacrificed on a holy occasion, the animals have attained
salvation, and will not again be born as animals.
Further, he holds that the very stability of the universe
depends on sacrifice, as the gods feed upon the spiritual
part of the offerings. We have no more evidence as
to the truth or falsity of these views than we have for
the accuracy or otherwise of a Christian's view of
heaven ; both are entirely based on human speculation
and man-made concepts of the gods and of the here
after.
Scientific training and common sense, however,
cause one to condemn the religio-magical proceedings
attendant upon the terrible outbreak of cholera ar
Nasik in May 1934, solely because these rites resulted
in a great spread of the disease through the huge
concourse of pilgrims they attracted, thereby com
pletely neutralizing the efforts of the medical corps
to fight the outbreak ; on the other hand, it may
conceivably be argued that India is so over-populated
by its 350,000,000 undernourished and mostly weak-
minded inhabitants that the elimination of a few
thousand by natural plague is not an unmixed evil.
However, we are not concerned with the ethics of the
matter.
The records, as culled from the Nasik newspaper
correspondents' reports throughout the May, make
amazing reading. The proceedings began in the
middle of the month with the sacrifice of a goat at
1
24 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
the Bhadrakali temple, to propitiate Mariai (a form
of Kali), goddess of destruction, in order to free the
town from the cholera scourge. No one, of course,
thought of giving this filthy place a general scavenging
as a start. From early morning a great stream of
pilgrims, finally estimated at more than 10,000,
poured steadily to the temple to make offerings before
a huge sacrificial fire. Chanting mantras, the priests
installed outside the temple a Mang (low-caste)
woman, after giving her a ceremonial bath and
arraying her in a new dress and green bangles, green
being a life-giver symbol. She sat, her face veiled,
receiving from the women pilgrims offerings ofcoloured
powders and coconuts —also magical "givers of life"—
copper coins, and cloth.
Late in the afternoon the priests poured scalding-
hot . rice into a specially prepared cart drawn by
decorated bullocks, the rice being then covered with
the red powders known as gulal and kunku, much
used in Indian magic, while incense from the
side of the sacrificial fire was set ablaze in the
cart.
A comic anachronism was that the procession which
then formed up was headed by the Nasik Boy Scouts'
band, playing European music. Next came a man
bearing on his shoulders the black sacrificial goat ;
a second man, leading another goat, for dedication
to the goddess ; and a third carrying a cockerel.
The Mang woman followed, accompanied by priests,
and there was also another woman, who, allegedly
"possessed" by the goddess, danced furiously through
the ranks of the procession nearly naked, and with
dishevelled hair. Then came the cart, on which, as
it passed, those standing along the line of route down
ANIMAL SACRIFICE 125
to the river threw rice, as also they did on the Mang
woman.
A stampede occurred, in which a number of people
got hurt trying to seize a pinch of the "blessed" rice
from the cart ; and the next thing that happened was
regarded as an evil omen : the axle broke, before the
shrine containing the idol of Mariai was reached.
About four miles out of the town the priests had
baskets full of rice carried round the head of an image
of the goblin Bali, and performed a number of ancient
magical ceremonies. After this the Patel of Nasik
(a cross between a headman, mayor, and chief con
stable) chopped off an ear of the sacrificial goat before
it was killed and handed it over to the Mang woman,
the other goat being simply dedicated to Mariai and
set free.
Eight selected persons next carried eight baskets
of rice from the cart, spells having been chanted over
them, and threw down the contents at the eight
cardinal points of the town, to prevent the evil spirit
of cholera from re-entering it. All the remaining rice
was dumped and left in the middle of the main Trunk
Road.
The whole procession, except the Mang woman,
who was left behind (? as a ceremonial scapegoat or
medium for transfer of the evil) and had to return to
the town on the morrow, then went back to Nasik,
where the Brahmins took a much-needed ceremonial
bath. The whole of this performance was a revival,
after many years in abeyance, of a very old magical
ritual, and the wily priests who organized
it,
and who
of course did not care two pins whether the disease
abated or not, made
a
small fortune out ofthe pilgrims'
offerings.
126 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
As was to be expected, far from the rites stopping
the epidemic, the huge concourse of people caused it
to spread even more, and it is a fitting commentary on
the competence of Indian guardians of the law that
the Nasik gathering was allowed despite a ban by the
district magistrate on gatherings of more than twenty-
five people during the outbreak. One of the fresh
fatal cases proved to be that of a man who had taken
rice from the cart ; and the local medical officers had
not even the courage, or the will, to put the whole
town in quarantine.
Worse, however, was to come. A week later the
epidemic was raging more seriously than ever, and had
spread to surrounding villages, whose half-starved
inhabitants had obtained the infection through making
a feast of the rice dumped on the Trunk Road, after
it had been contaminated by the loathsome pariahs,
or pi-dogs, which are efficient cholera-carriers. The
waters of the very sacred, and consequently very filthy,
River Godaveri, on whose banks the temples of Nasik
stand, were also infected, and carried death far and
wide in the district. The priests' explanation of their
failure, of course, was that Mariai had not been
sufficiently appeased.
At the same time as the Nasik devastation the
coastal town of Ratnagiri also had a cholera visitation,
and here events were not without a touch of humour
for those ofus who can view these matters with scientific
detachment. When the outbreak occurred, the local
temple priests saw a golden opportunity, and seized
it. They discovered that for the previous three years
the customary annual sacrifice of twelve goats to the
alleged town-deity, Sri Bahiri, performed as a bribe to
him to keep the town free of epidemics, had fallen
ANIMAL SACRIFICE 127
into abeyance, and they declared that the arrears
had angered the god, who had consequently sent the
cholera and must at once be appeased by the sacrifice
of the thirty-six goats due to him.
The Khots, the local temple trustees, gave a naive
explanation for the lapse : it seems that years ago
the Government made an annual grant of 66 rupees
for this sacrifice, of which the Khots got only 34 rupees
14 annas for the purchase-price of twelve goats ;
meantime goats had gone up in price during the
previous three years ; hence the sacrifice had been
dropped. The Khots did not explain what had hap
pened to the money during those years, but they
thought it best to be on the safe side of the god, and
managed to raise sufficient to buy forty-eight goats—
the thirty-six due as arrears and the twelve for the
current year ; these were duly sacrificed, and the
instalment account with Sri Bahiri was brought up
to date.
There was a more happy ending here than at Nasik,
for the epidemic rapidly abated thereafter, and, much
to the annoyance ofthe Nasik priests, those of Ratnagiri
crowed over them, claiming the success of a superior
magic, and attributing the decline in the cholera to
the full appeasement of Sri Bahiri—carefully omitting,
of course, to give any credit to the health measures
taken by their own more enlightened municipality.
It is in south India that the most wholesale slaughter
of animals, and the most reprehensible torture of them,
is found. The proceedings at Ellore, also in May 1934,
aroused a storm of protest. It was the first time for
seven years that so great a mass-slaying had been held,
and in one day 500 animals and 500 fowls were
immolated to appease the goddess of smallpox, Poler
128 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
amma, who is again Kali in another form ; her shrine
and worship had been installed in the town during
the previous five months, owing to an outbreak of
the disease. Numerous petitions to magistrates, and
even to the High Court of Madras, by animal-welfare
societies seeking to get the slaughter prevented, were
completely rejected, and the animals came along in
great numbers, given by families afflicted with the
disease, or wishing by an offering to avoid its visita
tion. Eight persons were appointed to decapitate the
animals and fowls, working in relays.
All day the holocaust went on, and the climax was
reached at midnight, when eight selected male buffa
loes were slain. The chief priest, wearing robes soaked
in the slaughtered animals' blood, then led a proces
sion through the town, bearing aloft, on a tray full
of rice and blood, the head of the biggest buffalo,
and chanting hymns to the goddess, while a mixture
of rice and blood was strewn along the route. The
next morning, huge figures of the goddess, painted on
placards called prabha, and a cart in which sat the
priest, still in his blood-drenched robes, were taken out
in procession through the streets ; and this was the end
of the rites, the priests announcing that Poleramma was
now fully appeased, and that the scourge would leave
the town—which, of course, it did not.
At the same time arrangements were made for
holding other similar sacrificial festivals at different
points in the town during the next fortnight. Before
the first of these was due to take place, more futile
petitions presented by animal-lovers were cold-shoul
dered by the local magistracy on the ground that "no
breach of the peace was feared". The rites duly took
place, 700 animals and 1000 fowls being butchered
ANIMAL SACRIFICE 120,
in one street alone, and at the end of the final cere
monies rice mixed with their blood was strewn all
round the confines of the town so that the smallpox
demon would not enter the area thus magically
protected.
Immediately afterwards there was a concerted move
against such practices, led by the Bombay Humani
tarian League and the Madras S.P.C.A. ; but as both
bodies were largely under European inspiration, no
practical result accrued. It is of interest to read the
statements of the ex-president of the Madras body,
Mr. Justice Jackson, on the subject of the tortures to
which, in that part of the country, sacrificial animals
are often subjected :
"The limbs and ears of sheep are torn from their
bodies piecemeal before they are actually done to
death" (I record above the severing ofthe live goat's
ear at Nasik).
"In sheep-sacrifices, sometimes the animal is cut
up while alive into 32 pieces, and its flesh taken bit
by bit. This is done at dead of night, to avoid an
outburst of public opinion against it.
"Even pregnant sheep are offered for sacrifice,
the young being pulled out by hand from their
wombs and killed first, and the suffering mother
despatched later.
"Live pigs are thrown from a height on to sharp
spikes planted in the ground, and left impaled there
in agony till the pile on each spike reaches a certain
height. They are then removed for others to take
their place.
"Buffaloes are imprisoned in pits specially dug
for the purpose, then pierced with sharp swords in
130 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
several places by a number of persons standing
around them ; and after the infliction of much
agony the head is finally severed.
"Fowls offered in temples are tossed up and down
by time-honoured custom, and are also bitten and
their blood sucked while alive.*
This document is a serious indictment of one of
the worst phases of Hinduism ; even if the civil
authorities at Ellore were wise, as they probably were,
in refusing to stop the sacrifices there and thus risk
a serious riot—for they knew that in the Ellore rite
no torture was involved, it being held an ill omen if
the animal were not killed with a single axe-blow —
steps should certainly be taken by the Hindus them
selves to put a stop to the tortures revealed elsewhere
in Madras. They form no part whatever of the higher
teachings and ideals of Hinduism, in which there is
much that is fine and worth the attention of the West ;
the faith has suffered, as do all organized religions —
Christianity, perhaps, most of all—from indefensible
accretions.
*
Quoted in Times of India, 27 June, 1934.
CHAPTER VI
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES
IDELY divergent as are the magico-religious
\\ practices obtaining throughout the world, there
is one idea so widespread that we may call it common to
all regions : the belief that a vague, mysterious magical
power lies latent in all things, a power supernatural
and immaterial, for which the most familiar name is
that given to it in the Pacific, mana. This belief, shared
by races right across the world, from Polynesian to
American Indian, has been called "the mother-idea of
magic", and it has become to some extent confused with
animism, which strictly should only be applied to a
belief in a sentient spirit inhabiting plants and stones.
While it is impossible to give in detail here the
thesis of culture-diffusion, which ascribes the origin of
these conceptions to the early agricultural ritual of
Egypt,* a very brief outline of
it,
and of Egyptian
funerary ritual,
is
necessary for the understanding of
many Indian customs and beliefs, for
it
seems certain
that the Egyptian conception of the indwelling power
of the statue as the abode of the ka, or spirit of the
deceased, bound up with the practice of mummification
and the theory of the divine saviour-king, has left
its mark throughout the world. Curious and direct
*
Consult the works of Elliot Smith and W. H. Perry. See my
bibliography at end of this book.
131
132 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
survivals of
it,
indeed, are to be found to this day, not
only in the Far East, but also, in
a
distorted form, in
southern Europe, whence a belief in the protective
efficacy of wax images spread at an early date from
Egypt through Greece.
The aim of mummification was to secure immor
tality, which the Egyptian regarded not as being purely
spiritual, as does the Christian, but in terms of complete
body and spirit
;
he believed that anyone who had
been embalmed with the correct magical rites, and for
whom the subsequent necessary tomb-ritual had been
performed, was assured of eternal life in the land of the
dead ruled over by Osiris, by virtue of the fact that,
by mummification itself, the deceased was identified
with Osiris, the first king who died. As time went on, of
course, the theological accretions to the original idea led
to
a
complicated belief in a judgment of the dead and
his "trial" by the Forty Gods in the underworld
;
but we
are here only concerned with the matter in its primary
details. Probably the most striking survival of the
belief in corporeal resurrection entire, in the modern
world,
is
the uncompromising Muslim tenet that those
who have been decapitated cannot attain paradise.
The coming into being of the practice of mum
mification, and of ideas of continued survival of the
dead in another place (called in early texts Sekhet-
Aaru, which may be translated as Fields of Bliss),
caused the king of Egypt to be regarded as an incarnate
Horus, son of Osiris. The living king was charged
with the maintenance of the cults attaching to his dead
father, who was thus identified with Osiris, and
provided him with food necessary for him to remain
alive in the other world, materialistically conceived as
a
glorified replica of life on earth. Also, the king per
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES 133
formed the ritual necessary to reanimate the body of
his dead father, or his portrait statue as substitute for the
mummy, in order that the dead king might partake of
the food and hold communication with the living.
The cult has thus a dual aspect ; it may be regarded
as the cult of a god-king, or as ancestor-worship. As
Elliot Smith puts it : "Osiris was the prototype of all
gods ; his ritual was the basis of all religious ceremonial ;
his priests who conducted the animating ceremonies
were the pioneers of a long series of ministers who, for
more than fifty centuries, in spite of the endless variety
of their ritual and the character of their temples, have
continued to perform ceremonies that have undergone
remarkably little change."* The Egyptians them
selves, indeed, claimed that all funerary cults originated
with Osiris, that he gave them their doctrines, religious
rites, rules for the sanctuaries, and plans for the temples.
With later changes, such as the predominance of a
solar cult due to political causes, we are not con
cerned ; Osiris himself crops up, as we spread eastwards
from the Mediterranean, in an amazing and unexpected
variety of forms. We find him featuring later as the
Babylonian culture-hero Oannes, and still later in a
similar guise as Prithu Wainya, the Shining One of
the Indian Puranic myths, whose description of him
is identical with that of Oannes, and there can be
little doubt that the cult reached India through the
Sind "gateway" of Mohenjo-Daro. This is discussed
more fully in our next chapter.
Having been embalmed, the Egyptian body was
on the day of burial subject to elaborate ceremonies
re-enacting incidents in the resurrection of Osiris. It
was especially necessary, by powerful charms, to open
* Evolution of the Dragon, p. 32.
134 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
the mouth and ears of the deceased, that he might
speak and hear in Sekhet-Aaru ; and the ritual-magical
literature of this procedure finally swelled into the
collected rites known as the Book of Opening the Mouth,
though its chief ceremonies had been practised as early
as the late-neolithic and predynastic epochs.* The
mummy, in its coffin, was then lowered down the
tomb-shaft and placed in a stone sarcophagus, and
food, drink, toilet articles, a magic wand, and a number
of amulets for protection against enemies of the dead
were left with it ; the shaft was then filled up
with rubble.
Outside the burial-chamber was a small chapel-
chamber, beside which was a tiny ante-room. In this
latter there was walled up a portrait-statue of the
deceased, with small channels cut to connect the room
with the offering-chapel, so that the ka, or double, of
the man might attach itself to this statue and, through
those channels, enjoy the food and drink placed in the
chapel. In early times the "opening of the mouth"
rites were performed actually on the body ; later they
were transferred to the A;a-statue. It is outside our
purpose to go into the metaphysical distinctions which
the Egyptian made in those parts of human personality
surviving after death ; suffice it to say that at the crucial
stage of the mouth-opening magic, the Kher-heb, a
chief priest of a class which throughout Egyptian
history is associated with magical power, declared that
the ba, or heart-soul, and the ka, or double, had taken
up their abode in the statue.
Finally the funeral feast took place, and its details
show us plainly the origin of the Christian "sacrament"
* Budge, E. A. W., Book of Opening the Mouth (London, 1909),
vol. i, p. viii.
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES 1
35
of Mass. The spirit-part ofthe offerings was consumed
by the gods, the ka and the ba, and the material part of
them, eaten by the officiating priests and the relatives
of the deceased, brought these human participants into
communion with the beings of the other-world, and
thus with Osiris. A theological development in thought
led ultimately to figures ofworkmen, known as ushabtiu,
or "the answerers", being placed in the tombs of the
great, after being endowed with magic, to ensure that
the dead man's spirit would have the spirits of his
labourers to work for him in paradise.
We are now in a position to understand some of the
Indian beliefs on the subject of images and their power.
It is by no means uncommon to find miracles attributed
to them, and of this the most extraordinary case on
record is one, well authenticated, from Travancore
State, communicated to me by Mr. Padmanabha Iyer,
a journalist of repute in the State and a Hindu of
considerable education. In the Changanur temple
of that State there is a metal image of the local
goddess which, incredible as it seems, actually men
struates once every four or six weeks, and the temple
records show that this phenomenon has been observed
regularly for at least a century.* The Travancore
government even makes special provision for ex
penditure in connection with the Trippuvarattu, or
purification ceremony, attendant on the occurrence.
The loin-cloth round the image is sent to the women
of the Vanjpuzha or Talavur Potti caste for examina
tion ; they pronounce the discolouration to be menstrual
blood, whereupon the image is removed to a separate
shed (as is the case with a woman under this pollution
in many Indian and African tribes) and the inner
* See Travancore State Manual, ii, 89-90.
I36 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
shrine of the temple is closed for the duration of the
periodicity, the goddess being taken back to it on the
fourth day. The discoloured cloth is sought after by
the people as a holy relic.
It is recorded that when an Englishman who held
the office of Dewan (a kind of Prime Minister in an
Indian State) paid his visit to fix the expenditure
budget of this temple, he refused to sanction the
amount allocated under the heading of the purification
ceremony ; but the very next day the image obligingly
commenced its menses, and the Dewan had the cloth
shown to an Englishwoman, who vouched that it bore
genuine menstrual blood ; and to this day the expenses
on the ritual bear the seal and sanction of the European
official !
It has never been suggested that the phenomenon is
a fraud performed by priests putting round the image
a menstrual-cloth from a female devotee ; but, of course,
it would be impossible for an English official to obtain
such test conditions at the shrine as would be necessary
to investigate the matter, owing to the rigid caste and
shrine-defilement tabus. No non-Brahmin would ever
be allowed by the priests to keep a watch in the inner
sanctuary.
However, there may be some connection between
this queer affair and the magical ideas of blood as a
life-giver which are involved in a legend that the
progenitor of two south Indian castes, the Reddi
Bhumalu and the Pokunativaru, was born from one of
the sanitary-pads thrown off by Parvati, the consort of
Lord Siva, with whom she is represented as living in
his heavenly Kailasa in a state of constant sexual
connection.
Whatever be the truth in the case of the menstruat
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES 137
ing image, Travancore can produce another, equally
inexplicable. In the Thirunakara temple at Kottayam
in that State there is a famous image of the Nandi,
or bull of Siva, made of granite covered with bronze,
which on five recorded occasions, at long intervals, has
allegedly oozed blood through a small opening in the
left side near the tail. The latest recorded instance of
this miracle* was on the morning of 17 July, 1934, and
it appears to be well vouched for by eye-witnesses,
while the blood was certainly real, and was sent to
the Maharaja at his capital, Trivandrum, in a puja
vessel, while special services were thereupon conducted
in the temple. Whether the priests have some wily
trick of inserting the blood overnight into a secret
cavity it is impossible to determine ; but local legend
says the bull was once alive, and wandered by night
destroying crops, whereupon it was hunted down and
wounded in the side, so it staggered to the temple, lay
down before the shrine, and was found next morning
there turned into stone.
It is a peculiar fact that to quite a number of
Saivite nandis is attached the legend that they were
once alive, and that there are attributed to the king-
bulls of sacred herds in India many miracles which it
seems impossible, owing to their details, to collate with
the cult of the cow ; she falls into another class,
connected with the worship of the earth-mother. The
chiefgroup of king-bull miracle legends is found among
the Karumpuraththals, a caste of Kanarese-speaking
farmers chiefly inhabiting the Madura and Tinnevelly
districts —again in the same region as Trivandrum.
Examples are : During a fight between two castes
at Dindigal the king-bull left on the rock the permanent
* Times of India, 19 July, 1934.
138 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
imprint of his hoof, which is alleged still to be visible ;
during a later quarrel between the same castes
another king-bull stopped the sun and made it turn
back in its course, resulting in quick arbitration owing
to the shadow which thus fell from a tamarind-tree.
The Karumpuraththals never milk their cows, and
bury their bulls with honour, regarding the king-bull
as the living Nandagopala, after the god Krishna the
cattle-grazer.
There was a strange manifestation of animal- worship,
which led to the creation of a fresh nandi image and
shrine, at Sheikhapura, in the Punjab, in 1934. A
sacred bull died in one of the filthy, winding streets of
the bazaar, and instead of being left, as is usual, for
the Untouchables to remove, was actually lifted on to
a cart by the caste Hindus, who usually will not touch
a carcase, and taken with full funeral honours to a
spot where later a mausoleum was erected over
it,
with
a bull-image into which the spirit of the dead bull was
believed to take up its abode.
There
is
considerable room for "miracle-working"
fraud in connection with the images of the goddess of
smallpox, Mariamma, because, although an ancient
Hindu injunction forbids the making of idols in wood,
probably owing to the white ant's ravages, hers are
usually made of
a
kind of red wood which when
punctured oozes a red sap which in appearance
is
very much like blood.
One up-to-date case of the Indian belief in an in
dwelling mana attached to images, though rather vitiated
by facts savouring of sectarian propaganda, does at
least illustrate the conception. This was
a
strange
report appearing in the papers* from Bangalore in
*
Times
of
India, 29 July, 1934.
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES 1
39
July 1934 that the shankam and chakram, the symbolic
devices of Vishnu, the preserver-god in the Hindu
trinity, held in the hands of the idol now known as
Sri Venkateswara (a form of Vishnu), had begun to
shake, making it necessary to secure them to the idol
with strings, though there were no earthquake tremors
to account for their sudden instability. The devotees
said this image was formerly a Subramaniya idol of the
other great sect, the Saivites, or worshippers of Siva
(the destroyer-god of the trinity), and was subse
quently converted into one of Vishnu. They also
alleged that the symbols in the hands were not there
when the original shrine was set up, and hence they
declared that the idol was protesting, by trying to
shake off the symbols, against its "forcible conversion"
to the uses of the Vaishnavite sect !
Closer within my own personal experience comes a
weird adventure, and a phenomenon open to no such
suspicions of fraud as those just related, which befell
a friend who is a Brahmin, an erudite scholar, and a
deep student of the ancient Tantric magic of India,
Mr. Vishnu Karandikar, of Poona. While we were
engaged in certain archaeological investigations at the
temple of Old Mahableshwar in 1934 we discovered a
very rare object, a small image of the ancient goddess
Gayatri, with four faces. The priest flatly declared
that we would not be able to get a photograph of it—
he said I should not, in any case, not being a Brahmin
—unless certain magical rites were performed first,
since the mantra of Gayatri is the most powerful known
to Tantric students. Partly because he wanted to see
what would happen, and partly because, having lived
long in London, he has an extremely sceptical outlook,
Mr. Karandikar went to turn the image, which is only
140 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
some three feet high, in order to get it into a more
favourable light for his picture. Though easy to handle,
as regards bulk and size, it absolutely refused to move,
even by our joint efforts, and when Mr. Karandikar
tried again, alone, he received from some invisible force
a violent blow across the left hand, which raised a weal
and broke a thick gold ring he was wearing.
In addition to this, when he still persisted in his
efforts to get a photograph of the image without
performing puja, every plate of the subject came out
clearly as a picture of the wall against which the image
stood, but with no idol visible on
it,
though camera and
plates were all in perfect order, and the rest of the batch
of plates had already given perfect pictures of other
objects and buildings round the temple. My own luck,
with an equally good camera and plates, was no
better
;
so finally my Brahmin friend did perform the
ancient magical incantations prescribed by the temple
priest, and was able to photograph the image, and a
very evil thing
it
is
to look upon.
I
too made another
attempt, after the ceremonies, but could get nothing
but a blurred outline of the idol, though the wall
behind was sharp. Another queer experience on this
expedition was that Mr. Karandikar was also unable,
until puja had been performed and offerings made, to
get a picture of the entrance to the lair of the sacred
cobra on Mahableshwar Hill, at which snake-hole the
priests daily make offerings ofeggs.
It
is
very widely believed in India, as elsewhere,
that to photograph an image robs
it
of part ofits power
(that is, its mana) and causes some portion of its
personality to leave the image. Agricultural castes
such as the Badagas go so far as to maintain that the
whole virtue of their gods would depart
if
they were
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES 141
photographed, and that they would be unable there
after to do their work of looking after the crops ; it is
more than one's life is worth to attempt to get a picture
of these huge, grotesque deities.
Experiences such as those I had at Mahableshwar
are things that cannot be explained by western science,
and when one has the evidence of one's own eyes,
combined with a scientific training and a habit of
mind not easily fooled by the tricks of priestcraft, it
were foolish to deny that there does exist a great deal
of occult influence in the ancient holy places of India.
One experience of this, which is absolutely first-hand
evidence, concerns my own researches at an ancient
site near Bombay, and is related in its appropriate
place in my concluding chapter.
A curious and interesting example of the belief in
the indwelling god in a statue comes from Kottakal,
Malabar, communicated to me by a fellow-member of
the Mythic Society of India from Calicut in January
1935. In that month the inhabitants of Kottakal, in
consequence of a serious drought, sought to obtain the
blessing of Siva for rain by a ceremony in which the
chief rite consisted of pouring 1001 pots of water daily
over the head of Siva's image in the local temple, "to
cool the god's head", as they said —an instructive case
ofsympathetic magic, it being thought that the god was
parched like the land, and that his slaking would slake
the land. The number i oo i has no special significance;
in India all contributions are made in an odd number,
a round figure being held unlucky.
This ceremony, according to the devotees, was
based on experience, for, on the occasion of a parallel
drought thirty years before, it was performed, and the
rain fell in torrents on the seventh day from the start
142 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
of the god-ducking. This time, however, though they
doused the deity for the full twelve days prescribed, no
rain fell, and local theology was at a loss to explain it.
The case is instructive as showing how coincidence
(for possibly on the previous occasion the rainfall was
nothing more) often bolsters up a belief ; also, the rite
is a good example of homoeopathic rain-magic.
An even more illuminating instance of this, also
involving an image, is the rain-dance of the Rajban-
sis, a nomadic tribe who originally emigrated from
Sikkim and are now found all over the Terai district.
Somerville* describes the rain-dance as he witnessed
it,
remarking that
it
is
performed by women only,
it
being regarded as very unlucky for a man to see the
performance.
This dance was done by the Rajbansis of Cooch
Behar, the original inhabitants of the district, in
a
small
jungle clearing beside the half-dried bed of a stream.
About twenty women, mostly young girls, but including
some old hags, appeared, bearing in their midst drums
and cymbals and the image of a deity called Hudum
Dev,
a
god of great repute in the district. The image
was of mud, and painted red —a significant point,
being associated with blood as the life-giver. The
women set the image in the centre of the space and
proceeded to watch the moon, until
it
was practically
fully risen overhead.
The old women then started the music, a rhythmic
drum-beat punctuated by cymbal-clashes at intervals.
The minute the music began the young girls sprang
up, stripped stark naked, formed a circle round the
idol, and began to dance, uttering
a
wild, plaintive
chant. At first their movements were slow and grace-
*
Somerville, op. cit., 194 sqq.
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES 143
fill, and they "seemed to be pleading with the god for
the special favour of rain", but as the dance went on
the music became louder and more compelling, the
movements of the dancers swifter and wilder, and their
chant fiercer. Working themselves up into a fury of
contortion, they no longer pleaded with the god, but
hurled curses upon him, spitting at the idol. Both
song and dance then became very obscene, and in a
final burst of fury the girls fell upon the idol, smashed
it,
and scattered the bits in all directions. This done,
the music ceased, and the girls put on their clothes.
This vituperation of the god when he fails to do his
duty
is
a
common feature of ceremonies which attempt
his compulsion by magic
;
and the breaking and
scattering of the idol
is
obviously a relic of the early
agricultural sacrifice of a human victim to bring rain
or crop-fertility, in which the head and blood of the
victim were thrown on the fields. Should there be any
signs of rain during the Rajbansi dance, the ceremony
ceases and the god
is
reinstated with full honours in
a
triumphal procession. Whether the tabu against men
witnessing the dance
is
originally bound up with the
association between the blood-symbol, female men
struation, and fertility magic, or whether
it
is
due to the
necessity of protecting the girls against the habitual
lasciviousness of the Indian male, one cannot say, but
Somerville notes with amusement that despite the ban
there was quite a crowd of men, from youngsters to
old rakes of about ninety, ensconced in the pipal-trees,
feasting their eyes on the naked dancers.
A minor example of
a
rain-rite in which homoeo
pathic magic
is
combined with the mana of an image
is
that of the Reddi or Kapu caste of Madras, which here
again
is
performed by women. Making
a
clay figure
144 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
of a child, they place it on a cloth, hammock-fashion,
and walk with it from door to door, singing indecent
songs and begging alms. Each householder from whom
they beg pours a little water on the image, and this is
supposed to produce rain.* An Anglo-Indian ac
quaintance tells me that when he last saw this ritual,
the women took it in turns, as they reached the houses,
for each to lift her skirt, exposing herself (Indian
women wear no drawers), and to make water down her
legs as she stood : highly indecent, no doubt, but very
interesting as a piece of sympathetic magic.
A widespread device in India to ensure pregnancy is
only comprehensible on the basis of the mana belief.
This
is,
for women to eat the powdered scrapings of
sacred boulders or of old statues of godsf
;
and analogous
to
it
is
the belief that
if
an infertile wife spends the
night in
a
shrine, sleeping at the foot of the idol, the
god will impregnate her. One would not like to count
the number of proud Hindu "fathers" who, rendered
impotent by inheriting generations of early marriage
and the results of their forebears' venereal disease, have
some wily Brahmin priest to thank for the gift of a son
!
The belief of the women, however,
is
a natural one,
deriving as
it
does from the early Mediterranean-
culture conception of the personality dwelling in the
statue
;
this has also an echo in the universal Indian
belief that the gods eat the food-offerings placed before
their images, and another in the uniform custom of
bathing the idols in the sacred rivers and tanks at
certain festivals, apparently with the idea of cere
monially purifying the dwelling-place of the god.
*
Miles, op. ext., 266.
t
Sarat Chandra Mitra, in paper to Bombay Anthropol. Soc.,
Dec. 1932.
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES 1
45
Thus at Nasik the image of Maruti receives this
ceremonial bath once every twelve years, and in
Travancore the Maharaja bathes that of the family's
tutelary deity twice yearly in the sea at a special
festival called Araat.
The mana of an image does not diminish with the
passing ofthe years ; only pollution (with the exception
of such ceremonial pollution as we noted in the
previous chapter) or utter decrepitude causes a temple
idol to be replaced. The belief in its continued
efficacy as the abode of the deity is well illustrated by
an extraordinary incident of which I heard when in
Lahore in January 1935. In a Punjab village called
Jandiala Sher-khan, not far from Sheikhapura, a
Brahmin named Ghulab Bass, being short of money,
sold an aged pipal-tree to the local blacksmith, a friendly
Muslim. The latter, cutting it down to use the timber
on repairs to his house, found inside the trunk a small
image of the goddess Durga (Kali) ; no doubt it had
been placed between two small trunks, which had
coalesced in the course of centuries. That same day
the Brahmin's wife fell seriously ill, and the blacksmith's
son was stricken with high fever ; the Brahmin repented
of selling the tree, fearing he must thereby have com
mitted sacrilege against the goddess.
The most striking evidence as to the widespread
survival of the early Egyptian beliefs on the significance
of the statue (and, concomitantly, on mummification),
however, is to be found in death ceremonies. India
can furnish us with a few examples, among which is the
practice of the Khonds, whose funerary rites, as we have
already noted, differ from those of any other caste, and
whose indigenous tenets as a whole seem less overlaid
by Hinduism than those of others. The day after a
I46 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
Khond cremation, a dish of cooked rice is placed on the
spot where it occurred, and the spirit of the deceased is
requested, with incantations, to eat and enjoy itself.
The spirit is specially invoked not to enter the body of
a demon or tiger, in which forms it could return and
annoy the village. Three days after death, an effigy of
the deceased is made in straw, and set up on the roof of
the hut he inhabited. The friends and relations then
assemble and lament before the effigy, each bringing
a present, and receiving one of greater value from
the family on departure.* Then follows the buffalo
sacrifice I described in the last chapter.
The Odde, a caste of Kanara potters, who bury their
dead, make an effigy of the deceased out of mud after
the interment, and offer it cooked rice and fruits, f
The Bonthuk nomads, who also inter their dead, place
food in the deceased's hut for the spirit to eat ; when
he is presumed to have had his fill, it is put in a basket,
in a hut specially built for the occasion near a stream,
to feed the spirit-servants of the god of death : a very
clear survival of the Egyptian rite in the Aa-chamber.J
To understand these rites and their significance more
fully we must turn to parallel practices elsewhere,
notably in Nigeria, where G. K. Meek, whose work is
a model of careful anthropological research, has
discovered very strong evidence of Egyptian survivals.§
One of the most striking of these cases is found in the
burial customs of the Gabin, a tribe of the Adamawa
province, who expose on a table for three or four days
the bodies of all old men and women, giving the
relatives time to assemble and do honour to the dead
* Miles, op. cit., 86-87. t IbidT, 147. % Ibid., 163.
§ All Nigerian details from Meek, C. K., Tribal Studies in Northern
Nigeria, ii, pp. 312, 377, 400, 439 sqq., 463, 511, 514, 540, 559, 592,
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES 147
before interment. When the body swells up and bursts,
the skin and intestines are removed and buried
separately in a pot. We have noted the Indian treat
ment of sacrificial intestines, and also the fact that the
human organs were placed in ancient Egypt under the
protection of certain guardians of the dead. The Kilba
and Verre tribes follow the same practice with the skin
and intestines as the Gabin.
While the corpse is exposed, all the people gather
round and throw over it the seeds of the various crops,
with the expressed intention of conferring upon the
deceased everything he had in life : here we see a relic
of the custom of making the dead person an Osiris.
After burial, a mock corpse is made, consisting of a
pot round which a gown is draped, if the person was
important, and round it the people dance for two days.
Here we have obviously a distorted vestige of the
Egyptian foz-statue, and Meek rightly holds that the
removal of the skin and viscera are degraded forms of
the practice of mummification, also derived from
Egypt.
An even clearer case ofthe £a-statue survival is found
in the ancient rites of the Hona tribe, also ofAdamawa
province, which are still observed (with the exception
that the chief's death is no longer kept secret for a
month). When the death is announced, a repre
sentation of the chief is made, consisting of a log of
wood covered over by a white gown. This is held by
an official seated on a basket, and all bow down before
it and cast over it the seeds of corn, beniseed, and
pumpkins, saying : "See, we give thee corn, so that
thou shalt not say we have sent thee away hungry."
A dance is then performed, during which the effigy is
fanned, and after this the corn thrown over the effigy
I48 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
is collected and made into beer and flour for use at the
subsequent funeral.
Meantime the effigy is dismantled, but its place is
taken by a pot with a strip of cloth round the neck,
which pot is set up on a forked branch beside the dead
chief's hut and carefully tended by his widows till the
funeral feast, at the end of which it is smashed, to
signify that the chief and his people have parted for
ever. From this procedure one gathers that the idea
is to keep the chief dwelling with the tribe, first in the
log, then in the pot (these objects serving as foz-statues),
until his obsequies are completed. The straw effigy
of the Indian Khonds has just the same significance.
A custom of peculiar interest and importance,
illustrating as it does several points at the same time—
the statue-rite, the Osiris, and the king as living vehicle
ofthe life of the crops —is that practised by the Yungur-
speaking people of Pirra, N. Nigeria. When a priest-
chief dies, no public ceremony is held tj.ll the following
March, i.e. till the planting season is close at hand.
Then the chief-elect makes an effigy of his predecessor,
which is not a crude log or pot, but a likeness, having
head, ears, eyes, nose, body, and legs. The head is
covered with a cap, the body with a gown, the feet with
sandals ; the effigy is then set up in a public place,
and all do honour to it with great awe, each person
throwing guinea-corn over it.
At the end of the day a maternal relative of the dead
chief comes and takes the effigy away, depositing it in
a cave in the hills, and it is said that immediately on his
return the first rains begin to fall. The Yungur, Meek
states, hold the idea that as the chief had been per
forming the annual rites for obtaining corn during the
month of March prior to his death, the crops for that
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES 1
49
year belong to him, and thus, if he dies before they are
harvested, they too would die and go with him. The
fiction must therefore be maintained that he is still
present with his people, and he must continue to be
present until his successor has carried out the rites for
the following year, in the next March.
Precisely the same idea is found among the Jukun,*
for when a chief dies his death is kept secret, and the
crops harvested that year are held to be his. The
Jukun are additionally interesting, because they are
known to preserve the bodies of their chiefs by a pro
cess of fumigation, and in March they remove such a
"mummy", and deposit it in some secret place. Though
Meek suggests that what is allegedly the chief's pre
served body may really be only an effigy, he recognizes
that even the practice of making an effigy is connected
with mummification and the ka, wherever it be found ;
and that of desiccating the corpse by fumigation is
even more so, while it also forms a survival of the
practice of censing the foz-statue.
The Yungur-speaking peoples seem to regard all old
men and women as "owners of corn" in a minor way,
for they make an effigy of them, as well as of a chief, at
death. This attitude may be explained by the function
of woman as the repository of life, and ofthe aged as the
repositories of the life of the tribe. Possibly some
obscure reasoning of the same kind would explain why
among the Hindus very old persons and infants are
buried, not cremated.
Returning to the question of throwing corn on these
effigies, two explanations are given by the people
themselves. Some say that the object is to provide the
* The Jukun customs are described by Meek in another work,
A Sudanese Kingdom, but are alluded to passim in the book cited.
150 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
dead man with seed to plant new crops on his return to
this world ; others, that the seed was given him to plant
in the next world. The latter is probably the truer
explanation, and it has its parallel, and apparently
origin, in the Egyptian custom of placing the germin
ating figure of Osiris in the tomb. Still further
evidence that with the Yungur-speaking group every
old person is an Osiris is to be seen in the custom,
among their southern section, of dropping the body
of an aged person on the ground every hundred yards
or so on the way to the grave, the idea being that, as
he is an "owner of corn", this bumping will make him
leave the corn behind.
I once came across a very curious parallel to this in
England, in a former custom that bodies being taken
from the hamlet of Glen Parva, Leicestershire, to the
parish church of Ayleston, had to be scraped and
bumped (in the coffin, of course) across a certain stile
on the footpath. No-one knew why, but the reason
vaguely alleged was that it was "something to do with
preserving the right of way", which, of course, was
nonsense, seeing that the right of way was already
established by the parish's immemorial usage of the
path. Returning to Nigeria, we may compare the
Yungur custom with that of the Jukun, whereby the
dead chief is besought not to take the corn with him,
in answer to which an official, to whom the dead chief
is strapped on horseback, knocks out of the corpse's
hand a quantity of grain.
Meek has a most illuminating chapter (ch. xv) on the
subject of the divine-king cult in Nigeria, from which
we have only space to cull a mere outline germane to
our present thesis. Speaking of the Jibu, he points out
how strikingly their burial-rites show traces of the
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES 151
Egyptian "opening of the mouth", the object among
the Jibu being to give the dead man sustenance, in the
shape of the sacred beer, that he may become an Aku,
or living spirit, a member of the ancestor-group. After
further rites, steps are taken (as was done in Egypt) to
wipe out the footprints of the Aku, and a chicken is
sacrificed, its blood being offered to the spirit, as we
have seen in Indian ceremonies. In India, by the way,
many castes at their death-ceremonies take the pre
caution of preventing the spirit from haunting the
living by means of the "waterjbarrier", the sprinkling
of water and the breaking ofits container. Some of the
Cameroons tribes pour libations of the sacred beer over
the skull of a dead chief, which in this instance seems
to serve the same purpose as the Ara-statue.
The chiefs of the Kam and Jukun are closely
associated with corn, and carry out a daily ritual by
which they feed the royal ancestors, particularly the
last deceased king, who is regarded as the life and soul
of the crops ; thus they play the part of Horus, living
son of Osiris, as did the Pharaohs ; the Nama of the
Cameroons go further, holding that upon the goodwill
ofthe royal ancestors depends the success ofagricultural
operations, and among them, the fact that the living
chief is the incarnation of the life-giving power of the
crops leads to his apotheosis after death. Ancestor-
worship, which is equally prevalent among many
Indian castes and tribes, is thus seen not as an
undeveloped, primitive form of belief, as it is so often
represented to be, but as a disintegrated survival
from the complex theology connecting kingship with
agricultural fertility.
Finally in connection with the cult arises the
interesting problem, to which we have already made
152 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
allusion, as to whether (as Frazer firmly holds) the old
king was actually killed in the early- Mediterranean
culture. I have suggested that in some of the Indian
meriah and animal-sacrifice rites we appear to have a
substitute for the killed king ; and even more sug
gestive is the fact that among the Kanakura, a Nigerian
tribe of Adamawa province, the chief of the Shani area
until recent times "fled" ceremonially to Buma after
a reign of ten years, and by exchange the chief of
Kombo fled to Shani —apparently to keep alive the
vitality magically vested in the chiefs.
It is in Melanesia, however, that the early Egyptian
beliefs on the significance of the statue, which have
only left in India such traces as we have examined,
survive in their most typical form ; and this region is
the chief stronghold of the belief in mana, which is the
dominant feature of the religio-magical culture. It is
here associated with certain spirits called vui, who
appear to be the traditional representatives of the sacred
chiefs of the archaic Mediterranean culture ; these vui
have much mana, and are closely associated with stones.*
There are certain features of Hindu mythology
which very strongly suggest a distorted survival of this
in India, much overlaid by the innumerable com
plications of the pantheon and the "incarnations" of
the gods. One ofthe simplest examples is the legend of
the god Vishnu turning himself into a salagrama stone,
which is a fossil ammonite. The story is that a low-
caste dancing girl, whose head was turned by her own
beauty, could find no mate to match her, so retired to
the Himalayas to fast and meditate. Here she met the
god Vishnu, whose beauty excited in her an uncon-
* See Perry, Origin of Magic and Religion, p. 168, and Codring-
ton's standard work, The Melanesians.
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES 1
53
trollable sexual passion, but, owing to her low status
and her profession, he pretended to remain cold to her
advances (another version says he had to be discreet on
account of the jealousy of his consort). In the end
Vishnu compromised by promising that the girl
should be reincarnated in the form of a river, and that
he would lie in its bed, in the form ofa salagrama stone,
as her eternal lover. Thus was founded the Gandaki
River, and the incarnation of Vishnu as a "precious"
stone. The description in the ancient Skanda Purana
of this lying-together is a prize piece of pornographic
literature, as are all Hindu stories of the gods' amours.
The consequence of the legend has been that great
wealth has come to Nepal, whose ruler farms out the
concession ofgetting the ammonites from the river-bed.
Though it has no intrinsic value, the stone is held in
such high reverence that the Vedas decree that a
Brahmin's house without a salagrama is as impure as
a cemetery, and any food cooked in it as unclean as
a dog's excrement. To touch water in which this stone
has been washed is to receive absolution from all sin,
however heinous, and to drink such water assures a
place in the ultimate heaven.
There can be no doubt, not only from this, but from
many other indications in his legends, that the shining
Vishnu, like Prithu Wainya and many other type-
heroes, represents a form of the vui, and of the divine
ancestor-cult from the archaic culture. Incidentally,
it is highly interesting that this same fossil ammonite
is the very stone into which our "Saint" Brigit of
Ireland is alleged to have turned the serpent ; the
origin is identical.* Indeed, the whole of the world's
* There also seems a possibility that the salagrama is connected
with the idea of a "coiled serpent".
154 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
mascots are ultimately traceable to the power of mana,
and the magic of the image.
The halo of magic and legend that thus grows up
around the statues of the archaic culture and their
derivatives cannot be better illustrated than by two
stories yet current : one in south-west India con
cerning the megalithic monuments, found only in
association with early gold-mines (notably in the
Nizam's dominions), and the other on Easter Island.
The Indian legend is that the great monoliths and
dolmens, which, of course, represent the burial-places
of the wandering gold-seekers of the archaic culture
from the Mediterranean, were somewhat vaguely
"put there by the gods". The story told by the people
of Easter Island regarding their immense, mysterious
monolithic images amounts to the same thing, but is
more picturesque, and is given in a preliminary report,
published in the Christian Science Monitor during
December 1934, on the work of a Franco-Belgian
educational expedition engaged in collecting all the
folklore of Easter Island, and its remains.
"Once upon a time," say the natives, "a god carved
the great statues, and as soon as they were finished he
bade them walk ; and all of them arose, and took up
their stations on the great rock altars built to receive
them, the chief among them remaining on the slope of
the volcano-crater to form the court of the sculptor-
That portion of Melanesia in which the belief in
mana is most highly developed —the northern New
Hebrides and the Banks Islands —is full of the remains
of the archaic civilization ; and there is even a con
necting link with Egypt among the people of Ponape
in the Carolines, where the early people practised the
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES 1
55
art of making portrait-statues, through which alone the
gods can be approached, by ceremonies which were
performable only by the sacred king of Ponape.
We have now to consider another aspect ofthe magic
of images which, though parallel to that outlined, is
applied not for the worship of the honoured divine-
ancestor or the assistance of a dead person's spirit, but
for the purposes of sorcery.
Even before mankind attained settled habitation in
the Mediterranean region we find in the food-producing
stage of culture (or, as Sollas terms
it,
the Age of the
Ancient Hunters) attempts made in this direction, and
this early sorcery may well claim our attention for
a
moment, since an example of it has recently been
discovered in India which in detail is indistinguishable
from its European prototype.
In the late palaeolithic and early neolithic caves of
south-western Europe we find a certain feature which
leaves no doubt whatever that prehistoric art was
magical and thereby utilitarian in its origin, and
not executed for art's sake.* This
is,
the series of cave-
paintings of animals shown with arrows and spears
piercing their vital parts, which depictions were un
questionably, by sympathetic magic, to ensure the
success of the hunter. To mention merely a few
cases, the caves of Niaux, Portal, Tuc d'Audoubert,
Trois-Freres, Montespan, and Cabrerets have fine
examples. A practically contemporary instance,
coming millenia after these cave-paintings, and cor
roborating this view as to their use,
is
the behaviour
even now of pygmy hunters in Central Africa. Pro
fessor Frobenius in his reminiscences describes how his
*
Count Begouen, "The Magic Origin of Prehistoric Art", in
Antiquity, vol. iii (1929).
156 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
pygmy huntsman went through a magical rite of
drawing an antelope in the sand and spearing
it,
to
ensure good hunting before setting out, and now on the
return he propitiated the antelope-spirits with some of
the hair and blood of
a
slain animal.
Again, Count Bdgouen, to whom we owe much in the
study of early-European magic and art, holds that
certain so-called "tectiform" signs in the cave-paintings
do not, as
is
generally supposed, represent huts, but
animal-traps ;
and they strongly resemble traps in
Helsingfors Museum, made by the Lapps to snare wild
beasts.*
Now,
it
is
very extraordinary that
a
series of rock-
paintings has been found in recent years up on the
Chhota Nagpur plateau of India, which, were they
transported to a cave of France, would at once be put
down as the work of one of the cave-artists, so identical
are they in style and treatment. Further, in these
Indian paintings there are signs which their discoverer,
Rai Sahib Ghosh,
f
believes are probably traps, though
in his monograph he seems unaware of Count Begouen's
researches, and hence the conclusions appear to be
independently reached. The Indian rock-paintings
also show hunting scenes, the animals drawn with fine
sureness ofline as in European examples, the men armed
with clubs, bows, and arrows. There
is
not the slightest
doubt that their purpose
is
magical, and
I
believe
(speaking without references on the matter) that
South African scholars have reached the same view
with regard to the very similar Bushman paintings,
which in recent years have excited so much interest.
*
Op. ext., p. 10.
f
Rock-Paintings and other Antiquities
of
Prehistoric and Later
Times (Memoirs of Archaeol. Survey of India, No. 24), Calcutta, 1932.
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES 157
There is a drawing in the French cave of Font-de-
Gaume which actually shows a mammoth's weight
breaking one of the stakes in a pit ; and the pit was the
only means the primitive hunter had at his disposal
to snare such mighty beasts as the mammoth and the
elephant.* Thus the pits are depicted so that by magic
the animals would fall into the actual traps.
We now come to the next step, or a step in some cases
contemporary with the paintings : the making of clay
models in the round, as at Montespan, where they
represent a small bear and several feline creatures, or
carvings in relief in the actual rock, as at the Cap Blanc
rock-shelter in the Dordogne. The models are literally
riddled with stab-wounds, and it is evident, by analogy
with Frobenius' modern pygmy hunter's ritual, that
the sorcerer would pierce these images with spear
heads or flint arrows, pronouncing spells over them to
bring death to the beasts of the chase. It is possible
that in some cases fresh figures were required to be
made for each hunt, but if that were so the scarred
image at Montespan is an exception. The heavy
onslaught these figures sustained is in line with Malin-
owski's insistence on the importance, to the theory of
magic, of the simulation by the magician of the real
act, and his further insistence on the fact that in the
sympathetic emotional condition of the performer lies
the fundamental basis of the art ; magic is thus, in
Malinowski's view, "a ritualized expression of an
emotional state of desire". f
In addition to the figurines being stabbed in the
vital parts, we find numerous paintings and models of
* Begouen, typ. ext.
t Malinowski, B., on "Magic, Science, and Religion", in Science,
Religion, and Reality (Ed. Needham, 1925).
158 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
animals in the caves lacking ears and eyes, especially
the mammoths and the wild cattle ; this represents
a further development in magical ideas, depriving the
animal "by proxy" of those organs which aid it in
detecting the presence of its enemy the hunter. This
was even carried sometimes to the extent of making the
figurine and then sawing off the head, as was done
with a statuette of a stag found in the cave of Anlene,
Ariege.
It is curious to find that the Egyptian hieroglyphics
for certain animals show them decapitated, and some
scholars, notably Professor Laxa, of Prague University,
attributes this to the same magical motive. The
Egyptians went a step further, believing that it was
possible to transmit to the figure of any living creature
the soul of the person or animal that figure represented,
and its qualities and attributes. The statue of a god
in a temple contained the "spirit" of that god (if we
may for convenience use the word "spirit" in this
sense), and from time immemorial the Egyptian held
that every statue and figure possessed an indwelling
spirit. It is at this stage in the story of human beliefs
that there occurs the interesting phenomenon of a
breaking-down of the borderline, always thin, between
magic and religion ; for while, putting the matter in
very general terms, it may be said that the Egyptian's
"religion" was his belief in his corporeal resurrection,
his magic was largely directed towards effecting that
result by animating the mummy, or the Aa-statue, to
provide for the soul a dwelling-place in his earthly
likeness. This is the combination of ideas that has
spread throughout the world as the magic of images.
It is but a short step, and a logical one, in this
process of reasoning, especially once the principle of
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES 1
59
using images to give man the power to kill animals
for food and for his safety had been established, to the
less laudable application of it : the use of the image to
bring harm upon a human enemy. It is a branch of
sorcery whereof the Egyptians were the originators,
and in which they were the greatest adepts of the
ancient world. The earliest written account we have
of such a use of images is itself as old as the Pyramid
Age, in a famous magical book known as the Westcar
Papyrus, and concerns the making by a funerary
priest of a wax model of a crocodile which was brought
to life to wreak vengeance on the paramour of the
priest's wife.* The world's most classic instance of the
use of wax figures in black magic also comes from
Egypt ; it is familiar to students as being part of the
famous court plotf against the life of Ramses III
(1198-1167 B.C.) ; and the last truly native Pharaoh
of Egypt, Nekh-ta-Neb, better known as Nectanebo,
was the greatest of all the long line of that country's
royal sorcerers, of whose models of ships, used to bring
the enemy fleets to grief, the Greek writers tell amazing
tales. From Egypt the use of the image in sorcery
passed to Greece, and thence probably eastwards with
the army of Alexander the Great, who, despite
his napoleonic achievements in ambitious butchery,
religiously carted about, everywhere he went, a box
of leaden figures, complete with the necessary spells, to
bring confusion on his enemies. J
We have in the foregoing pages seen some examples
of the harmful use of the image in India, notably among
the Odiyans of Malabar—that part of the country
* Erman, Die MUrchen des Papyrus Westcar (Berlin, 1890).
f Breasted, Ancient Records of Egypt (1906-07), vol. iv.
J Bridge, E. A. W., Life and Exploits of Alexander the Great
(one-vol. edn.), p. xvi.
l6o INDIAN UNDERWORLD
where one expects, indeed, to find traces of the archaic
culture—and it is not uncommon to find this magical
procedure figuring in an Indian murder trial. One of
the most sensational cases of recent years occurred in
the Akola district, in 1934, when the wife of a surgeon,
and her alleged lover, a young Rajput assistant in the
hospital, were tried for the murder of the medico.
The prosecution stated that the couple got an Ojha to
make a wax image of the doctor, which he pricked
with needles after covering it with vermilion paint to
symbolize blood, and buried under the threshold of the
doctor's house, in order that the latter should meet with
a painful death. The magic proving ineffective, it was
alleged that the Rajput finally stabbed the old doctor
with a mundane knife.*
Belief in the death-power of the image is not dead
even in the heart of rural England to this day. Some
years ago, when working in the Midlands, I went to
the wilds of Gharnwood Forest, where many strange
beliefs survive along with a strong strain of Keltic
blood, to investigate a very- queer story that the death
of a child in one of the lonely villages on the north
border of the Forest had been caused by witchcraft.
I actually met an ancient hag who was reputedly
the village witch, and who showed me a waxen
image she had made of her neighbour's child, and
who claimed to have caused her death by sticking pins
into the effigy and "ill-wishing" her with the aid of
incantations, human hair, and nail-parings, and the
blood of a cockerel slain at the full moon. Of course,
there was no section of the law whereby the police
could charge this modern exponent of the most ancient
magic in the world —and she knew it ! Another of
* Times of India, 24 June, 1934.
THE MAGIC OF IMAGES l6l
her experiments in black magic was not so successful.
Having a grudge against the daughter of another
neighbour for a fancied insult, the hag stole a pair of
the wench's drawers from the clothes-line and boiled
them, again with incantations and the blood of a
slaughtered cockerel, to render her barren ; but the
victim married and proved fecund—and the old
witch is dead.
CHAPTER VII
MYSTERIES OF THE SERPENT
IT
has been estimated that at least 30,000 people die
annually in India from snakebite ; and the Hindu
holds the cobra peculiarly sacred —in fact, it is the only
snake that, throughout the land, may not be killed with
impunity. The figure of Naga Raj, king of all the king
cobras in existence, looms large in Hindu mythology,
and he is a figure whose existence brings up one of the
mysteries of Indian history : the origin of the Naga
race, a people who are said to have come from the
north-west, to have been half men, half serpents, and
to have worshipped serpent-gods. The fascinating
question of who they were, and whence they came, we
had better leave until later in this chapter, for one can
get a far clearer idea of Indian ophic lore and its
meaning by considering it in conjunction with beliefs
and practices regarding snakes elsewhere.
The rulers of Kashmir and the Rajas of Chota
Nagpur claim descent from these Naga-folk, who
figure prominently in the great epic of the Mahab-
harata ; in the mountainous country bordering on
Kashmir, and especially between the Chenab and Ravi
rivers, there survives a remnant of the ancient Naga
race which has escaped both Islam and the late
accretions of orthodox Brahminism. These people do
not call themselves Nagas, which was not a tribal name,
162
MYSTERIES OF THE SERPENT 163
but an epithet applied to those whose symbol of
reverence was the nag, or hooded cobra ; their tribal
name is Takha.* In south India, however, there is a
tribe called Nagas, usually described as "primitive",
but more probably degraded from a higher civilization,
who claim to be descendants of the Nagas.
All over India we find the snake temples, but it is
important to notice that in every case the worship is
not that of a particular cobra as a god, but of certain
named serpent-deities, such as Shesha-Nag, Basak
Nag, etc., who are regarded as the deified rulers of an
ancient people whose symbol—perhaps tribal and
totemistic, perhaps racial—was the Naga, or hooded
cobra, and whose chief deity was the sun. We shall
come back to this point later ; it is given here to make
clear the meaning of the following Indian legends and
beliefs.
The cobra's hood throughout India is regarded as
the symbol of royalty, and a child found with a cobra
guarding it with outspread hood, or a child bearing a
birth-mark resembling the hood, was in ancient India
immediately assigned royal status, however humble its
parents. This has happened within historic times, and
several present ruling houses of Indian States owe their
position to an ancestor who was a child so singled out,
even the rigid principles of caste being waived to allow
the precedence —a significant fact, for it shows that the
Naga cult, as we may conveniently call it for the
moment, is older than orthodox Hinduism ; indeed,
the demigods of the Takht people today, and the rites
attending their worship, are decidedly unorthodox,
and their priests are not Brahmins.
• Oldham, C. F., "The Nagas", in Journ. Roy. Asiatic Soc, July
1901, pp. 461-473-
164 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
According to some ancient Indian writers, the Nagas
were really serpents, who could assume human shape
at will ; this idea, which is a familiar folklore distortion
of history, is evident from legends all over the country,
which are so similar in their details, and so parallel to
stories of the same type elsewhere in the world, as to
leave no doubt of their common origin.
One of these concerns the alleged origin of the Rajas
of Ghota Nagpur, who are styled Nagbansi Rajputs
owing to their association with the Nagas. The legend
tells how Pundarika, king of the Nagas, took upon
himself human form and repaired to the house of a
Brahmin at Benares to study the sacred books, in the
guise of a Brahmin. He there fell in love with, and
married, his host's daughter, but his incarnation
was in two respects imperfect : he could not get rid of
his forked tongue or his evil-smelling breath. To
conceal his halitosis from his bride he always slept
with his back to her—which she must have found very
disappointing !
Discovering his peculiarities, she promptly evinced
the wretched curiosity common to all women ; but the
snake-king, like Lohengrin (who has the same folklore
origin), could only disclose his identity at the cost of
losing his wife. He diverted her attention for the time
being by proposing a pilgrimage to the great shrine of
Jagannath at Puri—which I take to be the ancient
Indian equivalent of pacifying your discontented wife
by an offer of a week at Skegness ! The couple set off
through the hills and forests of what is now Chota
Nagpur, but when they reached the site of the present
town of Ranchi the wife was seized with the pains of
childbirth. This seems inconsistent, as her divine
husband had always slept with his back to her, but
MYSTERIES OF THE SERPENT 165
Indian legends are inconsistent. However, her curiosity
revived, and she again began asking inconvenient
questions. This time she had her husband cornered,
and he was compelled to admit that he was actually
Takshah Raj, the king of the snakes.
Having divulged his fatal secret, he did not, like
Lohengrin, make a dignified exit to the strains of slow
music, but at once passed into the form of a gigantic
cobra, the shock ofwhich caused his wife to be delivered
of a male child and die on the spot. The unfortunate
snake made the best of his trying position ; spreading
his hood, he sheltered the child from the rays of the
midday sun, and was thus discovered. One version
says the discovery was made by some woodcutters of the
Munda tribe, who decided that a child found in such
remarkable circumstances must be destined to a great
future, and at once adopted him as their leader ;
another says a Brahmin found the cobra and infant,
and that to him the snake told his history and pro
phesied that the child should be called Phani-Makuta
Raja (the snake crowned), and should reign over the
country thence to be called Nag-pur. In either case,
thus was founded the line ofNagpur Rajas, whose crest
is a human-faced, hooded cobra.*
Again, the Rajas of Manipur, in Assam, trace their
descent from a divine snake. At his installation they
used to have to pass with great solemnity between two
massive dragons of stone which stood in front of the
coronation-house.
Somewhere within the building was a mysterious
chamber, in which was a pipe ; this, according to
popular belief, led down into the depths of a cavern
where dwells the snake-god, ancestor of the royal
* E. T. Dalton, Descriptive Ethnology of Bengal, pp. 165-6.
1 66 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
family. The length and prosperity of the Raja's reign
was believed to depend on the length of time he could
sit on the pipe enduring the fiery breath of his serpentine
ancestor in the place below. "Women", says Hodson,
"are specially devoted to the worship of the ancestral
snake, and great reverence is paid to them in virtue of
their sacred office."*
There is in the Madura district an ancient sacred
tank, which contains a broken image of the hooded
cobra. Local folklore says that long ago a Raja
married a beautiful princess from a distant land, which,
however, she was reluctant to leave. Her determination
to stay at home grew after marriage, as there seemed to
be a cloak of mystery around the figure of her lord ;
she declared that unless he revealed his lineage to her
she would not go with him. At last he had to consent,
so he brought her to Madura and took her to the water's
edge. Once more he tried to persuade her not to be so
curious, as there was a tabu on curiosity with regard to
the origin of his tribe. The princess, however, persisted,
so the Raja began to descend slowly into the waters,
warning her constantly that if she showed the least
alarm at what she was about to see, she would lose him.
Slowly he dived, and then came forth again, this time
not as a human being but in the shape of a Naga
prince, which indeed he was. His wife shrieked, and at
that moment the Naga was turned into stone, "and there
he lies to this day to prove it", say the people of Madura.
In Hindu cosmology, the symbol of eternity, infinity,
and ultimate absorption in the great Energy which
pervades all things and is the Centre of the Universe
is Shesha-Nag, the thousand-headed cobra which is
* T. C. Hodson, The Native Tribes of Manipur (Journ. of Anthrop.
Inst., xxxi (1901), 302, 304).
MYSTERIES OF THE SERPENT 167
supposed to dwell deep down in the Fatal region, or
bowels of the earth ; on this giant reptile sleeps the
preserver-god Vishnu, and it is popularly believed that
earthquakes are commonly caused by Vishnu turning in
his sleep, thus disturbing the position of his serpent-
couch, which supports the earth like Atlas. It was to
please this Shesha, according to Plutarch, that a tribal
offering was made in ancient times by the sacrifice of
an old woman, usually one who had been condemned
to death for a crime ; she was buried alive on the banks
of the Indus.
It is rather remarkable to find that the Bataks of
Sumatra have a legend which shows distinct Indian
origins—incidentally, it illustrates the eastward spread
of beliefs —in which earthquakes are attributed to a
personage called JVaga-padoka* ; though no snake is
mentioned in the story, he must, by his name, be a
distorted form of Shesha, and derive from the same
source. The Batak legend is that when Batara-guru,
the creator, was about to fashion the earth, he began
by building a raft, which he commanded a certain
Naga-padoka to support. While he was hard at work
his chisel broke, and at the same time Naga-padoka
moved under his burden, whereupon Batara-guru
yelled : "Hold hard a moment ; the handle has come
off my chisel." The creator apparently left his
assistant holding up the raft ; occasionally he gets
tired, and shifts it on his shoulders, causing an earth
quake, whereupon the Bataks to this day shout, "The
handle, the handle !" to fool him into thinking it is the
voice of the creator, and thus getting him to stand still
and keep the earth steady.
* Frazer, J. G. : Adonis, Attis, Osiris, 2nd edn., p. 165, or The
Golden Bough, v, 200.
i68 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
Though not a folk-tale to account for a tribal origin,
a peculiar legend of the Reddi, or Kapu, caste of India
deserves notice, for in it features that familiar substance
of folklore, the divine nectar. According to this,* one
division of the Kapus formerly lived in Ayodhya —
which incidentally is the culture-centre of the kings and
heroes in the great epic of the Ramayana —where the
discovery of a plot to rob the king caused the hurried
departure of Belthi Reddi, with one of his thirteen
wives and seventy-seven of his children. In escaping,
they had to cross the river Silanadi, which petrified
anyone passing through
it,
so they had to go to a place
called Dondakhonda and worship Ganga, the goddess
of the holy Ganges, who then helped them to cross the
river in safety.
Over the river, they reached the Mallikarjuna
temple, where they stayed to help the Jangams, who
ruled over it, with the temple duties. Later the
Jangams, having to leave for a time, placed the Kapus
in charge of the temple
;
but when they returned,
Belthi Reddi refused to hand
it
over. The contending
parties therefore decided that whoever could go to
Naga-lokam, the land of the snakes, and bring back the
jasmine-flower of snake-land, known as Naga Malligai,
should be considered the rightful owner of the
temple.
The Jangams decided to go, they being skilled in the
magic art of transformation, and went in quest of the
flower in spirit-guise. While they were away the Kapus
burnt their bodies, and when the spirits returned they
had consequently nowhere to enter and dwell. Thereat
the god of the temple became very angry, and turned the
Jangams into crows so that they might attack the
*
Miles, op. ext., 131-2.
MYSTERIES OF THE SERPENT 169
Kapus. The latter, pursued by these carrion-birds,
fled to the country of Oraganti Pratapa Rudra, who
forced the crows to cease their torment and allowed the
Kapus to settle there as cultivators.
The carpet-weaving caste of Kurubas have a folk-
legend in which the cobra appears as a sinister but
ineffectual element. They say that the former poverty
of their caste so excited the pity of Siva that he left at
one house sacred ashes, promising the birth of another
son, to be named Undala Padmanna, after whose birth
the family at once prospered. Undala, however, was
very lazy, and his brothers tried to get rid of him by
asking him to set fire to some brushwood near a large
anthill where they knew a great sacred cobra lived, in
the hope that the smoke would cause it to come out and
destroy him ; but instead of the cobra a large flock of
sheep appeared, the sight of which so frightened Undala
that he fled. Siva appeared in his path, told him that
the sheep had been created for his livelihood, and
showed him how to milk them and make curds, and
how to shear the animals and weave their wool. The
rest of the tale is immaterial to us—it is one of those
interminable, dull Hindu stories to account for the
superiority of one caste division over another.
Throughout India it is believed that somewhere in
the jungle—you can never find anyone to specify in
which part of the country —there exists the real Naga
Raj, who is king over all the so-called king cobras, and
that he who has the courage to approach this king will
be rewarded by the sight of the largest and purest
diamond in the world, which Naga Raj carries in his
mouth. Thus he figures as the holder of an object
familiar in folk-myth, the divine talisman. We shall
shortly see the origin and meaning of this belief, which
170 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
is allied to another widespread one that when a big
so-called "spectacled-cobra", of the variety with
"horn-rim" markings round the eyes, is seen, it is
guarding hidden treasure.
India, as did the ancient Mediterranean world of
whose beliefs its own are a distorted survival, places
great credence in the "wisdom of the serpent". Some
of the most uncanny stories are told of the long memory
possessed by snakes, which, like elephants, are reputed
never to forget an injury. * I had a personal experience
of this when staying in Goa in 1934, when another
member of my host's house-party, as we were returning
from a walk one evening, foolishly swiped with his
stick at a cobra lying on a low stone wall bordering
the compound, telling it to go off. Our Portuguese-
Indian host was horrified ; he said the snake always
basked there, had never harmed anyone, and was
regarded by the family as quite an old friend ; and he
declared that it would remember the voice of the man
who had insulted
it,
and would seek revenge. The
next evening, when we were sitting in the garden
taking
a
sundowner, this cobra, again in its favourite
spot on the wall, heard the man who had slashed at
it
speaking. It slid down, made a beeline for him,
ignoring the rest of us entirely, and bit him in the leg
before he could get out of his deck-chair. Luckily for
him, medical attention was available.
About the same time as this incident
I
read in the
•
In Telingana, north India, one must not even call the cobra by
its proper name, but must use a euphemistic word, purugu, which
means worm, otherwise the snake will haunt one for seven years,
and bite at the first opportunity
;
Bengal holds a similar belief
;
and natives of Travancore take great care never to speak disre
spectfully of the snake, a cobra being called nalla tambiran (the good
lord). (See Crooke, Popular Religion and Folklore
of
N. India,
ii, 142
;
and S. Mateer, Native Life in Travancore, 320.)
MYSTERIES OF THE SERPENT 171
papers of a curious case from the village of Madampe,
Ceylon, where two boys on their way to school rescued
from the jaws of a large cobra a hare which it was
about to swallow, one boy holding down the snake
with a cleft stick, as they were unwilling to hurt
it,
while the other liberated the victim. As they returned
from school later in the day the boys were attacked by
the cobra, which had apparently lain in wait at the
spot, and one lad died from its bite. The natives
declared
it
had taken revenge for being robbed of its
prey.
Another equally queer report in the papers came
from Bina,
a
town 100 miles from Jhansi, where
a
G.I. P. railway constable playfully threw
a
stone at
a
cobra which crossed his path near his home. The stone
hit the reptile, but did not hurt
it
;
but the cobra
visited the man's house every day thereafter, seeking
to attack him. One day
it
got its chance, for the
constable's wife came in to find him asleep with the
brute coiled on his chest, its head reared in readiness
to strike when he awoke. She stole out and fetched in
several men, including a sadhu. When her husband
awoke they motioned him to lie quite still, while the
holy-man chanted mantras, as the result of which he
got the snake to move out of the danger-zone.
The constable became unconscious under the strain
of this ordeal, and finally lay in
a
trance, in which he
told the sadhu the story of his encounter with the cobra,
adding that he had been threatened in
a
vision that
if
he did not build a stone dais round
a
certain sacred
ni'm-tree the cobra would visit him again and again
until
it
got its revenge. For some days after this the
constable delayed building the dais, and each day, until
he did so, he saw the cobra round his house
;
when he
172 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
built it the creature vanished, and was never seen
again.*
We need only quote one more instance, this time
with an element of comedy, the moral of the affair
being that you cannot take liberties with a snake's
dignity, and that cobras strongly object to being used
as dance-partners ! In June 1934, Indian officials in
Dadu district, Sind, found that a cobra persisted in
inhabiting their club-house at Khairpur Nathan Shah.
All attempts to turn it out proving futile, they finally
sent for a local Brahmin who had a great reputation as
a snake-charmer. He enticed it from its lair and
captured
it,
and was so elated with his success that he
began to make a tour of the district, holding the cobra
in his hands to show off his power over reptiles. When
he had, as he thought, got
it
tame, he took
it
to a village
a
few miles away, where there was a temple of Siva,
and there, coiling the cobra round his neck, began a
Siva-dance before the deity's shrine. The loud blowing
of the sacred conch-horn, combined with the liberties
taken with the cobra's anatomy in the course of the
dance, apparently offended its dignity, for itturned on
the Brahmin and bit him
;
he was taken to Larkana
hospital in
a
precarious condition.!
Much sentimental nonsense has been written about
snake-charmers by the harmful and ignorant type of
"author" who lands at Bombay, dashes about the
bazaars up and down the country for a month or two,
then departs for home and writes an idiotic book on
the "mysterious East", replete with the atmosphere
of incense, tom-toms, and turbans. The average
professional snake-charmer
is
neither romantic nor
*
Times
of
India, 26 Jan., 1935.
t
Times
of
India, 30 June, 1934.
MYSTERIES OF THE SERPENT 1
73
sensationally occult. He is usually a none-too-clean
wandering conjuror ; and the many I have met were
all perfectly honest as to the extent of their powers.
Some, who possessed undoubted hypnotic influence in
other directions, claimed that their hold over the snakes
was due to their being able to mesmerize them ; others
took the view that the snake is physically sensive to the
sound-vibrations set up by the charmer's pipe-and-
drum music. One of the most intelligent of these men,
an old Muslim conjuror whose "pitch" was at Juhu
beach, near Bombay, firmly held the latter view, and
supported it by quoting the well-known sensitiveness of
a snake's motor-muscles, which is such that your
bungalow is safe from reptiles if you have around the
verandah rough gravel or coco-matting, over which
the reptiles will not travel. One of the chief castes with
a reputation for snake-charming, by the way, is that of
the Kudumi, the rice-pounders of Travancore and
Cochin.
As to immunity from snakebite, not one of the
charmers I have met claims to be able to confer it on
a person, but all of them declare that they themselves
are immune through being constantly bitten. This is
also given as the reason for the immunity of the
priests at the snake-temples, to which, every December,
thousands of pilgrims flock to propitiate the demons
controlled by the sacred cobras maintained there. On
the other hand, one finds many men in India who,
without being professional snake-charmers, have the
power to quell snake-poison by some psychic power
that defies medical explanation.
Miles* records the case of the station-master of a
small south Indian railway station who, if advised in
* Op. ext., p. 241.
174 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
time, can cure snakebite by psychic force. He only
requires details to be telegraphed to him as to the part
of the body affected, and the time and place of the
accident, and—the most important part ofthe informa
tion—the direction from the healer in which the event
took place, whether north, south, east, or west. It is
claimed that this station-master has cured people as
much as 500 miles away, after their condition and these
facts concerning it have been telegraphed to him.
Weird stories are told of the cures wrought, appar
ently by supernormal power, at some of the snake-
temples of India. There is a famous one at Belgaum,
in the Southern Mahratta country, for the details of
a "miracle" at which shrine I have the authority at
first hand of a European railway engineer who worked
in the district for many years. One of his Pathan
permanent-way workmen, who, being a Frontier
Muslim, had often scoffed at the claims made by his
Hindu colleagues for their snake-temple, was bitten
by a krait, the little black snake which is one of the
most deadly in all India, while working on the track
some miles from the town. He was dead within an
hour, before his mates could get medical assistance,
and when he was carried into Belgaum three doctors
said he was certainly dead ; the body had gone stiff and
started to swell, and nothing could be done for the victim.
The Hindus, however, insisted on taking the corpse
to the temple, which is dedicated to Shesha Nag, and
where, they claim, the god can even cure snakebite
to the extent of resurrection if the body is taken there
in time. The men left the Pathan's corpse in front of
the shrine all night with a priest chanting mantras over
it—and next morning the Pathan "woke up", astonished
to find himself there, and without a sign of a bite on
MYSTERIES OF THE SERPENT 175
his ankle. He went straight off to work, after thanking
the priest ; he served for many years afterwards in the
district, and never scoffed again. Some readers who
may themselves scoff at this are probably inconsistent
enough, if their judgment is warped by a pro-Christian
bias, to admit the miracles of Lourdes. This case is
equally real.
My engineer friend investigated the matter closely,
thinking that the man may have been in a coma, and
that the temple pujaris probably used some secret herbal
preparation to cure the bite ; but they disclaimed the
possession of any such knowledge, and, further, the
responsible doctors of the district, including an English
medical official, declared that when they saw the body
it was, in this climate of rapid dissolution, too far gone
to make any human aid effective, and that the man was,
medically speaking, as dead as they had ever seen
anyone !
There are certain people in India who possess extra
ordinary herbal knowledge of snakebite cures ; these
are very low jungle tribes, such as the Paliyans and the
Nayadi, of whom the latter make special offerings to
the souls of their ancestors for protection against the
bite. The women ofthe Valmikudu tattoo their bodies
with designs of snakes and scorpions as a sympathetic-
magic method of securing immunity —a belief that
sometimes leads to fraud by confidence-trickers. In
one Namya village, for instance, only a few years ago,
a snake-charmer induced three villagers to pay him for
tattooing them for this purpose. At a funeral ceremony
the next day the tattooer induced one of. his clients to
hold a venomous reptile. Seeing it bite the villager,
the charmer bolted without waiting to prove his charm
efficacious, and the victim died soon afterwards.
176 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
Not all are swindlers, however ; the witch-doctors
of the Odde caste of potters are expert snakebite
curers, and Miles* describes how one cured a boy
bitten on the hand by a cobra. The arm had already
grown numb by the time the medicine-man arrived ;
he threw a brown powder on the spot where the fangs
had fastened. He then produced a small wand,
which he stuck first into the boy's mouth, then into
his own, and then drew it gently up and down the
boy's back. All the time the magician uttered strange
guttural sounds ; gradually the lad's arm became
sensitive again, and he began to move his fingers.
This went on for several minutes, while the witch-man
continued to move the stick up and down his back.
Finally the man poured water over the injured hand,
and it ran off clean, the powder having evidently been
absorbed into the bite ; and the boy ran off as though
he had never been bitten. The eye-witness of this
strange ceremony tried to question the witch-doctor,
but could get no explanation out of him beyond vague
mutterings about "sap ascending in the trees as the
moon waxed, and descending as it waned". It is
impossible to find out from these primitive people
where the herbal knowledge ends and the magic
begins, for the rite means nothing more to them than
the medicine, though to us it is inextricably mixed
up with the magic.
The connection between cures and magic often
leads to curious incidents which would be incredible
anywhere outside India. One such occurred when in
1934 Ahmedabad Town Council had before it an offer
by a man named Dave Gaurishanker Panre that he
should be appointed at a monthly salary of 40 rupees
• Op. cit., p. 147.
MYSTERIES OF THE SERPENT 177
(about £3) as the official municipal curer of snake
bite by spells.* A medical member, Dr. Hariprasad,
moved successfully that the offer be turned down, and
suggested that as the Haffkine Institute (the great
research centre for poisons and serums) was offering
10,000 rupees reward to anyone who could successfully
cure a snake-bitten monkey, Mr. Panre should submit
himself to that test of his powers. There was quite
a lively debate in the chamber, as the council had just
previously accepted an offer from one of its clerks to
cure paralysis by a herbal remedy he claimed to have
learnt from a sadhu, at no cost but that of the drug.
As Dr. Hariprasad had supported that proposal, a
fellow-member of the council accused him of incon
sistency, demanding to know why he gave his backing
in the one case to "unscientific, unknown herbs",
and yet refused to accept the efficacy of magic in the
other. Later in the same year I heard that an applica
tion had been received by Madras Town Council from
Tuticorin municipality, asking for a grant for curing
snakebite and disease by mantras, but I do not know the
result.
Another cutting I possess recounts a Ratnagiri
Brahmin's fatal faith in mantras plus douches of cold
holy-water, when bitten in 1935 by a very poisonous
snake of the west coast, whose local name is Pkursa.
He remained unconscious throughout the magic,
then died peacefully.
By contrast we find a firm belief in the efficacy of
snakebite itself to cure other ills, and, as is to be
expected, it nearly always ends fatally. Among my
records is one of a Vizagapatam Brahmin who had
himself intensively bitten by a cobra in the hope of
* Times of India, 23 Feb., 1934.
1
78 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
curing consumption, but died of the venom within two
hours. Much, however, is being done in Europe on
scientific lines in the use of snake-venom, and a report
in the Lancet for November 1934 aroused wide medical
interest. It revealed that part of the venom of the
Indian reptile called the Russell Viper was found
effective in stopping haemophilia, the bleeding disease
from which the Spanish ex-royal family suffers.
About the same time, Dr. Harriz, of the Pasteur
Institute, Paris, submitted a report to the British
Medical Association on his claims to have cured
internal growths with cobra-venom ; and the study
of snake serums for the cure of disease is still going on.
These notes, while carrying us slightly away from
our subject, are useful as showing that there is very often
a scientific basis for some of the most apparently
irrational beliefs, though those holding the super
stitions may be completely unconscious of
it,
and may
even, like the consumptive Brahmin, apply
it
in the
wrong way.
It
is
now time for us to examine India's snake-
legends and beliefs in the light of those elsewhere in
the world, which cast some light upon their signi
ficance.
First with regard to the origin of such folk-tales as
those to account for the descent ofthe Rajas of Manipur
and of Nagpur, and the turning of the Naga prince
into a snake at Madura. Sir James Frazer has shown*
that such stories as this all belong to a marked type,
the Beauty and the Beast group (as does the operatic
legend of Lohengrin). As stories of this type are often
told by savages to explain why they refrain from eating
certain animals, Frazer holds that they were "probably
*
The Golden Bough, iv, 125-132.
MYSTERIES OF THE SERPENT 179
at first told always to explain the totemic belief in the
kinship of certain families with certain species of
animals", and that when the husband and wife had
different clan totems, the violation of the totemic
tabus of either might result in their separation—which
occurs in this type of tale. He qualifies his totemistic
interpretation by pointing out that totemism, or a
set of tabus resembling
it,
must not always be assumed
to have existed wherever such stories are told, "for
it
is
certain that popular tales spread, by diffusion,
from tribe to tribe and nation to nation, till they may
be handed down by oral tradition among people who
neither practise nor understand the customs in which
the stories originated". He adds, however, that the
Manipur story has an analogy
:
the rulers of Ujjain
have for their crest an ass's head, and the legend of
their origin
is
that their progenitor was miraculously
born ofone who was an ass by day and a man by night,
owing to
a
divine curse. This, says Frazer, may very
well have been based on the existence at Ujjain of
a
line of rulers who had the ass for their totem.
Now, all the stories of this type appear to be based
on the "divine marriage" of human beings to gods
in animal form which have the power temporarily to
assume human form, and are bound up with (a) the
survival in folk-memory of the actual slaying of the
divine king in the agricultural ritual of the early
Mediterranean world, to which we have already given
consideration in an earlier chapter
;
and (b) the belief
in the physical fatherhood of
a
god. There
is,
through
out the eleven volumes of Frazer's monumental
Golden Bough, a great mass of evidence, for which
we have no space here, strikingly demonstrating the
connection.
l80 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
As a simple instance, among the Ewe-speaking
peoples of the Slave Coast of Africa, the python-god,
Danh-gbi, has a body of human wives, the Kosio,
who are the priestesses and temple-prostitutes, and a
close connection exists between the fertility of the soil
and the marriage of these women to the serpent-god,
for the time when new brides are sought for him is the
season when the millet is beginning to sprout ; the
marriage is deemed necessary to enable him to fulfil
his function of making the crops grow ; and he is
invoked in excessively wet, dry, or barren seasons.*
A reminiscence of similar custom appears to be pre
served in the fact that among the Takht, the true
Naga race of the Himalayan border, there are shrines
to the Nagin, or wives of the ancient, deified Naga
chiefs! ; and in Behar, during the months of Sawan
(August), crowds of women go about calling them
selves Nagin, or wives of the cobra, ceremonially
begging, half their proceeds going to the Brahmins
and half being expended in sweetmeats eaten by the
whole village.^
It is widely believed that the "external soul" of a
chief or a witch-doctor passes at death into a snake,
and that a chief is reincarnated as a snake, or can
temporarily inhabit one in life—which no doubt is the
explanation of that queer story of Belthu Reddi and
the Jangam temple. Here again we seem to have the
life of the king, and thus of the tribe and its crops,
bound up with the totem, or symbol of the god ; which
totem, in the case of the snake, is itself closely bound
up with fertility, as is illustrated by world-wide
* Frazer, J. G., op. ext., v, 66, quoting A. B. Ellis, The Ewe-
Speaking Peoples.
f Oldham, C. F., op. tit. % Frazer, J. G., op. tit., ii, 149, 15°.
MYSTERIES OF THE SERPENT l8l
customs of rain-magic in which the snake features.
The whole of these ideas originated in the Mediter
ranean region, Egypt in particular, and for a full
exposition of their antecedents I must refer the
reader to Elliot Smith's brilliant Evolution of the
Dragon.
India furnishes us with a good instance of a form
of communion with the divine animal in which all
may share before slaying, in the practice, very ob
viously agricultural, of the Mirasans of the Punjab,
loosely called a snake-tribe. Once a year, in September,
these people worship the snake for a period of nine
days. A snake-model of dough is made, painted
black and red, and put on a winnowing-basket. This
they carry round the village, and, on entering any
house, utter a blessing and ask for a little cake and
butter so that the house will thrive. When all the
houses have been visited, the dough snake is buried
and a small grave erected over
it,
and here during the
nine days the women come to worship, offering curds
at the grave. Here the dough snake
is
clearly a
substitute for a real one
;
and where snakes abound,
the worship
is
not offered at a dummy grave, but in
the jungle, where live reptiles are to be found.*
From Egypt by way of Babylonia, where the powers
of life-giving water and earth's fecundity are sym
bolized in Ea, the water-serpent,
a
group of migrants
belonging to what we now call the Archaic Culture
must have passed north-eastwards, entering India
by the Indus and having the Naga as the symbol—
totem,
if
you will—of their priest-kings. The great
city of Mohenjo-Daro, to the heights of which, in
refinement and sanitation, nothing in subsequent
*
Punjab Notes and Queries, ii, p. 91,
§
555. (March 1885.)
1 82 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
Indian civilization ever attained, is one of the cultural
capitals of this north-eastward migrating race.
Now, should this sound very far-fetched and theor
etical, I would point out the following very curious
facts, which I hope to elaborate in a subsequent book.
They are here put into print for the first time :
The caste known as Kolis, who are found not merely as
a fisher-people all along the western seaboard of India,
but also as agriculturists inland, claim in their own
folk-history to have been the servants of the Naga race.
They have their own priests, headmen, and gods,
the latter being represented by curious gable-shaped
silver plaques called Taks, of which, in the course
of long researches among the Kolis with Mr. Vishnu
Karandikar, I succeeded in collecting a large number
of accurate replicas beaten out for us in copper direct
from the originals.*
These Taks bear, in addition to the figures of the
Koli gods, certain symbols which appear to be writing,
and which are only found elsewhere in one place :
on the cylinder-seals of Mohenjo-Daro.
Some of the Koli gods are shown seated on cere
monial couches of a peculiar character, the design of
whose feet, again, is only found at Mohenjo-Daro.
The Kolis preserve a tradition that they and the
Nagas "brought the art of writing to India" under a
leader called Prithu Wainya. This individual, who
figures under the same name in the Puranas, is called
The Shining One, and he appears with "the face of an
eagle and a body covered with shining fish-scales" ;
this would appear to mean that he wore a ceremonial
eagle-mask, and armour of laminated plates. His
* The very name is suggestive of connection with the Takht
race.
MYSTERIES OF THE SERPENT 183
description is identical with, and his name analogous
to, that of the Babylonian culture-hero Oannes, while
the eagle-mask is familiar to us in the sculptures
of Mesopotamian priest-kings, who are shown wearing
it while engaged in the magical rite of fertilizing the
date-palm.
Most striking of all, the sungal, or sacred flail,
kept before the Naga shrines of the Takht people,
and used in their ceremonial penances, is the exact
counterpart, in its design, of that shown in the hands of
the Egyptian Osiris, as may be seen by an illustration
Oldham gives of the two flails together.*
Here again we see the Naga, in this association with
Osiris, typifying the divine king as the ultimate giver
of life, and we thus have an intelligible explanation
both for the India-wide belief in Naga Raj holding
the peerless jewel in the jungle, and for the part the
Nagas play in those great mythico-historical epics, the
Ramayana and the Mahabharata. Incidentally, in
connection with this aspect of Naga Raj, we may re
mark that folklore students are familiar with a curious
twist whereby old gods, on being dethroned by the con
quering of their worshippers, are driven underground,
and often, as is very clearly seen in Irish folklore,
become gnomes, fairies, or demons. f
Naga Raj, king of all king-cobras, is said, in every
case save the legend of holding the peerless diamond in
the jungle, to dwell deep underground, or under the
sea—an interesting association with the widespread
"water-dragon" of fertility. It will be recalled that in
the earthquake legend we have given, Vishnu sleeps on
his giant Naga deep in the bowels of the earth.
•
Oldham. C. F.. op. ext.
"f See Rhys, Mythology of Great Britain and Ireland.
184 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
Coming now to the epic stories, in the Ramayana,
when the monkey-clan chief Hanuman essays to cross
from India to Lanka (Ceylon) to rescue Sita, wife of
the hero Rama, after her abduction by the demon-king
Ravana, one of his enemies is Surasa, mother of the
Nagas. Rushing upon him with open jaws, she says
mockingly that he must pass through her mouth before
he can go any further. Hanuman made himself grow
larger, and Surasa's mouth expanded in proportion ;
the cunning monkey-king then suddenly contracted
himself to the size of a man's thumb and jumped
through the gap before Surasa could adjust herself,
whereupon she good-naturedly acknowledged her
defeat. There seems no doubt that Surasa is the ancient
water-serpent Ea, in a somewhat unfamiliar guise. The
only other reference to the Nagas in the Ramayana is
the statement that the terrible demon-king of Lanka,
Ravana, had in his time subjugated them among other
races—which I interpret, like the whole story of the
wanderings of Rama, to be a folk-memory of a migra
tion from north India to the south, and over to Ceylon,
and of tribal battles.
Surasa would appear by her name to be connected
with Surya, the sun-god, and this is interesting, for the
following reasons :
Fiist, side by side with the worship of the deified
Naga chiefs among the Takht of the Himalayan border
land, is that of the sun, which is their chief deity ;
and second, both the Nagas and the Children of the
Sun, whose organization and antecedents betray a
Mediterranean origin, are closely connected in the
Mahabharata.
This great, if somewhat wearisome, epic is briefly
the story of the titanic conflict between two groups of
MYSTERIES OF THE SERPENT 185
kinsmen, the Pandavas and the Kauravas. Kunti,
mother of the Pandavas and wife of their leader Pandu,
has a son by the sun-god. Bhima, brother of the great
Pandava hero Arjuna of the Bow,* is flung into the
Ganges during an internecine feud of this clan.
Through the waters, he reaches in the interior of the
earth the realm of the serpent-king, who gives him the
divine nectar of invincible strength.
Arjuna of the Bow is stated in one passage to be the
son of Indra ; this god, so confused is the pantheon,
figures as the rain-deity and enemy of the sun-god in
one passage, and as the sun-god himself in another.
We now find Arjuna entering the Ganges for a
bathe ; he is drawn down by Ulupi, daughter of the
king of the Nagas, who seduces him, and in return for
his copulative services endows him with the power of
invisibility in water.
Shortly after this Arjuna, with his brother-in-law, the
shining Krishna, who is obviously a human tribal
leader later elevated to the position of a god, have a
great combat, on behalf of the fire-god Agni, Indra the
rain-god and his hosts, and win. Later, when the
Pandavas call on the sun-god and receive his aid in
their exile after a victory by the Kauravas, Arjuna
addresses Krishna himself as "thou who, having floated
on the primordial waters, subsequently became Surya"
— (and a string of other deities)
—"and the firmament
and the earth". After further adventures Arjuna
rejoins Krishna and the rest of the Pandavas, descend
ing from heaven in the chariot of Indra, who here
symbolizes the sun-god.
Finally, when Arjuna is laid low in a terrific combat
* He is the prototype of the Norse hero-archer Aesgil, among other
hero-demigods.
1 86 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
by his own son, the Raja of Manipura, who cuts off his
head, that son himself procures from Naga Raj, who
dwells in the bowels of the earth, a certain jewel which,
when applied to the dead, brings them to life. Arjuna's
head is restored to his body, and father and son are
reconciled. It seems quite obvious that Naga Raj here
represents a dim folk-memory of an earlier invading
race, the Naga-clan, whose divine king was a form of
the Osiris, giver of life.
Not the least remarkable part of the Mahabharata is
its Indian version of the Flood story, which is put into
the mouth of a sage, and which in its early stages
strongly resembles the Babylonian and biblical stories,
with which it of course shares a common Mediter
ranean origin. The Indian Noah, who builds an ark,
is the Rishi (sage) Manu, to whom there finally appears
Brahma, lord of creation, in the form of a great horned
fish, which tows his ark through the floods and brings it
safely to rest on the Himalayas, in gratitude for his
having saved and cared for it when it was very small.
Here again is our old friend Ea the water-fertility
deity, though in strange guise ; here too is the symbolic
horned asp of Egypt ; and the prototype alike of the
Wise Serpent in the oldest stories of mankind, and of
the brazen serpent of Israel in the Wilderness.*
* There seems little doubt that the origin of India's peculiar form
of worship of the Nagas as deified ancestors is ultimately traceable
to the function in the early Mediterranean culture of the "gods-incar
nate", or human kings regarded as gods ; on which the reader is
advised to study the thesis of The Golden Bough. This would explain
also the idea of the human wives of the snake-gods.
CHAPTER VIII
BEYOND THE VEIL
CERTAIN
kinds of occult phenomena are universal
in their distribution, and chief among them is the
poltergeist, as familiar to England as to the Orient.
The spiritualist looks upon the poltergeist as an earth-
bound "elemental" spirit of low and malevolent
intelligence ; those occultists who do not accept the
concepts and language of spiritualism regard it as a
low-vibration form of energy, possibly thought-forms
surviving from the disintegration of an intelligence
after what is commonly termed "death". In any
case, the visible effects of a poltergeist are the same
wherever found, and generally consist of a playful
tendency to hurl things about, to the discomfort of all
concerned—one of the characteristics of the medieval
folk-lore figure known as Puck.
I encountered some interesting cases of poltergeist
phenomena in India. Thus in May 1934 the house of
a Punjabi zemindar (landowner) in a village near
Lyallpur was for three weeks continuously the object
of a mysterious attack ; every day, about sunset,
there came a rain of stones and other brickbats on the
roof; they seemed to hurtle out of the sky, and even
a strict watch failed to disclose any visible source of the
bombardment. Three members of the family were
187
l88 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
injured, then the rain of stones ceased as abruptly as it
had begun.
Similar, and equally inexplicable, was another
Punjab case only a couple of months later, when a
party of hikers camping at Haran Minara, where they
were studying the famous hunting-lodge of the Em
peror Jehangir, were bombarded with stones appar
ently falling from nowhere. This happened for three
days in succession, and police officers, who investigated
and combed the surrounding area while the stone-
throwing was still in progress, failed to discover its
source. The students, on returning to Sheikhapura
and making inquiries, found that the Haran Minara
building had long had an evil reputation for haunting.
A curious feature of the stone-throwing there was that it
was always preceded by a noise like the splashing ofwater.
In Bombay city we had an even more peculiar
case, in October of the same year. Here there
occurred a downpour of rice, lasting from 8.30 p.m.
to 1.30 a.m. for two nights in succession, from the
ceilings of the second-floor rooms in a house at Dana
Bunder, in the Indian town. I visited the place and
investigated fully ; the whole of the ceilings were in
tact, and no rice was stored above them, so the work of
a practical joker appears to be ruled out, especially
as the families living in these one-room tenements all
got treated equally to the rice-shower at the same time,
and most of them were asleep, with their doors bolted,
when it began. After the second visitation the
terrified Hindu tenants sent for an astrologer, who,
though unable to explain the mystery, performed
certain rites and hung up a lemon and a coconut from
the ceiling to break the spell ; there was certainly no
repetition of the occurrence after that.
BEYOND THE VEIL 189
When there is no apparent motive, these incidents
are attributed in India to the malevolence of a bhut,
or evil spirit ; when there is one, the poltergeist
phenomena are ascribed to the human agency of black
magic. An Indian friend related to me such a case
within his own experience in Malabar, when staying
there a few years ago with his uncle. The uncle had
a dispute with a neighbour over the boundary of a
paddy-field, and the parties took the matter to court.
While the case was sub judice, but with every prospect
of its ending in favour of my friend's uncle, a bom
bardment of stones one night rained on the house,
battering the doors and smashing the windows, when
the whole family had retired. Naturally, suspicion
fell at once on the litigious neighbour ; but, despite
an immediate and thorough search in and around the
compound, not a soul could be found. The nuisance
was repeated every night for a week, and culminated
in a daytime bombardment in which stones fell clean
through the thatched roof with great force. This was
the last manifestation ; the disturbance ceased while
the case in court was still in progress, and investigation
showed that the neighbour could not possibly have been
responsible.
It is very usual to find a poltergeist force being con
centrated on, and, indeed, centred in, one particular
person. When this occurs the Indian peasant of
course says that person is possessed of an evil spirit,
or is being cursed or haunted ; the western student of
psycho-physics takes the view that such a person is
(on the analogy of radio) a kind of "receiving-set"
unfortunately attuned to the reception of these wave-
vibrations, and thereby a medium which releases them
into tangible activity.
igo INDIAN UNDERWORLD
A remarkable case came to light in April ig34 at the
village of Kanhur, near Ahmednagar, where, it was
revealed, a peasant's daughter-in-law had been
"haunted" for two years, being subject to violent
attacks from some unknown force. While working,
the woman would suddenly find herself being strangled,
and discover round her neck a "lamp-string" of the
type used for tying corpses to the bier, while her body
was covered with black lines and crosses, apparently
made by the bibba, a nut used in the same way that we
use marking-ink. A well-known Ahmednagar lawyer,
who was also a landowner of some standing in the
village, assured me that he was actually present in the
house when one of these weird attacks was made on the
woman. He saw the corpse-string appear round her
neck from nowhere, and saw her coil of hair (worn at
the nape of the neck by Hindu women) cut off, as by
an invisible knife. Finally, bHbba-seeds fell out of her
mouth. Peculiar features of these attacks were that the
woman remained always completely conscious through
out her ordeal, and that her visitations only occurred
on Tuesdays, Thursdays, new moon, and full moon.
They apparently had no relation to her periodicity.
On some occasions her husband and children also
found the black bibba-markings on their bodies at the
same time ; and friends had to keep a close watch
over the woman to see that she was not strangled.
There was a strange end to this haunting : Hindu
sympathizers sent the family some sacred ashes, known
as bhasma, and a Christian priest sent a handkerchief
which had been blessed ; and thereafter there was no
repetition of the trouble. I would not like to hazard
a guess as to which of the two "charms", if either, was
the efficacious one !
BEYOND THE VEIL
Another interesting case of connection between a
poltergeist and a specific person came from the village
of Thakurganj, in north Bengal, during the same year.
For about a month stones rained down on the roof
of the kitchen at a depot there —but only when one
particular cook, a man named Golap Jha, was on the
premises. The facts of this were confirmed by Babu
Satish Chandra Das Gupta, the chief officer of the
depot, and by Dr. Tincowri Sarkar, the medical officer
in charge of the local hospital, and finally Press
representatives were invited to a demonstration. The
cook, then working in a near-by bazaar, was fetched in,
after men had been placed all round the outside of the
kitchen, in a cordon, to see whence came the stones.
As soon as Golap Jha took his seat on the verandah,
a large stone fell with great force on the corrugated-
iron roof of the kitchen. Asked whence it came, the
watchers outside declared they only saw it when it was
about two feet from the roof, hurtling down. The
stone was fetched down from the roof and examined,
and all present agreed that there was none like it to be
found in the village, and that it must have come from
the bed of the Mechi river, a mile and a half away.
A few minutes later there was another great noise, and
this time two bricks were seen to fall from the sky on
the roof. The terrified cook fled back to his bazaar,
saying he feared to remain in a spot where he had
evidently "disturbed the spirit". The man had worked
for the depot officer for nearly eighteen months before
this manifestation began ; it only happened when he
was in the kitchen, and did not occur in other buildings
in association with him.
This was quite to be expected, for the restriction, or
concentration, of the supernormal activity is a familiar
192 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
feature in cases of this kind. I once investigated one
in England, in which a small schoolgirl suddenly
became the force-centre of a poltergeist energy which
flung furniture and crockery about in her home ; when
she was removed to a relative's house the manifestation
in her own home ceased, and it did not accompany her
to that of the relative. In this case the "haunting" was
accompanied by the materialization of a hairy, ape
like arm, which threw off the tablecloth. After long
investigation by myself and several other occultists, we
traced the trouble to a beam in the child's bedroom,
which beam had come from the village mill, where the
miller of half a century before had hanged himself.
On our advice the father took the beam out and
burned
it,
and thereafter all visitations ceased. Here
is
a clear instance of a low thought-form, apparently
surviving from the personality of the suicidal miller,
remaining attached to the beam by some "wave-pro
cess" that we do not yet understand, and becoming
transformed into
a
malevolent form of energy through
the body of the little girl, who, unfortunately for her,
possessed vibrations that made her an appropriate
"transformer" or receiver.
From Bengal we may next turn to some incidents
at the other end of India—Malabar, which has an
intense belief in the evil spirits known as Kuttich-
chathans, or "satans", which are said to be a gnome
like spirit-people, very small in build, incurably
mischievous, and nearly always on bad terms with
human beings. The witch-doctors of Malabar are
daily kept busy exorcizing persons, places, and houses
from their hoodoo.
A Travancore schoolmaster, Mr. K. Venkates-
waran, to whom
I
am indebted for many details of
BEYOND THE VEIL 193
south-Indian beliefs, told me of a weird experience he
had some years ago when staying in a Travancore
house with friends for a couple of months. They could
hardly ever get a night's undisturbed rest, owing to the
weird sounds coming from the upper storey of the
house, whence emanated the dull thumping noise of
paddy-husking by means of a pestle and mortar.
Although they often paid sudden visits to the attic,
there was nothing to be seen to account for the noise,
which stopped as soon as the investigators reached the
door, and recommenced when they had descended.
After a few weeks the manifestations became worse ;
weird bluish fire was seen on the surface of the house-
tank, with sounds ofweeping and wailing coming from
its midst, and the disturbance became so bad that the
friends finally left the house.
The same scholar told me of a curious case of
"possession" in a Travancore village, where a woman
of respectable family, who was not normally strong,
suddenly became possessed of amazing physical
strength, being able, for instance, to lift up a heavy
household table with one hand. Also, she continually
produced from beneath her bed articles she and other
members of the household had missed, and had thought
stolen, some years before —although, on each occasion,
there was nothing under the bed a few minutes before.
Her neighbours declared that Kuttichchathan was
at the bottom of all this, and fetched in a trusted local
magician, who performed a succession of weird rites,
after which the woman was freed from her trouble and
became normal again.
Mr. Venkateswaran investigated for me a sensational
occurrence in a village of Central Travancore in May
1933, and from his report this seems to have followed
194 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
the normal course of poltergeist activity, a young girl
being the "victim". Stones hurtled at the house from
nowhere ; when rice was boiling in the kitchen, the
cooking-pot suddenly became fouled by unidentifiable
foreign matter with an overpowering stench ; and the
young girl seemed to become possessed, using obscene
language and terrible threats, of which she later had
no knowledge.
Several exorcists wrestled with the evil, and one
finally claimed to have made the "spirit" promise it
would leave the house and the body of the girl ; so the
next day the men of the house went off to their work
in the fields, thinking there would be no more trouble.
Hardly had they gone, however, when the girl was
again possessed, abused the other women of the family,
and said, in a voice totally unlike her own (and claimed
to be that of the evil spirit) : "You are trying to drive
me away ; you shall see what comes of it." At that
moment the house burst into flames, and it was nearly
destroyed before help could be procured ; the girl
made several attempts to throw herself into the flames,
and had to be locked in an outhouse for her own safety.
When the fire was subdued, however, she was missing ;
she was later found sitting, unburned, in a half-gutted
room of the house.
Frequently a hoodoo attaches to a building rather
than to a person. Whatever be the explanation, it is a
fact that some houses do hold an evil influence, as I
can personally testify, having lived in one here in
staid England until it became utterly intolerable.
There is a flat in a house in Ripon Road, Bombay,
where every tenant has either, met with misfortune or
left in disgrace. A railway engineer who lived in it lost
his job and several members of his family soon after
BEYOND THE VEIL 195
moving in ; the next tenants, a young married couple,
drifted swiftly into discord, and the wife left with all
her husband's belongings ; then came a restaurant-
keeper, who, soon after moving in, lost his business and
was ruined, and had to "flit" one night without paying
his rent ; and, finally, a personal acquaintance of
mine, pooh-poohing superstition, took the flat. When
he went there he was in fairly comfortable circum
stances ; he soon fell into bad health and financial
trouble. He developed a violent temper, resulting in
daily discord between himself and his wife ; and the
affair might have ended in tragedy had he not had a
friendly chat with the rent-collector, who advised him
to move elsewhere. He did, and his affairs immedi
ately returned to normal prosperity and happiness.
Indians have a curious belief that three-cornered
houses are particularly unlucky. Buildings of this
queer structure are common in towns like Bombay,
where space is cramped, and houses are put up on
every available corner of land. I know of several
"triangular" houses in that city which bear an evil
reputation for their tenants meeting with misfortune.
Of course, we have in England a famous three-cornered
house, the Triangular Lodge at Rushden, Northants,
built by Sir Thomas Tresham in honour of the Trinity,
with all its doors and windows in threes. It certainly
did not bring him good fortune, as he lost his head in
Gunpowder Plot.
Returning to supernormal influences on people, I
have in my records a peculiar affair from Kolhapur, in
July 1934. Here a woman named Anandibai, wife of
R. B. Majumdar, was discovered missing from her bed
one night when the household was aroused by the
crying of her thrce-months-old baby, which slept with
196 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
her. Search revealed her floating out in the middle of
the sacred Mankarnika Tank, near the Mahalaxmi
temple, calling out the word "Narayan". Her face,
breast, and the front part of her sari were quite dry.
It took her some time to come to her senses ; she was
then got to the shore, as she could not swim, holding on
to a bamboo pole. When she recovered, she said all
she knew was that someone lifted her from her bed,
carried her through the air, and laid her on the water,
the cold touch of which woke her. The village, of
course, declared she had been carried off by a spirit.
To supernatural circumstance was ascribed the death
of an out-caste youth in a Punjab village in November
1934. Apparently in the best of health, he had
occasion to visit a graveyard, where he picked up a
piece of white cloth from the ground to clean his hands.
They at once swelled up ; the youth dashed home, lay
down, went into a trance, and declared that he
belonged to the company of the spirits and that none
should interfere with him. A sorcerer tried to expel
the devil, but the youth died within two hours. On
reading this tale in the papers, I thought the victim
must have contracted some disease from the rag, as one
might easily do in an Indian graveyard, but, if so, the
action must have been remarkably swift ; unfortunately,
it was impossible to get any more exact details of this
interesting case.
Among miscellaneous phenomena which admit of
no scientific explanation must be placed what Sherlock
Holmes might have called "the case of the fiery tree".
This concerns a nim-tree which stands in the middle of
the grain market at Rupar, in the Ambala district of
the Punjab. About 1 1 o'clock on the night of Sunday,
10 June, 1934, there began a heavy shower of fiery
BEYOND THE VEIL 197
sparks falling from the top ofthe tree. After continuing
for about half an hour, it suddenly ceased, and close
examination showed not a trace offire, ashes, charcoal,
or even singeing either* of the tree or the ground ;
nor could any trace of gunpowder or potash be dis
covered. One old resident then recalled that the same
phenomenon occurred at the same tree forty-three
years before.
The nim is sacred throughout India, and always held
to be the abode of a spirit —very often, in the jungle,
of tribal ancestors. An aged mm-tree in Myingyan,
Burma, at the end of 1934, suddenly surprised the
residents by taking on the functions of a toddy-palm,
for it began exuding a potent sap indistinguishable
from toddy, to the extent of a gallon and a half daily.
Invalids of the district claimed relief after drinking this
"nectar of the gods", the provision of which they
attributed to beneficent nats (the Burmese term for
spirits) inhabiting the old tree. Possibly botanical
examination would have disclosed a perfectly natural
reason for the nim's apparent change of function,
but no scientific explanation can be given for a class of
malevolent hauntings we shall now consider.
Kandy, Ceylon, has a notorious railway bridge, from
which countless people have fallen by accident or
suicidal intent ; when an inquest was held on a victim
in July 1934 the police stated that they had found
tufts of black hairjammed under the railway sleepers to
act as a charm against the evil. Two months later a
Bombay merchant's agent fell off this bridge, making
the tenth victim in that year alone ; and all Ceylon
firmly believes the bridge is haunted.
I have had unpleasant personal experience, as also
have several acquaintances, of a singular hoodoo spot in
I98 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
Bombay. This is a point on the seaboard drive known
as Hornby Vellard, immediately opposite a place
known as Haji Ali's Durga, an ancient Muslim shrine
built in honour of Haji Ali, a pir, or saint, who was
drowned there ; the shrine stands on a little promontory
out in the sea. On several occasions, driving past this
spot in the small hours of the morning, I have felt
myself enveloped in what seemed like a patch of ice-
cold air, though the night temperature was never
much below eighty degrees, and have felt my wrists
gripped by cold, steel-like hands, and the steering-
wheel forced sharply over towards the footpath and
palm-trees. On two of these occasions I found blue
bruise-marks on my wrists, which were even there next
morning ; and another time on approaching this spot I
found another European who had come to grief at
it,
with his car-bonnet nuzzling a palm . He had experienced
exactly the same feeling as myself, and he also had
bruises and claw-like marks on his wrists. It seems
very peculiar that this malevolent influence, whatever
it
is,
should exist near the shrine of a saint.
This, however, was nothing compared with the
ordeal that befell
a
girl dancer friend of mine;
it
forms perhaps the weirdest of all the ghost-records
I
collected in India, and
it
provides a very curious
instance of what
is
known as "mass-haunting".
After performing in cabaret at Ahmedabad one night
in January 1935, the dancer drove out alone for
a
breath of air along the road between Chindola Lake
and Kankaria Lake. Here, when she reached a spot
where one side of the road
is
lined with ancient Muslim
tombs, and on the other stand the ruined wall and
aiwan (gate) of an ancient mosque, she was astonished to
see
a
figure in white standing right in the path of the
BEYOND THE VEIL 199
car. Hooting failed to make it move, so my friend
pulled up. Only then did she realize it was not some
straying peasant in his white dhoti, but a transparent
figure nearly twice life-size.
This apparition suddenly vanished ; the danseuse
then saw a glow of flame on her right, and on looking
closely, was amazed to see a fierce duel in progress
round a fire up against the mosque wall, the combat
ants being attired in costumes she had never seen worn
during a lifetime spent all over India. Later, when
describing the experience to an Indian scholar, she
was informed that they were costumes of Mughal
times (the late seventeenth century).
One ofthe duellists swished at the other's head with a
great scimitar, decapitating him ; to her horror, the
danseuse saw the headless body, spouting blood from
the neck, dash straight at her car. Though normally,
I know, she has nerves of steel, she screamed and
fainted. When she came round, she found herself still
seated in the car, with the switch-key in her hand,
ditched in a field some twenty feet off the road ; and
to this day she does not remember driving it there,
while, to add to the mystery, the car had gone clean
across a fairly deep nullah, or roadside ditch.
My friend managed with difficulty to get the car
back on the road, by which time the fire and figures
had vanished. Determined to investigate the affair,
she drove out again in the morning, but could find no
trace ofa fire, ashes, or blood against the mosque ruins.
Historical records threw no light on the matter, but
local tradition said that at some vague time during
the Mughal occupation there was a fight outside the
mosque in which a man was beheaded, and that the
road at this spot was said to be haunted.
200 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
However, there was a sequel, which showed that the
danseuse had evidently had a very narrow escape from
some elemental force. She mentioned her experience
to a German friend then in Ahmedabad, who had
studied occult phenomena very deeply, and he agreed
to drive her out to the place again next night. As
they approached, she begged him to turn back, feeling
that something terrible and evil lurked there, but he
reassured her and drove on.
Arrived opposite the mosque wall, they both heard a
horrible, uncanny laugh, and the girl lost consciousness.
Her German companion told her later, when they were
safely back in Ahmedabad and she had recovered
from the shock, that just as they heard the laugh he
saw a pair of black hands descending over the back of
the open car to clutch her throat.
His knowledge saved her, for, knowing the fact,
familiar to occultists, that steel dispels elemental
emanations, he had taken with him a dagger. With this
he attacked the ghostly hands as they gripped the girl's
throat, and they instantly vanished. The danseuse,
however, had blue marks and deep claw-like dents
round her throat for some days afterwards.
There seems no doubt that here survived evil
thought-forms from a deed of violence, capable of
transmission into dangerous activity with this particular
person as an unconsciously attuned medium. Very
different in spirit and character was a survival of
thought-form experienced in Malabar by my Brahmin
friend Vishnu Karandikar, some of whose researches I
have already recounted in the foregoing pages. Some
years ago, unable to complete his journey to schedule
owing to bad weather, and having to travel up-
river, he found himself more or less marooned one
BEYOND THE VEIL 201
evening, arriving at sunset at a village. From the
boat he espied a well-built house that looked un
occupied, and asked his boatmen, local men, if they
thought there would be any objection to his spending
the night there. They looked queerly at each other
and merely shrugged their shoulders, so he proceeded
to unload his camp-bed and impedimenta, and went
up to the house, the front door of which stood open.
As soon as Mr. Karandikar got inside, a courteous
old pandit, who seemed to be about seventy years of
age, rose from an Indian swing and welcomed him,
speaking, rather to my friend's surprise, in Sanskrit
instead of the Hindi lingua-franca usual today even
among Brahmins. Soon the conversation took a very
peculiar turn. Learning that Mr. Karandikar had
come from Maharashtra (the Mahratta country), the
pandit said casually, "By the way, I suppose Baji
Rao II is still Peshwa in Poona ?" Then my friend
realized what he had begun to suspect, that he was
talking to a spirit or a thought-form —for Baji Rao II,
last ruler of the mighty Mahratta Empire, abdicated in
1818.
Quickly recovering from the shock ofthis realization,
Mr. Karandikar decided he had an unrivalled oppor
tunity here, and he carefully avoided the risk of
dispelling the thought-form, by replying that he himself
had been away from Maharashtra for some time, deep
in his studies, and really did not know the latest
political developments there. The pandit went on
chatting familiarly of events we know to have hap
pened between 1790 and 181 6, as though he had been
at Poona the day before, and finally remarked, "I too
seem to have lost touch ; you see, I had an accident.
I fell into the river down there, and do not remember
202 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
anything about
it,
except that
I
found myself back in
my own house."
He then bade his guest good-night, after leaving
food with him. The next morning he was not to be
found to be thanked for his hospitality
;
and when
Mr. Karandikar investigated the local records, he dis
covered that
a
pandit who owned the house was actually
drowned in the river in front of
it
over a hundred years
ago. Since then the house was reputed to be haunted,
and the village took the view that
if
you slept there
you did so at your own risk. Feeling that some part of
the old scholar's personality might be earthbound to
the spot because his tragic death had rendered
it
impossible to give him his Brahmin funeral with Vedic
rites, as the body was never found, Mr. Karandikar
performed the necessary rites at the house before
leaving.
Experiences such as this, and that which befell
Mr. Karandikar and myself with the image of Gayatri
at Mahableshwar, as related in an earlier chapter,
cannot be explained by western science. It were
foolish, indeed, to deny, when one has the evidence of
one's own eyes, that there does exist a great deal of
occult influence, both good and evil, in the ancient
holy places of India. To understand how and why
both should occur together,
it
is
necessary to know
something of basic Hindu philosophy
;
so much
utter nonsense has been written by Europeans on the
subject that
I
feel justified in giving here certain
statements of the Hindu esoteric view.
I
believe this
is
the first time such
a
direct, first-hand statement has
ever appeared in print, and
I
am enabled to give
it
by
the courtesy ofa very learned Brahmin priest on the one
condition that his anonymity
is
respected, solely be
BEYOND THE VEIL 203
cause he has a horror ofall publicity and controversy—
which is why the European, even though he be a seeker
after truth, can rarely get a priest to make any serious
utterance on the matter for publication. My friend
says :
"In our ancient holy places, we Brahmin students
of occult wisdom find, still existing, powerful surges
of forces, which are of different types and age ;
they exist almost, as it were, in strata, each with its
distinctive 'colour-tone'. This is a fact of which
you western occultists are partly aware when you
speak of the colour of an aura surrounding a person.
"These forces each respond to their complement
ary vibrations in thought and sound ; this is under
standable if you think for a moment of the Tibetan
use of the 'symbol of perfection', Om, and the
cumulative vibration its mass-repetition produces.
"At the temple on Parvati Hill, at Poona, which
was made the chief centre of Hindu revivalism by
Nanasaheb Peshwa in 1739-49, seven underground
cellars have been discovered by excavation. There
arose in these, by the use of the appropriate mantras,
seven distinct types of psychic 'notes', which were
intended to build up a harmonious totality for those
who believe in these ancient 'words of power' —the
existence and force of which (magical, ifyou care to
call it so) were recognized in ancient Egypt.
"Meditating in this place, I sensed layers of
powerful forces ; those in the earliest strata seemed
'colourless', but the later ones, deepening in colour-
tone, were mixed with dull, red-brown, sediment-like
emanations, indicating earthbound, physical sex-
radiations of the type controlled in the exercise of
204 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
the lowest form of yoga, the prayana-yoga. These,
however useful they may have been in the primitive
stages of mankind's culture, in connection, for in
stance, with the ensuring of the earth's fertility, were
certainly out of place even in the eighteenth century.
"It was this gradual deterioration in the use and
application of the mantras which developed and
intensified in these seven cellars on Parvati Hill.
Why? Because man does not always realize the
possibility of an individual, who is being used as a
means of working these words of power, being
coloured by personal desires of a purely physical type.
His personality not only destroys the efficacy of the
vibrational Power-harmony which is being created,
but also causes its loosening into disruptive and often
malevolent activity. Thus apparently was nullified
the definite plan on which, as the construction of the
Parvati temple and the whole of those hilltop
buildings indicates, a powerful yantra was being
formed and vitalized by the chanting of mantras.
"Just as, in the early years of the Christian era,
King Samudragupta performed the Horse Sacrifice
as indicating the revival of the ancient sacrificial
type of Hinduism, or as Harsha in the sixth century
performed austerities and gave away all in charity
to revive the charity aspect of Hinduism, so in the
eighteenth century did Nanasaheb Peshwa attempt
the revival ofthe esoteric forms on Parvati, to provide
militant Hinduism with a potent weapon against
militant Islam. That was why he even moved his
capital from Satara to Poona, and Parvati became
the centre of spiritual power.
"This cumulative power grew ; but with it grew
the danger, caused by the intrusive emanations of
BEYOND THE VEIL 205
what I should call the un-pure, the individuals
operating the mantras, who were not free ofthe earth-
bound attachment ; thus the power disintegrated
into a disruptive force for evil, and the worship
degenerated into the sakti, which is based purely on
the gratification of the sex-impulse, and which
results in the orgies that so disfigure much of our
practical Hinduism of today. By a poetic justice,
the result was the breaking ofthe Maratha power for
ever at the battle of Panipet. It is, frankly, the
task ofus Brahmin priests to abolish the stigma, and,
by cleansing our worship from sakti, to weaken the
resistance of these emanations that are wholly evil."
How true this is, the average Englishman, drugged
into an unthinking stupor by his mass-tastes—his
standardized radio, cinema, football —will probably
have difficulty in realizing, if indeed he has the brains
to bother to think on the matter at all. The few who
do not let their minds lie in the rut, however, will be
convinced by the evidence offirst-hand experience, such
as fell to my own lot in company with this same Hindu
priest whose notes I have just quoted, as to the in
calculable, evilly potent mind-forces that survive in the
world from other ages.
In the course of my archaeological work in India I
had the good fortune to discover the site of the ancient
city of Puri, which in the twelfth century of our era
was the capital from which the Northern Silaharas
ruled over their small empire of the Deccan. There
was but one slight literary clue in ancient Indian
records as to its probable site, and this led me to search
in the desolate scrub-country some fifteen miles east of
Bombay. To my wife wholly belongs the honour of
2o6 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
"drawing first blood" in the discovery, as she noticed
an ancient carved stone when, in hunting for the site,
we got the car stuck in the sandy wilderness near the
village of Marol. This led to explorations resulting in
our discovery of building-ruins extending over an area
of some two square miles, and finally, in the midst of
it,
a large temple site.
When itcame to getting labour, however, we could
not induce a single Indian to go near the place, even
the Indian Christians (whose alleged Christianity
is
of a
very superficial and barbaric order). All declared the
spot was accursed and that, varyingly, the gods or
demons dwelt there, and would wreak vengeance on
anyone touching any of the stones—despite the fact
that the site contained a couple ofancient sacred Hindu
tanks, and several images of the elephant-god Ganesh
among the undergrowth. At this time, apart from
such stray fragments of sculpture, there was nothing to
be seen above-ground but a great verandah-like
platform with a balustrade of stone lattice-work some
hundred feet long, and, some distance from this, the
outline of foundations of a small building only some
twenty-four feet square.
So we set to work to do our own excavating,
a
gruel
ling task in a temperature of well over a hundred, and
after a fortnight's work we unearthed the ground-
plan of
a
typical shrine dedicated to the sexual siva-
linga worship. That
is,
its layout was typical in all
but one respect —the pointed-oval base for the lingam
faced the wrong way
;
the shrine entrance was at the
wrong end
;
and so were the footing-blocks of the
mandrapaisa, or pillared hall in front of the shrine. In
short,
it
reminded one strongly of the ritual arrange
ments for the Black Mass in medieval Europe, in
BEYOND THE VEIL 207
which the ecclesiastical Mass was travestied, said
backwards, with black candles and obscenities decorat
ing the altar.
My wife thereafter flatly refused to visit the spot,
saying she felt an influence around it that was wholly
evil ; and I too felt this unseen force. In clearing the
debris outside the shrine itself we had, a few days
before, found a tall oblong pillar inscribed with a land-
grant ofa date corresponding to a.d. i i 72, and bearing
a carving, familiar in Indian archaeology, known as the
"ass-curse", intended to lay a curse on anyone inter
fering with the terms of the grant. This sculpture
depicted one of the worst imaginable sexual abortions :
of a disgusting nature hardly to be described in a
book such as this. Two peasants whom we finally
persuaded to take a truck up for the purpose of
removing this land-grant to the Prince of Wales
Museum fled in terror the minute they set eyes on the
sivalinga shrine newly excavated close by, declaring
that it was inhabited by an evil spirit, and nothing
would induce them to do the job ; in the end, in fact,
I had to turn over the whole site to the museum on
leaving India, and leave its staff to wrestle with the
problem of getting the stone shifted.
After these discoveries I got in touch with my
priest friend, knowing him to be deeply learned in
black magic and Sanskrit, for the purpose of finding
out more about this evil shrine. We went there on the
night of the full-moon festival, and on the sivalinga
base the priest performed certain Tantric rites, in
volving the use of incantations and a bowl of pig's
blood —a well-known substance in occult ritual for
causing the materialization of elemental forms.
As I have hinted in speaking of the poltergeist, it
208 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
is not necessary to regard these "elementals" as the
actual disembodied spirits ofpersons evil in life, or even
as discarnate intelligences, so much as thought-forms,
so powerful that they have persisted through the ages.
This is the view of "ghosts" as set forth forty years ago
by Hudson, in his brilliant Law of Psychic Phenomena,
written before wireless had become an established
fact, but, in its theory, bearing striking analogy to what
we now know of radio wave-action. Baird, our
television pioneer, declared not long ago that if we
had the radio apparatus powerful enough we could
recapture the words even of Henry VIII, which are
still somewhere in the universe as sound-waves.
Such an analogy may well be used in considering
thought-waves, for they too are indestructible, and,
when impinging on a living personality attuned to the
right wavelength, as it were, are in some cases suscep
tible of materialization into the form of the personal
ities that sent them forth —in vulgar parlance, ghosts.
That is why it is possible calmly to believe that powerful
maledictions uttered with the effective vibration co
efficients in ancient Egypt, and concentrated into
effective malevolence by a magic, or a science of
psycho-physics, the West has lost, may yet wreak
havoc on modern disturbers of Egyptian tombs.
To return to our shrine. Gradually out of the
smoke of the incense, hovering above the libation of
blood poured out into the central hollow of the lingam
base, there appeared vague, pillar-like shapes floating
mistily across the moon, but remaining outside the
circle of protection the priest had made, and within
which we stood. Two of these wraiths eventually
took a form nebulously human, though no features
were distinctly visible, and voices spoke in a sibilant
BEYOND THE VEIL 209
whisper. As the conversation was conducted in
Sanskrit, which I do not understand, my priest friend,
who made notes while it was in progress, translated it
to me afterwards as follows (sometimes one thought-
form spoke, sometimes the other) :
Wraith : We are summoned by the offering of
Lord Siva. What do you want with us ? Why do you
call us here ?
Priest : We would know the meaning of this shrine.
Wraith : Can we not go hence ? Are we ever
bound here ? [This was apparently a protest at being
earthbound to the spot.] It is a shrine of Lord Siva,
whose power ye surely know.
Priest : This we know. We would know why it is
all placed backwards. All the shrines of Lord Siva are
not thus.
Wraith : It is the shrine of the most hidden heart
of Siva, that worketh in darkness for man. Darkness
that is death whereof cometh life. It is not good that
ye know of it more, for the knowledge bringeth death.
Yama [the god of death] sleeps not.
Priest : Why worked ye the things of death in this
place ?
Wraith : We were the priests of Lord Siva, and as
he bid us, so did we. All in life standeth in the balance
with death. Of both sought we the secrets.
Priest : Why does the evil of this worship still
cling to this place ?
Wraith : What call ye evil ? Evil and good are
one. Death is not evil ; it is the gate of maya [oblivion].
Our lives were bound up with this shrine. Our
thoughts cannot die. They it is that are still here. It
is our thoughts to which you speak.
210 INDIAN UNDERWORLD
Priest : All men fear this place and avoid it.
What did ye here ?
Wraith : I have told thee ; we did the puja
[worship] of Lord Siva, he that demands blood of the
world to renew the world.
Priest : Then these stones are stained with the
blood of men ?
Wraith : What would ye ? All life is sacrifice.
Must not the god feed even as men ? By blood ye have
summoned us.
Priest : When was this shrine made ?
Wraith : When here was a great city that the
Silaharas made.
Priest : What date was that ?
Wraith : We know not what ye mean by date and
time. Thought is timeless. The god is timeless.
Always we dwell here, we thoughts ; we cling.
Priest : Where dwell ye now ?
Wraith : We know not what ye mean by that.
The bodies that we dwelt in lie yonder in samadh
[trance]. They were priests here. We are the thoughts
of them that ye have made to speak by your Tant
[magic]. Always dwell we here, with Lord Siva.
Further questions only produced the same kind of
answers, and it was evident that we had exhausted
the capacity or will of these ancient thought-forms for
further communication.
That they were utterly evil there can be no doubt ;
one could feel them trying to get at us, engulf us, could
feel them growing angry at their impotence to break
the circle of protection. The priest wisely felt it was
time to desist, before their vibrations became too
strong, and perhaps uncontrollable, and he dematerial
BEYOND THE VEIL 211
ized them with mantras and his ancient ritual. I had
a feeling of intense, cold terror during the whole of the
ceremony, and was frankly glad when it was over and
we could safely leave the shrine and return to the
civilization, poor as it was, of Marol village.
That was the last time, knowing what I do of
oriental occultism, that I ever went near the shrine—
a pity, perhaps, from the purely archaeological point
of view ; but there are some sites that are better not
disturbed, and ifever there was one in which a persistent
tradition of living mana was justified, it is this site.
As for the ritual my priest friend employed to material
ize the thought-forms of eight centuries ago, I have the
full details of it—but they are locked up, and there
they will safely remain. There are some things in
this great, mysterious India upon which it is best,
for the safety of the human soul, to let the curtain
fall.
THE END
w
APPENDIX A
NOTE ON HINDUSTANI PRONUNCIATION
Hindi pronunciation is very simple ; but, as most
English schoolmasters still persist in talking to their
pupils about the "Himmer-lay-ers", the following
notes may be helpful even to those who have survived
a public-school education. Accented syllable is put in
italics.
a. Short a is sound between English short a and short m. Good
examples are : short u in bungalow, which is actually the
Hindi word bangla ; suttee, which represents pronunciation
of Hindi word sati ; and Ganpati, pronounced Gun-putty.
a. Long a is sound between English ah and aw, e.g. Himalayas,
pron. Him-aA-li-uz, NOT Himmer-lay-ers.
au. Almost like long o, e.g. Gaut-ama. or Go-tama.
e. Short e as in English ; long e as in Italian, pron. as ay.
i. Short i as in English ; long i as in Italian, pron. as ee, e.g.
m*»=neem.
o. As in English, both short and long ; long o always full round
sound, as in our comb,
u. Short u sounds between English u of but and a of bat.
u. Long u pron. oo, as in Italian ; never like English yew.
ch. Hard, as in Eng. church ; never soft as in punch,
n. More nasal than English ; more like French gn.
r. More rolled than in English ; nearer Scots rr.
s. Normally as in Eng., but Hindi has a peculiar s equivalent to
sh ; in preceding pages it only occurs in following : Siva
(pron. Shee-vei) ; Sri (shree) ; Sankara (SAang-kurrer) ;
Laksmi or Laxmi (Luksh-mi) ; Sudra (sAoo-drer) ; Sakti
(shuk-tee).
th. As hard t with faint halt or aspirate, e.g. Thada=T'AaA-der ;
not like Eng. th of the or through,
v. Very soft, almost interchangeable with o ; thus dev or deo.
Sometimes almost w, as in vala or walla,
x. Pronounced ksh, e.g. Laxmi or Lakshmi.
Other sounds practically as in English.
213
APPENDIX B
GLOSSARY OF INDIAN TERMS USED
Pronunciation is in brackets, with accented syllable in italics
Aiwan (Ah-i-wahn)
Bhagat (B'-AaA-gut)
Bhasma (B'-Aws-mer)
Bhut (B'-hoot)
Dewan (Dee-wahn)
Dhobi (D'-hoh-bee)
Dhoti (D'-AoA-tee)
Dugpa (Doog-per)
Faqir {Fuk-keer)
Ghat (G'-AaA<)
Ghats (G'-hawtz)
Ghi (G'-hee)
Gulal (Goo-lahl)
Guru (Goo-roo)
Harijan {Harry-inn)
Jaduwala (/aA-doo-iwaZ-ler)
Jagganaut (/ug-ger-nawt)
Kund (Koond)
Kunku (Kung-Tioo)
Lathi (LaA-tee)
Lingam (Ling-gxim)
Mali (MaA-lee)
Mandrapaisa
(AfaA«-drra-/>a-eeza)
Mantras (Mun-txuz)
Maya (MaA-i-yah)
Meriah (Merry-ah)
Muth (Moo-t)
Naga (NaA-ger)
Naga Raj (Nak-ger Rah-dj)
Nat (ATaA-t)
Nim (Neem)
Odiyan (OA-dee-ahn)
Ojha (OA-jah)
gateway (Arab.)
magician
sacred ashes
evil spirit
Indian State premier
washerman
Hindu man's skirt-garment
master-magician
Muslim ascetic (Arab.)
sacred tank
mountains
clarified butter
red powder used in magic
religious teacher
out-caste
seller of quack potions
processional car of god
sacrificial slab
red powder used in magic
bamboo stave
penis, symbol of Siva
gardener
hall of temple
spells
oblivion
human sacrifice
curse, voodoo, magic
cobra
king of the cobras
spirit (Burmese)
a sacred tree
magician (in Malabar)
magician, usually exorcist
214
APPENDIX B 215
Panchayat (Pun-cAat-ut)
Pandit (Pu«-dit)
Patel, patil (Putt.«Z)
Pir (Peer)
Pipal (Pee-pul)
Puja (Poo-jer)
Pujari (Poo-jree)
Risbi (.Ree-shee)
Sadhu (Sah-dhoo)
Sadka (Swd-ker)
Samadh (Sum-oA-dh)
Sari (SaA-ree)
Sati (S«<-tee)
Sungal (Soon-gawl)
Swami (Swah-mee)
Sakti (SAwA-tee)
Saivite (SAat-i-vyte)
Sudra (SAoo-drer)
Tamasha (Tum-oA-sher)
Vaishnavite
( tfat-shnuv-vy te)
Yoga (yoA-gah)
Yogi (YoA-gee, g hard)
Zemindar, zamindar
Zutnm-in-der)
village council
learned man
headman
Muslim saint
a sacred tree
worship, offering
temple priest
sage
Hindu ascetic
magic against evil eye
state of trance
Indian woman's garment
Hindu widow's ritual suicide
flail of Naga god
Hindu religious teacher
sex-ritual
worshipper of Siva
servant caste
festivity, any disturbance
worshipper of Vishnu
science of breath-control
practitioner of Yoga
landowner
PORTUGUESE
Descendantes
(jDoy-shun-iaAn-taysh) Portuguese-Indian ruling class, des
cendants of the conquerors
Albuquerque
(-dAZ-boo-Aair-kway) The conqueror of Goa
Francisco Xavier
(Frahn-sAii-ko Shawy-ai*-) "Saint" and first Jesuit missionary
to India
APPENDIX C
BRIEF BIBLIOGRAPHY
Begouen, Count "Magic Origin of Prehistoric Art", in Antiquity,
vol. iii (1929).
Budge, E. A. W. Book of Opening the Mouth, vol. i. London :
Kegan Paul, 1909.
Budge, E. A. W. Life and Exploits of Alexander the Great. London :
Clay, 1896.
Codrington, R. H. The Melanesians. Oxford, 1891.
Crooke, W. Popular Religion and Folklore of Northern India.
Westminster, 1896.
Dalton, E. T. Descriptive Ethnology of Bengal. Calcutta : For Govt.
of Bengal, 1872.
Ellis, A. B. The Ewe-speaking Peoples.
Erman, Adolf. Die Mdrchen des Papyrus Westcar. Berlin, 1890.
Evans, A. B. Leicestershire Words, Phrases, and Proverbs (2nd edn.,
ed. S. Evans). London: Trubner, 1881.
Folklore Society. Leicestershire and Rutland in county series.
. (Ed. C. J. Billson.) London, 1895.
Frazer, James G. The Golden Bough : A Study in Magic and
Religion. In 12 vols. London : Macmillan, 1911-15 ;
abridged one-vol. edn., London : Macmillan, 1924.
Frazer, James G. Adonis, Attis, Osiris (as Part iv of The Golden
Bough, or independent 2nd edn., London : Macmillan, 1907).
Ghosh, Rai Sahib. "Rock-paintings and Other Antiquities of
Prehistoric and Later Times". Memoir of Archaeological
Survey of India. Calcutta, 1932.
Hodson, T. C. "The Native Tribes of Manipur", in Journ. Royal
Anthropological Institute for 1901.
Hodson, T. C. The Naga Tribes of Manipur. London, 191 1.
Hyderabad State. Police Report for year 1331 fasli (a.d. 1926).
Malinowski, B. "Magic, Science, and Religion", in Science, Religion,
and Reality (ed. Needham). London, 1925.
Mas' udl (Aba al-Hasan). Kitdb murujadh-dhahdb, given in Les
Prairies d'Or, ed. B. de Maynard and P. de Courtaille.
Paris, 1863.
Mateer, S. Native Life in Travancore. London : W. H. Allen, 1883.
Meek, C. K. Tribal Studies in Northern Nigeria. 2 vols. London :
Milford, 1925.
Miles, Arthur. Land of the Lingam. London : Hurst & Blackett,
APPENDIX C 217
Oldham, C. F. "The Nagas", in Journ. Royal Asiatic Soc, July,
1 901.
Perry, W. J. Children of the Sun. London : Methuen, 1923.
Perry, W. J. Origin of Magic and Religion. London : Methuen,
1923.
Perry, W. J. Growth of Civilization. London : Methuen, 1924.
Punjab. Punjab Notes and Queries, vol. ii (1885).
Smith, G. Elliot. Evolution of the Dragon. Manchester : Univ.
Press, 1919.
Smith, G. Elliot. Migrations of Early Culture. Manchester : Univ.
Press, 1920.
Somerville, A. Crime and Religious Belief in India. Calcutta,
I93I.
Travancore. State Manual, vol. ii.
INDIAN LITERARY TEXTS
The Ramayana of Valmiki and Mahabharata of Vyasa the Sage.
Best English summary is that of Oman, C. J., The Stories
of the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. (London : Rout-
ledge, n.d. ; earlier edn. in Bohn's Library, in series
Lubbock's "Hundred Best Books".)
Vedanta Sutras : In Sacred Books of the East, ed. Max Miiller, trans.
G. Thibaut, in vols. 34, 38, and 48. Commentary of
Shankaracharya is in vol. 38.
APPENDIX D
Chief Indian names used in this book, showing pronunciation.
Syllable on which accent falls is given in italics.
Ambala Um-6aA-ler Mahabharata Muh-ahb-hah-
Arjuna Urj-aer rutter
Badagas Budd-er-gaz Pandaria Pun-<iaA-reeyah
Chimi Chee-mee Pathan Putt-aA»
Durga Door-gei Ramayana .RaA-mah-ee-aA-
Gangaram
Gauhati
Gun-gurrum ner
Gau>-hutty Ratnagiri
Sadashive
.Rw<-ner-ge-ary
Sah-der-shee-
Ghats Ghaw-tz
Himalayas Him-aA-li-uz vay
Hukwang Hoo-koo-ang
(Assamese)
Sheikhapura Shayk-ha.-poo-
rer
Kalu Kah-loo Silaharas Shiller-AaA-ruz
Kanara Kun-aA-rer Siva SAee-ver
Karandikar Kurr-an-dikker Telugu
Thada Pennu
TeW-er-goo
Lambadis Lwm-ber-diz T'AaA-der Pen-
Laxmi LuAsA-mee noo
Madivalaya AfaA-diwa-/a»- Valmikudu Walmi-Aoo-doo
yer Venkateswara Weng-'ka.-tesh-
Mahishur Dev. AfaA-hishoo wurrer
Day-o Vishnu WisA-noo
Madura Mud-oo-rah Vizagapatam Wiz-agga-putt-
3x8
