{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__clymer___rosicrucian_hermetic_alchemical_catalogue.pdf","mytitle":"Rosicrucian Hermetic Alchemical Catalogue","mylang":"de"}
ROSICRUCIAN, HERMETIC ALCHEMICAL
and PHILOSOPHICAL n-93
TEXTS
<
PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING COMPANY
"BEVERLY HALL,” QUAKERTOWN, PENN'A. ,
Rosicrucian, Occult and
Soul-Development
Books
ENDORSED AND RECOMM ENDED BY
THE SECRET SCHOOLS
Comprising
The Rosicrucian Fraternity
The Tem ple of Eulis
The AEth Priesthood
Militia Crucifera Evangelica
The Order of the Magi
The Illuminati
The Osirians
Knights of Chivalry
The Fraternity of Osiris
Knights of the Rose and Cross
Illuminatce Americance
Priests and Princes of M elchizedek
*
Published by
T h e P h i l o s o p h i c a l P u b l i s h in g C o m p a n y
Beverly H all
Q lakertown, P ennsylvania
America’
s Oldest Occult
and Rosicrucian
Book Publishing House
This publishing house, ever since its
start in business in 1904, has special­
ized in the publication of books by
authors recognized as outstanding
authorities on Occult subjects and
Divine Law.
All books listed in this catalog are
thus certified as authentic and can be
studied with the assurance that they
contain occult truths which extend a
helping hand to the occult student on
the Path which leads to Spiritual
Growth, Soul Illum ination and
Immortality.
PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING
COMPANY
QUAKERTOW N, PEN N SY LV AN IA
T hrou gh this publication the Secret Schools
extend greetings to occult students throughout
the world, while at the same time announcing
an array of authentic occult books suggested
and recommended for study purposes.
Occult study, designed to lead man to Life,
Light, Wisdom, Soul Illumination and Immor­
tality, must be of a fourfold nature, incorpo­
rating the development of bodily health, men­
tal strength, Soul Consciousness, and material
and spiritual success in all affairs of life.
The books listed in this catalog recognize
the necessity of this fourfold development,
are in harmony with the teachings of the
Secret Schools, and offer a sufficient variety
to permit students a wide range of choice.
It has been the experience of the Secret
Schools that because of the ‘
authentic and
practical instructions contained in these
books the student continues to buy until ulti­
mately he is in possession of the complete li­
brary of books as listed and described in this
publication.
NEWLY REVISED FAVORITE BOOKS
It is a pleasure to announce that the popular occult books listed
below have recently been revised, improved and enlarged. Each
of these new editions contain truths not in the original editions.
Every chapter has been rewritten and revised for the purpose
of making these books highly valuable to occult students.
The Rosicrucians, Their Teachings. This book has been com­
pletely rewritten. Very little remains of the original edition. If
the title had been changed, few students would recognize this
book as being a revision of the original first publication under
this title. The revised edition carries a 1941 copyright.
The Philosophy of Fire. The revised 1943 edition contains
much new information. The chapter on “
Light”
or “
The Brethren
of Light”
is entirely new and places before the reader much new
information not found in any other current occult book. Contains
a full page reproduction of The Flame in authentic colors.
The Science of the Soul. Here is a book which perhaps has
been read by more individuals than any other authentic occult
book ever published. The new 1944 edition, with its wealth of
new material, should easily make it one of the world’
s most pop­
ular occult books. Because of the vitally important information
it contains, the study of this book is urgently recommended to
every student. It is in truth one of the most important occult
books available anywhere in the world.
THE ROSICRUCIANS; THEIR TEACHINGS, by R. Swin­
burne Clymer; printed on fine book paper; 238 pages, bound in
cloth; front and back stamped in gold. Price, postpaid, $2.50.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF FIRE, by R. Swinburne Clymer;
printed on fine book paper; 283 pages, front and back stamped
in gold; bound in cloth. Price, postpaid, $2.50.
SCIENCE OF THE SOUL, by R. Swinburne Clymer; printed
on fine book paper; 303 pages, bound in cloth; front and back
stamped in gold. Price, postpaid, $2.50.
THE ROSICRUCIANS; THEIR TEACHINGS
The author forcefully explains the teachings of the Rose Cross
Order, the mysteries and training of its students, and the funda­
mental laws as taught by the Secret Schools.
This book is especially recommended as a foundation study
for all students seeking the path of 'wisdom, knowledge and
Immortality.
The chapters include:
Initiation—The first steps to be taken, ‘
‘
the Soul’
s Climb
to the Divine.”
Rosicrucian Symbols.
The Rose—Symbol of Beauty, Life, Love and Pleasure.
The Cross.
The Winged Globe—A most Divine symbol of the Rose
Cross.
Rosicrucians and Freemasons.
Rosicrucians—The mystery explained.
The Rosicrucian Manifestoes.
It is the claim of the true and authentic Rosicrucian organi­
zation that its members possess knowledge acquired and passed
down thiough many centuries, and that this gives them a power,
a control over material affairs and conditions not possessed by
ordinary men.
The book explains that this knowledge and this power may
be acquired by normal men and women, and that Rosicrucian
C-crets and Truths are open to all who prove worthy to receive
them.
Neophytes of the Fraternity are requested to read this book.
All who consider applying for membership should read it, and
every truly aspiring person, man or woman, who is striving
to rise above his surroundings and his difficulties will find
solace, inspiration and practical help by reading this book.
THE ROSICRUCIANS; THEIR TEACHINGS, new, enlarged
edition, by R. Swinburne Clymer; printed on fine book paper;
298 pages, bound in cloth; front and back stamped in gold.
Price, postpaid, $2.50.
THE PHILOSOPHY
OF FIRE
a
The Fire Philosophy is the fundamental principle of all Secret
Occult Brotherhoods and is the basis of all Religious Mysteries.
In the introductory remarks is this paragraph:
“
The object of the Secret Science; the Ancient
Mysteries; the Secret Doctrine; of Initiation, and of all
Living Religions is one and the same thing; that is,
to ennoble mankind and to awaken in men a realization
of the divinity of the Soul within themselves. Religion
in its theoretical aspect means a real knowledge of the
relations which exist between man and the external
source from which his Soul emanated in the beginning.”
Among some of the subjects dealt with in this book are: the
Ancient Mysteries, Secret Doctrines, Regeneration, and a com­
prehensive chapter on Atlantis.
The Fire Worshippers of old did not worship the Fire as
commonly understood, but recognized the Fire as a symbol of
Love and God. In The Philosophy of Fire the Fire Philosophy of
the Atlanteans is set forth clearly and interestingly. It also
describes the teachings of nearly every Mystic School of ancient
times, tracing the Fire Philosophy from its beginning on Atlantis
to the present day.
The Philosophy of Fire will inspire the reader with new hope
and a conviction that life holds the promise of Immortality for
all those with the courage and sincerity to follow the Fire
Philosophy.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF FIRE, new, enlarged edition, by R.
Swinburne Clymer; printed on fine book paper; 294 pages, front
and back stamped in gold; bound in cloth. Price, postpaid, $2.50.
FRATERNITATIS ROSAE CRUCIS
A Book for the student, the casual reader, and the occultist.
It is essentially modern, yet it deals with subjects that have
long been hidden and discloses the Great Arcanum, published
for the first time. Contained in it in simple form are all the
authentic Hermetic, Alchemical and Rosicrucian symbology.
Among the many interesting chapters in this book are:
The Ancient Secret Schools and Their Teachings;
The Rosicrucians; Rosicrucianism; Rosicrucianism and
Freemasonry; Rosicrucian Symbolism; The Rosicru­
cians and Militia; The Foundation of the Order; Johann
Valentine Andrea; Paracelsus and His Teachings; The
Alchemists, etc., etc.
Where and when did the Fraternity of the Rosy Cross have
its beginning? By whom was it originated? Was it always the
Rosicrucian Fraternity or does it owe its existence to older
organizations? These and many other similar questions are
answered in detail in this book.
It has the full endorsement of the International Secret
Council of Nine, a fact which should be very significant and a
recommendation to every student desirous of knowing the true
history of the Fraternity.
FRATERNITATIS ROSAE CRUCIS, by R. Swinburne
Clymer; printed on fine book paper; 222 pages, front and back
stamped in gold leaf; bound in cloth. Price, postpaid, $2.50. A
limited number of beautiful de luxe presentation copies, india
deckle-edge paper, full leather binding, gold tops and stamping,
$10.00.
THE BOOK OF ROSICRUCIA
The History of the Rosicrucians
Here for the first time in history the student is offered in a
single volume the complete history of the world-wide Rosierucian
activity, beginning with the dawn of its history to the present
time. This book contains the philosophy of the Rosicrucians as
taught during the three most important periods of the Order:
First—The period constituting the life of Paracelsus
and his teachings while active head of the Alchemists
of the world; while at the same time his co-workers were
active in the Hermetic Brotherhood; the merging of the
two, giving birth to the Fraternitas Rosse Crucis.
Second—The period when the Order was most active
in France, and concerned equally with Higher Occultism
and Spiritual Initiation.
Third—The early active American period during
which Randolph was at the height of his career and
recognized as the Supreme Grand Master of the Order
and of the world.
The book contains:
A list of all the Grand Masters of the Fraternity in
all parts of the world where the Order was active.
A list of the Supreme Councils of Three, Seven and
Nine, who were co-workers with the Grand Masters.
All of these authorities will be recorded in proper sequence,
beginning with the earliest history of the Order to the immediate
present. The history will include the activity of the International
Confederation of Initiatory Orders, Societies and Fraternities,
including a detailed exposition of the symbolism connected with
the Fraternity. All facts and claims have been taken directly
from the records of the Fraternity, leaving no doubt regarding
their authenticity and correctness.
THE BOOK OF ROSICRUCIA, The History of the Rosi-
| crucians, by R. Swinburne Clymer; cloth bound, covers stamped
j in gold. Price, postpaid, $3.00. A limited number of beautiful
1 de luxe presentation copies; india deckle-edge paper, bound in
j full leather; side and top gold stamped, $10.00.
THE BROTHERHOOD OF THE ROSY CROSS
"A
This is one of the most unusual books ever published. More than
200 years ago, in a rock-hewn cavern in Germany, seven world
leaders of the Secret Schools met in secret to discuss world
affairs and plan for the creation of a world-wide “
Brotherhood
of Man.”
At this meeting the prophecy was made that in the new world
a new nation would develop, a nation which would receive the
downtrodden of all nations, and that this new nation would
grow into an Empire such as the world had never before known.
It was also predicted that the Deliverer of this new nation
would make his public appearance in 1775. One of the seven men
came to America during 1756. He had conceived it as his mission
to find the Deliverer of the new nation and acquaint him with
the task ahead. Through the Invisible Hierarchy of the Fra­
ternity he was told that the first man to cross the threshold of
his home after midnight, January 1
, 1774, was to be conse­
crated the Deliverer.
At the appointed hour George Washington crossed the thresh­
old. He had lost his way and asked to be directed to his home.
Here is a story that will grip the heartstrings of every reader.
It is human. It is interesting. It is history. It is America. It is
the new nation made up of all the peoples of the earth, and it
should grow to be the mightiest Empire in all the world. This
is a story that will be read again and again, and it will always
be new, always interesting, always a favorite.
THE BROTHERHOOD OF THE ROSY CROSS. Introduction
and Preamble by R. Swinburne Clymer. The book itself based
on the writings of George Lippard, more than a hundred years
ago; printed on fine book paper; 75 pages, bound in cloth;
front stamped in gold. Price, postpaid, $1.00.
A COMPENDIUM OF OCCULT LAW
For the first time in history the student is offered an opportunity
to secure, in a single volume, practically all of the occult laws
governing both man and nature.
To gather these laws for publication required almost thirty
years of research and the analysis of some 10,000 occult books
in which these laws were hidden in the form of obscure phrases,
alchemical terms, Bible allegories, mythological stories of Knight­
hood and the Zodiac.
Now these occult and spiritual laws are unveiled for the
benefit and instruction of the student. These laws can be used
by man for the accomplishment of his every worthy purpose.
They are the laws that lead man to Light and Life, and, ulti­
mately, to Immortality.
Every occult student, every Neophyte, every Initiate of the
Secret Schools should have this unusual book of occult laws. It
is invaluable for study, for progress on the path, and more
important still, the student must know these laws if he expects to
live the life that leads to Occult Initiation, Soul Consciousness
and Imperial Mastership.
This volume is divided into six books, each a complete unit in
itself, and each containing an explanation of from fifty to
sixty occult laws. Here is a short description of the six chapters.
THE HERMETIC CONCEPT OF SUCCESS
This chapter explains the laws that help man to achieve
success, whatever his desires may be. It is in no sense a formula
for success, but any student studying these laws can apply
them to his desires and ambitions. A few of the laws are: The
Hermetic Key That Unlocks the Door to Success. The Fountain of
Life Is Within. The Invitation to the Golden Feast. Success Re­
quires an Intensified Desire. Man Is the Harp of a Thousand
Strings. Success Is for All Who Make Themselves Worthy. How
Miracles Are Wrought.
THE PHILOSOPHY OF OCCULT INITIATION
Here, in concise, clear and comprehensive English, the student
finds an explanation of the Laws of Initiation, what Initiation is,
how it is accomplished, and what man must do to earn Initiation.
A few of the laws are: The Battle Between the Lower Self and
Spiritual Aspiration. A Gradual Revealment of the Mysteries.
Breaking the Bonds That Bind the Soul to the Selfish Self.
Contacting the Hierarchies of the AEth. Transmutation Is One
of the Miracles of the Fire. A New Life and a New World.
THE HERMETIC TEACHINGS
Observing the ancient Hermetic command: “
Man Know Thy­
self,”this chapter explains the Laws necessary to bring the Soul
into Individual Consciousness. The Laws, include: The Laws of
Material and Spiritual Success. The Greatest of All Mysteries—
the Soul. Duality of God, Man and Nature. The World of Power.
Man Is Ordained to Be a Co-Worker With God. Man’
s Environ­
ment Is His Own Making. The Soul on the Other Side of the
Border Line.
HERMETIC SCIENCE AND THE ALCHEMICAL PROCESS
A very interesting chapter based on the fact that man is the
subject of Hermetic Science. Among the more than fifty laws
explained are: The Philosopher’
s Stone and the Elixir. “
The ,
Pearl of Great Price.” The Human Nature of Man. Know
Thyself. The Law of Nature Is Also the Law of Man. “
In Thee
Is Hidden the Treasure of Treasures.”Occult Science is “
the
Straight and Narrow Path.”The Human Body Is the Hall of
Initiation.
THE OCCULT CONCEPT
Developing the threefold man through Occult Initiation. A
few of the laws explained are: Man’
s Divine Origin. Generation
and Re-Generation. Man Can Achieve Whatever State He De­
sires. The Soul Is Man’
s Spiritual Sun. The Light Leads to
Immortality. The Spiritual Still Unexplored. Magnetism and
Psychology. A Few of the Powers Employed by Initiates. Mag­
netic and Alchemical Healing. The AEth Fire. The Path to
Godhood. “
I AM THAT I AM TO BE.”
OCCULT INITIATION
This chapter explains the laws governing man. It tells the
reasons for success and failure in every department of life.
Among the laws explained are: To Feel Is to Be—and to Be Is
to Become. A Positive Imagination for Healing Mental and
Bodily Ills. Magnetism, Mesmerism and Hypnotism. The Initiate
Need Never Know Actual Want. It Is NOT Wrong to Desire the
Best Things the World Has to Offer. God Helps Those Who Help
Themselves. Wealth, Power and Possessions Are Rightfully for
Man If Honestly Obtained. Man Is Himself the Implement
Through Which He May Achieve Success.
A COMPENDIUM OF OCCULT LAW, by R. Swinburne
Clymer; printed on fine book paper; front and back stamped in
gold, cloth binding; 270 pages. Price, postpaid, $2.50.
P. B. RANDOLPH IN FRANCE
s.
This is the story of a Karmic debt involving P. B. Randolph,
Eliphas Levi, and Napoleon III, and the appointment of Ran­
dolph as Supreme Grand Master of the Fraternity for the entire
world.
In the legend of a mighty king who lived centuries ago, the
reader is given an insight into what Randolph believed the reason
for his then pilgrimage on earth, and why he, with Eliphas Levi
and Napoleon III, was involved in the same spiritual Karma,
and met as members of the Fraternity, each to co-operate with
the others in working out the spiritual debt which the three as
a group had contracted in the long, long ago.
Interwoven in the human interest story are explanations of
the seven varieties of ghosts; the existence of Gnomes, Sylphs,
Salamanders, Nereiads, Driads and Fays; the power of the Pen­
tagram; the double triangle of Solomon, etc.
Under the heading, “
A Vision That Is More Than a Vision,”
the reader secures a glimpse of the vast procession of the newly
risen dead, all seeking to unbar the Gates to Glory, that they may
pass into the delightful Garden of the Beatitudes. Failing to
enter, each must turn back to Mount Retrospect to search for the
triple key which alone can unbar the gates.
This story also tells the origin of the occult terms: “
Light,”
“
Life,”and “
Love.”Throughout the story many occult laws are
revealed. It is a book students will desire for the information it
contains as well as for the fact that it helps to round out the
occult library.
P. B. RANDOLPH IN FRANCE, by R. Swinburne Clymer;
printed on india book paper; 52 pages, bound in silk cloth; front
and back stamped in gold. Price, postpaid, $1.00.
THE UNIVERSAL CONFEDERATION
OF INITIATES
The Second Fama Fraternitas—for a N ew
A ge B eginning in the Twentieth
Century
During February, 1939, in Paris, France, at a meeting of the
Supreme Grand Masters of European and North American occult
orders, there was organized and brought into activity a World-
Wide Confederation of Orders, Temples, Societies and Fraterni­
ties of Initiation.
While the present book was published primarily for occult stu­
dents, the information it contains was considered so vital that it
is now offered to the general public.
In the foreword, Dr. R. Swinburne Clymer, Supreme Hierarch
of the World Confederation, gives much occult information not
usually found in books, including an explanation of occult
symbolism.
The introduction explains fundamental laws as taught by all
authentic occult bodies, laws which lead the student to Initiation,
Soul Consciousness, Mastership and, ultimately, Immortality.
The section devoted to articles of Confederation also discusses
the rights of man and Soul development. The final two pages
are devoted to signatures and seals of the participating occult
bodies.
The Confederation was further approved at a meeting during
March, 1940, in Central America, when the South American
occult bodies affiliated.
The prologue of the book Ravalette contains a complete report
of the meetings in Paris, France. This report reads like a mys­
tical Fairy Story, taking the reader behind the scenes and
acquainting him with occult masters as great as any the world
has ever known.
THE UNIVERSAL CONFEDERATION OF INITIATES, by
R. Swinburne Clymer. Large 10 x 14 pages, 32 pages, printed
on hand-finished deckle book paper, limp cover in imitation purple
velour, gold stamped. Prepaid, $1.00.
THE ROSE CROSS ORDER
This book was published in 1916 to place before occult students
the true facts of various controversies resulting from the publi­
cation of books on love and the sex nature by Dr. Paschal
Beverly Randolph, formerly Grand Master of the Rosicrucian
Fraternity.
In a minor degree the book also discusses the then active
so-called black magician named Alister Crowley, while at the
same time telling the truth about a pseudo-Rosicrucian organi­
zation launched by H. Spencer Lewis under the name of Ancient
Mystical Order Rosas Crucis, or in its abbreviated form, AMORC.
While the book is largely devoted to charges and counter­
charges, newspaper articles and trials at Court of Law, much
information is divulged regarding the true history of the Order,
its authenticity, its American activity, its teachings and its
authority, all proving in an indisputable manner that the Ran­
dolph Foundation of the Rosicrucian Order is the only true
Rosicrucian Order active in America, and that all others using
the name are illegitimate, attempting to take advantage of the
public by proclaiming themselves to be what they are not—and
to teach a philosophy regarding which they themselves are in
ignorance.
The book is recommended to students interested in learning
the history and background of the Rosicrucian Order in America.
After the present edition is exhausted, the book will not be
reprinted. Number of copies very limited.
THE ROSE CROSS ORDER, by R. Swinburne Clymer;
printed on fine book paper, cloth bound; 208 pages. Price, post­
paid, $2.00.
MASTERSHIP, THE DIVINE LAW
s.
No Occult student can claim to really be on the path to
knowledge, wisdom and Illumination until after he has acquired
a good knowledge of Occult and Spiritual Law. This book is en­
tirely devoted to occult laws. Here are a few of the laws dis­
cussed :
Initiation; The Law of Vibration; The Soul’
s Descent;
Man and the Great Beyond; Failures; Faithfulness;
Evil and Its Origin; Suffering; The Law of Freedom;
Magnetic Power of the Mind; Thought and AEth
Forces; Magnetic, or AEth, Potency; Protection
Through Divine Law; What of God?; Destructive Nega­
tive Yogaism; Leaders; The Vow or Obligation.
Because of the vital importance of the contents of this book
it is used as a textbook wherever there is a study class of the
Secret Schools. It is the outstanding and leading publication
dealing exclusively with Occult and Spiritual Law, as it affects
the individual in relation to his work, his progress on the path,
and his ability to understand, discuss and apply occult law to
his own daily life, action and thought.
'
Of all the books offered, Mastership, the Divine Law should
have a place of honor and be considered one of the most im­
portant books in the library of the occult student.
MASTERSHIP, THE DIVINE LAW, by R. Swinburne
Clymer; printed on high quality book paper; 224 pages, cloth
binding; front and back stamped in gold. Price, postpaid, $2.00.
THE WAY TO LIFE AND IMMORTALITY
The author boldly and authoritatively stresses bodily health
as a necessity to Immortality, clearly explaining that cruci­
fixion of the flesh is a hindrance rather than a help in achieving
spiritual development.
It is explained that true religion consists in doing the will of
God, in man becoming a creator of his own conditions in life,
replacing fear with hope and courage, and through the estab­
lishment of health find the way to an abundant life and ulti­
mately Immortality.
The list of contents includes:
Heal the Sick; And He Sent Them to Preach the
Kingdom of God; Belief in Death Brings Death. Belief
in Life Brings More Life; The Life Without Death Is
God’
s Plan; Only the Life of Death Leads to Death;
Truth at First Seems Hard; Man’
s Duty Is to Glorify
God; God Is Ever With Those Who Are With Him;
What of the Crucification of the Flesh?; Life Without
Religion Is Not Human; Man, the Temple of the Living
God; Fear, the Gate of Death; The Wrong Life, the
Life of Sin, Alone Brings Death; Healing the Sick
Possible; There Is No Reason for Man to Be Sick; God
and Nature the Only Physicians; To the Body, Nature
Is the Physician.
In this book there is an explanation of the Spiritual Law which
permits man to so develop his Godly nature that he need not ex­
perience death, proclaiming the truth of the Bible statement
that “
Whosoever liveth, and believeth in the Christ, shall never
die.”This book makes an ideal 'companion to “
The Way to God-
hood.”
THE WAY TO LIFE AND IMMORTALITY, by R. Swinburne
Clymer; printed on fine book paper, bound in cloth; 204 pages.
Price, postpaid, $2.00.
THE WAY TO GODHOOD
One of the most outstanding books of its kind ever published,
explaining the Law of Personal Responsibility and its importance
in relation to spiritual development and material success.
This book teaches the new commandment: “
Be Thou a Man and
Thou Mayst Be a God.”While it is a book on religion-science-
philosophy, it recognizes that man’
s first duty is to himself, and
that without some degree of material and financial success man
is of little use either to himself, to his fellow-man, or to God.
The book is highly recommended to every occult student and to
all Neophytes of the Secret Schools. The chapters include:
Manhood and Responsibility, the Goal; Heaven, the
State of Happiness, Must Be Found on Earth; Life, Not
a Disease, an Evil, From Which to Fight for Freedom;
Conscious Individuality, the Goal of Life; It Is Not
Necessary to Renounce the World and Its Possessions;
Hope, the Elevating Magnet of Life; Suppress a
Natural Desire and It Becomes a Vice; Servitude Fol­
lows Weakness; Natural Instincts Are the Promptings
of Nature—the Handmaid of God, and the Mother
of Goodness—and Are Therefore Good; To the Weak,
a Doctrine of Weakness Seems Natural; Total De­
pravity Comes Only Through Living a Depraved Life;
Health Is Necessary to the Highest Degree of Man­
hood and to Manliness; Neither Wisdom Nor Goodness
Is Indicated by Renunciation of Earthly Possessions;
The Kingdom of Heaven Is a Kingdom of Joy and
Satisfaction; Suffer Not Injustice to Be Done; The
Spirit of Chivalry and Fairydom Is Constructive in Its *
Effects; Manhood or Degeneracy, Which?; Your Own
Will Come to You—If You Work for It.
This is essentially a textbook on the life that shall lead man
from weakness, disease and death to freedom, strength, personal
responsibility and power far greater than before! known. An
ideal companion book to The Way to Life and Immortality.
THE WAY TO GODHOOD, by R. Swinburne Clyper; printed
on fine book paper, bound in cloth; 192 pages. Price, postpaid,
$ 2.00.
SCIENCE OF THE SOUL
h
Distinctly new in its treatment, the Science of the Soul ac­
knowledges the fact that the Soul is an entity capable of trial,
test and identification, thus making possible an entirely under­
standable method of Soul development.
“
Just as a man waking from a night of good normal
sleep regains consciousness and knows that he is con­
scious, in like manner does the Soul of man, when
aroused from its sleep, know that it has regained con­
sciousness.”
The above paragraph taken from the introductory remarks
tells the aim of the most ancient of all Sciences—the science of
Soul culture. The awakening of the Soul and its subsequent
growth until it reaches Illumination are treated in a manner
that is both interesting and easily assimilated.
Some of the chapter headings in this book are:
Annunciation—Conception; The Soul; Building the
Soul; The Soul’
s Awakening; Illumination; The Soul in
The Beyond; Coming of Christ; Atonement; Cruci­
fixion; The Passover; The Law of Compensation; Heal­
ing; The AEth Potency.
SCIENCE OF THE SOUL, new, enlarged, edition, by R. Swin­
burne Clymer; printed on fine book paper; 300 pages, bound in
cloth; front and back stamped in gold. Price, postpaid, $2.50.
THE INITIATES—FIVE VOLUMES
D u r in g the period from 1928 to 1933 the authentic Rosierucian
Fraternity published a monthly magazine containing a wealth
of information on a great variety of occult truth and occult laws.
Because much of this information is highly instructive and
because much of this material does not appear in any of the
occult books of the Fraternity, these publications are now offered
in book form. Each volume contains the bound copies of the
magazine for a year.
Here the student will find the rare and otherwise unavailable
writings by such masters as Paschal Beverly Randolph, formerly
Supreme Grand Master of the authentic Rosierucian Fraternity;
Alexander Wilder, M.D.; General Ethan Allen Hitchcock, and
many others who have real truth to reveal to the sincere student
on the Path.
The subjects discussed are too numerous to mention, as they
comprise several hundred titles ranging from the Sphinx, the
Pyramid, the Philosopher’
s Stone and Cosmic Consciousness to
a brief history of the outstanding authentic occult schools which
existed and taught Truth throughout the centuries.
No other work of the August Fraternity brings you the
thoughts of so many individuals. Each volume contains gems
of truth you will treasure, inspiration and encouragement to
help you achieve a new understanding of Divine Law and Soul
Illumination.
The five volumes in cloth binding are available at $11.00.
THE ROSICRUCIAN FRATERNITY
IN AMERICA
Totally different from any other occult books ever published.
They discuss some of the ancient history of the Rosicrucian
Fraternity; trace its movement in America, enable the student
to judge the true from the false, the genuine from the spurious
organization.
These books acquaint the student with one of the greatest
occult frauds ever perpetrated in the history of the world, con­
tain many illustrations, many reproductions of ancient docu­
ments, etc.
Volume I is a combination of the following six books:
Book I—The Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross.
Book II—The Militia—Door Into the Temple.
Book III—A Challenge and the Answer.
Book IV—Rosicrucian Names—Exclusive Right to Use.
Book V—An Expose of the Imperator of AMORC.
Book VI—Randolph and the Supreme Grand Dome in
France.
Volume II has the following seven chapters:
The Great Conspiracy Bugaboo as a Shield for an
Occult Fraud; The Ancient Defense of Confusion as a
Device to Escape the Truth; Personal Attacks—Counter­
charges, Falsified and Manufactured Evidence in an At­
tempt to Destroy the Real to Perpetuate the Spurious
R. C. Order; The Imperator Defends Himself With the
Meanest Tricks of His Black Art, Using Mutilated
Documents and Petty Chicanery; Supplemental Review
of the Hodgepodge of Claims of Claptrap Authority
Asserted for This Fraternal Swindle; Controlled Com­
mittees and Conventions Used as a Smokescreen for a
Family Racket. Its True Nature and Exact Status
Revealed; Ballyhooing Propaganda—Show Window
Dressing—Big Bluffing—Challenging to Public Debate
as a Fire Escape From the Burning Truth.
THE ROSICRUCIAN FRATERNITY IN AMERICA, by
R. Swinburne Clymer; Volume I, 464 pages, Volume II, 959
' pages; bound in cloth; front and back stamped in gold. Price,
express prepaid, $5.00.
(These books are available at most of the large libraries in
the United States. If not at your library, have your librarian
write us regarding our special offer to libraries.)
ALCHEMY AND ALCHEMISTS
s.
These four books truly unlock the doors to the mysterious ex­
pressions of the occult writers of all times. These volumes
constitute instruction of the highest type, excepting, of course,
the private lectures of the Secret Schools. Every sentence, every
paragraph is written in easily understood English. While an
abundance of occult terms are used, each term is explained and
its meaning made clear. Any student who studies these books
intelligently, and who makes up his own dictionary as the occult
terms and phrases are explained from page to page, will have
the key to unlock the treasures of countless books by ancient
writers—books which heretofore were meaningless or impossible
of understanding by the student.
N
The Elixir of Life, the Philosopher’
s Stone, the real meaning
and purpose of Alchemy, all are discussed and described in a ji
manner that will make these books prized beyond words by
every true and sincere student.
Because of the wide scope of knowledge, the authenticity, the
authoritativeness of the author, and because of the simple manner
in which intricate and complex subjects are discussed, these ;
!
books have been used in the colleges of the Secret Schools as
textbooks to teach the fundamental doctrines upon which the
Neophyte is to build his Soul or Immortal edifice.
ALCHEMY AND ALCHEMISTS, by R. Swinburne Clymer;
printed on good paper, cloth binding; back and front stamped in
gold. Price per set of four volumes, postpaid, $8.50. Number of j
sets limited.
CHRISTISIS
s
Properly speaking, this is more than an ordinary book. Within
its covers are eleven lessons in Soul Science, or Higher Soul
Culture. The book is not for idle curiosity-seekers. The lessons
incorporate some of the highest truths in mysticism. To the
seeker after truth these lessons offer a basis for study, a sign­
post that leads to wisdom, knowledge, health, success, the laws
of nature, the laws of life and the laws of the Universe.
The lessons comprise:
1
—The Power or Christ Within. 2—The Beginning
of Wisdom and Knowledge. 3—The Secret of Concen­
tration, Accumulation, Power. The Magnetic Center.
4—The Soul or Divine Spark Within. The Esoteric
Teachings of the Masters. 5—Material and Spiritual
Success. 6
—Will, the Lever That Lifts in Any Desired
Direction. 7—Soul, the Magnetic Center. Mind, the
Dynamo. 8—The Earth Plane. The Soul Plane. Limita­
tion. 9—Man Is Limited Only as He Limits Himself.
10—The New Life. The Wedding of Science and Re­
ligion. 11—The Law of Individual Responsibility.
The lessons are simple, yet comprehensive, easily understood,
but highly instructive. A textbook for those who desire a specific
course of self-training in occult science.
CHRISTISIS, by R. Swinburne Clymer; printed on beautiful
cream Alexander book paper; printed one side of the sheet only;
bound in buffing; back and side stamped in gold. It is a textbook
of the third year’
s lessons in Soul Science. Price, postpaid, $5.00.
THE MYSTICISM OF MASONRY
•a
This book imparts the spiritual interpretation of many of the
Masonic symbols, but is not to be looked upon as an expose of
Masonry in any sense of the word.
Masonry is of interest to the occult student because it fur­
nishes an unusual number of keys which help the student to
unlock many of the ancient mysteries, especially so as Masonry
is claimed to have been the foundation upon which religion was
founded.
The Mysticism of Masonry comprises quotations from the very
highest Masonic authorities, with the Mystic, Occult or Rosi-
crucian interpretation. That this book is not only approved,
but actually studied, by members of the Masonic Fraternity
is proven by the fact that fully 50 per cent of the sales of this
book have been to Masonic Supply Houses and is to be found in
almost all Masonic Libraries.
The occult student who is interested in symbolism or occult
law will find a' wealth of vitally important information between
the covers of this book. Being composed mostly of Masonic quo­
tations, the compiler was able to select only such quotations as
would be of real interest to every student, information extremely
helpful as an aid on the path to occult enlightenment and wis­
dom. For this reason the book is recommended to all students for
serious study, and as a reference book which in its field is one
of the outstanding works on the subjects treated.
THE MYSTICISM OF MASONRY, by R. Swinburne Clymer;
printed on fine book paper; 184 pages, bound ini cloth; front
and back stamped in gold. Price, postpaid, $2.00.
RAVALETTE
The Rosicrucian’
s Story
This is an occult novel by Paschal Beverly Randolph,
now republished with a 62-page prologue and a 14-page
epilogue by R. Swinburne Clymer and the addition of
many notes.
The prologue is of the most astounding nature, re­
porting the author’
s sojourn in Europe during Febru­
ary, 1939, and his conversation with Masters and
Initiates; the entire prologue pregnant with priceless
occult information worth many times the cost of the
book. The prologue also contains the war prophecy
based on the Law of Personal Responsibility.
The book Ravalette is a masterpiece in occult fiction,
with law after law revealed to those capable of recog­
nizing them. The chapters are:
The Strange Man. The Legend. Pre-existence. Dou­
ble Life. The Haunted House. The Mysterious Guest. A
Very Strange Story. Evlambea. A Son of Adam and a
Daughter of Ish. Napoleon III and the Rosicrucian. An
Extraordinary Seance in Paris. Spectra. Phosphorus
and the Elixir of Life. The Magic Mirror. Who Was
He? What Was It? The Secret of Perpetual Youth. The
Priest of Fire. The Magic Slumber. “
And Several Other
Worlds.”Very Curious. An Astounding Chapter. Sin­
gular Experiment. “
A Man Goes in a Cab in Search of
His Own Ghost.”A Strange Wag:er. Mystery Thickens.
Deeper and Deeper. Murder Will Out. The Devil in
Paris. Diablerie Extraordinary. “
The Saucer on the
Floor.”What Some Folks Believe Are Spirits. An As­
tounding Disclosure. The Grand Secret. A Theory De­
molished. Ravalette Explained. The Sleep, and a Reve­
lation of the Destinies of Nations; a chapter so extraor­
dinary that it alone is worth the price of the book.
The epilogue contains highly interesting information regarding
the history of the Order during pre-revolutionary days, telling of
the activities of such members as Lafayette, Benjamin Franklin,
George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Thomas Paine and others
well known in world history. Every word is vital, interesting,
revealing.
RAVALETTE, by Paschal Beverly Randolph, with Prologue,
notes and Epilogue by R. Swinburne Clymer, 284 pages, cloth
bound, gold stamped, printed on high quality book paper. Price,
postpaid, $2.50. A limited number of beautiful de luxe presenta­
tion copies, printed on India deckle-edge paper, gilt top, bound
in genuine leather, gold side stamp, $10.00.
EULIS BY P. B. RANDOLPH
s
Why Is Man Immortal? What is The Elixir of Life? The Phi­
losopher’
s Stone? The Mystic Sleep of Sialam? These and many
other equally vital questions are answered in Dr. P. B. Ran­
dolph’
s masterpiece, Eulis, now available in a new unabridged
edition with extensive notes by R. Swinburne Clymer.
This work is a textbook on sex and marriage, uplifting in its
effect, startling in its revelations and unbounded in its scope.
There is little within its pages to satisfy mere curiosiay, but to
the sincere seeker and student as well as the casual ,:eader, it
will prove a revelation.
Among its contents are:
The Universal Solvent; The Initiation of Eulis; fhe
Elixir of Life; The Philosopher’
s Stone; The Myutic
Sleep of Sialam; Incompatible Marriages; A Recipe for
i
Happiness; Magic, Black and White, etc.
In Eulis will be found many of the secret and inner doctrines of
the Rosicrucians. It has 150'sections and in it the way is shown
to greatly increased mental power, prolonged !
life and more
I
abundant health and happiness.
EULIS, by P. B. Randolph, printed on fine quality book paper;
230 pages, bound in cloth with genuine gold leaf lettering and
side stamp. This edition has for its frontispiece the rare MYSTIC
ARCANUM. Price, postpaid, $3.50.
SEERSHIP—GUIDE TO SOUL SIGHT
As IT S name implies, this book is a key to the development of
Soul sight and is divided into three sections.
Chapter I—Explaining the eight kinds or varieties
of clairvoyance, giving specific rules and easily under­
stood descriptions of the true and false methods. Much
space is devoted to the various phases of Mesmerism,
its power and uses; Oriental, European and American
methods; Black Magic, voodoo, spells, charms, projects;
the road to power, love, money; the degrees of clair­
voyance and how to reach them. This chapter contains
information and instructions usually not found in a hook
offered to the general public, and to students of mysti­
cism it is of untold value and should be welcomed as the
most authentic book of its kind obtainable anywhere.
Chapter II—The Magic Mirror and its uses. Strange
and curious things seen in the magic mirror. Its use by
George Sand, Count St. Germain, Hargrave Jennings,
Cagliostro, Frederick the Great. Extraordinary methods
for holding a psycho-vision steady as a picture. Danger
of Spirit control. Facts. Theory. Construction of Magic
Mirrors. Failures and successes. Chemistry of mirrors.
The past, present and future as actually seen. The
antagonal polar law of love. The master passion. After
death. Rules and laws of magic mirrors.
Chapter III—The making of mirrors. Why are they
magic? The mirror dance of India. The higher uses of the
mirror. The Slumber of Sialam. Who can and who can­
not see in a mirror.
This list of contents is somewhat ambitious, but it exactly
reflects the contents of this unusual book. It tells you why
students prize this book so highly, and why it will be one of the
most cherished books in your private occult library.
SEERSHIP, by P. B. Randolph. Introductory remarks and
notes by R. Swinburne Clymer. Preface by Allan F. Odell. 157
pages; brown cloth binding; front and back stamped in gold.
Price, postpaid, $7.50.
SEERSHIP—DE LUXE EDITION. A few copies available in
de luxe style deckle-edge paper, gold emblem on front cover and
bound in genuine leather. Price, postpaid, $25.00.
SOUL, THE SOUL-WORLD
H
.
A most wonderful book by P. B. Randolph, who takes the reader
on a trip to the “
hereafter,”where various personalities are
met, conditions explored and Immortality of the Soul estab­
lished.
The entire story is based on definite instructions for the
“
Blending”of two Souls, a method used and recommended for
reading the thoughts of others. In this book, however, Randolph
tells of using this power to “
blend”with the Soul of a certain
Cynthia, who had passed into the Beyond, and that this “
Blend­
ing”was so pronounced that for the time being he actually be­
came Cynthia, experiencing her experiences, feeling her sensa­
tions, having her thoughts, walking side by side with her,
talking (mentally) with others in the Spiritual World, and re­
porting the facts so completely that the reader instinctively feels
that in reading the book he is partaking the experience of a
Master.
These experiences prove three great truths :
First—That man survives the ordeal of disaster and
death.
Second—That men are on a much higher scale than is
indicated by their ordinary life experiences, and that
all evil is on the surface, while that which is of priceless
value (Soul) is deep within.
Third—That external acts, thoughts, selves, worked
out even to the best advantage, are very insufficient tests
of what man really is; that in spite of death, a:man’
s a
man, all the way from time to eternity, and wpll be so
forever and forever more.
Of special interest to occult students is the chapter devoted
to The Winged Globe (Soul), the House of Many Mansions, and
the greatest palace of them all—Intuition.
SOUL, THE SOUL-WORLD, by P. B. Randolph, M. D.;
printed on fine quality book paper; 246 pages, bound in silk
cloth; front and back stamped in gold. Price, postpaid, $2.50.
OUR STORY OF ATLANTIS
No other book ever published contains so much authentic in­
formation regarding the ancient continent of Atlantis, its
people, their migration to Europe, their knowledge of occult
science, and the fact that, even though the continent sank some
10,000 years ago (the flood of the Bible), its people were ad­
vanced in the sciences to a far greater degree than is the present
civilization.
From cover to cover the book is filled with occult lore, occult
mysteries, occult laws, with footnotes to explain the laws re­
corded as mysteries or history.
This is the book, originally published in 1903, which predicts
the reappearance, within a hundred years, of Atlantis above
the waters of the Atlantic, stretching from the southern part
of the United States to the coast of Africa. It also predicts that
within 500 years the bulk of the earth’
s population will be south
of the equator, and that the most ancient of all continents,
Lemuria, will also rise from the sea, become dry land, and will
again sustain its millions of inhabitants. The introduction
plainly states:
“
Not only did the Isle of Atlantis exist, but it was also
the source of all civilization, even as we know it today,
and during the existence of Atlantis men developed
themselves, the arts and sciences to a degree unknown
even today. Forces barely guessed at by our material
and physical scientists of today were fully understood,
harnessed and directed by the Atlanteans, so that the
tasks of life became pleasures.”
OUR STORY OF ATLANTIS, by W. P. Phelon; printed on
watermarked, laid book paper, beautifully bound in cloth; back
and side stamped in gold; 174 pages. Price, postpaid, $2.00.
THREE SEVENS
This is a novel originally published about fifty years ago and is
the basis for the more recent allegorical and philosophical works
of fiction, written to bring to the unenlightened public a reali­
zation of the existence and purpose of the Secret Schools.
Three Sevens explains three seven-year periods of occult de­
velopment in the experience of a Neophyte. (Years as here used
simply mean a period of time. Time required for development
depends upon the application and seriousness of the student.) ;
The novel takes the reader behind the scenes of Initiation and, j
while the real mystical meaning is hidden in a human-interest
romance, many occult Laws are explained and numerous mys-
teries made clear.
From cover to cover the story is replete with occult lore, mys­
terious occurrences, mystical Initiations, entrancing descrip­
tions of the long travels and experiences of an adventurer in
search of Truth, Wisdom and Initiation.
To the seeker after Truth, this novel is a revelation, pointing
out the “
straight and narrow path”for which all mankind is j
seeking.
To the advanced student it is a book of inspiration and re-
vealment. Even though the book masquerades as fiction, it
contains, hidden within its pages, many mighty truths which
will entrance and delight the student and Neophyte. The foot­
notes alone contain an abundance of Occult Law and explanation
of Occult Mystery. This feature very greatly enhances the value
of the book.
THREE SEVENS, by The Phelons, with footnotes by R. -
Swinburne Clymer; printed on high-grade paper; 178 pages,
bound in cloth; front and back stamped in gold. Price, prepaid,
$2.00.
THE SONS OF GOD
THIS is a book so different from ordinary occult writings that
it is almost impossible to impart to the reader a true realization
of the enormous occult information to be found in this single
volume.
Primarily, The Sons of God interprets and explains the mys­
teries and the meanings of the foremost mystical writings of all
times, including many of the mystical passages of the Bible.
Throughout the entire book, from cover to cover, there is a
continual explanation of Occult and Spiritual Laws, which in
turn are applied to the everyday experiences of man.
It is essentially a book of inspiration, as it forcefully portrays
the need of real men and women in every walk of life; men with
strength of character; men with Will-power and determination;
men who are builders; who uplift humanity; and who are ever
ready to render service for the good of all mankind.
The Laws quoted are as old as the world, but many of the
interpretations apply directly to the present times and make the
book all the more valuable for its recognition of the needs of
the present generation.
The writing throughout is in the spirit of the new age, the
spirit of Manisis, and embraces the requirements of the new age,
an entirely New Era which is to continue for almost 2,000 years.
This book belongs to the Soul Science series and is recom­
mended to every student for serious study.
THE SONS OF GOD, by R. Swinburne Clymer; printed on fine
book paper; 192 pages, bound in cloth; front and back stamped
in gold. Price, postpaid, $2.00.
SOUL CONSCIOUSNESS
A primer sufficiently elementary for the beginner, yet esoteric
enough for the most advanced aspirant, pointing the way out of
the wilderness of doubt and uncertainty, and giving the reader
a sound foundation on which to build knowledge, wisdom, ad­
vancement, and both spiritual and material success.
Throughout the entire book the various laws are applied
toward helping man succeed in his work or profession, the author
realizing that man’
s first obligation is to himself, and then to
others.
Here are the eleven interesting chapters:
The Christ; The Divine in Man; Development; Form-
ology; Love; Christ, Osiris- and Other Sons of God; Vo­
cation and Development; The Church; Prayer; Soul
Science and Health; Healing.
The author points out the fact that any success w:orthy of real
effort must be spiritual and Soulual as well as material. The man
who succeeds financially but suffers because of bodily ill-health,
or lacks peace of mind, cannot truly be termed as successful.
Soul Consciousness should be studied by every occult student.
Every page carries information eagerly desired by the Neophyte,
imparting many of the laws of success in every department of
life.
SOUL CONSCIOUSNESS, by R. Swinburne Clymer; printed
on fine book paper; 173 pages, bound in silk cloth; front and
back stamped in gold. Price, postpaid, $2.00.
FUNDAMENTAL LAWS
X
A b o o k incorporating the instructions as imparted to students
at the Sixty-eighth Convocation of the Rose Cross Order, cov­
ering an entire month of class instruction, explaining many
occult laws in detail and containing much information vitally
important to every sincere seeker after Truth.
The contents include an explanation of the Great Seal of the
United States, its meaning and its prophecy.
Other chapters include:
Mystic Christianity—Man as a holy temple; Mind;
Soul; Spirit.
Our Code of Ethics—Teacher and Parent; Reverence
for the Child; Higher Ideals in Teachers; Eugenical
Instructions; Personal Responsibility; Cleanliness; Sim­
plicity; Imagination; Faith; Memory; Courtesy; The
Will; As Ye Sow, etc.
Separate chapters on: Sin; Reincarnation; Evolution;
Initiation; The Second Coming of Christ; Authority
versus Individuality; Prayer; Body, Mind, Spirit, and
Soul; Invocation of the Hierarchies; The Sons of Osiris.
Each and every one of these subjects is highly important to
the student and, because of the wide scope of the knowledge im­
parted, every seeker after Truth and Illumination should have
a copy of this unusually instructive book.
FUNDAMENTAL LAWS, by R. Swinburne Clymer; printed
on fine book paper; 208 pages, beautifully bound in cloth; front
and back stamped in gold. Price, postpaid, $2.00.
THE ROSE CROSS COLLEGE
T h i s book is a report of the instructions imparted to students
attending the Convocation of the Fraternity during October,
1916. Lectures are printed in their entirety so far as is per­
missible. Every page and every chapter imparts valuable in­
formation, as is clearly indicated by the following chapters:
Knights of Chivalry, or Order of the Holy Grail—
Principles and teachings of the Order. Mystical inter­
pretation of the story, “
Eros and Psyche,” and of
“
Merin,”one of the Knights of King Arthur’
s Round
Table.
The Magi—Teachings of the Order of the Magi.
The Church of Illumination—What Illumination
means, what it stands for, and what it teaches.
Success and Failure—The reason why men and women
succeed or fail.
The All-Seeing Eye—Of real interest to all students
of occult science.
Eugenics—A comprehensive view of the system of
Eugenics taught by the Sacred College. The misery,
as well as the happiness, of the world is found in the
use or abuse of the creative function.
Obedience—The importance of implicitly obeying all
commands and instructions during the period of de­
velopment.
The Christ Birth—Illumination and the Christ Birth
have one and the same meaning. Illumination may be
reached by all who obey instructions.
The Power of Thought—A subject that requires
serious study so that students may realize the full
importance of the vast power made possible through
constructive thinking.
Origin of Symbolism—This is one of the most in­
tensely interesting chapters in the book, as it explains
the meaning of the twelve signs of the Zodiac.
THE ROSE CROSS COLLEGE, compiled by R. Swinburne
Clymer; printed on fine book paper; 216 pages, bound in cloth;
front and back stamped in gold. Price, postpaid, $2.00.
THE SACRED COLLEGE
The more advanced students of the Secret Schools are requested
to' study mythology, and especially the stories of knighthood. To
the average reader these stories are the fiction of an imaginative
mind. For the Initiate and advanced students these stories have a
deeper significance. The Mysteries and Mythology they con­
tain are as so many keys by which strange truths may be
unlocked.
The Sacred College is a book containing such stories, all of
them used to form the class instruction for students at the
Sacred College during the Convocation of May and June, 1917.
The interpretations are written by a Rosicrucian in the light
of Rosicrucian Lore. Following are a few of the stories:
The Fate of the Roses— (The Easter or June Festival
of the Church of Illumination.) The Rape of the Lock—
An interpretation. The Sangreal, or Holy Grail—Its
Mystical meaning. Sir Galahad—The lesson he teaches.
Sir Gawain. Sir Launcelot—The most faithful of the
knights. Sir Perceval. Sir Bohort. Sir Launcelot Re­
sumed. Sir Galahad Resumed. Sir Agrivain’
s Treason—
A deep lesson for all students. Morte D'Arthur.
The stories of the Knights of the Round Table has ever exer­
cised a spell over the reader. In them are found the Knights who
personified the extremes of good and evil, and all the intermediate
passions. They can well be compared to the passions and desires
resident within man. Each story, properly interpreted, offers an
occult mystery and a key to advancement in the Sacred study.
THE SACRED COLLEGE, by R. Swinburne Clymer; printed
on fine book paper, bound in silk cloth; front and back stamped
in gold. Price, postpaid, $2.00.
THE WAY
h
T h i s book contains a philosophy and system of thought found in
no other work today. The Secret Schools consider it so important
that at one of the Convocations it was used as a textbook for
class instructions.
The unusual contents is indicated by these chapters:
The Magi—Mystical instructions handed down
through the ages. Nature—The mother of all things. The
Way to Life—“
I am the Way, the Resurrection, and the
Life.”Existence—Force, Motion, Forms. The Laws of
Life—The laws governing true growth. Life and Form—
Existing things depend upon form for power. God and
Spirit—Worship in Spirit and in Truth. The Saviour—
Is man saved by another or must he save himself? To
Become—The Occult Law of Growth. Christ—“
God is
Spirit.” What is Spirit? Life—The ultimate of all
things. Father-Mother; The Ego; Curses; I Am.
Every student is constantly in search for books that are
authentic and which give information worthy of serious study,
helping the individual in his ever-onward march on the path
that leads to Wisdom and Illumination, and, ultimately, to
Immortalization.
'
!
The Way is such a book. It is by a writer who during his life­
time was one of the leading lights of the Secret Schools' and
while his public writings are very limited, they are distinctly
worthy of study. This book offers a wealth of information and is
recommended to every student of occult science.
THE WAY, by Freeman B. Dowd; printed on fine book paper,
bound in cloth; front and back stamped in gold. Price, post­
paid, $2.00.
THE ILLUMINATED FAITH
Interpretation of St. M atthew
The Interpretation of St. Matthew is the first attempt of the
Illuminati to give to the seeking world a clear interpretation of
that Gospel. These interpretations are such as can be readily-
understood by all, and the laws applied to everyday life in the
finding of peace, new life, new faith in God and His teachings.
To obey the Laws as interpreted in this book is to find the
Christ, the conscious sonship with the Father, and a religious
faith nothing can shake.
The Higher Law—It governs body, mind, spirit and
Soul, a clear distinction being made between these four
departments of man’
s being. Development—No devel­
opment is possible unless the individual clearly under­
stands what he is doing. It is dangerous to meddle with
the human machine without an understanding of the
Divine Law. The Forces—The Divine Law and the Nat­
ural Law are one, but the Divine Law applies to the
things of the Soul, while the Natural Law applies to
material manifestations. True Guidance—This book is
a guide to all man need know in his desire to follow the
path to Light, Life and Love. Going Astray—There is
no danger of the seeker going astray if he studies these
Laws and obeys them. The Forces and Their Uses—
All forces are for use by man. Wisely used, they will
enable the seeker to make all the resources of his four­
fold nature available to help him achieve his every
desire.
The book explains the Divine Law underlying all things, and
with a knowledge of these Laws, man can set into motion only
such forces as work in harmony with his constructive desires.
In Press: THE MYSTICAL INTERPRETATION OF ST.
MATTHEW. A complete revision and very much enlarged, $2.50.
Should be ready by end of 1944. NOTE: These teachings are
interpreted to apply to the present age. Until the end of the
war, will be sold only to Members and Neophytes. Member may
buy copies for friends.
THE ILLUMINATED FAITH
St. John M ystically Interpreted
T h i s book offers a complete and exhaustive Mystical Interpre­
tation of the Gospel according to St. John. It contains fifty-three
chapters or lessons, and can be used as a textbook in schools and
colleges where “
The Illuminated Faith”is taught.
Here are a few of the outstanding subjects discussed:
Christhood—The subject of Christhood is fully ex­
plained and every serious student will find practical
instructions to help him in attaining Christhood. Ini­
tiation—The lessons clearly show that attaining the
state of Christhood means Mastership and Initiation
for the student. Soul Consciousness—Christhood, Soul
Consciousness, or Cosmic Consciousness, all have the
same meaning. Illumination—Illumination is achieved
when the mind forces have been used in the building of
a Soul that becomes “
Consciously Conscious.”
, The
Goal—The goal of all human endeavor is to become a
Conscious Soul, a Cosmic Being. The Divine Law—Man
must obey the Divine Law before he can achieve Christ­
hood or Soul Consciousness. Love—Love is the base of
all work for the redemption of man. The Ancient Wis­
dom—Each Law is made plain, and in many instances
appropriate illustrations are used. The Crucifixion and
the Resurrection—AEth Priesthood teachings are
clearly explained on the basis that every sincere student
can achieve crucifixion and resurrection while still in
a human body, and that ultimately all mankind must
undergo this Initiation.
THE ILLUMINATED FAITH, St. John, by R. Swinburne
Clymer; printed on fine book paper; 53 chapters or lessons,
bound in cloth; front and back stamped in gold. Price, post­
paid, $2.00.
SOUL SCIENCE
Two Volum es
'i.
T h e s e two volumes contain fifty-two private Soul Science
Lessons, two years of study, and are intended only for students
seeking not merely the way, but the life. The lessons teach the
Laws that will lead to a full comprehension of this Grand Science,
make possible the application of Law to everyday life and ac­
tion, for the benefit of the self, and therefore to others. Through
the use of these Laws man can also free the self from the
cruelty and selfishness brought about through ignorance and
wrong teachings.
These lessons recognize the necessity of the development of
fourfold man: mind, body, spirit and Soul. Many of the lessons
are worth the entire cost of the books. Space does not permit
the mention of all fifty-two lessons, but here are a few.
7—Soul Consciousness. 10—Attraction and Repul­
sion. 11—Constructive Concentration. 12—Love Is the
Incentive to All Effort. 20—Good and Evil. 23—Heal­
ing. 24—Mastery. 30—Success. 31—Success and Fail­
ure. 32—The Law of Supply. 38—Evolution. 39—The
Spirit of Life. 40—The Soul Is the Seed: the Mind the
Gardener. 41—The Original Sin. 47—Focusing of
Thought. 49—The Love Nature. 52—Adeptship.
SOUL SCIENCE, by R. Swinburne Clymer; 52 lessons, printed
on fine india paper; bound in genuine leather; front embossed
in gold, back stamped in gold. Two volumes, price per set,
postpaid, $25.00.
ADVANCED SOUL SCIENCE LESSONS
“
The true Master is he who has first been the servant."
Advanced Soul Science Lessons constitute a series of fifty-two
lessons prepared for the advanced student, setting forth the
Divine Laws comprehensively, clearly and with authority that
comes of knowledge. These fifty-two lessons were reprinted and
bound in a two-volume set.
In these two volumes, the student is shown the Way, and
is taught to obey, to live, to Know.
In his Introductory Notes, the author, R. Swinburne Clymer,
has written the following:
“
The student is to be warned that in seeking to at­
tain the heights of Mastership his purpose dare not
shift from one mark to another. If he is satisfied with the
philosophy and the religion that are his, he should not
dabble in Soul Science. If he is dissatisfied and discour­
aged, then he should forever cast from him the old
creeds and everything belonging to them, as well as his
old habits, and, with all his might and all his heart,
take up the study and practice of Soul Science and.hold
fast to it despite all the obstacles and discouragements
that may confront him. If he does this, then success is
certain and assured.”
The sincere seeker will find, in these volumes, the method
whereby- he may transmute his base desires and tendencies into
good and uplifting virtues. Only in this way can he overcome his
Karma and become a master of the fates.
ADVANCED SOUL SCIENCE LESSONS, by R. Swinburne
Clymer; 52 lessons, printed on exceptionally fine paper; de luxe
edition; front and back stamped in gold leaf; beautiful leather
binding; two volumes. Price, postpaid, $25.00.
THE WAY TO HAPPINESS
(Philosophical Study)
O u t s t a n d i n g for its clarity of thought and its inspiring appeal
to the hearts and minds of all people. This hook forcefully em­
phasizes man’
s birthright to happiness and explains the Laws
through which man can attract joy, strength of character, success
and health as his rightful heritage.
Contents include the following chapters:
Manhood and Responsibility, the Goal; Heaven—
Must Be Found on Earth; Life Neither a Disease Nor
an Evil; Conscious Individuality, the Aim of Life;
To Renounce the World and Its Possessions, Unneces­
sary; Hope, the Elevating Magnet of Life; Through the
Suppression of a Natural Desire, Vice Is Born; Servi­
tude Follows Weakness; Natural Instincts the Prompt­
ings of Nature; To the Weak, Servility Seems Natural;
Depravity Results From Abuse of Forces Inherently
Good; Health Essentials; Renunciation of Material Pos­
sessions Indicates Neither Wisdom Nor Goodness; The
Kingdom of Heaven a State of Joy and Contentment;
Permit Not Injustice; Spirit of Chivalry Is Construc­
tive; Manhood or Degeneracy—Which?; Your Own Will
Come to You.
What are your problems? Every man on earth has a mission,
and he has the power to fulfill that mission, obtain what he de­
sires, providing he undertakes the struggle fearlessly, allowing
nothing to turn him back or prevent him from accomplishing
his desires. Such is the rightful power of man, but man must
know and observe the laws that bring success and everything else
that is desirable.
THE WAY TO HAPPINESS, by R. Swinburne Clymer;
printed on fine book paper; 214 pages, bound in cloth; front and
back stamped in gold. Price, postpaid, $2.00.
RACE REGENERATION
Here is one of the most unusual books explaining the mystery
of sex. Few writers have had the courage or the experience to
enable them to write a comprehensive book on this subject. Race
Regeneration, by Dr. R. Swinburne Clymer, is conclusive proof
of both his experience and courage, and is a real contribution to
the knowledge of mankind on this all-important subject.
It is an enlightening, clearly written exposition of the relation
of the sex instinct to personal well-being, happiness and national
and racial progress. The universal application of the principles
as taught in this work, and the practically unlimited potential
benefits of its precepts, amply justify the title.
The chapters include:
The Purity of Sex; The Beginning of Sex Lies; The
Great Madness; Continence in the Unmarried; Sex In­
structions in Public; Preparing for the Baby; The Law
of Transmission; Marriage; Dangerous Period of Life;
The Path of Death; Continence; The Spiritual Signifi­
cance of Sex; Babylonianism; Conjugal Fraud; Birth
Control.
Originally this book was published as Higher Race Develop­
ment. Because of its great popularity it has been enlarged and
republished under the new title.
RACE REGENERATION, by Dr. R. Swinburne Clymer;
printed on fine book paper; 200 pages, bound in cloth. Price, pre­
paid, $2.00.
THE LAMP OF THE SOUL
This book is used as a text in the International Academy
T h e “
L a m p of t h e S o u l ” is totally different from any other
occult book to be found anywhere on earth. Those who have
read the book say that it is without doubt one of the greatest
occult books of all time. While it is highly scientific, its real
mission is to teach mankind that the Soul’
s sojourn in the human
body is for the one sole purpose of developing a Conscious and
Illuminated Soul.
This is a book that will delight the scientist, the engineer, the
professional man, and all men and women acquainted with science
and capable of judging a philosophical teaching on the basis of
carefully prepared scientific facts.
To the active student of Soul Science it comes as a true friend
and counsellor. It gives the reasons for many facts which the
student may have recognized as true, but for which he had no
scientific proof.
The author discusses the laws of nature in an authoritative,
sincere and convincing manner. He explains the basic laws gov­
erning all the kingdoms of earth, from the mineral to the vege­
table, the animal and the human. Yet even while dealing with
and explaining the lower kingdoms, these facts are analyzed
and made clear as a preliminary to the greater explanation in­
volving man’
s real purpose on earth.
While the book has fifty-six chapters, it is logically divided
into the following seven divisions:
1
. A review of facts and conditions showing a trend of
man toward decadence.
2
. An explanation of modern scientific principles of
physics, astronomy and biology, as related to the prob­
lems under discussion.
3
. The formation of these principles into a new dynamic
cosmology.
4. Consideration of psychological findings as they apply
to the ultimate goal of man, which is Soul Illumina­
tion and ultimate Immortalization.
5
. The relation of social customs and the group mind to
the Soul growth of the individual.
6
. Development of a philosophy which corresponds to
the flow of creative life in all its fullness.
7
. An explanation of the culmination of the process of
psychogenesis into Illumination and the relation of
God to man’
s evolutionary process.
This volume is recommended, not as just another book worth
reading, but as a volume to be seriously studied. It is a text book
of the highest quality and will be treasured by every true occult
student because of the many truths it explains and makes clear.
Because this book explains Divine Truth in a highly scientific
manner, we recommend that it be studied slowly and with care.
An ideal procedure is to study one chapter every week. In this
manner it will require fifty-six weeks to study the volume, but
the student will have gained a wealth of knowledge and new
Truths impossible to realize in any other manner. Each chapter
should be read and studied from three to six times before pro­
ceeding to the next chapter. This will be an unusual procedure,
but the book is also very unusual and the student undertaking
such a program will quickly discover his contact with a source
of truth such as was never before realized or suspected. It is
truly one of the greatest of all occult books and deserving of an
honored place in the library of every occult student.
THE LAMP OF THE SOUL, by Ivan G. McDaniel, printed
on good paper, cloth binding; back and front stamped in gold,
513 pages, plus the introductory and 51 pages of index. Price,
prepaid, $5.00.
DIET, A KEY TO HEALTH
T h i s is a textbook dealing thoroughly with the question of diet.
It shows the extremely important relation of food to health, and
the use of food in place of medicine in the cure of Constipation,
Chronic Headaches, High Blood Pressure, Appendicitis, Anemia
and Tuberculosis. Many other diseases are given full consider­
ation.
The subject of Vitamins is discussed in detail, enabling the
reader to select a vitamin-sufficient diet. The vitamin content of
various foods as well as their proper combination as recom­
mended in this book makes it simple to prepare menus that are
nourishing and palatable.
Few people realize the consequences of an improper diet. It
is a fact, however, that unless the stomach is in good condition
the rest of the body cannot be healthy, nor can the mind func­
tion to the best of its ability.
This edition is made more valuable because of the addition of
a chapter on The Spiritual Significance of Foods and The In­
fluence of Mental States of Health.
Man is alive because of food. Its importance cannot be
overestimated. Every mother, every housewife, every person
preparing food for family consumption should have a copy of
this book. The information it imparts is extremely valuable. In
many cases it may mean the difference between sickness and
health. In every instance, this book will be a distinct help in
preparing and serving food which will nourish the body and
promote health.
DIET, A KEY TO HEALTH, by R. Swinburne Clymer;
printed on good paper; 265 pages, bound in cloth; front and back
stamped in gold. Price, prepaid, $3.00.
DIETARY GUIDE
As the name implies, this book is a guide to dietetic laws, food
knowledge, food values, menus, recipes, harmonizing food com­
binations, selecting balanced meals; describes the various classes
of foods and explains their values and advantages.
Special chapters suggest the proper food for special purposes.
Correct diet for pregnant women so that health might be instilled
into the child before it is born; a text that mothers can consult
for children of various ages; correct combinations of various
foods for the maintenance of health and strength of the body.
All instructions are complete and detailed, being based on
questions asked in letters covering a period of more than twenty
years, received from those in need of such dietetic instructions.
An entire chapter is devoted to explanations of how food affects
the teeth; why men, women and children suffer so greatly from
poor teeth; both cause and remedy being fully discussed.
Food substitutes often act as destroyers of health and happi­
ness. Foods are often robbed of their food value in the process
of refining or canning. The principal food elements, such as pro­
teins, hydrocarbons, carbohydrates, mineral elements, fats,
sugars, starches, fruits, regulators, etc., are briefly discussed in
relation to the foods in which these elements are found, and
according to the bodily needs of these values in the daily diet;
DIETARY GUIDE, by R. Swinburne Clymer; printed on fine
book paper, 200 pages, cloth bound; front and back stamped in
gold. Price, postpaid, $2.00.
NATURE’
S CURATIVE AGENTS
Thom sonian System
'K
This book is written especially for those who desire knowledge
of Nature’
s Curative Agents. It is complete in every detail and
written so that the layman can easily comprehend and apply the
teachings, especially as practically all the herbs, barks and ber­
ries may be collected in almost any section of America.
Many laws dealing with late discoveries in dietetic (and
herbal) science are considered, and every herb, root and bark
known to contain the organic mineral elements (the lack of which
in the human system is causative of disease) is fully treated.
Every physician should master the system so as to be able to
apply it when called upon to treat his patients in the natural way.
The layman should become equally informed so as to prevent
many of the ailments from which man now suffers uselessly, and
to be prepared for emergencies.
Eighty-five natural remedies (herbs, etc.) are each discussed
separately and their use suggested as a remedy for 169 bodily
ailments, all properly indexed for convenient reference. A spe­
cial “
Clinical Index”gives both the Latin and English names of
the natural remedies, herbs, barks, berries, etc.
It is truly an unusual book for every occult student interested
in studying nature’
s natural remedies for all bodily elements.
NATURE’
S CURATIVE AGENTS— THOMSONIAN SYS­
TEM, by R. Swinburne Clymer, M. D.; printed on fine book
paper; 224 pages, bound in silk cloth. Price, postpaid, $2.00.
THE NATURA PHYSICIAN
s.
During the years 1930 and 1931, The Natura Physician was
published as a monthly magazine for the instruction of students
interested in the prevention and cure of diseases through nature’
s
natural remedies, mostly fruits and vegetables.
The present volume is a reprint of Volume 1 and Volume 2 of
the monthly publication. It is an ideal companion to the book,
Diet, a Key to Health, recognized by physicians and food authori­
ties as one of the best books of its kind ever made available to
the public. The Natura Physician is highly recommended to
every student interested in food values and bodily nourishment.
It is also one of the very few books available giving the mineral
and vitamin content of many fruits and vegetables.
Various group diseases are discussed, such as:
Infectious or Zymotic Diseases— Diphtheria, Scarlet
Fever, Croup, Tonsillitis, Smallpox and the lesser con­
tagious diseases; Common Colds and Food Deficiencies;
Thoughts on Ultra-Violet Rays; Scarlet Fever Toxin;
Migraine— Periodic Sick Headache; Experimental Die­
tetics; Infantile Paralysis.
While bodily ills are discussed, the greatest value of the book
is in the authentic information it contains on the study of foods,
from the standpoint of their acid-creating or alkaline-reacting
qualities, and their importance in disease prevention.
THE N A Tl’
RA PHYSICIAN, by Dr. R. Swinburne Clymer;
printed on enamel book paper; 290 pages, bound in cloth. Price,
postpaid, $2.50.
MAKING HEALTH CERTAIN
(Philosophical Study)
Advanced occult students fully recognize that there is a direct
affinity between the spiritual and physical nature of man. “
As
above, so below,”and “
As within, so without,”apply to the
spiritual (within) as well as the physical (without) well-being
of man. To transgress spiritual laws brings about bodily ill-
health. When a man thinks of sickness and failure, he attracts
sickness and failure to himself. It is the law of “
As within, so
without.”
The book describes and proves the vital positive connection
between physical health and the kingdom of heaven; and the
negative connection of sickness, failure and misery, with the
conditions recognized as hades, or the sphere of error and dark­
ness. These truths are founded upon Sacred Scripture.
The author claims that all illness, irrespective of its nature,
is caused directly through ignorance, or the refusal to live in
harmony with Law, or the “
Divine Law.”The Law actually is
both natural and Divfne. The development of man’
s spiritual,
mental and Divine nature depends upon his physical well-being.
The reader is requested to rid himself of the age-old idea that
man is born forever to suffer in sorrow. Once man breaks the fet­
ters that bind him to false belief, he soon gains strength, physi­
cally and mentally, learns to live simply, naturally, normally, and
in accordance with the laws of God and Nature, and quickly frees
himself from weakness and sickness, sorrow and failure, and,
ultimately, from the fear of death.
MAKING HEALTH CERTAIN, by R. Swinburne Clymer;
printed on fine book paper, bound in silk cloth; front and b?.ck
stamped in gold. Price, postpaid, $2.00.
THE IRRECONCILABLE GNOMES
OR CONTINUATION TO THE
COMTE DE GABALIS
T h i s is a forty-eight-page paper-bound booldet printed in 1911.
Its real value is in the fact that it reports a conversation between
an Initiate and the Prince of the Gnomes.
The Initiate attempts to induce the Gnomes to serve mankind,
pointing out that through such service and intercourse with
human beings the Gnomes can achieve Immortality.
The Gnomes, invisible to mankind because composed of only a
single element, such as fire, air, water or earth, are incapable of
loving, and therefore incapable of feeling pain. Being incapable
of love necessarily makes the Gnomes mortal, but with a life­
span of about 300 years.
Man, on the contrary, is composed of all four elements, there­
fore capable of loving, of feeling pain, and possessing a Soul
germ capable of being Immortalized.
The Prince of the Gnomes contends that the winning of Immor­
tality is not worth the sacrifices and efforts necessary, pointing
out that the characteristics, the selfishness and the vice prevail­
ing among the lower strata of mankind do not make a creditable
argument.
The Initiate upholds the importance of the Soul and the power
of man to bring about its Immortalization through right living.
The arguments brought out by both sides reveal much informa­
tion regarding the nature of the Soul, and the booklet is highly
recommended to every student interested in Soul Science and
spiritual enlightenment.
The booklet also contains short sketches of the famous books
known as the Keys of Solomon the King and Grand Grimore.
Price, per copy, postpaid, 25 cents.
SECRET AND PRIVATE BOOKS
The Secret Schools offer enrolled students much instruction in
the form of secret and private books. These books are printed,
but not published. They are not sold, but loaned to students for
life, on receipt of donation as specified.
All of these books contain some of the highest knowledge avail­
able to man; knowledge not permitted anyone except those obli­
gated, or willing to be obligated, to silence.
Divine Alchemy is perhaps the most outstanding of these books
and no student can travel very far on the Path unless he has a
full knowledge of the Laws of Regeneration as described in this
secret and private book of instructions.
Each and every one of these books has some outstanding char­
acteristic, divulges certain knowledge not obtainable elsewhere,
and most students and Neophytes of the Secret Schools ulti­
mately secure possession of the entire series of secret and pri­
vate books.
DIVINE ALCHEMY
h
This is a private book for the obligated student. Printed but
not published, and furnished only to those willing to take the
obligation of silence.
No other book ever offered gives more secret, private and-
closely guarded secret instructions intended only for the eyes and
minds of sincere students who have proven themselves worthy of
receiving knowledge that divulges some of the most sacredly
guarded information reserved for private study by the students
of the Secret Schools.
The contents include:
:;
,p. . 1
Asgill’
s Rules—These are rules taught by Dr. P. B.
Randolph and never revealed to any but private students.
Esoteric Points of the Mystery—Among the subjects
treated in this chapter are: God and Nature; True Mar­
riage; The Marital Office; The True and Perfect Union,
etc.
The Divine Work—Teaching yvhat sex really is and
expounding the Law of Transmutation.
Alchemy—Giving in detail all the laws.
Vital but Generally Unknown Laws.
Laws Anciently Taught.
The Mysteries—Containing: True Initiation; The
True Fire; The Ancient Fire Worship; The Light
Within and True Soul Power.
■
This book makes clear the mystery of magic, the art of the
alchemist, and teaches the student to build within himself the
temple built without saw or hammer.
DIVINE ALCHEMY, by R. Swinburne Clymer; printed on
imported Japanese parchment, bound in genuine leather, stamped
in gold. The book is never sold, but loaned to obligated students
during their term of membership, or for life, after which the
book is to be returned to the Fraternity. Loan basis, a $10.00
donation. ;
r ;
THE GREATER MYSTERIES
Two Volum es
s.
In ancient Egypt, after the people became demoralized and
foreign hordes overran the country, the Initiates met and swore
a solemn oath that:
A new country (Land of the Spreading Eagle) should spring
forth, and that one of their number who had been king, but had
betrayed his trust, should make the supreme sacrifice and rein­
carnate in this new country at the proper time, call together
those who had been well instructed and trained, and at a special
Convocation bind themselves together to work for the New Age,
so that in the course of years it should once more come to pass
that only Initiates should be permitted to rule the people and
look after their welfare. This time is now at hand, the work is
progressing, the circle is enlarging, and the mysteries are being
taught to all worthy and sincere students.
Much space in this book is devoted to the Ineffable Light.
Many mysteries are explained, including: The Key to Religion;
The Sacred Fire; The Symbolism of the Sun and Moon; The
Mystery of Phallic Worship; Generation and Regeneration; Sex
Worship; The Mysteries of Mythra; The God of Light; The
Tradition of the “
Generative Rock”
; The Seven Degrees of Initia­
tion; The Mystery of Osiris; The Mystery of the Druids; The
Symbolism of the Serpent; The Temple of Solomon; The Fate of
Hiram Abiff, or the Legend of the Third Degree; Winged Globe;
and many other mysteries held sacred in occult literature.
THE GREATER MYSTERIES, by R. Swinburne Clymer;
printed in two colors on ivory book paper, one side of the page
only; top edges of pages gold powdered; bound in genuine
leather; front and back stamped in gold. Two volumes. Printed
but not published. Loaned only to obligated students on receipt
of donation. Postpaid, $25.00.
THE EXALTED LIFE
H
This book is the result of many years’
experience in teaching
students the Higher Life and the development of the body, mind
and Soul. It contains no untried or unnecessary theories. Every
teaching and principle as given in this book is authentic and
necessary to living the Highest Ideal possible to man. The ad­
vanced student will find it a very desirable and instructive addi­
tion to his library, while to the novice it is indispensable.
It deals with the Metaphysics of Regeneration and Immor­
tality; correct use of the Sex Function in the process of Regen­
eration; The Elixir of Youth; The Gospel of Life; the Natural
Food of Man, and many other subjects not permissible to mention
in a catalog of this type.
One full chapter is devoted to the Hygienic Laws; recommen­
dations of the proper foods essential to the Higher Life; Baths
for Cleanliness; absorbing magnetism; Soul development; exer­
cises for Correct Breathing, and a comprehensive-discussion on
the value of Sun Baths.
THE EXALTED LIFE, by Guru Rakadazan; a strictly pri­
vate book, printed but not published; obtainable only by those
willing to take the obligation of silence; 223 pages, available
only in the de luxe edition; printed on exceptionally fine paper;
front and back stamped in gold, bound in silk cloth. Price, post­
paid, $10.00.
BOOKS TEMPORARILY OUT OF PRINT
•a
Because of war-time restrictions in the manufacture and sales
of book paper, it is impossible to secure sufficient paper stock
of a quality and weight as used in the printing of all our books.
At the time this catalog is being reprinted our stock of certain
popular books is entirely depleted. These include:
The Book of Rosicrucise.
The Mystery of Osiris or Egyptian Initiation.
The Illuminated Faith of St. Matthew.
While orders for these books are continually being received,
there is nothing we can do except to return the money.
All of these books are on the schedule for reprinting imme­
diately after the close of the war, or just as soon as paper of
the proper quality and weight is again available for book
publishing purposes.
In the meantime this catalog offers many of the most popular
of occult books—
immediately available. We particularly recom­
mend: The Science of the Soul, a book which apparently is the
outstanding favorite with occult students; The Philosophy of
Fire, a book filled from cover to cover with occult truths and
history; The Compendium of Occult Law, the world’
s outstand­
ing book on Occult and Spiritual Law; and The Lamp of the Soul,
a text book of such great importance that it will no doubt be
used by students for study purposes for the next hundred years.
THESE BOOKLETS ARE FURNISHED
FREE OF CHARGE
Requests are constantly made for literature describing the
teachings of the authentic Rosicrucian Fraternity.
The booklets here described offer complete information. They
answer practically all questions and can be had without cost.
The ASth Priesthood. The j® th Priesthood constitutes the high­
est occult and spiritual teaching available to man. The topics
discussed include: A Mystical Treatise for Seekers after Occult
(hidden) Knowledge; The Occult Law of Action and Reaction;
Occultism Still a Sealed Book for the Masses of Mankind; The
Mystery of the JEth; Attracting the Help of the [Spiritual Hier­
archies; Studentship information, etc. 48 pages. >
The Rosicrucians. This booklet discusses: The Masters Among
Men; What is the Rosicrucian Fraternity?; The Ancient Myster­
ies; The Origin of Rosicrucianism; What is Initiation?; The
Fraternity and You; Studentship information, e(;c. 82 pages.
The Rose Cross. A Universal Brotherhood in the Making;
Contacting the Powers of the Spaces; Love is the: Greatest of all
Powers; The Creative Center in Man; The Fraternity and You;
Studentship information, etc. 24 pages. ;
Rosicrucise. The Rose Cross.Order; The Possessors of the
“
Elixir of Life”
; “
Not My Will, Father, but Thine be Done”
;
The Meaning of Initiation; The Kindred Feelingj of Attraction;
Sin and Disease; Love is the Attracting Power; The Fraternity
and You; Studentship information, etc. 32 pages.’
The Occult Arcanum. The Path to Power;. Man Must Gain
Complete Self-Mastery; The Soul Must Awakejn to Activity;
Knowledge is Power Only When Properly Used; The Path to all
that is Good and Desirable; The Mission of the Occult; The
Fraternity and You; Studentship information, etc. 24 pages.
Any of these books will gladly .be furnished on request.
Address your letter to ' , >
PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING COMPANY
QUAKERTOW
N, PENNSYLVANIA ;
TWO FREE BOOKLETS TO ACQUAINT
STUDENTS WITH THE ORDER OF THE MAGI
Both of these booklets were originally written to Acquaint
occult students with the instructions imparted by the Order of
the Magi. They contain no definite instructions, but discuss the
various phases of instructions available to students.
The Imperialistic Council of the Magi. This thirty-two-page
booklet briefly records the subjects incorporated in the instruc­
tions to students. These include: Life; Weakness; Death; Regen­
eration; Action; Development; Theory; “
As Above, So Below”
;
Law and Order; Always a Mystic; Character; The Secret of
Eliphas Levi; The Reason for Failure; “
Nothing Is Impossible
to Him Who Truly W ills”
; Wealth Is Not Power; A Student on
the Path Will Not Plead Poverty; Great Masters Represent
Three Classes; This School Not for Weaklings; Hierarchic
Power; Powers of Nature; The Four Elementals; Mastership;
Men Must Become Men; Obedience; Ancient Initiation; Power
Must Be Won; Freedom; The Whole Man; Desire; The School;
The Power of the Magus, etc.
Order of the Magi. This booklet describes the rare and private
instruction books available to those willing to take the Pledge of
Secrecy. The various courses of instruction include: Practical
Occultism; Ritualistic Occultism; Cabalistic Magic; Divine
Magic and the Divine Mysteries; The Grand Grimore; The Im­
perial Ritual of Magic.
Both booklets are well worthy of study and should be in the
library of every occult student. The booklets are free. They will
be mailed on request, without cost to you.
Address:
P h ilo s o p h ic a l P u b lish in g C om pany
Dept. B, Beverly Hall
Quakertown, Pa.
tY
THE INTERPRETATION
OF
St. Matthew
Among the Apostles, St. Matthew was considered the
Law Giver. His writings contain the Divine Laws to
a much greater degree than any other book of the
Bible. These are the laws which were written for the
purpose of guiding mankind in every thought, word
and activity.
While these truths are contained in the Bible, their
real meaning is usually hidden in parables and sym­
bols. Bible students throughout the ages have devoted
much time and effort to an attempt to decipher the
hidden meanings of these scriptures.
While several centuries have elapsed since the
Nazarene walked the earth, it was not until now that
anyone with sufficient knowledge of Bible meanings
and Bible interpretations made this information avail­
able to the public.
How many are there who can explain the hidden
meaning of the Laws incorporated into the Sermon on
the Mount, or in the Lord’
s prayer? How many can
interpret correctly the parables of the ten virgins and
the talents; the feeding of the multitude with five
loaves and two fishes, the laborers of the vineyard,
the calming of the winds, or the Lord’
s supper?
What meanings do you place on such sayings as
Render unto Caesar . . . ; Blessed are the meek . . . ;
Let the dead bury the dead; You must pay to the
uttermost farthing; An eye for an eye; The Kingdom
of Heaven is at hand, and hundreds of others of a
similar character?
These Divine Laws are interpreted and explained in
the new and revised Interpretation of St. Matthew.
To study these interpretations should be a “
must”
for every occult student, while to the student on the
path to Soul Illumination and Immortality, this
knowledge is indispensable and will aid in a more
rapid spiritual development than would otherwise be
possible.
The Interpretation of St. Matthew gives the student
a law for “
living the life”that leads to the most ex­
alted pinnacle of spiritual development. It places be­
fore him the complete laws for human behavior; the
laws governing man’
s every activity, enabling him to
not only be successful in his spiritual desires, but also
in material activities.
Even more than this, it brings to the truth seeker an
understanding of God, a recognition of man’
s real
purpose on earth, as also the Salvation and Illumina­
tion of his own Soul.
The Interpretation of St. Matthew: The Way, The
Truth, The Life. A complete Interpretation of St.
Matthew as applied to the present age. Two volumes,
totalling more than 600 pages; bound in cloth; front
and back stamped in gold. Price, prepaid, $5.00.
(Sold only in two-volume sets.)
The Master Work
I , % \ '
' -Ipr ■
•
Announcing the T wo Most Important Volumes
Published During the Past Century
THE WAY, THE LIFE, THE LIGHT
In ordinary material activity, man’
s failure
or success depends largely upon his
knowledge and experience.
When man strives for spiritual develop­
ment or Soul Illumination, he cannot suc­
ceed in his efforts unless he first secures a
knowledge of Divine Laws governing all
mankind; the laws of right living. By ap­
plying these laws to his own life, he can
achieve mastership over the carnal self,
and, ultimately, Immortality and At-one-
ment with the Father, thus fulfilling the
real purpose for which the Soul came to
earth and entered a human body.
The “
Laws of Living”which help man
accomplish this are contained in the In­
terpretation of St. Matthew, as further
described on the following pages.
I : ' v '
