{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__bryan___psychic_dictatorship_in_america.pdf","mytitle":"Psychic Dictatorship In America","mylang":"de"}
PSYCHIC
DICTATORSHIP
IN
AMERICA
by GERALD B. BRYAN
TRUTH RESEARCH PUBLICATIONS
4 5 6 So. W estern Ave^ Los A n geles, California
C o p y r ig h t , 1940
By Gerald B. Bryan
All Rights Reserved
FIRST EDITION
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
PUBLISHER’S NOTE
Just before this book came off the press the amazing
cult which it exposes was indicted by the Federal Grand
Jury at Los Angeles on charges of fraudulent use of the
mails. We quote below excerpts from Associated Press
Dispatch of July 24, 1940:
"A federal grand jury today indicted 24 leaders
of the "I AM ” Foundation, a nationwide move­
ment reported to have attracted a million converts,
on charges of fraudulent use of the mails.
"Testimony by postal inspectors resulted in 16
counts of misuse of the mails and one count of
conspiracy . . .
"Norman Neukom, assistant United States at­
torney who presented the case to the grand jury,
said the "I AM ” cultists had collected close to
$3,000,000 since the movement’s inception in
1930.”
PSYCHIC DICTATORSHIP IN AMERICA reveals
heretofore unpublished and startling facts about this sub­
versive cult.
P R E F A C E
This is a history and psychological study of one of
America’s most astounding cults. An incredible story of
the strangest dictatorship now current in our land.
It recounts how an unseen, psychic potentate domi­
nates the minds and actions of thousands of patriotic
American citizens, who, today, meet in closed, secret
study-groups in most of the cities throughout the United
States.
It relates how two self-styled "Accredited Messen­
gers” of invisible "Masters” rose from obscurity to fame
and fortune by bringing forth a new Messiah— allegedly
an actual historical character who had considerable polit­
ical influence in Europe during the middle of the 18th
century.
But this book is intended to be more than just an
interesting history of a curious faith, or recital of an
ever-recurring Messianic complex. It is a study of strange
psychological forces revealed mainly through the history
of a single subversive cult, but which have their influence
also on other movements operating in America today.
It shows, in these days when panaceas parade the land
and people reach out for straws to save themselves, how
American ideals of freedom and independence are being
supplanted by a slavish dependence upon odd sorts of
deliverances. And oddest perhaps of all current move-
Preface
ments, and loaded with special brands of psychological
and political dynamite, is the cult this book exposes.
Similar movements, no doubt, have occurred in the
past, but none of them has shown the sheer audacity and
careless dealing with the truth as the one whose incredible
and fantastic history is here recorded— a recital which
serves so well to typify, in some respects, the peculiar his­
tory of the time through which America today is passing.
The author hopes that its amazing story will serve to
reveal subversive psychological influences which are pro­
ducing widespread mental confusion in the United States,
from which some form of political despotism may sprout
and jeopardize constitutional principles of Freedom and
Liberty upon which this nation is founded.
It is his hope, too, that such a history and study will
be an example and warning should, now or at any future
time, other subversive movements, using similar psy­
chological methods of regimentating the minds of credu­
lous people, get underway in America.
To those who after reading this book find sad disil­
lusionment concerning a movement which so long has held
their earnest and devoted allegiance, the author can only
express the wish to see them happily using their aspirations
and talents elsewhere in God’s great kingdom. With many,
no doubt, there will be felt a glad release, a sense of free­
dom to be cut loose from servile obedience to pretended
"Masters,” to be freed from the hypnotic domination of a
“Psychic Dictatorship.”
Gerald B. Bryan
Los Angeles, California.
July, 1940.
?
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
1. A merica T urns to the "M ighty I AM ” . 11
2. Streamline Be g in n in g s ..........................................18
3. T he "Silver ShirT ’ Background of
Ballard ism ...........................................................25
4. T he Ballard Show Goes on the Road . . 34
5. T he Rise of a D ic t a t o r ..........................................46
6. Psychological Bugaboos..........................................52
7. T he W ar on "E ntities” .................................. 58
8. Metaphysical Pl u m s ................................................63
9. T he Ballard " A scension” M iracles . . . 71
10. Cosmic Streamline A dvertising . . . . 79
11. V oyages of a Modern Sindbad...............................85
12. T he Comte de St. Germain—
H istorical and O therwise . . . . 92
13. T he Bard of A von Goes "I AM ” . . . . 100
14. D ocumentary Evidence of Plagiarism . . 106
15. T he "M aster” Bookselling Racket . . . 117
16. W here the M oney Go e s........................................122
17. Some A ntecedent H istor y..................................127.
18. T he Ballard Gold M ine D eals . . . . 13 5
19. T riumphant Entry Into Chicago . . . 143
20. T he Ballard Past Bobs Up A gain . . . 148
21. H ow the Ballards A nswered the
Chicago Su i t ................................................... 155
22. H ow "Saint Germain” Kept W ar O ut
of Eu r o p e .........................................................162
to
Contents— Continued
CHAPTER PAGE
23. T hose Bad Black Magicians..................................167
24. H arbingers of D is a s t e r ........................................172
25. Sex T eachings of Ballardism............................ 178
26. Some Results of Ba l l a r d is m ............................ 187
27. T he A ttack on C h r istianity............................ 193
28. T he Course of Political D ictatorships . 202
29. "P eewee H itlerism” in A merica” . . . . 207
30. T he Ballard "I nner Secret Service” . . 215
31. D ecrees of D ea th ! ...................................................220
32. T he "B lue Lightning” Flashes at
Cl e v e l a n d .........................................................227
33. George W ashington Ballard for
President! .........................................................235
34. D eath-Blasts O ver the W hite H ouse . . 241
35. D eath Enters the Ballard H ousehold . 245
CHAPTER 1
AMERICA TURNS TO THE "MIGHTY 1 AM ”
Along the boulevard the crowd gathers in front of
the well-lighted building.
"This must be the place,” you say to yourself, falling
in line with others hurrying along the street.
A friend has been urging you to attend, and last
night’s radio broadcast has further intrigued your interest.
So here you are.
It is early, but already nearby parking lots are filled.
Nicely dressed men and women exchange greetings as
they hurry to get into the meeting, but some are rather
curiously attired. A woman swishes by in a long white
gown which trails the ground. Another goes by in flam­
ing violet. One in golden yellow. A wheel chair bearing
a cripple is being pushed through one of the entrances.
"Registration cards at window to the right!” some­
one announces. Soon, with one in your hand, you edge
through the crowd and are in the brilliantly lighted
auditorium.
A courteous white-robed attendant greets you with
a smile, presenting you with a colorful song book and a
little envelope marked "I A m Love Gift.”
"God bless you,” she says.
Taken a bit by surprise, you return the greeting. A
male usher, dressed nattily in a white suit, conducts you
officiously down the aisle.
Ensconsed in a comfortable seat and still holding on
to the little love gift envelope and the peach-colored
song book, you look around.
12 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
The auditorium already is well filled and presents a
colorful effect with its gathering of the faithful in their
habiliments of pinks and purples and yellows and other
shades and hues of color. The women are in predominance,
but the men, mostly dressed in white, are far from being
inconspicuous. Good-looking male ushers, all in dressy
white, stand at attention at certain points in the aisles,
or politely conduct the incoming streams of people to
their seats.
You hear music and sit back relaxed, waiting for the
lecture to begin. But there seems to be no hurry about it.
Like a gala event, the crowds have assembled long before
the scheduled appearance of the speakers.
A peace settles over you, but not the sleepy kind. The
atmosphere around you is vibrant with expectancy.
The stage is banked with gorgeous flowers. You can
almost imagine the smell of their fragrance. Makes you
think of the last wedding or funeral you attended. Yet
the scene before you is different from either.
A forest of pine trees at the extreme ends of the stage
lures you into dreamy recollections. Colored lights play
between the trees. Reminds you of Christmas.
In the center of the stage is a large colorful chart of
two human figures, one placed above the other. The upper
figure, resplendent in its glory of many colors, has radi­
ating streamers like a miniature borealis. The lower one
is less spectacular perhaps, and is bathed in a constant
flow of radiations which stream up from the feet. This
you later learn is the " Violet Consigning Flame,” a puri­
fying and destroying element. Oddly enough, this human
figure and its restless cloud of violet are enclosed in a
white outline resembling a milk bottle.
The complete ensemble— the heavenly figure above and
the more human one below— you later learn is the " Chart
of the Presence.” An absolute essential in this cult’s sys­
tem of salvation.
A merica T urns to the "M ighty I AM ” 13
Shrouded in a bower of flowers to your left, by the
side of the central chart, is an easel and picture. This you
make out is the portrait of Jesus. A mild-visaged creation,
with marcel-waved hair and beard.
To your right on the other side of the chart is a com­
panion picture, also in its bower of flowers. A golden
bearded and mustached gentleman with piercing eyes.
This you soon learn is the "exact likeness” of the great
"Ascended Master Saint Germain ”
This bearded master with peculiar eyes seems to exert
a strange fascination. You turn to the mild Jesus on your
left. And now your gaze shifts to and fro like a pendulum
between the two portraits. A queer feeling settles over you.
To break it, you look at the central chart with its two
human figures and radiating streamers. Your eyes now
travel perpendicularly up from the lower figure to the
upper one, and back again. Again that peculiar feeling.
You wonder about it.
The sudden appearance of someone on the stage inter­
rupts your contemplations.
It is a man dressed in dazzling white. Advancing
toward the footlights, he holds up his hands in greeting.
He is now at the microphone radiating his love and bless­
ings. You settle back in your seat again, for he is but an
announcer, not the prime mover of the show.
It is a first night, and there is much exchange of greet­
ings. He holds up telegrams from other cities in the United
States. There are greetings from Canada, and even a cable­
gram. He reads some of them. They all send love and
blessings to the new class which has just started. The an­
nouncer goes on to say that marvelous happenings took
place at the class just closed in the last city visited. But
this one, he says, is simply to be " Transcendent!”
"Blessed Saint Germain has promised it” he adds, lift­
ing his eyes heavenward with awe and reverence. And a
hush settles over the audience.
14 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
N ot knowing just where to look for Saint Germain’s
apparition, your eyes travel to his bearded and mustached
portrait on the stage to your right. His eyes hold your
attention. With an effort you switch to the portrait of
Jesus, and you realize with a start that so far everything
has centered around the frMighty Master Saint Germain.”
You cannot help but wonder at it.
Specific references are now being made to the "I A m
Love Gift Boxes” located at the rear of the auditorium.
You find later that they are very conveniently and ad­
vantageously placed for the reception of the little "Love
Gift” envelope you hold in your hand.
"Dear ones!” says the announcer earnestly. "Blessed
Mr. and Mrs. Ballard do not need these offerings; they are
merely for you beloved students to 'open up channels’
for blessings from the great Ascended Masters.”
The eyes of the announcer again look heavenward as
though showers of blessings had already accompanied this
reference to the unseen "Masters.”
"Unless you give freely,’ he adds, still very earnestly,
"you cannot receive.” Then very emphatically, "That is
the Ascended Master’s law of life!”
The smooth-voiced announcer still runs on in his talk
as though playing for time. You wonder when the sched­
uled lecturers will appear on the stage. There seems to be
no hurry about it so far as the announcer is concerned.
But you now want ever so much to see and hear the
"Accredited Messengers of the Great Ascended Master
Saint Germain”— which you remember was the way the
lecturers were referred to over the radio.
References are now being made to the need of working
and "decreeing” for the United States of America and the
Constitution.
"W e must save America!” says the announcer. You
learn there are "vicious forces” within her borders and
without. These are all to be destroyed! They are to be
A merica T urns to the "M ighty I A M ” 15
" blasted” from the face of the earth by the "decrees” of
the students. Saint Germain, the mighty "Cosmic Mas­
ter,” has commanded it!
Like other movements which have as their credo the
"saving of America,” the flag of the American republic
is displayed prominently on the stage. But you notice
there are two large flags on the stage instead of the custo­
mary one. You think Saint Germain’s Americanism leans
a little backward here. Also, little American flags are
displayed prominently on the lapels and white dresses of
men and women in the audience. The man on the stage
has his little flag too. Everywhere there seem to be flags—
little stripes of red and white and rectangles of blue— add­
ing more color and sentiment to a gala event.
But you soon learn to your surprise that the color red
is simply intolerable to Saint Germain and his "Accredited
Messengers.” It is the color of the communists and all
that is vicious, says the announcer. "You students should
not wear it. . . . N o Ascended Master ever uses it.” The
only exception seems to be the flag of our country.
"Some day, however,” the announcer quotes Saint
Germain as saying, "when the Ascended Masters take
charge of the affairs of this country, there will be gold
stripes instead of red ones in the flag of the new American
republic!”
"This is not a religion,” the announcer adds, "but a
patriotic movement.”
He goes on to extol the "marvelous” patriotic work
of the " Minute Men of Saint Germain This you learn
is a men’s patriotic organization within the parent body
which has dedicated itself to fly to the rescue of America,
as did the minute men of 1776.
You learn also of the activities of the ”Daughters of
Light,” a sort of ladies auxiliary, with similar patriotic
aims and purposes.
The audience you observe is accepting all this in per-
16 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
feet peace and contentment. They evidently have heard
it many times before, and it is easy for them and the an­
nouncer to go through it again. Tolerant of the easy and
lulling voice of the announcer, they nevertheless appear to
be expectantly waiting, waiting for something to happen.
You, too, sit back complacently; but you do wonder
about such things as the gold stripes in the new American
flag— and just when it will be that the "Ascended Mas­
ters” will take over the affairs of the country.
In the midst of thinking about all of this, suddenly
there is a resounding note on the pipe organ and a trumpet
sounds from back stage. The audience is rising to its feet
almost in a body. Rather uncertain what to do, you rise
also. There seems to be nothing else to do. You don’t
want to be stared at.
Sweeping forward on the stage come the three indi­
viduals responsible for all this fanfare. The great moment
is here!
A woman, blond, radiant, and sparkling with jewels,
dressed as for the opera, takes the center of the stage and
showers the audience with her love.
A gray-haired man of about sixty attired in a white
tuxedo, smiles beatifically at the audience and bows with
her. Diamonds flash from his hands and other parts of
his person.
A youth, dressed also in white, the son of this startling
couple, stands at a sort of diffident attention on the stage
while all this is going on. He seems for the moment not
to be a part of the performance.
With the electric appearance of Saint Germain’s
"Accredited Messengers” on the stage all is changed. The
audience comes to life. It is galvanized into action. Soon,
led by this gorgeously-gowned, throaty-voiced blond
woman, who has taken the center of the stage, "decrees”
are being shouted in unison throughout the crowded
auditorium.
A m e r ic a T u r n s t o t h e " M ig h t y I AM ” 17
Staccato-like sentences are hurled into the atmosphere.
. . . Hands are raised. . . . Thoughts are sent sizzling
through the auditorium. One can imagine them going
like projectiles to their destination.
There is perfect timing and rhythm in the " hurling
forth” of these decrees. Certain it is that these people
are in deadly earnest. The spirit of the mob prevails,
orderly, but easily recognized for what it is— mass hyp­
nosis— concentrated and directed by one mind, one power,
one overweening personality, psychic and unreasoning
in its effect.
And so amidst applause, blessings, and "decrees,”
another "Mighty I AM ” class is now well under way. It
will run for ten full days, or perhaps seventeen, both
afternoon and evening, and part of it will be broadcast
to listening thousands beyond the big city.
The author leaves the reader with this picture, and
will pass on to the moving series of events that led up to
such an assemblage, which will explain, he hopes, the idol­
atrous devotion of the large and applauding audience
for these people, and why so many patriotic Americans
have embraced so earnestly and so vociferously the strange
cult of the "Mighty I AM.” *
“■'The author hopes that the reader will hear in mind that any criticism
of the so-called “ Mighty I AM” instruction of Guy and Edna Ballard
is directed at this cult’s false conception and misuse of the “ I AM”
philosophy and not at the “ I AM” itself, which, to many, is a symbol
of the “ Higher Self,” the God Within. It is regretable that so often a
legitimate philosophy is made to bear the burden of illegitimate use.'
CHAPTER 2
STREAMLINE BEGINNINGS
At a modest brick bungalow, 1620 East 84th Place,
Chicago, there occurred during the fall of 1932 a series of
assertedly miraculous happenings, out of which has arisen
the most fantastic and extravagant spiritualistic move­
ment in American history.
Some form of spiritualistic communication has always
been the belief and hope of the human race. Sometimes
such a belief has been tempered with reason and common
sense. All too often, however, it has been made to flare
into something analogous to a raging forest fire, period­
ically sweeping certain sections of the country, preying
upon credulous minds, and laying waste a lot of mental
timber of promise.
Such has been the result of the spiritualistic phenomena
which assertedly took place in the red brick bungalow
on 84th Place in old Chicago, and which during the last
few years has flared into a psychic conflagration so wide­
spread and intense that it should be of considerable in­
terest to psychologists and psychiatrists who deal in strange
behaviorisms of the human mind, as well as to politicians
who astutelv watch the current of human emotion, that
they may the better obtain power and authority in the
land.
In the history of the American colonies, and even in
more recent times, there are other instances of such psychic
movements, but never, however, on such a flamboyant and
extravagant a scale as this present-day cult.
Nearly a hundred years ago, at another little house,
19
Streamline Beginnings
now historically famous as the "Fox Cottage at Hydes-
ville, New York there similarly occurred certain psychic
phenomena credited with having given birth to spiritual­
ism in America.
This humble house, occupied by honest John Fox, his
wife, and their two little children, became what was pop­
ularly known in that day as "haunted.” Ffere there began
a remarkable series of psychic "rappings” and "knockings”
which were destined to be heard throughout the United
States of that day, and are still being heard in thousands
of seances throughout the country.
But in this latter-day happening which assertedly
occurred in an equally unpretentious house, although not
considered "haunted,” this ancient and primitive belief
in the supernormal has taken wings on a flight of fancy
far beyond that of the humble happenings at the cottage
home of the little Fox sisters. For this later happening
deals not with spirit "raps” and "knocks,” but with dis­
tinctly more modern and streamlined methods of com­
municating with the other side of life.
In short, instead of having ordinary "spirit guides”
and commonplace "ghosts” of departed relatives giving
the usual type of spirit messages, we now have, reportedly,
great and mighty "Ascended Masters” speaking audibly
over a dazzling "L ight A nd Sound Ra y !”
Foremost among the "Masters” who speak audibly over
this streamlined "Light and Sound Ray” is the great
"Ascended Master Saint Germain,” who is alleged to have
been the same mysterious personage whom history records
as the Comte de St. Germain— a man who in the 18th
century had wide political influence, and was adviser to
Louis X V of France and some other potentates of that day.
Thus the world moves on; and today the disciples of
the new cult can sit comfortablv at home by their own
radios listening to inspired fireside chats from this 18th-
century Count, telling about the state of the nation and
20 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
the world, or they may read his "Light and Sound Ray”
discourses, all printed and duly copyrighted in seven large
green-colored books!
The first of these books has the alluring title: "Un­
veiled Mysteries” wherein is described how the hero, a
Mr. Godfre Ray King, meets in the fall of 1930 the Comte
de St. Germain in person on the side of a California
mountain.
Godfre Ray King, we later learn is none other than
Guy W. Ballard, co-originator of the Mighty I AM cult;
and, according to this book, he "had been sent on gov­
ernment business to a little town sihiated at the foot of
the mountain,” (p. 1, "Unveiled Mysteries.” ) *
While there, according to his account, he occupied
his leisure time trying to unravel a strange rumor con­
cerning an alleged Occult Brotherhood said to be domi­
ciled in the mountain fastnesses of Mt. Shasta— California’s
own "Mystic Mountain.”
One day on one of his alleged rambles around Mt.
Shasta, he stopped at a mountain spring for a drink. Cup
in hand, he knelt down to fill it when something like an
"electric current” passed through his body from head
to foot.
Looking up, he saw "no ordinary person.”
"Drink this,” said the mysterious stranger, handing
him a cup filled with a rich, creamy liquid. Very trust­
fully, Ballard did so— and he was never quite the same
afterwards.
A few moments later the stranger was demonstrating
his gold-making abilities to Ballard.
"See!” said the mysterious one, "I have but to hold out
* Please note the following abbreviations used in this book:
Unveiled Mysteries .................U.M. Ascended Master Discourses..A.M.D.
The Magic Presence.................M.P. Ascended Master Light................. A.M.L.
The “I AM” Discourses.............D. Voice of the I AM.............................................. V.
Group Letter.....................................................G.L.
Streamline Beginnings 21
my hand and if I wish to use gold— gold is here.”
Instantly, Ballard said, " there lay in his palm a disc
about the size of a ten dollar gold piece!” (p.4, u.M.)
From that time on, this mysterious mountain visitor
— who turns out to be none other than the great "Ascend­
ed Master Saint Germain”— reveals to his wonder-eyed
disciple more mysteries in heaven and earth than ever
dreamed of in any Shakespearean philosophy. The great
"Master” takes time out from more cosmic labors to per­
sonally escort his disciple to secret retreats in America,
Arabia, and India, and gets him back to his home in Chi­
cago in time to tune in to the marvelous "Light and
Sound Ray” coming through the ceiling of Ballard’s mod­
est 84th Place bungalow.
In this streamlined spiritualistic movement there are
many additional marvels, of which we shall duly learn.
But just now let us introduce the couple who are the
self-styled "Accredited Messengers” of this Ascended
Master Saint Germain, and who are responsible for a
movement which is today controlling the thought, dic­
tating the action, and winning the financial support of
tens of thousands of people in the major cities throughout
the United States, a movement which actually claims
"over a million earnest and devoted students
Inasmuch as he claims to have been the originator of
the movement, let us present Guy W. Ballard first. H ow­
ever, his good wife, Edna Wheeler Ballard, is far from
being backward in her claims and activities, and one can
easily gather the impression from the way the show is
handled that the set-up is more of a matriarchy than a
patriarchy.
Guy George W ashington Godfre Ray King
Ballard is a tall, meticulously dressed man of some sixty
years of age, usually attired in an immaculate white suit,
over which, for variety, he sometimes very effectively
drapes a long indigo-blue cape with shiny white satin
22 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
lining, or sometimes a full-length all-white one.*
In the glare of the footlights there is much sparkle of
jewels from rings and tie pin as he bows and gesticulates
before his audiences.
Pale, deep-set blue eyes look out below a slanting fore­
head topped by grey hair, well-groomed and1 combed
straight back as if flattened out by the wind, giving the
impression of a bird in flight. A well-formed eagle-like
nose and thin underjaw, adds to this impression of flight
into the empyrean.
In short, Guy Ballard gives the impression of being
one of those individuals who can easily live in a world of
their own, peopled by creatures and glories of their own
imaginative making, but, albeit, in his case, a world suffi­
ciently material to include and satisfy a life-long craving
for corporeal comforts as well as for heavenly splendors.
Emotionally, this man pf fantastic tales ranges from
mannerisms of deepest humility to a crescendo of high and
mighty utterances designed to show his self-claimed Mes­
sianic destiny as "Savior of America.”
From an over-display of humility attitudes, garnished
with such endearing expressions as "Dear Hearts” and
"Beloved Ones,” he will suddenly sweep into dynamic de­
nunciations against "vicious individuals,” spies, and black
magicians, within and without our borders, and call on
"Mighty Ascended Masters” to smite these individuals
and all their works.
After such an exhibition of emotional pyrotechnics,
the audience is either hypnotically leaning forward in
their respective seats with delicious chills running up and
down their individual spines, or else a few will register
disgust at such mass-stirring heroics by getting up and
leaving the auditorium.
*The first and second chapters in this book, as well as some of the others, were
written BEFORE the so-called “ Ascension” of Guy Ballard. However, we publish the
material as written, and have retained the PRESENT tense, even though later history
may now place some of the events in the past tense.
Streamline Beginnings 23
One thing is certain: This man, in his eagle-like flights
of fancy and sweeping denunciations of so-called vicious
individuals, has the power not only to hypnotize himself
as to the truth of what he is saying, but he can, it seems,
make his audience believe in the green cheese story of
the moon— or its occult parallel.
The play of his emotions up and down the scale tends
to keep his audiences in proper emotional trim— on their
psychic toes as it were— and the recital of marvels yet to
come, gold, jewels, precipitated dinners, and what not, to
every devoted student through the Ballard system of sal­
vation, makes these students all too willing to be hypno­
tized away from their logical faculties and follow the
fanciful imaginings of the master of the show.
Let us now take a look at the feminine side of the
Ballard household.
Edna A n n a W heeler Lotus Ray King Ballard,
known also as " Little Dynamite” to her psychic master
and also as "Chanera” are names which perhaps fit all the
characteristics of this dynamic personality.
Years ago, before later and more euphonious names
were born, she was simply Edna Wheeler Ballard, a con­
cert harpist, a vaudeville trouper, a clerk in an occult
book store, or sometimes just a housewife, varied at times
by trips to the mountain tops with her gold-seeking hus­
band and infant son, looking for the ever-eluding pot of
gold (the Ballard gold mines we will learn about) at the
end of the rainbow.
As simply Edna, she was like most other people
struggling along through life. There was a child to raise,
hospital and dental bills to pay, and the rent came around
all too soon. But the restless god of ambition within her
did not want it that way. It wanted power, glory, dia­
monds, gold, and a luxury such as attributed to fabled
rulers of old. T o all these besetting desires her early
friends will attest.
24 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
Is it any wonder, therefore, that these ambitions should
not have been outpictured some time in some tangible
way? Particularly so, when it is realized that she planned,
worked, and schemed for them instead of doing a lot of
metaphysical wishfpl thinking.
A dynamic, authoritative, battling kind of person,
Edna Ballard rules her "Mighty I AM ” family with all
the command of an Amazonian chieftain. Appropriately,
therefore, may she be called "Little Dynamite,” the name
bestowed upon her by the mighty "Ascended Master Saint
Germain.”
Viewed from afar, and in the soft radiance of the usual
Ballard stage setting, Edna’s appearance may be rather
much in her favor. There is a certain grace about her
figure and the rhythmic movements of her arms as she
issues her decrees. Her gowns, ornate and overdone, are
the envy of her women audiences and a source of wonder
and admiration no doubt to some of the men. Sparkling
rings and bracelets flash showers of light over her audi­
ences. Diamond tiaras, oyerhanging corsages, expensive
furs, gorgeous new gowns, their long trains sweeping the
stage floor, all this is but an inadequate description of the
complete ensemble.
And so, today, Lotus Ray King Ballard, having
achieved in some degree the desires and ambitions of a
frustrated Edna, has a portion of the metaphysical and
phenomena-seeking world at her feet. They, too, want
the things that Lotus has, and until the hypnotic spell has
run its course and the thin covering of goodness and
saintliness of her cult has worn down to the tinsel under­
neath, Lotus will hold the stage as dictator over the lives
of many.
CHAPTER 3
THE " SILVER SHIRT” BACKGROUND OF
BALLARDISM
Within a period of less than a decade America has
seen the rise and growth of two remarkable movements
which bear an odd resemblance to each other.
William Dudley Pelley’s "Silver Shirts of America,”
the first of the two movements, started originally simply
as a metaphysical venture, the result of a personal psychic
experience, which strangely enough, occurred while resid­
ing at a mountain cottage in California.
The Ballard "Mighty I AM” movement, as we have
seen, started the same way, with its originator claiming
his first contact with Comte de St. Germain on the side
of a mountain in California.
The recent reports of the House Committee to In­
vestigate Un-American Activities, under the chairman­
ship of Martin Dies of Texas, have given the Pelley Silver
Shirt movement front-page headlines, revealing to the
public that for years it has not been a "metaphysical”
organization, as in the beginning, but is a political body
which the Dies Committee believes to be un-American in
that it is included in the "Nazi-Fascist groups” engaged
in "aping the methods of foreign dictators” and attempt­
ing "to bring about aradical change in the American form
of government.” (Associated Press Dispatch, August 31,
1939.)
This book will reveal that the Ballard cult, too, is
really a political movement and that its metaphysics,
among other things, is largely engaged in an effort to
26 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
bring about a weird sort of government in the United
States.
The Pelley organization, as a matter of fact, supplied
the pattern for some of the Ballard work, and evidence
supporting this will soon be given. The Ballards, however,
kept out of their movement the Silver Shirts’ well-known
hatred of the Jew, and have denounced other "enemies”
instead.
There is so much similarity between the two organ­
izations, it is well from the standpoint of psychological
study and history to bring this out.
Pelley was a writer, a most clever wielder of the pen.
Back in 1917 he was in the Orient on what he states to
have been Christian missionary work; and after varied
experiences there, he returned in 1919 to the United States
to resume his writings and newspaper career. Around this
time he became interested, he says, in " Secret Service in­
vestigations,” and claimed to have had "contacts with some
of the biggest men in the Hoover administration.”
Ballard in his latter years became also a writer, claims
to have spent a couple of years in the Orient, and his
"Secret Service connections” and his "Governmental con­
tacts” are most remarkable, as we shall find.
In 1929 Pelley wrote the article which publicized his
name throughout the nation. It was the story of a per­
sonal psychic experience entitled " Seven Minutes in Eter­
nity,” in which he related how, while residing at a lonely
bungalow in the Sierra Madre Mountains near Pasadena,
California, he suddenly one night left his physical body
lying on the bed and consciously soared away into that
undiscovered country from whose bourn no traveler is
supposed to return. But Pelley did return, and he told
a graphic story of his sojourn there. Later he published
messages purporting to come from "Masters,” who began
to direct and influence his new life work.
Similarly, Messenger Ballard, shortly after the appear-
T he "Silver Shirt” Background 27
ance of the Pelley article, wrote up his own psychic ex­
periences, which came to him in 1930, he said, while living
at a lodge at the foot of a California mountain. He, too,
left his body, and great and mighty " Ascended” Masters
dictated marvelous discourses to him.
The American Magazine, which had published the
Pelley story, was almost swamped, we understand, with
mail in regard to it. It appears that the whole country at
that time was having psychic experiences, and overnight
almost Pelley had a tremendous following. All the letter­
writing psychics in the land, it seems, wrote in giving
their own personal experiences— and called for more from
the fluent and graphic Pelley.
Obligingly, the new metaphysical leader gave his read­
ers plenty of them, as indeed has the leader of the Mighty
I AM cult which followed so soon after the start of
Pelleyism.
Pelley’s magazine, then named "The New Liberator
was started— an artistic but rather lurid creation— and
he filled it with occult articles by himself and psychic
messages from great "Masters.” But never were they as
numerous and as notorious as the Ballard "Ascended
Masters.”
Gradually, Pelley’s psychism took on a political color­
ing and flavor, and it wasn’t long before he was publishing
stirring ideas and plans about a "New Government” in
America— as did Ballard shortly afterwards.
Political headquarters were established at Asheville,
N. C., in 1932, and his "Foundation for Christian Econ­
omics” was started at about the time Ballard was assertedly
receiving his religio-patriotic messages over the marvelous
"Light and Sound Ray” at his home in Chicago.
At the beginning of 1933 Pelley started his now famous
Silver Legion, and felt the egoic thrill of fascist rule over
his legionnaires or "storm troops” organized in many parts
of the country. In much the same way have the fascistic-
28 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
minded leaders of the Mighty I AM cult organized their
patriotic bands of Minute Men— the "storm troops” of
the movement.
In the fall of 1936, after Pelley had recovered from
certain adverse court decisions and indictments at Ashe­
ville, N. C., he organized his "Christian Party” and an­
nounced his candidacy for President of the United States
— an office to which it will be seen Ballard himself has felt
himself peculiarly fitted!
Three and a half years later, after many viscissitudes
of fortune and after some months of search for him by
the Dies committee, Pelley in the early part of 1940
appeared before that committee to answer certain charges
allegedly to the effect that "he is a racketeer engaged in
mulcting thousands of dollars annually from his fanatical
and misled followers and credulous people all over the
United States and Canada and certain foreign countries.”
(Associated Press Dispatch, Jan. 3, 1940.)
It is not within the scope of this book to consider
whether the Dies committee was or was not justified in
making the above allegations concerning Pelley. We desire
merely to point out the startling parallel between these two
movments and to show by actual evidence that so far as
the Ballard movement is concerned the Dies committee,
if it had gone into the matter, could have brought out
justifiably, we believe, similar charges against Saint Ger­
main’s "Mighty I AM ” movement.
We shall complete the parallel between the two move­
ments by quoting Associated Press Dispatch of February 8,
1940, giving an account of Pelley’s appearance before the
Dies committee:
"W ith a trace of wistfulness, William Dudley Pelley,
leader of the Silver Shirts, told the Dies committee today
that if his organization had succeeded in its purposes, he
'probably’ would be in charge of the government now.
"And in that case, he continued, he 'probably’ would
T he "Silver Shirt” Background 29
have put into effect something resembling Adolf Hitler’s
policies with respect to the Jews, although he said he does
not indorse Hitler’s exact methods.”
It is this Pelley Silver Shirt movement which Guy and
Edna Ballard were particularly interested in previous to
the publication of Unveiled Mysteries, and, as will be
shown, they tried to build a foundation upon Pelley’s
organization in an effort to launch their own Mighty I AM
movement.
In order to show this Silver Shirt background of the
Ballard movement we shall now have to refer to a certain
meeting which was held in the summer of 1934 at the
Ballard home on 84th Place, Chicago.
To this meeting was invited the treasurer of the Pelley
organization, some additional Pelleyites, and others inter­
ested in metaphysical and patriotic movements. It was
the first regular ten-day class ever held by the Ballards,
and it is important because what transpired there indicates
clearly the early efforts of their invisible "Saint Germain”
to lay plans for a "New Government” in America which
was to be formed more or less along the lines previously
described by Pelley in his writings.
During this ten-day class, messages from "Saint Ger­
main” were read by Mrs. Ballard to those present, a little
group of ten, who were pledged to secrecy.
One of those messages is especially significant. It is
dated August 3, 1934, and we shall quote freely from it
in this chapter.
In it, this so-called Saint Germain shows rather excel­
lent understanding of human nature by the fact that he
first flatters those whom he was about to use. To aid
him in this, he drew on his long memory of the past, going
back some seventy thousand years!
He told those flattered students of their past incarna­
tions! He recited their marvelous achievements! They
had all done great and stirring things! All of them had
30 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
been associated with him before! They would even be
closer to him now! They would now have a part to play
in bringing the new civilization into America!
"These beloved students,” it begins, "are all far ad­
vanced souls with whom we have been closely associated
before wherein very great Light has reigned. All of this
group that are here were in association in the civilization
of 70,000 years ago where the Sahara Desert now is.”
Saint Germain then went on in this first message to
his "Beloved Friends of Long Ago,” to tell them about the
marvelous work they did in that earlier government. He
told them of their wonderful genius in the past so con­
vincingly that the disparity of this genius with their pres­
ent abilities did not at that time seem to occur to these
flattered students. It is only fair to state, however, that
most of these early disciples turned apostates to the faith
and were not parties to the cult’s later political designs.
Then in this private, secret document Saint Germain
launched into a consideration of political and govern­
mental matters, showing clearly the early desire of this
"Ascended Master” for some sort of rulership over the
kingdoms of earth, particularly that of America. We
quote:
"A ll have come into this life with the desire to assist
in perfecting or bringing into perfection that government
of long ago into America at this time.”
Some of these students, as stated, were or had been
members of William Dudley Pelley’s Silver Shirts of
America. They were interested, therefore, in Saint Ger­
main’s statement that they would have a part in bringing
the New Government into America— for had not Pelley
himself been preaching the same thing to his disciples?
However, at the time that "Saint Germain” allegedly
dictated this message, summer of 1934, Pelley was in diffi­
culty with the courts of North Carolina. For months his
publications were suppressed and the radio denied him. It
T he "Silver Shirt” Background 31
appeared for a time that his strong nationally organized
political movement might disintegrate.
Therefore, Saint Germain, astute politician that he
was, addressed his remarks mainly to Pelley’s sympathizers
or dissenters in the group, with the intent no doubt of
taking over the followers of this other movement.
"The first and essential thing to the perfection of that
plan,” he said, meaning the plan of his "N ew Govern­
ment,” "is being given.” Then referring to Pelley’s po­
litical order, he said:
"In Christian Democracy are splendid ideals possible of
achievement.” Later, referring to Pelley’s economic text­
book, he said:
"The Plan of No More Hunger is not entirely correct,
but the full plan of it will be revealed as you move for­
ward.”
Having stated that Pelley’s political order had "splen­
did ideals possible of achievement,” he hints that there is a
more "correct” plan— his own of course.
In this document Saint Germain refers also to other
economic orders which followed the depression of 1929,
mentioning the Utopian Society of America, Plenocracy,
the Paul Revere activity, and suggests that some of these
other movements could also be brought into "harmonious
concord” with his own activity.
In fact, this adept at building upon the work of others,
was astute enough to make the originator of Plenocracy
his own personal "Messenger,” subject, of course, to the
orders of the Ballards!
"In Plenocracy,” he says, "are splendid ideals.” Then
he goes on to indicate how "other ideas”— his own of
course— could be blended into it. Artfully, he tells his
"Friends of Long Ago” :
"Neither Christian Democracy nor Plenocracy are per­
fect within themselves, but each has within it that upon
which a foundation can be built.
32 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
"I think it would be much wiser for those knowing
Mr. Pelley to work from the standpoint of Christian
Democracy, and then as it can be done, other ideas be
blended into it until the harmonious way of life can be
presented to them. . . .
"Mr. Pelley was unprepared when the awakening
came. Hence, it has made the activity very difficult, but
if in all, or as rapidly as possible, the attention can be
drawn to the constructive activity, I feel that very great
good can come from it. . . .
" Unveiled Mysteries and The Magic Presence [the
Ballard textbooks], with M r.--------------’s [naming Pelley’s
treasurer] activity in the knowledge of the Mighty I AM
Presence, will harmonize and prepare the Pelley group. . ..
"It would not be wise for Mr. Pelley to have the dis­
courses verbatim, unless sometime he wishes to come and
receive them as the other students have done.”
Thus did "Saint Germain” endeavor at that time to
take over the followers of another movement. The plan,
too, was to interest the Chief of the Silver Shirts in their
"Saint Germain” and in their newly published book, and
they wanted him to come to Chicago to get the instruc­
tion direct.
Indeed, Pelley’s interest went so far that while in
Chicago he had a visit with the Ballards.
But why should the Chief of the Silver Legionnaires,
so accustomed to giving his own orders and contacting his
own "Masters,” play second fiddle and take orders from
Saint Germain’s three and only "Accredited Messengers,”
the two Ballards and their 16-year-old son Donald?
So Pelley declined Saint Germain’s kind thought of
having him study under the Ballards, and the Chief of
the Silver Shirts has been without the questionable protec­
tion of this "Ascended Master” ever since.
However, even though the Ballards were unsuccessful
in winning over the Chief himself, they won over Pelley’s
T he "Silver Shirt” Background 33
treasurer and right-hand man. They played for him as an
angler does a prized catch, and when he went to Chicago,
they clinched the matter by having Saint Germain make
him nothing less than rfThe Associate Director of the Saint
Germain Activities!”
Additionally showing the Silver Shirt background of
the Ballard cult, we quote the following unsolicited letter
from the Pelley Publishers, Asheville, N. C. It is dated
January 10, 193 8.
"It might interest you to know that Mrs. Ballard was
a student of Mr. Pelley’s spiritual philosophy before she
launched upon her purported mission to "save” Christian
America. All her writings and teachings are full of ma­
terial which she appropriated from Mr. Pelley’s writings.”
Edna Ballard’s interest in the Pelley movement ex­
tended over a period of years. At certain secret classes in
Chicago, which she started in 1930, she read from Pelley’s
scripts and other "New Liberation” literature. During
1930-1932 she was laying the foundation for her own
movement, with her husband then only taking a secondary
part. In 1932 the two of them blossomed forth with the
"Light and Sound Ray” idea; and in 1934, shortly after
this secret ten-day class, they left Chicago to launch their
national movement, gathering recruits for their "Save
America” program largely among disillusioned Pelleyites.
CHAPTER 4
THE BALLARD SHOW GOES ON THE ROAD
In this first ten-day class held at Chicago in the summer
of 1934 was a man who innocently, it seems, became the
victim of the Ballard strategy. This man was one of W il­
liam Dudley Pelley’s faithful workers, whom we mentioned
in the last chapter, a prominent Silver Shirter and treasurer
of the organization. He had read the Ballard book, Un­
veiled Mysteries, then just out, and, after some corres­
pondence with its author, went to Chicago to attend this
first ten-day class.
Here was an opportunity for the financially embar­
rassed Ballards to really start their movement and get
out of their economic doldrums. This man’s wide exper­
ience with the Pelley organization could be used, and his
contact with key Legionnaires throughout the country
would be just what they needed to promote their own
religio-patriotic movement. So they did what they could
to swing him their way.
N o doubt the former Pelleyite was influenced into
sincerely believing the Ballards had something to give the
world. He had battled hard for Pelley in the court action
against him in Asheville, N. C., and now he was discour­
aged and somewhat disillusioned as well. The Ballard meta­
physics seemed a heaven compared to what he had gone
through in fighting Pelley’s political battles. The two
metaphysical systems were very similar, but the ideality
and beatttiful summerland of ease and plenty pictured by
the Ballards in their book intrigued him as nothing else
ever had.
35
T he Ballard Show Goes on the Road
Were not the never-failing Ascended Masters in charge
of the new order and not a storm-centered Pelley? They
in their divine power and wisdom would bring in the new
Republic. They would bring a heaven on earth. They
would emancipate humanity from the three thieves—
disease, poverty, and death. It would all happen in perfect
divine order, without revolution, court actions, militant
Legionnaires, racial hatreds, brown shirts, white shirts,
silver shirts, or any of the storm-troop trappings of a
world besieged by human leaders dominated by fascistic
desires and principles.
All this and much more, in effect, had been stated in
that marvelous new book for the New Age— Unveiled
Mysteries. Lawyers, doctors, clergymen, and even hard-
headed business men had read it, and, after looking over
the topsy-turvy world, were persuaded in spite of them­
selves to believe it. So was Pelley’s treasurer. Was it not
a way out of all the mess?
The "Accredited Messengers of the Ascended Masters”
lost no time in their efforts to crystallize these thoughts.
In a letter to Pelley’s treasurer dated September 6, 1934,
written and signed in pen and ink by Guy Ballard himself,
the senior messenger says:
"Blessed Brother, I have no right to say this, but I know
it is right to cut yourself completely loose from Pelley
in every way.”
The outcome of the matter was that Pelley’s trusted
employe became the "Associate Director of the Saint Ger­
main A c tiv itie sFor three months he promoted the Bal-
lards on the lecture platform in the east until an auto­
mobile accident, which happened when he stepped out
of the Ballard car, cut short his usefulness to "Saint Ger­
main” and his Messengers.
Pelley in a special bulletin to his people describing his
difficulties with the courts of North Carolina, which he
graphically entitled "The Battle of Asheville,” commented
36 Psychic Dictatorship in A merica
on the defection of his former supporter in this wise:
"One real shadow cast over the proceedings was the
word received on the fourth day of the trial that our
former Treasurer,----------------------------------- , who had quit
the Silver Shirt work . . . . called Liberation people to­
gether to sell them instead on the work of the Ballard-
King Group in Chicago, had suddenly met with a terrible
auto accident in Baltimore and been rushed to the Johns
Hopkins Hospital with a fractured skull and compound
fracture of the left leg.”
" Strange, strange indeed,” very meaningly commented
the Silver Shirt chief, "are the denouement of events in the
lives of those who take tip the Silvershirt work and then
turn back.” And then he goes on to recount the misfor­
tunes of other workers who had deserted the cause.
Again the parallelism between the two movements, and
their methods of holding their people, is inescapable. But
the Ballards and their "Masters,” as we shall find, have
gone much further than Pelley in putting the fear of
disaster into the minds of those who "turn back”
As might be expected, considering this former treas­
urers’s influence among the Pelleyites, the first "I AM ”
audiences were recruited largely from members of the
Silver Shirt organization. And so the Saint Germain
"Mighty I AM ” movement got well under way right
from the start. "Saint Germain” had started to build his
movement on the foundation of another one, just as he
had planned.
Through the efforts of this former Silver Shirter the
first out-of-town class was held in Philadelphia during the
early part of October, 1934. The Ballards chose not to
use their real names, for reasons which will later be clear,
and so they were introduced as Mr. and Mrs. Godfre Ray
King, "Accredited Messengers of the Ascended Master
Saint Germain”
This was the real start of the movement, although the
37
T he Ballard Show Goes o n the Road
foundation for it had been made in 1932, and even a year
or two before when Edna Ballard was holding secret classes
while her husband was "traveling in the Far East,” or for
other reasons (to be discovered) only occasionally showing
up at the classes.
From 1934 on, beginning at Philadelphia, the Mighty
I AM movement began to take hold of the imagination
and fancy of metaphysical and patriotic people. Starting
with thirty persons the first night, the attendance grew
until toward the end of the ten days a hundred and fifty
were in attendance.
People wanted the things that Mr. and Mrs. Godfre
Ray King so authoritatively promised, and they were will­
ing to pay for them. At the close of the class the Ballards
and their Associate Director divided $300.00 between
them as clear profit.
It was sadly needed, for despite the enormous stores of
gold assertedly held by Saint Germain in his private retreat
in the mountain, the Ballards were in most straightened
financial circumstances. They made no secret of the fact
that they even used their rent money due on their modest
Chicago bungalow to pay their railroad fare to Philadelphia
to start their movement.
Saint Germain with his discourses was most liberal,
but with his gold he was most penurious. Despite the
fact that he assertedly had gold nuggets, coins, and "Span­
ish gold lost at sea,” all neatly stored away in a secret
retreat in the mountain, his own Accredited Messengers
had to beg, borrow, and bargain to get out this "Ascended
Master” gentleman’s own books. Not one cent of it came
from the stored wealth of this modern Croesus. It came
from the pocketbooks of the "Beloved Students” in dimes
and dollars and gold, for the audiences were requested in
the early days not to put copper pennies into the collection
plate. Gold and not copper was to be the symbol and
god of this cult.
38 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
From Philadelphia the Godfre Ray Kings went to New
York, then to Boston. In both places they stirred the
psychic waters to some degree with their claims and prom­
ises. By the time these lectures were over, the expectant
students in Philadelphia were clamoring for more "Ascend­
ed Master Miracles.” These miracles, of course, were only
on paper, as it were, but they were accepted by the Beloved
Ones on a sort of psychic promissory note.
So a return engagement was staged in the City of
Brotherly Love, with similar successes for the Ray Kings,
but without the promised miracles for the Beloved
Students.
And before a month was scarcely up, the hurrying
New Yorkers were calling for another ten-day class. This
Saint Germain graciously agreed to, but again it was with­
out benefit of miracles.
The great Mighty I AM movement was now well under
way, both financially and metaphysically speaking. But
in those early days it was only a dim shadow of its coming
grandeur, only a side show compared to the later five-
ring performance which swept on from city to city luring
the unsuspecting with psychic pink lemonade and other
sure-fire circus ballyhoo.
Like most road shows the Ballard extravaganza followed
in the wake of the seasons. In the winter it was found in
sunny California or Florida, with, however, the Golden
State winning out most of the time. In the spring and fall
it traveled to favored eastern cities. In the hot summer
months it lingered near the cool breezes of the Pacific.
"Saint Germain,” the director of the show and the one
responsible for its itinerary, has always been most sensitive
to the physical comforts of his Messengers.
Fresh from these early successes on the Eastern Coast,
the two Kings and their son Donald moved southward,
stopping over for a ten-day class at our Nation’s capital
during the early part of January, 193 5,
39
T he Ballard Show Goes on the Road
It must have been with strange feelings of personal
possession that the Ballards parked their newly acquired
Ford car in political Washington. Here, allegedly, was
the scene of the political labors of their mysterious Comte
de St. Germain in his endeavors to bring about his "New
Government” in America. He had promised his "Friends
of Long Ago”— the growing "I AM ” family— they would
have a part in it. And surely his own "Accredited Mes­
sengers,” would not exactly be forgotten in the new dis­
pensation.
Indeed, Guy Ballard, so we are informed, had held a
very high office during a former incarnation in this very
city of Washington, and had a name to which all Ameri­
cans, including little school children, pay special reverence
on stated occasions. We shall a little later tell all about this.
So here was Ballard, his wife and son again back in
the city of his past achievements. And right at his elbow,
to lead him to victory over the "vicious forces anchored
in Washington,” was the mighty Saint Germain and a
whole legion of "Ascended Masters.”
After this little sojourn at the American capital, Ballard
and his family moved on for further fields to conquer,
but left a promise to return to this center of the Nation’s
life with more power of the "Light Rays” than before.
Their design was to take in the solid South and bring
it under "Ascended Master” domination. But Circum­
stance is ever the maker and breaker of empire, and their
day was not exactly to break with full glory in the South.
The tragic accident to their Associate Director, which
occurred on the night of their last lecture in Washington,
intervened to check their fast-building Ascended Master
empire.
As this man stepped out of the Ballard car, he was hit
by a fast-moving automobile which came tearing along
in the early morning hours of January 13, 1935, and this
faithful servant of the Ballards, one whom Saint Germain
40 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
frequently called his “ pal,” lay maimed and apparently
dying in the roadway.
For months he was totally incapacitated for any
further use either to Saint Germain, who had promised
faithfully to protect him from any harm, or to the Bal-
lards who had guaranteed him the protection of the entire
Cosmic Host. However, apparently not having any faith
in their own powers of healing or those of their Master,
they wired a physical-plane mental healer in a nearby state
for help, and left their friend and Assoicate Director in
a critical condition in the hands of the surgeons at Johns
Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore.
With recovery came gradual disillusionment for this
man. He wrote us in 1936, shortly after we had published
the first brochure exposing some of the hoax of this cult.
We are indebted to him for supplying documents and
information concerning the early beginnings of this move­
ment. Below are a few excerpts from his correspondence
at that time:
" Y o u m a y be interested in k n o w in g th a t I am the poor
Sap w h o fo u n d the Ballards stranded o u t in C h ic a g o , and
th in k in g th e y really had som eth in g th a t w o u ld ben efit h u ­
m a n ity , I to o k th e m o u t and started th e m on their m a d co n ­
quest.
" I to ok th em to Philadelphia, N e w Y o r k , B o ston , and
W a sh in g to n ; and after finishing at W a sh in g to n and leaving
there, I was hit b y an au to, th ro w n a hundred fee t and then
ru n over. I w as terrib ly m a n gled , m y head being terribly
fra c tu red and m y le ft leg broken . . .
" I w as d riv in g their car. . . . T h e y gave o u t th a t m y
acciden t happened because I w asn ’t in the circle o f L ig h t
w ith w h ich th ey had surrounded the ca r; y e t, later on , in
St. Petersburg w hile B allard, w ith D o n d riv in g , w as in the
car, th ey had an acciden t. T h e car w as so dem olished they
had to get a new car and Ballard co u ld n ’ t finish the classes.
I w as told he had a rib or tw o broken. . . .
" I surely should like to see th e m stopped fr o m their lyin g
and deceivin g. . . . T h e y to ld it here in Philadelphia th a t the
real ------------------------------ [n a m in g h im se lf] died in the hospital
41
T h e B a l l a r d S h o w G o e s o n t h e R o a d
and the present ------------------------------ [h im s e lf] n ow w alk in g
around is another e n tity o c c u p y in g this b o d y !
" I had n o business to tie u p w ith su ch people. I t is a
terrible th in g to m e and has preyed terribly o n m y m in d
and m y soul fo r releasing and startin g the terrible th in g
w h ich th e y represent.”
After the accident to this man, the three divinely-
appointed Messengers turned their Ford car southward
and continued doubtlessly in a none-too-happy frame of
mind toward the sunny climes of Florida. They passed
through Richmond during a blinding snowstorm with
Mrs. Ballard fighting a throat cold which she had acquired
during the two closing days of the Washington class.
At last they reached West Palm Beach for their sched­
uled ten-day class, but the South was not so easily taken
in as the North, financially or metaphysically, causing Mr.
Ballard to write: " The Love Gifts were less in West Palm
Beach than usual
It was in Miami, however, that the Messengers met
with the most provoking circumstances. The Ballard con­
tact-man there, a former Silver Shirter, was delegated to
make the arrangements for the usual ten-day class, hire
a good hall, and do the other things which good lecturers
like to have well done.
But the hall selected was not very satisfactory. In
fact, Mr. Ballard wrote to a friend on February 7th in
his own handwriting saying: " The hall he got here isn’t
f t for adog fight, let alone an Ascended Master Activity ”
It seems that Saint Germain, who attends so well to
more important matters, not only let his own Messengers
down in the matter of a lecture hall, but other matters as
well, for on March 13th Messenger Ballard, who promises
his students absolute mastery over circumstances, wrote:
”You will never know the forces we have been pitted
against since we left Washington.”
What some of these "forces” were will now be told.
4 2 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
It appears the Ballard contact-man in Miami had
come to the conclusion that despite the Accredited Mes­
sengers’ claims and vaunted power over circumstances,
they were just like other ordinary people— subject to little
provoking happenings as well as to tragic events. He found
that Mrs. Ballard was suffering from a cold, that daddy
Ballard had a temper when things didn’t go right, that son
Donald could use on occasions un-Ascended Master in­
vectives, that their Associate Director had just had a tragic
automobile accident in the service of the Ascended Mas­
ters, and that Saint Germain himself was conspicuous by
his continued and unexplained absence at the hall and
elsewhere.
He forthwith decided that the whole thing was a hoax
and concluded he might as well play this little game of
"Saint Germain” himself. So one night he got down to
the hall early before the crowds had arrived, padlocked
the door and put a sign on it reading:
" C l o s e d b y O r d e r o f S a i n t G e r m a i n ! ”
Mr. Ballard in describing this tragic little incident in
a letter dated February 12, said:
"He is a fiend, the most vicious I have met, and don’t
anybody try to tell me he is not. On the door in type­
writing, read, 'Closed by Saint Germain’s Order,’ showing
he was trying to assume my Authority with Saint Germain.
That is Insanity.”
We learn here that instead of Saint Germain having
authority over his own messenger, Messenger Ballard has
authority over his own Master— a queer reversal of the
time-honored relationship, giving the suspicion that the
high and mighty Saint Germain is nothing more than
Ballard’s man Friday.
Such incidents as related were but some of the forces
against which Ballard said they had been pitted since
leaving Washington, as we shall see, proving that "Whom
the Ascended Master loveth he chasteneth.”
43
T h e B a l l a r d S h o w G o e s o n t h e R o a d
Under the instruction of Saint Germain himself, they
were told to arrange classes at St. Petersburg, but as this
all-knowing Ascended Master from the Seventh Octave
of Light did not know that this saintly old city exacts a
$500 lecture fee for itinerant lecturers, which was not
forthcoming from his gold reserves at his secret mountain
retreat, the idea of lecturing there wasn’t exactly feasible
even for Saint Germain’s Accredited Messengers.
His Messengers, therefore, had to arrange for their
class at Pass-a-Grille, a fishing town about twelve miles
from St. Petersburg, which did not exact a cover charge
to this feast of the Mighty I AM.
But here new tragedy struck out of the blue. Mes­
senger Ballard had told the good Florida people about his
marvelous protection, that nothing could hurt him, and
the Magic Presence manuscript had told of his body of
”Immortal Endurance” Mrs. Ballard was holding the
fort at the lecture hall in Pass-a-Grille waiting for her
husband and son to show up so that the meeting could
begin. Minutes passed, then hours, and not even Saint
Germain, who knows all the secret agreements of European
diplomats and the sublime mysteries of the universe, di­
vulged the news to the waiting audience that son Donald
had driven their new Ford car into a ditch, and with it
Saint Germain’s own senior Messenger!
Donald, not having a body of immortal endurance,
was uninjured, but Mr. Ballard’s immortal body sustained
a couple of broken ribs.
To the faithful such a thing will doubtless seem im­
possible, but we quote from Guy Ballard’s letter written
to a friend under date of April 2, 193 5:
"Your beautiful letter received at Pass-a-Grille and I
would have answered it from there but our car turned
over and my ribs were fractured and I am just now catch­
ing up my correspondence.”
These happenings, however, did not permanently
4 4 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
d am pen the A scen d ed M aster ardor o f the A ccred ited
M essengers. T h e goal was w estw ard tow ard the p eacefu l
P acific, to the land o f prom ise, Southern C aliforn ia, and
especially to th at favored Los A n geles region w h ich has
ever been the m ecca fo r things m etaphysical and unusual.
Saint G erm a in ’s advance agents, m o stly disillusioned
Silver Shirters, had been con tacted and everyth in g was
ripe fo r the en try o f the A ccred ited M essengers o f Saint
G erm ain in to the c ity o f the A n g els.
G lo w in g accounts o f these m arvelous people had been
spread am on g the m etaphysical elect o f Los A n geles, and
th ey in tu rn had passed the good new s on to their students
and friends. N o bill boards splashed the countryside, b u t
the telephonic wires w ere h ot w ith the new s o f the near­
arrival o f C o m te de St. G erm a in ’s A ccred ited M essengers.
A fe w o f the m ore p rom in en t m etaphysical leaders
and teachers w ere in vited to m eet the M essengers privately
at their hotel w h en th ey arrived. T hese private interview s
and first classes w ere largely successful because o f the
enthusiastic acclaim fo r the M essengers b y a m an o f p ro m i­
nence in the o c c u lt field, both here and abroad, w h o m the
Ballards had been fo rtu n a te to secure as their n ew m a n ­
ager after the u n fo rtu n a te accident o f their fo rm er A sso ­
ciate D irector.
A t these private interview s and during the first classes
M rs. Ballard dressed sim p ly and u nosten tatiously. It was
n o t until the flood gates o f w ealth opened u p in Los
A n geles th rou gh the b ook sales and love g ifts o f students
that this sim p licity changed to the gorgeousness w h ich
later has characterized her every appearance.
D u r in g these first interview s and classes she spoke w ith
seem ing au th ority o f her close c o n ta ct w ith her beloved
M aster. A n d w hile M r . Ballard, m eek and spiritual lo o k ­
in g, let his m ore expressive w ife do m ost o f the direct sell­
in g, the fa r -a w a y m y stic look in his eyes spoke volum es.
T his effective and characteristic tea m w o rk p u t th em
T h e B a l l a r d S h o w G o e s o n t h e R o a d 45
over with many of the metaphysical leaders, and, as a
result, these Los Angeles teachers announced to their classes
the arrival of the Accredited Messengers of Comte de St.
Germain, " Der Wundermann” of 18th-century Europe.
They urged their students to hear these marvelous people,
and some even closed their classes to have their students
attend en masse.
T his gesture o f friendliness and cooperation, h ow ever,
was later regretted b y m a n y o f these teachers. W it h
chagrin and astonishm ent th ey heard C o u n t St. G erm a in ’s
Messengers p roclaim to their o w n h ard-earned students
th a t the "old occult order had been set aside ” had becom e
obsolete and even dangerous, and th en cefo rth , the "Saint
Germain” teachings, as p u t o u t only b y M r . and M rs. G .
W . Ballard and son D o n a ld , w ou ld have charge over the
o ccu lt destinies o f m an k in d !
T h e result was a sudden and disastrous sw in g o f m eta ­
physical students to the n ew leadership and the old was
le ft out v ery m u ch in the m etaphysical cold.
A ll is fair, it seems, in love and w ar and w ith the M ig h ty
I A M o f the Ballards, ten ding to p rove at least superficially
th at the end justifies the m eans am ong o ccu lt dictators as
w ell as am on g the political variety.
CHAPTER 5
THE RISE OF A DICTATOR
During the spring and summer of 193 5, while yet in
California, the Ballard metaphysical machine made good
progress, as was to be expected in a land where the milk
and honey of strange doctrines flows so freely. From the
early and more simple presentation of the Saint Germain
teachings the movement gradually took the form of a
complicated ritualism, wherein decrees and taboos were
rigorously enunciated by a feminine dictator.
At first this authoritative control over the lives of its
members was not so apparent. The individual students and
class leaders were allowed a certain freedom of thought and
action, but this personal liberty the leaders no doubt found
to be a weakness which worked against their long cher­
ished personal ambitions.
Perhaps, too, a certain incident, which will now be
related, brought strongly to their attention the need for
central control over their rising kingdom of "I AM ” wor­
shippers. Then again, doubtless, they had in mind the "New
Government” Saint Germain had promised to set up in his
beloved America with an "Ascended Master” on the throne
at the White House. All this of course would require
central control and dictatorship, not individual freedom.
Expanding audiences in Los Angeles necessitated the
Ballards on three successive occasions to seek larger halls,
until "Saint Germain” decided that the large Shrine Civic
Auditorium, seating over six thousand persons, was the
place for his prospering Messengers who at last were coming
into their own. A ten-day class was scheduled there in
T h e R i s e o f a D i c t a t o r 47
August of 193 5, which closed in what was designated as
"a blaze of glory.” Since then, this auditorium which has
been headquarters for great national conventions of
Shriners, has also been "Convention Headquarters” for
I AM-ers, attracting the faithful in large numbers at least
twice a year from all parts of the country.
This "Shrine” meeting was the eighth large class held
on the Pacific Coast during the Ballards’ first surprising
circuit. They had lectured also in San Francisco, Seattle,
Pasadena, Long Beach, San Diego, and were flushed with
victory, money, and Messianic fervor. Then their show
moved eastward for engagements in Kansas City, New
York, Boston, Philadelphia, and Washington.
It is interesting to note that these two people and their
son Donald arrived in Los Angeles in a none-too-prosperous
condition in an unpretentious car, but when they left, they
zoomed away in a couple of flashy cream-colored Chryslers.
Following in their wake were a number of the beloved
students, seeking through a sort of psychic induction pro­
cess to partake of the radiance of the "Ascended Masters.”
While the Messengers were absent, the work on the
Pacific coast was to be organized by a gentleman whom
Saint Germain appointed as head of a "Sevenfold Com­
mittee.” But despite the fact that these seven individuals
had been personally selected and approved by the un-erring
Saint Germain himself, there was much dissension and
argument among the members of this committee as to
how the work should be carried on during the Messengers’
absence. It seems that Saint Germain himself was not very
certain just how it should be done.
The mushroom growth of numerous "I AM Classes”
and the sudden ascension into power of many leaders—
each a little uncertain what the "I AM ” was all about—
and each no doubt with certain personal ambitions of his
own, brought on a condition of Ascended Master affairs
which the decrees of the students could not correct nor
4 8 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
the imagined presence of the great "Saint Germain”
straighten out.
It seemed for a while as if the whole movement on the
Pacific Coast was due to go up in smoke from so much
friction of personal dissension among the members of the
divinely appointed "Sevenfold Committee.”
Then it was that Edna Ballard displayed her, as yet,
untried capacity for autocratic leadership and domination
over her "I AM ” family. Dispatching one of her character­
istic "Saint Germain-signed letters” to the head of the
Sevenfold Committee, this surprised gentleman was sum­
marily dismissed without a hearing and the whole cos-
mically-approved septenary forthwith dissolved.
Suspicious, too, that their own manager, who was
then with them in the east, had gotten under the influence
of another teaching and was somehow involved in the dis­
turbed Los Angeles happenings, another "Saint Germain
letter” was handed to this gentleman which caused him
to resign as their second, officially-appointed "Associate
Director.”
Then cancelling some of their eastern engagements,
the Ballards hastened to the scene of the Los Angeles dis­
sension to straighten out a condition which Saint Germain
could not handle from the psychic plane— or, as the
credulous believe— from the Ascended Masters’ "Seventh
Octave of Light.”
Appearing more or less unexpectedly at a meeting of
prominent students and class leaders at the Sindelar Stu­
dios, the two Ballards electrified their audience by the
power and authority with which they assertedly spoke.
Edna in particular rose to the heights of a feminine
dictator. In characteristic pose and eloquence she flayed
the discharged head of Saint Germain’s "Sevenfold Com­
mittee,” impugning him of base motives, and by threat
and intimidation warned those within reach of her voice
what terrible things would happen if they did not follow
The R i s e o f a D i c t a t o r 49
the instruction of the Ascended Masters as given by their
three and only "Accredited Messengers.”
"The great Law ” she said, "would no longer protect
those who were disobedient, and any violation would be
quickly punished— and be felt in the next two or three
embodiments.”
She caused the distribution of the two assertedly dic­
tated "Saint Germain letters” among the class leaders to be
read to their students at their classes to further show that
the Ascended Masters really meant business.
The letter sent through the U. S. Mails to the head of
the Sevenfold Committee in Los Angeles is reproduced
here in its entirety, with the exception that all personal
names are left out.
" Saint Germain” is responsible for the grammatical
construction, misspelled, and misused words.
W a sh in g to n , D . C .
N o v e m b e r 26, 1 93 5
Y o u are n o w dismissed fr o m any fu rth e r privilege or
au th ority to serve the M essengers, M y s e lf, or any other o f the
A scen ded M asters in this em b od im e n t.
T o w illin g ly tr y to deceive earnest students seeking their
freed om in the L ig h t is u npardonable. Y o u have m ade y o u r­
self a claw o f the sinister force in co m in g in to the asso­
ciation ------------------------------ [n a m in g tw o leaders o f tw o other
m o v e m e n ts ]. M y p ity goes o u t to y o u and------------------------------
[n a m in g their o w n m anager"], fo r yo u r com plete freed om
fo r b o th o f y o u w as at hand w h en the M essengers w ere in
L o n g Beach. T h ere w as so m u c h good in b o th o f y o u and
n o w to allow it to be so distorted as has been done. T o o late
w ill yo u cry ou t in agon y fo r the m istake yo u have m ade.
Y o u r earth span is v e ry sh ort. M ak e peace w ith y o u r
G o d and call on the L a w o f Forgiveness w h ile there is yet
tim e, less yo u deprive yo u rse lf o f o p p o rtu n ity in the next
em b od im e n t. D o n o t tr y t o b lu ff such deception th ro u g h any
lon g er, less you do this th in g again in the n ext tw o em b od i­
m ents.
W h e n yo u w illin g ly p u t you rself under the red L ig h t,
50 Psychic Dictatorship in A merica
y o u cu t off the W h ite L ig h t.
M y L ov e and hope goes ou t to y o u , th a t y o u m a y yet
fa c e ab out and callin g on the L a w o f F orgiveness, call
sufficient assistance to cu t y o u free o f this sinister claw .
I A M m a k in g this one last a tte m p t to help y o u . Choose.
T h e A ll-se e in g E ye o f G o d is upon y o u .
Sa i n t G e r m a i n .
T h is interesting little "A sc e n d e d M aster” d ocu m en t
was sent fr o m their h otel in W a sh in g to n , D . C ., w ith the
Ballard nam e on the envelope. N o d o u b t the fa c t o f their
being in the N a tio n a l C ap ital, w h ich was Saint G erm a in ’s
field o f political operations in his efforts to bring about
his " N e w G o v e rn m e n t,” gave these people an added sense
o f dictatorial p ow er— and a legal p rotection fr o m sending
a threatening letter th rou gh the mails.
Just tw o m onths b efore, the Ballards had w ritten this
same gen tlem an th at fo r his w o n d e rfu l service to the
"L ig h t ,” he w ou ld be " forever blessed,” and th at th ey and
"S a in t G erm a in ” k n e w the "m o tiv e in his heart” was as
"p u r e and true as a d iam on d .”
T h is later letter fr o m "S a in t G e rm a in ,” w ith its threat,
"Your earth span is very short,” was surely n o t intended
to "bless” this gentlem an quite "forever.” N e ith e r was
the additional threat, "T oo late will you cry out in agony”
intended to be a h elp fu l m o rn in g th ou gh t.
T h e I A M -e r ’s god k n o w n as "S a in t G erm ain ” is a re­
v e n g e fu l god , visiting his w rath u p o n his errant ones
n o t o n ly in this present em b od im en t b u t even u n to , as he
says in his letter, the "next two embodiments!”
T h e p rop h ecy— if such it can be called— o f this gen ­
tle m a n ’s early death was m ade over fo u r years ago, b u t
u n fo rtu n a te ly fo r Saint G erm a in ’s prowess as a soothsayer,
the gentlem an in question is still very m u c h alive.
T h e effect o f these threats, h ow ever, on the general
mass o f follow ers, was all th at could be desired. T h e scat­
tered grou p leaders, som e o f w h o m had been teaching
51
T he Rise of a D ictator
unauthorized doctrines not countenanced by the Accred­
ited Messengers or who had otherwise been disobedient,
were so impressed by the power and authority of the
Ascended Masters as displayed by Edna Ballard and the
Saint Germain letter that they very readily acquiesed to
this assumption of divine authority. Indeed most of them
feared to do otherwise, and were glad to have this new
papal protection from all the terrible things that would
happen to those who disobeyed.
Very few troubled themselves about really finding out
what crime these two individuals had committed to de­
serve such Ascended Master wrath. It seems that they had
merely been guilty of doing a little thinking of their own,
and along with this forbidden sin they had presumed to
show some interest in a similar teaching. Such a thing, of
course, was not to be countenanced in a dictatorship. In
addition to this, the Ballards seized upon their "sin” as
an opportunity to make them the goats, as it were, of
this Los Angeles upheaval— an occasion for the dictators
to demonstrate a new and more dominant assertion of
their papal power.
The "humble Messengers” of Saint Germain made the
most of their opportunity, and since that early crisis in
California their control has become more and more domi­
nant and their movement increasingly autocratic, intoler­
ant, belligerant, and tyrannical.
Thus Guy and Edna Ballard’s long cherished ambitions
for gold and power were at last about to be realized, even
though they had sometimes to ride roughshod over those
who had faithfully served them. A dictator cannot be
squeamish about friendship, particularly when that friend­
ship does not subserve certain ends. And so through this
Los Angeles incident Edna Lotus Ray King Ballard,
Priestess of the Mighty I AM movement, rose to new
heights of dictatorship and achieved in part her long cher­
ished ambition to be ruler over the lives of many.
C H A P T E R 6
PSYCHOLOGICAL BUGABOOS
In the good old horse and b u g g y days, before m ore
m odern m ethods o f teaching children were in vogu e, the
favorite pastim e o f som e parents fo r m ak in g their ra m ­
bunctious youngsters obey w as to scare th em in to th in k in g
the " bugaboo man” w o u ld get th em if th ey "d id n ’t w a tch
o u t.”
Just w h o and w here the b ugaboo m an was n ob od y
w ou ld tell, and th at m ade the subject even m ore dark and
m ysterious. B u t nevertheless it w as all very real to little
c o u n try children w h o w ere sent to bed in d im ly lighted
room s w here an old lam p or a tallow candle cast strange
and eerie shadow s on the walls.
N o w , in a v ery real sense, the Ballard p sych o lo g y has
played u p on such p rim itive fears o f the h um an race— fears
th at cam e in the childhood o f the race w h ich civilized
people take fo r granted th ey have lon g since o u tg ro w n .
T o perpetrate such b ugaboo stories on g r o w n -u p in tel­
ligent people in an era o f incandescent ligh t seems the
height o f absurdity and u n reality, yet th at is the exact
p sych ology w h ich lies back o f the Ballard con trol over
their people. It show s to w h at ex ten t childlike cred u lity
and fear are still govern in g factors in lives o f people today.
In the Ballard system , the b ugaboo m an m asquerades
under m a n y different guises. Som etim es, he is o f seem ing
h igh character, even an "A sc e n d e d M aster,” w h o , despite
his professed love fo r his "b e lo v e d ch ildren,” w ill scare
th em in to unqu estion in g and abject obedience. A t other
tim es the Ballard b ogey is really bad— an evil "a stra l e n -
53
Psychological Bugaboos
tity,” or, worse, a "black magician,” who will cast a spell
over his victim or take possession of his body if he doesn’t
watch out. Between these two types of bogey-men the
"I AM ” student is caught, and is made to obey— or else.
It is this psychological domination of unseen "Mas­
ters” and imaginary bogeys upon the minds of superstitious
people that holds so many to the Ballard cult. Like the
Trojan horse of the Spartans, these ideas have been placed
within the gates of the citadel of the mind, and when
reason slumbers, they issue forth to do their mischief.
So long as the Ballards can keep their psychologized
students believing that Saint Germain is a great "Cosmic
Being,” and not their "man Friday,” they can no doubt
maintain their weird dictatorship. But once their students
begin to lose faith in their invisible hierarchy of "Ascended
Masters,” they will see the "Accredited Messengers” as
they really are, and will throw the Trojan horse and all its
mischief makers from out the high citadel of the mind.
It is this psychological danger which so greatly perme­
ates the Ballard movement. Its leaders seek in every
possible way to keep students from thinking for them­
selves. They try constantly to prevent their people from
reading anything that seeks to tell the truth a,bout their
movement. They inject into the minds of their students
thoughts of terrible consequences that will result should
they dare criticize or question one little thing concerning
this "Ascended Master” instruction.
When the author published his first analytical brochure
on the absurdities of this movement back in 1936, en­
titled: The "1 AM” Experiences of Mr. G. W. Ballard,
the collective Ballard wrath knew no end, and students
were urged to burn every copy they could get their hands
on— but without reading it first.
Som e o f the m ore fanatical ones literally carried these
instructions ou t. T h e y rushed d ow n to book stores and
b ou g h t these books w ith good A m erican m o n e y ; and then
5 4 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
to show their faith fu ln ess to the Ballards and the a p p ro v ­
ing "A sc e n d e d M asters,” th ey consigned the collection to
ashes. T h e y con d u cted b o o k -b u rn in g parties, and w ith
proper cerem onies these "te rrib le books” w ere burned w ith
all the fan aticism o f a w itc h -b u rn in g rite, rem iniscent o f
a fo rm e r age o f b ig o try and superstition.
T hese b o o k -b u rn in g parties, h ow ever, u n fo rtu n a te ly
fo r the author, did n o t continu e. Saner m o m en ts— or
perhaps the S cotch in som e o f the students— told th em
th at this k in d o f th in g w o u ld be too expensive to continu e,
and th at so lon g as Saint G erm ain p erm itted the p rin tin g
presses to ru n , these books w o u ld appear. So the bonfires
w ere discontinued fo r lack o f fu el and at a saving o f the
p ock etb o ok , and the presence o f these books w h ich had
b rou g h t so m u c h fear to the leaders had to be accepted in
the same w a y as the students accept the existence o f astral
entities and black m agicians. H o w e v e r, like good w arriors,
th ey still do battle against such things.
"S a in t G e rm a in ,” as m ig h t be expected , was p articular­
ly incensed about any fo r m o f criticism — p articularly
w h en he was the object and not the dispenser o f it, and he
developed a w ell-d efin ed persecution co m p lex, im agin ing
certain organizations w ere "s p y in g ” on h im or his w o rk .
" . . . E v e ry source,” says the irate Saint G erm ain ,
"w h e th e r it is U n ity , Christian Science or w h atever it is,
th at attem p ts to brin g disgrace u p on T his W o r k or c o n ­
dem ns or criticizes It, w ill fail u tte rly and their churches
w ill be e m p t y !” (p . 5 5 , a . m .d .)
Som e m onths later, the lon g-h aired "T a ll M aster fr o m
V en u s” took u p Saint G erm ain ’s fig h t against organ iza­
tions, b u t as the m e m o ry o f this V en u sian "M a s te r ” is as
short as th at o f earth m ortals, he fo r g o t w h ich one o f his
n um erous "A sc e n d e d M aster” brethren m ade the above
prediction, and erroneously sta ted :
"T h e Great Divine Director { ! ] said m a n y m onths
ago th at if the Christian Scientists did n ot stop opposing
Psychological Bugaboos 55
this work they would empty their churches; if the ortho­
dox world did not stop it they would empty their churches.
Well my dear ones, if I were to tell you, tonight, how
many churches have already been emptied and closed you
would be astonished, (p. 25, Oct., 1938, v.)
W e hope th at the in fo rm a tio n given b y the T a ll M aster
fr o m V en u s con cern in g the "e m p ty in g o f the churches”
is as fa u lty as his m em o ry .
For the benefit o f those w h o are u n in fo rm e d as to the
m ann er in w h ich the num erous Ballard "M a ste rs” co n ta ct
this earth plane o f ours, w e w ill say th at it is all done
th rou gh the vocal cords o f their senior M essenger. G u y
Ballard appears on the p la tfo rm and in fo rm s the audience
th at the "G o d H im a la y a ,” or som e other great "A sc e n d e d
M aster” w o u ld th at day have the d ictation . T h e n , just as
easy as y ou please, Ballard repeats the discourse w h ich is
flashed to h im , he says, in "liv in g letters o f L ig h t,” w hile
the "blessed ones” in the audience tr y their best to see this
great "M a s te r ” and his flam ing letters.
Som e, quite n atu rally and in evitably, h yp n otize th e m ­
selves in to doing this rather w ell. T h e easily observable
fa c t th at all o f these num erous "G o d s ,” "M a s te r s ,” and
even fair "G od d esses” say the same things, use the same
phraseology, slang, and idiom , doesn’t seem to reveal the
fake to these tru stin g, h eaven -ben t souls.
Q u ite o fte n , too, G u y B allard, at the receiving end o f
the line, is a little fo r g e tfu l. U n co n scio u sly , in the m idst
o f his "A sc e n d e d M aster” discourse, he som etim es takes
o u t his w a tch to see h ow m u c h longer the "A sc e n d e d
M aster” has to ta lk , quite fo rg e ttin g th at the great and
all-w ise B eing w h o is supposed to be talk in g should k n o w
w h a t tim e it was h im self!
G a tch in g h im self one day in the act o f tak in g o u t his
w a tch , w hile none other than the great "C o s m ic M aster
R a y -O -L ig h t ” was delivering the discourse, he had that
great B eing lam ely apologize fo r his absent-m indedness b y
56 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
saying: " . . . Seeing the Messenger look at his watch, I
take it for granted that he is still recognizing time and
space. Perhaps in this instance, it is quite justifiable.”
(p. 19, Oct., 1939, v.) With all of which we are inclined
to agree.
W h ile this m a y either be am using or disgusting to the
tmbeliever in such nonsense, to the poor stu den t it is all
m ig h ty serious business. These students fear the terrible
p ow er w h ich the "A c c r e d ite d M essengers” and their "M a s ­
ters” assertedly w ield. M a n y fear to talk to, or have a n y ­
th in g to do w ith , fo rm e r m em bers o f the m o v em e n t w h o
w ere once their m ost cherished friends. Such are ostra­
cized and cond em n ed as "v ic io u s ” because th ey have had
the courage to w ith d ra w fr o m the m o v em en t. C o w e d and
even terrified, som e fear to w ith d ra w even th ou gh they
have m ore than a suspicion that all is n ot gold th at glitters
in this "L ig h t -o f-G o d -th a t-N e v e r -F a ils ” m o v em en t.
E arly in the w o rk , Saint G erm ain , through the Bollards,
appointed eight "M essen gers” w h o were to take orders
fr o m the three and on ly "A c c r e d ite d ” M essengers. Six o f
the eigh t, fo r various and su n d ry m isdem eanors, have all
been fired or have v olu n tarily w ith d ra w n fr o m the m o v e ­
m en t.
W h e n som e one o f these messengers or other p rom in en t
m em b er was to be fired, Saint G erm ain was usually called
in fr o m w eig h ty E uropean problem s to officiate in that
cap acity. A little diversion w h ich he no d ou b t accepted
w ith his usual grace.
In 1937 one of the eight original messengers had in­
curred the divine displeasure and was to be fired. In due
time he received one of the characteristic "Saint Germain
letters” written on Edna Ballard’s little typewriter.
T his m a n ’s w ife , w h o also was num bered am on g the
original eight, w as n ot g u ilty o f any crim e against the
h oly set-u p , b u t nevertheless she was fired at the same tim e
because she just happened to be his wifel A sort o f vicari-
Psychological Bugaboos 57
ous criminality, as it were.
Saint Germain’s (?) letter is herewith reproduced in
part. It was sent from a Philadelphia hotel, where the
Ballards were staying, and signed "Saint Germain”— on
the typewriter. The spelling, punctuation, etc., is that of
its creator.
May 18, 1937,
11 A. M.
M r.-----------
Mrs. -----------
Owing to your continued spreading of vicious falsehood,
concerning My Work and the Magnificent Dictations of
Discourses by many of the Ascended Masters, your compel Me
to withdraw your Messengership, which I gave you represent
Me and My Work.
It is unfortunate that Mrs. ----------- [this man’s wife]
must be included in this, as her Light is bright and her heart
is right; but being associated with you, I am compelled to
withdraw the Messengership from her, also.
If you could realize your great mistake in this attitude
to My Work, you could call on the Law of Forgiveness and
thus avoid the conditions you must meet in your next em­
bodiment . . .
You have built up a vicious hate entity that is surely
destroying you . . . You shall not any longer represent Me,
or have privilege of selling the books . . . This you have
brought upon yourself . . .
May your Mighty I AM Presence release you from the
tragic danger you are in.
SAINT GERMAIN
This document with its threats of "tragic danger” and
"destroying entities,” even unto this poor man’s "next em­
bodiment,” would have been more convincing if it had
been written in Saint Germain’s own "beautiful script”
(see page 73, u. m .) and had been stamped with the
grand seal of Saint Germain’s secret retreat in the W yo­
ming mountains. But, no, it evidently came fresh and
hot, and none too accurate, from Mrs. Ballard’s type­
writer at their hotel room in the City of Brotherly Love.
CHAPTER 7
THE W AR ON "ENTITIES”
A w eek or so h ob n ob b in g am on g the Ballard follow ers
at their " I A M T em p les” is usually enou gh to convin ce
the visitor th at a gigan tic w arfare is being w aged betw een
the decreeing I A M -e r and his "e n titie s.”
W e m u st here explain th at by "e n titie s” is m ean t the
teem in g horde o f "p s y c h ic ” creations th at are supposed to
populate the w orld around us, o f w h ich , m ost fo rtu n a te ly ,
the average person is unaw are until certain teachings and
practices begin to m ake such people "e n t it y conscious.”
T h e Ballard cu lt has done m u c h to brin g on w e ll-d e v e l­
oped cases o f psych ophobia in otherw ise n orm al people.
E veryw h ere, it seems, there are entities. T h e y peep o u t
at I A M -e r s fr o m every antique. T h e y nestle in the auras
o f people w h o oppose their m o v em en t. T h e y b u m p their
heads against p rotective "w a lls o f L ig h t” th ro w n around
the fa ith fu l students. T h e y are as n um erous as a plague
o f locusts, and h igh ly suggestible students are con stan tly
doing battle against th em .
Thousands o f dollars w o rth o f valuable antiques have
been burned or otherw ise destroyed b y fanatical students
because th ey w ere told b y the Ballards th at such things
alw ays sw arm w ith entities.
U n til the Ballards cam e along, these possessions w ere
m ost harmless. B u t w ith the advent o f the A ccred ited
M essengers o f Saint G erm an , they suddenly becam e alive
w ith h au n tin g spirits o f the dead.
T h e Ballards have a "d e c r e e ,” supposed to take care o f
the m atter, and the students go around shouting it at any
T he W ar on "E ntities” 59
suspicious th in g or person that appears to harbor an en tity.
B u t these "e n titie s” are persistent little im ps. T h e y
scurry fo r cover w h en an irate I A M -e r gets after th em ,
and appear to sneak righ t b ack again w h en the coast is
clear.
A n d so despite their decrees and other safeguards, the
undeclared w ar on entities in A m e ric a still continues, and
the o u tco m e o f the m atter is as yet quite u ncertain. So
m u ch so that the prim ordial battle betw een the d og and
his fleas has n oth in g on the battle w h ich rages betw een the
average I A M -e r and his latest crop o f entities.
T h e technique o f givin g an "E n t it y D ecree” fo r a
w ell-d irected b litzk rieg against the en em y seems to be
about as fo llo w s:
First, the stu den t calls on the "M ig h t y I A M Presence,”
and, usually, som e one or m ore o f the "A sc e n d e d M asters.”
M o st o f th em alw ays m anage to include the "B lessed Saint
G e rm a in ,” as, under all circum stances, he is a m ost p oten t
p rotection . B u t fo r absolute safety, th ey include som e o f
the others, at least a "G o d d e ss” or tw o , or one o f the
"L o r d s o f the F lam e” fr o m V en u s.
" Oromasis” is a favorite w ith som e o f the students, b u t
latterly it appears th at "Mighty Astrea” is a close ru n n er-
u p fo r fa v o r am on g really d iscrim inating I A M -e r s .
A f t e r selection o f suitable gods and goddesses has been
d u ly accom plished, the stu den t raises his or her hands
heavenw ard and veh em en tly com m an d s these "M ig h t y
Beings” fr o m the "S e v e n th O c ta v e o f L ig h t” to—
"S e n d Legions o f T h y A n g e l D evas o f the Blue L ig h t­
n in g o f D iv in e L ove to seize, bin d, and rem ove fr o m w ith ­
in and around m e and m y w orld all entities— carnate and
discarnate— forever! I f th ey be o f h u m an creation, an­
nihilate th em , their cause and effect this instant. I f they
be discarnate, take th em o u t o f the atm osphere o f
earth . . . ” etc.
I A M -e r s , w h en th ey w a n t q uick action over some
60 Psychic Dictatorship in A merica
e n tity or other evil, fre q u e n tly use the w ords "Blast! Blast!
Blast!”
For instance, one stopped w ith her com p an ion in fro n t
o f a d o w n to w n shop w in d o w . O n display was a black
g o w n w ith red trim m in g s! These are hated colors am on g
the I A M -e r s — the color o f the black m agician and the
c o m m u n ist! A ll she did was to stop at the w in d o w fo r a
second, looked at the g o w n ; th en, to the am azem en t o f
her com p an ion , uttered very v eh em en tly the w ords "Blast!
Blast! Blast!” in an aspirate voice, and passed on, evid en tly
feeling a d u ty had been p erform ed .
T h e ancient B abylonians, it seems, had sim ilar m ethods
o f dealing w ith the "e n t it y ” situation in those dark days.
C om p are the fo llo w in g B abylonian decree w ith the
Ballard one. It is a translation fr o m cu n e ifo rm w ritin g
on ancient B abylonian clay tablets, copied fr o m a book
at the Los A n geles Public L ibrary, and is addressed to the
B abylonian god "G ilg a m e sh ” — alm ost as odd a nam e as the
Ballard god "O ro m a sis.” W e q u o te:
" Gilgamesh, thou M ig h ty o f the M ig h ty ! L ord o f the
R e d Flam es, L ord o f the B lue Flam es, o f the clouds and
darkness.
"H e a r , O M ig h ty O n e , L et th y T h u n d e r descend and
Blast the Spirits th at h au n t m y p a th w a y !
"A m e n , L ord o f the G old en L ig h t, K in g b eyon d all
K in gs.
"C o m m a n d th y M essengers o f the Y e llo w Flam e to
consume and destroy all obstacles th at m o c k m e !
"H e a r , I c o m m a n d !”
W e fin d ourselves w on d erin g w h a t it was th at de­
stroyed B ab ylon , and w on d er at the forces o f evil p la y ­
ing th rough the m odern B ab ylon o f today.
B u t ou t o f all this w arfare u p on entities has em erged
a C o sm ic hero, a generalissim o, w h o has been assigned to
clean u p the e n tity slum s o f the nation — and righ t royally
has he done it!
T he W ar on "E ntities” 61
H is nam e is " Mighty Astrea,” and he com es fr o m fa r ­
aw ay regions o f the C osm ic deep to help rid our cities o f
the entities th at to rm e n t us.
Indeed, he is a veritable Pied Piper of Hamelin, who
with magic flute lures away the evil psychic hordes in­
festing our townships, with or without sanction of the
Lord Mayors, and with the Ballard "Children of Light”
trailing joyfully in his wake.
According to Messenger Ballard, he came forth N o­
vember 1st, 1937, on the stage of the auditorium in Phila­
delphia, where he announced his heroic mission.
" Y o u w ill be interested to k n o w ,” said he, "t h a t th ey
[th e Ballard sta ff] have been calling fo r all black m a g i­
cians and their emissaries to be sought o u t, seized and
taken fr o m the earth.
"T o n ig h t , I have com e fo rth to fu lfill this c a ll. . . T h a t
is w h y the M essenger saw entities going in every d irection .”
(p. 141, A.M.L.)
Poor man! Rather disconcerting to see scampering
armies of mischievous “ entities,” some perhaps more than
mischievous, " going in every direction!” And this, despite
the fact that Guy Ballard has so frequently insisted to his
students that he is not a spiritualist, and sees only "Ascend­
ed Masters” !
C o u ld the M ig h ty A strea have slipped up in m a k in g
this statem ent, or did the M essenger actu ally see M ig h ty
A strea rou tin g "e n titie s” o u t o f Philadelphia?
However that may be, it was reported that " over four
hundred thousand discarnate entities” were removed from
the city of Philadelphia! And quite rightly, at so great a
victory, the audience arose to its feet and applauded lusti­
ly! (p. 9, Jan., 1939, v.)
But this was only the start of the generalissimo’s work.
At the head of his grand army of many divisions, he has
not let up one iota in his intention to clean the "entities”
out of our cities. And from that time on, wherever the
62 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
Ballards w e n t, M ig h ty A strea and his e n tity -clea n in g
squad was sure to go.
N o t to be le ft out o f it, Saint G erm ain reported at the
W a sh in g to n class:
"Since yesterday three hundred thirty-two thousand
discarnates were removed from the environs of New York
City, (applause— audience standing)” (p. 8, Dec., 193 8,
V .)
A m o n th later he adds u p the net total fo r a single day,
and reports to the applauding I A M -e r s :
"In exactly twenty-three hours, one million discarnates
have been taken from America, (applause)” And then he
wisely adds: "It is necessary for you to take Our Word for
these things for a short time.” (pp. 26-27, Jan., 1939, v.)
W e m ig h t here ask the question: " W h y , w ith all this
'e n tity ’ c lea n -u p , conditions in our cities and in the w orld
con tin u e as th ey d o ?” B u t, as usual, n o explan ation w o rth y
o f intelligence is ever given.
N evertheless, M ig h ty A strea ’s clea n -u p squad c o n tin ­
ues to m o p -u p the e n tity situation in our cities. H e fo l­
low s the M essengers around on their lecture tours and does
w h a t he can to have an e n tity -fre e c ity — even th ou gh the
L ord M ayors o f those cities p ay h im n o trib u te or ac­
k n ow ledge in any w a y his heroic services as a m odern Pied
Piper o f H a m elin .
C H A P T E R 8
METAPHYSICAL PLUMS
Clever leaders in political organizations know they
must be lavish in scattering political plums among their
adherents. They must also be prodigal in their promises,
and wax eloquent in their statements concerning the mar­
velous benefits resulting should these favored ones become
full-fledged members of the party.
It is similar with astute leaders of some metaphysical
orders— and, certainly, the Ballard cult is no exception.
Its metaphysical plum tree has been a marvelously produc­
tive one, so far as promises go, bearing luscious fruit and
promising budlets within season and without. From a
never-failing material supply in this life to tremendous
power and influence in the life to come, the Ballard prom­
ises run the whole gamut of human desires.
Poor, struggling human mortals lost in the wilderness
of a great economic depression! Who among them
wouldn’t want their "financial freedom” as promised by
the Ballards?
Hearing such statements as, " The precipitation of gold
or jewels from the invisible to the visible is as simple as
breathing” (p. 97, d . ) — they flock to the meetings as
moths to the flame.
Reading such statements as, "T o you who have had a
struggle financially . . . if you will only make your earnest
application, I assure you that all obstruction will be re­
moved from your pathway” (p. 7, Dec., 1938, v .)— they
buy the Ballard books, thinking that some magic formula
will give them the money they need.
64 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
Pathetic, weak, sickly individuals looking so earnestly
for health! How attracted they are to a cult which prom­
ises: " You can renew any nerve, any organ, and build any
member of the body into its perfection almost immediate­
ly.” (p. 42, d.)
Or to the hopelessly old and decrepit, what a balm to
hear: "7 say to you, beloved ones, who are in the neighbor­
hood of sixty years old . . . 7 tell you— any one of you— in
six weeks CAN be as strong, firm and active as you were
in your fidlest youth; but you must be determined.” (p.
16, Sept., 1937, v.)
Oh, what a hope to the soul-sick individual who is tired
of life and yet afraid to die, to hear a great Master say:
" There are quite a number in this room, who with com­
plete harmony maintained, woidd make their Ascension in
this embodiment.” (p. 4, March, 193 8, v.) These people
were promised that if they made this so-called "Ascen­
sion,” they would never die, or undergo physical death;
that they would become "Ascended Masters” — or "Lady
Masters”— immediately.
And to the frustrated and buffeted individual held
down in the heavy morass of life, what an infinite blessing
to hear: " When this class at the Pan-Pacific Auditorium
[at Los Angeles] is completed, there will be hundreds of
you precious ones who will not again know limitation.”
(pp. 141-2, A. M. D.)
How credulous these students are to believe these, and
many other, promises made so glibly, such as: " There is not
asingle thing your heart can desire to do with this Instruc­
tion it cannot do . . . to cause the storm to cease and be­
come obedient . . . to cause the rain to fall. . . to hold in
abeyance the frost . . . etc., etc.,” (pp. 28-3 3-34, March,
1937, v.)
In this way, by promises, and not by works, have the
Ballards and their deceiving band of "Masters” attracted
credulous people into their network of unreality.
Metaphysical P l u m s 6 5
W h a t a cruel d ecep tion ! These poor people give their
m o n ey , their tim e, and their energies. T h e y n eglect their
fam ilies and their opportu nities, their health and perhaps
even their spiritual salvation, b y fo llo w in g a m o v em en t
w h ich w ill in evitably lead to sad disillusionm ent. A n d
along the Ballard p ath w a y there are hundreds o f broken
lives, w reck ed hom es, and an alarm ing n u m b er o f insanity
cases.
For over five years n o w the m ills o f these "A sc e n d e d
M asters” have been grin ding and tu rn in g o u t unbelievable
prom ises. A n d the m ore th ey tu rned , the m ore the appe­
tites o f their people w ere w h etted fo r the prom ised
m iracles.
Still, even am ong the u n d u ly credulous, there is a lim it
to w h at people w ill take, as even the great B arn u m dis­
covered. So as tim e w e n t on in the early days o f the m o v e ­
m e n t there was a noticeable restlessness a m on g som e o f the
students at the n on -ap pearance o f the scheduled m iracles.
C leverly, to satisfy these people, the Ballards decided to
m ake a fe w specific instances o f attain m en t under the high
p ro m otion system o f the great A scen d ed M aster Saint
G erm ain .
Therefore, preceding the Christmas holidays of 1936
there was circulated among the faithful veiled allusions
as to the marvels that would take place at the coming
"Shrine Class” in Los Angeles.
W o r d w e n t fo rth th at this was to be a "c lo s e d ” class,
open o n ly to the elect. T ran scend en tal things w o u ld occu r.
T here w ere rum ors o f "g r o u p A scen sions,” precipitated
dinners, and som e o f the m ore popu lar "A s c e n d e d M a s­
ters” w ere scheduled to m ake tangible appearances. It was
to be the ou tstan d in g m etaphysical even t o f all tim e.
T h is had the effect, m a n y m on th s ahead, o f g iv in g the
desired im petu s and solidarity to the m o v em e n t, w h ich
w as then like a loose-join ted adolescent goin g th rou gh the
teen age.
66 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
All roads led to the Los Angeles mecca, and around the
middle of December, 1936, the pilgrimage was on. So
great was the expectancy of the students for the promised
miracles that many coming from eastern states brought
along their Ascension Robes! A little precautionary meas­
ure which, by the way, was observed also rather widely in
the City of the Angels among the faithful who did not
want to be caught like the "foolish virgins” of a bygone
age.
O f course all this was a good advertising build-up for
the Accredited Messengers of Saint Germain, but it was a
bit tricky. Realizing their inability to deliver the promises
they had made, the leaders apparently became a little
panic-stricken as to the reaction this might have if the
scheduled miracles should be a little timid about showing
up.
T h erefore, there w as a sudden change in plans. E dna
Ballard, w h o usually can rise to the occasion, let it be
k n o w n at a special m eetin g called ju st previous to the big
“ Shrine” open in g, th at it was n o t to be a "c lo s e d ” m eetin g
a fter all.
" A l l m a y c o m e ,” she generously stated. "F ill the audi­
to riu m — b u t d on ’t exp ect a n y th in g !”
And, of course, nothing did happen— other than more
promises. Altogether it was a most tame affair. Not a
single Ascended Master or precipitated dinner put in an
appearance.
It was rumored around, however, that an "Ascended
Master” was seen in the audience, and that he had talked
privately to several of the Ballard staff members!
T h is is quite understandable in dear old Los A n geles
w here at any large h eterodox m eetin g there is likely to be
fo u n d one or m ore bew hiskered, longhaired, h e r m it-lo o k ­
in g individuals w h o appear the livin g p ro toty p e o f John
the Baptist or Elijah the Prophet.
Also, among some of the students, there was a report
Metaphysical Plums 67
o f another transcendent happening. L oo k in g around fo r
an yth in g th at m ig h t even give a sem blance to a m iracle,
G u y Ballard suddenly stopped at a certain p oint in his talk,
and listened. A u d ib le to som e, sounds o f m usic floated in
th rou gh the auditorium .
" I f you w ill listen v ery ca re fu lly ,” said the h ea v e n -g a z­
in g M essenger in an enraptured w a y , "y o u w ill hear som e­
th in g very in terestin g.”
It was then reported am on g certain o f the fa ith fu l in
the audience th at the fabled "M u s ic o f the Spheres” had
been heard.
Som e o f the least susceptible ones, h ow ever, said it
was m erely syncopated ja zz fr o m a n earby skating rink.
O th ers, even m ore skeptical, said it was som ebod y’s radio
played at a propitou s tim e.
It is a strange and startling th in g, h ow ever, and one
w h ich certain ly show s the exten t to w h ich cred u lity exists
in the w orld to d ay, th at despite all these failures th ro u g h ­
o u t so m a n y years the students are still w aitin g, w aitin g
fo r the prom ised m iracles. T h e w hole process readily re­
m inds one o f the R av en — in Poe’s p oem o f th at n am e—
"s ittin g , sittin g above the cham ber d o o r,” and forever
q u oth in g " Nevermore
These Ballard m iracles just d id n ’t h appen, never have,
and it w ill take m ore than the Ballard fa m ily and all their
k in g ’s horses to p rodu ce th em .
H o w e v e r, the "A c c r e d ite d M essengers” have learned to
b rin g the prom ised m iracles closer hom e to the p oor stu ­
dents b y vag u ely referrin g to a certain n u m b er in each
c ity w h o have m ade the grade in som e w a y . In one c ity ,
fo r instance, G u y Ballard said:
"In this room tonight there are 104 for whom the
Divine Director will consume the last vestige of human
accumulation tonight.” (March 11, 1938, Ballard Group
Letter to Class Leaders.)
In another c ity , C levelan d , Ballard said:
6 8 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
"In this small audience, the human creation of 346 has
been dissolved and consumed.” (March 11, 1938, G. L . )
And so on with other audiences in various cities.
Nobody, of course, ever knows who these fortunate
individuals are who have had their " human creation” —
whatever that is— removed. It seems to have been kept
a dark secret, not at all like some appendiceal operations.
Each hopes that this human accumulation has been dis­
solved or extirpated in some way, but doubts must assail
him when he discovers, despite the operation, that some
remnants of the thing have been inadvertently left.
At the Kansas City class the statement was made:
" . . . For 373 of the students all human accumulation
had been completely dissolved . . . for 283 time and space
had been set aside!” (Feb. 18, 1938, g. l .)
Kansas City, it appears, wins the "human creation”
honors; and, in addition, cleans up the entire running field
in the Ballard "Time and Space” classic. How wonderful
it must have been for these two hundred and eighty-three
"Mighty I AM-ers” from Missouri to soar away— timeless
and spaceless— into NOTHINGNESS, and be free from
current bill collectors and future evils they know not of!
For reasons which we shall later discover, the Ballards
for four long years did not hold public classes in their own
home town after leaving there in the fall of 1934 to "Save
America.”
Although Chicago is undoubtedly a part of America,
and needs saving perhaps as much as Los Angeles and
Miami, there were good reasons why the wise and cautious
"Saint Germain” did not for four years include that city
in his Messengers’ itinerary. There he was, titular head of
a flourishing book concern— the "Saint Germain Press,”
with a perfectly good Chicago post office box number, and
he was careless enough to forget to have his own Accredit­
ed Messengers lecture there to boost book sales.
The nearest city he would permit them to come, for a
M e t a p h y s i c a l P l u m s 69
public ten-day class, was Detroit. As a result, the Chicago
faithful had to go to the automobile city to hear Saint
Germain’s Accredited Messengers— a modern instance, as
it were, of the mountain going to Mahomet!
So in the spring of 1938 scores of the Chicago students
traveled down railway ties or across macadamized roads
bound for Detroit, to hear and learn from these modern
prophets, whose symbol was the dazzling, golden "Light”
of the sun, instead of the pale, silvery crescent of Ma­
homet.
They descended upon that mechanized city in such
numbers that Prophet Ballard simply had to take notice
of his people. It must have been very complimentary to
him, and, of course, one good compliment deserves an­
other.
So when they appeared in a festive body at the Scottish
Rite Cathedral in Detroit to attend the Ballard class—
somewhat as native Iowans congregate in Lincoln Park at
Los Angeles for their annual get-together meeting— he
looked them over and seeing their eagerness for one of the
long promised miracles, was moved to say:
"Out of the number of Chicago people who have come
to this class, one hundred of that number have had their
own human creation dissolved and consumed in its com­
pleteness!” (page 11, June, 1938, v.)
What joy there must have been among these pilgrims
from neglected Chicago who had sacrificed time and
money for the journey. One hundred of them had had
their "human creation” dissolved into thin air, or extir­
pated in some way by these miracle surgeons, the "Ascend­
er Masters”— and not a single patient had succumbed, or
had even been discommoded by the operation!
Then this modern prophet and dispenser of miracles
looked away from the Chicago contingent, and gazed upon
the Detroit gathering of the faithful. They, too, deserved
something, some reward for their services; but some of
70 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
th em had been listening to things th at all h u n d red -p e r­
cen t " I A M ” students had been w arned n o t to listen to.
So, co u n tin g v e ry rap idly, he said:
" O f those in D e tro it, twenty-seven have had their en­
tire h u m an creation dissolved and con su m ed .”
Only tw e n ty -se v e n , as com pared to C h ica g o ’s neat
h undred. It just d id n ’t seem fair, fo r D e tr o it too had
tu rn ed ou t in large n um bers. B u t, it appears, it was D e ­
tro it’s o w n fa u lt, fo r, said P rophet B allard:
"D e t r o it has had a great o p p o rtu n ity ; b u t because the
students listened to v ery vicious gossip th ey have deprived
them selves o f this great, great o p p o rtu n ity .”
H o w e v e r, offerin g a little encou ragem en t to the losing
team , he added:
"B u t still the L ig h t shall claim Its o w n in D e tro it!
T h e L ig h t shall claim Its o w n in D e tr o it! I so decree i t !”
(p age 11, June, 1938, v.)
P oor D e tr o it! T h e Ballards w a n ted , fo r good reasons
o f their o w n as w e shall discover, to shake the p lu m tree
fo r their C h ica g o visitors at this class, b u t fo u n d it was a
good o p p o rtu n ity also to penalize the D e tro it students a
little fo r disobedience in this little gam e o f h u m an crea­
tion.
T h u s w hile th ey graciously shake the m etaphysical
p lu m s o lf one lim b , th ey none too graciously use another
lim b to w h ip the erring in to line.
CHAPTER 9
THE BALLARD " ASCENSION" MIRACLES
O f all Ballard miracles, the one relating to the “ Ascen­
sion” is perhaps the most alluring. It is the biggest plum
of them all, and hangs higher on their miracle-bearing tree
than all the others.
It is the Ballard answer to the ever-present problem of
death, for when one makes the ascension, he does not die!
His physical body becomes charged with Light, and it
"ascends” to become forever free from the limitations of
birth and death. He then becomes, according to the Bal­
lard idea, an “ Ascended Master," able to roam the cor­
poreal and incorporeal worlds at will.
O f course, the idea is not new. It has been and is a
part of many religious philosophies, varying only in de­
tails.
All their students have to do, it appears, is to be
obedient to the “ Ascended Masters” and their three and
only “ Accredited Messengers,” sweep an imaginary " Violet
Consuming Flame” through their bodies morning, noon,
and night for the necessary purification, and then call
most vehemently for their ascension. The Ballards have
virtually guaranteed their faithful and obedient students
their ascension in this life!
One suspects, therefore, this ascension business is but
another lure to gain converts, and we believe evidence for
this belief will be amply justified in this chapter.
In Unveiled Mysteries, the hero— Godfrey Ray King—
recounts how he, personally, assisted an "old man with
white hair and beard” to make his ascension from the side
of Mt. Shasta, California.
72 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
He had just given the tired, discouraged old man a
drink from a "Crystal Cup” which formed miraculously
in Godfre’s hand, when lo! without warning the man be­
gan to rise from the ground all clothed in a "raiment of
Glistening "White,” and then " disappeared on a Radiant
Pathway of Light!” (p. 242, u . m . )
The experience naturally made a profound impression
upon our hero, who of course was none other than Guy
Ballard of Chicago. And he has been thinking and acting
this "Ascension” drama ever since.
In Godfre’s next book, The Magic Presence, he de­
scribes a couple of other ascensions, but instead of using
the potent drink in the same "Crystal Cup,” he brought
in the idea of a mechanical device known as the " Atomic
Accelerator”— a marvelous golden chair which in some
way, by merely sitting in it, helps the weary neophyte to
make the final journey into the heavens.
Time was when the initiatory process was an arduous
one, but in the Ballard system one just sits and sits in a
golden chair. It is as easy as that!
Such a device is alleged to be in Saint Germain’s secret
retreat in the Wyoming Rockies, the "Cave of Symbols.”
And here one day, Ballard and his party arrive to observe
the "Ascension” of a "white-haired elderly gentleman” by
name of David, who for some reason or other was privi­
leged to sit in the golden Atomic Accelerator.
Well, as might be expected, it wasn’t long before
David’s " hair had returned to its original color, dark,
broavn, the lines faded from his face, his flesh became the
pink of perfect health, and his beard disappeared.” (p. 84,
M . p . )
But more marvelous of all, the whole of David himself
soon disappeared in a "dazzling radiance” of Light. Thus
is described ascension No. 2.
Ascension No. 3 was that of his friend and fellow
traveler, Rayborn, the wealthy ranch owner, who was soon
T h e B a l l a r d " A s c e n s i o n M i r a c l e s ” 73
to say good b ye to all bis cattle and gold m ines and sit in the
golden A to m ic A ccelerator.
Ballard and his p arty arrive accordin g to schedule, as
likewise do the "A s c e n d e d M asters” and som e lovely "L a d y
M asters,” am o n g w h o m is num bered R a y b o rn ’s "T w i n
R a y .”
A ll is in readiness. T h e spectators take their positions,
and the w estern cattle k in g sits in the golden accelerator.
In a few moments, it is all over. Rayborn ascends clear
through the ceiling of the cave and disappears with his
Twin Ray, while "like a flash of lightning, a circle of the
most intense, dazzling, white Light” encompasses the en­
tire place, (p. 288, m . p . ) Thus did the cattle king make
his "Ascension.”
N o w , w h en an y one o f the Ballard fa m ily can m ake an
ascension like this, or the tw o before, then w e w ill m ore
readily believe in the Ballard "A sc e n sio n M iracles.”
A lre a d y , M r . Ballard has claim ed he has had such an
o p p o rtu n ity , b u t fo r reasons best k n o w n to h im self did
n o t chose to ascend. H e did, h ow ever, he says, sit in the
golden A to m ic A ccelerato r and it had the effect o f m ak in g
h im "w a n t to ju m p right o u t o f the b o d y ” !
The reason Mr. Ballard did not choose to make his
ascension is allegedly as follows. We quote his remarks
made at Los Angeles on the afternoon of August 25, 193 5:
"Saint Germain insists that I mention something that
I have never mentioned even to my blessed family. Before
Mrs. Ballard starts to read about the ascension of Mr. Ray-
born, of which I have spoken, I want to say this:
"A t the time of Mr. Rayborn’s ascension I was given
the opportunity to make the ascension, but the Mighty 'I
AM ’ Presence said: 'N o! Go back into the world and serve.’
"That hour my earthly pilgrimage was finished. Since
that time I am here in this atomic structure on extended
time . . . Nothing this hitman form can do can be recorded
on my Life stream.
74 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
"I know there will be those who will go forth and say
possibly, 'That’s just a little bit of drama.’ Beloved ones,
I would be removed from this embodiment if I said one
word that was not true.”
It is certainly one of the magic workings of this man’s
life that he has the ability of making people believe in him.
Against logic and common sense, despite contradictions
and misstatements, and in the face of absurdity after ab­
surdity, his followers believe the statements that he makes.
At still another time, while assertedly in India, at
Chananda’s Secret Retreat in the Himalayas, he said he
had the opportunity of making his ascension, but again,
his "I AM ” told him to go back into the world and serve.
Edna Ballard, also, has had her opportunity, but like
her self-sacrificing husband, she refused her ascension, too.
We quote "Saint Germain’s” statement made at Philadel­
phia on May 9, 1937:
"The Beloved Messengers here, when they came back
from Honolulu could have said Good-bye to you and have
gone on, but they did not! Their Love was great enough
to go on, and on, facing and conquering the viciousness
which has been projected at them.” (page 8 , A . M . L .)
But could not these people have served and conquered
better by making their "Ascensions” ?
We are curious enough to wonder whether the Ballards
will use the "Crystal Cup” and make their ascensions from
the side of Mt. Shasta, or will they make use of the more
scientific "Atom ic Accelerator” and ascend through the
ceiling at the Cave of Symbols in Wyoming. Only time
can tell.
The Ballard Ascension miracles have lured thousands
of old people to the fold. But after four years of promises
without a single ascension, even the most Ballardized of
the students began to wonder if any of them would ever
make their ascensions, or, for that matter, ever sit in the
golden chair for just a few moments.
T h e B a l l a r d " A s c e n s i o n M i r a c l e s ” 75
Therefore, the resourceful Messengers evidently de­
cided that instead of making more promises, they had bet­
ter produce a few ascensions. So out of a clear sky one
evening, on the Ides of March, at Cleveland, they an­
nounced to a thrilled audience:
"O # next Sunday, there -will be ten Ascensions!” (p. 3,
April, 1938, v.)
But alas! Clevelandites were soon to learn that these
ascensions were not to be made in their fair city. They
were to be made at Saint Germain’s private and quite in­
accessible mountain retreats: "Five from the Cave of Sym­
bols” and "Five from the Retreat in Arabia.”
Imagine the consternation of those who could not leave
their businesses to go to Wyoming or to far-away Arabia!”
They had been told the “ Ascension” had to be made in
an actual physical body. And it had to be a living body,
not a dead one. But none of these students knew how to
take their bodies to the Cave of Symbols in Wyoming, and
certainly not to the retreat in the fastnesses of the Arabian
mountains.
Incidentally, two of the other alleged secret retreats,
the one at Mt. Shasta, California, and the "Royal Teton”
in Wyoming, have been the occasion for a number of
foolish pilgrimages of the students. There are authentic
stories of students who have given up their families, their
positions, their money, and have camped outside the rocky
portals of Mt. Shasta in California and the Grand Teton
in Wyoming, waiting for the respective mountain to open
up and let them in. It had for Guy Ballard— why not for
them!
A friend writes from the Grand Teton National Park
that he had talked to the postmistresses at Moose, W yo­
ming, at the base of the Grand Teton; the postmistress at
Jenny Lake; also to forest rangers and others; and found,
"the same old story” :
"I AM students, queer people . . . looking for the pot
76 Psychic Dictatorship in A merica
o f gold at the end o f the rainbow .
"Y e s , quite a fe w o f th em com e u p here . . . Leave dis­
illusioned . . . one was killed on his w a y back hom e after
w a itin g a year fo r the m ou n tain to open u p . . . A n o th e r
was placed in the State Insane A s y lu m here . . . e tc .”
G e ttin g back to the an n ou n cem en t at C levelan d ; even
th ou g h the students w ere never told w h o the lu c k y ten
w ere w h o m ade their ascensions, it had the effect o f arous­
in g hope and renew ed efforts am on g the fa ith fu l students,
and m ade th em even m ore obedient than b efore to the
Ballards and their "A sc e n d e d M asters.”
B u t in tim e, after a fe w m ore "A sc e n sio n s” o f this
order, the private ascension idea began to p lay o u t, and the
Ballards fo r th at and other reasons to o w ere com p elled to
in stitute a totally different kind o f ascension th an p re vi­
ously described in their books.
O n e o f these reasons is m ost obvious. T h e Ballards
them selves w ere gettin g older, and the strain o f their w o rk
was telling u p on th em . T h erefo re, th ey had to m ake their
ascension prom ises fit any even tu ality th at m ig h t occu r in
their o w n lives.
T h e n , again, fo r years, their students had been d yin g,
leaving the m ortal coil behind— a clear p ro o f the prom ised
ascension had n ot taken place!
In som e w a y this "p r o o f ” had to be concealed or ren ­
dered u n im p o rta n t in som e w a y . T h e fo llo w in g is a de­
scription o f the wa}^ th ey attem p ted to do it.
D esp ite the fa c t th at th ey had fo rm e rly m ost e m ­
p hatically stated the ascension could only be m ade b y
"ra isin g ” the actual physical b od y , and then o n ly before
death occurred, th ey n o w had the resourceful b u t n on e -
too-con sisten t Saint G erm ain com e th rou gh w ith a start­
ling and unprecedented message. A message w h ich c o m ­
p letely changed the effect and in ten t o f their original
inviolate "A sc e n sio n L a w .”
"B e lo v e d C h ildren o f the L ig h t,” said Saint G erm ain
T h e B a l l a r d “ A s c e n s i o n M i r a c l e s ” 7 7
on November 8, 1938, at Washington, D. C., “ I want you
to see and feel the Reward which Life has chosen to give
to certain individuals . . . In all ages past, the Ascension
could only be made by taking the purified physical body
into the Higher Mental Body, as the Messenger has ex­
plained to you.” (p. 5, Dec., 1938, v.)
T h e n Saint G erm ain told h o w a " New Dispensation”
had been arranged fo r the fa ith fu l students!
It seems th at tw o fair m em bers o f the “ A scen d ed M as­
ter” h ierarchy— the "G od d e ss o f L ig h t” and the "G od d ess
o f L ib e rty ” — w e n t personally to a great B eing, “ Sanat Kti-
mara” sittin g som ew here in the heavens, to intercede in
the Ballard students’ behalf.
It appears fu rth er th at this great B ein g, Sanat K u m a ra ,
givin g in to the entreaties o f tw o b eau tifu l goddesses,
agreed to take special p ity on the p lig h t o f Ballard stu ­
dents, w h o , instead o f m a k in g their ascensions as th ey w ere
prom ised, w ere d yin g and leaving their bodies behind.
T h e o u tco m e o f the heavenly conclave was— as Saint
G erm ain so clearly explains— there will now be ”certain
ones among the students” who will be " permitted to make
the Ascension while the outer struchire, the discord of hu­
man form, remains here.”
Now that this troublesome little matter of the “ phy­
sical remains” has been solved in this heavenly fashion, it
seems reasonable to suspect this new kind of ascension will
occur by the wholesale.
A n d sure enou gh, in the second issue o f their m agazine
fo llo w in g this stupendous ann ou n cem en t o f the “ N e w
D ispen sation ” authorized b y a single individual sitting in
his high heaven, w e see in purple p rin t th at the Ballard
ascension m ills are already beginn in g to grin d !
As evidence of this, we quote the "Great Divine Di­
rector’s remarks made at the Shrine Class in Los Angeles
on January 8, 1939:
“ A lre a d y in three different instances, those, w h o have
78 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
made the change, which others not understanding thought
was so-called death, have made the Ascension. In each in­
stance there has not been one particle of Life remaining
in the cells or structure of the flesh that remained behind,
which is mechanical evidence of the Truth that they had
made the Ascension. There are quite a number who will
make that change within a few months . . . it can easily
and readily be done.” (pp. 19-20, Feb., 1939, v.)
T h is kind o f ascension, "s o easily and readily accomp­
lished” is n o d ou b t all righ t fo r any o f the zm -A ccred ited
M essengers, class leaders, and obedient students, b u t fo r
the three and o n ly " Accredited Messengers,” surely the
m ore difficult ascension under the old dispensation is re­
quired.
We therefore expect that the Ballards will stage at least
one, if not, three good, old-fashioned ascensions such as
described in their books, and ascend heavenward physical­
ly and corporeally either by way of the "Crystal Cup” or
the "Atomic Accelerator” !
A n d w h en th ey do th at, w e and the other d ou b tin g
T hom ases o f the land w ill believe in the Ballard "A sc e n sio n
M iracles.”
CHAPTER 10
COSMIC STREAMLINE ADVERTISING
During the time Guy and Edna Ballard have been pre­
senting their Mighty I AM teachings to "America and the
World,” they have used advertising methods and a show­
manship which could teach even the late P. T. Barnum
a trick or two. Instead of having a raucous-voiced old
showman come forth to harangue the crowd as to the par­
ticular merits of the performance and the wonders to be
seen, the Ballards have no less a personage than some high
and mighty ffCosmic Master” shout the praises of the
show.
Let the de luxe advertising clubs of the land take note.
The best they have done is to get some glamorous Holly­
wood star to praise the merits of somebody’s brand of
cigarettes or face cream. It remained for two heretofore
unknown Chicago persons to get the stars in the firma­
ment to advertise for them and sing paeans of praises
concerning their products.
A great "Star-Being,” known as " A rctu ru shas come
forward from cosmic space and has okayed the Ballard
show and all the actors in it.
A "Mighty Being” from the planet Venus, traveling
some twenty-six million miles to attend a speaking en­
gagement in Los Angeles, has sung Venusian praises about
the "Accredited Messengers of Saint Germain,” delivered
in quite ordinary English, with a few slang expressions
thrown in.
A "Great Being” beyond the "Central Sun” of the
universe has even taken note of the delectable merits of
80 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
Saint G erm a in ’s precipitated dinners, ascension robes, and
w h a t n ot, and has com e fo rw a rd a fter a m illion years o f
silence to boost the sale o f the Ballard books and m erch an ­
dise.
"W e have not used,” say Mr. and Mrs. Ballard, "the
outer world’s methods of advertising to gain the attention
of anyone or draw students to us.” (p. 20, Aug., 1938, v.)
N o , indeed! W h a t th ey have done is to scour the w orld
invisible fo r personal supporters to their hoax. T h e y
b rou g h t fo rth such singular nam es as "M ig h t y V ic to r y ,”
the "G r e a t T e n o r ,” the "G o d M e r u ,” the "L a d y M aster
N a d a ,” the “ T a ll M aster fr o m V e n u s,” the " O l d M a n o f
the H ills ,” and th irty others o f eq u ally good advertising
value. T h e y even signed the nam e o f ”Jesus the Christ” to
som e o f their sales talks!
In in tro d u cin g the Ballards to their audiences, their
stage announcer and ch ief earth-plan e advertising m an has
m a n y tim es said:
"T h e s e w o n d e rfu l people, beloved ones, are o ccu p y in g
the place th at Jesus the C h rist did tw o thousand years
a g o !”
A n d later, w h en som e o f the contrad iction s in their
w ritin gs and statem ents w ere p oin ted o u t, th ey had this
sam e "J esu s” say:
"These Beloved Messengers have not made one single
mistake from the beginning.” (p. 15, Feb., 1937, v.)
T h e y had Jesus’ m ost loved disciple, "John the Belov­
ed,” allegedly com e fo rth fo r the first tim e since his death
to say o f the Ballards:
"T h e r e never w ere tw o such interested, selfless h um an
beings on the face o f this earth as the M essengers are.”
( p . 13, F eb., 1938, V .)
N o t being w illin g to let their greatness speak silently
fo r itself, or perhaps being a trifle dubious abou t it th e m ­
selves, the Ballards had an "A s c e n d e d M aster” k n o w n as
" The Great Divine Director,” w h o m th ey solem n ly assert
C o s m i c S t r e a m l i n e A d v e r t i s i n g 8 1
is the teacher o f Jesus, say:
"This Work the Messengers are giving is the Greatest
that will ever be given on earth!” (p. 17, Dec., 1937, v.)
T h e n to add an elem ent o f m y stery as to w h o and w h at
th ey really are, these "M ig h t y I A M ” m agicians b rou gh t
fo rth o u t o f their bag o f cosm ic tricks the " Tall Master
from Venus.” T h is tall V en u sian gentlem an w ith lon g
golden hair, n o t being able, it seems, to use his o w n vocal
cords, m ade use o f G u y B allard’s, and g o t quite a b it o f
applause fr o m the large audience at the Shrine A u d ito riu m
in Los A n geles on the evening o f J uly 17, 1938, w h en he
said:
" I call ydur attention to these beloved M essengers, the
m ost precious Beings on the face o f this earth tod ay. L ook
h ow th ey stru ggled fo r years just like the rest o f m a n k in d ;
and look to d a y ! . . .
"They are free Beings today and could leave you, at any
moment; but their great Love will not let that be done at
present, (applause) . . .Y ou do not yet know who is in
your midst; you might be greatly amazed one day when
we tell you.” (p. 11, Sept., 193 8, v.)
Just w h o it w as in their m id st was at first a cherished
secret am on g in fo rm ed I A M -e r s , and th ey m en tioned it
w ith bated breath, b u t it w asn ’t lo n g before G u y Ballard
h im self was p u b licly advertising to the w h ole c o u n try that
he was none other th an the reincarnated George Washing­
ton, the traditional "F a th e r o f O u r C o u n tr y ” !
A n d so Ballard has since been k n o w n , quite app rop ri­
ately it seems, as "Daddy Ballard”— and his Blessed L otu s,
as "Mamma Ballard” !
T h e su bject o f past incarnations am on g the m em bers
o f this b lu e-blood ed Ballard fa m ily is m ost illu m in atin g
and even excitin g. Q u ite n atu rally, it is to be expected
th at E d n a L otu s R a y K in g B allard’s reincarnations w ou ld
be equally as fam ou s as those o f her illustrious husband’s.
A n d w e fin d th at th at is so.
8 2 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
E d n a, h ow ever, is not the reincarnated M a rth a W a s h ­
in g ton , as m ig h t be expected . "S a in t G erm a in ” has chosen
a m ore d ram atic and heroic role fo r the present G eorge
W a sh in g to n ’s am bitious w ife . A n d so w e learn th at Edna
is none other th an the F ren ch heroine, Joan of Arc, sainted
Savior of France!
A n d to p rop erly advertise the fa c t, the Archangel
Michael ( ! ) cam e fo rw a rd fr o m fa r-a w a y cosm ic space
to co n firm the present Joan’s id en tity b y saying:
"I have not ministered to earth since My Ministry in
France. I ministered then to the same individual who,
this night, I begin to minister through in America, our
beloved Joan of Arc.” (p. 5, Jan., 1939, v.)
T h e th ird and last m em b er o f this illustrious Ballard
fa m ily is o f course, D o n a ld R a y K in g Ballard. H ere also
w e fin d a rem arkable history o f past achievem ent. D o n ald
was born in to the w orld on M a y 12, 1 9 1 8 , in the c ity o f
C h ica g o, as Edona Eros Ballard. T h a t is ex actly the nam e
w h ich appears on the official certificate o f birth. In a
fo rm e r earth life he was K in g o f the Incas, and in one m ore
recent he was the distinguished n ob lem an , Marquis de
Lafayette of France!
N o w th at w e have the Ballard reincarnation tree d u ly
established, and p rop erly advertised, w e believe the three­
fo ld com b in ation w ill prove to be rather th ou g h t p r o v o k ­
in g— fo r w e n o w have Washington, the Father o f our
C o u n tr y , Joan, the Savior o f F rance, and Lafayette, dash­
in g y o u n g frien d o f the A m e ric a n R ev o lu tio n , all righ t
here in our m id st!
T hese three, and the other m ore num erous b u t less
illustrious m em bers o f the "M ig h t y I A M ” fa m ily , n u m ­
bering som e hundreds o f thousands stron g, are here to
"S a v e A m e ric a ” and bring in a " N e w G o v e rn m e n t” in the
good old U . S. A .
W e w on der w h at w ere the th ou ghts o f the trio w h en ,
on a trip to W a sh in g to n , th ey visited G eorge and M a rth a ’s
C o s m i c S t r e a m l i n e A d v e r t i s i n g 8 3
old hom estead at M t . V e rn o n ? W e w on der w h at they
th ou g h t abou t w h en th ey drove d ow n historic P en n syl­
vania A v e n u e in their expensive p la tin u m -tin te d car,
passed the W h ite H ou se, and headed fo r the C ap itol?
W e do n ot k n o w , o f course, b u t w e have it fr o m
"S a in t G erm a in ” h im self (speaking at the R ialto A u d i­
to riu m in W a sin g to n on N o v e m b e r 8, 1938) th at "T h e se
tw o (m ea n in g Joan and G eo rg e) . . . are as h u m b le as
hum bleness can be . . . W ith o u t th em m an k in d w ou ld have
been in the m ost seething v ortex o f w ar righ t in y ou r m idst
tod ay. Y o u r C ap ital w ou ld n o t be here to d a y !” (p . 6,
D e c ., 1938, v.)
A ll o f w h ich som ehow rem inds us o f the childhood
story o f G eorge W a sh in g to n and the cherry tree, and the
little b o y w h o cou ld n o t tell a lie.
O n au th ority o f n o less a personage than the frArch­
angel Michael ” the U . S. A . w ill fare a good deal better
w ith her reincarnated L otu s R a y K in g Ballard than did
France w ith her m artyred Jeanne d ’A r c , fo r in keeping
w ith the story books, the heroine lives instead o f m eetin g
an u n tim e ly end.
"T h a t blessed on e,” says the A rch a n g el (m ean in g M rs.
B a lla rd ), "w h o was once burn ed at the stake, w ill n o t be
this tim e, (a p p la u se )” (p . 2 0 , Jan., 1939, v .) W h ic h , o f
course, in anyone’s life is a reassuring th in g to k n o w .
B u t the r
r
Goddess of Liberty” is even m ore eulogistic
o f this rem arkable " I A M ” fa m ily th an is the m ore c o n ­
servatively-speak in g A rch a n g e l M ich ael. A t their great
Shrine Class in Los A n geles, on Sun day aftern oon , January
2„1938, this m agn ificen t fem in in e d eity reportedly "c a m e
fo r th ” to say to an applau ding audience:
" W e can tell y o u , every one o f y o u , in the em b od i­
m ents w here y ou w ere in association w ith the M essengers,
and h ow y o u cam e again and again, g iv in g the same lo y ­
alty . . . W e w o n ’t go back fa r, b u t in the tim e o f R ichard
the L ion -h earted in E n glan d , again Joan o f A r c in France,
8 4 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
again W a sh in g to n , and again to d ay , y ou stand, and have
stood th rou gh the A ges w ith th at L o y a lty to the L ig h t and
to those Precious O n es [th e B allards] w h o represented the
L ig h t . . . L et M e call y ou 'O u r Sw eethearts o f A m e r ic a ,’
fo r withotit you mankind would perish from the
earth!
" A n d but for these Messengers m ankind would have
PERISHED FROM the earth!” (Jan. 7 , 1 9 3 8 , G. L.)
T o d a y , these same Ballard "S w eeth earts” actu ally be­
lieve that G eorge and Joan, or "B lessed M a m m a and D a d ­
d y B allard,” are the saviors o f m a n k in d , and w ill brin g a
n ew gov ern m en t to the U n ite d States o f A m e ric a .
C a n the reader con tem p late w h a t is h ap p enin g to the
intelligence o f an astounding n u m b er o f A m e ric a n citizens
w h o accept as gospel tru th the cru d ely devised personal
advertisem ents o f a C h icago couple?
CHAPTER 11
VOYAGES OF A MODERN SINDBAD
In A.D. 1934 the metaphysical world was startled by
the appearance of an occult thriller, entitled Unveiled
Mysteries, copyrighted by the Saint Germain Press, P. O.
Box 1133, Chicago, 111.
In it is narrated a series of fantastic occult adventures
of one Godfre Ray King, which adventures, the foreword
says, are as " Real and True as mankind’s existence on this
earth today.”
The first page of this "true account” of the adventures
of Godfre Ray King informs us that he "knew through
travels in the Far East, that most rumors, myths, and
legends have, somewhere as their origin, a deep underlying
Truth.”
And then with himself as the living hero of it all, he
proceeds to bring the adventures of Sindbad the Sailor, the
incredible tales of Baron Munchausen, the travels of Gul­
liver, and other "rumors, myths, and legends” together as
the one "deep underlying Truth.”
All story tellers have a way with them. It is said that
the estimable old gentleman, the Baron Munchausen,
would never crack a smile as he related the most incredible
of his tales, and he did it so well that some of his hearers
were even persuaded to believe he meant his fantastic
stories to be taken seriously!
Perhaps he did. One’s wildest imaginings assume a
semblance of reality if they are re-created often enough.
At any rate the genial old Baron, or his narrator, in an
effort to vindicate his stories and his own veracity, at-
86 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
tached to his manuscript a notice to the public affirming
the absolute truth of his stories. It was signed by Gulliver,
Sindbad, and Aladdin, and was to the effect that they per­
sonally attested that the adventures of their friend, the
Baron Munchausen, were "positive and simple facts”— the
affidavit being duly sworn at the City of London, England,
before "John the Porter” in the absence of the Lord Mayor.
Similarly, the modern author of fabulous literature,
Godfre Ray King, like the truth-loving old Baron, attests
to his own veracity by saying in his foreword that his
adventures are "Real and True.” But he goes the Baron
one better by bringing forth, instead of the reputable
Gulliver, Sindbad, and Aladdin, no less a personage than the
credible " Saint Germain,” who swears to the truth in these
books in his own vehement way; and, as though his word
were not sufficient, proceeds to bring forth the whole
"Cosmic Host” to back him up.
Assured by this testimony we can now with more con­
fidence follow the narrator through his series of surprising
adventures beginning on the slanting slopes of Mt. Shasta,
California, and ending in a marvelous cave in the Grand
Teton Mountain in Wyoming, where a tall golden-haired
gentleman from our sister planet Venus gives him some
sage advice.
The very first day that Godfre met the mysterious
Count St. Germain on a California mountain side, time
passed all too quickly, as you can imagine it would if a
great Master showed you your past embodiments, includ­
ing one where you were a priest and your present wife a
" vestal virgin guarding the Sacred Fire.” (p. 25, u. M.)
So as Godfre was ten miles away from his lodge at the
foot of the mountain and it would be nearly midnight be­
fore he could return on foot, the great "Master” obligingly
offered him another means of locomotion.
"Place your arm about my shoulder,” said he, “ and
close your eyes.”
V oyages of a Modern Sindbad 87
" I fe lt m y b o d y lifted fr o m the g ro u n d ,” relates G o d -
fre in telling o f this am azin g tran sportation o f his actual
physical b o d y th rou gh space, and added: "P re sen tly , m y
feet touch ed the floor and open in g m y eyes— I stood in the
lo d g e.”
C o m m e n tin g on G o d fr e ’s question as to h o w it was
possible to com e back in this m ann er w ith o u t attractin g
the atten tion o f others, the great "M a s te r ” explains:
" W e m a n y tim es draw about our bodies the cloak o f
invisibility w h en m o v in g am on g those in physical fo r m .”
A n d the n ex t second, G o d fre w rites, "h e was g on e.” (p p .
27-28, u. M.)
W e can im agine the h um orous old B aron sitting around
the tavern table w ith congenial spirits telling such a tale
as this, and w e can hear the lau gh ter o f those around him
w hile th e old fe llo w snorts at their disbelief. B u t, alas, in
this m od ern age, strange as it m a y seem , disbelief in such
fabulou s narratives has tu rned to belief in the case o f m a n y
hundreds o f thousands o f adult A m erican s!
G o d fr e ’s book m ig h t w ell have been en titled : " A C o n ­
tin u ation o f the Surprising A d v en tu res o f Baron M u n c h ­
ausen” or "T h e O c c u lt A d v en tu res o f Sindbad the Sailor.”
H o w e v e r , som e o f the tales are h ard ly suitable as bed­
tim e stories. O n e o f th em , at least, is the thriller ty p e, and
red blood is spilled.
O n e d ay w hile w a lk in g along a m o u n ta in trail at M t.
Shasta, our hero is attacked successively b y a "v ic io u s-e y e d
p an th er” and a "co n sid era b ly heavier m ou n tain lion .” T h e
fo rm e r he has calm ed b y lo ok in g co m m a n d in g ly in to its
eyes, and before the latter could rend h im in its leap, the
panther w h o m he had tam ed b y the m agn etism o f his
eyes protects h im b y leaping upon the m o u n tain lion.
T h e n b oth anim als die in a terrific stru ggle, b u t G o d fre ,
the hero, is saved.
B aron M u n ch au sen in his o w n surprising adventures
tells a som ew h at sim ilar story. H e is attacked successively,
88 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
b u t n o t successfully, b y a ferocious lion and a fo r ty -fo o t
crocodile. T h e lion springs at h im , b u t at the righ t mo­
m e n t the B aron ducks, causing the lion to leap in to the
gap in g jaw s o f the crocodile w h o is attack in g the Baron
fr o m the rear. B oth anim als die in the resulting terrific
stru ggle, and M u nch ausen escapes w ith his skin— he ta k ­
in g the lion ’s skin instead!
Incredible as this crocodile story o f the B aron ’s m ay
seem to the u nenlightened, w e have in A m e ric a stories just
as th rillin g, w h ich , alth ough th ey m a y be rejected and
scoffed at b y the u n in fo rm ed , are nevertheless believed b y
enlightened I A M -e r s w h o read and re-read G o d fre R a y
K in g ’s am azin g books.
Perhaps the m ost th rilling o f the tales in G o d fr e ’s first
b ook is the one in w h ich he tells h o w he g o t b ack in to his
em b alm ed b o d y o f seventy thousand years ago!
T h is b od y had been m iracu lously preserved all those
seven hundred centuries, b u t instead o f it h avin g the cada­
veric appearance o f a m u m m ified Ram eses II, it had re­
tained all its original state o f y o u th and b eau ty, look ing
m ost lifelike w ith its lo n g "w a v y golden hair” and dressed
in a "g o ld e n fa b ric ” o f m arvelous beauty.
In this b o d y , w h ich had all the y o u th fu l appearance o f
a golden -h aired A p o llo , the then fif t y -t w o year old G o d fre
fu n c tio n e d fo r an hour or so, u ntil the clock stru ck tw elve
at the Palace o f the M asters, at w h ich tim e, like Cinderella
o f the fa iry tales, he slipped back in to his old garm ents o f
flesh, to becom e once again the m ost fam ou s o f tw e n tie th -
ce n tu ry o ccu lt adventurers and story tellers.
T h is m id n igh t cadaveric experience o f G o d fre R a y
K in g w as n o t quite so gh ostly as one w o u ld th in k . It was
really a gala even t n ot o n ly fo r G o d fre b u t fo r the entire
R a y K in g fa m ily . E dna L otu s R a y K in g and E dona Eros
R a y K in g (th en a b oy o f tw e lv e ) arrive also fo r the even t.
A n d n o t to be outdone b y G o d fre , th ey have b eau tifu lly
em b alm ed bodies o f their o w n , w h ich th ey succeed in rais-
89
V oyages of a M odern Sindbad
ing from their "crystal caskets” after 70,000 years of sleep.
Then the three Kings walk around admiring and compli­
menting one another, (p. 249, u. M . )
In such matters as these, there is certainly safety and
security in numbers, as those of us well know, who, in the
old days, walked through the churchyard cemetery on a
dark night with the ancestral dead all about us. Still, as a
conscientious reviewer, we would not advise some of God-
fre’s tales as strictly bedtime stories for children.
The Magic Presence is a continuation of Godfre’s mar­
velous experiences. It starts with his visit to the Diamond
K Ranch in Wyoming, and from then on he makes almost
as many voyages as did Sindbad the Sailor, eventually land­
ing in far-away India, where he brings to life the old
Arabian Nights Entertainment tale of " The Magic
Carpet.”
Actually— literally and corporeally— he gets on one
with his two physical feet, which he describes as a "gor­
geous Persian silk rug of a most wonderful golden yellow.”
And away he flies, off into the Himalayan stratosphere
on a non-stop, no-gasoline flight, just as easily as you please,
and comes down without mishap from "eleven thousand
feet above the palace!” (p. 381, M . p . )
Having had considerable experience in sailing off the
side of Mt. Shasta on Saint Germain’s power and landing
in his lodge at the foot of the mountain, as well as sailing
off Himalayan mountain tops on "Magic Carpets” to the
ambient air above, he was offered the opportunity while in
India of making one last voyage.
In other words, the opportunity of making his "Ascen­
sion”— soaring off physically and permanently into the
"Seventh Octave of Light,” thereby becoming an
"Ascended Master.”
But, as we have seen, he decided against it, saying that
his "I AM ” wanted him to come back to the world and
serve.
9 0 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
A n d so G o d fre cam e b ack to A m e ric a again, b u t rides
n o longer u p on m agic carpets. A las, in this m u nd ane o c c i­
dental land the nearest th in g to a m a g ic carpet is a trans­
con tin en tal airline plane, b u t m ost o f the tim e it is the gas
and steam car fo r this m ost fam ou s o f w orld travelers.
It is seldom th at a w eaver o f fan tastic yarns gets aw ay
w ith so m u c h tru e -sto ry acclaim as has G o d fre R a y K in g .
Y e t , there have been som e historic exam ples o f this k in d o f
th in g, and each age seems to have th em . T h e people o f
one generation revolt at learning the lessons o f the p reced­
in g generation, and m u st, it seems, experience the w hole
th in g over again.
A s an exam p le o f this, w e shall quote one fr o m the
past, w h ich , in a sense, m a y rem ind us o f the am azin g ad­
ventures o f G o d fre R a y K in g .
Just at the tail-end of the 19th century, the famous
traveler and adventurer, Lords de Rougemont, appeared
in London fresh from the cannibalistic wilds of Australia.
He astounded the scientific circles of that day by his
erudite knowledge of aboriginal life, for he had actually
lived for thirty years among the savages of the Australian
bush, and had in fact become their cannibal chief. H ow ­
ever, making his escape, he presented himself before cer­
tain scientific societies and made the acquaintance of the
editor of a British journal, all of whom listened with at­
tentive ear to his adventures.
The Wide World Magazine of August, 1898, wrote up
the story, which was described as "the most amazing story
a man ever lived to tell.” As a result, they received "shoals
of letters” daily asking whether the adventurer would "af­
ford the British public an opportunity of seeing him in
the flesh.”
M ean w h ile, letters had been p ou rin g in to the British
paper, the Daily Chronicle, v oicin g a rising skepticism .
B u t M . de R o u g e m o n t answ ered his critics w ith the cer­
tain co n v iction gained th rough his th irty years experiences
V o y a g e s o f a M o d e r n S i n d b a d 9 1
among the cannibals, and at his public lectures denounced
his detractors in no uncertain terms.
The sequel to this amazing story of the adventures of
Louis de Rougemont in the wilds of Australia will now,
with regret, have to be given. We quote directly, in part,
from its sad ending, as published by Frederick A. Stokes
Company in their book, " S o b e r T r u t h — A Collection of
Nineteenth-century Episodes, Fantastic, Grotesque and
Mysterious,” compiled and edited by Margaret Barton and
Osbert Sitwell:
"Then the Daily Chronicle, after having made exhaus­
tive enquiries, published what it claimed (and proved) to
be the true story of de Rougemont’s life. Alas, he had
never been a cannibal chief, for the loftiest position he
had ever occupied was that of butler to a Lady Robinson
in Australia . . . In the spring of 1898 he landed in this
country [England], and, after spending some weeks in
the reading room of the British Museum, studying, no
doubt, books of travel and adventure, presented himself
to the Editor of the Wide World Magazine as 'Louis de
Rougemont,’ the cannibal chief. He was received with
open arms, and for a brief space enjoyed fame and pros­
perity as a nineteenth-century Robinson Crusoe. After his
exposure, he fled to Suchy, and oblivion descended on him
from the day he was seen there, sitting in a cafe, apparent­
ly wrapped in gloomy contemplation.”
It is to be expected from what is known of human na­
ture that as the twentieth century fades into oblivion and
a new century dawns, we shall still have adventurers and
narrators such as Godfre Ray King, Louis de Rougemont,
Munchausen, et al, telling strange and amazing stories of
their adventures into the Land oL Make-Believe.
Is it too much to hope, however, that the public of that
day will be better able to discern fact from fiction than
has apparently the large number of people who have lived
in the preceding and present centuries?
C H A P T E R 12
THE COMTE de ST. GERMAIN— HISTORICAL
AND OTHERWISE
W e com e n o w to a consideration o f odd fa c t and
fa n c y , w h ich w ill show to w h at exten t the h u m a n m in d
loves the m ysteriousness th at o ften tim es enshrouds itself
over the lives o f notable characters.
H u m a n traits are fo rg o tte n in all this m ysteriousness,
and such individuals are m ade the synthesis o f all th at is
strange, odd , fa n tastic, incredible, and m iracu lous. Far
rem oved fr o m the standpoint o f tim e and perhaps o f place,
m an k in d looks back u p on th em and m akes o f th em , gods,
heroes, and saints.
It is w ith such a th ou g h t as this th at w e can , perhaps,
best in trodu ce th at enigm atical character o f the 18 th cen ­
tu ry k n o w n as the C o m te de St. G erm ain .
E ncyclopasdic w riters are decidedly less app rovin g o f
the C o u n t th an are novelists and occultists. W e have
therefore tw o versions or interpretations o f this rem ark ­
able m a n . O n e o f the encyclopaedists refers to h im as "t h e
m o st celebrated m y stic adventurer o f m od ern tim es.” A n ­
other calls h im a "c h a r la ta n ,” a "d e c e iv e r,” an "e x t r a ­
ord inary im p o sto r.”
B u t occultists and rom ancers alm ost w ith o u t exception
call h im an "a d e p t,” a "tra n scen d en tal m agician ,” a "M e s ­
senger o f the G reat W h ite L o d g e ,” and so on— depending
u p o n the shade and character o f belief residing in the
w riter.
O n e o f the o ccu lt w riters on the subject p oints o u t
th at "w e m u st cast aside the theories th at M . de St. G e r ­
m ain was a homeless and penniless adventurer, seeking to
93
T he Comte de Saint Germain
make money out of any kindly disposed person.” (The
Comte de St. Germain, p. 15, by I. Cooper-Oakley.)
"N o obscure adventurer is this,” says this writer, "but
a man of princely blood and almost royal descent.”
The Count St. Germain is reputed by some authorities
to have been one of the sons of Prince Franz-Leopold
Ragoczy of Transylvania, who had received land grants
from Louis XV. If this be so, then the Count had wealth
and title in his own right. Opinions, however, differ as to
his parentage. And as to his name, there were many that
he went by, the "Comte de St. Germain” being but one of
a dozen or more.
This fact has been used, says Mrs. Cooper-Oakley, to
militate against his honesty and integrity. She points out
that this was the practice among persons of rank and title
in that day to escape vulgar curiosity. It was no doubt
done also for political reasons, his own inherited name
from the Ragoczy line being politically dangerous.
The present-day exhibitors of the Count, the two Bal-
lards, have for their own purposes brought him out of
rusty encyclopsedias and occult tomes, and have popular­
ized his name among millions. They ignore, however, his
other cognomens, titles, and prefixes and give him a name
of their own— "The Ascended Master Saint Germain.”
They emphasize the "Saint” part of the name by spelling
it always out in full, instead of its accustomed abbreviated
form.
This has served to make some think he was canonized
by the Roman Church, when of course he wasn’t at all,
the name "St. Germain” being but a family name. We
have used generally the Ballard way of spelling out the
name, especially when we refer to Ballards’ man Friday
instead of to the real and historic Comte de St. Germain.
Whatever we may think of this man as an "adventur­
er,” a "charlatan,” a "deceiver,” we shall nevertheless have
to concede that here was a man of some real genius. Even
94 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
the encyclopaedias w h o refer to h im as a charlatan, at the
same tim e speak o f h im as learned in m a n y o f the arts and
sciences o f th at day. T h e y say he k n e w m a n y languages;
th at he spoke, flu en tly, G erm a n , English, Italian, F ren ch ,
P ortuguese, and Spanish; that his d iction and gram m ar
w ere flawless. (L e t the Ballard Saint G erm ain take n o tic e !)
H e was an accom plished m usician, and could p lay the
piano d ivin ely, as w ell as being m ore than a dabbler in oils.
H e was an unusual chem ist fo r those tim es, and sough t to
tran sm ute the baser m etals in to g old , w h ich was the end
o f the ch em ist’s art o f th at period. It w as even claim ed
th at he had som e success in th at direction, as w ell as p ro ­
d u cin g the greatest alchem ical fe a t o f all, the "P h ilo so ­
pher’s S ton e.”
H e seems alw ays to have been w ell supplied w ith
m o n ey , and displayed to his friends and intim ates m a n y
diam onds and precious stones. R e m o v in g flaw s fr o m dia­
m ond s appears to have been his special h o b b y , along w ith
his predilection fo r w earing diam onds in his shoe buckles.
Perhaps, th ou g h , that was the th in g to do in those days,
just as o n ly a fe w years ago it was the fashion fo r the w e ll-
dressed m an to w ear a p in in his n ecktie.
T h e C o u n t was a sto ry -teller o f n ote, b u t th at he at
tim es w en t over to the im agin ative and fa n c ifu l is d o u b t­
lessly true. H e claim ed to have been on in tim ate term s
w ith the Q u e e n o f Sheba, S olom on , Paracelsus, and a fe w
other notables, even goin g back as far as the traditional
M elch ized ek , K in g o f Salem and Priest o f the M o st H ig h
G o d w h o m et A b ra h a m in the valley o f Shaveh.
H is m e m o ry seems a little lon g fo r this present age,
b u t w h o can say h ow fa r w e shall be able to go back in to
the past som e day b y strictly scientific m eans?
T h e b elief in these things, and the possibility o f th em ,
is taken advantage o f b y the charlatan and the sto ry ­
teller. W e hope the entertaining C o u n t was able to go
b ack that fa r, b u t it is w ell to be just a little skeptical
T h e C o m t e d e S a i n t G e r m a i n 9 5
about such things w h en w e still have a fe w m odern M u n c h -
ausens and Sindbads in the w orld .
Louis X V o f France had an especial fondness fo r the
C o m te St. G erm ain . H e fitted up an apartm en t fo r h im
at his royal C hateau o f C h a m b ord , and assigned h im a
w in g in his palace fo r a ch em ical laboratory. T h e C o u n t
was a frien d and adviser to m a n y notables o f th at day,
in clu din g Prince K arl o f H esse, the ill-fa te d M arie A n t o i­
n ette, and it seems, also to C atherine the G reat o f Russia.
It appears th at he had m a n y missions in to foreign lands,
and som e believe he was an international spy. i f he was
an adventurer and n oth in g m ore, it is seldom th at such a
character continues to have the patronage o f kings and
princes fo r so lon g a tim e as did the C o u n t. H is n am e was
a b y w o rd , w ell spoken, on the con tin en t and in E n glan d .
B u t he had his enem ies, too. Carlisle w asn ’t fo n d o f his
p o p u la rity ; C asanova said he was a sim ple im p o sto r; and
V oltaire spoke rather c o n tem p tu o u sly o f h im , rem arkin g:
" H e is a m an w h o never dies, and w h o k now s ev ery th in g .”
B y his political enemies he was considered a dangerous
character, and orders one tim e w ere issued fo r h im to be
bou n d hand and fo o t and taken to the Bastille. H e , h o w ­
ever, escaped to E n glan d . So it was— and is tod ay— n o t
altogether an easy task to live the life o f a "M y s te r y M a n .”
T h e C o m te de St. G erm ain is said to have dressed w ith
b ecom in g taste— sn u ff-b o x , w a tc h , jew els, buckles, and all.
T h e finest diam onds flashed fr o m his person. T h e ladies
o f th at d ay w ere p articu larly fo n d o f h im , as can be
im agined, b u t n o scandal attached to his n am e. H e gave
th em cosm etics and an elixir to keep age aw ay, and that
seemed to suffice.
H is m anners w ere elegant, his hair b lack, and his eyes
so ft and penetrating. H e alw ays dressed in black satin,
w h ich fa c t goes a little co n tra ry to the Ballard picture o f
"S a in t G erm ain ” dressed in w h ite, or som etim es w earing
a p urp le cape. T h e Ballard "S a in t G erm ain ” hates b lack,
96 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
but the 18th-century one wore it constantly.
An original portrait of the Count, by Thomas, is in
the Louvre, dated 1783, and inscribed: "M arquis Saint
Germain der ¥ underm ann.” This shows him to be a
clean-shaven man with a white wig, dressed in black velvet
with white vest and ruffles.
It looks no more like the portrait of the Ballard Saint
Germain, as painted by Charles Sindelar, than a smooth-
shaven man would look beside the bearded George Bernard
Shaw.
And neither of these two pictures look anything like
the first portrait of Saint Germain which appeared origin­
ally in the Ballard books. So we have the spectacle of three
totally different-appearing St. Germains. The reader can
take his choice from the lot. The writer chooses the Louvre
exhibit as being slightly more authentic, and the wig a
trifle more judicial, than the two others.
The Count traveled much— but did not, it seems, use
the astral streamlined method such as he is supposed to use
today. The boat and coach were good enough.
In various countries he assumed different names, usual­
ly names of rank and nobility, but always appeared to be
a man of about fifty years. Quite appropriately, it seems,
this “ Mystery Man” claimed descent from the Ragoczy
line in Transylvania, for Transylvania is said by some oc­
cultists to be one of the most mysterious countries in the
world— but certainly, today, has its troubles with the land­
grabbing rulers of Europe and Asia. The mighty (?)
Ballard Saint Germain should prevent this parceling out of
his ancestral home.
As to the Count’s death there are, as usual, conflicting
stories. The Ballards say he never died, which belief has
no doubt been based on statements made by some occult
writers who make extraordinary claims as to his longevity.
If a manuscript attributed to him, The Most Holy
Trinosophia, can be literally believed, his life ended by
97
T he Comte de Saint Germain
con fin em en t in one o f the dungeons o f the Inquisition at
R o m e . A n d if he w as a m em b er o f the secret fratern ity
k n o w n as the Illu m in ati, as som e believe, this kind o f death
seems plausible, fo r m a n y o f th at Society w ere killed b y
the Inquisition. O ccu ltists, h ow ever, are inclined to in ­
terpret this M S . sym bolically.
A church register at Eckernforde indicates that he died
in 1784. This is doubted by many, but the encyclopaedias
give credence to it and record that year as the time of his
death. The register reads as follows:
"Deceased on February 27th, buried on March 2nd,
1784, the so-called Comte de St. Germain and Weldon—
further information not known— privately deposited in
this church.”
But like the "Wandering Jew” the Comte de St. Ger­
main is still traditionally thought to be in existence. By
some he is supposed to be existing and working as the
invisible power behind the throne in some of the nations
of the world. Even after his recorded death in 1784, he is
thought to have done certain work among secret societies
and Masonic orders. He is supposed to have been one of
the representatives of the French Masons at their conven­
tion at Paris in 1785, and to have done certain work pre­
ceding the French Revolution of 1789. Thus in death as
well as in life and birth, the same mystery about this man
still eludes and baffles investigators.
T here is a ten d en cy fo r persons to let their im agination
and fa n c y run riot in their efforts to m ake a greater m y s­
tery o u t o f this m an than the facts ju stify . Som e say he
w as R asp u tin , the "M a d M o n k o f R ussia,” w h o is su p ­
posed to have b rou gh t about the d ow n fall o f the reign o f
the C zars, just as he is said to have had som ething to do
w ith seeking to preven t or to encourage the F rench R e v o ­
lu tion . B y still others he is th ou g h t to have had a previous
existence as C hristian R osen kreu z, w h o fou n d ed certain
o f the R osicru cian societies and secret orders d uring the
98 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
M id d le A g es. A n d so on— w ith consistent m ysteriousness.
T h a t equally m ysterious personage, the Russian n ob le­
w o m a n , M ad am e H elen a P etrovna B lavatsk y, w h o fo u n d ­
ed th e T heosophical S ociety, calls h im "t h e greatest O rie n ­
tal A d e p t E urope has seen d uring the last centuries.”
(Theosophical Glossary)
H e r o ccu lt brother and co -w o rk e r, C o l. H e n r y S. O l -
c o tt, considered h im " a m essenger and agent o f the W h ite
L o d g e ,” using this te rm to m ean "t h a t B rotherhood o f
A d e p ts w h o stay b ack o f the scenes and m anipulate w orld
affairs th rou gh agents fo r the good o f h u m a n ity .”
L ord B u lw e r -L y tto n , it is stated, w ro te his fam ou s
o c c u lt n ovel, "Z a n o n i,” around the character o f C o m te de
St. G erm ain , and con n ected h im w ith the F rench R e v o lu ­
tion . O th e r w riters have done likewise.
M a n ly P. H a ll, o f Los A n geles, and M rs. C o o p e r -O a k -
ley, o f L on d on , have b oth done considerable research in
con n ection w ith C o m te de St. G erm ain , to w hose w orks
the interested reader is referred fo r additional in form ation .
H a ll states th at over this character "h a n g s the veil o f im ­
penetrable m y ste ry .”
M rs. C o o p e r-O a k le y show s th at he was an associate and
frien d o f F ran z A n to n M esm er, and th at th ey studied
anim al m agn etism together. She quotes an A u strian w riter
as saying:
" I n the M ason ic and R osicru cian literature one o fte n
finds hints as to the relations o f St. G erm ain to the secret
societies o f A u stria . . . H e was addicted to alch em y, be­
lieved in universal m edicine and m ade studies as to anim al
m agnetism . . . H e belongs to the picture o f 'O ld V ie n n a ’
w ith its social m ysteriousness; w here it was sw arm in g w ith
R osicrucians, A siatics, Illum inates, A lch em ists, M a g n e to ­
paths, T h a u m atu rg s, T em p lars, w h o all o f th em had m a n y
and w illin g adherents.
" D r . M esm er w h o k n e w the C o m te St. G erm ain w ell
fr o m his stay in Paris, requested h im to com e to V ienn a
99
T he Comte de Saint Germain
in order that he might pursue his study of animal magnet­
ism with him. St. Germain stayed secretly here . . . Dr.
Mesmer was much helped by the Count . . . In Vienna St.
Germain came in touch with many mystagogues. He visit­
ed the famous laboratory of the Rosicrucians in the Land-
strasse . . . where he instructed for some time his brethren
in the sciences of Solomon. The Landstrasse, situated on
the outskirts of Vienna, was for many centuries a region
of spooks . . . The arrival of the Count (in 1735) created
a great sensation in the initiated circles.” (The Comte de
St. Germain, by Mrs. Cooper-Oakley— pp. 157-9.)
Perhaps the real truth about this man lies between two
extremes. Considering the superstition of that day, the
wise and cautious student will be inclined to discount the
so-called magic of Comte de St. Germain’s work. He was
undoubtedly learned and clever far beyond even the en­
lightened of that period. Perhaps even, he took advantage
of the credulity and ignorance of the age. It is conceivable
that he even got a certain enjoyment out of telling mys­
terious tales, such as living at the time of Christ, possess­
ing the wand of Moses, and having been on speaking terms
with Melchizedek and other traditional characters— if we
can believe the stories told of him. The Baron Munchausen
type of mind is not confined to any age.
It is, however, most likely the Count was playing a
certain part, for what exact purpose we know not. The
people of that age wanted mystery and marvels, as they do
today. Perhaps he fed them what they wanted in the way
of wonders in order to achieve certain political ends. It is
on this basis, no doubt, that we can most intelligently judge
the work of the Comte de St. Germain, "Mystery Man” of
the 18th century.
CHAPTER 13
THE BARD OF AVON GOES " I AM”
' /
Shakespeare, the world’s most illustrious author, in his
latter celestial days, according to reports, has turned to the
"Mighty I A M ” for solace and comfort and has gotten sort
of childish in his English.
The Bard who in his prime turned out from his gi­
gantic literary mill the most astounding array of comedies,
tragedies, and histories the world has ever seen, has, in these
latter days, come solidly over to the Ballard banner and has
published a book!
Formerly the most choice and creative in his use of
words of any writer in the post-antediluvian world, he
now confines himself to making simple and inane speeches
over the "Light and Sound Ray,” dotting the cosmic land­
scape with an over-use of such salutations as "Dear
Hearts,” "Beloved Ones,” "Precious Students,” and similar
endearments to his happy family of I AM-ers. He has
lost that extraordinary command of the English tongue
which was undeniably his, turns frequently to American
colloquialisms and slang, and is unbelievably careless in his
efforts to get over to his "Beloved Students of Long Ago”
the present aberrations of a former gigantic intellect.
The greatest of men, it seems, whether American, Eng­
lish, or Polynesian, have their weak moments when they go
senile or from the other side of life try to speak to the
children of earth. And if this effort at spirit communica­
tion be true in the use of the old-fashioned planchette or
its modern revival, the Ouija board, what may we expect
of the streamlined "Light and Sound Ray” ?
T he Bard of A von Goes "I AM ” 101
It seems that the Ballards have communicated with the
author of the Shakespearean plays over their marvelous
Light and Sound Ray, and have revealed most startling
information. In the most sober truth and in the most ap­
proved Munchausen fashion, they tell us that the author
of the Shakespearean plays is none other than their own
garrulous "Saint Germain” !
And herein lies another story just as marvelous, for
evidently accepting the rather discredited idea that Lord
Frances Bacon was the real author of the Shakespearean
literature, they tell us in the same breath that Bacon was,
and is, also their "Saint Germain” !
A search through the literature put out under the
names of Shakespeare and Bacon, however, reveals no par­
ticular fondness in either case for the "Mighty I AM ” of
the Ballards. In fact, in neither case does it seem that the
"I AM ” has been mentioned at all— which seems strange
considering "Saint Germain’s” present ardor for the "I
AM .” If Saint Germain was Bacon, and he wrote the
Shakespearean plays, why no mention of the "I AM ” in
the Baconian and Shakespearean literature? Why did Saint
Germain at that time hide his "I AM ” under a bushel,
only to have it peep out in all its effulgence under the
present dynasty of the Ballards?
The whole weird story of the strange reincarnations
of "Saint Germain” is told in the Ballard article on that
gentleman published on pages 5 to 9 of the March, 1936,
Voice of the I AM, and therefore is strictly and unquali­
fiedly authentic to the last word.
In this article there is an earnest but considerably
strained effort to link the name of William Shakespeare in
some way with their "I AM.” They say:
"The name, William Shakespeare, under which He
wrote the plays, signifies that it was the Will of the I AM
that He shake the Spear of Wisdom at the darkness of
ignorance . . . ” (p. 6.)
m\'M J l hfL >
I / V? V *
1 0 2 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
One may have to re-read this play on words to catch
the point. We wonder if all folks who have William as
their name are for the same reason "I AM-ers” ? All they
have to do to become so is to capitalize the "iam” which
follows the "W ill” part of the name— and it is done!
Yet the Ballards condemn the numerologists for doing
capers with names and numbers!
Complicating the history of "Saint Germain” and Ba­
con still more, we read in the aforementioned article the
following amazing statement:
"His [Saint Germain’s] last embodiment was that of
Lord Francis Bacon, who was the son of Queen Elizabeth
by her husband, Lord Leister . . .” / (p. 5.)
Most odd when we remember that England’s virgin
Queen never had a husband— at least none that history
records.
Also, Bacon, it seems, was the perfectly good son of Sir
Nicholas Bacon and his legally-wed wife. And there was
no "Lord Leister.” Perhaps the Ballards referred to the
court favorite, Lord Leicester, who also had a spouse.
That, unfortunately, isn’t all of the affair. Mixing
history and invention still further, we read:
"Saint Germain illumined and raised His body in 1684
. . . ” (p.7.)
Now, history records that Bacon died in 1626. There­
fore, if "Saint Germain” as "Bacon,” raised his body in
1684, he made his "Ascension” fifty-eight years after his
recorded death!
In other words, "Saint Germain,” miracle man that he
is, "raised” his body from the grave after it had lain there
in its dust and whitened bones for a half century and
more!
Just another "I AM ” miracle. Which brings up the
startling thought that there is now a chance for the great
grandparents of devoted I AM-ers to make their "Ascen­
sions”— even though dead and buried for a century or so!
T he Bard of A von Goes "I A M ” 103
But going back still further into history, we discover
further news about this remarkable "Saint Germain,” news
that should be of particular interest to Bible students.
We learn that this odd and quick-change character was
also the 'Prophet Samuel— he it was who sent a thunder­
storm against the Philistines and saved the day for the be­
sieged Israelites. That, indeed, does in fact sound like the
heroic Saint Germain. He has always been apt at throw­
ing the "lightning” and that sort of thing.
But it is not recorded that Samuel knew anything about
the "I AM ” which seems odd, considering the fact that he
today (as "Saint Germain” ) , talks constantly about it.
Besides, Samuel got old, which the ever-youthful "Saint
Germain” is surely not supposed to do. For according to
the Bible, after Samuel was dead, the Witch of Endor at
the earnest entreaty of King Saul, brought him forth as a
ghost from the realm of departed spirits. And Samuel
came forth as an "ok/ man . . . covered with a robe,” and
prophesied. (I Sam. 28:14.)
That "old man” was the formerly youthful "'Master
Saint Germain,” who 70,000 years ago was "King of the
Sahara Desert,” the one who "looked like a God” in his
"golden hair that hung to his shoulders.” (p. 131, u. M.)
Such, it seems, are the rigors of Time, which "Masters”
as well as men cannot remove or affect.
But this composite Saint Germain-Bacon-Shakespeare-
Samuel-King-of-the-Sahara character has still further
destiny to fulfill, even though a somewhat symbolic and
static one. He is in addition to all this none other than
our own revered “ Uncle Sam” ! He is called that, says
Mrs. Ballard, because "Saint”Germain” is in charge of
America and was the Prophet SAM-uel!
Just how the "Uncle” part has come in, she never has
said. But as the I AM-ers have their "Daddy” and "Mam­
ma” Ballard— why not an “ Uncle” Saint Germain!
It must be evident from all of this that the Comte de
104 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
St. Germain of the 18th century cannot on any basis of
fact and reason be the strange, pieced-together creation
which the Ballards call their "Ascended Master Saint
Germain.”
If, as they admit, the Comte de St. Germain of the
18th century was an " Ascended Master” when he lived in
the apartment at the chateau provided for him by Louis
X V and talked to a multitude of different people and did
all the other physical things attributed to him— why
doesn’t he do similar physical things today? W hy doesn’t
he show himself to other human beings besides members of
the Ballard family?
No, he does none of these things. He hides out in so-
called mystic retreats, where no one can see him. He takes
astral excursions instead of the ferry or coach. He visits
only the Ballards, coming in through the wall or window
of their hotel room, and goes out perhaps by the roof. He
hovers over the Ballards on the platform like a wraith, and
speaks the most inane things, far different than he spoke
when he was just an #7Z-Ascended being— Lord Bacon—
and assertedly wrote the plays of William Shakespeare!
If the Ballard "Ascension” can do that much for a
scholar and a great man, what might not it do for us?
We shall have to, therefore, on the clear basis of reason,
separate the historical Comte de St. Germain from the
Ballard creation of that name, and we have nothing left
then but a phantasmagoria of the Ballard mind, or, if you
believe in such things, a spook or an astral wraith.
Yet, this wraith, spook, phantom, thought-image, or
whatever you want to call it, functions as a "PSYCHIC
DICTATOR” over the minds and actions of hundreds of
thousands of otherwise good and patriotic Americans!
It (or he) tells them what to eat, what to wear, and
what not to. It flatters them on occasions, and threatens
them generally all the time. It tells them when they can
"Ascend” and when they can’t. It tells them what
T he Bard of A von Goes "I A M ” 105
"Friends” to place at the seat of the United States Govern­
ment, and what will happen to some already there.
It is the strangest sort of dictatorship extant in a
world already encompassed with odd dictatorships. It is
a dictatorship which is not backed by a police force or
army, or by a physical-plane Hitler, Stalin, or Mussolini,
but by the psychically-armed might of the Ballard legions
of "Ascended Masters” that are pledged to sweep America
and the earth.
And their people believe it— and have for five years!
CHAPTER 14
DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE OF PLAGIARISM
Whence have come all of Guy Ballard’s fantastic voy­
ages to foreign lands, his hobnobbing with mighty "Mas­
ters” in caves and retreats? Did he get them out of his
own fertile imagination as legitimate story writers do, or
did he, perforce, get them from the literary creations of
others? Or did somebody else write them for him?
To begin with, it may be said there is always a certain
amount of unconscious appropriating. Authors are amazed
and chagrined sometimes to discover that they have un­
intentionally used words, expressions, and even incidents
which they thought were original with them but which
came from the works of other authors. If any author does
that, the other may charitably forgive, for he knows not
when he himself may fall into such a ditch.
Then there is the legitimate making use of another’s
work, by giving due credit to the one from whom the
author borrows. And here again most authors are usually
generous, providing too much is not taken so as to devalue
their own work.
Lastly, there is the direct steal from a book, putting it
out as the author’s own. That is dyed-in-the-wool plagiar­
ism, a literary crime of the first water.
In the first division, Ballard or his collaborator may
have unconsciously used some ideas from others, and for
this they may be forgiven. In the second division, they
are manifestly not the type of authors who would ac­
knowledge using the works of another.
Are they then guilty of this last and most flagrant
D ocumentary Evidence of Plagiarism 107
literary crime— the consciously planned, premeditated steal
from somebody else? In other words, have they plagiar­
ized?
We submit the following evidence to literary critics,
to copyright attorneys, and to Ballard students who be­
lieve that Godfre Ray King’s experiences are really his own
and his teachings from “ Ascended Masters.”
In a book entitled A Dweller on Two Planets, pub­
lished by the Poseid Publishing Co., Los Angeles, there is
an account of an experience almost identical with that
which has been later recorded by Godfre Ray King in his
book Unveiled Mysteries.
Phylos, the hero of the first book, meets his "Master”
on a mountain in California, just as Godfre does. And
Phylos and his Master visit together a marvelous retreat,
as do Godfre and his Master. Both retreats are hollowed
out of the solid rock of a mountain. Quong is the name
of Phylos’ teacher, and his retreat is at Mt. Shasta, Cali­
fornia. Saint Germain’s retreat is at Grand Teton moun­
tain in Wyoming.
Now, note the deadly parallelism in the two columns
given below:
COMPARE THE TWO ACCOUNTS
PHYLOS, THE THIBETAN
Time: 1894
Place: A cave in a mountain,
M t. Shasta, Calif.
Incident: Phylos, neophyte in
the Mysteries, visits
an occult retreat with
his "Master.”
. . . We halted in front of a
HUGE ledge of basaltic
rocks . . . (p. 270)
The ledge was broken and
twisted AS IF
BALLARD, THE MESSENGER
Time: 1930
Place: A cave in a mountain,
Grand T eton , 'W yom ing.
Incident: Ballard, neophyte in
the Mysteries, visits
an occult retreat with
his "Ascended Master.”
Going to a point where
HUGE masses of
stone . . . (p. 76)
. . . Masses of stone lay in
confusion, AS IF
108 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
by some rending
convulsion, (p. 270)
Against the cliff rested a
G IAN T block . . .
(p. 270)
. . . He [Quong] TOUCHED
the enormous quadrangular
block, (p. 271)
Im m ediately it
TIPPED on edge . . . (p. 271)
He SWUNG back the
door-stone . . . (p. 272)
He . . . STEPPED within the
tunnel . . . I followed, (p. 272)
. . . The passage
LED into the mountain.
(p. 273)
After going about
T W O HUNDRED FEET . . .
(p. 273)
. . . W e came to a DOOR made
apparently of BRONZE . . .
(p. 273)
This door gave entrance to a
large CIRCULAR CHAMBER..
(p. 273)
With DOMELIKE CEILING
ten or a dozen fe e t high at
its junction with the wall
(p. 273)
. . . All about me shone a
marvelous W HITE LIGH T . . .
The same wonderful illumina­
tion was omnipresent. . .
(p. 273)
giants had hurled them in a
■war upon each other, (p. 7 6 )
. . . As if
GIANTS had hurled them . . .
(p. 7 6 )
. . . Saint Germain TOUCHED
a great boulder.
(p. 7 6 )
Instantly, the enormous mass
TIPPED OUT . . . (p. 76)
The great mass of bronze . . .
SWUNG slowly open. . . (p.76)
He STEPPED forward . . .
admitted us. (p. 7 6 )
. . . A stairway cut in the
solid rock LED downward.
(p. 7 6 )
We descended some
T W O HUNDRED FEET . . .
(p. 7 6 )
. . . We . . . stood before a
large BRONZE DOOR.
(p. 7 6 )
We . . . entered another
SPACE CIRCULAR in shape,
(p. 7 6 )
The ARCHED CEILING risin
g
som e ten feet higher than
the side-w
alls . . .
(p. 82)
A soft W HITE LIGHT, which
Saint Germain explained
was an omnipresent force . . .
flooded the entire place.
(p. 81)
Compare the italics, capitals, and bold-face type in one
column with those in the other. Can anything be more
revealing than the real source of Ballard’s alleged "true”
experiences with Saint Germain at the retreat in the Grand
Teton mountain?
D ocumentary Evidence of Plagiarism 109
Forty-six years apart in time, a thousand miles apart
in space— yet the same incident told virtually in the same
words and phraseology, or with synonyms that mean
practically the same thing!
Literary critics, copyright experts, and even their poor
duped followers must agree that if this be coincidence,
then Ballard is the most coincidental person on the face of
the earth. The fact-finding Ripley ought to put it in his
"Believe-It-or-Not” column.
What is one to think of a man who swears on the plat­
form by all that is holy, that every word in "those blessed
books” is true? A man who says over and over again that
his books represent actually his own personal experiences?
The parallelism given here is no rare and isolated evi­
dence of Ballard plagiarism. Such a thing occurs fre­
quently in their first two books. We have space only for
a few additional examples.
Does not the one given below show even the possible
source of the Ballard "Saint Germain” ?
Back in 1894 Will L. Garver’s book, entitled The
Brother of the Third Degree, came forth as one of the
popular occult novels of the day. In it the mysterious
Comte de St. Germain was featured, just as he was later
featured in the Ballard books.
In the Garver book the Comte de St. Germain is rep­
resented as having powerful political influence, secretly
working with Napoleon I., Emperor of France, to bring
about a United States of Europe. The hero of the story,
Alphonso, is a " government agent.”
In the Ballard book, of course, the Comte de St. Ger­
main is likewise pictured as having powerful political in­
fluence, but is working mainly with the United States of
America instead of Europe. The hero, Godfre Ray King
(Guy Ballard), is represented as being on " government
business.”
Compare now how the heroes of both stories describe
1 1 0 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
their contacts with the same Comte de St. Germain. Note
how both travel astrally with him:
THE GARVER BOOK
He [St. Germain] was tall
and sparely built, with
long GOLDEN H A IR and a
light curly, chestnut beard.
(p. 290)
His eyes were BLUE and shone
with a fiery luster . . .
Face not marked b y a
single wrinkle . . .
(p. 290)
Suddenly a VOICE commanded
me to COME with him . . .
(p. 353)
Without question or even
surprise, I OBEYED, and
felt myself going through
SPACE with the rapidity of
thought, (p. 353)
THE BALLARD BOOK
. . . Saint Germain stood
before us . . . His beautiful
GOLDEN H AIR hung to his
shoulders.
(p. 151)
The piercing, sparkling VIOLET
of his eyes . . .
H is features w ere v ery
regular . . .
(p. 151)
. . . I heard his VOICE say
distinctly: "COM E!”
(p. 128)
I had learned to
OBEY that call, and . . .
passed quickly through
SPACE . . . (p. 128)
In the Garver book there are many other parallels
which could have been given, but we must pass on very
briefly to quotations from other books.
The Prince of Atlantis by Lillian Elizabeth Roy, pub­
lished by The Educational Press, New York, in 1929, con­
tains many similar scenes and incidents which later were
recorded in Ballard’s Unveiled Mysteries.
In both books there is the same "Great Luminous Be­
ing,” who comes to warn the people of an impending cata­
clysm which would strike unless the people heeded the
warning, obeyed the "Law of the One,” and recognized
their "Source.”
There is the same great conclave of people, a great
"banquet,” the wise and good "Emperor” and his "golden­
haired children,” the same division into two classes of
people, and the "Voice” of the great "Cosmic Being”
D ocumentary Evidence of Plagiarism 111
which sounds out a warning to the disobedient people tell­
ing them of the coming cataclysm.
In both books the people are given a certain time limit
in which to heed the warning— "Seven weeks” in one book,
"Seven days” in the other. But all to no avail.
The cataclysm comes, and the "wicked” perish in the
ensuing deluge. In both books the "Emperor’s children”
and the "Children of Light” miraculously escape.
The three current Ballards, as might be expected, were
the Emperor’s "golden-haired children” of that ancient
civilization of seventy thousand years ago. A great "Cos­
mic Master” came, just in time, and withdrew them into
the "Golden Etheric City of Light.”
In the occult novel, Myriam and the Mystic Brother­
hood, by Maude Lesseuer Howard, published nearly two
decades ago, there are many incidents and characters which
Ballard similarly tells about, including mystic caves which
had been "hollowed out of solid rock” of the mountain.
There are "Initiations,” golden-robed "Masters,” various
"Ascensions,” and some very young "Children of the
Light” who take part in all these mysteries.
In Baird T. Spalding’s series of books, Life and Teach­
ing of the Masters of the Far East— the first two published
over ten years before the Ballard books— we likewise find
many similarities. There is much about the "I AM ,” the
"Ascension,” messages from great "Masters,” dazzling
"Light Kays,” precipitated meals— and even gold coins
snapped right out of the atmosphere!
Edna Ballard, at some of her very early private classes
in Chicago— a few years before the publication of Un­
veiled Mysteries— read frequently from the Spalding
books. Spalding himself spent some weeks as a guest at the
Ballard home. She also read other occult literature to
this class, including, as stated before, the Pelley maga­
zines. Mr. Ballard who had secretly returned to Chicago
after his alleged experience with "Saint Germain” on Mt.
1 1 2 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
Shasta was only occasionally at these early classes and was
spoken of very mysteriously. He kept himself very much
in the background— for reasons which will in a couple of
chapters be clear.
Then after some months of reading from Pelley, Spald­
ing, and other literature, Edna Ballard began to read from
a series of so-called “ Discourses.” She was very mysterious
about them, and said she could not tell where they came
from, as she had no "permission.”
Later, however, she stated these discourses had come
direct to her and Mr. Ballard over a " Light and Sound
Kay at their home on 84th Place. They were at that time
written on thin paper and were full of corrections and
interpolations, showing that whoever was responsible for
them had changed his or her mind frequently.
These “ Discourses” were the originals which later
formed the basis for the Ballard publication, The ”1 AM”
Discourses. There is no doubt but that Edna Ballard took
the utmost liberty in freely “ editing” these discourses
which were supposed to have been given by great "Perfect
Beings” over the marvelous “ Light and Sound Ray”— al­
legedly something neiu in the history of the world.
But, alas! this “ Light and Sound Ray” is found in all
its marvelousness in Marie Corelli’s occult novel, The
Secret Power, published in 1921. Which proves again there
is nothing new under the sun— not even the Ballard “ Light
and Sound Ray” !
It would perhaps be boring to some readers to quote
in detail all the various selections from books which un­
doubtedly formed the basis for much of the Ballard work.
Those who want to investigate further along this line are
referred to the author’s series of five brochures, particular­
ly numbers 4 and 5, entitled The Source of the Ballard
'Writings and The Ballard Saint Germain. (Truth Re­
search Publications, Los Angeles.)
It is interesting and surprising to note one odd thing.
D o c u m e n t a r y E v i d e n c e o f P l a g i a r i s m 1 1 3
The first Ballard book, Unveiled Mysteries, is supposed to
be the first of a series of instructions on the "Mighty I
AM .” Yet in this book— which tells all about Ballard’s
contact with Saint Germain— there is no mention what­
ever of the "Mighty I AM .”
The " Magic Presencehowever, which was their sec­
ond book, abounds in this expression of the "Mighty I
AM .”
Now, why didn’t Saint Germain mention these "magic
words” to Ballard on Mt. Shasta in 1930 instead of waiting
two years to speak them over the marvelous "Light and
Sound Ray” in his home in Chicago?
The evidence points to the fact that Edna Ballard had
a good deal to do with injecting into the work the name
of "Mighty I AM ,” as well as being responsible for much
else in "those blessed books.”
It is reliably stated by a party who was staying at the
Ballard home that while Edna Ballard worked on the MSS.
of those marvelous "Ascended Master” books, Guy Ballard
washed and hung up clothes!
Their former Assoociate Director, who traveled with
them during part of the time that the MS. for The Magic
Presence was in preparation, writes:
"I think Mrs. Ballard did most of the work. In fact,
so far as I could see while I was with them, she was the
boss, and he did just what she told him to do. She also
was in full charge of The Magic Presence, which was in
preparation while I was with them . . . She spent much
time working on this MS. the whole time I was with
them.”
Indeed, in the early days in Chicago it is stated that
Mrs. Ballard seemed sometimes to be more conversant with
those marvelous experiences of Godfre Ray King than Guy
Ballard himself! People who attended those early classes
say that it was she who generally answered questions in
regard to those experiences. Later, however, it seems, that
114 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
he became more familiar with his own experiences and
would swear to their truth with the greatest of intensity.
We are also told by those who were in close association
with the Ballards that when they first came to Los An­
geles in the Spring of 193 5— shortly after they had gotten
off the MS. of The Magic Presence to the commercial
printers in Chicago— Mrs. Ballard had something like a
" trunk-load of books with her.”
Just why was the need for Mrs. Ballard to cart those
old books around with her? Books that had been outdated
and outmoded by the marvelous new teachings of the
Ascended Masters! Books they later advised their people
not to read!
We pass now to another little irregularity in literary
acknowledgment.
When the two Accredited Messengers of Saint Ger­
main arrived in Los Angeles on their first sweep of the
country— she with her books and he with his Arabian
Nights’ tales— they told the story of how Godfre Ray
King had visited the Ascended Masters in their secret re­
treats, had dined and talked with them, had slept in their
households, had bathed in their "circular Roman baths,”
all perfumed divinely with "scent of roses.” (p. 70, M . p.)
Then one happy day Mrs. Ballard announced to a
thrilled and expectant Los Angeles audience that on a
certain afternoon and evening they would show actual
pictures of these magnificent Beings.
The day at last arrived, and the writer was on hand to
see those marvelous pictures.
He had never seen a picture of an " Ascended” Master.
He had, however, seen pictures of regular Masters— at
least he was informed they were Masters through his
reading of theosophical and other occult literature, and
he was just a bit curious to see how an "Ascended” Master
differed from those of the regular kind.
Well, imagine his surprise when he saw staring back at
D ocumentary Evidence of Plagiarism 115
him from the stereopticon screen those same "ttra-Ascend-
ed” Masters he had seen years before in theosophical books
— but now all tinted up with dashes of water color here
and there!
He naturally listened for an acknowledgment of debt
to the Theosophical Society for the privilege of showing
these pictures; but, none came!
These great and magnificent "Ascended-Master” pic­
tures were shown time and again as their own, with no
acknowledgment whatsoever as to their real source; and
balls of "Blue Lightning” were thrown at any "vicious”
individual or organization that dared call attention to this
and other little irregularities.
In that early day, the Mighty I AM movement sprout­
ed so rapidly that its Accredited Messengers had to present
much that was secondhand, and this included not only
water-colored pictures of Theosophical Masters but even
a couple of the Masters themselves! They reported that
the two Theosophical Masters who had started that Society
(the Master M. and K. H.) had come over to the Mighty
I AM banner and were now " Ascended Masters” !
For the good Ballard student who might feel inclined
to doubt that the Accredited Messengers of the Ascended
Masters would pawn off on him, as it were, pictures of un-
Ascended beings, when he has been trained for years to
worship "Ascended” ones, we refer him to the Theoso­
phical book, Through the Eyes of the Masters, by David
Anrias, published in 1932 by George Routledge & Sons,
Ltd., Londbn, where he will see what undoubtedly are the
self-same "Ascended Masters” which were shown many
times on the Ballard stereopticon screen.
Furthermore, Mrs. Ballard in giving her verbal descrip­
tions of these Masters repeated almost verbatim what
Anrias had said about them— and for variety added some
of the descriptions of Annie Besant and Charles Lead-
beater, well-known Theosophical writers on such subjects.
1 1 6 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
The "Ascended Masters” having come to life on the
screen instead of in person as promised, the divinely-ap­
pointed Messengers proceeded to show weird-looking
"Thought Forms” of persons in love, in hate, and afflicted
with green-eyed jealousy.
These pictures bore every indication of having been
taken from a Theosophical book by Besant and Leadbeater
entitled Thought Forms, first published in 1905; but so
far as the uninformed in the audience knew, they were
fresh from the Ballard astral picture gallery!
Then the Accredited Messengers of the Ascended Mas­
ters showed gorgeously-colored plates of great "Cosmic
Forces and Beings.”
But once again the heavenly exhibit had its earthly
counterpart. In a book, entitled Watchers of the Seven
Spheres, by H. K. Challoner, published by E. P. Dutton &
Co., Inc., New York, in 193 5, we find these self-same
gorgeously-colored plates of great Cosmic Forces and Be­
ings. Furthermore, Mrs. Ballard utilized the descriptive
material in this book in explaining the status and function
of those Cosmic Beings— but of course without acknowl­
edgment.
When the dust of illusion which has thrown itself over
this movement has sufficiently settled, we wonder whether
this cult of "Saint Germain” will not go down in meta­
physical history as the greatest "occult steal” of many
centuries— if not of all time.
CHAPTER 15
THE " MASTER” BOOK-SELLING RACKET
For five years a "Master” book-selling racket has been
under way in America. No other series of books in the
history of America has had such astonishing claims made
for them.
"In those precious books there are no human concepts
or opinions . . . They contain the answer to anything and
everything . . . Never was there such a thing written on
earth . . . They will remain the glory of the land for hun­
dreds of years.”
And so on in ever-increasing hyperbolic utterances, all
to be quoted accurately from the Ballard literature.
The Ballard flare for hyperbole is most manifest in
their efforts to sell these books. To this end they brought
forth mighty "Masters.” They had great "Cosmic Beings”
institute sales campaigns. They said the covers of those
"marvelous books,” as seen from the "Ascended Master’s
Octave Light,” were made of "precious jewels.” That
each successive book of the series was "more magnificent”
than the first— a veritable "stairway” to the blessed stu­
dents’ "glorious freedom.”
And there are still more blessings to be dispensed to
the proud possessor of those priceless books:
Through a special process, known only to the "Ascend­
ed Masters, mighty " Cosmic Radiations” exude from each
book. These "Radiations” are charged into the books some
time during their manufacture or sale. Mighty Ascended
Masters come forth from cosmic space to attend to this.
They sweep through the four walls of the commercial
118 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
print shop where these books are manufactured. They in­
vade the so-called "Saint Germain Press.” They enter the
I AM Temples where these books are sold. All for the pur­
pose of charging their "Ascended Master Radiations” into
these books, for no book is complete without it!
In addition to this, the great Saint Germain himself
gives a very special Radiation at the time his senior Mes­
senger autographs any of the books. This is as it should be.
The sale has been made; the cash is in the "I AM ” strong
box— or, as the saying is, "sent back into the work” ; and
the fortunate student has the book.
This is the way it is done: A crowd forms in the lobby
for the special ceremony of having one or more of those
precious books autographed. They must be new ones—
freshly purchased. The old ones are refused an autograph.
Guy Ballard, chief autographer, sits serenely at his desk.
Surrounding him is his bodyguard of "Minute Men,”
whose job it is to keep process servers and other "vicious”
individuals away. Saint Germain, chief "charger,” stands
at Ballard’s right elbow. The voltage for each book is
never stated, but is said to be high. The current flows
down Ballard’s right arm and into his autographing fing­
ers. Then somehow it spreads out into the book— which
is never the same afterwards.
The book has, of course, as we have said, been charged
at the factory, but this "special” charge given cooperative­
ly by the Germain-Ballard combination is different. It is
"transcendent.” So much so, that Saint Germain is never
absent when this autographing ceremony is to be per­
formed. European matters wait. Important conferences
at Washington hold their fire. The important thing is
the autographing and "charging” of those precious books.
Charge accounts, however, are not accepted. The terms
are cash. It is sufficient to "charge” the books!
On occasions, "St. Germain” as chief electric-charger
for the Ballard organization, is ably assisted by "Lady
T h e " M a s t e r ” B o o k - S e l l i n g R a c k e t 119
Ascended Masters.”
When the latest of the large bound books came out,
the “ Goddess of Purity” came forth to celebrate the oc­
casion and stimulate book sales. She made her own an­
nouncement (through Mr. Ballard of course) on the stage
of the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles on January 1,
1939— a sort of New Years gift to prospective buyers of
the new Ballard opus.
"Henceforth,” she said, "I shall join your Beloved Saint
Germain in charging My Purity into every book that the
Messenger autographs.” (p. 8, Feb., 1939, v.)
She urged the fortunate purchasers to "place the books
out of handling of others,” for the reason that these in­
dividually-charged Radiations should not be mixed with
the lower-octave emanations from other people. Each I
AM student is urged to buy and keep an individual set of
books for his own personal use and not lend them to
others— a beautiful system of increasing book sales!
Five of their regularly bound books sell at $2.50 to
$3.00 each, the total amounting to $13.75. Each student
is urged to buy all these books by the great Saint Germain
himself.
"If you have not the f u l l set of those books,” says
this book-selling Ascended Master, "do not let another
thirty days go over your head before you have them.” (p.
2, Sept. 20, 1938, G. L.)
The Ballards claim "over one million earnest students.”
Therefore, if they can psychologize these students suf­
ficiently to have a million of them buy a full set of books,
there will flow into the Ballard strong box to be "used in
the work” the startling sum of Thirteen Million, Seven
Hundred Fifty Thousand good American dollars!
Their students make supreme efforts to own these
books, and pathetic stories have come to the writer of
sacrifices made to purchase them, some going without
material food for days in order to secure the "spiritual”
1 2 0 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
sustenance supposed to be contained in them.
Then there is the Ballard monthly magazine, The Voice
of the 1 AM, which also must net them quite a tidy sum of
money. The subscription rate is $3.00 per year, or 35c per
copy. When the first issue came out in February, 1936,
they also brought forth "Jesus” (!) to boost its circula­
tion.
"W e shall endeavor to make the Voice of the I AM,”
says this false Christ, "the most sought after periodical of
the day . . . It is My wish and that of the Host of Ascend­
ed Masters that all students of the I AM firmly decree
this . . .” (p. 9, Feb., 1936, v.)
The result was a "Circulation Decree,” which the poor
students shouted and shouted until they were hoarse:
"W e decree that the circulation of the magazine, The
Voice of the I AM, exceed ONE MILLION subscribers
in 1937!”
Then there is in addition to this a miscellaneous lot of
other articles of Ascended Master merchandise to be sold
at good prices over the counter in the various I AM Tem­
ples scattered throughout the nation. There are pins, rings,
emblems, bookmarks, seals, folders, flags, booklets, trinkets.
There are songs, phonograph records, and transcription
rentals.
Songs— and there are many of them— sell for $1.00.
Phonograph records— and there have been dozens— bring
$2.50. "I AM ” pins sell at $1.00. I AM rings command
$12.00. Books for the blind $5.25 to $7.75 each, or $26.75
for the set of four. Jesus’ picture sells for $2.00 and up;
likewise the bearded Saint Germain. " The Old Man of the
Hills” brings $2.25 postpaid; and large pictures of the
Beloved Messenger, Guy W. Ballard, are tops at $25.00
each, express collect.
A small "Chart of the Presence” sells at $1.00; a larger
one for $15.00; and their de luxe chart a bargain at
$200.00! Their "Violet Consuming Flame” another bar-
121
T h e " M a s t e r ” B o o k - S e l l i n g R a c k e t
gain at $200.00! But express extra, and no discount to
dealers and group leaders!
T h e brain grow s w eary in co m p u tin g the possible in ­
com e w h ich m ig h t result fr o m these articles o f A scen d ed
M aster m erchandise sold in I A M T em p les and spread
am on g "o n e m illion earnest stu den ts.”
T h e Ballard radio broadcasts are n o t on ly paid fo r
alm ost exclu sively b y the students, b u t th ey also have to
rent M rs. B allard’s transcription records at $ 2 0 .0 0 per rec­
ord, cash in advance.
"Money cannot be spent in any better manner,” says
the great God Himalaya, who came all the way from India
to say it, and adds: "There is no thing in the world which
would render such transcendent blessing as money used in
the broadcasting of the 'I A M ’ to the world.” (p. 311,
A. M. L.)
T h e hard-pressed students do their best to m eet the
dem ands o f these "M a s te r ” salesmen, as w ill be seen fro m
the fo llo w in g n otice w h ich was passed o u t at one o f the I
A M T em p les in N e w Y o r k :
"W ord has been received that Mrs. Ballard would like
at least seven nights (ten, if possible) over W M CA B road­
casting Station. The cost is about $185 a night. The
Great Arcturus said that the blessing of those who make
possible the broadcasting of this Mighty Truth shall know
no bounds.”
Naturally, to secure Great Arcturus’ blessing, the stu­
dents got busy at once to secure the $1850.00. An appro­
priate decree was selected, and the students began to work
on getting this money with a vengeance. An informant
writes:
"T h is decree w as given in unison at all the m eetings
in N e w Y o r k , C o n n e c tic u t, and N e w Jersey, and repeated
at the m eetin g I attended thirty times, u n til tow ard the
end the w hole cro w d was sh ou tin g and indeed som e o f the
w om en w ere scream ing it, bordering on hysteria.”
CHAPTER 16
WHERE THE MONEY GOES
Having shown in the last chapter the tremendous
money possibilities of a "Master” merchandising racket, it
might be well to inquire: "Where does all the money go?”
"It all goes back to the Work,” shouted Guy Ballard
many times from the platform, while his good wife always
expressed quick agreement.
But to make doubly sure that their students really
appreciate this great sacrifice of having their hard-earned
money go back to the "W ork,” and no doubt to squelch
nasty little rumors to the contrary, they have their ever-
ready "Ascended Masters” come forth to back them up.
"Every dollar that comes in from their books,” says no
less a personage than John the Beloved, "they put into
This Work to save mankind and America.” (p. 13, Feb.,
1938, v.)
Another so-called Ascended Master, who happens to
be the white-haired old man who allegedly made his As­
cension off of Mt. Shasta after Ballard gave him a "Crystal
Cup,” is naturally a good booster for Guy Ballard and all
his works.
"Precious ones,” says this formerly white-haired old
man, "do not let the silly human reports go forth which
have been spread at times, that they [the Messengers] are
flourishing with money. All they have is the Love Gifts
of the students to carry on the work. Not so long ago,
the report went forth that they had plenty of money.
The Love Gifts from that class did not take care of the
express on their trunks, but they never complain.” (p.
217, A. M. D.)
123
W h e r e t h e M o n e y G o e s
In view of the fact that one of their former staff mem­
bers reports that 4500 pounds of expressage (28 trunks)
went forward to the east from their Los Angeles class in
January, 1939, it is little to be wondered at that their self-
sacrificing students have difficulty keeping sufficient "Love
Gifts” going their way to pay the expressage on all this
opulence, or to put them up at the most expensive hotels.
Still, these poor students do w h at th ey c a n ; and in
addition to m ak in g them selves poorer and poorer in efforts
to su pp ort "T h e W o r k ,” th ey use u p their energies in
shouting lon g decrees try in g to induce the C osm os to u n ­
load its w ealth to the Ballards personally. W e q u ote, in
p art, one o f these decrees:
"M ig h t y I A M Presence, T h o u G reat Treasure H ou se
o f the U n iverse, I d o n ’t look to channels, I look to Y O U
as y ou are m y source o f su p p ly fo r ev eryth in g ! . . . Release,
this h ou r, to our Blessed Mommie and Daddy Ballard, to
all the sincere I A M students everyw here, and to m e, O N E
M I L L I O N D O L L A R S in cash m o n e y ! T A X F R E E ! . . .
I thank T h ee, T h o u dost alw ays answ er m y every call
in stantly, in fin itely, etern ally, and visible and tan gib ly
m anifest in m y hands and use.”
It is not stated th at this "O n e M illio n D ollars” for
Blessed M o m m ie and D a d d y Ballard is to go "b a c k into
the W o r k .” T h e in tention is th at it is to go to the Ballards
personally.
T hese people say that th ey "lo v e A m e ric a ” and shout
decrees su pp ortin g the flag and the C on stitu tio n — y et th ey
d on ’t w a n t their co u n try to have a cent o f tax m o n e y !
N o r do th ey include the G o v e rn m e n t in this "m illio n d ol­
lar” show er fr o m the C osm os! It is all to go to M e and
M in e !
D esp ite the Ballards’ p u b lic profession o f n o t w an tin g
an yth in g fo r them selves, the above decree— asking a cool
m illion fo r Blessed M o m m ie and D a d d y Ballard— shows
that the situation is quite different. Students are n ot p er-
124 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
m itted to m ak e u p their o w n decrees. A ll decrees m u st
originate fr o m the Ballard headquarters— and presiding
over the d ecree-m ak in g d epartm en t is E dna Ballard h er­
self!
T h e author has in his possession som e v ery revealing
p rivate letters w ritten b y the Ballards, sh ow ing th at o f all
people these M essengers o f business-like "A sc e n d e d M a s­
ters” are m ost desirous o f possessing m o n ey fo r themselves.
These letters w ere w ritten and signed b y one or b oth o f
the Ballards, and w ere addressed to their fo rm er "A sso c ia te
D ir e c to r .” In th em appear m a n y references about m oney
m atters, b ook sales, and som e real "A sc e n d e d -M a ste r ” c o n ­
cern over c u ttin g d ow n on percentage discounts given to
book stores. W e have space fo r o n ly one o f these letters.
It was w ritte n b y G u y Ballard, and signed "G e o r g e ” as
th at w as the nam e the alleged reincarnated W a sh in g to n
fre q u e n tly used in corresponding w ith his A ssociate D i ­
rector.
New York City, N. Y.
December 18, 1934.
My D ear-----------:
We cannot give anyone 50% and have anything left for
ourselves, and furthermore, we are not going to do it . . .
Saint Germain said in the beginning that 30 and 33 %
was the limit to be given anyone . . .
Saint Germain said that he wanted us to have $1.00 per
copy clear on all books as his g ift to us.
I am the channel that has made all this possible and I do
not intend to be swallowed up by this terrible commercial
thing that has always forgotten the originator of a thing
from which others have received MILLIONS.
(Signed) GEORGE
W e fail to see in this letter any m en tion m ade o f this
"S a in t G erm ain D o lla r” going "b a c k into the W o r k .”
T hree m on th s before, w h en the Ballards w ere w o rk in g on
this m an try in g to get h im to p rom ote their m o v em en t,
they w rote h im : "W e no longer possess anything so far as
125
W here the M o n e y G o e s
our personalities are concerned” ! Yet, how different are
their later letters to him! They even had in mind millions!
As further proof that all the money does not go back
into the work, we now quote from a deposition made by
Mrs. Ballard, dated April 11, 1940, at Los Angeles, in the
Superior Court of the State of California. She was called
as a witness to testify in a divorce suit against her son,
Donald Ballard. The questions below are by plaintiff’s
lawyer; answers are by Mrs. Ballard.
Q. Now, the furniture that they have in your home,
whose property is that, do you know?
A. That is mine.
Q. Your property?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. Individually?
A. Bought in Mr. Ballard’s and my own names, I have
all the bills to show for it.
Q. That wasn’t bought in the account of the St. Ger­
main Foundation?
A. No.
Q. And did you make a gift of that to them?
A. I did not.
Q. To Donald alone?
A. It was to Donald alone, only until such time as we
again had our own permanent home. We loaned
them the use of those things until our own per­
sonal home was established here.
Here we have a statement made by Mrs. Ballard, on
oath, that it was she who owned the furniture ($7,000
worth) in her son’s home, and that she and Mr. Ballard
were planning to have their own permanent home in Los
Angeles.
These statements are contrary to the Ballards’ state­
ments made on the pubic platform to the effect that they
owned nothing in the way of a home and never expected
1 2 6 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
to , that the nearest to a h om e th ey w o u ld get w ou ld be
"D o n a ld ’s and M arjorie’s h om e.”
A f t e r ad m ittin g th at she was " Treasurer” o f the Saifit
G erm ain F ou n dation and head o f the Saint G erm ain Press,
M rs. Ballard was asked the fo llo w in g questions:
Q . W h a t assets does the St. G erm ain F ou n dation
have?
A . W e ll, I co u ld n ’t tell you that.
Q . D o you have any idea?
A . N o .
Q . Y o u co u ld n ’t give us an approxim ate estim ate?
A . N o , I co u ld n ’t?
Q . C o u ld you on the St. G erm ain Press?
A . N o , I co u ld n ’t, I am n ot fam iliar w ith that.
M o st reviarkable answers fo r the "T re a su re r” and head
o f a big m erchandising business!
Perhaps o n ly an in com e tax m a n fr o m the D e p a rtm e n t
o f Internal R evenu e w ill be able to figure o u t w here the
m o n e y goes— b u t o f course their "T a x Free” decree w orks
against it!
CHAPTER 17
SOME ANTECEDENT HISTORY
Seventy thousand years ago, according to that modern
Arabian Nights’ Entertainment, Unveiled Mysteries, a cer­
tain king of the Sahara Desert had three beautiful chil­
dren. This king was a good king, not wicked as kings of
fairy tales are wont to be. He ruled wisely and well, and
was looked upon almost as a God by his adoring subjects.
His children were adorable, two manly boys and a lovely
girl, and they had golden hair and violet eyes. The sons
wore form-fitting garments made of metallic gold, with
breast-plates like a great sun of jewels. They wore sandals
set with precious stones. The daughter, a vision of loveli­
ness, appeared among the courtiers and gallants of that
day attired in golden garments covered with diamonds
which glittered with every movement of her body. Her
hair was like spun gold, and it hung almost to the floor.
There was no wicked stepmother to mar the peace and
tranquility of this happy royal family.
In this picture of the ancient civilization of the Sahara
Desert we secure our first introduction to the "Ascended
Master Saint Germain,” who was a mighty king in those
days.
And his three lovely children are none other than the
three current Ballards— Lotus, Godfre, and Donald!
In a later civilization Ballard and son Donald become
priests of an ancient temple in Egypt, and Lotus its fair
vestal virgin.
Still later, the golden-haired, blue-eyed Donald is
crowned king over the red-skinned, dark-eyed Incas in an
128 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
ancient civilization of fourteen thousand years ago, and all
was happy, too, in this forgotten kingdom of so long ago.
But alas! the scene changes, the years move on, and in
present days of worldly strife, kings do not rule so wisely
and well, nor do vestal virgins tend so faithfully the glow­
ing altar fires.
And so as the curtain rises on this latest scene of all,
we discover the former Emperor’s golden-haired children,
the three Ballards, in the not-so-exotic, bustling city of
Chicago bearing no imprint or badge of royalty.
Just like other mortals who have outlived somehow
the fairy tales of childhood, they have their disappoint­
ments and their struggles. There was no king or prince
to rescue them, not even a "Saint Germain” to prevent
the bills from mounting nor end the hundred-and-one ills
to which flesh is heir.
Born at Newton, Kansas, on July 28, 1878, it was not
until Ballard was fifty-two years of age that he assertedly
met the Ascended Master Saint Germain on the side of a
California mountain. And likewise, it was not until his
good wife Edna was at the middle age of life that Aladdin
rubbed his Wonderful Lamp and produced for her the
money and power which, like most others, she had long
been seeking.
Showing the struggles and ambitions of their early life,
we now quote excerpts from letters written by people who
knew one or both of the Ballards intimately:
"I have known Guy Ballard for more than thirty
years,” writes one of his friends, who is amazed at Ballard’s
sudden ascension into power. "He came to our home when
I was a little girl, and at that time tried to be a medium.
Edna, his wife, always has been ambitious, great for per­
sonal adornment, and has always been the man of the
family.”
"W e have known Mr. and Mrs. Ballard for years,”
writes another party. "Mr. Ballard was a spiritualist in
S o m e A n t e c e d e n t H i s t o r y 1 2 9
C h icago, and practiced spiritualistic m edium ship. Y o u r
diagnosis o f th em is p ractically co rre ct.”
" I have k n o w n M r . Ballard fo r over th irty years,” says
still another. " H e has been a m ed iu m du rin g all these years.
H e told m e he had m ade a great d iscovery and th at he has
the answ er to all the difficulties w e en co u n ter.”
We quote now from a much longer letter, written in
the summer of 1938, which will give, perhaps, as vivid a
picture of the Ballard background as it is possible to give:
"I know whereof I speak, for I have known the Bal-
lards intimately for about twenty-six years. It was about
1915 we will say that I wrote a book on ancient Egypt.
It had considerable to say about Egyptian Black Magic,
and it was printed in an occult magazine. The story
aroused considerable interest in several people . . . men
who walk around apparently sane, but have a break some­
where in the brain fibre. Well these people wrote to me
and many of them were most interesting correspondents.
One of them later spent about four years in a mad house;
still, he now walks around and proves himself to be a very
subtle and dangerous person . . .
"I wrote to the Ballards for four years steady every
week, then my husband died . . . They invited me to visit
them in Chicago, which I did March 12, 1919. I lived with
them for seven months, sharing their poverty, their sor­
rows, and their woes, for they were as poor as the proverb­
ial church mouse . . .
"T h e y in duced m e to finance the trip to C aliforn ia . . .
T h e b a b y E udonia [D o n a ld ] w as just five years old . . .
W h ile in San Francisco this great idea o f G u y ’s was born.
W e w e n t to a f a k e -------------- ch u rch , and there was a lo t o f
chicanery. T h e Priest and Priestess sitting in tw o gold
chairs w ith the tw elve vestal virgins as the choir. Behind
th em w as a great illum inated cross w ith flashing lights.
D u r in g the service the very ligh tly clad virgins th rew
flow ers am o n g the audience. It was a scream . A fte rw a rd s
1 3 0 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
came the Love Feast. A virgin held a basket of strips of
bread and the audience were asked to join this holy order,
which was non-sectarian. Another virgin held a loving
cup of wine. Talk of hypnosis, would you believe it, over
one hundred and fifty people went forward and partook
of that sacrilegious feast, a parody upon the Lord’s Supper!
"During this scene Guy’s face was a study. He was
enchanted with the show, but did not join the church.
As soon as he reached the sidewalk, he could not stop talk­
ing about it . . . and from what I now hear, he has fash­
ioned his church upon the same lines with his illuminated
background. He could not stop talking about this laugh­
able service . . .
"Guy Ballard had one obsession. He wanted to find a
gold mine. He had dabbled a bit in mining prospecting,
etc. He also studied hypnotism at this time, but was a bit
afraid of it. His idea in bringing me to Chicago was that
I might lead him to a gold mine, because I was a medium
and had a spirit guide.
"M y guide offended them both, for one night he told
Edna that she had better stop right where they were, that
she would become . . . [Here this woman quotes what the
spirit guide said about Edna launching a great deception.]
"Thenceforth Edna had nothing more to do with my
Ascended Master, but Guy thought he could manage him.
"So we traveled to the top of the Sierras, and lived in
a tiny cottage next door to a gold mine. Every day either
he and I walked out on the mountains, or Edna and he
wandered to far distant places while I took care of the
dream child. Guy was determined to find that gold mine.
There was no money in the house and we lived upon prac­
tically nothing.
"One day in September, I remember it was the 21st, I
was exploring the little village of about twenty houses,
when I came across a tall white shaft numbered 10 up to
150.
131
Some A ntecedent H istory
" 'W h y , w h a t’s th a t?’ I asked, 'th e gam e th ey p la y in
C o n e y Islan d?’
" 'N o , m a ’m ,’ replied the n ative, 'th a t be the snow
gauge. A f t e r this m o n th y ou w o n ’t see an yth in g b u t the
roofs o f the houses; even the horses go on snow shoes.’
''W e ll sir, I prayed hard to get o u t o f discovering a
gold m ine. A n d strange to relate in a day or tw o a regis­
tered letter cam e to m e in vitin g m e to O n ta rio , C anada.
" I took the n ex t train o u t o f the nearest station, and
th a t’s the last I saw o f the Ballards, u n til I ran into a group
o f people w h o w ith bated breath and fear in their eyes told
m e o f the w onders th ey p e rfo rm . . .
" I d on ’t believe a w o rd o f the M t . Shasta story. P o p p y ­
c o c k ! H e g o t that idea w andering around the to p o f the
Sierras. T h e y w ou ld be gone fo r days together and cam p
o u t under the stars.
"T h e people I m e t in N e w Y o r k nearly m ob b ed m e
w h en I told th em th at the Ballards w ere frauds. O n e o f
th em , n o t y e t touch ed b y their cra zy ideas, gave m e you r
letters, and this story o f the k illing o f dear little tru stin g
anim als has induced m e to w rite to y ou . . .
" I am told th at thousands seem to be paralyzed or u n ­
der a spell w hile th ey hold their m eetings. H e m u st have
turned in to a w izard o f som e sort. N o w on der th ey b o th ­
ered m y life to tr y and give th em the nam es o f certain
b o o k s . . .
"T h e y are just v ery ordinary people, b u t clever. B u t
again, th ey m a y be dealing in black m agic. G u y w as cra zy
about it.”
F rom this graphic description o f the Ballards’ early
history, tw o facts stand out in bold relief:
First, G u y Ballard and his w ife Edna had w h at a m o u n t­
ed to alm ost an obsession abou t gold m ines. Second, they
craved o ccu lt pow ers and m astery over others. T h e ir books
and p la tfo r m utterances are clear evidence o f these tw o
cravings, and co n firm w h at is said in this letter b y a
132 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
woman who had not, when she wrote it, read any of the
Ballard books and had only attended one or two of their
meetings.
Both were interested in, and no doubt had studied,
hypnotism. When they first came to Los Angeles in 193 5
Guy Ballard at every class would suddenly get up from
his seat and start to make mesmeric passes over his audi­
ence. This would continue for many minutes, or until
the audience would be in a suitably passive condition, en­
abling "Saint Germain” and his band of darkened "Spirits”
to work on those susceptible to this kind of thing.
These mesmeric passes later were discontinued, no
doubt for the reason it was all too apparent what these
people were trying to do to their audiences. Perhaps, too,
after such a good start in psychologizing their people there
was no further need for being so objective in their hypno­
tic methods.
All through their books this same love of magical pow­
ers and mastery over others is shown. Saint Germain de­
molishes huge temples by the use of "Light Rays.” Ballard
and son Donald ape the great "Master” in the use of de­
structive forces.
When Mrs. Ballard was allegedly "Lotus, the Vestal
Virgin,” she was saved by the present Donald from being
carried away by the slave of a "visiting prince” who want­
ed "to seize the vestal virgin for his bride.” (p. 25, u. M . )
We quote:
"The High Priest . . . [Donald in a past life] . . . raised
his right hand and pointed directly at the slave. A flash of
Flame shot forth like lightning, and the slave fell lifeless
to the floor.”
The visiting prince, all too careless of such death-deal­
ing power, in a "blind rage” and "giving full vent to lust,
rushed forward.”
But again the priest raised his hand.
"The Flame flashed out a second time— and the prince
133
S o m e A n t e c e d e n t H i s t o r y
followed the fate of his former slave.”
In this same book the senior Ballard also tells of his own
deftness in the use of destructive forces; but instead of
saving a fair vestal virgin in a past life, he in his present
life saves a poor, lone widow from having her rich gold
mine taken away from her by a wicked mine superintend­
ent. We quote:
"He [the superintendent] lifted his steel cane and as I
[Ballard] raised my hand to seize it— a White Flame sud­
denly shot forth flashing full in his face. He dropped to
the floor as if struck by lightning.” (p. 221, u . M . )
After this happy combination of both "magic power”
and a rich "gold mine,” Ballard proceeds in his next book
to even tell about meeting face to face the ”God of Gold” !
This great Being appeared to him, he says, while he
was at the Rayborn mine in Colorado in 1932, and very
unselfishly showed to him the location of a marvelous gold
mine. And then the generous "Saint Germain”— still, how­
ever, holding on to his "Spanish gold lost at sea”— tells
him: "After your return from the Far East, it will be
opened up and one day the ore will be used for a special
purpose . . .” (p. 280-281, M . p.)
But, alas! Ballard never achieved his dream of gold,
except in his writings, and his magical powers only blos­
somed in his story books.
The Ballards wandered around on mountain tops with
mediums and guides looking for the elusive metal, ever
seeking, but never finding. And in their seeking after
occult powers, they wandered from teacher to teacher.
Not "Ascended Masters,” mind you, as their books would
have the credulous believe, but merely physical-plane me­
diums, occult lecturers, Hindus, Egyptians, and others in
the magic world of metaphysics.
They became wandering metaphysical tramps, sat at
the feet of earth-plane teachers too numerous to mention,
and varied the business by getting through a few spiritual-
1 3 4 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
istic messages for themselves, as any other ordinary me­
dium might.
They imbibed a little of Christian Science, read a bit
of the Walter Method C.S., branched over to the Unity
School at Kansas City, linked up with the Ancient and
Mystical Order Rosae Crucis (A.M .O .R .C .), joined the
Order of Christian Mystics, studied under Pelley the Silver
Shirter, sat at the feet of some of the Swamis, read a little
of Theosophy, looked into the magic of Yogi Philosophy
and Oriental Mysticism, interested themselves in Baird T.
Spalding and his "Masters of the Far East,” which associa­
tion gave them the idea, no doubt, of making all these
metaphysical contacts produce the gold which their gold
mines had failed to do— and which "Saint Germain,” in a
private dictation, said would bring in more money than a
gold mine!
From this curious mixture of heterodoxy came forth
the Ballard books— books which "Saint Germain” himself
has said "none in the world had ever been written like
them,” which we can well believe.
They used what they wanted, changed and distorted
what they desired, flavored the whole heterogeneous mix­
ture with literary spice from novels of the Deadwood Dick
type, salted it with pseudo-scientific facts from the pulp
magazines, sugared it with a certain amount of goodness
to catch the spiritual-hungry souls of this world, put it
out in cellophane wrapping with an Arabian Nights’
sparkle, labeled it the "Ascended Master Instruction of
the Mighty I AM ,” privately imported by the three and
only divinely-appointed Messengers, and sold it hot over
the counters for large profit in the sacred Temples of the
I AM.
And this is the strange and fantastic concoction that
so many thousands of sincere people are being fed morn­
ing, noon, and night, and most of them will need a good
psychological purging to get it out of their system.
CHAPTER 18
THE BALLARD GOLD MINE DEALS
As the antecedent history of the Ballards has been
largely one of their seeking for magical powers and gold
mines, it is no wonder that, living in need as they were,
they should try to sell these things to their friends and to
the public.
In October of 1938, as an aftermath of some old gold­
mine deals, Guy Ballard was sued in Chicago by a woman
who had years before looked upon him as a "Master,” and
a high spiritual teacher. The Chicago papers were full of
it, devoting front-page headlines to the suit and to his
gold-mine stock-selling projects of a previous decade.
The writer has no desire to reveal the mistakes of a
man’s life just for the mere sake of showing up those mis­
takes. God knows we all make enough of them. But
here is a man who has made unprecedented claims for
himself. He has publicly proclaimed the great purity of
his life which caused him to be selected as the "Accredited
Messenger” of Jesus (!) and the other members of the
Cosmic Host. He has sold his public on these claims.
They have bought his books and merchandise and have
accepted his teachings completely on the strength of the
sincerity, honesty, and truth of his claims.
It is conceivable that a man previous to a certain
spiritual revelation might have lived a very unprincipled
life, and then to have changed over completely. It would
be manifestly unfair for some one to rake over those mis­
takes and publicly reveal them for the mere purpose of
disconcerting this individual or turning people against him
136 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
when he was so sincerely trying to "live the life.”
The writer, for this reason, has sought mainly to ana­
lyze the Ballard books and public utterances, feeling that
that alone should be sufficient to reveal the fraud and
deception. But many people are not analytically minded,
and must have evidence of some personal nature before
they can recognize deception.
Besides, the Ballard movement has made history, and
is no longer a private, secret affair. It is part of a great
psychological wave of "escape mechanisms,” or "salvation
straws,” both economic and religious, which people have
been and are still holding on to, to save themselves from
the tragic course of human events which now seems to en­
gulf a good part of the world.
Therefore, as this is a history and study of the Ballard
cult, it must deal with all phases of it, and certainly there
can hardly be eliminated from it those gold-mine activities
which have entered so dominantly into the affairs of this
cult. When Ballard boldly comes out and makes state­
ments concerning the saintliness of all his life in a last
endeavor to keep his people buying his merchandise, then
it seems necessary to show the real facts regarding his
earlier life as well as more recent events and save additional
people, if possible, from being deluded further.
What can one think of two people, whose history is
known, who over their own signed names will make such
a statement as follows?
"Mr. G. W . Ballard has never done a dishonest nor
dishonorable thing in his entire life and never shall. We
have never asked any human being for a thing, not even
a dime nor a student list.” (p. 19, Nov., 1938, v.)
In 1932 their Saint Germain assertedly said: "This be­
loved Sister and Brother have gone through thirty years
of strenuous, conscious preparation for this work.” (p.
244, D .)
It would appear from this statement that Ballard and
137
T h e B a l l a r d G o l d M i n e D e a l s
his wife have consciously been under the direction of great
Teachers since 1902, but we ask whether the factual rec­
ord of Guy Ballard’s earlier life, as already revealed and to
be additionally shown, would indicate any real direction
from such great Teachers?
As further evidence that it does not, we quote from a
reliable source as follows:
" . . . His activities were first in selling stock in an oil
well in one of the southern states . . . He had a dream that
it was going to 'gush’ in February and sold more stock, but
many Februaries have passed since then, and no gush. His
victims were mostly women.
"Seeing how gullible they were over buying imaginary
things, he then sold almost the same list on another well,
so they could get the money lost in the previous invest­
ment.
"Then Mr. Ballard joined with some others and cooked
up the fGOLD LAKE’ in California, and practically the
same list bit again . . .”
Now, this "Gold Lake” project in California, which
our correspondent mentions above, gives a most revealing
picture of the background of Ballardism.
On March 25, 1929— about a year and a half before
Ballard said he met Saint Germain on the side of Mt.
Shasta— Guy Ballard was indicted in Chicago by the Cook
County Grand Jury on charge of "OBTAINING M ON ­
EY AN D GOODS BY MEANS OF THE CONFI­
DENCE GAME.” We have a copy of this indictment be­
fore us, and that is exactly the way it reads, capitals and
all.
There were two such indictments, made on the sworn
testimony of two women who had invested thousands of
dollars in this “ Lake of Gold” in California. Warrants
were issued for Ballard’s arrest, but he was not apprehend­
ed, and did not stand trial.
Guy Ballard, during this time, was in Los Angeles us-
1 3 8 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
ing the assumed name of Dick Gilbert. It was in this city
while on this enforced absence from Chicago that he gath­
ered some of his material for Unveiled Mysteries, which
was later supplemented by Mrs. Ballard’s literary talents
when he eventually was able to get back to Chicago.
He was absent for two years or more from his home
town, during which time his book avers he was "traveling
in the Far East.” As a matter of fact, he was in the far
west, on the Pacific Coast, traveling around attending
metaphysical lectures and still looking for gold mines.
There are a number of people in Los Angeles who knew
him at that time, and he was certainly not in India.
Referring more specifically now to this "Lake of Gold”
in California, which caused so many Chicagoans to lose
their money, we quote from an unsolicited letter written
by a woman who had invested in it:
C h c a g o , 111.
Dec. 14, 1937
A friend, Mrs. -----------, showed me your letter to her of
recent date, and as I am one of the Ballards’ victims, I am
very glad to tell you a few things of how I have been
treated . . .
I have known the Ballards for years, first meeting him
through a mining proposition called the Gold Lake, and like
everybody else I was fooled in the man.
I borrowed $200.00 from a friend to put in the Gold Lake,
having already several hundred in it, and he begged me to
loan him that $200 for his personal use he was so up against
it and he said he would give me double the shares in the mine
out of his holdings, etc.
It took me a long time to let him have it, and I asked him
especially if he would be sure and give me credit on the
books anyway so I would be sure to get my shares, and he
promised, and which he NEVER did . . .
I have letters in which he says he does not owe me by
T- vine right.’ . . .
4ea<
- old lady in her 80’s then, and has now passed away,
felt so certain of this proposition going over she gave her all,
T h e B a l l a r d G o l d M i n e D e a l s 139
her last $100 Ballard went and took from her . . .
He went to see a couple of elderly ladies, two sisters, one
totally blind, and he got some money from them presumably
for the Gold Lake, and he gave a receipt but never put it on
the books.
(Signed) Miss-----------
This woman has many times tried to get Ballard to pay
back the money he borrowed from her. In reply to one
of her early letters to him in regard to this loan, he wrote
her a letter which was postmarked Los Angeles.
Excerpts from this letter, which was written in Bal­
lard’s own handwriting, follow:
March 28, 1929
My dear Miss -----------
God bless you, most kind friend. Your letter reached [m e]
after being forwarded twice, as I am changing about all the
time trying to get something accomplished. The mining deals
I came out here on did not work out . . .
I have been trying to secure employment west, but so far
have not been able to get work . . . You do not seem to
understand (from your letter) dear friend the terrible sacri­
fice I made to try to serve those people in that lake enter­
prise . . .
But some day God will place in my hands money to pay
back every dollar that anybody ever assisted me with. At this
time I haven’t a dollar to help any body . . .
When God sees fit to help me to success, I will be so happy
and grateful to return every dollar of kindness that has been
extended to me. Until then I am powerless to help.
. . . I know so well everyone who condemns me will be
consumed by their own hatred.
I am leaving for Nevada at once. If anything comes into
my hands to help, I will gladly do it. A friend is trying to
help me get on my feet again.
(Signed) Guy W. Ballard
This hand-written letter of Mr. Ballard’s gives a very-
good picture of his life and wanderings just prior to his
alleged contact with "Saint Germain” on the side /f Mt.
Shasta.
140 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
Does that life, with all of its admitted inability to cope
with circumstances, seem to be good material for a great
"Master” to work with?
W hy should this man, who admittedly was duped in a
mining deal, be selected out of one hundred and thirty
million people to "Save America” from all its economic
and spiritual ills?
W hy should this particular "Messenger,” of whom,
assertedly, Jesus himself says has "not. made one single mis­
take from the beginning,” a man who "for thirty years has
been consciously preparing for this work,” have been se­
lected when there were records against him of having made
mistakes?
But let us see the sequel of this correspondence.
This woman who was duped, hearing Ballard was back
in Chicago selling people on his "Mighty I AM,” and
thinking that the "I AM ” would surely give him enough
money to pay the small debt he had so faithfully promised
to pay, wrote him again.
His reply follows:
February 11, 1934
Miss -----------
Your letter received after some delay. I have no money for
myself, you or anyone else.
If you will remind yourself of the thought and feeling
of condemnation, hatred and the wish to take away the liber­
ty of God’s children, then you will understand why you have
no position, money or health. For what you think, feel and
desire for another you draw with invincible power into your
own life and experience whether you believe it or not . . .
When you joined others wit. the intent to take away my
freedom, you deprived yourself of every divine right of any
assistance from me.
However, at some future time should abundance come into
my hands I would gladly help you if only to return good for
evil. May God’s Love and Light ever enfold you.
(Signed) Guy W . Ballard
N ot to be put off by any such letter, this woman again
141
T h e B a l l a r d G o l d M i n e D e a l s
wrote Ballard pointing out that his accusations in the
second paragraph were totally untrue, but that IF they
were, the same thing would apply in his case also and be
the reason why he, too, had “ no money for himself, his
creditors, or anyone else.”
Then referring to the third paragraph in which Ballard
had said, "You deprived yourself of every divine right of
any assistance from me,” she said: "Let me make this clear
to you. By DIVINE right you owe me the $200 which
you borrowed in cold cash for your 'personal use.’ I am
not asking you for any 'help,’ 'assistance,’ or CH ARITY
. . . I am asking only for what is mine . . . If you have
not got the $200 to send at one time, then pay by the
week.”
And what was the "Accredited Messenger’s” reply to
this righteous request? It is given below:
M iss-----------
Your second letter received. I have informed you this
outer form has no money to assist you and no income to
promise you or anyone anything definite.
In spite of reports to you, we do not own a home and no
money is being received for the instruction that is being
given. In regard to the letter that you sent me, I simply say
God Bless you.
(Signed) Guy W. Ballard
Remember at this time (1934) Ballard, for nearly four
years had been under the special training of "Saint Ger­
main,” at least so he said, having met that gentleman on
the side of Mt. Shasta in 1930, and at that time this great
"Master” for his amusement had plucked a ten dollar gold
piece from the mountain air with all the ease of a frock-
coated magician.
He had also shown Ballard an entire room filled with
coins and nuggets, and "Spanish gold lost at sea”— and had
presented him with a gold mine or two.
Yet, despite the magic of this great "Master” and the
/
142 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
wealth of "Spanish gold” and Colorado gold mines, this
man could not pay' this poor, deaf, struggling woman the
$200.00 he had borrowed from her— not even a few dol­
lars a week!
And this money has not been paid to this day, despite
the fact that these people and their "staff” tour the coun­
try in princely style and live off the fat of the land.
How different is their front to the world! How can
they write and speak the consummate nonsense of their
saintliness and goodness that they do?
"Dear ones,” said Ballard through his own vocal cords
to his San Francisco audience on January 23, 1938, “ the
Messengers should be a mighty example to you. They have
never asked for a dime in their lives.” (pp. 391-392,
A. M. L.)
And yet in the city of Chicago and elsewhere there
are a number of people from whom Ballard has begged and
borrowed money. Despite this, he and his wife had the
audacity to publish over their own signatures the follow­
ing moral instruction to their people— as though they had
lived up to it one hundred per cent themselves!
"Beloved Young America! . . . If you borrow either
money or things, FEEL your responsibility and see that
you return them to the one who was kind enough to ac­
commodate you. Just because someone is kind and will­
ing to make things easier for you is no reason you should
fail to remember that the thing loaned to you should be
returned . . . Lovingly, Mr. and Mrs. G. W . Ballard.”
(pp. 33-34, Feb., 1938, v.)
Ask the scores of people who either lent money to
Ballard or his wife, or invested it in the "Lake of Gold,”
whether these "Accredited Messengers of the Ascended
Masters” have lived up to precepts they so glibly give
others.
t
CHAPTER 19
TRIUMPHANT ENTRY INTO CHICAGO
In an earlier chapter it was described how during the
first part of October, 1934, the then little-known Ballards
jumped the train out of Chicago and started on their con­
quest to save heathen America.
For some reason— which most of their students did not
understand— it was not until exactly four years later
(October, 1938) that they publicly returned to Chicago
to hold classes.
Not that the heathen in that particular city in those
four years did not need the saving grace of the "Mighty I
AM,” but, as we shall find, they did not lecture there be­
cause of certain other and quite valid reasons.
In those four years the "Accredited Messengers of Saint
Germain” had achieved astonishing success. They had
lectured practically in every large city throughout the
United States, and in certain favorite "I AM ” watering
places they had returned many times. But back to their
own home town of Chicago they simply wouldn’t go to
hnln minlir
"What was the trouble?” "W hy had Chicago failed?”
"Was a prophet really without honor in his own city as
Jesus had said?” All these and many other questions filtered
through the minds of the good Chicago students. "Was
Chicago as wicked as that?” they asked.
A couple of years previously the Ballards had made an
abortive effort to lecture in Chicago. Saint Germain had
come through with these instructions to their Assistant
Director: "Take a class of four days in Chicago on your
144 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
way east . . . Four days will fulfill all that is necessary.”
But before the Assistant Director could make the nec­
essary arrangements even for that short length of time,
all was changed. The Ballards had evidently received dis­
quieting news from the "windy city,” and the Saint Ger­
main order was countermanded.
The following excerpt from a letter received by the
writer from a former close associate will no doubt explain
why even the great Saint Germain’s order was not obeyed:
"In our days of innocence we heard of a concerted
effort to have him [Ballard] arrested in public if he ever
came to Chicago in a class, and we went to St. Louis to
warn them. And this is what they said:
" 'WE ARE NOT COMING BACK TO CHICAGO
UNTIL OUR DEBTS ARE OUTLAWED
"Then they entered into a personal argument as to
how long that would be, and he said: 'That will be in
about two years.’ She said: 'No, I think it will be in about
eighteen months.’ ”
This episode occurred in October, 1936. The Ballards
returned to Chicago in October, 1938— just two years
after Ballard had made the above statement that he would
not return until his debts were outlawed; which he
thought would be in about two years.
And so the Ballards, after an unexplained absence of
four years, did return publicly to their own city. But even
then, it seems that this return was more or less forced upon
them. Their critics on one hand were saying that they were
afraid to go back to their own home town because of their
past, and on the other hand the Chicago faithful were
beseeching them to come. So after personally making rea­
sonably sure it was safe, they handed over their fears to
Saint Germain and the Ascended Host— and went.
Some time and care had evidently been taken to pre­
pare the ground for a triumphant entry. Their publicity
agents were very much on the job, and the Ether-waves
T r i u m p h a n t E n t r y I n t o C h i c a g o 145
were hot with the news of the arrival of the "Accredited
Messengers of Saint Germain.” Newspapers published their
pictures in full "I AM ” regalia on front pages. Large head­
lines announced their lecture topics from day to day.
" Fount of Youth Claimed” was one of the head­
ings. "5 000 Hear New 7 AM ’ Evangelismsaid another.
" Thousands Bask in 'Great Light’ at Cult Meeting,” said
still another, and so on.
Altogether, it was a most fitting reception to two
Chicagoans who had gone out into the world and made
good, and had now returned to the city of their first love
to have laurels heaped upon them. A good prophet was
surely not without honor in his own city!
It was too cold in the windy city for palm leaves— Los
Angeles would have been a more fitting place— but Chi­
cago had to have her day. She gave the Ballards a royal
welcome, even though instead of the Messengers riding
into the city in the traditionally humble style, as becomes
high spiritual teachers of Oriental countries, they used
flashy motor cars— three "golden colored” ones for the two
senior Ballards and staff, and an " electric blue” for son
Donald.
Quoting from a special article from the Chicago Daily
News on the great event, dated October 12, 1938, we learn
that the "high priest and priestess” of the movement "are
packing the big opera house with throngs of well-dressed,
intelligent-looking following and recent converts,” and
that it is estimated "when the 10-day Chicago sojourn of
the Ballards comes to a colorful finish, 50,000 persons will
have heard the story of the 'ascending Masters, and 'vibra­
tions,’ and that thousands of dollars will have been deposit­
ed in the little yellow envelopes.”
"Have you a lot of bills?” Mrs. Ballard at one point
asked her audience, according to an article in the Chicago
Herald & Examiner of October 8, 1938. "The great light
wants you to pay them, but every irritation in your emo-
146 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
tional b od y prevents it. R eceive the light and the bills
w ill be p aid .”
W h a t k in d o f "e m o tio n a l irritation ” was p reven tin g
Ballard fr o m p ayin g his o w n bills, or p ayin g the little
w o m a n w h o had len t h im $ 2 0 0 .0 0 in good faith ?
"T h e Ballards m ade n o secret o f the fa c t th at their cup
o f m aterial happiness is fu ll to overflow in g,” says an article
in the Chicago Herald & Examiner o f O c to b e r 10, 1938.
"Y o u , too, can en jo y the same benefits, th ey say, if y ou
fo llo w their teachings . . . 'B u t it w as n o t alw ays th u s,’
said blond M rs. B allard: 'W e didn’ t k n o w w here our n ext
m eal was co m in g fr o m w h en w e started our w o r k .’ ”
W it h all this p u b licity abou t p ayin g bills and d em on ­
stratin g m eals, the generous and popu lar Ballards, as was
to be expected , becam e m ore popular than ever. For w h o
doesn’t w a n t to p a y old bills and eat a good m eal?
Success at last in this c ity had crow n ed their efforts.
T h e large and b eau tifu l opera house was packed w ith an
exp ectan t and applauding audience. T h e stage was banked
w ith ferns and flow ers, and the Ballards them selves, dressed
in their very best, looked v ery affluent and even m ajestic.
O v e r a radio se t-u p on the stage, their w ords w ere broad­
cast to listening thousands w h o could n o t get to the big
opera house.
"T h e s e u tteran ces,” says the Chicago Daily Netcs, " f a s ­
cinate his terraced ranks o f follow ers— th ey h an g u p on the
cry p tic p ron ou n cem en ts . . . ”
"M e n w o m e n , and children fr o m every w alk o f life
sat en thralled,” says another new s w riter.
" A m yriad eyes fastened rapturously u p o n the b ril­
lian tly decorated stage,” com m en ted still another.
C h icago had accepted th em . . . her children had re­
tu rned . . . all had apparently been forgiven .
B u t neither the h ap p y M essengers n or their glorified
M asters— w h o k n o w everyth in g— w ere aware th at cruel
fa te was soon to take a hand. T h a t despite all this show and
147
T r i u m p h a n t E n t r y I n t o C h i c a g o
g lam ou r, the C h icago past o f the A ccre d ite d M essengers
w as still grin ding. T h a t soon there was to be an even t
w h ich w o u ld shake the confidence o f thousands in these
glorious people.
"K ic k o u t deceit and treachery fr o m y ou r lives,” im ­
plored M r . Ballard, accordin g to the article in the Daily
News. " I k n o w w h en any deceit or h a rm fu l a ctiv ity
com es in to this class room . I f I d on ’t, Saint G erm ain
does.”
A n d M rs. Ballard, in her gorgeous raim en t, w axed just
as eloquent.
" I have touch ed Saint G erm ain , just as I to u ch you
n o w ,” said she, according to the Herald £> Examiner ar­
ticle. "H i s flesh is som ething like ours, b u t it is alabaster
w h ite, and a ligh t flow s fr o m it . . . T h e blood o f A scen d ed
Beings tu rn to gold w h en th ey leave the m ortal sphere.”
T h e Daily News article describes her as " . . . a queenly
personage in a silk g ow n o f geranium hue, w ith broad
ribbon trailers suspended fr o m the shoulders in lieu o f an
opera train. H e r hair is arranged in a coronet o f w h ite
curls . . . she sits p lacid ly in a g o ld -a n d -iv o r y ch air.”
T h u s did C h icago accept her very o w n . "How those
decrees do work!” m u st have th ou g h t the Ballards as th ey
read these p u b licity articles or fr o m the decorated stage
surveyed this m agnificent v ic to ry over their h ectic past
in this city.
"T h e y say w e dared n o t com e to C h ic a g o ,” M rs. B al­
lard is reported to have said, “ b u t w e are h ere!” A n d then
w ith a d ram atic gesture, she added: "S o what?”
T his "S o w h a t” p art o f the history o f the Ballard
m o v em en t w ill have to be included under a different head­
ing th an th at o f their triu m p h a n t en try in to C h icago. T h e
"A c c r e d ite d M essengers o f Saint G erm a in ” m ig h t have
m ade a triu m p h a n t e n try , as these new s item s w o u ld in ­
dicate, b u t th ey w ere fated soon to m ake a different kind
o f ex it!
C H A P T E R 20
THE BALLARD PAST BOBS UP AGAIN
Into this Chicago "I AM ” heaven, which the Ballards
had so carefully prepared for themselves, entered the
wicked serpent.
It did not tell the woman, as in the traditional story,
but it seems that it did tell the Chicago authorities to taste
and investigate the particular brand of apple sauce the
Ballards were selling the good Chicago people.
It appears that the bailiff’s office particularly tasted of
this apple concoction, and apparently thought it was too
good to keep to themselves. So one evening, shortly after
Mrs. Ballard’s "So what?” query, a duly appointed bailiff
invaded the peace of the Chicago "I AM ” heaven and pub­
licly served Ballard with a summons to appear in court to
answer certain charges.
The following morning the Chicago dailies ran big
front page headlines about the suit.
The Chicago Herald & Examiner, on the morning of
October 14, 1938, came out with a big two-inch headline,
reading:
" W OM AN SUES 'GREAT I AM.’ ”
Below was a large photograph of Ballard being served
the summons, and there was nothing else on the front page
with the exception of a description of this "I AM ” suit.
The photograph shows Ballard sitting at a desk in the
lobby occupied with his favorite pastime of autographing
books (freshly sold at $2.50 to $3.00 per copy), while his
startled followers stand and gesticulate wildly around him
in their efforts to prevent the bailiff from carrying out his
149
T h e B a l l a r d P a s t B o b s U p A g a i n
d u ty o f serving the papers.
U n d ern eath the p h otograp h it states th at the " A c ­
credited M essenger” was "serv ed the su m m on s despite p a n ­
d em on iu m am on g the fo llow ers.”
T h e n on page three was the story, fr o m w h ich w e
quote in p a rt:
"In a stormy scene in the lobby of the Civic Opera
House, Guy W. Ballard, 'Accredited Messenger’ of the
'Great I AM Presence,’ was served with a summons in a
$10,906.55 suit last night.
"B a lla rd was surrounded b y a d ozen or m ore o f his
follow ers in the C iv ic O p era lo b b y w h en C --------- , chief
bailiff of the civil branch of the sheriff’s office, attempted
to serve the summons.
"M e n and w o m e n shouted, tried to push the bailiff
fr o m the lo b b y . O th ers seized Ballard’s arm , and sought
to draw him away. In a loud voice, C------- read the
summons.”
P icture the scene. H e re was a m an w h o had p u b licly
stated:
"M y earthly pilgrimage is finished . . . I am here in this
atomic structure on extended time . . . nothing this human
form can do can be recorded upon my life stream.”
And yet, here he was, in his own "I AM ” heaven, hav­
ing his own record read and recorded, and there was noth­
ing he could do about it. Nor could his followers who
crowded around him wildly decreeing and gesticulating.
The record follows, in part, according to this bill which
was filed in the Superior Court:
"Some time prior to and about the years 1923 or 1924
the plaintiff became acquainted with the defendant, Guy
W. Ballard, who represented himself to be interested in
and learned in said mysticism and occult arts and sciences.
"T h r o u g h the m u tu a l interest o f said plain tiff and o f
said d efen d an t, the said d efend ant obtained the confidence
and trust o f the p lain tiff, and the d efen d an t, abusing and
150 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
taking advantage of said confidence and trust imposed by
the plaintiff in the defendant, requested from the plaintiff
and obtained from her advances of large sums of money
. . . under various pretexts and reasons, such as personal
loans for current expenses . . . etc., etc.”
Virtually all the Chicago newspapers that morning ran
headlines and stories about this suit against the " Mighty
I AM ”— the name they dubbed Ballard.
The Chicago Tribune headed their story: "The Great
I AM Runs Afoul of a Cynical Mystic.” The Chicago
Daily News captioned their article: "Mundane Bailiff In­
vades Mystic Realm to Get Man.” The Chicago Daily
Times styled theirs: " 'Great I AM ’ Face to Face with Cash
Suit.” The Chicago American said: "Woman Sues 'I AM ’
Leader for $10,000.”
We quote in part from the Chicago American article:
"Miss -------, a little, grayhaired woman of about 60,
is employed as a housekeeper . . . Her life savings, gleaned
from her work as a servant for some of Chicago’s best
known society families, were given to Ballard, she said
today, to invest in what he called 'The Cottonwood Trust’
to exploit 'The Lake of Gold’ in California, supposedly a
mining project.
"Loss of the $6,775 which Miss-------says she entrusted
to the 'Mighty I AM ’ before he left town, made her un­
able to bring criminal proceedings at that time. She visit­
ed the state’s attorney’s office, Miss ------- explained, but
was told she would be required to post some money if a
policeman were to be sent after the 'Mighty I AM .’ She
explained:
" 'But he had taken all my money and I didn’t have
any left to ptit up to have him arrested.’
"The Ballards, she said, were well-known along the
North Shore as far as Milwaukee, but more in servants’
quarters than in drawing rooms. She explained: r
He had
avery large following of North Shore servants when he was
T h e B a l l a r d P a s t B o b s Up A g a i n 151
operating as rThe Master.’ A lot of servants followed
him.5”
Asked by one of the newspaper reporters if she had
attended any of the Civic Opera House meeting, she re­
torted:
"I should say not! I was afraid I would lose my temper
and would expose him right there!”
One of the Ballard decrees reads:
"Compel all that consciously opposes This Work in
any way to annihilate itself and blast its own cause and
effect from existence forever!”
Another one reads:
"Prevent the press, reporters, and all outer channels
from making any false statements about this work . . .
SILENCE everything of that kind throughout the world
forever!”
Nevertheless, despite the alleged power of these decrees,
the reporters and the press would not be silenced. The next
morning there followed further revelations about Ballard’s
"Lake of Gold.”
We quote from the Chicago Herald & Examiner of
October 15 in an article headed, " S o u g h t i n G o l d S w i n ­
d l e ; C u l t L e a d e r B e g s F a i t h ” :
" . . . Many other persons were known to have in­
vested money. Blue sky authorities said these investors
lost $200,000, some estimates going as high as $500,000.
An investigator sent to look at the California property of
the company reported title to the land was doubtful and
that not more than $5,000 had ever been spent there.
There was a rough board building, he said, but no evi­
dence of mining machinery.”
This article further stated:
"All that was needed, investigators say they were told,
was to drain the lake and take out the precious metals
with scoop shovels.”
This "Gold Lake” project in California which Guy
1 5 2 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
Ballard and his associates sold to credulous people was a
h ap p enin g o f a d ozen years or m ore ago, and was p re­
ceded, as w e have seen, b y his gold -seekin g adventures
u p o n m ou n ta in tops. B u t all this was really o n ly the be­
gin n in g o f B allard’s sensational g o ld -m in e career— a m ere
p relim in ary skirm ish, as it w ere, b efore the real cam paign.
Since then he has really becom e p roficien t in m a n u ­
fa c tu rin g gold m ines, and he m akes th em bigger and better
all the tim e. W h e n once one puts his hand to the p lo w , or
rather his m in d to the great task o f m a n u fa ctu rin g gold
m ines on a mass p ro d u ctio n basis, there is n o tu rn in g back.
H e has to m ak e n ew , b igger, and better gold m ines, or else
the sh ortcom ings o f the old ones w ill be too apparent to
those w h o signed on the d otted line.
It is n o t surprising, therefore, to fin d th at a fe w years
later the lone C a lifo rn ia "G o ld L ak e” blossom ed in to three
m arvelous C olorad o "G o ld M in es.” A n d in B allard’s book
the great Saint G erm ain tells about th em .
"T h is b od y o f ore,” said the great M aster, referrin g to
the second one o f the m ines, "c o n ta in s over tw e n ty m il­
lion dollars in gold , clear and above all operating expenses.”
( p . 40, M . P .)
A n d as if this w ere n o t enough gold to forever satisfy
or even satiate a g o ld -lo v in g appetite, Saint G erm a in ’s
m agic eye leads h im to another great discovery.
"I wish to say,” says this gold-finding Master, "there is
another great ore-body not half a mile from the 'Master
Discovery,’ as you call it, which I will reveal during your
next trip to the mine, three days hence. As the claims are
all patented and the deeds in your hands, they will be safe,
until your return from the East in two years.” (p. 273,
M . P .)
B u t u n fo rtu n a te ly fo r Saint G erm a in ’s "p a te n te d ”
gold claim and Ballard’s "d e e d s” placed in his hands, the
unbelieving C om m ission er o f M ines o f the State o f C o lo ­
rado is quite skeptical abou t the m atter, as w ill be dis-
153
T h e B a l l a r d P a s t B o b s U p A g a i n
covered in the following letter received from the Commis­
sioner himself, dated March 15, 1937, at Denver:
"I know of no marvelous mine in Colorado owned by
one Daniel Rayborn, and I know nothing of G. W. Ballard
. . . We frequently hear of 'Mystic’ mines in Colorado
and other states, and people have spent years and years
looking for them, but I have never heard of one that has
been found. I look upon them as fakes; in fact, I know
it is a fake pure and simple.”
The three marvelous, though hypothetical, gold mines
having served their particular purpose in luring buyers for
their book (why else should they be there?), the Ballards
turned their attention to manufacturing out of whole
cloth a new sort of gold mine. Not even the genie in Alad­
din and His Wonderftd Lamp could have ever thought
of it.
This is the way of it. For years the Ballards have been
telling their audiences about the dangerous "Gas Belts”
which are supposed to lie under some of our most populous
cities and which, they say, are the cause of earthquakes.
Many of the susceptible ones in these cities became ex­
tremely jittery over the "Gas Belts” under their feet and
joined the cult to protect themselves— for only the Ballard
"decrees” could save these cities from utter destruction.
That of course was very much in line with this cult’s
usual procedure in psychologizing their people through
fear, but in this case they went a step further and com­
bined another mainspring of human action.
It was to Mrs. G. W. Ballard, co-originator and prime
mover of the cult, that the idea first came. In her efforts
to "Save America” from these earthquakes— which they
said were "long past due”— she conceived the brilliant idea
of changing all these restless "Gas Belts” into "pure metal­
lic gold”!
That was a stroke of genius which naturally did not
go unrewarded, for who wouldn’t want to join a move-
154 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
m en t w h ich w o u ld guarantee to change ordinary sewer
gas, or its d eep er-lyin g relative, in to pure m etallic gold?
T o get "sa v e d ” and "r ic h ” at one tim e is m o tiv e enough
fo r an yb od y. So a gas-con v ertin g decree was d raw n u p b y
the d ecree-m aker o f the establishm ent, M rs. G . W . B al­
lard, and the blessed, g o ld -lo v in g students shouted it
fr o m coast to coast in their heroic efforts to "S a v e A m e r ­
ica” — a nation w h ich already has m ore gold stored aw ay
in the groun d than it k n ow s w h a t to do w ith , some
$ 2 0 ,0 0 0 ,0 0 0 ,0 0 0 w o rth !
T o date, latest new s fr o m the decreeing fr o n t indicates
th at the I A M -e r s have n o t been successful in accom plish ­
in g their great alchem ical fea t, fo r their high co m m a n d ,
M rs. G . W . B allard, still speaks o f the earthquake danger.
T h e '"g a s” m en ace, th erefore, is still w ith us, an ever­
present w o rry in the I A M -e r s ’ trou bled w orld .
T h e lu rin g o f the Ballard h o p e fu l b y m eans o f the
b righ t yellow m etal still continues, b u t alw ays it is the new
and n o t the old "g o ld m in e” to w h ich atten tion is called.
G u y Ballard, sh ortly a fter his old stock -sellin g activi­
ties in his "L a k e o f G o ld ” p roject bobbed u p in C h icago,
stated to his Los A n geles audience:
"In India there are five great mountain peaks,” and
referring to one of these peaks, he added: "There is gold
enough in that one peak to a hundred times pay the debts
of the world. I know this to be true.” (p. 28, March,
1939, V .)
D esp ite all his assurance o f d e b t-p a y in g gold in India
the C h icago papers w o u ld n ’t let B allard’s old "L a k e o f
G o ld ” in C aliforn ia alone. H e tried his best to sw itch the
m inds o f people o ff to a gold -stu d d ed m ou n tain peak in
fa r -a w a y India, b u t this fabulous "G o ld L ak e” w h ich had
suddenly reappeared out o f his past was a b it m ore real to
the scores o f people w h o had lost their life-savin gs in it.
It had to be explained in som e w a y , and in the fo llo w in g
chapter w e w ill see h ow the Ballards m ade answ er to it.
CHAPTER 21
H O W THE BALLARDS ANSWERED THE
CHICAGO SUIT
T h e C h icago suit, w ith its revealing con n ection w ith
B allard’s "L a k e o f G o ld ,” was n o d ou b t one o f the e m ­
barrassing m om en ts fo r the tw o dictators.
They had not expected it. They had had their agents
working in Chicago trying to get the two indictments
withdrawn. They had contacted the two signers in an
effort to get them to withdraw the charges; and it appears
they were successful in doing this, for the indictments
were nolle prossed in July, 193 8. It therefore seemed safe
to return in October, at which time, owing to the Illinois
statute of limitation, they seemed to be assured their old
debts would be outlawed.
Months before, when they were in nearby Detroit the
early part of May, 193 8, they had been looking forward to
their Chicago return. At that time hundreds of Chi­
cago students had come down to Detroit to hear the Mes­
sengers, as these Messengers could not for very good reasons
at that time go to them. Notice now what these Chicago
students were told:
"I congratulate you beloved ones of Chicago,” said the
Goddess of Liberty (!), "in having the Power and Action
of Light . . . which drew you here in this great number.
(Applause) Be patient, beloved ones, the time is near at
hand, when the Power of Light will sweep Chicago! (A p­
plause) Mankind should understand the importance of let­
ting the Wisdom of These Great Ones, Who have come
forth, regulate and govern what the Messengers do and
where they will go!” (p. 9, June, 1938, v., our italics.)
1 5 6 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
And so the Ballards and their "Power of Light” did
"sweep Chicago” with much show of glitter in a grand
and triumphant entry, but this unexpected suit shook the
glitter out, and made it necessary for them to brazen
through the crisis in some way. How they did it will now
be shown.
On the following evening after the papers were served,
and "pandemonium reigned among their followers,” the
Ballards attempted to make some sort of answer. We quote
from the Chicago Herald & Examiner of October 15,
article headed: "Sought in Gold Swindle; Cult Leader Begs
Faith.”
"People of America,” called Mrs. Ballard, in a broad­
cast from the platform, "we ask you, regardless of any­
thing you have heard or read, to believe that the work of
the Mighty I AM Presence and the Ascended Masters is
clean and honest and is the truth. Regardless of all untruth
that has been spoken or printed, we never have asked for
a dime and never tried to draw any human being from any
other creed or belief. I say this to the whole earth: Mr.
Ballard has never done a dishonest or dishonorable thing
in his life and never shall!”
Mrs. Ballard then turned the microphone over to Bal­
lard, who said:
"Thank you, beloved Lotus! It is incredible that any
one should wish to be vicious to us, who have never asked
one thing for ourselves. I have never claimed I was a
Master, and any one who says I did is a liar!”
That certainly should settle the matter once and for
all, but we might gently inject the thought that Guy Bal­
lard has perhaps made more claims for himself than has
any other person in America. Even Father Divine only
permits his followers to call him "God.” He doesn’t come
right out and proclaim it, having retained a little modesty
in the matter. But Mr. Ballard comes right out in print
and speech and has "God, the Mighty I AM ” give a stirring
H ow t h e C h i c a g o S u i t W a s A n s w e r e d 157
sales talk all about Guy Ballard!
The following modest claims for himself are made:
He lives in a " body of immortal endiirance.” (page
390, m . p.) There "isn’t anything in the universe that he
fears,” and "nothing can he recorded upon his life stream.”
(August, 193 5, Lecture.)
He is "a free being and could leave at any moment.”
(p. 11, Sept., 1938, v.) "N o one cm earth can take his
place.” (p. 13, Nov., 1938, v.)
He is " as humble as humbleness can be.” (p. 6, Dec.,
1938, v.) "Has not made one single mistake from the be­
ginning.” (p. 15, Feb., 1937, v.)
He " can decree and it is fulfilled almost instantly.”
(p. 77, A . M . D .) But for him and his good wife Edna
" mankind would have perished from the earth.” Tan. 7,
1938, g . L . )
And lastly, believe it or not, he "has never asked for a
dime in his life!” ( p p . 391-392, a . m . l . )
Surely, if Guy Ballard is all of the above, then he is not
only a "Master” but something more!
Why call someone a prevaricator (to use a gentler term
than he did) because this same somebody said he claimed to
be a "Master” fifteen years ago? Does he not today claim
to be something very much more than that?
Fortunately for the Accredited Messengers of Saint
Germain, the Chicago suit against Guy Ballard and its past
gold mine connections was not publicized very much in
other cities. The Ballards did everything they could to
keep their students from believing it was anything but a
"vicious attack.”
In the next issue of their official journal after the Chi­
cago suit, the Ballards attempted to pour a little miracle-
working oil over the troubled waters of the movement.
They referred evasively to this Chicago suit, and cunning­
ly headed their article: " O u r A s c e n d e d M a s t e r M i r ­
a c l e ” ! We quote:
1 5 8 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
" W e w ish to express our deepest E ternal L ove and
G ratitu d e, and to thank every 'I A M ’ stu den t fo r the L ove,
L o y a lty , u nflin chin g C ou rage, S e lf-c o n tro l and Assistance
w ith w h ich all handled the intrusion o f discord w h ich a t­
te m p te d to to u ch the C h icago Class.
" M r . G . W . Ballard has never done a dishonest nor dis­
honorable th in g in his entire life and never shall. W e have
never asked an y h u m an being fo r a th in g, n ot even a dim e
n or a student list; and all w h o k n o w us even sligh tly k n o w
T H A T IS T H E T R U T H !
" W e have given all and asked n oth in g in return . . .
" W e all called in this C h icago Class fo r G i g a n t i c
A s c e n d e d M a s t e r M i r a c l e s . . . to com e o u t o f even
the slightest a tte m p t to discredit or interfere . . . T h e
R e c e n t O c c u r r e n c e H a s T u r n e d I n t o J u s t T h a t . . .
M r . a n d M r s . G . W . B a l l a r d . ” (p p . 19-20, N o v ., 193 8 ,
v.)
T h e Ballards, how ever, fail to explain just h o w it is that
"p a n d e m o n iu m am on g their follow ers” could at the same
tim e be "u n flin c h in g courage and se lf-c o n tr o l.” N o r just
h ow it was th at "in tru sio n o f discord” was tu rned into a
" G i g a n t i c A s c e n d e d M a s t e r M i r a c l e .”
T h e m iracle, o f course, lies in the fa c t th at the students
should accept such a statem ent. T h ere was certain ly no
other m iracle.
T h e crisis in C h icago was so great th at the Ballards had
to call out an entirely new "A sc e n d e d M aster” — or rather
in this case it was a "L a d y M a ster,” w h o th ey said was
none other than the " G o d d e s s o f L i g h t ” !
"She has opened the Door of the Ascended Masters’
Octave to the earth,” explained Ballard to the Chicago
faithful, and added: "It is an unheard of thing in the
history of the world . . . (applause).” (p. 5, Nov., 1938,
v .)
" I w a n t to say to y o u ,” said the Goddess u pon being
in trodu ced , and con ven ien tly using Ballard’s vocal cords,
H ow t h e C h i c a g o S u i t W a s A n s w e r e d 159
"that if good were not to come out of the experience
which occurred at your class recently, this Messenger could
have stood and without a word released the Power of a
Light Ray and those individuals would still remain stand­
ing in their tracks; but he would not do it.” (p. 10, our
italics.)
And there you are! What self-control it must have
been for Ballard to have withheld the "lightning” that
would have stopped the poor process server right in his
tracks; which was something the excited efforts of his
students failed to do.
We are glad that Ballard didn’t forget himself and
absent-mindedly let it loose. N o wonder students run to
the cover of the "Mighty I AM ” protection and dare not
say anything to incur the Ballard disfavor.
" . . . That same Power,” continues the Goddess, "could
have been released had it chosen to do so. There are no
human persons nor creation that could stop it. . .” (p. 11.)
But fortunately for the process server, this terrific
power was withheld. To be stopped by a bullet is one
thing, but to be stopped by Mr. Ballard’s little "Light
Ray” would certainly make any self-respecting officer a
trifle shamefaced.
The Goddess agreeably concurs with the Ballards that
it was indeed a miracle:
"Out of this occurrence has really come an Ascended
Master Miracle,” she says. "Ybu can all well rejoice that
the Messenger was strong enough and calm enough to go
serenely on and let it take place. It has been the means
of dissolving and removing from your Chicago forever the
resistance which has been here for many years.” (p. 11.)
In the Ballard official Group Letter, or report to their
students, under date of November 20, 193 8, there are
many references to the Chicago suit:
"On Thursday night a vicious attack was made on our
Beloved Mr. Ballard while he was quietly autographing
160 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
books in the fo y e r o f the b eau tifu l C h ica g o C iv ic A u d i­
to riu m .”
This " vicious attack” consisted of the process server
presenting Ballard formally with a summons. Photograph­
ers also aimed their cameras at him while he was being
served. N o real casualties were reported, such as might
be suggested by a vicious "attack.”
"A few minutes later,” continues the official report,
"we heard newsboys crying out 'Extra— all about the I
AM suit.’ It was such a complete surprise that we pur­
chased a copy, and then read to our amusement . . . ”
W hy should this occurrence have been "such a com­
plete surprise” with the all-knowing Saint Germain
around? And how much "amusement” did the newspaper
article really give?
E v id e n tly , Saint G erm ain was aw ay on "E u ro p e a n
business” on this "m ir a c le ” n ig h t, fo r it w as n o t u ntil the
fo llo w in g d ay th at he arrived to do battle against such
vicious individuals:
"F iv e o f the m ost vicious b lack m agicians in A m erica
w ere seized last n ig h t!” he told the applauding audience.
C o m m e n tin g on the reasons fo r the suit, he said:
"The woman who made this charge, some years ago,
for no reason at all, became very angry at the Messengers.”
The little matter of $6,775 is of course "no reason at
all” to a wealthy "Ascended Master” with his hoard of
"Spanish gold lost at sea” and three Colorado gold mines.
But it teas for the little woman who had slaved all her
life to save it from her meager earnings.
"S h e K N O W S th at the charge is N O T tr u e !” c o n tin ­
ued Saint G erm ain . "S h e K N O W S very w ell th at this
M essenger did N O T receive her m o n e y , and I k n o w it!
" . . . T h e vicious individuals w h o cam e in to th at lo b b y
last n ig h t,” said Saint G erm ain , "a r e dealing w ith M e , and
n o t the M essenger! I alw ays abide M y tim e.
"I say to the newspapers who were unfortunate enough
H ow t h e C h i c a g o S u i t W a s A n s w e r e d 161
to print that, they too must pay the penalty for it . . .
Now begins the destruction of every one who allows such
things to continue . . . I say to every newspaper in the
land— take heed! I am always present and watching every­
thing, and when I am ready I will act.”
Surely, after this fair warning from the great Saint
Germain himself, none of us would like to be newspaper
people— certainly not Chicago ones. Such as they can only
wait the dire and inevitable consequences of their own
heedlessness. The suspense must be terrific.
While Saint Germain in this speech spent most of his
allotted stage time threatening Chicago news reporters and
editors, he still had time to praise his tried and tested "A c­
credited Messengers” :
"Beloved Ones,” said he to the Chicago audience,
"when I chose him [Ballard] and the beloved Lotus to be
the Messengers of My Work, I knew every thought and
feeling that is in their Beings. There is not one impure
nor dishonest thought in their whole Life! (tremendous
applause) . . . This beloved Messenger rendered a service
last night for which all America one day will bless him!
(Again tremendous applause as the huge audience arose to
their feet!)” (p. 2, Nov. 20, 1938, G . L . )
This, in brief, is how the Accredited Messengers of
Saint Germain and the Ascended Masters answered the
Chicago suit. But it appears that the " G i g a n t i c A s c e n d e d
M a s t e r M i r a c l e , ” which assertedly happened at Chicago,
didn’t influence the Chicago authorities to nullify and
make void the suit brought by the little woman who had
invested her all in Ballard’s "Lake of Gold.” The "Miracle”
didn’t take care of that little point.
However, eleven days before the trial was to come
up— on December 29, 1939— an event occurred which was
to make it forever impossible for Guy Ballard, defendant,
to satisfy the claimant in this suit. The details of this will
be told in the last chapter.
C H A P T E R 22
HOW "SAINT GERMAIN” KEPT W AR OUT OF
EUROPE
It is n o w w ell, in this history o f "A sc e n d e d M aster
M iracles” and other stirring events, th at w e tell the equally
stirring sto ry o f h ow the " War Entity of the World” was
consu m ed and w ar k ept o u t o f E urope.
T h is " W a r E n tity ,” accord in g to the Ballard literature,
is none other th an the "B e a st” o f R evelations. H e is a sort
o f black m agician par excellence, w ith a b od y o f unusual
p rop ortion s; th at is, he had before the Ballards started to
“ w o r k ” o n it.
The head of the monster, Saint Germain, said, "was
over New York,” and explained that it had "largely to do
with communistic activity.” (p. 17, Aug., 1938, v.)
H o w e v e r , he is rather vague as to the exact location o f
the other parts o f the m onster, b u t it appears th at its
" body rests over Eitrope.” (p . 468, a . m . l .)
Many were the decrees of the students directed against
this psychic monster. For years they had tried to dis­
solve it. It was only, however, during the Shrine class in
Los Angeles in the summer of 1938 that their decrees
seemed to have any effect.
D u r in g the Shrine class, Saint G erm ain cam e fo rth
to m ake a m om en tou s ann oun cem ent.
"B e lo v e d ones,” he said, " . . . Y o u k n o w h ow lon g,
these three and a h alf years, th at y ou r call has been m ade
fo r the dissolving o f the w ar en tity . T h a t has b egu n !
(W ild applause)
" I t began on the open in g day o f this Class, w h en the
G reat C o sm ic L ig h t was again released. It began w ith the
163
H o w W a r W a s K e p t O u t o f E u r o p e
head over N e w Y o r k , w ith the eye w h ich sees the weakness
o f m an k in d . That eye sees no morel (W ild applause again)
" A l l around the b o d y o f the w ar en tity o f the w orld
there is a P o w erfu l Blue Flam e w h ich is steadily and surely
m o v in g in upon the fo r m , its b o d y o f substance.
" I t is O u r hope th at b y the end o f this Class, the w ar
en tity shall have been dissolved . . . It o n ly means a c o n ­
tinued p ou n d in g a w ay on these M ig h ty D ecrees . . .
" I firmly believe that the war will soon cease in Europe
and the Orient. (Wild applause).” (p. 1, July 26, 193 8,
G. L .)
The above encouraging statement of Saint Germain’s
about the ceasing of the civil war in Spain and the war of
aggression in China was made on July 2, 1938. Two days
later, on the Fourth of July, after a lot of decreeing by
the students, he came forth to report extraordinary prog­
ress in dissolving the monster.
"Beloved students,” he said, "I bring you great en­
couragement : more than half the war entity of Europe has
been dissolved! (Wild applause)” (p. 2, July 26, 1938,
G. L .)
Saint G erm ain d id n ’t say w h ether our little A m e rica n
yen fo r setting o ff firecrackers and other explosives on
the F ou rth had an yth in g to do w ith dissolving h a lf the
" W a r E n tity ,” or n o t, b u t w e can w ell believe it.
T h e n on the last d ay o f the Shrine Class, J uly 10, right
on schedule, Saint G erm ain cam e fo rth fresh fr o m the
trou bled d ip lom atic circles o f E urope to m ake his report.
"B e lo v e d students o f the L ig h t,” he said, " W e have the
m ost glorious new s o f the centuries fo r y ou tod ay. A t
1 2 : 0 0 o ’clo ck n oon to d ay , y ou r tim e here, THE LAST
VESTIGE OF THE W AR ENTITY OF THE WORLD
WAS CONSUMED!”
"F o r a m o m e n t,” continues this report, "th e audience
was sp ellb oun d ; then as the G reatness o f it broke u p on us,
the huge audience arose as one m a n , and unleashed one
164 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
mighty wave of applause that continued on and on, so
great was our heart’s rejoicing. The war entity of the
world, referred to in the Bible as the Beast, was con­
sumed!” (p. 3.)
With this timely destruction of the "W ar Entity of
the World” one would have thought that hostilities in
Europe and Asia would cease forthwith. But not so!
Europe on the contrary showed immediately an increased
flare for war, culminating in that fatal crisis the latter
part of September, 1938, the historic Chamberlain-Hitler
peace conferences at Munich.
But nevertheless and notwithstanding, the Ballards
even here took credit for saving Europe. Note the follow­
ing ingenious statements:
"Our Great Cosmic Mother, the Mighty Goddess of
Liberty, gave the closing night Dictation . . . The date was
September 25, 1938, when the frightful situation in Eur­
ope could have burst forth into another world conflagra­
tion. The Ascended Masters had asked the I AM students
to redouble their earnest call for their fellow man in
Europe. We did.
"T e le g ra m s flashed to all the large G rou p s o f students
everyw here. W e w en t in to action as never b efore. D a y and
n ig h t; n ig h t and day.
"T h e closing n ig h t o f the Seattle Class cam e at this
m o m e n t. T h e n the G reat Goddess o f L ib erty said: 'I w a n t
y o u to rejoice w ith M e . . . T h e u n fo rtu n a te individual in
E u rop e has failed in his a tte m p t to release destruction.
Please rejoice in th at, and you have your beloved Saint
Germain largely to thank for it.’ (trem en d ou s applause,
audience r is in g !)” (p p . 2-3, O c t . 12, 193 8, g . l .)
B u t despite all this decreeing and the destruction o f
the " W a r E n tity o f the W o r ld ,” the undeclared w ars o f
E u rop e w en t right along, and b lood -rid d en Spain was in
the throes o f one o f the w orst civil wars in history.
T h ere w as rep orted ly, h ow ever, in the press a sort o f
H ow W ar W as Kept O ut of Europe 165
lull during the early part of 1939, which no doubt gave
the newspaper-reading "Saint Germain” courage to come
forth on February 26, 1939, at the Oakland class, to say:
"Yfou will rejoice with me tonight in knowing that for
the present, things are under control in Europe.” (p. 3,
March 18, 1939, G. L.)
Unfortunately, however, for Saint Germain’s witless
remark and the peace of Europe, fifteen days later Hitler
took Czechoslovakia, and shortly thereafter Mussolini took
Albania!
B u t th at o f course isn’t all o f this w retch ed deception.
One year and two months after this "War Entity of
the World” had been consumed (!) and the peace of
Europe "saved” by "Saint Germain” and his bands of de­
creeing I AM-ers, Hitler made his historic onslaught on
Poland, and the really big war in Europe was on.
But did the start of the great war in Europe show to
the Ballard students the futility of their decrees and re­
veal to them this great "Master” deception of the age?
It did not! Having failed to keep both small and big
wars out of Europe, they are, nevertheless, busily engaged
day and night in keeping war out of America!
•In fact, they have already "saved” America. Mrs. Bal­
lard in her radio talk at Los Angeles on the afternoon of
December 31, 1939, said:
"W e have given out these decrees eighteen and twenty
hours each day for the protection of America. If we had
not, America would be in the same chaos of war that Spain
is today.”
Since the destruction and parceling of Poland, the wars
in Europe have increased in intensity as well as in geo­
graphical magnitude. Denmark, Norway, Holland, Bel­
gium went under the iron heel of the Dictator of Europe,
and France was soon to meet the greatest humiliation any
courageous nation was ever made to suffer.
W h e re was ”Saint Germain” and his m ig h ty a rm y o f
166 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
"Ascended Masters” the week of June 10, 1940, when war
was raging near the gates of Paris and oncoming Nazi
tanks were spurting their hell of fire? Where was the
" Great Divine Director,” he who boasted that "ten of the
Ascended Masters could wipe out all armies of the earth” ?
(p. 5, Nov., 1937, v.) Where was Saint Germain’s blessed
child, " Lotus,” his "Little Dynamite,” the reincarnated
"JO AN OF ARC,” Saviour of France?
W hy didn’t she save France in 1940 as did the real Joan
of Arc in 1429?
T h e present Joan — the one " who would never be
burned at the stake” — in her luxurious h otel ap artm en t,
rem ained w isely silent about the m atter, and after p e rm it­
tin g her beloved France to fa ll, con ten ted herself w ith the
"s a v in g ” o f her beloved A m e ric a !
T h e Ballard " W a r E n tity ” is dead, dead as can be, y et
E u rop e tod ay is in volved in the greatest and m ost d estru c­
tive w ar o f history. W h a t u tter insanity it is fo r these
people to claim th at th ey have "s a v e d ” A m e ric a w h en w e
to d ay face the m enace o f the totalitarian pow ers o f E u r­
ope and A sia. H o w dangerous it is fo r these people to fo o l
great n um bers o f people in to depen ding u p o n the false
security and p rotective p ow er o f their ridiculous decrees,
and ign orin g or b elittlin g real preparedness to face the
enem ies to our freed om .
C on sciou sly, or uncon sciou sly, these A m e ric a n -b o rn
dictators have played in to the hands o f the dictators o f
E urope and A sia.
CHAPTER 23
THOSE BAD BLACK MAGICIANS
We shall now recount how the two Ballards almost
single-handedly rid the country of all its black magicians.
O f course, they were aided in this by the "Ascended
Masters” and their decreeing bands of students; but it is
doubtful if this attacking army of black magicians would
have been rendered hors de combat had it not been for
the hard-working "Accredited Messengers of Saint Ger­
main.”
For five long years the Ballards have been busily en­
gaged in removing black magicians from America and
Europe. The original number of these rather nebulous
workers of iniquity was never definitely stated, but they
seemed to have been paired about fifty-fifty with the
"Ascended Masters.”
Chaining them up, or "withdrawing” them from the
earth, seems to have been the usual course of procedure;
but as some of the more powerful ones, it appears, would
somehow get right back into circulation again, these would
sometimes have to be "consumed” or "destroyed” by well-
directed Light Rays.
Some of these big, bad black magicians have even been
known to play boyish pranks upon the "Ascended Mas­
ters” ! Said Ascended-Master Saint Germain, on Septem­
ber 3, 1938, at the Oakland class: " . . . Secretly there
has been spread in your vicinity an activity which pretends
to be the Real Activity of Myself . . . The black magician
who has his claws upon it is representing himself to be Me
(p. 30, Oct., 1938, V., our italics.)
168 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
It must, indeed, have been most disconcerting to Saint
Germain, and even a stain upon his reputation, to have
some evil black magician masquerading as himself!
Then again, how can his students tell which "Saint
Germain” they have gotten hold of, when they make the
"call”— the black-magician Saint Germain or the Ballard
Saint Germain?
It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that for a num­
ber of years the Ballards and their "Ascended Masters”
have been trying to remove these black magicians from
circulation.
The method of killing them off, or otherwise making
way with them, however, has certain difficulties; for we
are told by the "Mighty Astrea” himself, who should
know, that " those individuals always have PHYSICAL
BODIES” / (p. 139, a . m . L., our italics and caps.)
Surely, this complicates the matter, for it would ap­
pear to be in conflict with the laws of our land to kill
these evil doers who have physical bodies, or otherwise "re­
move” them without fair and proper trial.
Nevertheless, these Ballard "Masters,” either not realiz­
ing, or, ignoring, that our American Constitution guaran­
tees fair and impartial trial even to confessed crimnals,
have, reportedly, removed or "consumed” hundreds of
them.
Even when mandates of the law have to be carried out,
the State appoints legally-constituted individuals to take
care of the matter. Killing by all others, even by "As­
cended Masters,” is frowned upon by our Government,
and the penalties run high.
At any rate, whatever the legal status of the question
may be concerning this wholesale removal of black magi­
cians who have physical bodies, the Ballards and their
"Saint Germain” decided to remove these evil doers from
circulation.
So, at various classes throughout the country, they re-
169
T hose Bad Black Magicians
ported to their applauding students the latest results of
this clean-up of black magicians, who were "chained,”
"bound,” "consumed,” " taken from the atmosphere of
earth,” or otherwise rendered harmless to law-abiding
citizens.
Sometimes only one; sometimes as many as five; and
once the report was nine removed at one time; which latter
seems to have been the record in America.
In Europe, as might be expected, the score runs higher;
as many as thirty being removed in one day.
Thus, gradually, but surely, the black magicians of the
land were decimated; until at last on one memorable oc­
casion at Washington, D. C., scene of Guy Ballard’s for­
mer labors as "George Washington,” Saint Germain gave
forth the joyous news that "all but 12 of the black magi­
cians in the United States had been seized and removed.”
(p. 1 , Dec. 20, 1938, g. l.)
The ranks of the once powerful army of black ma­
gicians in the U. S. A. had been mowed down to a mere
handful!
And, not to be wondered at, the audience went wild
at such good news, the official report saying: "W e leaped
to our feet in a tremendous outburst of applause and joy­
ous enthusiasm.”
But the Ascended Masters accept no half-way meas­
ures. The scattered and tattered army of black magicians
was to be completely annihilated.
Taking their cue perhaps from Exodus 22:18, "Thou
shalt not suffer a witch to live,” it was applied with proper
effect to the equally obnoxious "black magician.”
So "decreeing students,” with victory now almost in
sight, continued with even more emotional power and
vocal force than before to "work on” these last remaining
twelve.
It was in historic Philadelphia, city of our constitution­
al liberties, that another milestone was reached.
170 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
The Archangel Michael himself ( !), wielder of the
"Sword of Blue Lightning,” reported on November 15,
1938, that "5 of the remaining 12 black magicians in the
United States had been seized and removed, leaving only
7.” (p. 1, Dec. 30, 1938, G. L.)
B u t it was in little old N e w Y o r k th at the m ost e f ­
fectiv e b low o f all was stru ck . A n d , quite p rop erly, "S a in t
G erm ain ” had the honor o f an n ou n cin g it:
" Praises be!” said he, like a h ap p y school b o y , " the re­
maining 7 black magicians in the United States have been
seized!” (p . 1, D e c . 30, 1938, g . l .)
A c c o rd in g to official report, the effect o f this an­
n ou n cem en t was trem en dou s:
"T h e audience ju m p ed to its feet. A trem endous w ave
o f applause broke loose, w h ich carried on and o n ! . . .
N e v e r again w o u ld a black m agician have a c tiv ity in
A m e r ic a .”
B u t despite these outstan ding victories in A m e ric a , the
students w ere w arned th at there w ere still black m agicians
operating in other parts o f the w o rld , and w ere urged n o t
to let u p on their decreeing.
It is n ot surprising, th erefore, th at a little later the
report cam e th rou gh o f som e really com m en d able w o rk in
m o w in g d ow n these last rem aining foreigners am on g the
black m agicians.
W e quote the official rep ort o f the O a k la n d class:
"When the Class began, there were still remaining on
earth, principally in Europe, 36 black magicians.
" W e determ ined as never before to call, call, and call
to the G reat O n es and the Goddess o f L ig h t to seize and
rem ove every one o f those vicious fiends b y the end o f
the Class.
" T o our jo y one n ight Saint G erm ain said th at all but 6
had been removed!
" . . . W e w en t into action in our call again.
"T h e n the Goddess o f L ig h t, tw o days before the end
171
T hose Bad Black Magicians
o f the Class, said th at all but one had been removed; and
this last one had been surrounded in his lair b y a W a ll o f
B lue Flam e thru w h ich he cou ld n o t pass . . . ”
T h u s, "surrotmded in his lair,” the days o f this m ost
persistent o f all the black m agicians on earth seem ed n u m ­
bered.
A n d sure enou gh, tw o days later, right on schedule at
the closing n ig h t o f the class, the great "G od d ess o f L ig h t”
cam e fo rth to report th at this last remaining black magi­
cian mho had been caught in his lair had been completely
" withdrawn from the earth!”
"W e leaped to our feet,” continues the official report
of the victory, "as a mighty ovation swept the Municipal
Auditorium. It kept on and on.” (pp. 1-2, March 18,
1939, g. L.)
N o w th at this m ost stu bb orn black m agician and all
the others, b oth foreign and dom estic, have been rem oved
or exterm in ated , w e m ig h t th in k the earth w o u ld be a
better place on w h ich to live.
B u t it seems n o t so. W a r s have follow ed rum ors o f
w ars, and strife, pestilence, flood, hurricane, catastrophe,
and blitzkriegs have been our lo t since the rem oval o f these
black m agicians.
Y e t the "h u r lin g fo r th ” o f those m arvelous "d ecrees”
continues w ith unabated fo rc e , fo r it appears there are
still other things to be accom plished b y these students in
order to m ake the w orld safe fo r the "M ig h t y I A M .”
CHAPTER 24
HARBINGERS OF DISASTER
The two heroic and self-proclaimed Messengers of Saint
Germain and the Ascended Host have not come into the
world to bring olive branches of peace to an already dis­
traught world. Rather have these two come to stir the pro­
phetic waters into new currents and whirlpools of disaster.
They have brought forth in glittering array such a
procession of astral ghosts, demons, entities, black magi­
cians, male and female, that all other time-honored pro­
cessions of headless horsemen and sheeted ghosts have been
relegated to the background.
When astral entities pop out from behind every an­
tique, when danger lurks in a little bit of garlic, when the
coastal regions of our land are only held in place by shout­
ing bands of I AM-ers, when black magicians are tied up
only to get loose again, and so on and on in ever-widening
circles of disaster, then we may well suspect that the story
tellers and writers are at it again.
Therefore, as we record some of the Ballard prophecies
of cataclysms that threaten to destroy some of our Amer­
ican cities and the earth itself, we hope the reader will not
take them too seriously. We merely take them out for a
much needed airing and sunning, and then we shall let
them fly away like eider down in the wind.
Early in their movement the Ballards began to appre­
ciate the psychological effect of holding over the heads of
their people the threat of some cataclysm which would
destroy the particular city in which the credulous students
were living. Like a sword of Damocles, this cataclysm was
173
H arbingers of D isaster
suspended, as it w ere, b y o n ly a hair, and w ithh eld solely
b y the heroic efforts o f the "A sc e n d e d M asters” and their
earth-plan e "M essen gers.”
So as the Ballards traveled fr o m c ity to c ity , th ey p ic­
tured to their audiences the d oom w h ich was in store fo r a
certain c ity unless sufficient num bers in that c ity w ou ld
join the decreeing arm y o f M ig h ty I A M -e r s and shout
com m an d s to the "A sc e n d e d M asters.” It seems th at these
great "B e in g s” w o u ld p ay n o attenion to h u m a n ity ’s woes
unless th ey w ere shouted at and ordered around.
I f sufficient num bers o f students w o u ld o n ly take part
in this d ecree-shou tin g, these "M a ste rs” and their M es­
sengers w o u ld n o t o n ly save the w orld fr o m the b ig, bad
w o lf, the black magician, and fr o m wars w h ich still go on,
b u t th ey w o u ld also keep m iscellaneous and su n d ry " Gas
Belts” fr o m h urling m an k in d to destruction.
At Washington, D. C., on the evening of December 8,
193 8, "Saint Germain,” as is his usual happy duty, came
forth to praise the work of his Messengers, but this time
he tells the appreciative audience how they saved the city
from destruction.
"T h e s e tw o w h o m I love so m u c h ,” he said, "w h o have
given such im p licit obedience, are as h u m b le as h u m b le ­
ness can be . . . W ith o u t th em m an k in d w o u ld have been
in the m ost seething v o rte x o f w ar righ t in y ou r m idst
tod ay. Y o u r C ap ital w ou ld n o t be here to d a y !” (p . 6,
D e c ., 1938, v .)
At New York, on October 8, 1937, they had none
other than the "Lonf Maitreya,” who had formerly been a
Master connected with the Theosophical Society but who
had now assertedly embraced the Mighty I AM, say:
"You stand with the war entity above you and the
destructive gas belts beneath.” (p. 160, a . m . l.)
Poor N e w Y o r k ! Besieged fr o m above and b elow , there
seemed little hope fo r h er; b u t a little later, at their n ext
visit to the app arently d oom ed c ity , the "G o d d e ss o f
174 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
Peace” gave the N e w Y ork ers a breath o f hope.
" O u r R ecords show great devastation has already been
p reven ted in y ou r land . . . Y o u r c ity w here y ou rest so
serenely to n igh t w o u ld n o t have been here the past eighteen
m o n th s, if it had n o t been fo r the call to L ig h t.” (Page 11,
J u ly, 1938, v .)
San F rancisco, if w e can believe it, has been saved a
n u m b er o f tim es b y the Ballards and their local I A M -e r s .
"B e fo r e the M essengers c a m e,” said Saint G erm ain in
A u g u s t, 1937, "y o u r c ity was in great d an ger.” (p . 3,
Septem ber, 1937, v .) A n d on every subsequent visit he
w o u ld give additional w arnings abou t "G a s B elts” alleged
to lie underneath the city .
H o w e v e r, th ey overdid it a bit here, and the San F ran ­
cisco w id e-aw ak e C h am b er o f C o m m e rc e cam e d ow n on
their heads.
It w as all on accou n t o f a m im eograp h letter sent b y
the Ballards to the fa ith fu l at the San Francisco " I A M
S an ctu a ry.” W e q u o te:
"S a in t G erm ain says th at San Francisco is in greater
danger o f earthquake than any c ity in the w hole U n ite d
States because o f the gas u n d erlyin g it. San F rancisco’s
W H O L E P R O T E C T I O N rests in the guard o f the I A M
students at the S A N C T U A R Y . . . A ll sincere students are
asked to stand b y the S A N C T U A R Y w h ich is the L ig h t’s
P rotection in San Francisco against another earthqu ak e.”
T h e Ballards, w ell aware th at the "S a n c tu a r y ” in San
F rancisco w as h avin g considerable internal disturbance at
this tim e, evid en tly took this m eth od o f h oldin g it to ­
gether, m ak in g it appear th at the fa te o f the c ity depended
u p on the unified w o rk o f the I A M -e r s there. W h a t pu b lic
spirited citizen am on g the San Francisco I A M -e r s
wouldn’t b u ry his differences to save the c ity !
It seems th at the fa ith fu l at the San ctu ary actually did
take this danger v ery m u c h to heart, buried the hatchet,
and, in an endeavor to "s a v e ” the c ity , w ide p u b licity was
175
H arbingers of D isaster
given to this letter. A t least so it appears fr o m a n ew s­
paper article in the San Francisco Examiner on M a y 28,
1938, headed: " C . of C . Puts 'Master’ W ise on Pro­
phecy.” W e quote in p art:
"N a s t y little rum ors to the effect th at the C h a m b er o f
C o m m e rc e has p u t the fix on none other than 'T h e A s ­
cended M aster St. G erm a in ’ g o t them selves considerable
credence yesterday . . . " H e speaks or w rites th rou gh his
o n ly accredited messengers, M r . and M rs. G . W . Ballard
. . . A lot o f B ay region cash goes in to their p ock ets.”
T h is new spaper article w e n t on to quote Saint G e r­
m ain ’s dire predictions about San F rancisco’s o ve r-su p p ly
o f gas. T h e n a subtitle headed, "D elete-Q uake,” said:
"E v id e n c e th at Saint G erm ain had been seen b y the
C . o f C ., or som ebod y, was fo u n d w h en a revised version
o f the same m im eograp h sheet em anated fr o m the local
'san ctu ary .’ T h e n ew screed is identical in every paragraph
w ith the old , excep t th at the w o rd 'earth q uak e’ is o u t . . .”
T h a t is w h a t com es o f h avin g a w id e-aw ak e C h am b er
o f C o m m e rc e in a c ity w h ich is sufficiently sensitive about
its "G a s B elts” as to have the nerve to p u t the " f i x ” on
even the great A scen d ed M aster Saint G erm a in !
Los A n geles, as m ig h t be exp ected , has also been
"sa v e d ” m a n y tim es. B u t unlike San Francisco, its C h a m ­
ber o f C o m m e rc e has n o t yet p u t the " f i x ” on the A sc e n d ­
ed M aster Saint G erm ain . Perhaps the local C h a m b er o f
C o m m e rc e believes any kin d o f p u b licity fo r good old Los
A n geles has good advertising value, and th at tourists w ill
com e o u t to the land o f sunshine to see b u m p er crops o f
h eterod oxy just as readily as b u m p er crops o f an yth in g
else.
B u t w e do think the C . o f C ., or som ebod y, should call
a halt on Saint G erm a in ’s "tidal reaves” and " destructive
Light Rays from Russia” sw eeping in to destroy the city.
On New Year’s Day in 1936, speaking at Los Angeles,
"Saint Germain” said that the call of the students had
176 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
rendered a tremendous service.
” . . . It has prevented a tidal wave striking the western
coast which was thought would have come into action the
second of January, 1936.” And he rightly adds:
" H o w m u ch m ore w o n d e rfu l it is th at m an k in d m igh t
be en joyin g the T o u rn a m e n t o f Roses than to be in the
throes o f a destructive a c tiv ity .” (p . 12, F eb ., 1936, v .)
A couple o f years later he again saved the c ity , this
tim e fr o m a " destructive Ray” assertedly directed fr o m a
"f o c u s in the U ra l m oun tain s betw een Russia and Siberia.”
" H a d I n ot been able to check this a tte m p t,” he says,
"th e r e w o u ld have been no Shrine Class in J u ly ! because
there w o u ld n o t have been any place to have i t !” (p . 3,
Feb. 18, 1938, g . L .)
T h u s fr o m c ity to c ity the Ballards traveled, and w h er­
ever th ey w en t, th ey told the story o f the "A sc e n d e d M a s­
ters” or their "A c c r e d ite d M essengers” saving th at city
fr o m destruction. T here was alw ays a con ven ien t gas belt,
tidal w ave, or d estroying "R a y ” to brin g fo r th if the
people did n o t evidence sufficient interest in the M ig h ty
I A M .
"T re m e n d o u s p rotection has been given the coasts o f
A m e r ic a !” said the Ballards to students in cities w h ich
w o u ld be affected b y the disaster. A n d to en force obedi­
ence, th ey shrew dly added: " D o you w a n t to u n d o th at,
beloved students everyw here, and let this cataclysm com e
fo rth and destroy all . . . ?” (p . 38, M a rch , 1937, v.)
In their travels, th ey cam e across, one day, a leaflet
telling the story o f an alleged vision o f G eneral W a sh in g ­
to n received during his V a lle y Forge e n ca m p m en t, w h ich
w as en titled : " General Washington’s Vision.” T h e story
w as told b y a feeble, old m an o f n in ety -n in e years, w h o
said W a sh ig to n told it to h im .
T h e substance o f the vision w as: "T h r e e great perils
w o u ld com e u p on the R ep u b lic . . . the m ost fe a rfu l being
the third . . . and th at help w ou ld com e in the shape o f
H arbingers of D isaster 177
Divine Assistance.”
Immediately, the Ballards began to refer to the "great
peril,” for it seems that Saint Germain had not told them
before of this danger confronting the Nation, and the
memory of the present reincarnated George Washington
(!) failed to recall so important an event until this story
of a ninety-nine-year-old man came into his hands.
Their numerous "Gods” and "Goddesses” soon got the
idea of the "Vision,” too, and made the most of it.
At New York, the "Silent Watcher” said:
" . . . Should the third episode in Washington’s vision
take place in your America, there would scarcely be
enough people left on the earth to make one small city.”
(p. 121, A. M. L.)
At West Palm Beach, the "Goddess of Liberty” said:
" . . . The third episode has been the greatest danger
confronting mankind today. If it swept into America,
the whole world would be a seething vortex of destruc­
tion.” (p. 5, Jan., 1938, v.)
Such were some of the forebodings of doom made by
these harbingers of disaster as they traveled from city to
city. They injected needless fear into the minds of credu­
lous people, and deluded them through promises of As­
cended Master protection to join the army of Mighty I
AM-ers.
Military armies were said by the great Napoleon to
travel on their stomachs, but this "I AM ” army of Saint
Germain’s has been nourished on the pabulum of disaster.
The whole thing is an outstanding instance of the use of
fear psychology, wherein weird processions of phantom
masters, black magicians, astral entities, and other hobgob­
lins are made to pass in disordered review before the minds
of their followers.
Some day their credulous students will awaken as from
a trance and recognize it all as the absurd delusion and un­
reality that it is.
CHAPTER 25
SEX TEACHINGS OF BALLAKDISM
The Ballard cult with its distorted and fanatical view
of sex has been a prolific cause of divorce and unhappiness
among its members, and has produced widespread reper­
cussions among non-members.
Sex, according to the Ballards and their "Ascended
Masters,” is absolutely taboo except for procreative pur­
poses, and even then they definitely discourage their mem­
bers from bringing children into the world. The "Ascen­
sion,” they say, is too near for that.
To properly take care of the ever-growing sex and
marriage problems among their students the Ballards
brought forth a new "lady Ascended Master” and called
her the "Goddess of Purity.” The "Goddess” thinks that
I AM-ers, all and sundry, should get off the earth by mak­
ing their "Ascension” instead of settling down and rearing
families— a sort of race suicide of the elect. Let the others
go through all the trouble and bother of raising families.
The Goddess wants none of it. Says she:
" . . . Those of today who have the opportunity and
the privilege of gaining their Freedom from human bond­
age through their Ascension, should certainly not contem­
plate sex or family relationship in that respect. You have
served a long time in raising children, in exercising un­
desirable sex force. Is it not time now that you might for­
get it for a few years . . . ? There will still be enough of
mankind left to take care of the requirements of birth . . .
You cannot seek another for the desire of sex and expect
yourself to be free!” (pp. 25-26, Nov., 1939, v.)
Sex T eachings of Ballardism 179
Despite the thumbs-down attitude on marriage and
the rearing of children the Ballard cult goes in strongly
for what they call "Twin Rays.” It must be explained that
this has nothing whatever to do with ordinary twins or
quintuplets, but presents the idea that each person is but
half a human being— that somewhere in space is his other
half, wandering, as it were, like a loosened planetoid from
the part from which it was broken.
That is the deplorable condition the general run of
humanity is in today, it seems, but the Ascended Masters
and a few of the lucky I AM-ers have recovered their lost
"halves” and are presumably living blissful lives together.
The "Accredited Messengers” of the Ascended Master
Saint Germain are quite naturally one of those lucky
couples, each being the Twin Ray of the other. Saint
Germain himself has informed them that this is so.
Their book, The Magic Presence, is full of the Twin
Ray idea, the lady and gentlemen Ascended Masters and
young couples in it being paired off, for the most part,
into blissful unions of Twin Rays.
In this book, along with Saint Germain’s other strenu­
ous duties, he is revealed as a sort of Twin Ray specialist.
Though peculiarly never mentioning his own Twin Ray,
he can spot the Twin Rays of others most unerringly, and
makes it his special Ascended-Master duty to draw the
young people together and tell them about the laws of
love, marriage, and romance.
This all reads well in the Ballard story books (albeit
a bit too heavenly for plain-thinking earth beings), but
the sad fact remains that most of the Ballard students in
the outer world do not know where their other "half” is.
Saint Germain, it seems, is the only Ascended Master who
is able to tell them— and he talks only through Guy and
Edna Ballard. The students, therefore, must get all their
information concerning 50% of themselves from two hu­
man beings who also have a large and growing option on
180 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
the other 50%.
It is sometimes difficult for the Ballards to remember
who-is-who in this Twin Ray business, and Guy Ballard
at least one time in his Messianic career made a deep and
tragic error.
It seems that he had informed two of his favorite staff
members that they were Twin Rays; and this, as usual,
came from the great Saint Germain, the Twin Ray spe­
cialist, himself.
However, a little later on, the " Great Divine Director
not being a specialist in this particular field and perhaps
forgetful of what brother Saint Germain had said, severely
startled a little group of staff members and students one
evening by saying that ALL the staff members’ Twin Rays
had ascended and were not to be found on the earth plane.
That was a most grievous slip for a Perfect Being to
make, and it had the result, among other things, of getting
one of the "halves” of the combination out of the move­
ment; and then Saint Germain had to inform the other
remaining "half” that he had to choose between the " Light
of God that Never Fails” and his wife. The gentleman
wisely chose the latter, and so as a result of the Great D i­
vine Director’s slip the Ballard organization lost both of
Saint Germain’s favorite Twin Rays.
Twin Rays today in the Ballard organization are al­
most as scarce as quintuplets. Even Donald Eros Ballard
is without his Twin Ray on the earth plane ("Saint Ger­
main” told him so) — a little matter which must have been
fully realized by his wife in her recent divorce suit against
him.
As a result of an apparent scarcity of Twin Rays
among duly wedded I AM-ers, one or both of the partners
may be inclined to look for some imaginary Twin Ray
or Rays out in space somewheres. And sometimes it has not
been an imaginary "Twin Ray” on some heavenly sphere
either, but some ecstatic earth love on this very mundane
181
Sex T eachings of Ballardism
sphere. All of which is quite understandable in this weird
cult which teaches that each I AM-er is only half an I AM-
er, the other "half” being somewhere else— and may not
at all be the present spouse.
But the Twin Ray idea is not the only reason for so
many divorces among I AM-ers. Far from it. Complete
abolition of sex is taught by this cult, and although they
formerly taught that sex could be used to bring children
into the world, they today teach quite differently. As we
have seen from the Goddess of Purity’s (?) statement, a
philosophy of race suicide is preached. No marriage, no
children. Make the "Ascension” instead. Leave the earth
to the morons. 'What a wonderful chance for the Dictat­
orii!
D esp ite the alleged "p u r it y ” o f this cu lt, a disguised
b u t easily discernable eroticism plays th rough this cu lt.
Guy Ballard, over and over again on the public plat­
form, referred to his so-called "Sex Law,” and seemed to
take delight in picturing the fearful consequences which
would result for any violation of it. At one of his early
classes in Los Angeles (August 19, 1935), he said:
"The sex urge was only to be used for procreation.
When it is used for so-called pleasure, mankind loses the
dominion of his physical form . . . When it is wasted, the
body becomes decrepit and helpless . . . Your aura becomes
charged with the most vicious entities you can imagine.”
Since then, with fanatical persistence, the Ballards have
constantly referred to the subject of sex. They inject the
strongest sort of fear-thought into the minds of their stu­
dents should any violation of their instruction take place.
Time and again their "Ascended Masters” come forth to
keep this subject flaming before the minds of their audi­
ences.
" . . . T o seek these classes,” says their G reat D ivin e
D irec to r, " t o gain acquaintance and com panionship fo r sex
desire is the m ost in fam ou s th in g ever on this earth! . . .
182 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
There are those who have been doing it . . . If you don’t
stop it, I shall pick you out! . . . You have been told re­
peatedly that unless you cease your sex desire, you cannot
gain your Freedom and Ascension . . . D o not be surprised
if I release the Fire, the Flame of Life to burn these desires
out of you tonight, (applause)” (pp. 18-19, April, 1940,
V.)
This sex taboo teaching has been given indiscriminately
in public for over five years among people of all walks of
life. It applies, they say, to all regardless of their circum­
stances, conditions, beliefs, obligations, spirituality, or any­
thing else. It is the unalterable, inexorable "Law of Sex,”
and will react upon all who disobey it, producing de­
generation of both mind and body.
Naturally, such extreme views concerning the domi­
nant, biological urge of sex, enunciated to people who in
their marital lives had built up certain habits in regard to
it, had widespread repercussions.
This sex teaching alone has resulted in an extraordinary
number of divorces, separations, and disagreements among
married people, many of whom up to the time Ballardism
entered their homes had doubtless been living normal, sen­
sible sex lives.
With the sudden introduction of a fanatical religion
into the home environment, with its rigid taboo of sex
expression in any form, a condition of affairs was brought
about which frequently became intolerable to the marriage
partner who did not embrace the religious fanaticism of
the other partner.
The result was separation or divorce in many homes
which had formerly been happy and contented ones be­
fore the arrival of Ballardism and its extreme sex teaching.
The instructions from the Ballards were to divorce the
partner who desired marital relations, or leave the move­
ment.
Referring to the unhappiness that has come to the I AM
183
Sex T eachings of Ballardism
students as a result o f this sex teaching, the G reat D ivin e
D irec to r encourages th em to go on w ith the p rogram , even
th ou gh it separates husband and w ife , parent and child.
"I say to you blessed ladies of the Light,” says he, "be
not dismayed in the unhappiness that has come of your
search for and acceptance of the Light. Stand firm and
unyielding . . . Everyone of you must now stand by your
'I AM Presence’— I don’t care how much you love your
wives, husbands and children . . . If your home life has
become unbearable and you have severed it, don’t seek the
companionship of other men . . . Ungratified sex desires
will make a human being the most vicious individual ever
known . . . ” (pp. 21-22, April, 1940, v.)
B u t sex was n o t the on ly th in g w h ich broke u p these
hom es. T h e general philosophy itself, w ith its devotion to
"M a ste rs,” fan atical inhibitions and prohibitions, caused
and is causing to d ay m a n y intolerable conditions in the
hom e en v iro n m en t, separating life -lo n g partners and es­
tran gin g children and relatives.
Decrees which have to be uttered the live-long day and
half the night leave little time to devote to the duties and
obligations of home building. Children are neglected, the
husband or wife ignored, for this newer and more thrilling
experiment of worshiping unseen "Masters” and "God­
desses.”
A m arriage partner w h o before the advent o f Ballard­
ism was all th at the other cou ld reasonably ex p ect, alm ost
overn igh t becam e n eg lectfu l o f things w h ich had p ro­
duced happiness in the past in a fan atical endeavor to
fo llo w this new er and m ore stream lined p ath w a y to h ap p i­
ness.
A ll this, and m u c h m ore than w e have space to record,
is the result o f this teaching— in a land w h ich the Ballards
assertedly cam e to "S a v e .”
F u rth er, m u ch o f the alleged "p u r it y ” and "m o r a lity ”
o f this c u lt is puritanical and ridiculous. T h is is readily
184 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
seen from the following quotations.
A "g e n tle m a n A scen d ed M aster” w h o goes b y the nam e
o f "W o n d r o u s H a r m o n y ,” is responsible fo r the fo llow in g
gem o f th o u g h t:
"Married ladies and married gentlemen,” admonished
this disturbed gentleman, "if you want to save yourselves
grave danger, do not go anywhere alone with each other
for any reason whatsoever!” (p. 10, June, 1939, v., our
italics.)
T h a t was actu ally prin ted in the Ballard official m aga­
zin e! A n d "W o n d r o u s H a r m o n y ,” w a rm in g u p to his sub­
ject, continu ed b y saying:
" N o m arried w o m a n has a right to go w ith another
m an th at is m arried. N o m arried m an has a right to go
w ith a w o m a n w h o is m arried and be w ith th em excep t to
transact business, and then only in the presence of others.”
(p. 10, our italics.)
T h a t is surely definite enough, b u t it would look sort
o f silly to have to call in a chaperon to be present during
business deals w ith m em bers o f the opposite sex.
T h e T w in R a y specialist, just as puritanical in th ou gh t
as the A scen d ed M aster "W o n d r o u s H a r m o n y ,” on June
28, 1938, spoke to the m em bers o f the Ballard staff as
fo llo w s:
" I ask in all kindness th at no one o f the staff take any
other m arried or u nm arried m an or w om an to dinner
alone. N o m atter h ow in nocen t the individuals are, there
are spies actin g everyw here . . . T h ere can ’t be anyth in g
hidden fr o m m e— I k n o w every m o tiv e and desire!”
T h e y o u n g people in particular are w arned against
the slightest expression o f affection, how ever in nocen t,
w ith m em bers o f the opposite sex.
"Remember,” says the Simon-pure Saint Germain to
the boys and girls assembled at the class at Los Angeles on
April 4, 1937, "you can love your friends more powerfully
without your arms around them.” (p. 270, a. m . d.)
185
Sex T eachings of Ballardism
And Sanat Kumara, another Ballard "Master,” who
hails paradoxically from the traditional planet of love,
Venus, says: "The greatest mistake of mankind today is
to think that they must have physical contact in order to
express love.” (p. 8, Aug., 193 8, v.)
The two Ballards themselves in a special plea to the
"Young People of America” say: "W e ask ALL under this
Radiation to stop all practices of what the world calls
necking, kissing and hugging those of the opposite sex who
are not your own relatives.” (p. 33, Aug., 1938, v.)
To every good or bad rule, however, there seem to be
always exceptions, even among Ascended Masters and A c­
credited Messengers, for the "Great Divine Director” in
his great wisdom has said:
"Oh dear hearts, our beloved Messengers have stood
forth before the world; and if they feel the impulse to put
their arms around a man or woman to give encourage­
ment, they do it!” (p. 15, April, 1937. v.)
Even Saint Germain, despite his latter-day puritanism,
is not altogether lacking in affectional responses. On Aug­
ust 30, 1936, at the class in San Francisco, he came forth
on the stage (at least Guy Ballard said he did), and among
other flattering remarks about the smiling but unblushing
Lotus, said:
"T h is Blessed O n e here— you r L ittle D y n a m ite — I
have alw ays held her in M y E m b race o f L ig h t, m a n y times
in M y T an g ib le F orm — in M y T a n g ib le E m b race o f
L ig h t.”
And feeling a good response from the audience, he
added: "D o you notice how sort of chummy we are to­
day? It is wonderful!” (p. 13, Oct., 1936, v.)
Nevertheless, despite these little occasional personal
laxities and tolerances distributed properly among their
membership, the "Ascended Masters” are generally most
insistent and fanatical in their instructions to the married,
unmarried, and would-be married. Their students are held
186 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
under the sp otligh t o f strict disciplinarianism , w ith the
A scen d ed M asters and M essengers claim in g to k n o w all
th at is going on w ith in their lives.
O n e o f the reasons fo r such puritanical sex teachings
seems rather obvious.
In the failures o f the average stu den t to fu lfill these
sex adm onitions in all particulars, the Ballards have a p er­
fe c t alibi fo r the n on -d eliveran ce o f their prom ised m ir ­
acles. For the reason w h y these p oor stru gglin g students
do n o t m ake their "A s c e n s io n ,” have their "fin a n c ia l free­
d o m ,” achieve "ra d ia n t h ealth,” and so on, is th ey have
n o t k ep t sufficient "e m o tio n a l co n tro l” over their feelings!
K n o w in g their weaknesses, these students blam e th e m ­
selves instead o f the Ballards fo r the n on -ap pearance o f
prom ised m iracles; and so the stress and struggle o f killing
o u t the "e n tity -d e m o n s ” w ith in them selves— w h ich th ey
are assured are responsible fo r their backsliding— still c o n ­
tinues.
W h a t com plexes are b uilt u p , w h a t m en tal and p hysi­
cal reactions are b rou gh t about b y such teachings, o n ly
tim e and an in tim ate investigation in to their lives w ill
reveal.
B u t certainly w ith in the lives o f students w h o go to
such fanatical extrem es, there are queer tangles o f su p ­
pressed desires . . . "T w i n R a y ” com plexes . . . co n d em n a ­
tion o f self or m arriage partner fo r n o t being able to live
u p to the idea o f a n on -sexu al love . . . lu rk in g fear o f
alleged m en tal and physical degeneration as a result o f
giv in g in to the d om in an t biological urge . . . the spectre
o f divorce or separation . . . and dozens o f other reactions
fr o m such ill-advised and distorted sex teachings.
T here is con seq u en tly a sad need fo r a sane considera­
tion o f the sex question am on g the Ballard students, a real
need fo r the psychoanalyst and psychiatrist to straighten
o u t the tangles in the lives o f these people.
C H A P T E R 2 6
SOME RESULTS OF BALLARDISM
P rob ably in n o other m o v em e n t has there ever been
such a tte m p t at w idespread interference w ith the personal
lives o f its m em bers as in this c u lt o f the M ig h ty I A M .
T h e Ballard students are in stru cted to push people out
o f their lives w h o cann ot em brace the M ig h ty I A M teach­
ings, and to have as little as possible to do w ith th em . A s a
result, the deepest relationships o f m a n y years’ standing
have been severed b y zealous students fan atical enou gh to
live u p to the Ballard instructions.
H u sb an d , w ife , m oth er, or som e other relative living
in a fan atical M ig h ty I A M fa m ily , has actually been k ept
in another part o f the house and denied fo rm er privileges
because he or she w ou ld n o t em brace the Ballard doctrines.
W e cite an instance o f this in the fo llo w in g story.
A car was parked outside o f an " I A M T e m p le ” in a
certain c ity . T h e m an w ith in it had his head bow ed over
the steering w heel.
A n o th e r m an was w aitin g outside this same " I A M ”
m eetin g place, and was p acin g back and fo rth .
In passing b y the parked car this latter m an noticed
th at the m an w ith head b ow ed over the w heel was sobbing.
In ready com prehension, he approached h im .
" I see th e y ’ve g o t y ou , to o ,” he said.
T h e m an at the w heel raised h im self u p con fu sed ly,
q u ick ly brushing the tears aw ay. T h e n seeing the u nd er­
standing in the other’s fa ce, said:
"Y e s , I was conceded an unusual privilege tod ay. I ate
at the table w ith m y w ife and children fo r the first tim e
188 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
in weeks. They’ve had me in another part of the house.”
He looked pathetically into the face of the other man
who seemed to understand, and added:
"I hope other privileges will be conceded too, or at
least these same ones continued, but one never knows what
the demand will be next. I am waiting to take my family
home.”
This intolerance of the other person’s beliefs and meth­
ods of living is a direct outcome of the Ballard teachings,
particularly among so-called "hundred per cent students”
who follow the Ballard instructions in every way.
We quote the following letter written by a former
class leader under date of June 29, 1939:
"Last July during the Shrine class I had a private inter­
view with Mrs. Ballard, at which time she told me (I
might well use the terms, ordered or commanded, as that
was her manner) to call for the release of my own mother,
whom she knew I love with all my heart, just as we were
taught to call for the release of our little pets.
"W hy? Because my mother did not believe in them nor
their teaching, though she never opposed me or them in
any way.
"Mrs. Ballard told me I was carrying a big load and
that my mother was a 'Vampire activity’ keeping alive on
my energy.
"She shot this question at me: 'Doesn’t your mother
take a lot of soda?’ 'Yes.’ Then: 'Doesn’t she eat a lot?’
I answered: 'She has a good appetite.’ 'Yes,’ she said, 'and
she sits around no good to herself or anyone else and she
can keep alive for years drawing on your energy and liv­
ing on it. Call for her release, you have work to do!’
"Then she told me to come home and 'T ell---------- to
stop all sex relations.’ (---------- is my daughter, who is very
happily married to a fine fellow and they have two beauti­
ful children.)
"I told her: 'But they want two more children,’ etc.
Some Results of Ballardism 189
'N o ,5 said the d ictator, 'I t is too near the A scension for
th at n o w .’
" I asked: 'W h a t if her husband w ill n o t agree?’ 'T e ll
her to take a child b y each hand and w alk o u t and slam
the d oo r,’ w as her rep ly .”
T h e Ballards them selves, at least in this regard, evi­
d en tly live u p to their o w n teaching. Y ears ago, M rs. B al­
lard pushed her o w n aged m oth er and o n ly sister ou t o f
her life because th ey w ou ld n o t accept the M ig h ty I A M
or believe th at G u y B allard’s books and his trips to India
w ere true, k n o w in g as th ey did th at he was right here in
the U n ite d States all the w hile.
F orm er students w h o have had the courage to get out
o f the c u lt are often tim es denounced in p u b lic and even
decrees for their physical death demanded.
On Sunday evening, July 3, 1939, at a "Hundred Per
Cent Group” in Los Angeles, Guy Ballard spoke the fol­
lowing words, saying they were from the great Ascended
Master, "Sanat Kumara.”
" D o n o t again m ake the call fo r anyone to return to
this L ig h t. R ath er call fo r their release from those bodies
th at th ey have chosen to desecrate b y vicious falsehoods
against the M essengers o f this L ig h t.”
N o t o n ly do the Ballards teach their students to call
fo r the "release” o f certain individuals fr o m their bodies,
b u t it is their d u ty , th ey say, to "free” all A N I M A L S fro m
their bodies, because: " Animal forms were created in the
beginning by powerful black magicians.” (p . 2 2 , O c t .,
1936, v .) W e q u o te:
" . . . It is the D U T Y o f every I A M S tud en t to call
the M ig h ty I A M Presence and A scen d ed M asters to Free
All A nim al Life fr o m its discord, lim itation and im ­
p erfectio n .” (p . 30, O c t ., 1937, v ., our capitals.)
T o the credit o f som e o f their students, there was a
protest against this in hu m an d octrine. O n e o f th em w rote
the Ballard official representative, and received the fo llo w -
190 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
ing reply:
" N o w y ou ask m e if it is righ t to p u t anim als o u t o f
their bodies. I am goin g to answ er this b y sim p ly telling
y ou w h a t I have heard M rs. Ballard say— th at anim al
fo rm s are im prisoned life and as y ou k n o w , w e have a
decree in our m agazin e and one in the n ew decree book
sending all anim als in to the higher life and L ig h t.
"N o w , dear, each one o f us must interpret that as best
we can. I do know many of the students have put their
beloved animals out”
The fact that many of these animal pets have been
"put out” or "released” is again shown by Guy Ballard’s
letter to one of the students in November of 1937, dictated
and signed by him personally:
"W h e n this call is sincerely m ade and the desire fo r
their R E L E A S E is fe lt in the feelings, it is q u ick ly e f ­
fectiv e in releasing this life . . . T h is is accom plished in
p erfect peace and h arm o n y as has been dem onstrated in
the case o f H U N D R E D S o f the students. G W B :P B C ”
(O u r capitals.)
In other w ords, hundreds o f anim al pets have been
"released ” because the students decreed their DEATH!
H o w e v e r, w h a t really happened w as adm itted b y the
Ballard representative w hose letter was q u o ted : "M a n y o f
the students have p u t their beloved anim als o u t.” T h e
decrees didn ’t w o rk — so th ey ch lo roform ed , drow ned or
otherw ise killed their tru stin g little anim al friends!
One such case is quoted in the letter below written in
November, 1937. It is only one of many cases where
fanatical I AM-ers have killed their animal pets. We
quote:
"T h e phone rang this m o rn in g and an I A M -e r called
and told m e th at another o f M r s .-------------- ’s 1 0 0 % class was
p u t in a sanitarium last w eek.
" I t seems th at she ow n ed a lovely d og and th at they
w ere told there w ere to be n o m ore dogs. She had the d og
Some Results of Ballardism 191
electrocu ted.
"H e r fa m ily resented it so th ey had her taken to a
psychiatrist w h o analyzed her and o f course she did not
k n o w w h en to speak and o f w h a t to speak, and started in
on the books, and w h en she was asked w h y she did not
give the d og t o -------------- , she said, it was just as bad fo r him
to have it as it was fo r her.
"W e l l , th ey p ronoun ced her insane and p u t her aw ay
last w eek. G o d p ity th em all.”
Som e additional results o f the Ballard doctrines m ay
be su m m ed u p in a fe w short sentences.
It has tau gh t credulous follow ers to fo rg e t everyth in g
else b u t the "M ig h t y I A M ,” ten ding to hold its people in
m oron ic ignorance o f w h at is goin g on in the w orld .
It has caused fan atical students to "d e c re e ” lon g hours
d u rin g the d ay and p art o f the n ig h t, w ith such intensity
and em otionalism th at a n u m b er o f th em have had nervous
breakdow ns, or have been confined to psych op ath ic wards
and insane asylupis.
It has p rodu ced u n told m en tal suffering fr o m fears o f
catacylsm s, entities, black m agicians, destructive decrees,
and other fear-in sp irin g bogeys.
It has caused students to w orship at the shrines o f an
endless n u m b er o f m y th olog ica l gods and heathenish "M a s ­
ters,” instead o f teaching a d evotion to the O n e and T ru e
G o d , the C reator o f the U niverse, o f whose grandeur, love,
and w isd om there is n o end.
It has induced som e o f its fan atical devotees to get rid
o f their life insurance, th in k in g th at th ey or their loved
ones w o u ld soon m ake their "A sc e n sio n ” and have n o need
o f it.
It has prom ised financial security b y m erely "d e c re e ­
in g ” it, w h ich resulted in som e o f their people q u ittin g
their jobs, tu rn in g over their savings to the Ballards, and
n eglectin g their financial fu tu re .
It has caused people to n eglect their physical health
192 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
as a result o f being told th at it was n o t necessary to seek
diversions, p lay gam es, exercise, or place an y dependence
in physical remedies.
It has b rou g h t about needless deaths because o f de­
pendence u p on "A sc e n d e d M asters” and "d ecrees” to re­
store health, rem ove tu m ors, e tc., instead o f sanely insti­
tu tin g physical and surgical treatm en t w hen necessary.
It has p rodu ced in the stu den t a false sense o f the great­
ness o f the little personal self, w h ich is the self w h ich
m akes its decrees to the "M ig h t y I A M ,” causing distortion
o f the real tru th con cern in g the G o d consciousness w ithin .
It has caused the stu den t to look outside o f h im self fo r
guidance to som e invisible "T e a c h e r ” or psych ic "M a s te r ”
w hose real purposes and designs are o f the nature o f things
hidden, and w hose responsibility and honesty m a y be nil.
I t has p rodu ced in the m inds o f m a n y people the idea
th at animals have been created b y "b la c k m agicians” in ­
stead o f b y G o d , causing in these cases a severance o f the
b eau tifu l relationship w h ich has alw ays existed betw een
the dog and his m aster, and a breaking o f m a n ’s com rad e­
ship w ith other m em bers o f the anim al k in gd o m .
It has th ro u g h the hands o f fanatical students sent
hundreds o f little pets to the p ou n d to be killed, or the
sensitive anim al cru elly sent aw ay fro m its accustom ed
hom e.
It has caused u n to ld g rie f, insanity, and even suicide!
W it h all these sins and crim es the Ballard "M ig h t y I
A M In stru ction o f the A scen d ed M asters” stands indicted,
and it is tim e th at the pu b lic should k n o w the fu ll tru th o f
it and its history w ritten .
CHAPTER 27
THE ATTACK ON CHRISTIANITY
The Mighty I AM cult of Guy and Edna Ballard will
go down in history as one of the most insidious affronts to
the religion of the Christ that America has ever seen.
Abroad, we have seen the spectacle of a dictator at­
tempting to do away with religious worship. Christian
Americans look with consternation on the burning of
church edifices and the confiscation of its symbols of wor­
ship. Yet some of these same patriotic and religious Amer­
icans, ignore, tolerate, and some even promote one of the
most subtle attacks on the Christian church and its teach­
ings that we have ever had in American history.
For five years we have seen two people proclaiming by
means of the lecture platform, over the radio, and through
their voluminous literature, the strange doctrines em­
bodied in the "Saint Germain Instruction of the Mighty
1 AM .”
In this so-called instruction, a "Mystery Man” of the
18th century has been resurrected or pushed forward, that
he might supplant in the hearts of thousands the Christ
of Christendom.
Or to curry favor with those who might be inclined
to look askance at this sacrilege, the Ballards brought forth
an astral counterfeit of the Christ to appease those who
still hold reverence in their hearts for the Personage who
braved the organized power of the Sanhedrin and sought
to save the people from idolatrous worship of heathen
gods.
And, instead of being satisfied with producing one
194 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
astral god or "Saint,” these "Accredited Messengers of
Saint Germain” have given their poor psychologized fol­
lowers the most multitudinous array of gods and goddesses
since the days of heathen mythology.
Not only have these two self-proclaimed "Messengers”
endeavored by hypnotic methods to substitute an 18th-
century miracle worker for the Man of Galilee and to bring
forth a vapid astral creation for those who still want a
Christ, but they actually endeavored to personally steal
the show from their own psychic creations!
Time and again the writer has sat among the huge
assemblage at the Shrine Civic Auditorium in Los Angeles
and heard the Ballard smooth-tongue announcer say:
"Dear ones, these blessed Messengers today are occupy­
ing the place that Jesus, the Christ, occupied two thousand
years ago!”
Not one voice of protest in that audience did he hear
against this utterance. Only a placid acceptance, or a look
of sickening personality worship, was usually observed on
the faces of those present.
On the stages of the various "Temples” and auditor­
iums where the Ballards lecture there is always shown the
painted portrait of the Head of Christ, by Charles Sinde-
lar. Incidentally, Mr. Sindelar is the "Western Representa­
tive of the Saint Germain Press,” and publisher of the
Voice of the I AM.
And always, on the stage, alongside of this Christ pic­
ture, is a portrait, by the same artist, of the mighty "As­
cended Master Saint Germain.”
When the Ballards first came to Los Angeles in 193 5
bringing only their "Saint Germain” with them, they al­
most forgot to mention Jesus or say much about Him.
This was soon found to be a mistake. They discovered
that many people in Los Angeles, which incidentally has
its quota of other Saviors, still wanted the Christ of the
Gospels.
T he A ttack on Christianity 195
The Sindelar Christ head, which had been created
previous to their trip to Los Angeles, was therefore ex­
tremely timely and most acceptable to the Ballards when
it was called to their attention. "Saint Germain” had evi­
dently failed to mention the picture to them before com­
ing to Los Angeles.
Without the Christ, even their most enthusiastic sup­
porters balked at accepting their "Saint.” Therefore, the
two pictures were, and are today, presented together in­
stead of the Saint alone.
It was, however, an expediency rather than a worship­
ful necessity that Jesus should come into the Ballard plan
of salvation, for their real "Savior” is, was, and shall be,
the bearded and mustached, piercing-eyed Saint Germain!
And their followers have gradually learned to accept
the substitution.
In the first editions of their books the Ballards printed
a cut of what was perhaps the best available picture they
could secure which met their ideas of a bearded Master.
But, alas! Saint Germain’s beard, mustache, and close­
ly-cropped hair in that picture were all as black as night!
Now, black is supposed by them to be the symbol and
color of black magic, and that of course wouldn’t do in
their "dazzling, white-light” Mighty I AM Instruction.
So, despite the fact that this particular black-bearded
portrait had been okayed by Saint Germain himself and
authenticated by them through their own 1934 copyright
notice printed below the portrait, something simply had
to be done about it.
The fortunate addition of Charles Sindelar, the artist,
to the Ballard organization, evidently pointed to them the
way out of this dark-visaged predicament. Mr. Sindelar
was commissioned by Saint Germain himself— so Guy Bal­
lard said— to paint his own peculiar portrait, who, it ap­
pears, despite his noteworthy achievements in "precipitat­
ing” Government money, could not paint or precipitate
196 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
his own picture.
We learn from one of the Ballard advertising leaflets
that "Saint Germain revealed himself to Mr. Sindelar pre­
vious to and while he was painting Saint Germain’s like­
ness, and he has said that it is splendid”— which assures us
that the portrait is now quite authentic!
And so, since that time, the faithful have had a "Saint
Germain!’ far removed from the stigma of being a black
magician because of the color of his beard; for he has
succumbed to the blondine tendency of the age and has
come off Mr. Sindelar’s easel a golden-haired, blue-eyed,
sandy-mustached Saint!
Having successfully substituted a new Saint Germain
portrait for the old one, and an astral creation of Jesus,
the Ballards proceeded to discredit the Christian Bible.
The students were early urged to substitute the Ballard
books for the Bible, this being done by "Jesus” himself.
"I urge students everywhere,” said this astral Jesus
" . . . to forget everything else you have ever studied” (p.
5, Feb., 1936, v.)
Jesus’ own life story, as recorded in the gospels, was to
be forgotten, and the Ballard literature substituted instead!
Intent on their idea of substituting the Saint Germain
series of books for the Bible and their "Saint Germain” for
Jesus, the Ballards brought forth their astral “ Jesus” to say:
"It is My Determination to break down within the
concepts of Mankind the feeling that Saint Germain should
not be accepted as Myself. I shall not give My Radiation
to anyone who questions it.” (p. 6, Dec., 1937, v.) "I
want to say to the whole world: 'Every human being who
rejects My Beloved Brother, Saint Germain, rejects Me,
and don’t forget it.’ ” (p. 15, Feb., 1937, v.)
This is the same counterfeit "Jesus,” who in addition
to saying, " don’t forget it,” would sometimes close his dis­
course by weakly saying: "I thank yo^l” Imagine it!
Then showing that the Ballards are today doing a
197
T h e A t t a c k o n C h r i s t i a n i t y
greater work than Jesus did, they had this same astral
Jesus say: " . . . The calls of the Messengers are performing
thousands more healings than I performed!” (p. 6, Dec.,
1937, v.)
Thus for the I AM student, Jesus and the Christian
Bible are both discredited, and are being supplanted by
Saint Germain and his series of books.
The Christian ideology of the worship of One God
through His divine Messenger, the Christ, is being re­
placed by a blasphemous and fantastic lot of astral gods
and goddesses who are supposed to propitiate the sins of
the I AM students.
The ideal of a loving God, Creator of the Universe,
whose Power and Glory are without end, is being taken
over by a fictitious "Mighty I AM Presence” located from
twelve to fifty feet overhead, floating around like a balloon
and connected with the physical body below by means of
a thread of light substance.
It is this creation that the Ballard students shout at
when they go through their decree antics. All of which
recalls to mind the prophecy of the Christ of nineteen
hundred years ago:
"For there shall arise false Christs, and false prophets,
and shall show great signs and wonders; so as to lead astray,
if possible, even the elect. Behold, I have told you before­
hand.” (Matthew 24:24-25.)
Demonstrating before his group what he thought of
the Bible, one of the prominent I AM leaders flung it down
upon the platform and stamped upon it.
Despite all their irreverance for Christ and the Bible,
the Ballards actually made an effort to build up a following
among church people; and in so doing made use of the
crudest and dizziest sales psychology. They resurrected
some of the most revered characters of the Bible and had
them advertise the Ballards and boost their book sales.
For any Protestants who might be attracted by the
198 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
bait, they brought forth Jesus’ most beloved disciple,
"John the Beloved,” and had him do his bit in advertising
and proselyting. We quote: " . . . There never were two
such interested, selfless human beings on the face of this
earth as the Messengers are.” (p. 13, Feb., 1938, v.)
For the Roman Catholics who might be lured away
because of the " Saint” prefix to St. Germain’s name—
which they always insist upon writing out in full— they
brought forth the "Virgin Mary,” and had her say nice
things about the "Ascended Masters” and the Ballard ad­
vertising leaflets:
"The inception of the Catholic Church,” says the Vir­
gin Mary (!) "was brought about by and through the
Power of the Ascended Masters” — their own, of course,
there are no others, (p. 426, a . m . l .) "These little 'Save
America Folders’ which the blessed ones have sent forth
. . . are doing tremendous things. Keep it up, I urge you!”
(p. 434.)
The Ballards actually told their audiences that Cardinal
Bonzano, during the Eucharistic Congress held June, 193 6,
at Soldiers’ Field, Chicago, made his ascension!
When it was called to their attention that Cardinal
Bonzano did not die until a year and jive months later,
and at Rome instead of Chicago, Guy Ballard made the
following absurd effort to cover up the fabrication:
"What of it?” he asked. "Certainly He did!” and went
on to say:
"While the physical body remained during those
months, yet it was but a shell, and the Ascension was ac­
complished there at that time.” (p. 29, Aug., 1939, v.)
Can one imagine anything more absurd than the rep­
resentative of the Pope going around for seventeen months
attending to the exactitudes of his official duties when he
himself physically was not there— and with only his "shell”
officiating? And to force acceptance of this absurdity upon
his psychologized students, Ballard said: "W ho of you are
T h e A t t a c k o n C h r i s t i a n i t y 199
to say what the Great Law of Life may do?”
The Ballard harvest of souls, however, has been par­
ticularly bountiful among the waving fields of the un­
orthodox. Many of these, having no abiding resting place,
spiritually speaking, were attracted by greener fields be­
yond the old occult barriers.
"The old occult order has been set aside,” the Ballards
announced; and so, like the days of the forty-niners, the
"gold rush” was on, both spiritually and materially speak­
ing.
But most of the material gold flowed into the coffers of
the Ballards instead of the other way around. And most of
the spiritual gold today is being found spurious.
From the Theosophists the Ballards purloined their
Masters, and set out to catch their students with unique
psychic holds all their own.
They had the Masters Morya and Kuthumi come forth
to say that when they started the Theosophical Society
through their messenger, Madame Blavatsky, they "were
not then ascended,” and “ could only go so far.” (pp. 317
and 334, A . M . L . )
And very generously and humbly these new "Ascend­
ed” Masters admitted: "Our Beloved Saint Germain has
accomplished more in three years than We did in the many
years of Our humble efforts.” (p. 323.)
The Ballards were able by these and other methods to
make fair-sized catches among the Theosophists, but it
was hard to hold some of these disciples of the out-spoken
Blavatsky, who warned her students of astral "spooks.”
Many got into the movement, but got out when the
"blasting” with the "Blue Lightning” threatened too much
carnage in the land.
Fair hauls were also made from members of the various
Rosicrucian societies in America. But, like the Theoso­
phists, those who did not get rid of their intellects, got out;
those who did, no doubt are still there.
2 0 0 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
From the Spiritualists, or those inclined that way, the
Ballards naturally made many converts. Which is very
understandable, considering that the Ballard cult itself is
nothing but a glorified spiritualism with streamlined addi­
tions.
And yet, of all people who have ever condemned spiri­
tualism, the Ballards have been the worst! They practiced
the very thing they condemned, but distorted it, adding
so much which is illegitimate and absurd that it has been
a real detriment to the scientific investigation of spiritual­
ism. They unwisely opened the psychic plane to people
who have no comprehension of or control over the forces
they have been led to play with, interfering with their
proper focus on the physical plane of being, and threaten­
ing their mental balance.
N o doubt the Ballards have made their greatest catches
among students who have been associated with one or more
of the various metaphysical organizations scattered
throughout the United States. Most of these schools had
been teaching about the "I AM ” long years before Mrs.
Ballard set herself up as an authority on the I AM in all
languages.
The Ballards have drawn many from the Unity School
of Christianity at Kansas City, and the variously-named
Divine Science, New Thought, and Spiritual Healing
groups.
The bait the Ballards used in getting converts from
the various metaphysical schools was usually a more dy­
namic presentation of the "I AM ,” the greater lure of
material prosperity, health, and the addition of stream­
lined "Masters” and "Goddesses.” With so potent a combi­
nation, is it any wonder so many of the ever-growing
numbers of metaphysically-inclined people in America fell
for the Great Deception?
The Ballards have been particularly desirous, it seems,
of getting the disciples of Mary Baker Eddy into their
T h e A t t a c k o n C h r i s t i a n i t y 2 0 1
fold; and in their efforts to do this, have gone to extremes
of both denunciation and flattery.
Thinking, perhaps, that the Christian Scientists would
be more responsive to a feminine personality than a mascu­
line one, they brought forth one of the "lady Ascended
Masters,” whom they called the "Lady Master Leto.”
Leto "came forth” at the Pasadena, California, class,
on the evening of January 17, 1937, and among other
things she quite generously admitted that "Mrs. Eddy
brought another phase of Knowledge to Mankind.” Then
in the usual Ballard way, loyal Leto, who, like other Bal­
lard "Goddesses,” has a good sense of advertising values,
referred to the "Saint Germain I AM Instruction,” and
said: "N ow , this has come forth as the final Knowledge” !
(p. 226, A. M. L.)
But the outspoken "Saint Germain,” not so lady-like
and diplomatic as little Leto, threatens to "empty their
churches” if the Christian Scientists do not allegedly stop
criticizing the Mighty I AM. We quote:
" . . . I tell you frankly, EVERY SOURCE, whether
it is Unity, Christian Science or whatever it is that at­
tempts to bring disgrace upon This Work or condemns or
criticises It will fail utterly and their churches will be
empty!” (p. 10, March, 1937, v.)
For the most part, we think Saint Germain waxes a
little over-enthusiastic about the emptying of the Chris­
tian Science churches, and the others.
Doubtless some of the more restless souls of the Mother
Church have become loosened from the C. S. impeturbable
rock of faith and have fallen into Ballardism— Saint Ger­
main’s "final knowledge” of Christian Science!
And some of these have come out again— sadly disil­
lusioned— and like wandering planetoids with irregular or­
bits are seeking some parent sun in the religious cosmos,
some focus of more dependable faith than Ballardism with
its strange coterie of man-made gods and goddesses.
CHAPTER 28
THE COURSE OF POLITICAL DICTATORSHIPS
The Ballard cult is but one of the increasing number
of subversive influences in America today seeking, under
various cloaks, to bring widespread confusion in the land.
Tyrannies of this kind do not wear labels on their coat
sleeves telling the world what they intend to do. They
work insidiously, under false fronts and colors, and only
perhaps when they have achieved some degree of influence
and power will their subversive nature be revealed.
When hundreds of thousands of adult Americans can
embrace the Ballard doctrines without investigation, and
accept ridiculous and unsupported statements on the word
of two individuals, does it not indicate that some peculiar
psychological influence is at work? Does it not suggest
that something is happening to the American people,
something is breaking down their reason and common
sense, when movements such as Ballardism can make head­
way in our country?
Should this happen to any great extent, then political
tyrannies can make inroads into our government and make
this country something far different than contemplated by
the signers of the Declaration of Independence and the
framers of our American Constitution.
Then, when people awake to the menace, it may be
too late to win back the liberties they have lost.
By that time, a dictatorship has been set up, with a
controlled press, a regimented army and police force; and
until that dictatorship has run its course, little can be done
toward a new birth of freedom.
The Mighty I AM movement is an abortive effort to
T h e C o u r s e o f P o l i t i c a l D i c t a t o r s h i p s 2 0 3
make the American people into automatons, fitted only to
obey the mandates of some dictator. The method of doing
this has been the time-tested one of cloaking subversive
doctrines in patriotic and religious observances.
" Save America! Support the Constitution/ Adore your
Mighty 1 AM !”
They organize "Minute Men” and "Daughters of
Light” ; have them meet in sacred "I AM Temples,” wave
the flag, sing stirring patriotic songs, and shout paeans of
praise to unseen "Masters,” who dictate the course of their
lives.
Although their followers may be sincere in doing these
things, nevertheless, it is very evident— when one gets be­
hind the movement and sees the demands for obedience by
two physical-plane dictators— that such religious and pat­
riotic observances are but smoke screens.
When these cult leaders blaspheme Christ by bringing
forth an astral "spook” on the stage and force their people
through fear and intimidation to obey the mandates of
some supposedly all-powerful "God” or "Goddess,” is this
real religion?
When they decree that an "Ascended Master” or some
"Friend” be placed in every important political seat of the
Government, and cajole their students into being absolute­
ly subservient to the dictates of these so-called "Masters”
and their earth-plane agents, is this by any chance the
kind of patriotism embodied in our American Constitution
and its Bill of Rights?
How absurd it is for these people to play up the Con­
stitution and shout decrees to support it, when they are
doing everything in their power to break it down!
How hypocritical it is for them to shout decrees to
the "Blessed Master Jesus,” when they teach idolatrous
and paranoiac doctrines, breaking down the very ideals of
humility, kindness, and service which the Master of Gali­
lee came to teach!
2 0 4 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
How dangerous to the sanity of their people it is for
them to launch upon the world an avalanche of monstrous
fear-concepts— black magicians, cataclysms, astral enti­
ties, death rays, and other hobgoblins of the mind!
All this is part of a plan for world confusion, organized
certainly by the Satanic powers of this universe, to which
the Ballards, perhaps unconsciously, are giving expression
— a plan designed to kill out individualism, our ideals of
religious and political freedom, and eventually set up a
dictatorship in liberty-loving America.
The preparation for a dictatorship begins years in
advance. The course of it is slow and insidious, during
which the minds of the people are lulled into byways and
highways. Then, suddenly, one day, it is upon them, al­
most out of the blue; and it is then too late to take con­
certed action against it. The dictator is safely entrenched
in the seat of power, with money and an army to enforce
his mandates.
In Europe and Asia, dictatorships flourish by reason of
might of arms and fears of the prison camps.
In America, if a dictatorship is to develop, it must first
be psychological rather than physical.
Before actual, political dictatorship can arise in a re­
public, the minds of the people must be prepared and
molded by propaganda of many kinds.
Anything which tends to keep people in an apathetic
frame of mind, away from contact with reality, easily
lends itself to some future political dictatorship.
For this reason, various peace proposals, non-resistance
programs, metaphysical and religious teachings may pe­
culiarly become good soils for the growth of some future
dictatorship.
This is not said, of course, to reflect on any sincere
effort toward peace or to discourage any true religious
worship. But in so far as these matters may come under
control of selfish individuals or misguided ones, there is
T h e C o u r s e o f P o l i t i c a l D i c t a t o r s h i p s 2 0 5
naturally some danger that the unthinking mass of follow­
ers may be led into programs which make for slavery in­
stead of freedom.
The Ballard cult is one of those psychological influ­
ences in America which is drawing, or attempting to draw,
people’s attention away from fundamentals; and by use of
what virtually amounts to hypnotic control over their
followers is preventing them from looking sanely at the
problems which confront our Nation.
Expecting their individual and national salvation to
^ome as a miraculous visitation from heaven in the form
of some mighty "Master” who will straighten out their
problems if they decree loud enough, the Ballard I AM-ers
are lying supinely on their backs blissfully awaiting the
inevitable disaster which would result if all of us turned
our independence over to fake "psychic Masters” and
scheming human beings.
To prevent such a dictatorship from arising in Amer­
ica, either from the present Ballard cult or some other set­
up, we need to be awake and alert as to what is going on.
We must be keenly aware of the insidious, under-cover
methods of those who would enslave us.
We cannot afford to "take our minds off every political
and national affair,” as the astral "Saint Germain” has
urged his students to do.
We must not let this insidious thing which is attempt­
ing to sweep in from Europe, Asia, and from the psychical­
ly-disturbed world around us disarm our independence.
We must beware of movements and cults which out­
wardly come in sheep’s clothing of goodness, but inwardly
are as ravenous as wolves.
We must not let the world confusion break down our
faith in God, or in our own inherent, divinely-given wis­
dom to work out of any disorder which may now or later
confront us.
We must realize that America’s problems are our own;
2 0 6 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
and we cannot leave them for God to solve for us, any
more than a school child can be permitted to turn his les­
sons over to his father or teacher for solution.
Nor should we ever let any so-called "Master”— as­
cended or un-ascended— rule our lives for us; for no real
Master of the Divine Wisdom would ever interfere with a
pupil’s God-given right of independent and initiative
action.
For all these rights of independence and freedom the
early pioneers of this Nation fought. They revolted against
political and religious tyranny, which resulted in a Dec­
laration of Rights which gave the American people the
greatest amount of freedom and independence of any na­
tion on earth.
Let us, therefore, be jealous of any and all these rights
and privileges which we so far have held on to, and not
permit the heel of any dictator within or without our
borders, physical or psychic, to crush out this spirit of in­
dependence in freedom-loving America.
CHAPTER 29
" PEEWEE HITLERISM” IN AMERICA
In the summer of 1939 the House Committee to In­
vestigate Un-American Activities, under the chairmanship
of Martin Dies of Texas, made its report concerning some
of the so-called patriotic movements in America.
The committee in that report concluded that many of
these so-called patriotic movements "ape the methods of
foreign dictators.” These "peewee Hitlers,” it said, are en­
gaged in "a form of racketeering” and in "subversive ac­
tivities,” and are trying to bring about "a radical change
in the American form of government.”
It called special attention "to the deplorable prostitu­
tion of such words as 'patriotism’ and 'Christian’ to the
selfish ends of these fascist racketeers.”
As all of this has a bearing upon the movement which
we are exposing, it is well to take a short retrospect of the
astonishing number of political and so-called patriotic
movements which have arisen in our country during the
last several years.
Most of these movements are generally considered to
be American fascist organizations. They are built usually
on the personal leadership of a single individual whose
spleen is directed against either real or imaginary evils
within the government. Their avowed purpose is to save
the people from certain "enemies” which assertedly seek
to overthrow the democracy and establish some other form
of government in its place. In "saving” the country, these
organizations usually seek to bring about a new govern­
ment of their own!
208 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
Among some of the outstanding "American fascist”
groups is William Dudley Pelley’s "Silver Shirt Legion.”
Elsewhere we have referred to the similarity between the
Pelley and Ballard movements. It was brought out that
Pelley started out originally as a psychic or metaphysical
leader, and then rapidly arose to become a political fuehrer
with "storm troopers” or legionnaires in every state.
The Ballards likewise are psychic leaders, but have
political ambitions too. Their "Master” in the early days,
as we have seen, sought to take over the Pelley movement.
They have since organized Minute Men, or, as we might
say, "storm troopers” in every state.
The Silver Shirt leader has evidently over-reached him­
self in his ambitions to become the "American Hitler,”
the fuehrer of the United States. He has been accused by
the Dies Committee of printing and distributing literature
"containing scurrilous, false and perfidious assertions, and
reprints of propaganda of a foreign power,” according to
a brief filed in the District Court in Washington by coun­
sel for the Dies Committee.
For a number of weeks Pelley was a fugitive from the
Dies Committee which wanted to serve him with a sub­
poena and question him concerning his activities. He later,
however, showed up before this committee, admitted "a
change of heart,” and showered glowing adjectives of ap­
proval upon the committee’s work. Convicted in 193 5 for
violating the North Carolina "blue sky” securities law, his
sentence was suspended, but it appears that he is now
wanted by North Carolina authorities for violating the
conditions of his parole.
T h e record o f the Ballard p rintings and assertions is
likew ise notorious, and as w e have already seen, Ballard
too has had difficulties w ith the "b lu e sk y ” securities law .
T h e am azin g th in g is th at this eviden t subversive m o v e ­
m e n t should have con tin u ed so lo n g w ith o u t an investiga­
tio n b y this same D ies co m m ittee w h ich w e n t after Pelley
" P e e w e e H i t l e r i s m ” i n A m e r i c a 209
and som e o f the other fascist m ovem en ts so stron gly. N o
d ou b t its "re lig io u s” set-u p protects it.
Racketeers who hide under the cloak of religion are
likely to become one of the most dangerous and difficult
problems in the future, if not, indeed, at the present time.
It is the weak spot in our protective armor against "Fifth
Columns” ; and although the main approach to it must
be, as always, through education and enlightenment of
the people and the public exposure of the methods of the
religious charlatan, still, there is a real need for more cour­
ageous action by our public officials who should not swerve
aside merely because a dangerous and subversive movement
operates as a "religion.”
T h ere are said to be at least a hundred A m e rica n fas­
cist organizations w h ich have attracted the atten tion o f
the D ies C o m m itte e , w hose records have been or are being
investigated.
The subpoenaing of Maj. Gen. George Van Horn
Moseley in May, 1939, to testify about his story concern­
ing an alleged Jewish plot to seize America gave wide
publicity to these fascist organizations, revealing to the
public how prevalent today is this battle of individuals
and their organizations against real or fancied evil which
threaten our country.
It b rou gh t up fo r investigation the various a n ti-S e m i­
tic m o vem en ts, som e o f w h ich the D ies C o m m itte e ch ar­
acterized as " a m ost violen t ty p e .”
T h e K n ig h ts o f the W h ite C am ellia, headed b y G eorge
E . D eath erage; the C rusad ing W h ite Shirts o f G eorge W .
C h ristians; and other m ovem en ts o f sim ilar n ature, d o m i­
n ated usually b y som e racial or religious intolerance, are
in active operation in the U n ite d States tod ay.
T h e present political p ow er o f the D e tro it radio priest,
Father C o u g h lin , shows to w h at e x ten t the personality o f
one m an can sw ay the th ou ghts and actions o f m illions.
T h e danger in all such m ovem en ts lies in in flam in g the
2 1 0 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
minds of irresponsible and misguided individuals, leading
to street fights, mob uprisings, and the use of arms to put
down "other uprisings.” Whenever this philosophy of
hatred is preached, the spirit of the mob may readily be
aroused, and the movement may get out of control of the
one who originated it.
Among the Coughlinites, as among the Ballardites,
have appeared so-called " Minute Men,” differently organ­
ized and controlled, but bearing the same name.
Gerald Winrod’s Defenders of the Christian Faith is
another of the American fascist groups whose influence
has been wide-spread among certain orthodox religious
bodies who, like the Pelleyites and Coughlinites, profess to
see the menace of Jewry in America.
The German American Bund, outpost for Hitler’s
Western Hemisphere ambitions, has for years been insidi­
ously spreading the philosophy of Nazism throughout the
United States. Some of these American fascist movements
formerly paid open allegiance to Hitler’s ideology, and it
was not until the German fuehrer’s astonishing tie-up with
Communist Russia and the imprisonment in America of
the bundfuehrer, Fritz Kuhn, on a misappropriation of
funds conviction that some of these fascist leaders in
America half-heartedly withdrew their allegiance to H it­
ler. Perhaps Hitler’s blitzkrieg on Europe has completed
their disillusionment.
All of these American fascist movements are reci­
procal, i.e., one builds on the work of the other. Yet, the
desire for personal power and many individual rivalries
makes them incapable of raising a single leader who can
represent and control them all. That is the weakness of the
American fascist movement today, which is fortunate for
our present constituted government.
Arrayed against these heterodox fascist groups are the
organized left-wing radical groups themselves— the Com­
munists and their offshoots. They seek to change the
" P e e w e e H i t l e r i s m ” i n A m e r i c a 211
American form of government by injecting ideologies of
their own, even going so far as to openly preach the gospel
of revolution to bring in the new government.
And in this latest and weirdest organization of them
all, known as the "Mighty I AM ,” directed by its two
fuehrers with the aid of so-called "Ascended Masters,”
there is represented a most amazing conglomeration of
forces and ideologies, largely psychic or psychological in
character, which is being thrown against a medley of
"evils” of various kinds and which is undoubtedly produc­
ing many evils of its own.
Surely, if ever a country was besieged by an army of
embattled "shirts” of various stripes and colors, it is our
country today!
A fervid patriotism is usually the explosive spark which
propels these movements on their careers. They receive
their power through "hating” something, and, conversely,
through "loving” something. Without this emotional com­
bustion there would be no force to propel them against
the objects of their dislikes.
And always, whether they fight for a democracy, a
communistic state, or an imperialistic autocracy, they
must proceed through the power of a dictator.
To bring in their ideal of a "democracy,” they, oddly
enough, start a little dictatorship! Something in itself the
exact reverse of a true democracy.
Or else, like the American Nazis, they openly espouse
an out-and-out dictatorship and hold up the ideal of a
foreign government and its fuehrer.
It is this tendency toward a dictatorship which, despite
their differing ideologies, makes all these movements
brothers under the skin. They all seek to bring about
some kind of dictatorship in America.
The Bund fuehrer wants to impose Nazism, the Com­
munist works for his so-called dictatorship by the pro­
letariat, the Ku-Klux-Klaner wants a little private dicta-
2 1 2 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
torship of his own, and some of the American fascist'
groups hint at a military dictatorship.
At the Moseley and Deatherage hearings before the
Dies Committee it was asserted that " military action would
be necessary to get the gang out,” referring to an alleged
Jewish plot to overthrow the American form of govern­
ment. The fascist remedy, as brought out in the Dies
hearings, is for a 'r
military court” to take control of the
Federal government and each of the 48 states.
Such fascist movements are usually counter-revolu­
tionary— organizations set up to check alleged revolution­
ary movements which they consider the government un­
able to cope with, or may even be a party to, and so they
seek to bring about a little revolution of their own and
take over the reins of government themselves.
Doubtless some of the American fascist movements
were originally founded on sincere patriotic ideals, but the
evolution of them along emotional lines, with hate as their
keynote, inevitably brings about the rise of mob psychol­
ogy, the oppression of a minority, and a tyrannical dic­
tatorship.
And now in this latest fascist-directed movement, pop­
ularly known as the Mighty I AM, we see many similarities
to the methods of these other movements— yet, it is the
strangest dictatorship of them all.
It is a "PSYCHIC DICTATORSHIP,” and it func­
tions by means of the purported power and authority of a
score or more of unseen "Ascended Masters,” who have
for five years used as their mouthpieces two earth-plane
fuehrers!
It is effective to the extent that people love, fear, or
believe one Guy Ballard and his wife Edna, the emissaries
of the psychic Dictator, "Saint Germain,” who told his
"beloved family” that they will have a part to play in
bringing into perfection "that Government of so long ago
into America at this time,” and that the "N ew Govern-
" P e e w e e H i t l e r i s m ” i n A m e r i c a 213
ment will require their services ere long.”
Now, in this cult’s attempt to set up an alien dictator­
ship of "Ascended Masters,” with the two fuehrers as
representatives, there is revealed much of the same paran­
oid tendencies and delusions of grandeur which we find so
manifest in the Hitlerian ideology.
One cannot read Adolf Hitler’s Mein Kampf without
recognizing in Ballardism a great deal of the same cunning
strategy, the same psychology, which brought the German
fuehrer into power.
Patriotism, hate, and the lie have been the subtle psy­
chological weapons of this foreign despot, whose methods
are being duplicated today, or drawn from the same hidden
invisible source, by the Saint Germain cult.
Referring to his gospel of hate, Hitler says: "For pure­
ly psychological reasons one must present not two enemies
to the masses, but only one! A single enemy must be pushed
forward and all hate must be concentrated upon this sole
opponent.”
This "master psychologist” goes on to say: "It is part
of the genius of a true leader to make even widely dif­
ferent enemies appear to belong to but a single category
. . . ” And then this fuehrer of the German peoples lumps
all his hatreds together— and calls them Jews!
The Ballard hatreds are likewise legion, ranging all the
way from allergic Ascended Masters’ hatred of garlic and
onions to violent tirades against "black magicians,” "com ­
munists,” "spies,” and "vicious individuals” who oppose
their work. And, like Hitler, they lump all their hatreds
under a single category— and call it the "Sinister Force” !
Having propounded in his book his doctrine of a single
hate, Dictator Hitler goes on to stress the psychological
value of the enormous lie.
"The primitive simplicity of the mind of the masses,”
he says, "is more easily misled by a great than a tiny lie.”
He goes on to say the masses are "accustomed to telling
2 1 4 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
insignificant lies,” and can therefore "d e te c t such lies in
others.”
"B u t ,” says this m aster strategist, "t h e y generally fail
to detect a tru ly gigan tic d isto rtio n !”
In a sim ilar w a y the Ballards have either consciously
or uncon sciou sly fo llow e d the H itle r strategy. C a n one
th in k o f any m ore "e n o rm o u s lie,” an y m ore tru ly " g i ­
gan tic d istortion ,” than th at represented in the Ballard
cu lt?
I f ever "p e e w e e H itle rism ” in A m e ric a becom es m ore
like its big brother abroad, it w ill be because the A m erican
people fail to realize, and take steps to cou n teract, the
subtle psychic or psych ological inroads that are being m ade
b y various m ovem en ts in this co u n try .
CHAPTER 30
THE BALLARD INNER SECRET SERVICE”
There is reason to wonder whether the United States
Government, and especially J. Edgar Hoover’s F.B.I., is
aware that operating in our country alongside of the
government’s own Secret Service is another "Secret Serv­
ice” operated by the "Ascended Masters” of the Ballard
cult!
Surprising as this may seem to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and to others, we are assured by the Ballards
themselves that such is unquestionably the case.
We quote directly from the stenographic record of
the Chief of the Ballard "Inner Secret Service,” whose
secret code name is K-17. This great investigator for the
"Ascended Masters” came forth on the stage of the Shrine
Civic Auditorium at Los Angeles on January 1, 1939 (at
least Guy Ballard said he d id), and publicly revealed some
of the inner secrets of his secret service work and its con­
nection with J. Edgar Hoover’s F.B.I.
"Beloved ones,” said the I.S.S. Chief, "there has been
throughout the centuries an Inner Secret Service in con­
nection with certain ones of the outer Secret Service. You
will notice that I am not hesitating to give this informa­
tion. It will be well for all individuals to listen to that!
America is going to have her protection! (applause)
" . . . The greater part of my twenty-four hours are
spent in the tangible body in the outer world! Therefore,
there is nothing can be hidden from me (applause) and
when I start out to get evidence I get it! (applause) . . .
"You have many Friends in the outer Secret Service
2 1 6 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
as well as the Inner; (applause) . . . ” (p. 13, Feb.,
1939, v.)
Long before the new I.S.S. Chief came on the job,
Guy Ballard in his books told of his secret service connec­
tions. While assertedly living at the Rayborn "Diamond K
Ranch” in Wyoming in the fall of 1931, a secret agent by
name of Gaylord arrived, presented his credentials and
told of his "personal contact with some of the higher
official and diplomatic circles in Washington.” (p. 166,
M . p . )
"Saint Germain,” continued this secret agent, "is con­
cerned with certain activities in Washington at the present
time It is his request that we three reach there the second
of October, and he will meet us on our arrival. He says it
is possible to use you in certain ways . . . Remember al­
ways, that our eternal motto and rule of conduct is— 'To
know, to dare, to do, and to be silent.’ ”
Then Ballard— daring but not so silent— goes on to tell
further details about his secret service experiences. He,
Rayborn, and the secret agent start on their journey to
official Washington, during which journey they receive
important information concerning "tw o of the commun­
ist representatives,” one of them, a woman, admittedly
"one of the cleverest, most dangerous, and notorious per­
sons in Europe.” (p. 178, m . p . )
"Put on your armor,” said Gaylord to Ballard, "for in
handling this woman, when the time comes, you will need
to use all your powers of diplomacy. You have a part to
fulfill more important than you dream . . . We are getting
into action here none too soon.”
On this dangerous and "secret” mission, Ballard, enter­
tained by many a thrilling secret-service story from Gay­
lord, eventually arrives in Washington— the Washington
that was his, for was he not the reincarnated George Wash­
ington, the first President of the United States? What
memories this visit must have brought back!
T h e B a l l a r d " I n n e r S e c r e t S e r v i c e ” 217
However, in his absorption he forgets completely to
follow up his story of the interesting woman who was
"one of the cleverest, most dangerous, and notorious per­
sons in Europe.” Whether his "diplomatic powers” were
equal to the task of handling this woman we shall un­
fortunately perhaps never know. But let him continue
with his other exploits.
"The third day after our arrival,” writes Ballard, "Ray-
born, Gaylord, and I, accompanied by Saint Germain and
certain members of the Secret Service, went to the rendez­
vous of an important group of those who were willing
channels for the sinister force. There were present the
seven principal leaders in America.
" . . . We walked in upon them, Saint Germain charg­
ing the atmosphere with an electric force that held them
immovable. Their drawn guns dropped to the floor where
they stood, and their arms hung motionless by their sides. . .
"The members of the Secret Service stepped forward,
and took them into custody, where they shall remain until
they serve 'THE LIGHT.’ ” (pp. 212-213, M . p.)
But K-17’s "Inner Secret Service” does not always, it
seems, work in such perfect conjunction with J. Edgar
Hoover’s outer F.B.I. Sometimes the I.S.S. takes things in
its own hands, evidently not willing to wait on the slower-
moving but perhaps more thorough-going F.B.I.
As a case in point, we cite the achievement of Saint
Germain who by himself, without any assistance from the
outer Secret Service whatsoever, discovered a diabolical
foreign plot against the United States. It was at San Fran­
cisco on February 5, 193 8, that he revealed the astonishing
service which he performed for his adopted country.
"A concentrated action,” he said, "was attempted in
the Orient and in Europe to band together certain aerial
forces to bring destruction to our America. Five times,
I intercepted their messengers. In the case of the last one,
I was compelled to turn back upon him his own vicious-
2 1 8 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
ness, which destroyed his physical body.”
T h e n the th orou g h ly aroused Saint G erm ain sent back
a message to the originators o f this a ttack , saying:
"If you attempt further destructive activity of that
kind, and you start those planes for America, I will de­
stroy every one and the people that are in them! . . . If
necessary, I will destroy your whole army! and if you think
I cannot do it, try it out!” (p. 3, March, 193 8, V.)
T h a t was certainly definite enou gh fo r an y foreign foe
to our A m e ric a n freed om , or any com b in ation o f pow ers.
B u t it seems th ey took Saint G erm ain ’s w arn in g too lig h t­
ly . T h e y did n o t start planes fo r A m e ric a , b u t did send
three submarines!
A n d n o w w e m u st let the C h ie f o f the I.S .S. him self
tell w h a t happened to th em , because, fo r som e reason,
"S a in t G erm ain ” was n o t in on the d estruction th at fo l­
low s.
It was in Chicago on the afternoon of September 3,
1939, that this I.S.S. Chief known as K-17 suddenly ap­
peared on the stage of the Civic Opera House. Although
K-17 claims that most of the time he is in his "tangible
body,” it appears that no one else saw or heard him except
Guy Ballard, so we shall have to take his word for it.
"Beloved Children of the Light,” said Chief K-17, "I
come on a very urgent mission today. Three submarines
are on their way to the Panama Canal. I ask you to make
the call and I guarantee you that within the hour, they
will not exist, (applause)”
So for one hour and twenty-five minutes the I AM-ers
assembled at the big opera house in Chicago decreed and
decreed, and sang a song or two, and all the while down
at Panama things were happening. Then at exactly 4:10
P. M. (25 minutes late), K-17 returned to make his re­
port:
"B e lo v e d C h ildren o f the L ig h t,” he ann oun ced, "y o u
have gratitu de to U s— W e have gratitude to y ou fo r su p -
T h e B a l l a r d " I n n e r S e c r e t S e r v i c e ” 2 1 9
plying that which We required in giving forth this Service
to mankind.
"T h r e e o f the rem aining five secret subm arines are no
m ore! (applause)
"One was within sixty miles of the Panama Canal, so
We had to act very quickly . . .
"T h is plan to destroy the P anam a C an al has been long
and w ell laid. T h e y did n o t consider U s, b u t W e w ere R eal
enou gh to destroy those destructive ships and the people
in th em , (applause) . . .
"Long ago in the coming forth of the books you were
informed that there was the Inner Secret Service, in many
ways more powerful than the outer secret service. When
the Inner Secret Service acts, as a rule the individuals dis­
appear from the earth.
"I will not tell you in just what time or how long it
took to consume them, but not long. Three hundred and
sixty-four foreign spies will act no more in your beloved
America! (applause)” (pp. 30-31, Oct., 1939, v.)
So far as we have been able to discover, no acknowl­
edgment or thanks have been extended by the F.B.I. or
the War Department for the meritorious services of the
I.S.S. and the "I AM ” for saving the Panama Canal.
We feel that the matter should most definitely be
looked into by the Federal Government and proper steps
taken to reward the parties concerned.
CHAPTER 31
DECREES OF DEATH!
The Ballards have not only by fear and threat and by
flattery and cajolery tried to keep their movement from
disintegrating, but they have in their decrees against in­
dividuals called upon the Mighty Powers of Heaven to
destroy physically those who sought in any way to inter­
fere with it.
It seems a strange and fantastic thing, but for over
five years large groups of people throughout the United
States have been meeting together and shouting decrees
which have for their purpose the "dissolving,” "consum­
ing,” "annihilating” "blasting,” "exploding,” and " de­
stroying” of certain human beings, or the political or re­
ligious organizations which they represent.
They project at their meetings what they call the de­
structive "BLUE LIGH TNING,” analogous it seems to
the "D E A TH R A Y ” of the pulp magazines, and if the
reader should happen to pass an I AM Temple or "Sanc­
tuary,” he would be very likely to hear reverberating out
upon the street the loud shouting of the following decree:
"STOP! STOP! STOP! YOU HAVE N O POWER!
Y O U R D A Y IS DONE! BE TH OU DISSOLVED AN D
CONSUMED BY THE POWER OF LIG H T!”
In an effort to show the power of these "Blue-Light­
ning” blasts, Guy Ballard at the Chicago class on May 8,
1938, said:
"You five hundred thousand students have been call­
ing into action the Power of the Blue Lightning! Do you
know what that means? Do you know one day the mo-
D e c r e e s o f D e a t h ! 221
mentum gained in that action, if necessary, will be re­
leased! and no matter how terrifying It is to humanity,
That Power Shall Be Released!” ("Goddess of Liberty”
dictation, page 2, May 19, 193 8, Group Letter.)
In the Ballard " I AM Decree Book,” cop yrigh ted b y
the Saint G erm ain Press, there are seven ty-on e decrees
intended to m eet all their needs, fr o m co n trollin g the
state o f the w eather to the state o f the n ation ! T h e book
presents a curious litan y o f hate, love, and in tolerant rule
over the life and liberties o f others.
T h e fo llo w in g are parts o f some o f the other decrees
w h ich are shouted fr o m coast to coast:
" SILENCE the ton gu e and m ak e HELPLESS and in ­
active all attem p ts to interfere w ith or cast discredit u p on
this I A M In stru ctio n ! . . . BLAST and ANNIHILATE
all_that w o u ld interfere in any w a y w ith this P erfection !
. . . P roject the Blue L ig h tn in g in to every one o f these
vortices o f h u m an discord . . . and EXPLODE, EXPLODE,
EXPLODE every one this in sta n t!”
O n the even in g o f O c to b e r 21, 1937, in N e w Y o r k
C ity , G u y Ballard shouted to his audience the fo llo w in g
decree:
" I call the A n g e ls o f B lue L ig h tn in g , the Legions o f
L ig h t to stand guard over you r A m e r ic a ; M y A m e r ic a ;
th at every person w h o tries to b rin g d estructive con d i­
tions, qualities or activities in to A m e ric a , S H A L L C E A S E
T O E X I S T I N H IS H U M A N F O R M !” (p . 23, D e c .,
1937, V., our capitals.)
T h e above is a decree fo r death! It takes one back in
im agin ation to som e aboriginal jungle w here som e native
m edicine m an w ith savage incantations and rites is de­
creeing the death o f his en em y. Books dealing w ith w itc h ­
c ra ft, sorcery, and d em on ology are fu ll o f this sort o f
th in g, b u t w e h ard ly expect it in civilized A m e ric a . Y e t
this decree fo r the destruction o f a h u m a n fo r m w as p u b ­
licly u ttered on the stage o f the E ngineering A u d ito riu m
2 2 2 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
in our own New York City!
I f it be th ou g h t this death decree was m erely a slip o f
the ton gu e m ade in the ex citem en t o f the m o m e n t, the
reader should be disillusioned. Such a th in g is a studied
and regular a ctiv ity o f this b la ck -m a g ic organization.
In making these death decrees Ballard sometimes tries
to hide behind what he calls his own "Mighty I AM Pres­
ence,” and says that it is his "I AM ” speaking and not
Ballard. If so, Ballard’s "I AM ” is a dangerous and death­
dealing "I AM ,” and most sensible people would have
nothing whatever to do with it.
Speaking at West Palm Beach, Florida, on the after­
noon of December 5, 1937, Guy Ballard stated:
"E r e lo n g the ligh t shall com p el every h u m an being,
every h u m an fo r m , to give the necessary obedience to M e ,
the M ig h ty I A M . . . W h e n It reaches a certain state o f
vib ratory action, the h u m a n fo r m w h o w ill n ot give obedi­
ence becom es D I S S O L V E D .” (p . 12, Jan, 1938, v ., our
capitals.)
A t C levelan d on the a ftern oon o f N o v e m b e r 14, 1936,
“ M ig h ty I A M ” Ballard shouted:
"I AM the Presence that silences and places out of ac­
tion every person, association or whatever sends forth
destructive activity to My Presentation . . . of this Light
and work! . . . All unfortunate individuals in human form
who henceforth attempt to personally interfere with this
Light . . . SHALL MEET the recoil of their own
destructive creation . . . There is no Power in heaven or
earth to stop it . . . I HAVE SPOKEN!” (pp. 3 and 9,
Jan., 1937, v., their capitals.)
Most often, however, instead of hiding behind his "I
AM ,” Ballard takes cover behind some supposedly great
“ Ascended Master,” and has this great Being say and do
things of which not even the most ordinary of human be­
ings would be guilty— and certainly not a real Master of
Wisdom.
D e c r e e s o f D e a t h ! 223
It is easy to discover th at the Ballard "G o d s ” and
"G od d esses” are all created in the im age o f their m aker.
W e find th em w ith o u t excep tion expressing the th ou ghts,
feelings, and gram m atical errors o f their creators.
O n c e w h en E dna Ballard w as reading one o f Saint
G erm a in ’s ( ? ) discourses, a fo rm e r school girl frien d d ry ly
rem ark ed : "E d n a , y o u should n o t have Saint G erm ain
m ak e the same gram m atical errors th at y ou m ade in class.”
It is n o t to be w ondered at, th erefore, th at the Ballard
"la d y and gentlem en A scen d ed M asters” are just as p r o ­
ficient in th row in g the "B lu e L ig h tn in g ” as are the B al-
lards. T h e fo llo w in g threats o f death are all taken fro m
the Ballard literature, and supposedly m ade b y great " A s ­
cended M asters.”
"T h o s e w h o tr y to oppose this L ig h t are dissolved by
it . . . D estru ctiv e individuals shall be searched o u t and
shall leave those bodies . . . I w o u ld dissolve those physical
bodies before th ey shall h arm h im . . . T h e y sound their
o w n death knell! . . . W h e n It m oves in to action ev ery ­
th in g unlike Itself dissolves and disappears before I t! I f
th at includes some of mankind’s bodies, then shall it be
s o !” E tc ., etc.
Openly revealing a sadistic tendency, “ Saint Germain,”
at the Minneapolis class threatened to draw these vicious
individuals before him and ’'see them cry out in agony”
A little later, he boasted: "W c have our own means of
causing people to disappear.” (pp. 26-27, Oct., 1939, v.)
"M ig h t y C o sm o ,” another o f the Ballard fra tern ity o f
avenging gods, said at Los A n g e le s: "T h e insane h um an
beings th at tr y to spread d ou b t con cern in g the G lo r y o f
these M essengers . . . should be shtit up forever . . . n o lo n g ­
er m a y m e rc y be show n to those w h o w illfu lly tu rn aw ay
fr o m this L ig h t . . . better had a rattlesnake w oven itself
in am on g y ou than the poisonous breath o f d ou b t, (a p ­
plause) . . . I f th ey do n o t stop it, th ey w ill sting them­
selves to death] (a p p la u se )” (p p . 8-12-16-18, A u g ., 1939,
224 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
v., our italics.)
Emphasizing this idea of destruction of the physical
body, Ballard came out on the stage of the Shrine Audi­
torium in Los Angeles on Wednesday, July 6, 1938, and
said that "Saint Germain” would have the dictation.
"I ask you,” said Saint Germain, "to watch these un­
fortunate creatures who have tried to destroy the work of
the Messengers and My Work. One of the worst ones in
America is here in your city. Watch the reaction of their
own DESTRUCTION. It must return upon themselves—
it is the Law of Life, so the Law will take its toll. There­
fore, I trust BY; SUNDAY I shall have still added joyful
news for yoti.” (p. 17, Aug., 1938, v., our capitals and
italics.)
Is it n o t evid en t fr o m "S a in t G erm ain ’s” rem ark o f
"a d d e d jo y fu l new s b y S u n d ay,” th at he expected som e­
th in g physically to happen to a certain Los A n geles per­
son w ith in fo u r days?
At the following Shrine Class in Los Angeles, held six
months later, there seemed to have been much discourage­
ment about the slowness of action of these "Death Rays”
upon certain individuals. The Ballards therefore gave their
chief G-man, K-17 of the "Inner Secret Service,” addi­
tional work to do— and the Chief of the I.S.S. did not
hesitate to say that " physical action” would be necessary.
We quote:
"T h e M essenger said to y o u , I th in k it was on last
T u esd ay, th at he fe lt the attem p ted opposition to this
G reat L ig h t had been dissolved. It has on the In n er action
o f life b u t there are still things to be done in the outer . . .
"B e lo v e d students in the fu tu re , do not hesitate to put
doum anything th at tries to defam e T h is W o r k . Y o u have
M y perm ission! (applause) . . .
"Your Mighty Decrees have been answered remarkably
so far and they will be answered in a more and more re­
markable way; but, since time is an essential in this, We
D e c r e e s o f D e a t h ! 225
shall take a part in PHYSICAL ACTION.
" . . . T h e u n fo rtu n ate individuals w h o . . . have tried
in every conceivable w a y to brin g disgrace u p o n T his
W o r k , w a tch th at disgrace retu rn u p on th e m ! (applause)
D O N O T H E S I T A T E T O H E L P I T A L O N G , beloved
students, (a p p la u se )” (p p . 12-13, F eb ., 1939, v ., our cap i­
tals and italics.)
It is evid en t fr o m the above that the Ballard decrees
fo r destruction do n o t w o rk , and th at, th erefore, this
"S e c re t Service M a ster,” w h o says he has a "ta n g ib le b o d y ,”
is goin g to take a p art in som e “ P H Y S I C A L A C T I O N .”
W h a te v e r it is th at he has in m in d , the Ballard students
are urged to "help it along” and to ’'put down anything”
w h ich w ork s against their m o v em e n t. A n d the audience,
em otion ally aroused w ith the spirit o f the m o b , applauds
and applauds.
I f it w as the in ten tion o f this “ Secret Service M aster”
to arouse m em bers in the audience to take som e k in d o f
"p h y sic a l action ” against individuals w h o w ere revealing
certain facts about this c u lt, then it was n ot altogether
unsuccessful.
At least in the case of the writer it was so, for on the
evening of January 13th— twelve days after K-17’s "per­
mission” to students to “ put down anything that tries to
defame This W ork”— he was decoyed to a dead-end street
in Los Angeles, where several members of a gang were
waiting to do him bodily harm. He recognized in time,
however, that it was a hold up, and was able to get away
without being injured; but for a number of days follow­
ing this experience he received telephone calls from various
members of the gang threatening him bodily harm if he
didn’t "lay off” the Mighty I AM.
T his th in g o f in flam in g the m in d to destructive action
against so-called "v ic io u s individuals” is one o f the m ost
dangerous aspects o f this c u lt. Im agin e the possible effect
o n certain types o f em otional, unbalanced individuals
226 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
when statements like the following are made. They were
made publicly in Philadelphia on November 15, 193 8, by
Guy Ballard, but if you can believe it— they are the
actual words of the Archangel Michael!
"S in c e m ore than six hundred thousand people are
calling fo r M e . . . th ey shall w ield the Sw ord o f Blue F lam e
in their P H Y S I C A L H A N D S , (p. 7, Jan., 1939, v.)
"Therefore, tonight, I release to you in Philadelphia
the Power of the use of the Sword of Blue Flame. Mental­
ly, picture it in your hands, (pp. 8-9.)
"These forces that hate so greatly and do all they can
to spread discord everywhere, must be governed; some­
times by FORCE! That is what We shall proceed to do . . .
Therefore, when We tell you that We intend to use
FORCE where it is necessary, We mean just that! We
mean the force and Power of Light that can absolutely
SILENCE A N Y H UM AN ACTION ! . . . That is why
there will be thousands of students in America in the near
future who can say "STOP!” with a force that will
FASTEN THE H UM AN FORM IN ITS TRACKS.”
(pp. 12-13, our capitals.)
Im agine m a k in g such dangerous prom ises and placin g
in the hands o f em otionally-arou sed people such im a g in ­
ary p ow er!
In any large m eetin g o f this k in d there are likely to be
present those w h o are m e n tally unbalanced, psych op ath ic,
or perhaps crim in ally insane. Fired w ith the ardor o f
being able to w ield A rch a n g e l M ich ael’s "S w o r d o f Blue
F lam e” in their "p h y sic a l hands,” there is no telling w h a t
such individuals m ig h t do physically against any so-called
vicious person; fo r w h en their decrees o f death do n o t
w o rk on the m en tal plane o f being, the ten d en cy is to go
over to the physical.
W h e n such a m o b spirit as this gets loose in A m e rica
under the guise o f religion and patriotism , does it n ot
constitute a danger and a m enace?
CHAPTER 32
THE " BLUE LIGHTNING” FLASHES AT
CLEVELAND
We shall now recount stirring events which led up to
the inauguration of a new system of attendance at the
Ballard classes.
For five years the "Accredited Messengers of Saint
Germain” had openly preached their political ond re­
ligious doctrines to the American people.
Suddenly, however, following a hectic 10-day class at
Cleveland in October, 1939, all this was changed.
Then began their new system of holding all meetings
" closed,” open only to those who would sign pledges of
allegiance to the "Ascended Masters” and their three-and-
only Accredited Messengers.
One of the reasons for this change from open to closed
meetings was due, no doubt, to the fact that their meetings
were getting a bit too fanatical and funny for the general
public to tolerate.
The furious decreeing and condemnation of "spies”
and other "enemies” from the platform, the lack of toler­
ance and true devotion, did not make the average unhexed
newcomer feel that these people were altogether sane or
inspired by a preponderance of Christian love and charity.
They would perhaps notice the ungrammatical language
used by "Perfect Beings from the Seventh Octave of
Light,” or they might even notice Guy Ballard taking his
watch out to see how much time an all-knowing "Master”
or "Goddess” had for the dictation— all of which would
give rise to the unkind thought that it was only Guy Bal­
lard himself dictating his own messages.
228 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
Such “ vicious” individuals from the unregenerate pub­
lic had to be dealt with in some way. They usually had
watchful Minute Men eject them from the auditorium,
but, as we shall see, some of these “ storm troopers” of the
Ballards took their jobs a little bit too seriously.
Occasionally, too, some woman would object to the
removing of her hat— a little observance absolutely nec­
essary to enable the great Saint Germain to send “ Light
Rays” into her brain. Whether she gave the great “ Master”
permission to do this or not, it was to be done unto her.
She, and everyone else, was drafted for complete “ Light
Ray” service during the entire meeting. Bald-headed men,
it would appear, would have no protection at all from
Saint Germain’s Light Ray.
Conscientious objectors to this rigid, hat-removing re­
quirement of the Ascended Masters would be uncere­
moniously and, if necessary, forcefully ejected— the most
conscientious of them, all the while, voicing down the aisle
an audible protest.
A woman who had this experience happen to her in
Detroit, wrote to the writer as follows:
“ I went to hear them yesterday and simply refused to
remove my hat or applaud them because I did not know
anything about their doctrines. I was ushered out because
of it . . . stopped the show for a while. If that 'Tube of
Light’ of Saint Germain’s could not penetrate a little bit
of cloth on my head, the 'God’ they worship must be a
weak God.”
Such happenings, of course, worked against the peace
and harmony of each miracle-working class; and, as we
shall see, sometimes brought about legal actions which the
bolt-throwing Thors of this cult could not handle with
their death-dealing “ Blue Lightning.”
Occasional disturbances of this kind were bad enough,
but when the Accredited Messengers reached Cleveland in
October, 1939, for the usual 10-day open meeting, it
T h e " B l u e L i g h t n i n g ” F l a s h e s a t C l e v e l a n d 2 2 9
seemed as if all the "sinister forces” of the universe had
arrayed themselves against their "Powers of Light.”
Part of the trouble that ensued was brought about by
the Minute Men at the door being caught a little off guard,
in that they permitted a bad-acting newspaper man by
name of Westbrook Pegler, who possesses a particularly
trenchant pen, to get into their meeting.
It further appears that neither G-man "Saint Ger­
main” nor the great "Inner Secret Service” Chief himself,
"K-17,” knew that this nationally-known columnist was
in the audience, or they would surely have sent their an­
nihilating "Blue Lightning” at him, and that would have
been the end of the matter!
Perhaps, too intent on directing their "Blue Lightning”
at the enemy abroad, they neglected the nearer menace at
their own door. At any rate, there he was— a sort of liter­
ary bull in an "Ascended-Master” china shop!
Now, as the trenchant-pen Pegler sat in meeting, pret­
ty soon he was rubbing his eyes and doubting his ears.
So many things were happening . . . foreign submarines
being destroyed by Swords of Blue Flame . . . Japanese
bombers being routed by Ascended Masters . . . William
Shakespeare shaking his spear . . . etc. . . . etc. . . . that
upon leaving, he said, he had to buy a "sheaf of books to
confirm in print what he had heard in bewilderment from
the platform.”
So armed with the booklets, which doubtlessly assured
him of his own sanity, and that what he had heard he had
really heard and not imagined, he sat down and wrote the
first of two articles on the strange cult, beginning in this
wise:
"It seems impossible that in all history the human race
has produced any more humiliating rebuke to its claims of
reason and dignity than a certain congregation of about
1,000 Americans who have been gathering afternoons and
evenings lately in Cleveland to take part in a religious cult
2 3 0 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
known as the Great I AM .”
He went on to say among other scathing denunciations
in this first article, that it was " the most revolting travesty
in the entire record of religious eccentricity in the United
States.” (United Feature Syndicate, Oct. 24, 1939.)
This and his other article on the cult, appearing as
they did in so many newspapers of a syndicated chain,
brought much unfavorable publicity to the "Accredited
Messengers” and their strange cult.
The "Blue Lightning” began to flash at this Cleveland
class as never before, but too late now to stop the "sinister
forces,” other adverse things began to happen.
A Cleveland candid camera fan, while at the meeting
attempted to photograph the camera-shy Accredited Mes­
sengers through a hole in his hat; but, as cameras are not
permitted, he didn’t quite get away with it.
One of the white-uniformed storm-troopers spied him
in the act, and, according to the account in the Cleveland
Press of October 25, "not only ripped the film from his
camera but also knelt on his Adam’s apple, bloodied his
nose and removed small portions of epidermis from vari­
ous parts of his face.”
The result was a suit against the Accredited Messengers
for $5,000, court attachments on 4 canary-yellow Chrys-
lers, 1 "Ascended-Master” Harp, 1 earth-plane Nova-
chord, and various and sundry stage props.
Following closely upon this was another suit for $5,000
made by a woman who refused to obey Saint Germain’s
mandate concerning the removal of hats. W e quote an
article in the Cleveland Press of October 25, 1939:
"M rs.---------- asserts that she was forcibly ejected from
the auditorium, suffering injuries to her spine, on Friday
last, when she refused to remove her hat out of respect to
the Great I AM. White clad ushers, or Minute Men, as
they are known, flung her to the sidewalk, she asserts.”
From these harrowing experiences at Cleveland and
T he "B lue Lightning” Flashes at Cleveland 231
with their "Blue Lightning” in full retreat, the Ballards
moved on to the Eastern coast, temporarily minus their
four canary-yellow cars, the "Ascended-Master” harp, and
other necessities of their trade, which had been pasted all
over with legal attachments at Cleveland— mere pieces of
paper which Saint Germain’s "Blue Lightning” could not
dissolve quite so easily as it dissolved three considerably
more weighty submarines just in time to save the Panama
Canal.
Under such #7«-Ascended Master circumstances, the
scheduled open meetings at Philadelphia and Washington
were forthwith cancelled on order of "Saint Germain,”
and in those cities the new system of "closed” classes
started.
Only the faithful and obedient students were gathered
together at those classes; and the guards at the door, not
depending so much on the stopping power of the "Blue
Lightning,” became physically more vigilant in their ef­
forts to keep out process servers and bad-acting newspaper
people.
On the afternoon of November 12, 1939, at Washing­
ton— city of Guy Ballard’s former victories as Comman­
der-in-Chief of the Continental Armyl— the lovely
"Goddess of Light” came forth to make a few pertinent
remarks concerning recent happenings.
"These beloved Messengers,” she said, "who have never
harmed a fly have been set upon by such depraved crea­
tures as put forth these articles. Those individuals will yet
understand, they are dealing with a Power of Light with
which they cannot cope.” (p. 10, Feb., 1940, v.)
"D o not talk about these classes outside,” continued
the Goddess. "Spies are everywhere and in the future there
will be no outer notice of when or where the classes are
to be held . . . If spies and people come to you for informa­
tion .. . tell them it is none of their business.” (pp. 17-18.)
That same evening, "Saint Germain,” more threaten-
232 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
ing in his remarks than the Goddess, told the class-leaders:
"You must take a more positive stand, release a force
in those places and throw out people who get nosey. There
is no law in this land that allows anybody to come into
your place and snoop around.” (p. 21, Feb., 1940, V.)
"You just wait, beloved ones, until these classes have
been closed for six months or a year. If you do not see a
scrambling in the outer world, then I will miss My guess.”
(P- 220
"W e have a means recently established by which We
can reach people, certain people at any time . . . This will
help tremendously in the regulation of things and in the
raising up of Ascended Master Friends . . . ” (p. 25.)
" . . . The government has watched this Activity from
the beginning and knows that there is not one harmful
thing in it.” (p. 25.)
"It is Our Intent and has been from the beginning that
when We do begin to appear tangibly to you . . . to become
a Law for the student body— and when We do that, I as­
sure you there will be no Peglers or Millers, (applause)”
(Miller is a newspaper man who exposed the cult in Cleve­
land.] (p. 31.)
Then dispatching a 400-word telegram to a Los An­
geles class leader, firing him on the soot for disobedience,
this now thoroughly-aroused "Ascended Master” said: "In
the future all classes and groups will be closed to the out­
side world . . . Then the howling pack of wolves on the
outside can howl to their hearts’ content.”
Having with proper threats inaugurated their "closed”
classes in Washington and Philadelphia, the Ballards re­
turned in the fall of 1939 to their great Mecca in Los
Angeles.
At all former "Shrine” classes the "blessed people of
Los Angeles” had always been lovingly invited— even
though on their printed "invitation,” they stated: "W e
always reserve the right to refuse admittance or have any-
T h e " B l u e L i g h t n i n g ” F l a s h e s a t C l e v e l a n d 2 3 3
one rem oved fr o m the audience at our discretion.”
A t this n ew "c lo s e d ” class, h ow ever, o n ly those o f the
"blessed p u b lic ” w h o w o u ld sign a pledge of allegiance to
the Bollards and their rfAscended Masters” could get in.
In addition, evid en tly afraid o f fu rth er legal suits and
acu tely conscious o f the failure o f their "B lu e L ig h tn in g ”
to handle such m atters, th ey at this first "c lo se d ” Shrine
class m ade the "blessed p u b lic ” agree n o t to hold the B a l-
lards responsible fo r an yth in g th at m ig h t happen at the
classes.
So on both Eastern and W e ste rn Coasts there was
started, at these closed classes, a n ew dispensation over the
lives and liberties o f their follow ers. N o notes o f any kin d
w ere p erm itted to be taken , and n o in fo rm a tio n was to be
given on the outside con cern in g this secret cu lt w h ich
to d ay uses som e o f the m ethods o f the G erm an G estapo.
T h e statem ent was m ade th at if an yth in g leaks o u t, G od
help the one th rou gh w h o m it com es!
A n d as m ig h t be expected , these secret classes m ade the
credulous m em bers o f the same blessed p u b lic even m ore
anxious to be partakers in the "b lessin gs” th at w ere to be
distributed in greater abundance th an before, n o w th at the
"sp ie s” and heretics w ere to be k e p t ou t.
T h ere w as a rush just before the start o f the Shrine
class on D e ce m b e r 2 2 , to fu lfill "A sc e n d e d -M a ste r ” re­
quirem ents o f adm ission and to be the p rou d possessor o f
an "ad m ission card ” w h ich w o u ld entitle the fortu n a te
stu den t to u n ob stru cted entrance in to these secret m e e t-
ings.
A n d at this Shrine class, E dn a B allard, w h o already
m a n y tim es before had dem onstrated her ability to sur­
m o u n t crises in the m o v em e n t, w as destined to rise to new
heights and pow ers o f her fem in in e dictatorship over her
follow ers.
Six m onths before, in this c ity , w h en a m in or crisis
had arisen and certain staff m em bers had been dismissed
2 3 4 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
fo r disobedience, she had appeared as a D ic ta to r before a
"D a u g h te rs o f L ig h t” g rou p , and, accord in g to a sten o­
graphic rep ort, said:
" D o n ’t any o f you ever dare tr y to separate any o f the
staff fr o m us again . . . I w ill drive every b it o f viciousness
righ t back in to you r bodies, and I have the p ow er to do it.
I f y ou d ou b t m y ability, just look at those w h o have just
been dismissed. T h e y are livin g in w a n t, in dire need, and
the same th in g w ill happen to any others w h o cross us and
this W o r k .”
B u t soon a real crisis was to c o n fro n t this fem in in e
D ic ta to r, w h o b y such threats holds her people in abject
fear o f her alleged pow ers.
F or during this Shrine class there was to o ccu r an
even t w h ich w o u ld test all the resourcefulness o f this
w o m a n w h o had in a fe w years risen fr o m m ediocre h arp ­
ist and bookstore salesw om an in C h icago to a position o f
p sych ic D ic ta to r over the lives o f thousands o f her fo llo w ­
ers th ro u g h o u t the U n ite d States o f A m e rica.
W h a t this even t w as, and the effect o f it, w ill be d e­
scribed in a later chapter.
CHAPTER 33
GEORGE WASHINGTON BALLARD FOR
PRESIDENT!
Back in 1789 when George Washington took charge
as first President of the United States of America, that
personage— if we can believe it— was really the present
George Washington Ballard!
T h e re fo re , the reincarnated G eorge has had a natural
leaning tow ard the W h ite H ou se— and, if w e can believe
his published statem ent m ade at N e w Y o r k on O c to b e r 2 1 ,
1937, Guy Ballard’s ”Mighty I AM” has already taken
charge of our government! W e q u o te:
"This day, I set My Legions into action in your govern­
ment; in your city, the head of the finances of the world;
to take command and bring all human beings into obedi­
ence to Me!” (pp. 24-25, Dec., 1937, v.)
O f course, the absurdity is th at such w ild claim s should
be fo u n d anyw here ex cep t on the inside o f a m ad house,
b u t in this instance th ey w ere seriously uttered on the
outside— and cheered b y a hall fu ll o f ferv id ly patriotic
A m erican s.
E n couraged b y his audience’s evident approval fo r him
to take over the finances o f the w orld , G u y Ballard reached
o u t to take in the Suprem e C o u r t o f the U n ite d States.
"I AM the Presence,” said the present George, "which
shall act in your Supreme Court . . . N o longer shall hu­
man creation dominate My People! . . . I say to all destruc­
tive forces . . . 'Now, you shall face me! a Power with
which you cannot cope! which you cannot harm, but
which can make you helpless!” (p. 26.)
W e can n ot b u t w on der w h a t the nine sober-m inded
236 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
members of the Nation’s highest tribunal will say on the
day Guy Ballard’s "I AM ” formally descends to take
charge of their Supreme Court. Their verdict must surely
be that such a thing is slightly unconstitutional— even for
people heaven-bent on "saving” the Constitution.
Luckily for our constitutional democracy, Ballard and
his flaming "I AM ” were in New York at the time and
not in Washington; for in such a determined frame of
mind, with the power of Saint Germain and the Ascended
Host back of them, they might have taken charge then
and there!
Mrs. Ballard, one evening at the Los Angeles class
toward the end of a tirade against "vicious” officials in
our government, raised her right hand in dramatic gesture
and shouted: " But George Washington still lives!”
That statement was followed by thunderous applause,
for these people knew their George Washington. There he
was seated on the platform— and his face certainly should
have been red.
A year or so ago, while the Ballards were in the east,
Guy Ballard, his staff, and some of the other favored ones,
journeyed to Valley Forge. There Ballard and his patriotic
band walked over well-remembered ground, so he said,
and explained how it all came back to him— how he
prayed for light and guidance and relief for his famine-
stricken, frost-bitten soldiers when his Continental Army
was in winter quarters there.
Later, in the February, 1939, issue of the "Voice of the
I AM ,” there appeared a vapid poem entitled, "W A SH ­
INGTON, WE LOVE YOU,” written by Mrs. Ballard.
Facing it was a picture of George Washington at Valley
Forge attired in a white-lined cape that looks like the one
Ballard himself wears on the stage at "I AM ” meetings.
W a sh in g to n ’s b irth day is celebrated w ith fittin g and
proper observances b y this bew ildering fa m ily o f " I A M -
ers.” T hese people, h ow ever, fo r years have w orshipped
George W ashington Ballard for President! 237
n o t a dead W a sh in g to n , b u t a living one!
One evening in their hotel suite George Washington
Ballard and the members of his present "staff” were look­
ing at a picture of the well-known painting, "Washington
Crossing the Delaware.”
It b rou g h t back stirring m em ories to the present re -
dou table G eorge. H e p ointed o u t h ow certain o f the m ost
fa ith fu l m em bers o f his staff helped h im to m ake the p eril­
ous jou rn ey th rou gh crashing blocks o f ice and the raging
river.
This staff m em b er w as the m an w ith the oar, that one
w as the m a n at the stern, and so on w ith the rest o f the
staff, w hile o f course Ballard h im self was G eneral W a s h ­
in g ton h oldin g a lo ft the flag at the b o w o f the b ob b in g
boat.
T h a t this p ain tin g was b u t an artist’s con cep tion — and
n o t so accurate at th at— seemed to have been overlooked
b y the present G eorge and taken as an absolute fa c t.
At the Washington class on Armistice Day, Novem­
ber 11, 1938, a little ceremony took place which doubt­
lessly gave new impetus to Ballard’s presidential ambitions.
We quote from the official report:
"When our precious Messengers, Mr. and Mrs. Ballard
and Donald, walked out on the stage, they were welcomed
by a mighty ovation. Then a huge Uncle Sam hat, fully
3 feet high, was passed up to Mr. Ballard. It was made of
red, white and blue carnations, in stripes, a real Uncle Sam
hat! He made an attempt to put it on his head, but it was
too big!” (p. 2, Dec. 20, 193 8, G
. L.)
W e should th in k it w o u ld be! It is surprising, to o , that
he w o u ld have the hated color, red, so near to h im .
O n e a ftern oon a little over a year ago, D o n ald Ballard
in c o m p a n y w ith one o f his fa th er’s "s t a ff” m em bers, was
w alk in g d ow n historic Pennsylvania A v e n u e . A s the tw o
passed the W h ite H o u se, D o n a ld tu rned to his com p an ion
and p ointed th rou gh the gatew ay to the President’s q u a r-
238 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
ters, sayin g:
"T h a t m an has n o business in there. M y D a d should be
the head o f this N a tio n righ t n o w !”
In the Ballards’ official report to their C en ters, under
date o f M a rc h 11, 1938, there appeared the fo llo w in g
veiled statem en t as to the fu tu re destiny o f the reincar­
nated W a sh in g to n and his official fa m ily :
" Y o u are fam iliar w ith the fa c t th at it w as our Beloved
Saint G erm ain W h o saved W a sh in g to n and the C o n tin e n ­
tal A r m y ; and w h o established W a sh in g to n as the first
President o f the U n ite d States o f A m e rica . U n k n o w n to
anyone H e has been training our Precious MR. AND
MRS. BALLARD, H is children in th at lon g ago, to carry
this 'L ig h t’ under H is direction . . . ”
T h e ir people actually believe th at G eorge W a sh in g to n
Ballard and his w ife E dn a are being trained to brin g a
" N e w G o v e rn m e n t” in to A m e ric a , and it is no d ou b t
flattering to these tru stin g souls to th in k th ey w ill have a
p art to p lay in it.
Campaign-manager Saint Germain at the San Fran­
cisco class on February 5, 1938, seemed to be quite san­
guine as to the political outlook. We quote:
"I tell you, dear ones, you are becoming a power in the
world! Do not forget it!” (p. 6, March, 193 8, v.)
T h e A scen d ed M aster "M ig h t y V ic to r y ,” w hile speak­
in g at San D ie g o , said:
"This momentum is just getting well into action now,
but when another million people are pouring forth these
Decrees, you will see something!” (p. 8, March, 1939, v.)
T h e "Q u e e n o f L ig h t” aroused the patriotic I A M -e r s
in Kansas C ity b y saying:
" A s y o u , a b od y o f m ore than fo u r hundred thousand
students, issue these D ecrees, do y ou th in k fo r one m o m en t
th at y ou can n ot regulate the con d ition s; even in the re­
qu irem en t o f the g o v e rn m e n t?” (pp. 450-451, A. M. L.)
T h e "G od d ess o f L ib e rty ,” w h o seems to have given
G e o r g e W a s h i n g t o n B a l l a r d f o r P r e s i d e n t ! 2 3 9
General Washington a "vision” of the future, said while
at New York:
"Know the accuracy of the vision shown Washington!
for remember, until the Ascended Masters TAKE COM­
MAND OF AMERICA, Washington will stand.” (p. 466,
a . M. L., our capitals and italics.)
The Ballard official report, calling attention to the
patriotic bands of "Minute Men” organized all over the
country, said:
"You will be interested to know how the activity of
the Minute Men is expanding. At their meeting preceding
the last Shrine Class 1800 were present. With the organ,
drums and bugle blowing in their stirring 'Marching
Song,’ it is no wonder that men like to attend.” (p. 2, Feb.,
1938, G. L.)
These official reports are frequently in the nature of
campaign speeches and "pep” talks. One reads:
" Arise, Minute Men of America! Arise, Daughters of
Lightl Arise, Students everyivhere! Rally around our great
Commander-in-Chief! G ive O bedience to y ou r G reat G o d
Presence. H u r l fo rth those m ig h ty decrees . . .” (p. 3,
D e c . 30, 193 8, g. l .)
Another one says:
" Awaken! Arise! Crusaders of old! . . . Joan of Arc,
Washington, and the Towers of Light call you to sweep
fomvard! . . . Carry America, Mankind and the World to
Victory! . . . Sweep onward in one Solid Phalanx of Light!
Hurl forth your mighty Decrees! . . . Victory is nigh!
Victory is here! Carry on !!!” (p . 4, Jan. 7, 1938, g . l .)
During a Minute Men’s meeting at Washington, D. C.,
Guy Ballard was saluted as the " Commander in Chief of
the United States of America,” which he acknowledged
with his usual humility.
Later, at a Minute Men’s meeting in Dallas, he waxed
eloquent about the "vicious” happenings at the seat of the
government, and shouted to the applauding group:
2 4 0 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
"As George Washington, I was head of my army, and
if necessary, 1 will again mount my white horse and lead
the armies to victoryl”
On the afternoon of January 6, 1939, at the Shrine
Civic Auditorium in Los Angeles, George Washington
Ballard personally stated to the large audience assembled
there, his remarks being also broadcast over the radio, the
following:
" W h y , w e h ave,” said he, speaking n o t so h u m b ly ,
"o v e r one m illion I A M students n o w ; before the year is
o u t w e w ill have tw o m illion— and it o n ly takes three
m illion to govern the U n ite d States b y D iv in e O rd er and
Justice.”
Back in 1936, Saint Germain told his audience at San
Francisco:
" The Government— the New Government— will re­
quire your services ere long."
A n d , fo r years, his M in u te M e n w ith drum s and b ugle,
w ith A rch a n g e l M ich ael’s "S w o r d o f the Blue F lam e” in
their physical hands, have been singing their p atriotic
M a rch in g S on g and h u rlin g fo rth their decrees:
"Fill every office in our Land with Almighty Ascended
Master FRIENDS of the Light!"
Can there be any doubt who these "Friends” are, and
the parts Guy Ballard, wife, and son had planned to play
in the "New Government” ?
He, George Washington! She, Joan of Arc! Their son,
Lafayette of France!
What additional and amazing steps they took to con­
summate their desires will in the next chapter be given—
and, then, the sudden and unexpected sequel to it all!
t
CHAPTER 34
DEATH-BLASTS OVER THE WHITE HOUSE
It is very evident from what has gone before that the
self-proclaimed George Washington, his wife, and son,
have certain irrepressible ambitions to occupy the White
House and bring a "New Government” into America.
Their methods of installing themselves there will
doubtless not meet with the approval of the present oc­
cupants of the White House— nor indeed the approval of
really patriotic Americans who believe in a representative
government and not in a form of witchcraft.
Here is described the most fantastic plan of dictator­
ship over the lives and liberties of others ever recorded in
American history.
For five years the Ballard "Death Decrees” have been
hurled forth day and night in an effort to " bla st"d is­
solve,” and " annihilate” anyone who would interfere in
any way with their plans to bring in a weird sort of gov­
ernment in America— a government of the "Ascended
Masters” and their "Friends.”
High officials of the present government, who might
stand in their way of getting into power, have been espe­
cially singled out as their victims in a strange species of
witchcraft.
As proof of this, we now quote from one of their o f­
ficial " Staff Dictations.”
These dictations are very private and secret. The staff
members are warned never to reveal them to a living soul,
and to "keep them under lock and key.”
2 4 2 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
The one to be quoted from is in mimeograph form,
dated August 17, 1938, and is headed: "SAIN T G E R ­
M AIN’S TALK TO THE STAFF— YOSEMITE.”
T h e fo llo w in g n ote is attached :
"T h is has n o t been edited and is fo r the Staff use on ly.
Please keep it ca refu lly guarded and under no condition
allow an yb od y to see or even k n o w there w ere dictations
in Y o se m ite .”
T h is particular dictation is largely in the fo r m o f
Q uestions and A n sw ers. W e q u ote:
Q . "C a n ’t w e consider destructive individuals the
same as w e consider discarnate entities as to free w ill?
A . "Y e s , d o n ’t have an y qualm s o f conscience, dear
ones. W h e n an individual has becom e w h o lly destructive,
it w o u ld be a thousand tim es better to m ake the call and
have th em taken o u t o f the b od y . . .
" I th in k it w o u ld be v ery great w isd om never to let
it be k n o w n th at y o u had dictations here, or even refer to
you r private, dictations under any circum stances. T h en
there is n o t the desire to get hold o f th em .
"And be very careful— all of you— in referring to
ROOSEVELT or MRS. ROOSEVELT by name openly.
"B e sure y ou d on ’t do it; because you see, these sinister
forces if th ey g o t sufficient hold o f individuals in the
gov ern m en t th ey m ig h t a ttem p t to tru m p u p charges to
in terfere w ith this w o rk fr o m the g overn m en t stand ­
p o in t.”
Q . W e should be carefu l w h a t w e say in the room s
fo r som ebod y m ig h t p u t an in stru m ent in to get the c o n ­
versations.”
A . " N o w please, every one o f the S taff, take that
firm positive determ ined attitude th at n ob o d y can p u t an
in stru m ent in the room s w here y ou are.”
N o w , w h y should the Ballards have been so carefu l to
w arn their staff m em bers n ot to refer to President and
M rs. R oosevelt’s nam es open ly to others? W h y all this fear
D eath-Blasts Over the W hite H ouse 243
about a dictaphone being installed in their room s? W h y
all this secrecy in a so-called "A sc e n d e d M aster” in stru c­
tion?
W e rem in d y o u , as show n b y the preceding ch apter,
th at these people fo r m a n y years have had designs on the
W h ite H o u se, and th ey w a n t to b rin g in to A m e ric a a
" N e w G o v e rn m e n t.” T h e y d o n o t w a n t any govern m ental
investigation o f their cu lt. A n d least o f all do th ey w a n t a
dictaphone set in their hotel room s to record such a m e e t­
in g as w ill be described in v olvin g the President o f the
U n ite d States!
R e m in d in g one o f some aboriginal ju n gle w here m ed i­
cine m en and their fanatical tribesm en p e rfo rm rites and
incantations to brin g about the death o f their enem ies, w e
n o w record a secret a ctiv ity o f this cu lt w h ich has taken
place m a n y tim es in their hotel apartm en t. It is n o strange
bit o f fictio n , nor did it happen in darkest A fr ic a or some
other aboriginal land w here vood oo practices are still in
v ogu e, b u t it has happened righ t here in civilized A m e rica
— in N e w Y o r k , Los A n geles, W a sh in g to n , and in other
cities— and the tru th o f it is sw orn to on affidavit b y fo r ­
m er m em bers o f the Ballard staff.
A t n ig h t, fo llo w in g their class m eetings, the Ballards
and their staff m a n y tim es w o u ld congregate in secret c o n ­
clave in M rs. B allard’s hotel apartm en t.
T h e y fo rm ed a circle around the ro o m , w ith , so fa r as
possible, a m an and a w o m a n alternating.
In the center o f the circle w o u ld be a stand or table
u pon w h ich had been placed a chalice or a gilded goblet
contain in g a fe w odd gold trinkets and coins— p u t there
no d ou b t fo r some m agical reason.
U p o n this chalice w ou ld be placed a list o f nam es. It
was a "b la c k list”— names of people they wanted de­
stroyed!
T h e n still standing in the circle around the m agic urn
w ith its list o f persons to be destroyed, th ey w o u ld raise
2 4 4 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
their hands and thrust th em rh yth m ica lly back and fo rth
as th ou gh push in g som ething aw ay fro m them selves. T his
was supposed to represent the destroying or c u ttin g pow er
o f A rch a n g e l M ich ael’s "S w o r d o f the Blue F lam e.”
C allin g on their various "g o d s ” and "godd esses,” they
w o u ld then issue the decree:
" STIFFEN ON THE CROSS OF BLUE FLAME ALL
THOSE W HO OPPOSE THIS LIGHT!”
T h e n again pushing their hands back and fo rth w ith
appropriate gestures tow ard the "d e a th list,” th ey w o u ld
call aloud the nam es o f FRANKLIN DELANO ROOSE­
VELT and ELEANOR ROOSEVELT, and issue the de­
cree to —
" B L A S T / BLAST! BLAST! THEIR CARCASSES
FROM THE FACE OF THE EARTH FOREVER!”
CHAPTER 35
DEATH ENTERS THE BALLARD HOUSEHOLD
At his expensive Vermont Avenue mansion near the
edge of beautifully-wooded Griffith Park in Los Angeles,
a white-haired old man lies dying.
It is the early morning hours of December 29, 1939;
and at exactly 5:20 A. M. the Messenger of Death is
scheduled to arrive and take this man into the Great Un­
known.
Seven days previous, their seventeen-day "Mighty I
AM ” class had opened in Los Angeles, and the announce­
ment had gone forth: "Mr. and Mrs. Ballard will conduct
another class at the Shrine Civic Auditorium in Los An­
geles.”
But when the great Shrine class opened, Guy Ballard
was not there.
Edna Ballard explained that because of a serious crisis
in world affairs, "Blessed Daddy was out ivith Saint Ger­
main.” And her followers, psychologized into believing
that "Blessed Mommie Ballard” never told one single bless­
ed word that was not the truth, believed her in this as in
everything else.
They did not know that Guy Ballard, broken in health
and decrepit of body, had been half carried from his ex­
pensive hotel apartment in downtown Los Angeles and
secretly taken to this big house at 2545 N. Vermont Ave.,
in the exclusive Griffith Park district of Los Angeles.
They did not know that instead of being out on some
"world service” with Saint Germain, Guy Ballard was
waiting to keep his last appointment on earth— the one
2 4 6 P s y c h i c D i c t a t o r s h i p i n A m e r i c a
with the grim Messenger.
During his nine days residence in this house, Guy Bal­
lard’s condition had become steadily and progressively
worse. Neither Edna Ballard, "Saint Germain,” nor any
other member of the "Ascended Host,” could relieve the
pain in his body or reduce the tremendous swelling in his
abdomen which was gradually but surely taking his life.
Two days before the appointment with Death, a sur­
geon was hastily summoned. He came with his instruments
and performed an abdominal operation on the body of
this man— a man who for years had claimed to have a
body of "Immortal Endurance,” and who said over and
over again that his was a different and more perfect body
than the bodies of other men.
But neither the surgeon nor any other material or
spiritual aid could keep the Messenger away.
And here on his death-bed, in the early morning hours
of December 29, 1939, Guy Ballard, "Accredited Mes­
senger of the Ascended Masters” and co-originator of the
Mighty I AM movement, was soon to be called to render
an account of his sixty-one years and five months of earth
life.
Perhaps already, as he lies there in a comatose condi­
tion, the Scroll of Life, like a great panorama, unfolds be­
fore his eyes, bringing vivid pictures of his good and bad
deeds done in the life now closing.
The pictures go racing by . . . his early contacts with
"Masters” . . . his travels to mountain tops in search of
gold . . . the gold stock-selling deals in Chicago . . . the
years spent as a fugitive from justice . . . his refuge in Los
Angeles . . . his secret return to Chicago . . . the re-union
with his wife . . . the dawn of their great metaphysical
idea . . . the piecing together of their books . . . the secret
classes in Chicago . . . the start of their great "Mighty I
AM ” movement . . . the applauding audiences . . . their
Messianic claims . . . the blasting of their enemies . . . their
D eath Enters the Ballard H ousehold 247
W h ite H ou se am bitions . . . the death-blasts at the First
L a d y o f the L an d . . . their death-decrees against the Presi­
d ent o f the U n ite d States.
A n d n o w , this last scene o f all. H ere in this big m a n ­
sion near Los A n g eles’ w ooded park, G u y Ballard, "M e s ­
senger o f the A scen d ed M aster,” b u t n o w deserted b y his
M ig h ty Saint G erm ain , w h o had allegedly given h im pow er
over the forces o f natu re— awaits his o w n rendezvous w ith
D ea th .
Is th at grim M essenger there in response to the great
"L a w o f A c tio n and R e a ctio n ” w h ich G u y Ballard so
o fte n said could n o t fail to operate in the lives o f others
b u t w o u ld n ot affect his o w n life because " no longer could
anything he recorded on his life stream”?
Is it true th at " W h a t one sends o u t, w ill inexorably
retu rn ” ? H a v e his o w n death-decrees, like som e fe a rfu l,
gigan tic boom erang, returned u p on their creator?
T h e breath rasps, the heart action falters, and those
w h o have been w aitin g in th at death cham ber draw nearer.
W h e n all was over, the m ortician was notified that
death had entered th at household, and he cam e and p re­
pared the body.
T h e physician to o k ou t his pen and w rote on his cer­
tificate as cause o f death— trArteriosclerotic heart dis­
ease” confirm ed b y X -R a y diagnosis o f the heart, and, as
probable co n trib u tin g cause— " 'Cardiac’ cirrhosis of
liver.”
And on January 1, 1940, the body of Guy Ballard,
which assertedly in 1932 at Chananda’s retreat in India had
emerged unscathed after remaining "two days and two
nights” in the "white heat of a great furnace” (p. 390,
M. p.), was taken to a Los Angeles crematory and de­
stroyed by fire.
T h u s ended the earth career o f G u y W a rre n Ballard,
self-styled "A c c r e d ite d M essenger o f the A scen d ed M a s­
ters,” w h o in the last seven years o f his life had a m eteoric
248 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
rise to a position o f strange influence over the lives and
destinies o f thousands, and y e t, despite his claim s to " I m ­
m ortal E n d u ran ce,” died as other m ortals have ever died.
But to his thousands of followers, Guy Ballard did not
die! T h e y believe th at death, in the usual sense, did n ot
com e to h im ; th at instead o f d yin g, he ”Ascended” !
T h e y believe th at this "A sc e n sio n ” w as m ade v o lu n ­
tarily and th at there was no suffering or disease in his b od y ,
w h ich , allegedly, was n o t like the bodies o f the rest o f
m ank in d .
They do not want to believe that Guy Ballard, after
weeks of agonizing illness, died from a complication of
chronic diseases. They believe exactly as Edna Ballard—
considered by many as the real originator and sustaining
force of this cult— has psychologized them into believing.
For three days, she kept the public and her thousands
of followers from knowing that her husband had died.
The usual obituary notices were withheld from the press,
and only her closest intimates knew that Guy Ballard’s
physical body lay dead at this house in the hills. The news­
papers did not get the story of his death until three da}^
later.
Guy Ballard died early Friday morning, December 29,
1939, from the diseases we have enumerated, which fact
may be confirmed by the official death certificate filed at
the Bureau of Vital Statistics at Los Angeles. The record
of his abdominal operation on December 27, 1939, is given
on this certificate as well as his cremation notice.
The symptoms of his illness are given on the certificate
as having begun "three months and two days” before
death. This would place the beginning of his illness on
September 27, 1939, at which time he was in his legal home
of Chicago.
During the last part of this illness Edna Ballard made
D eath Enters the Ballard H ousehold 249
it appear that "Blessed Daddy” was out on some important
business with Saint Germain, and therefore could not ap­
pear at the Shrine class. But the fact is that Guy Ballard
was so ill he could not possibly appear. His body was so
swollen that he was forced to sit up in his chair instead of
lying down.
Following his death, the body, bearing the record of
suffering and the diseases which took his life, remained for
three days on the bed, awaiting the "Ascension,” which
did not take place. Afterwards, it was, with difficulty,
placed in an expensive pink-plush casket.
On Monday morning, January 1, 1940, a private fun­
eral was held in that house. And there, over the closed
casket containing the body of her " Ascended-Master”
husband, Edna Ballard preached his funeral oration.
Following the funeral the body was taken to a Los
Angeles crematory and consigned to the flames— hours
after its owner was supposed to have made his "Ascension.”
For years the Ballards taught that the physical body itself
had to ascend when the "Ascension” was made; yet, in­
stead of it rising heavenward, here was the body still on
the earth plane, being consumed by the flames.
Edna Ballard claims that her husband made his "As­
cension” three days after so-called death. It is a strange
commentary on this contradictory cult that in the same
issue of their official magazine which announced to the
world the "Ascension” of Guy Ballard, appeared the fol­
lowing alleged statement from the Ballard "Jesus,” made
November 30, 1939: "There has been lurking in many the
idea that one may make the Ascension after so-called
death; but that cannot be accomplished . . . ” (p. 6, Jan.,
1940, v.) Yet, the claim is made that Ballard did make the
Ascension after so-called death.
The dramatic role played by Edna Ballard in perpetu­
ating the hoax of this cult is without parallel, we believe,
in the history of cultism in America.
250 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
D u r in g the three days fo llo w in g her husband ’s death,
and during all the preceding seven days w hile the Shrine
class was in session and her husband lay ill, suffering, or
d y in g , E dn a Ballard m ade her appearance every aftern oon
and evening— as usual— and her applauding audiences did
n o t k n o w the secret lock ed w ith in her heart.
Som e m ig h t say E dna Ballard is different fr o m other
h u m a n beings, th at she did n ot feel the w ell o f em otion
w h ich m u st have sought fo r expresion as she m ade these
p u b lic appearances, w hile, all the tim e, her partner o f
tw e n ty -th re e years either lay d y in g or dead. O n ly Saint
G e rm a in ’s "L it t le D y n a m ite ” can ever tell w h a t w en t on
w ith in her brain and heart as she k e p t her secret.
D o n a ld , the son, broke d ow n and cried at his fa th er’s
death, b u t n o t the stoical m oth er and w ife . H e r ow n aged
m o th er died in C h icago on January 2 n d , the day fo llo w ­
in g the fu neral o f her husband— b u t the classes at the
Shrine continu ed "a s usual.”
Such is n o d ou b t the effect o f the teachings o f this
c u lt, w hose requirem en t to its students is to throiv human
sympathy out of their lives. O n e o f the Ballard "A sc e n d e d
M asters,” the great "M a h a C h o h a n ,” said o f E dna Ballard
th at he to o k "t h e precious child L o tu s” under his direction
" because she was ready and willing to have every human
thing ground out of her” (p . 9, A p r il, 1940, v.)
B u t despite Edna B allard’s efforts to conceal her h us­
b an d ’s death fr o m the p u b lic, the new spapers g o t hold o f
the story about n oon on January 1st, and on the aftern oon
o f th at d ay the new s o f G u y B allard’s death w as ou t. M a n y
o f the local and national new spapers ran new s item s such
as the fo llo w in g :
Chicago Tribune (Special news item from Los Angeles, Monday,
Jan. 1 ): "Private funeral services conducted here today revealed that
Guy W . Ballard, founder and head of the Great I AM cult, has been
dead since Friday . . . After a funeral oration by Mrs. Ballard, the
former Edna Anna Wheeler of Chicago, who served as high priestess
D eath Enters the Ballard H ousehold 251
of the cult, Ballards’ body was cremated . . . Ballard was born in
Newton, Kansas, and gave up paper hanging about 2 5 years ago to
delve into mysticism . . . obtained large sums of money from his fol­
lowers and lived expensively . . . because of his difficulties in Chicago,
Ballard promised to send the cows, pigs, and sheep which have been
slaughtered in the stockyards, to haunt the people.”
Los Angeles T im es: "Attracted a huge following across the
nation . . . preached that through 'thought octaves’ he could defend
himself against all enemies, all evils . . . traveled in expensive fashion
and owned four canary-colored high-priced automobiles . . . used a suite
of rooms at the most expensive downtown hotel.”
Chicago H erald-A m erican: "Drew huge crowds to his meetings in
the Civic Opera House . . . unique among modern Messiahs . . . it was
estimated at least 50,000 men and women joined his movement in
Chicago alone . . . Followers of the cult were astounded when they
learned of Ballard’s death.”
With this break of newspaper publicity concerning her
husband’s death, it was of course necessary for Edna Bal­
lard to make a statement of some kind.
Therefore, on Monday afternoon, January 1st, just be­
fore or while the newspapers were appearing on the street
carrying the news of her husband’s death, Edna Ballard
came once again before her applauding audience at the
Shrine class in Los Angeles— this time to make the most
dramatic announcement she had ever made in a seven year
career filled with sensational utterances.
Having previously intimated that there would be an
"Ascension” at this class, she said to these miracle-seeking
people:
"Our Blessed Daddy Ballard made his Ascension last
night at twelve o’clock from the Royal Teton Retreat,
and is now an Ascended Master!”
The audience, stunned for a moment at so marvelous
an event and the significance of it, came suddenly to life.
Applause rang through the large auditorium, and ecstatic
faces looked heavenward, for, at last, their blessed leader
had made his "Ascension,” as he so often said he would!
"Our Blessed Daddy will come back,” dramatically
252 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
con tin u ed the victorious M essenger, "a n d there w ill be a
big tem p le in Los A n geles w here he w ill som e d ay appear
in all his A scen d ed M aster R adiance, w ieldin g in fin itely
m ore P ow er o f the L ig h t R ays than before his A scen sion .”
H a v in g thus coun teracted at this large Shrine class
the new spaper stories o f the death o f her husband, E dna
Ballard proceeded in the n ex t issue o f her m agazin e to p lay
u p the ”Ascension” idea to her follow ers th rou gh ou t the
c o u n try . In an article en titled : " O U R M E S S E N G E R ’S
A S C E N S I O N ,” she insists that her students be positive
abou t this m a tter.
"W h e n people o f the outer w o r ld ,” she says, "a r e dis­
cussing w h a t has happened to M r . Ballard, please m ake it
clear th at M r . Ballard has made the Ascension! [h er italics]
. . . H e can w ield P ow er in th at B o d y w h ich A m e ric a needs
rig h t n o w ; and H e is doing it w ith no u n certa in ty . . .
M ak e y ou r statem ents w ith positive fo r c e ; fo r I assure you
I am telling y o u the T r u th and w ill never tell y o u a n y ­
th in g b u t the T r u th . . . W e have n oth in g to cover u p .”
(p p . 30-31, Jan., 1940, v .)
F ollo w in g th rou gh w ith this in ten tion o f n o t "c o v e r ­
in g u p ” a n yth in g (n o t even a b eau tifu l sales id e a ), E dna
B allard, in the n ex t couple o f issues o f the Voice of the
I AM, instituted a th o ro u g h -g o in g cam p aign to sell her
A scen d ed -M a ster husband’s colored photograph— and at
prices rangin g fr o m $2.50 to $25.00 per p h otograp h !
"T h e photographs o f O u r Beloved M essenger,” says
she, "h a v e been defin itely prepared and charged b y H im
and us to render trem endous Service to all w h o use th em
fo r co n tem p lation . . . C o n te m p la tio n o f H is Picture and
calls to H im are b rin gin g fo rth instantaneous answ ers.”
(p p . 41-42, M a rc h , 1940, v .)
H a v in g guaranteed instantaneous results to purchasers
o f her deceased husband’s p h otograp h , E dna Ballard p ro ­
ceeded to guarantee sim ilar results to her students b y p er­
m ittin g th em to listen to Blessed D a d d y ’s "Voice”— sold on
D eath Enters the Ballard H ousehold 253
phonograph records at $2.50 per record! "If the stu­
dents,” she says, "will use them in their own homes every
day . . . it will enable Him to charge tremendous Power
of the Cosmic Light and Perfection into the individual and
his world.” ("O ur Messenger’s Voice,” p. 45, May, 1940,
v-)
T h u s, even th ou gh her husband is dead or "A s c e n d e d ,”
he is still o f considerable value to the su rviving w id o w in
h olding the blessed students and increasing the I A M
revenue.
It is one o f the extraordinary w ork in gs o f this m e r­
cenary c u lt th at, tod ay, thousands o f apparently in telli­
gen t people w h o ordinarily w o u ld judge a business deal on
its m erits, refuse to use their m inds to analyze the n u m e r­
ous absurdities, contradiction s, and m o n e y -m a k in g
schemes o f this "A sc e n d e d M aster” organ ization.
Ig n o rin g the easily provable facts o f G u y Ballard’s
death, as sh ow n b y the death certificate and crem ation
record, these psych ologized people believe just as Edna
Ballard tells th em . T h e y do n o t w a n t to believe, or, F E A R
to believe, d ifferen tly ; and u n til th ey are able to becom e
thinking individuals again, their m inds, souls, and p o c k e t-
books are m o rtg ag ed to the I A M cu lt.
W e w o u ld p oint o u t to these students th at in all the
so-called "A sc e n sio n s” in the Ballard books certain changes
to the b o d y o f the ascending one took place. T h e "h a ir
returned to its original color” ; the "flesh becam e the p in k
o f p erfect h ealth .” (p . 84, m . p.) A fte rw a rd s, the physical
b o d y "d isap peared on a R ad ian t P ath w ay o f L ig h t.” (p .
242, u. m .)
It was this kind of “ Ascension” which Ballard prom­
ised his students he would make— and didn’t. Trying to
get around this failure in some way, Edna Ballard explains
that the "Beloved Messenger . . . was given His Ascension
under the New Dispensation.” (p. 26, Jan., 1940, V.)
We have, however, shown in Chapter 9, "The Ballard
254 Psychic D ictatorship in A merica
'A scen sion ’ M iracles,” th at this N e w D ispensation idea is
all part o f the same cruel hoax.
In her article entitled, "The Victory of the Ascension,”
Edna Ballard, referring again to her husband’s "Ascen­
sion,” stated: "Saint Germain and the Other Ascended
Masters said so repeatedly that His Body was not like the
bodies of the rest of mankind,” and added: . . . "The proof
of the Tremendous Cosmic Power He now wields is the
hundreds and thousands of instantaneous answers to the
calls of the 'I AM ’ Students all over the world . . . ” (p. 34,
March, 1940, v.)
N evertheless, this m an w h o claim ed to have healed
thousands and w hose b od y was so different fr o m the bodies
o f others, ended his life in u tter repudiation o f his ow n
claim s and teachings. H is last days on earth w ere spent in
agon y and disillusionm ent, causing h im to fling aw ay fr o m
him self the p ictu re o f his ow n "S a in t G erm ain ” w h ich had
been handed h im in an effort to help h im in his m isery.
T hese and m a n y other fa cts, E dn a Ballard has sought
to keep fr o m her h yp n otized students, w h o do n o t w an t
to look— or fear to look — at the record in this book.
B u t som e day, w h en the M o u n ta in o f D ecep tio n be­
com es too great fo r th em to bear, and the Goddess o f
Truth— the one "G o d d e ss” th ey did n o t dare bring fo rth
— gets a hearing, then the record le ft b y G u y Ballard and
his w ife , E dn a Ballard, w ill be here fo r th em to read.
G u y G o d fre R a y K in g Ballard, self-styled "A c c r e d ite d
M essenger o f the A scen d ed M asters,” co-origin ator o f the
M ig h ty I A M c u lt, and self-p roclaim ed reincarnated
G eorge W a sh in g to n , first President o f the U n ite d States—
is dead.
B u t his w id o w , Edna Lotus Ray King Ballard, be­
loved " Little Dynamite” o f Saint G erm ain , su rviving c o ­
originator o f the M ig h ty I A M , self-styled "A c c r e d ite d
D eath Enters the Ballard H ousehold 25 5
M essenger o f the A scen d ed M asters,” and self-p roclaim ed
reincarnated Joan of Arc, sainted Savior o f France— still
carries on p u b licly the c u lt’s activities th rou gh her radio
broadcasts, sale o f books, charts, photograph s, and other
articles o f "A sc e n d e d -M a ste r ” m erchandise.
H e r thousands o f credulous follow ers m eet to d ay in
secret classes dedicated to "S a v in g A m e ric a ” — closed n o w
ex cep t to those w h o give unqu estion in g obedience to u n ­
seen "M a ste rs” and their earth-plan e "A c c r e d ite d M es­
senger” — and w ith fanatical zeal look fo rw a rd to the tim e
w h en G eorge W a sh in g to n B allard, their fo rm er "B lessed
D a d d y ” b u t n o w M ig h ty " Ascended Master” w h o "w ie ld s
trem endous C o sm ic P ow er,” w ill com e fo rth to brin g the
" N E W G O V E R N M E N T ” in to A m e rica and fu lfill Edna
B allard’s o ft-rep ea ted p ro p h ecy: "An Ascended Master
shall sit in the chair at the White House!”
A n d so, dom inated b y a w o m a n d ictator, this strange
subversive cu lt w h ich has deceived and h yp n otized so
m a n y . . . bt oken up hom es . . . b rou gh t about divorces . . .
caused insanities . . . blasphem ed C h rist . . . propagated
lies . . . enunciated doctrines o f hate . . . instilled nameless
fear . . . b ou n d thousands to psych ic "M a ste r s” . . . sent
death blasts at the President o f the U n ite d States— still
continues in the U n ite d States o f A m e ric a , land o f "r e ­
ligious” liberty.
Strange, incredible, fan tastic— pathetic— y et this is the
true story o f th at m ost extraordinary c u lt, k n o w n as the
"M ig h t y I A M .”
