{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__ballard___i_am_americas_destiny.pdf","mytitle":"I Am Americas Destiny","mylang":"de"}
T W I N C I T Y H O U S E
P o s t O r r i c t B o x 3 486
ST, P a u l , M i n n e s o t a
Copyright 1 9 4 0 ,
T w i n C i t y H o u s e
All Rights Reserved
Including Copy of Frontispiece
Colorplates and
Foreign Translations
Radio Broadcasting and Motion Picture
Braille and Public Lectures
Printed and Distributed in the United States of America by
D e V o r s s & Co., 628 W. 8t h S t ., L os Angeles, California
THE DAUGHTER OF MY PRESENCE
No more in silence will I stand
To view alone the fates of man ;
No more in solitude I wander
With doubts and fears. But once again
I take my place before the altar
Of the stillness of my soul,
Breathing in the glorious attar
Of the fruits of self-control.
For beside me, in the brilliance
Of the quickly-ending night
Stands the daughter of my Presence
Smiling sweetly, bathed in Light.
Now, at last I know the fullness
That my Presence doth provide
And the Purity and Wonder
Of my Love will e’er abide.
For lo, the skies have opened
And a flaming jewel bright
Has descended to this planet
Bathing it in Cosmic Light.
Precious Jewel, in Thy Glory
May I draw quite near to thee?
For the day is Bright before us
And together we must be.
Thus we stand, united ever
To assist a world in pain
Striving, serving, blessing, healing,
Freeing mankind once again.
Until at length at Cosmic levels
As rulers in Great Realms of Light,
With the Golden Flame of Love about us
We are suns of God’s own Might.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter Page
I A L a w , A P e o p le, A Book . . 17
II A G r ea t N a t io n ...........................40
III T h e P o w er of G o d .......................61
IV F e a r ..................................................74
V D iv in e L o v e ................................106
VI T h e G r e a t e s t M an o
nE a r t h . 124
V I I T h e A s c e n s i o n ..........................15 1
VIII E x c e r p t s from D ictatio n s . . 164
IX T h e F u l f il l m e n t of aM a s t e r ’s
R e q u e s t ........................................184
DEDICATION
This book, and all that it contains, is humbly
dedicated to the Greatest Man and Woman
who have ever served humanity on this planet.
The story of Their earthly experiences is un­
believable, for they have stood as a tower of
strength, upright amid the crumbling decay of
a decadent system of living. Their courage is
dauntless; their honesty, absolute; their kind­
ness, a by-word. It is with the greatest pride,
and at the same time, the deepest humility,
that we, who write these pages, can say—“They
have been our Teachers!” Three million men,
women, and children throughout America have
learned to refer lovingly to Mr. and Mrs. G. W.
Ballard as “Daddy” and “Mama”.
“I AM” America’s Destiny! is also, in
another sense, dedicated to all America; to the
ideals upon which it is founded, to the great
9
10 D edication
men and women who have made Her what she
is, and by the Grace of God, shall make Her
greater still. But when we have dedicated this
book to “Daddy” and “Mama”, we have in­
cluded America, for without a question, they,
in their courage, strength, and honesty, repre­
sent America, all real Americans, and the
proud future that shall be Hers through their
efforts. In humble, loving gratitude to you
then, Dear Teachers, we offer this book. And
may God, the “Mighty I AM Presence”, Bless
you forever.
Pearl and Bob
TRIBUTE
To be the only child of a Great Man and a
Great Woman, is not an easy task at best, and
when we offer this Tribute to Donald Ballard,
we offer not only our public acknowledgment
to a Great young man, but we pledge our un­
dying allegiance to him, and to the new golden
age, which he represents. We Love you, Don­
ald, and may the Youth of America, who carry
the Light for all of us in the coming days, walk
proudly by your side.
Pearl and Bob
I
FOREWORD
It is at the request of Saint Germain, the
Great Master, Lord of the Seventh Ray, that
this book is coming into being. The New Golden
Age, into which we have entered, may rise to its
Glory swiftly or slowly, depending now, solely,
upon the mass of humanity, as they accept or
refuse the help which has been given.
This book, if it serves its purpose, will turn
the attention of America and American people
to the Truly Great Books, already written,
whose pages carry the Life-Giving Water of
Truth to a parched humanity. This book is
purely an outer record of the Living Proof you,
too, can find within the pages of “Unveiled
Mysteries”, “The Magic Presence”, and the “I
AM Discourses”. That is all. If, after reading
what we have to say, you, too, turn to the foun­
tain from which we drank, then we shall be con-
>
3
i 4 F orew ord
tent. For you, then, may join with the three
million other Americans who know the reality
of which we speak. For the Happiness, Joy, and
Success of all, we constantly strive.
This book carries the Radiation of the Great
Ascended Master Saint Germain, and also, the
Radiation of The Beloved Lady Master, Nada.
These two Great Beings are working together to
assist mankind into the fullness of understanding
which must be theirs, before the Golden Age
may become an actual reality. Most powerful
of all, however, will you feel the Radiance of
humanity’s beloved Benefactor, Godfre Ray
King, our own Mr. G. W. Ballard. For He is,
today, the Living Fulfillment of the Great Law
which He brought to mankind, and shoulder
to shoulder with Saint Germain and Jesus is
working to correct certain conditions, and re­
lease certain qualities within mankind, so that
the God-given Perfection we all desire may
come forth. Godfre Ray King made His Ascen­
sion at the conclusion of 1939, and is now one of
the Great Host of Ascended Masters. His loving
help to us has been direct and without limit
since the beginning of this work. To these Great
Beings, and all others of the Ascended Host, we
bow in Loving Obedience and Service, always.
Pearl and Bob
PREFACE
It is Saint Germain’s wish that all “I
AM” Students who contact this book be clearly
given to understand that this book, although
coming forth under His Radiation and at His
Direction, is not in any way to be used in the
“I AM” Group Activities. The “I AM” Activ­
ity, as it has come into being, is the Life Stream
of the Messengers of the Ascended Host. This
book is for private reading ONLY, and all pub­
lic lecture rights are reserved unconditionally.
The Ascended Masters are never concerned
about offering proof of Their Reality to the
human consciousness. It is always a matter of
free choice on the part of any individual what
he or she believes. Saint Germain and the
Other Great Ones are concerned with the Des­
tiny of America. They have given Their In­
struction in the books of the Saint Germain
Series. Those books stand as the sure and cer­
tain pathway to Perfection ! They are for your
15
i 6 P r efa c e
use and guidance as their Messengers are direc­
ted to inform you. Mrs. G. W. Ballard and
Donald Ballard are the only two beings in
physical embodiment today who are qualified
to so inform you.
Therefore, although this book comes forth
as proof positive of the reality of the Ascended
Masters and Their Messengers, it is not offered
with the desire of convincing anybody of any­
thing. The protection which Saint Germain
commands for His Messengers must now come
into being, and this book is a part of that pro­
tection ! Although Mrs. Ballard has been aware
that we have been in the tangible Presence of
Saint Germain, and have been privileged to re­
ceive His Words on various occasions, unless He
has since revealed it to her, she knows nothing
of the purpose behind His coming to us.
This book has been dedicated to Saint Ger­
main’s Messengers. It has NOT come forth at
their suggestion ! In fact, although Godfre Ray
King, in the Ascended State has worked tire­
lessly with us, Mrs. Ballard and Donald are not
even aware that this work has been in prepara­
tion. It is our earnest desire that this be an
Ascended Master Gift and Blessing to them,
now and forever.
Pearl and Bob
C H A P T E R I
A LAW, A PEOPLE, A BOOK
By the waters of Minnetonka is a farm, upon
which, as a little lad, I spent many happy hours.
My grandfather owned a huge white house that
crowned a little eminence which proudly sur­
veyed the few acres that made up his worldly
domain. He was a Theosophist, and solemnly
gave his attention and Love to the Great Master
“M” and the Great Master “K ”. On occasion
he would mention the Master Jesus and the
Master Saint Germain. This talk of Masters r
could not understand at that time.
One day when I was four years old, and I
remember this very distinctly, he came to me
and said: “You must not scorn the study of these
things which you do not yet understand.”
“What things?” I asked.
17
i8 “ I A M ” A m erica ’s D e s t in y
He was vague in his reply. Or perhaps my
memory does not recall what he did say. But
this I do remember. He turned to me suddenly
and looked me full in the face, and I can still
see his kindly eyes and his white hair, and the
clean cut of his jaw. “You may laugh at me all
you please, but one day, you shall know far more
of the great Laws of Life than even I dream at
the moment. The Masters have only given us a
little. Such a little. But in a day not far distant
they shall come forth and under Saint Germain’s
direction, will arise a new teaching, a New
Kingdom of God on earth.”
All this, mind you, to a four-year-old. “All
right, Unca Willum”, I said. He was always
“Unca” to me.
Naturally, in the years that followed, I did
not think of this occurrence very often, and
when I did it was always passed over lightly
in my mind. But one day it was recalled to me,
with vivid force. This is how it came about.
In 1936 I was employed as a Radio An­
nouncer, and had been since the fall of 1933. I
had what the outer world calls a “good” job. I
owned a car, and a house, and had practically
everything anyone could desire. I was fortunate,
you say? I was miserable. Why? I didn’t have
any idea. I had quite a few bills, but I wasn’t
worried about them. They were being paid up
as quickly as I could get around to them. If I
had wanted a better house I could have made
arrangements to get a better one. But I wasn’t
interested in arrangements. A doctor would
have said: “What you need is a change, some­
thing to alter your mental outlook”. Because,
frankly, dear reader, I was bored stiff.
Yes, bored with all existence. I did my
work well at the Radio Station. At least, I fancy
I did. There were few complaints, and once in
a great while a kind word, the surest symptoms
that you are accepted as a part of an institution.
But I was not interested particularly in my
work, although at times it was quite exciting,
and certainly variety is the key-note of radio.
But the idea of working my way up in my job
had left me with rather a dull taste in my
mouth. A bigger salary didn’t seem particularly
interesting to me. Well, as I have said, I was
bored stiff.
Oh, I’ve seen the same symptoms in hun­
dreds of people. Just like you and me. Some
of them go out and get drunk. Others do much,
much worse than that. Some connive, with
cruel cunning, how they may get the better of
you. Most of them try to find their release
from boredom through the application of some
A L a w , A P e o p l e , A B o o k 19
2 0 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
vice. The greater the boredom, the greater the
vice. Or something like that. A few are able to
hurl themselves with great abandon into their
jobs; a few, (but far too many) end it all or go
insane.
You see, back and forth inside my mind was
that age old question constantly probing its way
into my thoughts. “W hy?” Why this? Why
that? Why work? Why have a wife? Why not?
Why live? Why go on? Is this all there is to
Life? Is Life a matter of being born, having
children, working, working, working, working,
and then dying? My God, is this all?
Isn’t that awful? But it’s the Truth. If you,
dear reader, have ever had any of those symp­
toms, read o n ! I pray you. When you get that
sort of mental outlook, nothing interests you.
Nothing! And something has to give way some­
where. You either do something which no self-
respecting citizen would do . . . . and then curse
y o u r s e l f f o r e v e r afterwards, or you
quit your job for no particular reason. Or you
have continuous quarrels with your wife or hus­
band, or . . . . or . . . . or . . . . well, the human
mind has few limits at digging up mischief. And
after it is dug up, you do it, with results far-
reaching. Perhaps you are the mild-mannered
type. In which case you draw farther and
farther within yourself. You become sullen,
silent, morose, and you wonder at yourself and
everybody else. Or perhaps you go in for a
hobby, a sport, or a religion. But even these
wear out in time, and leave you flatter than
ever before.
When you get to that place, then you are at
the place I was in, in the fall of 1936. Then IT
happened. And there are, at this writing, some
three million who were in much the same fix
who had IT happen to them, too. Oh, not at
the same exact moment. Some, more fortunate
than I, were given IT much sooner. But, sup­
pose I explain.
At the radio station was a fellow who “knew
it all”. There is one in every radio station. He
was my immediate superior, and to give him all
credit, he did know a tremendous amount about
a lot of things. I liked him a good deal, which
was very fortunate for me. I shall never be able
to thank him enough for turning my attention in
the right direction.
He was a very mysterious chap. Another
Theosophist. He delighted in misleading con­
versation. But being very brainy, he was rarely
caught. For some time before the time IT oc­
curred, he had been informing me on the q. t.
that there were such things as Ascended Beings,
A L a w , A P e o p l e , A B o o k 21
22 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
a bit of information which, I assure you, I ac
cepted from him because he was my superioi
and because I couldn’t argue with him. He al­
ways won any argument. It was part of his
creed. So I adopted tactics of watchful waiting.
I praise God that I did!
On the particular day I have in mind, and
I’ll never forget it through all eternity, I was in
Studio B filing records. A radio station, at that
time, used a good many records, and one of my
less joyous duties was to see that they were prop­
erly put away. In the studio with me were a
couple of engineers and another announcer.
They were talking about radio waves, and I was
listening with about half an ear, and filing rec­
ords with about half a mind. Then IT hap­
pened.
Great God of Heaven, Thou Mighty “ I
AM” Presence of all Infinity, and Mighty Mas­
ter Saint Germain, I give constant praise and
thanks for this most Glorious Event. For, into
that studio came the sound of another Voice. I
heard it with my own ears. The others heard it
too, for they stopped talking for just a moment,
and then went on with their conversation. But
into my consciousness there poured a Mighty
River of Light. On the instant my “whys” were
answered. My knees buckled, and I thought I
should faint. My senses reeled, and then soared
to a pinnacle of Joy and Wonder such as I
cannot describe. The Voice I had heard had
spoken to me just above my head, and It had
said only two small words, but for me, it was
the fulfillment of all I could ever ask. This
Glorious Voice, sweet, and yet with the Power
of thunder, said “I AM”. That was all. Ye
gods, A LL! Do you know what those words
mean? Again to my mind flashed the picture
of my “Unca Willum” who so long ago had told
me I should know more of Life than he.
Then into the studio there came the gentlest
odor of roses. Lovely, penetrating, permeating,
filling the room with a fragrance that was
startling, for so practical a place. We all noticed
it. But to me, it was a gift, an answer, and with
my heart singing for the first time in years, I
fled to my mysterious friend, for instinctively I
knew that he could help me. He saw me com­
ing, and must have sensed what had taken
place. After much urging from me, he finally
told me of a book that I could read which would
assist me in learning more about what had just
occurred. The book he mentioned was named
“Unveiled Mysteries”.
As quickly as possible, I went to the Public
Library and by good fortune, secured it. There
A L a w , A P e o p l e , A B o o k 23
was a long waiting line, and I venture to say
there is a long waiting line today at your Public
Library, wherever you may be. The safest thing
to do is to order your own copy and have the
book by your side, to pore over it at your leisure.
One reading will never satisfy you, I can guar­
antee.
I shall certainly never forget my first reading
of it. I was startled by its brilliance and amazed
by its so apparent truth. I was dumbfounded at
the things disclosed! It couldn’t be! But the
book itself gave me the answer to that. It was,
and is today. Oh, there have been books a-
plenty written about every subject under the
sun. Some of them good, some bad, a very few
Truthful in most things. Occasionally you will
find a book that will start you to thinking. Even
more rare is the book that will start you into
action. But here, in “Unveiled Mysteries”, is a
book that will start you to living. Yes, as never
before. Living Gloriously, Beautifully, Practi­
cally, as God has planned for all of us. There
has never been a book like it. There will never
be another like it. It is not an analysis of what
you are. It is not a theory. It is not a criticism,
not a treatise. It is simply the story of one man’s
adventures right here in America, told simply
beautifully and it contains the Self-appar-
24 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
ent Truth of Life. Again, not a theory, or a list
of do’s and don’ts, but practical instruction for
you and me, on how to go into action, to clear
our worlds of every discordant limiting thing,
and then release the Perfection that God, “The
Mighty I AM Presence”, is waiting to release.
As I read the book all sorts of doubts as­
sailed me. It could not be true! Some fairy
story! Beautiful, of course, but why did not
more people know about it, if it were so? There
must be some catch to it! And so on, and on.
But shining right through all these doubts and
fears kept coming this one thought. If what is
stated here is True, then I have found the an­
swer to all things, and I cannot afford to miss it.
If it is false, there is only one way I can deter­
mine that. That is by trying it out myself, ac­
cording to the directions given, to see if it works
with me. Anybody else’s opinion concerning it is
of no consequence. What I want to know, is
“Does it work for me?”
I tried it.
It worked!
Again and again I tried.
Again and again it worked!
Whenever I tried . . . . it worked!
It always worked!
Then it was TR U E!
A L a w , A P e o p l e , A B o o k 25
2 6 “I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
The consciousness and feeling of that Voice,
speaking to me in the Studio, returned with full
power, and I was raised into the Seventh
Heaven of Delight and Happiness. I moved in
a world of my own. Outside my aura of Pro­
tection, the world seethed and swirled. Fights
.. . . arguments . . . . accusations . . . . petty sins
. .. . jealousy . . . . greed . . . . all were things I
observed from the safety of my world. None
could touch me. None did touch me! Think of
it! I had only to look at a person and I in­
stantly recognized the force acting within that
individual, and promptly reacted in the logical,
simple, harmonious way. No individual had the
power to harm me. None did. For two whole
weeks I lived in a world apart. Oh, I kept right
on with my job. My work improved tremen­
dously, but there was no apparent effort on my
part. During those two weeks I read the next
two books of the Saint Germain Series. They
are “The Magic Presence” and the “ I AM
Discourses”.
And here may I caution you, when you get
those books and start to read them, do not judge
them by the things you have already read. They
are different! And if you have the courage to
try out the instruction offered . . . . really try it
out, honestly and fairly . . . . then I will venture
to assure you, you will think yourself the hap­
piest person on the earth. There are some three
million of us who feel this way. These books
conform to NO outer standard or authority.
They deal only with Perfection, and what Glor­
ious Perfection as only can come from a Great
Ascended Being. Saint Germain, how we love
and Bless you!
This reading which I was doing began to be
the most important thing in my Life. There is
always plenty of room for something important.
I had no interests particularly, as I have ex­
plained. But my boredom left after the first
chapter of “Unveiled Mysteries” and has not re­
turned since. Did I hypnotize myself into be­
lieving in a “super-human” power? There is of
course, nothing “super-natural”. But “super­
human” ? No, I did not. T was told to try cer­
tain mental, emotional, and physical exercises
that are as easy as walking down the street. The
Ascended Masters said to try them and see if I
had the results. If no results . . . . skip it. How
could I go wrong? I couldn’t! Did I have re­
sults? Listen!
Inside of six weeks after first beginning to
apply this Law: I secured a very fat contract
with a furniture store that wanted me to do
A L a w , A P e o p l e , A B o o k 27
28 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
their announcing for them. I held that job from
that day, until I resigned at the request of Saint
Germain a few months ago. My regular salary
was increased in about eight weeks, and I re­
ceived regular increases from that day on. And
I never asked the boss for a raise!
My disposition improved. Some of the
vices I had had disappeared as though they
never had been. My appearance improved. My
energy intensified and increased. It seemed that
I could never get tired. And I was happy and
contented from morning to night with a purpose
for living! Hypnotized? Ha! I guess not! Or,
if that is hypnotism, make the most of it! Any­
body who can hypnotize a radio station manager
into increasing your pay-check four times in
three years, without even looking at the mana­
ger, is some hypnotist. And I know my radio
station managers! In fact, anyone who can
hypnotize any one of them ever, is a wonder!
The reason I mention this is that I have
heard several “learned” psychologists say that
the “ I AM” teaching instructs the individual
into believing—by self-hypnosis-—the things he
wants to believe. Tommyrot! If you want to
be “psyched”, go ahead ! But if you want to im­
prove yourself, be happier, know what it is all
about, and really amount to something, get “Un­
veiled Mysteries”, and begin.
This may sound like a good deal of boosting
for somebody else’s book! Well, I have not be­
gun to tell you. People of America, this is real!
And I am completely in earnest. Furthermore,
I have the backing of some of the most intelli­
gent and best informed minds in the country.
Many of the finest people in every community
are proud to call themselves “I AM” STU­
DENTS.
The Press has taken a fearful rap at the “I
AM” Activity. They have called it a “cult”,
an “ism” and everything under the sun that
could be printed. But with every rap at the
activity, it grows! Remember how Christianity
spread, which was a foolish “cult” in the be­
ginning? Persecution! A few martyrs, created
in the minds of the people, and the press is going
to look mighty ill!
I am going to tell the truth about the Press
in this book, and probably hurt the sale of it as
a result. But it is about time the American
People awoke to the danger in their midst.
Mainly the Press is good. It is usually a mighty
fine, well-meaning constructive activity. But the
college boys who break into the reportorial ranks
after a year’s service on a college weekly, and
A L a w , A P e o p l e , A B o o k 2 9
3 0 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
three or four good motion pictures under their
belts, are a menace to the community. Their
opinions about Life in general have been nur­
tured in an artificial atmosphere of pedantry,
and have blossomed cankerously. I am “leary”
of them. Especially drunk ones. And nearly
every cub reporter thinks he does his best work
with a few drinks inside him.
Dear American people: These are the types
of people we have turned loose upon ourselves
to “mold” public opinion. And they do it,
never fear! Let a big important daily make a
statement concerning someone’s character. Even
if afterwards proved wrong, the Press cannot re­
tract the harm done. Newspaper reporters in
America judge from appearances. And a great
percentage of the time, the appearances are as
far from the Truth as the reporter’s understand­
ing of Life. When Representative Dies, in his
recent investigation, disclosed that a great num­
ber of reporters in one of the largest cities in the
United States of America were communists, he
indicated the situation in many, many communi­
ties. Should a young man, with so few ideals as
to deny the existence of an All-Mighty God, be
permitted to tell your children and mine what
they should think about? Not my children,
thank you! Nor me, either. And so, when the
Press, ignorantly and viciously attacked the “I
AM” Activity, because they did not understand
it (and if they do not understand a thing, it must
be attacked) I was not greatly surprised. But
fellow Americans! Something has to be done
about it, and I wish to call this condition to the
attention of every editor in the country. Public
Opinion is the biggest, most powerful force in
the country. It controls elections. It buys and
sells. It builds up. It tears down. What the
press ignores, for the most part is ignored. What
the press condemns is publicly condemned.
What the press condones is publicly accepted.
Editors, check over more thoroughly the copy
to which you give sanction! You have a respon­
sibility to the American People. A responsibility
unsurpassed, in the positions you maintain. Re­
member, your business exists only because you
render a service to the public. A public aroused
against you can do away with your business in a
few minutes.
The American People are Free thinkers and
Free beings. They have a right to accuracy! To
Truth! And furthermore, they are demanding
it more and more. Before you permit ridicule of
anything to appear in your pages, better check
it thoroughly and get the facts! Yes, I know full
well that that is supposed to be the duty of any
A L a w , A P e o p l e , A B o o k 31
good reporter. And the good ones do it. But
there are a few, who, when they try to add two
and two, make twenty-two, and the results are
astounding. I merely wish to awaken in your
minds, and in the minds of your reporters, the
responsibility you have. Newspapers perform a
great service, and I have worked for three large
dailies and I have also worked for a newspaper-
owned radio station, and I have the facts, and
know whereof I speak. In the great rush to get
the drop on the rival reporter; to get a “scoop” ;
to find the unusual; to be different, accuracy,
honesty and complete understanding are thrown
to the winds. Be careful else that wind might
blow back upon you all that has been so lightly
put aside.
Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Ballard, (Godfre Ray
King and Lotus Ray King) are the greatest hu­
man beings ever to render service to humanity!
I do not make that statement open for discus­
sion. I state it as a cold fact which will, one
day, be recognized. I do not expect to be be­
lieved now. But any investigation of them will
prove what I have said. Any investigation of
them! Not an investigation of what they have
been called! Not an investigation of what peo­
ple have thought they must be like! But an
actual investigation of them, will find them to
3 2 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
be honest, honorable in all things; simple, un­
pretentious, idealists in every sense of the word;
thrifty, conscientious, and magnificent. The
people who have had dealings with them will,
without exception, tell you that they are the
most wonderful people they know. They have
never asked favors of anyone. They have never
told anybody what he or she had to do. They
have not asked for money. They have stood on
their own feet in a manner to be copied by any­
one, and they have applied the law they taught,
and are today the living example of it. Mr.
Ballard has completed his earthly experiences.
In the Ascended state he is more real to those of
us who knew him than ever before. He has
proved the Law which he taught.
Every now and then, in any investigation of
them that you care to make, you might run
across somebody who had worked with them
at one time or another, who had been dismissed
from that service. These people you will find
are always very disgruntled and resentful, not
only of the Ballards’ success, but over every
other success that is ever made, by anyone. Why
were they dismissed from the Ballard service?
Listen.
I have worked with the Ballards for some
time, and in the last few months, since leaving
A L a w , A P e o p l e , A Book 33
34 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
the Radio Station where I had been employed,
I have worked directly with their staff. It has
been my privilege to announce them on the air,
and to introduce them to their audiences. There
is one trait of the Ballards that is difficult for the
average person to understand. It is, I believe,
one of the most difficult things for anyone to
comprehend. The Ballards put nothing ahead
of God—Good! Friendship ... .service
love . . . . money . . . . leave them unmoved. Peo­
ple would come into their service offering one
thing or another. If the offering was given free­
ly, they would accept, that a blessing might be
rendered to the one giving. But let not that one
try to capitalize on that friendship, or gift, or
whatever it might be! You expect to find a little
overlooking of your short-comings in almost
anyone, especially so, in anyone for whom you
have rendered a service, be it ever so slight. Not
with the Ballards!
You know how it is in most churches. The
wealthy Mr. So-and-so will give a huge donation
to the church, and as a result, he naturally ex­
pects the church will remember him, be his
friend, do him a favor when it can, etc. He
helps the church roll the log, and expects to be
helped in turn. And thus it goes. In churches,
in business, in government, in politics, the logs
are rolled back and forth, and the one with
friends has power—providing he has the right
kind of friends.
Not so the Ballards. They have thousands of
friends. Real friends who love them and would
do anything for them. But it makes no differ­
ence who that friend may be. If one turns aside
from the absolute line of purity and truth de­
manded of an “I AM” student, the Ballards do
not overlook it! Instead, publicly, with all the
power at their command, they take their stand,
and tell the Truth, as they know it to be! You
cannot hide before the fierce Light of Truth
which they bring. Any shadow in your make-up
comes to the surface, and you must account for
it. Not to them. Never. But to God, your own
Great Presence.
Recently, in California, two of their most
trusted leaders decided that the Ballards were
a little too fierce with the students, and took
matters into their own hands. The Ballards
warned them that Saint Germain would not
tolerate this situation for very long. The warn­
ings came repeatedly. I need not go into detail.
The result was that the leaders were eventually
dismissed, publicly, and the whole matter taken
up in front of everyone. No one likes to do that
sort of thing. Least of all these magnificent
A L a w , A P e o p l e , A Book 35
people. But they hew to the Truth so closely
that no thing, however trivial it may appear to
be, escapes their watchful eye. And with the
help of Saint Germain, nothing is overlooked.
Do you know the courage that took? How
many of you, who read these words, would dis­
miss your most popular assistants? Would it not
be easier to overlook a few shortcomings, forgive
and forget ? Surely it would be easier. I happen
to know that the dismissal of these I mention
cost Mr. and Mrs. Ballard thousands of dollars.
Everything these people had ever done was
rooted out of the Activity at a tremendous cost
of time and money. Never have the Ballards
mentioned it. I do so now, that the world may
know the Truth about these Blessed people, who
have so completely put aside their human fail­
ings, that they stand today as Gods before the
people of this earth! The difference between
right and wrong has always been open to dis­
cussion. “Circumstances alter cases”, has been
the continual alibi of the individual who fails.
This ceases when you confront the Ascended
Masters’ Activity of the “I AM”, and the Mes­
sengers of the Ascended Masters, the Ballards.
There, the line of demarcation between “right”
and “wrong” is absolute. Circumstances have
nothing to do with it! There are no “cases”.
3 6 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
You are either a million per-cent right, or you
are all wrong! There is no half-way mark. One
failing is no worse than any other. All that is less
than Perfection, is less than Perfection. And
Perfection is the only criterion. A pretty uncom­
fortable path to follow, you might say!
Is that so? It is the only path that leads to
happiness. And there are three million people
in the United States of America who, today are
happier, more prosperous, freer, cleaner, better
citizens, yes and better looking too, because they
have tried with all their might to follow this line
of demarcation which the Ascended Masters
have given to us through their Messengers. Cer­
tainly it takes effort to follow this magnificent
teaching. It takes constant effort. And for every
ounce of effort you expend, you are repaid in
Joy, in Happiness, in Knowledge, in Power, in
Love, in actual money, many times over.
In case some of the above may give rise to
the feeling that the Ballards are harsh and
merciless, let me add this: In their magnificent
classes the Ballards are never unkind. They
point out the Truth from the untruth. They
show the real from the un-real. They do it with
a frankness which is bred of absolute inner pur­
ity and strength. They have a keen sense of
humor. When once you see your mistake and
A L a w , A P e o p l e , A Book 37
38 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
begin taking steps to correct it, the Ballards are
the first to forget that you ever erred. Away
from the Classes they are the gentlest of com­
panions. Generous to a fault, they would give
their last dime to help you, (if you are con­
structive) ; would do anything to make Life
happier and easier for you. Frankly, you cannot
help but love them, and to talk to them is to
make you wish to serve them forever. Of course,
they would not let you. They constantly turn
you back to your own goal, your own activity
which you must bring into perfection. But you
cannot help wanting to serve them.
If you want to drift. . . . to do as you please
. . . . to reap the results of your own foolishness
. . . . to do things the easy way. . . . to make as
little effort as possible, then keep away from the
“I AM” Activity. B U T . . . . if you want to
Live! If you want to be worth while! If you
have a goal you would like to attain! If you
want something that is so good and so pure that
there is no human conception of it! If you want
to wake up and find yourself thrillingly alive
every morning! If you wish to find an activity
to which you can pledge yourself whole-hearted­
ly without mental reservation . . . . something
that is really, at last, worthy of the best in you!
Then, by all means, get “Unveiled Mysteries”,
A L a w , A P e o p l e , A Book 39
and wade in. The “I AM ” Activity is for you.
And the Glory and Wonder that lies before you
will make a heaven of your World.
C H A P T E R II
“A GREAT NATION”
After reading the books of the Saint Ger­
main Series, and subscribing to the Voice of the
“I AM”, as well as getting all back issues of the
Magazine, I was a new being! I began wanting
the constructive way of Life more than I wanted
my own way about things. And, believe me,
that is some change in anybody’s experience!
Behind every action that took place, I now
sensed a great purpose. There was a reason for
Life. There was a reason for all things. One
only had to live close enough to the Presence of
God, within, to have those things revealed. Joy
and Happiness filled my world, and it has been
so ever since! Oh, I do not mean to say that no
longer did I have problems to face. Far from
it! Sometimes it seemed I had more problems
40
A G r e a t N a t io n 4 1
than before. But each one brought with it a
keen Joy, because I now knew how to meet it,
and the result was always magnificent.
Confidence came to me. Self-confidence!
Which, if properly understood is really God-
Confidence. I knew that of myself I could do
nothing, but the Power of God, “I AM”, was
without limit! Turning my problems over to my
“Presence” became the greatest Joy of my
Life, especially as I saw the repeated success
that always followed.
Let me illustrate. In “Unveiled Mysteries”
is Saint Germain’s marvelous instruction on
visualization. This instruction I began to apply
with full power. Making as thorough an analy­
sis of myself as I could, I discovered six things
which I desired. (And I had thought I wanted
nothing!) Four of these things in my desire
world were very constructive and fine. Two of
them I had no business wanting. But, in my
great desire to prove this Law to myself un­
mistakably, I tackled all six. Now, I would
never undertake that again, with what I have
since learned and proved. But, all was new, and
so I went to work to bring into my world the
six things I wanted, or thought I did. And every
one of these six things, from a “logical” stand­
point, was beyond my reach.
42 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
Part of the instruction given says to write in
words, as plainly as possible, that which you de­
sire, and tell no one that you are visualizing. I
complied. I wrote on a little slip of paper the
six things I wanted. In order that no one would
find out about it, I hid the paper in the radio set,
back among the tubes. And as the days went by,
I forgot, in my great Joy in using this Magnifi­
cent Instruction, that I had written anything.
Three months passed, and I was the happiest
of beings. Then one day the radio set broke
down, and would emit no sound, other than a
rather contented squawk, like a mother hen
about to brood. I ’phoned for an engineer friend
of mine to come out and take a look. (Radio
announcers know practically nothing about ra­
dio sets). He came, opened up the set, and
discovered my list, handing it to me without
looking at it—fortunately! Back came the
memory of it, with a rush. I looked at the list.
I had every single one of the things I had
written down. The four constructive things
were bringing me great joy. The other two I
was in the process of handling. They were my
“problems” of the moment! Do not tell me the
Laws of the Ascended Masters are not LAWS!
There is no doubt about the accuracy of this in­
struction whatsoever. Anyone who will under-
A G r e a t N a t io n 43
take to study and apply the Instruction in the
Saint Germain Series, will learn positively how
to make his Life a success.
I have talked to hundreds of students. There
is not a one of them but what has had similar
experiences. True, there are many who pre­
tend to be good “I AM” students, who are not.
But every real student knows that the Ascended
Masters’ Instruction is the Law of Life, and
there are no mistakes therein.
It is Saint Germain’s wish, in bringing this
book into being, to turn the attention of the
American people to the Laws of Life which He
has already given. This book does contain cer­
tain Instruction which He wishes to give. And
it contains His very tangible radiation and
Power. But the real purpose of this book is to
point to the Great Truths already recorded in
the Saint Germain Series.
Throughout the length and breadth of this
fair land of ours, you will find religions, cults,
creeds, dogmas, rituals, “isms” and whatnot.
Each and every one of these things has a certain
amount of Light within it. For Light is the pri­
mal substance from which all things are created.
Some of these various faiths and activities are
largely constructive: our churches, certain
lodges, clubs, and activities of one sort or an-
other. Some are very destructive, but under one
guise or another, seem to offer a solution to a
problem, for a price. But the very fact that we,
a so-called “civilized” nation, are divided into
opposing camps, divers beliefs and formulas, is
a clear indication that our “civilization” still
needs a little civil-izing.
Does the “I AM” Activity come under any
of these heads? No, it does not! For the “I
AM” Activity is a personal activity for you, in
which you join nothing, pay no dues, promise
nothing to anybody, mind your own business,
and turn to the power of God within you, so that
you will do the right, constructive things all the
time. The Ascended Masters’ Instruction ap­
plied to yourself by yourself, obligates you to no
one, clears your mind of any human opinions or
beliefs, frees your world of old habits and pat­
terns of imperfection, and lets you start all over
again, clean, free, a God-being. Unless you, as
an individual, learn to turn only to your source,
the Great God Presence of YOU, “I AM”,
within, you will be constantly at the mercy of
human minds, human opinions, human mis­
takes, and failure of every description.
So long as people refuse to abide by the Wis­
dom of the Ascended Masters, so long shall we
have a land torn by strife and dissension; a land
44 “ I AM” A m erica ’s D e s t in y
A G reat N ation 45
filled with opinions and arguments; a land filled
with spies, cruelty, and cunning. Dear Blessed
People of America! Will you not see that as
long as there is dissension among you, there is
little progress. And what progress is made, is
accomplished because somebody, somewhere,
throws out the dissenters and goes ahead to do
or die on his own responsibility.
Can you not see that? What matter what
side you take in an argument? The fact that
there is an argument is proof that neither side
understands the facts in the matter. That does
not mean that you must bow to the will of
another individual! Absolutely not! There is
no argument about what is right and what is
wrong! If you are right, you will not have to
convince anybody! They will find it out sooner
or later. If you are wrong, the fewer people who
observe it, the better for you. Argument and
dissension are the activities of what is termed
the “sinister force”. It sets men against each
other, brother against brother, father against
son. It breeds civil-war instead of civil-ization.
It seems to me we have had enough of the
former. Why not a good deal more of the
latter? Why? Because fear, impatience, doubt,
anxiety, ignorance, and intolerance hurl us at
each other’s throats! Look at Europe! But do
not hold your attention there too long! What
your attention is upon, you bring into your own
world, and certainly America can do without
the struggles of her barbarian neighbors. The
barbarism here is enough to take our entire
energy in the construction which must come.
Hitler is determined at the moment to prove
to the world that he is right! The world cannot
afford such proof, and so against him is set the
combined forces of two mighty nations. This is
more than an argument. It is war. A bitter,
bitter, useless war! Hitler says: “ I have the
right to expand the German Empire as far as I
can. Every great nation in history has done the
same. Why not the German people?”
The British and the French say: “Yes, of
course that is the way our own nations have
been built. But something is wrong with this
theory, though we do not know what it is. All
we know is that this ‘expansion’ of the German
nation endangers our existence, and is intoler­
able in a civilized world. If Hitler will not desist
from his efforts, we shall destroy him”.
And so, with the lines of force clearly
marked, WAR, red murderous war, thunders on
its death-dealing way. And once again the
pages of this planet’s history are stained with
the blood of its youth. The pure young blood of
46 “I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
A G r e a t N a t io n 47
its sons and daughters waters the very ground!
How long do you think this situation can last?
Not for long, fellow Americans!
The Ascended Masters say: As it is with the
individual, so is it with the nation; for a nation
is but a great body of individuals. If the individ­
ual will obey God’s Laws, then Joy, Happiness,
Success, a constant expansion of good takes
place. For that is God’s way of expressing Him­
self; of expanding His Perfection. That is how
the individual builds a home, builds a business,
makes his business better, and continues to im­
prove, as long as he turns to the source from
which all good comes. This source is God, “ I
AM”, and only from that which is Pure and
Perfect can come those things which are Pure
and Perfect. “Like produces like.” So is it also
with nations.
What then, is wrong? Is Hitler wrong in
his desire to expand Germany? Yes, of course,
ten thousand times! Why? Because Hitler is
not trying to expand those things which are
good, clean, and perfect. He is seeking by force
to expand his power. He is seeking, by force, to
create a mighty sovereign state which will hold
in fear and trembling the other powers of
Europe and the world. Let him, instead, see
how much he can do in building Germany. Not
4 8 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
Germany’s arm y! Let him improve the Ger­
man system of education. Let him handle the
difficult problems of supply for his people. Let
German art be improved. Let German culture
improve until it becomes a thing which every
nation must have! Let German literature come
into its own. There are fine, splendid people
in Germany. Many have been banished who
long to return to help build. Build! Build!
There is so much to d o ! The standard of living
must be raised. Every German family should
have a car; a radio; a beautiful hom e; jobs
should be available for everyone. It can be
done ! It is still not too late !
Why doesn’t Hitler see this? Because Hitler
is actually a communist! That is why. He does
see it, of course. But he has fallen for the Marx­
ist theory, that those constructive things which
your neighbor has earned can be yours if you
take them. Did you ever hear of a nation’s edu­
cational system being seized by another nation,
by force? Did you ever hear of art or any of
the constructive activities of Life being perpet­
uated by an army? Has the prosperity of
Czechoslovakia made the German people pros­
perous ? Absurd! The world wants Peace.
Right now, if Hitler would about-face, the very
people who stand in his pathway to world
A G r e a t N a t io n 49
authority should be the first to help with the re­
construction. It must come sooner or later. Why
not bring it about now, while there still is a
semblance of civilization left. Germany should
expand. . . . of course. And it will expand,
when there is something there that is worthy of
expansion. Impatience will not do it. Looking
vengefully at the Versailles treaty will not do it.
Greed will not do it. Envy of another nation will
not do it.
Why has Great Britain been the mighty na­
tion it has been for so long? Because, with all
its mistakes and limitations, it has tried to build.
And consistently from the beginning it has built,
and built well.
Why is the United States of America the
Greatest Nation of all time? Because it has the
very things within it that the other nations
want! The United States of America guaran­
tees personal Freedom, Life, Liberty and the
pursuit of Happiness! Why do thousands and
thousands of people from other nations flock to
this country every year ? Because of the Empire
State building? Or the wheat fields of the
Middle West? No. Because, whether there is
work for them here or not, they will have Life!
Liberty! and a Chance! Think of what that
means! America is God’s Country, the nation
that is to be! We haven’t yet begun here in
America.
If Hitler wants to expand Germany, let him
begin by giving a Constitution to his people. Let
him begin by guaranteeing personal Freedom to
every man, woman, and child in his empire!
Let him follow this up by permitting the people
of that nation to determine, at least in a meas­
ure, what laws should be made. He does not
even have to give them the power to vote. Let
him permit his people to worship God as they
please! Let him permit them to develop their
science. Some of the greatest scientists in the
world have been German. Do you think then,
that he would have any trouble in expanding the
boundaries of the Reich? Or in bringing pros­
perity and happiness to the German people?
The economical problems involved? The big­
gest economical problem Hitler has to face is
the blockade of his own bull-headedness! Cer­
tainly it would take effort. And it would take
time. But the longer it is put off, the longer it
will take when it is once begun. Hitler is ambi­
tious and wants to be remembered as the savior
of Germany! Let him put down his cannon
now, and he will be thus remembered. Let him
continue, and if any memory is left in the mind
of man, he will be recalled as the stupid paper-
50 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
A G r e a t N a t io n 5 i
hanger who made the world’s biggest blunder.
Then, if England and France are wise they
will do what they can to encourage the German
people. They will in turn, continue to improve
their own nations. Let them prove in deeds that
their desire is to make the world better because
their nations exist, and watch the results!
“But”, you say, “America has these things,
and yet, conditions are bad here, too.” Yes, in
a measure that is true. In a measure, America
has these things, and in a measure conditions
are bad. Of course, it is obvious that whatever
conditions may be here, we are infinitely better
off than any other country in the world. But
let us go back to the beginning, for the condi­
tions we face are world-wide.
Our forefathers brought forth this country.
The idea behind the country was beautiful. It
was to be a haven. A free nation for a Free
people. To it would come the oppressed of all
lands, for at that time things in Europe were
much as they are today. It would be a nation
that would govern itself by selecting the most
able and best to govern, from its own people.
It would give no one person any permanent
power, because to do so would be, perhaps, to
miss greater ability, greater blessings from
another, yet unknown. It was to be a land of
opportunity. Of opportunity for all. Everyone
was to be given equal rights and equal chances
for success. There must be good education
available for all. There must be free speech,
free thought, a free press, freedom to worship
God.
There are some ideals worth taking ser­
iously! And those ideals were given to us, by
Washington, Jefferson, Adams, Hamilton, and
others who turned constantly to the Power of
God, and to the Ascended Host for guidance.
Truly, this Nation had a noble birth! And in
every single case, where we have followed the
idealism so earnestly sought, so arduously won
for us, by these great and noble men, we have
been happy. The land has been blessed, and all
has been well.
The difficulties that we face today we face
because we have turned away from the ideals
which gave us Freedom, and have accepted in­
stead, ideas of license. Think it over.
Said our forefathers: “Governments are in­
stituted among men, deriving their just powers
from the consent of the governed.”
We, Mr. and Mrs. America, are the gov­
erned. This land, which we inhabit, is our land.
The government that exists, exists because we
permit it. ft was established and made strong so
5 2 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
A G r e a t N a t io n 5 3
that we, you and I, might have Freedom, Op­
portunity, and Justice! It had to be made
strong to protect us! We need that protection!
But do we have it ? Government has become the
major industry of the United States! Its pur­
pose seems no longer to defend its people, but
to spend its people’s money. The vast majority
of elected persons, instead of accepting their
tremendous responsibility to the American
people, accept the responsibility of lining their
own coffers, and carry that responsibility with
noble resolve! Not all, of course, but—various
departments of the government spend all their
time thinking up new ways to spend the people’s
money. Other departments spend their time
trying to think up new ways to extract the
people’s money from their pocketbooks with
as little pain and attention as possible. It cer­
tainly is quite an industry.
A short time ago I visited a session of the
Senate in Washington. War was going on in
Europe. The situation here was serious. The
Senate convened. So help me God, I was
ashamed! I was ashamed, for the sake of Wash­
ington, Lincoln, and the other great and noble
men who have built such a magnificent struc­
ture, to see that structure misused so carelessly—
so thoughtlessly—so needlessly. Those great
men died that we might have a glorious country.
They took their task seriously. I wish every
American who loves his country had looked
into that chamber with me, that day. You
would never have known that you were looking
upon a portion of the greatest legislative body
ever to exist on this planet. Why, there was a
dramatic club I used to belong to in high-school
whose proceedings were more statesmanly! I
won’t go into detail. I cannot even think about
it, without feeling a little embarrassed! But I
wish every real American would take a look at it
and then stand by and DO something about it!
Two of the greatest dangers we have in this
country are named the Democratic Party and
the Republican Party. Sure, everyone has a
right to his own opinion about things, but why
organize those opinions into armed camps of
opposing thought, and dominate the situation.
“Party loyalty!” Hooey! Doesn’t anybody love
America any more? Isn’t there anybody who
loves Freedom, Liberty, and Justice enough to
do something about the present situation? Isn’t
there anybody who loves America and Ameri­
can people enough to give the country back to
them? Where is the Loyalty you should have
for America?
54 “ I A M ” A m erica ’s D e s t in y
A G r e a t N a t io n 5 5
What are the purposes of government?
Briefly, to insure the happiness and freedom of
the people. To protect the Country against in­
vasion. To make such laws as are needed for
the general good. That is all.
This is a great and mighty Nation. It is
great and mighty in spite of the lying thieves
who infest it from border to border. It is great
and mighty in spite of the spies of foreign gov­
ernments who sabotage and undermine the very
structure of our republic. Yes, it is a great
Nation! Why? Because the American people
are a great people! Not for long will they
stand by and watch the pillaging of every con­
structive institution they own from farming to
banking and back again. Not for long will they
let their pockets be pilfered of half the hard-
earned money that they make so that a party
machine may function inside the very walls of
government, a party machine that tears down
and destroys what it pretends to build!
And all the while, behind a smoke screen of
argument and debate, the biggest monster of all
gnaws with greedy haste. Protected in govern­
ment and business alike by scores of men and
women of high position, this monster is never
idle. It is a cunning, red monster. A monster
that smiles in your face, and then cuts you down
cruelly from behind, when your back is turned.
Its face is “self-justification” ; its paws are
“greed” and “hate”. Its name is “Commun­
ism” ! And it flourishes!
Communism is not new. Under one name or
another it has flourished at the downfall of every
civilization. It is a disease that eats men’s hearts,
and makes them believe that they can get some­
thing for nothing. It makes them believe that
the world owes them a living. It makes them
want to lay down on their jobs. It makes them
believe that anyone who works hard is a traitor
to the fellow who is too lazy to work. It takes
away the belief in God. It takes away the be­
lief in everything good. It is called at times:
“Eat, drink and be merry, for tomorrow, ye
die.” It has nothing constructive in it. It is
“Common-ism”—the sinking of all to the lowest
possible level. It is destruction of the worst
order. And it is in America today in all its
various forms. It gnaws at the vitals of our
government, of our womanhood, of our man­
hood, of our childhood. It is taught in schools
and colleges. It is protected and bred in fac­
tories and industries. Old and young succumb
to it; men and women. And the worst of it is,
that it is usually not recognized until it is too
late. Even certain churches have fostered it,
56 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
A G r e a t N a t io n 57
yet it is the essence of “anti-Christ”. And to­
day, in the troubles that face us, in the terror
unloosed in the rest of the world, we in America,
instead of being strongly united in a bond of
common understanding for the lasting good of
all, find ourselves dis-united by a common
enemy, the enemy of “common-ism”. When we
most need our ideals, our national sanity, our
belief in God, our Purity and Integrity, where
are they?
Do I paint a gloomy picture? Well, these
are the reasons conditions here are not what
they could be. These are a few of the causes for
hard times, debts, and high taxes. These are a
few of the reasons why America faces the future
with uncertainty.
Beloved people of this Great Nation! Were
it not for Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Ballard and the
message they have brought to us from the As­
cended Host direct, I would not give a plugged
nickel for the chances of this Nation to pull
through. Egypt failed, when faced with the
same situation. Greece crumbled. Rome collap­
sed. And if you care to go farther back, or look
about at all, you will find the same thing again
and again and again. Historians may say that
you cannot go farther back, but science will bear
me out. Look it over. When a nation or a
people turn from God, they fail quickly, and the
time is over-ripe right now!
But into this nation has come something
stronger than communism. Something stronger
than dis-trust, something greater than Hitler,
Mussolini, and Stalin combined. It is not a be­
lief ! It is not a new “ism” ! It is not an organi­
zation of any sort! It is Law! THE Law. The
Law of Life. To understand it is to understand
yourself. To apply it is to master yourself and
your situation. To believe it is to anchor your­
self to the rock of Truth and Sanity from which
this Mighty Nation shall yet rise to greater
heights! The Ascended Masters are real. I
speak on my own responsibility at the direct re­
quest of Saint Germain. It is His wish that
mankind come to understand itself, so that the
Glory of God may be released to the long-
suffering people of this earth. I know that state­
ment sounds religious, but it is not! I know
the dis-belief in the minds of my fellow-men. I
haven’t been in business in the outer world for
ten years without knowing the condition of
people in general. And of course, among the
first to take exception to what I say will be
those who make a business of spirituality, who
know they have no God, and resent the reality
if it dares appear. I care not who challenges
5 8 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
A G r e a t N a t io n 59
this statement! The Ascended Masters are real!
They are Eternal! And the Qualities 7 hey rep­
resent to this earth, are stronger than all the
human opinion to the contrary, combined! “I
AM” is the reality! You can resent it all you
please! You can ridicule, deride, and condemn !
But you cannot change a fact! And I am talk­
ing facts! And good sound sense. Dear ones, of
this Great Land of Light, unless you understand
this Law you have not a chance!
Mr. and Mrs. Ballard were chosen by Saint
Germain to bring to mankind an ideal so real
and so Perfect that all the intellects in the world
could find no fault with it. This they have
done! You may not understand it completely
when you first look into it. Do not be alarmed.
It may seem a little strange to you, but if it
does, remember that the situation we have in
the world generally is pretty strange too, and
take your choice. Mr. and Mrs. Ballard do not
ask you to do anything but try to live up to the
ideal which they have brought. An ideal which
every American ought to want with all his
heart. And this ideal they give to you free of
charge, no questions asked or answered. If you
want it, it is yours!
There is one great hope for this country and
the world. That hope is found embodied in the
6 o “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
three million stalwart “I AM” Students, who
stand today as a living proof of the reality
which the Ascended Masters are, and the Pow­
er they wield!
I do not care if you do find these facts diffi­
cult to believe at first. I do not care if there are
parts of this teaching which you cannot quite
understand. Believe it! Believe it if it hurts!
But believe it with all your might, with all your
heart, with all your mind!
If you are not awake enough to know that
civilization itself stands tottering upon the brink
of savagery, run along. You are useless anyway.
If you believe that the remedies you have, and
the teachings you have had will pull us out of
this colossal mess we are in . . . . then how in the
name of common sense did we get into such a
mess in the first place? But if you are Ameri­
cans—free men and women, who believe in
God and in His Messengers—who demand that
progress and civilization be sustained, and a
place made for our children even better than
the place given to us ... . then turn to the only
Power capable of such a task, and welcome the
assistance given so freely. Learn to call to God,
the “Mighty I AM Presence”, and I stake my
Life on the results you will have!
CHAPTER III
“THE POWER OF GOD”
The Ascended Masters tell us that today we,
in America, stand upon the threshold of a most
glorious future. However, They point out, we
are in a period of transition which is extremely
dangerous. The Great Cosmic Laws which
govern our planet now compel the activities
here to come into Divine Order, and we move
from the pathway of war to the pathway of
Peace. We may make this change quietly,
gradually, sanely, or we may make it at tre­
mendous cost to ourselves, and to posterity—
by destruction and chaos! But make it we shall!
That is the L aw !
Let us consider again the situation in Amer­
ica, since that is the one spot on the globe which
concerns us most, and indeed, which concerns
61
6 2 “ I AM” A m erica ’s D e s t in y
the whole earth most. For if America succeeds,
the world is safe. If America goes down, we
fall back to a temporary state of savagery, from
which we must arise again.
In America we have been called a capital­
istic society. That is, we have individuals called
capitalists, who fix their own hours of occupa­
tion. Then we have individuals, called laborers,
whose hours of work are determined by some­
one else. Generally speaking the “Capitalist”
has an income larger than a “Laborer”, though
that is not always the case. But herein lies the
biggest potential destructive agent in the world !
Again, it is not a matter of which side you think
you are on. The very fact that there are two
sides is proof positive that neither side under­
stands the situation completely. The only intel­
ligent, complete solution to the entire situation
I have ever seen is offered in the Ascended
Masters’ Instruction to the people of this earth.
The Instruction They offer is already available,
and I have referred to it time and time again.
In general, there are only two systems, other
than capitalism, being used at the present time.
One is “common-ism”, a totalitarian system
which begins by offering to share evenly with
each member of society all benefits of the
society, and ends up under a dictatorship. The
“ T h e Po w er o f G od” 6 3
other is the dictatorship which arrives at its
state of totalitarianism without the false prom­
ises. In general, that is what is to be found in
the world today. And each of these other sys­
tems is, in a measure, an attempt to destroy
“Capitalism”, and replace it by something bet­
ter.
But what a foolish, foolish thing. To make
something better than what you have, you do
not begin by destroying! And there is the vic­
iousness we face. You say to your neighbor,
whose house you do not like: “That is a stupid
house. I shall build a better one than that. But
first, because I do not like your house I shall
blow it up.” And so the “house” of “Capital­
ism” has been undermined and “blown up” a
hundred times, because someone somewhere
thinks he has a better plan. But where is the
“better” plan? I have not seen it in operation
anywhere. Understand, I am not trying to
defend so-called capitalism. It has many evils.
Being a human system, it has its flaws, and any
imperfection must be weeded out if the Perfec­
tion that is America’s Destiny is to come forth!
But certainly, there is no cause to destroy.
Let us improve the system we have. Strengthen
it in its weak points. Take out of it the fallacies,
6 4 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’s D e s t i n y
and place in it the Truth and balance and order
which must come!
In a large sense there are but two theories
of existence throughout the world. One of
them is obviously right. The other is obviously
wrong. Again, the two opinions acting is a
clear indication that neither side understands
the situation.
These two theories are: Individualism and
collectivism. The Ascended Masters tell us
that the Individual is a God-Being. A Being
of Free will, created with God attributes, hav­
ing the ability to rise to God-like pinnacles or to
sink to a level lower than the beast. The As­
cended Masters tell us this and therefore we
know it is so. And indeed, what sane person
could doubt it for a minute?' In His Great
Ministry in Judea, almost 2,000 years ago, the
Blessed Master Jesus gave us a pretty clear pic­
ture of the way things were going, and what
we would have to do to bring about a condition
of Perfection. He pointed out constantly that
the Great Principle of Life was “I AM”, ex­
plaining : “I, of myself can do nothing. It is the
‘father’, (the “I AM” ), that doeth the works.”
There is no argument about that. There is no
other possible explanation of you or me. And
by using that principle, capitalism (which gives
“ T h e P o w e r o f G o d ” 6 5
the right to each individual to do his best) has
helped to bring forth the greatest civilization
the earth has yet seen.
And what of collectivism? That, of course,
is the exact reverse. It is the Marxist theory
of “common-ism”. The individual is nothing.
Life is cheap. The state is the all-important
thing. One person can be no better than an­
other. Each one is just a biological incident,
anyway. Therefore, down with everything, to
the level of the lowest! Oh true, we must help
the lowest improve, but let no one anywhere
try to get ahead of the slowest, or rise above the
level of the lowest. Except Marx, of course.
Or Stalin. Or Hitler. Or, whoever sets him­
self up quickest to oversee the situation, and
keep any other individual from setting himself
up. It is kind of a “dog eat dog” proposition,
isn’t it?
You may not believe in the Ascended Mas­
ters. You may not believe in the Divinity of
Jesus, the Christ. You may not believe in the
God-qualities of man. But you should. It is
the only safe and sane way. And it is the truth !
America is great because of the great indi­
viduals who have given their greatness to Ameri­
ca. The American people are great because it
is from them, who, having been given Freedom,
6 6 “I AM” A m e r i c a ’s D e s t i n y
there arise great men and women, whose lives
are glorious. Is America great because of the
130,000,000 inhabitants of this fair land? No.
America became great because of Washington,
Jefferson, and the others, who gave and gave
and gave of their greatness, so that America
might be. In one of the darkest hours another
great man arose to save the greatness already
called forth. His name was Lincoln. Under
a Communistic plan could such a thing ever
occur? Not without a revolution, an overthrow
of government. And now again, in a darker
hour still, has arisen a great man and woman,
who give the only solution to the problems that
lie ahead; the only safe and sane solution; the
only logical solution; the only solution that will
bring a positive improvement; the only solu­
tion which is not a temporary quack scheme, to
help for a time, and then become another part
of the great problem we face; the only solution
that can be made quietly, effectively, without
revolution, without bloodshed. This great man
and woman have served among the American
people for over five years. They have given to
those with whom they came in contact, courage,
strength, a belief in the future, a practical work­
ing knowledge of Life that gives the individual
(whether he calls himself capitalist or laborer)
“ T h e P o w e r o f G o d ” 6 7
a chance to set his world in order. This Man
and Woman are linked with the progress and
destiny of America. The instruction they, as
Messengers of the Ascended Host, have brought
to us, is tangible, real, safe. They have asked
nothing in return. They are Mr. and Mrs.
Ballard, the Messengers of Saint Germain.
What is America’s Destiny? Despite the
problems that we face, and which seem at times
to be greater than we can endure, the Ascended
Masters tell us that America’s Destiny is bright.
And the dawn of the new day is at hand!
Sweeping across this great nation from sea
to sea will come an urge to turn to God, “I AM”,
the Power of Light in action! Individuals who
scoff at first will suddenly become ashamed, and
humbly kneel before the Almighty Power of
Light! This is no religious tenet, loosely stated.
It is a fact. Organizations cannot bring this
about. They have tried and failed. They are
still trying, and they are still failing. But the
INDIVIDUAL can bring it about. Each In­
dividual who will be honest and honorable with
himself, will quickly find his world coming into
order. He will find himself becoming a factor
to the success of his business, his home, and his
community. And as each individual looks only
to himself, his own God Power, “I AM”, and
6 8 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
disciplines himself accordingly, the Victory of
Light of all ages will be at hand.
Picture with me the Glory which can be here
in America. The Glory and Beauty the Ascend­
ed Masters tell us may quickly rise upon our
shores.
Every person will be in his own right channel
of service, or occupation! Why not ? Is there
any real thing that can prevent it, when the in­
dividual relies only on himself and the power
of God within him? When he refuses to let the
opinions of others scare him or turn him aside,
but goes ahead on his own to do the Perfect
thing he knows he must do? The capitalists,
who in their greed and fear have helped to
bring about a “labor class-consciousness”, will
find, when they turn to the Power of God with­
in themselves, that this can be so easily changed.
Greed and fear will have to go. The laborers,
who in their greed and fear have brought about
the “capitalist class-consciousness”, will find,
that they, too, in turning to the Power of God.
“I AM” within themselves, will no longer be
under the domination of any individual or con­
dition. Greed and Fear again will have to go.
Oh, I know it is far easier to put it on paper than
to bring it about in the hearts and minds of men.
But it must be done! And the Instruction the
“ T h e P o w e r o f G o d ” 6 9
Ascended Masters have given to us will do the
trick! You cannot legislate greed and fear ou
of a person. You cannot pass laws which will
prevent greed and fear from acting. Because
if greed and fear exist, they are more powerful
than any group of laws that could ever be made.
And greed and fear do exist. They are the
forces which we face. That is why all the eco­
nomical plans in the world will fail! That is
why all the quack schemes are so much rubbish !
Because those schemes and plans are the results
of fear and greed, and lead onward and onward
into the labyrinth of debt, confusion, and de­
struction.
But American shall arise above this! And
the Power that will do it is the Power of God
within each individual. That is the only Power
that means anything at all. America is a land
of plenty. We have not begun to tap our natur­
al resources. Why? Greed! Fear! There are
magnificent mining properties which have been
tied up for years, that could be producing won­
derful things for all of us. Why are they not in
operation? Greed! Fear! There is over $17,-
000,000,000 in gold buried in Kentucky in one
spot, instead of being in circulation where it
could do some good. Why? Greed! Fear!
There are billions of dollars spent every year
on armaments, on war preparations. Why?
Greed! Fear! There are thousands of people
out of work in the land now, who could be gain­
fully employed, and on the other hand there are
hundreds of factories standing idle, while the
world needs what they could produce. But
not a wheel turns. Why? Greed! Fear! There
are granaries filled to the bursting, surpluses in
almost every commodity, and the breadlines
grow longer, and the cheeks more hollow!
Why? Greed! Fear!
Blessed people in America, will you not see?
It is not the greed and fear in your neighbor
which harms you! It is the greed and fear in
yourself! Almighty God in Heaven, give us
the power to convey this understanding to the
people of America. Dear people! Will you
not see? Will you not listen? Can you not
understand? Do away with greed and fear
within yourself. Do not try to do it for your
neighbor! You take care of yourself! And in
the name of God, “I AM”, have nothing to do
with the scaremongers and the organizers who
traffic in greed and fear! Shun them as you
would a case of leprosy. They are foul, cank­
erous, running sores on the face of the earth,
and the greed and fear they sell to the highest
7 0 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’s D e s t i n y
bidder must be blasted from this planet for­
ever !
But let us take a look at America, with greed
and fear removed. What do we find ? First, no
organized differences of opinion! Each individ­
ual minds his own business in his own way. Do
you not see that if he feels he must force his
opinion on others, that some greed or fear would
be acting? But greed and fear have been re­
moved. And all is well.
Vast factories are turning forth goods at a
speed never before dreamed. There is labor-a-
plenty, but jobs-a-plenty too, because greed and
fear have vanished! There are new magnifi­
cent inventions in common use. Television, new
means of transportation, new means of com­
munication.
There are beautiful homes for all. Why
not? With greed and fear removed, it is no
longer necessary to crowd people into dirty nar­
row streets “for fear” they will not get to work
on time, or “for fear” something might happen
to them. With new and improved means of
transportation at everyone’s disposal, a person
could live in Northern Wisconsin and work in
Chicago. Or he could live in Maine and work
in Washington, D. C. Or he could live in Ari­
zona and work in Los Angeles. Really, with
“ T h e P o w e r o f G o d ” 71
greed and fear removed, a Heaven is possible
on this earth! Your imagination can run full
blast on the marvels that could come forth.
But, it is only imagination, you might say.
Yes, that is true, it is only imagination now.
But just a minute. America was born a Free
nation, because in the imagination of certain
great men, an ideal such as this was possible.
It became more than imagination. It became
a reality! Any invention that comes forth, be­
gins in the mind of someone as an image, a re­
sult of their imag-ination. But you say, “This
. . . well, of course it is very pretty, and natur­
ally, greed and fear are the things that hold us
back, but how can you get rid if them? Maybe
I could imagine it myself, but what about Bill
Smith over here, or John Jones over there. I
do not think they could manage it.”
I’ll grant you it is a herculean task. I’ll grant
you that it cannot be done in a moment. I’ll
grant you that it will take tremendous effort.
But you will have to grant me this: Every in­
telligent psychologist in the country will agree,
every intelligent scientist will agree, every sane
human being will agree, because for over a de­
cade we have all been becoming more aware of
this greatest of dangers. Grant me this also!
I say, the solution has been found. It has been
72 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
“ T h e P o w e r o f G o d ” 73
brought to us by one man and one woman under
Divine Guidance. You say, “How could it be?”
I say, IT IS! And I challenge you to find out
for yourself, whether or not I speak the Truth.
And may you find it out quickly, for upon you
America’s Destiny depends.
CHAPTER IV
“FEAR”
Fear! It eddied darkly in corners. It seemed
to seep into our minds and feelings from every
possible source. Furtive glances! Suspicion!
Whispering! Fear!
It was the fall of 1937 at the radio station.
After the trying period of 1936, the station was
again doing a sizeable commercial business, and
everything should have been bright and happy.
But instead of increasing ease in everyone’s feel­
ings, as you would think would be the case, had
come that fiendish enemy to all humanity. Fear!
It echoed itself surreptitiously in the minds of
the production personnel, in the feeling of the
engineering staff. Even the sales department
was not immune. It gave voice to itself in such
74
sly statements as these, uttered of course, sotto
voce:
“What security have we in our jobs now?”
“The boss could fire me anytime he wanted
to and I would have no recourse.”
“Now that we are making money again, I
do not see why I do not get paid a little more.
After all, we have worked hard to make this
business pay. Why don’t they remember us in
the pay-envelope?”
“We’re not working for our health!”
The red breath of rebellion scorched even
the very pages of commercial copy, and the un­
rest was general. We all felt it. And the gen­
eral output of the station suffered. Interest in
the job abated. Interest in the pay envelope
increased. The condition was far more critical
than the station manager himself would permit
himself to believe.
Into this ripe field of dissension and revolt
were sown the seeds of terrorism.
A man (I scorn to say gentleman) appeared
every now and then at the studios. His trousers
bagged at the knees. His coat was old, greasy
and had that “slept-in” appearance. His hair
was unkempt. Half the time he needed a shave,
the other half of the time, a bath. Yet, strange
as it may seem, he found it very easy to work
“ F e a r ” 75
76 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
his way into the good graces of the immaculate
announcers and production people. He was
welcomed ! Nay, heralded! Almost any time you
might find him lounging around with the boys,
smoking a very foul pipe and looking wise, in­
deed. Not always at the station, however; but
now at the corner drugstore, now the street
corner, now some hotel room or lobby. There
you would find this odious personage talking
with the staff of the radio station, and not only
of the station where I was employed, but prac­
tically every other radio station in town was
represented from time to time at these informal
meetings.
I was an “I AM” Student. At least I was
trying to be. I wanted to be a good student
with all my heart. I tried and tried to get the
clear, unmistakable prompting from my own
“Mighty I AM Presence” as to what I should
do, how I should behave in this peculiar situa­
tion. I was never one to mix a great deal social­
ly with people among whom I worked. There­
fore, I was perpetually absent from these little
get-togethers at first. But the unrest was gen­
eral, and it spread into my feelings, too. I felt
left out, mistrusted, forgotten. And all the time,
in applying this Mighty Law, which Saint Ger­
main has given us, I felt uneasy, on edge, con-
“ F e a r ” 77
cerned about the whole situation! I would have
liked to talk to the “boss” about it, but it is hard
for an “I AM” Student to talk to a person who
is not an “I AM” Student, because the other
party almost instantly goes on the defensive. You
sense it coming and there is very little you care
to do about it. Every Student will know what I
mean. Anyway, I would not really have known
how to begin such a conversation. What would
I say? “The fellows are not satisfied with the
way things are going.” Didn’t he already know
that?” “I think it might be wise to have a staff
meeting and go into the whole thing.” What
I thought about anything could have little bear­
ing on the manager’s view-point. I stayed away.
But I kept calling to the Great Presence of God,
“I AM”, to show me what to do.
Finally, came the prompting. (And I have
never known a more difficult time in securing
direction. The reason for the difficulty being,
of course, that my own feelings were disturbed.)
“Go to this man”, said the Voice of My Pres­
ence within me. “Face the situation squarely
and bravely.”
I obeyed. In the company of three other an­
nouncers I went to the offices of the American
Federation of Labor in town, and for two hours
78 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
the four of us questioned this man. The results
of our conversation:
There was no security for the “poor, down­
trodden worker” unless he formed with his fel­
lows a powerful union which would hold the
power of the “selfish, brutal” employer in abey­
ance. The only reason anybody ever got to be
an employer was because he was “ruthless, over­
bearing, and utterly without scruples”. In or­
ganizing, we (the workers) would have the whip
hand. And would we use it? I’ll tell the world!
Any real or fancied injury would be taken care
of by the power of the mass. A power not even
the employer could resist! We would force him
to raise our wages! We would force him to bet­
ter our working conditions! He would learn
that the real reason he had a business was so
that we, (the workers) could have employment.
Should he find that he could not meet our de­
mands, we would close up the station! After
all, a business that cannot pay a “living” wage
to its employees has no reason being in exist­
ence !
All this, mind you, to a group of radio an­
nouncers, educated, intelligent men. The lowest
wage among the four of us was $110 a month.
This to the junior man, who had been with us
only a few months, and was still scarcely worth
“ F e a r ” 79
that much. Most of us were averaging between
$150 and $200 a month, depending on extra
commercials we could secure, and the length
of time we had been employed. The ones mak­
ing the most money and having the easiest time
of it, I soon found, were the very ones who made
the most noise and complained the most about
“conditions”. By the way, “conditions”—what
were they? Were we being mistreated? Not
so that anybody could notice it. True, on oc­
casion we were asked to work overtime and
there was no talk of extra pay on those occa­
sions. True, many times we would have to
rehearse long hours and receive nothing but
a half-hearted “thanks” for our pains. But
surely these minor matters are scarcely cause
for such talk as: “If a business cannot pay a
living wage, it should be closed down.”
At the conclusion of the conversation which
took place in a dirty, ill-kept office, located on
the second floor of a dilapidated old building
in one of the worst parts of town, all four of
us signed up for membership in a branch of
the union not yet formed. Each of us paid
one dollar for tentative memberships, and all
was left pending further action.
But I could not rest. And so, a few nights
later, after work, I went again to this ram-
8o “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
shackle place, from which emanated in wild
profusion the combined odors of bad liquor,
unclean bodies and decay, and found myself
in the office on the second floor talking with
this same man. We talked from midnight until
three a. m. The conversation was appalling.
This organizer for the American Federation of
Labor talked openly of the overthrow of the
American Government. The “revolution”, he
said, was only a short time away! There were
only three classes of people, he informed me.
The capitalist, whose power must fall. The
laborer, whose power must rise. And the third
class was the class to which I was ignominiously
cubbyholed. It was an ever dwindling class,
I was informed; a class composed of people
who were really laborers, but who suffered
from the illusion that some day they could
better their positions; that some day, given
the right opportunity (which of course could
never come) they would move from the labor­
ing mass into the capitalist class. This third
class, I was informed sneeringly, was being
caught hopelessly between the millstones of the
other two classes, and ground to bits by the
harshness of reality. Of communist reality!
Then my instruction continued. Figures
were brought into play. Long columns of fig-
“ F ear” 8 i
ures! Statistics! Data! Mathematically, I was
floored. The compilations which this uncouth
individual marshalled before me were over­
whelming. I had never really taken this com­
munist theory seriously before. Now, its logic
was forced into my consciousness with a power
that was appalling. I do not happen to be
a mathematician in any sense of the word, and
therefore, from a purely arithmetical stand­
point, I could offer no rebuttal to the tremen­
dous argument he sponsored! My heart began
beating more and more wildly. I could feel
the warning from my Great God Presence.
“This is the danger to America,” it said, “Be
warned in time!”
The organizer, seeing my rapt expression
and taking it to be the signal for the victory
of his argument, went further. He opened his
desk and brought out a list of names! Promi­
nent names! Names of people I knew. These
people, said he, understood the practicality of
Karl Marx, and at a given signal would rise
to red rebellion! Think of it, fellow Ameri­
cans ! This was in the United States of Amer­
ica, 1937 A. D. Other data! Confusing! Com­
pelling ! Complete!
“How is the money taken in in dues to the
union, divided?” I asked.
8 2 “I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
More books. Account books. Ledgers! A
large portion is spent locally. A small portion
goes to the national headquarters to assist in
defraying expenses there. Another small por­
tion goes to the “International” headquarters
in Moscow. And this was the “American”
Federation of Labor. Finally, I could stand
no more.
“Do all the people in the union understand
all that you have told me?” This, almost in
panic.
“Oh, no,” was the reply. “In fact, very
few. Very few wish to believe that this will
all lead to revolution. But, of course it will.
Anyone who really studies it will see that it has
to. It is the inevitable.”
My head reeled! My brain was tired! I
wanted to get out into the clean, pure air of
night and get the tobacco smoke and the smell
of bad liquor out of my lungs. And I wanted
to refute what had just been told me. I wanted
to refute it with all the Power of Life within
me. But, I did not know what to say, or how
to say it. We walked down the stairs together
and into the street. In spite of the neighbor­
hood, and the late hour, this was some relief.
I turned to this organizer and for just a
brief instant I was able to catch his eyes and
look into them. The only light available was
from a red neon sign and the open doorway of
a nearby liquor establishment. In that baleful
gleam it appeared that the eyes had no pupils.
The only thing I could observe from them was
a dull reddish gleam that filled the entire eye­
ball. I shuddered and turned away, and then
swung back.
“This . . . . ” I exclaimed. “All this, that you
have been telling m e! I cannot argue with
you. I have no statistics to offer in debate!
I do not understand it! Your mathematics
seem accurate! But this, I do know! And
I know this with the full power of my Being—
if all that you say is true; if the only solution
to a world situation is communism; if Karl
Marx is the great man you claim, then, I do
not want to go on living in a world like this. If
your logic is built around our multiplication
table, rather destroy the multiplication table
than the civilization which has been built! I
cannot refute your arguments, but there is one
thing you have left out of your computations!
That is, God. I believe there is a God. In fact,
I know there is a G od! And knowing that, I
know that your plan is wrong. It is wrong
from beginning to end, and it will, it must
fail!”
He looked at me with the pity of an intellec­
tual looking at a small child. “You still believe
in a God?” he openly sneered. “I thought you
looked more intelligent than that.”
My blood boiled. I never wanted to hit
a man so much in my life. But I controlled
myself. “Yes, I do.” And I flatter myself, my
voice showed a pity for him even greater than
his voice had conveyed to me. And I turned,
went to my car, and drove away. And as I
drove, I called to the “Mighty I AM Presence”
to blast out of existence forever the thoughts
and feelings within my consciousness and with­
in this man’s consciousness, which were not the
result of Divine Guidance.
Three days later I learned that the organizer
with whom I had had this conversation had
been dismissed from the union (as an organizer)
because of communistic activities. Smart go­
ing, boys! But not quite smart enough! Too
manv murders have been committed in the
J
Twin Cities and vicinity, for anyone to think
that the boys behind some of this activity were
not pretty smart. But they are not smart
enough, and now that Saint Germain has com­
manded Truth and Light to rule, your day is
done! And the United States of America shall
stand!
8 4 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
“ F e a r ” 8 5
Murder! Oh, yes. I know about that, too!
There was a certain small paper editor who
used to broadcast over the radio station for
which I worked. Many a night he came up
to the studios with a bodyguard, placed a load­
ed revolver on the studio desk before him, and
went on the air only after assuring himself that
there were no strangers lurking in the corridor.
He and I got to be very friendly. We had sev­
eral long talks together. That is, of course,
before “they” got him, and he was shot down
in cold blood as he drove home one evening.
What I am disclosing is not an intentional
rap at unions. The right to bargain collectively
was granted the people of America when the
Senate and House of Representatives were
formed. But there are two kinds of unions.
There is the union of the United States,
which gives Freedom to the individual, and
there is the labor union which quickly gives
authority to its most powerful leader. And
a powerful leader in a labor union is usually one
who can cause the most trouble. There are
exceptions! And God bless those who really
strive for Peace and Harmony!
But to continue! The day following my mid­
night conversation with the “organizer”, I has­
tened to confront certain ones of the radio
86 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
station staff, and give them the benefit of what
I had just learned. I informed them that this
organizer was plotting openly to overthrow our
government, and also gave them much of the
conversation which had taken place. To my
amazement, they were not the least impressed
by what I had to say, and the organizing activ­
ity continued at the studios. Other men came.
Documents were drawn up, discarded. Argu­
ments, dissension, discussion. The tension grew!
Other radio stations became involved. The
management of my radio station and the rep­
resentatives of the union began to have con­
ferences. The feeling of antagonism for the
constituted authorities of Law and Order grew
to an almost open rebellion. The managers
of the various departments now found it almost
impossible to have even a routine order carried
out without an argument. All winter long these
conferences continued. Came the spring of 1938
and more activity.
One day I was approached by two of the
production people with whom I worked. “The
branch of the A. F. of L.,” they said, “is not
equipped to handle our problem here. They
are all right for handling truck drivers, but we
we are not truck drivers.”
“Praise the ‘Mighty I AM Presence’,” I
said inwardly.
“But we have found a union that can help
us,” they went on. “The C. I. O. handles the
newspaper guild, and they are in a position to
be able to help us more intelligently, and more
rapidly. Come with us to one of their meet­
ings and sign up.”
I should tell you also that the engineering
staff of the station had already signed up en­
tirely with the A. F. of L. and their case had
finally been settled. They had won certain
concessions from the management, and now
made their headquarters on the second floor of
this disreputable building which I have already
mentioned. How they could stand it, I do
not know. But such was the situation at the
time I was approached by these two people
from my own department. You see, much time
had elapsed since my first meeting with the or­
ganizer.
I agreed to go to the meeting specified by
my two co-workers, and on the night designat­
ed went to rather a fine office building in the
Loop district to talk to the C. I. O. represen­
tatives. Aside from smoking and drinking too
much, they impressed me much more favor­
ably than did the other union people I had ob-
“ F e a r ” 8 7
88 “I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
served. At least these representatives, one felt,
were not entirely unacquainted with soap and
water. They had been “negotiating” it seemed
for some time with the production people of
our station as well as with the management,
concerning the dismissal of a perfectly worth­
less fellow who had been hired a short time
previously to assist with promotion, and who,
because of his slovenly habits and lack of abil­
ity, had been dropped from the pay-roll. This
the C. I. O. was making a bone of contention,
and they felt that if they could get the 100%
co-operation of the production staff, much
could be accomplished.
I do not know why I did what I did. Per­
haps the force of their arguments. Perhaps
the feeling that my fellow employees would
look down on me. Perhaps just a little resent­
ment on my own part, concerning the way
things had recently been with me at the sta­
tion. Anyway, upon their urging, I signed up
with the C. I. O., just as I had with the A. F.
of L. That is to say, I made my application,
which, upon their approval and notification,
would permit me to become a member of the
C. I. O. Then I left.
As the spring ripened into summer and the
summer in turn mellowed into fall, meetings
“ F e a r ” 89
were held, discussions were continued, argu­
ments and debate ebbed and flowed about such
vital points as “seniority rights” ; “over-time” ;
“six-hour day”, etc. And nothing seemed to
become really settled. However, most of this
passed by outside of my world, and I knew
little or nothing of it, nor was I particularly
interested. No notification came to me of the
various and sundry meetings, excepting now
and then someone would come up to me from
my department, mentioning the fact that there
had been another meeting. Fall arrived, and
with it, Fair week, the biggest week of the en­
tire year.
The day or so before the Fair opened, I ar­
rived at work at my customary time, 5 :30 a. m.
I was surprised to notice that at 8:00 a. m. the
manager was in his office. Usually he did not
get in until 9:00, but then with the Fair and
other activities of unusual importance, I thought
little of it. Presently, however, he came into
the announcers’ booth, and I could plainly see
that he was really disturbed and excited.
“I didn’t think you’d do it, Bob,” he said.
“Do what?” I asked, in complete amaze­
ment.
“Strike.”
90 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
“Who says I’m going to strike?” I coun­
tered, trying to feel my way through a very
dense fog of non-comprehension.
“There was a meeting last night and I un­
derstand they voted unanimously to strike.”
“Is that so?” I knew of no such meeting,
but then, there were lots of other things going
on that I did not know anything about, and
consciously tried to keep from knowing.
“ I don’t think they will strike,” he continued
hurriedly, obviously trying to convince him­
self. “I don’t see how any of the boys could
afford to go without their pay-checks for even
a day.”
“I don’t either,” I agreed.
We looked at each other. “When is the
strike to take place?” I asked.
“Today, at one o’clock.”
I see.
“Are you going to strike?”
“There will not be a strike today at one
o’clock!” I surprised myself by saying. “They
will not strike today!”
He looked at me with the most grateful
look I have ever seen on another human being’s
face. “They won’t, will they?” He was almost
like a child.
“ F ear” 9 i
“No,” I said. “I shall make the call, and
there will be no strike today!”
He accepted what I said with the complete
faith of the child, or the very wise. He walked
away, and I went to work with every power
I could command. In the process I sent a wire
to Mr. and Mrs. Ballard telling them of the
impending strike and asking them to assist in
their call. Presently the manager returned.
“Are you going to strike, Bob?”
“No,” I said.
“But won’t that get you into trouble with
the union?” he asked.
“I do not belong to it,” I said. “I made
my application, but it has never been approved.
I have not attended any meetings, and I did
not know of the strike vote. I am staying right
here until my boss tells me to go home.”
“Do you really mean that?”
“Yes.”
“I don’t want you to get into any trouble.”
“I won’t get into any trouble. Besides,
there is not going to be a strike today.”
“That’s right,” he agreed, and was gone.
The news quickly spread. I was not going
to strike. The feelings in the station intensified
and every destructive thing imaginable seemed
directed at me. But I felt a joy I had never
9 2 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
known before. The joy of doing positively
what I knew to be the right thing to do. I was
in ecstacy! I had no fear, nor even a mild con­
cern as to what the outcome would be. I was
happy. Out of me went all the accumulated
arguments for violence and force. In their
place came a sureness, a calm, powerful self-
control. I was exuberant!
I found occasion to leave the booth where
I was on duty and walk to the far end of the
lobby. People stared at me. I was a freak.
I was jeopardizing the whole thing for the entire
production staff! Hatred flared and burned
around me! But with it came just a little be­
grudging admiration. They did not think one
man had that much nerve. On the way back,
one of the men in the continuity department
approached me from the rear. I did not see
him. He slid up behind my back and hissed
in my ear: “Y ou -----------------fink!” And
slunk away.
I was amazed. I had known this man for
years. I had been instrumental in getting him
his job. And I had just heard a tone of hate
and violence in his voice that I had never ex­
perienced before in my life. I stayed the rest
of the morning in the booth. From time to
time news filtered in. Only the production
“ F e a r ” 93
staff were going to strike. The management
would not recognize two unions in the place.
They already had a contract with the A. F. of L.
for the engineers. The engineers were not go­
ing to strike in sympathy. Yes, they were. No.
they weren’t. Back and forth. The office force
was part of the production department. No, it
wasn’t. Yes, it was. Anyway, part of the office
force was going to strike with the production
people, part was going to keep on working. No­
body seemed to know just what he or she was
going to do. But I knew!
My heart was singing! I had the answer!
Violence and mob action are not the pathway
to progress. For after all the shouting and the
tumult dies away you not only have to go back
to the place where the shouting and the tumult
began, but farther back, in order to re-build
what has been destroyed. Thus, violence and
mob action, however directed, and for whatever
purpose, retard civilization continuously. It
makes no difference what side you are on in a
fight. If you are fighting, something is wrong
on both sides, for one side can always stop a
fight.
Back again came the words of my Presence
given me when I was talking with the or-
ganizer. “This is the danger to America. Be
warned in time.”
“I AM warned in time. I am right. I AM
the Perfect solution to this situation,” sang my
heart.
In came a wire from the Ballards. I rushed
in to the manager and read: “We are adding
our calls to yours. Be at peace. Divine Justice
must come forth!”
“There will be no strike,” I said.
Grimly he repeated, “There will be no
strike!”
“There will be no strike! It is not Ameri­
can to strike. Americans are sane, reasonable
beings. They do not need violence nor mob
action to convince another American that they
are right. If they are right, the rightness of
what they claim can be proved in other ways.”
“What are you going to do?”
“Keep on working until I am told by your­
self or the production manager to stop work.”
“Everybody will be angry with you.”
“They are already.”
Back again into the announcers’ booth.
Suddenly I felt someone with me in the booth.
I swung around. Two of my fellow workers,
each one of them about my size, were advanc­
ing upon me threateningly. I was backed up
94 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
“ F e a r ” 95
against one wall. They were going to try to
intimidate me. They were going to do what­
ever was necessary to bend me to their will.
Such is the way of strikes. I felt a calm, peace­
ful assurance from my Mighty God self, such
as I had never known before. The Light from
my Presence swept in and through me in a
Great River of Power. They reached for me.
I raised my right hand, and bringing it down
swiftly between them and myself, I gave the
call which Saint Germain has taught us. Us­
ually I would have made the call silently, for
we have always been cautioned never to appear
to anyone to have unusual power, or to do un­
usual things. But without hesitation, my lips
formed the words and my voice uttered them
at full volume, “YOU HAVE NO POWER!”
The effect was startling. They both recoiled
as if struck. All the color drained from the face
of one. “Pm . . . I’m sorry I lost my temper,”
he stammered.
“Come on!” shouted the other. “Let’s get
out of here.”
They retreated instantly.
“Thank you, thank you,” I sang within my­
self. And I sent my Love and unending grat­
itude to Our Beloved Master Saint Germain.
for I felt instinctively that He was standing
by and guarding me.
Then came the zero hour. At one o’clock
my shift ceased, and by all rules and regulations,
I should go off duty to be relieved by another
announcer. The tension seemed to reach a
breaking point. But I was calm and cool. I
have never been so happy and so contented.
I was doing the right thing. I knew it with the
full power of my being. There are thousands
in America who have known it when faced with
just this same situation. They have known it
and refused to be intimidated by the threats
and jeers of their comrades. They are the
Americans! Without them, industry would have
ceased to be! They are the people, the “petite
bourgeoise” of the organizer, who are scarcely
given anything but a sneer by the forces of com­
munist Russia. And yet, they are the people
who, although facing fearful odds, are valiantly
keeping the wheels of industry turning. Are
holding America safe!
Individuals at large are afraid to side
against the majority. Paid sentiment and the
organized press has so warped public opinion
on that issue that it is even unlawful for an em­
ployer to try to discuss unionism with his em­
ployees, lest he might influence them against
9 6 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
“ F e a r ” 97
the union. Where is your Free speech? Your
Free press? Thank God for the American man
and woman who claim the right and preserve
the right to work at the highest possible wage
their own ability can win for them; who do not
feel that in order to survive they must demon­
strate their power to their boss. Unionism, to
begin with, was a fine and constructive thing.
There were many evils, which, growing in the
minds of individuals (not the capitalist class,
as Russia claims) made conditions frightful
for certain types of workers. These evils the
first unions assisted in correcting to a large
measure. But, seeing the tremendous possibili­
ties ... in came the organizers . . . the “I. W.
W.’S” .. . and today, America, and indeed the
whole world, faces this Frankenstein of its own
creating. A monster whose only weapon is
FEAR!
But as I have said: Came the zero hour. The
staff of the station gathered. I stood in the
booth alone. One o’clock. I concluded my
announcement and gave the station call letters.
I turned off the microphone and stepped aside
for my relief man to take his place. With a
great rush in he came and introduced the one
o’clock program. I stepped out of the booth
98 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
and went into the manager’s office. “What
happened?” I asked.
“They didn’t strike,” he said. “They had
a last minute meeting and they didn’t strike.”
“Do you want me to stick around the rest
of the day?”
“No, no. Go on home. Thank you. Thank
you a thousand times for the stand which you
took. I shall never forget it.”
“Skip it,” I said. “I took the stand I did
because it was right and because I wanted to.
You didn’t talk me into it.”
“I know it,” he smiled. “It’s against the
law.”
“Not THE Law,” I said, and went home.
That night at two o’clock the telephone
rang and got me out of bed. It was the station
manager.
“I don’t know what is going to happen, Bob.
They are definitely going on strike. They are
calling their strike to go into effect the first
thing in the morning. That is your shift. Do
you want to work, or would you feel better
about it, if you just stayed home?”
“I want to work.”
“They’ll have a picket line and they might
try to hurt you. I would not want anything to
happen.”
“ F e a r ” 99
“Thanks for the tip. Do you want the sta­
tion to go on the air in the morning?”
“Yes.”
“I’ll put it on. What about the engineers?”
“They are not going out, but they won’t
pass through a picket line.
“Good. There are plenty of ways to get
into our studios without going in the front door.
What about the transmitter?”
“Do you think they will try something
there?”
“They probably will.”
“Well, I’ll try to think of something to do
about that.”
A long pause.
“Bob, you’d better plan on going to work
a little earlier than usual.”
“Right. In fact, I am going to get up right
now, take a shower, and then I’ll come right
over.”
“You don’t have to come this early.”
“I’m not taking any chances,” and I hung
up.
I continued my dynamic call to the “Mighty
I AM Presence” and the Great Host of Ascend­
ed Masters to sweep into action. And I must
say that during the entire duration of the
strike, every possible “break” that could occur
IOO “I AM” A m e r i c a ’s D e s t i n y
went in our favor, in favor of us who tried to
keep the business running.
As an example, the transmitter. The strikers
did, of course, plan to picket the transmitter.
But the one picket they determined on sending
out to the transmitter overslept and the engineer
who was to go on duty that morning got in
without seeing anybody.
I, of course, was safely in the studios long be­
fore any attempt was made to picket the place,
and the engineer for that morning got in
through another doorway than the one being
picketed. The morning engineer was a pretty
level-headed fellow anyway, and a real Ameri­
can. He loved excitement. But he did not know
about his “Mighty I AM Presence”, nor was he
conscious of the Ascended Host, and therefore
without the understanding and positive knowl­
edge that comes with being an “I AM” student,
his conclusions were not as mature and wise as
they might have been. We got along fine, and
the first day of the strike passed without any
undue occurrence. I worked a full eighteen
hours on the air, with the exception of a short
time off, when the production manager took
over. But the strikers were not through, and
trouble was brewing.
“ F e a r ” io i
As the result of some technical ruling, it was
determined by the A. F. of L. that a place on
strike was a place being picketed, and a place
being picketed was not to be entered into by
another union man whether he saw the picket
line or not. Or some such ruling. I was too busy
to pay much attention to details such as those.
My job was growing by leaps and bounds. To­
ward the end of the first day, the manager
again came into the booth.
“I guess there is no use, Bob,” he said, com­
pletely dejected. “The engineers will not come
to work tomorrow. And of course we cannot
operate the station without engineers.”
“Is there anybody who can handle the trans­
mitter who is an executive, and therefore not
under union domination?”
“Yes, of course, the technical adviser.”
“Get him out and into the transmitter.”
“How will that help us? We need engineers
here in the studio too, and he is the only techni­
cal man we have who is not a union man. He
cannot be in two places at once.”
“Never mind about this end of it. Get him
into the transmitter! I will see that this end of
it holds up all right!”
1 0 2 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
“But you cannot do it alone. You are not an
engineer. Do you think you can run the con­
trol room?”
“Listen,” I said, just a little out of patience.
“Do you want this station to be kept running?”
“Yes, of course.”
“Then get somebody into the transmitter,
and let me worry about this end.”
“All right, Bob. If you think you can do it.”
“I don’t know how, but I will do it, all
right!”
And so, by the morning of the second day of
the strike, I found myself not only announcer,
and the only continuity writer on hand, but
the only engineer. And as I before intimated,
a radio announcer is not a good engineer. This
was the staff, with the exception of the produc­
tion manager, who was useless in the control
room, but who could take a shift an an an­
nouncer. Also the production manager was an
excellent copy writer, and during the strike
most of that part of the business was handled
by him.
I have never worked so hard, nor been so
happy in my life! For six long days and nights
I never left the studios. I slept on a sofa in the
lobby, had my meals sent in, and for eighteen
hours every day was on duty either as control
“ F e a r ” 103
operator, announcer, continuity man or any
two or three of them together. And was it
fun! For, dear reader, I had stopped being
just a man working at his job. I was working
for a principle. I was working for the right of
every one to follow the promptings of his own
“Mighty I AM Presence” in doing that which
is right and good, as God gives him the knowl­
edge to see that right.
Threats, intimidations, minor violence were
all tried by the strikers. None of them had
much effect. For the technical advisor was en­
trenched solidly in the studios and the two of
us together could have held out for an indefinite
period of time. Of course, we did get mighty
tired before it was all over. But four or five
hours of sleep a night will see a man through
years of service.
I will not go into detail concerning every­
thing that happened. There were many, many
magnificent proofs of this Law in action . . . .
There were many, many times when I felt the
tangible Presence of the Great Master, Saint
Germain, so powerfully, that I would look up
expecting to see Him. For, I want the whole
world to know that the sustaining Power that
kept that business from closing down was the
Power of the “Mighty I AM Presence” and the
Ascended Host of Light! I do not happen to
be an engineer. Yet I went into the control
room, called to my Presence, and for five
eighteen-hour days I ran the place and made
no mistakes during that time. Do not tell me
this power is not real! The only friends I had
during this time were “I AM” Students. But
then, they are the only real friends I have ever
had. Many came to see me at the studios while
this was going on. Some volunteered their ser­
vices, and when possible, I permitted them to
assist. We had a splendid time. Except for
the worry of the manager, who continued try­
ing to negotiate with the strikers, I have never
seen such complete happiness and joy in a place
of business. The students came into the studios
and laughed and sang and gave their decrees.
Thus, tremendous assistance was given to us by
the Great Powers of Light.
There were many things that took place
during that time, which I must retain as secrets.
Ways were found to do many things which
could not have been done without this great
Power of Light. Those who were out on strike
have tried to logically explain all that took
place, but their logic breaks down and is ridicu­
lous beside the facts as we know them to be.
Saint Germain does not wish me to disclose some
104 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
“ F e a r ” 105
of the absolute miracles which took place, but
those who were present can never doubt nor
deny the Glory and the Power of this Light.
After six days the strike was settled. The
understanding would have been reached on
exactly that same day if there had been no
strike. Some of the parties who had to be con­
sulted on any permanent arrangements were
out of town when the strike was called, and
could not be contacted until that time. The
strike was useless, vicious, uncalled-for, and
un-American. It was brought about by the
activities of Greed and Fear. It lost money for
both the strikers and the station. I believe the
only one who really profited by it was myself.
And I took my stand without thought of pay
or profit. But when the strike was all over, and
I learned how the union in negotiating had had
to take my side, and actually secure a sizable
raise in pay for me, I couldn’t help but chuckle !
Truly the Powers of Light are very real. And
being invisible makes them all the more real
to the true student of Life.
CHAPTER V
DIVINE LOVE
Since the publication of the book “Un­
veiled Mysteries”, Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Ballard
have worked constantly for the Freedom and
illumination of mankind. From that time until
this they have never ceased to strive with all the
Power at their command to save humanity from
itself; to so instruct the individual that he will
give the necessary illumined obedience to his
own “Mighty I AM Presence”, to bring forth
God’s Perfection upon this planet.
Mr. and Mrs. Ballard have worked con­
stantly under the direction of the Great Master,
Saint Germain, Lord of the Seventh Ray, and
under His direction have laid the cornerstone
for the incoming Golden Age. With the in­
struction which has already been given, the way
1 0 6
“ D i v i n e L o v e ”
is open for those who are sincerely seeking the
constructive way of Life to contact their own
Great Presence and assist in bringing about the
state of Perfection which we all desire.
This state of Perfection is more than just a
state of mind, or a state of wishful thinking. It
can and WILL be a reality, when the principles
contained in Saint Germain’s instruction to the
people of earth are followed. That is America’s
Destiny. It is a Destiny of Perfection ordained
by Cosmic Law, with which no human being
or group of them can long interfere. However,
the puny human intellect that sets itself in de­
fiance against this great and immutable princi­
ple of Life can cause unending misery for itself
and others in the process of avoiding and at­
tempting to destroy the incoming Perfection
which is so near.
With the purpose of avoiding as much of
this human misery as possible, Saint Germain
has asked the students everywhere to put aside
their human desires Tand give of every ounce of
their energy to the Freeing and Protection of
America. And believe it or not, it is at that
very request that many have drawn back, and
directed criticism at Mr. and Mrs. Ballard, His
Messengers!
107
io8 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
Every conceivable attempt has been made
to construe the “I AM” Activity into a cult, into
a religion, into a sect, into one thing or another.
Saint Germain has watched over it from the
first, and is still watching over it. Those vicious
things which seek to ride in to capitalize and
organize the Freedom to worship God, SHALL
BE ANNIHILATED! Every individual has
the right to Love and Worship God, as he is
directed by the very Light within him. The
Truth of all Life and its tangible and practical
application has been given to us by Saint Ger­
main. He is real. He is eternal. That which
he has taught us is real and eternal.
The civilization in which we find ourselves
has been established as a result of a vast assort­
ment of circumstances. Circumstances directed
in part by the radiation of the Great and Mighty
Host of Ascended Masters, and also in part, by
the willful disobedience of the human conscious­
ness. Those portions of our civilization which
are permanent, beautiful, and a blessing to all,
have always, without exception, been the gift of
the Ascended Host. Those portions which are
temporary, filled with dark fear and passion,
with greed and envy, those are the results of
human consciousness.
Thus we find ourselves in an age of contrast.
On the one hand plenty, over-production, over­
supply. On the other, wan£. Plenty and poverty
rub shoulders on every avenue and by-way.
Great minds and high ideals stand out like
beacons in a sea of dark and dismal bestiality,
the result of human cunning. Contrast, and un­
fortunately, sinister contrast. For contrast, in­
stead of being the constant unfoldment and ex­
pansion of the Light, the God Activity within
each one, has become a matter of grudging
comparison, a matter of an eye for an eye and a
tooth for a tooth. The Might of the greatest
civilization of all times stands tottering on the
brink of human un-control. And America, the
greatest part of a great civilization, pauses in
her pathway of progress and looks wildly about
for the answer to Her problems. That answer
has been given. “I AM” is America’s Destiny.
“I AM” America’s Destiny! What a wealth
of meaning is in that phrase. For those words
are the words of the Ascended Master, Saint
Germain, and contain His own God Conscious­
ness. Think well and humbly upon them. They
mean much.
For now, at last, America moves out of this
age of contrast into the Golden Age of God ful­
fillment—into the Golden Age of Divine Love
“ D i v i n e L o v e ” 1 0 9
I IO “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
and Blessing to everyone. The instruction to
each individual for this great change has been
prepared and released in the books of the Saint
Germain Series. Those who do not believe in
the Power and Reality of the Ascended Masters
had better study those books well, before coming
to any definite conclusions. “I AM” is indeed
America’s Destiny.
How, then, is this change to be accom­
plished? We have all wanted the results, now
how do we secure the action? By the applica­
tion of Divine Love, called forth and released
by everyone to everyone.
Divine Love is the power of Light, Life,
and Wisdom which rules the universe. It is the
formative power which molds together the
thoughts and feelings of men, to create mass
consciousness and constructive action. It is also
the power that forms every physical object or
pattern, it is the power that sustains that object
and releases it into service. Divine Love is the
great builder. . . . it is the action of the Seven
Elohim of Creation, and before it, all things
bow, in willing, humble obedience. That is the
Law. That is immutable ! Anything and every­
thing is possible when enough Divine Love is
present, in action.
“ D i v i n e L o v e ” i 11
However, it is in the releasing of Divine
Love that we are constantly confronted with
the necessity of separating Divine Love from
ordinary Love, or human desire. Because of the
ever-present danger of human desire, many who
could release Divine Love in great abundance,
fear the action of human love, and as a result,
refuse to release anything. The result is stag­
nation, deception, repression, and worse. The
disciplining of the lower or animal nature in
man is imperative, but the disciplining is ac­
complished by meeting the problem squarely
and not by fear, denial, suspicion, and doubt,
which are the automatic companions of re­
pression.
The desire world of the individual is his
contact with the realm of precipitation and
manifestation, because what is REALLY in the
desire world will always outpicture, and there
is no exception. The duty of every sincere
student is always to look honestly, openly, and
without shame or fear, into his or her desire
world, and there, before the manifestation oc­
curs, pluck out all things which are not of God.
All things that will inevitably bring distress and
misfortune to others or to himself or herself.
Knowing the “I AM” Consciousness and apply­
ing the “I AM” Decrees IS THE ONLY WAY
I 12 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
THIS CAN BE DONE. For the application
of the student to his “Mighty I AM Presence”
releases the FULL P O W E R OF GOD,
LIGHT, DIVINE LOVE, in action into his
own desire world. The results will always be
perfect, beautiful, and a blessing to all. Then
with the human desires gone, the individual is
free to concentrate on the Divine Desires and
God’s will is thus manifest. Fear, doubt and
greed are the enemies of mankind. The only-
way to handle these so-called invisible forces
is by the release of another so-called invisible
force that is more powerful than they. That
force is, has been, and will always be, Divine
Love.
When Divine Love is really in action, the in­
dividual is clothed in a mantle of protection
which takes the form of a tube of Light; the
Violet Consuming Flame, which is the Law of
Grace, springs into action, and the individual
is able to move into any and every condition
and there work for the good of all, completely
immune to any vicious condition or appearance
that may exist. The individual who is sincerely
a student of Light, and continues to qualify his
natural Divine Love to the God Head, the “I
AM”, with the power of the Tube of Light and
the Violet Consuming Flame, will find the nat-
“ D i v i n e L o v e ”
ural power of protection amplified and intensi­
fied almost beyond limit, and the glories and
victories such a student may experience are be­
yond description. For only then does the stu­
dent move upon the conscious pathway.
There are many, many constructive people
throughout the world, who, not understanding
the fullness of these Mighty Laws of Life, still
have a Natural Divine Love for their “Mighty
I AM Presence” their own God Head, and
source; and such people are, almost without
exception, able to do many wonderful construc­
tive things. However, it is only with the con­
scious understanding of ALL the forces acting
that it is possible to bring forth into the outer
world the fullness of Divine Love needed to
bring about the so-called miracles that will be
necessary to clear the way for the in-coming
Golden Age. Without the Ascended Masters’
Instruction on the Laws of Life, the Laws of
Being, this would be impossible.
That which all the world needs is Love. Real
Love. And the need and craving for that Love
grows almost every moment. What is the mis­
understanding of the human mind that con­
stantly requalifies the very Glories of God with
human desire, and prevents the outpouring of
the fullness of Happiness, Joy, Freedom and
” 3
Love that are craved so intensely? That mis­
understanding is always caused by doubt and
fear. And how powerful it acts to rob man­
kind of their Freedom, their God-given Liberty
and Happiness, is apparent in our everyday
observations.
To begin with, the human constantly looks
upon things, persons, or conditions as being nec­
essary to happiness. “If I could have this,”
says the human mind, “then I should be happy.”
But happiness is not of the human, and any
who have tried to secure happiness by the se­
curing of things, the arrangement of conditions,
or the associations of people, have sooner or
later found that they had been pursuing a will-
o’-the-wisp, and the happiness they had really
sought had again eluded them. So again they
turned and drove onward, changing things, al­
tering conditions, trying to get rid of people, or
to find new people to replace those with whom
happiness was not found. Thus, you see the
world of men today in 1940. Human experi­
ence is a constant reproof of the fallacy of hu­
man understanding.
Why not turn then to the understanding of
the Ascended Masters? For this understand­
ing, if applied, teaches us that Happiness is a
quality, a substance, a certain action of Light,
1 14 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
“ D i v i n e L o v e ”
which can be called forth consciously from the
“Mighty I AM Presence” to so enfold us that
we never know any unhappiness, regardless of
persons, conditions, or things. This is not a
method of escape into a realm of day-dream­
ing, but a positive dynamic way, by which the
individual can save himself the effort of pursu­
ing the illusions of the human, and take the
short cut into the Oneness of God, which is all
happiness.
When an individual is really happy, he is in
Love with God. That is to say, he is pouring
forth Divine Love, the first activity of which is
gratitude to Life for Life, and then supreme re­
joicing over all manifested things. I do not re­
fer here to the temporary sense pleasures which
excite and thrill the human emotional body, and
bring about a temporary escape from reality.
But rather do I refer to that supreme ecstasy
which is indescribable, and which can be called
forth consciously when an individual recognizes
his own Flame of Life and then gives Love and
adoration to it, accepting himself as the focus
for the full power of “I AM” in action. This is
the only reality. When that has been fully ex­
perienced, the individual is on the pathway of
Light and nothing can ever turn him aside!
i 15
This experience is what the entire world
needs. It is absolutely imperative. And this
experience is waiting for everyone who will turn
himself humbly to the books of the Saint Ger­
main Series and apply the instruction offered.
For when enough individuals throughout Amer­
ica and the world, know the reality of Life, by
the feeling of its full power through them, and
the realization becomes more and more clear
that they are unlimited in any way so long as
the activity they contemplate is constructive
and a blessing to all, then indeed will America
awaken as never before, and the Victory and
Glory of the Ages will be at hand.
Love. It is the open door to all the mysteries
and glories of Life. It is the open door to all
the avenues of hate, fear and destruction. For
Love is God, and that Power is real. The con­
sciousness of you can qualify that Love with
Divinity, or can requalify it with desire, and
Its force and power are eternal. When the Love
an individual has for another individual is gen­
erous, non-possessive, unconcerned and beauti­
ful, it becomes the greatest blessing that can be
well imagined. When that Love becomes a
craving, a possessive desire, or even a great con­
cern, then that Love has been re-qualified with
the human consciousness and unless those quali-
1 1 6 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
“ D i v i n e L o v e ”
ties are dismissed from the desire world, destruc­
tion and failure will result. By calling the
“Mighty I AM Presence” into action, the sub­
stance in the desire world can be charged with
the desire for God above all things. When that
occurs, the individual moves out of the realm
of the human and is able to do more than ordi­
nary things. He finds himself master of forces
and conditions by the very Power of Light with­
in him, and stands unafraid before all men, for
his own desire for God Purity and Perfection
makes him more powerful than the selfish desire
of his fellows. Then as the acceptance of the
individual for this remarkable occurrence takes
place, the Victory is in sight, and with constant
application, success will always come.
America needs “I AM” Students! Good
ones! Not the silly suspicious kind who look to
the correction of other’s mistakes, but give little
heed to the correction of their own. Not the
vain, narrow-minded kind who refuse to give
Freedom to each to expand his own Perfection,
according to the prompting his own Presence
gives, but the glorious, wonderful kind which,
thank God, do exist. America has them. Many
of them. Were I an employer in a business I
should unhesitatingly put on my preferred list
of help the real “I AM” student, because the
i i 7
1 18 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
real “I AM” Student would actually take an in­
terest in the success of my business. He would
not work for me to get a living, but to give a
service. True, I should have to treat him with
greater respect than I could give to others, per­
haps, but then, the real “I AM” Student is de­
serving of that respect, and will be an asset to
any business.
To call yourself an “I AM” Student is to call
yourself a student of the most High, Living God,
the Power of Divine Love in action. To thus
place yourself is to accept the responsibility of
honesty, honor, integrity, purity, reason, self-
control, enlightenment, joy, happiness, success,
and victory on every hand. To be an “I AM”
Student is to place yourself in a world apart, a
world from which you never retire, for you are
not an “I AM” student on Sunday, and some­
thing else on Wednesday. You either are an
“I AM” Student or you are not. If you are,
the obligation you have is to love and bless life,
no matter in what form you may find it, and
no matter how your reason shrieks that you
cannot love this thing, or that person. You can
and must! That is the obligation of every sin­
cere student.
Then, as an “I AM” Student you also have
another obligation. It is the same as the first.
“ D i v i n e L o v e ” ” 9
but expressed a little differently. It is to Love
and Bless your country, the United States of
America, and to work ceaselessly for its Free­
dom and Victory and Success. For this Glor­
ious Land of America, is life, and it is a great
body that contains life. The life within this
land is the Light for the rest of the world.
America must stand firm! America is a Nation
apart, and must be kept a Nation apart! That
is Her Divine Destiny.
Therefore, as an “I AM” Student, you will
serve humbly and loyally, no matter where you
are placed. You may be in charge of a large
industry, or you may have the most humble post
of service, and yet your obligation is the same.
For you must remember that whatever your po­
sition may be, it is only temporary. You have
the privilege of service that you may pay your
debt to Life. To the degree that you prove
your ability to serve will your service be permit­
ted to expand. To the degree that you main­
tain happiness and Harmony in your desire
world, and keep yourself free from the condi­
tions of others, then to that degree will you and
your business, your home, or your activity im­
prove and be the blessing it was intended to be.
The “I AM” Student, the real one, knows
this, and knows far more. For the real “I AM”
1 2 0 “I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
Student has given his loyalty to his God first,
his Country second, and therefore his loyalty to
his activity of service will be infinitely more val­
uable.
Government needs “I AM” Students. For “I
AM” Students DO NOT HAVE A PRICE.
A real “I AM” Student cannot be bought. You
might say that you would like to see such a
one. You should not only like to see, but you
should like to be such a person. To improve
your business or your activity by capitalizing on
the honesty and integrity of those who help you
can only be permanently achieved if you sub­
scribe to honesty and integrity yourself. Thus
again, the most imperative thing to be remem­
bered, is the individual’s application for himself
personally. For without the improvement of
each individual by the clearing of his desire
world, no permanent progress can be made, and
any attempt to help another will be but tem­
porary unless the other will make effort also.
Thus the doorway to the new and Golden
Age stands open, and by the obedience given to
the Divine Law of Life Saint Germain has
brought forth, will it come swiftly into being.
The release of Divine Love from the “Mighty
I AM Presence” is the supreme privilege of each
one. With that release will always come Free-
“ D i v i n e L o v e ” 12 I
dom, Divine Justice, Joy, Victory and Success
of every constructive activity.
Divine Love is a feeling! It is the highest rate
of vibratory action in the Universe. It is not
an activity of the mind, but an activity of the
heart center. Divine Love is an actual ray of
Light that can be poured forth without limit
when all other feelings of the individual’s world
are held in Harmony. In order to release Divine
Love, it is necessary to still the outer, or human
self; to hold the mind in a calm, receptive state;
to have the feelings harmonized and at peace;
to have the body toned and quiet. Then, and
then only, can the full Power of Divine Love
be released.
Happiness, which is the goal of all conscious­
ness, is always active when Divine Love is pour­
ing out. It makes no difference how the Divine
Love is directed; that is, whether it flows to a
person, place, condition, or thing; but so long
as the outpouring takes place, the full sustain­
ing activity of Happiness is released into the
individual’s world. In fact, one of the sustain­
ing qualities of Divine Love is the Happiness
which acts automatically with it. Thus an in­
dividual never loses ground, and never can
fail when Divine Love is maintained as the key­
note to his every thought, feeling, and action.
122 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
The first activity of Divine Love is gratitude
and thanksgiving. Thus, no matter how far
from the path a student may turn, still always
does that Great God Presence stand ever before
him, beckoning his return to the conscious di­
rection his steps must pursue if Perfection is to
be his. Divine Love is that pathway of Light
upon which we all must journey. It is the
power that enables us to make the journey, and
it is the self-sustained progress we attain as we
continue on our way. So, never, once the path­
way is sincerely entered upon, can the individ­
ual completely fail, unless he of his own free will
and knowledge calls for his progress to be con­
sumed and definitely sets himself against the
force of Divine Love which he has previously
called forth. To do this, of course, brings about
annihilation and instantaneous destruction.
However, if the student will refuse to accept
any failure on his part, but will constantly turn
to his own “Mighty I AM Presence” and call
sincerely to the Host of Ascended Masters, then
the way will be open for him. If there is a feel­
ing of gratitude within him, and a real desire
to pour forth Divine Love, then indeed will the
Full Power and Glory of the God-head, the
“Mighty I AM Presence” constantly enfold him,
and his progress will be eternal. His pathway
“ D i v i n e L o v e ” 123
will be bright and his Ascension will be attained.
This is the Law of Life. Let no one seek to say
that it has been changed. And let no one say
that Saint Germain’s Messengers have ever
taught aught else, for His Messengers are the
Truth bearers for the ages, and the Laws they
teach are real.
CHAPTER VI
THE GREATEST MAN ON EARTH
As I have stated previously, it was while em­
ployed at the radio station, that I had the tre­
mendous privilege of contacting this magnifi­
cent “I AM” Instruction. As this great activity
began taking more and more of my conscious
time and attention, I found myself becoming
more and more happy. Without going into de­
tail, I must inform my readers that I became
active as a leader in the work, and as a leader,
early in the year 1938, I had my first opportun­
ity to see and talk with Mr. and Mrs. Ballard,
in person.
During my summer vacation in 1937, I had
driven to Detroit to attend a Class conducted
by these Messengers of Saint Germain. At that
time I had, of course, only been present at the
24
class as a member of the audience, However,
early in 1938, I began having a tremendous
prompting to go to another class. Not having a
vacation handy I considered the prompting to
be largely of my human mind, and tried to put
it from me. However, the prompting con­
tinued very powerfully. The Messengers were
in Kansas City at the time, and I naturally
thought that, with only one day off a week, it
was absolutely ridiculous to even consider a trip
of such a distance on my day off. However, the
prompting became so powerful, that I finally
sent a wire to the Ballards, in which I told them
that I was prompted to come to Kansas City,
and inasmuch as I could only be in town for a
few hours, would it be possible to actually see
and talk to them during that time.
They wired back immediately: “Come, by
all means.”
I caught the streamliner from the Twin
Cities to Kansas City, that afternoon, after
work, and arrived at my destination that eve­
ning at approximately 10 :oo p. m. May day off
was the following day, which time I would have
to utilize in returning to the Twin Cities, so as
soon as the train pulled into the depot, I has­
tened to a telephone and called the auditorium
where the class was being conducted. By good
T h e G r e a t e s t M a n o n E a r t h 125
126 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
fortune the Class was still in progress, and I was
informed by the Ballards’ secretary that if I
would hurry right out, I would arrive in time to
see them at the conclusion of the meeting.
I boarded a street-car, and with ever grow­
ing joy and anticipation I travelled to the audi­
torium. As I entered the lobby, the joy inten­
sified until it seemed that any who came near
me must feel it. I felt as though I had been sent
for by Saint Germain, Himself, and as His cour­
ier, I was entering His castle to give my service
to Him, for all time to come. This, of course,
was the actual case, although I did not really
know it at the time. I only had my feelings to
go on, but my feelings gave me great joy and
happiness.
Finally word came to me that I could go back
stage and speak to the Messengers. My heart
was beating like a trip-hammer! Just to think
of it! I was actually going to see and talk to
the Blessed Ones who had stood in the tangible
Presence of the Great Master, Saint Germain,
of the Great Master, Jesus, and many another
of the Ascended Host. My feet refused to
touch the heavily carpeted aisle, as I made my
way to the stage. I seemed to float rather than
to have any other form of consciousness con­
cerning my outward progress. The class had
just finished and the people were leaving the
auditorium as I made my way up the little
flight of steps leading from the rear hallway
onto the platform, itself. There at the far side,
standing together, radiant, beautiful, looking
like two very Gods, stood these Blessed people. I
flew to them. I felt about twelve years of age.
I wanted to take their hands, to kneel to them!
Tears sprang from my eyes, I was so happy, and
so awed, to think this great privilege was mine.
Well did I know their power! I almost trem­
bled to realize that undoubtedly they knew ev­
erything I thought, before I even voiced it. I
had been planning studiously what I should say
to them, but no words came. I just stood and
looked at them, and I like to think I smiled
pleasantly. But the grin of absolute supreme
joy and ecstasy that was on my face could never
be called a smile. I was tongue-tied, awkward;
embarrassed; and yet I sensed way down deep
within me, the absolute sincerity and reality of
these Blessed Ones. Suddenly my confusion
left me. I felt calm and poised. I was assured
and reassured again, by my own “Mighty I AM
Presence.”
Together the three of us went into a little
room, stage right, that served as a dressing room.
I was seated in a chair with Mrs. Ballard upon
T h e G r e a t e s t M a n o n E a r t h 127
1 2 8 “ I A M ” A merica’s D e st in y
my left and Mr. Ballard upon my right. We
talked, and talked. The minutes spun by on a
golden loom of happiness. Various questions
which were in my mind concerning the activity,
and which, as a leader I needed to have answer­
ed, were answered. The answers were instantly
forthcoming. Much was explained to me that
I had not understood before. The answers were
real, intelligent, simple. There was no pretense.
None. In spite of the high position Mr. and
Mrs. Ballard have, in spite of all they represent
to the people of this earth, there is no flair, no
grandiloquence! Just simple truth and love
and happiness. I was in a fairy-land of Joy.
Why didn’t the rest of the world know of this
magnificent Truth which Saint Germain had
brought, so that they could be happy too! Why
didn’t more people accept the very thing they
wanted most? It is still a mystery to me.
Finally our conversation came to a close.
Many things had been told to me. Many more
revealed. And I knew that, from that moment
on, my Life was pledged to these two people
and to the great Truth and Reality they had
brought to mankind. Regarding all that was
told to me, Mr. Ballard asked me to use my own
judgment as to what should be revealed and
what should not be revealed. Perhaps more
may be taken up at a later time, but the only
things I care to mention now are these: We
discovered that we had worked many times to­
gether in previous embodiments. It was dis­
closed that I should have a special work to do,
but just what it was, was not talked of at the
moment. We all expressed great joy and grat­
itude for this marvelous opportunity of getting
acquainted, and I left for the Hotel, promising,
at their request, to see them again on the mor­
row, before I returned to the Twin Cities.
That night I was their guest, and after see­
ing them both again the following day, I board­
ed a late train, traveling all night, arriving early
in the morning in time to be at work.
As a result of this journey to Kansas City,
the conversations and the radiance and power
they both released to me, I began being even
more active than heretofore, with the Activity.
A Reading Room was begun and many Blessed
People, having read the magnificent books of
the Saint Germain Series, came to the Reading
Room, and the Light and Joy of Life in the
Twin Cities began to expand.
That summer, during my summer vacation,
I drove to Los Angeles, where it was my great
privilege and pleasure to attend my first Shrine
Class, conducted by the Messengers of Saint
T h e G r e a t e s t M a n o n E a r t h 1 2 9
Germain. The Class was transcendent beyond
the comprehension of any who have not attend­
ed such an event. Thousands of people came,
and the Joy and Love released was a monument
to what Life can be, when the Divine Plan of
Life is followed.
During this Class, Mr. Ballard sent for me,
and I had the privilege of again going back
stage, and for a few brief minutes talked with
him and received further instruction. It was
then that I determined to work with him on the
staff, and although I was cautioned not to let
my attention go to the desire, but merely go
right on in what I was doing, still I could not
help but feel that some day, this great dream of
mine would be realized. Also, during this meet­
ing, Mr. Ballard instructed me as to the con­
sciousness to hold when a Master was giving a
dictation. This instruction permitted me on
numerous occasions to actually tune in to what
was being given. I did this many times; often
when not even in the audience in attendance
at a class I would tune in with the Instruction
as it was being given. This experience can only
be appreciated by one who has had it, and as
can be well imagined, is a glorious thing.
In the fall of 1938 the Ballards held their
first big public class in Chicago. At that time.
130 “ I AM” A m erica’s D e st in y
this Great Activity entered upon another phase
of its expansion. Calling my “Mighty I AM
Presence” into action, I drove to Chicago to at­
tend only one day of the class. My experience
at that time was so startling that at least a por­
tion of it should be recorded here.
In company with two or three other students,
I drove in my car to Chicago. I only had one
day off that week, a Saturday. Therefore, we
left Friday night, driving all night, arriving in
Chicago early Saturday morning. I had time
to go to a hotel, take a shower, and relax for
just a few minutes, before I hastened to see Mr.
Ballard, who was having breakfast with the Chi­
cago Minute Men. I arrived just as breakfast
was concluded. And what a transcendent ex­
perience that was! Every man who was there
will certainly never forget the Power of Light
drawn forth, and from that time on, those of
us who were privileged to be present were given
a sustaining power that is like nothing else ever
done for the student body.
Following the breakfast, it was again my
great privilege to see and talk to this Greatest
of Men, and during this conversation I was in­
formed that we had been working together
on the inner, even though I did not bring
back the conscious memory of it. Much was
T h e G r e a t e s t M a n o n E a r t h 131
being prepared, and in the Light of what has
since occurred, I know that, even at that time,
our Beloved “Daddy” was preparing me to do
the work in which I am now engaged! In his
Presence I beheld the tangible reality of the
Great Master Saint Germain, and have guarded
that secret until this moment, as I write these
words. I was cautioned at that time to say
nothing to anyone about what had transpired,
and until this moment, I never have. Now,
however, it is Saint Germain’s desire that this
information be given, that those of the students
who read these words will comprehend that
which has taken place, and is about to come
forth.
That afternoon, in Chicago, I attended the
Class of Instruction conducted by the Ballards,
and again that evening I attended Class. The
following day was Sunday, and I had to be back
in the Twin Cities in time to go on the air at
8:00 a. m. So, following the evening class, two
other students and myself got in the car to drive
back. We had had no sleep the night before,
because we had been driving in to Chicago.
Therefore, in driving back, we were all a little
bit tired.
However, I made the call to the “ Mighty
I AM Presence” and the Great Host of Ascend-
132 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
ed Masters, to take charge of the journey, and
we started out. It was not long until I became
very drowsy at the wheel, and the student sit­
ting with me in the front seat endeavored to
keep me awake with lively conversation. How­
ever, I became more and more sleepy, and in
spite of myself, I dozed off and slept. I slept
soundly with my eyes closed, but I kept my
physical hands on the wheel, and drove the car
at sixty miles an hour, over a curving road,
through towns and cities, obeying all traffic sig­
nals for over twenty miles. The student in the
back seat was asleep also, but the one in front
with me tried during that entire time to
awaken me. As I afterwards found out, I had
withdrawn from my physical form, and drove
the car from my Higher Mental Body. Still,
at the time, it was almost unexplainable, so
wonderful did it seem. The most remarkable
thing was the fact that the students with me
were so completely at ease during the entire
event. Never did the car or any of us seem to
be in danger. We roared our way through the
night, over the Wisconsin Hills, myself
asleep at the wheel, and there was no fear nor
any apprehension of danger in the car.
When I did awake I was very startled to
find what I had been doing, but continued
T h e G r e a t e s t M a n on E a r t h 133
on without any rest and arrived in the Twin
Cities in time to go to work. I worked all that
day at the radio station, and after work, I spoke
to the students for two hours, and during that
time I continued to gather strength and energy,
until by the time Sunday night had come along
and it was time to retire, I was so charged with
the Power of Light that I felt perfectly relaxed
and not the least bit “done-in”. All of this, and
I had not been in bed to sleep since Thursday
night. The Glories and Wonders of the Great
Presence of all Life, the “Mighty I AM” are
waiting to unfold themselves to the children of
earth when they will banish doubt, greed, and
fear, and live the Life of Love and Purity, which
is the Ascended Masters’ plan of existence for
this planet.
Mr. Ballard had suggested that I write to
him every week and keep in touch with him
constantly, as he wished to assist in preparing
me for certain work which I had to do. Again,
I had mentioned the staff, asking if it would not
be possible for me to come with them, but again
I had been told not to look to that position, but
only to call the “Mighty I AM Presence” into
action. However, we both looked forward with
such joy to the day when Saint Germain would
give His permission for my being with the staff
134 “ I AM” A merica’s D e st in y
that my anticipation became a very wonderful
thing.
In keeping with his suggestion, I now came
into very close contact with the Greatest Man
who has ever rendered service to the humanity
of this earth. While it is true that my privilege
has not been as great as some, in the amount of
time spent in the actual presence of Mr. Ballard,
still it is Saint Germain’s wish that I explain
this growing association, since only by explain­
ing it can what has occurred be properly under­
stood. No progress anywhere can ever be made
without conscious effort, consciously applied.
And thus, at the direct prompting of my own
“Mighty I AM Presence”, and under the per­
sonal guidance of the Messenger of the As­
cended Host, I took my training. This fact is
my greatest Joy and Happiness.
Early in the spring of 1939 I received word
that Mr. Ballard would stop off in the Twin
Cities for a one-night class. My Joy knew no
bounds. Only about seven or eight days before
his coming did the word reach me. I was ex­
cited and thrilled beyond words. Mr. Ballard,
our own Beloved Godfre Ray King! Those who
are students, or who are sincerely striving to live
the constructive way of Life, will appreciate
my ecstatic state. It was up to me to make all
T h e G r e a t e s t M a n o n E a r t h 135
arrangements, and I flew into action. I decided
that, due to the service which must be rendered,
I would make it a public meeting, and send out
announcements. I went to my print shop and
began printing a briefly worded statement to be
mailed.
In my supreme Joy and excitement of the
moment, I had forgotten to do that which every
sincere student must always remember to do. I
had forgotten to build my tube of Light. The
Joy had driven the thought from me. My press
was not large, a hand-operated job, driven by a
small quarter-horse electric motor. In my call
to the “Mighty I AM Presence” I had learned
to do most of my own printing, and although I
had not studied to be a printer and knew noth­
ing of the training required, I did the printing
for the Reading Room. This was a very rapid
and inexpensive way to operate.
I locked the form in the press, and with my
heart singing and everything going full speed,
I started turning out the little announcements.
“Mr. Ballard is coming”, the little press seemed
to sing aloud with me as the stack of wet and
perfectly printed cards mounted.
Then, suddenly, carelessness brought on
by my earlier neglect. My right hand caught
in the press and with full pressure set, three
136 “I AM” A merica’s D e st in y
fingers were mangled flat. For an instant I felt
nothing, could not believe that such a thing
could have happened! Then, as the conscious­
ness of pain came to me, I stopped the press and
ran for my room. “You will lose those fingers!”
wailed my intellect. “Just look at them!”
“Look not upon them,” said my God self.
“You will not lose them.”
Never in my Life had I made such a dyna­
mic call to My Presence for the Perfection I
wanted as I now made. I could not think of any
decree that particularly suited this case, but
with all the intensity of a man in agony I called:
“Mighty I AM Presence and Saint Germain
sweep in here and produce your Perfection!” I
gave that decree again, again and again. Sud­
denly the pain all vanished. I found the courage
to look at my hand. It wasn’t a very pretty
sight, but the bleeding had stopped and the
pain had left but it was rapidly turning a very
dark shade of purple. I instantly qualified the
entire activity with Perfection, wrapped a ban­
dage about my hand and went back to the print
shop to finish the announcements. And that
night before retiring, I called again with tre­
mendous power for the Perfect healing of my
hand. In the morning it had healed almost en-
T h e G rea test M an on E arth 137
1 3 8 “ I A M ” A merica’s D e st in y
tirely! And before the next day was over, I
was in Perfect condition again.
Two days after this experience, I had oc­
casion to show my hand to a doctor. He re­
marked that I must have badly damaged the
hand about a month previously. When I told
him what had occurred, and how quickly the
healing had come, he could not believe it, and
wanted to know what method I had used to get
such marvelous, Perfect results. I promised to
tell him when his desire for Truth was greater
than his desire for money. And we let it go at
that.
Mrs. Ballard could not manage to come to
the Twin Cities on this occasion, and therefore
Mr. Ballard was to come alone with a few of his
staff. I made arrangements to use a certain
hall in the Loop district, and the big day rapidly
approached.
Finally word reached me that Mr. Ballard
was in town, and with the greatest Joy and Love
in my Heart for this splendid Being, I hurried
to his hotel, and presently was permitted to go
to his room. As the door opened he greeted me
with that beautiful smile, and the Joy and
Power of Light in his eyes were wonderful to
behold.
“My Beloved Bob,” he said. “You see, every
sincere call is always answered. You have
wanted me to be here for so long that at last the
way has opened, and I am here.” He invited
me to step into his room, and then he continued,
“I have been hearing some things about you,
Bob.”
“Oh!” I cried. “I hope they have been nice
things!”
He laughed. “How could they be anything
but wonderful? Yes, Bob. Saint Germain is
very pleased with you, I feel certain. Your ap­
plication is marvelous, and results will always
come when the desire is sincere.”
I plied him with questions, to all of which he
laughed, and turning to me again said: “My
blessed boy, do not become over-anxious for
the manifestations you desire. Turn everything
over to your Great God Presence, and then
abide in that Great Wisdom which will come.”
The Joy and Wisdom of this Blessed man is
beyond belief and comprehension. He was
magnificent in his outer service. In His As­
cended state, He is without limitation of any
sort, and is the most Joyous Being I have ever
seen.
That evening, before a packed auditorium,
I had my greatest thrill! I was permitted to in­
T h e G r e a t e s t M a n o n E a r t h 1 3 9
troduce Mr. Ballard to the audience. I have
had quite a good deal of platform experience.
In fact, I have done so much of it that it is
usually just a matter of routine. I have, in line
of duty, introduced the President of the United
States without more than a mild curiosity. I
have introduced various senators, judges, and
other famous men who have won laurels in
their chosen fields of activity. But on this night,
I unhesitatingly say, I introduced the Greatest
Man this earth had ever seen. I wish all of
the people in this country could have been
present. They would never have forgotten it.
Mr. Ballard spoke for three solid hours. He
told of his meeting with Saint Germain, of the
beginning of the “I AM” Activity. How it
started in such a small, humble way. Then,
because of the great longing in the hearts of the
people, how it expanded. He explained the
“ Mighty I AM Presence” in such a simple,
beautiful way that a child could comprehend it.
He explained the activity of Light. His wonder­
ful voice filled the auditorium and for three
hours the hundreds of people present sat as
quietly as statues. Many who were there were
absolutely new to this understanding, and yet
they grasped it, for the most part, with an ease
that was startling. On and on he spoke, and
1 4 0 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
the consciousness of all was raised to tremen­
dous heights. He then explained the Truth con­
cerning communism, showing what a vicious
thing it is. And many were moved tremen­
dously by the great power of Love and Joy
which he released to them, in this understanding
of Life which he brought. Finally the meeting
closed. I then became consious of the fact that
although nothing had been said of it, Saint
Germain had been standing on the platform
within a few feet of my chair and had directed
the entire meeting. I was so happy I could
have shed tears of joy.
Then, as though our Blessings were still not
complete, Mr. Ballard and a few of the staff
drove with me to the Reading Room, and after
we had been there together a short time, Be­
loved Saint Germain arrived and spoke to us
for an hour. I shall never forget it. He ad­
dressed many of His remarks to me and, as
usual, with His great Wisdom, He was able to
convey certain things to me which those present
missed, or for which they received another
meaning. I began to see more clearly why, al­
though He could have done it, Saint Germain
preferred then, and still prefers now, to use only
one channel for His contacts with the outer
world. As He has since explained, He uses the
T h e G r e a t e s t M a n o n E a r t h 14 i
Life stream of the Individual, and the result is
the Oneness of purpose which must be estab­
lished. Let me say again, that although Saint
Germain has appeared to me on many occa­
sions, and although He has found it possible to
give His actual words to Pearl and myself, He
has not elected us to be His Messengers! His
Messengers have been, are, and will be, the
Ballards! There is no changing that fact!
There is no disputing that fact! And any in­
dividual who pretends to receive information
from Our Beloved Master, Saint Germain,
which is at variance with what has just been
stated, is a pretender of the first order and
should be avoided at all costs. His penalty will
be swift, and the Divine Justice which will de­
scend will prove the Truth of what I herein
state.
Mr. Ballard is in the Ascended state. His
Twin Ray, Mrs. Ballard, known and loved by
millions, is still the outer channel for Saint Ger­
main’s Instruction to this earth! And Donald,
their son, is the channel for the continuance
and maintenance of this Mighty Truth! These
three are the Messengers! There are NO
OTHERS! In choosing us to give this Truth
to the world, Saint Germain has made it clear
that in no way are we to ever feel that He is
142 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
doing anything through us, except a special
service to His Messengers! Although He is
kind and gentle on all occasions, I know that
His justice is real and swift, and I state these
words as a warning to all! Remember, Saint
Germain is real! He is the One who contacts
the individual. The individual does not contact
Him! Let that be clearly understood !
After Saint Germain’s talk at the Reading
Room was concluded, it became apparent that
Mr. Ballard would drive to another city about
a hundred and fifty miles away, and that there,
on the following evening, He would speak again.
I saw at once that I would be able to make the
journey myself, and the joy and anticipation of
having another such evening in store seemed
to make my heart swell to the bursting point, so
happy did I become.
All arrangements were quickly made, and
so the following afternoon I started out for our
neighboring city, and arrived in time for the
meeting. It was glorious! To our surprise and
great Joy, Saint Germain not only stood on
the platform, but took complete charge of the
public meeting, and the Instruction He gave at
that time was transcendent. As He finished
speaking, to my great surprise, I was called up
from the audience and took my place on the
T h e G r e a t e s t M a n o n E a r t h 143
platform beside our Beloved Messenger. Tears
came to my eyes, and the Joy and Love released
in the auditorium that night were beyond des­
cription. I know that there is not one who was
present who will ever forget that occasion.
Following these experiences, Mr. Ballard
drove on to Chicago, while I returned to the
Twin Cities so that I could put everything in
order and leave for Chicago myself, as it was my
plan to attend the Chicago class. Everything
worked out in Perfect Divine order, and I was
able to attend the Chicago class in its entirety.
It was a glorious experience. Again and again I
had the opportunity of speaking directly with
Mr. Ballard, and on two occasions I was able to
speak with Beloved Lotus, Mrs. Ballard. The
energy and constant endeavor of these two
Beings is beyond anything I have ever ob­
served. They labor ceaselessly for the Freedom
and Perfection of humanity. It seems they
never stop. Knowing, as every student does,
the Power they wield, they stand today as the
Living fulfillment of the Law of Life which
they have brought.
My training continued, and more and more
my consciousness was raised, until many things
which I had been unable to understand at first
became very clear and simple to me. Following
144 “ I AM” A merica’s D e st in y
the Chicago class, as my letters to Mr. Ballard
contiued, and His replies, many times in His
own handwriting, were received, I began to feel
that the day was rapidly drawing near when I
should be permitted to join Mr. Ballard’s staff.
Everything began to clear. A wonderful As­
cended Master Friend was raised up to assist
me in my work at the Reading Room. My an­
ticipation grew, but constantly I was reminded
of what Mr. Ballard had told me about waiting
patiently until the “Mighty I AM Presence”
prepared the way.
To my Great Joy, I was informed one day
that Saint Germain had given His permission,
and an eight day Class of the Messengers was
to be held in the Twin Cities. The dates were
announced, the place selected for the class, and
all was well. Then certain communistic forces
did what they could to see that the class was in­
terfered with in every possible way. But we kept
on making our dynamic application, and all
opposition finally went down in defeat before
the Power of Light called forth by the students.
We had made arrangements to use a certain
auditorium. Everything was agreed upon. I
notified Mr. Ballard that everything was in
readiness for his coming, and went ahead work­
ing on other details. In a short time I received
T h e G rea test M an on E arth 145
a wire from Mr. Ballard. “Something is wrong
at the auditorium. Check into it. If it cannot
be straightened out, we will have to cancel our
class.” In consternation I contacted the man­
agement of the auditorium. Surely enough,
without ever notifying me, or the Ballards, they
had agreed among themselves that there was to
be no class. Certain communistic forces work­
ing through various individuals had decided
that the “I AM ” Activity was “too controver­
sial” for the auditorium. Therefore nothing was
to be said. We were to be left ’way out on a
limb. Imagine anyone claiming that the “I
AM” Activity was controversial, when it teaches
the individual to stand on his own two feet,
looking to nothing but his own God source, and
teaches a Living, Breathing Loyalty to America,
and to the Highest, Cleanest, Finest way of
Life! “Controversial”, indeed ! Anyone who
is at controversy with what is taught by the
Ascended Masters is at controversy with all that
is decent and fine in the world. They have no
place in any organized society and should be
made to understand that. Liberty and Freedom
for America, yes! But that does not mean
license to destroy, to ridicule, and to interfere
with the Liberty and Freedom of others! Where
1 4 6 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
is the discriminating intelligence of the men
and women of America?
In haste I secured another auditorium.
“But,” said the manager, “you will have to
make arrangements with the stage hands. I
do not want to talk to them.”
“Will you help me with it?” I asked.
He agreed to help—until the papers were
signed—-and then reversed his decision. “I do
not want them to think I am asking favors for
myself,” he said, and I was out on another limb.
“You promised to help,” I reminded him.
“I know I did,” he said, “but you can see
that I cannot do anything.”
That I couldn’t see, but there is never any
point in arguing. Something is wrong on both
sides, if that occurs. I went back to the Reading
Room and that evening the students gave some
powerful decrees to open the way for the com­
ing of the Ballards. The next day I was to con­
tact the man in charge of the stage hands.
At the appointed hour I went to the address
given, and was ushered into one of the strangest
dens I have ever seen. Upon ringing the bell,
a fire-proof (bullet-proof) door was rolled aside
by a leering gentleman who looked for all the
world like a movie screen villain. Not the old
T h e G r e a t e s t M a n on E a r t h 1 4 7
fashioned type with the mustache, but the new
type as personified by the gestapo of Germany.
“What ya want?” he snarled at me.
“I have an appointment with Mr------- ”,
I said.
“Is dat so? Well, come on in. What ya
standin’ dere for?”
In I went. A series of rooms without win­
dows. Skylights gave the only illumination. And
the walls were decorated in red! Bright, angry
red! The ceilings were painted black! I am
sure you get the idea. I thought: “If the
Ballard Class depends upon my coming to some
kind of arrangements in these rooms, I surely
will need more than ordinary assistance. Saint
Germain, take charge.”
Out came my M r.--------. “Glad ta see ya,
Bob! Have a chair. Cigarette?”
I accepted the chair.
“Ya, let’s see. You wanna see me about da
te’ater. Well, I tell ya. I got it all doped out.
Da manager over dere, what’s his name, see, he
called me up last night, and I tink I got every-
ting just the way you want it.”
“Is that so?”
“Ya.” He went ahead to explain and he
was right! At the exact time we had given the
decrees at the Reading Room, the manager of
1 4 8 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
the theater had had a change of heart, had con­
tacted Mr. --------, and made most of the ar­
rangements for me. I only had to explain a
few more things in detail, and everything
worked out in perfect Divine Order, in a
manner I could never have done without as­
sistance. Mr. -------- cooperated in every re­
spect and I hastened to inform Mr. Ballard that
all arrangements were really complete this time,
and all was well. By the way, decrees always
work.
So the class was held. A magnificent out­
pouring of Light occurred. Many wonderful
things transpired, and the work continued to
expand. During this entire class it was my
privilege to introduce the Messengers from the
platform. The radio station co-operated in every
way, for I was still employed there, full time,
and I am sure the entire Host of Ascended
Masters were pleased with all that took place
during the Ballards’ stay in the Twin Cities.
At the conclusion of the class, the Ballards
again went to Chicago, where I traveled briefly
for one day at Mr. Ballard’s request. I went
back stage to see them, and he greeted me.
“I believe the time has come, Bob. How
soon can you make arrangements to join us?”
T h e G r ea test M an on E arth 1 4 9
“I can join you very quickly,” I replied.
“Two weeks’ notice at the radio station, and I
believe I can have all my affairs in order.”
“Then, you had better make all necessary
arrangements.”
I grinned from sheer Joy. “I am so happy,”
was all I could say!
“So am I, Bob.” We shook hands. “ I
have looked forward to this for a long time.”
Mrs. Ballard approached. “You two have
been planning this for a long time, haven’t
you?” she said. And there was the merriest
twinkle in her eye.
I admitted she was right.
“So be it,” she said. “America needs our
help now as never before. There is so much to
do.”
So it came about that everything moved
in Divine Order, and thus I severed my connec­
tion with the radio station and traveled to
Cleveland where I joined the Ballards. It was
there that my training really intensified, and
the beginning of what has taken place, occurred.
1 5 0 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
CHAPTER VII
THE ASCENSION
As the train pulled in to the Cleveland sta­
tion, it seemed to me that a doorway closed.
The doorway that connected me with my past
Life and experience. And at the same moment,
another doorway opened. A doorway into a
vast consciousness, an archway into the Glories
of the “Mighty I AM Presence” and the Host
of Ascended Masters.
I hurried up the ramp that led from the
depot into the Cleveland Hotel, and as quickly
as I could find my way to the room already
reserved for me, I informed Mr. and Mrs. Bal­
lard that I had arrived. The Power and Love
released at our meeting was very real. I felt,
indeed, that I had at last “come home”.
5 '
I threw myself into the work at hand. There
was much to be done. And always did I find
the Ballards to be tirelessly working to assist me
in whatever I had to do. I had thought it would
be the other way around. But such is never the
case with these splendid people. No matter how
much you may find you have the privilege of
doing, these magnificent, radiant Beings are
there ahead of you, working to help you. To be
near them is a Joy unexcelled, unparalleled in
this octave of consciousness.
The many things that transpired and were
brought to my attention as a member of their
staff must, of course, be retained in my mind
alone. There is no intention in this book to dis­
close secrets or to part with confidences. But I
will say that any who doubt the reality or the
Greatness of the Messengers of Saint Germain
are certainly in for an abrupt awakening. Else­
where I have mentioned many of the character­
istics of the Ballards. Their characteristics are
the markings the Ascended Masters have given
them. Take heed, America! The Power of
God, “I AM”, is very real!
At the conclusion of the Cleveland Class, we
journeyed to Philadelphia, as had been planned.
It was there that a final phase that led to the
unfoldment contained herein, began. Saint
152 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
T h e A s c e n s i o n 153
Germain directed the Messengers to move the
Philadelphia class to Washington, D. C. Prep­
arations were made in accordance. The after­
noon of our final day in Philadelphia, Pearl ap­
peared before me for the first time. We were
introduced by another member of the Ballards’
staff. Little did we think at the moment of the
revelations that would be given to both of us,
nor that our meeting was directed and planned
by Saint Germain, Himself.
In Washington, however, at the first closed
class, conducted by Mr. and Mrs. Ballard, it be­
came increasingly apparent that there was some
tie, or bond between us, but like good students
we gave no power to it, and ignored each other
beautifully. Saint Germain is very definite about
that point. Any turning of the attention to an­
other person, place, condition, or thing, other
than the Great Presence of all Life, is HUMAN
CONSCIOUSNESS, and is to be avoided at all
costs. Even the desire for human companion­
ship is of the outer or lower nature, and will
breed destruction and chaos every time. There
is nothing Good, but all of God, all of the time!
This we realize more and more as we apply the
Mighty Instruction of Life, which the Ascended
Masters have given to us.
At the conclusion of the Washington Class,
I learned that Pearl was flying back to her
home. “So what?” said I to myself, and retired
to my room.
I had only been in there a few minutes when
I felt someone in the room besides myself. Look­
ing up, I beheld Pearl. I think my hair stood
practically on end. I had not heard her come
in, and there are certain conventions which it
is never wise to violate.
“Where did you come from?” I gasped.
“I am here to help you,” she said simply.
“What do you mean?”
“There are certain things we are to do to­
gether.”
“Is that so?” I had suddenly realized that
my consciousness was raised and I was not talk­
ing to a physical being, but rather to the
Etheric Body of a physical being that was so
real and tangible as almost to terrify.
“I do not believe you,” I said. “You are a
result of my imagination. I have thought about
you too often, and some of my human creation
is getting the better of me.”
“No, I am real,” Pearl replied. “Write to
me, and you shall see that I am perfectly
aware of what is transpiring here, even though
my physical body is in another place.”
154 “ I AM” A merica’s D e st in y
T h e A s c e n s i o n i55
“That would prove nothing,” I argued. “You
write to me. Then I will know.”
“The Law is, you must write to me.”
Frankly, I was completely stunned. Was it
possible that my inner sight was opening, and
I was having an experience such as one hears
about, but always expects someone else to have ?
“We shall see about that,” I went on. “What
is it that you are to help me do?”
“Our Beloved Daddy is preparing for His
Ascension.”
“Is that so?” I had received just that same
prompting from my own “Mighty I AM Pres­
ence” only a few days previously.
“Yes. I do not know just what our work
will be. But I must work with you.”
Without any more ado, she proceeded to tell
me many things concerning herself and her past
life and experiences. We talked for some time,
and constantly I became more and more con­
vinced that this was real. In fact, many times,
I forgot for the moment that I was not talking
to a physical being. Finally, she said goodbye
to me and left. Only then did I realize that I
had remained sitting during our entire conver­
sation, while she had remained standing. I
called on the Law of Forgiveness for my lack
of manners.
After she had gone I turned the whole thing
over in my mind. “Either you are going crazy,”
said I to myself, “or what you have just exper­
ienced is real.” Then a sudden thought occur­
red to me. Might this not be the activity of
the psychic or astral world ? I had a cold chill.
“ ‘Mighty I AM Presence’ and Saint Ger­
main,” I called. “Reveal the Truth of this to
me. If it is false, blast it out of existence. If it
is True, I shall bless it and go on my way.”
I remained silent after the call, and presently
a great flood of re-assurance filled me. It was
real. Then I should Bless it and take my atten­
tion off it. But, she had said that I was to write
to her.
“What nonsense,” said I to myself. “I have
only talked to her briefly, and always in the
presence of others. She cannot possibly know
of what has transpired here.” I put it out of
my mind, and retired.
But the next day, back came the reminder
that I should write. Finally, I made up my
mind. “All right”, said I to myself. “I’ll send
a telegram. And what a telegram it will be!
I will send a jumble of nonsense that will mean
nothing to her unless she is conscious that she
has been here.” And so I sent a brief wire,
which was worded in such a way as to make no
1 5 6 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
T h e A s c e n s i o n
sense to anyone. Then I tried to put it out of
my mind. But to no avail.
In a few days time I received a letter, also
carefully worded, which proved beyond a shad­
ow of a doubt the reality I had experienced.
Later in conversation we discovered that al­
though she had not been aware of being in my
room with me, she had been aware of talking to
me about the very things we talked of, for she
had held an imaginary conversation (as she
thought) with me on the plane as it carried her
back to her destination.
From that time on we were constantly in
tune with one another. This attunement has
grown into a wonderful thing, and we are ever
increasingly aware of it. It has permitted many
things to come forth. Saint Germain has told
us that many of the students will be able to hold
conversations by this “inner” means, and indeed
we have found it so, in our case.
A portion of what was taking place I was
prompted to tell to Mr. Ballard, that he might
be aware of what was transpiring and give me
any corrections or advice I might need. This
I did, and he cautioned me to tell no one, but
to keep my attention on my Presence, to re­
double my application, and to be very alert, for
it was apparent that I was being prepared for
157
some special service. Just before we left Wash­
ington for our journey to the West Coast, I felt
that my “inner sight” had become opened suf­
ficiently for the Masters to use me. This I also
conveyed to Mr. Ballard, and His reply was:
“You are right, Bob. You are ready now,
for whatever may be required.”
After the passage of some time, during which
Pearl and I were in constant inner communi­
cation, we both found ourselves in Los Angeles
for the opening of the Great Shrine Class.
On the morning of Thursday, December 28,
I received a phone call from Pearl. She prompt­
ed me to turn my attention to Saint Germain.
This I did.
About 11 :oo a. m., as I had been sitting still,
more or less concentrating on sending Love to
Saint Germain, and more or less just letting my
mind wander over the many things I was grate­
ful for, I became slowly conscious of the fact
that there was a Presence in the room besides
myself. As my attention focused, I realized
that I was looking upon the visible, tangible
Presence of Our Blessed, Mighty Master, Saint
Germain Himself. Such a smile was on His
face, and such a Love was pouring out to me
that I realized for the first time what a REAL,
Powerful, Wonderful Being He is. His Name
1 5 8 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
T h e A s c e n s i o n 159
seemed to leap to my lips, and as it did so, He
spoke. He said: “My son, I see that you recog­
nize me. I wish to see you and Precious Pearl
at 2:00 a. m. on January 3, at a place I shall
later indicate to you. By then, a certain at-
tunement will be accomplished.”
He smiled again, with a Power of Love that
would melt a stone, and slowly faded from my
sight. I want anyone who reads these words to
know that I was stunned. I had known for some
time, of course, that Saint Germain was a real­
ity, but until I actually saw Him in His tangi­
ble body of Light as described, I suppose more
or less lack of conviction was acting. Anyway,
it was all cleared away instantly with a speed
that left me trembling. I felt I must tell Pearl,
for her prompting had turned my attention to
Our Great Master, and He had said He wanted
to see both of us. I was actually so thrilled my
physical body was shaking. I could hardly hold
the phone.
Finally, I managed to convey the informa­
tion to her, and we were both so thrilled it
seemed the whole world was new again. From
that moment on, my activity on the platform in­
troducing our Beloved Mrs. Ballard and Don be­
came very easy and I seemed to have a new
Power and confidence, never before experienced.
i6o “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
In fact, on several occasions my inner sight was
opened and the Great Master permitted me to
see many marvelous things.
That evening after class, I was permitted to
stand near our Beloved Daddy. Pearl tuned
in with me, as we had learned to do in Wash­
ington, and worked as never before. The next
morning about eight o’clock came a knock on
my door, and I was informed that Daddy had
made His Ascension at 5:20 a. m.
Then came a period of waiting and wonder­
ing. I doubted my own senses. I wanted to
tell our Beloved Mama Ballard of all that was
happening. Then I was afraid to tell Her for
fear she might misunderstand. I seemed to get
the prompting to remain absolutely silent about
the whole thing, so I cautioned Pearl, and we
bided our time. It seemed that the whole world
was turning too rapidly for me; for my con­
sciousness, I know now, was expanding tremend­
ously, due to a certain work Saint Germain was
doing with me. Through this entire period I
clung to one fact: THIS WAS REAL ! It was
not my imagination. I actually had seen Saint
Germain Himself, and He wanted to see Pearl
and me together.
The morning of the services for our Beloved
Daddy we both found ourselves in the company
T h e A s c e n s i o n i 6 i
of about seventy others at the home where the
services were to be conducted. Circumstances
placed me a little to the left of Donald and Mrs.
Ballard, with Pearl exactly opposite me.
As Blessed Mrs. Ballard stepped forth to give
the invocation, my inner sight was opened again
and I beheld the following: A great funnel of
Light poured down and enveloped Lotus and
the casket. A few feet over her head appeared
several wonderful beings, blazing with Light.
Two magnificent figures stood, one at either
end of the casket. The invocation concluded,
Lotus stepped back, the funnel of Light was
enlarged to include all in the room and the or­
gan began to play. Hardly had the music start­
ed when my heart practically stopped beating.
Into the room, in bodies so tangible I thought
everyone must see them, came Saint Germain,
Jesus, and Daddy, whom I recognized instantly,
in spite of the fact He was much taller, and
much more handsome than I had ever seen Him
before. He was so happy, so radiant, so mag­
nificent, I thought I would burst with Joy, and
all my sorrow fled as though it never had been.
His robes were almost dripping with the pure
white Light that flooded through Him.
I then noticed that there were several other
Bright Beings in the room, too. Daddy, Saint
1 6 2 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
Germain, and Jesus took their places at the left
end of the room and a great dazzling oval of
Light enfolded them. The Ray, or funnel, of
Light intensified. Suddenly the two Beings
standing at either end of the casket became
vibrant with the rushing Power of Light through
them. The organ music seemed to be intensi­
fied by music from above, because I heard
strains of melody that no organ could ever make.
The Silent Sentinel was played and as we sa­
luted, I saw the unfurling of the New American
Flag, just over our heads. It was beautiful. . .
Gold, White, and Blue. All during this time
the Light increased and intensified, until we
were all bathed in Its Liquid wonder, and the
Power was such as to thrill us all in a manner
we shall never forget through all eternity.
The outpouring had been so great at this
Mighty Service to our Beloved Daddy, that that
afternoon I sent a mighty call to Saint Germain,
asking Him if it were not possible for Him to
come before the morning of the third. Soon, I
felt Him near, although I did not see Him. He
laughed and spoke to me right out of the atmos­
phere, saying: “It seems that once again we are
ahead of schedule. Perhaps I shall come to­
night.”
T h e A s c e n s i o n 163
After the meeting, I hastened to convey this
information to Pearl, and we were both very
excited. As yet, He had given me no indication
of where He wanted us to be. However, the
perfect place was indicated and we sat quietly
awaiting His coming.
Presently He stepped through, and we shall
never forget that moment through all eternity
to come. He stood awhile focusing certain
Powers and Currents of Energy, such as I can­
not possibly describe. Then He turned His at­
tention to me, and flashed letters of Living Light
before me. These letters were visible to me
through the activity of sight in my feeling world.
It was as natural as breathing, and although the
radiation was such that I thought many times
I should lose consciousness, still His Power held
me firm.
He is not permitting us to give more than
just a little of what He said, for the Channels for
His Instruction to the people of earth are the
Ballards. Also, many of His words were pri­
vate, for us only, and naturally the rule is al­
ways: “To Know—To Dare—To Do—and to
Be Silent.”
EXCERPTS FROM DICTATIONS
January ist, 1940
SAINT GERMAIN-.
Blessed Children: Please be at ease. Be at
peace. Relax and be calm. Remember I Am
in charge of this activity which is taking place.
Have no sense of strain. The sincerity in your de­
sire to serve and your purity makes this possible.
* * * *
I wish to tell you about our Blessed God-
fre’s Ascension. On December 26th, between
11 and 12 p. m., Godfre withdrew from His
physical body and with the assistance of the
Goddess of Light, Mighty Victory, The Ray-
borns, David Lloyd and Mv^elf, took up his
abode in the special body at the Royal Teton.
Then, the final phase of His Ascension began,
CHAPTER VIII
164
and continued until 5:20 Friday morning, at
which time His Ascension was actually com­
plete.
I wonder if you quite realize what it means
when a messenger makes the Ascension? I
think not. Godfre chose to do this at this par­
ticular time so that certain forces could be gov­
erned which could only be governed this way.
There are always great cataclysmic changes
during such an event. However, during the
time of the change with Godfre, this was gov­
erned to a large extent. There were twenty
earthquakes throughout the world, and in the
manner in which this Ascension was accom­
plished we were able to do certain things which
otherwise would not have been possible. If he
had made a public Ascension, there would have
been sudden great changes. Vast portions of
the continent of Mu would have arisen in a few
hours, submerging a portion of the Western
coast! Immediately after His magnificent body
was raised into the fullness of Light of the
Mighty “I AM”, he joined with me in doing
the tremendous service which had to be render­
ed. His physical shell, which had been left be­
hind, was made the focus for terrific Power.
This Power was the Ascended Master Con­
sciousness from Godfre, Himself, a part of His
E x c e r p t s f r o m D i c t a t i o n s 165
own Life Stream, which was drawn there at His
suggestion.
Godfre was so perfectly attuned in our octave
of Light that it was only a matter of moments
before He was able to take up His service again,
after His Ascension was complete.
This Power, focused in the physical shell, re­
mained there, consciously held, until midnight
at the ending of 1939. When that Power was
drawn back into our octave, in a manner of
speaking, His Ascension was complete only then,
for not until then did His actual connection with
the physical octave cease.
Because of this service, His Ascension shall
serve as a Mighty Magnet to draw many others
into Their Victory. This information and in­
struction must not be revealed to anyone until
I give permission. Your absolute obedience to
this request is imperative. This, My Work, will
continue ! Precious Lotus and Donald will ren­
der a transcendent service, accomplishing many
marvelous things. I will come to you from time
to time in this manner.
* * * *
Our friend, Beloved Godfre’s Happiness and
Jov knows no bounds.
166 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
* * * *
January 3, 1940
SAINT GERMAIN:
(I asked Saint Germain the afternoon of Jan­
uary 2nd if we could still have our original ap­
pointment with Him on the morning of the 3rd.
He answered in the affirmative.)
Blessed children of the Light: Again I must
ask you to be calm and at peace. I ask for
obedience to your own Life Stream, rigid self-
control, without strain. Today, there was a
tremendous Power released by the Students.
This was something more powerful than we
have yet felt.
* * * *
This coming year will bring much action
and I want you to realize and remember that
even though I know unmistakably what is to
take place, I may not always reveal it. We face
Cosmic Activity. If I were to inform the Stu­
dents they would feel it was certain to take
place, and let down in Their decrees. They
must continue their decrees. Know always: “I
AM the Harmonious governing God-control of
my mind, body, being, and spoken word!”
* * * *
May I say this for your encouragement?
I have been thrilled with your loyalty and obed-
E x c e r p t s f r o m D i c t a t i o n s 167
“ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
i 68
ience. However, be careful and guard your
conversation, especially in public places.
* * * *
l
It is necessary that you both physically
be present during the flashing of these letters
of Light, for neither of you is finely enough
attuned as yet to receive them alone.
* * * *
(He also explained another point of the Law,
which we may not discuss.)
Definitely plan to take down as many of the
words as you can. Guard them well!
Pearl: “Should I take them down?”
Saint Germain: “Yes”
* * * *
Blessed children do you not recall me? Do
you not remember some of the times we have
worked together before? One day perhaps, I
shall tell you and bring back the memory of
some of the things which have taken place.
* * * *
Stand guard with precious Lotus and with
Donald in all that they do. I shall prompt them
constantly, for Perfection will always result in
this, My activity.
* * * *
Give your Love, your obedience, to Beloved
Lotus! She is a thrice three-thousand petaled
Lotus, and represents the full Power of My Ac­
tivity in the physical octave at the present time !
I will not stand idly by and observe the same
condition which has come up before with the
staff and student body! For I tell you that I will
release the full Power at My disposal to annihi­
late any attempt to divide the students in their
loyalty. This, My work, shall go on! And while
I am training you for a definite purpose, please
do not ever feel that you know more about the
activity than My precious one! (Lotus) She has
served Me well and faithfully, and she is, until
further notification, My only real Messenger.
Out of the fullness of the dazzling white fire
of My being, I shed My Radiance upon you to
bless you, to fill you with peace, with joy, and
courage, and with a certainty of Victory. My
Love and Blessings always.
January 3, 1940
SAINT GERMAIN:
(Saint Germain present during dinner, render­
ing a service. As soon as we finished eating, he
spoke:)
Blessed Ones: How My Love enfolds you
and that Divine Naturalness which is between
E x c e r p t s f r o m D i c t a t i o n s 169
“ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
i 70
you both. May I prompt you to hold close to
that for it is the open doorway to many victories.
I shall come again this evening and shall begin
really to give you the explanation and purpose
and the Instruction which I have in mind for
you.
Charge yourselves now with the Power of
Harmony and My own Ascended Master Con­
sciousness that you may be ready for what will
transpire.
* * * *
January 3, 1940
SAINT GERMAIN:
My Beloved children: There are many of Us
who are rejoicing with Me at the achievement
thus far. Beloved Godfre, now that His service
is unlimited in any way, is the happiest man I
have ever seen. He rejoices greatly at the pro­
gress that has been made, in fact, it is with dif­
ficulty that I restrain Him from standing
forth in the class in His tangible body. I sup­
pose some would say I was selfish to restrain
Him, but I am sure one day you will see the
Great Wisdom which directs Our every action.
He has pleaded and pleaded with Me to permit
Him to give one of the Dictations to you; how-
ever, this cannot be done at the present tim e;
as yet. Certain attunement must still be made.
This Instruction which I will give you and
these My words must be made into a record in
the physical octave by physical hands, for you
two shall bear witness to My reality:
I, SAINT GERMAIN, AM SPEAKING,
AND THE POWER AND CONVICTIO N
OF MY ENTIRE BEING IS BEING
CHARGED INTO THESE W ORDS! FOR
M ANKIND SHALL YET KNOW THAT I
AM REAL! I AM ETERNAL, AND I AM
THE FULL POWER OF LIG H T IN AC­
TIO N IN TH IS MY ACTIVITY. THERE
WILL BE THOSE W HO MAY DOUBT
THAT ANOTHER CHANNEL COULD BE
PREPARED TO RENDER TH IS SERVICE
AND I SAY TO T H E M : ‘W HO ARE YOU
TO DICTATE TO ME W HAT I SHALL
D O ?’
Let no one ever again doubt My Reality!
for remember, I AM the same Great Presence
who has brought about conditions of Perfection
against frightful odds in many centuries of ser­
vice to the humanity of earth. Remember, al­
ways the Master selects His students and since
I have chosen these, who are there who cared to
deny My right of choice?
E x c e r p t s f r o m D i c t a t i o n s 171
Patiently have I trained you, Blessed Ones.
* * * *
I told you I had a surprise for you. Do you
know who has been standing here with me?
Pearl: “Jesus?”
Saint Germain: “Yes.”
* * * *
The triple activity of “Love, Wisdom and
Power” is now being released to the student
body with a combined radiation of Jesus, God-
fre, and Myself.
* * * *
172 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
January 4, 1940
SAINT GERMAIN:
In the Name of Life I greet you, My Pre­
cious Children: Your joy, your happiness is a
tremendous power and you must continue to
call that it be sustained eternally.
# * * *
There are four in America at the present
time who are olanning to announce that they
are receiving messages from Me. I know their
names and should this activity come about, I
may be compelled to bring to Lotus’ attention
these dictations; in fact that is one of the reas-
ons why I have brought this activity forth. How­
ever, I believe this matter can be handled with­
out that.
* * * *
The Victory of Light in America is very
near!
* * * *
Keep on calling for your bodies like Nada,
Pearl, Rex, and Bob.
Do you know that all four of those Blessed
Children are in Los Angeles at the present time ;
in fact, They have moved in their tangible
bodies on several instances.
* * * *
Pearl: “I have been so happy and have so
wanted to see them!”
Saint Germain: “They love you very much,
Pearl!”
Pearl: “I have had such a desire to see Pearl
lately and she seems so close to me.”
Saint Germain: “She is very close to you!
Just keep pouring forth your Love, and know
that We stand by always. It may be possible
for Me to provide both of you with special
bodies should the occasion arise.
I have a journey before Me this evening and
so I must leave you now.”
E x c e r p t s f r o m D i c t a t i o n s 173
January 6, 1940
SAINT GERMAIN:
My Precious Children: More has been ac­
complished in the last twenty-four hours than
even We dared to hope, and now in the short
time I have left before certain things transpire,
I may have to ask you both to serve quite rap­
idly in order that certain things be completed.
I trust you will not mind.
Beloved Bob, put out of your mind those
questions as to how this information is to be
given to Lotus. Never fear, Lotus, My Beloved
Flower of Light, knows Me quite as well as you
do or perhaps even better and she will recognize
My Words and My Radiance which I pour into
them.
* * * *
And now prepare yourself—the Goddess of
Justice will speak:
GODDESS OF JUSTICE:
I speak in the Name of the Cosmic Power of
Light in Action and Command Divine Justice
for the earth and her people. Beloved Lotus
is a part of Me and every vicious thing sent her
is brought to My attention instantly. Those
things shall cease! For My Justice is swift and
1 7 4 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
the fulfillment of My call is certain. Beloved
Lotus, Your final Victory draws near and all
mankind shall come to know the reality of
Light’s Justice which I AM !
These Beloved Children, who do not as yet
understand more than a fragmentary part of
this great Light, this truth and understanding,
shall serve as proof triumphant of the Victory,
of the Power, of the Justice of Light. I charge
you precious ones to face life squarely and hon­
estly for with the power I AM releasing today
My Justice is swift! and to some the reaction
will seem terrible in its mighty far-reaching
Power, but I, DIVINE JUSTICE, AM SU­
PREME!
E x c e r p t s f r o m D i c t a t i o n s 175
* * * *
January 7, 1940
SAINT GERMAIN:
My Beloved Children: Again with Infinite
Joy I greet you in the Name of Life, the Mighty
“I AM”. How My Heart enfolds you with Its
Radiance and Power of Light. I want you
to feel very comfortable this evening during My
presence with you, for I plan to stay quite a
while. You must come to know Me as a friend,
a very real friend, who is so close to you; many
times you do not know how close.
I see you have been planning to ask Me
questions. Well, that is quite all right. Please
abide in the wisdom which permits Me to an­
swer or refrain from answering according to the
preparation you have already consciously made.
* * * *
I am happy to see that you are both begin­
ning to realize that My coming to you in this
fashion is a very natural and normal thing.
There is nothing unusual about it in any way,
but of course, I am the one who has to do it.
Many were foolish enough to believe that God-
fre in his magnificent service was the origin,
rather than the channel for My words. How
foolish!
176 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
* * * *
In your activity of assistance to the mes­
sengers, I wish you to realize that My Life
Stream is this activity. The messengers are My
Lifestream, and therefore, your position will
always be to serve this Light through them and
Me.
* * * *
Beloved Children: Never doubt the Power of
Light. Who is there can say what the Great
Presence “I AM” can do at a given moment?
* * * *
May I remind you never to be concerned
about the flesh structure of the human form
when the life has withdrawn, other than to see
that it is properly disposed of, for I tell you dear
ones, there is no death, and when you pass from
the body to come forth again in the physical oc­
tave, or when you make your Ascension under
the New Dispensation, still that body, unoccu­
pied, is but a useless garment and should receive
no more attention.
* * * *
E x c e r p t s f r o m D i c t a t i o n s 177
January 8, 1940
SAINT GERMAIN:
My precious Children: How mankind strug­
gles and struggles and seemingly will not learn
that the Law of Life is Harmony, Peace, Bal­
ance and Divine Order. I thank you both and
bless you for the Great Service you have ren­
dered Lotus this day. You might say: “How
have we rendered a service to Lotus?” Well,
one day, you will know.
Blessed Ones, know always that I stand with
you, for I am the Power of Light.
* * * *
I am the Victory of Light. I AM Freedom
for America and Her People. I wish you to finish
making copies of the instruction which I have
given you. Then, I wish certain portions of that
instruction, which I will indicate to you, to be
copied for a purpose I have in mind.
Again I must remind you that My Power
from the Ascended Masters’ standpoint, from
the standpoint of Life, is the full Power of the
Universe and all viciousness must bow before
My Light.
* * * *
(After most of the material for this book had
been gathered, Saint Germain appeared again
to Pearl and myself and instructed us as to the
method we should pursue in getting the book
before the people of America. A portion of
what He told us has been given herein, at His
request.)
178 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
January 30, 1940
SAINT GERMAIN:
My dearly beloved children: With the ful­
ness of My Heart’s Love I enfold you and bless
you always. Events have been moving very
rapidly as I anticipated with the two of you to­
gether, and how I rejoice at the tremendous ac­
complishment which has been gained.
Blessed, Blessed Children! You have had to
face conditions which would have taken both
of you from your bodies many times had it not
been for the singleness of purpose which you
have, always loving and adoring the great God
Flame which is you, the “Mighty I AM Pres­
ence.”
Give your love and adoration to that “Migh­
ty I AM Presence” constantly. Be guided by that
inner voice, that wonderful, clear prompting
which comes on the Rays of Light and will al­
ways fill your worlds with ecstasy, with love,
with joy and with the manifestation of every­
thing you crave.
This morning, I am flooding your world with
the fullness of Light! My Light! My Ascended
Master Light Substance! Remember at all
times in your Service, that My activity is not a
E x c e r p t s f r o m D i c t a t i o n s 1 79
religion—but is really the freeing of the people
of America.
This instruction to them will enable them to
call on the Law of Forgiveness for all human
errors and set themselves free by the Power of
Light. My Blessed Children, as you go onward
and ever onward in this glorious opportunity
which is yours, please know always, that I am in
charge, that I am directing My activity and be
filled with exaltation, with happiness beyond
measure at the privilege which is yours.
Blessed Bob, your body, your mind, your
feelings have become merged with mine, and
that which I am planning will bring proof to all
mankind of My reality!
May I caution you to control your attention.
To place it constantly upon your own “Mighty
I AM Presence,” the Power of God—Good ! and
know with your desire for being good—I am al­
ways God-Commanded! May I remind you
also, that the harmony and the love you pour
forth to everyone is the sure and certain way
that opens wide the door into the successful ac­
complishment of all that We plan to do.
It will be up to you to determine from this
point on who you shall serve. The Power of
God, I AM in you, and the direction which I
am able to give, or the pull of the outer world—
180 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
E x c e r p t s f r o m D i c t a t i o n s i 8 i
the attraction of things physical. If you will
determine completely to sever yourselves from
the latter, then indeed can I use you in a magni­
ficent way.
However, if there is a questioning in your
minds ever, as to the reality of what I have told
you, then you will open yourselves wide to the
domination of the outer world, the Power of
which, through vicious individuals, will still
come to you.
Rejoice, Oh! rejoice in the happiness, in
the freedom you are winning.
Beloved Bob, you must quickly set your
world in order. Do not be unkind in that which
I shall direct you to do, and be humble always,
as beloved Pearl has prompted many times.
Value that prompting with the Power of your
being. The two of you must value each other’s
promptings as you work together. For now that
Bob has become a part of Me, his feelings will
work with a speed and a clearness which I have
not explained before and if you both will guard
your feelings and be humble before the Power
of Light which beats your Hearts, then indeed
will you become Torch-bearers for the Ascended
Host! And the fullness of Our Love, of Our
Power, may flow through you to bless all man­
kind.
Since you both have come under the acti­
vity of My Personal Ray, I have been clearing
the way constantly for you to work indepen­
dently of my Beloved Lotus and Beloved Don­
ald. You see, this Ray under which you are
working, coming from Me, as does the Ray
under which My Messengers work, will give Me
twice as much, much more than twice as much
activity in the physical octave, and if you
Blessed children will put aside all temptation
to take credit to yourselves, but move indepen­
dently, turning the attention of mankind to My
Messengers, then indeed will you perform My
service and bring about Perfection in America.
The dark and sinister cloud of vicious
forces, generated age upon age by the human
consciousness, is whirling in its last destructive
phases, and that must cease now, instantly, by
the Power of Light! I AM THAT LIGH T!
I AM THE FREEDOM OF ALL MAN­
KIND ! AND THAT TRUTH WHICH 1
AM, MUST BE GIVEN FORTH NOW TO
EVERYONE!
The Messengers’ Classes have been closed,
but the activity which I wish you to do will
enable you to contact those whom the Messen­
gers must be protected against! The hearts of
mankind everywhere are good, for every indi-
182 “I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
vidual everywhere has within him the Power of
God and the real desire way down within him
to Love and to be loved and to be happy. Hap­
piness is that eternal goal of everyone.
The instruction which My Messengers have
been given is wholly pure and perfect, free from
any human concept, and because it was brought
forth direct from Me, carrying My powerful
Radiation, there are many of mankind whose
hearts are gold, but whose intellectual con­
sciousness has built a wall of resistance to the
very thing their hearts crave. That wall must
be shattered so that all the constructive people,
those who desire the glories of Life, may come
together in full glory and bring about the Per­
fection which I now command to come forth
on this Planet.
* * * *
My Love and Blessings enfold you always.
E x c e r p t s f r o m D i c t a t i o n s 1 83
CHAPTER IX
THE FULFILLMENT
OF A MASTER’S REQUEST
One afternoon I went to the theater at the
corner of Eighth and Hill, in Los Angeles, and
upon coming out after the picture, I turned
my steps westward, thinking of my Beloved
One, who was assisting so beautifully in the
bringing about of Saint Germain’s wishes. As
I walked along, I was just a little bit startled
upon having someone approach me from be­
hind and take my arm, yet it was the most nat­
ural thing in the world. For, dear reader, be­
side me, in His tangible body, through the
streets of Los Angeles on a busy afternoon,
walked His Majesty, the Prince, The Master
Saint Germain.
184
He was dressed in a beautifully tailored
business suit which was a lovely deep blue in
color. In fact it was nearly purple, and yet was
such a shade as would not attract undue at­
tention. His manner was calm and gracious,
and He spoke with charm, understanding, and
a complete naturalness.
To say I was thrilled is to completely un­
derestimate my feeling. I was excited, yet calm.
Afraid someone would notice us, and afraid they
would not. Yet all the while, in a quiet, dig­
nified manner, the Great Master walked and
talked with me. I was held in His Aura pro-
tectingly. For three blocks we walked side by
side. It was His wish, He said, that this book
come into being. He would work with me on
it, though He would be on the invisible plane
mostly. I should make arrangements to join
Pearl as quickly as possible, so that certain pro­
tective work for the West Coast could be done,
and so that a certain strengthening of ourselves
could be brought about. He would indicate to
me where He wanted us to be. He was very
pleased with the way everything was working
out. And then, He stopped; Graciousness, and
Majesty Incarnate, He bowed ever so slightly,
that wondrous smile played upon His face and I
thought all would see the Radiance, but the
F u l f i l l m e n t o f a M a s t e r ’ s R e q u e s t 185
crowd hurried on its worldly way, and gave no
heed. “I will see you both again, soon,” He
said, and was gone, swallowed up in the throng
of passersby.
I went to my hotel. That is to say, I finally
after no conscious volition on my part, found
myself in my room. I do not believe that my
feet touched the ground the rest of that day. I
was elated. I was enthralled. Nobody could
ever tell me again that Saint Germain was un­
real. He had revealed Himself to me, in a
manner so natural, and at the same time so
tremendous, that even yet, I cannot fully grasp
it. My body trembled for hours, for the step-up
in its vibratory action had, of course, been very
great.
I hastened at once to fulfill His request. As
usual, when obeying His specific directions,
everything fell in line with His plan. All ar­
rangements were completed, and I left for
Bakersfield, where I was to meet my Beloved
One.
We met, as directed, in Bakersfield. It was
quite late, and in a brief conversation, I told her
Saint Germain’s wishes for ourselves, and that
He would come to see us. I secured a room in
the Hotel El Tejon. Pearl stayed with friends.
18 6 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
My room was very neat and cozy and had
a window overlooking the mountains to the
north and east. I prepared myself for bed, and
was soon asleep. Suddenly I was awakened by
a growing brilliance in my room, and there
beside me stood the Master, Saint Germain.
The room was illumined by His own Light, and
the smile that greeted my opened eyes was
beautiful to behold.
“Come”, He said. And to the unasked
question in my mind, “Pearl has already left, in
the keeping of a very Great Friend of hers.”
I arose at once, and to my great Joy found
that I had quit my physical body which lay on
the bed as I had left it. Instead, I found myself
in a body that gave me a sense of tremendous
strength and power without limit, and yet at
the same time, a sense of such Perfect ease and
control, that I was thrilled beyond words. I was
clad in a long flowing garment, finely woven of
a fabric entirely new to me. It made a very
slight sound as I moved, and my whole being
gave off a Brilliant Light, gloriously golden in
color.
The Master took my arm and with speed
that was awesome, we arose and travelled
Northward. I was clearly conscious of every­
thing, every moment. In fact, I do not ever
F u l f i l l m e n t o f a M a s t e r ’ s R e q u e s t 1 87
“I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
i 88
recall having a clearer consciousness, or a finer
memory than I had at this time. Town after
town twinkled past, below us, and each one was
familiar to me, although I had never been to
any of them that I knew of. Presently we ar­
rived on the slope of a huge mountain.
“Shasta” ! I exclaimed.
“Yes”, He answered. “See, here is the spot
where I first appeared in My tangible body to
our Beloved Godfre. There is the spring over
there. Over this way the log upon which Godfre
sat when his friend the Panther appeared.”
Saint Germain looked at me and smiled.
“ I show you these things”, He continued,
“to remove from you any remaining doubt as to
My reality, or the reality of what our Beloved
Godfre has told you.”
“Saint Germain”, I replied, “I call on the
Law of Forgiveness for any doubts that may re­
main in me. I am not conscious of any, but of
course you would know.”
“My son”, He replied, “there are really only
two enemies that stand in the pathway and
challenge mankind’s attainment. They are:
doubt and fear. They have many allies, such
as greed, avarice, self-pity, self-justification,
anger, hate, resentment, self-superiority, self­
inferiority and many, many more. But the two
enemies are really doubt and fear, and when
they are once conquered and removed, their
allies have little power to longer hold sway over
an individual.
“Anger can never act unless fear is present.
For anger is nine times out of ten self-justifica­
tion for the fear you have of a person, condition,
or force. Self-justification begins with doubt.
If you do not doubt, you do not ever have to
justify yourself. We, in the Ascended State,
have of course, banished doubt and fear. When
that is completely accomplished by the indi­
vidual, Self-Mastery is at hand.
“To bring all into a more complete under­
standing, for you will notice how, as time goes
on, all becomes more and more simplified, I
wish to point out that doubt and fear, are, in a
measure, the same. For you cannot doubt un­
less you fear, nor will you fear, unless some
doubt is present. In other words, the sinister
force is that force which turns the individual’s
attention away from his God Presence, and
causes him to give power to negative conditions
or appearances. Doubt is actually a lack of
confidence in your “Mighty I AM Presence”.
Fear, is actually a confidence in a power other
than God’s. These are both the same. Doubt
and fear are the activities of failure. Put them
F u l f i l l m e n t o f a M a s t e r ’ s R e q u e s t 1 8 9
from your world for all time to come, I charge
you. The service you are to perform demands
it.
“Sometimes individuals, hearing of our ac­
tivities with mankind, have come to the con­
clusion that We can be moved to wrath very
easily. Such is never the case. Truly, when We
face a condition of human ignorance and ob­
stinacy, we very often have to release tremen­
dous power to blast a way through it, so that
the Truth, the Light, may come forth. To
many who observe that action, it appears terri­
ble, and the ‘wrath’ of the Gods has become
widely talked of. In the recent condition which
was cleared out of New York City, very vicious
forces were acting, as you know. If any had
observed the action of the Goddess of Light
upon that occasion, they, no doubt, would have
said that She was wild with anger. I wish to
assure you that She was calm and happy
through the entire action. In fact, Her Joy
reached such a state of ecstasy in being able to
render such service, that even I could not see
Her, the Power of Light about Her was so great.
Her Joy knew no bounds and We rejoiced with
Her, that such a vicious focus, generated and
maintained for so long, could at last be con­
sumed by the Power of Light. But come”, He
igo “ I A M ” A merica’s D e st in y
continued, taking my arm again, “we have
much to do.”
Again we were in the air moving swiftly
northward, and it was only a matter of mo­
ments when I observed the towering summit of
the Royal Teton, Majestic Mountain of Light,
already made famous and revered by the Child­
ren of Light in America and throughout the
world. Inside, we quickly entered the audience
chamber which was filled to capacity. Many
of the Ascended Host were present, and a num­
ber of students in their finer bodies were re­
ceiving instruction. Upon our entrance, a great
burst of Light signalled Saint Germain’s ap­
proach. Escorting me to a place beside Pearl,
He moved quickly forward and stood beside
the great Cosmic Mirror. I recognized Lanto,
and the Tall Master, Victory.
Saint Germain, in His rich, beautiful voice,
addressed the assembly; after first giving praise
and adoration to the Power of Light, the One
God, the “Mighty I AM”. “In Thy Name and
before the Power of Light, The Infinite, the
Unquenchable Fire, the Eternal Flame of God,
We bow. We give unending Praise and Thanks
for what has been accomplished.”
Our Gratitude poured forth so tangibly at
His words that the very mountain itself seemed
F u l f i l l m e n t o f a M a s t e r ’ s R e q u e s t 191
lifted. We scarce dared to breathe, so still had
all become.
“Children of the Mighty ‘I AM’. Behold
the dawn of a new day. The Service which
Beloved Godfre and Lotus have rendered man­
kind has never been known before on this planet.
Because of what they have done, the way is now
made easy for all Children of the Light. Their
service will never be equalled! For they have
held firmly to the great principle of all Life and
have been the example which all mankind shall
follow. It is for those of you who yet have ser­
vice to perform in the physical octave to carry
that example forth, that many who do not know
of it, may yet learn. 1940 brings the new day.
A dawn of thunder, that will give way before
the Light and Glory of the Full Power of God
in action. We are now prepared. Blessed Ones
have been raised up all over America, to assist
in the action that is to come. All viciousness
which has been focused against this work shall
recoil upon itself and for every unkind, untruth­
ful word, will come the payment in full meas­
ure. None shall remember what takes place here
now, but I shall bring back the memory to a
Blessed One, at the proper time, so that it can
be recorded, and those who are here, will re­
member when they behold the printed word.”
192 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
There was a dazzling, shimmering blaze of
Light! A gigantic oval of radiance formed in
the center of the room. Brighter and brighter
it grew. We bowed as one before that Mighty
Power. Never in all my experience have I seen
anything so brilliant! The Light continued to
intensify. It penetrated the body through and
through, and still it grew brighter. It merged
and blended with the mind, the heart, the very
essence of Light in liquid form poured from the
Great Oval. My eyes were closed. Even the
body in which I had my being seemed scarcely
able to endure the Power of Light released!
Color! Everywhere! My eyes were closed but
I could feel it! Then, a feeling of Joy! Oh,
God, what Joy! It smoldered in my heart like
a tiny spark, then fanned by the very breath of
Life, it burst into a flame that burned its way
up through me and poured forth. I was the
outlet for a perfect River of Joy, of Happiness,
of Love Divine. I seemed to become more ac­
customed to the Light. To the feeling of tre­
mendous exhilaration. I opened my eyes.
There in the center of that blazing oval of
color, of living sparkling fire, stood a gigantic
figure. Fully eight feet tall it seemed, and in­
stantly I knew who it was.
F u l f i l l m e n t o f a M a s t e r ’ s R e q u e s t 1 9 3
Godfre! Our own Beloved, Beloved
“Daddy”. His golden hair fell in soft waves
about His head. He was clad in a garment of
such transcendent composition, that it seemed
to be alive as the Light poured forth from it.
White Light! Pure, pure white! Such Majesty
and Power! Such calm, benign grace! He
smiled and turned His wondrous eyes upon me.
My heart stood still! I seemed to rise out of an
abyss. He did not look at me, He looked
through me. Everything I had ever done, every­
thing I had ever thought, felt or said, lay before
me with its mocking triviality. I was ashamed
. . . . ashamed of my shortcomings. But His
smile grew, and about me now I observed a
flame. Not Violet, but White! Pure White!
The very breath of Life! Before His awesome
kindness I was as a fragile reed. To be held,
thus, in His gaze, is to feel the Eternity of Life!
He spoke!
“When mankind will do thus, and send their
love to me, I shall, if they be sincere, give them
all assistance. Go forth, my son. Fear noth­
ing. Doubt no more. Those who are here will
serve with you, in what is yet to be accom­
plished. Look them over well, and remember,
they are your friends. Lotus and I are One.
And soon she will be with me in the Ascended
194 “ I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
State. The new Age that is unfolding, rises
under the banner of our son, the New Prince.
Many times in previous embodiments you have
served with him. Do so again. Remember, he
is your strength, your protection in the physical
octave. What is yet to come forth, must come
forth under his direction. Behold the things I
shall show you now, of America’s Destiny.”
The Cosmic Mirror burst into a myriad of
tiny shimmering points of Light. And there
upon its giant surface unfolded scene after
scene of magnificent purpose and splendor.
With my own eyes I beheld my Life stream,
and embodiment after embodiment was shown.
Again and again Pearl and I had worked to­
gether, a most unusual thing. And almost with­
out exception we worked under the direction of
Godfre, Lotus, Donald or Saint Germain Him­
self. For a little over two hours this continued.
Events yet to come forth were mirrored there,
and the destiny of America was portrayed.
Truly, does the Great Wisdom of the Ascended
Masters rule here, for despite the selfishness and
viciousness of human beings, America shall arise
as the Nation of Ascended Masters, to be the
guiding Light for all the world.
The inner work has been done! The estab­
lishment of the Cosmic Light in Its residence in
F u l f i l l m e n t o f a M a s t e r ’ s R e q u e s t 195
North America shall continue to spread Its
radiance in the Hearts and Minds of her peo­
ple ! The foundation of the new age has been
firmly built by the great and Blessed Ones, the
Ballards. Still under their direction, shall arise
the new nation. Conceived in Light, Builded
in Light, brought forth in Light, it shall stand
forever! Not without struggle will this be
gained. Not without effort, the greatest ever
spent, will this be achieved. But, IT SHALL
BE DONE. And we, who are students of Saint
Germain, must pledge ourselves anew, to the
great task remaining before us. We must gird
up ourselves in our Crystal Armor of Truth,
and BE—the fulfillment of all that is required.
Right and Light are Mighty, and shall prevail!
The Victory of Light in America is at hand!
To every one in this Bright Land, we say:
Give heed to what the Ascended Masters have
told us in their books: “Unveiled Mysteries” ;
“The Magic Presence” ; and the “ ‘I AM’ Dis­
courses”. The Ascended Masters’ Teaching of
Life itself, is offered to you in America as a
gift, that you may arise, and be Free, and by
your very Freedom, bring the earth into its
original state of Perfection!
At 5:30 a . m . I was returned to my room
in the hotel in Bakersfield. Saint Germain es­
196 “I AM” A m e r i c a ’ s D e s t i n y
corted me, and as I entered my flesh body, He
withdrew the memory of all that has just been
recorded. This was not revealed to me again
until it came time to write this concluding chap­
ter of our experiences, when again He stood
before me, and brought back the memory of
everything as clearly as though it were just
taking place. There are some in America today
who, upon reading these words, will recall the
event exactly as described.
Pearl and I determined at that time to get
busy at once on the writing of this book. With
the attunement which has taken place, we have
been enabled to serve much more efficiently,
and effectively. It is Saint Germain’s desire that
this book, when finished, be placed in the outer
channels of literary effort so that those who have
not as yet come to know of their Great Presence,
and the reality of the Ascended Host, may still
have the opportunity of turning their attention
to the Great Teaching which has already been
given to them. This we will strive to do.
These words of Saint Germain are inserted
at His request: “ Well and faithful, my children,
have you served Life, the ‘Mighty I AM Pres­
ence’, in the preparation of this book. I have
given out my words, on various occasions, and
you have faithfully recorded them. The reason
F u l f i l l m e n t o f a M a s t e r ’ s R e q u e s t 197
i g 8 “ I A M ” A m e r i c a ’s D e s t i n y
for the preparation which you have had to ex­
perience, the reason for the attunement which
you now have, is very largely this book. It was
my intention at first, to discontinue my outer
contact with you as soon as the book was com­
pleted. For beloved Lotus and Donald are My
Authority in this work. Any appearance of any
other Authority would be apt to be confusing,
and might lead to many human things. How­
ever, since you have both learned to obey, so
quickly, and since you have already faced so
many things, because of your Love for Me and
your belief in My Power, I shall continue to
serve with you, although, I do not intend to
continue flashing my words before this Be­
loved boy. However, I have told you, I shall
stand by your sides, and although you may not
always be aware of My Presence, still will I be
there and the Power I wield you may call upon
in your future activities
We do not ask any to believe this book, al­
though we hereby do solemnly avow that every
word recorded here is a fact, an actual exper­
ience. We only ask that you who read turn to
those Great Books of the Saint Germain Series,
and instruct yourselves on how you, too, may
contact the Living Presence of God within you.
Then after practicing and learning to apply this
Mighty Law we ask that you make earnest ap­
plication, so that you may assist the Ballards and
the Great Ascended Host in bringing about the
conditions of Perfection in our Government, in
our Business, in all our affairs. We ask this for
your sake; for the sake of your children; for the
sake of America’s Destiny!
May the Full Power of God, the “Mighty
1 AM” enfold you in Its Dazzling Light and
Purity, and take you forward swiftly into the
fulfillment of your every decree. God Bless You.
F u l f i l l m e n t o f a M a s t e r ’ s R e q u e s t 1 9 9
FINIS
