{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__anonymous___mysteries_of_clairoyance.pdf","mytitle":"Mysteries Of Clairoyance","mylang":"de"}
PUBLISHED BY
JOHNSON SMITH & COMPANY
DETROIT, MICH.
FL______________ ________________
PRINTED IN U.S.A.
125 Sensational Card Tricks
Old Secrets & New Discoveries
Including Chapter on "Gambler’s Secrets"
Containing many of tho tricks anil «li-i-i-i>fioim with minis known, in­
cluding the latxwt tricks of tlm moat, celclinit.ed Conjurers, Magicians and
I’reatidigitators popularly explained, siinpllflotl ami lulnpkxl for home amuse­
ment and .social entertainment.:!, ’t he whole no re.|’hiimxl that, any one can,
with a little practice, perform the moal difficult, font. Io his own satisfac­
tion and to the wonder ami admiration of liiu lri<-nd'i. There is also added
a complete exposure of muny ul l.lm enril tiii ta md by professional card.
players and gamblers.
Shows how "skin”
gamblers cheat and
win money by their
infernal "palm fling”
and other tricks.
No. 1174. ,2Cc
Price Postpaid ■**
Heller’s Book of Magic
With tho Hill or thin book you
can loom some of tho best nuigl-
cul mviiloricii. (hirofiillv exnliilned
toil fully lllilnlraled.Money llox.
inrber’H Polo, Great Mack Trick,
and many othoivi.
No. 11H-.I. I‘i ll,i- PoMimld. .■*><»
Mysteries of Clairvoyance
Mesmerism & Psychology
The so-called Mystic
power possessed by profes­
sional clairvoyants and mes­
merists is revealed in these
(ages. Read the most secret-
vo mind; learn the secrets
of mesmerism, mind reading,
mul clairvoyance as practic­
ed by professionals. Contents:
The Mysteries of Clairvoy­
ance; Secrets of this Strange
.Science; A glance backward;
Historical Sketch: How to
produce the Psychologic.
Mesmeric and Clairvoyant
Conditions; Psychology; Re-
Barks on Classification of
esmeric Phenomena: Peculi­
arities of tho Psychological
. .. Subject; Directions for pro-
thicinff tho Mesmeric Sleep; Directions for produc­
ing the psychologic condition; Clairvoyant percep­
tion; Community of motion, etc., etc.
No.. 1559. Price Postpaid
OLD SECRETS
NEW D SCOVERII?;
How to
Read
Peoples
Minds
Tells what has been
done by leading mind read.
Ira for many years past,
n fact, so clearly are the
details set forth that tho
almost anyone can at once
grasp and retain them and
by putting them in practice
mystify and thrill an audi­
ence of personal friends,
or entertain a public as­
sembly. We have dwelt at
length on the variety of
■•feats" performed by hu­
mans, but the book We
are describing to you would
be incomplete were we to
omit reference to transmis­
sion of thought from man
Your Birthday
Reading
Read your . own future
ns well as that of your
friends. All persons, are
possessed of certain talents
which fit them for special
departments of the world’s
work, and only by having
a regard for, these gifts
can you hope to attain real
success. Study well the
remarks made under. the
beading of your , birth
month. and see whether
you arc wasting your life ....... ... -—......
He?' 1014. Price.,. . ,*^5C no. 1015. Price.
Useful Formulas & Secrets
A very unusual book
that flouts with strange and
woh'd secrets about Psy­
chology. Hypnotism, Mos­
ul r 1 a in. Ventriloquism,
Mind llwidliig, etc. Also
eoiiliilnliii; secrets lor farm-
<•! i, mnuufaetui'lng secrets,
I1..II cuboid hints and a
Iurge number
inuions recipes,
nmiioy-nii[king
form
Ol'M
and
your
i.miill price naked for this
bo.,ii -only ten cents post-
mild. .send for your copy
now and road about these
and
of miscel-
i, hints .and
. ..inking wrinkles,
explains how to per-
tlio Davenport Brotll-
••Splrlt Mysteries"
completely mystify
... audience. Atl this is
roly well worth the
interesting BuliJOCtw.
NO. 12Si. Price Postpaid
6th & 7th
Books of
Moses
& Lucky
Talismen
Copies of over a Inin-
dred seals, hIkii.'I. em­
blems. etc., said to have
been used by Moren. tho
Israelites. Egyptians. etc.,
in their astonishing magi­
cal and other arts. Croat
interest to Christian. Delnl,
Jew or Gentile, Episcopal
or Roman Catholic, etc.
Explains the magical curon
of the Hebrews. The ex­
tracts from tho old and
rare Mosiac Hooks of tlm
Talmud and Cabala are ln-
valuable. The book dent,'!
with the well-known magic
of the Israelite.'!, long u
disputed subject. Clio
. ___ No. 1160. Price Only .®*'1'
«« No. 1161. Cloth AA
Bound Edition... .41-Vv
Lucky Number
Dream Book
Willi this book you have
n Guido to Lucky Dreams
and Lucky Numbers. It.
1'1voa you the
predation of Dreams. „...
nliio tho Numbers of the
Lottery to which they ap­
ply: Good Combinations to
of. andi
Combina-
^Saddles,
Numbers;
the Inter-
'—-— and!
Significations
Dreamed
NmnborK.
Table for
play:
Cards
their
tlon ........ .... —
Gigs and Horses; Table for
finding Lucky Numbers:
Numbers of Dreams of the
fe^Prlco.........35C
BOOKS OF MAGIC BY THE WORLD’S GREATEST MAGICIANS
Hermann's Magic
New mid absolutely different tricks.
With practice. anyone can perform
the many simple trlclw described,
put uddm! to these are more dlf-
WCUlt. tricks that will make you
the envy of processional magicians,
•arris. silk hat. hnndlter-
lelght of hand, bills, etc.,
ew of the types offered.
Hermann, one of tho
8rvatest magh-lanu. me,
. Price Postpaid... iUC
Tricks With Coins
This book tells only about coins
and ALL about coin tricks. Nothing
is left, to the imagination—every
trick is thoroughly described and
many illustrated. Written in plain,
easy, comprehensive style. Passes,
flips, palming, cuffing, etc., etc.
Every phase of handling coins is
discussed in a thorough manner.
Several methods for performing
each trick. Ido
No. 1180. Price Postpaid...
Thurston*5 Card Tricks
Unusual card tricks by Howard!
Thurston! Every trick is thoroughly
explained with drawings to give
you complete details how. to. per­
form the trick. Includes backhand
palm, card vanishes, rising cards.
Bloight of hand, transforming cards,
card manipulation. etc.. etc. A
practical, thorough book on card
tricks. Certain to benefit amateur
or professional. _ . ., ‘MSB
No. 1173. Price Postpaid....-*'”1*’
JOHNSON SMITH & CO., DETROIT, MICHIGAN
THE MYSTERIES
OF
CLAIRVOYANCE
Secretsl of This Strange Science Outlined For All With Full
Instructions to Make Use of the Amazing Powers
It Reveals.
CHAPTER I.
A GLANCE BACKWARD
Reader, if you have undertaken the
study of this, the most sublime and
useful of all the sciences, in order to
gratify merely selfish desires; if you
intend to use the information here
given for your own interest alone and
to the detriment of your fellow men,
let us earnestly entreat of you, for
the good of others and for your own
peace of mind in this world and the
next, to close the book when you fin­
ish this sentence, and either commit
it to the flames or give it to some one
with purer motives, and more benevo­
lent designs. We are placing in your
hands a most potent agency for good
oi* evil; used for proper purposes, and
with a clear appreciation of what you
owe to yourself and others, it will
cause thousands to rise up and call
you blessed. But if, on the other
hand, you think only of yourself, if
you take advantage of the ignorance
of the multitude, and use for dishon­
est purposes these great powers which
are placed at your command, lan­
guage cannot describe the punishment
that you will deserve, and that will
surely follow on such a course. It is
not for us to point out the direful
consequences of such abuse; we will
only say that your responsibility is in,
direct proportion to your knowledge,
and if you are wise you will heed our
counsel.
This study above all others must be
approached with the most profound
feelings of reverence and awe; no
trifling is excusable, no levity in place.
It deals directly with the immortal
part of man—the part that was creat­
ed in the image of its Maker. It
gives us control over the bodies and
minds of others, it teaches us how to
cure disease, and gain information of
the past, present and future. It
places this world and the next within
the range of our vision, and knowl­
edge of all kinds and all things with­
in our grasp.
Philosophers have reasoned, phy­
sicians have observed, chemists have
analyzed, physiologists have experi­
mented and anatomists have dissect­
ed, but the part of man with which
we are concerned has escaped them
all. Materialists may repeat the for­
mulae of physical or chemical laws.
2 MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE
they may convince us that proto-
phlasm is alike the origin of plants
and animals, or they may point to a
scheme of gradual development from
the lowest to the highest types of life,
and argue from these that there is
nothing to man that escapes their
processes, nothing that evades their
acuteness. But reason as they may,
experiments in this direction have
established facts not dreamed of in
their philosophy, and produced results
of the utmost importance.
It is not oui’ purpose to enter into
the philosophy of psychology or clair­
voyance; we contend that the proper
method of procedure is to establish
facts by careful experiment and then
no one can successfully dispute them.
For a long time our men of science
tried to evade this question or de­
nounced phenomena that could not be
explained by physical laws as chican-
ry and humbug. But the time came
when such a course could no longer
be followed, and now nearly all that
is claimed for this science has been
conceded by some of the ablest writers
on the subject.
What, then, is there about animal
magnetism that makes it seem so very
improbable to those who cricitise it in
such decided terms? They say it is
impossible to see with any other part
of the body than the eye, and when
this organ is closed sight can no long­
er exist. But that this is* an assump­
tion without the least foundation of
fact we think can be easily shown. It
is not in all cases necessary for per­
sons to be under the influence of mag­
netism in order to have their abnor­
mal senses developed. The following
extract from an article in Dr. Clark’s
“Hours at Home” gives a few cases
from the many of this kind on record:
“It is fully established that som­
nambulists go wherever they please,
without hesitation read and write, and
give ample evidence of a power of
perception independent of the usual
organs of vision. Persons subject to
attacks of catalepsy frequently show
the same peculiarity. M. Despine,
late inspector of the mineral waters at
Aix, in Savoy, mentions the following
among many other cases: ‘Not only
could our patient hear by means of
the palm of her hand, but we have
seen her road without the assistance
of the eyes, merely with the tips of
the fingers, which she passed rapidly
over the page that she wished to read.
At other times we have seen her select
from a parcel of over thirty letters the
one which she was required to pick
out; also write several letters, and
correct, on reading them over again,
always with her finger ends, the mis­
takes she had made; copy one letter,
word for word, reading it with her
left elbow, while she wrote with her
right hand. During these proceedings
a thick pasteboard completely inter­
cepted any visual ray that might have
reached her eyes. The same phenom­
enon was manifested at the soles of
her feet, on the epigastrium and other
parts of the body, where a sensation
of pain was produced by the mere
touch.’
“Persons who have become blind
have also been known to acquire the
same power, and Harriet Martineau
tells of an old lady who had been
blind from her birth, and yet saw in
her sleep, and in her waking state
described the color of the clothing of
individuals correctly.
“In those cases, no doubt, percep­
tion is, as usual, in the brain; but
either all the nerves of the surface
have the power of conveying the im­
pressions of light to that organ, or
some special parts of the body, as the
ends of the fingers, the oceiput, or the
epigastrium assume the office of
eyes.”
Here, then, are phenomena showing
themselves in the uninfluenced human
body which go far towards establish­
ing the possibility of some of the lead­
ing principles of the new science. In­
deed, many of the feats performed by
persons in the natural somnambulistic;
state rival those seen in induced som­
nambulism. Have we not been told,
on good authority, of girls ^finishing
elegant paintings, in a manner far
surpassing their ordinary powers,
while their eyes were closed and they
were entirely unconscious of their
_______
MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE 3
acts? Do we not know of cases where
men have climbed trees, and safely
descended, have crossed dangerous
streams on narrow timbers, or walked
the ridge-pole of buildings, all of
which would have been utterly im­
possible in their waking state? And
if it is possible for persons to have
such acute vision in their ordinary
sleep, why is it not more probable
that they should have an equal or in­
creased power during periods of in­
duced somnambulism? The eye, to
be sure, is the usual organ of vision,
but to those who have studied its
anatomy and physiology there are
questions unanswered which are as
difficult to solve as the manner in
which sensations of color or light are
carried to the brain by the nerves of
the hand or other parts of the body.
The eye is, certainly, a wonderful and
most perfect optical instrument. The
external parts are transparent, and we
can easily explain how an image is
thrown on the deeper layer or retina:
hut how it is carried from here to
the brain is just as incomprehensible
as the questions we have just con­
sidered.
But how can persons while in this
.date see through opaque substances,
or tell what is going on in different
parts of the globe, or read our most
secret thoughts? These, indeed, are
questions which cannot be satisfac­
torily answered by any principles of
physiology or physics. We must as­
sume, and the facts appear to warrant
the assumption if they do not estab­
lish the conclusion, that all persons
are composed of two distinct and sep­
arable parts—a body and a spirit.'
This last cannot be weighed, or meas­
ured, or accurately defined; it is not
governed by the laws that preside
over matter and acts in entire inde­
pendence of them. It perceives
through substances that cannot be
penetrated by light, it may be acted
upon without coming in contact with
the body, and it has the power of dis­
covering persons or objects at indefi­
nite distances, and of communicating
through the body the information
thus obtained, to other persons. But,
more than this, it can discover what
has happened years ago, and foretell
what will occur in the future. It gives
to the clairvoyant subject a facility of
expression, a command of language,
and a store of knowledge unknown to
the natural state.
Here we will not theorize; it will
assist no one to understand the facts
and may lead some astray. In con­
clusion, let us repeat that sublime
passage on the human organism,
written by our most gifted dramatist:
“What a piece of work is man! How
noble is reason! how infinite in facul­
ty! in form, in moving, how express
and admirable! in action, how like an
angel! in apprehension, how like a
god! the beauty of the world! the
paragon of animals!”
CHAPTER II.
HISTORICAL SKETCH
It is held by some that the power;
of inducing psychologic and mesmerio
phenomena was discovered many cen­
turies ago, that it was partly lost sight
of during the middle ages, and redis­
covered during the last century. The
evidence adduced in favor of these
opinions, however, seems hardly suf­
ficient to justify their being received
as facts. We are told of many per­
sons who had the power of curing
diseases by mere touch, but whether
the cure was effected by the imagina­
tion of the patient, by mesmerism, or
by other force, we are unable to de­
termine satisfactorily. If it was ac­
complished by mesmerism, the opera­
tors must have been most perfect
masters of their art, since they are
represented as curing instantaneous­
ly, by a mere touch. One of the first
reliable cases reported is that of Car-
damus, of Italy, who is said to have
performed extraordinary cures in this
way. He could bring on the mesmeric,
or clairvoyant state at will, and thus
cure himself of nervous pains, gout,'
etc., and prescribe remedies for himself
or others. He could predict future
events with precision, and tell what
was happening in distant countries.
This was about the year 15 00. Others
attracted more or less attention by ex­
hibiting similar powers, at intervals
between that time and the middle of
the eighteenth century.
It was about this time that several
persons in different parts of Europe
conceived the idea that men were
sensitive to the influence of magnet­
ism. Maxmillian Hell, professor of
astronomy at Vienna in the year 1772,
was one of these, and he advised a
friend of his, a physician of good edu­
cation and considerable merit, to try
whether he could not cure diseases by
the use of the magnet. This physi­
cian was Dr. Frederick Anthony Mes-1
mer, whose name has since become
so widely known. He was greatly
pleased with the idea, and made a
large number of experiments which
convinced him that he could exercise
a singular influence over his patients.
So successful was he, indeed, that he
soon laid claim to the discovery of a
great curative influence in the mag­
net. Professor Hell, however, was
not satisfied with this state of affairs,
and contested the discovery with Mes­
mer; he not only claimed the honor
of having suggested the treatment,
but he considered himself the discov­
erer of all the important facts made
known by the man who had thus be­
come his rival. Whether public opin­
ion was against Mesmer in Vienna or
not we are not told; but it evidently
became an unpleasant place for him,
as he left soon after and established
himself in Paris, which was then the
great center of literature and science.
Here he met with great success and
thousands came to him to be relieved
of various bodily ailments. But all.
this time he used various kinds of
apparatus, supposed to have great
magnetic virtues; the application of
these he supplemented by passes with
the hand over various parts of the
body. It is worthy of remark that it
was probably only after his greatest
triumphs that he discovered the real
source of his power; and, admitting
this, it is strange that his success was
greater than that of most of those
who have followed him. It was not
alone to those who were ignorant of
medicine that Mesmer looked for his
disciples—physicians and men of lit­
erature and science alike became his
followers. His cures were so numer­
ous and of so striking a nature as to
give him a world-wide reputation.
A commission was finally appointed
MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE 5
to examine into his methods of treat­
ment and report the agency by which
he affected so many cures. Mesmer,
himself, would not appear before
them, but one of his pupils, convinced
of the great importance of the dis­
covery, and enthusiastic in the new
belief, gave full information and ex­
hibited the processes of treatment
which were resorted to. The com­
missioners applied the usual tests for
'lectricity, to the instruments em­
ployed, and failing to find indications
of it, reported, with the exception of
one of their number, that the cures
were due to the influence of the pa­
tients’ imaginations. The minority re­
port, however, was favorable to the
theories of Mesmer, or, at least, fa­
vored the idea of an agent which was
able to produce cures.
tn considering the value of this re­
port, it must be remembered that at
i his time little, if anything, was known-
of animal magnetism; and the cures
wore believed by Mesmer, himself, to
be caused by the magnetism generated
In the apparatus which he employed.
Under these circumstances it cannot
ho wondered at if the report was un­
favorable. Today we know that his
■•pros were by the psychological or
mesmeric state, into which the pa-
i louts were placed by the passes,
which formed a part of his treatment.
What wonder then that the French
iv.-mts should report unfavorably
when they looked to a worthless ap-
paratus for his secret? But Mesmer,
like many others “builded better than
Io- knew.”
The Marquis de Uysegur, one of
Mesmer’s disciples, is supposed to
hove been the real discoverer of mes­
meric and clairvoyant conditions, and
(heir effects in the cure of disease.
This was about the year 1784, and a
considerable time after Mesmer had
been unwittingly performing so many
cures by its agency. From this time
i Im belief in animal magnetism—a
name sometimes applied to the agent
producing these phenomena—rapidly
.-ipread, the converts to the doctrine
became numerous in various parts of
the world, and physicians and others
practiced it very extensively.
In the year 1826 the believers and
practitioners in this science became
so numerous, so well-informed, and so
successful that they made a formal
demand of the Academy of Medicine
al Paris for a new commision to in­
vestigate the claims of their doctrine.
Their dema,nd was acceded to, and a
commission of nine of the leading
members of the academy was appoint­
ed. These men were skilled in the
nature and cure of diseases; none
knew better than they the effect of
the imagination in health or diseased
subjects, and they were the last men
to whom we should look for a favor­
able report of a new doctrine unless
they were most thoroughly convinced
of its intrinsic merit. For five long
years they continued their investiga­
tions, with an earnestness that showed
how determined they were to sift the
matter to the foundation; and at the
end of that time, in the year 1831, a
report was made favorable to all the
leading pretensions of animal mag­
netism. This report may be sum­
marized as follows: 1st. This force is>
capable of exerting a powerful influ­
ence over the human system. 2d.
The effects produced do not depend
on the imagination of the subject. 3d.
Its action is not alike on all, for while
many were affected in the most mark­
ed manner, it was almost or quite
powerless on others. 4th. Somnam-
bulis sleep may be produced in this
way. 5th. During this sleep injuries!
to the flesh, or even lacerations of the
nerves do not cause pain. 6th. The
sleeper can ordinarily hear no sound
but the voice of the magnetizer. 7th.
The nerves of touch and smell convey
no impression to the brain unless ex­
cited by the magnetizer. Sth. Some
sleepers can see with their eyes closed,
can foretell accurately, even months
in advance, the time of the access of
epileptic fits or time of their cure,
and can discover the diseases of per­
sons with whom they are placed in
magnetic connection. 9th. Persons
suffering from pains, epileptic fits,
paralysis, etc., were partially or en­
tirely cured by magnetic treatment.
Since this report there can be no
doubt of the genuineness of the claims
of this doctrine. A unanimous report
of a committee of nine from the
French Academy of Medicine in favor
of any new theory or practice may
be considered as a positive proof of
its importance; and the persons of lit­
tle knowledge and less sense who cry
humbug whenever clairvoyance is
mentioned certainly cut a more ridic­
ulous figure than they imagine. From
the date of this report, the science of
mesmerism has steadily gained ground
until it is now firmly established. In
our own country this, like all other
6 MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE
new discoveries, has been caught up
by ignorant pretenders and charla­
tans and retailed to the wondering in­
habitants of every village at so much
a head. Of course, this has caused
it to fall into disrepute, as how could
it be otherwise; but a new and better
day is dawning when all its advan-
tages shall become apparent.
CHAPTER HI.
HOW TO PRODUCE THE PSYCHOLOGIC, MESMERIC AND
CLAIRVOYANT CONDITIONS.—PSYCHOLOGY
This peculiar manifestation of the
human organism has been attributed
l<> a variety of causes by scientific
mon. By the uninformed and the ig­
norant'it has generally been regarded
:m a mystery (being not unfrequently
looked upon as of a magical charac­
ter) the secret of which was possessed;
by special individuals only. It is pos­
sible that the true causes to which
psychological effects are due must re­
main a matter of speculation until the
I mman organism shall be fully, or at
least more accurately, understood; but
whatever may be the cause, the effects
ri.ro simple and easily produced.
The psychological state may be de-
neribed as a peculiar condition in
which one individual so loses his
powers of reason, judgment, and dis-
eriinitiation as to receive, involuntari­
ly, any impression that may be made
upon him by another. Hence he may
Im controlled, and becomes what ig
called a Subject, while the person who
controls him is called the Operator.
Ho absolute is the control which may
Im acquired over the subject that he
becomes a mere machine, and his mo-
lions, actions, thoughts, and inclina­
tions may be temporarily directed as
the operator pleases.
This psychological condition cannot
Im produced in the subject by the op­
erator. It must be produced by the
.■inbjoct himself, whether he does so
consciously or unconsciously. But the
operator can take full advantage of
it when it is produced, or, in other
words, operate as he pleases upon the
subject.
Many modes have been used by
which persons have produced a psy­
chological condition in themselves.
Two of these modes are here given:
li’lrst Mode.—A piece of coin, a but­
ton, or other object is put in the palm
■ >f the hand of the person who is to
become a subject, and he is directed
to look at it steadily, yet not so in­
tently as to render the gaze painful
to the sight.
Second Mode.—The person who is
to become a subject is requested to
take the thumb of his left hand be­
tween the thumb and forefinger of
his right hand, to press the thumb
just hard enough to feel the pressure,
and sit quietly with his eyes closed.
In both these modes the persons
are required to sit a shorter or longer
time, as the operator may deem neces­
sary. The usual time required is about
fifteen minutes. If the first sitting
fails to procure a subject, a second
one may be had, and a third, and
so on.
Either of these modes, or anything
of a similar character, is sufficient to
produce a psychological condition in
many persons. The principal neces­
sity appears to be to secure a quies­
cent state of the mind of the person
who is to become the subject. The
steady gaze at an object, or slight
pressure of the thumb, serves to di­
rect the attention and thoughts of the
person to one object, and hence that
quiescent condition of the mind which
is required is the more readily se­
cured. While the sitting continues,
the person sitting must, of course, re­
main quiet; but this is not necessary
for the operator. He may mildly and
earnestly speak upon the subject of
psychology and mesmerism and dis­
cuss their effects and tendencies. This
often serves to help the person sitting
to collect his thoughts and fix them
upon one point.
Different modes have also been used
to ascertain whether a person, after
he has been sitting, is in a psyocho-
logical condition, but the following
has generally been the favorite one,
8 MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE
and perhaps it cannot be improved
upon.
The subject is directed to close his
eyes. The operator then places his
left hand, or the tips of the fingers
of the left hand, upon the forepart of
the subject’s head so that the thumb
may be brought on the subject’s fore­
head, in a line with the nose, and
touch a point a little above the eyes.
Next, the operator, with his right
hand, takes hold of the subject’s left
hand in such a manner that the op­
erator may, with his thumb, press
upon the upper joint of the subject’s
large or middle finger. Then the op­
erator, with his thumbs, makes mod­
erate pressure upon the forehead and
finger-joint of the subject and says:
“Now you cannot open your eyes,” or
words of corresponding import. The
pressure upon the forehead and finger
joint should be made simultaneously
and the words should be spoken in the
most decided and positive manner,
just as though the operator was abso­
lutely. certain that the subject could
not open his eyes. Certain it is that
if the person be psychological he can­
not open them, and the operator has
then a subject upon whom he can op­
erate at pleasure.
When the psychological condition is
produced it is a very simple thing to
operate upon the person psychologiz­
ed. He becomes subject to any im­
pression directly made upon his mind,
however ludicrous or absurd it may
be, and may be directed at the will
of the operator. Any one may then
operate upon him. A subject may be
passed from one person to another,
and many may successively operate
upon him in the course of an hour.
However simple the modes of se­
curing a subject and the manner of
operating upon him may be, it yet re­
quires considerable experimenting and
practice to become a good operator.
Many have tried with little or no suc­
cess, many have only partially suc­
ceeded, and a few have been highly
successful. As in all other things and
arts practiced by men, those who ex­
cel are comparatively few.
It may sometimes be difficult to
secure a subject. While it is assumed,
and no doubt correctly, that all per­
sons, whatever may be their tempera­
ments and mental peculiarities, may
become psychological subjects—and in
fact have many times during their
lives, though unconsciously to them­
selves, been in a psychological condi­
tion—some are much more easily
psychologized than others. Some will]
be psychologized at a single sitting of
fifteen minutes, while others have
been known to sit daily for upwards!
of one hundred times and then, at
the last sitting, boconie excellent sub- i
jects. Some rare cases are found of |
persons in whom the psychological
condition is ever present, or in whom ,
it seems to be natural.
MESMERISM
This has been pronounced an ad­
vanced stage of psychology, or rather
as simply a psychological condition to
which the name of mesmerism has .
been given. When the psychological
condition has been produced in an in­
dividual, the mesmeric sleep can be
brought on almost instantly. The
mode by which it is done is simply
this: The subject is seated upon a
chair and the operator passes the tips
of his fingers over the subject’s eyes,
and requests him to “go to sleep.” It
is usual to put the subject to sleep by
passes made downwards from his
head, and to bring him out of the
sleep by passes made upwards. Or,
magnetism may be induced directly
in which case all that is required is
patience and a proper disposition in
both parties. Let the subject sit down
in the easiest and most comfortable
position. The operator should be
seated in front and take a hand of the
subject in each of his own, looking
steadfastly in the eyes of the latter,
and allowing their feet and knees to
come in contact. The room should
not be too light and everything kept
quiet. The subject should keep his
eyes fixed on those of the operator
and yield himself unreservedly to his
influence. If this course is perse­
vered in for from ten minutes to one
hour, some effect will generally be
observed in that time. As soon as
the subject’s eyes begin to close and
he manifests symptoms of drowsiness
the operator should make downward
passes over the forehead and temples
of the subject and he will soon be
sound asleep. If this effect is not pro­
duced at the first trial, daily sittings
of one hour each, will in time over­
come the most obstinate disposition.
In most subjects this sleep is simply
quiet and no further experiments can
be made while it continues.
CLAIRVOYANCE
This has been pronounced another
stage of psychology. It is, however,
much more difficult t.o attain than any
MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE 9
of the previous stages. Some subjects
are found who, after being psycholo­
gized and then put in the mesmeric
c.leep, become immediately clairvoy­
ant.
Clairvoyance is said to be depend­
ent upon a peculiar condition of the
nerves and brain; and although not
necessarily incompatible with health,
It. is more frequently manifested ip.
persons of apparently weak or sickly
constitutions. It has been regarded
uh a natural gift to some persons, and
this may be said to be true in so far
as such persons always are physically
and constitutionally in a condition ap­
proximating it; but it may also be at­
tained by all—that is, it is possible to
all individuals. With some it re­
quires great effort and unceasing
trials. Most persons who attempt to
roach clairvoyance fail because a few
unsuccessful trials discourage them in
their great anxiety for results. In
many cases it requires the utmost at-
tontlon, patient, perseverance, and
n. resort to numerous agencies.
Different modes of attaining the
• l.iirvoyant condition have been given,
depending upon exterior influences
mid agencies, but to define these prop­
erly so as to be comprehended
would require a small volume. The
following mode is the most generally
practiced and the most likely to prove
successful:
The person desiring to become
. latrvoyant first becomes a good psy-
■ h<'logical subject, and brings himself
.....luently into the psychological con­
dition. When this condition has be-
. onio easy to him, he next renders
that, of mesmerism equally so. His
mind and thoughts should be con­
stantly directed to the end he aims at.
A fter having been repeatedly psy-
> hologized and mesmerized the clair­
voyant condition is often gradually
developed, and it is even contended
by many conversant with the subject
that, persistence in this course will de­
velop it in all cases. Persons who are
eanlly psychologized or mesmerized
are also found to be more apt to be­
come clairvoyant than those in whom
the psychological and mesmeric con-
dll Ions are produced with difficulty.
Many persons have been known to
serve as psychologic and mesmeric
subjects for a long time, and then be­
come excellent clairvoyants. One
condition gradually develops the oth­
er, and perhaps no better course to
pursue can be recommended than
this—practice psychology and mes­
merism with the single end and aim
of developing the clairvoyant stage,
keeping the mind and thoughts con­
stantly directed to the object desired
to be attained. “Keep your design
constantly before you, and your inner
senses will make grooves for them­
selves, and continue to move in them
as cars on rails or wheels in ruts.”
This course perseveringly persisted in
will, unless there are special physical
drawbacks, be almost certain to suc­
ceed in the end.
When this course fails, a more care­
ful inquiry must be made of the physi­
cal condition of the person. In some
cases it is necessary that he should
“live down,” as it is called, to the
point required to become clairvoyant,
and in others that he should “live up”
to it. That is, in the former case his
diet, habits and mode of life must be
changed so as to be less luxurious,
while in the latter it must be changed
to be more so. In this particular it is
impossible to give directions which
shall be universally applicable, but it
may be stated, as a rule, that the more
simple the diet of the person desiring
to become clairvoyant, the more cor­
rect and regulai' his habits, the more
uniform his mode of living, and the
more even and undisturbed his mind
and temper, the more readily can he
be made clairvoyant. It should al­
ways be remembered that fear, doubt,
nervous agitation, coarse habits, bad
intent, and similar influences will re­
tard his progress or render his efforts
totally worthless.
There are many phases ®f clairvoy­
ance, and it may be stated that the
phase which first manifests itself
should be encouraged. Other phases
may follow, but that which first ap­
pears is the one for which the person
is generally the best adapted and to
which he should especially devote his
attentions.
With the foregoing outline of what
is necessary to be done all may be­
10 MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE
come psychologists and mesmerists.
Some may also become speedily clair­
voyant, while most, if not all, may
attain that point by persistence in
their efforts to reach it.
It may be necessary to add here
that in this outline the terms psychol­
ogy, mesmerism and clairvoyance
have been used as they are more com­
monly understood, and without refer­
ence to their more technical and scien­
tific applications. It may also be
proper to add, that any person de­
siring to become conversant with
these branches of human knowledge,
should avail himself of the informa­
tion which has thus far been given to
the world in various forms; and any
one desiring to become proficient
should not neglect to take every ad­
vantage of the information, instruc­
tions, and assistance attainable at the
present day.
CHAPTER IV.
REMARKS ON CLASSIFICATION OF MESMERIC
PHENOMENA
The student of this science must
not expect to find clearly drawn lines
between the various states which we
have defined; for, although the per­
fect psychological state bears little
resemblance to the perfectly mes­
meric state, and this latter as little
i<> the perfect clairvoyant state, there
are all the gradations imaginable
I brought which the subject must pass
in changing from one state to another.
While some persons become clairvoy­
ant as soon as they are mesmerized,
others only reach this state after the
most persevering practice. Clairvoy-
inl powers are generally developed
gradually; thus we have a combina-
Hon of the two states; while in other
• .mas they are totally distinct and
■ Il her may exist entirely independent
<>l the other.
H will not do, however, to find fault
with a. classification because its dif-
i' rent divisions are insensibly united
wilh ouch other; for, if such tests are
io |>c applied to classifications, how
many of our most perfect would
land? For instance, what division ap-
pcars more natural than that of the
mi Imai and vegetable kingdoms? An
ordinary observer would scout the
idea of there being the least resem­
blance. And yet, we will find grada-
iion.'i existing between these kingdoms
which, if followed to the lowest forms
of animal and vegetable life, will re­
veal organisms of so doubtful a nature
ihal our most able naturalists have
failed to decide whether they are ani­
mal or vegetable. And thus it is
throughout all nature—the student
who expects to find division lines in
any classification as clearly defined as
a chalk-mark on a blackboard is de-
rdlned Io disappointment.
(Uber writers have made numerous
divisions of the stages which we have
•icihmd, but, recognizing the tendency
oi i ho l ime to do away with compli-
■ ii.d a,nd useless systems of classifi­
ed ion, and unite the minor and less
clearly defined groups into larger
classes, we have considered the dis­
tinctions already made as entirely
sufficient for the elucidation of the
phenomena to which we will now call
your attention.
It has been said by a professional
operator that if a person addressing
a.n audience of one thousand, should
request them all to close their eyes
and then say authoritatively, “you
cannot open them!” he would find
forty who would not be able to do so.
That is to say, there are about four
in every hundred' persons who are
naturally in the psychological state.
Although this proportion appears to
me much larger than the facts war­
rant, still it cannot be denied that
there are persons to be found who are
naturally in this condition. In prac­
tice it will be found that even using
the plan which we have recommended
as the best for inducing the psycho­
logical state, we cannot be always
sure, in an audience of fifty or one
hundred persons, of obtaining a sub­
ject the first evening. For this reason
lecturers and traveling operators are
in the habit of taking a subject with
them so as to be sure of having one
to operate on. The second evening,
however, there is almost certain to be
two or three persons in an audience
of this size, who are under the psy­
chological influence. At every suc­
ceeding trial, providing, of course, the
audience remains the same, the pro­
portion will be increased, showing
conclusively that, although some per­
sons are psychologized with much
more difficulty than others, all who
persevere may finally be brought un­
der this influence. Some have sat
every evening for one hundred nights
in succession before becoming psy­
chological subjects, and finally be­
came excellent ones; for others it has
required two and even three hundred
sittings to produce the same effect.
CHAPTER V.
PECULIARITIES OF THE PSYCHOLOGICAL SUBJECT
We have already stated that the
person under the psychological influ­
ence is entirely under the command
of the operator, or any person who
chooses to become an operator. Not
only is the power of voluntary motion
lost, but the senses of smell and taste
and feeling may be perverted in the
most extreme degree; and what is
true of the more external attributes
is equally applicable to the mind and
all the faculties of the patient, which
are alike at the bidding of whoevei'
chooses to operate upon them. You
may put his arms in motion and tell
him he cannot stop them, and he
really cannot; tell him to walk the
floor and he is forced to do so till the
order is countermanded; ask him to
dance, and he dances—to sing, and he
sings—to shout, and he shouts—to
run, and he runs; you can make him
believe that an onion is a most fra­
grant flower, or that water is eau de
cologne; he may be made to drink
water and believe that it has the
sweetness of honey, the bitterness of
wormwood, the delicacy of wine oi'
the acidity of vinegar. You can change
his identity and make him believe he
is a lady and cause him to assume a
lady’s tone and walk; you can con­
vince him that a cane is a living
snake, that a chair is a ferocious ani­
mal, or that a hankerchief is a revolt­
ing reptile. You can show him an
old woman in rags or a little boy or
girl and convince him with equal ease
that he has found a long-logt parent,
and he will embrace them with the
greatest fervency. You can draw a
chalk-line and prevent him from
crossing it, or lay down a penny and
make it too heavy for him to lift. In
fact, there is no end to the delusions
you may cause by a single word. If
you tie up a handkerchief and tell
him it is his little son he will care
for it with the fondest attention; tell
him it cries and he will attempt to
hush it; suggest that he is holding a
little colored individual and he throws
it from him in disgust. These are but
examples that may be varied with the
ingenuity, desires or objects of the
operator. It will be needless to dwell
longer on this point; suffice it to say
the subject is at the will of the opera­
tor as regards every faculty he pos­
sesses.
This state is seldom used for any
purpose except to illustrate the power
which one person may acquire over
another It may be beneficially used,
however, in the treatment of some
nervous diseases, and to remove the
suffering during small surgical opera­
tions or painful local affections; for,
if we put a person in this state and
say to him or her you have no feeling
in your hand, or arm, etc., it will be
with them as we say. We are sorry
to say that although numberless ex­
periments have been made during this
stage for the production of merriment,
and for the amusement of interested
parties, it does not appear that much
is known of its psychological effects
on healthy subjects, or its power of
controlling disease. It would seem
that many important uses might be
discovered fer this interesting condi­
tion, and if observers will only turn
their ingenuity in this direction I
doubt if not much good will be the
result.
CHAPTER VI.
MESMERISM AND CLAIRVOYANCE
11 will be remembered that we ap-
ply the terms mesmerism to the sleep
Hix I Is induced in the psychologic or
other subject by the operator. Phen-
"ihoii.'i of sight, hearing, power of ex-
i’i Ing thoughts, feelings, etc., de-
• l< >l»«-<l during the mesmeric state are
i nown as clairvoyance—a French
word meaning clear-seeing. Now, al­
iimu/; h (hose two states are, in a great
mimhor of instances, associated with
iixl dependent on each other, this is
not necessarily the case; for the per-
i' ' l nic'imeric state may exist without
l Im lomil', appearance of clairvoyance,
i ml Indeed this is the rule with new
nh|oi'im The clairvoyant condition
....... n Iso exist without the mesmeric
xiiilo having been induced.
\\ o are then entirely justified in
.... . In/-, or (hem as separate and in-
• im ndi-nl conditions; but in this book
h.loct is more especially to de-
■ iilm Dm clairvoyant condition as
■ onimcted with clairvoyance. We
im li, limn, speak of these two states
■m limy exist under these conditions,
xml, consequently, describe them in
lion with each other.
ii I , a matter of but a few minutes
io pul the psychologized subject in the
m. no ric sleep. The phenomena ex-
n i Id I mi in this state vary greatly with
.un m mH Individuals—in the majority
oi now mesmeric subjects we cannot
.........H o the least signs of conscious-
m im they pass into a. deep sleep and
...... .. In that state till awoke or until
iimv awake of themselves. Deleuze, a
i ioimii writer on the subject, says
io 11 mil of twenty persons mesmer-
i mi m.ii-cely one becomes able to
......., i ill;, or move, during sleep, and
• ml oi live who do this not more than
I l really clairvoyant—that is, has
iio power of sight, and knowledge
oi wlml In passing at a distance. By
■ hi, i i, ii is held that about fifty per
. ■ id of persons may be readily mes-
on ii mi| by a good operator, either by
inducing the psychological state, and
then the mesmeric, or by directly pro­
ducing this later condition, and in this
state will, sooner oi' later, exhibit a
certain proportion of the clairvoyant
phenomena. Be this as it may, it is
undeniable that the subject’s powers
are increased in direct proportion with
the number of sittings, and the op­
erator’s with every successful trial.
Having disposed of these prelim­
inaries we will now proceed to exam­
ine the condition of the subject dur­
ing the mesmeric sleep.
We do not think it possible to give
the reader a clear idea of the condi­
tion of the mesmerized subject, than
he will get from the well observed and
excellently described experiments of
Mr. Townshend. We therefore quote
largely on this subject from his excel­
lent work (Facts in Mesmerism).
ORGANS IN VISION.
“One of the first tokens a person
gives of passing into mesmeric sleep­
waking is a look of stupor in the eyes,
and an apparent lack of power in the
eyelids to perform the usual office of
nictation. The upper lid, as I have
before observed, falls very gradually
over the organ of sight, and some­
times, ceasing to move altogether, re­
mains suspended, as it were, in such
a manner that the eye appears to be
three-quarters closed. When this con­
tinues to be the case, the patient rare­
ly falls into sleepwaking, the excep­
tions occurring commonly among
those who sleep with their eyes partly
open, and who keep them in the same
state during the whole period of their
sleepwaking. The patient, when in­
terrogated as to his sensations, will
declare (retaining his consciousness
at the time) that he feels prickings
in his eyelids, and, as far as outward
actions can be proof, the same uneasy
sensation remains or recurs at inter­
vals during the sleepwaking. For all
the sleepwakers that I have seen rub
14 MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE
their eyes frequently, so that any one
would think they were about to
awake; but their slumber remains un­
disturbed, and the action alluded to
seems simply automatic, as when in
natural sleep we brush a fly from the
face without being conscious of the
movement. I once asked a sleepwaker
why she rubbed her eyes, and she re­
plied, ‘Did I do so? I suppose it is a
trick I have.’ I have before remark­
ed that many persons in semi-sleep-
waking retain their consciousness, yet
are wholly unable to open their eyes.
A scientific man, accustomed to in­
vestigation, being in this state, as­
sured me that he experienced a grad­
ual paralysis of the nerves connected
with the eye and with the motive
powers of the eyelid, and that at
length his utmost efforts of volition
were insufficient to make the orbicu­
lar muscles obey him at usual. Sleep­
waking being complete, the eye is
generally first closed, though not ex­
actly as in sleep. The following dif­
ferences may be noted: 1st. The placd
where the eyelids meet in a natural
way is much below the level of the
transverse diameter of the eye; but
I have observed that in sleepwaking
the line of contact is often thrown so
high above its ordinary situation as
to coincide with what Haller calls the
ouequator oculi. 2d. There is a com­
pressed look about the lids, as if they
were rather held down by force than
quietly and naturally closed. 3d. The
ball of the eye is in frequent and vio­
lent motion, which, in those who have
prominent eyes especially, can be
plainly discerned beneath the skin of
the eyelids. With regard to the in­
ternal state of the eye during mes­
meric sleepwaking it is, of course, dif­
ficult to judge. No force short of
that which would seriously injure the
sleepwaker can wrench asunder the
eyelids. I have tried this and made
others try it, and the resistance to
such efforts was so great that, to be
appreciated, it must be felt. But that
which violence cannot accomplish, the
command of the mesmerizer can ordi­
narily effect, though that he should
use this power with great discretion,
the following occurrence will show:
I once asked Madamoiselle Anna
M—-— (whom, after returning to the
continent in 1837, I frequently mes­
merized), whether she could open her
eyes, which, at the time, were fast
shut in mesmeric sleepwaking. Her
reply was, ‘I can do it, if you insist
that I should; but I warn you that
you will see something very disagree­
able, and, besides, the effort will do
me no good.’ Notwithstanding this
warning I commanded my mesmerizee
to open her eyes. She did so. It was
really a fearful sight. The eyeballs
were turned up and converged to­
wards the nose, the whites of the eye
were blood-shot, and the whole organ
quivering and convulsed. As may be
supposed, I did not long keep my
sleepwaker in what appeared to me a
painful state, and, at command, she
again closed her eyes. On awaking
her shortly after, what was my alarm
to hear her declare that she saw noth­
ing whatever! She appeared to be
much agitated, and my thoughts may
be conceived as long as I had the least
reason to fear that my rash experi­
ment might end in her being blind
for life. The exigence of the moment,
however, aroused me to exertion, and
the idea occurred to me that the best
thing I could do was to remesmerize
my patient as quickly as possible.
This I did. As soon as she had passed
into the mesmeric state she became
calm, and begged me not to be alarm­
ed, as the blindness she had just ex­
perienced was but the momentary ef­
fect of the fatigue to her eyes caused
by the effort to open them. She then
requested me to breathe on her eyes,
and to lay my hand on them, after
which she assured me that I might
awake her without any further appre­
hension. In effect, the transient but
fearful attack of blindness was passed
away. After this, as may be sup­
posed, I was not very ready to bid my
sleepwakers open their eyes. I have
also found in them all, when con­
sulted on the subject, an extreme dis­
like to the idea. I have, however,
reason to think that the position of
the eyeball is, in most sleepwakers,
the same as it appeared in Madamoi­
selle M------ . I once asked one of my
patients, while in the waking state, if
he knew in what position the eyes
were during sleepwaking, and he re­
plied, ‘I do not at all know, but I
should suppose just the same as now.
Why should there be any difference?’
Having thus ascertained that he had
no preconceptions on the subject, I
again asked him, when in sleepwak­
ing, Tn what position are your eyes?’
‘I will show you,’ he replied; and,
without a moment’s hesitation, seized
a pencil and a paper, that lay on the
table, and drew an eye, with the ball
MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE 15
i m nod up to one corner and only
imi tly seen.
' Another time I had an opportun-
11... of making further remarks on the
iili' of the eye, under mesmeric
- h i pwaking, through the kindness of
ii l Jerckmans, architect of the pro-
inci' of Antwerp, a man whom I have
iil< iiuure in naming as one who utilizes
uh uh rism by employing it (and suc-
. i il’ully) in the relief of maladies,
iiii; gentleman permitted me to see
• in of his sleepwakers, who, from a
Hiiiir.'il predisposition, often kept her
Vi it upon during sleepwaking. During
i ■ ' nl.v minutes or half an hour that
i i w her thus, I could most truly af-
ii> hi ih.nl, though her eyes were open,
iin ir ','ienso was shut,’ a dull film
. nu ll l<> overspread them; the pupil
V I ill 1.1 led, and did not contract with
ip hl A candle brought near, or a
........ wnved suddenly and quickly be-
i i. Hie pallent’s eyes, produced no
.........pl Idle alteration or motion either
........... lid or in the apparatus of
vliilon."
;i :nse of hearing.
"In pi ..portion as persons sink deep-
. i ini........... sleepwaking, their
■ i. i mil ni'nsos seem blunted, one by
mm, mid no far there is certainly a
. imino between the mesmeric and
11.. miliiriil sloop.
rin eye, ns we have seen, yields
i i I., iim slumbrous influence. Long
ii. i ihi . organ has ceased to act, the
......... ... ii’lalns all its acuteness, and
is. l.ipw.iker is able to indicate
. i. ii ..mid.: are going on around; but
ii i. m Hi i im ‘porches of the ear’ are
i d i i well as the ‘curtain of the
• mid I Im patient, though still
••ii ■ o. im 11up;, is dead to every sound
. . Hmi of (ho mesmerizer’s voice,
i im . proved Ihis time innumerable;
11 .. i ii. 1111 v i ndoed, that it is better
i . .. i . ilm r.enoral results of the ex-
i ........... . i have witnessed than to
i ii" ..... in particular. Often have
11.. .........hoi i of my family, or visitors,
" ii.. perhaps, wore but little inclined
i I., io v> In mesmerism, tried to
. ii . I. M.'id:imolselle M------ or to
i oil. I., r by sudden noises. Logs
■ 1 .....1 ha ve been dashed against the
ii .' pi ill's have been suddenly brok-
i" i n.imo has been shouted out
1 i" h.'i ear, In vain. Other per­
il pi.•i.iii Pavo shown that they
i iHied, bul not the sleepwaker.
.............. < wire, Indeed, on such occa-
.
...... i. h. n asked if she heard any-
h.ihi im has replied, ‘No, I heard
nothing; but I thought, just now,
something pushed against my chair’;
a mode of expression which deserves
to be remarked, as analogous to that
used by deaf persons to describe the
sensations given them by the concus­
sion of the air produced by great
sounds. I once met a young lady, per­
fectly deaf and dumb from her birth,
who was, in this way, remarkably
sensitive to the undulations of the air.
I have frequently seen her start when
a door was opened, or when anything
fell suddenly, and the account she
gave me of this, in writing, was that
she felt as if some one had pushed
against her. So susceptible, indeed,
was she to aerial vibrations, that she
could distinguish a certain measure
and rhythm in harmonious chords
which gave her a marked degree of
pleasure. She would take a stick,
and, putting one end of it in her
mouth, would place the other in con­
tact with the piano while any one was
playing on it. Discord struck upon
the instrument made her shudder, and
convulsed her features with all that
pantomimic exaggeration so usual in
the dumb; but soft and pleasing se­
quences of sound soothed her, and
brought a satisfied smile over her
countenance.
“It has appeared to me that the
mesmerized possess similar percep­
tions of sound apart from the natural
sense of hearing, and that, like the
young lady above alluded to, they re­
quire certain conductors, in order to
make them apprehend a regular series
of aerial vibrations. Be it, however,
remembered that the degree of this
isolation from sounds, considered as
sounds, depends on the intensity of
the mesmeric sleep; for it should ever
be kept in mind that mesmeric sleep­
waking has its shades and gradua­
tions, varying from consciousness fully
retained to its faintest twilight or ut­
ter extinction. A due recollection of
this truth will prevent many mistakes
and unfounded expectations relative
to our subject.
“In the case of Madamoiselle
M------ , as being a perfect sleepwaker,
the insulation from all sounds to
which I did not serve as conductor
was complete. This phenomenon, as,
indeed, most of the others I have
mentioned, was rather accidentally
offered to my remark than looked for
or expected. A lady present when
Madamoiselle M------ had been mes­
merized by me, went up to the sleep-
18 MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE
the fingers. This is to break the con­
nection. It may also be accomplished
by rubbing the thumb quickly across
the finger ends, and still more easily
by simply shutting the hands quickly
and keeping the fingers clasped
against the palms.
The operator must give much care
as to the manner of raising his hands
to the subject in order to repeat the
passes. Carelessness in this respect
may result in throwing off the influ­
ence as fast as an effect is created.
When a pass is completed, the op­
erator must raise his hands with the
backs to the subject, either by flinging
them up closely in front of him, or by
carrying them up a foot distant from
the sides of the subject, until the top
of the head is reached again. To
raise his hands with the palms to­
wards the subject would undo hisv
work.
There are two other methods of
raising the hands. One is to clasp the
fingers tightly to the palms and raise
them as convenient, and the other
way is to throw the hands out still
further after breaking the connection
and raise them by describing a large
arc several feet from the sides of the
subject; or, if closed, let them be
brought up a little behind the subject,
in order to avoid the necessity of
turning the palms outward.
At all times while making passes
the operator must keep his eyes fixed
on those of the subject, and concen­
trate his mental energies upon his
work, but avoid tiring himself by un­
usual effort in the manipulations.
Should he get wearied at any time,
he can rest by ceasing to make the
passes and taking up the connection
of the hands as at the beginning and
continuing it for a few minutes; or
can connect one hand with the sub­
ject’s and make passes with the other
and then change.
The first indication of progress in
mesmerizing is the degree of the tem­
perature in the hands. The extrem­
ities of the thumbs and fingers be­
come cold and sometimes moist. An­
other sure sign that the subject is en­
tering the desired state is a peculiar
drooping of the eyelids, more particu­
larly noticeable when the passes are
made directly in front of them. They.
will gradually droop lower and lower ’
until at last they close beyond the,
ability of the subject to open them.
Sometimes persons enter the magnetic!
state without closing the eyes, but the
coolness of the extremities is nearly,
always present. Should the hands be­
come warm during the sitting, or the
eyes lose their sleepy expression, it
is best to end the sitting and throw off
the fluid from the subject's system,
as no further progress will be made,
at that time.
Whenever the sitting is ended, no
matter whether any apparent effect
has been produced or not, the fluid
must always be thrown off. This
should never be neglected, as some­
times a person is in a magnetic state
and neither the operator nor the sub­
ject are aware of it.
Dispersive passes are the reverse of
the mesmeric manipulations already
described. The operator places his
hands directly in front of the subject’s
face, with the backs together; then
spreads them apart quickly as if brush­
ing something off his face—also
throwing his hands over his head as
if brushing his hair back with the
palms. These passes are continued
briskly for half a minute or so, with­
out touching the subject, but letting
the hands pass over and around hisj
head, and finish by clapping the hands '
sharply in front of his face a few;
times; should he still feel a little?
queer, the whole throwing off process;
is repeated. These directions must
be followed in all cases.'
If the subject should be entirely,
asleep and the operator desires to
awaken him, if let alone he will wake'
of his own accord in a few hours, but ■
this is not advisable, he should be told
to “Wake up now,” in a firm tone, he
will do so in a minute or two, when I
the dispersive passes must be used as j
already given. Another way is to use |
the dispersive passes across the chest '
and stomach by putting the backs of
the operator’s hands together and
spreading them quickly, as has al- !
ready been shown, following up with
demesmerizing passes across the face
MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE 19
and over the head and finish by
clapping the hands.
The subject can also be awakened
by making the passes upward instead
of downward, taking care to turn the
palms of the hands upward and to
make the motion in a brisk and live­
ly manner. The subject can be in­
stantly awakened by saying to him,
“Now I am going to waken you. I
shall say, “one, two, three!” and at
the word ‘three’ I will clap my hands
and you will be perfectly awake. Are
you ready?” If so, he will say, “One,
two three!” and slap his hands at the
word “three,” and the subject will be
perfectly awake.
CHAPTER VIH
SPECIFIC DIRECTIONS FOR PRODUCING THE
PYSCHOLOGIC CONDITION
Take any person by the hand in the
presence of one or more persons, and
place the ball of the thumb on the
back of his hand an inch above the
knuckle of the ring finger, between it
and the wrist. The thumb will then
be resting firmly on the ulnar nerve,
which spreads its branches to the ring
and little finger. The subject must
place his eyes on those of the operator
as soon as he takes his hand. With a
fixed determination to influence him,
the operator must return his gaze half
a minute or more; then tell him to close
his eyes and when he has done so, press
the eyelids down gently with the op­
erator’s fingers, using the hand which
is free. This hand is now placed on
the top of the head, letting the thumb
rest on his forehead, bearing partially
downwards, still keeping your other
thumb on the ulnar nerve. Now tell
him in the most resolute manner,
“You cannot open your eyes.” If he
should succeed, try him two or three
times more, pressing his lids down as
before. If you cannot, by your will
power, hold his eyes shut or produce
any effect, then end the experiment.
A much bettei’ way is to place the
thumb on the median nerve, and per­
forming the rest of the experiment as
we have just shown. If the subject’s
eyes can be held closed by the mode
just mentioned, or if the action of the
lids can be controlled to a consider­
able extent, then tell him to clasp his
hands together tightly on his head or
across, his knee, and then say, “You
can’t separate them.” And he will be
unable to do so. Let him be seated,
and taking hold of the chair, firmly
say, “You can’t rise.” He will remain
seated in spite of all his efforts. Give
him a stick to hold and you can pre­
vent him from letting it fall, though
he may strive his best to do so. You
can prevent his walking a single step.
TIis voice can be arrested in the mid­
dle of a sentence. The operator can
control the subject’s muscular efforts
in any way he desires, by simply giv­
ing his commands in a resolute tone, j
and keeping the mind firmly on the
work.
The same results may be produced
by calling up twenty-five or thirty
persons, and giving each a coin in the
open palm. Let each subject hold the
coin about a foot from his eyes, and
fix his gaze on it, with his mind per­
fectly passive and withdrawn from all
external surroundings, and the eyes be
kept intently on the coin and his
muscles motionless. The result will
be more favorable if the operator’s
mind is kept on the entire class of
subjects, and still better if passes are
made occasionally over them. In a
half hour, taking the communication
through the ulnar or median nerve,
as already • shown, all those whose
eyes have closed can be experimented
with. One or two may have passed
into the mesmeric slumber before the
sitting is ended, especially if they do
not resist drowsy feeling while gazing
at the coins. The coins should be
gathered before taking the communi­
cation to close the eyes, in order to
relieve the subject, but let each re­
main still until his turn comes.
Persons during this condition can­
not endure the mesmerizer to leave
them for an instant, and they appear
to be content only when he is near
them. It has been remarked that the
most uncomfortable posture is agree­
MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE 21
able so long as their head rests upon
the hand of the operator. On one oc­
casion a gentleman took the opera­
tor’s place at the moment when he
stood behind the subject—a young
lady. After a few seconds, an expres­
sion of utter discontent and repug­
nance came over her countenance and
she removed her head from his sup­
port. At this moment the operator
was stealing away noiselessly to an­
other part of the room, and it was
observed that her face turned towards
him and followed his every motion.
When he made a gesture as if he
would beckon her towards him, she
got up immediately, and walked to
where he was, exactly as he had done,
between chairs, tables, etc., without
stumbling or coming in contact with
any obstacle. Townshend, speaking
of a young lady whom he had mes­
merized, says: “Without touching her,
I moved onward and she seemed com­
pelled to follow me. At one time I
ran quickly to a distance from her,
when she remained standing where T
bad left her, but bent towards me,
i nd wavered as if she would fall. I
made a motion with my arms as if I
would draw her to me, when, recover­
ing herself, she slowly and, as it were,
reluctantly came to where I stood.
When her hands were lying on her
lap, if I held mine above them they
were attracted upward, more quick­
ly as they drew nearer my own. It
was much like the effect which a piece
of rubbed sealing-wax has on a bit
<>f paper. In proportion to the at­
traction toward her mesmerizer seem­
'd the patient’s repulsion from others.
I f any but myself presented their
bands to her, she drew back her own
with a slow but singularly repugnant
shrinking, her fingers becoming rigid
and curved inward. This experiment
was often repeated with the same
results.”
Dr. Haddock, also in speaking of
I he attractive power which he had
over one of his patients, says: “For
example, a piece of money would be
placed on a table at a distant part of
l he room, and it was told her she
inight have it for fetching it. She
frequently essayed to do so, and would
sometimes very nearly reach the
money; but invariably my will, and
I he drawing passes I made towards
myself, overcame her power, and not­
withstanding her determined efforts,
would draw her to myself, and
render all her endeavors to secure the
money ineffectual On these occasions
she described the sensations she ex­
perienced as being like cords wound
round her and drawing her,”
In speaking further of this phenom­
enon Mr. Townshend says: “When we
consider these and other proofs dis­
played by sleepwakers of sensitive and
motive sympathy with their mesmer­
izer; when we reflect that they are
actually heedless of injuries inflicted
on themselves, but tremblingly alive
to all that he is made to suffer, we
may well imagine that he stands to
them in a very peculiar and vital re­
lation; nor can it seem wonderful
that, when severed from him, they
should acknowledge a schism in their
being, and seem out of all unity with
themselves. Besides several circum­
stances prove how remote from sex­
ual feeling is the one in question. In
the first place, it is exhibited equally
by every mesmerized person, without
respect of age, sex or character. The
cold and stubborn are subjugated by
it as effectually as the warm and
yielding; the pride of talent exempts
not from this despotism, neither does
the simple innocence of childhood.
Never have I seen its force more
strongly exemplified than in the case
of a sister of Anna M------ , a child of
nine or ten years of age. Having once
left her on a sofa in the mesmeric
state while I went to take some tea
at a table which stood near, I heard,
after I had been away about five min­
utes, low stifled sobs proceeding from
my little patient. I hastened to her
and found her crying. Being asked
by me the cause of this distress, she
replied, ‘Because you stayed so long
away. It makes me suffer so much.’
“Again, the attraction manifested
by patients towards their mesmerizer
is not in the least modified by cir­
cumstances or by the relation of the
parties to each other, and it is openly
exhibited by those whom I have
known to be in a state of high moral
feeling.
“Nothing can be more evident than
that it is an instinct, not a passion;
the springs of life are touched, and
the powerful impulse of self-preserva­
tion is set in play. So, also, the re­
pulsion from all others than the mes­
merizer is but a measure of the at­
tractive force which draws the patient
there, where he exists even more than
in himself. Illustrative of this physi­
cal necessity, I may bring forward a
circumstance which was related to me
by an eye witness, whose word I have
22 MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE
never had reason to duobt. A young
man mesmerized for the first time, be­
came unwell under the extraordinary
stimulus of mesmerism, which some­
times, if unskillfully applied, does af­
fect persons unpleasantly. His mes-
merizer was, in fact, inexperienced in
his art; and, becoming alarmed at the
result of his operations, attempted to
quit the room. The consequences of
this injudicious conduct were fearful.
The patient became furious, and ac­
tually tore his own clothes and the
hangings of the apartment. Had his
mesmerizer succeeded in leaving him,
he might have suffered seriously; but,
by good fortune, a more experienced
mesmerizer who was present forced
back the inexpert practitioner, and in­
structed him how to allay the tempest
of mental and bodily agitation which
he so unwittingly provoked. This may
serve as a general type of the kind
of feeling exhibited by patients to­
wards their mesmerizers, and with
this the language of sleepwakers
themselves is in exact accordance. A
gentleman who saw E. A------ mes­
merized by me, said to him, ‘You like
very much to be with this gentleman.’
To which the sleepwaker replied,
‘Yes, but not always as much as at
present. Sometimes I can quiet him
and feel nothing; now I cannot quiet
him even when I wish to.’ In the same
manner, Anna M------ , who was ex­
ceedingly fond of my wife, could not
quit me to go to her when in the mes­
meric state. Being good-humoredly
rallied upon this, she said, ‘You know,
dear lady, how much I love you, and
that the feeling I have for my mes­
merizer is sincere respect. That which
keeps me near him now is quite dif­
ferent from any affection; it is not
I would not wish to come to you, but
absolutely I cannot, unless my mes­
merizer comes too.’ When seated be­
tween us both she declared herself
quite happy. Nevertheless, it was
necessary for my wife to approach
her, when mesmerized, with caution.
Touching her once suddenly, without
having been placed properly ‘en rap­
port’ with her, she produced in the
patient a violent fit of shivering.”
I have given these cases and opin­
ions at length because this influence
is more or less disputed. It seems
clear from these facts, however, that
the operator and subject are in a very
intimate mental and physical rela­
tion; and that it is possible for the
former to influence his patient very
materially, without speaking a word
or even moving. This point will be
more clearly illustrated, however, as
we proceed with the consideration of
the remaining phenomena of mes­
merism and clairvoyance.
CHAPTER IX
CLAIRVOYANT PERCEPTION
We had almost concluded to call
this faculty clairvoyant vision; but
there is a question if sensations that
are conveyed to the mind by any oth­
er course than the optic nerves can,
with propriety, be considered as vision.
Besides, there may be a knowledge of
thing's or occurrences obtained, ap­
parently by this same faculty, which
cannot well be classed as phenomena
of vision. We shall, therefore, con­
sider, under the generic term percep­
tion, all such phenomena that are not
discussed in other portions of our
work.
DEVELOPMENT OF CLAIRVOYANT
PERCEPTION
The first time a subject is mesmer­
ized the powers of perception are very
limited, and in many, as we have al­
ready observed, they are entirely
wanting. From this state of entire
unconsciousness, or that of very limit­
ed perception, the faculty becomes
more perfect, very gradually increas­
ing with the number of times the per­
son is mesmerized until the perfect
clairvoyant state is attained. The
length of time required for this varies
greatly with the aptitudes, conditions
and habits of the subject. This per­
ceptive faculty which is often called
sight, whether correctly or incorrect­
ly we shall not decide, is sometimes
located in the forehead oi- temples,
sometimes in the back-head, or, in­
deed, over the entire surface of the
cranium, or, again, in the tips of the
lingers oi’ in the knuckles, or, it may
be, in the soles of the feet or over the
epigastrium. When this power is ex­
ercised for the first time, it causes a
sensation of uneasiness and great
weariness, but the subject gradually
becomes accustomed to it until it
linally becomes apparently as natural
as seeing with the eyes while in the
waking state.
As examples of this perception I
will give a condensed statement of a
few cases recorded by Townshend. A
young lady subject was shown a work
box which she had never seen before,
and asked to name the article; she
stooped her forehead towards it in a
peculiar manner and named it cor­
rectly. The box being opened she
bent till her forehead was nearly
parallel with its surface and named
the objects which it contained. When
wishing to examine them more closely
she held them one by one at a dis­
tance of a few inches from her fore­
head; a watch being held in a similar
position she told the hour and minute
correctly. A poppy was held before
her forehead, when she said, “I see
a red flower, but I do not exactly
know its name.” When asked to fin­
ish a piece of needle-work, she im­
mediately took it up and, holding it
on a level with her forehead, went on
methodically with the hem of a piece
of muslin; the work, submitted to fe­
male judgment, was declared to be
a capital piece of sempstresscraft, the
stitches being even and not one of
them dropped. When standing before
a looking-glass she could see by re­
flection better than at any time; thus,
when her comb was pulled out she
arranged her hair perfectly. Being
asked if she saw herself with her
eyes open or shut, she replied, “Open,
to be sure”; and when reasoned with
on this point, said, “I see as if my
eyes were open; and so they must ap­
pear to me open.” Other persons mes­
merized gave, under the same circum--
tances, exactly the same answers. A
gentleman once present when this
subject was mesmerized, being placed
“en rapport,” laid his hand on her
forehead, when she exclaimed, “Why
do you cover my eyes?” Touching her
eyes he asked, “What part of your
face am I touching now?” She seemed
perplexed, but at length answered, “It
is a part of my cheek, is it not?”
When asked to point out where dif-
22 MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE
never had reason to duobt. A young
man mesmerized for the first time, be­
came unwell under the extraordinary
stimulus of mesmerism, which some­
times, if unskillfully applied, does af­
fect persons unpleasantly. His mes-
merizer was, in fact, inexperienced in
his art; and, becoming alarmed at the
result of his operations, attempted to
quit the room. The consequences of
this injudicious conduct were fearful.
The patient became furious, and ac­
tually tore his own clothes and the
hangings of the apartment. Had his
mesmerizer succeeded in leaving him,
he might have suffered seriously; but,
by good fortune, a more experienced
mesmerizer who was present forced
back the inexpert practitioner, and in­
structed him how to allay the tempest
of mental and bodily agitation which
he so unwittingly provoked. This may
serve as a general type of the kind
of feeling exhibited by patients to­
wards their mesmerizers, and with
this the language of sleepwakers
themselves is in exact accordance. A
gentleman who saw E. A------ mes­
merized by me, said to him, ‘You like
very much to be with this gentleman.’
To which the sleepwaker replied,
‘Yes, but not always as much as at
present. Sometimes I can quiet him
and feel nothing; now I cannot quiet
him even when I wish to.’ In the same
manner, Anna M------ , who was ex­
ceedingly fond of my wife, could not
quit me to go to her when in the mes­
meric state. Being good-humoredly
rallied upon this, she said, ‘You know,
dear lady, how much I love you, and
that the feeling I have for my mes­
merizer is sincere respect. That which
keeps me near him now is quite dif­
ferent from any affection; it is not
I would not wish to come to you, but
absolutely I cannot, unless my mes­
merizer comes too.’ When seated be­
tween us both she declared herself
quite happy. Nevertheless, it was
necessary for my wife to approach
her, when mesmerized, with caution.
Touching her once suddenly, without
having been placed properly ‘en rap­
port’ with her, she produced in the
patient a violent fit of shivering.”
I have given these cases and opin­
ions at length because this influence
is more or less disputed. It seems
clear from these facts, however, that
the operator and subject are in a very
intimate mental and physical rela­
tion; and that it is possible for the
former to influence his patient very
materially, without speaking a word
or even moving. This point will be
more clearly illustrated, however, as
we proceed with the consideration of
the remaining phenomena of mes­
merism and clairvoyance.
CHAPTER IX
CLAIRVOYANT PERCEPTION
We had almost concluded to call
this faculty clairvoyant vision; but
there is a question if sensations that
are conveyed to the mind by any oth­
er course than the optic nerves can,
with propriety, be considered as vision.
Besides, there may be a knowledge of
thing's or occurrences obtained, ap­
parently by this same faculty, which
cannot well be classed as phenomena
of vision. We shall, therefore, con­
sider, under the generic term percep­
tion, all such phenomena that are not
discussed in other portions of our
work.
DEVELOPMENT OF CLAIRVOYANT
PERCEPTION
The first time a subject is mesmer­
ized the powers of perception are very
limited, and in many, as we have al­
ready observed, they are entirely
wanting. From this state of entire
unconsciousness, or that of very limit­
ed perception, the faculty becomes
more perfect, very gradually increas­
ing with the number of times the per­
son is mesmerized until the perfect
clairvoyant state is attained. The
length of time required for this varies
greatly with the aptitudes, conditions
and habits of the subject. This per­
ceptive faculty which is often called
sight, whether correctly or incorrect­
ly we shall not decide, is sometimes
located in the forehead oi- temples,
sometimes in the back-head, or, in­
deed, over the entire surface of the
cranium, or, again, in the tips of the
lingers oi’ in the knuckles, or, it may
be, in the soles of the feet or over the
epigastrium. When this power is ex­
ercised for the first time, it causes a
sensation of uneasiness and great
weariness, but the subject gradually
becomes accustomed to it until it
linally becomes apparently as natural
as seeing with the eyes while in the
waking state.
As examples of this perception I
will give a condensed statement of a
few cases recorded by Townshend. A
young lady subject was shown a work
box which she had never seen before,
and asked to name the article; she
stooped her forehead towards it in a
peculiar manner and named it cor­
rectly. The box being opened she
bent till her forehead was nearly
parallel with its surface and named
the objects which it contained. When
wishing to examine them more closely
she held them one by one at a dis­
tance of a few inches from her fore­
head; a watch being held in a similar
position she told the hour and minute
correctly. A poppy was held before
her forehead, when she said, “I see
a red flower, but I do not exactly
know its name.” When asked to fin­
ish a piece of needle-work, she im­
mediately took it up and, holding it
on a level with her forehead, went on
methodically with the hem of a piece
of muslin; the work, submitted to fe­
male judgment, was declared to be
a capital piece of sempstresscraft, the
stitches being even and not one of
them dropped. When standing before
a looking-glass she could see by re­
flection better than at any time; thus,
when her comb was pulled out she
arranged her hair perfectly. Being
asked if she saw herself with her
eyes open or shut, she replied, “Open,
to be sure”; and when reasoned with
on this point, said, “I see as if my
eyes were open; and so they must ap­
pear to me open.” Other persons mes­
merized gave, under the same circum--
tances, exactly the same answers. A
gentleman once present when this
subject was mesmerized, being placed
“en rapport,” laid his hand on her
forehead, when she exclaimed, “Why
do you cover my eyes?” Touching her
eyes he asked, “What part of your
face am I touching now?” She seemed
perplexed, but at length answered, “It
is a part of my cheek, is it not?”
When asked to point out where dif­
24 MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE
ferent persons were placed in the
apartment she never failed to do so,
however often their position might be
changed; in doing this she leaned her
forehead forward and presented it to
each individual; when recognizing
each person she always gave one or
two convulsive starts, as if her fore­
head came in contact with some in­
visible thing. The account she gave
of her perceptive organs was as fol­
lows: “It is all clear through my fore­
head. Sometimes I see so clear! But
then again there is a sort of light
cloud that comes over the clearness.,
and then I can hardly see anything.
I do not see as with two eyes, but
here (passing her hand across her
forehead), with my brain.”
One of Mr. Townshend’s patients
was a natural somnambulist, and ex­
hibited the most extraordinary devel­
opment of perception while in the
clairvoyant condition; even in his nat­
ural sleeping state he would some­
times rise in the night, take out his
flute (an instrument he was studying
professionally), place music before
him and play from notes, continuing
to turn over the leaves of the music
book correctly, although his eyes were
closely shut. On one occasion, while
his father was watching him at a
performance of this kind, the only
light in the room, a lamp, went sud­
denly out; but the young somnam­
bulist continued to play as before and
was heard to turn over the leaves of
his music until he had come to the
end of his piece, which, moreover, he
could not execute without a book. Mr.
T. continues the relation of this case
as follows: “Thus it will be perceived
there was in this sleepwaker a sort
of natural ground for the development
of extraordinary vision; and it was
this consideration which led me, after
having heard the anecdotes above re­
lated, to request the boy to submit
himself to the effects of mesmerism.
He consented to a trial, the result of
which will show how careful persons
ought to be in deciding, from one or
two unsuccessful experiments, that a
patient is unsusceptible of mesmer­
ism. I had mesmerized E. A. twice
(each time an hour), and he had
shown no symptoms of being affected
by any influence. I should not have
made a third trial but for the follow­
ing circumstance: I had thrown Anna
M------ into mesmeric sleepwaking be­
fore a large party of persons, among
whom was E. A. I think I have every
reason to affirm that the sleepwaker
did not know anything whatever re­
specting E. A., not even his name, nor
that I had attempted to mesmerize
him; yet, being accidentally near him,i
she said to me (as if guided by that
extraordinary instinct respecting all
that relates to the mesmeric state
which I have before noticed as char­
acteristic of true sleepwaking), ‘You
should mesmerize this young man; he
is a natural sleepwaker, and will be­
come very clairvoyant.’ I answered
that I had already tried to mesmerize
the boy and had failed in my object.
‘You should try again,’ replied the
sleepwaker, ‘and you will succeed.’
But before relating how truly this
prophecy was accomplished and its.
further results, I must observe, in
order to remove all suspicions of
Anna M------ ’s sincerity, that in rec­
ommending me to mesmerize E. A.
she was speaking strongly against her
own interest, and even her own gen­
eral feelings; for, with a sort of senti­
ment that may be called mesmeric
jealousy, she never could endure me
to mesmerize anyone but herself.
Then, again, I was endeavoring to
educate her powers of mesmeric vi­
sion, in the hope that she might gain
the prize offered by the Academy of
Medicine at Paris to a sleepwaker who
could read without the aid of her
eyes; and knowing that attention to
anyone else must in a degree distract
me from this object, she had every
reason to fear a rival in my mesmeric
graces. Moreover, in order to avoid
giving her the least uneasiness, I
carefully concealed from her my re­
lations with E. A.; and, as when
awake she forgot wholly the events
of her sleepwaking, she never knew
(as far as I can judge) either that I
had mesmerized E. A. at any time, or
that there was any question of my
doing so.
“Having thus much in justice to
Anna M------ (a precaution not un­
necessary in the present hostility to
mesmerism), I will proceed to statd
that, the third time I mesmerized E.
A., he at the end of an hour passed
so far into sleepwaking as to be able
to answer questions without awaking
—questions of which he retained no
recollection in his natural state. On
a fourth mesmerization he manifested
all the characteristic symptoms of
mesmeric sleepwaking; was able to
move about with tolerable ease: and
began to display those extraordinary
MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE 25
phenomena of vision which I have
prepared my reader to expect. These
may be divided into two classes, name­
ly, such as present themselves spon­
taneously, and those which were de­
veloped during a course of strict ex­
periment.
With regard to both it may be ob­
served, that there was exactly that
progress in their development which
attends the education of a new facul­
ty. At first the patient could only
describe the larger objects about him,
or such as most interested him, or to
which he was the most habituated.
Thus, though able in the early stages
of his sleepwaking to discriminate
between the persons present in an
apartment, and though testifying, in
all that related to music, great powers
of sight (for from the first, he could,
while mesmerized, write out music
with precision), yet for a long period
he found considerable difficulty in
reading from a book, always com­
plained of the smallness of the type,
and could rarely be prevailed upon to
look at more than two or three words
at a time. Subsequently, his eyes be­
ing always firmly shut (as far as the
strictest observation could determine),
he was able to read any number of
words in the minutest type with per­
fect ease,, and to discern small and
large objects, near or distant, with
exactly the same facility of vision
which is possessed by a waking per­
son. In proof of this, I may mention
that I and the members of my family
have seen him, when in the mesmeric
state, thread a small needle and sew
a button on his coat, and again, dis­
tinguish minute letters on a seal
which a gentleman showed him, and
which I could not make out myself.
At another time, in mesmerism, he
played on the flute, a piece of music
which he had never seen before, from
a book that was set up before him
at a distance of some feet; and once
being mesmerized out of doors, and
led to a spot where he had never been,
he described all its features, and in­
dicated the form and position of the
distant mountains. This power of
perception, analogous to sight, seemed
principally to reside in the forehead.
Whatever objects he took up to ex­
amine he immediately carried there;
and once, in the presence of Dr. Fois-
sam, of Paris, he, being given a set
of eye-glasses which he had never
seen when awake, of eight different
colors, shut up in a tortoise shell case,
unfolded them, and applying one at
hazard to his forehead, without de­
scending it to the level of his eyes,
exclaimed, ‘Everything appears blue
to me!’ at the same time, boy-like,
imitating the gestures of a Parisian
dandy, and observing that he should
like to show off his pretty lorgnette
in the street. The glass which he had
accidentally chosen was in fact blue.
Subsequently, he at various times has
named the principal tints of the eight
glasses correctly, when presented to
his forehead in any order. The same
result took place when his eyes were
bandaged. It was, however, remark­
able that a powerful magnifying glass
being placed before his forehead was
not perceived by him to enlarge ob­
jects, though he read in a book
through the glass with perfect ease.
“Though the power of vision was
greatest in the forehead, yet at times,
and especially when he was excited,
and not in any way called upon to
exhibit (for such requisitions often
seemed to fetter his faculties), he
seemed to see on every side of him,
as if his head were one organ of vis­
ual perception. This is no exaggera­
tion, as the following instance will
show: He was once sitting on a sofa
in the mesmeric state, when a gentle­
man with whom he was well ac­
quainted came behind the sofa anc$
made all kinds of antics. On this the
sleepwaker exclaimed, ‘Oh, Mr. D—!
do not suppose I cannot see you; you
are now doing so and so’ (describing
all Mr. D——’s gestures). ‘You have
now taken a paper cutter into your
hand, and now a knife. Indeed, you
had better go away, and not make
yourself_ ridiculous.’ Another time he
was sitting at a table writing music,
with his back to the door, when a
servant entered the apartment: “Oh,
Mademoiselle L------ ! is that you?’ he
said. ‘How quietly you stand there
with your arms folded.’ He was quite
correct in all he said. Directly after
this I took up a bottle from a table
behind the patient, and held it up to
the back of his head, asking him if
he knew what I held. He instantly
replied, ‘A bottle, to be sure.’ ”
A case is also mentioned by Dr.
Haddock in which the subject, after
three months practice, could readily
distinguish objects placed in closed
boxes, could tell the contents of a
person’s pocket, and even see the un­
digested food in the stomach. In many
of the cases reported, especially by
26 MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE
Mr. Townshend, great care has been
taken to prove that the perceptive
powers were totally disinct from the
ordinary organs of vision. We have
not space to go into the details of
these experiments, and would there­
fore refer our readers to larger works
on the subject, if they wish to make
a critical study of these phenomena.
EXTRAORDINARY PERCEPTION
Although the power to see objects
placed in a closed box, in a person’s
pocket, oi- even in their stomach may
seem extraordinary, the reader will
doubtless agree with me that the
phenomena to be mentioned are even
more worthy of this appellation. We
shall see in fact that the perfect clair­
voyant cannot only read the contents
of letters unopened, see through
clothing, wood and metal and through
walls of brick or stone, and tell what
is going on in another room, but he
can see what is happening at a dis­
tance of hundreds of miles, tell the
thoughts of all persons about him,
read the past and correctly foretell
the future. Now these are startling
assertions, and we only wish we had
the space to give examples justifying
every one of them; but, as it is, our
readers will have to be content with
the few that we have selected. The
following account, extracted from Dr.
Haddock’s description of her excellent
clairvoyant, Emma, will be found in­
tensely interesting:
“For a considerable time after she
exhibited the most distinct lucidity,
with respect to objects placed near
her, no trace could be found of that
distant clairvoyance manifested by
some mesmeric subjects; but, even­
tually, this faculty became as clearly
developed as the other. The first time
I observed this power, was in the case
of some near relatives in London. She
described minutely the dress and ap­
pearance of these parties; their oc­
cupation at a certain time, and many
other particulars, which were subse­
quently found to be correct. Once I
directed her attention to a female rela-
tive in London. Emma speedily
found her, and began to describe her
residence, etc., but suddenly her at­
tention ceased to be directly to my
relative, and she became engrossed
with the description of a magnificent
residence, with its elegant and costly
furniture: a lady lying in a superb
bed; a beautifully dressed baby; well
dressed ladies in and about the room,
and another room in which were old­
er children also beautifully dressed,
and attended by ladies. From many
replies to my inquiries, I considered
that the only place to which her im­
passioned descriptions could refer,
was Buckingham Palace, for the ac-
couchment of the queen had then re­
cently occurred. I therefore said, ‘Do
you see any soldiers there?’ ‘Yes,’ she.
replied, ‘there are soldiers at the
door.’ I then saw that my conjecture
was correct; but why she should have
spontaneously gone there, without any
request on my. part, or, indeed, any
thought or desire in that respect, I
could not understand. But after I
had informed my relative of this oc­
currence, I obtained the clue to this
singular transition from one subject to
another. For I was informed that she
had been thinking of the queen, and
the interesting circumstances in which
she was then placed; and has felt
desirous that I should, as an experi­
ment, try whether Emma had the
power to visit and describe the inter­
ior of the palace at that time. The
cause, therefore, of Emma’s unex­
pected visit to royalty was this: my
relative had wished to go there;
when brought into mesmeric con­
nection with her, the active senti­
ment of her mind was communicated1
to Emma’s mind, and by this means
her attention was unconsciously di­
rected to the royal residence. But
there was further confirmation that
that was the true cause, and of the
possibility of a mesmerized subject
receiving impressions from the parties
to whom their attention is directed.
For when I knew, from my relative’s
letter, what had been the subject of
her thoughts, I put Emma into the
mesmeric state, and then asked her.
how and why she went to see the
queen? She directly replied, ‘L——
took me.’ But how did you get in if
there were soldiers at the door? ‘Oh’
I jumped over the soldiers; but L------
could not jump over them, and there­
fore she could not get in.’
“At this time, whenever sent on
these distant excursions, she exhibited
great fatigue and excitement; pant­
ing and suffering from violent action
of the heart. When asked why she
panted so, she would say, “I’ve gone
so fast—and it is such a way!’ She
would also take my right hand and
place it on her bosom; if I removed
it she said, ‘They are gone away now.’
But latterly she has not required any
personal contact to enable her to ex­
MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE 27
ercise this faculty. Very many ex­
periments were made to test this facj
ulty; in many cases she was striking­
ly correct; in others only approxi­
mately so; for she would sometimes
confound the recollection of bygone
transactions existing in the minds of
distant individuals, with present cir­
cumstances, and thus present a repre­
sentation that required some explana­
tion to unravel.
“Having heard of clairvoyants visit­
ing the planets, I determined to try
the experiment with Emma. I there­
fore proposed an excursion to the
moon; and not then knowing how to
direct her attention to such distant
objects, and she herself being, at the
time alluded to, wholly ignorant of
the mode by which a knowledge of
distant things is obtained; and fancy­
ing that she actually traveled by some
mode, I suggested the electric tele­
graph as an expeditious mode of con­
veyance. The suggestion answered
the purpose, and she was, mentally,
soon on our satelite. But on that and
subsequent occasions, the great ex­
citement produced by the strangeness
of what she saw, and the distance
traveled, caused such a palpitation of
the heart, as to render it necessary
to shorten the visit, by de-mesmeriz-
ing her; being fearful that the great
excitement might produce some seri­
ous effect on her health, if not im­
mediate danger. Her description of
what she saw was conveyed in very
ejaculatory language, from the sur­
prise and pleasure she experienced.
Her statements were to the effect that
the moon is inhabited; that the in­
habitants she saw were very small—.
dwarfs—not larger than children on
our earth; their heads were large in
proportion to their bodies, and the
mouth vertical rather than horizontal;
their voices harsh, and rough, and re­
sembling the sound of distant thun­
der; and when they spoke, the speech
seemed to come up from the bowels.
Their ‘insides’ were not like ours; the
lungs especially were different. She
saw some food, something that looked
somewhat like bread, but they did not
call it by that name. She saw only one
animal, something like a very small
pig. Their dwellings were constructed
of pieces of rocks, covered with green
stuff resembling gorse: they were very
low, for she could put her hand to the
top. The place did not look like what
she conceived the moon to be; but
a large place, and very rocky, with
immense precipices, and lofty moun­
tains. The ‘little folks,’ as she called
the inhabitants, could clamber up
these rocks with their hands and feet
so fast that she could not catch them.
‘Is there any water there?’ ‘Yes, but
it does not look like our water, but
more like milk and water, and yet it
is clear. (Meaning probably that it is
of greater density than our water). It
lies in the bottom of hollows, and
down the steep precipices. The ‘little
folks’ can walk upon this water and
not sink; they are very light. They
wear clothes: but they are very sim­
ple and all alike. They seem a good
sort of people. They have a curious
way of jumping on the back of each
other. A very little baby was seen in
a sort of cradle; it died, they said
what signified that, it had gone to
sleep; but they did not mean sleep,
but that it was dead.’
“At another time I attempted to
send her to Jupiter; but the physical
excitement was so great, that I
thought it prudent to call off her at­
tention, before I had obtained any
definite remarks. She spoke of hav­
ing been further than where she had
seen the ‘little folks’; and of seeing
them as she came back.
“Besides the power of seeing, by an
internal sight, such things as were
put into her hands, or to which her
attention was directed, Emma would
sometimes manifest a sort of appar­
ently omnipresent vision. Thus she
has frequently been asked to find
missing oi’ lost articles. After a few
minutes consideration, she has said
where they might be found: or, in
other eases, got up and pointed out
the place where they lay concealed.
And this she has repeatedly done,
when there was the most undoubted
evidence that neithei' herself, in the
normal condition, nor the mesmeriz-
er, nor any other individual; knew the
situation of the articles she was de­
sired to look for. Thus proving, that
not only can an unusual mode of see­
ing be developed by mesmerism, but
also an exalted degree of power, which
makes all things, whatever their local
position, appear directly within the
sphere of vision. This power has
been, on most occasions, called into
exercise for the sake of experiment,
and to test its reality; but it has also
been applied to purposes of use. The
following is a remarkable instance;
and also valuable as placing the real­
ity and powers of clairvoyance, or in­
28 MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE
ternal sight, beyond the reach of cavil
or contradiction:
“On Wednesday evening, December
20, 1848, Mr. Wood, grocer, of Cheap­
side, Bolton, had his cash box, with
its contents, stolen from his counting
house. After applying to the police,
and taking other precautionary steps,
and having no clue to the thief, al­
though he suspected what was proved
to be an innocent party; and having
heard of Emma’s powers as a clair­
voyant, he applied to me to ascertain,
whether by her means, he could dis­
cover the party who had taken it, or
recover his property. I felt consider­
able hesitation in employing Emma’s
powers for such a purpose; fearing
that both the motive and the agency
might be grossly misrepresented. But
the amount at stake, the opportunity
for experiment, and Mr. Wood being
a neighbor, induced me to comply
with his request; and nine o’clock thd
next morning was appointed for the
trial. At that hour Mr. Wood came
to my residence, and I then put Emma
by mesmerism into the internal state,
and then told her that Mr. Wood
(whom I put en rapport, as it is call­
ed, with her) had lost his cash box,
and that I wished her to tell us, if
she could, where the box was taken
from, what was in it, and who took it.
She remained silent a few minutes,
evidently mentally seeking for what
she had been requested to discover.
Presently she began to talk with an
imaginary personage, as if present
in the room with us; but as it subse­
quently proved, although invisible and
imaginary to us, he was both real and
visible to her, for she had discovered
the thief, and was conversing with
his mind on the robbery. She de­
scribed in the course of this apparent
conversation, and afterwards to us,
where the box was placed; what the
general nature of the contents was,
particularizing some documents it
contained; how he took it, and that
he did not take it away to his resi­
dence at once, but hid it up an entry,
and her description of his person,
dress, associations, etc., was so vivid
that Mr. W—•— immediately recog­
nized the purloiner of his property in
a person the last to be suspected.
Feeling satisfied, from the general ac­
curacy of her descriptions, and also
from her describing the contents of
the box, that she had really pointed
out the delinquent, Mr. W------- went
directly to the house where he re­
sided, and which she had pointed out,
even to the letters on the door-plate;
and insisted on his accompanying him
to my house; or, in case of refusal, to
the police. When brought and placed
in connection with Emma, she started
back from him, as if he had been a
serpent; telling him that he was a
bad man, and observing, also, that he
had not the same clothes on as when
he took the box, which was the fact.
He denied strenuously all knowledge
of the robbery, then, and up to a late
hour in the afternoon; but as he was
not permitted to go at large, and thus
had no opportunity for destroying or
effectually concealing the box, and as
Mr. Wood had promised, for the sake
of his connections, not to prosecute,
if confession was made, and the box
and contents recovered, he, at last, ad­
mitted that he had taken it and in
the manner described by Emma; and
the box and contents were found in
the place where he had secreted them;
broken open, but the property safe.
It should be observed, that Emma
had pointed out the place where the
box was concealed, but we could not
be certain of the place she meant
without permitting her, while in the
internal state, to lead us to it: this
the confession rendered unecessary.
“In other cases Emma has de­
scribed articles that have been lost by
parties placed en rapport with her,
without her being asked to do so, or,
indeed, anything being said respecting
them.
“Several times she has been direct­
ed to seek for persons in different re­
gions of the globe. Whenever she
had found them, her statements of
time and season, invariably coincided
with the latitude and longitude of the
places to which she has been directed.
A young man had sailed from Liver­
pool for New York without apprising
his parents of his intention of doing
so until the day the ship sailed. His
parents immediately remitted him a
sum of money by the mail steamer;
but they were subsequently informed
that he had not applied for it; nor had
anything been heard of him, although
the ship in which he sailed had long
arrived. In a state of anxiety the
young man’s mother came twenty
miles to Bolton, to see whether, by
Emma’s means, she could learn any­
thing of him. After a little time
Emma found him; described his ap­
pearance correctly; and entered into
so many details as to induce his moth­
er to rely upon her statements, and
to request me to make inquiries at
MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE 2»
intervals of about a fortnight. I did
so, and traced him by her means to
several places, and the information
thus acquired I transmitted to his
parents. On the 24th of January, in
the present year, I received a note
from the young man’s father inform­
ing me that a letter had arrived from
his son, and that ‘it was a most strik­
ing confirmation of Emma’s testimony
from first to last’.”
In addition to these powers of per­
ception, clairvoyants can also see
every organ in their own or any other
person’s body; they have the power of
discovering any changes that are
caused by disease, and they can con­
sequently point out with certainty the
nature of any organic malady. In
all cases, where it is possible, we give
descriptions of real incidents in pref­
erence to mere statements of the
phenomena of clairvoyance; believing
that, although this plan requires
many and extensive quotations, it will
make our book much more interest­
ing and instructive. For this reason
we shall quote what Dr. Haddock has
said of Emma’s power in this direc­
tion:
“For more than eighteen months
Emma has been able to see the inter­
nal organs of the human body. I
discovered this power from her re­
marks on myself. One evening she
began to describe my lungs, as ‘pink
things,’ full of holes like a sponge,
with air in the holes, and thousands
of little veins in all directions. I ask­
ed her some questions about the
heart, which she accurately described,
as to the auricles and ventricles; the
contained arterial and venous blood,
etc.; but, as might be expected in very
homely language. The application of
one of the most legitimate uses of
clairvoyance, and this power, appears
to be perhaps, the most beneficial in
its application. By it an accurate
diagnosis may be formed of many in­
ternal diseases, which elude the ordi­
nary doctor. However, to make
a clairvoyant diagnosis truly satisfac­
tory, it often requires the aid of the
medical practitioner, or the professed
anatomist and physiologist, rightly to
interpret the language of the clair­
voyant. Many curious points in
physiology, which, from the nature of
the case, rested rather upon rational
induction than positive demonstra­
tion, have, to my mind, been satis­
factorily determined by the reveal­
men l.s of clairvoyance; especially as
regards the brain and nervous system
and the action of the heart, and the
knowledge thus obtained has an im­
portant bearing on the mode by which
diseases of these important organs
may be cured.
“On the fourth of August, 1848, a
gentleman of Bolton brought a letter,
written by a lady, the wife of a physi­
cian in Gloucestershire, and this lady,
who had heard of other clairvoyants
describing the diseases of distant
people, merely by using theii' hand­
writing as a medium of communica­
tion, desired that it should be given
to Emma, to ascertain whether she
could discover the condition of the
writer. It must be remembered that
Emma could not read printing, much
less writing; the subject matter of the
letter was of no consequence, it was
the handwriting, as a medium of con­
nection. Emma put it over her head
as she used to do with pictures, and
carefully felt it with her fingers, and
then said it was a la.dy’s up and down
strokes, meaning by that phrase the
handwriting of a lady. She described
the lady, as to her personal appear­
ance, accurately, even to a small
blemish occasioned by an accident;
the internal organs of the body; an
affection of the spine under which she
was laboring; the situation and ap­
pearance of the place where she re­
sided, and many more particulars.
The accuracy of her description was
admitted by the doctor; and, subse­
quently, I had an opportunity, per­
sonally, to verify some of her state­
ments. The envelope of the letter
was directed to the doctor; him she
described correctly, both as to his per­
sonal character, general pursuits, and
literary tendencies. This was an en­
tirely new experiment; and finding the
result so unexpected and striking, it
led to many more, some of which
were, apparently, more remarkable.
Among other, I may mention the case
of a letter written by a gentleman at
Cairo, which was put into her hand.
She soon said it was written by a
gentleman, and described him, as to
the condition of his health, and the
place where he was residing, together
with the climate and appearance of
the people there, even to the peculiar
veil worn by the Egyptian ladies. The
correctness of her statement, as to
the gentleman’s condition, was ascer­
tained from a subsequent letter.
Docks of hair have also been similarly
used as a medium; but the handwrit­
ing appeared to be the easier and
better mode of forming the connec­
tion.”
CHAPTER X
COMMUNITY OF MOTION, SENSATION, KNOWLEDGE
AND THOUGHT
We have already given the reader
to understand that the relation exist­
ing between the operator and the sub­
ject is of a most intimate and remark­
able character. We shall now pro­
ceed to give some cases illustrating
another phase of this relation; and so
wonderful are the results of experi­
ments made in this direction, that
many believers in the other phenom­
ena of mesmerism have discredited
these. We shall see, in fact, that not
only are many of the subject’s mo­
tions imitations of those made by the
operator, but that the former tastes
and smells and feels only through the
latter. As we have already shown, no
stimulus is sufficient to excite sensa­
tion in the nerves of the subject; he
may be pricked, struck or pinched
and feels nothing of it; indeed, teeth
have been pulled, hot irons applied,
and even fingers or arms amputated
without his suffering in the least from
them while in the mesmeric state;
but, however insensible to injuries to
his own person, he feels acutely every
painful sensation of the operator.
This point is worthy of a much more
extended consideration than we have
space to allow it; but with the ab­
stract given the student will have
food for thought till opportunities pre­
sent themselves for original investi­
gation.
The following facts reported by Mr.
Townshend are but a few of the many
that might be given in support:
1st. A person by the name of
Theodore being mesmerized, another
gentleman standing behind the opera­
tor, in such a position that it was im­
possible for the subject to be made
aware of the circumstances by any
ordinary means, pulled his hair with­
out warning. The subject immediate­
ly winced as if he himself had felt
the injury, and put his hand to that
part of the operator’s head where the
hail- had been pulled, and threw his
arm around the operator’s neck as if
to defend him from a repetition of
the attack.
2nd. A young lady, being mesmer­
ized, was .placed as far as possible
from the operator while he touched
her hand; he then turned from her
and tasted wine, water, and brandy
and water, she told correctly what he
tasted each time, and moved her lips
as if she, herself, were drinking. The
operator was handed some wild
flowers from behind. He asked,
“What am I smelling?” and was an­
swered, “Something that comes from
the fields.” The flowers were silently
changed for snuff, when she showed
dislike and said, “I smell tobacco.”
With every precaution the operator
took a small square box, and, passing
his fingers ovei- the edge, asked, “Can
you tell me what sort of thing I am
touching?” She made motions with
her fingers and replied, “It is some­
thing with edges like a box.” An an­
other time being asked if she suffered
in any way, she replied, “No, only my
feet are very cold.” As the operator’s
feet were cold at the time he sus­
pected the feeling was sympathetic,
and on awakening her soon after she
assured him that her feet were per­
fectly warm.
3d. Another subject, when the op­
erator was suffering from cold, not
only complained of being chilly, but
said, “Will you warm yourself for
me?” Once when, known to her, he
had a blister on his side, he observed
that she constantly carried her hand
to her own side. When asked why
she did this, she said, “There is some­
thing there that pains me as if the
skin was torn off.” At another time,
when thirsty, the subject complained
of thirst, and when offered water,
said. “No, you must drink it for me.”
4th. A subject heard the operator’s
MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE 31
watch ticking when he held it to his
ear, though she could not hear it
when he held it to her ear.
5th. Another subject, a lady, when
msemerized, ascended a staircase with
the operator, two steps at a time, after
a manner that had become habitual
with him. When he had a cold, she,
though free from one in her natural
state, coughed and blew her nose
whenever he did.
That there is also in many cases
a community of knowledge and
thought may be seen from the follow­
ing cases:
The operator had been reading of
the mechanism of the eye, and
theories of vision. Of this in his nat­
ural state the subject knew nothing;
but when questioned during the mes­
meric sleep he entered at once upon
the topic of the reversed image of the
retina, and repeated, though con­
fusedly, some mystical stuff which
the operator had been reading. He
also drew, to illustrate his explana­
tion, the very same mathematical fig­
ure which the operator had been con­
templating that morning, and which
represented the intersection of the
rays of the focal point, which causes
the phenomena in question.
At another time the operator had
been reading some medical specula­
tions by M. Despine, who considered
the unequal distribution of the vital
fluid along the channels of the nerves
to be the cause' of diseases. Of this
the subject knew nothing whatever
before being mesmerized, but when
mesmerized he expressed his ideas of
disease as follows: “There are dis­
eases that cannot be seen. These are
derangements of the nervous fluid,
which accumulates in certain local­
ities and causes disease.’’
A celebrated author and observer,
speaking of this phenomena, says: “In
every case I have found that mesmer­
ized persons do not detail things like
more parrots, but as thinking beings,
themselves elevated to a higher in­
tellectual region than the ordinary,
liesidos, there is always a certain in­
dependent power of thought proper
l<> I lie subject, the degree of which
wu-les with the natural independence
of I lie chu racier.”
'I'liIn mueli being admitted, it is not
si r.inr.e that clairvoyants should have
I lie power <>f reading the thoughts of
I he nionmorlzor and other surrounding
porsonii, To prove this point, a lady
wan roqnontod to think of two cards
In ;i pack; she dlil thin without say­
ing a word, and the subject at once
told her which they were. He also,
took up a little packet belonging to
the operator’s wife, and while looking
at it said to her: “You are thinking
now of making a present to Mr. V.
Q.’s little girl,” which was true.
A young lady in this state said,
“Come, you are now wishing that I
should do a piece of needle work.”
This again was perfectly true. Many
other similar instances might be giv­
en, but our object is to illustrate rath­
er than prove these phenomena.
The following additional phenom­
ena are given to make our work com­
plete, but we have not the space to
consider them in detail.
The memory is greatly increased, so
that dreams forgotten in the natural
state may be recalled, and many in­
cidents of childhood and early life,
entirely forgotten, are readily remem­
bered; old acquaintances have been
thus recognized who appeared like
perfect strangers when the subject
was awakened.
Another strange fact is that impres­
sions made on the subject are retained
and acted upon in the waking state.
Thus foreign words are fixed in the
mind, and the pronunciation easily
acquired and remembered for an in­
definite time.
If the subject is told to do some­
thing at a particular time, say at ten
o’clock the next day, he remembers
nothing about it till the hour arrives,
when, all at once, it comes to him.
If the operator tells the subject to
abstain from any thing at a certain
time, no matter how fond he is of it,
he acts upon the injunction, when
awake, without knowing why. Great
good may often be done the subject
in this way by breaking up bad hab­
its or evil associations.
Mesmerized subjects often show the
clearest appreciation of the passage of
time, and are able, at any time, to
give the hour correctly. They also ap­
pear to have a perfect knowledge of
all that pertains to mesmerism; and
are able to give the best method of
mesmerizing others or of deepening
their own sleep.
The south pole of a magnet appears
to attract the mesmerized subject,
while the north pole repels him. When
brought in contact with the subject,
the diamond excites agreeable feel­
ings, the opal soothes, the emerald
is slightly unpleasant, and the sap­
phire is positively painful. Minerals
32 MYSTERIES OF CLAIRVOYANCE
in general produce disagreeable feel­
ings. (Townshend).
After being mesmerized a number
of times by the same operator, the
subject becomes so sensitive that he,
or she, may be mesmerized when in
a different room, a different house, or
even at a very considerable distance
from the operator.
If persons in the mesmeric state are
touched by others than the operator,
without being first placed properly en
rapport, it sometimes produces very
grave results; for this reason this
precaution should never be neglected.
To place the parties en rapport the
operator takes a hand of each at the
some time, and brings them together
till they touch. To mesmerize objects
that are handed the subject, it is only
necessary to breathe on them.
Care should be had never to paral­
yze vital organs of the body, as seri­
ous results may follow, such as
spasms, cramps, and even death.
From what has already been said of
the physiological action of mesmerism
it becomes evident that it may be
made to play an important part as
an anaesthetic agent during surgical
operations. In its favor we have safe­
ty and a total paralysis of the nerves
of sensation; its disadvantages are the
length of time required to mesmerize
a new subject, and the general ignor­
ance of its action and uses by medi­
cal men. When we consider its ad­
vantages—which we are sorry we can
not discuss in detail—and its few dis­
advantages, we think, when compar­
ing it with the anaesthetic agents now
in general use, that it has decidedly
the fewest objections. Thus, we have
instances of teeth being extracted,
cancers removed, and arms amputated
W’ithout producing the least pain. An­
other decided advantage is that pa­
tients may be kept in this state for
several days at a time, without the
least apparent danger, or bad effects,
thus giving time to change the first
bandages after an operation before
the patient is aroused.
As treatment for many diseases, the
mesmeric state has alone succeeded
admirably. We have a number of re­
liable cases ond record where persons
in the first stages of consumption
have been cured by being kept in the
mesmeric condition for from one week
to two months. The power of equal­
izing the circulation and allaying the
fever is also of a remarkable charac­
ter. It is equally useful in diseases
of the brain and functional nervous
diseases of many different varieties;
blindness, owing to torpor of the optic
nerve, has shown itself very amen­
able to a treatment of this kind. The
therapeutics of mesmerism, however,
may be considered as in its infancy,
and not enough is yet known of it to
lay down any definite rules of treat­
ment. Diseases of the stomach, ap­
parently organic, have been cured by
its use, but they may have been de­
pendent on a functional derangement
of the nerves of that organ; conse­
quently, we are not yet prepared to
say that organic diseases, properly
so-called, may be controlled to the
same degree as those purely function­
al. Here is one of the most promising
fields for experimental research that
we know of; and to those young- men
of our country who wish to distin­
guish themselves in a great and good
work, we say, here is one worthy of
your noblest impulses.
We have also shown that the clair­
voyant was able to see and explain
the condition of every organ in the
body—a power of great practical use
to the educated physician in the diag­
nosis of diseases—but as the large
majority of clairvoyants remember
little or nothing after awaking of
what has passed while they were mes­
merized, and as only the practical
physician can tell the real nature of
the disease even after knowing this
appearance of the organs, we consider
the use of this faculty as legitimate
only when under the supervision of
an educated practitioner.
Many clairvoyants have shown a re­
markable instinct in prescribing for
diseases, and although in the most of
the cases on record the results have
appeared very favorable, we do not
think it established, by any means,
that they can be blindly trusted in
every case to indicate the proper
treatment. This point will, also bear
much additional investigation.
AUTHORITATIVE BOOKS ON YOUR FAVORITE ANIMAL
Book on Dogs
Thin handy volume deals with
flin mb ju t. wit h completeness
noil thoroughness. Choosing,
ruhiiii:, frilling, caring for and
liiidim: dogs. Housebreaking,
un i'i inc. grooming, bathing,
rilii' al mg. and training the dog.
I I iiiiTen nt. dog diseases and
loiniiiiil.'i uro given with their
luntiii remedy. 10 dogs illus­
trated mid (Inscribed with tlieir
millmit feiitiiri.w.
Nn. 1351. Price Postpaid **’-
Book on Pigeons
Whether for pleasure or for prof­
it, few birds are easier to keep
and raise than pigeons, yet there
are right and wrong ways of do­
ing it. This book teaches how to
care for the pigeon in health
and how to treat it in disease.
Instructions for the construction
of healthful pigeon houses, also
for the management and proper
feeding of them. It explains the
different breeds, etc.
No. 1358. Price Postpaid**’*'
Book on Rabbits
This book treats this little
animal from two points of view,
first as a pet and second as a
matter of profit. How to arrange
tlieir warrens, gives careful in­
structions as to their food and
treatment in both health and
disease. By breeding rabbits,
many boys have been able to
turn their spare time into a
very profitable hobby. Why not
try it? 12C
No. 1353. Price Postpaid **■*»
Complete Guide to Horse Owners 30c
'■ I" "Wil horse doctor. A complete and useful volume for the horse
.mu. i Written by a veterinary surgeon of great experience. Tells the kind
..t ........ to buy; how to manage horses; break and train horses; shoe a
........ . i tai' all kinds of horse diseases. The very best advice on buying,
i o dio (oaring, training, shoeing, taming, feeding, breaking and doctoring
......... 'I'< ll:i how to make a horse lie down; how to catch a wild horse; 3()C
tr u li i I.... ■ to pace; to make a horse stand, etc. No. 1356. Price. .
T//f. OT 6W MITTEN!
SEVEN'KEYS
POWER
II author claims to reveal
not what you want, and
the unw power which the
Priests, Egyptians, etc..
It . n>i OPEN THE SECRET
gone to your will—Get any-
; for l><- says it is every
-1, Ho lull' to have Money—Good
H»nfil<ni«n — l.ovo and claims no
I. ,1 you in i-d there exists a
, (vm which Is abundantly able
li io ...... What the book pur-
t.illi
... ■numlri, obstacles and hidden
it von urn Crooned, how to remove
Illicit Gain the love of the
Unite people for Marriage—
do your bidding—Make a per-
I any Job you want—Make
I lucky in any game—Cast
i suits, courts, etc— Banis
people bring back stolen
... ..... „---- -----a spell on anyone—Get
............ courts, etc.— Banish misery— Bring happi-
llviu>—Gain mastery of all things—Chant your de-
t tongue, etc., etc.
ri- ul this book and Judge for yourself, for we
uuiwriuitural claims regarding the work, but sell
...|.(Ing book that should surely please you. «*•«»
I nr '.rvr.N KEYS TO POWER.” Price Postpaid. ,CT
Free Masonry Exposed Inner Secrets i
CONTAINS THE DEGREES
CONFERRED IN A MASTER’S
LODGE, the Degrees conferred in
tlw Royal Arch Chapter and Grand
Encampment of Knights Templar,
Knight of tho Red Cross, of the Chris­
tian Mark, of the Holy Sepulchre, al­
so the Eleven Ineffable Degrees con­
ferred in tho Dodge of Perfection and
the still higher degrees of Prince of
Jerusalem, Knights of the East and
West, Venerable Grand Masters of
Symbolic Lodges, Knights and Adepts
of the Eagle or Sun Princes of the
Royal Secret, Sovereign Inspector Gen­
eral. etc. The book is an exposure of
the Mysteries of Freemaspniy and con-
tains about 200 pages of closely ■writ­
ion matter concerning Free Masonry.
59c
Il. nt pmtpnid upon receipt of
No. 1501. Wlorynn's Expose of Free Masonry
Love, Courtship, Marriage
How To Woo and Win
How to win a woman'®
love, and, what is Just a«
important, how to keep it.
what traits of character
man loves best to find to
woman, how to make and
create love, the result of
true love, the pleasures of
courting, how to act while
courting, how to discover
the real from the false,
how a plain woman may
win a man’s true love, what
is the most admirable trait
In a woman, how to pro­
pose, how to choose a hus­
band or wife, advice to
those about to marry, steps to take after
acceptance, how to act If refused, marriage.
Its present delights, its future hopes and
Joys, wedded life, conjugal felicity, hasti­
ness of temper, contradiction or silence,
the last word, the first quarrel, the bride’s
first feelings of despondency, unhappiness
shortly after marriage, the usual causes of
disagreement, mutual concession, change of
habits, mutual confidence, etc.
No. 1133. PRICE POSTPAID. . ■■■■■■
How 2: HANDCUFF KING
The thrilling tricks and
escapes of the great Houdini
are exposed in this book.
Includes: Escape from any
Handcuffs, Escape from Safe
or Vault. Vanishing assistant
from the Top of a Ladder
Levitation Act, Trunk Es
cape, Escape from 75 fee
of Rope. Siberian Chain
Escape. Japanese Thumb Tie.
Chair Escape, Dangerous
Rope Tie. Twentieth Century
Escape. The Great Sack
Trick, etc., etc. These same
tricks that have made fakirs
and magicians world-famous
will make you popular, too.
Well illustrated throughout. .
This book gives you complete information'
on how many “miracles” are performed
PLUS: How to Open Locks. Illustrates and
analyses locks, their construction, how to
pick, break and open them without keys.
Many have wished they could follow in
the great Houdini’s footsteps. Why don’t
you get this book and see how some of
Houdini’s great tricks were performed?
No. 1178. PRICE POSTPAID............... 1ZC
Cowboy Songs
Sensational collection of famous
original Cowboy Sonars and Moun­
tain Ballads, Complete with words
and. music, guitar chords and piano
accompaniment, ukulele chords and
yodel arrangements, made popular
by Gene Autry, the popular Cowboy
Yodeler. Contains 30 biz hits such
as: That Silver Haired Daddy of
Mine. The Gangster's Warning, I’ll
be Thinking of You Little Gai. My
Old Pa! of Yesterday, Why Don’t
You Come Back to ’Me, Bheumatism
Blues and 24 others. All contained
in big fld-page book—full size.-sej^
Wo. 1345. Price Poatpaid. ■ ■
Mexican S Spanish
A big budget of Mexican and
Spanish songs containing 29 sensa­
tional hits such as I.a Cucaracha.
La Golondrina, Ciellto Lindo. Hosts
La Vista, The Spanish Cavalier,
Tango Prohibido, El Clioclo. Dol­
ores. Sunny Spain. Passion Argen­
tina, Tango Do. La Muerte. and
many others. Each song has melo­
dy, ukulele chords, piano accom­
paniment and guitar chords, also
words in both Spanish and English,
64 pages. One of the few books
in which you will find the Flower
of Sin. Creole Song. etc. . *AQe
No. 1349. Price Postpaid■■ . ■
8t Spanish
stems ar
BLACK ART
TheDevil’slegacy to Earth's mortals
A booklet dealing with the
Sciences of Magic, Witchcraft, Al­
chemy, Demonology, Omens, Mes­
merism, Artificial Somnambulism,
Animal Magnetism, Necromancy,
Spirit Mirrors, Black or Diabolic
Magic, Phantasmagory, Alchemy,
Omens, Electric Psychology, etc.
There are 32 pages of closely printed
material, which, if printed in large
type, would undoubtedly provide
enough matter for a large volume
that you would not unlikely have to
pay five or ten times the price for.
The book contains a vast amount
of interesting matter and if you
would like to learn something about
these ancient arts, we suggest you
order your copy now.
No. 1560. Price Postpaid.-. ,-
Secrets of Ancient & Modern Magic
Secrets of Houdini and Others
Revealed So You Can Do Them
Sensational feats of magic, clearly illustrated
and explained, can be performed by you! Just
a.few of them: Cabinet of Skeletons, Making a
Living Woman Sleep in Mid Air, Vanishing
glove, Chinese Ring Trick, How to take a live
Rabbit from Hat, Flying Glass of water. Sphinx
Illusion tnck, changing Rabbits to Goldfish,
Fresh Flowers grow from an empty
Flower Pot, Produce Eggs from any­
one's mouth, Catch an unseen Card
on the point of a sword, the fa­
mous Indian Basket Trick and Sword
trick, to make Borrowed Articles suddenly appear
on a Picture Frame, etc., etc. In most cases
the equipment required is not elaborate, and
simplified methods of presenting the trick are
given that do not detract from the effect. In
other words, every effort has been made to make
the tricks described therein thoroughly under­
standable to amateur and professional alike. And
ths cost is Ies3 than a tenth of a cent for each
—------------- Itrick. Believe it or not there are nearly 100
separate tricks. Few books selling at this low price contain
even one fourth as many. It’s a real bargain for amateurs
and professionals alike. 2CC
No. 1168. PRICE POSTPAID.................................
IKABM E>ITS*U Written by many of the greatest big league
nV•“ iv Sts H‘*ri B pitchers. Actual pictures show you how to
grip and throw the ball to produce fadeaway, smoke ball, knuckle ball, curves, etc.
Explains how to develop control, poise and speed, th© requirements of a great pitcher.
56 pictures. Formerly $1.00, but now offered at the low price of 25c. 2CC
No. 1274. LEARN TO PITdH. Published Price $1.00. Our Special Price..........*3^
Ken Maynard Songs
25 sensational copyrighted songs,
sung by Ken Maynard, including
Wheels of Destiny (theme . song).
The Trail Herd (theme song). Sing­
in’ on the Range, Utah Carroll.
My Little Cow Pony and I. The
Lone Cow Trail. The Drears- Black
Hills, The Zebra Dun. A Vaaueio’a
Song of Love, Curly Joe. When the
Sun Goes Down on the flange. The
Trail of Memory and 13 others.
Each song has melody, ukulele
chords, words, piano accompani­
ment and guitar chords. A big bud­
get of 64 large pages.
Na. 1348. Price Postpaid.... 37*
Phonic ( Shorthand
-<•»
.1^ I-.-Vloap
k_.«
gpxanp-s Htavta
Learn Shorthand Now!
Introduction to the steno­
graphic art. as used for
business and private cor­
respondence, verbatim re­
porting. A practical book
for beginners. based wholly
upon a system that has
been reduced to every-day
practice. Written Sn plain,
simple, every-day language
so that, any youth, of av­
erage intelligence should
have little difficult?/ in un­
derstanding it. Learn to report sermons,
speeches, trials, etc. Simple and practical
book on shorthand. Time is money. Why
not learn thia time saving? accomplishment
No?71287. PRICE POSTPAID................35C
Book.of Flirtations
With AdviceTo the Lovelorn
This book contains num­
erous secret signs as taugnt
by the art of flirting with
fan. gloves, handkerchief,
taxasol. etc. The following
-, a brief summary of the
eon t e nts: Flirtations by
means of postage stamp,
handkerchief, hat. glove,
eye, parasol, cigar, pencil,
window signalling, dining
table signalling, signals of
the absent, the science of
kissing, how to make love,
ingenious love letters with
double constructions, all
JBooA c$
3iirtatu>n»
about courtship and mar- , . .
riage, practical advice to a newly-married
couple. Shows how to carry on a conversa­
tion by means of flowers, etc.
No. 1158. PRICE POSTPAID.............
Sitting, Smoking, Preserving
Meat, Vegetables, Fish, Etc.
A practical treatise on
Canning, Pickling. Smoking
and Preserving the, various
kinds of Meat, Fish and
Game; also how to Pre­
serve and keep fresh ana
full of flavor Fruits. Ber-
ries and Vegetables, to
which is added complete
directions for making
candies and choice confec­
tions. The directions can be
easily followed. The man­
ner of doing all the things
above has been fully test­
ed. Canning. Preserving
and making candies are all
Sood money-making processes. Everything
escribed in a plain, practical manner.
No. 1051. PRICE POSTPAID.............
T in w r m t r? n w
