{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__anonymous___special_i_am_decrees.pdf","mytitle":"Special I Am Decrees","mylang":"de"}
CALL FOR PERFECTION No~ 1
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! All I am or have or ever hope 路
to be or have is Thine! Come forth, control and
manifest Thy Full Perfection thru this body and
brain, mind and will NOW; and pour forth Thy
Full Glory on earth as Thou art in Thine Own
Octave of Light! Do Thou so illumine me with
Thy Light that there is none of me but ALL .OF
THEE! .
PROTECTION FOR ALL UNDER
THIS RADIATION No. 2
"Mighty I 路AM Presence," Great Host of As-
cended Masters, Mighty Legions of Light, Great
Angelic Host, Great Cosmic Beings and Great
Cosmic Light! Come forth in Thy Full Power
and Victory of Light from the Great Central Sun!
Charge forth such Eternal Invincible Ascended
Master Protection to all under this Radiation
(which means all that is constructive thruout the
world) that It instantly repels all destructive force
and then annihilates it, cause effect, record and
memory forever. Replace it by the Perfection of
the Ascended Masters eternally sustained.
DAILY GUARD No. 3
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Stand guard every second
this day and forever! See that not one person,
place, condition or thing under this Radiation is
ever surprised or off guard for the fraction of a
second; ever fails or makes a mistake in a single
thing; or ever doubts, fears, questions or is UH路
certain concerning Thy Instantaneous Fulfilment
of our every "I AM" Call, held eternally sustained.
PROTECTION AGAINST SUGGESTION
No. 4
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! See that no person, place,
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
condition or thing under this Radiation ever takes
on conditions from anybody or anything but GOD
-GOOD! and see that we are at all times GOD-
COMMANDED.
CHARGE FOR GOD CONTROL No. 5
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
. and Powers of Light! See that "I AM" at all times
the calm, poised, Peaceful, Victorious God-control
of every condition L contact!
CONTROL OF ATTENTION No. 6
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Take possession of my atten-
tion and hold it forever on You and Your Perfec-
tion! See that it never again connects with any-
thing less than Ascended Master Perfection!
HERCULEAN STRENGTH AND
ENERGY No. 7
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Keep my mind, body and
world forever charged with ten times more Hercu-
lean Strength and Energy than I require; and
make me use It all in the Service of the Light,
directed by Ascended Master Wisdom.
ASCENDED MASTERS' FEELING
OF ACCEPTANCE No. 8
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Charge me at all times with
the Ascended Masters' Feeling of Complete Ac-
ceptance and Instantaneous Fulfilment of my every
"I AM" Calli
QUALIFYING YOUR FEELING No. 9
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! You hold possession qf all
my FEELING forever; and keep it qualified with
the Ascended Masters' Harmony, Power and Vic-
tory of the Light eternally sustained in all I do.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press) '
ANNIHILATION OF DEATH RAY No. 10
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of As-
cended Masters, Great Cosmic Beings, Mighty Cos-
- mos and all Great Beings and Forces of Light!
Send Thy Cosmic Legions of Light to annihilate
this instant the action of all destructive rays di-
rected against any Constructive person, place, con-
dition and thing or that which is defending them!
Replace all destructive rays by the Ascended Mas-
ters' Cosmic Light Rays instantly Victorious and
hold Them eternally sustained!
PROTECTING OUR GOVERNMENT No. 11
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of As-
cended Masters and all Great Cosmic Beings! Come
forth in Your Full Cosmic Power and Authority
and govern the Government of the United States
of America and every individual within it! Hold
the Victory and Power of Light the ONLY Govern-
ing Activity within Our Country forever!
DISSOLVING SECRET SUBMARINES
AND MINES No. 12
"Mighty I AM Presence," K-17 and Your Le-
gions of Light, Goddess of Light and all Great Be-路
ings and Forces of Light! Seek out, sink and dissolve
all secret submarines and mines, in and around the
Panama Canal, the Three Americas and all Con-
structive nations and waters! Give instantaneous,
Invincible, Eternal Ascended Master Protection to
every Constructive person, place, condition and
thing on this earth!
PANAMA CANAL AND THE THREE
AMERICAS No. 13
"Mighty I AM Presence," K-17 and Your Legions
of Light, the Goddess of Light, Archangel Michael,
Goddess of Justice and all Great Beings and Forces
of Light! Send all the Legions and Forces of Light
_ required this instant to give and hold instantane-
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
ous Invincible, Eternal Ascended Master Protec-
tion to the Panama Canal and All Three Americas.
ASCENSION FOR WAR VICTIMS No. 14
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Forces of Light! Take command of all who are
forced out of the body through war or made to go
to war against their will and give them their Ascen-
sion in this embodiment.
KILL FUSES IN MINES No. 15
"Mighty I AM Presence" and the Higher Mental
Body of every one on earth, and all Great Beings
and Forces of Light! Kill the fuses, sink and dissolve
all mines laid by destructive forces to destroy Con-
structive persons, places, conditions or things!
MIGHTY PROTECTION No. 16
At night: My "Mighty I AM Presence" and
Higher Mental Body and that of every one on
earth! Go forth and bring about the Ascended Mas-
ter Protection required in this frightful destruction
of mankind and the earth!
ANNIHILATE POISON GAS No. 17
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Higher Mental
Body of every one on earth, the Great Host of As-
cended Masters and all Great Beings and Forces of
Light! Annihilate the use of that poison gas which
consumes human bodies and replace it by the Cos-
mic Light Substance which instantly fills all with
Its Victory and Power of Light!
WORLD DISPENSATIONS No. 18
"Mighty I AM Presence," All Great Beings and
Forces of Light! In the name of the humanity of
earth, we call to the Great Central Sun to give Saint
Germain whatever Dispensations are necessary to
stop the on-rushing war thruout the world.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
ASCENDED MASTER FRIENDS No. 19
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Raise up limitless ASCEND-
ED MASTER FRIENDS everywhere I go, to do
everything for me perfectly, as a glad free service
of Love! Be Infinitely and eternally blest for so
doing; Infinite and eternally grateful for the privi-
lege of doing it; Infinitely and eternally ALL-
POWERFUL AND PERFECT in that doing; In-
finitely and eternally loyal to the "Mighty I AM
Presence, the Ascended Masters this Activity of the
Light and all under this Radiation forever!
AMERICA'S PROTECTION AND
DIVINE JUSTICE No. 20
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light in the Universe! Raise up
millions and millions of Ascended Master Friends
and Legions of Light to hold Eternal, Invincible
Ascended Master Protection, Freedom, Divine Jus-
tice, Supply and Victory of Light for America;
and to govern all activities in Our Beloved Land
forever! Bring this to pass with the speed of Light-
ning and the Power of a million SUNS!
PERFECT ILLUMINATION AND
DIRECTION No. 21
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Illumine everything to me
with FULL ASCENDED MASTER ILLUMINA-
TION-every second, every day, in everything and
every way! Show me at all times the Perfect thing
to do! Make me do it Perfectly, hold it eternally
sustained and see that I never miss or disobey a
Prompting from Thee or the Ascended Masters!
DAILY CHARGE FOR SUPPLY No. 22
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Keep in my hands and use
at all times, ten times more than I require of every
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
good thing- including money! See that I use it all
in the Service of the Light, directed by Ascended
Master Wisdom, Intelligence and Discrimination
at all times.
CHARGE FOR POWER OF HARMONY
No. 23
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Ascended
Master Harmony! Charge everything in my Being
and world forever with Your POWER-POWER-
POWER of HARMONY in FULL ASCENDED
MASTER VICTORY IN ALL I DOI
CHARGE FOR VICTORY'S VICTORY
No. 24
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Ascended
Master Victory! Charge everything in my Being
and world with Your VICTORY-VICTORY-
VICTORY of LIGHT-LIGHT-LIGHT in all I
do forever!
CHARGE FOR ASCENDED MASTER
QUALITIES No. 25
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! While my body sleeps take
me to the Ascended Masters' Octave of Light;
charge me with Their Consciousness, Directing
Intelligence, Discrimination, Wisdom, Inexhausti-
ble Herculean Strength and Energy, Indestructi-
ble Health, everlasting Ease, Comfort, Peace,
Poise, Infinite Patience and Eternal Divine Love
in their most dynamic action! Hold Their GOD-
CONTROLLING POWER THE ONLY ACTIV-
ITY IN MY BEING AND WORLD FOREVER!
ASCENDED MASTER CONCENTRATION
No. 26
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Keep me charged at all times
with the Ascended Masters' ALL-POWERFUL
CONCENTRATION, CRYSTAL CLEAR COM-
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
PREHENSION, INFINITE PATIENCE, LIM-
ITLESS DIVINE LOVE and the FULL VIC-
TORY AND POWER OF LIGHT IN ALL I DO
FOREVER!
ASCENSION FOR YOUNG PEOPLE No. 27
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Send Your Legions of Blue
Lightning everywhere thruout America and the
world! Annihilate, annihilate, annihilate this in-
stant everything in mankind, the earth and its
atmosphere that would dim the Light or delay the
Victory of the Ascension for all young people in
this embodiment!
IMMEDIATE DISPENSATION
REQUIRED No. 28
(Jesus, at the Chicago Class, asked all to make
this call quickly and steadily so this Light can act,
before war can be brought into America. The
destructive forces are planning to draw America
into war within the next six months.)
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
from the Great Central Sun! In the name of the
humanity of earth and the sanity of mankind,
give to Saint Germain, Jesus, Arcturus, the God-
dess of Liberty and Others of the Ascended Mas-
ters whatever Dispensations are required to re-
lease that Light as of a thousand suns THIS IN-
STANT everywhere; and to annihilate all human
selfishness and discord from the pl.anet forever.
Do this in the Name of the Light of God that
never fails and hold it eternally sustained.
ANNIHILATING DESTRUCTIVE
THOUGHT FORMS No. 29
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of As-
cended Masters, Great Cosmic Beings and all
Great Beings and Powers of Light! Dissolve and
consume all destructive thought forms generated
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
by all mankind, past and present. Blaze Thy Light
into my heart and out thru my body and see that
no destructive thought forms ever come near me or
my world; and hold this protection eternally sus-
tained.
ANNIHILATING ALL OPPOSITION No. 30
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Central Sun,
Mighty Astrea and all Great Beings and Powers of
Light! Do whatever is necessary to dissolve, con-
sume and annihilate this very instant everything
that opposes this Light, Protection, Freedom, Vic-
tory and Divine Justice getting to and acting for
the people of America and the world with the
speed of Lightning, the Joy of the Angels and the
Power of a million suns. Loose Thy Cosmic Light-
ning and set all free in this Light forever!
K-17'S "RING PASS NOT" No. 31
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Blessed K-17!
Keep me, all my activity and my loved ones en-
circled in "Your Ring Pass Not" of Blue Flame
and stand guard with Your Eternal Invincible
Protection at all times!
GROUP LEADERS' DECREE No. 32
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! You are the Controlling and
Supplying Power of and in this Group and this
building! Charge Your.Radiance into them all so
powerfully, that It instantly dissolves all discord
and interference that attempts to touch this Activ-
ity in any way. Keep in our hands and use at all
times ten times more than we require of every
good thing, including money, for our Perfect up-
keep and expansion. Make us use it all in the
Service of the Light directed by Ascended Master
Wisdom! Reveal to us any treacherous motive in
anyone and Mighty Goddess of Light and Arch-
angel Michael hold Your Sword of Blue Flame
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
the Invincible Guard about us all and this Ac-
tivity forever.
"I AM" TEMPLES AND SCHOOLS No. 33
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of As-
cended Masters and all Great Beings and Powers
of Light! Release into our hands and use ten times
more of every good thing than we require, includ-
ing money; to bring forth our Perfect "I AM"
Temples of Light and our Perfect "I AM" Schools
of Light in which stands the UNFED FLAME in
each building-visible to the physical sight of all
mankind. Release that Blessing to our people for-
ever. What we have called forth for ourselves, we
command for every constructive person, place,
condition and thing on this earth. Keep Thy Light
pouring until it is manifest!
FINANCIAL PANIC No. 34
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! sweep everywhere in our
channels of finance! annihilate, annihilate, anni-
hilate all suggestion and conditions that would
impose financial panic upon our people or injus-
tice of any kind. Charge all money and collateral
within our land with Saint Germain's Power of
the Violet Consuming Flame and the UNFED
FLAME in their Three-fold Activity; and every-
where that money or collateral goes compel it to
produce Perfect Balance, Freedom, Purity and
Divine Justice for every one within our borders,
and the limitless supply of all good things to our
people forever!
ETERNAL YOUTH No. 35
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Blaze thru me Your
Violet Consuming Flame to annihilate all records
of age, strain, distress, worry, tension, suffering,
discord and imperfection of every kind, including
mild dislike. Replace them by the Ascended Mas-
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
ters' Mighty Light Substance of Eternal Youth,
Beauty, Purity and Perfection. Make me look like
Theel
COMMUNISM, NAZIISM, ETC. No. 36
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Mighty Cosmos, Archangel
Michael, Goddess of Light! Blaze Your Cosmic
Light Rays into every school of communism,
naziism and fascism in our country and into every
channel where they are being taught! annihilate,
annihilate, annihilate this moment everything in
our country that teaches those three activities.
Replace them by the Ascended Masters' Instruc-
tion of Life, this Mighty Law of the "I AM," and
the True Understanding of the Light Rays. Blaze
this Light into all those channels until not a frag-
ment of them is left within our land. Make all
willing to give obedience to the Law of Life and
hold Victory's Victory of the Light here forever.
We thank Thee our call is answered this moment!
RADIO DECREE No. 37
"Mighty I AM Presence," and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Sweep into all radio activi-
ties. Blast and annihilate all interference and op-
position to the Perfect Broadcasts of Saint Ger-
main's "I AM" Instruction! Open the proper
channels for this Light to reach every human be-
ing in America and the world! Bring into our
outer use the Perfect Radio through which this
Ascended Master Instruction may be broadcast
without interference. See that our own Radio Sta-
tions with world hook-ups come forth with the
speed of thought; that all mankind may know this
Light and receive their Freedom thru Its Use and
Application. Give Invincible Protection to all
those who are assisting in the Radio Activities and
bless them without limit forever for that service.
We thank Thee it is done.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
CALLING COSMOS' RAYS FOR
DEFENSE No. 38
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light and Blessed Cosmos! Utilize
Your Two Secret Rays to Their utmost in defense
of the People of Light and of the world!
TO QUICKEN THE MIND No. 39
"Mighty I AM Presence," and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Command my mind to always
act with Ascended Master Alertness, Decision and
the speed of Lightning.
RELEASING DIVINE JUSTICE No. 40
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! See to it that the political
forces have no power to sway the people of Amer-
ica, nor to change the decisions of Divine Justice.
Requalify all their energy with the Divine Justice
of the Ascended Masters and release It to our
people everywhere.
DIVINE ORDER, DIVINE
JUSTICE, ETC. No. 41
(Still yourselves first, then see that full force of
energy released and go forth like a speeding arrow
of Blue Flame to its objective and accomplish-
ment.)
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Produce Divine Order, Di-
vine Justice and raise up Ascended Master Friends
to be established in our government, in our in-
dustries, in our transportation and in the protec-
tion of our food supply for America. Annihilate
all obstruction to the immediate answer to our
call.
SPY DECREE No. 42
"Mighty I AM Presence," K-17, Your Legions of
Light, and all Great Beings and Powers of Light!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
Seek out, expose, seize, bind, hold inactive and
remove this instant every spy and wholly destruc-
tive person in the United States of America. Take
them to the compound of Light and hold them
there until they are purified and serve the Light
forever. Replace them with Ascended Master
Friends of the Light raised up everywhere to make
and hold all that is constructive in America vic-
torious in the Light right now and forever! We
thank Thee it is done NOW!
ANNIHILATING PSYCHIC
CREATIONS No. 43
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Central Sun,
Mighty Astrea and all Great Beirtgs and Powers of
Light! Do whatever is necessary to dissolve, con-
sume and annihilate completely this instant, all as-
tral and psychic creations and activity from man-
kind, the earth and its atmosphere; and replace
them by the Ascended Masters' Eternal Purity,
Light-Substance and Perfection.
ASCENDED MASTER QUALITIES
OF ACCEPTANCE No. 44
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host of
Ascended Masters! Charge me with Ascended
Master Consciousness, Power, Feeling, Acceptance,
Confidence and Dominion of the Light! Cause
me to feel Your Reality as the only acting Pres-
ence and Power in my Decrees! Keep my attention
and feeling anchored upon my Decrees and do
not allow them to wander! See that only Thy
Perfection manifest in all my activities! See that
Divine Order and Divine Justice always mani-
fest in my affairs and that I am always God-
commanded. I thank Thee it is done and eternally
sustained.
STILLING AGITATION No. 45
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Silence all discord
and agitation in my feeling world! Make every
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
vibratory action in and around my body perfectly
quiet; and see that I do not take on outside con-
ditions, but instead manifest Thy Perfection at
all times.
ACCEPTING HARMONY No. 46
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of Light
and Mighty Harmony! I accept by Your Power of
Acceptance everything You pour forth.
CALL FOR DISPENSATIONS No. 47
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light from out the Great Central
Sun! Shower our Beloved Saint Germain (or
anyone else) with Your Limitless Blessings of
Light and Love! Give to Him whatever Special
Dispensations He may require for the bringing
forth of Perfection in America and the world.
We thank Thee Thou dost always answer our call!
CALL TO HIGHER MENTAL
BODY OF EVERYONE No. 48
I call to the "Mighty I AM Presence" and the
Higher Mental Body of every human being on
earth! Charge all the constructive energy of Your
Life Stream into the "I AM" Student Body and
with every call they make for the protection of
America and her people, blaze a million Light
Rays into every constructive condition; and bring
about the release of whatever energy is required
to produce that Perfection. We thank Thee it is
done and eternally sustained.
LOYALTY OF UNEMPLOYED No. 49
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of As-
cended Masters and all Great Beings and Powers
of Light! Charge all unemployed persons in Amer-
ica with "The Light of God that never fails"!
Hold them obedient and receptive to the Light
and one hundred percent loyal to the United
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
States of America! Put each one in his own right
channel of service and supply him with every
good thing! See that he uses it in the service of
the Light, blazes the Light and gains his Freedom
quickly.
CALL TO DISSOLVE VICIOUS
SUBSTANCE No. 50
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light from out the Great Central
Sun! Release the action of the Cosmic Light and
Light Rays charged with Saint Germain's Power
and Qualification of the Violet Consuming Flame,
to act throughout the surface and atmosphere
of earth to more quickly dissolve and consume
the destructively charged substance around in-
dividuals; that the Power of their own Light may
be set into action more quickly.
PURIFYING OUR GOVERNMENT No. 51
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of As-
cended Masters and all Great Beings and Powers
of Light! Stand guard over all politicians and all
officials in our government; national, state and
municipal! Hold them obedient to their oaths
of office and one million percent loyal to the
"Light of God that never fails" and the United
States of America! Beloved K-17 and Your Legions
of Light, stand guard over all such individuals
and see that every particle of deceit, treachery,
intrigue, disloyalty and vicious intent to destroy
America is exposed and annihilated this instant.
If necessary impeach every one, and release our
country forever from all such nefarious activities.
We thank Thee it is done!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
COSMIC LIGHT RAYS No. 52
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Project Your Cosmic Light
Rays in, thru and around me and my world! Send
Them before me and make clear, harmonious,
prosperous, successful, DivinelyJust, Invincibly pro-
tected, Luminous, Joyous and Victorious my way
and Perfect whatsoever I attempt to accomplish.
AWAKENING MANKIND No. 53
I speak to the Higher Mental Body and the heart
of every human being on this planet and say:
"Awake! awake! awake! Arise! Arise! Arise! to the
Understanding of your own Reality-the "Mighty
I AM Presence"! Call to It and gain your Freedom!
I call on the Law of Forgiveness for all mankind's
mistakes, past and present, and "I AM" the As-
cended Masters' Forgiveness and Forgetfulness of all
human mistakes and the replacement of them by the
Full Perfection, Freedom and Victory of the Light!
EXPANDING THIS LIGHT No. 54
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Open the Floodgates from
Your Treasure-house and bring into our hands and
use ten times more money and every good thing
that we require for the Perfect expansion of this
Light. See that every home, office, school and public
building on the planet has a complete set of the
Saint Germain Series, a copy of the Chart of the
"Mighty I AM Presence," the Ascended Masters'
Pictures and Songs, and a Chart and Flame-in-
action.
See that all mankind accept Your Reality and
Perfection as the only acting Intelligence, Governing
Presence and Power! Supply the needed money for
our own Radio Broadcasting Stations and the Per-
fect expansion of our Radio activities! Bring forth
the Precipitated "I AM" Temples of Light in every
city in America with the speed and power ofthought!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
We accept the instantaneous manifestation of this
right now.
SUPPLYING POWER No. 55
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! You are the Power that sup-
plies me and fulfills my call! See that this is done
at once!
OUTSIDE INTRUSION No. 56
"Mighty I AM Presence"! charge my Higher
Mental Body to project into my mental and feeling
world that dissolving and consuming activity that
keeps dissolved and consumed anything that at-
tempts to intrude! Place a guard about me, and
keep me invincibly protected forever!
PREPARATION FOR COMING
CLASSES No. 57 .
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of As-
cended Masters, Mighty Legions of Light, Great
Cosmic Beings, all Powers of Light from the Great
Central Sun and the Power of the Three times
Three! Saint Germain, Jesus, Nada, Great Divine
Director, Mighty Astrea, Archangel Michael, God-
dess of Light, Goddess of Liberty, Goddess of Peace,
Goddess of Purity, Goddess of Justice, K-17 and
Your Legions of Light, Mighty God Tabor, Beloved
Hercules, Mighty Cosmos, Beloved Ray-0-Light,
Blessed Cuzco, Mighty Harmony, Beloved Victory,
the "Mighty I AM Presence" and Higher Mental
Body of everyone in America and the world! Come
forth in all Your Special Power from the Great
Central Sun! Take possession of everybody and
everything in Los Angeles! Focus Thy Full Cosmic
Power of the Blue Ray into everything opposed to
this Light and shatter, dissolve, consume and anni-
hilate, annihilate, annihilate it all this instant-
cause, effect, record and memory! Replace it by
the Visible, Tangible Presence of the Unfed Flame,
the Cosmic Light-Substance and the Legions of
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
Light Who from this moment hold Victory's Vic-
tory of the Light the only Presence, Power and Ac-
tivity within this class, the city and its people forever.
K-17 and Your Legions of Light encircle the Mes-
sengers, their Staff, this class, everyone in it and all
concerning it with "Your Ring Pass Not" of Blue
Flame and hold that sustained until the Ascension
of each one.
Great Goddess of Justice! Take possession of all
money, things and service that are given for the
activity of this Class and all of this Ascended Master
"I AM" Activity! See that Saint Germain's As-
cended Master Consciousness and Thy Divine Jus-
tice, Discrimination and Intelligence, control and
direct it all in every detail. Give such Invincible
Protection and Perfection to everyone in the class,
its activity and all who are assisting, that the most
gigantic astounding Miracles and Victories of the
Light are released to all and America's Freedom
and Perfection are forever secured!
Charge everyone under this Radiation with the
Ascended Masters' Eternal Feeling and full Accept-
ance of this Perfection, instantly manifest, eternally
sustained and ever expanding.
ANNIHILATION OF GERMAN
BUND, COMMUNISM, FASCISM
AND EVERYTHING AGAINST
THE TRUE ORIGINAL FORM
OF GOVERNMENT OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA No. 58
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host ofAscended
Masters, Mighty Legion of Light, Great Angelic
Host, Great Cosmic Beings and Great Cosmic Light,
the Great Central Sun, the Full Power of the Blue
Ray, K-17 and Your Legions of Light, Mighty
Astrea, Archangel Michael, the Goddess of Light
and all who guard and govern the destiny of the
United States ofAmerica! This very instant shatter,
consume and annihilate, annihilate, annihilate the
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
German Bund, communism, fascism and all that is
against the True Original Form of the Government
of the United States of America; their every activity
and influence in America and over everyone within
our borders forever. This very moment withdraw
and withhold completely all money, energy, influ-
ence, power, suggestion and supply from their de-
structive activities, all their ramifications, plans,
claws and emissaries; and remove them from this
earth forever!Replace them by the Ascended Master
Friends, the Legions of Light and Victory's Victory
of the Light this instant and hold that eternally
sustained.
ANNIHILATION OF ALL DES-
TRUCTIVE DOMINATION OF
AMERICA AND HER PEOPLE No. 59
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host ofAscended
Masters, Mighty Legions of Light, Great Angelic
Host, Great Cosmic Beings, Great Cosmic Light,
Mighty Astrea and all Powers of the Blue Ray from
the Great Central Sun! Blaze Thy Full Cosmic
Power and Authority into every destructive and
unnecessary legal activity in America; and this in-
stant dissolve, consume and annihilate, annihilate,
annihilate all such activities from our country for-
ever! Replace them by the Ascended Masters'
Almighty Dominion in Our Beloved Land and our
People.
Saint Germain, Jesus, Nada and the Great Divine
Director, the Goddess of Justice, the Goddess of
Light, K-17 and Your Legions of Light! Compel
Divine Judgment to descend on all destructive legal
authority and. activity and take its full toll this
instant. Replace it by Thy eternally sustained Divine
Justice and the fulfillment of the Divine Plan for the
Perfection and Protection of the United States of
America and all that is constructive throughout the
world!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
SUBSTANCE FOR JESUS'
DISPENSATION No. 60
In the Name of Divine Justice, the sanity of man-
kind and the Freedom of America and the world,
My "Mighty I AM Presence," release thru my
Higher Mental Body whatever quantity and inten-
sity of Substance is required, to make up for the lack
of numbers who should be calling, to supply the
Substance the Ascended Masters and Cosmic Beings
need to gain the Special Dispensation from the
Great Central Sun for which Jesus has asked. I
thank Thee, "Mighty I AM Presence," it is done this
instant, eternally sustained and ever-expanding in
its overwhelming Cosmic Activity.
ASSISTANCE INTO THE
ASCENSION No. 61
My "Mighty I AM Presence" and the "Mighty
I AM Presence" of ........ . . ! In the Great Mercy
of Life, I call on the Law of Forgiveness for what-
ever has caused this condition in ......... With-
draw all discord from his (or her) body and consume
cause, effect, record and memory of all concerning
it; and give the Ascended Master Assistance he re-
quires to purify his entire Life Stream and take him
into his Ascension NOW!
PERFECT SIGHT AND HEARING No. 62
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Blessed Cyclopea!
Pour Your Crystal Ray thru every human being on
the earth and produce Perfection in the eyes, ears
and throat centers! Release Your Mighty Cleansing,
Purifying, Perfecting Activity and give to every
human being Perfect Sight, Hearing and the Golden
Voice of the Presence! Do whatever is required to
give all the full Power of the All-seeing-eye and the
All-hearing-ear of God, now made manifest and
eternally sustained.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
WORK FOR CLASSES No. 63
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of As-
cended Masters and all Great Beings and Powers of
Light! Reach out Your Loving Arms, draw into
this class and fill every seat in this auditorium with
earnest sincere seekers of the Light! Charge them
with Saint Germain's Ascended Master Conscious-
ness, Purity, Perfection and Illumination! Hold
them eternally loyal to the "Light of God that never
fails," and the United States of America! Keep out
all who oppose or would interfere with this Activity;
and make this class such a Blazing Victory of Light
that It will lift all mankind into their Freedom at
once.
INDIVIDUAL PREPARATION
FOR CLASSES No. 64
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host of
Ascended Masters! Charge my mind and body with
Your Mighty Alertness, All-powerful Concentra-
tion, Discrimination and Your Mighty Power of
Action! Hold me so alert during this class that I
never miss a single prompting or direction. See that
I never miss a word that is given for my Freedom!
Direct Your Mighty Currents of Energy into my
mind, body, world and environment to cleanse and
purify the atmosphere around me by the use of the
Violet Consuming Flame, to clear and hold in Per-
fect Action my comprehension of all that is said for
my Blessing. I accept the fulness oflts Instantaneous
Manifestation.
STRIKES AND AGITATORS No. 65
In the Name of the "Mighty I AM Presence,"
in the name of the American people, in the Name
of Divine Justice and the "Light of God that never
fails"! Annihilate this instant all strikes from the
face of the earth forever! Seize and bind all strike
agitators and take them to the compound of Light
this instant! Replace them by Ascended Master
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
Friends raised up everywhere to protect and defend
this Light and all under this Radiation. I call to the
Higher Mental Bodies ofall business men in America
to charge them with the Herculean Strength of their
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Victory's Victory of
the Light; to stand unyielding against all strike agi-
tators and wipe them from the face of the earth
right NOW.
BLUE RAY AND LIGHT RAYS No. 66
In the Name of my "Mighty I AM Presence" and
the Power of the Ascended Masters, I say to all
human creation: "You have no power! Your day
is done! Be thou dissolved and consumed from the
face of the earth forever"! "Mighty I AM Presence,"
Mighty Cosmos, and Great Cosmic Light! Protect
the Blue Ray from the Great Central Sun and Thy
Mighty Light Rays in and thru mankind and the
earth, establishing Thy Currents thruout the at-
mosphere of earth; and cause all destructive quali-
ties, accumulation and their activities to cease to
exist forever!
WITHDRAWAL OF FREE WILL,
ETC. No. 67
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Withdraw from all destructive
individuals all money, energy, supply, influence,
power, Directing Intelligence and sustaining ac-
tivity and all destructive use of the free will! Turn
back upon such individuals the fear and domina-
tion they hold over mankind and compel those
qualities to annihilate their cause and effect forever!
GODDESS OF JUSTICE No. 68
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Mighty Goddess
of Justice! Charge! charge! charge! Your Power of
Divine Justice into every human being on this
planet! Into all governmental, industrial, financial,
commercial and educational activities, and into all
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
channels that serve the necessities of Life to the
people of America; especially our food supply!
Compel Divine Justice to be rendered to every
human being under this Radiation; and see all
render Divine Justice to all mankind, to hold Your
Victory of the Light in America and thruout the
world. We accept the fulness of this instantly mani-
fest and eternally sustained.
PROTECTION TO AUTOMOBILES No. 69
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Charge all automobiles
in the use ofall under this Radiation with Invincible
Eternally Sustained Protection! I call to the Higher
Mental Body of everyone who drives a car to stand
guard with Your Sword of Blue Flame and K-17's
Ring Pass Not, and cut every automobile free from
all projection or interference of any kind. I thank
Thee it is done!
GODDESS OF PURITY No. 70
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Cosmic Beings
and Beloved Goddess of Purity! Fill my mind, body,
being and world full to overflowing with Your
Cosmic Light-Substance and Cosmic Divine Love!
Hold bound, helpless and inactive everything else
until it is dissolved and forever consumed! Raise
everything in me and my world into the Purity of
the Great Silence! What I have called forth for
myself, I decree for all mankind, the earth and its
atmosphere with the speed of lightning.
AMPLIFYING AND SUSTAINING
DECREES No. 71
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light! What I have called for inmy Decrees
I ask the same service be rendered every human
being on the planet! I ask that my calls for assistance
individually, nationally and thruout the world be
amplified and intensified by the Great Host of
Ascended Masters and sustained in action, until the
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
Victory of the Light for the earth is won. I accept
the instantaneous fulfillment of this manifestation.
SWORD OF BLUE FLAME No. 72
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Mighty Archangel
Michael! Strike Your Mighty SWORD OF BLUE
FLAME this instant into every vortex of destructive
force, especially in America and thruout the world;
and annihilate it from existence forever! Replace it
by the Eternal Action of the UNFED FLAME!
CALL FOR ASCENSION No. 73
"Mighty I AM Presence" take complete com-
mand of my mind and body now! Prepare me for
what YOU would have me do! I am ready and I am
willing! See that I make my Ascension in this em-
bodiment! See "in Your Great Wisdom that I do
the Perfect Thing YOU require! See that Your
Wisdom directs me in every way! Concerning my
Ascension, let Your Wisdom be the complete
Directing Power! See that I serve in Your Fullest
Capacity in whatever Your Wisdom requires. I
thank Thee it is done!
TERRIFYING PRESENCE No. 74
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Make me a shattering,
consuming, annihilating, terrifying Presence, Power
and Activity of Light to all that is not of the Light!
TWENTY IN AMERICA No. 75
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of As-
cended Masters, Mighty Cosmos and the Higher
Mental Bodies of the twenty individuals in America
who can lead half of the people of America into this
Victory and Freedom of the Light! Take command
of each and every one! Charge them with the As-
cended Masters' Herculean Strength, Courage and
Power to render this service to America and her
people and bring forth Freedom, Divine Justice,
Divine Order and Perfection in America here
and now.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
SELECTIVE DISCRIMINATION No. 76
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Charge the Ascended
Masters' Selective Discriminating Intelligence, In-
sight and Foresight into action in my brain, body
and feeling world with Their Mighty Intense Ac-
tion, and keep It eternally sustained.
FEELING AND DESIRE WORLD No. 77
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Take command of my
feeling and desire world and raise them into Your
Heart and the full command of my Higher Mental
Body.
FEELING WORLD No. 78
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Charge into :rp.y feeling world
the full Power of Your Feeling that when I issue
that Decree-to all human creation: "You have no
power," that it charges my feeling world and reaches
out with such power, so far as my own activities are
concerned, that there is not one thing or any human
creation has power to touch my world or make
me feel it.
UNEMPLOYMENT AND HOME
LIFE No. 79
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host ofAscended
Masters and all Great Beings and Powers of Light!
Sweep into all activities of unemployment and
charge every unemployed person in America and
thruout the world, with Herculean Strength and the
Determination to serve the "Light of God that
never fails"! Bring about the restoration of Perfec-
tion in America and thruout the world! Remove all
excess taxation and other causes that produce dis-
cordant home conditions; and make our home life
Sanctuaries of Light, Altars of Safety and the
Anchor of the "Light of God that never fails."
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
ANNIHILATION OF ALL GRAFT No. 80
In the Name of the "Mighty I AM Presence," in
the Name of Divine Justice, in the name of the
American people and the "Light of God that never
fails"! I decree that all graft in our national, com-
mercial, industrial, financial, educational and all
activities that serve the necessities of Life to our
people be blasted from the face of the earth! That
perfect loving co-operation be established between
producer and consumer, and never again allow any
destructive individuals or forces to curtail the pro-
duction of crops or destroy food after it is produced.
Divine Justice and Divine Order shall manifest in
all such activities and be forever sustained. I thank
Thee it is done!
GOD-CONTROL No. 81
"Mighty I AM Presence" acting thru my Higher
Mental Body! take such complete command of me,
my mind, body, being and world and activity that I
do manifest God-control under all conditions.
SIX OPENING DECREES No. 82
The Ascended Master Saint Germain requests that
every Group meeting be opened by issuing (standing) each
of the following Decrees three times. Visualize and feel
the activity.
1. Mighty Cosmic Light! Come forth and do
Your Perfect Work NOW!
2. The Forces of Light move into action with
Full Power and are Victorious NOW!
3. Mighty Arcturus and Great Goddess of Lib-
erty! Come forth this instant in that Light as of a
Thousand Suns! Dissolve and consume all human
selfishness and discord from the planet!
4. "The Light of God never fails" (Repeat three
times) and the "Mighty I AM Presence" is that
Light!
5. We say to all human creation: "You have no
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
Power! Your day is done! Be thou dissolved and
consumed from the face of the earth forever!"
6~ The Limitless Legions of Light now sweep
across the face of the earth, and all human darkness
disappears!
FORCES OF THE FOUR
ELEMENTS No. 83
"Mighty I AM Presence"! I call to the Forces
of the Four Elements-the Powers of the water, air,
fire and earth! Stand guard over the people of
earth! Even though they have made mistakes, still
do I call on the Law of Forgiveness for those mis-
takes; and I ask that You give to the Children of
Light Your Assistance, that they may neutralize all
destructive elements mankind have created from
the face of the earth forever!
"Mighty I AM Presence"! call forth from the
Great Central Sun and pour to the Forces of the
Four Elements the full Power of Divine Love and
Blessings of my own Life Stream; to the gnomes,
salamanders, sylphs and undines; also to Those
Great Beings of Light and Love who govern Their
Activities, the Lord the Maha Chohan, the Gods of
the Mountains, the God of the Air, Beloved Nep-
tune, the God of Nature, the God of Gold, l\ilighty .
Oromosis, Diana Goddess of Fire and the Lords of
the Flame from Venus.
FEAR OF LACK No. 84
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host of
Ascended Masters! Take out of my feeling world all
sense of limitation and fear of lack of money! Re-
place it with the fulness of Your Presence and
Limitless Abundance of all good things, including
money!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
REMOVING VICIOUS
FORCES No. 85
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light! Blast and an-
nihilate, remove, from my feeling world all
treachery, deceit or other destructive qual-
ities and substance that may have been pro-
jected or established in my body and feel-
ing world by black magicians, entities or
otherwiseI I call to the Great Host of As-
cended Masters and Cosmi(: Beings to re-
place such qualities and projected substance
with the Purity, Perfection arid Victory of
Truth, which illumines and intensifies
Their Ascended Master Truth that my heart
is craving to pour forth. I thank Thee it is
done.
ANNIHILATING OPPOSITION
TO THIS WORK No. 86
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light! Withdraw this instant and
forever all money, energy, Power, influence
and supply from every person, place, condi-
tion or thing that attempts to oppose, harm,
limit, disturb, ridicule, distort or discord-
antly affect this Mighty Ascended Master
Instruction, Victory and Fr!!edom for man-
kind.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., Ig40)
27
STOPPING EXCESS
TAXATION No. 87
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters, Mighty Legion of Light,
Great Angelic Host, Great Cosmic Beings
and Great Cosmic Light! Annihilate! An-
nihilate! Annihilate! the existence, cause,
effect, record and memory of all excess taxa-
tion in our United States of America for all
time! Do it this very moment and instantly
make helpless every human being or group
of individuals who attempt to longer impose
that fiendish destruction upon our peopleI
Stop that destruction from within our land
and its people forever! Use whatever Power
of the Blue Lightning is required to do it
this very instant! Set our people free in the
Supreme Power of Thy Almighty Ascended
Master Light and keep It eternally sustained.
We thank Thee it is done.
PREVENTING
DISTURBANCE No. 88
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Take complete com-
mand of me and my world this day and for-
ever! Make it impossible for any person,
place, condition or thing to ever deceive, in-
fluence, irritate or disturb me again! See that
I never feel anything less than Your Great
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
28
Cosmic Power of Divine Love, Eternal
Mastery and Peace!
PERFECTING THE EYE-
SIGHT No. 89
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and Great Cyclopea! Di-
rect Your Mighty Currents of Light thru
my optic nerves; thru my eyeballs and an-
nihilate cause, effect, record and memory
of whatever has dimmed my sight or even
attempts to dim it! I call on the Law of For-
giveness for whatever has caused it! You
charge my eyes with Your Perfect Ascended
Master Sight forever!
ANNIHILATING LETHARGY No. 90
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters, Mighty Legion of Light,
Great Angelic Host, Great Cosmic Beings
and Great Cosmic Light! Sweep thru the
atmosphere of earth and into the mental
and feeling bodies of every individual! Blast,
consume and annihilate all lethargy, ignor-
ance, doubt, fear and imperfection from
them forever! Make the Light within each
heart burst with such Ascended Master
Power that all accept their own "Mighty I
AM Presence" and give It Ascended Master
Obedience forever!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
29
CHILDREN'S DECREE No. 91
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters, Mighty Legion of Light,
Great Angelic Host, Great Cosmic Beings
and Great Cosmic Light! Saint Germain,
Jesus, Nada, Great Divine Director, Cosmos,
Meta, Mary the Mother of Jesus, and our
Beloved Messenger! Open the way and pro-
vide the means for every child who wants to
be and should be in the "I AM" School, to
come into it at once! See that they come and
give Perfect Illumined Obedience, main-
tain harmony and receive the Perfect As-
cended Master Education and Victory in
the Light! Blast and annihilate all that
would interfere in any way with this Perfect
Blessing to all who seek this Light!
FINANCES No. 92
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light! Blaze! Blaze!
Blaze! the "Light of God that never fails"
into the financial activity of our people with
such an over-whelming Power and Ascended
Master Pressure of Light that It annihilates
forever every destructive use of money with-
in our land! Replace it by the Ascended
Masters' Divine Justice, Purity, Balance and
Blazing Perfection to everyone who seeks
the Constructive Way of Life.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940).
30
FOR ANY CITY No. 93
Mighty Beloved Infinite "I AM Pres-
ence," Great Host of Ascended Masters, all
Great Beings and Powers of Light, and ALL
who guard and govern the destiny of the
City of ---! Release all the Power of
Light at Thy Command and annihilate,
annihilate, annihilate everything that binds
these people. Blast and annihilate the ac-
ceptance of every limiting condition in this
blessed City of Light! Annihilate cause,
effect, record and memory of everything that
is less than the Purity, Victory, Freedom
and Perfection of the Ascended Masters! Re-
place every destructive condition by Saint
Germain's, Jesus', Nada's, the Great Divine
Director's, our Blessed Messenger's, the
Archangel Michael's, the Goddess of Light's,
the Goddess of Justice's and the Goddess of
Purity's Almighty Power of the Sword of
Blue Flame; to keep consumed forever all
that is less than the eternal Perfection and
Victory of Thy Light. Take possession, pro-
duce Perfection, hold Dominion and raise
these people into Thy Victory and Freedom
of Light forever!
ASSISTANCE OF MILLIONS No. 94
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light! Charge me with
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., Ig40)
31
the Power of a million people when I issue
my Decrees; and with every call I make,
blaze a million Light Rays into the condi- '--'
tion to dissolve and consume cause, effect,
record and memory of the discord; and hold
eternally sustained the Ascended Masters'
Perfection in all I contact.
CARRYING
RESPONSIBILITIES No. 95
"Mighty I AM Presence," and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! You come forth and
release whatever is required to enable me
to carry my responsibilities honestly and
honorably and to discharge my duties with
full Ascended Master Perfection and Di-
vine Justice to all.
AERIAL ACTIVITIES No. 96
In the Name of the "Mighty I AM Pres-
ence"; in the name of the American peo-
ple; in the name of the humanity of earth;
in the Name of the "Light of God that never
fails"! I decree that every spy in the Aerial
Forces of the United States of America and
every activity of spies and dope which has
crept within our avenues of National De-
fense, shall be stripped from those activities
with the speed of lightning; everyone re-
vealed and Divine Judgment descend to take
Its toll and clean our country forever from
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
32
ALL interference with our Aerial Transpor-
tation and National Defense.
CIRCUMSTANTIAL
EVIDENCE No. 97
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters, Mighty Legion of Light,
Great Angelic Host, Great Cosmic Beings
and Great Cosmic Light! Great Goddess of
Justice! Charge every honest individual,
lawyer, judge and official in our govern-
mental activities, national, state and muni-
cipal with Your Power of Invincible Pro-
tection, Divine Order and Divine Justice
in constant action; and cause all activity of
circumstantial evidence to cease from man-
kind forever.
NADA'S DECREE No. 98
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light! Let Thy Divine Judgment
descend into all destructive persons, places
and conditions in our governmental, in-
dustrial, commercial, legal, financial, aerial
and educational activities; and compel Di-
vine Justice and Divine Order to manifest
in their place! Strike Your SWORD OF
BLUE FLAME into the heart center of all
such activitiesI Cut to pieces all discord and
bring forth the Victory of the Light in Amer-
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
33
ica and to her people everywhere forever!
We thank Thee it is done.
ANNIHILATION OF WAR IN
EUROPE (and the Orient) No. 99
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light! Great Beings who govern
the destiny of Europe! Saint Germain, Jesus,
Nada, Great Divine Director, Goddess of
Light, Goddess of Justice, Mighty Victory
and Our Beloved Messenger!
Come forth in Your Full Cosmic Power
and Authority of the UNFED FLAME, the
Three times Three and the Cosmic Light!
Stop! stop! stop! all war in Europe and the
Orient forever! Shatter and consume every
vortex of human discord there! Blast and
annihilate every destructive feeling and ac-
tivity, their cause, effect, record and memory
from Europe and her people foreve~l Re-
place all their destructive qualities and ac-
tivities with a flood of the Cosmic Light-
Substance which takes possession, produces
Perfection and holds Its Dominion in full
Ascended Master Victory forever!
In the Name of the "Mighty I AM Pres-
ence," in the name of the people of Europe,
in the Name of the "Light of God that never
fails"! We call on the Law of Forgiveness
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., Ig40)
34
for all mistakes of all mankind! Wipe out all
mistakes, their cause, effect, record and
memory as if they had never been! Bring
forth in their place the Mighty Perfection
from the Ascended Masters' Octave of Life
and release mankind from all imperfection
forever!
Great Cosmic Beings, seize all destruc-
tively qualified energy that is in the atmos-
phere over all warring countries from pre-
vious wars; all hatred, jealousy, dislike,
destructive feeling and activity of every
kind! Turn them all into the Violet Con-
suming Flame of the Ascended Masters' Di-
vine Love forever! Charge it with the Cos-
mic Light-Substance and Ascended Masters'
Consciousness, Illumination, Peace, Protec-
tion and Perfection! Lower It to earth again!
Let blessed humanity absorb Its Purity and
be drenched with the Ascended Masters'
Feeling of Victory, Power of Peace, Glory
and Happiness eternally sustained and ever-
expanding.
We call on the Law of Forgiveness for all
human bloodshed and call to You "Mighty
I AM Presence" of every human being on
earth, to the Great Cosmic Beings and the
Mighty Legion of Light! Stop it forever!
Re-qualify all human bloodshed that has
drenched the earth-turn it into LIQUID
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., Ig40)
35
GOLDEN LIGHT to take possession of all
mankind, the earth and its atmosphere; and
hold them obedient within the Perfection
of the Ascended Masters forever! We thank
Thee it is doneI
HUMAN RESISTANCE No. 100
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Take out of my feel-
ing every bit of human resistance, cause,
effect, record and memory! Let Thy Full
Power flow thru without obstruction and
produce the Perfection I desire instantly!
Hold it eternally sustained and ever-expand-
mg.
LEGAL ACTIVITIES No. 101
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light! Send Your Legions of Blue
Lightning into all legal activities of the
United States of America! Make it impos-
sible to ever again imprison innocent peo-
ple in our country! Sweep into all legal pro-
cedure and annihilate forever all that does
not give Divine Justice to our people.
REMOVING DISLOYAL
INDIVIDUALS No. 102
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Keep out of my world
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
36
everybody who is deceitful and see that no
treachery nor intrigue ever acts in it again!
Take out of my association every human
being who is not a million percent loyal to
the "Mighty I AM Presence," the Ascended
Masters, the United States of America, this
Service of the Light and all under this Radia-
tion forever!
SPY ACTIVITIES No. 113
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light! In the Name
of the "Mighty I AM Presence"; in the name
of the American people; in the name of the
humanity of earth; in the Name of the
"Light of God that never fails"! Annihilate
every spy activity in the United States of
America-especially in our Aerial Forces!
Annihilate every activity of dope in our
avenues of National Defense! Strip our
country from all such activities with the
speed of lightning! Reveal all within our
borders who are not one thousand percent
loyal to the United States of America and
the "Light of God that never fails"! Com-
mand Divine Judgment to descend and take
Its toll; and clean our country forever from
all that is not the Ascended Masters' Purity,
Balance, Victory and Perfection of Light!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
37
PROTECTION FAMILY,
HOME, BUSINESS No. 104
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light! I call on the
Law of Forgiveness for all mankind's mis-
takes. Blaze forth Thy Violet Consuming
Flame in Its most dynamic action and an-
nihilate them all; cause, effect, record and
memory forever! See we never make another
mistake. Project Thy Flame of Divine Love
and wrap It around every one of my family,
my home, my business and everything with
which my loved ones are associated. Pro-
ject It around every "I AM" Student,
around every person, place, condition and
thing under this Radiation; them amplify
It again to enfold every human being in the
United States of America and everywhere on
earth and hold It eternally sustained!
EXPANDING THIS
ACTIVITY No. 105
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light! Open every channel on
earth and bring this Ascended Masters' In-
struction of the "I AM" to the attention of
every individual in the world; with a Power
of Light that is irresistible, over-whelming,
Almighty and Eternal; until all accept their
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
38
own "Mighty I AM Presence," Obey Its
Law, gain their Victory of the Light and
come thru into the full attainment of the
Ascension.
CHARGING AMERICA WITH
COSMIC LIGHT No. 106
"Mighty I AM Presence," and Great Cos-
mic Beings from the Great Central SunI
ChargeI chargeI chargeI ten times more than
is required of Thy Cosmic Light everywhere
in America, Our Country, God's Country,
the "I AM" Country, the Land of the "Light
of God that never fails." Charge that Light
forth with such power that It over-whelms
all that is not of the Light! In the Name of
the "Mighty I AM Presence," I command
that no weapon prospers which is formed
against the United States of America or her
people; against her Freedom, her Divine
Justice and her limitless supply to those
people. Loose whatever Power is required
to hold the Victory and Power of Light as
the only governing authority within our
land forever! We thank Thee it is done and
eternally su~tained.
FOR BUSINESS DEALS No. 107
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Send a Cosmic Ray of
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
39
Light-Substance into that condition! Pour
It on with such force that when I go there
things are in Divine Order! See that I give
Divine Justice first, then compel Divine
Justice to be rendered me! See that no weap-
on formed against the Perfection for which
I call ever prospers; and charge all with Vic-
tory's Victory of the Light forever!
GOD OF GOLD AND GOD
OF NATURE No. 108
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters, God of Gold and God of
Nature! Release Thy Mightiest Gifts from
Thy Realms of action and America's Treas-
ure-house! Take possession and hold God-
control of all gold, all supply of nature, all
money and every kind of wealth in our landI
See that it can never be used for anything
but constructive activity! Produce Your
amazing Perfection with it at all times and
hold it eternally sustained.
FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT No. 109
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters"! You take command
of my financial world and hold Ascended
Master God-control of all within it forever!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
40
ASCENDED MASTER
GOD-CONTROL No. 110
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters! Charge me and my world
with such Almighty Eternal Ascended-Mas-
ter God-control that no disturbance of any
kind can ever contact me, my world or my
activities again!
PROTECTING THIS
LIGHT No. 111
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light from the Great Central Sun!
See that no weapon prospers that is formed
against this Light and Perfection or those
who carry It.
GOD-CONTROL
EVERYWHERE No. 112
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Charge me with the
Ascended Masters' God-control of everybody
and everything I contact and all in my mind,
body, Being and World, atmosphere and en-
vironment forever!
LIGHT RAYS FROM ALL
FOCUSES OF LIGHT No. 113
'Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters, Great Cosmic Beings,
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
41
Great Cosmic Light and the Great Beings
from the Great Central SunI Blaze the Cos-
mic Light Rays from all Focuses of Light,
into Washington, D.C. to illumine all in
our government with Saint Germain's As-
cended Master Consciousness, Power and
Victory of the Light, to compel Perfection
to fill all in Our Country forever!
THE MOTHERS' DECREE
FOR OUR PEOPLE No. 114
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings from
the Great Central Sun! Charge the mothers
in America with the Ascended Masters' Un-
derstanding of their authority over the
bodies of our people; because the mothers
are connected with those bodies! Make them
use that authority now to prevent war!
In the name of the mothers of the people
of the United States of America, by the As-
cended Masters' Power of the "Mighty I AM
Presence" and the full Ascended Masters
Cosmic Authority of Life, "I AM the Pres-
ence" commanding that the destructive
forces in the government of the United
States of America shall NOT destroy our
people, our Freedom, our Divine Justice,
our Prosperity, nor our country by war nor
any other destructive activity!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press!. Inc., r940)
42
GOD-CONTROL OF
CONDITIONS No. 115
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light! Make me at all times Vic-
torious by the Power of Light! Make and
keep me the Ascended Masters' Instantan-
eous, Almighty, Herculean, Calm, Poised,
Peaceful, Divinely Just, Miraculous, Per-
fect, God-control of every condition I con-
tact, eternally sustained.
PROTECTING "I AM"
STUDENTS' ASSETS No. 116
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters, Mighty Legion of Light,
Great Angelic Host, Great Cosmic Beings
and Great Cosmic Light, Our Beloved Mes-
senger! Blast, kill and annihilate every vi-
cious force, impulse or condition that ever
attempts or plans to take away or withhold
from the direction and use of those under
this Radiation, any of the things of which
Life-the "Mighty I AM Presence" and the
Ascended Masters have made us the cus-
todian or directors!
PRESSURE OF LIGHT No. 117
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Release unto me now,
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
43
the full Power and Pressure of Light re-
quired to produce the instantaneous As-
cended Master Miracles, Victories and Per-
fection of the Light which must manifest
here and now; to set America free forever
from all that seeks to draw her people into
war!
ETERNAL ASCENDED
MASTER QUALITIES No. 118
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Charge every construc-
tive quality and all energy I call forth from
You with the Ascended Masters' Conscious-
ness, Presence, Power and Activity of Light
and make me always Victorious within It.
MAGNET OF HARMONY
AND VICTORY No. 119
My Darling "Mighty I AM Presence" and
Great Host of Ascended Masters! Absorb me
into my Higher Mental Body! Close Its
Arms about me and make me such a
POWER, such a Magnet of Harmony and
Harmony's Cosmic Power that no person,
place, condition nor thing can ever be in-
harmonious to me again; and charge me
with Victory's Victory of the Light eternally
sustained and ever-expanding!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
44
ALL THINGS NEW No. 120
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Make all things new,
imperishable and Perfect in Thy Great
Love, Light and Wisdom!
PURIFYING THE AIR No. 121
"Mighty I AM Presence," all Great Beings
and Powers of Light, the God of the Air and
Blessed God Tabor! Sweep Thy Blue Flame
from the Great Central Sun t:.i u the atmos-
phere over the United States of America
once every houri Burn out instantly every
destructive quality in the air and in the
mental and emotional bodies of our people!
Annihilate the cause, effect, record and
memory of all destructive qualities foreve:r;-;
and replace them by the Substance of Light
from the Goddess of Purity eternally sus-
tained.
CLEANSING ATMOSPHERE
OF EARTH No. 122
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Be-
ings and Powers of Light from out the Great
Central Sun! Charge the atmosphere of
earth with the Violet Consuming Flame to
meet the Light descending from above to
more quickly dissolve all discord from the
earth and its atmosphere.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
45
Release an action of the Cosmic Light and
Light Rays charged with Saint Germain's
Power and Qualification of the Violet Con-
suming Flame; to act thru out the surface
and the atmosphere of earth, to more
quickly dispose of all sex creations and sub-
stance around individuals; that the Power
of their own Light may be set into action. I
thank Thee it is done and eternally sus-
tained.
PERMANENT SELF
SUPPORT No. 123
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Take Command of
mankind everywhere and wipe from their
consciousness the feeling and acknowledg-
ment of old age and incapacity to earn a
living! Awaken them to the necessity of
giving service to America and their fellow-
men; in return for their supply instead of
being a dependent upon the state, com-
munity or other persons! Arouse them to
sufficient self-respect to make the effort to
be self-supporting; to turn to their "Mighty
I AM Presence," the Source of all supply,
and thru their calls to It, bring forth ten
times more of every good thing than is re-
qmred; and to be a blessing to the earth,
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
4&
instead of a burden. I thank Thee it is done
and I accept the instantaneous awakening of
all mankind to their own God-control and
Dominion!
PROTECTION FOR THE
U.S.A. No. 124
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Beings and Powers
of Light from the Great Central Sun! Seize
possession of the United States of America,
the government and the people! Control her
resources by Thy Almighty Perfection. En-
velope her in that Invincible Wall of Light
thru which naught can pass, but the Per-
fection of the Ascended Masters eternally
sustained!
FOUNTAIN OF BLESSINGS No. 125
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Make me the As-
cended Masters' Infinite Foundation of Lim-
itless Gifts and Blessings, from the "Mighty
I AM Presence" to all I contact-to all my
thoughts rest upon; ever expanding those
Blessings until only Thy Perfection mani-
fests thru me to all mankind.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
47
RELEASE FOR LARGE
CLASSES No. 126
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of ..__..
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light! Release into my hands and
use and that of every "I AM" Student in
America and thruout the world, ten times
more money than we require for the Perfect
Service to the Light and America which we
desire to render! Take us to the Large Classes
of the Messengers in the most perfect man-
ner, with all our expenses paid and abun-
dance to spare; so we may give the assistance
America needs and release the energy re-
quired by the Great Ones to render that
service. I thank Thee it is done and I accept
the instantaneous manifestation and fulfil-
ment of this my call right now.
PROTECTION FROM
SUGGESTION No. 127
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! You hold eternal
guard and see that I never take on sugges-
tions from any person, place, condition or
thing, but instead make me at all times the
Ascended Masters' Full Perfection in action
eternally sustained.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
48
CONSUMING OF PROJECTED
SUBSTANCE No. 128
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light from out the
Great Central Sun! Release an action of the
Cosmic Light or a Special Dispensation that
will permit the withdrawal, dissolving and
consuming of all destructive substance pro-
jected around vicious individuals by the
black magicians or entities; then turn back
upon such individuals their own destructive
accumulation and bind it back into their
solar plexus with bands of Blue Lightning
and let it take its toll. Give to the construc-
tive people of earth their complete Freedom
from all such destructive forces forever. I
accept the instantaneous manifestation to
this my call.
THE THREE-FOLD WHITE
FIRE BEING No. 129
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Make me the Three-
fold White Fire Being from the Heart of
God, in action in all I do every second this
day and forever.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
49
GUARD AGAINST HUMAN
FEELING No. 130
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! You hold eternal
guard and see that I never accept any feel-
ing nor consciousness less than the Ascended
Masters' Perfection eternally sustained.
PROTECTING DEFENDERS
OF AMERICA No. 131
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters, God of the Air, K-17 and
Your Legions of Light, our Blessed As-
cended Messenger, Saint Germain, Jesus,
Nada, Great Divine Director, Goddess of
Light, Harmony and Beloved Victory! En-
circle every boat; every airplane and every
man in the army, navy and aerial forces with
K-17's Ring Pass not of Blue Flame! See that
every human being in those channels re-
ceives his Ascension in this embodiment be-
cause of his willingness to give protection
to the mass of the people. Take out of those
channels everyone who is not a million per-
cent loyal to the "Light of God that never
fails" and the United States of America. Re-
place them by Ascended Master Friends of
the Light who always hold the Victory of the
Light eternally sustained.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., Ig40)
50
PROTECTING AMERICA'S
BUSINESS No. 132
Almighty Ascended Masters and Cosmic
Powers of Light! Sweep thru the business
world of the United States of America! Dis-
solve and consume every destructive force
and everything that attempts to limit the
service of constructive business to the peo-
ple. Annihilate cause, effect, record and
memory of every vicious thing in our land;
and bring forth the Perfection Saint Ger-
main wants our people to have and see it is
eternally sustained.
COSMIC PROTECTION No. 133
Make the following call many times a day:
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light! Release an ac-
tion of the Blue Flame from out the Great
Central Sun and sweep it thruout the mental
and feeling world of our people and into the
government of the United States of Amer-
ica! Dissolve all destructive conditions, ac-
tivities, impulses; cause, effect, record and
memory and replace them by the Ascended
Masters' Victory, Purity, Authority and Per-
fection eternally sustained.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
51
PERFECTING AMERICA No. 134
I call to the "Mighty I AM Presence"
and Higher Mental Body of everyone in
America! Descend with full Ascended Mas-
ter Power and place Your Arms about the
physical body of everyone in our land. Hold
bound and inactive everything human until
it is raised to the Light of Thy Heart and
every destructive thing is consumed by the
Pressure of Light! Hold our beloved United
States of America in "the Light as of a Thou-
sand Suns" and increase that Pressure of
Light, until every destructive thing within
our borders is annihilated from the Universe
cause, effect, record and memory; and fore-
ever replaced by the Substance of the God-
dess of Purity, the Legions of Light, the
Power of Harmony and Victory's Victory of
the Light in full Dominion forever! I thank
Thee it is done.
ILLUMINED OBEDIENCE No. 135
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Ascended
Masters and Powers of Light! Sweep into
that condition! Dissolve it, cause, effect,
record and memory! Replace it by the As-
cended Masters' Illumined Obedience to
Life which is strong enough to know what
to do and determined enough to do it! See
that individual gives obedience to Life now
and forever.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
52
PROTECTING YOUR
ENERGY No. 136
"Mighty I AM Presence" and my Higher
Mental Body! Descend in full Ascended
Master Power behind me and place Your
Hands over my solar plexus. Hold me tight
and draw me within the Flame of Your
Heart and see I stay there forever.
CONTROLLING SPEECH No. 137
"Mighty I AM Presence" and my Higher
Mental Body! Stand behind me and keep
Your Hands on my mouth this day. Don't let
me say one thing that is not the Ascended
Masters' Words.
INDIVIDUAL PROTECTION No. 138
Speaking directly to the Higher Mental
Body of destructive individuals, say:
In the Name of the "Mighty I AM Pres-
ence," descend and clamp Your Arms around
that individual! Take him (or her) into
Your Flame. Crush out of existence every
destructive impulse and release the As-
cended Masters' God-control thru him (or
her). Make that one unable to do anything
destructive to our people!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
53
DEFENSE AGAINST DIS-
TURBING CONDITIONS No. 139
My "Mighty I AM Presence" and the
Great Host of Ascended Masters are my way,
my protection, my defense and my deliver-
ance from every disturbing condition; and
about me always are Their Everlasting
Arms. (Feel the Arms of your Presence
around your solar plexus and Itself dazzling
white enfolding your physical body.)
VICTORYOVER DESTRUC-
TIVE CONDITIONS No. 140
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! You are my way, my
protection, my defense and my Victory over
every destructive condition and about me
are Your Ever-lasting Arms. Hold me close
within Yourself and give me Your Limitless
supply of every good thing, including
money. See I use it all in the Service of the
Light directed by Ascended Master Wisdom
eternally sustained.
CLEARING EMOTIONAL
BODIES No. 141
"Mighty I AM Presence," Saint Germain,
Jesus, Nada Great Divine Director, Arch-
angel Michael, Goddess of Light, Goddess
of Justice, Goddess of Purity and Our
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
54
Blessed Messenger! Walk thru the mental
and emotional bodies of all under this Ra-
diation. Take out everything human, fill
them with everything Divine and make
them White Fire Beings in full power!
ONLY PERFECTION No. 142
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Clothe me in my
Mighty Magic Electronic Tube of Ascended
Master Light Substance, charged with the
Power of the Ascended Masters to take out
of me everything human; and replace it with
everything Divine and see I do not know nor
register anything less than Thy Ascended
Master Perfection.
CONTROLLING DESTRUC-
TION IN OTHERS No. 143
"Mighty I AM Presence," Saint Germain,
Jesus, Goddess of Light and Mighty Oro-
mosisl Walk thru that individual's emo-
tional body and stop that human feeling!
Annihilate every atom of it, cause, effect,
record and memory and see that one never
feels like that again. Make him (or her) be-
have himself (or herself) and be decent and
forget it. "Mighty I AM Presence" I place
that one in Your Hands. YOU see he never
does that againI
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
55
COSMIC HARMONY No. 144
"Mighty I AM 路Presence" and Beloved
Harmony! Walk thru my mental and feel-
ing bodies! Take out every discord and re-
place it by Your Cosmic Power of Harmony!
Hold It eternally sustained in my feeling
world forever with full掳 power.
AMERICA'S FIELD OF
PARADISE No. 145
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light! Release such
an intense Power of Light from the Great
Central Sun that It will sweep out every-
thing human and sweep in everything Di-
vine, until America is Harmony's Field of
Paradise.
PROTECTING AMERICA No. 146
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and the Higher Mental
Body of all people in our governmental
channels and official places! Release an in-
tensified Wave of Light thru those individ-
uals' mental and emotional bodies! Sweep
out all selfishness and everything human!
Sweep in everything Divine and expand the
impulse in each one to stand for the Perfec-
tion of America and the Victory of her Light
more powerfully than they do for their own
fortunes and in spite of all human vicious-
ness.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
56
SELECTIVE INTELLIGENCE No. 147
"Mighty IAM Presence"! Charge me with
the Ascended Masters' Full Illumination
and Power of the Selective Intelligence of
my Higher Mental Body and see I never
fail nor make a mistake, and that I never
miss nor disobey a prompting from Thee or
the Ascended Masters. See that Your and the
Ascended Masters' Selective Intelligence
holds full command of me in everything I
do forever!
CONSTRUCTIVE QUALITIES No. 148
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light! Charge every
constructive quality I call forth with the
Ascended Masters' Consciousness and Pres-
ence of Light that is always victorious.
REPELLING BY THE PRES-
SURE OF LIGHT No. 148
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Hold me in the Power
of the Great Silence! Take this feeling and
consume it this instant! Replace it with Thy
Pressure of Light from inside out, so not one
person in this house can send out one dis-
cordant thought, feeling or word. Charge
this home with the Power of the Great Si-
lence and the Pressure of Light that drives
out every destructive quality and holds Your
Dominion here forever.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
57
OVER-WHELMING THE
BUND No. 149
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light from the Great Central
Sun! Sweep into every communistic activity
on the West Coast of the United States of
America (or any other location) this very
moment with a tidal Wave of Blue Flame
and annihilate their hypnotic domination
of the people! Withdraw all energy, money,
influence, power and supply from them and
collapse them in the midst of their own vi-
ciousness. Take them bound, helpless and
inactive to the compound of Light and hold
them there, until their viciousness is burned
out; and they serve the Light in humble
grateful obedience forever. Seek out every
individual among their ranks who has been
hypnotized into serving them! Cut those in-
dividuals forever free from that influence.
Walk thru their mental and emotional
bodies and consume everything human. Re-
place it by everything Divine and claim all
into the Victory and Service of the Light
who really want the Constructive Way of
Life. Blaze this same activity into the Ger-
man bundl Dissolve and annihilate that and
all other such activities from our Country
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
58
this very hour, by whatever action of the
Blue Flame is needed.
We call directly to the Archangel Mi-
chael, our Beloved Messenger and the Great
Goddess of Light to sweep Your Pressure of
Light into every one of those individuals,
with such an Almighty overwhelming Power
that those destructive forces are cleared from
our country today and forever; and replaced
by the Legions of Light to hold Eternal Vic-
tory and Dominion of Your Light forever.
POWER OF THE GREAT
SILENCE No. 150
"Mighty I AM Presence"! See that within
My Tube of Light I am always held within
the full Power of the Great Silence.
SHUTTING YOUR DOOR No. 151
"Mighty I AM Presence"! You shut my
door against that condition and don't let it
in any more. You take command and hold a
Pressure of Light inside of me greater than
that discord and see that I never accept any
such thing again!
CHARGING YOUR TUBE OF
LIGHT No. 152
Every morning: "Mighty I AM Pres-
ence"! Charge my Tube of Light and fill and
surround me with the Power and Feeling of
(CojJyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., Ig40)
59
the Great Silence! Make the Pressure of that
Tube of Light so great from inside out that
nothing of the outer world can register in
me.
PURIFYING MENTAL AND
EMOTIONAL BODIES No. 153
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light! Our Beloved Messenger,
Saint Germain, Jesus, Goddess of Light,
Astrea, Oromasisl Walk thru the mental and
emotional bodies of every "I AM" Student
once in every twenty-four hours! Take out
every destructive impulse and accumula-
tion and replace it by such Herculean
Strength, Energy and Power of Light that
whatever Pressure of Light is needed may be
blazed thru every one every instant; until
It goes into the affairs of the nation and by
the very intensity of that Light, forces all
destructive qualities and conditions to drive
back into their own cause and burn them-
selves out of the Universe forever.
COURTS OF LAW No. 154
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light who guard the
destiny of the United States of America!
Loose that "Light as of a Thousand Suns"
into every activity of our people; into all
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
60
courts of law and holding That Pressure and
Power of Light sustained, consume all that
is not Thy Divine Justice! Take command
of the affairs of all under this RadiationI
Blaze forth t~ru the mental and feeling.
world of every one of us, Thy full Almighty
Victory and Power of Light; dissolving all
things human and replacing them by all
things Divine. Charge us with Ascended
Master Miracles and Victories of the Light
in all we do forever!
PURIFYING ALL LEGAL
ACTIVITIES No. 155
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light who guard and
govern the destiny of the United States of
America and Great Goddess of Justice! Com-
mand and compel Thy Divine Justice to de-
scend into every legal activity against the
"I AM" Students that does not contain Thy
Divine Justice! Dissolve cause, effect, record
and memory of all those unjust conditions!
Replace them by Thy Perfect Balance, Thy
Divine Justice and Thy Authority! Then
reign supreme thruout our affairs and in all
courts of law forever.
Sweep everywhere that "Light as of a
Thousand Suns!" Consume all unnecessary
legal procedure and all that does not guaran-
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
61
tee and give Divine Justice to our people!
What we have called forth for ourselves, we
call forth for every human being on this
earth and ask that it be eternally sustained.
DIVINE JUSTICE AND RE-
LEASE FROM EXCESS
TAXATION No. 156
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Powers
of Light and all Great Beings and Powers of
Divine Justice! Sweep our country from
shore to shore with Thy Action of the Cos-
mic Light; and this very moment as we issue
this Decree, release our people from all ex-
cess taxation. Replace it by Thy Divine Jus-
tice, Freedom and Invincible Protection of
the Light which is the Command of Life,
the "Mighty I AM Presence," and the eter-
nal destiny of our people of the United
States of America. We accept this co-ex-
istent with our call and see that it is main-
tained forever.
CONSUMING MISUNDER-
STANDING No. 157
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Dissolve and consume
all mass ignorance and misunderstanding of
the centuries and hold me absolutely In-
vincible and Free from all suggestions and
every quality that is less than Ascended Mas-
ter Perfection eternally sustained.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
62
GUARDING YOUR
QUALIFICATION No. 158
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Hold Your Pro-
tection about all the energy I call forth to-
day; and see that my power of qualification
does not interfere or requalify it with any-
thing less than the Ascended Masters' Per-
fection, eternally sustained.
ASCENDED MASTER
FEELING No. 159
"Mighty I AM Presence" I Keep my being
and world charged full to over-flowing with
the Ascended Masters' FEELING of Mas-
tery in all I do foreverI
QUALIFYING EXPANDING
LIGHT No. 160
"Mighty I AM Presence"! I call to You to
qualify the expansion of the Light in my
mind and body today to be eternally sus-
tained and ever-expanding with only As-
cended Master Qualities.
ANNIHILATING
UNKNOWN FEELING No. 161
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Take out of my
feeling world every feeling, known or un-
known that would in anywise act upon my
outer attainment of Perfection to delay it or
cause discord.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
63
ANNIHILATING ATOMIC
OBSTRUCTION No. 162
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Annihilate all
atomic obstruction and consciousness within
my flesh body and replace it with the As-
cended Masters' Consciousness and Sub-
stance of Purity, Mastery, Obedience, Vic-
tory and Perfection eternally sustained.
ANNIHILATING THE
WORLD'S WAR PLANS No. 163
"Mighty I AM Presence," and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light! Charge the
Cosmic Light that is touching the earth to-
day with the Full Power of the Blue Light-
ning of Divine Love as of a Thousand Suns!
Blaze It everywhere into the war conditions
of EuropeI Blast all war, cause, effect, record
and memory from existence forever! Anni-
hilate this instant all plans and materials for
future war. Release blessed humanity of
earth into the consciousness of the Ascended
Masters' Understanding of Life and hold
them lovingly obedient to It forever.
(Note: Use the above for strike conditions
in America. Blast all strike agitation and
communistic activity, cause, effect, record
and memory from the face of the earth fore-
ever!)
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
64
MAKING FLESH
TRANSPARENT No. 164
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Make the flesh
of my body as Transparent, Pure and Per-
fect as Your Heart, and charged forever with
Ascended Master Eternal Youth, Beauty and
Perfection.
ETERNAL DOMINION No. 165
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Make every cell
of my body the Flame of Divine Love from
Your Heart, charged with Saint Germain's,
Jesus', Nada's, the Divine Director's, our
Beloved Messenger's, the Rose of Light's,
Sanat Kumara's, the Lord Miatreya's, Cyclo-
pea's and the Secret Love Star's Ascended
Master Consciousness, Substance, Power,
Light, Purity, Victory and Activity in Its
most dynamic Onrush; until Thy Flame is
visible to the physical sight of all who gaze
upon me. Charge me forever with Their As-
cended Master Eternal Youth, Beauty and
Perfection; that I may stand a Living Ex-
ample of the fulfilment of the Law and my
"Mighty I AM Presence" comes thru this
flesh in Eternal Dominion.
ASCENDED MASTER SELF No. 166
"I AM" the Presence drawing my body
into the Perfect Form, Figure, Purity,
Beauty and Perfection of my Ascended Mas-
ter Self, physically manifest and eternally
sustained.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., Ig40)
65
INDESTRUCTIBLE
HEALTH No. 167
"I AM" Saint Germain's Ascended Mas-
ter Consciousness and Power of the Violet
Consuming Flame penetrating thru this
outer form, absorbing and consuming all
that is imperfect and superfluous in my body
and charging it with Herculean Strength,
Energy, Courage, Power and indestructible
Health forever.
PERFECTING CELLS No. 168
"I AM" the Resurrection and the Life of
every cell of my body Perfectly manifest, ex-
pressed, illumined and eternally sustained in
Ascended Master Victory!
ASCENDED MASTER
FREEDOM No. 169
"I AM" the Presence raising the atomic
structure of this body into the Ascended
Masters' Full Illumination and Freedom,
eternally sustained.
REMOVING DISCORDANT
SUBSTANCE AT NIGHT
SANAT KUMARA No. 178
"Mighty I AM Presence"! When I re-
tire, thru the activity of the Violet Consum-
ing Flame, take out of my body every bit of
substance that has been discordantly quali-
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
66
fied. I accept this with Ascended Master firm
unyielding Determination that this shall be
the result when I awaken, and that every-
thing is dissolved which does not produce
Perfection in my body.
CHARGING BODY WITH
DIVINE DIRECTOR'S
PERFECTION No. 171
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Di-
vine Director! Hold my body in Your Won-
drous Embrace of Light and while I sleep
enable me to recharge it with Your Limitless
Energy! In the morning, see that I am
happy, joyous and filled witli Your Direct-
ing Intelligence and Strengtl) for the day.
ASCENDED MASTER FOR-
GIVENESS AND FORG~T路
FULNESS No. 172
"I AM" the Ascended Masters' Eternal,
complete and unconditional forgiveness and
forgetfulness of all human creation past,
present and future; and the replacement of
it by the full Perfection of the Ascended
Masters, instantly manifest, eternally sus-
tained and ever-expanding.
(Copyright by St. Germain Prt;ss, Inc., z940)
67
INNER SPHERES OF LIGHT No. 173
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Take me to the
Ascended Masters' Inner Spheres of Light
tonight and instruct me in all I should do!
See that I bring into my outer activity when
I awaken in the morning, the Full Ascended
Masters' Power and Action which correct all
mistakes and produce Perfection in my every
activity eternally sustained.
DISSOLVING HUMAN
'
DESIRES No. 174
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Dissolve every
human impulse, feeling, desire, trait, habit
and accumulation in me which might still
be there, of which I am aware or unaware!
Consume it in the Violet Consuming Flame
and replace it with Ascended Master Light
Substance. Hold Your Dominion over my
feeling world and see that it never again ac-
cepts any human quality.
CHARGING WALLS WITH
LIGHT-SUBSTANCE No. 175
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Charge the walls of
my room with the Electronic Substance from
the Ascended Masters' Octave of Life. Hold
it eternally sustained and pouring forth Its
Purifying Radiance to everyone who enters.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
68
BLESSING TO THE
ASCENDED MASTERS No. 176
I call to the Great Central Sun, the Source
of ALL Light, and ask It to bestow upon our
Beloved Messenger, Saint Germain, Jesus,
Nada, the Divine Director, Sanat Kumara,
and all the Other Ascended Masters and
Cosmic Beings, Its Mightiest Blessings, Vic-
tories and Outpouring of Light and Love
eternally sustained and ever-expanding.
DISTURBING CONDITIONS No. 177
In the Name of the "Mighty I AM Pres-
ence," and by the Power of the Three times
Three, the Unfed Flame and the Cosmic
Light, I say unto every discordant person,
place, condition and thing within the earth,
on the earth or in its atmosphere who would
attempt in any way to distress, disrupt, dis-
turb or destroy America, her government or
her people:
"YOU HAVE NO POWER"!
"YOU SHALL NOT PASS"!
"YOUR DAY IS DONE"!
"GET OUT AND STAY OUT OF THE
BORDERS OF OUR BELOVED AMER-
ICA FOREVER"!
COMMANDING THE
ELEMENTS No. 178
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Charge me
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
69
with the God Tabor's Ascended Master Con-
sciousness, Purity, Perfection and Illumina-
tion. Mighty GOD TABOR! Anchor within
my consciousness and feeling world the
quality of my ability, in cooperation with
You, to silence or part the storm; to with-
hold the frost and bring rain when and
where it is required; to establish a condition
of sunshine or moisture wherever it is re-
quired, and to sustain these conditions to
produce Perfection everywhere forever!
GREAT DIVINE DIREC-
TOR'S REQUEST No. 179
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Here "I AM"
a Projection of Thyself! Glorify Thyself in
me, in the projection of Thy Wondrous Per-
fection and Mighty Directing Intelligence!
Cause this body to glow with Thy Perfect
Health and Strength! Cause this mind and
body to glow with the fulness of Thy Health
and Energy; with Thy Light Substance
called forth from the Secret Love Star, which
cannot be requalified by human feelings!
Charge me, my mind, body and world with
the fulness of this Light Substance; and
cause the Intelligence which Thou art, Oh
"Mighty I AM Presence" to sweep into ac-
tion in my world and produce your As-
cended Master Perfection and hold Your
Dominion there forever.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
70 -
PROTECTING OUR YOUNG
PEOPLE No. 180
"Mighty I AM Presence," Blessed Saint
Germain, Jesus, Nada, Great Divine Direc-
tor, our Beloved Messenger, Blessed Meta,
Sanat Kumara, Himalaya, David Lloyd, Mr.
and Mrs. Rayborn, Nada, Bob, Rex and
Pearl, Najah and Fun Wayt Charge into the
mental and feeling world of all young people
Your Mighty Purifying, protecting Power
to hold Its Purity and Dominion thereI Give
them the Strength and Courage to stand
dauntless against all destructive forces di-
rected against them. We say to all such
forces: "You have no Power! Your day is
doneI Be thou dissolved and consumed for-
ever!"
Great Powers of Light! Take command of
every young person on the planet! Cut all
free from everything that tries to dim their
Light or delay their Victory! We call to the
Higher Mental Bodies of each one to see
that Divine Order, Divine Justice and Di-
vine Perfection take command of their
minds and bodies and cut them free from
all false concepts and opinionsI See that they
accept the Reality of their own "Mighty I
AM Presence," call to It for assistance and
thru that gain their Freedom in this embodi-
ment. We thank Thee it is done!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
71
REMOVING LYING, DECEIT,
TREACHERY No. 181
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Take out of me
and every human being under this Radia-
tion the capacity for lying, deceit and treach-
ery of every kind. Replace those qualities by
the Goddess of Truth in eternal possession
of their consciousness and fill them with the
Ascended Masters' Illumined Obedience,
God-control and Management in all they do
foreverI
AVIATION, TRANSPORTATION,
ETC. No. 182
"Mighty I AM Presence," God of the Air,
Great Host of Ascended Masters and all
Great Beings and Powers of Light! Stand
guard over all channels of aviation, trans-
portation, communication, public utilities
and all channels that serve the necessities
of Life to mankind (especially our food
supply); our army, navy and all activities of
our National DefenseI Reveal to the people
of America all deceit, treachery, intrigue
and spy activity within those channels! See
that there is nothing hidden that is not re-
vealed! Seek out, uncover, expose and anni-
hilate all spy activity, treachery and intrigue
within the United States of America- its
cause, effect, record and memory! Replace it
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
72
with the Ascended Masters' Eternal Loyalty,
Protection and Perfection to all. Keep war
out of America and keep America out of war
forever!
Mighty Archangel Michael, Goddess of
Light and our Beloved Messenger! Wield
Your SWORDS OF BLUE FLAME and by
the Power of the Blue Ray dissolve and con-
sume every vicious intent! Kill all destruc-
tive impulses in every destructive force
within our borders! Replace those qualities
with the Ascended Masters' Consciousness of
Honor, Honesty, Integrity and Blessing to
all mankind. We thank Thee it is done and
this Decree goes forth charged with the
"Power of a Thousand Suns" to fulfill it in-
stantly and hold it eternally sustained.
DOPE, TOBACCO, ETC. No. 183
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light; especially
Those Great Beings who govern the Forces
of Nature! Blaze Your Blue Lightning and
thru the use of Your SWORD OF BLUE
FLAME and that "Light as of a Thousand
Suns," sweep into all channels using dope,
tobacco, liquor and other substances that
injure, bind or destroy mankind! Blast and
annihilate those substances from the face of
the earth forever! Take out of the feeling
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
73
world of mankind the desire for those sub-
stances, annihilate the impulse that pro-
duces it and replace it with the Ascended
Masters' Light-Substance, Cosmic Divine
Love and eternally sustained Satisfaction of
the Light!
Mighty Maha ChohanI Withdraw and
withhold all energy from all that grows and
produces this substance and make it wither
and disappear from the earth forever. We
thank Thee Thou dost always answer our
call.
MINUTE MEN'S PROTECTION
AND BUSINESS No. 184
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters, Mighty Legions of Light,
Great Angelic Host, Great Cosmic Beings, "'
Great Cosmic Light, our Beloved Messen-
ger, Saint Germain, Jesus, Nada and the
Great Divine Director; all who govern the
destiny of the United States of America!
Blaze forth whatever intensity and Power
of Light are required into the mental and
feeling world of the men of the United
States of America and say to them: Awake!
awakeI awakeI to the Victory and Freedom
of the Light the Ascended Masters are offer-
ing thru this "I AM" Activity! Arise! As-
cend! and command into the United States
of America the release and intensity of Light
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
74
that bring ten thousand Minute Men into
this Group within the next year. Blaze forth
whatever Power is necessary to awaken them
to this necessity.
We speak directly to their Higher Mental
Bodies to clear away all obstruction and ex-
pand the Light within so intensely that of
their own volition they will have to come
into this activity; and facing the Light re-
lease the Power of the "I AM" and Ascended
Masters into every constructive business
activity in America! Give those lines of busi-
ness the Ascended Masters' Invincible Pro-
tection and compel Divine Justice to be
given to all the American people forever.
Release unto every constructive line of
business an abundance of perfect customers,
perfect contracts and supply of every good
thing, including money for their Service to
the Light! See that they are brought to Per-
fection and held eternally sustained in the
Service of the Light, until all are free and
victorious in that Light. See that no one
under this Radiation lacks for any good
thing. Keep in their hands and use at all
times ten times more than is required of
every good thing, including money for their
Perfect upkeep and expansion. See that all
pay their just and honorable debts on time;
that they stand before the world the living
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
75
fulfilment of the Truth of this Law and
the Perfection of the Ascended Masters, un-
til the moment of their Ascension. We
accept this acting in full power and vic-
torious forever.
CREATIONS OF BLACK
MAGICIANS No. 185
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings
and Powers of Light! Jesus, Nada, Great
Divine Director, our Beloved Messenger,
Goddess of Light, Archangel Michael,
Mighty Astrea, Oromasisl Withdraw all
Life, energy, activity and sustaining power
from all creations of the black magicians.
Turn that Life back into its Perfect God-
channel and see it never again expresses thru
forms that are not Perfect, Free, beautiful
and used for constructive purposes.
ATTENTION, ETC. No. 186
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light! Take possession of ALL
my time, attention, vision, sight, hearing,
speech, action, thought, feeling, substance,
energy, Being, world and free will; produce
Ascended Master Perfection in, thru and
around me and hold Your Dominion for-
ever in my entire Being and world.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
76
FREEING INDIVIDUALS FROM
DESTRUCTIVE INFLUENCE No.187
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Ascended Beings and Powers of Light!
Sweep into all subversive activities in---
and thruout the world! With Your SWORD
OF BLUE FLAME, and by the full Cos-
mic Power and Authority of the BLUE RAY
annihilate every destructive intent, plan,
activity and influence that opposes This
Work-the "Light of God that never fails."
Release every sincere, loyal individual serv-
ing in that activity from all hypnotic domi-
nation and destructive influence! Cut all
such individuals free and keep them free
from all suggestions of doubt, fear or ignor-
ance which hold them bound! Then cause
them to turn to the Light, serve It and gain
their Freedom in the Ascended Masters'
Full Victory of the Ascension!
Mighty Archangel Michael wield Your
SWORD OF BLUE FLAME and cut every
individual free from all destructive influ-
ence, who knowingly or unknowingly serves
the sinister force thru their contact and as-
sistance to people in places of trust. With-
draw from those who are wilfully vicious
all money, energy, influence, power and ac-
tivity of every kind! Make them helpless to
ever again serve the darkness! Command all
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
77
to serve only Constructive Activities in the
future! We thank Thee it is done and eter-
nally sustained with the Power of a Thou- _./
sand Suns!
PROTECTION AGAINST FOREST
FIRES AND TO CROPS No. 188
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters, Mighty Legion of Light,
Great Angelic Host, Great Cosmic Beings,
Great Cosmic Light and all Beings of Light
who govern the Forces of the Elements-God
Tabor, Oromasis, Mighty Maha Chohan,
K-17 and Your Legion of Light! Send the
Angelic Host and Powers of the Elements to
stand guard over all the forests, forestry serv-
ice and crops in the United States of Amer-
icaI Annihilate, annihilate, annihilate every
destructive force and condition within,
around or imposed upon them; and all such
causes, effects, records and memory! En-
circle them in K-17's Ring Pass Not of Blue
Flame and bring forth such Perfection,
Abundance, Beauty and Victory of the Light
in them as to always hold them in the As-
cended Masters' Possession Direction and
eternally sustained service to America and
the world.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
78
ANNIHILATING DESTRUCTIVE
THOUGHT AND FEELING
FORMS No. 189
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers from the Great Central
Sun! Release whatever intensity of Thy Con-
suming Power is required to annihilate this
instant all destructive thought and feeling
forms within and around every human being
and all activities in America! Replace them
by the Goddess of Purity's Substance of
Light, to hold Her Perfection Victorious and
in possession of all activities of the mental
and feeling world of our people forever.
ASCENDED MASTER
POSSESSION No. 190
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Annihilate every-
thing human in me and my world this in-
stant and replace it by the Ascended Mas-
ters' Victory of Perfection in full possession
of my entire Life Stream and all Divine Ac-
tivities forever.
REMOVING IRRITATION
FOREVER No. 191
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light! Draw forth
from the Great Central Sun whatever Quali-
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
79
ties of Ascended Master Consciousness and
Feeling are required to annihilate all irrita-
tion, its cause, effect, record and memory in .__/
all "I AM" Students and every human being
on earth this instant! Make it eternally im-
possible for that quality to ever exist or act
within them or this world again.
GUARDING YOUR ENERGY No. 192
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended ~asters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light from the Great Central
Sun! See that my Higher Mental Body
stands guard forever over me and my world;
and if any energy goes forth from me or my
world qualified with anything less than As-
cended Master Victory, Purity and Perfec-
tion, seize it instantly; and annihilate that
quality from my Being and world and from
all mankind and the Universe forever.
MUSIC No. 193
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters, Great Angelic Host, Be-
loved Goddess of Music, the Venetian, the
Goddess of Purity and Mighty Harmony!
Release into the earth those mighty Purify-
ing and Healing Melodies from the Sphere
of Light, over which You are the Controll-
ing Power! Blast and annihilate from the
face of the earth this instant all jazz and
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
80
swing music and all modern art. Replace
them with the Music of the Spheres and the
beautiful Art coming forth from Your As-
cended Master Octave. We accept this and
thank Thee it is done this instant, eternally
sustained and ever expanding.
QUALIFYING CONSTRUCTIVE
MUSIC No. 194
"Mighty I AM Presence, Great Host of
Ascended Masters, Great Cosmic Beings,
Great Cosmic Light, the Goddess of Music,
our Beloved Messenger, Saint Germain,
Jesus, Nada, Great Divine Director, Cosmos
and God of the Air! Qualify all our music
with the Ascended Masters' Power of Per-
fection and Victory which heals, illumines,
raises and holds obedient to the Light all
who hear, play or use it and keep that ac-
tivity eternally sustained.
ACKNOWLEDGING "THE LIGHT
AS OF A THOUSAND SUNS" No. 195
"I AM" the Ascended Masters' Calm,
Poised, Peaceful, Wise, Loving, Illumined,
Majestic, Victorious, Miraculous, Balanced,
Harmonious, Herculean God-control of
every person, place, condition and thing I
contact every second this day and forever
in the full Cosmic Presence, Power and Ac-
tivity of that "Light as of a Thousand Suns."
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
81
PERFECT CLOTHES, HOMES,
DECORATIONS, ETC. No. 196
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! See that I am always
supplied with the Perfect Ascended Master
Clothes, Home, decoration and surround-
ings at all times! Whenever I buy anything,
see that I get the Perfect thing at the Per-
fect place in the Perfect way for the Perfect
price at the Perfect time; and that I always
use it for the Perfect purpose in the Service
of the Light and it is eternally sustained and
ever expanding.
ASCENDED MASTER
INSISTENCE No. 197
"Mighty I AM Presence," Beloved
Daphne and all Great Beings and Powers of
Lightl Charge me with Your Full Ascended
Master Feeling eternally sustained of the
following, once an hour until my Ascen-
sion: "I AM" the Presence insisting on As-
cended Master Perfection in everything in
my Being and world-right here and now
this instant-and forever!
INFLEXIBLE
DETERMINATION No. 198
"Mighty I AM Presence" and All Great
Ascended Beings and Powers of Light!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
82
Charge me every instant with the Ascended
Masters' Inflexible Determination and Over-
whelming Repelling Pressure of Light that
holds me adamant against all discordant per-
sons, places, conditions and things forever!
Make and keep me the Almighty Victory of
Light over all unlike the Light forever.
CONSUMING HUMAN
VICIOUSNESS No. 199
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light from the Great
Central Sun! Command that human vicious-
ness into the compound of Light and see
that it is burned out of the consciousness,
the thought and feeling of mankind forever;
and replaced by the Substance of Light from
the Goddess of Purity and Victory's Victory
of the Light forever!
CONSTRUCTIVE INDIVIDUAL'S
CONTROL No. 280
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light! See that all money in the
future is placed in the hands of constructive
individuals or activities; and used for the
protection, defense and expansion of the
Light in America and the world. If indi-
viduals will not serve the Light, then take
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
83
them into the Compound of Light that they
may no longer build that viciousness to re-
turn upon themselves! Replace them with
the Legions of Light in action.
DECREE OF BLUE FLAME No. 201
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Ascended Masters and Beings from the Great
Central Sun! In the Full Power of Your
SWORD OF BLUE FLAME, withdraw and
withhold all money, energy, power, in-
fluence, activity and use of the free will from 1
all destructive individuals, channels and ac-
tivities in America and the world! Collapse
them by binding their own destruction im-
posed on others back into themselves!
Draw all money, energy, power, influence
and activity of mankind, the earth and its at-
mosphere into the control and governing au-
thority of all who are constructive and who
will obey the "Mighty I AM Presence," the
Ascended Masters and the "Light of God
that never fails"! Charge them with the As-
cended Masters' Herculean Love, Light,
Wisdom, Power, Courage, Strength, Di-
rective, Selective Intelligence and Illumined
Obedience to use all ONLY to produce con-
structive activity and Perfection forever!
Hold that sustained, until the last human
being of earth has made his Ascension!
.(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
84
EXCESS TAXATION AND
INJUSTICE No. 202
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings,
Powers, and Authority of Life! Command
and compel the Government of the United
States of America and every individual with-
in it to Stop! Stop! Stop! this very instant
ALL EXCESS TAXATION and INJUS-
TICE imposed on our people!
Great Central Sun! Loose whatever
Powers of Life and Light are necessary to
blast mankind's selfishness and viciousness
to themselves and each other from this work
and the Universe forever! Replace that by
the Ascended Masters' Consciousness and
Feeling of Love, Light, Wisdom and Power
in Perfect Balance and Full Illumined Obe-
dience, Purity and Perfection controlling
all forever.
RELIEF No. 203
"Mighty I AM Presence, Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light! Wipe out of our country
all misuse of relief and replace it by the sane,
sound, sensible provisions of Life which
compel individuals to give the Ascended
Masters' Service to Life that sets each one
free in the Victory of the Ascension.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
85
BOOKS, CHARTS, MAGAZINES,
ETC. FOR VETERANS HOSPITAL
.LIBRARIES, ETC. No. 204
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and the Higher Mental
Body of every human being on earth! Sweep
Your SWORD OF BLUE FLAME into
every channel that opposes this Ascended
Masters' Victory, Light and Freedom for
mankind! Annihilate all obstruction to these
Books, Charts, Flames-in-Action, Pictures,
Magazines, Decrees, Study Group Outlines,
Music, Records and Broadcasts going to
every human being in America and the
world!
Open the way everywhere and see that
everything which is released thru this As-
cended Masters' "I AM" Activity produces
instantaneous Ascended Master Miracles,
Victories, Freedom, Blessings and Perfec-
tion without limit; for every human being
who ever touches them in transit, until the
Cosmic Power of Perfection and the Blaze
of their Glory illumine mankind with the
Ascension and the Perfection of the As-
cended Masters forever!
Place them in every library, school, home,
veteran facility and building on this earth;
until their Ascended Master Power and Vic-
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
86
tory of Light consumes all that is less than
Perfection forever.
CHARGING ANIMATED
CHARTS AND FLAMES No. 205
"Mighty I AM Presence," Saint Germain,
Sanat Kumara, Archangel Michael, Goddess
of Purity and our Beloved Messenger! Pour
into this (Chart or Flame) Your Purifying
and Dissolving Power of Divine Love. Each
day make it a million times more powerful
than it was yesterday. Fill this room, the en-
tire building, the city, the state, the nation
and the earth with Your Light and Power as
of a Thousand Suns pouring thru this Chart-
in-Action and all like it on earth, constantly!
Each day make It a thousand times more
powerful than the day before and keep It
eternally sustained and ever expanding.
HOURLY CALL No. 286
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Charge me with Your
Almighty Perfection and see It is eternally
sustained.
FOR USE IN THE NAVY No. 207
"Mighty I AM Presence," Beloved Nep-
tune, Great Ascended Masters and Beings
from the Great Central Sun! You use and
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
S7
qualify all the energy that goes out from the
ships in our Navy of the United States of
America with full Perfection! Command
the Inhabitants of the water element to en-
fold each ship in Their particular Power
and see that not even a shell directed at our
ships can ever touch them and all that would
seek to destroy them are made helpless in-
stantly!
CHARGING YOUR MONEY
EACH DAY No. 208
"Mighty I AM Presence," Beloved Saint
Germain, our Beloved Messenger, Mighty
Hercules, Goddess of Purity, Sanat Kumara,
Archangel Michaeli Charge this money with
whatever Intensity and Power of the Violet
Consuming Flame are required to correct
every destructive condition in the business
world and all money activity within our
land! See that it goes forth and eats out all
selfishness and discord in human beings
whose hands it touches. Mighty Goddess of
Justice see that Divine Justice and Balance
are established in our land! Charge all our
money, collateral and financial activities
with that Light as of a Thousand Suns, to
command and compel Perfection in and for
our people and our country forever!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
88
DESTRUCTIVE INDIVIDUALS
IN OUR GOVERNMENT No. 209
I speak directly to the mental and feeling
world of every human being within our gov-
ernment and within our borders who is
destructive and vicious and who will not
come into the Constructive Way of Life: In
the Ascended Masters' Authority and Power
of Life, I call the "Mighty I AM Presence"
and the Ascended Masters into action to
loose whatever Blue Lightning is needed to
command and compel them to stop imposing
excess taxation, destructive legal procedure
or any injustice on our people forever!
PROTECTION FROM FIRE No. 210
"Mighty I AM Presence, Great Host of As-
cended Masters and Great Being Orornasis,
Prince of the Fiery Element and Diana God-
dess of FireI Stop this FireI Protect me and
all here instantly and stop every destructive
action of this fire now and forever! I thank
Thee it is doneI
(Oromasis said, that if the students were
endangered by fire, to call to their own
"Mighty I AM Presence" and to Him and
He would see that no harm came. Accept this
in your feeling.)
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
89
COMMANDING DISCORD TO
CEASE No. 211
"Mighty Infinite I AM Presence," Great
Host of Ascended Masters, Mighty Legion
of Light, Great Cosmic Beings, Great Cos-
mic Light, all Great Powers of Light from
the Great Central Sun and all Focuses of
Light to this system of worlds! Pour Your
Light into the United States of America
this moment with whatever pressure is neces-
sary to command and compel all excess taxa-
tion to be removed from our people forever!
Compel every individual who is discord-
ant to cease their discord forever! Compel
all destructive individuals in our govern-
ment from this hour henceforth to stop all
excess taxation! Stop all injustice and all de-
structive legal procedure! Use whatever
intensity of Light and Power are required
to once and forever remove every vicious in-
dividual from within our borders. Take
them to the "Compound of Light" and hold
them there, until their viciousness is burned
out of the Universe forever.
GOD-CONTROL OF OUR
NATIONAL RESOURCES No. 212
"Mighty I AM Presence," Beloved Saint
Germain,our Beloved Messenger, Archangel
Michael, Goddess of Justice, Goddess of
Light and all Great Beings and Powers of
(Copyright by St. Germain Press. Inc., z940)
90
Light. Charge Your Special Cosmic Activi-
ties into all conditions of viciousness within
our land; draw all control of our national
resources into the use of fearless, determined,
all-powerful, constructive people; and see
they are the ONLY authority for their dis-
pensation! Charge all money and collateral
used by the "I AM" Students and all con-
structive individuals with such an Almighty
Cosmic Action and Power of the Violet Con-
suming Flame that everywhere their supply
goes, it compels Ascended Master Purity,
Balance, Divine Justice and Limitless Good
to be released to all that is constructive and
dissolve all else.
Place and keep in the hands and use of all
under this Radiation ten times more than
we require on hand at all times of every good
thing, including money; for our Perfect up-
keep and the Perfect expansion of this Light.
May it blaze now until America is free from
all destructive activities forever, and all man-
kind have turned to this Light and give It
Eternal obedience!
Take this our Decree! Blaze it forth! in-
tensify it a million fold once in twenty-four
hours, until the final Perfection is made vis-
ibly manifest. We accept that done this mo-
ment and eternally sustained with the Power
and "Light of a Thousand Suns"!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
91
NEW ENTITY DECREE No. 213
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light from the Great Central
Sun! Sweep thru the earth and its atmos-
phere this instant. Seize, bind, hold inactive
and remove ,all the rest of the discarnate en-
tities, their claws 'and emissaries and those
of the black magicians, all discordantly qual-
ified .substance, all war lords, all dictators,
all spies, all strike agitators and all wholly
destructive individuals! Take them to the
"Compound of Light" and hold them there
until all destructive qualities and accumula-
tion cause, effect, record and memory are
burned from their Life Streams and they
turn and serve the Light in humble, grateful
obedience to the Perfection of Life forever!
STUDENT'S CALL FOR
DISPENSATIONS No~ 214
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Seings
from the Great Central Sun and the "Mighty
I AM Presence" of every human being on
earth! We call to You to give Saint Germain,
Jesus, Nada, the Great Divine Director, our
Beloved Messenger, the Goddess of Liberty,
Goddess of Light, Arcturus, Archangel
Michael, K-17 and Mighty Cosmos ten times
more Dispensations than those for which
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
92
They have asked, to sustain the Life Stream
of those who go to the "Compound of
Light," so they do not delay the completion
of the Ascended Masters Perfection for this
earth.
We make this call in the Name and Au-
thority of the people of America and the
whole earth, until all are free and the Vic-
tory of the Light raises all into their Ascen-
sion.
COSMOS' PERFECTION No. 215
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Mighty Cos-
mos! Charge me with Your Perfection, Pres-
ence and Power of Light! Make me Yourself
in action at all timesI Hold my feelings free
from all irritation, criticism, condemnation,
envy, jealousy, self-pity, self-justification,
judgment, illness and disturbance of every
kind! Replace all such qualities by the Vic-
tory and Power of Light and keep It eter-
nally sustained. I accept this instantly and
infinitely manifest, eternally sustained and
ever-expanding with the Power of a Thou-
sand Suns!
CALL BEFORE RETIRING No. 216
路 "Mighty I AM Presence"! Raise me! Raise
me! Raise me! into Your Great Heart of
Perfection and see that no person, place nor
condition upon this earth interferes one mo-
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., Ig40)
93
ment in the future with my world and its
perfecting activity.
STAND, FACE AND
CONQUER No. 217
"Mighty I AM Presence and Great Host
路 of Ascended Masters! Make me stand! Face!
and Conquer! by, in, with and thru the
"Light of God that never fail.
s," in all I do
forever! 路(You never conquer by human con-
trol. God-control is the only sustained ac-
tivity.)
ILLUMINED OBEDIENCE No. 218
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Make me humble,
grateful, pure, positive, Victorious, free and
charged forever with Your Loving, Adoring, .._,.,
Illumined Obedience, God-control and
Management of myself and all in my world,
eternally sustained and ever-expanding with
the "Light and Power of a Thousand Suns"!
GOD QUALITIES 路 No. 219
"I AM"the Ascended Master God-control
of my attention, thoughts, feelings, words,
being, world and action; and by the Power
of God, the "Mighty I AM Presence" I de-
mand and command only God Qualities
manifest in all my experience every second
this day and forever; and that my world shall
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., Ig40)
94
never record anything less than Thy As-
cended Master Perfection.
HEALTH IN THE BODY No. 228
(Decree issued by our Beloved Messenger,
in the Washington, D.C. Class in November
and December 1939.) "Mighty I AM Pres-
ence"! Charge my body with such a Power
of the Pressure of Light that it just pushes
out all imperfection, impurity and every
record of discord tha~ causes pain and dis-
tress in the physical body. Sweep it out and
see that it remains out! Take command of
each human form, Oh Powers of Light!
"Mighty I AM Presence" and the Higher
Mental Body of each one! Stand Master over
that form and compel its obedience! Make
me an electro magnet to attract everything
good and to repel any vicious thing that at-
tempts to enter my body. I accept that great
Out-pouring of Love made manifest and
eternally sustained.
FOREST FIRES No. 221
"Mighty I AM Presence," Beloved Maha
Chohan, Beloved Neptune, Mighty God
Tabor, God of the Air, God of Nature! Send
forth the full power of Thy Rays into every
forest fire in this land and stop them this
very instant! Send Thy Mighty Beings to
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
95
stand guard and see that no destructive force
ever again acts within our beloved forests!
Replace all destructive activities within
them by the Magnificent Luxuriance of
the plant life of Venus, to produce Ascended
Master Perfection for man forever!
STRIKES No. ZZ2
"Mighty I AM Presence," Beloved K-17
and Your Legions of Light, Mighty Astrea,
Great Archangel Michael, Goddess of Light,
Rex and Bob, Saint Germain, Jesus, Nada,
the Great Divine Director, our Beloved Mes-
senger and Blessed Goddess of Light! Send
the Angels of Blue Flame into the city of
- - - - and this very hour annihilate,
annihilate, annihilate every strike and every
contemplated strike, cause, effect, record and
memory; and explode, explode, explode
everything that would cause damage to the
city of ------. Withdraw all money,
energy, power and influence from every de-
structive force within that city! Replace it
by Saint Germain's Authority and Power to
command and compel Peace, Divine Justice
and the Ascended Masters eternally sus-
tained Protection and Perfection there. Give
to the city of ----- and its people
from this hour henceforth the Ascended
Masters' Cosmic Power of Protection and
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., Ig40)
96
the full Victory of the "Light of a Thou-
sand Suns" forever. This we have called
forth for the city of - --- - we com-
mand to be focused into every city in our
land, until everything serves this Light and
everybody in humble grateful loving ador-
ing obedience turns to the "Mighty I AM
Presence," Saint Germain and the Ascended
Masters and gives them the obedience en-
ergy they require, to hold America un-
touched by war and destruction forever!
We thank Thee, Thou dost answer our every
call, instantly, infinitely and eternally.
MONEY SUPPLY No. 223
"I AM" here and "I AM" there! Money
floods into me from everywhere as a glad
free Gift of Love and all shall be used in
the Service of the Light, directed by As-
cended Master Wisdom at all times to pro-
duce and expand only Perfection eternally
sustained!
ASCENDED MASTER
DOMINION No. 224
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Charge me
with the Ascended Masters' Full Dominion
in all application that I make forever sus-
tained with the "Light and Power of a
Thousand Suns"!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
97
ASCENDED MASTER
VICTORY No. 225
"Mighty I AM Presence" ! Qualify every
thought and feeling about this --- with
the Ascended Masters' Accomplishment and
Eternal Victory of that "Light and Power
of a Thousand Suns"!
SAINT GERMAIN'S
CONSCIOUSNESS No. 226
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Charge me
with Saint Germain's and our Beloved Mes-
senger's Ascended Master Consciousness
which solves this problem for me perma-
nently.
STORED UP TREASURES No. 227
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Release into my outer
use all Your stored up Treasures today and
hold them forever manifesting in the Serv-
ice of the Light.
Release the accumulation of good stored
up throughout the centuries to fulfill Your
Divine Plan now!
PROTECTING YOUNG
AMERICA'S FEELING No. 228
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Qualify the energy in
the emotional bodies of the younger genera-
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
98
tion with the Ascended Masters' Power and
Purity of Light, Loving. Adoring, Illumined
Obedience, God-control and management,
so no human quality or feeling can register
within their mental or emotional bodies.
QUALITIES FROM THE
GREAT SILENCE No. 229
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Charge my
being and world with the Ease, Comfort,
Peace and Power of the Great Silence; and
hold the emotional bodies of those people
I contact forever purified, at least so far as
their association with me is concerned.
CONTROLLING SELFISH
IMPULSES No. 230
"Mighty I AM Presence," Lord the Maha
Chohan, Goddess of Light, Oromasis, Saint
Germain, Jesus and our Beloved Messenger!
Walk thru the emotional bodies of those in-
dividuals and take out those selfish impulses
forever and replace them with Thy Purity,
Obedience and Perfection eternally sus-
tained and ever-expanding with the "Light
and Power of a Thousand Suns"!
ANNIHILATING MANKIND'S
DESTRUCTIVE QUALITIES No. 231
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and the "I AM Presence"
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
99
of those individuals! Blaze forth Your Light
and take t.
hose destructive qualities out of
.mankind's consciousness forever! See that
that never happens anywhere in the Uni-
verse again.
ANNIHILATING ALL CON-
SCIOUSNESS OF LACK No. 232
"Mighty I AM Presence"1 Don't ever let
me be short of money again! See that the
consciousness of lack is wiped out of the
whole Universe, so no part of Life can ever
think of nor lack for any good thing ever
again; but instead use all of everything con-
structively and hold the Ascended Masters'
Perfection eternally sustained!
PERFECTION RELEASED No. 233
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Walk thru my mental
and feeling world and take out everything
less than Your PerfectionI Replace it with
the Light Substance from the Goddess of
Purity!
CONTROLLING VICIOUSNESS
IN OTHERS No. 234
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Higher
Mental Body of that person! Take command
of that individual! Saint Germain and Jesus
walk thru his (or her) mental and emo-
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
100
tion with the ~cended Masters' Power and
Purity of Light, Loving, Adoring, Illumined
Obedience, God-control and management,
so no human quality or feeling can register
within their mental or emotional bodies.
QUALITIES FROM THE
GREAT SILENCE No. 229
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Charge my
being and world with the Ease, Comfort,
Peace and Power of the Great Silence; and
hold the emotional bodies of those people
I contact forever purified, at least so far as
their association with me is concerned.
CONTROLLING SELFISH
IMPULSES No. 230
"Mighty I AM Presence," Lord the Maha
Chohan, Goddess of Light, Oromasis, Saint
Germain, Jesus and our Beloved Messenger!
Walk thru the emotional bodies of those in-
dividuals and take out those selfish impulses
forever and replace them with Thy Purity,
Obedience and Perfection eternally sus-
tained and ever-expanding with the "Light
and Power of a Thousand Suns"!
ANNIHILATING MANKIND'S
DESTRUCTIVE QUALITIES No. 231
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and the "I AM Presence"
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
99
of those individuals! Blaze forth Your Light
and take those destructive qualities out of
mankind's consciousness forever! See that
that never happens anywhere in the Uni-
verse again.
ANNIHILATING ALL CON-
SCIOUSNESS OF LACK No. 232
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Don't ever let
me be short of money again! See that the
consciousness of lack is wiped out of the
whole Universe, so no part of Life can ever
think of nor lack for any good thing ever
again; but instead use all of everything con-
structively and hold the Ascended Masters'
Perfection eternally sustained!
PERFECTION RELEASED No. 233
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Walk thru my mental
and feeling world and take out everything
less than Your PerfectionI Replace it with
the Light Substance from the Goddess of
Purity!
CONTROLLING VICIOUSNESS
IN OTHERS No. 234
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Higher
Mental Body of that person! Take command
of that individual! Saint Germain and Jesus
walk thru his (or her) mental and emo-
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., Ig40)
100
tional bodies and take out everything hu-
man! Replace it with everything Divine and
hold Ascended Master Control there forever.
ASCENDED MASTER POWER
Of LIGHT No. 235
"Mighty I AM Presence"! See that I move
every second of this day in the Ascended
Masters' full Power of Light and hold It for-
ever sustained.
STOPPING DESTRUCTIVE
PLANS No. 236
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great God-
dess of Light! Walk thru that individual's
mental and feeling bodies! Take out every-
thing human and release everything Divine.
See they are unable to go forth and fulfill
any plans that impose viciousness upon
someone else!
CHARGING PRESSURE OF
LIGHT No. 237
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Charge me with
Your Peaceful Pressure of Light from inside
out and see that It always over-whelms every
pressure of discord from outside. "I AM" at
all times the Supreme Pressure of Light
from inside out that no human discord can
get thru.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
101
l
'
PRESSURE OF PERFECTION No. 238
Say many times a day: "Mighty I AM
Presence"! Fill me with YourAscended Mas- __,/
ter Pressure of Light's Perfection and hold
It eternally sustained.
ASCENDED MASTERS PRESSURE
OF LIGHT No. 239
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great As-
cended Masters! Pour into that condition
Your Pressure of Light and keep increasing
that Pressure, until It consumes everything
else.
POWER OF THE BLUE
FLAME No. 248
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great As-
cended Masters! Go forth in the Power of
the Blue Flame! Direct It into this condition
(especially every dest;ructive activity of the
Newspaper world everywhere in the United
States of America) and compel It into the
Perfection it should express! Sweep out
everything human and sweep in everything
Divine! Hold Your Power and Perfection of
the Ascended Masters the:i;e forever!
ALMIGHTY PERFECTION No. 241
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Charge me
with Your Almighty Perfection and-see It
is eternally sustained! Make me Yourself
in Action at all times.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
. 102
/
PRESENCE IN ACTION No. 242
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Charge forth
Your Perfection in everything I do and once
an hour see that charge goes forth with dy-
namic force and keep it sustained. Charge
me with the Ascended Masters' Discrimi-
nating Selective Intelligence an.d make me
always do the right thing.
ACKNOWLEDGING THE
PRESENCE No. 243
"I A~" the Presence singing and speaking
thru this voiceI
"I AM" the Presence thinking and feeling
thru this body!
"I AM" the Presence commanding Perfec-
tion for all under this Radiation forever!
"I AM" the Presence of Victory's Victory
of the Light; of the Cosmic Power of Har-
mony; of the Strength of Hercules and the
Light of the Goddess of Light.
"I AM" the Flame of Divine Love from
Sanat Kumara holding all things in Perfect
Balance and releasing the Power of the Great
Silence forever. We thank Thee.
RE-QUALIFYING ENERGY
AT NIGHT No. 244
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Reach out Your Hands
and seize possession of all the energy I have
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
103
mis-qualified today! Purify it with the Vio-
let Consuming Flame! Amplify it a million
fold. Requalify it with Your Mighty Perfec-
tion and the combined .Light, Love and Vic-
tory of the Ascended Masters! Anchor It
in my being and world for the accomplish-
ment of every constructive desire of my
heart. Expand that blessing to all mankind
and keep it eternally sustained.
REMOVING DISCORD FROM
THE BODY No. 245
"Mighty I AM Presence" acting thru my
Higher Mental Body! Blaze Your Violet
Consuming Flame into every joint and cell
of my body! Dissolve and consume all ac-
cumulations of substance which may have
gathered there and replace them with the As-
cended Masters' Golden Liquid Light and
Your Almighty Perfection! Hold Your Vio-
let Consuming Flame and Golden Liquid
Light in every joint; until it dissolves all ex-
cess substance and produces permanent
healing. See that this same service is ren-
dered wherever it is needed. I thank Thee it
is done!
BLESSING FOOD No. 246
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Accept this
food! Make it pure and holy! Charge it with
Saint Germain's Power and Activity of the
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
104
Violet Consuming Flame! Transmute it in-
to Thy Pure Golden Flame and see tliat it
perfects, purifies, illumines, sustains ana
raises all our bodies into the victory of the
Ascension.
Mighty Maha Chohan charge thru this
food Your Mighty Radiance and Energy
which can never be requalified by the hu-
man. Expand the Light within every cell of
my body, until Its Radiance is visible to all
who gaze upon me.
I accept this meal as Saint Germain's Pre-
cipitated Banquet and qualify it to be ever
sustained. "Mighty I AM Presence" make
me a Mighty Magnet to draw every one I
contact into the knowledge and acceptance
of their own "Mighty I AM Presence," their
Reality-the "Light of God that never fails,"
and the full use of the Light Rays. See that
every person on the planet has a meal
equally as good or better if they want it and
gives You the credit for being the Giver. See
that no one ever misses a meal or is ever
hungry. I thank Thee it is done!
DECREE AT MEALS No. 247
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Charge this food with
Thy Ascended Masters' Precipitated Light-
SubstanceI See that we are privileged to sit
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
11$
at the table with our Beloved Saint Ger-
main, Jesus and our Beloved Messenger
(Daddy Ballard) and partake of Their Pre-
cipitated Food this very hour. We thank
Thee it is donel
ALWAYS GOD-_
COMMANDED No. 248
"Mighty I AM Presence"! See that I never
take on suggestions from anybody or any-
thing but the Ascended Masters and Their
Perfection! See that I am always God-com-
manded! See that I always speak only the
Words of Truth, the Decrees of Love, the
Commands of Perfection and experience
only the Miracles and Victories of the As-
cended Masters, instantly manifest and eter-
nally sustained by the "Light and Power
of a Thousand Suns"I
SPECIAL ASCENDED MASTER
QUALITIES No. 249 .
-
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters, Mighty Cosmic Beings,
Great Cosmic Light and all Great Beings,
Powers and Forces of Life and Light's full
Ascended Master Perfection everywhere!
Fill my Being and world full to overflowing
with the following qualities and activities,
eternally sustained and charged with the
"Light and Power of a Thousand Suns"!
(Copyright by St-. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
106
Make me feel and know with Ascended Mas-
ter Assurance and Power that:
a
"I AM" Saint Germain's Ascended Master
Consciousness of the Violet Consuming
Flame, Ordered Service, Purity and Free-
dom to America and all mankind; and the
Victory of the Ascension NOW for all under
this radiation!
b
"I AM" Jesus' Ascended Master Con-
sciousness and Feeling of Peace and the As-
cension!
"I AM" Nada's Ascended Master Con-
sciousness and Feeling of Divine Love, Com-
passion and Healing Power forever!
d
"I AM" the Great Divine Director's As-
cended Master Consciousness and Feeling
of Victory over all human creation forever!
e
"I AM" our Beloved Messenger's As-
cended Master Consciousness, Feeling and
Victory of the Ascension and His Loving,
Adoring, Illumined Obedience, God-control
and Management of everything in my entire
Being and world in all I do forever!
"I AM" Victory's Ascended Master Con-
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., 1940)
107
sciousness and Feeling of Victory by the
"Light and Power of a Thousand Suns" in
all I do forever!
"I AM" the Goddess of Liberty's As-
cended Master Consciousness and Feeling
of Liberty, Freedom and Loyalty forever!
h
"I AM" the Goddess of Light's Cosmic
Power of Light and Her Ascended Master
Consciousness and Feeling of Victory over
all viciousness and destructive forces forever!
"I AM" the Goddess of Peace's Ascended
Master Consciousness and Feeling of Peace
forever!
"I AM" the Goddess of Purity's Ascended
Master Consciousness, Feeling and Sub-
stance of Purity forever!
k
"I AM" the Goddess of Justice's Ascended
Master Consciousness, Feeling and visible
tangible physical manifestation of Divine
Justice in all my affairs and those of the "I
AM" Students, America and the world for-
ever!
"I AM" the Goddess of Mercy's Ascended
Master Consciousness and Feeling of Divine
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
108
Compassion, in the place of all human sym-
pathy forever!
m
"I AM" Harmony's Cosmic Power, As-
cended Master Consciousness and Feeling
of Harmony and the Golden Voice of the "I
AM" in both speech and song forever!
D
"I AM" Hercules' Ascended Master Con-
sciousness and Feeling of Inexhaustible
Strength, Energy, Poise and Power from the
Heart of the Great Silence forever!
0
"I AM" Cyclopea's Ascended Master Con-
sciousness and Feeling of Perfect sight, hear-
ing and the Voice of the Ascended Host
forever!
p
"I AM" K-17's Ascended Master Con-
sciousness and Feeling of the Circle of Blue
Flame- the "Ring-pass-not" to all human
qualities and activities forever!
q
"I AM" Sanat Kumara's Ascended Master
Consciousness and Feeling of Divine Pa-
tience and Limitless Cosmic Love and Grati-
tude forever!
"I AM" Fun Way's Ascended Master Con-
sciousness and Feeling of Happiness and
Ecstasy forever!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
109
"I AM" David Lloyd's Ascended Master
Consciousness and Feeling of Enthusiasm
and Determination to attain Perfection for-
ever!
"I AM" Mr. Rayborn's Ascended Master
Consciousness and Feeling of Opulence, Pa-
tience and Kindness forever!
u
"I AM" the Maha Chohan's Ascended
Master Consciousness and Feeling of Limit-
less Energy, Nature's Perfection and Abun-
dance and the Great Creative Power that
always produces Perfection instantly and
holds It eternally sustained and ever-expand-
mg.
"I AM" Cosmos' Ascended Master Con-
sciousness and Feeling of His Two Secret
Rays and Their Constant Action in the Gov-
ernment and United States of America for
our Eternal Protection, Freedom, Right,
Justice, Honor and the Ascended Master's
full Victory and Power of that "Light of a
Thousand Suns"l
"I AM" Ray-0-Light's Ascended Master
Consciousness and Feeling of the Great Cos-
mic Light Rays in full action at all times!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
110
:r
"I AM" Arcturus' Ascended Master Con-
sciousness and Feeling of Protection to
America and the Complete Illumination
of the intellect by the Light within the heart
of each human being!
T
"I AM" Nada's, Rex's, Bob's and Pearl's
Ascended Master Consciousness of Eternal
Youth, Beauty and the Ascension for all the
young people of America and the world!
"I AM" Cuzco's Ascended Master Con-
sciousness and Feeling of the full Power of
Perfection from the Retreat in the Pacific,
flooding all in America and the world for-
ever reigning Supreme!
B.LUE FLAME AROUND
TUBE OF LIGHT No. 250
(Visualize and FEEL this activity outside
the Tube of Light-around yourself, the
Saint Germain Press in Chicago and Los
Angeles, the "Voice of the 'I AM~'" in Los
Angeles, all Reading Rooms, all Study
Groups, Radio Activities everywhere.
In Study Groups issue the following De-
cree after No. 2 in No. I Outline.)
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Sanat
Kumaral Keep me and every person, place,
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
111
condition and thing under the Radiation
of the Ascended Master Saint Germain, sur-
rounded with the Wall of BLUE FLAME,
outside the TUBE OF LIGHT, as added
protection, until all are free in the Ascen-
sion. We thank Thee Thou dost always an-
swer our every call.
HELP FROM SANAT
KUMARA No. 251
(Try to FEEL and stand firmly by it,
that you are cut free from every limiting,
discordant thing and that it is dissolved and
consumed. Each night before you retire, go
by yourself and with your hands raised to the
'Presence' Say to It:
'I thank You, "Mighty I AM Presence,"
Great Host of Ascended Masters, Mighty
Legion of Light and.Great Cosmic Beings
that I am cut FREE this night. I accept
my Freedom in the fulness of Thy Pres-
ence, Oh "Mighty I AM," and the Assist-
ance of the Cosmic Beings, the Legion of
Light and the Ascended Host of Light.'
This is particularly for the individual just
before retiring. Your Acceptance of this (in
your FEELINGS) will make it possible to
continue this activity until you have the full,
complete conviction that you are actually,
even in the outer manifestation. WHOLLY
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
112
FREE, for that is actually the case. I want
you to FEEL and Accept it. If you do that,
you really WILL BE FREE. Then, as you
call the Powers of your 'Presence' into ac-
tion, you will find in many instances, in-
stantaneous response.
ANNIHILATING INSANITY No. 252
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings from
the Great Central Sun! Release whatever
Dispensation and Action of the BLUE
FLAME are required to annihilate all in-
sanity, depravity and crime from mankind,
the earth and its atmosphere forever! An-
nihilateI Annihilate! Annihilate! their
cause, effect and record! Replace them by
the Substance and Cosmic Power from the
Goddess of Purity, Harmony and Victory's
Victory of the Light! Send the Legions of
Light to take possession and produce Per-
fection which holds humanity and the earth
free forever from these destructive condi-
tions, and we call It to be eternally sustained.
ASCENSION DAY: 40 Days
after Easter No~ 253
At mid-night previous to Ascension Day.
ask the Presence to take you into the Heart
of the Great Central Sun and charge yo碌
(Copyright by St..Germain Press, Inc., r940}
. 113
with the Full Ascended Master Conscious-
ness of all the Ascension means to you.
At noon (12:00 o'clock) the following
day, be quiet for half an hour or an hour,
give conscious recognition to your Presence
and ask It to see that you make your Ascen-
sion in this embodiment without fail! Then
ask the Presence to give you the FEELING
of the Ascension!
LOVED ONES PASSED ON No. 254
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Go to my loved one
and give him (or her) the help needed. If
possible see that he makes his Ascension, or
take him to some Ascended Master and see
he has full instruction of the "I AM" in the
Higher Mental Body. See that he is set free
in the Victory and Power of Light.
EXPANDING LIGHT IN BODY No. 255
"I AM" the Presence within the UNFED
FLAME in this heart speaking to the Intelli-
gence in every point of Light in this body.
I command you in the Authority of Life to
expand, expand and again expand the Per-
fection of the "Light of God that never
fails," to produce instantaneous peace, ease,
comfort and full Ascended Master Perfec-
tion in every atom of my mind, body, being,
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
114

world, atmosphere and environment and
hold it eternally sustained and ever-expand-
ing with the "Light and Power of a Thou-
sand Suns"!
(Note: See and feel the Points of Light iri
every cell of your body expand and blaze un-
til you feel yourself a Blazing Dazzling Pure
White Sun whose Light fills the room.)
COMING ELECTIONS No. 256
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light from the Great Central
Sun! Come forth in Your Limitless Over-
whelming Presence and take possession of
every person in America! Charge forth Your
Irresist~ble Dazzling Light in the coming
elections and see that only individuals who
serve the Light are elected and placed in all
Governmental offices and positions! See that
only those who serve the Light remain in
them in the future. Place Ascended Master
Friends of the Light in every position of
authority and power in the United States of
America and hold them there to produce
and maintain the Victory of the Light in
full possession of America forever, until all
are free in the fullness of the Ascension!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
115
ASCENDED MASTER FRIENDS IN
ALL NECESSITIES OF LIFE No. 257
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light from the Great
Central Sun! Raise up Ascended Master
Friends in our government, our industries,
transportation, communication and all chan-
nels of food supply for America, who will
bring forth and hold Ascended Master Vic-
tory, Power, Protection and Perfection of
the Light in all ac~ivities governing and act-
ing for the United States of America and
its people. See that Divine Order and Di-
vine Justice are maintained in all these ac-
tivities. Blast and annihilate all obstruction
to the immediate answer and sustained ful-
filment of our calll
BLESSING THE ASCENDED
MASTERS No. 258
"Mighty I AM Presence" of every human
Being on earth and Great Central Sun! Pour
forth all the Love, Light, Victory, Power,
Gratitude, Majesty, Perfection and Glory
to our Beloved Saint Germain, our Beloved
Messenger and all the Ascended Masters and
Great Beings of Light who have protected
mankind thru the centuries and who have
brought us this far in the Light of Freedom!
Pour out Cosmic Powers and Glory of Thy-
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
116
self that even They know not of and do
Thou our own .Life Streams bless Them
without limit forever with that "Light and
Power of a Thousand Suns"!
REMEMBERING AND
FORGETTING No. 259
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Illumine everything
to me at all times with Your full Ascended
Master Light and make me always know
everything I need to know on time; and
make me forever forget all that I should
not remember.
FREEDOM TO ANIMALS No. 260
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Purify and release the
Life in all animal forms into their own right
channel of activity and see that never again
does that Life function in forms which are
less than the Ascended Master Purity, Har-
mony, Beauty, Freedom and Perfection!
BLESSING SAINT GERMAIN'S
ACTIVITIES AND EXPANDING
THIS LIGHT No. 261
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light! Release ten times more As-
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
117
cended Master Love, Light, Wisdom, Power,
Money, Harmony, Victory, Protection and
Perfection than is required to perfect, pro-
tect and expand without limit the Saint Ger-
main Press, Saint Germain Foundation, the
"Voice of the 'I AM'," and all special activi-
ties under this Ascended Master Radiation!
Keep ten times more than we need of every
good thing, including money, in our hands
and use at all times, for the Perfect upkeep
and expansion of these Activities of the
Light forever!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
118
Changes in Group Outline No. 1
STUDY GROUP OUTLINE No. 262
NOTE: The following changes are made so all Groups will
be uniform. We ask all Groups-Regular Study Groups,
Decree Groups, Minute Men, Daughters of Light, Young
People and Patriotic Groups-to follow No. I Outline with
these changes, without omissions or additions (except in the
case of adding more Decrees and Songs where indicated).
Please read Instructions in May z940 "Voice of the
'I AM'"
CALL TO THE FLAME - Correct as
given in Outline.
SIX COSMIC LIGHT DEGREES
1. Mighty Cosmic Light, come forth and
do Your Perfect Work NOW!
Mighty Cosmic Light, come forth and
claim Your Own NOW!
Mighty Cosmic Light, come forth and
take Your Toll NOW!
2. The Forces of Light move into action
with Full Power and are Victorious NOW!
(Repeat 3 times)
3. Mighty Arcturus and Great Goddess
of Liberty! Come forth this instant in that
Light as of a Thousand Suns dissolve and
consume all human selfishness and discord
from the planet forever! (Repeat 3 times)路
4. "The Light of God never fails" (Re-
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
119
peat 3 times) and follow with: and the
"Mighty I AM Presence" is that Light!
5. In the Name of the "Mighty I AM
Presence" we say to all human creation:
"You have no power! Your day is doneI
Be thou dissolved and consumed from the
face of the earth forever!" (Repeat 3 times.).
6. The Limitless Legions of Light now
sweep across the face of the earth, and all
human darkness disappears! (Repeat 3
times.).
Follow these six calls with:
We charge all our music and Decrees
with Saint Germain's, Jesus', Nada's and
the Divine Director's Ascended Master Con-
sciousness, Instantaneous Activity and Ful-
fillment, eternally sustained and ever ex-
panding. We thank Thee Thou dost always
answer our every call-instantly, infinitely
and eternally.
.
Visualize nine (g) UNFED FLAMES-
three on the West Coast, three in the cen-
tral part of the United States of America
and three on the East Coast, expanding into
the Panama Canal and up into Alaska; then
repeat the "I AM" nine (g) times, visualiz-
ing the UNFED FLAME in each city. Fol-
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
128
low this with-"the Victory and Power of
Light everywhere forever!"
SING IF DESIRED-Always sing one
song to America and follow with Pledge of
Allegiance to the Flag; then follow with:
"America we love you" (Repeat 3 times)
"and our love is great enough to hold you
eternally Victorious in the Light." Then re-
peat American's Creed.
ANNOUNCEMENTS- (Seated)-Cor-
rect as given in Outline.
8. Use one of O碌r Messenger's Invoca-
tions or Records, if available; followed by a
short Silenc;e and Outpouring of Love, with
attention focused Qn the "Mighty l AM
Presence," our Beloved Messenger, G. W.
Ballard, the Ascended Masters and Cosmic
Beings.
g. INVOCATION-Hold to Invocation
as given in Note No. I without fail, as this
momentum needs to be built as powerfully
as possible for your Ascension and that of
those in America and the world who are
to be raised at this time, (Use this regard-
less of previous verbal or written instruc-
tions.)
SING IF DESIRED.
(Capyright by St. GtJrmain Press, Inc., z940)
121
10. Use New Entity Decree No. 213 m
Special Decree Book.
11. Correct as given. Description in Feb.
1940 Voice may be added, but may not re-
place either of the other descriptions.
We have recently released Mr. Ballard's
description of the Chart on a Phonograph
Record which should be used wherever pos-
sible; that His Voice may charge forth Its
Power into the Study Groups. This may be
substituted for the description in 1937 Mag-
azine. The description in 1936 and 1940
Magazines may be added as time permits.
12. Correct as given in Outline; follow
with Decree No. 250 in Special Decree Book.
13. Correct as given in Outline.
14. Correct as given in Outline.
15. Omit entirely.
16. Omit raising of hands, but give the
Decree in Note No. 5.
17. Omit entirely.
18. (Seated) Correct as given in Outline.
. SING IF DESIRED
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
122
19. Issue Decrees in Notes G, 7, 8 and g.
20. Use shorter Decree No. 26 in Vol-
ume V.
21. Leader should read excerpts from the
Discourses in the Books or Magazines. (No
meeting should be held without something
being read from them, charging the atmos-
phere with the Ascended Masters' Words.)
22. Correct as given in Outline.
23. Use Decree No. 220 in Special Decree
Book.
24. (Seated) Correct as given in Outline.
25. Correct as given in Outline, except
Decree 68 (83)-Use Decree No. 65 in the
Special Decree Book instead. The Decree
referred to in April 1937 "Voice" is being
put in Special Decree Book also.
(At this point sing and issue as many Decrees as time per-
mits; but please do not inject any discussions of any kind
into the pattern being built.)
26. Benediction must be taken from the
Discourses, or use one of Mr. Ballard's Vic-
trola Records. The entire Service is con-
ducted in the most sacred manner possible,
but with a happy dignity; exactly as if Saint
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
123
Germain, Jesus, Nada and the Great Divine
Director were present in Their Visible,
Tangible Bodies. No questions are per-
mitted to be asked and no discussions of
any kind should enter into this activity.
Groups should disperse as quickly and
quietly as possible giving praise and grati-
tude to the "Mighty I AM Presence" and
Great Ones and hold the Power that has
been drawn for their blessing.
NOTE No. 14-DECREE FOR THE AS-
CENSION-Substitute No. 73 of the
Special Decree Book instead.
Where the words "cause, effect and record" are used, add
the word "memory," reading-cause, effect, record and ~
memory.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
124
DECREE TO PREVENT WAR
IN EUROPE No. 263
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters, Mighty Legions of Light,
Great Angelic Host, Great Cosmic Beings,
Angels of the Blue Lightning and Those
who wield the Sword of Blue Flame! Come
forth in Your full Cosmic Power and Au-
thority of the Unfed Flame, the Three times
Three and the Cosmic Light everywhere in
Europe! STOP forever the onrushing de-
struction of war in those countries! Blaze
forth whatever Power of the Cosmic Light
is required to annihilate all activity of war,
its cause, effect, record and memory every-
where from all Europe, mankind and the
world forever! Withdraw and withhold all
money, energy, influence, supply and activ-
ity of every kind from all destructive chan-
nels and blaze forth in their place that Light,
Love and Substance from the Ascended
Masters' Octave of Life with the Power of a
Thousand Suns to take possession, produce
Perfection and hold Your Dominion every-
where forever!
We charge this Decree with Saint Ger-
main's, Jesus', Nada's, the Divine Director's
and our Beloved Messenger's Ascended Mas-
ter Consciousness, instantaneous activity and
fulfilment, eternally sustained! We thank
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
125
Thee Thou dost always answer our every
call.
ANGELS OF THE FLAMING
SWORD No. 264
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Great Host
of Ascended Masters! Project a Mighty Light
Ray into that condition and change all
viciousness into Perfection. Mighty Arch-
angel Michael send the Angels with the
FLAMING SWORD to stand guard over all
concerning it, until the full Perfection of
the Unfed Flame comes forth and takes
the place of destructive activities.
ISSUING OF GREAT COM-
MAND No. 265
In the Name and Authority of the Great
Divine Director, I call to the "Mighty I AM
Presence" and Higher Mental Body of every
human being on the planet! Raise Your
SWORD OF BLUE FLAME and issue the
GREAT COMMAND, that every bit of dis-
cord in their Life Stream may be cut from
them and the earth forever, and they go
forth eternally free.
ENFOLDED IN LUMINOUS
PRESENCE No. 266
"Mighty I AM Presence" acting thru my
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
126
Higher Mental Body! Descend and enfold
my physical body in Your Blazing Radiance!
Charge forth the full Consciousness of the
Ascended Masters directly in front of me; so
everywhere I go that Luminous Presence
stands there qualifying everything that goes
out from me with Ascended Master Con-
sc10usness.
ENFOLDED IN ARMS OF
YOUR PRESENCE No. 267
I call to the Higher Mental Body of every-
one in America! Descend and place Your
Arms about the physical body of everyone in
our land! Hold bound and inactive every-
thing human, until it is raised to the Light of
Thy Heart and every destructive thing is
consumed by the Pressure of Thy Light.
SILENCING DESTRUCTIVE
QUALITIES No. 268
I speak directly to the Higher Mental
Body of those individuals! Descend and
clamp Your Arms around them. Take them
into Your Flame! Crush out all destructive
impulses and release the Ascended Masters'
Power thru them. See they are never able
to do anything destructive to others.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
127
ABSORBED INTO YOUR
PRESENCE No. 269
As you go to sleep at night, make the fol-
lowing call. "Mighty I AM Presence" ab-
sorb me into Yourself! You are my way, my
protection, my defense and my deliverance
from every destructive condition, and about
me are Your Ever-lasting Arms. Hold me
close in Yourself and give me Your limitless
supply.
(Feel Its Luminous Presence around you;
and feel in Its Hands rests whatever you re-
quire.)
COLLAPSE DESTRUCTIVE
INDIVIDUALS No. 270
Powers of Light! Sweep into our land!
Dissolve instantly the last fragment of de-
structive force. Collapse where they stand
all individuals who are trying to rob or de-
stroy our people or bring war into our bor-
ders.
BURN DESTRUCTIVE CON-
DITIONS TO A CRISP No. 271
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light! Loose Your
BLUE FLAME over our country and burn
to a crisp every destructive thing in the
mental and feeling world of our people.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
128
CHARGING OUR FLAG No. 272
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and Great Cosmic Beings!
Charge thru every Flag in our country the
Ascended Masters' Power, Protection and
Victory of a Thousand Suns; to annihilate
every destructive condition and activity
within the United States of America this in-
stant! Replace all that is destructive by the
Ascended Masters' Almighty Victory, Per-
fection, Divine Order, Divine Justice and
Light's Glorious Freedom to our people for-
ever!
BLAZING WITH VIOLET
CONSUMING FLAME No. 273
"I AM" blazing with the Violet Consum-
ing Flame everywhere I move and into
everything I contact. "Mighty I AM Pres-
ence" make me blaze, blaze and blaze with
the Violet Consuming Flame; until no dis-
cord can survive in me or my world or those
I contact.
BLAZING WITH ASCENDED
MASTER CONSCIOUSNESS No. 274
"I AM" blazing with the Ascended Mas-
ters' Consciousness, Power, Protection, Per-
fection and Victory of the Cosmic Light.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
129
COMMANDING FINANCIAL
LACK TO DISAPPEAR No. 275
In the Name and Authority of my
"Mighty I AM Presence," I command that
all feeling of financial lack get out of my
world this instant! Do Thou Oh "Mighty
I AM Presence" open the Flood-gates and
bring to me the fulness of every good thing!
See that it is sustained until the moment of
my Ascension and all used in the Construc-
tive Way of Life directed by Ascended Mas-
ter Wisdom.
GOD VICTORIOUS No. 276
"I AM" God Victorious by the Power of
Light and no other force can or does exist
in my world.
DAUGHTERS OF LIGHT'S
MOTTO No. 277
"Mighty I AM Presence" acting thru my
Higher Mental Body! Stand guard over me
this day and cut away everything that would
dim my Light or delay my Victory! See that
I never release energy thru my spoken word
unless "my words are more golden than my
silence."
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
130
COMMAND TO POINTS OF
LIGHT IN THE BODY No. 278
"I AM" the Presence within the Flame of
Life in my heart, speaking to every point of
Light in this body and I say to you: "In the
Name of the 'Mighty I AM Presence' ex-
pand, expand and again expand My Light
as of a Thousand Suns with every heart beat.
Qualify It with the Ascended Masters' Con-
sciousness of Indestructible Harmony, Pu-
rity, Victory and Perfection and hold It
eternally sustained and ever-expanding with
ten times more power than yesterday; until
the very intensity of It comes thru my flesh
and is visible to the physical sight of all man-
kind!
AMERICA GOD-VICTORIOUS No. 279
"Mighty I AM Presence" and all Great
Beings and Powers of Light! Make and keep
our beloved America God-Victorious in
everything forever! Charge this my Decree
with the Power of a Thousand Suns and let
it sweep over the United States of America
and the earth once every hour and burn out
every destructive quality and force that
would rob the people of their Divine RightsI
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
131
TO PEOPLE WHO ARE
UNKIND No. 280
"Mighty I AM Presence" and the Higher
Mental Body of that individual! Silence
that tongue by the Power of Light! See that
"I AM" God-Victorious by the Power of
Light! I insist on God's Victory of the Light!
"Mighty I AM Presence" send this Decree
forth once every fifteen minutes with all the
Ascended Master Power there is and hold
Indestructible Perfection in all I contact
forever!
CHARGING EVERY IMPULSE
OF LIGHT No. 281
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings from
out the Great Central Sun! Charge every
impulse of Light touching my world today
with the full Illumination of the Ascended
Masters to expand the Light in every elec-
tron in my body until the full intensity and
pressure of that Light comes thru my flesh,
visible to all mankind. Make it ten times
greater today than yesterday.
GOD-CONTROL OF FEEL-
INGS No. 282
"I AM" always the Ascended Masters'
Power, calm powerful poise, peaceful, Vic-
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
132
--
torious, perfect God-control of my feelings
every instant until the moment of my Ascen-
sion, no matter what I contact or what I have
to handle.
GOD-VICTORIOUS IN EVERY
SITUATION No. 283
"I AM" the Ascended Masters' Power and
Perfect God-control of myself and every con-
dition; that makes me God-Victorious in
every situation every second every day in
everything in every way.
ANNIHILATING HUMAN CREA-
TION, ETC. THRU ISSUING
GREAT COMMAND. No. 284
"Mighty I AM Presence," Great Host of
Ascended Masters and all Great Beings and
Powers of Light! Our Beloved Messenger,
Saint Germain, Jesus, Nada, Great Divine
Director, Goddess of Liberty, Goddess of
Light, Goddess of Purity, Goddess of Justice,
Mighty Arcturus, K-17 and Your Legion of
Light! In the Name and Authority of the
Great Divine Director, raise your SWORD
OF BLUE FLAME and give the GREAT
COMMAND that all human creation and
accumulation of every human being in our
country is cut away this moment by the
Power of a Thousand Suns.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
133
"I AM" the Presence commanding the
annihilation of everything human in every
person connected with any strike condition
in America.
"I AM" the Presence giving the GREAT
COMMAND and with my SWORD OF
BLUE FLAME I cut away forever all hu-
man accumulation of every human being in
the unions and all strike agitators; within
all employers, within our government and
the people and every destructive individual
within our land.
Great Lords of the Flame from Venus,
Mighty Lords of the Blue Lightning! Seize
the accumulation of discord and bind it back
into every destructive individual right now
with the Power of a Thousand Suns; and
command it to annihilate its own cause,
effect, record and memory from the United
States of America, her people and the atmos-
phere over our land forever.
Expand this same activity to every spy,
every war lord, every dictator, the claws and
emissaries of all black magicians and dis-
carnate entities thruout the Americas and
the world. Loose whatever Power is neces-
sary to accomplish this with the speed of
lightning.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
134
"I AM" FREEING AMERICA
FROM INJUSTICE No. 285
__,, "I AM" the Presence, "I AM" the
GREAT COMMAND that forever frees the
people of the United States of America from
every condition of injustice; from all dan-
ger that threatens our Freedom and from
everything within our land that would take
the perfect supply from our people.
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Seize, bind,
hold inactive and remove every human be-
ing within our borders who attempts to de-
stroy our Freedom, our protection, our Di-
vine Justice, the fulfilment of our Ideals in
Victory's Victory of the Light and the full
attainment of our Ascension as soon as pos-
sible.
ASCENSION EN MASSE No. 2_
86
"Mighty I AM Presence, Great Host of
Ascended Masters, Mighty Legion of Light,.
Great Angelic Host, Lords of the Flame
from Venus, Great Cosmic Beings and Great
Cosmic Light! Come forth in Thy Full Au-
thority, Power and Activity of the Great
Cosmic Law and release whatever is re-
quired to give every constructive individual
on earth his Ascension as quickly as possi-
ble! Let all sincere "I AM" Students who
are calling with determination for their
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
135
..
Ascension make that Ascension NOW TO-
GETHER-that we may return quickly to
help the rest of mankind make theirs also!
I qualify this Decree with the Great Divine
Director's Instantaneous Activity and thank
Thee Thou hast heard this call and the Vic-
tory is accomplished this instant.
SPECIAL DECREE FOR
AMERICA No. 287
"Mighty Beloved Infinite I AM Pres-
ence," Great Host of Ascended Masters,
Mighty Legion of Light, Great Angelic
Host, Great Cosmic Beings and Great Cos-
mic Light, Our Beloved Messenger, Saint
Germain, Jesus, Nada, Great Divine Direc-
tor, Goddess of Liberty, Goddess of Light,
Goddess of Peace, Goddess of Purity, God-
dess of Justice, Mighty Arcturus, K-17 and
all who guard and govern the destiny of the
United States of America; the Fourteen As-
cended Masters who are to become her gov-
erning Authority - You represent the
"Mighty I AM Presence" and Higher Men-
tal Body of America!
We speak directly to the "Mighty I AM
Presence" and Higher Mental Body of
every human being in America! In the Name
and Authority of the Great Divine Director,
who is the Authority over the Life Streams
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
136
of our people, raise Your SWORD OF
BLUE FLAME and give the GREAT
COMMAND that every human creation of
America and her people is cut away this
moment by the Power of a Thousand Suns.
"I AM" the Presence cutting America for-
ever free from every activity of communism,
naziism and fascism and every destructive ac-
tivity within our borders.
"I AM" the Presence of the Goddess of
Justice commanding and compelling Divine
Justice to all in the United States of America
forever.
"I AM" the Presence of the Goddess of
Light! May Her Light as of a Thousand
Suns bu'l'st Its Pressure upon our people and
charge forth Its Mighty Glory making the
very earth tremble with the Perfection and
Power which is Hers.
To you, the United States of America, I
say: arise! arise! arise! into your full Free-
dom and Victory of the Ascended Masters'
Light; into the Ascended Masters' Govern-
ment of this nation and into the Freedom of
your Ascension!
You are the Ascended Master Nation of
the earth! "I AM" the Presence issuing the
GREAT COMMAND for your Ascension
NOW! We accept it with the Power of a
Thousand Suns and your people arise
eternally free!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
137
--..
POWER DECREE No. 387
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE," HIGHER MENTAL
BODIES OF ALL MANKIND, GREAT DIVINE DI-
RECTOR, ARCHANGEL MICHAEL, SAINT GER-
MAIN, JESUS, DADDY, NADA, K-I7, Q.UEEN OF
LIGHT, GODDESS OF LIGHT, GODDESS OF LIB-
ERTY, ARCTURUS, CYCLOPEA, HERCULES, SI-
LENT WATCHER, SURYA, HARMONY, VICTORY,
SANAT KUMARA, GODDESS OF PEACE, GODDESS
OF PURITY, GODDESS OF JUSTICE, JUPITER,
MAHA CHOHAN, FORTUNA, GOD OF THE AIR,
GOD OF GOLD, GOD OF NATURE AND YOUR
LEGIONS OF LIGHT!
POWER! POWER! POWER! (3)
Of the Light of a Thousand Suns!
POWER! POWER! POWER! (3)
Of the Light of a Thousand Suns!
POWER! POWER! POWER! (3)
Of the Light of a Thousand Suns!
Thru my heart, brain and body and that
of all under this Radiation, the Ascended
Masters' Cosmic Victory-VICTORY! VIC-
TORY! VICTORY! (Repeat many times) ofthe
Light of a Thousand Suns, this instant and
forever compel!
COMPEL! COMPEL! COMPEL! (3)
By the Power and Light of a Thousand
Suns! (3)
For in the Heart ofthe Ascended Masters'
Power and VICTORY of the Light of a Thou-
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., r941)
313
sand Suns, we do forever dwell! (3)
NoTE: The above Decree can be issued using the f ollowing
words instead of Victory (as underlined above)
Freedom, Protection, Justice, Harmony,
Miracles, Defense, Supply, Wisdom, Obedi-
ence, Authority, Strength, Purity, Suc-
cess, Scepter, Secrets, Peace and Action.
DISSOLVE ATOMIC
STRUCTURE No. 388
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE" AND GREAT HOST
OF ASCENDED MASTERS!
Dissolve my atomic structure into Thy
Blazing Body of Eternal Light this instant
and forever! Release Thy Full Mastery thru
me everywhere I move in this physical world!
Blast, dissolve, consumeand annihilateevery-
thing unlike Thee, wherever I am or
pass by or to which my thought is directed.
Do this for all under this Radiation!
DRIVE BACK HATE No. 389
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE," HIGHER MENTAL
BODIES OF ALL MANKIND, ALL GREAT BEINGS,
POWERS AND LEGIONS OF LIGHT! SAINT GER-
MAIN, JESUS, DADDY, NADA, GREAT DIVINE
DIRECTOR, ARCTURUS, HERCULES AND LE-
GIONS OF LIGHT!
Into the brains and bodies of all who are
vicious or opposed to this Light, ourselves,
or those under this Radiation, drive back
all their hate and destruction, with ten
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., r94r)
314
billion times more Blue Lightning and the
Power ofthe Sword ofBlue Flame than ever
before, and keep increasing that Pressure,
until their bodies are removed from this
earth or they turn and serve this Light
forever!
MAKE ALL LOVE US No. 390
Make us and all under this Radiation so
Blazing, Victorious and Powerful with the
Ascended Masters' Feeling and Authority
of the Light of a Thousand Suns, that it
makes everyone with whom we do business
love us and be ten billion times more grate-
ful, gracious, just and accommodating to us
today than ever before. Make them give us
Perfect Ascended Master co-operation in
everything with which we are associated
forever! See that we do the same for them!
UNCONDITIONAL .
CONTROL No. 391
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE," HIGHER MENTAL
BODIES AND ALL GREAT BEINGS AND POWERS
OF LIGHT!
You take and hold unconditional control
of me and everything I do this instant and
forever! Make me do everything in the
quickest, easiest, most powerful way and
with the greatest Ascended Master Joy,
Harmony, Protection and Perfection every
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., z94z)
315
instant, and never let me do anything any
other way.
ASCENDED MASTER
FRIENDS No. 392
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE," HIGHER MENTAL
BODIES OF ALL MANKIND, ALL GREAT BEINGS,
POWERS AND LEGIONS OF LIGHT! GREAT
CENTRAL SUN!
Raise up here and now in this physical
appearance world, ten billion more As-
cended Master Friends, Defenders, Cham-
pions and "I AM" Students of this Light
than we had yesterday, to defend, protect,
carry, expand, use, blaze, give, serve and be
the Ascended Masters' Victory ofthe "Light
of a Thousand Suns" everywhere forever!
forever and forever!
MISCELLANEOUS DECREES No. 393
RAISE UP MILLIONS AND MILLIONS AND MIL-
LIONS OF "l AM" STUDENTS TODAY! (1)
(Repeat after each line)
Millions! Oh "Mighty I AM"!
Millions! God! take and hold Thy
Eternal Command!
Millions! Everywhere thruout our land!
Millions! America to defend and this
Light to expand!
NoTE: Use the aboveformfor the following:
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., r94r)
316
RAISE UP MILLIONS AND MILLIONS AND MIL-
LIONS OF ASCENDED MASTER DEFENDERS OF
THE LIGHT TODAY! (I)
RAISE UP MILLIONS AND MILLIONS AND MIL-
LIONS OF ASCENDED MASTER FRIENDS TODAY!
(1)
RAISE UP MILLIONS AND MILLIONS AND MIL-
LIONS OF ASCENDED MASTER YOUTH TODAY!
(I)
RAISE UP MILLIONS AND MILLIONS AND MIL-
LIONS OF SAINT GERMAIN'S MINUTE MEN TO-
DAY! (I)
RAISE UP MILLIONS AND MILLIONS AND MIL-
LIONS OF SAINT GERMAIN'S DAUGHTERS OF
LIGHT TODAY!
YOUNG PEOPLE No. 394
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE," HIGHER MENTAL
BODIES OF ALL MANKIND AND, ALL GREAT
BEINGS, POWERS AND LEGIONS OF LIGHT!
GREAT DIVINE DIRECTOR AND LEGIONS OF
LIGHT!
Hold possession of every young person
under this Radiation! Fire them! Fire
them! Fire them! with Your Love and
Defense of the Light of a Thousand Suns;
Your Power and Victory that accepts no
opposite.
PROBLEMS No. 395
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE," HIGHER MENTAL
BODIES OF ALL MANKIND AND, ALL GREAT BE-
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., 1941)
317
INGS, POWERS AND LEGIONS OF LIGHT! GREAT
DIVINE DIRECTOR AND LEGIONS OF LIGHT!
Thru all our problems and those of all
under this Radiation, Thy Power, Force
and Action of the Cosmic Light of a Thou-
sand Suns, this instant and forever compel!
COMPEL! COMPEL! COMPEL! (3)
By the Power and Light of a Thousand
Suns! (3)
For in the Ascended Masters' Victory and
Power of the Cosmic Light we do forever
dwell! (3)
NoTE: Use the aboveformfor the following:
Thru all problems of industry, Thy Power,
Force and Action of the Cosmic Light of a
Thousand Suns, this instant and forever
compel!
Thru all problems in our government, Thy
Power, Force and Action of the Cosmic
Light of a Thousand Suns, this instant and
forever compel!
Thru all problems in the draft, Thy Power,
Force and Action of the Cosmic Light of a
Thousand Suns, this instant and forever
compel!
Thru all problems ofour young people, Thy
Power, Force and Action of the Cosmic
Light of a Thousand Suns, this instant and
forever compel!
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., 1941)
318
MISCELLANEOUS DECREES No. 396
"MIGHTY CYCLOPEA"! Blaze thru us and an-
nihilate instantly all that is not Thy Victory,
Harmony and Perfection!
* * *
"MIGHTY VICTORY"! Seal us in Thy "Crys-
tal Cup" and Cosmic Glory of Eternal Vic-
tory iri all we do until our Ascension!
* * *
"I AM" hidden in the Heart ofmy "Mighty
I AM Presence," and none on earth can
find me but the people ofthe Light! "I AM"
this instant and forever Invisible, Invincible,
Invulnerable, Victorious and Free in the
Ascended Masters' "Crystal Cup" of the
Light of a Thousand Suns!
* * *
"Mighty I AM Presence"! Possess me so
completely that I never limit you in any-
thing I call You forth to do!
* * *
MISCELLANEOUS DECREES No. 397
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE," HIGHER MENTAL
BODIES OF ALL MANKIND AND, ALL GREAT
BEINGS, POWERS AND LEGIONS OF LIGHT!
MIGHTY CYCLOPEA!
Make me and all under This Radiation
see ten billion times clearer today, than I
did yesterday by the Ascended Masters'
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., r94r)
319
Cosmic Power of the Light of a Thousand
Suns!
* * *
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE," HIGHER MENTAL
BODIES OF ALL MANKIND, ALL GREAT BEINGS,
POWERS AND LEGIONS OF LIGHT!
Make me and all under This Radiation
pour forth today ten billion times more
Ascended Master Divine Love and Cosmic
Light to all everywhere than we have ever
done before!
* * *
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE,'' HIGHER MENTAL
BODIES OF ALL MANKIND, ALL GREAT BEINGS,
POWERS AND LEGIONS OF LIGHT!
Smash, blast, dissolve, consume and an-
nihilate all opposition to this Light, we who
carry It and all under This Radiation
forever!
* * *
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE," HIGHER MENTAL
BODIES OF ALL MANKIND, ALL GREAT BEINGS,
POWERS AND LEGIONS OF LIGHT!
Smash, blast, dissolve, consume and an-
nihilate all that is not the Perfect food for
our people; and all substance that injures or
destroys mankind. Do it this instant and
forever!
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., 1941)
320
COMPEL No. 398
PROTECTION OF THE LIGHT OF A THOUSAND
SUNS! (3)
Thru my brain, body and affairs and that
of all under this Radiation, the Ascended
Masters' full Cosmic Glory and Power-
POWER! POWER! POWER! (g) this instant and
forever compel!
COMPEL! COMPEL! COMPEL!
By the Power and Light of a Thousand
Suns! (3)
For in the Heart of the Ascended Masters'
Protection of the Light of a Thousand Suns
we do forever dwell! (3)
INVINCIBLE PROTECTION No. 399
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE," HIGHER MENTAL
BODIES OF ALL MANKIND, ALL GREAT BEINGS,
POWERS AND LEGIONS OF LIGHT!
Compel Ascended Master Invincible Pro-
tection and the Victory of the Light for
America (or any city, condition or thing)
in every way and to forever hold sway!
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE," HIGHER MENTAL
BODIES OF ALL MANKIND, ALL GREAT BEINGS,
POWERS AND LEGIONS OF LIGHT!
Compel Ascended Master Invincible Pro-
tection, Divine Justice and the Victory of
the Light in place ofall strikes in ____
in every way and to forever hold sway!
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., 194;1)
321
DRIVE OUT DESTRUCTION No. 400
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE," HIGHER MENTAL
BODIES OF ALL MANKIND, ALL GREAT BEINGS,
POWERS AND LEGIONS OF LIGHT!
DRIVE ALL DESTRUCTION OUT OF . (3)
(any city)
"Mighty I AM"!
DRIVE ALL DESTRUCTION OUT OF (3)
Take and hold Thy Eternal Com-
mand!
DRIVE ALL DESTRUCTION OUT OF (3)
By Thy Cosmic Blue Ray!
DRIVE ALL DESTRUCTION OUT OF (3)
Annihilate it from the Universe today!
Compel Your Invincible Protection and
Victory's Victory to forever hold
sway!
* * *
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE"' HIGHER MENTAL
BODIES OF ALL MANKIND, ALL GREAT BEINGS,
POWERS AND LEGIONS OF LIGHT!
DRIVE ALL DESTRUCTION OUT OF ALL INDUS-
TRIAL PLANTS! (3) (Use same form as above)
MISCELLANEOUS DECREES No. 401
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE" AND UNFED FLAME
OF A THOUSAND SUNS! (3)
Thru us and all under This Radiation,
Saint Germain's Power, Freedom and Vic-
tory from the Cave ofSymbols and the God-
dessof]ustice' Divine]ustice, foreverexpand!
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., 1941)
322
Expand! Expand! Expand!
Descend! Descend! Descend!
etc.
NoTE: Use the aboveformfor the following:
Thru us and all under This Radiation,
Cyclopea's, Lanto's and Victory's Cosmic
Power and Victory of the Rainbow Rays,
forever expand!
Thru us and all under This Radiation,
Leto's and Daddy's Power, Victory, Free路
<lorn and Illumination, forever expand!
Thru us and all under This Radiation,
Thy Blazing Flame from the Golden City,
forever expand!
Thru us and all under This Radiation,
strike Thy One Mighty Stroke, and set
America free to forever expand!
MISCELLANEOUS DECREES No. 402
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE," AND GREAT HOST
OF ASCENDED MASTERS!
(Repeat before each Decree)
1. Make us and all under This Radiation
ten billion times more Blazing, Powerful
and Victorious today with the Ascended
Masters' Kindness of the Light of a Thou-
sand Suns than we were yesterday, and
never let us be unkind again to any person,
place, condition or thing in this world so
long as eternity lasts.
2. Make us and all under This Radiation
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., 1941)
323
ten billion times more Blazing, Powerful
and Grateful today with the Ascended
Masters' Cosmic Fire and Feeling ofEternal
Gratitude than we were yesterday.
3. Make me and all under This Radiation
ten billion times more Blazing, Powerful,
Victorious and Forgiving today to myself
and all mankind with the Ascended Mas-
ters' Unconditional, Eternal Forgiveness,
than we have ever been before and release
all this instant and forever from all human
limitations.
4. Make me and all under This Radia-
tion this instant and forever ten billion times
happier than ever before.
5. Make us and all under This Radiation
ten billion times more Powerful and Lumi-
nous today with the Ascended Masters'
Flaming Substance of the Cosmic Light ofa
Thousand Suns than we were yesterday.
6. Make us and all under This Radiation
ten billion times more Powerful, Blazing and
Beautiful today with the Ascended Masters'
Flaming Substance ofthe Cosmic Light ofa
Thousand Suns than we were yesterday.
7. Make us and all under This Radiation
ten billion times more Blazing, Powerful
and Victorious today with the Flaming Sub-
stance of the Ascended Masters' Uncondi-
tional Eternal Cosmic Peace of the Light of
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., 1941)
324
a Thousand Suns than we were yesterday!
8. Make us and all under This Radiation
ten billion times more Blazing and Power-
ful today with the Ascended Masters' Con-
centration of the Flaming Substance of the
Light of a Thousand Suns than we were
yesterday. Make us use It without inter-
ruption!
g. Make us and all under This Radiation
ten billion times more Blazing, Powerful
and Invincible today with the Ascended
Masters Cosmic Protection of the Flaming
Substance of the Light of a Thousand Suns
than we were yesterday!
1o. Make us and all under This Radia-
tion ten billion times more Blazing, Power-
ful and Gracious today with the Ascended
Masters' Cosmic Power of Courtesy of the
Light of a Thousand Suns than we were
yesterday!
FULFILLING DECREES No. 403
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE," HIGHER MENTAL
BODIES OF ALL MANKIND, ALL GREAT BEINGS,
POWERS AND LEGIONS OF LIGHT!
Fulfill these Decrees with ten billion times
more speed than the last ones we issued and
charge them with ten billion times more
dynamic energy, force and action in the
physical octave.
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., I94I)
325
MISCELLANEOUS DECREES No. 404
"MIGHTY I AM PRESENCE," UNFED FLAME OF
A THOUSAND SUNS AND LORDS OF THE BLUE
FLAME FROM THE GREAT CENTRAL SUN! (3)
Thy most intense, dynamic, physical ac-
tion and concentration of the Ascended
Masters' Blue Flame of a Thousand Suns,
thru us and all under This Radiation, the
Goddess ofJustice' Eternal Possession of the
minds and bodies of everyone in America
forever expand!
Expand! Expand! Expand!
Descend! Descend! Descend!
etc.
NoTE: Use the aboveformfor the following:
I. Thy most intense dynamic physical
action and concentration of the Ascended
Masters' Blue Flame of a Thousand Suns,
thru us and all under This Radiation, Saint
Germain's, Jesus' and Daddy's Eternal Per-
fection in Possession ofthe minds and bodies
of everyone in America, forever expand!
2. The Maha Chohan's Absolute Control
of all substance and energy; all Forces of
Nature, and His Limitless instantaneous,
over-whelming, ever-expanding and eternal
supply ofall good things to us and all under
This Radiation, forever expand!
3. Thru all concerned with strikes, sabo-
tage and subversive activities in the United
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., r94r)
326
States of America, Saint Germain's Power,
Force and Action, Freedom and Victory
from the Cave of Symbols, and the Goddess
ofJustice' Divine Justice, forever expand!
MISCELLANEOUS DECREES No. 405
"I AM" "I AM" "I AM" Victory's Victory
of the Light of a Thousand Suns blazing
over America, dissolving and consuming all
discord from her borders and the earth
forever!
2. "I AM" "I AM" "I AM" the Cosmic
Victory of the Cross of White Fire every-
where I move. Blaze Thou before me and
release mankind into Thy Freedom forever!
3. "I AM" "I AM" "I AM" the descent
of the Legions of Angels of the Flaming
Sword sweeping over America, burning out
every destructive activity within her bor-
ders and releasing all mankind into the
Perfection of Life!
4. "I AM" "I AM" "I AM" the Presence
ofthe Legion ofLight in full Victory, silenc-
ing all human creation in America forever!
5. "I AM" "I AM" "I AM" that Light
as of a Thousand Suns descending into
America right now, dissolving and con-
suming all human selfishness, viciousness
and discord from her people forever!
6. " I AM" "I AM" "I AM" the Victory
(Copyrighted b
y Saint Germain Press, Inc., 1941)
327
and Power ofthe Goddess of Peace reigning
in America forever!
COMPELLING PERFECTION No. 406
ARCHANGEL MICHAEL AND LEGIONS OF LIGHT!
(3)
Thru __ Compel Your Personal Ray!
Compel Your Protection to
stay!
Compel Your Miracles each
hour!
Compel Your Great Cosmic
Power!
Compel Your Victory now!
Take command! Compel all
to bow!
Hold control! Compel Free-
dom now!
Rule all! Compel Divine Jus-
tice now!
Illumine all! Compel Perfec-
tion now!
Hold all! Take Your toll now!
NoTE: Use the aboveformfor the following:
All war
All food
All under This Radiation
All law suits
All indictments
All citations
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., 1941)
328
All tax investigations
All attempted interference with this Light,
ourselves and those under This Radia-
tion
All Courts of Law
Every human being in every legal chan-
nel in America (and thruout the world)
Every young person under This Radiation
All problems
All financial activity for those under This
Radiation
All money in the United States ofAmerica
Every governmental officials
Every individual in positions ofauthority
thruout our land
The Saint Germain Press, Saint Germain
Foundation, "I AM" Radio Activities,
"Voice of the 'I AM"'
The Saint Germain Council
All those calling for healing
All "I AM" Classes
All "I AM" Study Groups
All "I AM" Reading Rooms
All "I AM" Sanctuaries
All "I AM" Schools
All "I AM" Students
All taxes
All strikes and strike agitators
All unions
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., 1941)
329
All National Defense
The draft
The United States Supreme Court
The Constitution of the United States of
America
The Declaration of Independence
Magna Carta
Congress
The Senate
The House of Representatives
The Postal Department
The Income Tax Department
The Department ofJustice
The War Department
Department of Labor
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., 1941)
330
LIGHT OF MY HEART
(Melody-Original: by Godfre Ray King) Key of F
(Published by Saint Germain Press)
Out of the Presence of Life, I come!
Knowing the fulness of all to be done;
Clothed in Thy Garments of Crystal Light,
Endowed with Thy Power to make all
things right.
Powers ofLight! All Hail Thy Great Name!
All Hail! All Hail! Thy Name!
Light of my heart, Eternally Free!
Make me FEEL NOW all Life holds for me,
Make me express all the Beauty Thou art,
Hold me forever within Thy Pure Heart!
In Thy Pure Heart, never to part, truly,
Mankind has waited so long to hear
The full Truth of Life that will make all
things clear.
Now to the "I AM," we sing our praise
And pour forth Its Glory, Its Mighty Light
Rays!
All conquering now! Victorious! All Free!
To Life, to Light, to Love!
Light of my heart, Eternally Free!
Make me FEEL NOW all Life holds for me,
Make me express all the Beauty Thou art,
Hold me forever within Thy Pure Heart.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
1
LIGHT OF MY HEART-Continued
In Thy Pure Heart, never to part! by the
Light of the world, with Thy Unfed Flame
Cleanse and perfect all in Thy Mighty
Name!
Lift ALL to Freedom! Give ALL new
birth!
Adorn with Thy Glory the children of
earth!
I blaze Thy Light, Thy Almighty Rays!
"I AM"! "I AM"! "I AM"!
GonFRE RAY KING.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
LIGHT OF MY HEART
(Melody-Original: by Godfre Ray King) Key of F
(Published by Saint Germain Press)
Out of the Presence of Life, I come!
Knowing the fulness of all to be done;
Clothed in Thy Garments of Crystal Light,
Endowed with Thy Power to make all
things right.
Powers ofLight! All Hail Thy Great Name!
All Hail! All Hail! Thy Name!
Light of my heart, Eternally Free!
Make me FEEL NOW all Life holds for me,
Make me express all the Beauty Thou art,
Hold me forever within Thy Pure Heart!
In Thy Pure Heart, never to part, truly,
Mankind has waited so long to hear
The full Truth of Life that will make all
things clear.
Now to the "I AM," we sing our praise
And pour forth Its Glory, Its Mighty Light
Rays!
All conquering now! Victorious! All Free!
To Life, to Light, to Love!
Light of my heart, Eternally Free!
Make me FEEL NOW all Life holds for me,
Make me express all the Beauty Thou art,
Hold me forever within Thy Pure Heart.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
LIGHT OF MY HEART-Continued
In Thy Pure Heart, never to part! by the
Light of the world, with Thy Unfed Flame
Cleanse and perfect all in Thy Mighty
Name!
Lift ALL to Freedom! Give ALL new
birth!
Adorn with Thy Glory the children of
earth!
I blaze Thy Light, Thy Almighty Rays!
"I AM"! "I AM"! "I AM"!
GonFRE RAY KING.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
LOTUS MY LOVE
(Melody-Original: by Godfre Ray King) Key of G
(Published by Saint Germain Press)
Lotus, my Love, I adore you
With the Purest Light of my heart,
In Its ever-expanding Glory
Holding us, that we never depart
From the Majesty of Its Presence,
Whose Domain transcendent-fair
Now our happiness is-Oh! so Perfect!
Love's Eternal Vict'ry there.
We were lifted in Power Victorious,
As the Light sent us onward to serve;
And we carry Its Freedom forever
To release the Great Truth men deserve.
As we stand in Its Rays of Glory
All protecting with Its Mantle bright,
We free all men from their discord
Come! Glory and Victory of Light!
When at last all our service is over,
And the Vict'ry of Light holds Its Reign,
We ascend into Light's Mighty Presence
As we sing our Eternal Refrain.
Our release to Thy Heights triumphant
Brings an Ecstasy so sublime,
As we enter the .
"I AM Presence,''
In the Power of Love Divine.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
2
LOTUS MY LOVE-Continued
Lotus, my Love, I adore you
With the Purest Love of my heart,
In Its ever-expanding Glory
Holding us, that we never depart
From the Majesty of Its Presence,
Whose Domain transcendent-fair
Now our happiness is-Oh! so Perfect!
Love's Eternal Victory there.
We are clothed in the Armor of Lightning
With the Sword ofBlue Flame in our hands,
We are shod with the Diamond-tipped
Sandals
Now to fill with Thy Glory all lands.
Perfect Peace to the earth, Oh Children!
"I AM" bringing the Answer-Light's_Call!
We live in Its Heart forever
Victorious! Triumphant o'er all!
GODFRE RAY KING.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
O, WORLD VICTORIOUS
Awake! 0, World! in Glory Sublime!
Awake! Awake! feel Light's Bright Day!
AriseI AriseI in Vict'ry Divine.
Beloved "I AM," our Perfect Way.
CHORUS
0, World! we call for thy Freedom now!
0, Light! release Thy full Pow'rl
0, Children of earth whose hearts are Light,
Great Presence hold all close each hour;
To Life that beats each human heart,
To Light that is all Supreme,
To Love that gives Victori'us Pow'r,
"I AM" your Great Light Stream.
0, "Mighty I AM," 0, Heart of God,
Speak with Thy Pow'r of Blessing;
Shower Thy Presence of Light o'er the earth
With Love, transcendent, caressing:
Offer Thy Cup of Liquid Light
That all may drink of Its Magic Pow'r;
Transporting Thy Children to Thy Heights
Divine,
For they are Thy Rarest Flowers.
Awake! 0, World! in Glory Sublime!
Awake! Awake! feel Light's Bright Day!
AriseI AriseI in Vict'ry Divine
Beloved "I AM," our Perfect Way.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, r939)
3
0, WORLD VICTORIOUS-Continued
CHORUS
0, World! we call for thy Freedom now!
0, Light! release Thy full Pow'rl
0, Children of earth whose hearts are Light,
Great Presence hold all close each hour;
To Life that beats each human heart,
To Light that is all Supreme,
To Love that gives Victori'us Pow'r,
"I AM" your Great Life Stream.
0, Great Ascended Host of Light!
0, Gods of the Mountains of Mighty Pow'rl
0, Cosmic Masters, we sing Thy praise,
T he Presence "I AM," this Magic Hour.
GooFR.E RAY KING.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
RAINBOW RAYS
(Melody-Original: by Godfre Ray King)
(Published by Saint Germain Press)
The "I AM" Rays bring happiness
From out the heart of Light!
Mighty Golden Arrows speeding
They rush to banish night;
Golden Rays follow quickly on
In Freedom everywhere;
The Pink Rays with Eternal Peace
Clothe us in Jewels rare.
Golden Rays give glorious rest
Pointing to all Life's Way!
Violet Rays consume mistakes
~ 路 Divine Love fills each day;
Crystal Rays with their Radiance
Make happiness complete;
The Blue Ray lends Its Mighty Pow'r
We never know defeat.
We sing thy praise, Oh great Light Rays!
Take thy Dominion now;
Enfold each one in perfect health
Mighty Presence endow;
Powers of Light to set all free
By thy great Law Divine;
Blaze the feeling of all mankind
With Love's liquid sunshine.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
4
RAINBOW RAYS-Continued
.Mighty "I AM" with Rainbow Rays
Charge thy Power of Light!
Hold in Harmony of the Spheres
Thy Radiance blazing white;
Our call to the Presence is sure
To "I AM" all must bow;
In conscious sustained attention
Love's Victory reigns now.
Golden Rays give glorious rest
Pointing to all Life's Way;
Violet Rays consume mistakes
Divine Love fills each day;
Crystal Rays with their Radiance
We never know defeat;
The Blue Ray lends its Mighty Power
Makes Happiness complete.
GoDFRE RAY KING.
'Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
VOICE OF THE PRESENCE
(Melody-Original: by Godfre Ray King)
(Published by Saint Germain Press)
Voice of the Presence with Almighty Pow'r
Sing in our hearts Thy Joy each hour.
Speak our Decrees in Thy Clarion Voice
And make our decision Thy Perfect
Choice.
Harmony hold in our every desire,
Charge all our actions with Violet Fire,
Clothe us in Thy Seamless Garments of
White,
Protect us with Jewels of Light.
We call to the Presence of Life today,
Make us obedient in Thy Way,
Enfold us in Thy Mighty Tube of Light,
Give us the use of Thy.Perfect Sight.
Blaze through us sustained Thy Unfed
Flame
And speak the full Glory of Thy Name;
Oh, Blue Flame encircle Thy children now,
To Thy Great Power all earth must bow.
Oh, "Mighty I AM" with Thy Dazzling
Rays,
Direct us in Thy Perfect Ways,
Hold us in Thy Happiness so complete,
Thy Harmony knows no defeat.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, i939)
5
VOICE OF THE PRESENCE-Continued
In Service to Thee which we wish to give,
Enable us to always live
The Perfection of Life, which is in Thee,
The Vict'ry now forever free.
We call to the Presence of Life today,
Make us obedient in Thy Way,
Enfold us in Thy Mighty Tube of Light,
Give us the use of Thy Perfect Sight.
Blaze through us sustained Thy Unfed
Flame
And speak the full Glory of Thy Name;
Oh, Blue Flame encircle Thy Children now,
To Thy Great Power all earth must bow.
"I AM" the Glory of the Stars!
"I AM" the Sun's great Light!
"I AM" the Energy of Life!
"I AM" Thy Light so bright!
"I AM" the Voice of the Presence!
"I AM" the Breath of Flame!
"I AM" the Pow'r of Love Divine!
"I AM" God's Mighty Name!
GoDFRE RAY KING.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
ROSE OF LIGHT
(Melody-Original: by Godfre Ray King)
(Published by Saint Germain Press)
Glistening Rose of Light!
Blazing forth so bright,
Giving all Thy fragrance to the earth.
From Thy heights above,
In the Heart of Love,
Are Messengers- Your heart and mine.
In Thy Light Rays
Are God's Perfect Ways,
Filling all space, blessing all mankind.
Our Heart's pure Love
Our Presence above
Happy, Perfect Light of God are we.
Behold! the Power of Light!
Thy enfolding Love, all-caressing now!
In Thy Heart "I AM."
Rose of Light whose Heart is Purest Gold,
Rarest perfume is Your healing gift.
Blessings fill the air, Your Petals now unfold,
All men's consciousness You lift.
Wondrous in Your Velvet Beauty Fair
As You pour Your Blessing everywhere
Miracles ofJoy You clothe in Crystal White
We bless You, Precious Rose of Light.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
6
------ -
ROSE OF LIGHT-Continued
From the Spheres of Power
Comes the Cosmic Hour
Raising all into their Freedom now.
We sing our song of praise,
Held in Crystal Rays,
"Mighty I AM Presence," we are One!
Ascended Master Rose of Light!
GODFRE RAY KING.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
SON OF LIGHT
The Glory of Life has sent you to serve
On the Wings of Light with Its Pow'rs
above;
To call forth Perfection of Life everywhere
Through the Power of your Divine Love.
CHORUS
Oh, Son of Light! our own Precious Heart!
In your Great Power hold your Scepter
Bright,
Blazing each hour your Transcendent Light,
Now facing your Glorious "I AM"!
As you take complete charge, feel your Great
Presence now,
Directing Light Rays of Power,
Endow the children of earth, who adoring,
do vow
Forever to serve only your Great Com-
mand.
Powers of Light! Oh, "Mighty I AM,"
Charge all with Thy Glorious Freedom!
Your Presence Majestic now reigns supreme,
Holding you in Its own Great Height!
Revealing the Secrets of Life to you now,
In your world filled with Substance of
Light.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
SON OF LIGHT-Continued
CHORUS
Oh, Son of Light! our own Precious Heart!
In your Great Power hold your Scepter
Bright,
Blazing each hour your Transcendent Light,
Now facing your Glorious "I AM"I
As you take full command, feel your Great
Presence now,
Directing Light Rays of Power,
Endow the children of earth, who adoring,
do VOW
Forever to serve only your Great Com-
mand!
Oh, Wondrous "I AM"! Thy Students of
Light,
Now charge with Thine own Great Com-
mand!
GODFRE RAY KING.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
CALL TO LIGHT
- I call to Thee, Oh, Light Supreme
Release Thy Cosmic Rays!
Project Them in Thy Splendor now,
In the Mighty coming days.
Speak Thy Power in clarion tones,
Make Thy Light the attraction!
Take Thy Dominion on the earth!
Command Thy Light into action!
CHORUS
I call, I call in Thy Mighty Name,
Perfection ordained;
Reveal, Reveal Thy Blest Secrets now on
Life's Golden Page;
Rejoice, Rejoice in Thy Cosmic Rays are
Life's Perfect Ways!
"I AM," "I AM" Light's Victory now
and Earth's Golden Age.
Oh, Light of Life, I call Thy Power
In my use of the Sword of Blue Flame;
To cut away, dissolve and consume
The mistakes of men who are to blame;
To live again in Perfection secure,
Robed in Thy Mighty Rays of Blue;
I move with Invincible Power of Light,
In the world "I AM" all made new.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
CALL TO LIGHT-Continued
CHORUS
I call, I call in Thy Mighty Name,
Perfection ordained;
Reveal, Reveal Thy Blest Secrets now on
Life's Golden Page;
Rejoice, Rejoice in.Thy Cosmic Rays are
Life's Perfect Ways!
"I AM," "I AM" Light's Victory now,
and Earth's Golden Age.
CODA
"I AM," "I AM," ALL LIGHT "AM I."
"I AM," "I AM" Thy Quenchless Flame!
I call, I call, ALL LIGHT to claim!
Arise! "I AM" Thy Mighty Name!
GODFRE RAY KING.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press)
THE SILENT SENTINEL
(A tribute of Love to the Washington
Monument, at Washington, D. C.)
(Melody-Original: published by Saint Germain Press)
Oh, Mighty Silent Sentinel! to Him our
country loves!
We gaze in rapture on thy height, as all
around thee moves;
Enfolding thee in pink and white, the cherry
blossoms blow,
Reflecting thee like beauteous gem, abides
the pool below.
Oh, Mighty Silent Sentinel! e'er guarding
our bright shores
And watching o'er our Blessed Land above
its open doors,
Thy glory and thine own great height for-
evermore doth tell
The purpose of America-Light's Cup and
Freedom's Bell.
Oh, Mighty Silent Sentinel! brought forth
by Thee-"I AM,''
A focus of Light's own Great Pow'r-the
Precious Unfed Flame!
Blaze Thou Thy Love, Thy Splendor bright!
let all Thy Peace hold sway.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
10
THE SILENT SENTINEL-Continued
Till Vict'ry true and Flame of blue reveal
Thy Great Light Ray!
Oh, Mighty Silent Sentinel! ofstrength and
courage rare,
Remind us often of Life's Gifts and God's
own Loving Care,
The Mighty Source of Light-"! AM"!
from whence we all have come
And Him whose Love hath set us free-our
own George Washington.
Oh, Mighty Silent Sentinel! The Great "I
AM" o'er all America, we answer you-
With Legions at your call.
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
"I AM" COME
(Melody-Original: by Godfre Ray King)
(Published by Saint Germain Press)
"I AM" come in full Glory,
In Light all Supreme!
Behold! I stand by you,
Releasing My Stream
Of Power Victorious,
Of All-conquering Love-
"1 AM" Jesus Ascended,
"I AM" come from above!
"I AM" come now to greet you,
I offer My Hand,
I Pour out My Blessing
To cover your land
I Illumine, Beloved,
Raise all to My Height
"I AM" Jesus who loves you!
"I AM" come in Great Light!
"I AM" come and My Blessing
Shall lift all mankind;
In Life all transcendent
True Peace shall they find:
And Masters Ascended
With Legions of Light,
"I AM" bringing to free all!
"I AM" come in full Might!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
11
"I AM" COME-Continued
"I AM" come and stand ready
To help set you free;
Your Life and Its Power
Are full Victory!
Be now Its Perfection
Triumphant o'er all!
"I AM" your own Great Presence!
"I AM" come at your cafl!
"I AM" come and forever
I walk by your side;
My Arms shall enfold you
I ever abide:
Be fearless and dauntless
Do all I have done!
"I AM" ever your Scepter!
"I AM" come you have won!
"I AM" come ALL-COMMANDING,
Your Freedom is here!
Arise! take Dominion!
And sweep your world clear
Of all that has bound you!
Accept now! be free!
"I AM" Real and Eternal!
"I AM" come! Behold Me!
GODFRE RAY KING.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
NADA OUR LOVE
(Melody-Original: by Godfre Ray King)
(Published by Saint Germain Press)
Oh! Nada! Flower of Loveliness,
The Rarest Jewel Thou art;
We always feel enfolding Rays
Flow from Thy Loving Heart,
To clothe us in full Mastery;
Now wield Thy Sword above,
All glorious in Thy Dazzling Pink,
Nada, our own Precious Love.
In the Radiance of Thy Presence,
All our discord melts away,
In the Power of Thy Light Rays,
Bring in the Cosmic Day
To charge the atmosphere of earth
With Victory and Light,
Now lift the world forever Free
To Thine Own Cosmic Height.
In Thy Palace of Exquisite Beauty,
In the Realms of Blazing Light,
All Thy Treasures so priceless are gathered,
To dispense from Thy Great Height-
To bless all in their journey;
In their Vict'ry o'er the earth,
Calling all to their Freedom
In Light's eternal birth.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
13
NADA OUR LOVE-Continued
Oh, the Glory of Thy Mighty Service
Thru' all ages of the past,
We give gratitude now and forever,
That we have reached at last
The "Great I AM" Our Presence,
As It rules thruout all space
Glory of all creation
Majestic in Its Grace.
Oh! Nada! Flower of Loveliness,
The Rarest Jewel Thou art;
We always feel enfolding Rays
Flow from Thy Loving Heart,
To clothe us in full Mastery;
Now wield Thy Sword above,
All glorious in Thy Dazzling Pink,
Nada, our own Precious Love.
GODFRE RAY KING.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
AMERICA!
OUR OWN BELOVED LAND
(Melody-Original: by Godfre Ray King)
(Published by Saint Germain Press)
Oh, ring the Bell of Liberty,
America set free-
Land of Light and Justice,
Oh, God we trust in Thee;
To clear Our Land from shore to shore
Of all destructive force,
To guide our glorious Ship of State
Upon Its Perfect Course.
CHORUS
God bless you, Oh America,
Our own Beloved Land-
We lift our hearts in gratitude
That we may ever stand
And call the Pow'r of God's Great Light
To keep you now secure,
You shall stand forth the "Great I AM"
Your Peace and Light endure.
Oh, Goddess of our Liberty,
By Thy Great Pow'r and Light
Raise all in Thy Glory,
Give all their full birth-right;
Thy Blessing to America
Is thrilling to behold,
May all arise and make the call,
- "Glory of Life unfold"!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
14
AMERICA!..;....;.Continued
CHORUS
God bless you, Oh America,
Our own Beloved Land-
We lift our hearts in gratitude
That we may ever stand
And call the Pow'r of God's Great Light
To keep you now secure,
You shall stand forth the "Great I AM"
Your Peace and Light endure.
America, we love you,
Our Flag so great and true
Its waving banner o'er Our Land
Shall bring an age all new;
Oh, patriots of old come forth!
Legions of Light command
And make of earth a Paradise
All held in God's own Hand!
FINALE
America, Oh Land of Light,
We make the call today-
Reveal Your heart the Unfed Flame,
By God's Great Cleansing Ray;
Lift all our hearts! Command all free!
Make all fulfill Life's Plan!
Attain your Goal, America,
Our own Beloved Land!
GODFRE RAY KING.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
'- /
GODDESS OF PURITY
I come at the Call of the Cosmic Light,
In this hour of man's greatest need,
That the Power of My Enfolding Love,
May plant in the earth Its seed;
To grow in the Light Its rarest Flowers,
The fulfillment of God's Perfect P1an;
And blazing the Light of thousands of Suns,
To express all the Beauty "I AM."
CHORUS
Ohl Goddess of Purity, Wondrous One,
In the Pow'r of Thy Great Name,
Release from the Heart of the Presence
secure,
The Glory of Thy Domain;
Enfold the Earth in Thy Fragrance Pure,
In Mighty Cleansing Rays;
Clothe all in Armor of Crystal Light,
Their defense in the coming days.
How I longed for the Call, Oh children of
earth,
That the Law of Life now demands
To again return and give you release,
Thru the Great "I AM" Commands;
The One Certain Source of Freedom
That now is My Gift to all,
That will bring Everlasting Purity,
Full Vict'ry at each one's Call.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
Printed in U.S. A.
15
GODDESS OF PURITY-Continued
CHORUS
Oh! Goddess of Purity, Wondrous One,
In the Power of Thy Great Name,
Release from the Heart of the Presence
secure,
The Glory of Thy Domain;
Enfold the Earth in Thy Fragrance Pure,
In Mighty Cleansing Rays;
Clothe all in Armor of Crystal Light,
Their defense in the coming days.
At last, all arise in the Presence "I AM,"
To their Homes in the Realms of Light-
To enjoy forever the Treasures there,
In the Goddess of Purity's Height;
Then to rejoice in the Cosmic Power,
Directing Thy Mighty Light Rays;
While bringing Peace never known to man,
The New Age with Its Golden Days.
GODFRE RAy KING.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., r940)
Printed in U. S. A.
MIGHTY VICTORY
Oh, Victory unto Thy Height,
We call Thy Almighty Name!
Thy Light flashing now resplendent
Releasing the Unfed Flame,
Thy Vict'ry shall claim earth's children,
Mighty Guardian in Thy Right,
Thou hast revealed the Cosmic Law
"I AM" the Power of Light!
CHORUS
Oh, Victory, our Victory!
We walk in Thy Garden fair,
Such dazzling exquisite Beauty,
Its Fragrance is Ohl so rare!
Thy Mighty Ascended Power
Holds us in Thy Vict'ry too,
We shall attain full Mastery
And live in Light's world with You.
Thy Fiat changed the Law of earth,
Released in its place Thy Truth!
Oh, cut away all binding force,
Charge us with Eternal Youth!
Enfold the earth in Violet Fire,
"I AM" then God's full control,
The Flame consumes each wrong desire,
Perfection is our True Goal.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
Printed in U.S. A.
16
MIGHTY VICTORY-Continued
CHORUS
Oh, Victory, our Victory!
We walk in Thy Garden fair,
Such dazzling exquisite Beauty,
Its Fragrance is Oh! so rare!
Thy Mighty Ascended Power
Holds us in Thy Vict'ry too,
We shall attain full Mastery
And live in Light's world with You.
Great Cosmic Being, Victory,
Blest Lord of the Unfed FlameI
From Venus, Star of Happiness,
We heard Thy most Sacred Name;
It calls to us thru Cosmic space,
We listen and hear Its Sound
Oh, Mighty Master Victory!
Let Vict'ry thru earth resound!
Thy Victory forever more,
Its Light in Its Cosmic Force
"I AM" is Light's Great Victory!
"I AM" our Eternal Source!
GooFRi. RAY KING.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
Printed in U.S. A.
GREAT DIVINE DIRECTOR
(Melody-Original by Godfre Ray King) Key of__
(Published by Saint Germain Press, Inc.)
In mem'ry of Your Blazing Pow'r,
In Chananda's Glorious Home,
That released the Light within each heart
From the Cosmic Crystal Dome;
Your Rays in Almighty Service,
Set the Children forever Free,
In Bodies exhaustless enduring,
They Ascended-Your Great Self to see!
CHORUS
Oh, Great Divine Director,
Our heart's Light, calls to You,
In Your Reigning Pow'r of Light Supreme
Brings a world of things all new;
Your Raiment of Dazzling Splendor,
The Insignia of Light's Domain,
Your Scepter flashing Its Command-
"Arise, Oh World, and attain"!
Your Rays of Heart, of Head and Hand,
Went forth in Their great Search,
To find if anything remained
To hold Them from new birth!
And seeing in each Pure Life Stream
Perfection there ordained,
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., 1941)
18
GREAT DIVINE DIRECTOR-Continued
You spoke Life's Fiat of Freedom,
The Glory of Wisdom acclaimed!
CHORUS
Oh, Great Divine Director,
Our heart's Light, calls to You
In Your Reigning Pow'r of Light Supreme
Brings a world of things all new;
Your Raiment of Dazzling Splendor,
The Insignia of Light's Domain,
Your Scepter flashing Its Command-
"Arise, Oh World, and attain"!
Answer
"To all the children of the earth
Who will obey My Command,
I offer Life's Freedom-Ascension-
In this God's own Great Land:
You shall have Bodies enduring,
Pour forth all Power of Light,
To fulfill the Plan of Perfection,
Raised forever to God's Great Height"!
GODFRE RAY KING.
(Copyrighted by Saint Germain Press, Inc., 1941)
OUR OWN JESUS
(Melody: THE STRIFE IS O'ER-Episcopal Hymnal)
KeyE
Master Jesus! Blessed Loved One! "Mighty
I AM"!
We greet Thee now, Beloved One,
Blaze Thou through us, Thy Light as the
Sun!
Make us like Thee all Victory won,
Mighty "I AM"!
Master Jesus! we now greet Thee! "Mighty
I AM"!
In Thy full Love, so great to all
Comes speeding through the Help we call;
Thy Mighty Pow'r the Cosmic Light
Is Thy Great Might!
Master Jesus! walk Thou with us! "Mighty
I AM"!
Come to us now as once before,
Oh, come step through the Open Door;
Walk, talk and smile with us as of yore
In Thy Great Love!
Now we FEEL Thee! Now we SEE Thee!
"Mighty I AM"!
Take Thou our hands, Oh, Jesus Dear!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
26
OUR OWN JESUS-Continued
Consume all doubt, all grief, all fear!
With us abide! Be ever near!
"Mighty I AM"!
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
BELOVED MASTER, JESUS
(Melody: OH, LITTLE TOWN OF BETHLEHEM)
KeyofF
Oh, Jesus, Thou Great Conqueror,
We greet Thee, Lord of Life
And call to all Great Hosts above
To still all earthly strife.
Thou art the Mighty Presence,
The Glorious "Great I AM,"
Thou art the Cosmic Master now,
The Conquering Pure Love Flame.
Let all of earth behold Thee,
Thou Radiant God of Light;
For all shall know Thy Blessed Power,
Thy Presence and Thy Might.
In This full Cosmic Glory,
Reveal Thy Heights to all
That earth may sing Thy Praises, too,
And hear the "I AM CALL."
Let all now see Thyself, Thy Way
And know Thee in the Light!
Come, walk and talk in Perfect Bliss,
Filled with Thy Glory bright.
Let all now see their Presence,
The Glorious "Great I AM"
And ever live within Its Heart,
The Blessed Unfed Flame.
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
27
BELOVED NADA
Nada Dear! Oh, One so fair!
We love You;
Presence of the Sunshine Hair!
Oh, come through!
Glorious One so dazzling bright,
Raise us to Thine own Great Height,
Pour through us Thy Heavenly Light,
pear Nada, we love You!
Let Thy Flame of Pink and Gold
Flood forth now!
Let Thy Glorious Love enfold,
Show us how
Radiant is Thy Mighty Power,
Conquering all each day, each hour;
Thou art God's Own Blest Love-Flower,
Dear Nada, we love You!
Nada Dear! Thy Light so Pure
Raises all;
Lifts us into Victory sure
ThrougJ: our call:
On the Radiant Wings of morn,
Peace on earth again is born,
Beauty doth the world adorn,
Dear Nada, we love You!
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
28
GREAT SANAT KUMARA
A Lord of the Flame from Venus
(Melody-Original: published by Saint Germain Press)
Sanat Kumara, the Lord of the world,
Thou Who didst come from afar!
Come to be Ruler of children on earth,
From Venus that Blest Distant Star:
Thou art the Lord ofthe Flame from above,.
Glorious, Supreme evermore-
Oh, Thou Blest One! Oh, Thou Great Lord
of Love!
'Tis Thee Whom we love and adore:
Oh, Thou Blest One! Oh, Thou Great Lord
of Love!
'Tis Thee Whom we love and adore.
Sanat Kumara, Thou Lord of Great Light!
Pouring Thy Love o'er the earth,
Blessing mankind with Thy Glorious Peace
And giving all now a new birth!
Come forth and greet us in Thy fullest
Power,
Set all now free by Thy Flame!
Seal us within the Great Heart of the Sun,
Our Presence, the "Mighty I AM":
Seal us and hold us within the Great Sun-
Ascended into our "I AM."
(Copyright by'Saint Germain Press, 1939)
29
GREAT SANAT KUMARA-Continued
Sanat Kumara, from Great Cosmic Heights,
"Mighty I AM"! Thou didst come!
Cloth'd in White Fire, the Blest Unfed
Flame,
To seek and enfold everyone!
In Thy True Glory and Power untold,
Dwell we at last now all FREE;
Charge us with Thy Mighty Flame of Pure
Love
And blaze forth Thy Great Victory!
Charge us with Thy Mighty Flame of Pure
Love
And blaze forth Thy Great Victory!
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
BELOVED META
(Melody: ALL GLORY, LAUD AND HONOR-
Episcopal Hymnal) Key of C
All Glory, Love and Honor
To Thee, Oh Meta Dear,
Let all the earth behold Thee,
Mankind Thy Sweet Voice hear.
Thou art of Love and Light and Joy
The very Self Supreme;
Thou art the "Unfed Flame" of Life,
The Glorious Great "I AM."
In Vict'ry, Joy and Power,
In Blazing Light come through!
Reveal Thy Great Dominion,
Show all Thy Presence True!
Send forth Thy Healing Rays ofLove,
Thy Glorious "Unfed Flame,"
Release Thy Mighty Pow'r of Peace
The Blessed Great "I AM"!
Thy Garment of Perfection
From Thy Great Heart of Light,
Enfolds the "I AM" Children
And clothes Them with Thy Might.
In Splendor all transcendent,
Blaze forth, Thou Mighty One!
Oh, Presence of the Great "I AM,"
Thou Beauteous Glorious Sun!
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
30
THE SILENT WATCHER
(Melody-Original: published by Saint Germain Press)
Oh Silent Watcher of Infinity!
Great Brooding Presence,
All dwell within Thee;
Boundless Thy Love
In earth, and sky and sea;
Oh Silent Watcher,
Thy Great God-Self, we see.
Oh Silent Watcher,
Great God from the Sun!
I feel Thy Love
For Thou and I are One.
Shed forth Thy Light,
Let all Thy Love now be;
Oh Silent Watcher
Through all Eternity.
Oh Silent Watcher,
Blessed Self of me!
Oh Love Divine,
Thy Light is all I see;
Thou Great God Presence,
Evermore just Thee;
Oh Silent Watcher,
Oh Love, now speak to me.
(Copjright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
31
THE SILENT WATCHER-Continued
Oh Silent Watcher,
Lord of Love Supreme,
From Thy Great Heart
In one Unending Stream~
Thy Great Light flows
From Thee; Great Sun above;
Oh Silent Watcher,
Thou art the Self of Love.
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, r939)
GREAT CYCLOPEA
(Melody: PRAISE YE THE FATHER-by Gounod)
KeyofF
Great Cyclopea of Cosmic Power and
Majesty!
God of Creation, Thou Lord of all Infinity!
God of the Silence, All Light and Love's
Supremacy!
We all adore Thee within our hearts
eternally.
Lord of the Light, of God's All-Seeing-Eye!
Thy Presence Bright raises all
And lifts them unto Thee on High:
Send forth to earth
Thy Great Legions of Light Almighty!
Let Them rule evermore in Triumph NOW
All call Thee, Great Cyclopea!
Come! Come! in Thy Glory,
All Great Hosts of Light and Power!
Flood forth Thy Love's Lightning
And set mankind forever free!
Great Gods, Who o'er mountains reign,
Glorious Presence of the "Great I AM"!
Cyclopea, Lord of Love's Great Light and
Flame,
All Victorious NOW!
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
32
BELOVED LETO
(Melody: JUANITA) Key of Ei,
Leto, Blest Leto, Thou whose
Heart is made of Light!
Leto, Blest Leto, radiant, pure and bright!
Come to us in Splendor,
Teach us earth's veil to step through;
Open now the True Way,
Let us come to You!
Leto, Dear Lady Leto!
Glorious, True and Holy One,
Leto, Dear Blessed Leto!
Thou art a Dazzling Sun!
Wield now Thy Scepter! command us to
come all free
Into our Presence and commune with Thee!
Through Thy Light our Victory
Is forevermore made sure,
Through the "I AM Presence,"
Are all things made Pure.
Leto, Dear Lady Leto!
God's own Messenger of Light,
Leto, Dear Blessed Leto!
Call we to Thy Height.
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
33
ARCTURUS! WE GREET THEE!
(Melody: COLUMBIA, THE GEM OF THE OCEAN)
Key of Ai,
Great Arcturus! America greets Thee!
And sends her Eternal Love so free.
Thou Great Elohim of Creation,
Thou art a Guardian of our Liberty!
We raise high now in silent salutation
Our Bright Symbol of Gold and Pink and
Blue-
Charge it now with Thy Infinite Protection
From Thy Octave blaze Thy Light through
and through!
We, the Children of Light all stand TRUE!
For we raise our hands high unto You
And with joy say in humble salutation;
"Oh, America! we love you, we DO"!
Oh, accept now Thou Blessed Arcturus,
Our hearts' deepest gratitude and praise;
Because of the stand Thou hast taken,
Our Blessed Flag of Freedom now we raise;
We rejoice at the Great Command Thou
issued,
That the Great Light as of a Thousand
Suns,
Shall flood forth in Its Glorious Perfection,
For America! YOUR VICT'RY IS WON!
Oh, the Vict'ry of Light Now has come!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
34
ARCTURUS! WE GREET THEE!-
Continued
And the New Golden Age has begun;
So together, we say in adoration:
The Americas in FREEDOM ARE ONE!
MARIE ANDREWS.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
BELOVED MESSENGERS OF
LIGHT-THE BALLARDS
(Melody: JINGLE BELLS) Key of G
Our hearts with love o'erflow
And blessings from above
Are crowding in on every hand
And drenching us with Love.
A song of happiness
We sing in sweet refrain
Our "Mighty Presence" answered us
And sent you back again!
CHORUS
Daddy dear, we love you
Blessed Mama too,
Don and Margy and the Staff
With a Love that's true.
We do call earnestly
Morning, night and noon-
Saint Germain- PLEASE SEND THEM
BACK
To bless us VERY SOON!
To precious Saint Germain
For all that He has done,
We offer all we are and have
Till His Great Vict'ry's won.
In humble gratitude
We thank Him now for you,
Our Precious Messengers of Light
Who prove WHAT WE CAN DO!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
35
BELOVED MESSENGERS OF LIGHT-
THE BALLARDS-Continued
CHORUS
We love you, we love you,
Blessed Ballards dear!
*Philadelphia holds you close
In hearts ofjoy and cheer.
Filled with Light's happiness
So we shall remain,
Till our Precious Saint Germain
SENDS YOU BACK AGAIN!
*Insert name of any city here.
FRANCES EKEY.
We appreciate the Love of the Students
as expressed in this song and return our
limitless Blessings to enfold them forever.
Mr. and Mrs. G. W. Ballard
and Son, Donald.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
MIGHTY ELOHIM
(Melody : MELODY INF by Rubinstein) Key of For G
Elohim Mighty!
We greet Thee in song,
Guardians of earth's
Own children so long!
Loose Thy Great Light Rays
And lift all on high,
Almighty Elohim!
Elohim Mighty!
Expand now Thy Light,
Clothe all earth's children
In Love's own Might,
Let Thy Pure Substance
Release now to all,
Hear Thou the "I AM" call! 路
Wield now Love's Scepter
In Thy Great Cosmic Glory;
Reveal to earth Thy True Self
In song and story
Praise Thee, Elohim!
Oh Praise Thee "Great I AM."
Praise Thee Elohim-Elohim-Elohim!
All in their hearts
Ever feel Thy Great Love
Enfolding each one
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
36
MIGHTY ELOHIM-Continued
Now from above;
Set all who love Thee
Eternally free,
Great Blessed Elohim!
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
ECSTASY
(Melody-Original: published by Saint Germain Press)
I pledge the Unfed Flame a vow,
Its Glory all-commanding now;
I face my Source above and see
My Presence smiling down at me.
I feel Its Great Enfolding Love
Pouring o'er me from above;
I gaze into Its Glorious Eyes,
I hear It say: "Arise! Arise!"
I see Its Blazing Heart of Light
Its Beauteous Garments dazzling bright;
I ask Its Help and do implore,
I hear It say: "Adore! Adore!"
I watch Its Light become a Sun
Whose Rays pour out to everyone;
I now behold These seem to blend,
I hear It say: "Ascend! Ascend!"
I must obey Its Mighty Call
Surrendering now myself-my all;
I do attain my Victory,
I hear It say: "All free! All free!"
Its Arms reach out and raise me high,
Its Light illumines all the sky!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
37
ECSTASY-Continued
I hear It say: "My Self now BE!
For 'I AM' thee and Thou are ME!"
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
THE ASCENSION
(Melody: ALOHA OE) Key of A
I feel my God Flame touch my brow,
The Breath of Love-eternal now,
I raise my eyes and Lo! I see,
My own Great God Self over me.
A Dazzling Cloud envelops all,
I hear my Real God Presence call!
I feel a surge of Love's Great Might,
I enter deep Its Breath-Its Light.
I see within this Pulsing Flame,
I listen and hear my Secret Name!
I feel the Glow-the Great Flame Breath,
"I AM" the Victor over death!
I stand forth free-ASCENDED NOW!
To my Heart's Light all things do bow:
"I AM" a Being of Cause alone
And that Cause Love-the Sacred Tone!
I pour out Life-I lift, I raise,
My Heart o'erflows and sings Its praise;
My Power strengthens and inspires,
My Great Light Rays are God's Own Fires.
"I AM" a Sun! My Love Its Light!
All else grows dim-earth lost to sight:
I know that "I AM" GOD-the ONE!
The Source! the Great, Great Central Sun!
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
38
GREAT LOVE STAR
(Melody: ON THE WINGS OF SONG by Mendelssohn)
Use Piano Arrang.-Carl Fischer Edition Key of A I:>
Great Star of Love and Power,
Great Star of Love and Light!
Pouring Thy Radiance each hour,
Revealing Thine own Heart Bright.
Thy Gifts ever flowing to serve us,
Thyself a Glad Gift-all so free
Redeems mankind in joy and peace;
Thyself, let all now BE!
Flash forth in Thy Full Splendor,
Let earth Thy Full Love see!
Great Star from Heights transcendent,
Great Star of Hope! now rend
All that would bind us in earth's sphere
Oh, help us to ascend!
Blaze forth Thy Flame White and Golden,
Clothe all in Thy Substance of Light,
Make us now hear Thy joyous Song,
Point all unto Thy Height!
Come forth! reveal Thy Secret!
The "Mighty I AM" Light!
Great Star of Cosmic Essence,
Great Star of Vict'ry Supreme!
Thy Rays earth now enfolding
And ent'ring Thy Life's Stream!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
39
GREAT LOVE STAR-Continued
"Mighty I AM" Presence!
Great Love Star!
Just Thee!
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
RAISE US!
(Melody: HOLY, HOLY, HOLY) Key of E J,
Raise us, raise us, raise us
Great "I AM" to Thee!
Raise us, raise us, raise us
And set us ever Free!
Raise us, raise us, raise us
Love and Light Divine!
Raise us, Oh raise us,
We are ever Thine!
Guard us, guard us, guard us,
By Thyself above!
Guard us, guard us, guard us
Through Lightning of Thy Love!
Guard us, guard us, guard us,
Secret Heart of Light!
Guard us, Oh guard us,
By Thy Glorious Might!
Charge us, charge us, charge us
With Thy Strength and Pow'r!
Charge us, charge us, charge us,
With Thyself ev'ry hour!
Charge us, charge us, charge us,
Let Thy Presence prove!
Now we are charged by Thee
Wher'er we move!
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
40
ABIDE IN ME
(Melody: ABIDE WITH ME) Key of F
Abide in me,
Oh, Blazing Great "I AM"-
Pour through me now,
Thy Glorious pure God-Flame!
Draw all to Thee
Into Thy Heart of Light,
Drench us with Thy Great Love,
Raise us tonight!
Flood forth through all
Thy Heart's own Golden Light!
Illumine earth
And make it dazzling White!
Perfect and free
And blest forevermore;
We make this call
And Thy Great Help implore!
Dwell Thou in me,
Oh, Dazzling Great "I AM"!
Expand Thy Light-
Send forth Thy Great Love Flame!
Project to all
Thy Mighty Conquering Power,
Move forth in Victory
Supreme this hour!
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
41
--
"I AM" THE PRESENCE
(Melody-Original: published by Saint Germain Press
and LaGOLONDRINA)-Key of D
"I AM" the Presence-the Great Eternal
One,
"I AM" the Presence-from the Great,
Great Central Sun!
"I AM" the Presence-Secret Heart of
Light,
"I AM" the Presence' Love Flame blazing
bright!
CHORUS
"I AM" all Light, all Light am I,
"I AM" in earth and sea and sky!
"I AM" the Light of God raised High,
"I AM" all Light, all Light and Joy, am I!
Beloved Great God-self, come blaze Thou
through me!
That all on earth express full Mastery!
Pour through me now Thy Loving Flame
Supreme,
In Victory, Thou Mighty "I AM"!
CHORUS
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, I939)
42
OH, PRESENCE OF THE
DIAMOND HEART
(Melody: DRINK TO ME ONLY WITH THINE EYES)
Key ofE1'-F
Oh, Presence of the Diamond Heart!
In Victory now I come,
Bearing the "Cup of Liquid Light"
All earth-born battles won.
I raise my Sword and now step through;
Within the Flame to You,
And You, the Heart of Light in all
Reveal the great, the small.
Oh, Presence of the Diamond Heart!
All Ecstasy Supreme.
Thy Joy is now encompassing
My own Life's Radiant Stream;
Is ever pouring out Its Light,
Is All Perfection too,
"I AM" Thy Presence, Lord of Life
Oh, Great Love-Flame, just You!
Oh, Presence of the Diamond Heart!
My Source of Love and Pow'r.
Clothed in Thy Dazzling Armor bright,
I move each blessed hour.
On 'Wings ofJoy, I come to all
In Vict'ry's Pledge to man;
Blaze forth Thy Triumph, Oh Great One,
Most Glorious Blest "I AM"!
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
43
I
I
i
HOLY "I AM"
(Melody: HOLY NIGHT) Key of C
Great "I AM"-Pure God Flame,
Source of all, Great Thy Call,
Coming now into the earth,
Raising all into Light's Birth-
Blaze! Thou "Great I AM/'
Conquer all now by Thy Flame!
"Mighty I AM,'' Glorious "I AM"!
Loose Thy Power, every hour!
All consuming by Love's Holy Light,
Make the earth pure, dazzling and bright,
Cosmic Hour of Love!
Raise all to Thyself above!
. Cosmic Light! blaze forth bright!
Through each day, light the way,
For mankind in Love Supreme;
Blaze! Oh Blaze! Thou "Great I AM"!
Come! Oh, Unfed Flame!
Heart of the "Mighty I AM"!
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
44
-.,,
I
"--
45
THE HAND OF MY PRESENCE
(Melody-Original: published by Saint Germain Press)
The Hand of My Presence is held now in
mine,
The Hand of My Presence makes all things
Divine,
The Hand ofMy Presence points all now on
high,
The Hand of My Presence holds all-you
and I.
CHORUS
The Hand of My Presence fills me with Its
Great Light,
The Hand of My Presence makes me daz-
zling bright,
The Hand of My Presence projects forth Its
Flame,
The Ha-nd of My Presence writes now Thy
Great NAME!
The Hand of My Presence heals all man's
distress,
The Hand ofMy Presence gives all-nothing
less!
The Hand ofMy Presence wields Power and
Love,
The Hand of My Presence holds mine from
above.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
THE HAND OF MY PRESENCE-
Continued
CHORUS
The Hand ofMy Presence makes music and
sweet song,
The Hand of My Presence holds mine all
day long,
The Hand of My Presence fills my heart
with Peace,
The Ha-nd of My Presence makes all dis-
cord cease.
2nd CHORUS
The Hand of My Presence gives me all Its
Power,
The Hand of My Presence does all every
hour,
The Hand of My Presence sends forth Its
Great Rays,
The Ha-nd of My Presence holds my hand
always.
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
CONTEMPLATION
(Melody: THE CHURCH'S ;ONE FOUNDATION)
Episcopal Hymnal-Key of E 1'
My "Mighty I AM Presence" all blazing up
above,
Forevermore enfolds me in Its Transcendent
Love:
Its Arms reach out and hold me within Its
Heart so bright,
"I AM" Its Own Great Power! "I AM" Its
Blessed Light!
"I AM" Its Great Perfection now pouring
out to all!
"I AM" Its Mighty Glory now answering
every call!
Within Itself so dazzling, forever I abide,
Again with earth's blest children, I walk
now side by side.
I come in all Love's Power to set Light's
Children free!
I come at last commissioned-"! AM"
Envoy from Thee!
In Vic-tor-y and Triumph, I wield my
Scepter bright,
"I AM" the ONLY PRESENCE! "I AM"
the COSMIC LIGHT!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
46
CONTEMPLATION-Continued
I come to bring Love's Blessing, in Crystal
Armor White!
A Sword of Flame before me moves with
Resistless Might!
And Legions without number sweep in
THEIR VICTORY!
The COSMIC LIGHT all blazing sets earth
forever free.
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
47
COME THOU ALMIGHTY KING
Key ofG
Come, Thou Almighty King!
Help us Thy Name to sing,
Help us to praise!
Thy Self all glorious,
O'er all victorious,
Come and reign over us,
Ancient of Days!
Come, Thou Incarnate Word!
Gird on Thy Mighty Sword,
Our call attend!
Come, and Thy People bless;
Come, give Thy Word success;
'Stablish Thy righteousness,
"Mighty I AM"!
Come, Holy Comforter!
Thy Sacred Witness bear,
In this glad hour!
Thou, Who Almighty art,
Now rule in every heart
And ne'er from us depart,
Almighty Power!
To Thee, Great One in Three!
Our highest praises be,
Hence evermore;
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
COME THOU ALMIGHTY KING-
Continued
Thy Sovereign Majesty,
May we Thy Fulness be
And for eternity
Love and Adore!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
ONWARD, CHILDREN
OF THE LIGHT
(Melody:ONWARDCHRISTIANSOLDIERS)KeyofEi,
Onward, Children of the Light!
March in glad array,
Evermore Victorious
Love's Eternal Way!
Carry forth Light's Victory
By Thy Heart's own Love
Sweep all now before Thee,
The "I AM Presence" prove!
Onward, Children of the Light!
March in glad array,
Always God-Victorious
Love's Eternal Way!
Onward, Children of the Light!
Love forevermore,
Thine own "I AM Presence,"
God's Great Open Door.
Comenow through into Its Light
And the Unfed Flame;
Worship at Its Altar
The Blessed "Great I AM."
Onward, Children of the Light!
Love forevermore,
You are now the Presence,
God's Great Open Door!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
48
ONWARD, CHILDREN OF THE LIGHT-
Continued
Onward, Children ofthe Light!
Free at last, all free!
Ascend in Thy Glory
Great "I AM" to Thee!
God in all, we worship
Great, Great Central Sun,
Pouring forth Its Blessings
On earth to everyone!
Onward, Children ofthe Light!
Now at last all free,
Bring Love's Golden Glory,
*Ambassadors from Thee!
CHANERA.
*Add an extra note here.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
THE COSMIC LIGHT
(Melody: LONDONDERRY AIR) Key of D
Great Cosmic Light from out the Dazzling
Central Sun,
Releasing now Thy Substance to the earth,
Transmuting all by Thy Majestic Radiant
Pow'r
And raising all into the new rebirth.
Oh, blaze Thou forth in Thy Celestial
Glory!
Reveal to all Light's Children once again
The Power of"Light" and tell the wondrous
story
Of all creation and God's Mighty Cosmic
Plan.
Oh, Cosmic Light place now on earth's
great Altar,
The Unfed Flame and hold us in Its Heart-
Oh, let our footsteps henceforth never falter
And from Thy Mighty Radiance never part.
Great Quenchless Light! drench earth and
all her children
Oh, give us vision brighter to aspire
Set mankind Free! Ascended in Light's
Glory!
Within Thy Holy Pulsing All-creative Fire!
MAruE ANDREWS.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
49
'-
LIGHT'S TRIUMPH
(Melody: THE SOLDIER'S CHORUS from "FAUST")
Key ofG
Love and the Victory of Light has come!
Triumph and Freedom at last are won!
Joy from the Great Great Central Sun
Now floods forth to all,
And answers our call
Most Holy One!
Children of the Light, send forth your call!
Set the whole earth free-by your Love to
all!
Blaze forth all of Thy Might, Thou "Great
I AM"!
All earth serves the Light, by Thy Great
Command!
By Thy Great Command.
Great is our Glory and Power of Right,
Strong is our courage to reach the Height,
Brave are the Children of Love and Light,
Come forth in Thy Flame! Oh "Mighty
I AM."
Great Ascended Host! come quickly through
In Thy Great Love, and Light and Splendor;
Oh, "Mighty I AM," from Thy Great Heart
send forth
Thy Word that now heals all.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
50
LIGHT'S TRIUMPH-Continued
Great Legions of Light! forevermore burst
all
Of earth's dark chains asunder!
Angelic Host, come quickly come, and take
command!
Come Cherubim and Seraphim in Vict'ry's
Might!
Blaze forth Thy Power and evermore rule us
Through Thy Great Cosmic Messengers
路Of Life and Light on high!
"Mighty I AM"! Thou Source of man!
Great Unfed Flame-Blest Elohim!
Glory and praise to our Source on High!
Great One of God's All-Seeing-Eye,
Lord of the earth and sea and sky!
Victorious NOW-to Thee! all men bow.
Oh, "Mighty I AM"-Life's Eternal Flame
Thou God-Self of me!
Thy Great Crystal Ray illumines my Way!
And "I AM" ALL FREE-Oh GREAT
GREAT "I AM."
CHANERA.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
MARCH ON!
(Melody: MARCH FROM "AIDA") Key of G
(Brown Song Book-C, Birchard Co.)
March On! Liberty's host, march on!
Bearing the Sword of Light.
Thou hast prevailed o'er the foe
With its hordes of night.
March On! conquering fear and hate,
Bringing Love's decree;
Praise be to God!
For the earth and its children are free!
Hark to the trumpet call!
Sounding for Freemen all!
Singing the Jubilee
Of earth made Free!
March On! conquering fear and hate,
Bringing Love's decree:
Praise be to God!
For the earth and its children are free!
March On! thine avenging lance
By the Right was blest,
Thou hast fought for the Heights
Till ye stand on the crest:
March On! where Thy Banners lead,
路 Banners of Victory;
Praise be to God!
For the earth and its children are Free!
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
51
MARCH ON!-Continued
Hark to the trumpet call!
Sounding for Freemen all!
Singing the Jubilee
Of earth made Free.
March On! Liberty's host, march on!
Bearing the Sword of Light.
Thou hast prevailed o'er the foe
With its hordes of night.
March on! conquering fear and hate,
Bringing Love's decree;
Praise be to God!
For the earth and its children are Free!
SIDNEY RowE.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
AMERICA IS FREE
(Melody: BATTLE HYMN OF THE REPUBLIC)
Key of Bf,
Our eyes have seen the Glory
Of the Risen Hosts of Light,
Who blaze throughout America
Their Rays to scatter night;
And this They have accomplished
By the Power of Their Might,
AMERICA IS FREE!
CHORUS
Praise the "Mighty I AM Presence,"
Praise the "Mighty I AM Presence,"
Praise the "Mighty I AM Presence,"
AMERICA IS FREE!
The Messengers of Saint Germain
Have brought to us the Word,
That our Beloved Country
Is the Jewel of the Lord;
With gratitude and loyalty
,Our hearts are deeply stirred-
AMERICA IS FREE!
CHORUS
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
52
AMERICA IS FREE-Continued
The "Mighty I AM Presence"
Shall flow forth to heal and bless;
To fill our loved America
With Peace and Happiness;
Until the whole wide world around,
Rejoicing, shall confess-
AMERICA IS FREE!
CHORUS
Praise the "Mighty I AM Presence,"
Praise the "Mighty I AM Presence,"
Praise the "Mighty I AM Presence,"
THE WHOLE WIDE WORLD IS
FREE!
MARION LAWRENCE.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
-
53
THE STAR-SPANGLED BANNER
Key of B1'
Oh say! can you see, by the dawn's early
Light,
What so proudly we hail'd at the twilight's
last gleaming?
Whose broad stripes and brightstars, through
the perilous fight,
O'er the ramparts we watch'd, were so
gallantly streaming!
And the rocket's white glare, the bombs
bursting in air,
Gave proof through the night that Our Flag
was still there.
Oh! say, does that Star-spangled Banner
yet wave
O'er the Land of the Free and the home of
the brave?
On that shore dimly seen through the mists
of the deep, ,
Where the foe's haughty host in dread silence
reposes,
What is that which the breeze, o'er the
towering steep,
As it fitfully blows, half conceals, half
discloses?
(Copyright bj Saint Germain Press, 1939)
THE STAR-SPANGLED BANNER-
Continued
Now it catches the gleam of the morning's
first beam,
In full glory reflected now shines on the
stream;
'Tis the Star-spangled Banner; Oh, long
may it wave
O'er the Land of the Free and the home of
the brave!
Oh, thus be it ever, when freemen shall
stand
Between their loved homes and the war's
desolation!
Blest with Victory and Peace, may the
heaven-rescued land
Praise the Power that hath made and
preserved us a nation!
Then conquer we must! for our cause it is
just,
And this is our motto-"In God we do
trust":
And the Star-spangled Banner in triumph
does wave
O'er the Land of the Free and the home of
the brave!
FRANCIS SCOTT KEY
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
AMERICA
My country, 'tis of thee,
Sweet land of Liberty,
Of thee I sing;
Land where my fathers died,
Land of the Pilgrim's pride;
From every mountain side,
Let Freedom ring.
My native country, thee-
Land of the noble free-
Thy name I love;
I love thy rocks and rills,
Thy woods and templed hills;
My heart with rapture thrills,
Like that above.
Let music swell the breeze,
And ring from all the trees
Sweet Freedom's song;
Let mortal tongues awake,
Let all that breathe partake,
Let rocks their silence break-
The sound prolong.
Our fathers' God to Thee,
Author of Liberty,
To Thee we sing:
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
54
AMERICA-Continued
Long may our land be bright
With Freedom's Holy Light:
Protect us by Thy Might,
Great God, our King.
SAMUEL F. SMITH.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
AMERICA INVINCIBLE
(Melody: CORONATION) Key of G
We hail Thy Power and Majesty,
Ascended Hosts ~f Light!
Shine on our loved America,
And hold her in Thy Might.
Shine on our loved America,
And hold her in Thy Might.
Pour over her Thy Golden Flame,
Encircle her in white;
Protect and bless her in Thy Name;
And hold her in Thy Light.
Protect and bless her in Thy Name,
And hold her in Thy Light.
America, the Shining One,
The Jewel burning bright;
Oh, hold her Flaming Sceptre high,
A Crown of Living Light,
Oh, hold her Flaming Sceptre high,
A Crown of Living Light.
America Invincible,
Triumphant in the Right;
Oh lead her on to Victory,
And crown her Land of Light.
Oh lead her on to Victory,
And crown her Land of Light.
CLARENCE c. BIRCHARD.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
55
AMERICA! THE BEAUTIFUL
Oh, beautiful for spacious skies,
For amber waves of grain,
For purple mountain majesties
Above the fruited plain-
America! America!
God shed His Grace on thee,
And crown thy good with brotherhood
From sea to shining sea.
Oh, beautiful for pilgrim feet
Whose stern impassioned stress,
A thoroughfare for Freedom beat
Across the wilderness.
America! America!
God mend thine every flaw,
Confirm thy soul in Self-control,
Thy Liberty in law.
Oh, beautiful for heroes proved
In liberating strife,
Who more than selftheir country loved,
And mercy more than Life.
America! America!
May God thy gold refine
Till all success be nobleness,
And every gain divine.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
56
AMERICA! THE BEAUTIFUL-Continued
Oh, beautiful for patriot dream,
That sees beyond the years-
Thine alabaster cities gleam
Undimmed by human tears.
America! America!
God shed His grace on thee,
And crown thy good with brotherhood
From sea to shining sea.
KATHERINE LEE BATES.
(Copyright by Saint Germain Press, 1939)
OUR BELOVED SAINT GERMAIN
"I AM" HERE!
"I AM" here! Do you see Me?
"I AM" looking at you!
I have long, long been planning
Earthly veils to step thru;
I have loved and have held you
In My Heart's Dazzling Light;
"I AM" Saint Germain speaking-
Take My Hand! Reach My Height!
l
"I AM" here! Do you feel Me?
"I AM" pouring Light thru-
Cosmic Light Rays transcendent
To enfold and lift you!
Then accept Them and use Them,
Feel the Help that I give!
Be My Luminous Presence-
Blaze My Love! Make Joy live!
"I AM" here! You have called Me!
"I AM" answering you!
I prepare each one-daily
To be raised to Me too!
Do you know how I love you,
"I AM" off'ring you all-
Then accept My Full Power,
Answer now My Heart's calll
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., I940)
Printed in U.S. A.
57
OUR BELOVED SAINT GERMAIN
"I AM" HERE!-Continued
"I AM" here! Then receive Me!
"I AM" clearing the way!
All before you is yielding,
Feel My Glorious Light Ray!
Breathe It in! Use Its Power!
It is coming right thru!
Watch My Light! Look within It!
See My Arms raised to you?
"I AM" here! Real and living,
"I AM" Master-all free!
Still your thought and your feeling!
Speak the Word! Come to Me!
Let your Presence Almighty
Raise you now-make you know
All the Light in Our Octave,
All the Gifts We Bestow!
"I AM" here! You have conquered!
"I AM" holding your hand!
Face to face We are speaking-
All Victor'ous you stand!
Thru the Great "I AM" Presence,
You have opened Light's Door-
"I AM" Saint Germain speaking!
"You are FREE evermore"!
CHANERA.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
Printed in U. S. A.
THE ASCENDED MASTER,
SAINT GERMAIN
(Melody: The Bells of Saint Mary)
Oh blest Saint Germain, Dear,
Thou Holy Great One,
We love Thee and bless Thee
Thou God from the Sun.
We feel Thee and see Thee,
The Work Thou hast done,
For the Cup Thou dost carry
O'erflows from the "ONE."
We praise Thee and greet Thee,
Thou Great Lord of Light,
And raise now the Scepter
To Thy glorious Height.
We wield all Love's Power,
Love's Wisdom and Might;
Blaze thru us forever
Thy Flame-dazzling bright.
CHANERA.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
Printed in U.S. A.
58
MY PROMISE
"Lo 'I AM' with you always,"
Is My Promise true;
The Way I have opened,
I point It to you!
My Help "I AM" pouring,
Do now your own part;
Oh, call unto your .Presence,
Feel It now in your heart!
"Lo 'I AM' with you always,"
Those Words long ago,
Rang out o'er the ethers
To let mankind know
My Love and My Vict'ry
That each must attain;
For Cosmic Light in Its Splendor
Shall now rule earth's domain.
"Lo 'I AM' with you always,"
Because We are One;
God Beings of Life's Flame
Come forth from the Sun.
Then will you believe Me
When I call to you?
"I AM" Light's Full Perfection
Be ye all Perfect too!
"Lo 'I AM' with you always,"
Your Brother of Light;
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., z940)
Printed in U.S. A.
59
MY PROMISE-Continued
Arise! Be Victor'ous!
It is your birthright:
You too are a Being
From out God's own Heart;
"I AM" Life's Mighty Power-
And we never can part.
"Lo 'I AM' with you always,"
In all that you do,
When it is constructive
You are Myself too;
So feel now My Nearness,
My Presence so bright,
I enfold you each hour
In My Great Cosmic Might.
"Lo 'I AM' with you always,"
I now make the CaU:-
"ComeI Great Cosmic Powers
Give Help that frees all!
Descend! let Thy Blue Flame
Sweep earth thru and thru"!
Our Great Sun sends Its Answer
My own Heart's Call for you!
CHANERA.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., Ig40)
Printed in U.S. A.
"I AM" THY TEMPLE
(Melody: The Church's One Foundation) Episcopal
Hymnal, Key of Eb
This Temple is Thy Temple
Oh, Glorious Great "I AM"!
This Temple is Thy Temple
The Holy Unfed Flame!
This Temple is Thy Temple
All Crystal Blazing bright!
This Temple is Thy Temple
Filled with the Cosmic Light!
This Temple is Thy Temple
My Vict'ry is made sure!
This Temple is Thy Temple
Supreme-at last all PURE!
This Temple is Thy Temple
Of Glorious Blessed Song!
This Temple is Thy Temple
NOW and the whole day long!
This Temple is Thy Temple
Of Pure Unselfish Love!
This Temple is Thy Temple
And rises now above!
This Temple is Thy Temple
All Master by Thy Might!
This Temple is Thy Temple
I enter Thy Great Height!
(Copyright by St. Germain Press, Inc., Ig40)
Printed in U.S. A.
60
"I AM" THY TEMPLE-Continued
This Temple is Thy Temple
Of Mighty Healing POWER!
This Temple is Thy Temple
Resplendent every hour!
This Temple is Thy Temple
And "I AM" ever free!
This Temple is Thy Temple
. "I AM" at last all THEE!
This Temple is Thy Temple
A Blazing Cosmic Sun!
This Temple is Thy Temple
My own earth journey done!
This-Temple is Thy Temple
Supreme o'er human strife!
This Temple is Thy Temple
And "I AM LORD OF LIFE"!
CHANERA.
(Copyright by St. Germain Press,1nc., z940)
Printed in U.S. A.
