{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__anonymous___rosicrucian_book_of_forms.pdf","mytitle":"Rosicrucian Book Of Forms","mylang":"de"}
'>-~
Manual of Forms
Used by
THE ROSICRUCIAN
FELLOWSHIP
P. 0. Box 713
Oceanside, California, U.S.A.
92054
MANUAL OF FORMS
of
The Rosicrucian Fellowship
FOUNDED BY MAX HEINDEL IN 1909
Published and Printed by
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
Mt. Ecclesia
OCEANSIDE, CALIFORNIA, U.S.A.
COPYRIGHT 1940 BY
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
Foreword
The Object of the Rosicrucian
Fellowship
THE ROSICRUCIAN ORDER is an ancient Mystic Fra-
ternity formed in the year 1313, by a high spiritual
teacher having the symbolical name ''Christian Rosen
Kreuz: Ch!ristian Rose C\ross. It was his mission to
prepare a new phase of the Christian Teligion to be
used during the coming age now at hand, for as the
world and man evolve so also must religion change.
The system of worship suited to the spiritual needs of
our forebears is unsuited to our altered intellectual con-
dition. Therefore the great spiritual entities in charge
of evolution, change the religions of the world in har-
mony with the passage of the marching orbs in the
heavens.
The Rosicrucian Philosophy is entirely Christian,
striving to make religion a living factor in the land-
and to lead to Christ those who cannot find Him by
faith alone.
3
Table of Contents
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Rosicrucian Fellowship Opening Hymn . . . . . . . . . 8
The Temple Service (Sunday Evenings) . . . . . . . . 9
The Rosicrucian Prayer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Rosicrucian Fellowship Closing Hymn . . . . . . . . . . 15
The Healing Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Order of Solemnization of Marriage . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
The Funeral Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
"Nearer, my God, to Thee" (3rd verse) ....... 33
Service at the Crematory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
"There Is No Death" ...................... 40
Rosicrucian Fellowship Method of Caring for the
Dead ............ ; .. .... ... .. .... ......... 48
5
The Temple Service
(SUNDAY EVENINGS)
The Rosicrucian Fellowship Opening Hymn
Words by Max Heindel
(Tune: "Sweet Hour of Prayer.")
Each star that in its orbit goes
Law steadfast and eternal shows.
Expressions, are the stars, of God,
Unchangeable as ebb and flood.
The marching orbs in circle dance,
Through time and space each year advance.
The harmony of rolling spheres
Resounds in cosmos through the years.
Man's ·ignorance of Cosmic Law
Caused discord, then came death and woe;
Now trouble, sorrow, grief must reign
Till harmony prevails again.
We've met to study· Nature's Law,
We seek eternal truth to know,
And with such truth as we may fi.nd
We hope to serve and free mankind.
Let's strive to know that we may do.
What lifts, ennobles, is right and true.
With love to all and hate to none,
Let's shun no duty that should be done.
For knowing how to act aright,
And doing it from morn till night,
From day to day and year to year,
We conquer self and sin and fear.
With reason's torch we search for truth
To restore the harmony, life, and youth;
For reason's torch whe'1. thus applied
In wisdom's quest is safest guide.
If we persist, though oft we fail,
In time our efforts shaff prevail
To end the discord and dispel
All evil with harmony's:rlfythmic swell.
8
The Temple Service oF the Rosicrucian
Fellowship
Order of the Sunday E'vening Devo-
tional Service at Headquarters and
in Rosicrucian Fellowship Centers.
1. Sing the Rosicrucian Fellowship Opening
Hymn-four stanzes. (Distribute separate song cards
on seats before service.)
2. Unveil the Emblem.
3. A member reads aloud the following Rosicrucian
Fellowship Ternple Service:
My DEAR SISTERS AND BROTHERS :
Once more we have withdrawn from the material
world and are entering into the living temple of our
own inner natures in spiritual conclave. As a symbol
of this withdrawal from the visible world we have
darkened our meeting place.
9
10 MANUAL OF FORMS
We are looking for spiritual light along the lines of
the Rosicrucian teaching, and we therefore reverently
fix our eyes upon the Rose Cross while we listen to the
Rosicrucian greeting :
"My dear Sisters and Brothers : May the Roses
bloom upon your Cross.''
Response by People: ''And upon yours, also.''
One coal will not make a fire, but where a number
of coals are heaped together, the heat which is latent in
each may be kindled into a flame, emitting light and
warmth; and it is in obedience to the same law of nature
that we have gathered here tonight, that by massing
our spiritual aspirations we may light and keep ablaze
the beacon light of true spiritual Fellowship, which is
the balm of Gilead, the only panacea for the world's
woe.
The Bible has been given to the Western World by
the Recording Angels, who give to each and all exactly
what they need for their development. They are above
mistakes, and if we seek the Light, we shall find it there.
Let us read from the first ,eoistle of John, also from
Paul's letters to the Corinthians 1nd Philippians,
where Fellowship is the theme:
THE TEMPLE SERVICE 11
God is Light; if we walk in the light, as He is in
the light, we have Fellowship one with another. He
that loveth his brother abideth in the light, but he that
hateth his brother is in darkness and knoweth not
whither he goeth because the darkness hath blinded
his eyes.
Let us not love in word, neither in tong1te, but in
deed and in truth, ... (for) though I speak with the
tongues of men and of angels and have not love, I am
become as sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal; and
though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all
mysteries and all knowledge; and though I have all
faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not
love, I am nothing. And though I bestow all my goods
to the poor, and though I give my body to be burned,
and have not love, it profiteth me nothing.
Love suffereth long and is kind; love envieth not;
love vaunteth not herself, is not puffed up, <Mth not
behave herself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not
easily provoked, thinketh no evil; rejoices not in evil
but in the truth; beareth all things, believeth all
things, hopeth all things, and endureth all thingR.
Love never faileth; but whether there be prophecies,
they shall fail, and whether there be knowledge, it shall
vanish away.For now we kno~ in part and we prophesy
12 MANUAL OF FORMS
in part. But when that which is perfect is come, then
that which is in part shall be done away. For now we
see through a glass, darkly, but then face to face. Now
we know in part; but then we shall know even as we
are known. And now abideth Faith, Hope, and Love,
but the greatest of these is lJOVe.
If we love one another, God dwelleth in us and His
love is perfected in us. God is love ; and he that
dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him; but
if a man say, ' 'I love God,'' and hateth his brother, .he
prevaricates, for he that loveth not his brother whom
he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not
seen T And this commandment have we from Him,
that he who loveth God love his brother also.
If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if
any comfort in love, if any Fellowship in spirit, look
not every man on his own things but also on the things
of others. Let this mind be in you which was also in
Christ Jesus, who made himself of no reputation and
took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made
in the likeness of man.
And being found in fashion of a man, he humbled
himself and became obedient unto death, even the death
upon the croSB. Wherefore God hath highly exalted
him and given him a name that is above every name ;
that at the name of Christ Jesus every knee suowd
THE TEMPLE SERVICE 13
bow, and that every tongue should confess that Christ
Jesus is Lord to the glory of God the Father.
My dear sisters and brothers, let us strive to follow
the example of Christ and live up to his definition of
Greatness, namely, ''He who would be the greatest
among you, let him be the servant of all.''
Loving, self-forgetting Service to others is the short-
est, the safest, and the most joyful road to God. The
recognition of the fundamental unity of each with all,
the Fellowship of the spirit, is the realization of God.
To reach that realization let us endeavor each day to
forget the often unprepossessing exteriors of our
brothers and seek to serve the divine essence hidden
within, which is the basis of Fellowship.
We will now enter the silence together and concen-
trate on SERVICE for a few moments.
(After the concentration the emblem is veiled, the
lights are turned on, and the lecture for the evening is
delivered by a member who is of the opposite sex to the
reader if possible.)
4. Lecture.
5. At conclusion of lecture the reader returns to .
the platform and rearls- fSee next page]
14
THE ROSICRUCIAN PRAYER
Not more of Light we ask, 0 God,
But eyes to see what is;
Not sweeter songs, but ears to hear
The present melodies;
Not greater strength, but how to use
The power that we possess;
Not more of lov~, but skill to turn
A frown to a caress ;
Not more of joy, but how to feel
Its kindling presence near,
To give to others all we have
Of courage and of cheer.
No .other gift, dear God, we ask,
But only sense to see
How best the precious gifts to use
We have received from Thee.
Give us all fears to dominate,
All holy joys to know,
To be the friend~ we wish to be,
To speak the truth we know;
To love the pure, to tseeK the good,
To lift with all our might,
All souls to dwell in harmony
In Freedom's perfect light.
THE TEMPLE SERVICE 15
6. All rise and sing the Rosicrucian Fellowship
Closing Hymn-:-four stanzas.
ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP CLOSING HYMN
Words by Max Heindel
(Tune: "God Be with You Till We Meet again.")
G<id be with you till we meet again;
In His love each day abide you,
That His wisdom's Light may guide you;
God be with you till we meet again.
REFRAIN:
Till we meet, till we meet,
Till we meet, the Rosy Cross to greet,
Till we meet, till we meet,
God be with you till we meet again.
God be with you in your hour of joy;
With life's choicest gifts to bless yuu,
With no sorrow to oppress you,
Then may Service give you added joy.
G<id be with you in your hour of pain,
When temptations surge around you,
With helpful thoughts we will surround you,
Till your darkness turns to light again.
God be with you till we meet again
At the Cross with Roses garnished;
May our lives be pure, untarnished,
Till the Rosy Cross we greet again.
7. THE PARTING ADMONITION:
And now, my dear sisters and brothers, as we part
to re-enter the material world, may we go out with a
16 MANUAL OF FORMS
firmer ·resolve to express in our daily lives the high
spiritual ideals we have received here, so that day by
day we may become more worthy men and women,
more worthy to be used as self-conscious channels for
the beneficial workings of our Elder Brothers in the
service of humanity.
The Healing Service
The Healing Service
Order of the Healing Service in The
Rosicrucian Fellcnuship Centers;
1. Unveil the emblem.
2. A member reads aloud the following Rosicru-
cian Fellowship Healing Service, beginning with the
Rosicrucian Greeting:
''My dear Sisters and Brothers: May the Roses bloom
upon your Cross.''
Response by People: ''And upon yours, also.''
It is our custom to meet here once a week for the
purpose of carrying out the second commandment of
the Christ, to heal the sick. One coal will not make a
fire, but where a number of coals are heaped together,
the heat which is latent in each may be kindled into a
flame, emitting light and warmth.
We are now massing our coals in an endeavor to gen-
erate thoughts of help and healing, and to focus them
19
20 MANUAL OF FORMS
in one common direction so that they may be available
to aid the Elder Brothers of the Rosicrucian Order in
their beneficent work for humanity.
If we wish to be real helpers in the work which the.
Elder Brothers have started, we must make our bodies
suitable instruments; we must purify them by clean
living, for an unclean vessel cannot contain pure and
wholesome water, nor can- a spotted lens give a true
picture. Neither can pure an:d strong healing force be
sent out from here unless we keep our minds and bodies
clean and pure.
It is a privilege to be here in the midst of all these
thoughts of love and prayer, and to offer ourselves as
channels to receive and liberate the healing force which
comes direct from the Father. But before this power
can be transmitted, it must have been generated; and
to do this efficiently, we shohld understand accurately
what the method is. It is not enough that we know in
a vague way of the sickness arid suffering which are in
t}ie world, and that we have a dim and hazy idea of
helping to alleviate this suffering, whether it be bodily
or mental. We must do som~th:ing definite to attain
our object. Disease, we may say, is really a fire, the
invis.
ible fire which is the Father, endeavoring to break
up the crystallized conditions whieh we have gathered
~ our bodies. We recognize fever as a fire, but tum.ors,
THE HEALING SERVICE 21
cancers, and all other diseases are really also the effect
of that invisible fire which endeavors to purify the sys-
tem and free it from eonditions which we have brought
about by breaking the Jaws of nature. This very same
power which is endeavoring slowly to purge the body
can be greatly augmented by proper concentration
(that is what prayer really is) provided we have the
proper conditions.
'l'o illustrate what these conditions are, we will take
the waterspout as an example. Usually at the time
when it occurs the sky seems to hang very low over the
water; there is a tense feeling in the air of depression
or concentration. Gradually it seems as if a point in
the sky reaches down toward the water, and the waves
in a certain spot seem to leap upward until both sky
and water meet in a swirling mass.
Something similar takes place when a person or a
number of persons are in earnest prayer. When a
person is intensely in earnest ia supplication to a
higher power, his aura seems to form itself into a funnel
shaped thing which resembles the lower part of the
waterspout. This leaps up into space a great dis-
tance, and being attuned to the Christ vibration of the
interplanetary world of Life Spirit, it draws thence a
divine power which enters the man or company of
men, and ensouls the thought-form which they have
22 MANUAL OF FORMS
created, Thus the object for which they have united
will be accomplished.
But let this be borne thoroughly in mind, that the
process of praying or concentrating is not a cold intel-
lectual process. There must be an amount of feeling
adequate to a·ccomplish the desired object~ and unless
this intensity of feeling is present, the objeCt will not
be realized. This is the secret of all the miraculous
pr~yers which have been recorded; the person who
prayed for something was always intensely in earnest;
his whole being went into the desire for this or that
thing for which he prayed, and thus he lifted himself
up into the very realms of the divine and brought down
the :r:esponse.from the Father.
Let us now concentrate upon.the Rosicrucian Em"
blem on the wall. The pure white rose is symbolical of
the heart of the Tnvisihle .Helper; the red roses stand
for his cleansed blood; the white cross brings to mind
his body; and the golden star represents the golden
wedding garment which is made by pure living,
Let m;, by ou.r prayers to the Father, who is the
great Physician, liberate the force for healing, that
We may reach those who are looking to us for help,
and.also those who may not ha.ve been able to ask us for
assistance. Let us put all the inte:qsity of feeling pos-
sible into this prayer that we may indeed form a funnel
THE HEALING SERVICE 23
that shall bring down the divine power from the
Father. But there is a great danger of misusing this
wonderful power; therefore we should always qualify
our supplications for others with the words of the
Christ : ''Not my will but Thine be done. ''
We will now concentrate for ten minutes upon
Healing.
3. After the concentration all rise and sing the last
verse of the closing hymn.
God be with you till we meet again
At the Cross with Roses garnished;
May our lives be pure, untarnished,
Till the Rosy Cross we greet again.
REFRAIN:
Till we meet, till we meet,
Till we meet, the Rosy Cross to greet,
Till we meet, till we meet,
God be with you till we meet again.
4. Conclude the service by reading the following
Parting Admonition :
We will now leave the liberated healing force with
Christ and the Invisible Helpers, to be used where it
is most needed.
Solemnization of Marriage
(Only a person who has been ordained as a Minister
may perform the Marriage Ceremony.)
Order of Solemnization of Marriage
(The Minister.shall say:)
Friends : We are gathered together in the sight of
God and in the presence of this company to join to-
gether this man and this woman in the bonds 0£ holy
Matrimony.
Into this holy estate these two persons are come to be
.ioined. Therefore if any man can show any just cause
why they may DM lawfully he joined together, let him
now dP.clare it, or else hereafter forever hold his peace.
This state into which these two are .about to enter
is a sacred and a spiritual trust, where each vows to
love and cherish tlie other and with reverence con-
!iiider each other in loving and unselfish ·consideration,
i:ealizing this as a religious obligation which.they have
taken :i:n the p:resence of God and man;
(The man and woman joining th1d,,,. right hands; tJie
minister shall say:)
'Wilt thou (Mr.) have this woman to thy wedded
wife, to live together after God's ordinance in the hnly
estate of Matrimony T Wilt thou lcive her, comfort
27
28 MANUAL OF FORMS
her, honor and keep her in sickness and in health;
and, forsaking all other, keep thee only unto her 1
The man shall answer, I WILL.
(Then the minister shall say:)
Wilt thou (Miss) have this man to thy wedded hus-
band 1 Wilt thou love him, honor and keep him in
sickness and in health; and forsaking all other, k~ep
thee only unto him ?
The woman shall answer, I WILI;.
(When a ring is used the man shall put the ring on the
third finger of the' woman's left hand, and, holding it there,
the man shall say after the minister:)
With this ring I thee wed, in the name of the Father,
and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.
(Then the ministe,,. shall say:)
Dost thou (:Mr.) give this ring in pledge that thou
wilt keep this covenant and perform these vows Y
•
The man shall say, I DG.
Dost thou (Miss) receive this ring in pledge that
thou wilt keep this covenant and perform these vows T
The woman shall say, I DO.
(Omit above if a. ring is not used.)
THE MARRIAGE SERVICE 29
(Then the minister shall say:)
Forasmuch as you (Mr.) and you (Miss) have con-
sented together in wedlock, and have plighted your
faith and truth to each other in the presence of God
and this company (and have confirmed the same by
giving and receiving a ring); now, therefore, I pro-
claim you husband and wife, in the name of the Father,
and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. [Talk]
BENEDICTION
May the blessings of our Lord rest upon you, and
may you ever remember that blessings shared bring
happiness and success.
The Funeral Service
The Funeral Service
Order of Funeral Servwe conducted by The Ros:crucia11
Fellowship and its Centers, and by friends .dewing to use it.
Organ or Piano Voluntary.
Song: Third verse of "Nearer, my God, to Thee."
NEARER, MY GOD, TO THEE
3. There let the way appear
Steps unto heav'n;
All that Thou sendest me
In mercy giv 'n ;
Angels to beckon me,
Nearer, my God, to Thee,
Nearer, iny God, to Thee,
Nearer to Thee t
Unveil Emblem-'-White cross with white rose in
center.
:Rosicrucian Greeting by .Reader : ''My dear Sisters
and Br-others : May the Roses bloom upon your Cross.''
Response by People: ''And upon yours, also.''
Reader: Let us devote a moment to silent meditation
upon the thought of love, peace, and tranquility.
83
34 MANUAL OF FORMS
ADDRESS
''But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren,
concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not,
even as others which have no hope. For if we believe
that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which
sleep in Jesus will God bring with Him. '• (I 'l'hess.
4 :13-14.)
''But some man will say, How ate the dead raised
up? and with what body do they come? . .. That
which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that shall
be: .. . but God giveth it a body as it hath pleased
Him, and to every [man] his own body.
' ' All flesh is not the same flesh: but there is one
kind of flesh of men, another flesh of beasts, another
flesh of :fishes, and another flesh of birds. There are
also celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial : but the
glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terres-
trial is another.
' ' There is one glory of the sun, and another glory
of the moon, and another glory of the stars : for one
star differeth from another star in glory. So also is
the resurrection of the dead. . . . It is sown in weak-
ness, it is raised in power; it is sown a natural body, it
is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body,
and there is a spiritual body." (I Cor. 15 :35-44.)
THE FUNERAL SERVICE 35
One of the tests of the value of religion is the com-
fort it gives us when sorrow and trouble try the heart.
To fulfill its mission it must bring comfort in sorrow,
particularly at the time of the final separation from
our loved ones. When the reaper Death strikes, when
it pleases God to end the present earth life of our
relatives and friends, when our human resources have
been exhausted, then we look to religion for courage
and fortitude to bear the burden of our great loss and
ou,r.sorrow.
How do the Rosicrucian Teachings meet these re-
quirements1 They tell us in the first place that death
is not the end; also bow, under the Law of Consequence,
the fruit of our actions in this life, whether good or
bad, must at some future time be harvested, for the
Bible says, "Whatsoever a m.an soweth. that shall he
also reap."
We know that.it is as impossible to cancel our good
or evil deeds by merely passing out of this body as it
is to compensate our debtors by removal to another
city. The debt still remains, and sometime, some-
where, it must be liquidated.
We rejoice when a soul is born, that is, encased in a
robe of clay; but we weep when this form is cast off
at death because we do not realize that such conduct is
the·exact reverse of what it ought to be. The spirit is
36 MANUAL OF FORMS
imprisoned in this coat of clay at its birth into this
physical world, to be subject for many years to the
pains, aches, and infirmities to which all flesh is heir.
This physical life, however, is necessary that the soul
may learn its lessons in the school of life.
If weeping is to be indulged in, then we should weep
when the spirit is born into this world; but we should
rejoice when death comes to liberate it from the pain
and discomfort of physical existence. If we could see
and know the relief which our loved ones feel when
they are freed from a suffering body, we should truly
rejoice, and no longer weep. Think of a poor soul, who
bas been chained to a bed of sickness, when it awakens
in the invisible world where it is able to move about
freely whither it will, and free from pain. Should we
not bid such a soul Godspeed and not weep T
It has pleased God to call our friend, . . ......... .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ., to a greater work, to
broader fields, in another world where he (or she) has
no need for a physical body, and he (or she) has there-
fore laid this garment away.
(Short talk here relative to the qualities and past
activities of the depa;rted person.)
As a child goes to school day after day for the pur-
pose of gaining knowledge, with nights of rest between
THE FUNERAL SERVICE 37
the school days, meanwhile growing a body from child-
hood to the full stature of manhood or womanhood, so
also the spirit attends the school of life during a succes-
sion of life-days, and inhabits a series of earthly forms
of gradually improving texture in which to gain expe-
rfonce. As Oliver Wendell Holmes says:
! 'Build thee more stately mansions, 0 my soul,
As the swift seasons roll !
Leave thy low vaulted past!
Let each new temple, nobler _
than the last,
Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast,
Till thou at length art free,
Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting
sea!"
We know that _
our friend will come back sometime,
somewhere, with -
a better and nobler body than the
garment which he (or she) has discarded. We know
that under the immutable law of causation he (or she)
must return so that by repeated lives and friendships
his (or her) love nature may be widened and deepened
into an ocean -
of LOVE.
Death has lost its sting so far as we are conr.-erned,
not because we are callous and love our friends and
relatiVf:lS less, but because we are convi.p.ced that we
have absolute proof that there is n-0 death. We have no
38 MANUAL OF FORMS
cause for grief because the silver cord has been loosed
and the body is about to return to the dust from whence
it came, for we know that the spirit of our friend is
more alive than ever, is present with us now though
unseen by most of us.
The garment which this spirit inhabited we consign
to the fire, that its elements may be transferred to other
forms by the alchemy of nature.
As the poet Arnold says:
"Never the spirit was born!
The spirit shall cease to be never!
Never was time it was not,
End and beginning are dreams.
Birthless and deathless remaineth the spirit forever ;
Death has not touched it at all,
Dead though the house of it seems.
"Nay! but as one layeth
A worn-out robe away,
And taking another, sayeth:
'l'his will I wear today,
So putteth by the spirit
Lightly its garment of flesh
And passeth on to inherit
A residence afresh.''
THE FUNERAL SERVICE 39
Let us send up a prayer asking the aid of God in
speeding our departed brother (or sister) on his (or
her) way to take up his (or her) new work on the other
side.
(Close by singing the last verse vf the Rosicrucian
Pellowship Closing Hymn.)
GOD BE WITH YOU TILL WE MEET AGAIN
God be with you till we meet again
At the Cross with R-0ses garnished;
May our lives be pure, untarnished,
Till the Rosy Cross we greet again.
REFRAIN:
Till we meet, till we meet,
Till we meet, the Rosy Cross to greet,
Till we meet, till we meet,
God be with you till we meet again.
SERVICE AT THE CREMATORY
We now commit this robe of flesh which has been
worn by and has become too small for the spirit who
was known to us as ............................, to
40 MANUAL OF FORMS
the elements from which it came. Our friend has not
gone away, he (or she) has not left us; he (or she) is
in our midst although unseen by those whorn he (or she)
loved. He (or she) is free and clothed in the Body
best fitted for the higher life unto which he (or she)
has gone, so let us wish him (or her) Godspeed to that
new environment.
"THERE Is No DEATH"
There is no death. The stars go down
To rise upon another shore,
And bright in heaven's jeweled crown
They shine forevermore.
There is no death. The forest leaves
Convert to life the viewless air;
The rocks disorganize to feed
The hungry moss they bear.
There is no death. The dust we tread
Shall change beneath the summer showers
To golden grain or mellow fruit,
Or rainbow tinted flowers.
THE FUNERAL SERVICE
There is no death. The leaves may fall,
The flowers may fade and pass away-
They only wait through wintry hours
The warm, sweet breath of May.
There is no death, although we grieve
When beautiful familiar forms
That we have learned to love are torn
From our embracing arms.
Although with bowed and breaking heart,
With sable garb and silent tread,
We bear their senseless dust to rest,
And say that they are dead-
They are not dead. They have but passed
Beyond the mists that blind us here,
Into the new and larger life
Of that serener sphere.
They have but dropped their robe of clay
To put a shining raiment on ;
They have not wandered far away,
They are not ''lost'' or ''gone.''
(OVER)
41
~2 MANUAL OF FORMS
Though unseen to the mortal eye,
They still are here and love us yet ;
The dear ones they have left behind
They never do forget.
Sometimes upon our fevered brow
We feel their touch, a breath of balm :
Our spirit sees them, and our hearts
Grow comforted and calm.
Yes, ever near us, though unseen,
Our dear, immortal spirits tread-
For all God's boundless Universe
Is Life-there are no dead.
(By John McCreery)
The Rosicrucian Fellowship Method of
Caring for the Dead
During life in the physical world the human Ego
works through its four vehicles, namely, the physical,
vital, desire, and mental bodies, all of which are con-
nected to one another by the silver corcl. At night the
Ego withdraws into the inner worlds taking with it the
mental and desire bodies, leaving the physical and vital
bodies lying on the bed. The Ego first brings about
harmonious rhythm of the mind and desire body,
which, in turn, work upon the vital body. The vital
body then commences to restore the tired and worn-
out physical atoms to health and vitality. This restora-
tion ean only be done during the time the desire body
and mind are removed, for it is their activities which
use up the physical energy during the day, and in
order that the vital body may be free to rebuild the
broken down physical vehicle, the Ego separates itself
with the two higher vehicles (the desire and mental
bodies) from the two lower vehicles but remains tied
by the silver cord. At death when the physical body
can no longer hold on to its higher vehicies, when dis-
integration must ensue, the Ego is forced to vacate its
43
44 MANUAL OF FORMS
house, made of clay, which it has builded and used
for an allotted length of time, and in which it has
learned many helpful and soul-building lessons. It
has now reached a period on the path of evolution
where it must take time for the assimilation of the
lessons which were learned while functioning in
the world of matter. Death is to the soul what sleep
is to the physical body, a time of rest and recupera-
tion so that the spirit may draw from these experiences
greater soul power.
At death the Ego foaves the physical body by way
of the parietal-occipital sutures, but instead of the
vital body remaining with the physical body as is the
case during sleep, it also leaves the physical body, to~
gether with the desire and the mental bodies, for the
spirit's work in the physical body is finished for this
earth life. The vital body now has a different worktO
do; it is no longer called upon to keep the physical
atoms in health.
At death the vital, desire, and mental bodies are
seen to leave the physical body through the head,
and the spirit, which is leaving its earthly prison house
to decay, takes with it its most cherished belonging,
the only part of the physical which cannot die and
which it brings back with it at each earth life. Dur-
ing earth life there is a tiny atom in the apex of the
CARING FOR THE DEAD 45
left ventricle of the heart which is called the perma-
nent seed atom. This seed atom of the physical ve-
hicle has been used as a nucleus for a physical body
ever since the spirit possessed a physical vehicle. When
we speak of a permanent seed atom we do not mean
that the physical atom is used, but the forces which
flow through it. These forces remain with the Ego
through rebirth after rebirth, or until this particular
spirit has finished its evolution in the physical world
at the close of this period. Then these forces will be
transferred to the seed atom of the vital body which
will become the permanent seed atom of the next period.
Going back to our discussion of the Ego as it leaves
its physical body at what is termed death, we find that
the spirit is passing through a very vital and ex-
tremely important period; friends and relatives should
be most careful that their loved one is left free from
excitement, grief, and disturbances of any kind. The
body should not be mutilated and embalming fluids
should not be used until ~4 hours after the spirit has
ceased functioning in the body. The reason for this
is as follows :
There is a snapping of the silver cord at death which
the Bible speaks of in the 12th chapter of Ecclesiastes.
This cord holds the higher and lower vehicles together
and at death the rupture takes place in the heart which
46 MANUAL OF FORMS
causes this organ to cease beating. When this occurs
the Ego with its three bodies, namely, the vital, desire,
and mental bodies, is seen by the clairvoyant :floating
above the head of the physical body for three and one-
half days. During this period the spirit is engaged
in reviewing the scenes of its past life which have been
impressed on the permanent seed atom in the heart.
These impressions have been left on this seed atom by
the blood. We are again taught from the Bible that
the spirit is in the blood; and the blood is the direct
vehicle of the spirit.
The heart and lungs are the only organs through
which all the blood in man's body passes, and the heart
is the stronghold of the human ego; as the blood courses
through the heart the scenes of every passing moment
are carried through the blood to the heart and en-
graved on the tiny seed atom. This seed atom is also
impregnated with the experiences of all past lives, and
from it many impressions come to man. These teach
him ·the difference between good and evil, and they be-
come the voice of conscience.
Now the reason we hold it is necessary that quiet-
ness reign in the house of death is as follows : The
vital body is the vehicle used immediately after death
to transfer the impressions of the seed atom in the
heart onto the seed atom of the desire body; during this
CARING FOR THE DEAD 47
work the silver cord is not yet broken and the Ego is
still conscious of its vehicles, it still feels and suffers to
some extent when mutilation of its body takes place.
When the spirit is disturbed during this etching, the
impressions are very dim and the spirit as it returns
to rebirth in the next embodiment does not bring with
it a keen sense of conscience because it did not feel
the remorse for wrong doings nor the joy of good ac-
tions as keenly as it should in the after-death life.
When the panorama has been fully etched into the
desire body the silver cord breaks and the Ego is free
of its earthly house. The body should then be·cremated.
Cremation is very helpful to the spirit, for it is at-
tracted to, and often hovers oYer, its decaying body,
while burning frees it; this method is also more sani-
tary.
Let us hope that humanity will soon awake to the
proper care of its dead, and that we will have a science
of death as well as a science of birth.
THE METHOD
The body is to be placed in an ice pack for preserva-
tion during a period of 3¥2 days or 84 hours after
death. Embalming is absolutely not to be performed
before the end of this time. The body is to be left in
48 MANUAL OF FORMS
perfect quiet, away from all disturbing noises during
this period-no postmortem operations are to be per-
formed previous to the expiration of the 84 hours.
At the end of this period the body is to be cremated.
Particular care is to be exercised that cremation is not
performed previous to 84 hours after death for the
reason that during this time the spirit still maintains
connection with the body and pain fro:rµ burning is felt
to some extent if cremation is carried out before the
end of the 84 hours.
