{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__anonymous___modern_spiritualism.pdf","mytitle":"Modern Spiritualism","mylang":"de"}
Moderm
S piritvalism.
/is O/aracier,M
rjcierfiO
r
i
g
r
i
r
?
,
az?d/^bcerfi Z
)&
1
Yvn/r-*l£
ynorzy/ fipgiyi&
uiw
/ivyp
ptnpi/rj/f*c
K
m
t/tm
a
O
'jy yw/yw&ui
dp7i/7//y- m
u,-yp
jT
^^i
OVIJA EOAKD AND PDANCHETTE
Inihe picture aboveisshown Ihe oujja boardon
which is prinled ihe alphabetandIhenamesofIhe
dead peoplewilhwhom tk sillers desire hocom-
raunicaie. Theplanchettemoves uponIhis hoardand
wilhils pointer spells oulwordsand poinls lonam
es.
The smaller picture helow represents the
w rilin^ planchene.
'
M odern
S piritvalism
/is Character,/Jr?cier?iOrigin
azfd 7
/&
c
e
r?
£
Z
Z
er’
dopznerjis
i
ytt&royp Zpy/pimuw/?vyp
Q
O
'U
t/t^
ltJ
O
'-O
p
yP
H
U
P
^T
iip
y-T
l'Z
flU
,
<
P
?
l/7
?
O
p
-3
^
,2
>
-p
it+
O
p
T
pJ
O
^
T
O
lmu, -ypyypz
.OVIJA BOARD AND PLANCHETTB
In the picfure aboveis skown Ike oyija hoardon
wkick is printed ike alphabet and ike namesofIke
dead peoplewilh whom Ike sillers desire lo cora-
rounicaie. Theplanckeliemoves uponIbis koardand
M wiik iis pointer spells ouiwordsand points to names.
The smaller picture below represents ike
writing planckelte.
5 ‘
Home of the Fox Family, Hydesville, N. Y., Where Modern Spiritualism
Originated Early in 1848
Modern Spiritualism
Its Character, Ancient Origin, and Recent
Developm ents
BY G. B. THOMPSON
W hat is Spiritualism? is a live question just now,
when its manifestations are attracting serious attention
everywhere. In fact, we are seeing at the present time
a wonderful revival of the occult, and millions are look­
ing to it for help and comfort. The Sunday School
Times says that it is getting a “ strangle-hold 9
9 on the
world today.
One writer remarks that the thing is everywhere, fill­
ing our magazines and running riot in our newspapers.
We are back again, he says, in the days of the astrologers.
O Modern Spiritualism
A writer in the Pilot thinks that the sanity of numbers
of persons is being threatened by the wave of Spiritual­
ism that is sweeping over the world. What is it?
The Crowded Road to Endor
In the preface to her recent work, “ The Case Against
Spiritualism,” Jane T. Stoddart quotes this stanza from
Kipling:
" Oh, the road to Endor is the oldest road
And the craziest road of all.
Straight it runs to the witch's abode.
As it did in the days of Saul,
And nothing has changed of the sorrow in store
For such as go down on the road to Endor."
And then Mrs. Stoddart herself remarks, “ That old
road has never been more crowded than it is today.”
Concerning the widespread belief in the claims and
teaching of modern Spiritualism, the following quotations
speak for themselves:
“ That the number of adherents of modern Spiritualism is amaz­
ingly large is borne out by Dr. F. Maack, of Hamburg, writing so
recently as 1910. As an antagonist of Spiritualism, he is not likely
to overstate the numbers. In Berlin alone, he says, there are prob­
ably 10,000 Spiritualists, among them exalted and court personages;
400 mediums, and from fifteen to twenty societies. In North Amer­
ica there are said to be 16,000,000 adherents; while in the whole
world it was computed that in 1894 there were 60,000,000 modern
Spiritualists, with 200 journals exclusively devoted to the propaganda
of this awful system. The number has grown considerably since.
Add to these the demonized races of the heathen world; the millions
of China, Japan, and India; the countless tribes of Africa; the savage
hordes of the Sudan; the cannibal inhabitants of the South Sea
Islands; and you complete roughly the picture of Spiritualism cover­
ing the earth."— Algernon J. Pollock, in “ The Fundamentals” Vol.
X, p. 111.
“ Society women and shop girls, scientists and city clerks, clergy­
men in large numbers, and young men with a smattering of self-
taught culture, are indulging in stances, crystal gazing, table turning,
automatic writing, and the invocation of spirits by one means and
another, to an extent which is incredible to those who, so far, have
not come within this sphere of influence."— Lecture delivered in Lon-
don by Mr. Rampert, English clergyman and psychic expert; re•
printed in the New York Times.
Development of Modern Spiritualism
While not a new thing, as we shall see, that particular
phase of the occult known as modern Spiritualism at-
Modern Spiritualism Q
O
tracted wide attention by manifestations, first, in Hydes-
ville, near Rochester, N. Y., in the year 1848, in the fam­
ily of John D. Fox. The phenomena manifested at that
time have spread over the world, and millions today are
investigating this matter. Ouija boards and mediums
are consulted, and unmistakable evidence is given that
there is an intelligence at work. While it is admitted
even by Spiritualists themselves that there are spurious
"spirit manifestations,” it is now widely recognized
that there are also many that are genuine, that is, they
are supernatural, but not necessarily just what they pro­
fess to be. But we will not anticipate.
Man’s Natural Longing to Bridge the Chasm Between the
Living and the Dead
Man has long wished to look behind the veil which
hides from view what lies beyond the tomb. Are those
who have been torn from our midst by the remorseless
hand of death asleep, awaiting the resurrection at the
last day? or are they living in some other form or
sphere, and able to communicate with the living? or,
perchance, does death end all?
As a result of the World War, millions of family
circles are broken, and as the living gather around the
hearthstone and look upon the vacant chairs, there is an
unutterable longing for some message from those who
fell at the front. Modern Spiritualism sees an opportu­
nity in these tender feelings to gain a foothold, and
comes forward claiming to be able to bridge the chasm
between the living and the dead. So today spirit me­
diums bring to us what purport to be messages of cheer
and comfort from our departed loved ones.
Are the Claims of Spiritualism True?
Now the question is, Are the claims of Spiritualism
true? Are these messages that come to us through me­
diums, the ouija board and planchette, really from our
4 Modern Spiritualism
dead friends and kindred; or is the world in the grip
of some overmastering deception, being turned away
from God and toward perdition? This is a question of
tremendous and far-reaching importance, involving the
nature of the life to come as well as the best use of
this life, and demanding the most careful study.
The Claims of Sir Oliver Lodge
Among the most prominent apostles of this form of
occultism at the present time is Sir Oliver Lodge, Eng­
lish scholar and scientist. For many years Sir Oliver,
with other noted scientists, has been investigating the
mysteries of Spiritualism. After much patient research,
these men tell the world that beyond doubt the dead can
communicate with the living, that the gulf between the
dead and the living has been bridged. Sir Oliver says
the grief of himself and his wife is assuaged by messages
“ every few weeks ” from their son, Raymond, who fell
at the front in the Great War.
In the People’s Home Journal of February, 1920, an
article appeared, entitled, “ In Touch with the Other
World,” by Zoe Beckley, who went to England for the
purpose of meeting Sir Oliver Lodge. She obtained an
interview with that man of science, and reports the con­
versation thus:
" *So you have come all the way over the ocean to ask me —
what? * This was his greeting to me. *What message you can send
to my people at home to assure them not only that their beloved dead
still live, but that communication with them across the gulf of death
is possible.* *
*
In reply Sir Oliver said:
“When people ask me that, I show them first the records of the
Society for Psychical Research, and then I point to the many recent
and trustworthy accounts of communication with the dead—accounts
published in magazine and book form by persons who, like myself,
began in a gingerly fashion to look into this thing, and had their
skepticism gradually dispelled by evidence they could not but believe.
*
*As for myself, it was not until many years after the first mes­
sages came to me from my friends —Edmund Gurney, P. W. H.
Myers, and many others —that I was convinced beyond doubt that
Modern Spiritualism 5
I had penetrated the veil that separates this world from the next
Today I know that I can talk to my son Raymond, to Myers to Onr
ney, to Archbishop Wilberforce, to Cardinal Newman, and to a hnit
of others whenever I wish to do so! It is no longer a noveltv w
talk with Raymond every few weeks — oftener when we have sneciai
cause. This is to us an inexpressible comfort which I am trvina tn
bring to others. y s 10
1
1Come into my study, and I will show you hundreds of letters
from bereaved men and women who in their anguish have turned tn
me for help. lu
The article goes on to say:
“ As he led me toward the study, Sir Oliver told me that he
received these letters at the rate of about a dozen a day Although
the bulk come from England, since scarcely an English home has
remained unsaddened by the loss of some relative in the war large
numbers come from America, too, and from all parts of the world
“ *From my own knowledge/ continued Sir Oliver, *I give my
correspondents all this message:
“ *“ The amount of mourning and suffering throughout the world
at the present time is something terrible to contemplate. The loss to
those who have gone over is not to be minimized. Violent death,
while young, is a serious calamity — a man-made tragedy with dire
consequences — and lamentation is natural and inevitable.
“ *“ But it must be remembered that from the viewpoint of those
who have gone over, there are many mitigating circumstances. They
have done their duty. They have sacrificed useful careers here.
They have given all they possessed; and it will be requited to them.
Good friends are waiting for them. Their help can be utilized an<k
is much wanted for their fellows who are coming over, and the$*
themselves will continue in the joy of service.
a t u W
ant their friends here to recognize that, and not
mourn them unduly. Above all, do not consider them as gone out of
existence, as extinguished or no longer real. Sorrow at their depar­
ture is inevitable, but excessive grief causes them pain.
“ *“ They did their work here, they will do it there, and in good
time reunion may confidently be looked forward to. If the truth of
these matters was only clearly and widely realized, the mourning
would not only be more resigned, but actually more hopeful/* *”
This same correspondent also interviewed Lady
Lodge on this question. Concerning her son Raymond
she says:
“ I talk to him, and he hears. In times of need I appeal to him,
and what I ask is done. Yes, this is literally true. My boy is not
dead. I never think of him as dead. He is only invisible to me.
Often I feel his presence.
“ Oh, if you knew what this communion means to me! If other
mothers whose sons have passed through bodily death would only
realize that it is possible to do as I have done, they would not lose
an instant in trying to get in touch. What happiness it would bring
to them, and to their dear onep over there!
SIR
OLIVER
LODGE
Modern Spiritualism 7
“ But it does sadden me that apparently so few people attemnt tn
get in touch with their beloved dead. They persist in mourning them
in thinking of them as in the grave and gone forever. Oh it doee
make those in the spirit world so happy to be thought of as alive
and keen and active! And they are so glad to respond to the n
“ Bishop Wilberforce, who died quite a while ago, is forever
asking me to do things for him here — to go upon errands to call
on this person and that among his parishioners. Why, once he made
me lend my flat in London to a woman he told me about.”
“ And you actually do these things?” I gasped.
“ Of course I do. He was a dear man and such a friend of ours*
I know that whatever he asks is for some good purpose. I often have
proofs of it afterward.”— People’s Home Journal, March, 1920.
Other Distinguished Apostles of Spiritualism
There are many other distinguished persons who are
ardent supporters of this new religion. A writer in the
Saturday Evening Post of Jan. 17, 1920, mentions “ Sir
Oliver Lodge and Sir William Crookes and Russel Wallace
and Professor Hyslop and Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, and
‘ at least fifty professors in various seats of learning/”
who “ affirm that our dead communicate with us through
raps and automatic w riting/,
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle says:
“ The lowly manifestations of Hydesville have ripened into re­
sults which have engaged the finest group of intellects in this country
during the last twenty years, and which are destined, in my opinion,
to bring about far the greatest development of human experience
which the world has ever seen. It has been asserted by men for
whose opinion I have a deep regard, . . . that psychical research is
quite distinct from religion. Certainly it is go, in the sense that a
man might be a very good psychical researcher, but a very bad man.
But the results of psychical research, the deductions which we may
draw, and the lessons we may learn, teach us of the continued life
of the soul, of the nature of that life, and of how it is influenced by
our conduct here. . . . To me it is religion — the very essence of it.
— The Metropolitan Magazine (N . Y.), January, 1918, p. 69.
Condemned by the Scriptures
But while some may regard Spiritualism as religion,
it is not the Christian religion. The Jewish and Chris­
tian Scriptures alike condemn and forbid all efforts to
communicate with the dead. It is eminently true, as
Mrs. Stoddart says, that —
8 Modern Spiritualism
“Modern Spiritualism has its roots in necromancy, a practice
hated in all ages by sober and reverent minds. It was only the
worst type of sorcerer, according to Mr. Waite, who attempted to
communicate with the spirits of departed men and women. Medieval
magic had a by~path leading toward the abyss, an abhorrent and
detested branch, belonging exclusively to the domain of black
magic.’”—“ The Case Against Spiritualismp. 31.
Even Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, in his book, “ The New
Revelation,” admits that, as Mrs. Stoddart puts it,
“ The opponents of Spiritualism are guided in part by that
strange instinct which warns men and women to keep off forbidden
ground.”— Id., p. 34.
Only in name is Spiritualism a new thing. The wor­
ship of demigods, or in other words, dead human heroes,
has always been a prominent feature of paganism. It is
to this that the apostle Paul refers when, in 1 Corinthians
10: 20, he says: “ The things which the Gentiles sacrifice,
they sacrifice to devils.” Spiritualism, as will appear
more clearly as we proceed in this examination, is only
intercourse with, and worship of, evil spirits posing as
the spirits of the dead.
The Vital Question
It seems quite unnecessary to quote further from be­
lievers in spirit phenomena, as the foregoing excerpts
sufficiently set before us the real claims of modern Spir­
itualism. The vital question which we wish to consider
is, Is it true, as these noted scientists tell us, that the
dead are able to communicate with the living? Do Sir
Oliver and Lady Lodge receive messages from their son
Raymond; or are they, with millions of others, deceived
by spirits other than the spirits of the dead? Is Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle, the great “ detective,” correct in his
views, or is he being deceived by a mind stronger than
his own?
Two Mighty Pacts
In raising this question, we realize that we are con­
fronted by two mighty facts: First, the almost universal
Modern Spiritualism 9
belief, in some form or other, in the doctrine of natural
and inherent immortality; and second, the large amount
of trickery and fraud that is practised in the name of
Spiritualism. The first of these, namely, belief in the
continued life and consciousness of the soul after death,
powerfully predisposes toward belief in the possibility of
spirit communication; while the element of fraud gives
opportunity to attribute to trickery genuine phenomena,
thus leading many to refuse any serious study of the sub­
ject at all, and leaving them without defense when once
they are convinced of the supernatural character of spirit
phenomena.
The Word of God vs. the Ouija Board
As already intimated, belief in natural immortality
and consequent consciousness in death, lies at the very
foundation of Spiritualism. We shall find, however, that
not a few who believe that the soul is immortal, and
that it not only survives the death of the body, but enters
upon a wider state of existence when “ freed from cum­
brous clay,” utterly reject the claims of Spiritualism; for
example, Dr. Wallace Radcliffe, as reported in the Wash­
ington Post of March 1, 1920, said:
“ I think Jesus Christ knew more about the world than Conan
Doyle or Oliver Lodge do, and I would rather listen to the word of
God than to a ouija board. The Spiritualists of today are trying to
tell us that Spiritualism proves that the soul is immortal. Christian­
ity has been teaching this for nineteen hundred years, and we don’t
need any table rapping or ouija boards to corroborate it.”
It is, however, because “ Christianity ” has been teach­
ing through the centuries the unscriptural doctrine of the
soul's natural immortality that the world is today being
swept by a veritable wave of Spiritualism.
The Character of Spiritualism
It is true that many of these spirit phenomena are
not of a high character. Some of the communications
are even frivolous, some are obscure, others profane and
10 Modern Spiritualism
blasphemous; in fact, the whole influence of spiritism is
to lead away from the Bible and Christianity. Neverthe­
less there is in it something that grips the attention and
in a measure satisfies certain longings of the human heart.
And because of this, that is, because Spiritualism offers
genuine phenomena and professes to bridge the gulf be­
tween the living and the dead, it has great attractive
power. And even though his faith in the Bible and in
the Christ of the Bible is at stake, the Christian who be­
lieves in natural immortality and consciousness in death,
has absolutely no defense against the claims of the me­
diums. Happily, however, the same Sacred Writings
which forbid pretended intercourse with the dead, cut the
whole ground from under Spiritualism by declaring that
God only has inherent immortality and that “ the dead
know not anything,” and by revealing the origin and
nature of the spirits, namely, that they are fallen angels,
at once the enemies of God and of mankind.
The Condition of Man in Death
It is then from the viewpoint of the Bible that we
enter upon this analysis of Spiritualism. Here we shall
find it plainly taught that man in death is not conscious,
and that immortality is the gift of God to the righteous,
to be given only at the resurrection. God’s word is true;
and any claim which contradicts it may be stamped as
false and deceptive.
Concerning the inability of the dead to return and to
converse with the living, the patriarch Job says:
4
1Thou prevailest forever against him [man], and he passeth:
thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away. His sons
come to honor, and he knoweth it not; and they are brought low, but
he perceiveth it not of them.” Job 14: 20, 21.
This statement is direct and unequivocal; and being
true, Spiritualism must be false. Both cannot be true.
Death is represented by tbe Bible as a sleep:
| Consider and hear me, O Lord my God: lighten mine eyes, lest
I deep the sleep of death.” Ps. 13: 3.
Modern Spiritualism 11
The Scriptures further show that the hope for the
dead is not in inherent immortality, but in the resurrec­
tion at the last great day.
“ Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in the which all
that are in the graves shall hear his voice, and shall come forth;
they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they
that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation.” John
5: 28, 29.
“ If the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised: and if Christ
be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins. Then they
also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished.” 1 Cor. 15: 16-18.
Satan Contradicts Jehovah
Upon these positive statements of God’s word, and
many more of like character, we take our stand. We
know from the Scriptures that the medium in the twilight
zone of the seance does not bring forth the living, think­
ing souls of the dead. This claim is the final effort of
Satan to prove that his statement made in Eden, “Ye
shall not surely die” (Gen. 3:4), in which he contra­
dicted Jehovah, is the truth.
With all due respect to the noted men who think they
have vindicated the claims of Spiritualism, we do not be­
lieve that the dead do or can communicate with the living.
No messages are received from those who have fallen
asleep, whether they died in battle or fell victims to death
in some other way. Those who believe this are under the
most terrible and fatal delusion that has ever taken hold
upon the mind of man. The comfort received from the
other side of the grave through spirit mediums is a
phantom hope.
The Holy Scriptures the True Source of Appeal
Again we appeal to the Scriptures of Truth, the word
of the most high God. We turn from the statements of
man, from the conclusions of scientists, from the mutter-
ings of forms that appear in the seance, to the word of
the eternal God, the one who knows the end from the be­
ginning, and before whom the past, present, and future
THE RESURRECTION OF LAZARUS
The Bible Answer to the Claims of Modern Spiritualism Is t
of the Resurrection of the Dead.
12
Modern Spiritualism 13
are alike outspread. And upon this question the word
of God is very clear and explicit. Let us listen to a few
divinely inspired statements from the sacred Scriptures:
“ To him that is joined to all the living there is hope: for a living
dog is better than a dead lion. For the living know that they shall
die: but the dead know not anything, neither have they any more a
reward; for the memory of them is forgotten.” Eccl. 9: 4, 5.
“ Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might; for
there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in the
grave, whither thou goest.” Eccl. 9: 10.
“ Put not your trust in princes, nor in the son of man, in whom
there is no help. His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his earth;
in that very day his thoughts perish.” Ps. 146: 3, 4.
How could departed friends, whose thoughts have per­
ished, communicate information to any one? They can
not and do not. The claim is false.
Life Dependent upon the Resurrection at the Second
Advent of Christ
In the seance, the living do not talk to the dead, for
the dead are asleep in the tomb, awaiting the resurrection.
They are not now with Christ. He promises to come the
second time to receive to himself the purchase of his blood.
We do not go to him; he comes for his people.
“Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also
in me. In my Father’s house are many mansions: if it were not so,
I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go
and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto
myself; that where I am, there ye may he also. And whither I go
ye know, and the way ye know.” John 14: 1*4.
“ I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them
which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have
no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so
them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this
we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive
and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them
which are asleep. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven
with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of
God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first: then we which are alive
and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to
meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord.
Wherefore comfort one another with these words.” 1 Thess. 4: 13-18.
In the seance, father, mother, brothers, sisters, and
fiancee do not talk with the loved one who fell on the
battlefield or sank in the depths of the sea. The loved one
Modern Spiritualism
is not there; lie is dead, and the word of God says, “ In
death there is no remembrance of thee.” Ps. 6:5.
The doctrine of natural immortality is that all men
have eternal life, are endowed at conception, or quick­
ening, or birth, with a deathless, immortal spirit. But
the Scriptures teach that man, apart from Christ, does
not have eternal life. Jesus said:
4
1He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life: and he that
believeth not the Son shall not see life; but the wrath of God abideth
on him.” John 3: 36.
The Christian has this everlasting life now by faith.
It will become his by actual possession when the Lord
comes the second time. Says the apostle:
4
4Ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When
Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with
him in glory.” Col. 3: 2, 3.
Again the Life-giver himself says:
4
4The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to de­
stroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might
have it more abundantly.” John 10: 10.
The beloved apostle tells us:
4
4This is the record, that God hath given to us eternal life, and
this life is in his Son. He that hath the Son hath life; and he that
hath not the Son of God hath not life.” 1 John 5: 11, 12.
Eternal Life the Gift of God
Eternal life is not inherent in man. It is the gift of
God, and is given only to those who believe. John 3:.36.
The teachings of modern Spiritualism are in direct
contradiction to the plain statements of the word of God.
Spiritualism teaches that life in the world beyond does
not depend upon belief in Christ; in fact, it sets Christ
aside altogether, and teaches that some of the most pro­
fane and wicked characters that ever lived in this world
are now living in another sphere higher even than Jesus
himself. Thus the whole system sets aside Christ, and
gives to man eternal life from another source altogether.
No teaching that does this can be of God, nor can it give
to man a true hope.
Modern Spiritualism 15
No Moral Standard in Spiritualism
Furthermore, while some very worthy and exemplary
people are Spiritualists, they are such not because of
Spiritualism but in spite of it. Any Christian minister,
or even any professor of Christianity, who is immoral
belies his profession, and is properly an object of scorn,
not only to his fellow Christians, but to the nonprofessing
world as well. But no man or woman need even profess
to be moral to be a Spiritualist or even a medium. Indeed,
many mediums have been persons of very question­
able morals. The system not only rejects and scouts the
Biblical standard, but erects absolutely no high moral
standard of its own.
How Account for the Supernatural Power in* Spiritualism?
But it may be asked, “ How do you account for the
supernatural phenomena in Spiritualism ? ” The answer
to this question is also found in the Bible.
A world-wide, miracle-working power, to appear in
the last days, has been foretold in the divine word, and
most solemn warnings are uttered against it. Divine
Omniscience has not only revealed the character of Spirit­
ualism, but forewarned us regarding its deceptive, soul-
destroying power, and the part it will act in the closing
scenes of the world’s history. The development of this
wonder-working power as foretold is a startling sign of
thetimes, a sure precursor of the speedy end of all things
earthly.
According to the Scriptures, just such a work as is
being performed by means of modern Spiritualism is to
be seen in the last days. Deceptions of extraordinary
power are to appear just before the Lord comes:
“Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some
shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and doc­
trines of devils” 1 Tim. 4: 1.
This statement foreshadows a terrible apostasy. Note
the language, “ seducing spirits and doctrines of devils.”
16 Modem Spiritualism
<
•Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! for the devil
is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he Unoweth
that he hath but a short time.” Rev. 12:12.
This scripture must apply to the last days, when
Satan, realizing that time is short and his period of de­
ception almost over, works with the energy of despair.
“ False Prophets,” “ Lying Wonders,” and “ Strong Delnsions ”
“ There shall arise false Christs, and false prophets, and shall
show great signs and wonders; Insomuch that, if It were possible,
they shall deceive the very elect.” Matt. 24: 24.
This statement was made by the Saviour when utter­
ing his great prophecy concerning the signs of his coming
and the end of the world, and applies especially to the
last days. Once more:
“ Even him, whose coming is after the working of Satan, with
all power and signs and lying wonders, and with all deceivableness
of unrighteousness in them that rerish; because they received not
the love of the truth, that they might be saved. And for this cause
God shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie:
that they all might be damned who believed not the truth, hut had
pleasure in unrighteousness.” 2 Thess. 2: 9-12.
A Great Outbreak of Satanic Power
Here is a plain declaration that at the time when Jesus
is about to appear, Satan will be working with all man­
ner of signs and lying wonders, to deceive souls. As one
writer has said:
“ A great outbreak of Satanic power is to be seen just prior to
the coming of the Lord. In modern Spiritualism the first steps of
this work are already taken; the others will quickly follow.”
Truly men may well stand aghast at the terrible, over­
whelming delusions which are multiplying in the world.
Perils of the Last Days
In 2 Timothy 3:1-4 we have a prediction of the perils
of the last days. Then in verse 8 we read:
“ As Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also resist
the truth: men of corrupt minds, reprobate concerning the faith.
Jannes and Jambres were the magicians who, by
means of satanic power, withstood Moses when he ap-
Modern Spiritualism 17
peared before Pharaoh. So in the “ last days ” satanic
miracles will be performed to discredit the Scriptures and
to hinder the progress of the gospel.
Supernatural power is not proof that a movement is
of God, for the Scriptures state clearly that spirits of
devils will work miracles in the last days.
“They are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which go forth
unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them
to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.” Rev. 16: 14.
Revival of Witchcraft
It is easy to understand such warnings against these
spiritualistic phenomena when we realize that what is
now known as modern Spiritualism is only a revival of
ancient witchcraft and necromancy, a thing which God
hates, and against which he has given most solemn warn­
ings. Then, as now, there were those who dealt in the
occult. There were diviners, and charmers, and enchant­
ers, and witches, and sorcerers, and necromancers, and
wizards, and consulters of familiar spirits, and dreamers,
and astrologers, and stargazers, and prognosticators.
Concerning these the Lord said:
" There shall not be found among you any one that maketh his
son or his daughter to pass through the fire, or that useth divination,
or an observer of times, or an enchanter, or a witch, or a charmer, or
a consulter with familiar spirits, or a wizard, or a necromancer. For
all that do these things are an abomination unto the Lord: and be­
cause of these abominations the Lord thy God doth drive them out
from before thee.” Deut. 18: 10-12.
“ A man also or woman that hath a familiar spirit, or that is a
wizard, shall surely be put to death: they shall stone them with
stones; their blood shall be upon them.” Lev. 20: 27.
“Regard not them that have familiar spirits, neither seek after
wizards, to be defiled by them: I am the Lord your God.” Lev. 19: 31.
“ Therefore hearken not ye to your prophets, nor to your divin­
ers, nor to your dreamers, nor to your enchanters, nor to your sor­
cerers, which speak unto you, saying, Ye shall not serve the king of
Babylon: for they prophesy a lie unto you, to remove you far from
your land; and that I should drive you out, and ye should perish.”
Jer. 27: 9, 10.
“ I will come near to you to judgment; and I will be a swift wit­
ness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against
false swearers, and against those that oppress the hireling in his
wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and that turn aside the stranger
from his right, and fear not me, saith the Lord of hosts.” Mai. 3: 5.
I l l Salem Witchcraft, One of the Historical Settings of Spiritism
18
19
20 Modern Spiritualism
Such was ancient spiritualism, or witchcraft. Surely
no system which God has denounced in such unmeasured
terms can be of heaven, nor can it bring from the spirit
world true messages of hope and comfort. Neither can
it be imaginary. It is a great deception, not in that it
is not real, but in that it is not what it purports to be.
Its source is from beneath, not from above. There is
no possible way of identifying the spirits as human
beings.
True, there is an intelligence connected with modern
Spiritualism, but it is an intelligence which comes from
wicked spirits in high places, from angels of darkness and
not from angels of light. Through its manifestation the
world is wrestling “
not against flesh a
against principalities, against powers, against the rulers
of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wicked­
ness in high places.” Eph. 6: 12. Demons of darkness
clothed in angel robes are deceiving the world and lead­
ing them awajrfrom Christ. “ And no marvel; for Satan
himself is transformed into an angel of light.” 2 Cor.
11:14.
Lying Spirits
The character of the communications frequently re­
ceived from the spirits indicate that they are from an evil
source. As stated in the outset, very many of the com­
munications are frivolous, some are profane, and some
even obscene.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, a leader among Spiritualists,
says that he has never received a communication of the
latter character; he makes the statement, however, that
“ we have, unhappily, to deal with absolute cold-blooded
lying on the part of wicked or mischievous intelligences.”
Referring to this, Jane Stoddart adds:
“ Aside from wilful deception, there seems to be a certain mock­
ing malevolence, where we should least expect it, on the part of the
supposed spirits.”—“ The Case Against Spiritualismpp. I84, 135.
Modern Spiritualism
This, in itself, should suggest the satanic origin of
0e communications that purport to come from the
pirit world.
The Witch of Endor
That modern Spiritualism is identical with ancient
witchcraft is shown very clearly by the story of King
gaiil's visit to the witch of Endor when he was in des­
perate straits because of his enemies. It is recorded:
Saul and the Witch of Endor
“ Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and
buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away
those that had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.
“ And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and
pitched in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they
pitched in Gilboa. And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines,
he was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled. And when Saul in­
quired of the Lord, the Lord answered him not, neither by dreams,
nor by tJrim, nor by prophets. Then said Saul unto his servants,
Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go to her,
22 Modern Spiritualism
and inquire of her. And his servants said to him, Behold, there i«
woman that hath a familiar spirit at Endor. * 18 a
“ And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment and h*
went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night-
and he said, I pray thee, divine unto me by the familiar spirit and
bring me him up whom I shall name unto thee. And the woman said
unto him. Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath
cut off those that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the
land: wherefore then layest thou a snare for my life, to cause me to
die? And Saul sware to her by the Lord, saying, As the Lord liveth
there shall no punishment happen to thee for this thing '
“ Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee’ And
he said, Bring me up Samuel. And when the woman saw Samuel
she cried with a loud voice: and the woman spake to Saul saying
Why hast thou deceived me? for thou art Saul. And the king said
unto her. Be not afraid: for what sawest thou? And the woman said
unto Saul, I saw gods ascending out of the earth. And he said unto
her, What form is he of? And she said, An old man cometh up;
and he is covered with a mantle. And Saul perceived that it was
Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed
himself.
“ And Samuel said to Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to
bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore distressed; for the
Philistines make war against me, and God is departed from me, and
answereth me no more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams: there­
fore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what
I shall do.” 1 Sam. 28: 3-15,
. This Woman a Medium
This narrative opens with Saul sore pressed by the
Philistines. In his distress the king sought God for light;
but because of his wicked and rebellious course, the Lord
was not pleased to impart any instruction to him. Sam­
uel, the aged prophet of Jehovah, was dead, and this
means of communication was cut off. Saul had recourse
to the Urim and Thummim, the brilliant stones in the
breastplate of the high priest, which shone with a light
indicating the approval or disapproval of the Lord. If the
Lord sanctioned the thing asked about, a light was seen
to appear on the right side; if he disapproved, a light
was seen on the left side. But “ the Lord answered him
not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.
1 Sam. 28: 6.
Being cut off from the source of true light because of
the stubbornness of his heart, Saul turned his face to
Modern Spiritualism 23
seek help from one of a class that, by command of God,
the king himself had banished from the land. He said
to his servants, “ Seek me a woman that hath a fa­
miliar spirit, that I may go to her, and inquire of her.”
Such a woman would now be known as a Spiritualist
medium.
Being informed that a “ witch ” could be found at
Endor, Saul disguised himself, and went and requested
that she bring up Samuel. The pretended Samuel came in
response to her incantations, and informed Saul that the
battle would go against him, and that he and his sons
would be slain.
Seven Counts Against a Genuine Samuel
Now the question is, Did the prophet Samuel really
appear? That he did not is evident from various con­
siderations :
1. Samuel was dead (1 Sam. 28: 3) and the dead have
no “ portion forever in anything that is done under the
sun ” (Eccl. 9:6). This text settles the question as to
whether the dead prophet were present.
2. The Lord had departed from Saul, and “ answered
him not.” It is evident, therefore, that had Samuel been
living, the Lord would not have communicated with Saul
through him; and even though Samuel had been con­
scious in death, it is preposterous to think that the most
high God would send the soul of his faithful prophet to
communicate at the behest of this depraved soothsayer,
one of a class whom he had said should be cut off out of
the land. Lev. 20: 6.
3. Saul requested that Samuel be brought “ up.” And
the medium said, “ An old man cometh up." 1 Sam.
28:14. " Up ” from where? Do immortal souls live in
the ground, and look like old men wearing mantles? We
do not think that redeemed souls will look old and infirm,
and go around wearing the same kind of clothing they
wore when living. The only difference between this
24 Modern Spiritualism
seance and those held in our day is that then the spirits
were brought “ up,” and now they are brought “ down ”
from somewhere.
4. This pretended Samuel asked, “ Why hast thou dis­
quieted me, to bring me up? ” Again we ask, Do im­
mortal souls come “ up ” and complain because they have
been disturbed?
5. Saul did not himself see anything. He inquired of
the witch what she saw; and he “ perceived,” from her
description, that she had seen the dead prophet. The
woman doubtless had not known Samuel when he was
living, and hence supposed that the apparition was the
person for whom Saul had inquired.
6. This apparition informed the king that he and his
sons would be with him (Samuel) on the morrow. 1 Sam.
28: 19. If this was Samuel’s immortal soul from heaven,
then if Saul went to dwell with him on the morrow, he
must have gone to heaven. This conclusion is forbidden
by Saul’s character, the attendant circumstances, and the
manner of his death.
7. In 1 Chronicles 10:13 we read, “ So Saul died for
his transgression which he committed against the Lord,
even against the word of the Lord, which he kept not,
and also for asking counsel of one that had a familiar
spirit, to inquire of it.”
The visit to the witch of Endor was the crowning act
in Saul’s apostasy. It is preposterous to think that the
holy God made himself a party in that wicked transaction
by sending the soul of his sleeping prophet to converse
with one whom, because of iniquity, he had rejected. The
bare suggestion of such a thing seems almost profane.
The Bible Rule
Even though Saul and his sons died on the morrow,
as the evil spirits predicted, there were few among the
Israelites who could not have made a similar prophecy,
r °r au s ac^s disobedience were well known. Shrewd
Modern Spiritualism 25
soldiers, politicians, or financiers can make similar pre­
dictions concerning important issues in their respective
fields; and it is not surprising that evil angels, acquainted
with every act of the apostate king’s life, as well as of
Samuel’s, could impersonate in manner and tone the dead
prophet and foretell the ruin to. come to Saul.
The mere fact that an event is foretold and later comes
to pass proves nothing as to the character of the source
whence the prediction comes. The Bible rule is,
“ If there arise among you a prophet, or a dreamer of dreams,
and giveth thee a sign or a wonder, and the sign or the wonder come
to pass, whereof he spake unto thee, saying, Let us go after other
gods, which thou hast not known, and let us serve them; thou shalt
not hearken unto the words of that prophet, or that dreamer of
dreams.” Deut. 13: 1-3.
Admitting, however, that these supernatural beings of
extraordinary intelligence may sometimes make shrewd
guesses, we are told by the highest authorities on Spirit­
ualism that their communications are on the whole almost
valueless.
Satan Transformed
Satan did in that ancient seance what he does today
in the seance of modern Spiritualism. He himself, or one
of his angels, was “ transformed into an angel of light ”
(2 Cor. 11: 14), and appeared impersonating the prophet
of the Lord; and Saul, whom the Lord had rejected, held
through this woman an interview with an evil angel.
Samuel, the sleeping saint of God, was not there. A
familiar spirit impersonated Samuel, appearing as Sam­
uel appeared when living, and delivered to the distressed
king a message void of all comfort or hope.
This instance affords no proof of consciousness in
death, nor proof that Spiritualism is what it professes to
be; but rather it stands as an awful warning against the
ungodly practice of going to mediums or to those having
“ familiar spirits ” for light.
The divine counsel is:
26 Modern Spiritualism
“ When they shall say unto you, Seek unto them that have famil­
iar spirits, and unto wizards that peep, and that mutter: should not
a people seek unto their God? for the living to the dead? To the
law and to the testimony: if they speak not according to this word,
it is because there is no light in them.” Isa. 8: 19, 20.
The Foundation of Spiritualism
The foundation of this spiritualistic temple is actual
phenomena coupled with belief in the inherent immor­
tality of the soul, and the consequent consciousness of the
dead. Immortality is not, however, an inherent attribute
of man, but is the gift of God to the righteous, to be re­
ceived only at the resurrection. The apostle writes:
“ Behold, I show you a mystery: We shall not all sleep, but we
shall all be changed, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the
last trump: for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised
incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this corruptible must
put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So
when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal
shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the say­
ing that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory.” 1 Cor. 15:
51-54.
Let us look at the tremendous results of a belief in an
immortal, deathless soul, and consciousness in death:
1. If man has an immortal soul that enters upon its
reward in heaven at death, then death is the gate to
heaven; and Satan opened this gate by causing sin to
enter the world. (See Rom. 5:12.)
2. If the dead are immortal and enter upon their re­
ward, then there is no need of a general resurrection, such
as the Scriptures teach. John 5:28; Hosea 13:14. This
great pillar of Christianity is entirely destroyed through
the claim of modern Spiritualism, as the spirits are
swarming around us without a resurrection. A man who
can return from the spirit world with tidings of what is
there, does not need a resurrection.
3. The Saviour, in order to comfort his sorrowing
disciples when they learned that he was to leave them,.
said: “ If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come
again, and will receive you unto myself; that where I
am, there ye may be also.” John 14: 3. But how could
Modern Spiritualism 27
he receive us to himself at the resurrection if the dead
are conscious, and if the righteous have been with him
from the time of their death until his second advent?
The doctrine of consciousness in death antagonizes the
doctrine of the second coming of Christ, and makes
that event unnecessary.
4. Then, again, the Scriptures teach that there is to
be a future time of judgment, and that upon the decisions
then rendered depends the destiny of all the descendants
of Adam. We cannot conceive of millions’ being sent
either to Abraham's bosom or with Dives to hell, unless
a decision concerning their individual cases had first been
rendered in the judgment. But the natural immortality
of the soul, and the consequent reward of all at death,
destroy the Bible doctrine of a future judgment, unless
we are prepared to believe that those who have been tor­
mented in the flames of an endless hell are to be taken
out later and judged to see if they should have been
there — a preposterous supposition!
God Only Immortal
But we ask how any one knows that man has immor­
tality now. Nowhere in the Bible have we ever read a
verse that says so. The words “ soul ” and “ spirit,” it is
true, occur somewhat more than seventeen hundred times
in the Bible, and the word “ immortal ” is found in the
Bible; but not in a single instance do we find a text that
says anything about an immortal, “ never-dying,” or
“ undying ” soul.
Let us look at the use of the words “ immortal ” and
“ immortality ” as found in the Bible.
The word “ immortal ” is found but once in the New
Testament:
"Now unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise
God, be honor and glory forever and ever." 1 Tim. 1: 17.
Here it applies to God alone.
28 Modern Spiritualism
The original word, however, from which “ immortal ”
is translated, is aphthartos, and occurs in six other •
stances, as follows:
1. “ The glory of the incorruptible God.” Rom. 1: 23.
2. “A corruptible crown; but we an incorruptible” l cor
3. “ The dead shall be raised incorruptible.” 1 Cor. 15-50 25‘
4. “ Unto an inheritance incorruptible” 1 Peter 1: 4
5. “ Not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible” l Peter t 0
6. “ That which is not corruptible” 1 Peter 3: 4. *
The word “ immortality ” is from two Greek words
and is found in the following instances: ’
Athanasia
“ Must put on immortality” 1 Cor. 15: 53.
“ Shall have put on immortality” 1 Cor. 15: 54.
“ Who only hath immortality ” 1 Tim. 6: 16.
Aphtharsia
“ Seek for glory and honor and immortality” Rom. 2: 7.
“ It is raised in incorruption ” 1 Cor. 15: 42.
“ Neither doth corruption inherit incorruption” 1 Cor. 15:50.
“ Must put on incorruption” 1 Cor. 15: 53.
“ Shall have put on incorruption” 1 Cor. 15: 54.
Love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity.” Eph. 6: 24.
“ Brought life and immortality to light.” 2 Tim. 1: 10. ’
“ Gravity, sincerity” Titus 2:7.
These scriptures show very clearly that man does not
possess immortality by nature, but that it is the gift of
_ ^stowed upon the righteous at the resurrection,
esus is the only Life-giver. Immortality apart from
him is an impossibility.
It is clear, therefore, from the teachings, of the Scrip-
ures, that man is not immortal, nor is he conscious
urmg the period which elapses between death and the
resurrection. This being true, the spirits of the dead
canno communicate with the living, and therefore are
ho present in the seance with messages for those who
are on earth.
Modern Spiritualism 29
Then a question arises as to the supernatural beings
that are present at the seance. What are they? The
answer is found in the record of the introduction of sin
into the universe through the fall of Lucifer and his
angels. We should understand that there are on earth
today myriads of fallen supernatural beings,— angels
who fell; who, we are told, lost their “ first estate,” and
are now awaiting the judgment of the great day.
“ There was war in heaven: Michael and his angels fought
against the dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels, and pre­
vailed not; neither was their place found any more in heaven. And
the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the Devil, and
Satan, which deceiveth the whole world: he was cast out into the
earth, and his angels were cast out with him/* Rev. 12: 7-9.
"God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to
hell, and delivered them into chains of darkness, to be reserved unto
judgment.** 2 Peter 2: 4.
"The angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own
habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness,
unto the judgment of the great day.** Jude 6.
The great rebel leader, with his angel sympathizers,
failed in his rebellion against the government of God, and
with his followers was cast out, as the Scriptures clearly
show, to this earth. Lucifer, the prince of devils, suc­
ceeded in leading man into rebellion, and in establishing
on this earth a temporary kingdom, and hence is by
Christ himself called “ the prince of this world.” (See
John 14:30; 16:11.)
Satan Contradicts God
In his temptation of Eve, Satan contradicted the plain
statement of Jehovah that man should die as a result of
transgression. •
“Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field
which the Lord God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea,
hath God said. Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden? And
the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the
trees of the garden: but of the fruit of the tree which is in the
midst of the garden, God hath said. Ye shall not eat of it, neither
shall ye touch it, lest ye die. And the serpent said unto the woman.
Ye shall not surely die: for God doth know that in the day ye eat
thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods,
knowing good and evil.’* Gen. 3: 1-5.
3 0 Modern Spiritualism
God had told Adam that the result of transgression
and sin was death. Satan denied this, saying to Eve that
they would not die, but be as gods. “ God doth know that
in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened,
and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil/’ Gen.
CHRIST’S PROMISE TO RETURN
“ I will come again, and receive you unto myself.” John 14: 3
3: 5. And in effect, those who hold and teach the doctrine
of the immortality of the soul, virtually say that Satan
told the truth, and that God’s statement was not true.
In the seance the enemy of all righteousness is seeking
to prove that man is not dead; that he, and not God, told
the truth in Eden. He is seeking to spread the lie that
there is no death; that what appears to be so is but
transition; that the dead are not really dead, but that
they live in some other sphere or form. And in the seance
angels of darkness appear, impersonating the forms and
imitating the voices of the dead.
CHRIST COMING IN GLORY 31
32 Modern Spiritualism
Communion with Devils
Instead of conversing with loved ones who have passed
into the embrace of death, those who consult ouija boards
or mediums are holding communion with fallen angels,
who possess superhuman power and intelligence, and are
able to tell in a supernatural way things which are not
known to our closest and most cherished friends.
Well may we shudder in the presence of such intelli­
gent and supernatural power from the bottomless pit as
is here manifested. Spiritualism is Satan’s masterpiece
of deception. It is his supreme effort to lead men away
from God. And today men are being deceived into re­
jecting their Maker, who is the fountain of all life, and
are turning to the stronghold of darkness. They are re­
ceiving communications, not from men, but from demons.
It is time we gave heed to the words of the ancient
prophet, written for this very time, when men would look
upon the earth and behold trouble and darkness. Said
the prophet:
“ When they shall say unto you, Seek unto them that have fa­
miliar spirits and unto the wizards, that chirp and that mutter:
should not a people seek unto their God? on behalf of the living
should they seek unto the dead? ” Isa. 8: 19, A. R. V.
We are in the time of which the Saviour has fore­
warned us, when the forces of darkness are being mar­
shaled for the final conflict, when “ there shall arise false
Christs, and false prophets, and shall show great signs
and wonders; insomuch that, if it were possible, they
shall deceive the very elect.” Matt. 24:24. Our only
safety in this hour of darkness is to cling with steadfast
faith to the word of God. So long as we follow this divine
chart, we are safe; forsaking it, we shall surely founder
on the reefs and rocks of unbelief, and be drowned in
the black waters of “ destruction and perdition.”
OTHER BOOKS on THIS SUBJECT
Here and Hereafter
O r M an’s N ature and Destiny
By U r ia h Sm ith
T his work is a thorough canvass of the great question
of a future existence, and the nature of man in the present
life. Every text in the B ible which has any possible
bearing upon these points is taken up and carefully ex­
plained. Paper covers, 3 0 cents.
Spiritualism vs. Christianity
B y C a r ly le B . H ayn es
T h e growth of modern Spiritualism with its mysterious
workings dem ands a thorough investigation from the
standpoint of the Scriptures. In this book Christianity is
asked to vindicate itself in the face o f the evidenees which
Spiritualistic powers have produced. O ne of the most
convincing and comprehensive studies on the subject of
Spiritualism that has ever been published. Paper cov­
ers, 5 0 cents.
The Other Side of Death
By Carlyle B. H aynes
D eath — what does it mean ? D oes it mean to go to
heaven, to hell, to purgatory, or anywhere? W hen a
person is dead, is"he alive? T hese and many other ques­
tions regarding death and the future life are answered
in this small book of 12 8 pages. Paper covers, 5 0 cents.
Order from your tract society, or from the
REVIEW AND HERALD PUBLISHING ASSOCIATION
T a k o m a P a r k , W a s h in g t o n , D. C.
South Bend, Ind. New York, N. Y.
“ HE IS RISEN”
Every man in his own order: Christ the firstfruits; afterward they that
are Christ's at his coming/' 1 Cor. 15: 23
Softly within that peaceful resting place
W e lay their wearied limbs, and bid the clay
Press lightly on them till the night be past.
A n d the far east give note o f com ing day.
T h e shout is heard, the A rchangel’s voice goes forth;
T h e trumpet sounds, the dead awake and sing;
T h e living put on glory; one glad band.
T h ey hasten up to meet their coming K ing.”
