{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__anonymous___royal_fraternity_of_master_metaphysicians_shangri-la_home_study_course_overview.pdf","mytitle":"Royal Fraternity Of Master Metaphysicians Shangri-la Home Study Course Overview","mylang":"de"}
Scope
o/ Ile
SHANGRI-LA
HOMESTUDYCOURSE
of
The Royal Fraternity
of Master Metaphysicians
Cop:,nsht, 1940
PUBLISHED AND DISTRIBUTED BY
Truth Digest, Inc. 152 W. 54th St., New York, N.Y.
Pnnted ,n U S A
<:"7HE
past half century has been very remarkable for two
J outstanding things: psychological discoveries and me•
qianical inventions.
Freud's investigationsinto the hidden subconscious realms,
and the metaphysical application of his findings in the field
of healing, have opened up a new world of unlimited pos,
sibilities.Little or no apphcation has been made by man of
the vast store of chemical, physiological and anatomical
knowledgeuncovered.
The secular world of thought has developed the sciences
of physics, chemistry and invention to such an extent that
they have far outstripped man's knowledge of himself. In
his book, MAN THE UNKNOWN, Dr. Alexis Carrel
writes: ··It is quite evident that the accomplishments of all
the scienceshaving man as an object, remain insufficient,and
our knowledge of ourselves is still most rudimentary . . .
··Modern civilization . . . does not suit us. It has been
erected without any knowledge of our real nature. It has
been constructed at random, without regard to man's true
self. Man should be the measure of all.On the contrary he
is a stranger in a world that he has created. He has been
incap~le of organizing this world for himself, because he
does not possess a practical knowledge of his own nature.
··we are the victims of the backwardness of the SCI,
ENCES OF LIFE over those of matter. The only possible
remedy for this evil is a much more profound knowledge of
ourselves.Such knowledge will enable us to understand by
what mechanismsmodern existence affects our consciousness
and our body. We shall thus learn how to adapt ourselves
to our surroundings and how to change them....
••sincethe natural cond1t10nsof existence haye been de,
strayed bymodem civilization, thescienceofmanhas become
the most necessaryof all sciences."
1 .
SHAN:GRI,LA HOME STUDY COURSE
TO MEET this· necessity the SHANGRI,LA HOME
STUDY COURSE in THE FINE ART OF LIVING
has been devised. Recogmzmg thoroughly the THREE,
FOLD nature of man, The Royal Fraternity of Master·
Metaphysicians has collected the facts of life on these three · .
planes of man's existence and herewith offersthe most com,
plete study of man that has ever been compiled.
Herein you will read in plain, conciseand understandable
language all the pertinent facts of man's physical self that
have to this date been discovered and classifiedby sc;ience,
as well as those now in process of scrutiny..
A careful study of these will reveal to you some very
startling, revolutionary conclusions. You will discover that .
old age is a disease, abnormal, and can be overcome. You
can remain young, active and virile just as long as you have
the will to do so, and a desire to LIVE your life.
About the time the average man has accumulated suffi,
cient knowledge and experience to make him of use to him,
self and his fellows:he leaveshis work and is foregatheredto
his forebears. This was not meant to be. "'The age of my
people shall be the age of a tree. There shallbe no more
thence an infant of days: For the child shall die an hundred
years old," Is. 65'.In other words, one dying at one hundred
will be a child.
rr1HESHANGRI,LA HOME STUDY COURSE will
l reveal to you that disease is the result of ignorance. It
will teach you how to get well and stay well.
If you have broken the laws of your physical, mental or
· spiritual self and are now sufferingthe consequencesin what
you call illness or disease the Fraternity will render you
metaphysical aid in recovering your health, upon written re,
quest and upon your written promise that you will put int9
2
FOREWORD
practice the very explicit teaching found in the SHANGRJ,
LA HOME STUDY COURSE.
It will reveal to you the genius that lies dormant in your
own SUBCONSCIOUS MIND and teach you how to
awakenit and out it to doing the things an OMNIPOTENT
OMNISCIENCE created you for and purposed you to do.
It is time for you to be about your Father's business.
This Course will pr~ve to you that.
You canbe what you want to be,
You cando what you want to do,
You canhave what you want to have,
and it will show you how to do it.
In the ESOTERIC part of the SHANGRJ,LA HOME
STUDY COURSE you will find revealed methods whereby
you may attain your choicest dreams. ..Eye hath not seen
nor ear heard neither have entered into the heart of man the
things which God hath prepared for them that love him.,. 1
Cor. II, 9. Is. 64,4. You will become acquainted with that
long forgotten ancestor, your Soul, and have the way clearly
mappedto that ultimate goal of all human experience, CO&
MIC CONSCIOUSNESS.
3
:Jle Jine .;.)J,.f
o/ ofiving
' '
- (?LEEPING, Breathing, Eating, Exercising, Thinking,
_) Speaking and Doing, these are our daily activities: The
Fme Art of Living comprehends the doing of just
these simple things purposely, artistically, scientifically,JOY'
01,1sly
and successfully. ·
Live we must. Why then not make of it a fine art? This
takes no more time, no more effort than living wrongly,
ignorantly or in a haphazard manner, and without joy.
Would any Sea Captain expect his vesseland valuable cargo
to arrive in port by merely drifting about in the open seas?
No, he definitely sets his course in accordancewith the stars
and his compass. Would a skillful chauffeur attempt to run
his machine without :firstknowing that every part of it was
in condition to make the trip and the mileagehe requires?
Intelligent pur.bose,
skill and foresight are quite as necessary,
and infinitely more valuable in the piloting of the human
·machine, and the living of our daily life. ·
EVERY intelligent human being knows that the body and
the ego, or individuality, are the only real assetsthat Life
ever gives man. They are his one pricelesspossession.Lands,
wealth, fame, are all incidental to this possessi~n. Only
through his body can he sense,enjoy or aspiret0 any achieve,
ment Life has to offer. l:faving realizedthis, is 1tpossiblethat
he will continue to confuse having with being, and neglect
to put his physical house in order?
What of the millionaire pauper, who can write his cheque
for whatever he desires in six figures, but whose body and
mind are coarsened, aged or unattractive? He may count his
wealth in two hemispheres, but behind the closed doors of
his ownapartment, he knows his inferiority and his doubtful
4
,.
'THE FmE AR'T OF LIVmo
place in the scale of human beings. Nothing is more pitiable
than thesebanal, paper-covered editions of human beings, so
unattractive to their fellow creatures, and of whom this age
of money-chasinghas produced so many!
What too, of the great savant, whose physical neglect lias
resulted in bodily defects and shortcomings? There comes a
day and all too soon, when he faces in silent bitterness the
mockeryof his wit and genius.
We are only human after all, and if we continue to neglect
ourselves, on-creeping "old age" accuses us of folly and
blindness,as we grasp hooelesslyat "what might have b,een."
There are many people to,day seemingly alive at 100, who
have beenreally dead for 40 years-or more!
THE Fme Art of Living, like all other fundamental and
practical things m life, is very simple, once we have
given it a little thought. No complex regimen, just the doing
of those daily things correctly, which we must do to estab,
lish and continue a Joyous existence. Just ·the simple things
we inherited as our birthright, but which we have lost in the
complexitiesof "civilized" Society.
The Fine Art of Living should be a part of the curriculum
of every public school, college and university in the land,
the rudiments of it should be taught to the child in the
Kindergarten, the scientific reasons for it made clear to the
High School boy, and the University man should be taught
how to change the Art of Living into a Science of Life.
TODAY, on tp.econtrary, when our young have reached
maturity, they immediately start on the down-hill road
leading to the cemetery. This is true because in our system
of education, more attention is given to the solving of ma,
'j
SHAf,{GRI·LA HOME S'fUD'Y COURSE
thematical problems, and to the parsing of Greek roots, than
to Life itself. (And this makes no reference to that very
large percentage of young peoplewho attend our schoolsfor
athletics, sports, contacts or because ··it is the thing to do,.,
without the shghtest notion of or desirefor education.)
It must be borne in mind, in all of this, that THE
SHANGRI,LA HOME STUDY COURSE doesnot inter-
fere with your rehgious beliefsor convictionsas to a future
life. The Course is occuoied with the solution,of the prob-
lems of Here and Now.
To cater to life's simple essentials scientifically,takes no
more time than we now spend in our haphazard way of
merely existing. And the results are sure apd swift in de,
veloping health, a dynamic body and an irresistableperson,
ality. These ..Essential things" are, in the order named,
SLEEPING, BREATHING, EATING, EXERCISING,
THINKilqG,' SPEAKING, DOING:
SLEBPI.JxG
~ 7'(_
7Ediscover in the study of life that we enter upon it
VVthrough the gateway of sleep. We not only sleep con•
tinuously during the :firstnine months of our existence,but
sleep occupies practically one-third of our life after our eyes
are opened to the sights of this mundane sphere. Yet no
schoolhas ever taken the time to tell us what sleepis,or what
it is for, or how to get the greatest benefitfrom it. We have
not been told, for instance, that the only time for mental and
spiritual development, as well as for physicalgrowth, is that
in which the body is unconscious in slumber.
However little known, it is neverthelessa scientificfact,
that the child can put on weight and developits little body
only while it sleeps. It is evep lessknown that all the habits
of childhood and of mature life are formed in sleep. All
6
'I'HE PINE AR'I' OP LIVING
mental attributes are fashioned in sleep, and all the deeper
cravings for spiritual expression or the reverse, are the out,
growths of sleep.
When sleepis once understood, it is seen to be the greatest
period of our life for the development of our spiritual, mental
and, in many respects, our physical powers.
Insomnia, the buwbear of so many, disappears the very
first night, if the instructions given in Series II are carefully
followed.
BREA'THIN,G
IF we are not "still-born,••our first act is to breathe. Yet
the average man in this Western world has never been
taught how to take a correct breath. As a result, he suffers,
in commonwith all other members of the Western, so,called
'"civilization," from colds and coughs, bronchitis, and other
pulmonary diseases; has been a victim of constipation,
asthµi.a,high blood-oressure, and has been slowly but surely
developingself-poisoning.
, These, and many other diseased conditions are totally im,
possibleto anyone who has learned to practice the science of
breathing.
Madame C. Novello-Davies, the famous London voice
teacher, wrote: "I am willing to wager, that of the 1,400
millionswho are reputed. to be alive at the present moment,
not one in a thousand breathes correctly.
"Most of us have forgotten how to breathe. You smile.
But it is true beyond fear of contradiction.
"We began properly as babies. The _secret is simple
enough. The child breathes deep down. On his lungs there
is very little demand, on his throat, none at all. But give him
two or three years, and he will become one with the rest of
the world of unconscious shallow breathers. Now, it is be,
cause the vast majority ARE shallow breathers that asthma,
7
SHANGRI,LA HOME S'I'UD'Y COURSE
the common cold, bronchitis, and tuberculosis even, are so
rampant.
·••Ifyou wish to be healthy, and to live long, breathe prop,-
erly. It is the cheapest receipe anyone could offer." ·
EATV{G
THE third thing a child does, if it continues to live, is to
eat. If it is a natural child, and is fed at the breast in a
natural way, it performs this task scientificallyuntil after it
develops a mouthful of teeth, and then, for the average in,
dividual, all is changed, and he begins immediatelyto dig his
grave with the newly acquired teeth.
Man is not taught that, in addition to fishand fowl, there
are four distinct types of animals, each with a differentnum,
ber and shape of teeth, differently constructed digestive or,
gans, and a very greatly different length of alimentary tract.
Nor has he been taught that these characteristicsscientifically
determine the character of his normal diet.
B_ecause
he was never taught how to eat or what to eat,
he usually remains in ignorance of food values until his di,
gestive system breaks down. He usually laborsstrenuously, if
in average circumstances, to secure edibles with which to
poison himself and to curtail his energy, intelligence and
~ ~
In other words, the average individual ••livesto eat" in,
stead of ••eating to live," and in the processhe has developed
over 2,300 different diseases, all most profusely described in
any standard work on pathology, and has invented more
than 23,000 remedies (or superstitions) which are all cor,
rectly described in any authorized pharmacopeia. Statistics
show that ninety,fqur per cent. of all the diseasesto which
man is heir today, result directly or indirectly from his ig,
norance in feeding himself.
8
SH.ANGRI-LA HOME STUDY COURSE
EXERCISING
THE fourth thing the child does, if it is normal, is to creep,
walkand run about. Its little body, the human machine,
is super-imposedupon a skeleton made up of over two h.un,
dred bones, which are moved about through the operation
of over six hundred muscles, with energy supplied through
severalmiles of wires (nerves) and generated and directed
by the most marvelous, multible engine (the brain) known
to man.
But as he matures, he is seldomtold that his ability to use
this engme for mental purposes depends very largely upon
his keepmgit in running order daily, through the exercise of
each and all of the six hundred muscles. Therefore, througfi
the ignorance of a nursing mother, or the training of his
elderslater on in life, the child becomes right handed-or left
handed, instead of remainmg, as he was when born, am,
b1dextrous.This is another way of saying that he is ~ducated
to becomelop-sided, and that he uses only one of the lobes
of hisbrain, instead of both; that he fully develops only one,
half the musclesof his body, and is therefore gradually pro, '
ducing a condition which throws out of alignment his body
structure. All this helps the more readily to produce the
breakdown which is erroneously supposed to result from
(the diseaseof) old age.
Youth and its conservation mean movement and supple,
ness, which can be secured and maintained by a very few
minutesdaily, devoted to a few scientific muscle movements.
In his school days the boy is mistakenly taught that
athletics furnish all the exercises he requires, when, as a
matter of fact, the athletics indulged in, in our collegesand
universitiesonly serve to make more permanent the above,
mentioned ..loo-sidedness," and, if there is anyone today in
need of scientific exercises more than another it is the so,
called ··trained college athlete," ana the modern votary of -
..indoor sports."
9
'THE FIJ'{E ART OFLIVIJ'{G
THTN,KTN,G
THE :fifththing we do as children is to think. But this-is a
propensity which the average child is never permitted to
indulge for any very great length of time, for the reason that,
if, through moving about and observing things, he begins to
ask questions, he soon becomes a nuisance in the home. He
is therefore bundled off to some school, where the process
of inhi9itmg thought has been reduced to a science.
- The child is·therefore, given a number of little volumes,
called ..text-books,,, which correctly inform him just what
some other individual thought. His ability to get through
school, to be regarded as bright instead of backward,to pass
his exaD,1inations,
and to secure his diploma, depends upon
not his power of thought, but his power of committing to
memory what some other people thought.
This effort to memorize has consumed his mental energy,
and in due time he is turned looseupon the earth so mentally
· crippled that in ninety,:five,cases out of every hundred, he
never recovers. He becomes iust another unit m the great
mass or herd. He has been robbed of his power to think by a
system, the votaries of which seemto believethat committing
other people's thoughts to memory develops the mind. If
education consists of committing to memory and correctly
reporting what otherpeople think then the wax recording
disc in an Edison talkmg machine is the last word in educa,
tion.
Our thinking is almost never individual. We follow
blindly as sheep in the groove traced for us by tradition,
convention, and our particular ancestors.
A man who can think individually is a genius.Individua)
thought, allied with the emotions, has produced all of man's
creations. Every form of art' and science, every tangible
thing that we see about us, apart from Nature herself, has
come from some man's indivulual thinking. Without that,
10
SHA}.{GRl•LA
HOM.I!STUDT COURSE
life would have been stagnation. There could have been no
progress.
The man who thought became a success. If he expressed
his ideaswith potency and persistency along individual lines,
he becamea genius.
The power to think means the power to live fully and
greatly. Alas!nearly all of us remain mere copyists and
imitators, and are thus exploited in the scheme of hfe and
lost in the shuffle.
SPEAKING,
IN due time the normal child learns to vocalizehis thought,
and thus learns how to express himself verbally. But very
soon his "education" is begun, his inner self repressed, and
thereforehe has nothing to offerto the world but just words.
Although his words are parrot,like and automatic, and in
the main,very meaningles~,yet they are never without effect.
A man breaks himself or iiiakeshimself daily by the char,
acter of his words.
Psychology has finally demonstrated, that through the
power of suggestion or auto,suggestion, words, however
meaninglessor idle, are nevertheless always effectual. There
is more power in one single word-for good or evil-than
m the greatest power engine ever devised by man.
One of the first things a Student of the New Life will
have to master, will bescientific speaking-the scientificuse
of constructive words. He will have to learn to eliminate
fromthe vocabulary allwords of a destructive character, and
to substitute words that are purely constructive. More of
successor failurein life is due to the voice and the manner
of using it THAN TO ALL OTHER TiilNGS COM,
BINED.
11
THE F[NE•AR'I'-OF LIVC]'{G
DOIN.G
IT is inconceivable that once you have learned how and
w\iy to sleep; how and why to breathe; how and why to
eat; ho~ and why to exercise your more than 600 muscles;
how to actually think your own thought and how to effec,
tively vocalize it, you should then retire to twiddle your
thumbs. There are no superannuates among those who have
learned the Fine Art of Living. Life means activity. Life is
neither quiescent, dooless nor indolent.
The great mass of mankind is made up of 'round pegs in
square holes.' But Ruskin defined education as ..Learning
'how to do useful things well." And so THE FINE ART
.QF'LIVING· has much to say about Self
,expression, Crea,
tive work, doing the thing for which you were born and for
which you inherited the talent and the mental, emotional
and physical equipment with which to DO certain things
better than they have ever been done before.
You are the here,and,now living expression of an OM,
NISCIENT CAUSE, not the quiescent remnant of a Has-
been. ·
..My Father worketh hitherto and I work."
YOUTH .AN_D'I'If.E PROLON,GATION. OF LIFE
IN 192'5,at the International gathering of scientific men
and women in America, a German scientist gave an inter,
view to a body of newspaper reporters, in which be stated
that, ..Before the end of this century, sciencewill have found
methods by which man may live upon the earth for a thou,
sand years if he chooses."
The Professor of physical chemistry at the ..University of
Toronto has reasserted his belief in man's ..abilityperpetually
to re1uvenate the body and to arrest decay."
These statements only serve to show the trend of present,
day thought regarding the prolongation of life. There is
12
SHAJ\lGRI-LA HOMB S'TUDY COURSE
every reason to believe that longevity, extending in some
casesto hundreds of years, was the rule rather· than the ex-
ception within the history of man, and there is no question
m the world but that there are many individuals on the
planet today who have escaped the disease of ··old Age.,,
THE SHANGRI,LA HOME STUDY COURSE does
not aim at ..Perpetual" rejuvenescence, or to prolonging hfe
..for a thousand years"-however possiblethat may be-but
it WILL SHOW YOU HOW to add many useful, youth,
ful,active,successful
and happyyearsto your life'
"OW AGE"
T)ARADOXICAL
as it may sound, years and "old age"
r havenothingm common.Old age is the decay of bodily
tissue.This decay is the result of criminal ignorance of the
laws of life and health and of the requirements of the mental
and human machine.
We would never think of treating our automobile, our
hve st()Q{,our house or our other possessions as we treat
ourselves. Our ignorance is appalling, and our premature
decay the mevitable result. People formerly lived in the fut,
ness of activity and of their life forces, to a far greater age ,
than doesthe human being of today. Old age is synonymous
with decayand disease,but not with years.
A newspaper correspondent in Pekin recently announced
the death of Li Chang-Yun at 256 years of age. No country
in the world is more careful of its vital statistics than China,
and the fact that Li Chang,Yun was tendered an official
banquet in commemorationof his 250th Birthday, at which
time he was in full possession of all his faculties, confirms
the accuracyof the report.
It is alsoan historical certainty that several of the names
mentionedbelow did retam their youthfulness for long past
the periodwhen men are supposed to be really OLD. ·
13
THB PTN.BART OP LND{G
Here is an authenticated list of the names of someof the
,peoplewho have lived beyond the century mark:-
The Turk,· who attracted so much attention in this coun,
try, because of his 15'6 years, was outclassed by two con,
temporaries, Rafai Rabal, an Arab Sheikwho was 157; and
Dr. William Feldman of Stamboul vouched for Fatma
Harum's 163 years. William Edwards of Cardiff, who died
in 1787, was 167. The famous Harry Jenkins died at 169.
Louisa Truxo of Brazil lived for 174 years. Petratsch Zartan
of Hungary died in 1724, after having lived 185 years.
Thomas Caron, of Shoreditch, England, as shown upon his
tombstone, lived for 207 years. David Fernison,of Chicago,
was 117 years of age at his death; Robert Bowman,of Eng, ·
land, 119; the famous Countess Desmond 120, and Joshua .
Hightree 126... Old Parr" (Thomas Parr), died at 152. C.
J. Brakenberg, the Swedish sailor and adventurer, was 146
years and eleven months old at hisdemise.
FR.Af{CE'S OLD,MAJ'{,CHILD
THE reverse of these examples of longevity was forcibly
brought to the attention of the scientificworld a few
years ago through an historical casein France.
The case in point was that of a boy whose mother was
past :fifty,and whose father seventy-two when the childwas
born. Both parents considered themselvesvery old, and the
mother long since past the period of child-bearing.She be,
lieved in her ··old age,•• and she impressed upon the child
during pre-natal culture the evident condition of the father
to such an extent, that when he was born he seemedto be a
miniature man. Everybody who saw the boy remarked in
the child's presence, on his appearance of age, so that in ad,
dition to his pre-natal culture he was ever in receipt of the
suggestion of ••
old age.,,
The boy entered his adolescent period between :fiveand
six; at ten he was a mature man, with a secondset of perfect
I }4
SHA]xGRI,LA HOME STUDY COURSE
teeth, and a beard..At twelve the appearance of old age set
in; his hair became grey, and he was partly bald, and his
teeth began to decay. At seventeen he died of the senility of
old age, and with every appearance of a man of seventy or
seventy,five.Of course, with our present knowledge of the
ductlessglandular system,this casewould be easilyaccounted
for by the abnormal development of the glands in infancy,
and their degeneration during adolescence. This will ulti,
mately be found to be the case of little Lina Medina, of
Lima, Peru, who recently gave birth to a baby boy before
her fifth birthday.
DR CARREL'S DEMO'N,STRA'TIO'N.
THE underlying principle and one of the great secrets in
the prolongat10nof Youth and of Life was clearly shown
by the demonstrations made by Dr. Alexis Carrel just prior
to 1914. In his exoeriments conducted at the Rockefeller
Institute, and accounted shortly afterwards to the world, he
proved that there is no actual necessity for physical death or
dissolution,as long as the equilibrium is maintained between
alimentation and elimination. Dr. Carrel has experimented
with embryonic chicks, before they were able to break out
of their shells. He placed their vital organs, which he re,
movedfor the ourpose, into a pre-digested food solution, and
carefullywashed away the debris from day to day, and saw
the organs grow to their normal size. He discovered that if
a bit of liver or heart were cut away, the organ had power
to rebuildthe portion removed. He also discovered that. if he
failedto wash the partsthoroughly, or to remove the debris
for a singledq.y,decayordeathseemedto set in immediately.
Dunng the 25 years the connective tissue of a chicken's
heart was kept alive in the Rockefeller Institute it doubled
its sizedaily, and enough of the tissue was cut away to have
coveredwith thin slicesthe entire Island of Manhattan.
u
'THE PIN,EAR'T OP LNIN.G
This balance between alimentation and eliminationis para,
mount and vital in maintaining a youthful organism,and the
SHANGRI,LA HOME STUDY COURSE convincingly
demonstrates this fact.
YOUTHFUL APPEAR.AJ\lCE A 'N,ECESSI'I"r
'TO PRESE'N,'T,DAY SUCCESS
NO LONGER is a youthful appearance considereda lux,
ury. It has come to be a necessitywhich evenour younger
generation recognizes. The wiser among theni do not intend
to relinquish it. They mean to know the ScientificMethod
which will retain it; and young and old admit to-day that
the world of successful achievement is inseparable from a
vital and youthful personality. Theyhave ceasedwondering
why Father was ••laidupon the shelf' before he was 50.
The reaction brought about by the intense·sufferingof the
first World War has doubled and trebeled this impetus in
the last twenty,five years. Since then, the world has paid
more to plasticsurgeons,to beauty specialists,
and for the
manufacture of toilet preparationsfor coveringup the ef,_
fects of age,than for the satisfyingof any othersinglehu-
man craving. '
'THE.AN:SWBR'TO 'THEPROBLEM
OF S'TAYIN.G YOUNG
"{7\'
7HEN
one knows the human machine and howto refuel
VVit, and the human entity and its primary causes, and
combines this knowledge with a scientificregimen,it is pos,
sible to keep it in unimpaired, workahle condition for an
indefinite period of time.
The problem of staying young is a problem of the mental
outlook in life, of the cultivation of a pleasing personality,
of a knowledge of the human machine and the sort of fuel
required to keep the human engine functioning properly, but
16
SHAN:GRI·LAHOME STUDY COURSE
above all, of a knowledge of the human animal's glandular
systemand its chemicalrequirements.
Until you have learned how to feedand care for your
own glands, it will be useless for you either to borrow the
glands of your simian cousin or indulge in tabloid extracts
of hisglands.
The endocrineglandular system not only moulds the body
which is the •'Temple of our Soul" throughout life, but
provides or takes away the elixir of Youth. Its secret pro,
cessesare so vital and all-powerful that only through their
perfect and normal functioning is health maintainecl. or
youth, beauty and virility produced. Not only are the en,
docrine glandular secretions the very essence and founda,
tion of the human body, but they control our character, our
mental and even our moral tendencies. In a word, our en,
docrine equipment is responsible for our personalties, and
makesor breaks our physical entity.
A perfect scientificknowledge of this system is therefore
indispensa•ble
in order that we may produce ,the Master,
piecesthat Nature intended us to be.
THE SHANGRI,LA HOME STUDY COURSE is the
:firstsuccessful attempt in the modern world to supply a
regimen that scientifically, philosophically and practically
takes care of the needs of man upon the three planes of his
existence--Physical, Mental, and Spiritual.
PERSO'N,ALITY AND ACHIEVEM~
AT FIRST glance, it may seem odd that a Course of
lessonswhich has for its primary object instruction on
how to remain young, and how to ensure the manifestation
of that most priceless of all earthly possessions--a healthy
happy life should concern itself with Personality.
But upon secondthought, it will be seen that life without
personality,without beauty, without that intangible expres-
17
'THE ffNE A..!t'I'
OF LIVCNG
sion of individuality which reflects charm and power, is life
wasted. Personality makesof life a glowingand vivid reality.
Life devoid of it is as shadow compared -to substance, and
. keeps us in the common herd of humanity, imprisoned in
' our longings and desires, which are destined never to b~·
realized.
..Life in itself is the first, the greatest of all the arts, and .
for it all other arts seemto be but a prtparation."· .
'THE HIGHEST OF ALL DUTIES
,-THE
aii;nof life is self,development and self-expression;
to realize one's nature perfectly. That is what each of us
is here for. But unlike those wise and inspired Greeksof the
Hellenic era, the modern race is afraid of itself. It has for,
gotten that the highest of all duties is the duty one owes to .
oneself. The courageous few have learned this.The success,
ful h~ve had the courage to put it i~to practice, for they
know, as the wise of all ages have known, that the world is
· governed, and our desires attained, not through intellect or
'¥ill, but through the direct expression of somethinggreater
than either-a forceful pleasing personality. This is the only
tangible medium of intercourse with our fellow,m~, and is
the sum total of what we are.
·In fact the greatest altruism is to show to our fellow-men
what is possiblein developing a personaJ.ityat _oncepleasing
and capa:bleof worth,while achievement.If your interests lie
along service lines, what, greater service can you render to
humanity than to ~laze the pathway into a .newer and
greater manhood, a newer an.clgreater womanhood? .
MEJ\l,A.J.1..D
WOMEJ\l, WHO HAVE.JLEFT THEIR
IMPRIJx'T UPd"N, 'THE PAGES OF HISTORY
SOMEONE has said: ..Diploma!,:y
of nations to-dayallre,
solv.esitself into personality.••This is no truer to,day than
it ha&always been. The destiny of nations has always hung
18
SHAJ,i.GRl•LA HOME STUDY COURSE
upon this slender thread, as has the destiny of men and
womenin private or public life. .
The most poignant and romantic period of Greek history
was made through the great beauty and fascinating person,
ality of Helen of Troy. Kingdoms fought for her possession,
and upon her srru1erested the fate of the Hellenic world.
Cleopatra ruled Emperors, serfs and diplomats, and
changed the strategy of more than one general. Her beauty
was lessthan the force of her personality, whose power was
without equal.
Ninon de l'Enclos, though endowed with unusual beauty,
owed her endless triumphs at the Court of Louis XIV to a
brilliancyof intellect and to a personality so fascinating that,
she was alike the envy and despair of all the women of her
day.
The men who have left their imprint upon the pages of
Time have allbeenremarka:blefor their personalities. Those
who have risen from the ranks, like Michaelangelo, Richelieu
or that titanic character-Napoleon, did so by the sheer
force of personality. It was the visible expression of their
genius. Without it, they could never have reached exalted
heights.
The subtle influence of Napoleon was such that all eyes
turned to him instinctively wherever he appeared; and on the
battle-fieldhis soldiers felt inspired to superhuman prowess
under his orders. He possessed from the very beginning that
magicwhich gave to the unknown young lieutenant at Tou,
lon a hearing before the greatest generals of France. This
magicwas sheer Personality. Without it, his genius would
never have served him,for it was the touchstone of his suc,
cess.
-PERSON,ALI'TY MUST BE CTJL"TNA'TED
LIKEphysicalbeauty, Personality may be inherited (in its
incipient form) and very often is. But without cultiva,
tion, it can never achieve actual power and influence. Where
19
'.l'HB
PINBJ\R'.l'OP LNING
it does not exist, it may be acquired. The laws which govern
it are not intangible, but definiteandreal.The reflexesof the
human body, the action of the endocrine glandsupon body
and intellect, are so interwoven that the one can only exist
in harmony with the perfect functioning of the other.
·A.powerful or pleasing personality ~ never entir.elyin,
dependent of beauty,-for where there is youth and vitality
and charm, there is always beauty.
A great writer has said: ..Beauty is a .formof genimr--is
higher indeeq, than genius, as it needs no explanation. It is
of the great facts of the world, like sunlight or springtime,or
the reflection in dark waters of that silver shellwe call the
moon. It cannot be questioned. It has its divine right of
sovereignty. It makes princes of those who have it. The true
mystery of the world is the viSI'ble
not the invisible."
Beauty is above all others the greatest dt of the Gods,
and like personality, it must be cultivated, ··For what the
Gods bestow they quickly take away." ·(H not used and
improved.) Science is now showing us the way to retain
physical perfection far beyond the accepted period, and with
it a vitality that brings back Youth in its train. A knowledge
of the laws upon which a successfuland pleasingpersonality
isbuilt, is indispensable; for in the :finalanalysis our per,
sonalify must always make or break us,-it is the solearbiter
of our destiny.
'
THE AJ{SWER 'TO FAILURE AN.,DDISILLUSIO'J,{MEN'f
How many men to,day are wondering why others obtain
apparently without effort that for which they have so
laboriously struggled in vain? Why, they wonder, are those
apparently less favored with brains or merit surrounded by
friends or wealth? Why that apparent injustice of fate that
condemns so many who possess talent or even genius, to
poverty and neglect?
20
SHAJ'.(GRl,LA
HOME STUDY COURSE
And why, so many women wonder, does the man who
still holdstheir love and admiration, appear to take them as
a matter of course, or to have lost all interest in them? Per,
haps their mirror tells them that they are still as beautiful as
when they first challengedhis love. Why then are the foun,
dations of so many marriages crumbling into the common•
place, or the tragedy of disaster?
The answer is a poignant one. The unsuccessful woman,
like the unsuccessful man, is one without personality, and
therefore without charm.
PERSONALITY' VERSUS LUCK
NO MAN in businessor law or art or medicine,or any of
the other service callings, can hope to succeed w.ithout
this asset.The great Captains of Industry to,day all possess
it, consciouslyor unconsciously, and· through it have risen
to the top.
This is true of every great statesman, from Marcus Au,
relius and Julius Caesar·to Cavour, from Richelieu to Cle,
menceau,from William the Conqueror to Pitt, Disraeli and
Churchill..There is in reality no such thirig as luck. Person,
ality is the magic formula upon which success is built. Its
effects are more far,reaching than beauty, and when a)lied
with youth, no event or series of events exist which cannot
in time be mastered and overcome through its influence.
According to a recent consensus of the beliefs of the
College and University Presidents of the United States,
personalityis the chief ingredient in the make-up of 85%
of all successful men and women.
A manor woman at his or her best is a masterpiece which
inspiresus as doesa great work of art-for Life and Nature
surpassall art. .
To apply the laws of Science to the creation of such a
masterpieceis the aim and task of The Shangri-La Home
Study Course.
21
Scope
o/~he
Shangri-J:a
fio~e Studg CourJe
THE Scope of the SHANGRI,LA HOME STUDY
COURSE is in general terms covered in the preceding
chapter on ..THE FINE ART OF LIVING." But in addi,
tion, it is intended to be.a comprehensivestudy of the Science
of Life. Life can only be fully hved or expressedon allthese
planes, PHYSICAL, MENTAL, and SPIRITUAL - or
Emotional. .
The perfecting of the Physical and Mental 'Life is su:ffi.,
ciently covered in ..THE FINE ART OF LNING." The
Metaphysical and Spiritual aspects of Life are comprehen,
sivelydealtwith in the EsotericSection.The word ..Esoteric"
as here used simply means.the INNER SIDE OF LIFE. The
body or physical is the machine. The mind or the mental is
the engine. The Inner Self is the Engineer or Director. The
student should know himself in his entirety.
To KNOW oneselfis the greater human accomplishment.
When you ~now all there is to know about yourself, you
KNOW ALL THERE IS TO KNOW ABOUT. THE
ENTIRE UNIVERSE. The greatest intellectualdishonesty
is to pronounce judgment,.reach a conclusionand act upon
any given subject without first comprehendingallthe essen,
tial facts. IT IS EOUALL Y DISHONEST TO IGNORE
OR ATTEMPT TO ..LIVE ABOVE" ANY ESSEN,
TIAL PART OF THE HUMAN ENTITY. You must
master and use,_notd~minate and destroy. ·
,.
THE Course, for convenience and usefuln~, is divided
mto a number of SERIES. Each Series contains FIVE
DIVISIONS, as follows,:
22
SHA:NGRI-LAHOME S'I'UDY COURSE
1. The Argument or the Reason Why, on the PHYSICAL.
2. The Argument or the Reason Why, on the MENTAL.
3. The Argument or the Reason Why, on the ESOTERIC.
4. The Practical or ..What to Do" in the:
a. Physical.
b. Mental.
C. Esoteric.
5. Questionnaire.
. Each of the DIVISIONS of each SERIES will contain·
an index which will serve the student's convenience as a
ready reference.
The Practical Instructions given will befound to be con;
ciseand simple,and the logicaloutgrowth of the Argument
precedingeach subject. It is our intention never to require
any Mental or Physical action on the part of the Student,
without first having given in ..'l'he Argument" a compre,
hensive,scientificreason for it.
Each SERIES concludes with a Questionnaire that con,
tains a few pertinent key questions. Upon receipt of the
written answers another SERIES will be promptly posted.·
Prizes will be offered from time to time for the best an,
swers,and at the conclusionof the entire Course a suitable
Diploma of Mastership will be awarded. THE MOST
OU'TS'T
AN.DING STUDEN.TS WILL BE AWARDED
A FREE .PERSON.AL POST GRADUATE COURSE
A'f SHA'NGRI;LA, PEACE HA VEN., UN.DER THE
SUPERVISION. OF MASTER MET APHYSICIAN,S.
AS you.will discover·in the perusal of The Shangri-La
Home Study Course, it is a stupendous achievement,
the result of the research and study. of the literatures of
23
SCOPE
thousands of years, a work that has required many years of
preparation, and which is compiled and sent to you at great
labor and expense.
It is the first time in history that a life,stirringwork, con,
taining such a priceless treasure,house of vital instruction,
has been made available to the world at large upon a FREE
WILL OFFERING basis.
Two reasons prompted the Fraternity to do this. First,
never in its long history has the world beenin such acute
need of the information contained in this Course-and our
privilege and task is to pass it on to the largest possible
number of 'Students. Second, aft~ due consideration, the
Fraternity has decided that Humanity is essentiallyhonest;
that man has long since discoveredthat he cannot get SOME,
THING for NOTHING;that the value of the work is so
obvious-you. could not yourself gather. correlateand co,n,
dense this information at the cost of a million dollars-and
the results to the individual Student, when diligentlyapplied,
so certain and miraculous, that we are risking nothing in
accepting the Studen(s valuation and in dependingupon his
basic honesty to pay for the benefits that will come to him.
Attached you will find an APPLICATION form. It con,
tains a pledge that you will carefully read each SERIES as
received, put to practical use the information contained
therein which you consider scientificand useful, answer the
few key questions and remit to the Registrar a sum of
money in keeping with YOUR estimation of the value to
yourself of the lessons and information contained in the
SERIES.
There is no other cost or obligation to you. We have
nothing to sen excepting that we should be pleasedto sen the
greatest thing in the Universe to you.,that is, sen TOU to
yourself.
24
SHANGRI,LA HOME STUDT COURSE
GEN.ERAL REMARKS
THE SHANGRI,LA HOME STUDY COURSE is
pnnted on extra good paper, and arranged,,with per,
forated holes, for bindmg m a 6 x 9 loose leaf binder as re,
ceived,a size easy to carry around with you in coat pocket
or handbag. When completed and bound, the Course will
constitute the most complete and remar~ablevolume that has
ever been put between two covers on the subject.
With -SERIES I is sent a temporary paper loose leaf
bmder into which succeeding SERIES may be Placed for
protection until a permanent binder is secured. If none is
availablein your local market we will supply one, suitably
stampedin gold letters, at cost.
· ILLUS'TRA 'TION.S
The SHANGRI,LA HOME-STUDY COURSE is pro,
fuselyillustrated with anatomical, food, character and color
charts, and with other engravings which will serve to make
clear and understandable its teachings. -
\
ON. YOUR HON.OR
The SHANGRI,LA HOME STUDY COURSE is fully
protected by copyrights in all languages and in all countries,
but only for the purpose of keeping it intact and preventing
unscrupulous publishers from wrenching portions of the
work from their proper setting or from the context.
'As soonas it is found to bebeneficialin the Student's life,
it becomeshis duty to pass the truth on. Truth not shared
with other~is never a blessing. But the printed pages that
comprisethe Course are furnished on the understanding that
the Course itself, in printed form, is the personal property
of the Student, and should not be given or loaned to non,
subscribers.
25
SCOPB
WE STRONGLY ADVISE THAT YOU CHOOSE
FROM AMONG YOUR FRIENDS A FEW WITH
WHOM YOU ARE MOST CONGENIAL, AND
URGETHEM TO JOIN THIS COURSESIMULT
ANE-
OUSLY.This will enable you to hold periodical meetings
for the exchange of ideas and the clarificationof perplexing
points. Your progress--and that of your friends-will be
immeasurably enhanced by frequent contact with a group
sympathetic to one another, every memberof which is eager
to acquire the same knowledge as speedily as they are able
to absorb it. Your friends will, of course, have to enroll as
Students, individually, to qualify.
Proventruth is only a blessingwhen sharedwith others.
Tru.thnot proven is alwaysfalsein the mouth of the in-
experienced.
These Introductory lines can only give you the faintest
conception of what the· SHANGRI,LA HOME STUDY
COURSE is and what it teaches.
It is a veritable ..BIBLE OF HEALTH, WEALTH AND
HAPPINESS."
It is an Encyclopediaof facts essentialto your continued
Youth, Health, Personality,Achievementand Longevity.
It supplies you with AN INCENTIVE FOR LIVING,
and with the knowledge to makelife a gloriousadventure.
It helps you discover the career of your choice and
teaches you how to prepare for it.
If you have an agreeable profession, or are finding sue,
cess along lines that are pleasant and profitable,it will pre,
pare you for greater achievement and teach you how to pro,
long your life at will, until your gr_eatest
dreamsare all and
more than fulfilled.
Some wag has said, ..Old age is an accumulation of un,
solved problems." The SHANGRI,LA H_QME STUDY
COURSE will help you solve all your problems,and there,
by eliminate the need for old age.
It will make and keep you BRILLIANTLY ALIVE!
26
