{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__anonymous___shadow_of_the_unknown_master.pdf","mytitle":"Shadow Of The Unknown Master","mylang":"de"}
THE SHADOW OF
THE UNKNOWN
MASTER
LIVERPOOL.
The Shadow of the Unknown Master.
At Tekels
No. 1.—WHEN HE CAME.
Could it have been the smell of the pines that brought the
Master to Tekels? For, after all, there áre pine trees in
Thibet and Hungary, and they are holy abiding places. Or
could it have been the call from a few earnest students
But there are earnest students in other places besides Tekels.
W hether from the smell of the pines or the persistent
voice of the students that the M aster called, is not known to
any but the students—and the pines.
He came, a wayfarer from beyond the Great Divide,
unrecognised by the many, loved by the few. He came, the
bearer of a Great Secret. He knew what it was- to die, he
knew how it was to live again. He brought a message of
hope, peace and goodwill to those who would lend listening
ear. He came as a man, a man who could feel intense pain,
bitter anguish, unspeakable joy.
i As a man he was simple, believing, cultured and soft-
voiced, with a sadness in the eyes which bespoke knowledge
of the ways of men, sympathy and understanding. To the
many he appeared to be dangerous, a fool, an imposter. To
the few, a simple-minded, ready-to-help-and-advise fellow.
Sometimes his eyes lit up with a strange light. Someone
was suffering and he was sending out helping forces: at such
times he was a healer. Sometimes he had a “ far-away ” look
in his eyes: he was then a Master communicating with those
Great Ones far beyond the white-ranged mountains. At other
times he heard the voices of the wayward desecrating the
Divine, cursing humanity, then an awe-inspiring glint came
into his eyes.. At such times he was dangerous. ■
This strange composite man came to Tekels. Tekels in
the county of Surrey above all places—a wild, uncultured
place where trees and ferns grew in abundance, where the
hand of man had barely touched for the purpose of building a
few houses.
_There he found a community of people mixed in their
aspirations, some worshipping a Crown which shone like gold
but was merely polished clay, others worshipping a Crown of
lead which had yet to show its polish. Others worshipped
neither Crown.
For what purpose came he? To found a religion, a sect,
to enliven and instruct the Community Came he to undo
a wrong that had been done, to announce that Tekels was to
be a holy abiding place ? No. ■
A place of rest and quietness was offered him, and he
had accepted. There he listened to the sighing of the wind,
the rustle of the trees and the voice of the birds. Through
glades of varied trees, on soft mosses he wandered, then he
climbed a small hill. On the hill he spoke.
His voice rose to a pitch which resembled a call, and the
sound reverberated through space. It was caught up afar and
lo ! with light ning rapidity came a response—those in the
High Place had responded to his appeal, and the hill became
sacred, imbued with subtle power. Here, thought he, is indeed
a place for inspiration where one can sit in silent attuned
meditation with the Brethren.
W ork had begun at Tekels. How? Those who climb
the hill in humbleness of spirit, who are above the pettiness
of small things, who are true to themselves as well as to
others, will soon learn.
The one who would know the M aster must climb the
steep hill unaided, and with his back to the sun look down­
wards whence he came. He will count twelve steps which
must be long, and forty steps which must be short. But these
steps must be traversed both mentally and physically and in
humbleness of spirit. After this he will meditate between
breaths, and whisper into the silence the sound-—Ah I aam
ee oom.
Some day he who writes this will again visit Tekels, and
that which stands behind him will hear the call of those who
may climb the mount.
With those who have already done so, the M aster rejoices.
They shall reclimb the mount without fatigue.
Neath thè Tower of Lympne
No. 2.—NEATH THE TOWER OF LYMPNE.
It is said that the Masters of Wisdom, through their
chosen disciples, visit spots on earth whereon they have
trodden during some period of Evolution.
A M aster of Wisdom is an out-thinker, a M aster of
Masters. His disciples are M asters or His chosen disciples.
It is the latter we follow, for they are ever directed by the
Out-thinkers to such spots. Distinguish then between an
Out-thinker and a M aster—they are One in essence but two
in manifestation.
September 10th, 1931, dawned with a cloud o’er the sun,
but as the day advanced the cloud moved and the sun shone
with brilliance. The Master, with two of his disciples entered
a bus which wended its way to Eympne.
The M aster and his diciples alighted, and on foot
traversed a road on either side of which were firs, and pines.
The trees cast a strange shadow on the road and they swayed
slightly as though giving a salutation to those who passed.
A turn to the left, and the Castle loomed in sight. Here
was quietude and it was proper, for the Castle broods in such
quietude—over the past—and with its companion the Church
of St. Stephen overlook that which was once the sea.
The M aster and his disciples gazed down towards the sea,
now four miles away from the Castle, and the M aster with
uninterrupted gaze looked back into the night of time.
Far down, below the battlements of the Castle, was a
magnificent sweep of country, the Romney Marshes,
Dungeness to the right and Folkestone to the left. Far away
rising from the horizon was a patch of white—France was
smiling a peeping welcome to him who gazed.
The M aster saw these things, but other scenes came
before his eyes, things which were not observed by the
disciples. The waters of the sea were surging in furrows
over the land and the river Fimen was pouring its waters into
the sea.
The priests of St. Stephen were taking turns, swinging
lanthorns towards the sailing men who were returning from
their voyage to the far lands, with pretty presents, and their
minds full- of strange stories to tell over the log fires when
port was reached, and they were safe within their homes.
4
Then the scene changes, all is noise and bustle. The
Saxon sea robbers have passed up the Channel and have
sighted the Castle. The sentinel on the watch tower in
stentorian voice calls to the men-at-arms. Suddenly a beacon
flares upwards from the tower, and the people beyond prepare
to intercept this invader who dares to desecrate the precints
of a peaceful village.
Still another scene, and the sea is slowly receding to the
ocean, leaving marshes dangerous to the wayfarer. Wild
ducks wing their flight, and delight in the struggles of the
wayfarer to wend his way cautiously o’er dry places.
The priests of the Church ring their bells at intervals,
and the wayfarer is cheered by the sound. A light comes
into the eyes of the Master, for he sees himself moving
towards his friend Gheist, who awaits him in the church.
From the busy affairs of state, from his task of almost tireless
writing, he passes into the church and there, in close converse
with his friend they speak of days long passed when no
monarch of regal bearing arranged the affairs of ecclesias-
ticism but monks were monks, and a tradition was handed
down, a tradition which spoke of tremendous mysteries.
The disciples stood still, they knew that the M aster was
gazing into the Cosmic picture gallery, and that their patience
would be rewarded ere long. With him, they entered the
Castle and learnt many things. They escorted him to a
garden where refreshments were administered to the body.
Thus it was, that 'the M aster visited a place of the past,
and thus it is that he records the visit as an appreciation to
those disciples who made the visit possible.
We leave Lympne, knowing that the shade of the Roman
guard will keep its secrets intact and preserve its peace
after the noise and bustle of the long dim past.
S8 H 0 SI
Seabrook
No. 3.—SEABROOK.
_ Shadows, strange illusive things which come between the
light and the objects o’er which they pass.
Can one call a shadow darkness, without Light there ■
would be no shadow, therefore shadows are dependent upon
light.
There are many shadows, some distorted, some sinister,
some awe-inspiring—and there are shadows of the Master.
Three people looked from the shingled beach of Seabrook
towards Lympne, their eyes rested upon two hills some little
distance from each other.
High, above the two hills passed a shadow. The sun
had passed behind the clouds and on swept the shadow o’er
the hills. For a moment the hills were dark and gloomy
then refulgent light once again lit up the verdure tops. The
shadow had passed on.
He who is the shadow of the M aster thought much as
he gazed upwards, so did his two disciples—one a young man,
the other a mother.
That shadow o’er the hills was an omen, Seabrook and
Lympne had for a moment been in attuned vibration with
those who stand behind.
From the far away came a voice, a voice which spoke
scarcely above a whisper, but loud enough to say— “ The
Unknown M aster is near, watch for him, for like the shadows
of the night he approaches, steals on to you when you least
expect him. Be watchful.”
The two disciples had known shadows, but they were
of suffering, trials, fears, doubts. The mother had the faith
of a child and was patient. The young man, too, had faith
and was trusting.
One knew that soon revelation must came, the other had
soon to learn, for coming events cast their shadows before.
Let doubters and those who bear false witness beware
for their secret moves are known and recorded in a strange
book whose pages cannot be torn, whose records cannot be
effaced, whose words speak ever the Truth, in which are in­
scribed the deeds of men and women greater in number than
the shingle on the shore of Seabrook.
In this little place, peaceful and quiet, two of the handful
of disciples who seek for the unknown M aster begin to see
with slowly opening eyes.
6
Quietly, very sensibly, are great problems being solved,
slowly and surely are great mysteries being unfolded and in
Sacred truth comes the Unknown Master, the mystery of six
centuries, into the lives of men.
He seeks not to be known to the many, yet he has been
known by those who could sigh for knowledge, he may even
be known in this record though he is as yet but a shadow.
All ye who read this, search your own innermost thoughts
and ask yourself if you have found the light. Ask those
thoughts if you are true to yourself as well as others, ask if
you have condemned others when you yourself might be
condemned.
My shadow is stealing over you as it did o’er the hill tops
beyond Seabrook, when I come yet ye shall not know me, but
Light shall know and if thou art cautious it shall abide with
thee.
R 1 i g
All Hours at All Places.
7
All Hours at All Places.
He who seeks for the M aster only during the day shall
not find Him. He who seeks for the M aster only during the
night shall not find Him.
Always, at all times, in all places may He be found. He
is not confined to any particular country or place. He is in
all countries and places. He does not belong to any particular
race. He is of all races. He does not favour one and not
another. He favours all.
He does not make Initiates by recommendation. His
disciples must realise Initiation ere they can know Him as
Master.
By ordeal and test only does He make Initiates, for
Initiation means the crossing of the Threshold, the meeting
and controlling of the Dweller on- the twilight pathway of
illusion, and then sight of the M aster in fully awakened
Spiritual Consciousness.
Initiates are known only to Initiates, M asters to Masters
and Initiates.
Gaze at the Kosmic Clock, then realize that there are
twelve hours of Initiation both of day and night, and every
twelfth hour culminates into a thirteenth.
During the thirteenth hour one meets the Master. Until
that is known, His shadow only crosses the pathway. ■
Take care, if ye would realise the thirteent hour, that
ye bear none ill will, that ye speak and hear no evil, that ye
judge not, for ye shall know during that hour if thou hast
evil done. If thou hast spoken ill of another, during that
hour ye shall be judged.
To Him who sits in the Inner Sanctuary of Masters, there
is neither day nor night, twilight nor shadow, but thou who
hast not yet seen the Light knowest only the shadow.
From the Inner Sanctuary do the M asters pass amongst
men, unrecognised by the many, for they are not prepared to
see Them.
The Kosmic Clock is the Round Table. Would ye be a
Knight and sit in thy place during the day or night If so, be
prepared to meet the M aster irrespective of His garb or
name or of the country in which He resides.
Ye would know the shadow of the M aster at first by
speech, by words of wisdom, by works of art, philosophy,
science, drama and the Muses, but ye must seek closely, for
oft times a mask is used to test the unwary that their desires
to approach the highest might be intensified or w'eakened
accordingly as they seek.
The true disciples of the M aster are known by the pro­
gress they make, by the knowledge conveyed to them in
mystic manner, by their ready answers to questions pro­
pounded to them regarding the problems of life.
_ But if ye ask them who the M aster is, they are as
silent as night. Ye yourself must go out to meet Him and
recognise Him. Very often He is the most unlikely person,
if He inhabits a mortal body, be careful.
As the M aster frequents familiar places, in those places
He may not be known as Master. Seek Him then in places
unfamiliar, and ye may be rewarded for the effort.
Time is but an illusion, yet as the finite mind cannot
grasp the idea of space duration, time is conceived in the
mind by the interval of events, the movement of the
mechanism of a clock. In this sense think of the Sanctuary as
representing Greenwich time—it is always the twelfth Hour
there, and all Masters know the twelfth Hour which encom­
passes all hours, all time.
It is always High Twelve to the Master, no m atter where
He may be, for He is in close contact with the Inner
Sanctuary, and He ever conceals the thirteenth, whether in
the sense of the Round Table, the Zodiac, the Apostles or
the watch that ye have on your wrist or in your pocket.
Know then, ye who read, ye who are willing to learn
from simple words, who do not consign this message to the
flames, who are sincere in desiring to attain to the Highest,
who do not slander your fellows—that the shadow of the
Unknown M aster has moved across the pathway, and He
soon may play an active part in thy Spiritual welfare.
Be watchful, be wise, Most Wise, and ye may soon see
the Right.
9s i
The Unknown Master.
9
The Unknown Master.
In treble numbers secrets I declared,
To those who dare not run before they walked;
But those who walked some secrets strange have shared,
W hilst those who ran were by an Old Fox stalked.
The. past, present and future are one and Destiny is
made yesterday, to-day and to-morrow for the sake of to-day.‘
To-the Infinite Eye Time is but an illusion and to that
eye the past and future are to-day.
Fife speeds on in cycles and the finite mind appreciates
but a little of this through events.
Some there are who know to-morrow and yesterday
through to-day and there is not always pleasure in the
knowing.
. Love, Hatred, Hope, Inspiration, Pleasure, Pain, Perse­
cution and Peace all wait upon life and they follow in its wake
but there comes a period when life has sped on so quickly that
these expressions of manifested life become lost in the
abstract.
Love is the only thing that persists, it expands from the
smallest microbe to the greatest star, from man to God.
Man will not always love, for he is prone to hate, prone
to misunderstand, prone to persecute his fellowmen, till he
knows better.
As life speeds on and man lives his life he makes events
and these events repeat in cycles. There come periods of love,
periods of hate, periods of persecution, and periods of peace.
There are some who at this period of life are experiencing
love and peace, others who are experiencing pain and
persecution. '
Shyloclc is a great symbol, there are always people who
want their pound of flesh but when it comes to the cutting,
under penalty, they are afraid to cut lest they cut under or
above their pound of flesh.
Why do some want their pound of flesh to-day ? Because
they have wanted it in the past and when they cannot obtain
it, without penalty, they seek to persecute and disparage
that which appears to be the pound of flesh. THOSE WHO
W ILL NOT CUT BECAUSE OF THE PENALTY ARE
COWARDS.
10
Supposing a man slandered another man by speech
amongst his friends and when asked to put into writing
refused, such is a coward, he is base and is not worthy of
the company of honoured men. He wants his pound of flesh
but will not take the penalty. There are such people to-day
even against whom there is evidence of such.
Three hundred years ago a M aster of Science ’ and
Philosophy and perhaps a M aster of Uife also, was slandered
and persecuted, but in spite of that his work went on, he knew
the Shylocks.
Perhaps it is that the Unknown M aster knows the Shy-
locks of to-day, he may even have much evidence against
them and in spite of the persecution may be biding his time.
There is soon to be Revelation in various Occult Societies
and there may be other •revelations also, some which may
not bear the light of day, who knows save those who
transgress.
The Unknown M aster has many servers in all grades of
life from the highest to the lowest, his arm is long and his
memory is long. ■
Many think they know the Unknown Master, but they
are mistaken. They have read his works but they know him
not. Publishers will not tell who he is, writers who work
under his guidance will not tell who he is, the poets who sing
his verses will not tell, because they do not know. They, like
many others, may fancy they do but fancy is not reality.
The Unknown M aster is here now for a definite purpose and
his purpose shall be accomplished.
M isinterpretation, persecution, will not interfere with the
purpose, it shall most certainly be accomplished.
There is one thing which is very sure, the Unknown
M aster comes not for, or to do, evil, if evil manifests it manir
fests from the hearts of those who think evil and speak evil.
In the doing of good for the benefit of your fellow men,
you may come to know the Unknown Master, but there is
no certainty that you shall. In your real good self you may
find him.
There are some who try to link him up with all kinds of
people and with all kinds of movements, they are mistaken.
You may search through a hundred of his works and not find
him, yet with patience find him in one of them.
He who is well trained in the Mystic Sciences might find
him through the Ciphers in this paper.
You may find him in most unlikely places, rarely in the
most familiar. To find him you must forget your prejudices,
you must clear your hearts of hatred and have ceased to beat
false witness against your neighbours.
“ The Glory of God is to conceale a thing,
The glory of man to fynd owt a thing.”
“ You take more than is graunted,
You graunt lesse than is prooued.”
MAGUS INCOGNITO.
