{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__anderson___seven_years_that_change_the_world.pdf","mytitle":"Seven Years That Change The World","mylang":"de"}
THAT CHANGE THE WORLD
1941-1948
By
W-ing Anderson
CUSTODIAN OF ~RCHIVES,
AMERICAN ESSENXS OF KOSMON
Author of
THE NEXT NINE YEARS
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
2210 West utb St.
KOSMON P R E S S
LONDON, ENGLAND
39 Chestnut Road
West Norwood, S. E. '27
COPYRIGHT, 1940, BY
WING ANDERSON
Distributed by the Kosmon Press,
Publisher for Essenes of Kosmon
in America.
First printing, November 16, 1940
Second printing, February 15, 1941
Third printing, February 15, 1942
Fourth Printing, February 28, 1942
Fifth Printing, October 31, 1942
Sixth Printing, March 25, 1943
S eventh Printing, January 31, 1944
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
PREFACE TO THE SIXTH PRINTING
The original manuscript for SEVEN YEARS
THAT CHANGE THE WORLD was received at the
book plant on September 9th and the first edition was
completed October 31st, 1940. No alterations have
been made in the prophecies contained herein since the
first printing.
In the months that have passed since the completion
of the manuscript several predictions made in this book
have become facts and others are well on the way to ful-
fillment. Franklin Delano Roosevelt was elected to a
·third term and given dictatorial powers; the United
States is at war with Japan; and Germany is meeting de-
feat in Russia; three prophecies fulfilled in little over a
year's time.
Events occur in this mad world with ever increasing
speed. No doubt by the time this printing is off the
press other predictions contained in this book will have
been fulfilled.
It is becoming more difficult with each passing week
for the individual to follow the advice given on page
264 for protecting his interests during years of war and
inflation. Soon the only avenue to safety will be that
road suggested in the concluding paragraph of the book.
THE AUTHOR.
February 1st, 1942.
v
CHAPTER
FOREWORD
INTRODUCTION
CONTENTS
I PROPHECIES OF THE PoETS
II PROPHECIES OF ENGLAND
PAGE
XI
xv
1
2
III PROPHECIES OF JoANNA SouTHCOTT 9
IV PROPHECIES CONCERNING ADOLF· HITLER AND
GERMANY. 18
v PROPHECIES OF ASIA AND AFRICA 63
VI AMERICAN PROPHETS AND PROPHECIES 68
VII PROPHECIES FROM THE SPIRIT WORLD 92
VIII DEATH CYCLE OF AMERICAN PRESIDENTS 117
IX EDWARD BELLAMY'S PROPHECY OF A NEW AMERICA 119
X ]oHN BALLOU NEWBROUGH, AMERICA'S GREATEST
PROPHET 124
XI PROPHECIES OF EARTHQUAKES AND CONTINENTAL
CHANGES . 141
XII ExoTER1c AND EsoTERIC AsTROLOGY 144
XIII ORIGIN AND DESTINY OF MAN . 155
XIV THE CREATOR'S CLOCK AND THE LAWS OF PERIO-
DICITY 170
XV SECRETS OF SYMBOLOGY AND EsoTERIC PsYCHOLOGY 183
XVI THE MARK OF THE MASTER 190
XVII INTERPRETATION OF THE GREAT SEAL OF THE
UNITED STATES AND THIRTEEN CYCLES IN AMER!-
CAN HISTORY . 194
XVIII COMPARISON OF COMMUNISM AND FASCISM 202
XIX FASCISM IN CALIFORNIA . 21 0
xx AMERICA : YESTERDAY, TODAY AND TOMORROW 225
XXI THE WRITING ON THE WALL 246
VII
ILLUSTRATIONS
Prophetic Chart of Nostradamus
John Ballou Newbrough .
Zodiac of the Ancients
Solar Family or Tow-Sang
Four- the Number of the Earth
Thothma, Pharaoh of Egypt
The Creator's Clock
144,000-Year Cycle
Earth and Heavens
First Three Races
Ascending and Descending Races of Man
Map of Submerged Continent in Pacific Ocean
First Written Language .
Twelve Thousand Year Cycle
Rooms and Passages of Great Pyramid
Observatory by Great Pyramid of Osiris
Early Cross
Cross Bearing the Christ
Christian Cross of Today
Cross of the Master
Egyptian Masonry
Cross of Life .
Cross of Death
Great Seal of U. S.
ix
PAGE
47
124
145
147
148
149
152
156
157
160
162
166
168
178
180
181
183
184
186
189
190
191
192
197
FOREWORD
My gran'ther's rule was safer 'n 'tis to crow:
Don't never prophesy---onless ye know.
Lowell-"Biglow Papers"
Einstein and the famous Russian, Ouspensky (author
of "Tertium Organum") believe that both future and
past exist equally . . . that Time is the so-called fourth
dimension, an "element in which we are immersed," in
which everything is relative and different. Most of us
assume that the present moment is the only reality, but
these gentlemen-one a scientist, the other an author-
say, "No. The present is the most unreal of all, the
mere blade of a knife between two endless eternities."
A distinction seems to be that we remember some of our
past, but cannot "remember" the future.
The future may be likened to a winding road curving
over hill and valley, but with short stretches where we
sometimes can see what is coming.
Time is but the relation of events in consciousness.
Outside of consciousness, Time ceases to exist. The du-
ration of Time is governed entirely by the nature of our
own consciousness. In our youth the week preceding
Christmas seemed endless. After passing the meridian
of life the years seem to fly by with ever-increasing
speed, until a year seems like a week. We may wait in
a dentist's office with an aching tooth for five minutes
and feel that we have waited hours, or we may spend
XI
quite a long period of time in some pleasant pursuit and
discover the hours have passed like minutes.
There are insects which are born, mature, propagate
and die within the space of a day. No doubt their life
is as long to them as are three score and ten years to a
human being. An insect may experience as many sensa-
tions in a life of a day as man does in a century. The
measure of time seems entirely dependent on the unit of
perception of its percipient.
One concerned with psychic ·research soon discovers
that Time, as we know it, does not exist for those who
have passed beyond the limits of our three dimensional
environment. The consciousness of the spirit has for its
perceptions a far different rate of vibrations than do we
in the flesh. This is illustrated in dreams, in which a
sequence of events may pass in a few seconds which has
seemed, in the dream, to have occupied hours, days or
weeks.
Time has an illusory character when judged by human
measurements. We are subject to the limitations of our
own consciousness, and are slaves to our senses. Time
is merely the condition under which our intelligence
functions during the years of our life on earth. At
death we seem to leave behind the limitations of Time
as measured by day and night, spring, summer, fall and
winter and adopt a new system of markers for the rela-
tion of our experiences.
Past, present, and future, like negative, neutral, and
positive are a trinity making one. A cosmic cycle may be
similar to a motion picture in that every agent of the
cycle is in existence NOW. A motion picture is a com-
plete story. That part before our eyes corresponds to
xii
the present, the reels that have been screened represent
the past, and the part of the picture awaiting its passage
through the projection machine is analogous to the
future.
Without a doubt those with prophetic vision are gifted
with the ability to catch glimpses of events present in the
unseen which time will soon or later bring forth into
the seen.
The author has attempted to solve the problem of
Time as connected with the prophecies in this book, and
to prove by an analysis of today's developments in gov-
ernment, economics and religion that events foretold
are upon us. There is no intention to propagandize any
system of government or economics, for it is the author's
belief that causes were set in motion centuries ago which
will culminate in e:ffects that no individual or nation can
change. How else could it be possible to foretell the
future? If the destiny of nations is a variable, no one
could predict centuries ahead the birth of a Hitler, an
epidemic of wars, Fascism, revolution and other phe-
nomena of today.
No doubt a few readers will assume that this book is
propaganda of the Communists, Fascists, Fifth Column
or some other hated "ism," and will write advising the
author to leave the country if he doesn't like it. To save
such readers their time and stamps, let us assure them
that the writer is an American by birth whose forebears
on his mother's side were the Wings of Massachusetts,
who came to this country about 1670. · His father's peo-
ple came to America from Scotland about 1780. His
forebears fought in every war to gain and maintain the
independence of our country. His grandfather died
xiii
from illness contracted while with the Union army of
the Civil War.
Wing Anderson is a member of the Masonic and
Acacia Fraternities, but is not a member of any Com-
munist, Nazi, Fascist, revolutionary or political party.
He has never, at any time, attended any meeting of a
Communist or Fascist organization, nor does he intend
to. Americans should be able to solve their own prob-
lems without advice, instruction or interference from
overseas.
As the first republic was born on the American conti-
nent, so will also be brought forth on this continent the
first true cooperative commonwealth with peace, plenty
and security for all. When this new economy comes
into existence it will be the product of Americans and
not the fruit of either the Third International or the
Third Reich.
XIV
INTRODUCTION
We are living in "The Time of the End.';
The end of the world? The end of civilization?
The end of mankind?
No!
The end of unemployment, poverty, starvation, fear.
The end of exploitation, imperialism, competition, war.
The end of worry, limitation and lack.
A new day is dawning. 'Tis springtime in the
Creator's gardens. The "Kingdom on earth as it is in
heaven," long prayed for by Christian peoples, is at
hand. Look up, for thy redemption from error and
sorrow, sickness and death, is nigh.
Down through the centuries many prophets have told
of today's events, each sketching a picture which seems
to be a segment in a great mural painting of the world
today and tomorrow. Every race and nation has had its
prophets, each foretelling the future of his people. No
time, as we shall find in this book, has produced condi-
tions fitting the pictures sketched by the prophets as do
the years 1914 to 1948.
xv
THE NEW DAY
Behold! The New Day cometh;
It breaks atop the hill,
And soon its regal splendor
The world with joy will fill.
Now is the time of changes,
A challenge to our day,
Old systems are collapsing,
New truth is on its way.
All things are being sifted,
The dross is thrown away,
For only that worth saving
Can front the bright New Day.
The day that time has promised,
That truth has sought to bring,
The day the marching ages
And holy prophets sing;
The day of God, the day of Man,
That comes to bless and heal,
And recompense the people
For all the wrongs they feel.
Farewell the day of mammon,
Farewell the day of sin;
Go forth to new found justice,
Let truth its conquests win.
That greatness we shall build us
When man comes to his own,
And all the ills of poverty
And cruel war have fl.own.
What beauty then shall lead us
To the spirit of our youth,
When all things swing in harmony
With soul expanding truth.
Our hearts shall hold new treasures
XVII
And progress proudly run.
To nobleness and glory,
For man, the king of the earth,
Who goes to meet and greet it,
The world's millennial birth.
X'Vlii
CHAPTER I
PROPHECIES OF THE POETS
SoNG OF THE SowER
On the sad earth, as time grows grey,
When men by deadlier arts shall die,
And deeper darkness blot the sky,
Above the thundering fray;
And realms that hear the battle cry
Shall sicken with dismay;
And chieftains to the war shall lead
Whole nations with the tempest's speed to perish;
In a day.
The above poem was written in 1871 by William
Cullen Bryant. Evidently Bryant foresaw the years of
war, but was unable to see beyond into the millennium
as did Tennyson in 1842 when he wrote "Locksley
Hall."
TENNYSON'S PROPHECY
"I dipt into the future, far as human eye could see,
Saw the Vision of the world, and all the wonder that would be;
Saw the heavens fill with commerce, argosies of magic sails,
Pilots of the purple twilight, dropping down with costly bales;
Heard the heavens fill with shouting, and there rain'd a ghastly dew,
From the nations' airy navies grappling in the central blue;
Far along the world-wide whisper of the south wind rushing warm,
With the standards of the people plunging thro' the thunder-storm;
Till the war-drum throbb'd no longer, and the battle-flags were furled
In the Parliament of man, the Federation of the wi:>rld."
CHAPTER II
PROPHECIES OF ENGLAND
The numerous instances where modern inventions
have been foretold in prophecy is truly amazing. Many
prophecies agree on world events and most of them con-
cur in predicting changes in topography, climate, reli-
gion, governments and economy years ahead.
The War of Armageddon, now in its second phase,
has been prophesied in every nation and to every people.
Most of the prophecies agree that this war will be tragic
beyond description, and will be followed by a wave of
revolution. War, pestilence, epidemics, starvation, fam-
ine, earthquakes, and appalling natural catastrophies will
cause the death of millions. Armageddon and this
"Time of Trouble" will purge the world of selfishness
and war, and prepare the way for a thousand years of
peace and plenty.
England is the home of many prophecies, the best
known of which are those of Mother Shipton. This re-
markable woman was born in 1486, during the second
year of the reign of Henry VII, at a place called Knares-
borough, in Yorkshire, England. There are several
tales told about her life, but it is doubtful if much of the
real truth regarding the woman is known. There is no
doubt, however, regarding her prophecies, for many of
them were fulfilled during her life and in the centuries
smce.
2
The book from which the following prophecies were
taken was printed in England in 1864, and is probably a
partial copy of a book printed in 1797. The first collec-
tion of Mother Shipton's prophecies was published in
1641. A copy of this first edition can be found in the
British Museum.
Mother Shipton predicted the discovery of America
in 1492, and the gold rush of 1848 in the following:
In a land that is now unknown
Gold shall be found and shown.
Another of her prophecies pertaining to America
reads:
Over a wild and stormy sea,
Shall a noble (Sir Walter Raleigh) sail,
Who to find, will not fail,
A new and fair countree,
From whence he will bring
A herb (tobacco) and a root (potato)
That all men shall suit,
And please both the ploughman and king,
And let them take no more than measure;
Both shall have the even pleasure,
In the belly and the brain.
The reader will recognize our modern inventions pre-
dicted in the following:
Iron in the water shall float,
As easily as a wooden boat.
Through hilb man shall ride,
And no horse be at his side.
Carriages without horses shall go,
And accidents fill the world with woe,
Around the world thoughts shall fly,
In the twinkling of an eye,
Under water men shall walk,
Shall ride, shall sleep, shall talk,
3
In the air men shall be seen
In white, in black, in green.
Fire and water shall more wonders do.
England at last shall admit a Jew,
The Jew that was held in scorn
Shall of a Christian be born, and born.
The last three lines of the above are worthy of special
attention in relation to the British-Israel movement in
England and the U.S. A. This group of over a quarter
of a million people in England believe that England is
now the home of one of the lost tribes of Israel, and
that the English are descended from the Jews.
Mother Shipton seems to have had a clear vision of
the present generation, for she prophesied that in a far-
o:ff day:
Women will dress like men and trousers wear,
And cut off all their locks of hair.
They will ride astride with brazen brow,
And love shall die, and marriage cease,
And nations wane and babes decrease,
And wives shall fondle cats and dogs,
And men shall live much as hogs,
Just for food and lust.
Mother Shipton placed her prophecies in time by their
association with modern inventions. Could she have
given a more accurate dating of the World War than by
predicting it as coming in the same generation with the
motion picture, submarine and airplane?
When pictures look alive, with movements free,
When ships, like fishes, swim beneath the sea,
When men, outstripping birds, can soar the sky,
Then half the world, deep-drenched in blood,
Shall die.
4
Did Mother Shipton foresee Hitler and his "blitz-
krieg" of 1940 when she wrote the following?
An APE shall appear in a leap year,
That shall put all womankind in fear;
And Adam's make shall be disputed;
And Roman faith shall be uprooted,
And England will turn round.
The following stanzas seem to prophesy a great earth-
quake or change in the location of the poles of the earth,
as foretold in so many prophesies from other sources:
Waters shall flow where corn doth grow;
Corn shall grow where water doth flow,
Houses shall appear in the vales below,
And covered be by hail and snow.
The time will come, when seas of blood,
Shall mingle with a greater flood.
Great noise there shall be heard, great shouts and cries,
And seas shall thunder louder than the skies;
Then shall three lions fight with three, and bring
Joy to a people, and honour to the King.
Thunder shall shake the earth;
Lightning shall rend asunder;
Water shall fill the earth;
Fire shall do its work;
Men shall- --he shall-----.
I leave it to the reader to fill in the dashes. Possibly
the vision faded.
The following prophecy is as true of the U. S. A. as
it is of England:
Taxes for blood and for war
Will come to every door.
5
In the following, the first two lines seem to foretell
the building and destruction by fire in 1938 of the
Crystal Palace in London. Do the last two.lines forecast
the conquering of England by Germany? The eagle
was the symbol of Germany, and the lion remains the
insignia of England.
A house of glass shall come to pass
In England-but alas!
War will follow with the work
In the land of the Pagan and the Turk;
And State and State in fierce strife
Will seek each other's life.
And when the North shall divide the South,
An Eagle shall build in the Lion's mouth.
Did Mother Shipton predict the bombing of London
in the following phrase?
A river and a town shall be on fire.
No one seems to have been able to make much sense
out of this stanza:
In the KING'S house the POPE shall dwell,
A Packhan the POPE'S house shall raise,
Harry shall be nine. Joseph four. Tom a liner.
Charles two. The Old Man VIII.
And bitters with and without for all.
Not all of Mother Shipton's prophecies foretold
trouble, The following predicts a time of peace and
plenty after the wars are over:
The fiery year a~ soon as o'er,
Peace shall then be as before;
Plenty everywhere be found,
And men with swords shall plough the ground.
All England's sons that plough the land,
Shall be seen book in hand.
6
Learning shall so ebb and. flow,
The poor shall most wisdom know.
The following prophecy seems to be seeing its fulfill-
ment at the present time. It is the only prediction in the
writer's collection of prophecies by Mother Shipton that
pertains to France.
Three times three shall lovely France
Be led to dance a bloody dance.
Before her people shall be free
Three tyrant rulers shall she see;
Three times the people rule alone,
Three times the people's hope is gone;
Three rulers in succession see,
Each spring from a different dynasty.
Then shall the worser fight be done,
England and France shall be as one.
This prophecy evidently alludes to the battles of
Blenheim, Waterloo and the Blitzkrieg of 1940. The
rulers are doubtless Louis XVI, Napoleon the First, and
Hitler. The revolutions of 1792, 1830 and 1848 have
fulfilled part of the prophecy wherein it is said, "Three
times the people rule alone; Three times the people's
hope is gone,'' in which phrase all readers of history will
recognize the political estrangement and want of consti-
tutional freedom which the people of France have en-
dured by allowing the usurpation of power by the first
Napoleon, Louis Philippe and Hitler.
The last two lines of the prediction seem to foretell
the conquest of France by Germany under Hitler, and
the consolidation of the governments of England and
France under the Third Reich.
How is it possible for anyone to dispute the facts of
prophecy after reading the auguries of this woman who
7
lived over five hundred years ago? Not only was she
able to foretell the discovery of America in 1492, while
she was alive, but she also foretold the discovery of gold
in California almost a hundred years later. Not only
did she foresee the steamboat, telegraph, submarine,
automobile, radio and airplane of this generation, but
she also evidently foresaw the end of our capitalist econ-
omy when she said:
Fire and water shall wonders do,
England shall at last admit a foe,
The end of the world shall come
In eighteen hundred and eighty-one.
In naming the year 1881, Mother Shipton made the
mistake common to many prophets. Others name 1848,
1881, or 1914 as marking the end of competition and
the birth of co-operation.
In this book it will be shown that the year 1948 marks
the birth of the fourth generation of Kosmon, the gen-
eration of builders, just as 1914 marked the birth of the
third, or rebel generation, the generation of destroyers.
It is the youth born during the war years of 1914-1 918
who will tear capitalism apart and replace it with a co-
operative commonwealth of nations.
Mother Shipton lived to an extraordinary old age.
During her life she was believed to be a witch, yet all
who knew or heard of her held her in great esteem.
A stone erected to the memory of Mother Shipton
stands near Clifton, about a mile from the city of York,
and carries the following epitaph:
Here lyes she who never ly'd,
Whose skill often has been try'd;
Her prophecies shall still survive,
And ever keep her name alive.
8
CHAPTER III
THE PROPHECIES OF JOANNA SOUTHCOTT
In the year 1750 a woman was born in Devonshire,
England, named Joanna Southcott. She may prove to
have been England's greatest prophet. During her life
she foretold many events by listening to a voice known
to her as the Voice of Truth, which she accepted as the
voice of God. Although inaudible to others, this voice
was as clear to Joanna Southcott as were the voices of
her family and friends.
For nine years she wrote down the statements made to
her by this voice. Those years brought so many things
to pass, as foretold, that her faith in its promptings was
established. Thereafter, she published many books and
prophecies.
She was told that God had chosen her to be the in-
strument through which He would warn the world that
He would soon set up His kingdom on earth, destroy all
evil, and establish a new heaven and earth. She was
told that the signs that would precede the setting up of
the new kingdom would be:
Nations will rise against nations, and there shall be famines and
pestilences and earthquakes in divers places. When these things
come to pass, look up, for redemption draweth nigh.
A poem found in Book 44 of her writings, page 35,
describes this new heaven to be ushered in following the
trying times such as we have today:
9
ON THE NEW EARTH
Then all mankind must surely know Me,
And judge Me by My powerful reign,
When you My kingdom do obtain
And I begin to reign alone,
And banish Satan from his throne.
For a new earth shall then appear,
Like Eden's garden watered here.
And peace and plenty shall be found,
And every heart in Me be crowned.
And every nation then shall come,
In heart united as one man.
And if that gold can do you good,
I've mines are hid that shall be showed,
And in the seas I've hidden store,
And then I'll bring it all on shore.
And then I'll make all barren lands,
To bring in glorious crops for man:
And every heart I'll fill with love,
And the good fruit they all shall prove.
A perfect knowledge then of Me-
Angels and men shall then agree.
I'll cultivate the barren lands,
And the wild beasts shall silent stand,
And all the earth I'll fill with store.
The storms and tempests shall be o'er;
No burning heat shall then appear,
But pleasant weathers bright and fair.
No searing frosts to chill your blood,
Nor piercing cold as it hath stood,
But summers pleasant, winters mild;
And man in heart I'll so beguile,
That every man shall have a wife,
Anci iove her equal to his life,
And happy offspring shall appear,
For to complete your pleasures here.
This I designed for man at first,
And I'll fulfill it at the last.
10
The following prophecy seems to pertain to the Hit~
lerian wars and their aftermath, should the people of
England still refuse to accept God:
"Because the Famine then they'll fear,
To see it in the following years,
If men don't hasty then repent;
Because My mind is fully bent,
If England will not turn to Me,
The Famine they will surely see,
When I have stopped the raging war,
For short and sharp it shall now appear.
The clouds shall gather fast at first,
That in your land they strong shall burst;
And if your foes I conquer here,
It is for those that wish Me here
Their King and Conqueror for to be,
Then I must wound their enemy;
If they invade this very land
My Sealed People they shall stand,
I say, to see their foes to fall;
He cannot come to conquer all,
Though havoc great I know he'll make,
But, 0 My friends shall I forsake?
No--1 will not leave them at that time.
But now within I know My mind-
If all these things should so appear,
The Sword and Plague come in one year,
Or any fatal like disease,
So perfect come like My decrees,
Can unbelief abound in man?
The truth so plain they must discern;
With all the truths that are past before:
Can unbelief in man appear?
Unto thy thoughts I answer thee,
The thing is possible to be."
11
England's warning is repeated in the following poem,
which seems to foretell revolution in other countries be-
fore it strikes in England:
THE SPIRIT OF TRUTH
"Because the ox his master knows,
The ass his master's crib,
But lsrail backward they do go,
And do not know their Lord;
The birds know their appointed time
To build and hatch their young,
But man is wasting all his time,
Nor knows the days to come,
That like the birds 'tis time to build,
And make their nest secure;
The hawk is hovering o'er the fields,
And will your joys devour.
And therefore be not now unwise,
But seek the truth to know;
I will no longer now disguise
If men do careless go,
Their houses desolate will be,
The flames will kindle fast;
In every land My hand you'll see,
And England's die is cast,
But every land I'll visit first,
That England may awake.
But here My anger it will burst,
And make your hearts to shake;
Unless, like thee, they do begin
To seek their chosen Friend,
And seek to hear the words of Me-
'Tis deep what thou hast penned.
The grapes have made the nations drunk;
The children now appear
To end as Noah's sins began;
Then see the deluge near-
To nm with blood, much like the flood.
Abroad in every land:
12
'Tis kindling fast, the flames will burst-
Ah! how will England stand
Encompassed round with such a sound
The deluge from abroad!
And now at home doth England groan;
Your sorrows will be known,
Could you discern how I do wain,
Then waining you would take;
If you do not, I'll tell your lot-
Your sorrows they will break."
From "Caution to the Sealed"
The following are some of the prophecies found in
her writings seeming to bear directly on the present war
between England and the Third Reich:
London will not shun the severe stroke of death and the judge-
ments that are over their heads.
The sea shall be laden with ships and many shall break in pieces.
I promise ( 1794-)* that England shall be defended from the for-
eign enemy and not invaded.
The Turks shall be utterly destroyed for the sake of the Jews.
As I destroyed the Philistines and Egypt, so will I now destroy
the Turks, and their land will I give into the hands of Israel.
Of France and Spain and every distant coast, I'll save a remnant,
but one nation lost, and that should be for the sake of the Jews, that
I should destroy the nation that has their possessions.
I will establish the throne of David in Jerusalem as I have prom-
ised.
Then shall the last day come, that a remnant of those that were
cast off (the Jews) must be gathered in and made a strong nation.
Egypt you (England) must first possess.
When earthquakes and famine begin to take place, then know
that woe has come upon man.
I told you that it was by war that My kingdom would come in.
* Brackets denote dates prophecies were given, or comments of the author.
13
All lands in madness everyone shall see.
All nations that forget God will be turned into Hell.
Every land I'll visit first, that England may awake.
The many prophecies of Joanna Southcott, proven
true by time, have caused the attention of students of
prophecy to be centered on a box of her writings which
was sealed during her lifetime (born 1750, died 1825)
and removed to London upon her death. Between the
years 1801 and 1813, many of her writings were added
to the box, which was given into the hands of her fol-
lowers. This box has been passed on to different custo-
dians during the years since her decease in 1825, and is
now in England awaiting the time when the Church of
England shall fulfill the conditions set by her for its un-
sealing.
It was prophesied that the box will be opened at a
time of great national danger, in the presence of twenty-
four bishops of the Church of England and twenty-four
believers in the divine inspiration of Joanna Southcott.
It is also said that God will manifest Himself at the
opening of the box, and that nothing but the advice
given in the prophet's writings can save England from
utter ruin.
The bishops sent for the box in February, 1918, but
as they refused to abide by the conditions prescribed by
Joanna Southcott for the opening, the custodians re-
fused permission to break the seals.
As England will face great danger shortly, we will
await the unsealing and publication of Joanna's proph-
ecies with sustained interest.
The second World War between Germany, England,
14
and France was foreseen by many, both before the first
World War and immediately after. Lloyd George and
H. G. Wells stated in 191 8 that another world war was
not far away. The former Kaiser of Germany also
stated that there would be another great struggle. Ab-
dul Baha, before he passed on, stated at Acea that an-
other general war would stop the trend of materialism
and turn people to God. Marshal Foch is said to have
shed tears when the armistice was signed, and to have
asserted, "This is not the end. We have won the war,
but lost peace, and will have it to do over again."
Henry Ford, in an article in the Los Angeles Ex-
aminer, October 17, 1926, stated, "About five years ago
one of the largest manufacturers of munitions in the
world, sitting in our offices in Dearborn, said, 'Just wait
until the next war. That will be a real war, and it will
be a peach.'"
Commenting on this, Mr. Ford remarked, "The man
did not seem to be talking sense; but he was very earnest
and positive. Now, events seem to be shaping them-
selves so as to lead to the belief that perhaps this maker
of munitions knew exactly what he was talking about."
A munitions manufacturer should know. As soon as
the imperialistic nations could raise a new generation of
soldiers, twenty-one years after the armistice, we find the
armistice ended, the recess over. Is it just a coincidence
that Chamberlain and other leading politicians of Brit-
ain have investments in the munitions industry?
Before all this is over, the British Empire will have
been destroyed. England will remain, but with the
destruction of the present financial system she will have
lost her power and her colonial possessions.
15
A LESSON IN HISTORY
Oh! England, 'tis thy boasted freedom
Comes down from an old ancient cry,
It is mine! The world I must conquer,
It is yours to yield or to die.
While under the broad cloak of freedom
All banners must needs be unfurled;
Great nations have died like a tyrant
Attempting to conquer the world.
Old Egypt, the foremost of nations,
Whose army was great and ·
was brave,
Succumbed to her privileged classes
And wealth made her labor a slave.
Great Babylon in all of her glory,
In majesty, grandeur and pride,
Ignored both God and her people,
In sin and corruption she died.
'Twas Carthage in all of her splendor
Who gave to her Hannibal fame,
Let greed run away with her reason,
Leaving only in history a name.
It was Media and Persia united
Who fattened on Babylon's fall,
Then died when the people had nothing
When privilege had gathered it all.
When Grecia came on to the carpet
Under Alexander the Great,
She traded her national glory
For merely expansion of state.
Then Rome in the pride of her power
Ruled all in her own bloody way,
She yielded to wealth and corruption
And finally went into decay.
16
Oh England, thy hour approaches,
No matter whatever you do,
Thou hast followed the footsteps of others
To the brink of your own Waterloo.
By Lyman E. Stowe, From "What ls Coming." Published
in 1896
17
CHAPTER IV
PROPHECIES CONCERNING ADOLF HITLER
AND GERMANY
THE Hn:.LER PROPHECY
You are a spectator of the greatest drama in three
thousand years. You are living in the climactic years
of a cosmic cycle. You are witnessing the closing scene
of the last act of a play which has been on the world
stage since the time of man. If you are alive a decade
hence, you will see the curtain rise on a new worId, a
better and more happy civilization.
All bibles that have come down to us from the ages
past have had one thing in common. In some form,
directly stated or implied, the millennium-the king-
dom of heaven, the theocratic commune, the social com-
monwealth, or whatever term is applied to a thousand
years of peace and plenty-has always been an essential
feature of every bible of ancient or modern times.
Where there is such general agreement in sacred.books
that have commanded the reverence and worship of·
countless millions in every quarter of the earth, we will
find at least a modicum of truth. The preservation of
inspired works for thousands of years is evidence of
their authority.
The Christian Bible, in common use throughout the
Americas and Europe, is fast losing the esteem of the
18
modern youth. We are becoming a generation of skep-
tics. Inspiration commands little respect with the mul-
titude. Reason is again our idol, as in the days of the
French Revolution. We live in a cycle or period when
judgment will be developed. Sad is the plight of one
who has little judgment, or is too lazy to use the talent
which he has. Half the troubles of the world can be
attributed to wishful thinking. It is so much easier to
accept as truth the thing we wish, rather than that which
cold reason tells us must be fact.
However, when evidence is presented which is com-
pelling in its clarity, is it not best to weigh it carefully,
even though it may not present a pleasant picture?
It is the intent herein to present evidence that world
conditions of today were foreseen over twenty centuries
ago!
As we look about the world, we find the fulfillment of
a prophecy made by the prophet Daniel some time in the
second century B.c.
Adolf Hitler, in his rise to power, is a perfect consum-
mation of part of the prophecy of Daniel. It would
seem that the future of this man of destiny is also fore-
told. Only the coming years can prove whether this is
true.
The writer accepts the King James version of the
Bible for what it is: a revision of a revision of a revision
of a· revision of the Coverdale Bible of 1535. The
Coverdale Bible was based upon the Swiss-German ver-
sion of 1524, compiled from the Luther, Vulgate, and
Tyndale manuscripts. Recent research and re-transla-
tion from the original Aramaic manuscripts by the dis-
19
tinguished Assyrian scholar, Dr. George M. Lamsa, have
revealed over fo.urteen hundred errors, deletions, and
interpolations in the King James version!
However, these errors and blunders in the Bible
should not carry us to the extreme of refusing the good
and the truth of the book. We admit the mistakes in
inspiration and translation. We accept the fact that the
centuries have introduced many changes since the sages,
priests, and prophets first inscribed the original manu-
scripts. Nevertheless, we view what remains in the light
of currer:t events, and must admit that the prophecies of
the Bible deserve our attention.
We find a description in the book of Daniel that will
fit no other man in history as well as Adolf Hitler.
That it pertains to our day, who can doubt?
Students of world history agree that we live at the
end of an age. Every development in human affairs
testifies to a coming change in our civilization. The past
ninety-three years have wrought more changes in the
world than did the previous twenty centuries. Begin-
ning with 1848, the first year of the present 3000-year
cycle, changes have taken place at an ever-accelerating
pace. The next seven years will witness even more and
greater changes than did the past ninety-three.
We behold the travail period in the evolution of man-
kind, when the "self" ruled supreme. The next seven
years will purge mankind of this old "self,'' and intro-
duce his true divine selfhood-the super-man, the en-
souled man. This man will be a citizen of the super-
nation organized for the benefit of the race, and not for
the benefit of the politician and "possessing" class only.
Man is even now beginning to realize that the self can
20
best be served in the greater self-the community.
Man, the individual, will prosper only so far as the corp.-
munity prospers, and the prosperity of the community
depends upon the unselfish service of the individual.
Self is best served by unselfishness.
The advent of the new order has not come unan-
nounced. In every language, in every country, there
are prophecies foretelling the wars of today and the
peace of tomorrow.
The interpretation of prophecy is notoriously difficult,
and no subject calls forth so many differing opinions.
This is not surprising, and, according to revealed writ-
ings themselves, many of the prophecies were given in
such a form that they could not be fully understood un-
til the events foretold reached their fulfillment, and
then only by those of open mind, free from prejudice
and intolerance.
One of the oldest prophecies pertaining to our present
years is that of the prophecy of Daniel, and as it is the
one best known to English-speaking people, we will use
it for our criterion. At the end of this prophecy, the one
to whom the vision of today was given received the fol-
lowing instructions:
But thou, 0 Daniel, shut up the words and seal the book, even to
the time of the end; many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall
be increased .•. and I heard, but I understood not: then said I,
"0 my Lord, what shall be the end of these things?" And he said,
"Go thy way, Daniel, for the words are closed up and sealed till the
time of the end" • • •
Daniel XII, 4-1 O
If it is not intended that even the prophet who re-
ceived the vision of the world today should know the
21
time with which it dealt, nor be given the inspiration to
interpret it, how can one expect to interpret it now with-
out inspiration from the unseen realms from which the
original vision was projected? Reason and logic can
recognize the accuracy and truth of the prophecy con-
cerned with yesterday, but only spiritual insight can give
the interpretation for the part yet unfulfilled.
Examination of prophecies and their many misinter-
pretations in years past, and the warnings of the prophets
themselves, should make us cautious about accepting the
speculations of theologians as to their real meanings.
On the other hand, the writer being familiar with the
various cycles used by the ancients in the formulations of
their prophecies, combined with a close study of world
politics and economics, and reinforced by a degree of
clairsentience,*should be enabled to give an interpreta-
tion worthy of the attention of the unprejudiced seeker
of light.
Yesterday it would have been impossible to find a man
to fit the picture presented in the last chapter of the Book
of Daniel. Today we find it a perfect augury of the rise
of Adolf Hitler to power. The following eight para-
graphs from the last chapter of the Book of Daniel
describe the man, his character, his entrance on the world
stage, his anti-Semitism, and his god.
ADOLF HITLER, AMBASSADOR OF HELL
1. And in his estate shall stand up a VILE PERSON, to whom
they shall not give the honor of the kingdom: but he shall come
in peaceably and obtain the kingdom by flatteries.
2. He shall enter peaceably even upon the fattest places of the
* E. S. P., or extra-sensory perception. Clear-feeling.
22
province: and he shall do that which his fathers had not done,
nor his fathers' fathers; he shall scatter among them the prey,
and spoil, and riches: yea, and he shall forecast devices against
the strongholds, even for a time.
3. And he shall stir up his power and his courage against the king
of the south (Mussolini) with a great army•; and the king of
the south shall be stirred up to battle with a great and mighty
army; but he shall not stand: for they shall forecast devicee
against him. _
4. And both these kings' hearts (Hitler's and Mussolini's) shall
be to do mischief and they shall speak at one table; but it shall
not prosper: for yet the end shall be at the time appointed.
5. Then shall he return into his land with great riches: and his
heart shall be against the holy covenant, (the House of Israel,
or Faithists in the Creator) and the promises made the race:
and he shall do exploits and return unto his own land.
6. And the king shall do according to his will: and he shall exalt
himself, and magnify himself above every god, and shall pros-
per till the indignation be accomplished for that which is de-
termined shall be done.
7. Neither shall he regard the god of his fathers nor the desire
of women nor regard any god: for he shall magnify himself
above all.
8. But in his estate shall he honor the god of forces: and a god
whom his fathers knew not shall he honor.
Daniel 11 :20
Every change in German government during the past
quarter of a century is covered in a few words in this
prophecy twenty-two centuries old. Could the exile of
the Kaiser, and the rise and fall of the Weimar Repub-
lic be more concisely described than in the following:
Th.en shall he turn his face toward his own land, but he shall
stumble and fall and not be found.
Then shall stand up in his estate a raiser of taxes in the glory of
the kingdom: but within a few days he shall be destroyed, neither
in anger nor in battle.
Daniel 11 :19-20
23
At the termination of the war in 1918, the German
Emperor abdicated and fled to Holland. A republic
was thereafter declared with Frederich Ebert as its first
president. Upon his death, Field Marshal Hindenburg
succeeded him.
The Weimar Republic was to be a socialistic demo-
cratic government with the objective of establishing in
Germany more equitable ownership of the land and the
tools of production, a land where plenty should be the
lot of all. Only a government has tax-raising power, so
verse 20 of the above prophecy refers to the government
following the Kaiser.
The kingdom referred to means the kingdom of
heaven on earth requested in the Lord's Prayer, wherein
every man will enjoy peace and plenty. The Weimar
Republic was a feeble attempt to demonstrate govern-
ment in which every man would be a king. The Re-
public was destroyed, "not in anger nor in battle," but
by persuading senile Paul von Hindenburg to give the
Chancellory to Adolf Hitler. When this was done, the
destruction of the Republic was assured.
In verse 21, Hitler's rise to power following the de-
struction of the Republic is announced thus:
And in his estate shall stand up a VILE PERSON, to whom they
shall not give the honor of the kingdom: but he shall come in peace-
ably and obtain the kingdom by flatteries.
"Vile" is defined as synonymous with "morally base,
despicable, shamefully wicked, sinful, brutish, and vul-
gar." Hitler stands convicted by his own words as fill-
ing each of these specifications. If a liar is morally base
and despicable, Hitler is both of these, for he says in
Mein Kampf:
24-
There is always a factor in a lie that will make it credible. The
broad masses of the people fall prey more easily to a big lie than to
a small one.
The entire propaganda of Adolf Hitler is built on a
foundation of lies. He advocates hate, murder, treach-
ery, brutality, and revolution. Never in the history of
government has propaganda been so vile, vulgar, and
disgusting as is that of the Third Reich.
Hitler is termed the Fuehrer, the Aggrandizer. He
has not been given the honor of the kingdom.
The first attempt made by Hitler to obtain leadership
of the German people by force ended in the death of
sixteen men and a five-year prison sentence for himself,
a term of which he served six months. This defeat con-
vinced him that there was a better way-that of propa-
ganda and flattery, thereby gaining enough votes to elect
him to the desired position.
Thereafter, he conceived his fictitious Aryan race, the
chosen people of the Lord. He credits the Aryans with
every admirable quality, and tells them that "they are
the highest humanity which, by the grace of the Al-
mighty, has been given to the world." He pictures them
as super-men, and places the Jews at the opposite pole,
that he may have someone on whom he can place the
blame for all the Aryan troubles. He said to his people,
"You would now be rich, powerful, and masters of the
world, had not the Jew cheated you of the benefits of
your work and sacrifices."
By his unstinted flattery of the German people, he did
indeed "obtain the kingdom by flatteries."
2. He shall enter peaceably even upon the fattest places of the
province.
25
As soon as Hitler was made Chancellor, the Reichstag
passed an enabling act on March 5, 1933, giving Hitler
absolute power and control over all activities in the coun-
try: political, economic, industrial, commercial, and cul-
tural. Although never given the title "King," but called
"Fuehrer," or "Leader," Adolf Hitler is absolute mon-
arch of all he surveys. Only Aryans, he states, may be
citizens of the Reich, and, "Only I alone decide who are
Aryans."
In less than a month after Hitler became Chancellor
and Reich President, -Prussia, Wuttemberg, Saxony,
Baden, Schaumberg-Lippe, and Bremen lost their auton-
omous rights, and became vassals of Hitler. Since then,
he has taken Austria and Czechoslovakia without armed
resistance. Can anyone deny that Hitler entered peace-
ably upon the fattest places of the province?
3. And he shall stir up his power against the king of the south,
and the king of the south shall be stirred up to battle, but he
shall not stand, for they shall forecast devices against him.
The king of the south is Mussolini. Mussolini was
the first of the Fascist dictators, but he has lost the spot-
light since Hitler walked upon the stage. Mussolini
and Hitler have, in the past, worked together to propa-
gate Fascism. For some time the Rome-Berlin axis
existed, but when Hitler failed in his attempt to take
Poland peaceably and war was declared, then the axis
weakened. While they were working harmoniously,
each to build up his own empire, and co-operating to
create world Fascism, Hitler was instrumental in per-
suading Mussolini to conquer Ethiopia. Both of them
backed Franco in the destruction of the Republican gov-
26
ernment of Spain, and its replacement with a Fascist
regime was instigated by them.
Shortly thereafter, Mussolini conquered Albania,
while Hitler was absorbing Czechoslovakia. At the
present time there is considerable feeling in Italy against
Hitler and the Germans due to the number of German
army officers and members of the Ge~tapo, or German
Secret Police, present in Italy. The anti-German fac-
tion in Italy is becoming stronger every day, which fact
portends the recovering of power by the monarchy, and
loss of power by Mussolini. When Mussolini signed a
pact with Hitler, he signed his death decree. Soon
Hitler will have Italy and all of its colonies.
4-. And both these kings' hearts shall be to do mischief and they
shall speak at one table; but it shall not prosper for yet the
end shall be at the time appointed.
The fact that Hitler and Mussolini have worked with
and for each other in obtaining their objectives is well
known. Can anyone question that a conspiracy existed
between the two to obtain from France and England
permission to dismember Czechoslovakia? On Septem-
ber 29, 1938, the infamous Appeasement Agreement was
signed at Munich, "at one table," by Hitler, Mussolini,
Chamberlain, and Daladier. The first of the following
month Czechoslovakia was annexed by Germany, climax-
ing fifteen days of crisis during which all the great Euro-
pean powers mobilized for war. This annexation has
not prospered Germany, for it has been the source of
internal friction and has increased the danger of revolu-
tion. The cost of the annexation of Czechoslovakia was
more than the profit. The end shall be at the time ap-
27
pointed, in 1947, which is the end of the first ninety-
nine-year cycle following the birth of the new age in
1848.
At Munich, Hitler stated that Czechoslovakia was all
he wanted, and promised England that if she would
agree to the annexation, he would make no further de-
mands. Mussolini concurred in Hitler's promises. Both
of them lied, for it was Hitler's plan, at the time, to de-
mand Danzig and Poland, as also was it Mussolini's plan
to take Albania; also, if circumstances proved favorable,
Tunisia from France.
Although these two Fascist dictators apparently ob-
tained their objectives at the council table at Munich, the
year 1939 brought on another European war in which
Germany, Italy, England and France are still involved.
Instead of obtaining Danzig and Poland peaceably, as
he did Czechoslovakia, Hitler has destroyed the section
of Poland he desired, and lost to the U. S. S. R. the
most fertile part. He has started a war two years ahead
of the time planned ( 1941), and is not at all certain of
its outcome. That which was spoken at Munich has not
prospered.
Hitler, in the year following the Munich conference,
took Czechoslovakia and Poland, their resources and na-
tional treasuries totaling many millions. In taking Po-
land, he came into three million dollars belonging to the
people of the United States, our country having issued1
to Poland, a six million dollar credit through the Ex-
port-Import Bank. Lucky were we that only half of
this credit had been paid when Hitler marched into Po-
land.
The "holy covenant" pertains to the holy covenant of
28
the Bible, wherein Jehovah, creator of heaven and earth,
the God of Israel, made the covenant or promise that
those who were faithful in their worship of Him, and
who did not go running after false gods, would inherit
Palestine; would be instrumental in bringing into being
the kingdom of heaven on earth, and would provide the
spiritual leadership of all peoples.
The Munich Appeasement Agreement was signed on
September 29-30, 1938. November 9, six weeks later,
witnessed the "Night of the Hatchets"-a night that
left the world stunned and appalled at the sadism, bru-
tality, and bestiality of the Nazis. This was an orgy of
destruction of Jewish homes, places of business, and
other property.
When Hitler came into power in Germany, Jewish
wealth totalled about seven billions. Within three
months, the Nazis either confiscated or destroyed four
and a half billions of this wealth; between eighty and
ninety thousand Jews were thrown into concentration
camps, an unknown number killed, and ninety thousand
fled the country in poverty, not being permitted to take
money out of Germany. Jews were driven from the
professions, public service, and the universities, and were
herded .into a Jewish Cultural Organization wherein
their professions could only be practiced among them-
selves.
On this "Night of the Hatchets," five hundred Jewish
temples and tabernacles were burned to the ground. In
one night, every place of worship was reduced to a pile
of smoking ruins. This was the occasion when the Nazis
said that Jehovah, the God of the Jews, went "pleit" or
bankrupt.
29
Their homes ruined and plundered, their furniture
destroyed, their temples burned, the horror of this night
was followed on November 12 by a decree fining the
Jews of Germany an indemnity of a billion reichmarks
"to pay for reconstruction" of the damage done by the
young whelps of the S.S.
The Jews of Germany have been reduced to a poverty
stricken, oppressed, homeless, and beaten people. Ver-
ily, Hitler's heart is against the holy covenant people.
5. And the king shall do according to his will: and he shall exalt
himself and magnify himself above every god and shall prosper
till the indignation be accomplished, for that that is determined
shall be done.
No monarch, past or present, is more absolute than
is Adolf Hitler. His word carries life or death to his
subjects, as is proven in the several purges within the
party. The invasion of Poland, at his command, meant
death to many thousands of innocent non-combatants,
. women and children. At Hitler's command, the Aus-
trian Chancellor, Dr. Dollfuss, was assassinated; his old
friends, Ernest Rohm, Schleicher and Gregor Strasser
were murdered, besides several cabinet members and a
few generals who stood in his way.
Although born and raised a Catholic, he has turned
against the "God of his fathers." A year ago, the num-
ber of Catholic priests and lay brothers arrested totalled
more than eight thousand, and about half of the sixteen
thousand members of German monasteries were thrown
into jail or concentration camps. Hitler has been pro-
claimed God of the Third Reich. He will tolerate no
equals, not even God Himself, for "the Almighty cre-
30
:ated a favored race, the Aryans, to whom He gave Adolf
Hitler to be their Lord and God." He will have no
·competition in the allegiance of the German people, and
makes loyalty to himself a more worthy quality than the
precepts of Christianity.
Hitler is destroying every sect and creed, and intends
to unify the religion of the German people into a new
religion, the worship of Adolf Hitler, God of the Third
Reich, Liquidator of the Jews, Liberator of German
Minorities, Protector of Oppressed Nations. He tells
his people that the babel of religions shall cease when the
world recognizes Adolf Hitler as the new god.
6. Neither shall he regard the god of his fathers nor the desire of
women, nor regard any god; for he shall magnify himself
above all. But in his estate shall he honor the god of forces:
and a god whom his fathers knew not, shall he honor.
Adolf Hitler has forsaken the god of his fathers for a
new god all his own. Hitler is vice-regent of this god
of force, just as the Pope claims himself to be the vice-
regent of Christ.
Hitler, like Joan of Arc, is clairaudient. He is a
psychic sensitive, and hears with his spiritual ears, as
Daniel saw with his spiritual eyes, the vision quoted in
this prophecy. The world has given birth to thousands
gifted with this spiritual, or psychic, capacity. Every
major prophet throughout the centuries has been born
with a similar sensitivity to the unseen spirit world. Be-
fore the present cosmic cycle of three thousand years has
passed, a new sixth race of man will be born with the
spiritual senses and faculties as fully developed as the
physical sight and hearing of the fifth race to which we
belong.
31
Hitler is a man of destiny just as Joan of Arc was a
women destined to save France. He is a man of Uz, a
destroyer. He will be followed by men of Es, the
builders. The ground must be cleared and made ready
for the builders, and this is Hitler's place in the world
today.
He was foreseen over two thousand years ago.
Within the next eight years he will have changed the
politics, economics, governments, and religions of the
world, for he will have destroyed all present systems.
Edwin C. Hill, in his "Human Side of the News"
syndicated in the Hearst papers, is authority for the fol-
lowing:
G. Ward Price, a graduate of Oxford University, has long been a
close personal friend of Adolph Hitler. Hitler informed Mr. Price
that he was guided by a voice that he alone could hear. This voice
had saved his life that he might finish his great mission in Germany.
When in a shell-hole with several other men, while a corporal during
the war of I9 I4-1 8, he heard a voice commanding him to get out
and away from the shell-hole. Immediately after he left it, a shell
landed where he had been, killing all the other men. This voice
has spoken to him many times, he told Mr. Price.
It is more than probable that this voice again saved
his life on the night of November 9th, 1939, for he left
the beer hall shrine of the Nazis in Munich just ten
minutes prior to the explosion of the bomb that killed
six charter members of his party.
At every crisis, Hitler departs for his mountain re-
treat, Berchtesgaden, where he seeks the "silence" to
hear the voice of his god. It is not surprising that Hitler
should be misled into thinking his god of force is the
true god of our planet. Smarter men than he have been
32
fooled, and it is stated in Matthew 24:24 that many false
gods shall show great signs and wonders so that even the
elect shall be deceived.
Emanuel Swedenborg was one of the greatest scien-
tists the world has known. He was a pioneer on every
front of science, and during his life in the eighteenth
century was recognized as one of the leading minds of
the world. Like Hitler, he was clairaudient and clair-
voyant. A minor god of the lower heavens persuaded
Swedenborg that he was the Lord, and inspired the writ-
ing of many books descriptive of the heavens of the
earth.
Joseph Smith received the Book of Mormon·subjec-
tively, and the spirit who dictated it told him that he
was doing the work of God.
However, there are gods and gods. The Egyptians
had scores in their Pantheon. The Catholic Church still
recognizes three: the Father, Son and Holy Ghost. The
lower heavens of today are full of spirits informing poor
deluded mediums that they are Christ, God, Confucius,
Shakespeare, Washington, Lincoln, or any other person
who commands the respect of men.
Therefore, let us pity Hitler and not blame him for
believing that his "guide" is a god, when the truth is
that he typifies the antithesis of all the qualities that are
attributes of the true God.
Hitler has set aside the Ten Commandments based
upon truth, love, brotherhood, equality, gentleness, non-
resistance, and replaced them with commandments of
his own. For the Ten Commandments of Moses and
the Bible, he has substituted seven which might be ex-
pressed thus:
33
1. Thou shalt have no other god than Adolf Hitler.
2. The army and air fleet shall be thy idol.
3. Jehovah, the Architect of the Universe, God of Israel, thou
shalt not honor.
4. Thou shalt kill all Jews and Aryan enemies.
5. Thou shalt steal the treasuries and possessions of all conquered
peoples.
6. The Jews are the scum of the earth. Hate them.
7. Thou shalt covet all the earth and strive to rule it.
"Mein Kampf" is the new Bible of the Third Reich,
a required reading for all Germans. Its author is Adolf
Hitler.
"Neither shall he regard the desire of women."
What other dictator or king is a bachelor? Mussolini's
propensity for women is well-known, as has been that of
several of the other dictators. Hitler is probably a
celibate and it is not unlikely that he is of neuter sex.
It has not been proven that he is homosexual, although
homosexuality is rampant througho\ft the Third Reich.
Nor can it be said that he is impotent. If anyone knows
the answers, he either will not or dare not tell them.
Neither homosexuality nor impotence can be proven,
nor is it known that he has ever had intimate relations
with women or men. It is probable that on the infre-
quent occasions when he does show interest in a woman,
it is more for political effect than from any personal
desire.
The parallel between Adolf Hitler and Joan of Arc
is amazing in many ways. Both were psychic sensitives;
both clairaudient, guided by a voice inaudible to others;
both commanded the armed forces of their countries; so
far as is known, neither was interested in the opposite
34
sex; the coming of each was foretold in prophecy, and
both were destined to die a death of violence.
Hitler's play upon the world stage has just begun.
Three more years will he hold the spotlight. What
these three years will do for Adolf Hitler and the world
is foretold in prophecy, just as his past has been.
The items from the Book of Daniel seem, without
question, to refer to Adolf Hitler, for no other man in
history fits the picture presented as does this man.
The Book of Daniel is an odd book in the Bible, for
this book, at least in its present form, belongs to the
second century B.c., while the other books of the Old
Testament had been accepted as canonical almost two
centuries earlier, or about 400 B.c. when Ezra read them
before the people.
The Book of Daniel is a prophetic book and ties in
closely with the books of Revelation, Isaiah, and Mat-
thew. For an interpretation of the future, we must not
only consider Daniel in relation to the other books men-
tioned, but must also consult the archives of the Essenes
for an understanding of many of the terms used in these
old manuscripts. The Essene writings are vital for use
as a key to the cosmic cycles used by Biblical prophets in
their allegories.
PROPHECIES OF GERMANY
The advent of Adolf Hitler upon the European
scene has been foretold in many prophecies. A group
of these prophecies was collected and published in 1914
in a book entitled "Prophecies and Omens of the Great
War." Ralph Shirley, the editor, fell into the same
35
mistake made by most other interpreters of prophecy, in
assuming the first section of the War of Armageddon to
be the event foretold, rather than the Hitlerian wars of
the present.
The most amazing of these prophecies is one found
in a book entitled "Derniers Mots des Propheties."
This prophecy originated about the year 1600, and was
given by a monk called Brother John.
The Antichrist*
The real antichrist will be a German monarch, who will invoke
God and give himself out as his messenger.
This prince of lies will represent himself as the arm of the Most
High, sent to chastise corrupt peoples.
For several years he will act by craft and strategy. His spies will
over-run the earth and will reveal to him the secrets of the mighty.
He will have men in his pay who will maintain, and undertake
to prove, his celestial mission.
A war will furnish him with the opportunity of throwing off the
mask. After two weeks the world ·will recognize that the war he
originated against the French nation is of universal character.
Not only all Christian and all Mohammedans, but other more
distant peoples will be involved. Armies will be enrolled from the
four quarters of the globe.
By the third week, the angels will have opened the minds of men
who will perceive that this man is the personification of evil, and
that they will all become his slaves if they do not destroy this con-
queror.
Antichrist will be recognized by these tokens: He will massacre
the priests, the monks, the women, the children and the aged. He
will show no mercy, but will pass torch iri hand, like the barbarians
of old. His words will be those of a Christian, but his actions will
*Antichrist, according to the Bible, is to be a great enthroned antagonist,
who precedes the second coming of Christ and is said to be Evil personi:fied.
36
resemble those of Nero and of the Roman persecutors. He will have
an eagle in his arms, and there will be an eagle also in the arms of
his confederate, another monarch.
The latter will be a Christian, and will die from the malediction
of the Pope, who will be elected at the commencement of the reign
of evil.
Priests and monks will no longer confess and absolve the combat-
ants, for they will be fighting. The Pope will proclaim that those
who die fighting will rest in a state of grace, and will ascend to
heaven like the martyrs.
The Bull which will proclaim these things will create a great
sensation. It will revive the courage of the foes of Antichrist and
cause the death of the monarch who is his ally.
In order to conquer Antichrist, it will be necessary to kill more
men than Rome has ever contained. It will take the combined
efforts of all his antagonists, because France,* England and Russia will
not be able to make an end of Germany without the aid of the
prayers of all the human race.
Never will humanity have been faced with such a peril, because
Antichrist will have become a demon, which will have taken pos-
session of his personality.
Towards the year 2000, Antichrist will be made manifest. His
armies will include millions. There will be Christians among his
cohorts, and there will be Mohammedans and heathens among his
antagonists.
There will not be in the whole world a single spot that is not red.
Heaven and earth, water and air, will be red, for blood will flow in
the four elements at once.
Germany will hurl itself upon France, which would soon be ex-
hausted but for the aid of England. Germany will make a surprise
attack on France, and will invade the land. Germany will find itself
forced to relinquish its hold upon France in order to fight Russia,
whereupon France, in g1vmg aid to Russia, will pursue the Anti-
christ into his own land.
*In the original prophecy, the cock, the leopard, and the white eagle are
used as symbols for France, England and Russia.
37
The battles fought up to that time will be as nothing compared
to those which will take place in the country of the Third Reich,
for the seven angels will simultaneously pour out the fire of their
-censers upon the impious land.
When the beast finds himself lost he will become furious. It will
be necessary for some months that Russia, England and France use
their utmost energies in the destruction of the beast.
Men will be able to cross rivers dry shod, walking on the dead,
which in places will change the courses of streams. Bodies will be
too numerous to bury, for starvation and pestilence will add to the
carnage of the battle fields.
Antichrist will sue for peace many times, but the seven angels who
march before the three allies will have proclaimed that victory shall
not be given except on condition that Antichrist be destroyed.
Russia, England and France will not be permitted to cease fighting
~o long as Antichrist has soldiers. It will be apparent that the com-
.bat, fought where Antichrist forges his arms, is no human conflict.
The three allies will exterminate the last army of the beast. The
:field of battle will be made into a funeral pyre for the corpses will
have altered the features of the land by forming ranges of little hills.
The beast will lose his authority and die in solitude and madness.
His empire will be divided into states.
Russia will drive the Mohammedans out of Europe, then will
commence an era of peace and prosperity for the world. Each
nation will be governed according to its own desires, and will live
in peace with every other nation.
Happy will be those who, escaping the terrors of this marvelous
'time, are able to taste of its fruit.
The foregoing prophecy is remarkable in its descrip-
tion of Hitler, and in the prediction that the Third Reich
will meet defeat at the hands of the U. S. S. R.
Several prophecies predict the destruction of Turkey.
One such is that originating with a Russian monk,
Thosmas, born in the year 1778:
38
When the allied kings march on Constantinople (now lstambul),
sufficient blood will flow for a lamb to swim. The Turks will be
divided into three parts. The first will perish in the war, the
second will retire to Asia, and the third will remain in Europe. No
one who hears me now will see this, but their children may.
"Germany to Be Destroyed"
In the year 1872, a book was published entitled ((Voix
Prophetiques, ou Signes, Apparitions et Predictions
Modernes," containing a remarkable prophecy covering
the first and second sessions of the European war.
This prophecy was given by the Cure d'Ars, Father
Vianney, who died in 1859. The Cure is said to have
foretold the first war, and prophesied that a second war
would follow after a certain lapse of time. In regard
to this latter war, he said:
The enemy will not go immediately. They will again return
and destroy as they come. Effective resistance will not be made.
They will be allowed to advance, and after that their supplies will
be cut off and they will suffer great loss. They will retreat towards
their own country. They will be followed, and few will reach their
goal. Then all that they have taken away will be restored and
much more in addition.
Prior to the first World War, there lived in France a
Madame de Thebes, who was the most famous clair-
voyante in her country. Each year she published an
almanac, under her own name, containing predictions
covering the coming year. One of the most remarkable
of her predictions is found in her 1912 almanac:
Germany menaces Europe in general and France in particular.
When the war breaks out, hers will be the responsibility, but after
the war there will be no longer either Hohenzollern or Prussian
hegemony. This is all Berlin will gain by her violence and the
brutality of her political methods. I have said, and I repeat, that
the days of the Emperor are numbered, and after him all will be
39
changed in Germany. I say the years of his reign, I do not say the
years of his life.
Two distinct visions pursue me. I see a Germany which is torn
asunder, South against South, North against North. It is the revolu-
tionary movement, popular fury against the military aristocracy.
And at the same time, in spite of all these troubles, resistance con-
tinues or at least endeavors to continue, parodying the France of the
past, even to its great Revolution. Hostages, massacres, trials, scaf-
folds, all are there, and, in spite of all this, the enemy has crossed
the frontiers. The other vision, more to be feared perhaps, shows
Germany ready to give in at once, ready to declare herself con-
quered, to accept the conditions of the victors, and thus gain time to
renew her attacks upon her enemies with greater energy. But in
either case there is no more Hohenzollern. Meanwhile, where is
the man whose presence I sense, whose coming I foretold last year,
and who is destined to arise in Germany in order to make a voice
heard which will dominate all other voices, and which will save his
unhappy country a part, at least, of the just punishment which
Providence reserves for her?
Another prophecy of like kind is that made by Hein-
rich Heine in his book on the religion and philosophy of
Germany. In this, he evidently foresaw the rise of
Hitler, the destruction of the Christian Church in Ger-
many, and revival of the old pagan gods:
Christianity has moderated the brutishness of the Germanic races
who fought for the mere love of battle. When the cross of Christi-
anity is broken, the long smouldering ferocity of ancient warriors will
again blaze up. T he Christian Talisman is rotten with decay and
will soon crumble and fall. Then the ancient gods will rub the dust
of a thousand years from their eyes and will arise from dismantled
ruins. Then Thor, with his colossal hammer, will leap up and break
into a thousand fragments the Gothic cathedrals. A drama will be
enacted in Germany that will make the French revolution seem a
harmless idyll.
Another prophecy by this great German poet, a Jew
by birth, is interpreted from an article written by Heine
in June, 1842.
40
When revolution begins to sweep the earth, we shall see the
emergence of the most appalling of all the antagonists who ever stood
forth to do battle against the existing order. This antagonist has
not as yet made its appearance, but will emerge under the term
"Fascism," and will be the most redoubtable adversary who has ever
marched against the existing order.
War will be merely the first act of the great drama and will be
no ,more ihan a prologue. The second act will be the European
revolution, the world revolution, the immense combat between the
"have-nots" and the "haves."
The future speaks to us of scourges, of blood, of godlessness, and
of a great deal of conniving and conspiracy. I advise our grand-
children to come into the world with well padded shoulders and
backs.
.It may be that the old tradition of absolutism (dictatorship) will
step forth once more upon the stage of the world, this time in a new
costume, with new slogans and new catchwords.
Heine cast his characters and arranged his props per-
fectly for the scene today. Fear of revolution stalks
every gov'ernment in the world. Who can doubt but
that World War will be followed by the world revolu-
tion predicted by many prophecies of the nineteenth and
earlier centuries.
THE PROPHECY oF SAINTE OmLE
One of the most remarkable prophecies pertaining to
Adolf Hitler and the wars of the Third Reich is the fol~
lowing. This prophecy originated in the seventh cen~
tury and was embodied in a letter to the brother of
Sainte Odile, a Catholic nun, patron saint of Alsace.
It foretells the birth in the valley of the Danube
where Hitler was born of a conqueror whose conquests-
will be world-wide. It predicts a war divided into three
periods of eighteen months, nine months and probably
four months' duration, and the final invasion of Ger-
4-1
many from all sides culminating in the destruction of
Hitler. Her prediction concurs with the conclusions of
the author in foretelling the finale of Hitler about 1943.
The original prophecy was in Latin. A translation
into French was published in 191 7 and appeared in the
Almanac of the People, a copy of which may be found in
the Library Beauchemin. The English version was
translated from a reprint of the prophecy which ap-
peared in a French language newspaper of Montreal,
Canada, dated May 4th, 1940.
Like many prophecies, the time with which it is con-
cerned was unknown to the seer to whom the vision was
given. It seems a common error among seers and
prophets to assume that a vision or prophecy pertains to
the immediate future when, in fact, it may deal with
events centuries ahead.
Listen, listen, my 'brother-as I have seen the terrors of the forests
and mountains, fear has gripped all the people, and never, in any
part of the universe, has been such chaos. The time has come when
Germany will be called the nation most bellicose of all the earth.
The time has arrived when from the bosom of this country has
come the terrible warrior who will undertake to spread war over the
world. Men under arms will call him anti-Christ. He will be
cursed by the millions that will lament like Rachael upon the fate
of their children, and will refuse any consolation, because their
children will be gone and all will be devastated in their homes.
The Conqueror will come out from the bosom of the Danube and
will become a remarkable chief among men. The war that he will
wage will be the most terrifying that men have undertaken. His
weapon will be fire, and the spears of the soldiers will have points
like torches. It will be impossible to calculate the number of cruel-
ties.
He will gain victories on earth, seas, and even in the air, because
they will see winged soldiers in incredible attacks-arising to the
skies and throwing stars (bombs) down over the cities of the uni-
verse. There shall be gigantic fires. The nations will be astonished
42
and will ask where does his power come from? How was he capable
of undertaking such a war?
The earth will tremble from the shock of the combats. The
rivers will flow red and the sea monsters will be dispersed with
terror to the tops of the oceans, while black tempest will spread
desolation over all.
The future generations will be astonished that these powerful
enemies have not been able to erase the suffering. The war will
be long. The Conqueror will attain triumph toward the middle of
the sixth month of the second year of the hostilities, and this will
end the first period of the bloody victories.
He will say, "Accept my domination!", while continuing his
victories, but his enemies will not submit, and the war will continue
and he will shout, "Their misfortunes will make them fall, for I am
the Conqueror."
The second part of the war will be equal in length to half of the
first, and will be called "the period of diminuation." It will be
full of surprises and will make the earth tremble. Twenty bellig-
erent nations will fight. Towards the middle of the war the small
nations will cry, "Give us peace! Give us peace!" But there won't
be peace for those nations. It will not be the end of war for them,
but the beginning, for in the end there will be body-to-body fighting
in the City of Cities {Rome), and it will be then that we shall see
a revolt among the women, who will want to stone him. We shall
also see great events in the Orient.
The third period is most brief, and the Conqueror will have lost
the confidence of his soldiers. This period will be called the "pe-
riod of invasion for just retribution." The soil of the Conqueror,
due to his injustice and atheism, will be invaded from all parts and
plundered. Around the mountains torrents of blood will flow.
Then will be the last battles. The nations will sing hymns of
gratitude in the temples of God, and will thank the Almighty for
deliverance.
It will be then that a warrior will appear who will disperse the
troops of the Conqueror, whose armies will be annihilated by disease
unknown and terrible. The soldiers will be discouraged, while the
nations will say, "The finger of God is there. It is a just punish-
ment." The people will believe that the end is near. The sceptre
will change hands, and my people will rejoice because God is just,
although He permits, at times,_ these depredations and cruelties. The
43
people will regain confidence in God, but they cannot regain the
children and women. They shall have something even greater as
a recompense. Inrrnmerable regions will be fired and be bloodied,
but will be saved in a Providencia! way by herioc defenders. · The
region of Paris will be saved because of its mountains, which are
blessed, and because of its religious people. All this will happen
when everyone believes she is condemned to disappear.
Then the people will go to the mountains and thank God because
the men have seen such abominations in this war that their genera-
tion will never want to see another war. There shall be misery.
Meanwhile, in the:;e days, the people will not fear any more the
anti-Christ, for he can only father those that crime does not frighten.
He will give life to new killers and there shall be more tears shed.
But the era of peace will arrive under the seal as two crescents
of the moon united under the peer of the cross,* because iri these
days, men frightened will adore God in truth, and the sun shall
again shine brightly.
THE PROPHECIES OF MICHEL NOSTRADAMUS
( 15 03-15 66)
No collection of prophecies could be complete without
a few lines from those of Michel D~ Nostradamus, the
most famous prophet that ever appeared in Europe.
This sixteenth century astrologer predicted the French
Revolution, Napoleon's career, the outbreak of the first
World War, the abdication of King Edward the Eighth,
the Spanish Civil War, the present European war, and
the fate of Hitler.
Michel De Nostradamus was born of Jewish parents
at Saint Remy en Provence in France in 1503. From
his grandfather he inherited ancient manuscripts of the
tribe of Issacbar, which had been brought out of Egypt
at the time of the exodus. After assimilating the in-
formation contained in the manuscripts, he burned them
for reasons best known to himself.
*This phrase may signify the signature of the All Highest Creator.
44
Nostradamus was prophet and physician to Charles
IX of France. During his life he held a well earned
reputation as a man of profound wisdom and a prophet
of amazing skill and accuracy. While now a legendary
figure, we still have early editions of his prophecies,
which passing years have proven accurate time and again.
The most famous of his prophecies are contained in his
manuscripts entitled "The Centuries," in which he
prophesies cardinal events from the sixteenth to the end
of the twentieth century.
"The Centuries" include prophecies for all history,
but a prophecy concerned more with religious, political
and geological crises, beginning in 1792 and ending in
2000, is the one entitled "L'Epitre aHenri IL" The
following prophecies and their interpretations are taken
from both "The Centuries" and "L'Epitre aHenri II":
Crier Victoire du grand Selin Croissant
Par les Remains sera l'Aigle dame
Ticcin, Millan. Genes y consent,
Puis par eux-memes Basil grand reclame.
(Trans.) After the Ethiopian victory, Rome will proclaim the
Empire at Milan, in Tuscany. King Victor Emmanuel (Due de
Genes) will consent to it. But soon she will call for help to the great
king. (Ed: It was at Milan, after the conquest of Ethiopia, that
Mussolini proclaimed the Italian Empire and gave Victor Emmanuel
the title of Emperor.)
A' terrible Italian revolution is predicted in the fol-
lowing:
Par grand discord la trombe tremblera,
Accord rompu, dressant la teste du ciel,
Bouche sanglante dans le sang nagera,
Au fol sa face oingte de laict et miel.
45
(Trans.) In the Adriatic, great discord will develop, and those
who provoke war will perish in blood; while revolutionaries will
suffer least.
The next stanza predicts a great slaughter of priests:
Dei: gens d'Eglise sang sera espanche.
Cornme de l'eau en si grand abondance,
Et d'un longtemps ne sera restanche.
Vae, vae, au clerc, rugne et doleance.
(Trans.) The blood of the people of the church will be spilt
like water in great abundance, and for a long time it will not be
staunched. Woe, woe, to the clerics, ruin and grief.
War will be general by this time in western Europe.
L'horrible guerre, qu'en Occident s'appreste
L'an ensuivant viendra la pestilence,
Si fort terrible que j eune vieil, et beste
Sang, feu, Mercure, Mars, Jupiter en France.
(Trans.) A horrible war, for which Europe will prepare. The
year following, there will be a plague so strong and terrible tb.at
young, old and animals will suffer. Blood, fire, Mercury, Mars,
Jupiter in France..
The abdication of Edward VIII, brought about by
his love of a woman, was foretold in the following:
Pour ne vouloir consentir au divorce
Qui puis apres sera cognen indigne
Le roi del Isles sera chasse par force
Mis a son lieu qui de roi n'aura signe.
The prediction also states that the monarchy will be
followed by a republic.
Nostradamus' system of calculation differed from
popular methods of today. The system used by him
seems to be related to the esoteric cosmogony of the
builders of the Great Pyramid of Gizeh. Nostradamus
46
called his chart the "Grand Romain" or "Great Roman.',.
The coffin-shaped figure represents the "Sepulcher of
the Great Roman," and is formed by drawing lines from
the vowels in the Latin words "Floram patere." These
two six letter words are spaced around the twelve lines
of the zodiac, as shown in the accompanying chart. By
use of this formula in connection with his knowledge of
astrology, Nostradamus was reputed to have worked
out his predictions.
An interpretation of one of his quatrains is said to
have Hitler worried. This prediction states that in the
year 1944 Hitler will be put in an iron cage and his em-
ZODUC OP XICBBt. DI 1 - .
with tbo
11P1MB111 OP tu OW! -
pire destroyed. Nostradamus' prophecy of this event
seems to concur with that of Saint Odile, which also fore-
tells the end of Hitler around the year 1944.
THE ANTICHRIST
The term "antichrist" appears in many prophecies.
Let us determine what this word means. In the New
Testament, the personality of Christ is used to exemplify
47
spiritual wisdom. He taught the lasting benefits of a
policy of non-resistance to evil. He lived, as well as
taught, his sermons on humility, love, brotherhood,
peace and cooperation. He kept himself free of bond-
age to materialism and the false values of his time. If,
then, the term "Christ" stands for tolerance, love,
brotherhood, peace and cooperation, any person, organi-
zation or nation living by opposite standards may be
termed false or antichrist.
Christ was a Hebrew, an Israelite, as were all of the
Biblical prophets. The aggressiveness which charac-
terizes the modern peoples does not spring from the
Semitic, but from the Aryan branches of mankind. The
ancient Hebrews were seldom engaged in strife, and
then only as the result of being attacked, and never from
any effort on their part at conquest of other peoples.
The Hebrews have always been monotheistic, wor-
shipping one god only-Jehovah, the Creator. The
Aryans, with the growth of the Christian religion, have
worshipped several gods, have been competitive, aggres-
sive, imperialistic, and frequently engaged in wars of
conquest. They have had a multiplicity of gods, the
Father, Son, Holy Ghost, Virgin Mary, and the Devil,
and have often attributed more power to the devil than
to all their other gods combined.
Their faith has not been in the peaceful tenets of
Christ, but in their soldiers, their armaments and their
material wealth.
Christ is reputed to have said, "l come not to bring
peace but a .sword." Evidently he foresaw the time
when a church would be named after him that would be
false to everything he taught, and nations called Chris-
4-8
tian would be engaged in the War of Armageddon fore-
told by Hebrew prophets long before his time.
Adolf Hitler seems to personify every tenet antago-
nistic to peace,. love, brotherhood and cooperation,
thereby becoming the embodiment of Antichrist.
The result of the reign of this Antichrist is related in
Revelation 13:5-17 and Isaiah 14:16-17, "He will lay
the entire world in ruins and destroy the cities thereof."
He is truly the Ambassador of Hell, if we accept hell
as meaning chaos, disintegration, confusion, strife, hate,
and death, the antithesis of heaven signifying harmony,
organization, peace, love and life.
There are seven things that may be said of the War
of Armageddon *that may not be said of any other war:
1. The number of nations and men engaged will surpass that of
any other war in history.
2. Battles will last for days, weeks and months.
3. Babylon will be destroyed. Babylon, in the terminology of
Biblical prophecy means the international banking system rul-
ing all nations.
4. Wars, famines, pestilences and bestiality will increase as prop-
erty and men waste away. The war of 1914--1918 saw no such
wanton murder of noncombatants as is now taking place, nor
did Europe see any such rape and needless killing as Ethiopia,
China, Poland, Belgium, the Netherlands, France and England
have witnessed. The "four sore judgements" on godless, un-
believing, self-righteous Christendom will result in the over-
throw of the competitive system and the formation of a world
community of nations. The only things that capitalistic,
Christian nations will unite for, at present, are war, suffering
and death.
5. The conflict in Europe is being waged among so-called Chris-
tians. Christendom is being shot out of existence.
*The term "War of Armageddon" means not only the great war of 1914--
1918 but all international wars throughout the world during the 33 year cycle
from 1914 to 1948 spoken of in the Bible as the "Time of Trouble."
49
6. War is being waged not only on the earth, but on the·sea, under
the sea, and in the air.
7. Christian nations are more warlike than those of any other
religion. Mohammedans seldom make war on Mohammedans,
nor Buddhists on Buddhists, nor Brahmans on Brahmans, but
Christian nations have always been warring on one another.
"I come not to bring peace, but a sword" is a prophecy fulfilled.
This is as it had to be. We must remember that Jesus
was a Way-shower. He came two thousand years ahead
of the time when the world would be evolved to the
spiritual degree necessary if it is to follow His example.
Much work had to be accomplished in two thousand
years and the church has been a major instrument in the
evolution of humanity. Man is but half made. In the
centuries that have passed he has been a being more
physical than spiritual. Within the first century of this
new 'era man will attain the spirituality essential if he
is to follow the instructions of Christ.
During the childhood of the race every activity of
life was associated with some unseen influence, either a
beneficent god or a malefic demon. Every member of
the mineral, vegetable, and animal world was looked
upon as the habitation of some god or devil. By the
time Jesus lived, the race had outgrown this primitive
religion but was still worshiping the many gods and
goddesses of the Egyptian, Greek, and Roman Pan-
theon, such as Jupiter, Jove, Zeus, Apollo, Bacchus,
Eros, Pan, Juno and a score of others.
The Christian Church eliminated these many gods
and goddesses of old and gave instead the Father, Son,
Holy Ghost, Virgin Mary, and the devil, reducing the
number of worshipful beings to five. Some may say
that the devil is not being worshipped but casual obser-
vation of the world today reveals that his tenets are re-
50
ceiving far more of our attention than those of the other
Four.
In 1848 the world entered a new cycle. The four .
dominant world religions will soon make way for a new
world religion of unity. Brahmanism will give up its
Trinity of Brahma, Vishnu and Siva; Buddhism will
turn from its eternal seeking of Nirvana; Mohammed-
anism will discard its Koran and Christianity will center
its worship in the Father recognizing that the Creator is
ever sufficient unto His creations.
For the next few years, however, the Christian
Church and Capitalism have a great work to do. We
have but to look at Eastern countries to see what great
good Christianity has brought in comparison with other
great religions.
In India where the religion of Brahma is supreme, we
find a people divided into castes, a person's station in life
determined at birth. Belief in reincarnation and karma
has destroyed national incentive to improve conditions.
In China the religion of Buddha killed desire and
energy and the nation stood still for centuries.
In Mohammedan countries women were but slaves
until recently and the backwardness in recognizing the
rights of women extended into every phase of national
life.
Religion and economics are never far apart for the
religion of a nation always determines its economic de-
velopment. Christian Nations have been the dominant
nations and they are dominant because they are Chris-
tian. Christianity has used Capitalism as an instrument
of progress both for our own and exploited peoples.
Both Christianity and Capitalism will give way to a
better religion and economy when their work is finished.
51
Capitalism and Rome are blood brothers, and will
work together to maintain the competitive capitalistic
system of private profit and control of the land and re-
sources of the world by a few until the day comes for
better religious and economic systems.
Does it seem impossible that Rome should again rule
the world as she did centuries ago? It was in 1914 that
the writer first heard of the prophecies of the Seven
Day Adventists foretelling the recovery of temporal
power by the church, and of a time when she would
again rule the nations. In 1929 the State of Vatican
City was recognized by the nations of the world, and in
the opening days of 1940, Franklin D. Roosevelt ap-
pointed Myron Taylor as his personal ambassador and
the representative of the United States at the Papal
State. This was an opening wedge that may lead to a
permanent United States ambassador at the Vatican.
Catholic power is gaining day by day in the United
States.
Before Christianity destroys itself, Rome will again
have her day as ruler of the world.
This gain has been continuous since 1789. At that
time the Catholic Church had only 25,000 adherents in
the United States, shepherded by but thirty priests. To-
day the Catholic Church claims 20,000,000 followers in
the U. S. and 30,000 priests. From poverty, in the
early days in America, she has grown to an institution
holding title to property valued at over two billion, most
of it free from taxes. From a scattered flock she has
developed into an organization of great political power.
The holdings of the Catholic Church in the U. S. are
not by any means confined to real estate, churches, and
schools. Ferdinand Lundberg in 1936 compiled from
52
the N. Y. State Banking Department the following list
of corporations in which the Church holds investments:
The Baltimore and Ohio, General Motors, U. S. Steel,
Du Pont, Pure Oil, Commonwealth Edison, Goodyear
Rubber, Douglas Aircraft. These are but a few of the
corporations in which the Church has interests.
A similar condition exists in every country where
the Christian Church is entrenched, and largely ex-
plains the Church's stand against communism and its
support of capitalism.
How can the Church preach pacifism so long as it
draws income from the merchants of death? How can
it advocate plenty for all when its power and property
depend on the maintenance of the system that has given
it power and wealth?
This power and wealth will enable the Christian
Church to displace the three competitive world re-
ligions until the time comes for a new world religion to
appear.
The new faith will be the religion taught by the
Master of Galilee centuries ago. The Nazarene was
a Communist born in a community of the Essenes*
where all property was held in common. Instead of the
power of wealth, the Nazarene's power was the power
of truth.
* The Essenes were custodians in Egypt of the ancient wisdom :first given to
humanity through Zarathustra of Persia nine thousand years age. The initia-
tions and system of life of this ancient order appeared in every quarter of the
globe in the early days of every three thousand year cycle. While the old
nations are destroying themselves by war, the prophets developed by this school
lead a few of the spiritually enlightened from crashing civilization to pioneer
a new order of life. Chine, for ·whom China is named, Brahma, Confuciu s,
Abraham, M oses, J oshu (the N azarene), and Eawatah (Hiawatha) were all
masters and prophets of the fraternity.
Essene is pronounced "Es» as in "esquire," "sene" as in "seen.» It means
of the spirit, or non-resistant, peaceloving.
53
The only riches of the man whom the Church claims to
represent were the clothes he wore. Not alone the
Church of Rome, but all its offspring; the Church of
England, the many protestant creeds, the churches of
America, are all more or less false to every tenet he gave.
Anything that is counterfeit is false. Any person or
organization that preaches one thing and acts another is
false to the thing it claims to be. If the word "Christ"
means truth, love, brotherhood, then our present day
capitalistically-dominated Christian churches are false
Christs, for they do not teach truth nor practice love and
brotherhood. They may preach such things, but they
hypocritically close their doors to the ill-clad and poor,
and welcome the rich and men of war. The church will
generally be found on the side of the reactionaries, lin-
ing up in support of any group trying to prevent a more
abundant life.
By mentioning these facts, we do not mean to con-
demn the churches. Every religion, every church, and
every school of thought has a part in the education and
unfoldment of man. "All roads led to Rome." So do
all religions lead to heaven. Those who worship one
god only, the Creator, are on the short path, the positive
road. Those who worship a savior or other gods are on
the long or negative path. One is as essential as the
other. Since the first race came on earth there have
been three types of religion: the materialist, whose god
is the worId, the spiritualist whose gods are of the lower
heavens and.the Essene Faithist, or Israelite, who goes
to the source of life and has faith in his creator only.
Each is a part of the eternal trinity. Some are born to
one path, some to another, but all religions are instru-
54
ments of the Father and all churches lead, eventually,
to Him.
If you can not accept the dogma of the .Christian
Church, don't worry, for you are in good company.
George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Thomas Jef-
ferson, Walt Whitman, Thomas Paine, and countless
others could not confine their thinking to the limits set
by the churches. Each of these men recognized the
authority of a supreme intelligence and were, to a
greater or lesser degree, faithists in the Architect of the
Universe, the Great Spirit, The All ONE, the I AM,
Jehovah, or any name you care to give to the source of
life. These men recognized the fact that the universe
is governed by the law of cause and effect, eternal jus-
tice. They did not feel the need or desire for a savior
upon whom to throw the burden of their mistakes.
Every great prophet has taught that one reaps what one
sows, and every mistake (call it sin if you will) brings
its own punishment. Those who think that priest,
Christ, or savior can nullify the law of compensation are
but fooling themselves.
The Faithist, Christian, Mohammedan, Buddhist, or
Bushman are all in the same category. We are all sons
and daughters of the same father CJehovah) and mother
(earth), but are attending different schools. After the
destruction of every religion that recognizes any other
god than the Creator, we will have unity in government
and economics the same as we will have it in religion.
Then will the brotherhood of man be a fact and not a
fantasy.
But first mankind must go through the experience of
worshipping many false gods. A god of force will ap-
55
peal to a Fascist far more than will a god of peace. The
Jews find money a more acceptable idol for worship
than Jehovah, and Christian nations have more faith in
their armies and navies, emblems of their god of war,
than they have ever had in the god of Christ. This
multiplicity of gods will cause such chaos upon earth
and such spiritual indigestion that mankind will spew
them all out, as did Russia. Then and then only will
we be ready to recognize the fatherhood of the Creator
(the I AM that I AM), the motherhood of the earth
and the brotherhood of man.
Do you not think the Creator * knew what He was
doing when He caused the founders of our country to
provide religious liberty and prohibit ANY religion to
be enforced by the state? Say what you will of the
*The Old Testament was written four hundred years after the death of
Moses, and is a conglomeration of the histories of Israelites and Egyptians.
The terms J ehovah, God, Lord God and Lord became confused and their true
meaning Jost in the years since Moses lived.
When used correctly, the term Jehovah is the name of the Creator, the I AM
THAT I AM, the Great Spirit, Architect of the Universe, the All One, the
Supreme Intelligence or First Cause Who holds within His Own Being all
creation.
There is but one Jehovah, but there are many gods, lord gods and lords.
Each planet has but one god, several lord gods and many lords. Jehovah is
a name, the others are titles.
God is the chief executive of our planet.
A Lord God is governor over a specific area and the heavens above it.
A Lord is governor over a section of the earth's area and the people Jiving
on it.
All TRUE lord gods, lords and God inspire both corporeans and spirits to
worship the Creator.
All FALSE gods inspire corporeans and spirits to worship either themselves
or another individual spirit.
The lower heavens are filled with counterfeit, false and fictitious gods and
lords who are self appointed and without truth or authority. Readers interested
in psychic research, or who have investigated mediums to any extent, are well
aware that spirits will take unto themselves any name or title that inspires
reverence and respect.
A pseudo-religious-patriotic cult has recently established branches in many
cities having Sainte Germaine as their idol-in-chief with Christ his lieutenant.
56
U. S. S. R., the fact remains that it is the only country
that is willing to concede God the ability to look out for
Himself. All other countries of Europe attempt to be
self-a}lpointed sheriffs for Him.
Church, state, and finance are all good and have their
work to do, but when they combine to rule the world,
they become a trinity of hell.
The Church has always prayed for the victims it was
about to murder, and quoted the gentle sayings of Jesus
as it sent millions to the rack, the fire, and the sword. It
has praised poverty as it sought wealth; boasted of it-
self as the caretaker of civilization while it conspired to
keep its followers steeped in ignorance and superstition.
The state and church have always, sooner or later, be-
come partners in exploiting the people. The manu-
scripts in the archives of the Essenes have this to say of
the government:
In ancient times, governments and laws were provided for nations
and peoples. Government should be as a father over the people and
not as a separate matter against them. But government becomes one
thing and the people another. That which should be one entity has
been made into two.
Governments have become separate selves from the people; and the
people are as servants, supporting the lawmakers who trade in projects
and schemes for their own profit and glory.
Since the earliest days, all governments of man have drifted into
this. Behold, when a government no longer fills the needs of its
people, God withdraws His heavenly protection from that government
and the people run into anarchy.
Blame not the people for anarchy, assassinations and revolutions.
The government is to blame in all cases. These conditions of venge-
ance are but the fruit resulting from the government's divergence
from the will of Jehovah and the march of His light. Whenever a
57
etate sets up itself by violence against justice unto the multitude, the
people fall upon that government and destroy it.
Finance, with its modern commercialism, corrupts all
that it touches: the press, politics, education, and the
church. Our competitive business system has so warped
our moral judgement that not one man in a thousand
realizes there is anything wrong in lobbying, bribery,
and mis-representation. We are sold fruit jam made
without fruit; butter that never saw a cow; all-wool
goods that never came from an animal; medicines that
kill instead of heal. Capitalism drains and brutalizes
the workmen who do the work; haunts the business man
with fear of failure, and makes him hard with success.
It brutalizes our civilization, clogs the wheels of prog-
ress, and forever crowds us closer to the brink of de-
struction. When the three, church, state, and finance
conspire against race and nation, all hell breaks loose.
Hitler's work is that of the great destroyer. His
work is not finished. It has just begun. Before the
next seven years have passed, when Hitler will have
made his exit from the worId stage, there will be a new
Europe. Capitalism will have been destroyed; the pres-
ent form of Christianity changed; a new League of Na-
tions will have come and gone; and an epidemic of rev-
olutions will have swept th€ governments of the "House
of Have" into oblivion.
A classless society will be the result, but first the mid-
dle class will be liquidated and there will be but rich
and poor. In the revolutions, the rich will be hunted
down like rats. The horrors of the French Revolution
will not only be repeated, but exceeded.
Impossible, you say? Have you forgotten what took
58
place in Russia? Are you unaware of the destruction or
the landlords and land-owners in Poland when Stalin's
troops marched in?
Is your heart filled with hate for all dictators? Do
not hate, but pity them. The dictator who proclaims
himself a god is taking upon himself the responsibilities
and bondage of a god. It will take Hitler nine thou-,
sand years to undo the hell he is now creating. Ruler-
ship in this life means bondage in the after-life.
Centuries ago man was told, "He who lives by the
sword shall die by the sword." Pity those with faith in
the instruments of death rather than faith in the Voice
of everlasting life.
The nations of the earth believe their power is in
their armies and ships of war. In the next seven years
they will be given such a diet of death as will make man-
kind allergic to armies and warfare for a thousand years
to come.
Jesus taught the non-resistance of evil. The initiate
knows well that evil is self-destroying. One often hears
the remark, "How can God allow such things?" And
generally the one making such a comment advocates the
use of the law or other forceful means to annihilate the
evil under discussion.
The Nazarene knew better. Those who live by the
sword will die by the sword. Those spewing out hate
will end in being hated, and those using force will arouse
a greater force. The people of the United States need
not worry about the conquest of our country by Hitlet"
or any other warlord. Such men will be taken care of
by the causes they themselves set into motion. Hitler's
destruction of liberty of action and expression, both in
59
his own country and conquered countries, will give birth
to a revolution that will destroy him and his party.
Christian peoples have prayed for such a man as
Hitler, although they had no idea that their prayers
could only be answered by such a man of evil. For cen-
turies, among all Christian peoples, a daily prayer has
been, "Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done, on earth
as it is in heaven."
What is God's kingdom? Is it capitalism, with its rich
few at the top and its poverty-stricken millions at the
bottom? Is it a chaos of religions and creeds? Is it a
battle royal of nations? NO! If it is anything, it is a
classless society with plenty for all. It must be based
upon a faith wherein there can be no infidels, no atheists,
no Jews, no gentiles, but a brotherhood of man ac-
knowledging one father only, the All Highest. It can
not be a world of clashing nationalisms, but one made up
of a United States of the World.
For such a heaven upon earth to come into being, the
following are requisite:
1. The four dominant world religions, with all their offspring of
antagonistic creeds and dogmas, must be destroyed in order to
make way for a new and better world religion.
2. All false race pride and egoistic nationalism must die before the
fatherhood of God, the motherhood of the earth and the
brotherhood of man can become an admitted fact. All artificial
man-made barriers must be abolished, such as emigration laws,
tariffs, custom duties, national armies, and other mediums of
force wherewith capitalistic countries uphold their senile systems.
3. A new system of exchange must come into being. The interna-
tional banking system, which finds its power in man-ordained
gold, must .be destroyed in order to make way for a new system
of exchange based upon the fruit of the earth.
60
Hitler will conquer Europe, will destroy all national
boundaries, and will incorporate present European peo-
ples into a new confederacy of the nations, wherein
there will be no customs or farriers. He is destroying
the power of the bankers, and will sponsor a new me-
dium of exchange not based upon gold.
It is not denied that Adolf Hitler is the embodiment
of evil. We affirm that he is an ambassador of hell, a
priest of chaos, head man of uz, creator of death. He
is number 66, the number of war, nitrogen and death, as
essential to a new order as night to a new day. Great
dark spiritual forces find their focus in Hitler, and he
will destroy all lesser forces obstructing the march of
the new day. He is the essence of evil, for he will elimi~
nate many lesser evils. Hitler is the man foretold in so
many prophecies as the one who would march with his
legions during the Time of Trouble.
.Adolf Hitler and his Fascist companions will fulfill
the three pre-requisites mentioned above to the manifes-
tation of the answer to the Lord's prayer.
1. Mussolini has declared himself to be the " Protector of Islam."
Hitler is replacing within the Reich the reJigion of Christ with
the religion of Hitler. His fifth columns in India are serving
to sicken the peoples of the East with their Oriental religions.
The same disintegration evident in Christianity is apparent in
all Eastern religions. Soon the people will spew them all out.
2. Hitler is destroying national boundaries throughout Europe, and
will soon form a confederacy of nations.
3. The war in Europe is not for the salvation of democracy or the
destruction of Hitlerism. It is to determine who is to dominate
Europe, England and the international bankers, or Hitler and
the Third Reich. Hitler will soon sponsor a new medium of
exchange with the mark of the false swastika on it, as foretold
in the Bible. Hitler will destroy capitalism.
61
As evil is self-destructive, it is evident that Hitler has
already brought into operation forces that will in turn
destroy him within the next three and a half years. But
the good that Hitler has accomplished will live after
him. Following the time of destruction will come a
time of reconstruction. Then-and not until then, will
Christian prayers be answered.
62
CHAPTER V
PROPHECIES OF As1A AND AFRICA
PROPHECIES OF INDIA
The seers of India have foretold a time when India
would flow with blood. The following prophecy is
taken from a book entitled, "Beasts, Men and Gods," by
Ossendowski. The prophecy was given in 1890 to the
Hutuku of the Narabanchi Monastery in Mongolia by
an adept who is famous throughout India. The predic-
tion pertains to the years 1914-1948.
"More and more people will forget their souls and will care about
their bodies. • • • Great sin and corruption will reign upon
earth. • • • The crowns of kings, great and small, will fall.
There will be a terrific world war. The seas will become red •.•
the earth and the bottom of the seas will be strewn with bones •••
kingdoms will be scattered ••• whole peoples will die ••• hun-
ger, disease, crimes unknown to law, never before seen in the world
••• the ancient roads will be covered with crowds wandering from
place to place. • • • All the earth will be emptied. God will turn
away from it and there will be only night and death. Then shall I
send a people, now unknown, which shall tear out the weeds of mad-
ness and vice, and I will lead those who remain faithful to the spirit
of man, in the fight against evil. They will found a new life upon
earth purified by the death of nations. The most evil among man-
kind have not yet been born."
Paul Brunton, in his "Search in Secret India," men-
tions other prophecies foretelling the time when the
British will be driven out of India and the country will
become independent.
63
From observations of present political events in India,
it seems that England will soon be forced to grant the
demands of Gandhi and his party, and give complete
independence to India.
JAPANESE PROPHECY
Japan has a prophecy dating back to 1793 which
states:
When men fly like birds, ten great kings will go to war and the
world will be under arms.
A picture of world conquest was painted for the Jap-
anese people in 1926 by Prime Minister Tanaka in his
Tanaka Memorial:
In order to conquer the world we must first conquer China. To
conquer China we must first conquer Manchuria and Mongolia.
Then all other countries of Asia will fear us and capitulate before us.
The world will then understand that Eastern Asia is ours.
Although the authenticity of the Tanaka Memorial
has been denied by Japan, the fact remains that every
military move has been according to the plan of Tanaka.
Regardless of any denials that Japan may make, the
conquest of the United States is a part of Tanaka's plan
of world conquest.
Following her defeat of Russia in 1905, a victory
which led to her establishment as a military power, Ja-
pan began her imperialistic conquests of Korea, Man-
churia and China. The aggressions of Japan in Asia are
as much a part of the War of Armageddon, spoken of in
the many prophecies pertaining to our times, as are the
wars in Europe.
This War of Armageddon covers a 33-year cycle be-
64
ginning with 1914 and lasting until 1948. Although
there was an armistice in the European sector from 191 8
to 1939, it affected a few nations only. Throughout the
rest of the world, war has been continuous, accompanied
in many places by revolution. Before this 33-year cycle
is over, all nations will become involved.
The Japanese Islands will be destroyed in the coming
continental changes. Japan has sown death in China.
She will reap death in catastrophies of nature that will
visit her island.
Russ1A-THE PROPHECY oF MADAM BLAVATSK1
Madam Blavatski was one of the world's strangest
women. She was a prolific writer, and the theosophical
societies throughout the worId are founded upon her
work. Her name is well known to all students of occult
and arcane subjects, and these students credit her with
being one of the great prophets of the nineteenth cen-
tury.
One of her most interesting prophecies follows:
When England ceases to carry the torch of democracy, out of Russia
will come the greatest civilization the world has ever known.
England ceased to be a democracy within a few days
after her declaration of war against Germany in 1939.
England is now a dictatorship, and freedom is becoming
as rare in the British Empire as it is in the Fascist and
Nazi realms.
England has never been a true democracy, but has
always been an autocracy of wealth. Now, like Ger-
many, Italy, France and the U.S. S. R., she is a dictator-
ship.
65
A PROPHECY FROM SouTH AFRICA
In 1912, just before the World War, there appeared
in "The Natal Advertiser" of Durban, Natal, South
Africa, "a solemn warning that annihilation would come
from all sources."
This warning was uttered by Margaret Scott Mar-
shall, lecturer and seeress, and recorded by her husband,
James Marshall. Two years later, Mrs. Marshall and
her husband wrote their prophetic book entitled: "1960:
A Retrospect," which was ready for publication in 1916,
but delayed until their coming to California, U. S. A.
where the book was privately printed in 1919. It was
written during the war, 1914-1918, and published in
what the "Foreword" calls a "Lull in the Wars."
A respite given to the people to meditate on the past and prepare
our minds to decide what course we shall pursue when the time of
trial and testing comes again, as assuredly it will in the near fu-
ture. • • • We have had some of the coming annihilation already,
but it is a mere drop compared with what is to follow.
This book is couched in semi-story form and purports
to be an account in detail of the present war of nations
by some of the survivors of the terrible holocaust, and
of the changed and beneficent conditions of human life
following.
To quote a few pertinent ·sentences (looking back-
ward a decade) :
Although there had never been such a time of destruction, on the
other hand there had never been such a revival . • • an awakening
of men who were washed in the light of everlasting love.
The true heroes of that period of catastrophe were those who had,
by reason of the divine principle within them, stood out from this
welter of destruction and refused to be drawn into the dreadful mael-
66
strom. • • • They recognized it to be a war of extermination •••
and operated in the mental world-which is the real world, the
world of Cause-by concentrating strongly for peace, and throwing
out the thought strongly into the universe, particularly at night time
when the minds of men are receptive to such impressions.
The Master Mind assures us that had it not been for such minds
working, consciously or unconsciously for peace, nothing could have
saved our world from total annihilation.
These men, the Master Mind has declared, were the true leaders
of the people, whilst He stigmatizes as traitors to mankind those who
rushed their fellow-beings on the rocks of destruction.
The co-authors of "1960: A Retrospect," are now
living in Santa Barbara, California, and say, "We speak
and write from the viewpoint of the interior world, not
from the exterior, and appeal to the "God within." The
samesource is available for further teachings and proph-
ecies."
67
CHAPTER VI
AMERICAN PROPHETS AND PROPHECIES
ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS
In Orange County, New York, in the year 1826, was
born one of America's greatest prophets. Andrew Jack-
son Davis was able to cognize the world of spirit as
clearly as the world of matter. During his lifetime he
wrote many books that are spiritualistic classics. He was
not only clairaudient and clairvoyant, he was also a great
trance medium, and in 1845 at New York gave a series
of lectures that attracted many of the leading minds of
the country. Not only did he make predictions dealing
with the general advancement of science and the devel-
opment of our present age of machines, but he specifi-
cally described the Diesel-driven, streamlined trains that
came into use about 1935.
Instead of the present gallery-looking cars, there will be spacious
saloons, almost portable dwellings, moving with such speed that there
will be advertisements reading-"Through to California in four
days."
He foretold the automobile, and stated that the time
would come when they would be so constructed that no
accident or collision would damage either passengers or
baggage. Not only did he foresee our streamlined
trains, but he also must have envisioned our trailer
homes, for he said:
68
Look out about those days for carriages and traveling saloons on
country roads-sans horses, sans steam, sans any visible motive power,
moving with greater speed and safety than at present. Carriages will
be moved by a simple mixture of aqueous and atmospheric gases-so
easily condensed, so easily ignited, and so impaned by a machine
somewhat resembling our engines, as to be entirely concealed between
the forward wheels. The first requisite for these land locomotives will
be good roads, upon which, with your engine, without your horses,
you may travel with great rapidity.
Not only did he predict the automobile and stream-
lined trains, but the airplane as well:
This power will not only move the locomotive on its rail and the
carriage on the country road, but aerial cars also, which will move
through the sky from country to country; and their beautiful m-
Ruence will produce a universal brotherhood of acquaintance.
A. J. Davis foresaw the passing of the twelve and
ten-hour day and the birth of a time when leisure will
become the common lot. He foretold the invention of
concrete, portable houses, the radio, and many more of
our present commodities. Davis looked over and be-
yond the time of revolution and trouble in the United
States to that time of peace and plenty pictured by Bel-
lamy and other American prophets.
MORMON PROPHETS
The Mormon People, adherents of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, with headquarters in
Salt Lake City, Utah, hold to the belief that prophecy
is as common today as in ancient times. Many of the
prophecies given by their founder and first prophet,
Joseph Smith, have been fulfilled. One of Smith's most
interesting prophecies, given in 1843, is entitled the
"White Horse Prophecy."
69
You will go to the Rocky Mountains and will establish a great and
mighty people which I call the White Horse of Peace and Safety.
You will see the constitution of the United States almost destroyed;
it will hang by a thread as fine as the finest silk fiber. I love the Con-
stitution; it was made under the inspiration of God, and will be pre-
served and saved by the efforts of the White Horse and the Red Horse
who will come to its defense. A terrible revolution will take place in
America such as has never been before, for the land will be literally
left without a supreme government, and every species of wickedness
will be rampant. It will be so terrible that father will be against son,
mother against daughter and daughter against mother. The most
terrible scenes of murder, bloodshed and rapine that has ever been
looked on will take place. Peace will be taken from the earth. The
Turkist Empire of the Crescent will be the first great power to be
disrupted.* England and France will be allied together in order to
keep Russia from conquering the.world. While the terrible revolu-
tion is going on England and France will try to make peace in the
United States. They will find the United States so broken up, many
claiming authority, still there will be no responsible government.
Then it will appear to other countries that England has taken pos-
session of the country. The Black Horse (India) will join Russia.
Armed with British bayonets, the doings of the Black Horse will be
terrible. There is a land in the Rocky Mountains that will be in-
vaded by the Japanese unless care is taken. The last struggle that
Zion (America) will face will be when the whole of America is made
the Zion of our God.
Brigham Young, after the death of Joseph Smith at
Carthage, Illinois, in 1844, led the Mormons in their
great migration to Utah, for it had been prophesied to
them that Utah was the safest place on the continent
during the great earthquakes and continental changes to
come. Mormon prophesies state that changes foretold
would take place within the next hundred years or by
1944. Evidently Joseph Smith's vision extended for a
century, for a civil war has been predicted by many for
*Joseph Smith erred in stating that Turkey would be the first government
to be disrupted. The Russian Empire was overthrown in 1917, the Ottoman
Empire in 1923.
70
the years 1941-45 in the United States of America.
Orson Pratt, another of the early Mormon prophets,
also mentions a second civil war in the Journal of Dis-
courses, Vol. 20:
What then will be the condition of the people when the great and
dreadful war will come? It will be very different from the war be-
tween the North and South. It will be neighborhood against neigh-
borhood, city against city, town against tqwn, state against state, and
they will go forth destroying and being destroyed. Manufacturing
will almost cease, great cities will be left desolate. The time will
come when the great city of New York will be left without inhab-
itants.
Another prophecy published in Mormon literature in
March 1922 gives another preview of the coming chaos.
This prevision was given to a non-Mormon but told to
a Mormon:
I saw first a brief sketch of the present state of the world. Each
country in turn was shown, and in my mind was formed, from some
source, the words, "as it is today." ·
I then saw a new international war break out with its center upon
the Pacific Ocean, but sweeping and encircling the globe. I saw the
opposing forces ·were roughly divided by so-called Christianity on
one side, and so-called followers of Mohammed and Buddha on the
other side. I saw a world-wide dislocation and devastation of pro-
duction and slaughter of people occur more swiftly and upon a larger
scale than ever before. I saw those of a faith similar to yours in the
Far East begin to look to Palestine for safety.
I saw the international war automatically break down, and na-
tional revolutions occur in every country and complete the work of
chaos and desolation. I saw geological disturbances occur which
helped in this work as if it were intended to do so.
I saw the international boundry line disappear as these two gov-
ernments (Canada and the U. S.) broke up and dissolved in chaos.
I saw race rioting upon this American continent on a vast scale.
71
I saw hunger and starvation in this world, a granary of the Ameri-
can continent swept off in vast numbers of these conflicting elements.
I saw disease produced by hunger, strife and chaos, complete the end
of the present order. My impression was that from the outbreak of
the international war, these things developed in a continuous proces-
sion and almost ran concurrently, as it is with sickness, the various
symptoms are all in evidence at one and the same time, but in dif-
ferent stages of development.
Another Mormon prophecy is that of Brigham Young,
and is found in his "Discourses,'' pages 170-1 72 :
All that you now know can scarcely be called a preface to the ser-
mon that will be preached with fire and sword, tempests, earthquakes,
hail, rain and fearful destruction. What matter the destruction of a
few railway cars? You will hear of magnificent cities now idolized
by the people sinking in the earth entombing the inhabitants. The
sea will heave itself beyond its bounds engulfing many cities. Famine
will spread over the nations, and nation will rise against nation,
kingdom against kingdom, states against states, in our own country
and in foreign lands.
A VmoN OF SixTY YEARS Aco
The following account of an experience which oc-
curred in the year 1882 to Patriarch C. D. Evans of
the Mormon Church, parallels in many respects the
vision of George Washington recorded on page 80 of
this volume.
The first record of the Evans' vision the writer was
able to locate, appeared in a book published in Salt Lake
City, Utah in the year 1890. A photostatic copy of the
book is in the author's collection of interesting auguries.
A vision occurring over sixty years ago is worthy of
the reader's greatest consideration in the light of the
efforts towards regimentation and censorship of the
mails developing in late years.
72
V!SION OF PATRIARCH c. D. EVANS
Related by himself as seen by him in Salem, Utah
on the night of December 25th 1882.
While meditating on the present position of the Saints and of
the false accusations made against them of "disloyalty," and of being
the enemies of mankind, etc. my mind was suddenly carried away
to the past. Methought a panoramic view of the Reformation
passed before me in rapid succession. Not only were the general
facts of its history impressed upon me, in a manner impossible to
describe, but even in its minor details, details unknown to me from
research were also made known. The very actors were shown with
such marvelous exactness and so minutely true to life, that, were I
an artist, I would draw an exact portrait of every actor in that his-
torical epoch. Never, while life shall last, can memory of that pic-
ture be effaced.
In connection with this marvelous history, it was clearly shown
that each actor, in the work of religious liberty, was assigned his
part therein by a higher power, and so completely was this under-
stood that none were allowed to interfere, in the least, with 'the
labors of contemporaries in the same work. Not only was the his-
tory of that event clearly manifest, but the labors of Wesley, Watt
and others and their efforts for general religious freedom. While
I continued to gaze and marvel at the wondrous work before me,
all of a sudden the scene vanished, and a new era, resultant however,
from the forces of the religious agencies before mentioned, burst
upon my view. The history of Americaan Independence, with
the actors therein, passed before me. The Constitution of the
United States was emblazoned upon an immense distance. Civil
and religious toleration was general throughout the land. Man
rejoiced in the privilege of worshipping God according to the dic-
tates of conscience. Prosperity reigned. Angels smiled. Heaven
approved. The fetters of political and religious intolerance, forged
by monarchs of the eastern world, were sundered, shall it be said
forever? Such was my thought. I was full of joy at the sight;
big tears of joy rolled down my cheeks, when of a sudden, my at-
tention was directed to a personage standing by my bedside, and
who was attired in a white and flowing robe. Addressing me, he
said, "Son of mortality, look."
73
I looked and beheld a scene most revolting to my senses, from
the fact that it was the reverse of the prosperity and religious free-
dom I had before witnessed. I saw the representatives of one
branch of the Republic holding in their hands fetters they them-
selves had forged. The personage, again addressing me, said,
"Knowest thou the meaning of these?" I answered "No." He
replied, "These are the chains with which certain sons of the Repub-
lic, who have tasted the tree of liberty, desire to bind their fellows.
These are they who seek to subvert the cause of human freedom.
These seek to enslave one portion of the children of freedom who
differ from them in religious belief and practice. Know thou, my
son, that their object is filthy lucre. They plot to take away human
rights, and to destroy the freedom of the soul, to possess the homes
of the industrious without fee or reward. Woe unto such, for
vengeance awaits them! Their souls shall be in derision, and the
heavens shall laugh at their folly. Their calamity slumbereth not.
But cast thine eyes eastward and look.
I looked and beheld that the bands that held society together
during the reign of the Republic, were snapped asunder. Society
had broken loose from all restraints of principle and good conscience.
Brotherhood had dissolved. Respect for common rights and even the
rights of life and property had fled from the land. I saw faction
after faction arise and contend with each. Political strife was every-
where. Father and son alike contended in these awful feuds. The
spirit of deadly hate, like a rapidly rolling flame, passed through the
Republic. Blood was written on every banner. The spirit of blood-
shed appeared to possess every heart.
Turning to the person in white, I exclaimed: Surely this means
the total destruction of our nation. Touching my eyes with his
finger, he replied: "Look again." I looked and beheld that many
who were angry with the rulers of the Republic, for their subversion
of the Constitutional law, and their wholesale plunder of the public
moneys, arose and proclaimed themselves the friends of the Consti-
tution in its original form. These looked around for some to sustain
the country's flag inviolate, pledging themselves and fortunes and
sacred honors to that end.
A voice was now suddenly heard declaring these words: "In the
distant mountain tops are to be found the true lovers of freedom and
74
equal rights, a people who have never made war upon each other.
Go there; for there only can your lives and property be secure from
the spoiler. There alone can the flag you love wave proudly for the
protection of all people, irrespective of creed or color."
While thus engaged I cast my eyes to the far west, when suddenly
appeared on Ensign Peak, near Salt Lake City a beautiful flag
whereon was written these words: "Friends of Human Liberty
throughout the World, all Hail! We greet you under the flag of
freedom, our Country's Flag." One loud shout of "Welcome!"
from the Mountain Sons of Freedom rent the air. I beheld that
the multitude wept with joy. The laws were again administered
in purity. The people prospered. Tyrants were hurled down. All
religious bodies were equally protected before the law. No North,
no South, no East, no West, but one unbroken nation whose banner
waved for all the world. On this I awoke in tears of joy.
When will these Mormon prophecies be fulfilled?
Perhaps we can find the answer in a prophecy from the
Archives of the Essenes. The following augury was
given by John Ballou Newbrol.J.gh, the instrument
through whom OAHSPE, the New Bible was given
and who later reestablished the Brotherhood now
known as the Essenes of Kosmon. The prophecy was
given in July 1889 and was published in "The Casta-
way" a magazine devoted to child welfare.
FALL OF ALL THE wORLD
According to the latest calculations in the way of national govern-
ments, religions and all human combinations, we have fifty-eight
years yet ahead to get ready in. {1889 plus 58 years will bring us
to the year 1947.) At or before that time all the present govern-
ments, religions, and all monied monopolies are to be overthrown
and go out of existence. The prophecy is based upon the move-
ments now going on in such matters, according to mathematical
rules and figures. The increase of unrest in societary and migratory
fields are mentioned as signs unmistakable in foreshadowing what
will reach the great masses of people in a short time to come. The
75
various combinations of capital and labor are but signs of present
and increasing weakness. The extremes so opposite must culminate
in destruction. Mathematically it seems just as certain as a col-
lision when two trains are approaching on the same track. To
prevent the coming calamity many combinations will be resorted to.
One form of the so-called Christian religion will overrun America,
tear down our American flag and trample it under foot. Capital
will back them up in it; general anarchy will follow. In Europe
the disaster will be even more terrible. Hundreds of thousands
of the people will be killed. In China and India so terrible will
be the fall that words cannot describe it. All nations will be demol-
ished and all the world will be thrown open to all people to go and
come as they please.
The foregoing prophecies of the Mormons, substan-
tiated by predictions of John B. Newbrough and other
Essene prophets, indicate Utah as the best and safest
place to live during the coming years. Therefore in
the summer of 1942 a farm was purchased and the Es-
senes moved their School of Life from Los Angeles
to North Salt Lake, a little hamlet four miles from
Salt Lake City on the Ogden highway. Here the Es-
senes hope to live in peace while working to help the
world get a fresh start after the "Time of Trouble"
comes to an end in 1947.
The monumental task which the Essenes were as-
signed to accomplish could only be carried out after
much study and analysis of OAHSPE, the New Bible
and roadmap for the new era. After ten years effort
a course of instruction by correspondence was evolved
whereby neophytes of the Fraternity could be taught
the facts pertaining to their physical, spiritual, emo-
tional and mental powers and how to use them to
create harmony in their lives and environment. It
was thought that by contacting thousands of people
76
through the mails, sufficient spiritually minded people
could be located and trained for cooperative, construc-
tive living.
Analysis of colony failures of the past revealed that
such failures had been caused by selfish individualists
attempting to live in a cooperative community. There-
fore it was planned to use the farm and school at
North Salt Lake as a proving ground for prospective
colony members. The farm, offices, cannery and de-
hydration plant would not only provide food for their
workers but would also serve to build a food bank for
lean years ahead. At the same time it gave them the
opportunity to test the qualifications of resident stu-
dents for colony life. It was hoped that sufficient
spiritually minded, unselfish people could be found,
who were ready and willing to forget self in laying
the foundation for that "Kingdom on Earth" prayed
for the past several centuries by all Christian peoples.
Slowly their Unseen Brothers are directing ·such
people to them. They hope to have their colony well
established before the storm breaks in the U. S. A.
FASCISM M ARCH E S B E HIND A CHRISTIAN BANNER
Many subversive elements in our nation are carrying
a Christian banner and will soon overrun America, tear
down the American flag and trample it under foot.
Fascism, camouflaging under the terms "Americanism"
and "Christianity" will rule the United States by the
year 1945. There are today more than eight hundred
more or less subversive groups and organizations ac-
77
'
•
tive in bringing Fascism to the United States. In the
forefront of this drive is an alien Catholic priest, Charles
E. Coughlin, and his National Union for Social Justice.
Father Coughlin can be held directly responsible for
the inspiration leading to the organization of the fol-
lowing listed racial-hatred groups:
Christian Worker's Alliance
Christian Vigilante Front-Brooklyn, strong arm group
Christian lndex-Ebling's Casino
Christian Congress-speaker's group
Christian Minutemen-strong arm group
Christian Edifiers and Christian Pioneers.
Christian Defenders
Christian Protective League
Christian Order of Coughlinites
American Brotherhood of Christian Congresses, radio stock sellers for
Coughlin
Christian American League
Christian Defense League--composed of lawyers
Crusaders for Christian Social Justice
Christian Merchants and Consumers League
Social Justice Distributors Club
Christian Phalanx
Other organizations interested in the propagation of
Fascism in America are:
Crusaders of Americanism, Inc.
American Patriots, Inc.
American Nationals
Anti-Communist Women's League
German-American Bund
A.B.C. Legion
Silver Legion of William Dudley Pelley
The White Camellias of George Deatherage
Crusaders or White Shirts of George W. Christians
A few individuals listed in the March 6th, 1939, issue
of Life Magazine as active in the development of Fas-
78
cism, are: Gerald E. Winron of Wichita, Kansas; Rob-
ert E. Edmonson, publisher of American Vigilante Bul-
letins; James True, publisher of Washington "Dope
Letter"; Edward W. Hunter of Boston, head of the
anti-union Industrial Defense Association; Senator Rob-
ert Reynolds of North Carolina; and Major George
Van Horn Moseley.
The claim that Henry Ford is the financial angel
back of Coughlin seems confirmed by the frequent con-
ferences of Harry Bennett, Ford Motor Company's
publicity man, with Father Coughlin and Major Mose-
ley.
The shirt movement started some years ago by the
Ku Klux Klan in America, afterward spread to Italy,
with its Black Shirts, and to Germany, with its Brown
Shirts. In recent years it bounced back to the U. S. A.,
brought the Silver, White, and other shirts of varied
hues, spread back across the seas to England, where Sir
Oswald Moseley started his Black Shirts, then to Brazil,
influencing Plinio Salgado to start his Green Shirts, and
into the Irish Free State, which gave birth to General
Erin O'Duffy and his Blue Shirts. Joseph, with his
coat of many colors, was a piker, it seems.
"Pelley, with his Silver Shirts, his back against the wall,
Hitler, with his Brown Shirts, lording over all,
Mussolini's Black Shirts, riding for a fall,
Three cheers for Mahatma Gandhi, with no shirt at all."
THE MARCH OF FASCISM IN THE u. s. A.
Fascism will hide under the cloak of Christianity, and
will conceal its gangsterism behind a shield labeled
79
FREEDOM, DEMOCRACY, and AMERICAN-
ISM.
The country has not been without its warnings of the
trouble ahead. Here are three prophecies that have
been printed many times, but are well worth your atten-
tion. The following story of Washington's vision rests
upon the veracity of two men, Anthony Sherman and
Wesley Bradshaw. Anthony Sherman, to whom was
told the vision by Washington, was a soldier in the Rev-
olutionary Army, and his name is to be found on army
records. Sherman was about eighteen years old at the
time he was told of the vision, and he lived to be ninety-
nine years old. The story was recorded by Wesley
Bradshaw, to whom Anthony Sherman recounted it
shortly before his death.
GENERAL WASHINGTON'S V1s10N
by
Wesley Bradshaw
Originally Published in The National Tribune,
Vol. 4, No. 12. Dec. 1880.
The last time I ever saw Anthony Sherman was on the Fourth of
July, 1859, in Independence Square. He was then ninety-nin<l
years old, and becoming feeble. But though so old, his dimming eyes
rekindled as he gazed upon Independence Hall, which he came to
visit once more.
"Let us go into the hall," he said. "I want to tell you an in-
cident of Washington's life--one which no one alive knows of ex-
cept myself; and, if you live, you will, before long, see it verified.
"From the opening of the Revolution we experienced all phases
of fortune, now good and now ill, one time victorious and another
conquered. The darkest period we had, I think, was when Washing-
ton, after several reverses, retreated to Valley Forge, where he re-
80
solved to pass the winter of 1777. Ah. I have often seen the tear>
coursing down our dear commander's careworn cheeks, as he would
be conversing with confidential officers about the condition of his
poor soldiers. You have doubtless heard the story of Washington's
going to the thicket to pray. Well, it was not only true, but he used
often to pray in secret for aid and comfort from God, the inter-
position of whose Divine Providence brought us safely through the
darkest days of tribulation.
"One day-I remember it well, the chilly wind whistling through
the leafless trees, though the sky was cloudless and the sun shone
brightly-he remained in his quarters nearly all afternoon alone.
"When he came out I noticed that his face was a shade paler than
usual, and there seemed to be something on his mind of more than
ordinary importance. Returning just after dusk, he dispatched an
orderly to the quarters of an officer, who was presently in attendance.
After a preliminary conversation of about half an hour Washington,
gazing upon his companion with that strange look of dignity which
he alone could command, said:
"I do not know whether it is owing to the anxiety of my mind
or what, but thir. afternoon, as I was sitting at this table engaged in
preparing a dispatch, something seemed to disturb me. Looking up,
I beheld standing opposite a singularly beautiful female. So aston-
ished was I, for I had given strict orders not to be disturbed, that it
was some moments before I found language to inquire the purpose of
her presence. A second, a third, and even a fourth time did I repeat
my question, but received no answer from my mysterious visitor, ex-
cept a slight raising of her eyes. By this time I felt strange sensa-
tions spreading through me. I would have risen, but the riveted gaze
of the being before me rendered volition impossible. I assayed once
more to address her, but my tongue had become useless. Even
thought itself had become paralyzed. A new influence, mysterious,
potent, irresistible, took possession of me. All I could do was to
gaze steadily, vacantly at my unknown visitant. Gradually the sur-
rounding atmosphere seemed filled with sensations, and grew lumi-
nous. Everything about me seemed to rarefy; the mysterious visitor
herself becoming more airy and yet more distinct to my sight than
before. I now began to feel as one dying, or rather to experience the
sensation which I have sometimes imagined accompanies dissolution.
I did not think, I did not reason, I did not move. All, alike, were
81
impossible. I was conscious only of gazing fixedly, vacantly, at my
companion.
"Presently I heard a voice saying, 'Son of the Republic, look and
learn'; while at the same time my visitor extended her arm east-
wardly. I now beheld a heavy white vapor at some distance rising
fold upon fold. This gradually dissipated, and I looked upon a
strange scene. Before me lay spread out in one vast plain all the
countries of the world-Europe, Asia, Africa, and America. I saw
rolling and tossing between Europe and America, tlie billows of the
Atlantic; and between Asia and America lay the Pacific. 'Son of
the Republic,' said the mysterious voice as before, 'look and learn.'
"At that moment I beheld a dark, shadowy being, like an angel,
standing, or rather floating, in mid-air between Europe and America.
Dipping water out of the ocean in the hollow of each hand, he
sprinkled some upon America with his right hand, while with his
left hand he cast some on Europe. Immediately a cloud arose from
these countries, and joined in mid-ocean. For a while it remained
stationary, and then it moved slowly westward, until it enveloped
America in its murky folds. Sharp flashes of lightning gleamed
through it at intervals; and I heard the smothered groans and cries
of the American people. A second time the angel dipped water
from the ocean and sprinkled it out as before. The dark cloud was
then drawn back to the ocean, in whose heaving billows it sank from
view. A third time I heard the mysterious voice saying, 'Son of the
Republic, look and learn.' I cast my eyes upon America and beheld
villages and towns and cities springing up one after another until the
whole land, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, was dotted with them.
Again I heard the mysterious voice say, 'Son of the Republic, the
end of the century cometh. Look and learn.'
"And with this, the dark, shadowy figure turned its face southward,
and from Africa I saw an ill-omened spectre approach our land. It
flitted slowly over every town and city of the latter. The in-
habitants presently set themselves in battle array against each other.
As I continued looking I saw a bright angel on whose brow rested a
crown of light on which was traced the word 'Union,' place an
American flag between the divided nation, and say, 'Remember, ye
are brethren.' fostantly, the inhabitants, casting from them their
weapons, became friends once more, and united around the National
Standard.
"And again I heard the mysterious voice saying, 'Son of the Re-
82
public, .look and learn.' At this, the dark, shadowy angel placed a
trumpet to his mouth and blew three distinct blasts; and taking
water from the ocean, he sprinkled it upon Europe, Asia, and Africa.
Then my eyes beheld a fearful scene: from each of these countries
arose thick, black clouds that were soon joined into one. And
throughout this mass there gleamed a dark-red light, by which I saw
hordes of armed men, who, moving with the cloud, marched by
land and sailed by sea to America; which country was enveloped in
the volume of cloud. And I dimly saw these vast armies devastate
the whole country and burn the villages, towns, and cities that I be-
held springing up.
"As my ears listened to the thundering of the cannon, the clashing
of swords, and the shouts and cries of millions in mortal combat, I
again heard the mysterious voice saying, 'Son of the Republic look
and learn.' As the voice ceased, the shadowy angel, for the last time,
dipped water from the ocean and sprinkled it upon America. In-
stantly the dark cloud rolled back, together with the armies it had
brought, leaving the inhabitants of the land victorious.
"Then once more I beheld the villages, towns, and cities spring-
ing up where I had seen them before; while the bright angel, plant-
ing the azure standard he had brought in the midst of them, cried
in a loud voice: 'While the stars remain and the heavens send down
dew upon the earth, so long shall the Union last.' And taking from
his b~ow the crown on which was blazoned the word 'Union,' he
placed it upon the Standard, while people, kneeling down, said,
'Amen!'
"The scene instantly began to fade and dissolve, and I at last saw
nothing but the rising, curling vapor I at first beheld. This also dis-
appearing, I found myself once more gazing upon the mysterious
visitor who, in the same voice I had heard before, said, 'Son of the
Republic, what you have seen is thus interpreted. Three great perils
will come upon the Republic. The most fearful for her is the third:
but the whole world united shall not prevail against her. Let every
child of the Republic learn to live for his God, his land, and his
Union.' With those words the vision vanished, and I started from
my seat and felt that I had seen a vision; wherein had been shown
me the birth, progress, and destiny of the U:nited States."
"Such, my friend,'' concluded the venerable narrator, "were the
words I heard from Washington's own lips; and America will do
well to profit by them."
83
THE V1s10N OF JosEPH HoAG
The following prophecy was found in the journal of
Joseph Hoag, who was a Quaker, or member of the So-
ciety of Friends. His grandson, Thomas Hoag, lived
at Waubeek, Iowa, in 1896, and had the journal in
which the vision was recorded. Joseph Hoag was born
in 1762, and at the time of the vision was forty-one
years old.
"In the year of 1803, probably in the eighth or ninth month, I
was one day alone in the fields, and observed that the sun shone
clear, but that a mist eclipsed the brightness of its shining. As I
reflected upon the singularity of the event, my mind was struck into
a silence, the most solemn I ever remembered to have witnessed, for
it seemed that all my faculties were laid low and brought into an un-
usually deep silence. And I said to myself, 'What can this mean? I
do not recollect ever before to have been sensible to such feelings.'
And I heard a voice from Heaven say, 'This that thou seest which
dims the brightness of the sun, is a sign of the coming times. I took
the forefathers of the Country from a land of oppression; I planted
them here among people of the forest; I sustained them; and while
they were humble, I blessed them; and fed them and they have be-
come a numerous people. But they have now become too proud and
lifted up, and have forgotten Me who nourished and protected them
in the wilderness, and they are running into every abomination and
evil practice of which the old countries are guilty and I have suf-
fered a dividing spirit to come among them. Lift up thine eyes
and behold.'
"And I saw them dividing in great heat. This division began in
the church upon points of doctrine. It went through various re-
ligious denominations, and in its progress and its course, the effect
was nearly the same. Those who dissented went off with high heads
and taunting language; and those who kept to their organized senti-
ments, appeared excited and sorrowful; and when this dividing spirit
entered the society of Friends, it raged in as high degree there as
any I had before discovered. As before, those who separated went
off with haughty looks and taunting, censuring language. Those who
kept to their ancient principles retired by themselves.
84
"It next appeared in the lodges of the Free Masons, and it broke
out in appearance like a volcano, inasmuch as it set the country in an
uproar for a length of time. Then it entered politics throughout the
United States and did not stop until it produced a civil war, and an
abundance of human blood was shed in the course of the combat.
The Southern States lost their power, and slavery was abolished from
their borders.
"THEN A MONARCHIAL POWER AROSE-TOOK THE
GOVERNMENT OF THE STATES-ESTABLISHED A NA-
TIONAL RELIGION AND MADE ALL SOCIETIES TRIBU-
TARY TO THE SUPPORT OF ITS EXPENSES. I saw them
take property from the Friends to a large amount and, amazed, I
heard a voice proclaim: 'THIS POWER SHALL NOT ALWAYS
STAND: BUT WITH THIS POWER I WILL CHASTISE MY
CHURCH UNTIL THEY RETURN TO THE FAITHFUL-
NESS OF THEIR FOREFATHERS. Thou seest what is coming
on thy native land for their iniquity and the blood of Africa, the
remembrance of which has come up before Me. This vision is yet
for many days.' "
I had no idea of writing it down for many years, until it became
such a burden that for my own relief I have written it.
(signed) Joseph Hoag.
THE VISION oF GENERAL McCLELLAND
General McClelland, at two o'clock of the third night
after his arrival in Washington to take command of the
Union Army, was working on his maps. In relating the
experience, the General stated that he passed into a
trance-like condition during which he heard a voice and
was given a vision of the placement of enemy troops
that enabled him to prevent a Confederate victory. The
only part of the vision of interest now is that which per-
tains to the future. Here is McClelland's story:
For a while previous to this, however, I had been conscious of a
shining light on my left that steadily increased until the moment I
ceased my task, when it became, in an instant, more intense than the
noonday sun. Quickly I raised my eyes, and never, were I to live
85
forever, should I forget what I saw. The dim, shadowy figure was
no longer a dim, shadowy one, but a glorified refulgent figure of
Washington, Father of His Country, and now, for a second time, its
savior.
My friend, it would be utterly impossible for me to attempt to
describe the majesty of that returned spirit. I can only say that
Washington, as I beheld him in my dream (or trance as you may
choose to call it), was the most God-like being I could have ever
conceived of. Like a weak, dazzled bird, I sat gazing at the heavenly
vision from the sweet and silent repose of Mount Vernon. Our
Washington had risen, to once more encircle and raise up with his
saving arm our fallen and bleeding country. As I continued looking,
an expression of sublime benignity came gently upon his visage, and
for the last time I heard that slow, solemn voice saying something
like this:
"General McClelland, while yet in the flesh I beheld the birth of
the American Republic. It was indeed a hard and bloody one, but
God's blessing was upon the nation, and therefore, through this great
struggle for existence, He sustained her with His mighty hand and
brought her out triumphantly. A century has not passed since then,
and yet the child republic has taken her position, a peer with nations
whose pages of history extend for ages into the past. She has (since
those dark days, by the favor of God) greatly prospered, and now,
by the very reason of this prosperity, she has been brought to her
second great struggle, this, so far the most perilous ordeal she has to
endure, is to pass, as she is, from childhood to opening maturity.
"She is called on to accomplish that vast result--self-conquest; to
learn that important lesson--self-control, self-rule, that in the future
will place her in the van of power and civilization. It is here that
all the nations have hitherto failed, and she, too-the republic of the
earth, had not God willed otherwise--would by tomorrow's sunset,
have been a heap of stones, cast up over the final grave of human
liberty. But her cries have come up out of the borders like sweet
incense unto heaven. She shall be saved. Then shall peace once
more be upon her, and prosperity shall fill her with joy. But her
mission will not then be finished, for ere another century shall have
gone by, THE OPPRESSORS OF THE WHOLE EARTH, hating
and envying her and her exaltation, SHALL JOIN THEMSELVES
TOGETHER AND RAISE UP THEIR HANDS AGAINST
86
HER. But if she be found worthy of her high calling, they shall
be truly discomfited and then will be ended her third and last strug-
gle for existence. Henceforth, shall the Republic go on, increasing
in goodness and power, until her borders shall end only in the re-
motest corners of the earth, and the whole earth shall, beneath her
shadowy wings, become a universal republic.
"Let her in prosperity, however, remember the Lord her God.
"Let her trust in Him and she shall never be confounded."
The heavenly visitant ceased speaking, and as I still continued gaz-
ing on him, drew near to me and raised and placed his hands above.
No sound now passed his lips, but I felt a strange influence coming
over me. I inclined my head to receive his blessing, "the baptism of
the spirit of Washington." The following instant peals of thunder
rolled in upon me, and I awoke. The visitor had departed and I .
again was sitting in my apartment with everything exactly as it was
before I fell asleep, with a few exceptions. The maps of which I
had dreamed I had been marking were literally covered with a net
of pencil signs and figures. I arose to my feet and rubbed my eyes,
and took a turn or two around the room to recover myself. I was
awake, but the pencilings were as plain as ever. I had before me as
complete a map and repository of information as though I had spent
several years in gathering and recording its details.
Another American prophecy is that found in a book
written in California, purportedly while the author was
under the control of an unseen master. This book, "A
Dweller on Two Planets," was written in 1884. This
prophecy is in agreement with many others and is being
confirmed by the signs of the times.
During many, many centuries prophecy hath looked forward to the
end of the Age as a time of awful woe, and has pictured dread scenes
of terminal horror. Am I come to say that all these predictions shall
fail? Is the Book of the Apocalypse mere allegory? Would it were!
Shall America, the glorious, together with the rest of the world, meet
similar woe? Alas, worse, though not by water, but by fire. Shall
all be wiped out of existence leaving a planet in ruins? Unto the
end of full obedience and the coming into harmony with divine law
87
shall the lash be applied; words may not portray the scenes. This is
the Message of the End of the Age:
The hour hath struck. And yet in all of this there is no mystery,
no supernatural penalty, no capricious infliction by an offended per-
sonal God, and nothing of "man's necessity, God's opportunity." It
is all of man's own doing. He hath wandered from the Way, and
hath for the God-nature in him, which he should have revered and
nourished, substituted worship of self and of mammon; hath cast out
love, and placed violence, lust, greed and all the riotous animalism in
him in command of his life. Man is his own judge and executioner.
Man is the type and the universe is the print; nature patterns after
man, not man after nature. He, a being of free-will, hath brought
all coming woes of judgment to be inevitable; he must endure, as he
hath sown; so must he reap. 0 Man! forgetter of love, of mercy,
of right; breeder of hate, of cruelty, and of the inhumanity that hath
and still doth make countless millions mourn, is it possible that thou
hast been blind to the handwriting on the wall? Alas, yes, thou
hast! Rampant is the spirit of selfishness, of greed, of merciless gain;
its hand guides the trains and steamers, clicks the telegraph keys,
operates the telephone and cables, makes a mockery of free speech,
shackles the press so that it dares to utter only that which cannot of-
fend its master; every human enterprise, all national policies and
international committees, all things, even the churches, are willing
vassals to this fiend, SELF. What then? Ruin is on all sides, the
human race and all lower creatures its victims. Masons at work on
a high wall shout as a brick falls: "Stand from under!"
Aye, stand from under! A world is falling! Frenzied millions of
men and women, boys and girls, no longer free save in name, are
menaced with starvation. Hungry, cold, half-clad, shelterless only
too often, denied the chance to work, however willing they may be,
corporation-owned machinery their competitor; monopoly and trust-
ridden, sleeping or waking. This inhuman picture is the rule, not
the exception. Thou knowest this full well. I state nothing new in
this regard, and the awful facts are under-drawn instead of exag-
gerated. All of this, although in far, far less degree, has been so at
the ending of every age. But it can never be so again after this for
HERE THE WAY DIVIDES.
In the full time by fire the Reaper shall reap,
found for physical safety by the unchanged heart.
88
and no place be
But the time of
it shall be foreshortened, else no flesh could remain alive. Stand
from under! The roar of armed hosts must succeed the thunderous
mutterings of the times. No more is there any chance to prevent the
coming retribution (albeit it may seem unduly deferred), for the
causes have had their way. Too late is it even to modify the result
of the misguidance of that spirit whose hand sways the helm. A
short, but sharp conflict, sanguinary past belief, even now reddens on
the horizon. The trained armies, millions of men active or in re-
serve, that are now engaged in conquest, fevered with war, will but
little longer, comparatively, submit to having themselves and loved
ones ground under the heel and strangled by the hand of that or-
ganized thing, capital, which, itself is merely the natural fruit of
selfishness, none the less is a riotous animal principle, compelling the
few to be masters of the many, denying the God-born declaration
that all men are created free and equal, and warping it to seem a
giant lie.
Soon millions of trained soldiers will turn upon the visible repre-
sentatives, the wealthy and worldly prosperous, who in reality are
not more responsible than will be their assailants, of that relentless
force behind all human enterprise. Later they will break up into
lawless bands, each self-server's hand weaponed against his fellow
creatures. Then will the pent-up hate, the savagery and selfishness
begotten by ages of selfishness ruled by unbridled animalism break in
a storm such as the world hath never yet seen, no, not during all the
ages I scan.
That loveless conflict will initiate that which, nature completing,
will leave living but one where now are many. Hard and fast after
the human conflict will come pestilences unparalleled, sweeping the
wide earth over, for in that day none will pause to bury the slain
until the evil is wrought, nor then, for the dead of the plagues will
be as thousands for every one by violence. And all this because the
love that should grace and soften men's hearts, each for all and all
for each, dried up and became a mockery in the close of the ended
cycle, leaving but scattered cases, few and far between.
Nature follow~ man. Wherefore the waters of the earth will dry
out, rains be withheld, cyclones sweep, and an earthquake come such
as was not since man was on the earth. But all of this will occur only
through natural causes, and in consonance with the selfishness, lust,
greed, anger and general depravity of the type. As these blaze in
89
the human breast, so shall the air, dry and vaporless under brazen
skies, develop solar heats more fierce than history ever knew. A
parched earth, furnace-like, piling all flesh mountain high; pestilences
stalking unchecked. 0 ye! Blind to the handwriting on the wall,
which flickers still, though writ for a spent cycle. Turn now and
read while yet the last midnight stroke reverberates.
When will these things be? When you see Jerusalem surrounded
by encampments, you may know that desolation is near.
The armies are beginning to gather around Jerusalem.
Britain recently sent reinforcements into Palestine to
put down clashes between Jews and Arabs, and to guard
against a new wave of bloody terror sweeping the Holy
Land.
Keep your eye on Palestine. Many prophecies point
to the Holy Land as the barometer of the next few
years.
PHILIP DRu: ADMINISTRATOR
THE PROPHECY oF CoLoNEL EDWARD MANDELL HousE
During the winter of 1911 Colonel House, who a
few years later came into national power as adviser and
alter ego of Woodrow Wilson, was ill at his home in
Texas. During his convalescence b.e wrote the manu-
script for a book published the following year titled
"Philip Dru: Administrator." This book, now out of
print, is a remarkable prophecy. A flexible currency
based upon commercial assets, old age pensions, unem-
ployment insurance, graduated income and excess profits
taxes and several other progressive suggestions have be-
come laws of the nation since the book was written. The
most noteworthy prophecy awaits fulfillment. It fore-
tells the American dictator:
90
Philip Dru was a West Point graduate who resigned
from the army following injury to his eyes and went
into social service work. A conspiracy of Wall Street
to secure absolute control over the legislative and ad-
ministrative branches of the government was discovered
which led to a revolt of the people. Philip Dru assumed
command of the insurgents, marched upon Washington,
D. C., defeated the regulars, took over the government
and became dictator. During the seven years of Philip
Dru's term as administrator, he revised the laws, re-
formed the courts, rewrote the constitution, eliminated
the rich owning and governing class, introduced an econ-
omy of abundance and returned the government to the
people. A new Monroe Doctrine was formulated, the
Americas unified, and harmony established between the
U.S. A. and all other nations.
C9nsidering that "Philip Dru: Administrator" was
written by Colonel House long before the epidemic of
dictators, totalitarian states, fascism and world wars, it
is indeed a strange coincidence to find present events
pointing to fulfillment of the prophecy of Colonel
House foretelling the rise of a beneficient dictator. It
appears, however, that we will first be cursed, between
the years of 1941 and 1945, with a malign form of
fascist dictatorship.
91
CHAPTER VII
PROPHECIES FROM THE SPIRIT wORLD
PROPHECIES FROM THE LAND OF SPIRIT
The following opinions of the state of the nation and
of the world were given shortly after the end of the war
of 1914-1918.
Messages from the spirit world have been coming to
our three dimensional world with increasing frequency
since the beginning in 1848 of the cycle of Kosman. As
the views that follow are all those of men who occupied
a prominent place in government during the years they
lived on earth, we will find them worthy of our con-
sideration.
Like attracts like upon every plane of existence. This
is a rule operative throughout the universe. People go
to an uneducated medium living in filth and squalor, and
expect to receive messages from heaven. Common
sense should tell them that clear water is not to be had
from a muddy pool. If one expects messages of worth
from our unseen helpers, is it not reasonable to assume
that one must find a medium who is of like caliber in
mind, morals and character to the one from whom light
is sought?
The following messages purport to be from several of
the men who were leading minds during the years in
which they lived on earth. The medium through whom
these messages came was also possessed of mind and
92
talent on a plane with his unseen v1s1tors. Francis
Grierson was a poet, an outstanding musician, a leading
writer on "The New Age" of London, a friend of the
intelligensia, eminent in philosophy, art, music, litera-
ture and journalism in Europe and America, and with
it all possessed of psychic gifts extraordinary.
Edwin Bjorkman says, in his "Voices of Tomorrow":
"To Francis Grierson belongs the honor of having
first attained to prophetic vision of the common goal.
In his first volume, published in Paris in 1889, he sug-
gested every idea which since then has become recog-
nized as essential not only to Bergson and Maeterlinck,
but to the constantly increasing number of writers en-
gaged in making the time conscious of its own spirit."
The messages that follow appeared in a book, printed
in 1921, titled "Psycho-Phone Messages" published in
Los Angeles by the Austin Publishing Company. We
are indebted to the daughter of Dr. B. F. Austin for
permission to reproduce them in this volume.
It is suggested that the reader note the differences in
style and language of the various messages. We leave
it to historians familiar with the writings of the men
purporting to speak through Francis Grierson to evaluate
the truth of the claims as to their source.
THE L AT E GENERAL u. s. GRANT
Recorded September Ninth, 1920
The imbroglio started by President Carranza is beginning to in-
fluence the politicians of Buenos Aires and other centers in South
America. They have secretly repudiated the Monroe Doctrine.
Their next maneuver will be a public repudiation.
I would say to Congress, stop juggling with phrases and attend to
the business of the hour. The majority has been chasing shadows in
93
a sphere of politics illumined by moonshine bottled in the Blue
Ridge. I was more careful of my brand. When President Lincoln
asked for the label, so he could recommend it to other generals, he
was not far wrong in his surmises. It is not so much the thing as the
quality that counts. Most of you at Washington will have to learn
the difference between inhibition and prohibition.
The United States will be isolated within three years from this
date if the blowhards from the woolly constituencies are not sup-
pressed. You need a broncho buster in the Senate and a donkey
muzzler in the House.
When a boycott is started by the countries south of the Union,
your enemies in Europe will begin to act. It ~s not a question of
commerce, but of common sense. I repeat what Lincoln said in
1862: "The times are dark and the spirits of ruin are abroad in all
their power."
My message to Congress is: See that fifty thousand troops are
stationed permanently near the District of Columbia.
My message to the Governors of New York, Pennsylvania and Illi-
nois is: Get ready! The troops on the borders of Texas, New
Mexico and Arizona are inadequate. The fortifications of the
Panama and at San Diego and San Pedro are inadequate. You are
in the same condition the French were in previous to 1789, when
the motto was, "After us the Deluge." The Deluge came but it did
not consist of water.
Our foes of the old Germany and the new Russia count on crippling
the United States through South America, with the aid of Japan ;
but he who delivers the first blow will be the victor.
The Germans still believe they can eventually invade France, enter
Paris and cause a revolution, found a new empire to include France,
Belgium, Holland and Switzerland, with Italy later on. This dream
includes a practical understanding with Soviet Russia, which, by that
time, they expect would be weary of futile experiments. Plots will
be exposed that will make it apparent ·how vain some of your op-
timistic surmises have been. Diplomats who are not psychologists
will be balked by developments in Switzerland, that nation having
become the rendezvous of disillusioned wire-pullers without a coun-
try.
You are now at the cross-roads. Take the wrong turning and you
will come to the skull and cross bones.
I could say much more, but we are not yet experts in this new
mode of intercommunication and must be brief.
94
GENERAL u. s. GRANT
(Second Message)
Recorded May Third, 1921
Congress has never been so supine and so serpentine.
Millions are sent to the people of distant countries in no way re-
lated to our government or people, and yet Congress permits thou-
sands of veterans of the great war to continue in a state of neglect,
suffering and humiliation.
Do the authorities believe that when the day of trial arrives, the
friends and relatives of these veterans will hurry to volunteer for ac-
tive service? The country is being fascinated by incidents and
events in far-off regions, and the tragic conditions at home have
entered a chronic stage.
There are too many old men in Congress-, men who never did
more than fight grasshoppers or watch a game of football from re-
served seats.
The politicians of Buenos Ayres have now spoken as I predicted
in my first message. They have attacked Mr. Harding for his speech
on Pan-Americanism, all of which goes to prove that the President is
repeating for South America Mr. Wilson's blunders in France.
Remember what Lincoln said to Judge Whitney:-
"Those fellows think I don't see anything, but I see all around
them. I see better what they want to do with me than they do
themselves."
The politicians of South America see better what the President
wants to do with them than he does himself.
The administration will face a critical period in the early fall.
There will be a break in the dominant phalanx. A social and politi-
cal readjustment will compel mediation in the most unexpecteci
quarters.
THOMAS JEFFERSON
Few politicians understand the difference between scene-shifting
and progress. Things shift, new names are applied, but the vicious
circle continues.
I see no evidence that human nature has changed since my time, in
this or any other country.
If the Republican ship of state is leaking, the Democratic craft is
drifting without sail or rudder. What your statesmen fail to under-
95
stand is that progress is not induced by force but by free will. New
political planks rammed into your platforms against the wishes of the
majority are without significance. The phrase, "The Solid South,"
which meant something vital at one time, has no meaning in these
days of quick change and movie-show influences.
Democracy, in some sections, is a matter of climate. If you have
come to a point where science and sentimentality are engaged in a
drastic war, then the democratic phalanx must undergo some rude
changes.
The Democratic tail wagged the Republican dog for some time,
but that curious spectacle has lost its hold on public interest. It is
not now a question of one end wagging the other, but who will wag
both. If Republicans stand for crude force, and Democrats for ante-
bellum sentimentality, both are doomed together. .
In the South, Democracy means politics at the polls, aristocracy in
the parlor. In the North, Republicanism means the aristocracy of
wealth.
However, your conception of social equality is undergoing modifi-
cation.
In Washington's time, the slogan was "revolution"; in Lincoln's
time it was "abolition"; in your time it is "prohibition"; which
reminds me that laws passed in haste bring long periods of repentance.
Effective effrontery is the result of courageous ignorance, for mil-
lions are more easily influenced by illusive promises than by the les-
sons of experience.
Modern civilization has hurried to meet four deadly things-
riches, pleasures, materialism and war.
BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
There is but one mark of patriotism and that is vigilance and en-
thusiasm. The cause of your trouble is the sincerity with which your
foes think and act and the lukewarm sentiment shown by Americans.
The reason is to be found in the comfort and luxury of the present
day as compared with the pioneer sacrifices of your fathers and grand-
fathers. :Your opponents are vindictive as well as vigilant. They
mean what they say and do what they will. They are working as
individuals, as well as in groups and parties, but Americans who in-
herited the land with liberty are exchanging both for the license of
the law.
When the school teachers and farm hands are permitted to leave
96
the country for the city, the end is not so far off as your sophisticated
salons of the State Capitols would lead you to suppose.
I once stated that three movings equal one fire, and I can say now
that the lack of teachers and farm hands has resulted in a damage
equal to one revolution. No calamity comes and goes single handed.
The world, the flesh and the devil are a triumvirate bound together
by ties of consanguinity. Your school teachers are passing over to the
world, your farm laborers to the flesh, and your ministers to the devil.
The nation will awake one day to the disillusioning fact that peace
and progress can not be gauged by commercial prosperity alone. For
without food, what avails your steel, your oil and your gold?
If you could witness the mortifications poor Andrew Carnegie is
now undergoing because of his lack of vision, you would have a les-
son not soon forgotten. He built libraries but furnished no books to
fill them. It was like building houses without windows. When
leading business men commit such folly what can you expect of the
nation at large?
The three things most needed by the people are food, raiment and
shelter. The next three are instruction, religion and discipline.
Liberty i$ a privilege; it comes after all the others. The individual
has no rights inimical to those of the collective conscience.
Until you learn this fundamental maxim, all your knowledge will
prove but a sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal.
The nations are rattling over the cobble stones of bankruptcy on a
buckboard of compromise, on the high road to revolution.
JoHN MARSHALL
(The Expounder of the Constitution)
Recorded October, 1920
Some recent decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States
are, more than any other factor, calculated to develop and foster an
element of natural unrest. Its deliberations are beyond the intelli-
gence of many and above the interests of the majority. Its psychology
is that of a divorce between capital and labor. Its rulings remind me
of what transpired in England early in the nineteenth century.
Many who were not socialists are beginning to turn from the
older order, imbued with the feeling that nothing could happen for
the country at large, in the future, worse than the conditions that are
being endured in the present.
97
A revolution arrives after a series of connected events which ex-
haust the patience of the public, and events are moving with in-
tensity as well as rapidity.
Many of the smaller nations, instead of being content with their
liberty, have thrown it away for the license that always goes with
land grabbing. For a nation is nothing more than an individual with
a certain amount of collective ambition.
Much of the work of the League of Nations will have to be un-
done. But it will not be undone by any League. The nations will
settle differences in accordance with the law that permits the more
powerful to wield control commensurate with their geographical and
intellectual importance.
All people have rights which ought to be respected, but some have
privileges as well as rights, and the privileged will hold the upper
hand as long as intelligence takes precedence of illiteracy, energy
dominates over lethargy, and the power of organized numbers rules
over minorities.
Your statesmen and your mediators will have to learn the distinc-
tion between rights and privileges. All are supposed to possess com-
mon rights under the common law, but it is wisdom, supported by
poise and power, that constitutes privilege. David and Solomon
were privileged. So were Alfred the Great, Washington and
Lincoln.
A nation is temperamental like an individual. The temperament
may be vascillating or it may be stolid; it may be logical or it may be
commercial; or a combination of the Saxon and the Celt.
The nations that will hold the balance of power in the future will
be the ones with the most will and poise, backed by number. Riches
alone will not save. Wealth did not save Germany from disaster,
nor did it help Napoleon III to ward off the Prussian invasion in
1870. Wealth invites invasion and conquest. This is why Eng-
land and America will now be the principal target for the ambitious
and the discontented. This is why Japan seeks a firm foothold in
China, and the Russians an entrance to India through Persia.
Without the prospects of loot there would be no war. When am-
bition and glory lure a nation on, the desire for loot supplies the
motor force. When hunger forces a people to invade a nation, loot
becomes a necessity.
What the wealthy of every nation refuse to understand, or even
to consider, is that material force engenders vanity, individualism,
rivalry and envy. All manifestations of force contain an element of
98
disintegration. The type of a nation will always represent the policy
and the trend of the nation.
The supreme blunder of the Peace Conference was made wh.en
the delegates, with Mr. Wilson at their head, refused to face the fact
that no nation can rise above the ideals and idiosyncrasies of the
national temperament, and that sudden liberation from restraint is
as dangerous for a country as it is for an individual.
There is but one step between liberty and license, and that step
meant pandemonium for all classes in Russia. For other peoples it
may mean political bondage and the total loss of a national spirit.
For the Hindoos it will mean civil wars between the different native
rulers; for China, it has meant a series of revolutions and counter
revolutions which may have to be suppressed by the drastic hand of a
Japanese Bonaparte.
The League Conference at Versailles took no account of the work-
ing of natural law. Sentimentality was the key-note of Mr. Wilson's
idealism, and commercial expansion the dominant idea of his op-
ponents.
As for religion exerting any fundamental influence for peace and
right thinking, it caused Protestants to fight Protestants and Catholics
to fight Catholics, while German and Austrian cardinals did all in
their power to aid in the invasion and conquest of Belgium and
France on one hand, and Italy, the stronghold of the Papal See, on
the other; and all this in the face of the statement of the Kaiser that
Catholicism must be destroyed. Nothing like it has been known
since the dawn of Christianity.
The only apparent reason for the quiescent attitude of some of the
smaller nations is that they are without the material means of waging
war on their neighbors.
Just as long as politicians are impelled by self-interest there will
be found nations that will have to use force for the suppression of
license and the curtailment of liberty. In every country the people
are getting what their thoughts and deeds create for them.
DANIEL WEBSTER
You will .search the pages of history in vain without finding a
parallel to present conditions.
The war gave Bohemia her freedom; at the same time it licensed a
Bohemian poet to keep Italy stewing in her own juice, a Bohemian
journalist from New York to direct affairs in Moscow, and a
Bohemian socialist from Switzerland to rule over Russia.
99
Added to this, a fashionable ladies' pianist has tried his hand, or
should I say fingers, in the science of unfurling the sails of Poland's
new Ship of State, while shop-keepers direct affairs in Germany and
pusilanimous politicians keep the people in America in a state of
tepid trepidation and flatulent turmoil. Can you wonder that the
country is being hypnotized by the sight of so many cantankerous
cataleptics?
Macbeth declared he had waded in so far that returning would be
as perilous as going on. Nothing will move them until they are
· swamped by the high tide of reaction and flung as flotsam on the
rocks of a stormy opportunism.
A new Damocles has a sword suspended over the National Capitol,
and liberty hangs to the hinges of the Constitution by a hair.
BENJAMIN DISRAELI
Some Members of Parliament have lost their reason, the majority
have lost their wits, all are without vision.
Lloyd George presents the curious spectacle of a man of the peo-
ple who observes them through the glasses of a Welsh Calvinist. He
is a democrat with demeanor of a lord, a radical who has fallen be-
tween the two stools of the middle-class and the landed aristocracy.
Nonconformist sentimentality, on one hand, and titled wealth on the
other, have blinded him to the imperative needs of the time and the
dangers that confront the Empire.
The English people of the past twenty years have suffered as much
from misgovernment as the Germans and the Russians, but they can~
not stop the present stream of progress by clatter in the House and
appeals to patriotism.
For years England has been saddled with cabinets composed of
professional humorists and humdrum moralists.
Augustine Birrell was a diluted edition of Sydney Smith, and
Bonar Law should have been a professor of theology in a Presbyterian
seminary. Sir Edward Carson played the role of an unfrocked priest
in the service of the Creator. Earl Curzon is a political derelict
whose presence in the Council Chamber prevents unity and impedes
progress.
History will record their acts as the most amazing in the annals of
Great Britain. I see nothing for the old order. but unconditional
surrender. The hand-writing on the wall was visible in 1909, but no
preparation was made for the change which is now sweeping the
country with cyclonic force.
100
We, from our side, can do no more than utter some words of warn-
ing for the few who have ears to hear, the tidal wave of change not
being confined to particular countries or regions.
I, too, when Prime Minister, was blind to the reality, having been
born and reared in an atmosphere as foreign to that of the masses as
the atmosphere of the Winter Palace was foreign to the peasants of
Russia.
We staggered under the load of a wealthy and titled upper class.
They consumed the people's time and imposed infinite misery on ·
some millions of toilers, and for these things we rewarded the men at
the top with fresh titles.
As you know, I led the Conservative party in England for many
years, but that party was, and still is, avid for power.
The Liberal party was made up of men using Nonconformity as an
instrument of advancement. They placed opportunity above the
truth, position above principle, power above progress. We were all
intellectual automatons, set in motion by springs wound up by leaders
who were themselves automatons.
England goes by machinery. Her very existence is mechanical.
Now, when a loose screw stops the revolution of the wheels, the whole
nation stops.
In what way can we be said to excel in probity of conduct the peo-
ple of Ireland? In what way are we superior to Irish politicians?
The scandals that occurred in London during the war would not
have been tolerated in Dublin under an Irish Parliament. And still
England is being led by a Welsh Calvinist, opposed by a Scottish
humorist who says his prayers, backed by Anglican agnostics and mid-
dle-class dissenters overwhelmed with fear.
We always imitate the French, but while we accepted Voltairianism
in principle, the French had the courage to put it into practice.
While the French became practical pagans in 1789, we became
practical hypocrites.
It is this element that has created the moral indifference of the
Anglican Church and the intellectual apathy of the so-called Non-
conformist conscience. This is why there is no stability behind the
old phraseology, the old ceremonials, the old confessions of faith-
now so many catch-words which the people abhor. And this is why
the working men find it so easy to send their leaders to Parliament.
For the same reason Russian radicalism is certain of a warm welcome
on English soil.
It is true that this hypocrisy is subconscious, having had its origin
101
during the French Revolution. This renders it far more dangerous
because political leaders in England today are mentally incompetent to
realize the danger that lies before them.
We cannot reason with people whose vision is dulled by four
generations of moral apathy. Hence they will continue to "kick
against the pricks" to the bitter end. There will be strife added to
strife, confusion to confusion, and they, themselves, will invite the
drastic events which must follow so much stubborn resistance to the
demands of common justice and the progress of civilization.
PRINCE BISMARCK
Recorded November 3rd, 1920
When I imposed an indemnity of five billion francs on the French
people in 1870, we knew that the money could and would be paid.
But there is no parallel between Germany in 1920 and France in
1870. The Reparations Commission has only succeeded in proving its
incompetence. The German delegates have shown that the Allied
war claims amount to more than five hundred billion marks (gold),
which is nearly four thousand billions at the present rate of exchange.
This fantastic sum, one hundred times more than France paid to
Germany in 1870, is expected of a country on the verge of revolution
and chaos. I charge this Commission with incompetence, extrava-
gance, luxurious living, and claims at once absurd and ridiculous.
You punish some of the most dangerous criminals by indeterminate
sentences, which frequently end after a year's imprisonment, but you
expect to hold the German people in financial bondage for more than
a generation to come because of the criminal blunders of less than a
hundred individuals.
I was blinded by material factors at the time of my seeming
triumphs but now I can see some of the things which will never come
to pass. The French and the English are repeating some of the
blunders I made fifty years ago. They are counting on conditions
which will never exist, like a bird sitting on a nest of mixed eggs
from which the cuckoo will eventually oust all the other birds.
French people are under the illusion that Russia will meet the ob-
ligations undertaken by the late Czar. To expect such a thing shows
the child-like illusions under which French fanatics are living. They
are still wrapped in the swaddling clothes of politics.
102
We committed crimes that have brought civilization to the brink
of chaos, but we are not capable of such naivete.
The logic of a Frenchman is no better than the mysticism of a
Russian or the sentimentality of an Englishman. French people
learned nothing from the blunders of Napoleon Ill and the debacle
of Sedan. And the reason? They have remained provincial while
the Germans imitated the commercial cosmopolitanism of the English.
Advice is the cheapest of all things. · Nevertheless, I advise your
statesmen to place no reliance on sentimental contracts written on
paper foredoomed to become "scraps."
I do not hesitate to declare that no agreement signed since 1913 is
worth more than the seals. In Europe, leaders and rulers have passed
from an international game of chess to a national gamble with marked
cards.
You have now to deal with an element which did not exist in my
time. This element embraces all factions of the new radicalism, no
matter in what country or under what leader. Some of these elements
may unite, but they are not going to change. How, then, can you
undertake to insure the future by contracts signed and sealed by
elderly gentlemen with good intentions and poor judgment?
The war gave the new factions the long wished-for opportunity.
They seized it in Russia, in Germany, in Poland, in Britain, and
other countries. But the opportunities created by the war are one
thing, the opportunities of tomorrow will be different, and it is this
contingency for which your leaders are not prepared. You will have
to select men of vision who will judge events as they arrive, without
regard to the distant future, which belongs to no man.
One of my greatest mistakes was in separating Protestant Prussia
from the interests of the Catholics of South Germany.
The new radicalism is opposed to some things which are ir-
revocably linked with religious doctrine.
Without the Catholic Church all Europe would be in the throes of
the Commune. The principal cause of our disintegration was that
we sanctioned Protestant flirtation with modern materialism.
France is beginning to see that even a weak monarchy is better than
a radical government without a God.
You may expect a return of the monarchy in more than one coun-
try. Agnostics and Protestants, moved by fear on one side, and
disgust on the other, will unite for a restoration as their la~t hope.
There will be a repetition of historic events.
103
Bonaparte was ushered in by the French Revolution, and his ad-
vent was followed by three kings and one emperor.
The majority treat their rulers as children treat their toys: when the
novelty wears off, a change is demanded.
Political psychology and religious sentiment are not the same thing.
Nevertheless, they must be considered together. The Germans are
not awaiting the hour when the inevitable change will be de-
manded. Events take crowns from some heads and place them on
others. If the ex-Kaiser ever occupies the throne again, a modern
Nero will fiddle amidst the ruins of German imperialism, for you
know he meddled with fiddle strings as well as with political wires.
You think it strange? The impossible is always happening.
Never lose sight of the fact that an organized minority is more
formidable than a disorganized majority. Three men brought about
the coup d'etat that placed the outcast Louis Napoleon on the throne;
one man started the Russian Revolution, I planned the overthrow of
the Second Empire with the aid of Count von Moltke. The majority
put their trust in numbers, but the bigger a thing grows, the nearer
it is to disintegration. An autocratic minority ruled in Germany,
an automatic majority rules in France and England. Two men
started the present rule in Moscow, both of them from the outside.
"God has been merciful to us," said Cavour, in the Italian Senate,
"He has made Spain one degree lower than Italy." God has been
merciful to Germany, He has made Russian communism more ab-
horrent than German socialism.
Nothing will be left undone by the French government to secure
permanent occupation of the coal district of the Rhine.
Conditions will not remain long as they are. They are preparing
decisive coups in Bavaria, Hanover, Austria, and Hungary. New
combinations will amaze your statesmen and diplomats, who are
ignorant of the fact that changes and upheavals operate in cycles of
three and seven. What they call chance is the working of law.
Spiritual forces operate through the physical, and nature will take a
hand in the reactions of Petrograd and Moscow. Cold, Hunger and
Starvation will dissipate the hopes of the ruling minority. Untold
numbers will be sacrificed.
During the French Revolution philosophers and thinkers were
decapitated. In Russia such men are killed by hunger, the difference
being one of method.
Such conditions will be repeated in different countries until people
104
learn that the spiritual cannot be separated from the material without
pain and slaughter.
After all the long-winded conferences and shorthand reports,
nothing is left but a confusion of blots on the tissue paper of time.
I may say more on another occasion.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN
Events come and go in cycles-there is a beginning, a middle and
an end. The League of Nations had a beginning and it will have an
end. But what kind of an end? Will it be one of victory or one
of ignominy?
The two fatal blunders of the Kaiser and his cohorts consisted in
the delusion that England could not raise, equip and transport a
body of troops sufficient to offer adequate resistance to the invaders of
France in conjunction with the French and Belgian armies, and that
America could not or would not join the European allies.
At the present juncture the inimical forces, both in continental
Europe and in America, are repeating the old blunders under fresh
conditions.
History is a repetition of the old tunes with new variations. Just
now the fireworks of sophistry and rhetoric drown out the familiar
tune and what is heard is the buzz-saw of political machinery.
Hyenas are gnawing the_bones left by the lion rampant of Czar-
dom; and Siberia, the remnant, is being consumed by jackals from
Japan. It remains to be seen how long voters with American pedigrees
will be influenced by demagogues who would induce them to part
with their birthright for a mess of pottage burnt on the bottom.
The longer you wink at anarchy in Europe, the greater will be the
menace of social chaos at home. The worship of shibboleths cannot
be kept up beyond a point where the majority grow tired of hocus-
pocus politics and academical agnosticism.
There should be harmony of interests in dealing with the people
of Mexico, from whom you have much to learn in many ways.
The Obregon Government should be recognized at Washington
and immediate steps taken to insure cordial relations between the two
countries.
The City of Mexico is a capital with a great future.
You are about to pass through a period of great confusion. Warn-
ings have been given but not heeded. Unless you cease to theorize>
105
and propagate a spirit of justice and judgment, the near future will
develop something more than storms in the blue china teapots of
diplomacy.
GENERAL BENJAMIN H. GRIERSON
1826-1911
Late Commander of the Military Department of Southern California,
Arizona and New Mexico
In 1914 western civilization was threatened by a military autoc-
racy centralized at Berlin. Europe is now threatened by a com-
munistic tyranny centralized at Moscow and by an autocratic aristoc-
racy centered in Japan, anti-Christian, anti-democratic, anti-Ameri-
can. You may call it fate or destiny, it matters not so long as you
know what the signs and portents are.
We can see what is going on in the navy yards of the Nipponese
Empire. We have noted the strenuous efforts put forth in naval
preparations there.
A Japanese Bonaparte will soon dominate China and prevent
Christian propaganda throughout Asia. I could give you the dates
fixed for certain maneuvers and events in connection with Japanese
ambitions relating to America, but they could change the dates.
Suffice it to say they are making ready as fast as possible, much faster
than many in this country could be made to believe. When this
decisive moment arrives for action it will come suddenly, like the in-
vasion of Belgium by the Germans.
Here are some of their expectations:-
The invasion of the coast of Mexico and a coalition of Japanese
forces with some military faction in Mexico likely to be of practical
aid, the bombing of American cities on the Pacific Coast from the
air, virtual cessation of communication between certain sections east
of the Rocky Mountains and California, brought about not so much by
physical means as by revolutionary influences. They are counting
on a Soviet revolution east of the Rockies while they are gaining a
foothold in California.*
*General Grierson died in 191 1. The foregoing message was received in
1920. The "Tanaka Memorial" containing the military and economic plan of
world conquest since followed by Japan was not presented to the Emperor of
Japan until July 25, 1927, seven years after this message from General Grierson
was received.
106
One of their first attempts would be to bomb the railway passes in
the Cascades and the Sierra Nevadas.
General Grant has warned you in regard to the Panama Canal
and other points that need immediate attention. Millions would
be alarmed if they could realize how much the Government at Wash-
ington resembles the British Government just before the German
descent into Belgium. Are they waiting until they can spy the
enemy through field glasses?
I could give a map of the plans of approach of the Japanese navy,
intended to operate in separate units, but it would do no good. They
are ready to change their tactics at any time, and have done so more
than once.
Do not be surprised when I say that they proclaim the end of
Christian civilization was reached when the Anglo-Saxons took
possession of the Pacific Coast.
In the Far East, British domination attained its zenith in India;
in America, Anglo-Saxon influence attained its limit in California.
The possession of the Pacific Coast of North America is, therefore,
the limit for the dominant white race. The tocsin has sounded for
a Japanese avatar who will unify the political, commercial and.
religious forces of Japan and China, give the coup de grace to a
tottering civilization and dominate the world. So do they reason
and preach.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON
1757-1804
What do the clouds on the social horizon predict? Is nature a
book of fate? If so, is it open or sealed? Whoever understands the
political actions of the past can foresee the reactions of the future.
Human nature is always the same.
The two things brought to the surface by great upheavals are ex-
treme virtues and extreme vices. The virtues of self sacrifice, on the
one hand, the vice of self interest on the other. Vice is flexible, cun.-
ning, adaptable.
You are living at a time when profiteers amaze by their cynical
audacity, but profiteers have always existed. Before the war the
nobles of Russia and Germany were profiteers in landed privileges and
governmental perquisites. The tillers of the soil were free in name,
serfs in practice. In England two or three hundred lords and peers
107
possess the land. In America food profiteering began during the
Civil War. This national vice has never been attacked at the roots.
Your age is characterized by a high level of predatory ability and
a low level of prophetic visibility.
The old hackneyed phrase, "This is a free country,'' has been ap-
plied in varying degrees according to the caprice of the individual
with the most aggressive will.
New words, definitions, excuses, have been invented to meet the
new conditions, but of all the words yet brought into use, "camou-
flage" is the only one that covers the cynical effrontery of predatory
hypocrisy. It is a vocable of universal utility. It applies to the cock-
pits of commerce as well as to the arena of bull and bear politics.
It depicts a Hindoo patience in the pulpit and a Hoodoo palsy in
the pews.
The word "democracy" itself is the stripes painted on the sides of
the old Ship of State in her zigzag course to elude the torpedoes of
the proletarian submarines.
A capitalistic profiteer is a highbrow optimist who lives by the
sweat of the lowbrow pessimist. The stretching process will cease
suddenly like the snapping of a rubber stretched beyond the limit.
The masses without a voice always find articulation in the unlooked-
for man, the unlooked-for group.
The people without a mouthpiece are a mob, and no mob can run
itself for more than a few days. It is the initiated who lead, and
leadership requires time, patience, judgment.
In the world of genius there are no upstarts.
The great leader never rises suddenly. Bonaparte was a military
graduate, Grant was a product of West Point, Lincoln was thirty
years preparing for the Presidency, Lenin spent twenty years in the
study of economics. All countries have the same experience.
Voltaire endowed the middle classes of France with a voice, united
the disaffected of all classes, and peppered their indignation with
pungent epigrams. He created an intellectual garden for lovers of
liberty, and from the realm of the mind flung the thorns of ridicule
in the face of titled imbeciles and crowned the heads of scholars with
laurel.
The people of France were washed by Louis XIV, wrung by Louis
XV, ;md dried in the back yard of tyrannical economics by Louis XVI.
But it was the orators and pamphleteers who ironed out the frills
and furbelows of the old order.
108
The foregoing messages were recorded during the
year 1920. The following messages were recorded al-
most two decades later, during the latter months of
1939.
We are indebted to Jocelyn Pierson, editor, and the
Board of Trustees for permission to reprint the follow-
ing "War Prophecies" which first appeared in the Octo-
ber, 1939, number of the "Journal of the American So-
ciety for Psychical Research."
The questions were spoken aloud to the medium.
The answers were received through the automatic writ-
ing of Mrs. Ebling, a young, non-professional medium.
The prophecies purport to be those of William James
and F. W. H. Myers, both deceased and in control of
the hand of Mrs. Ebling.
William James (1842-1910) was a distinguished
American philosopher and professor of psychology at
Harvard from 1881 to the time of his death. He was
the outstanding psychologist of his day and the author
of several books on psychology and philosophy. He was
interested in psychical research and was one of the pio-
neers in that field.
Frederick W. H. Myers (1843-1901) was one of the
founders of the Society of Psychical Research. Among
the many books that he wrote during his life is "Human
Personality, Its Survival of Bodily Death." First pub-
lished in 1900 this famous study of clairvoyance, telep-
athy and related phenomena has been reprinted this year
by Longmans.
It is natural that both of these men, interested as they
were in psychical research, should maintain contact with
our world through the mediums investigated by the So-
109
ciety. The messages were automatically written on
March 20, 1939. Hitler had just taken Czechoslovakia
and Roumania, and the European situation had been de-
pressing Miss Pierson, who asked the questions. The
replies are quoted from the original manuscript and are
unaltered and unedited.
We are indeed blessed by the sphere of life to which God has com-
mitted us. We know of the chaos you are facing in your world. Life
is so ephemeral it is over almost before we are aware of its implications
on earth. That is why we need all of eternity to complete tasks to
which we had dedicated ourselves. Our work here is in part a work of
earth, since there is a constant interfiow of ideas. It is only in this
way that progress can be made on earth. This is the explanation of
the constantly evolving universe of mind and matter.
Question: ls it true that Hitler is a medium in the hands of lower
forces?
This is very true. That is why he must be alone so much. He
receives direct guidance from powers who are diabolical. Remember
the analogy of the temptation of our Lord when he was taken in
spirit to the top of the mountain and offered all the kingdoms of the
world if he would but yield allegiance to the Tempter. Hitler has
a group of mystics with him who are in touch with powerful lower
forces. He is forewarned in this way of moves made against him and
of the best time to stage his coups.
Question: ls it also true, as Chamberlain has been said to believe,
that he is inspired by the angels?
This I do not believe. He is a very astute politician whose
angelic voice is the voice of his own conscience which has been condi-
tioned by his loyalty to the imperial vested interests and the empire
in general.
Question: Do you think that when the showdown comes, Eng-
land and France will have a dog's chance?
The whole setup is now definitely to the advantage of the totali-
tarian states. They are now in control of strategic places and control
vast sources of raw materials which formerly they did not have.
Their air equipment alone is quite sufficient to blow up most of the
110
cities of France and England and in very quick order. The
democracies could now be quickly cowed by this superior air force.
Hitler is just biding his time to strike.
Question: Will it come this year?
No, the time is not ready. First the easterly advance and then
the western.
Question: Won't England and France be better able to defend
themselves by then? Have they become soft?
The democracies move too slowly. There is dissension of class
and caste within the ranks so that a united movement for an offensive
defense is not possible. They are being trapped by stupidity; pride
in their ancient sovereignty, and in the unrealistic attitude which
they have taken to Hitler in the past. It is almost too late now.
Question: What will happen? Will Germany dominate the
world?
No, it is deeper than that. It is a battle not only of nations but
of ideas. There will be fire and blood and steel. There will be
marching feet and droning motors. There will be darkness and
horror all over the civilized world before this thing is settled.
Question: How many years will it take us to come through this
and how much involved will this country be?
Within five years the fire will be raging. The conflagration will
leap from ocean to ocean, from nation to nation, and the struggle will
not be confined to the great powers. It will be fought as class against
class and brother against brother.
Question: Is this the coming of the anti-Christ prophesied by the
biblical books before the Second Coming of the Messiah?
This period strangely does correspond to all the signs and portents.
which have been predicted but no man can say when the Son of Man
will appear. Only the Supreme One who is within and about all that
exists has knowledge of when the Messiah will appear.
Question: Do you really think we will work into a more spiritual
age within our lifetimes or must we go through another "Dark Ages"?
These are "Dark Ages." The period which is to follow will be as
much more spiritual as this period is in comparison with medieval
111
times. We are fighting to emerge but the forces of evil are arrayed
against this flowering of divine hope and are trying to destroy the
work of centuries of Christian _
Teaching.
Question: Give us an answer to the age-old and perhaps foolish
question: Why is there evil?
If there was no evil, where would the good be? There would be
no basis for comparison. If there was no resistance,-no friction,
there would be no laws of physics. Light is created from darkness.
Matter is created from the void.
Question: Will we live to see the dawning of this new day?
You are within the dawning even as you are on the threshold of
the destruction of the things which have kept men in slavery these
centuries as well as opposing forces for good.
Question: May we ask you if the war will last a long time?
There will be one war after another until the causes of war have
been eliminated. This will probably be of a long duration.
Question: I've always understood that war really never did away
with the causes of war.
There will be compromise, concessions, education, martyrdom of
apostles of peace and a realization of the eventual necessity for some
other solution to the difficulties which exist between rival powers.
Question: I have always advocated a true Socialism, though doubt
the practicability of it because of the lack of spiritual and intellectual
equality. Is there going to be an enlightened Socialism in this coun-
try as a result of class strife, or a tyrannical collectivism?
Before the Utopia can materialize, you will probably get a very
bad form of dictatorship here due to war conditions.
April 11, 1939.
(It will be remembered that Mussolini moved into
Albania on April 7, 1939.)
Question: What shall it be--Europe or closer to home?
Whatever you choose.
Allow us to present a lugubrious essay entitled "The Betrayal of
112
Democracy." If you will recall, three years ago Myers wrote to you
in Hyslop House that it would be three years before the war broke
and that it would begin in the Balkans. This war has now begun.
The opening guns have not yet been fired by the British but the time
is due when the policy pursued by Chamberlain can no longer . be
maintained. The interests of the Empire are now being threatened
by the Fascist government.
* * *
England, America and France have sown the wind. Soon they
will reap the whirlwind. There is no issue which has arisen that they
could not have foreseen months-yes-even years ago. However,
in the name of democracy, they have doomed democracy. What
recognition did they give to the embryonic democracy which had
been formulated in Germany after the Versailles treaty? They killed
this democracy by hatred and unfair policies. The flower of democ-
racy blossomed in Spain. Inspired by the example of the larger
democracies, the people of Spain formed a republic.
Oh, democracies of America, Britain and France,- you were guilty
of the death of this democracy when, like the priests and levites of
old, you refused assistance to the broken and bleeding republic that
looked to you for aid. For the wanton betrayal of Czechoslovakia,
we know that before the highest tribunal of justice you are indicted.
Other democracies are nearly extinct. France is reaping her re-
ward. Her own democracy is finished. England is no longer lighted
by the sacred glow of democratic principle, and we, in America, for
the sin of stupidity and selfishness will pay with our liberties for the
violation of our sacred responsibilities.
Question: I call this a hymn of failure and do not agree with you
anyway about the Spanish Republic-a lot of Communists really.
We will not quibble now. That is not the issue. The issue is the
death of democracy as we have known it. Out of the ashes of that
which is to come may emerge a world purified by suffering and more
receptive to the ideals of Christianity, which are in the last anaJrsis
the only foundation for lasting peace and a benevolent government
by the people and for the people.
April 17, 1939.
Question: What do you think of the world situation and Roose-
velt's speech?
113
It is one of the most courageous acts of statesmanship that has ever
been voiced in our country. In the present state of world affairs,
England and France are no longer able to cope with the dictator
powers alone.
Question: Do you think it will do any good?
In the long run, yes. In the immediate situation-no. The
dictators are on the march. They will brook no interference. Their
present indecision is largely because of public sentiment in their home
fields. Seeds of revolt have been sown against their ruling classes
which will eventually react strongly to weaken their regimes.
Question: When you wrote that democracy was doomed, did you
mean the democracies hadn't a chance of winning a war against the
dictators, or that democratic government would be superseded by
dictatorship in the now democratic countries?
Nowhere in the world does real democracy exist now. Certain
northern countries have an approximate condition-Sweden, Norway
and ·Denmark-since their rulers are nominal in their functioning.
Britain and France are now democratic in name only. If a war-
and by "if" I mean when a war does come, dictatorial powers will be
granted to the nation's head that will invest him with powers which
will limit democratic procedure to such an extent that we shall no
longer have the right to regard America as a true democracy.
Question: That is bad, but not as bad as the meaning I thought
you suggested.
You thought of the forcible overthrow of the present government?
Question: No, I thought perhaps the dictator countries would
succeed in completely conquering the world.
Which, if you will analyze the above statement, is what I meant.
Question: Fascism may become universal but if not all dictated ht
Hitler and Mussolini, may not prove the same aggressive barbarism it
now is. In any case, Fascism by Americans would be more bearable
for Americans than control by Germans.
It is not the Germans whom we have to fear.
Question: Who is it---ourselves1
No, the Spanish Republic which has been overcome and is now
114
.controlled by Franco. The plan is this in brief: There is a well-
organized program which has been formulated these three years past.
Franco by the help of Germany and Italy is to control Spain. Spain
has an ancient claim upon many of the territories which are in-
cluded in the American scheme of things: Mexico, South America,
Porto Ricq, Cuba and the southern part of the United States itself.
Franco hopes by the help of his allies to win these territories for
Spain. .
Question: Th.
en Franco is a fiercer dictator than any of them?
No--not necessarily. It is a matter of economic necessity. They
are all hungry for land. The Germans are paving the way by their
penetration of South America, where they hope to become powerful
enough to support Franco's claim by the weight of their aircraft and
eventually the sabotage of the Panama Canal.
Question: Do you think they are likely to realize such a plan
especially after the Pan-American Congress?
Unless America awakens to the danger which lies ahead, there is
great likelihood that she will fall into the trap set by the dictators.
Roosevelt sees this peril clearly.
Question: But surely all Europe will have to be conquered by
them first?
Separate-divide-then conquer. Class against class-nation
against nation. They will follow and like the birds of prey that they
are, devour the carrion.
Question: Well it's a depressing picture. Then you see us actually
invaded in the United States?
Eventually-yes.
Question: And you still think it will not start this year?
I made no such statement-I said that it has already started. Why
else should Roosevelt have interceded? The handwriting is on the
wall. No shots were fired over Czechoslovakia. For the sins of
selfishness and greed and isolationist. policy the retribution will be
dear.
Question: You see us conquered and beaten?
No, we will not be conquered but we will pay in tears and blood.
steel and fire for our stupi~ity and greed.
115
Question: Do you think we will learn anything by it? Do people
ever learn anything collectively?
If you recall the pages of your ancient history and compare the
consciousness of say, the medieval period with our own, you will be
able to realize the superiority of the present age in the higher forms
of mental and spiritual life. It is vastly improved in its humanitarian
principles-in its acceptance of scientific discoveries- in its attitudes
toward women, children and the dependents of all classes. The
collective conscience of civilization is now much more sensitive to the
hurts and wrongs of the depressed minorities.
i16
CHAPTER VIII
DEATH CYCLE OF AMERICAN PRESIDENTS
PROPHECY OR COINCIDENCE
By a strange coincidence, beginning with 1840 and
every twentieth year, every man elected to the Ameri-
can presidency IN A YEAR ENDING IN A ZERO
was either ASSASSINATED or otherwise DIED IN
OFFICE. In other words, the president elected in
1840, and the one elected in every twentieth year there-
after, was prevented by DEATH, either natural or
violent, from COMPLETING HIS TERM OF OF-
FICE. The presidents, with the dates of their elections,
are as follows:
President
Harrison
Lincoln
Garfield
McKinley
Harding
Roosevelt
Elected Took Office Died
1840 1841 1841
1860 1861 1865 (assassinated)
1880 1881 1881 (assassinated)
1896-1900 1897 1901 (assassinated)
1920 1921 1923
1940
Garfield died 16 years after Lincoln.
McKinley died 20 years after Garfield.
Harding died 22 years after McKinley.
Roosevelt 1 1 1 1 Harding?
By counting the terms beginning with 1865, you will
find that death came to every fifth one. The presiden-
tial term of 1940- 44 is the fifth term since Harding.
Many prophecies point to F. D. Roosevelt as the last
117
president under our present form of government. He
will be followed by a Fascist dictator. The prophecy of
Lincoln will be fulfilled by the destruction of the re-
public during the years 1941-45.
This destruction is well under way. The United
States is already a semi-Fascist government.
118
CHAPTER IX
EowARD BELLAMY'S PROPHECY OF A NEW AMERICA
BELLAMY'S PROPHECY FOR AMERICA
In th~ year 1850, at Chicopee Falls, Mass., was born
one of America's greatest prophets, Edward Bellamy.
His two best known prophecies are embodied in "Look-
ing Backward," published in 1888, and "Equality" pub-
lished ten years later. Both books have been translated
into many languages and reproduced in Braille. Over
fifty years ago Edward Bellamy, with illumined pro-
phetic vision, foretold the discoveries of modern science
and traced the development of capitalism. With amaz-
ing accuracy he described the radio and television; pic-
tured our modern concentration of wealth with its ac-
companying dispossession of the American people.
With even greater spiritual foresight, he pictured the
society of the future when mankind shall have solved
this paradox of want in the midst of plenty.
Bellamy had gotten started successfully on a literary
career as a short story writer, and the origin of "Look-
ing Backward" was to have been simply another novel-
ette with its characters and scenery located in some ficti-
tious land; but this story gripped the author himself as
something worth serious thought. At the time, "Das
Kapital," by Karl Marx, was becoming popular and Bel-
lamy, impressed by his own vision, spent nearly a year
studying Marx's ponderous book; then he felt the urge
119
to re-write and expand "Looking Backward" as an
American brand of economics adapted wholly to our
United States thinking and conditions.
The book soon became a "best seller," and, begin-
ning in Boston, Mass., in a vacant business building loft
on State Street, within a stone's throw of the Stock Ex-
change, a group of some twenty of Boston's literary and
artistic people gathered to meet Bellamy and to organize
the "First Nationalist Club." These clubs soon spread
throughout the nation, mostly in the eastern section.
Their development led to publishing "The New Na-
tion," of which Bellamy was editor.
The work of Epic, the Utopian Society, Technocracy,
the Townsend Old Age Pension, Ham and Eggs,
Money Reform, and several other organizations, are all
based upon principles promulgated by Bellamy; and
Franklin Roosevelt's "Looking Forward" seems to be a
re-statement, in the light of recent economic and politi-
cal developments, of the political economy first visioned
by Bellamy.
At the time "Looking Backward" was written, the
great corporations of today were in their infancy. Mo-
nopoly was still a development of the future, and while
there were several rich men, there were none who ever
dreamed of a million dollar yearly income. The cor-
porate state was unheard of by the general run of man-
kind, and it was assumed that the age of absolute
monarchs was long since past. The terms Nazism and
Fascism had not been coined, and communism had an
entirely different meaning in the minds of the public
than it has today.
When it is remembered that Bellamy first published
120
his remarkable prophecy over fifty years ago, and that
everything pictured in his books is now in process of ful-
fillment, how can one doubt the validity of his vision of
the future?
Bellamy predicted that by the year 2000 the United
States would be a democratic corporate state conducted
for the benefit of the citizenry as a whole'rather than for
the benefit of the House of Have.
The growth of monopoly was foretold where giant
corporations w0uld operate in their various fields, each
having a virtual monopoly. Today the entire electrical
industry is controlled by A. T. & T., General Electric,
Westinghouse Electric, and Radio Corporation. All of
these are more or less tied in together through their
banking affiliates and by their.licensing arrangements of
patents. Theirs is a complete monopoly. Motion pic-
tures are a monopoly enjoyed by eight major producers
who control the field through their Producers' Associa-
tion. Petroleum products and the prices for which they
sell, are under the dominance of Standard Oil, and so it
goes in every industry.
In Germany, Italy, and the U. S. S. R. the various
corporations have been taken over and combined into
a super-corporation which is the state itself. The so-
called democratic countries, with the start of the second
world war, have become virtual dictatorships and are
fast assuming the form of the corporate state. Plans are
formed and laws drawn that will place industrial control
of the United States in the hand of the President, who
will become a dictator the minute the United States is
at war.
Another prediction of Bellamy's is that the present
121
money system will be abolished, and a system of interna-
tional planned economy will come into existence wherein
there will be barter, or exchange of surpluses between
various nations. Germany has long been out of gold
and has been using a system of barter for some years.
With Brazil she bartered manufactured products for
coffee, and traded this coffee to Sweden for her products.
The United States and England made a deal whereby
we trade cotton for rubber. The gold standard and in-
ternational finance are not going to break down. They
have broken down, and long ago ceased to fill the re-
quirements of the Kosmon New Era.
Bellamy stated that the new government will have
control of youth .for a period of three years, during
which time our young men will do the general work of
the country, such as conservation, road building, and re-
forestation.
With the introduction of the C. C. C. and the new
camps now being formed, this prediction is well on the
way to fulfillment. Four million youths from every
state in the union are already being supervised by the
National Youth Administration.
Another of Bellamy's predictions is: At the age of
twenty-one the citizen is to be free to choose his voca-
tion, is to work until he is forty-five, when he will be re-
tired, and will thereafter be free either to loaf or pursue
any line of research or hobby to occupy his time.
The many pension plans started in various states have
already forced the old-age pension. With the growth
of a planned economy the amount of retirement pensions
will be increased and the age of retirement lowered. It
has long been difficult for men over forty years of age
122
to find work. If industry will not employ them, then a
sufficient pension must be allowed these men.
The state of the future will see to it that every able-
bodied citizen is a producer and is well paid. Dictator-
ships have done away with unemployment in their vari-
ous countries, but will not be able to give their people
decent living standards so long as their economy is
planned for war. A planned production will be the
order of the new state wherein there will be plenty for
all and no wasted surplus. The efforts towards a normal
granary of the Department of Agriculture are first steps
in this direction.
The evidence is conclusive that every prediction of
Bellamy's will be fulfilled long before the year 2000.
But even Bellamy implied a revolution. In his book
he speaks of the people living in 2000 A.D. being igno-
rant of the unemployment, poverty, ill-health, scarcity,
warfare, and friction of yesterday and today-fo;r the
histories and records of our timP;s had been destroyed!
How and why would such records be destroyed other
than by a national upheaval aimed at the destruction of
all property records and prevailing laws?
123
CHAPTER X
JOHN BALLOU NEWBROUGH, AMERICA'S
GREATEST PROPHET
T H E GREATES
T PROPHET OF THE M ALL
On June 5, 1827, there was
born at Mohickinsville, Ohio, a
man who is destined to go down in
history as one of the great prophets
of the nineteenth century-]ohn
Ballou Newbrough.
Even when a child, John pos-
sessed remarkable clairvoyant and
clairaudient faculties which he had
J ohn Ballou Newbrough inherited from his mother. In
1827-1 89 1
later life he used to laugh as he re-
called an incident that happened when he was only five
years old.
A piece of farm machinery had been broken while he
was in town with his father who, upon his return, de-
manded to know which of the boys had done the mis-
chief. Little John, hardly more than a baby, piped up,
naming the guilty brother and explained just how the
accident had occurred. The father told him he couldn't
have seen this happen as John maintained, as he had
been with him all day. But John persisted that he had
seen it, and those being the days of stern fathers and
124
old-fashioned spankings, John got his-for "story-tell-
ing."
Throwing himself down at the foot of a tree, he wept
bitterly, for he knew an injustice had been 'done, and it
was here his mother came to console him. She believed
him, for she, too, possessed the faculty of seeming to be
somewhere and seeing all that went on even when her
body was far distant. She explained to the little fellow
that this faculty of "second-sight" was usually disbe-
lieved by those who did not possess it, and told him that
unless he wished to be thought a great liar, he must be
discreet and keep his strange experience to himself.
This advice from his mother John never forgot. Dur-
ing his later years, the elder Newbrough himself became
a good medium, and the link between father, mother,
and son became one of perfect understanding.
John Newbrough went to the school taught by his
father, and then went away to college. Forced to work
his way through, he lived in a dentist's home and as-
~isted him while he studied medicine. He was thus
able, when he was graduated, to get degrees in both
medicine and dentistry.
When the gold rush to California came in 1849, John
Newbrough joined the trek westward and managed to
amass a fortune running into five figures. He then
went to the gold fields of Australia, where he collected
more gold.
He next decided he had enough to "travel and see the
world," which he did for several years. He "went
everywhere," as he used to say himself, and crossed the
ocean twice in a sailing vessel.
Returning to America, he practiced medicine in Ken-
125
tucky, and for about two years was assistant doctor in an
asylum for the insane. This painful experience, to-
gether with obstetrics which, as a general physician, he
had to practice, caused him to abandon medicine and
take up dentistry. He went to New York City, e~­
tablished himself as a dentist and developed a very suc-
cessful practice.
It would be wrong to accuse him of "wanderlust."
He did travel extensively, often living for quite a period
in a place he found interesting, but the urge to travel
came from a deep, inner craving to know the heart of
humanity.
He wanted to know people and find out what they
were like. He asked himself: "Was the man with the
yellow skin so very di:fferent from his white brother?"
He sought the answer, and out of his world-wide
travels he returned with the solid, practical conviction
of the brotherhood of man.
Many subscribe to this in theory, but to John New-
brough it was a conviction, and he practiced it to the
extent that the blackest negro was as much his brother as
the fairest Anglo-Saxon; and the child of the lowest
origin as much to be esteemed as the child of a royal
prince. Perhaps the reason John Newbrough is to be
classed among the great prophets is due to his absolute
sincerity.
Coupled naturally with great humanitarian instincts
was his thirst for knowledge, and the many books in his
splendid library (composed entirely of non-fiction
works) with their many markings and notations, bear
testimony that he was a scholar of no mean ability.
126
He came finally, through travel and study, to that
point in his search for wisdom where he craved for more
knowledge than the works of man provided, and so he
began the study of spirit phenomena.
Spiritualism as we now know it was then young but
growing fast in the country. It was a topic of almost
general interest. The intelligentsia of that day had
taken it up, and the orthodox churches feared it greatly,
for thousands were leaving their folds for this new
faith. It became very popular, for it offered consola-
tion to all who mourned, taught that the departed were
not dead, but only changed in form, that they were still
with their loved ones, still able to hear and to help and
comfort those left behind on earth. It was a beautiful
teaching, and people rushed to it as they had rushed for
gqld in California a few years before. And even as the
adventurous John had been caught up in that other rush,
so now he was caught up in this later one.
Born of a medium mother, and himself a medium, it
was not strange to him, but the phenomena claimed by
the many mediums who suddenly sprang up all over the
world did challenge his reason. His mediumship was
really remarkable. He could see the departed, view
people and things in distant places, and he could hear in
the same way. It was possible for him to hold a sealed
letter in his hand and read it word for word. He could
read thought. When he sat in "circles," his hands
would, as he expressed it, "fly around in tantrums,"
often writing messages.
But these things were very different from material-
izations, the voices in the unseen made audible for all to
127
hear, the passing of solid bodies through solid walls, and
all the various manifestations of the seemingly impos-
sible which mediums were claiming to make.
Characteristically, he was curious; he determined to
find out for himself how many of these claims could be
true, and again, characteristically, he made his search
thorough. He not only went to see the most famous
mediums in America, he brought many of them, one at
a time, to live right in his own home. When this was
done, he paid them well and got them to devote them-
selves exclusively to his investigations and experiments.
As he well knew, mediumship, in its very nature,
lends itself to fraud more than any other one thing. As
soon as spiritualism and mediums became so popular,
the horde of charlatans sprang up with countless va-
rieties of hoax and fraud. He only brought those to
his home who were first class, reputable mediums, who
had attracted the attention of serious, earnest men every-
where, in Europe as well as in America.
Having satisfied himself as to the character of the
medium, he explained the purpose of his investigation.
He would explain that with the medium in his house
there could be no question of false floors, trap doors,
trick paraphernalia. With his own hands he would put
a medium into a cabinet he had himself made, and nail
her gown to the floor as an extra precaution. He tested
everything that was to be used in the experiment; in
this setting of his own making, the medium was bound
to be proven genuine or otherwise.
He continued these investigations for two years and
experimented with dozens of mediums during this time.
They could, he was finally led to admit, perform all the
128
miraculous things claimed for and by them, and he was
joined in this conclusion by the leading scientists of
America, England, Germany, France, and Italy. He
was still not satisfied. The intelligence of these spirit
visitors varied from ordinary to low; their discourses
were of trivial matters. He wanted to know about man,
his destiny, facts about the universe, man's life after so-
called death, etc.
Convinced that there must be some means whereby
one could communicate with the great minds in higher
worlds, provided the proper conditions were complied
with, Dr. Newbrough determined to qualify himself to
deserve the interest of the great spiritual immortals.
For a ten-year period of development and purification
he governed his thought, actions, and diet according to
the Essene system. He rose every morning at sunrise
and bathed. He tried to dismiss all thought of personal
self, while at all times thinking of others kindly and
generously. His diet was not only a strictly vegetarian
one,. but he also gave up drinking or using milk, eggs,
and ~ll things which developed within the soil, such as
potatoes, eating only such foods as grew high up in the
sunshine, as fruit and nuts.
In a brief account of himself, he tells that after he
had undergone this training, a new form of control
came upon him-that in place of hands being held above
his hands, a light struck them when he would write,
and he would not know a word he was writing until he
read it later. He also became a trance medium; that is,
he would go under "control" and give long and beauti-
ful lectures or discourses. Sometimes these related to
higher heavens, and sometimes they were prophecies.
129
Those who heard him said these lectures were never to
be forgotten. He lectured for several years, sometimes
as himself, and sometimes under control in various
spiritualist camp-meetings, and also in New York City.
It was during part of this time that the voice which
had become his tutor and guide, instructed him to pur-
chase a typewriter, an instrument which, at that time,
had just been invented and put on the market. After
obtaining the typewriter, he was told to rise at dawn and
sit before it, whereupon his hands would type out ques-
tions and answers relative to the earth, heaven, and the
universe that no human source could answer.
It was at this point, Dr. Newbrough tells, that a new
control came upon his hands. "Rays of light like wires
coming through the window" fell upon the backs of his
hands as he held them on the key-board. When perfec-
tion of control had been obtained, the immortals of the
higher heavens of the earth were ready to transmit,
through the instrumentality of Newbrough, a new
spiritual document to serve humanity of the new era.
The manuscript thus given humanity is a history of
our planet since its nebulous days, and of humanity
since the creation of the first man on earth. It gives an
account of the relationship ever existing between the un-
seen realms of spirit, which is the field of causes, and
the seen environment, which is the region of effects.
Also included in this remarkable manuscript is a detailed
account of the spiritual forces instrumental in the found-
ing of our own United States and its Constitution, the
place America occupies in the transition period of today,
and the Golden Age of tomorrow, a picture of the
130
method whereby peace will replace war throughout the
world.
These writings also contained a scientific section from
which Albert Einstein is purported to have received the
information which led to the mathematical equations
substantiating the truth of relativity, the curvature of
space, lens effect of a planet's atmosphere, unity of
energy and matter, and other scientific statements.
These scientific principles are all to be found in the New-
brough manuscripts.
Not the least important of the transcriptions is the
history of an ancient school of wisdom dating back nine
thousand years. Masonry is but one of this school's
many manifestations.
In evaluating the prophecies that follow, quoted from
these manuscripts of the Essenes, the reader should re-
member that the manuscript purports to have been given
to men of Kosman *at the command of the chief execu-
tive of our planet (God), and state His intentions rela-
tive to the future of the race and world.
THE FUTURE OF RELIGION
Think not, 0 man, I am insufficient to these times and seasons or
say that God spake in the dark days of the earth, but latterly holdeth
His tongue. ·
Be)lold, I am .thy elder brother, a captain of the earth and her
heavens for a season. As I am, so were my predecessors in the time
of the ancients.
Ambassadors of the Most High, Jehovah, the Creator.
Whose power and wisdom are given unto me, even after the same
manner as are Thy earthly governments ruled and disciplined.
Whereby order may contribute to the advancement of all His cre-
ated beings.
* Kosmon is a three thousand year cycle which beg"11 A.D. 1848.
131
My light is not to one people only. In my sight the nations of the
divisions of the earth are as one people only, brothers and sisters.
I take from them their idols, their gods; but I give them a greater,
even the Creator.
I suffered my children to have idols; but now, that ye are men,
put away your idols and accept Jehovah who is Creator of all.
Nor shall any man more say: "I worship the Brahman principle, or
the Buddhist principle or the Confucian principle, or the Moham-
medan principle, or the Christian principle." For all of these have
proven themselves to result in war and destruction.
None of them have faith in their Creator, but faith in their armies
of soldiers and in their weapons of death.
But I give unto all people one principle only which is to serve
Jehovah. This is broad enough for all men.
The War of Armageddon will destroy man's faith in
Mohammedanism, Buddhism, Brahmanism, and Chris-
tianity with their harvests of death. With the accept-
ance of the one God, Creator of heaven and earth, unity
of government and economics will follow unity of reli-
gion. Peace on earth, good will to man, will then be
the order of the day, with abundant life for all.
A religion of work, rather than words, is forecast in
the following:
Your temples and churches and meeting-houses shall be turned into
consultation chambers to find remedies against poverty, crime and
debauchery. The congregations shall be enrolled and, at the meet-
ings, they shall be enquired after to see if they are in need. And
they shall have volunteers who shall go about seeking out the helpless
and distressed. Instead of the congregations listening to sermons
they shall become co-workers for relief.
Let this be a prophecy to you of the words of your God. There
is no such congregation this day ( 1881) in all the world; and yet,
ere this generation pass away, this shall be proven to you.
REVOLUTION
Neither shall any king, nor queen nor any other ruler in all the
world impress as a soldier any man who is unwilling to engage in war.
132
And whosoever does not obey this judgment shall be earthbound as
long as war remains on earth.
Neither will I more consider the prayers of any king or queen or
any ruler of any nation or people in all the world who engage in war,
offensive or defensive, or who aid or abet war in any way whatsoever.
But I will abandon all such people and my Lords shall abandon
them and my holy angels shall abandon them.
And they shall be afflicted with assassinations and intriguers and
despoilers, and with anarchy and riots and destruction.
For they shall be made to understand that whomsoever Jehovah
created alive is sacred upon the earth; and that whosoever heedeth not
these, my judgments, sinneth against the Almighty.
Behold, thy God hath come to put away old things and to answer
thy prayer, Thy kingdom come on earth as it is in heaven.
WoRLD UNITY
In Kosmon I come saying, "Be ye brethren upon the earth and
upon the waters of the earth; these are the legacies I bequeath my
children. Instead of making laws against thy brother, thou shalt
throw open the place of thy habitation, and receive him with open
arms.
"I will have all the ports open and free, nor shall there be partisan
taxation in favor of one nation against another.
"All governments are tending towards oneness with one another.
This is the march of Jehovah. None can stay Him.
"Behold, a new time. is in the world; from the acquisition of
knowledge a new liberty hath been born into the world. It crieth out
on every side: Throw open the doors unto all trades and occupations:
behold, the multitude are sufficiently wise to judge themselves whom
they shall patronize. Judgment is rendered against the laws and
governments of man in all cases where they prevent the liberty of
choice of man to his vocation and knowledge.
"In Kosmon, man shall no longer be driven in yoke and harness;
he shall stand upright before his creator, practising his highest light
with rejoicing, being a free man and a brother to his God."
A NEW DAY
God saith, "Behold the work of my hand, 0 man; as thou findeth
an old house, no longer habitable, thou sendest workmen to pull it
133
down, (Hitler is such a workman.) and, then, thou sendest laborers
to clear away the rubbish. Afterward thou sendest builders, and they
lay a new foundation, larger and broader than the old one, and
thereon they build a new edifice adapted with new improvements
unto the increase and requirements of thy family.
"Even so hath God labored for hundreds of years to prepare unto
the generations of this day.
"For I saw beforehand that man would circumscribe the earth,
and that all nations and peoples would become known to one an-
other."
"And I beheld also that in the coming time, which is now at hand,
the old edifices of doctrines and creeds and religions-Brahmans,
Buddhists, Jews, Confucians, Mohammedans and Christians-would
not fulfill the requirements of man.
"And now, behold, 0 man, the wisdom of Jehovah previously. He
had permitted corruptions and contradictions to creep into sacred
books of all the said great religions, purposely and with design, so as
to make easy the work of thy God.
"And when I saw that the coming together of nations and peoples
would require a new religious edifice, I perceived, also, that the old
{mes must be cleared away.
"And behold, I, thy God, went to work systematically, inspiring
man to accomplish even what man hath accomplished.
"I raised up scholars and infidels against these religions, inspiring
them to attack the corruptions and contradictions in the sacred books
of all peoples. In the same time that I sent infidels against the
Jewish Bible, I sent infidels against the Hindu Bibles, and against
the doctrines of Brahma and Buddha and Confucius, and the
Christians and the Mohammedans.
"And I made the beginning of the work of these infidels and
scholars to correspond with the discovery of America by Columbus,
and I kept them at their work for three hundred years, which was up
to the time of the establishment of the Republic, which I, thy God,
provided to be untrammelled by an established religion. For I will
have none worshipped but J ehovah.
"Only by harmony and the union of many can any great good
come unto the generations of men.
"Into thy hands, 0 man, I give the key to peace and plenty.
Remember the password which admitteth thee to the all-highest
kingdoms is-Jehovah, the I AM."
134
AN 1881 DESCRIPTION oF PRESENT CoNDITIONS IN CITY,
STATE, AND NATIONAL GOVERNMENT
Because I called and ye came not; because ye said: Thy Kingdom
come on earth as it is in heaven, and put not forth a hand in My
behalf;
Because ye saw the multitude going after intoxicating drink and
smoke and opium;
Because ye rose up not, saying: Stay thy hand, satan;
But shirked, granting licenses unto these sins;
And ye have become a polluted people;
Given to drunkenness and to smoking and to all manner of dis-
sipation;
Each one casting the blame on others, and hiding himself in self-
righteousness;
Thus opening the doors of your houses of debauchery as a tempta-
tion to the young;
Behold I am risen in judgment against you.
My holy angels I shall withdraw from your cities;
And from your places of worship;
And from your government, and your law makers and rulers;
For they have profaned me.
Making laws and granting licenses to carry on evils, knowingly and
willfully, for policy's sake;
Hoping for personal favour and gain;
For they knew that what was not good for one person was not
good for a nation;
And that whatever sin indulged in, would, sooner or later, bring
its own punishment.
And they said: We derive a large revenue from the duties and
licenses for these iniquities!
Thus hoping to justify themselves by compounding themselves.
And I said unto them: A revenue thus received shall be expended
in prisons and alms-houses, and shall not be sufficient.
Because ye granted licenses and polluted the people, behold, the
pollution shall more than balance the revenues.
The criminals and paupers shall be a greater burden than though
ye received no revenue.
Behold I showed unto you that as an individual could not sin
against Me without, soon or late, becoming answerable to Me, I
showed ye also that the same responsibility and result would befall
a nation or a people in like manner.
13 5
For which reasons, and because of your evasions of My Command-
ments, I called unto My God and Lords and My Holy Angels, say-
ing; Waste not your time and labour more with the worldly;
Nor answer ye their prayers when they call on My Name;
For they have become a conceited people, saying: There 1s no
God and Jehovah is as void as the wind.
Behold ye shall let them go their way; their cities shall become
full of crime, for angels of darkness shall come amongst them, and
no city shall be safe from theft, murder and arson.
And vagabonds shall travel in the country places, stealing and
robbing and murdering.
And their great men shall take bribes, and their judges shall con-
nive with sin; and the innocent shall be confined in mad-houses.
And justice shall depart away from them.
The employee shall pilfer and steal from his employer; and the
employer shall hire others to look after those in his employee.
But all things shall fail them.
For I will make them understand that I am the first principle m
all things;
And that I am justice;
And that I am purity;
And that whoso raise a hand against justice, purity, virtue, wisdom
and truth also raiseth his hand against Me.
I made the way of life like going up a mountain; whoso turneth
aside and goeth downward shall ultimately repent of his course, and he
shall retrace his steps.
To a nation·and a people and a government of a people, I am
the same.
Righteousness shall be first and foremost of all things.
Their governors and lawmakers shall be made to know this.
When they were-a monarchy, I held the king responsible.
But when I gave unto the multitude to govern themselves, behold,
I gave also responsibility unto them.
And they sought not to make laws for righteous government unto
the whole, but sought to favour certain cliques of iniquities, and to
make laws to protect them in evil manufactures, and for traffic in
tobacco and alcohol.
And no man more sought to be a governor or lawmaker for the
good of the people, or to serve Me;
But he sought office for profit's sake and vainglory.
136
Now, therefore, My holy angels went away from them and no more
answered their prayers.
And the righteousness of the first days departed away from them.
And they became a nation of money-getters and servants of mam-
mon.
And I blessed not their marriages nor their households.
And their sons and daughters respected not their fathers and
mothers; for, as the fathers and mothers respected not Me, so came
disrespect and misery upon them.
And their sons and daughters became profligates and idlers, grow-
ing up for no good under the sun, depending on their wits to work
out a life of luxury and sin.
And whoso married, peace came not to them; but contention and
jealousy and bitterness of heart.
And their offspring fell in grade, becoming outcasts and paupers
and criminals.
And husbands and wives cried out for divorcement on all hands.
And the lawmakers granted them and favoured them; but, lo
and behold, the evil multiplied on the earth.
In pity I cried out to them, saying: Ye may make laws forever,
but My kingdom cometh not by the road of man's laws. Except ye
turn about, and begin anew, there is np help for you under the sun.
But they would not hear Me.
Many men shall rise up, saying: If the government would make
a law of peace; or, if the government would prohibit the traffic and
the manufacture of this curse or that curse,-
But we say unto you, all these things shall fail.
Trust not in the ungodly to do a godlike thing.
The societies shall fail; the Peace Society shall become a farce;
the Prohibition Society shall be lost sight of.
Even the churches that shall profess peace and temperance will
not embrace peace and temperance. They will fraternize with
liquor-traffickers and with colonels and generals of war, for sake of
policy.
The boast of the worldly shall be: This is the home for all peo-
ples; but, nevertheless, even in the midst of their boastings they shall
make prohibitory laws to the contrary.
For they are fallen under the lower light; none can turn them
about the other way.
Under the name of liberty, they shall claim the right to practice
ungodliness.
137
Are these predictions, made in the year 1881, true~
Look about you, read the signs of the times.
The Church of Russia has been destroyed. This
country is the shadow of things to come throughout the
world, not alone in religion, but in government and
economy. A shadow is not the reality, but a semblance
of it. The destruction of the church introduced a wave
of atheism, for the pendulum always swings from one
extreme to the other before coming to rest in the median.
The new religion of the perfected U. S. S. R. will be
worship of the Creator.
The communism of the U. S. S. R. is also but a weak
semblance of that which is to come, just as the loose
confederacy of the original thirteen states was but a
shadow of our present mighty nation. True com-
munism is synonymous with peace and democracy. The
U . S. S. R. is but blazing the cooperative trail for the
rest of the world, just as the U.S. A. blazed a republican
trail afterwards followed by many nations. The
U. S. A. and the U. S. S. R. forecast the birth of the
United States of the World.
The U.S. S. R. has cut a pattern that will be followed
by every major nation. Destruction of privately con-
trolled banking systems is the prerequisite step to the
building of a new and better order of life.
The House of Have, rulers of the world through
their international banking and capitalistic system, know
this. Before the year 1948 the capitalistic countries will
gang up on the U. S. S. R. and attempt to destroy her.
They have as little love for a cooperative common-
wealth, even though it be but the shadow, as King
138
George the Third had for the little group of states that
were the shadow of the coming republic, destined to be
the richest, strongest nation the world had seen.
I-n attempting to destroy the new system of govern-
ment, the House of Have will destroy itself. The
present war will increase in intensity until all nations,
either directly or indirectly, are involved. Fascist dicta-
tors now control several nations. Since the declaration
of war in September, 1939, both England and France
have adopted what is equivalent to a dictatorship. This
epidemic of dictators will spread until our own nation
falls in line and we, too, are Fascist ruled and dictator
governed.
Fascist dictators of today are also shadows of things
to come. The Fascist dictator of today, placed in power
by the House of Have, will be followed by the demo-
cratic dictator of tomorrow elected to office by the peo-
ple. Democratic dictators will be given power because
of their ability to lead their countries into peace and
plenty, not for their ability to lead in war.
The rule of wealth is in its last days. Not long will
war overrun the earth, for in these days of scientific de-
struction those who live by the instruments of death will
die by their own weapons of destruction.
Nine thousand years ago Zarathustra was born in
Persia, and was destined to free man from the bondage
of the landowners of his day. Six thousand years ago
Abraham restored freedom to the people of his time,
and three thousand years ago Moses freed the Children
of Israel by leading them out of bondage into the new
land of promise. The time is near when thousands of
139
our citizens will go forth out of a crumbling civilization
to found a renewed order of life in production-for-use,
the practice of the Golden Rule, and cooperatives.
God will protect those who acknowledge Him in this
cycle as He did in all past cycles.
The manuscripts of the Essenes give the road map for
such an exodus, and the blueprint for the erection of a
home where peace and plenty may be enjoyed by all who
are awake to welcome the dawn of a New Day.
140
CHAPTER XI
PROPHECIES OF EARTHQUAKES AND
CONTINENTAL CHANGES
The destruction of New York City has been prophe-
sied many times by different seers. There seems to be
general agreement that the city will first be visited by an
earthquake that will tumble the skyscrapers, and after-
ward the city will sink into the sea. It is quite possible
that the light earthquakes which have visited the east
and west coasts in the past few months are a warning be-
fore the final catastrophe.
At the time of the first world war there lived in
Monaco a Jean Buvais, called the sage of Notre Dame
de Laguet. This man had great power over the peasants
of this principality, as he was credited with being ninety
per cent accurate in his prophecies covering a period of
forty years. Buvais called a forty-day prayer meeting
of the peasants, so that by the power of prayer the lost
continent of Atlantis should be prevented from rising
from its ocean bed, which would have caused the wicked-
est sections of the world to disappear.
Several scientists concur with the auguries of the
seers. William Boeksche, a German scientist, has pre-
dicted great changes in the earth's surface, and climatic
changes affecting the whole world. In an address at
Halle he prophesied tremendous geological submersions
141
to which recent strange weather vagaries, storms, floods,
earthquakes, and volcanic action are the prelude. Herr
Boeksche thinks that these changes may come with rela-
tive suddenness and that we are on the eve of great ter-
restial convulsions. New continents and mountain
ranges may be expected to rise out of the Pacific.
Dr. Milton A. Nobles, geologist and student of earth-
quakes and volcanic phenomena, predicts a second del-
uge during which whole continents will be wiped out
and new ones created. He sees new lands rising to
double the area of the Western Hemisphere, and states
that Australia and New Zealand will join in a continent
three times their present size. He prophesies the
shortening of the earth's axis, with a new North Pole in
Siberia and a new South Pole in the South Pacific Ocean.
There will be, he states, a new equator, with the United
States so close that the all-year mildness of Florida will
be the whole nation's temperature. New sea coasts in
the Atlantic and Pacific will arise, making Los Angeles,
San Francisco, and other ports, inland cities. The Gulf
of Mexico will be transformed into an inland sea the
size of Texas, and Central America and the West Indies
amalgamated in the new America, 5,000 miles wide.
While many of the scientists laughed at Dr. Nobles'
theories, the fact remains that earthquakes, volcanic
eruptions and tidal waves have occurred in zones in-
dicated by Dr. Nobles.
The prophetic tables of the Essenes tell us that we
live in a time of overlapping of several cycles, the most
important, so far as earth changes are concerned, being
the 24,000-year period.
Mu, or Pan, sank in the Pacific 24,000 years ago.
142
This catastrophe was the basis of the tales of a flood re-
corded in the Bible in the allegory of Noah and the
Ark, and in the mythology of all races and peoples. Le
Plongeon discovered a manuscript centuries old of the
Mayas of Yucatan entitled, "The Torano Manuscript,"
which is now in the British Museum. The manuscript
was translated by Le Plongeon:
In the year 6 Kan, on the 11th Mulac in the month of Zac, there
occurred terrible earthquakes which continued without interruption
until the 13th Chuen. The country of the hills of Pan, the land of
Mu, was sacrificed; being twice upheaved it suddenly disappeared
during the night, the basin being continually shaken by volcanic
forces. Being confined, these caused the land to sink and to rise
several times and in various places. At last the surface gave way and
ten countries were torn asunder and scattered; unable to stand the
force of the convulsions, they sank with their 65,000,000 inhabitants.
Further information pertaining to the sinking of Pan,
of which Ja-Pan is the only remnant, may be found in
the American Bible, OAHSPE.
There is unlimited geologic evidence of tropical foli-
age unearthed in the Arctic regions, arctic animals un-
covered in tropical excavations, sea-shells on mountain
tops, etc., indicating that several great temperature and
geologic changes have occurred in the past.
What has occurred in the past can happen in the
present, so the changes predicted for these days are not
at all impossible.
143
CHAPTER XII
ExoTERIC AND EsoTERIC AsTROLOGY
Two distinct systems of astrology have come down to
us from ancient philosophers. The one most popular
and best known among students of today is the geo-
centric, wherein the earth is considered as the center of
the solar system with the sun and planets moving
around it. This system is not astronomically correct,
but as we live on the earth and not on the sun, it is be-
lieved that the appearances of the sun and planets in
their relations to us would provide a means of judging
their effects upon material things. The experience of
countless astrological students seems to justify this be-
lief. The Essene system is called HELIOCENTRIC
because it accef>ts the true position of the sun as the
center and master of the solar system and provides a
mode of interpretation that can be verified mathemati-
cally and astronomically. Essene astrology, or cos-
mogony, is confirmed by the mathematics of Einstein,
the astronomy of the Mt. Wilson and other observa-
tories, and every event in the history of the race.
Popular astrology is geocentric, and relates to earthly
things and the material condition of mankind, therefore
is terrestial and exoteric, while the heliocentric system
is concerned with the evolutionary principle in nature,
and is related to the spiritual and intellectual develop-
ment of humanity.
144
Every superstition and belief that has been accepted
by man over a period of time has within it an element
of truth, though the foundation of such superstition
may be in error. While exoteric, or geocentric astrology
is based upon a false premise, we find evidence of its
Zodiac of the Ancients. Used by Pyramid Astronomers
truth in the cycle of Uranus, a large, slowly moving
planet. Commencing at the birth date of our inde-
pendence, 1776, a year which marked a beneficent
change for the people of our continent, we add to this
84 years-the time it takes Uranus to make her cycle
through the signs-and we are at 1860, the Civil War,
with its birth of freedom for the slaves. Another cycle
of Uranus and another 84 years brings us to 1944, which
will prove to be of more importance to the United States
than did either of the preceding dates.
Lorig ago Neptune began her transit through Virgo
and brought an invention to the Chinese that proved
more valuable in the spread of light than any other be-
145
fore or since, the art of printing. Later, this same
condition paralleled the translation and printing of the
King James Bible. As far back as we have records we
find that wars, revolutions, and social upheavals accom-
pany Neptune through Virgo, and we are apt to con-
sider this aspect as being one of malefic and destructive
influences. This interpretation is a most unfortunate
error, and is but another proof of the tendency of the
human to turn a deaf ear to the voice of infallible
wisdom, the Creator, whose "worlds in splendor are the
scroll on which His hands write His almighty will and
boundless love." Every seeming adverse condition
should serve but to develop our powers and exercise the
talents with which we are endowed. Such periods gen-
erate the force by which we may forge ahead to greater
accomplishments.
Today we have before us a period of golden oppor-
tunity, enabling us to have full emancipation from the
limitations of the past. Many will turn their talents
into destructive channels and succumb, while others will
forge ahead into a new and better age.
The years until 1944 will witness most revolutionary
changes. Not only upon the strength of astrological
configuration do we say this, but because of the fact that
at this time of world destiny, there is a convergence of
several cycles of time which, coming to a common point
simultaneously, carry a tremendous portent.
Transcendent over all is the overlapping of the
24,000-year cycle in the development of man and the
processional cycle of 25,826.5 years. This convergence
of the two major cycles marks a period of continental
cataclysms similar to that which existed at the time of
146
the sinking of the continent of Mu (Lemuria or Pan).
This continent extended from the northeastern coast of
Australia to Ja-Pan, (a remnant of Pan) and was sub-
merged in the Arc of Noe. During the coming conti-
nental changes, the submerged continent of Pan will rise
out of the waters of the Pacific.
The Essene system of astrology (or cosmogony) has
been esoteric throughout the ages. Popular astrological
literature is only concerned with the geocentric system,
which meets the needs of the people for a superficial and
material form of the science. The Essene heliocentric
system is only understood by a few adepts and is a secret
The Solar Family or Tow-
Sang the Great Serpent
branch of knowledge. Herein the cardinal features
only are given, for an understanding of the unseen and
its relation to the seen is an essential for further progress
into the science of prophecy.
The true science of astrological cosmogony consists of
a knowledge of the cyclic revolutions in nature on both
the physical and super-physical planes. The research
work and compilation of statistics now being accom-
147
plished by several astrological organizations, both here
and in Europe, will fail to uncover the "lost secrets" of
cosmological astrology, for the basis of their investiga~
tions is fallacious.
A true understanding of prophecy (and astrology is
one phase of prophecy) can only come with an under-
standing of the CREATOR'S CLOCK and its use in
discovering the dates of changes in human affairs.
These changes are governed by the changing environ-
ment of the earth as it travels with other members of
the solar family through interplanetary space. This
space is not a vacuum, but is filled with corporeal sub-
stance of differing rates of vibration and degrees of
ur~~on density.
LlGB"l'-GOOD-SPIJUTtl.U.
: " The earth's number is four, sym-
~!i·
E~ !. ~· ~a~
I bolized by the rectangle. Mother
E:1 , ~ ~~
Ii j ~~ Earth and all her offspring are gov-
t_ __ _: _
•
.·--- ·· erned by this number. All go through
Dlll ~OW
"""' four stages in the cycle from the un-
Four
The Number of the seen into the seen and back again into
Earth the unseen.
THE CosMIC CA
USE OF WAR
Astronomical Essene M otion or Relative
Name N ame Vibration Manifestation Density Aspect
Ether Ethe 100 Life & health 1 Light
Cosmic dust A'ji 66 War-revolution 4 Semi-light
Nebula Ji'ay 33 Epidemics-fevers 16 Semi-dark
Planet earth Corpor 0 Death 256 Dark
Whenever there is a precipitation of a'ji or cosmic
dust upon the earth it causes mankind to become aggres-
sive and war upon his neighbors. In 1914, the precipi-
tation of a'ji increased both in Europe and the Orient
148
and a heavy rain of this cosmic dust witl continue to fall
until the year 1944. As the fall of a'ji eases off, the
fall of ji'ay will continue, following up an epidemic of
wars with an epidemic of disease and pestilence. Be-
ginning with the year 1948, ji'ay will in turn gradually
cease to fall, and the earth will enter a brilliant area in
interplanetary space less contaminated with corporeal
dust. As we enter this region of light, there will be
great spiritual manifestations upon earth. This new
condition has been interpreted
by Christian peoples as the "sec-
ond coming of Christ."
The travel of the solar fam-
ily can be timed upon the Cre-
ator's clock and future events
foretold with mathematical ac-
curacy by one possessed of
spiritual insight. This clock
may be used for every cycle or
series of cycles, for it pertains to T hothma, Pharaoh of Egypt,
all creation. In the words of Builder of the Great Pyramid
Thothma, builder of the great pyramid of Gizeh, "As
a diameter is to a circle, and a circle is to a diameter, so
are the rules of the seasons of the earth."
History is always written according to the bias and
nationality of the historian. Recent history contains
much error; over a thousand years in the past history is
quite unreliable; beyond six thousand years practically
nothing is known. It is only when we turn to the manu-
scripts of the Essenes that we can find a history of the
ancient past confirmed by every contemporaneous dis-
covery and research of archeology.
149
Every world event bears witness that we are at the
end of a major cycle in the evolution of man. Taking
past history as a guide, it is evident that at this time there
will be complete changes in world affairs, and the sev-
eral world religions and empires will pass away with the
birth of a new civilization.
Nature on all her planes, seen and unseen, unfolds
her possibilities in a series of successive world cycles. As
the earth is subject to a cycle of seasons-spring, sum-
mer, autumn, and winter-so is the sun with its family
of planets obedient to a great cycle of about 24,000
years. During this time it travels a major arc of its
orbit. This 24,000 year cycle should not be confused
with the 26,000 year cycle of travel around a smaller
orbit, nor should it be confused with the local polar-
motion cycle of the earth, which completes its period
in about 25,700 years.
The fact is well known that the earth has at least five
different motions. Each of these motions has its own
orbit and cycle, and each cycle has its influence on human
unfoldment. To explain each cycle, and its effect,
would require a textbook on cosmogony and would be
beyond the depth of the average person, hence only the
essentials of esoteric astrology will be given. A pro-
found knowledge of the cycles would disclose all the
important epochs of mankind's evolution, the geologic
ages, and changes in topography and temperature of the
earth.
The periods of human progress and retrogression,
the light and dark eras, the rise and fall of empires, the
times of enlightenment and ignorance, the seasons of
peace and plenty, of wars and revolutions, and of every
150
other major world event will be found to obey the law
of cyclic periodicity.
What concerns us now, however, is the demonstrable
fact that the world is passing through the first hundred
year phase of the current 3,000 year cycle known as
Kosman,* when all institutions that have held sway
during the past 3,000 year cycle will be disintegrated to
permit the development of a new and better order.
The earth's number was recognized by the ancients
as being four. As there are four seasons on the earth,
so also are there four steps in the cycle of manifestation
of everything upon earth. By the ancients the four
seasons of manifestation were termed semu, hotu, adu,
and uz, corresponding to birth, maturity, senility, and
death. Uz was considered the fourth dimension of
matter and is the principle of disintegration, whose
function it is to dissolve back to the elemental state all
things which the principle of life can no longer use.
The present chaotic state of world society is called uz
because it is given over to uz to be destroyed as former
civilizations were destroyed to make way for our present
civilization. This process was spoken of by John and
Jesus as the fall of Babylon.
The years between 1848 and 1948 make up a 99-
year intermediate sub-cycle of the master Kosman cycle.
In this century both uz, marking the death of our civi-
* Kosman is equivalent to the Aquarian Age. It is the term applied to that
section of interplanetary space entered by our planet Earth in ·1848 and through
which it will travel for three thousand years. It is also the period in the evo-
lution of mankind when a condition of balance of physical and spiritual faculties
will be attained. It is the period of maturity for race man, just as the age from
21 to 28 years brings maturity to individual man. Kosman will bring forth
a new race, a new universal religion, a new civilization and a new system of
economy.
151
lization, and semu, witnessing the birth of a new order,
occupy the world stage.
Uz of the old cycle is about to make his exit, while
semu of the new has just made her entrance. During
the few years left for uz to play his part, he will be a
1914
es YEAR
PRBSl!llT 132 IIW\ CYCU! OF ll:OS!IOll'
1948
99 YIWI
l88l
33 YEAR
1980
132 IRAJI
le48
The Creator's Clock Showing the First 132 Year Cycle of Kosmon
busy entity, for he will cause the vanishment of usury
and capitalism with its private profit system based on
the ownership of land. With the passing of uz, the
present system, whereby a man can own land that he is
not personally using, will go out.
152
Semu brings with her a new order of things and
the establishment of a better and more progressive state
for the whole human race. Mankind is fast emerging
from the bondage of the past. The old despotic systems
of feudalism and superstitions fostered by the House
of Have, both in the East and West, are fast being
liquidated by modern research, discovery, and invention,
There is a tremendous speeding-up process in evidence.
Unseen spiritual forces are pressing on the psychic side
of all humanity and causing a stimulation of intellectual
and spiritual potentialities. Individuals and races
everywhere are demanding their primary rights. Na-
tions and classes, still bound by old traditions and cus-
toms of the dark ages, are now subject to great up-
heavals. .
Democratic institutions based on the principle of free-
dom are everywhere gaining increased approval in the
hearts of mankind. The reactionary trend of the old
order in evidence in many countries is destined to defeat.
The discoveries and science of Kosmon are levelling all
divisions and barriers among the peoples of the earth,
and will bring into existence a new consciousness of the
unity and solidarity of the human race. There are to
be equal rights for all classes and nations in every part
of the globe.
The great democracies of free people which respect
the rights of the individual are enlightened and pro-
gressive. Nations that are not free, where the indi-
vidual is submerged, are backward and unawakened.
Their state is one of spiritual darkness and lethargy.
The path of progress for them is the hard path of revo-
lution and chaos. Where force rules, reason is de-
153
throned and individual freedom is suppressed. Force
is always met by a greater force, therefore causes are set
up leading to terrible reaction. Not only is there plenty
of evidence of this in history, but every great religious
literature testifies to its truth.
Democratic countries have had a spirit of tolerance
and good will, a willingness to negotiate with all other
peoples, so that a peaceful solution could be found with-
out resort to force. The primary rights of man are
recognized as the basic factor to the foundation of a new
world order of international peace and security.
154
CHAPTER XIII
ORIGIN AND DESTINY OF MAN
There is a grand cosmic day of one hundred and
forty-four thousand years, just as the minor earth day
is one of twenty-four hours. The Book of Revelation
speaks of 144,000 being saved, and Bible ~tudents have
interpreted this as meaning 144,000 persons. 144,000
years pertains to the period of time man exists on earth,
for race-man is born (se'mu), attains maturity (ho'tu),
passes into senility (a'du), and death (uz), in 144,000
years. Man was first born upon earth about 72,000
years ago. At that time, the earth was in darkness with
a prevailing temperature of approximately 98 degrees,
or blood heat. In 72,000 years the earth will have be-
come so cold that it will no longer be habitable, and man
will have ceased to propagate. The year 1848 marked
the halfway point of man's habitation of the earth.
During the present, or Kosman, cycle the sixth race will
be born with spiritual and physical senses equally de-
veloped. The new race will recognize things of the
spirit equally as well as those of the flesh.
This is all covered in the Bible, but few have the
understanding to interpret the myths and allegories con-
cealing these truths. The Bible, from cover to cover, is
an allegory of the four stages of man upon earth. It is
a mistake to accept the Bible literally. There is no basis,
in fact, for the belief that individual man can spiritualize
155
the body to the point where it is immortal. But race-
man will, in another 72,000 years, have attained to such
a degree of spirituality that the physical will have been
entirely conquered and man will have become godlike.
144,000 YEAR CYCLB 01" 1!U1W1 LI1"B UPOll BARTH
ILLUSTRATING TillE OF BIRTH AND EXTIBCTIOJ 01"
BACB OF THE ROOT RACES.
DIJRI!IG SECORD 72 ',000 YEARS
IUJl•S ATTENTION IS FOCUSED
Ill TBB SPIRITUAL
O•B.&11
RACB,
64,000 YEARS
Jl:OSl!01'
72,000
YEARS
'"1!!~~~~~-l-~~U4,000
XII Till! FIRST HALF CYCU!
01" llAlllrnlD'B EXlBTERCB 011 BARTH
BIS FOCUS IS Ill TBB PHYSICAL
36,000 IBARS
BIRTH OP
l!All
-A•SU OR
ADAll
The Book of Genesis tells of man's birth on earth as
Adam or animal man. Adam corresponds to the first
sub-human race a'su, born upon earth 78,000 years ago.
This race was animal, did not have self or I AM con-
sciousness and was not immortal. Only by the crossing
of the angels (spirit) with a'su (animal) was man, pos-
sessmg both body and soul, given birth. Then self
156
(soul) or I AM consciousness came into existence and
not before.
In Genesis, we have the beginning of time; in Revela-
tion, we have the end of time. In Genesis, we have the
first heaven and the first earth; in Revelation, we see a
new heaven and a new earth where God is All in All.
The self has then become the Not-self, or Super-self,
the soul merged in the Over-soul and Nirvana attained.
Progression is the major rule of the universe. Min-
eral, vegetable, animal, and man are the four visible
Earth and Heavens
life planes. There are three major life planes in the
unseen which complete the sacred seven.
The relationship existing between the seven planes is
shown in the following chart.
157
THE SEVEN PLANES OF BEING
SEVEN PLANES OF BEING AND SEVEN STEPS IN UNFOLDMENT
THREE DIMENSIONAL WORLD OF MATTER
4. MANKIND. Self-conscious,
Physical, mental and spiritual bodies concentric.
Soul in embryo, beginning of soul unfoldment.
Powers of reason, locomotion on, above and under
the earth. Procreation and growth.
3. ANIMAL KINGDOM. Physical and spiritual
bodies manifest, mental body in embryo. Soul
conceived.
Simple consciousness of existence and environment.
Existence for a season only after death in the
lowest heaven adjacent to the earth.
Power of locomotion, procreation, growth, and
elemental thought.
2. VEGETABLE KINGDOM. Physical body only.
Elementary consciousness 1ike that of deep sleep.
Spiritual body in embryo.
Ability to change mineral molecules into vegetable
cells.
Reacts to heat, gravity, pressure, and light.
1. MINERAL KINGDOM. Physical embodiment
only. Embryonic consciousness like that of deep
trance.
Power of elements to react to affinities and combine
with other elements to form a ·compound.
Read up.
158
MULTI-DIMENSIONAL WORLD OF SPIRIT
7. ETHEREAN HEAVENS or Etherea located in in-
terstellar space.
Plane of Cosmic Consciousness.
Power to travel anywhere in creation.
The Third Resurrection.
Spiritual and intellectual grades of 100 and above.
THE BRIDGE OF CHINVAT
6. ORGANIC HEAVENS or SECOND RESUR-
RECTION located thousands of miles from the
earth's surface but within the atmosphere of the
earth and in the earth's vortex.
Plane of Universal Consciousness. Soul in expres-
sion.
The Self submerged in the Not-Self, Nirvana.
The throne of God, Chief Executive of the Red
Star Earth.
Power to assist lower grades in spiritual progression.
Ability to travel anywhere within the atmospherean
boundaries of the earth.
5. INORGANIC HEAVENS or FIRST RESURREC-
TION located on and adjacent to the earth's
surface. Purgatory wherein souls are purged of
selfishness.
The Plane of Super-Consciousness.
Spiritual and mental bodies manifest, physical body
discarded. Soul unfolding.
Self is still the major consideration.
Power to travel in the lower heavens only. Travel
as instantaneous as thought.
Ability to influence lower grades either for pro-
gression or retrogression.
Read up.
159
The races of man are shown on the drawings. We, of
this generation, are of the Ghan race. The Kosmon
Cycle will give birth to the Kosmon race. A few of the
children on earth at this time are of this new sixth race.
The Kosmon race will result from the mating of those
members of the Ghan race who are the most advanced
in spirituality and intelligence. This selection is now
being accomplished by unseen forces, and will result in
an inspired genetics.
ORIGIN OF M AN
A'su (Adam) appeared upon earth about 78,000 years
before the Kosmon Era, and survived eight thousand
years before becoming extinct. A'su lived upon earth
for six thousand years before the appearance of l'hins,
who were a cross between materialized angels and A'su.
Approximately a thousand years after the appearance
of the l'hin race, this race bred with the A'su again, and
the cross between the l'hins and A'su resulted in the
160
birth of a new race called the Druk. The Druks came
in about 71,000 years ago.
Within a thousand years following the birth of the
Druks, another race resulted from crossing the Druks
and A'su. The new race was the Yaks, a race so low in
grade as not to be capable of speech, or any inspiration as
to eternal life. They were made eunuchs by the l'hins
and used as servants.
About 70,000 years B.K. (before Kosman, or prior
to 1848), the Druks and l'hins co-mingled, the result
being the I'huan race. American Indians are remnants
of this race.
About 14,000 years ago, the crossing of the l'hin and
l'huan races resulted in the Ghan race, to which the
Caucasian race belongs.
The l'hins as a race became extinct upon the earth
about 3,000 years B.K. Mummies of both l'hins and
l'huans have been found in Mexico. The l'hins were
small, blond people, while the l'huans were quite large,
many being over seven feet tall. The Moundbuilders
of Ohio were l'hins.
Cosmic dust (a'ji) will cease to fall in 1947-8, and
the earth will pass into the light of the Kosman era.
The Kosman race will then begin to appear, the result
of the amalgamation on the American continent of all
the races.
The negroid and oriental races are remnants of the
Druks; the Latins are mongrel races between the Druks
and l'huan.
The races in the order of their birth upon earth are
as follows: 1. A'su; 2. l'hin; 3. Druk; 4. Yak; 5.
l'huan; 6. Ghan; 7. Kosman.
161
I
j
I
i
..... .•..
MONSTROSITIES
Ascending and Descending Races of Man
162
PARALLEL AccouNTS oF THE CREATION oF MAN
The Bible
And the Lord God caused a
deep sleep to fall upon Adam,
and he slept: and he took one of
his ribs, and closed up the flesh
thereof.
And the rib which the Lord
God had taken from man, made
he woman, and brought her unto
the man.
And Adam said, "This is now
bone of my bones, and flesh of my
flesh; she shall be called Woman
because she was taken out of man.
-Genesis 2:21-23
The sons of God saw the
daughters of man that they were
fair; and they took wives of all
which they chose.
There were giants in the earth
in those days; and also after that,
when the sons of God came in
unto the daughters of men, and
they bare children to them, the
same became mighty men.
-Genesis 6:2-4
blance of their former corporeal
body, ·is drawn through the side
of the medium.
.It is probable that some similar
process of materialization was
used by the angels to produce
bodies in which to function for
the short time required to mate
with the A'suans that man might
be born.
A'su was an animal devoid of
self-consciousness. The angels
were spiritual beings. The cross
resulted in the birth of the l'hins
or little, blond, holy people who
possessed animal and spiritual
capacities in equal degree. The
l'hins could cognize spmts
equally as well as mortals. There-
fore it was not essential that the
angels retain their corporeal
forms in order to instruct, guide
and guard the l'hins. The I'hins
were comparable to a baby for
they represented the infant stage
of the human race.
In Kosmon man attains that
There is no record existing of stage of development comparable
any spiritist phenomena of a to that of the adult of twenty-
physical nature in modern times one years of age. Kosmon repre-
prior to March 31st, 1848, mark- sents the meridian of spiritual and
ing the birth of the Kosmon Era. corporeal development as well as
During the first 33-year cycle, the period of time man inhabits
from 1848 to 1881, there were the earth.
many good materializing medi- Science has long sought the
urns. Now there are few. "missing link" or the bridge be-
In a materialization, the ecto- tween ape and man. This link
plasmic substance, used by a dis- will never be found for the bodies
embodied spirit to form the sem- used by angels in their temporary
163
manifestation in corporeal form
disintegrated immediately at the
end of the angel's need for a
corporeal body.
The Kosman Revelations
In the Archives of the Essenes
Man I made out of the com-
bined elements of every living
thing that preceded him, and
with the characteristics of all of
them. Man was without under-
standing, unconscious of his crea-
tion; not knowing whence he
came, nor knowing his own spe-
cies. Man was void of speech,
and more dumb and helpless than
any other living creature, and
incapable of immortality; and I
called him A'su.
Near the end of the se'muan
age I took Earth out of the dark
regions, and brought her into
the light of My etherean worlds,
where dwelt countless millions of
spirits of the dead who had died
in infancy on other corporeal
worlds. To these angels I said:
"Behold, a new world have I
created like unto the places ye
were quickened into life. Come
ye :and enjoy it, and ye shall
learn from it how it was with
other worlds in ages past."
And there came to the new
with flesh and bones, and took on
corporeal forms.
And these angels, having died
in infancy, comprehended not
procreation, nor corporeal life;
and they dwelt with the Asuans
and brought forth a new race,
called I'hin, capable of unmor-
tality.
Then I took Earth out of
se'mu, and the angels gave up
their corporeal bodies. To them
I said,
"Because ye brought forth such
as shall be your joint heirs in
heaven, ye shall tread the earth
with your feet, and walk by the
side of the newly born, being
guardian angels over them, for
they are your own flesh and kin.
"Fruit of your seed have I
quickened with my spirit, and
man shall come forth with a
birthright to My etherean worlds.
As I have quickened the seed of
the first born, so will I quicken
all seed to the end of Earth.
And each and every man-child
and woman-child born into life,
will I quicken with a new spirit,
which shall proceed out of Me
at the time of conception. Nei-
ther will I give to any. spirit of
the higher or lower heavens
power to enter a womb, or the
fetus of a womb, and be born
earth millions of angels from again.
etheria. And now was earth in "As the corporeal Earth passes
the latter days of se'mu, and the away, so shall pass away the first
angels could readily take ·on cor- race A'su. But as I pass not
poreal bodies. Out of se'muan away, so shall not pass away the
elements clothed they themselves spirit of man."
164
PHYSICAL AND SPIRITUAL BALANCE OF THE R ACES AccoRDING To
MEN DEL'S PRINCIPLE S OF HEREDIT Y
A'SU ANGEL
100% physical (animal man) 100% spiritual (spiritual woman)
DESCENDING ORDER ASCENDING ORDER
A'SU
DRUK
YAK
MONSTROS-
ITIES
Physical
16/16
12/ 16
14-/16
15/16
Spiritual
0
4-/16
2/ 16
1/16
l'HIN
IHUAN
GHAN
KOSMON
Physical Spiritual
8/16 8/ 16
10/ 16 6/ 16
9/ 16 7/ 16
8/16 8/16
INDIVIDUAL M AN Is A RECAPITULATION OF R ACIAL DEVELOPMEN T
Race M an Individual Man Consciousness
I'HIN INFANT Age 0-7 SELF
IHUAN CHILD 7-14 FAMILY
GHAN YOUTH 14--21 NATIONAL
KOSMON MANHOOD 21-28 WORLD
There have been five races. A'su or Adam was a
subhuman, more animal than man, and did not have
self-consciousness. A'su can not correctly be termed a
race of man.
The Druks and Yaks were of a descending order; the
Ihin,Jhuan, and Ghan races of an ascending order. We
are of the Ghan or fifth race. Kosman marks the
meridian of racial unfoldment and this race will possess
an equal development of both the physical and spiritual
attributes. From now on, man's attention will be
focused in the spiritual realms more than the physical.
Spiritual concepts will come into the ascendency, while
physical ones will decline. Kosman will give birth to
the sixth race.
It is readily observed that a correspondence exists be-
165
tween race man and individual man in the development
of the faculties. Individual man is the miniature of
race-man, and in his unfoldment from infancy to matur-
ity is a recapitulation of the unfoldment of the race.
The first race upon earth was the l'hin, and in this
race a balance existed between the physical and the
spiritual. This race had psychic faculties equal to its
physical senses, and could cognize the angels as well as
Map of the Submerged Continent in the
Pacific Ocean. (Pan or Mu)
Drawn in 188 1 by J ohn B. N ewbrough. In 1933 the existence
of Pan or Mu was verified from soundings made in the P acific
by the officers of the Ramapo, a U. S. Geodetic Survey vessel.
man, but being an infant race, it was like a child whose
intellect is potential only.
It has taken 72,000 years for man to develop a brain
and learn to use reasoning faculties. It seems, as one
looks around the world today, that some of us haven't
yet learned to use our brains any too well.
As the Kosmon race matures it will re-establish a
balance between the physical and the spiritual. It will
be like the l'hins, with the addition that the intellect,
judgment, reason, and discrimination will also be un-
166
folded. With the development of both intellect and
spirituality, the self gives way to the Not-self, or Super-
self. Consciousness progresses to the realization that
the wisest selfishness is unselfishness; competition gives
way to co-operation, and a United States of the World
replaces rabid nationalism.
As the races of mankind evolve, they gradually
progress from a consciousness of self to that of family,
tribal, city, and national consciousness. The present
world war will purge the race of the belief that any
nation or race is superior, and bring the realization that
we are all members of one great human family born to
live our brief span on Mother Earth and .share her
bounties so that all may prosper in peace and plenty.
The life span of race-man upon earth is shown on
the 144,000 year cosmic clock. Each of the twelve di-
visions of the clock represents a 12,000 year cycle. You
will note that the point on this cosmic clock correspond-
ing to 12 on our physical clocks is in the east, rather than
at the top, or north. This is because our planet revolves
from west to east. As the sun rises in the east and sets
in the west, likewise did civilization begin in the east
and will reach its zenith in the west. In the year 1848
gold was discovered in California and migration started
westward, leading to the settlement of the entire con-
tinent from the eastern to the western coast and in-
directly to the opening up of Japan to the western na-
tions.
When Japan lowered her barriers, travel and com-
munication became common with all nations. This in
turn enabled the dragon or money power, with its usury,
capitalism, commercialism, imperialism, and its exploita-
167
tion of backward peoples, to plant the seeds of the first
and second world wars.
Mankind is focused in a three-dimensional physical
environment. As long as he resides in a physical body
Panic or First Written Language Developed by Man.
Used on P an or Mu
there is action and reaction between the physical and the
spiritual man. One side can not be injured or developed
without its effect on the other. There is also a relation-
ship between the spirit, intellect, and sex consciousness.
DEGREES IN EVOLUTION AS EVIDENCED BY SEX CONSCIOUSNESS
MOTTO: The higher the altitude attained, the deeper the possible
fall.
1. THE ANIMAL--"Perfect in its order." Has no sex conscious-
ness operating outside its own species or order.
168
2. A'SU-High enough to have this consciousness, but not high
enough to discriminate; hence he "knew not his own species."
3. !'HIN-Appears to have received this consciousness in what may
be called the discriminative degree.
4. DRUK-Divided into two classes:
A. Those who could be taught this discrimination.
B. Those incapable of being so taught.
5. YAK-Incapable of being so taught.
6. l'HUAN-Appears to have been of similar sex-consciousness as
the l'hins; but nearer the earth, as shown by a more powerful phy-
sique and earthly desires.
The possibilities of progress or degree of potentiality
of spirit are largely indicated through sex manifesta-
tions.
Man is a link in a mighty chain of correspondences
reaching back to primordial dust. ~e does not seem to
be significant or explainable save as a part of this long
chain which links him to the past. Furthermore, if man
is anything, he must be the culmination, or focusing
point, of all that was or is in the long sequence of events
that led up to his present state. His roots go all the way
back to cosmic "blueprints." He is inseparably linked
to all the past and to all the future. There never was
any "fall" of man. Man is ever ascending. The
cosmogony in the Book of Genesis belongs to the
Mother Goose childish fables of the race.
Mankind is the product of eugenics governed and
directed by the Over-Ruling Intelligence of all creation.
The Essenes know Him as Jehovah. We are now at
the halfway mark .in race unfoldment. Seventy-two
thousand years hence the man of that day will be as
superior to the man of today as man is superior to a
chimpanzee.
169
CHAPTER XIV
THE CREATOR'S CLOCK AND THE LAWS OF PERIODICITY
Science is now accepting the fact that there is a distinct
periodicity in human affairs in correspondence with var-
ious cosmic cycles. Roy Chapman Andrews in his re-
search in ancient civilizations in Mongolia, has dis-
covered, as have other archeologists in various parts of
the world, that the rise and fall of civilizations seems to
occur over a three thousand-year period.
The builders of the Great Pyramid of Gizeh knew
far more of cosmic cycles and their effects than is known
by our present-day scientists. Some of the cycles used
by the prophets of the Pyramid are herein given. They
have been taken from the manuscripts of the Essenes.
In 1908 Dr. George E. Hale of Mt. Wilson Observa-
tory discovered a sun spot cycle of eleven years and a
magnetic cycle of twenty-two years. Dr. Charles G.
Abbot of Smithsonian Institute has confirmed both the
eleven and the twenty-two-year cycle. Dr. Harlan
True Stetson of Massachusetts Institute of Technology
recently published a book entitled "Sun Spots and Their
Effects," containing a summary of what is known per-
taining to these cycles.
It is now claimed by various scientists that sun spots
affect our weather, increase magnetic disturbances, in-
ter£ere with radio communications, influence crops, con-
170
trol the amount of ultra-violet rays reaching the earth,
govern the visitation of insect pests, and determine
fluctuations of business conditions.
Recent research confirms the conclusions of the an-
cients. Human affairs may be plotted with an astonish-
ing degree of accuracy by one acquainted with cosmic
cycles and their meanings.
The prophetic 'tables of the Essenes are read in a
clockwise direction, with 12 in the east instead of the
north, as it is on our clock faces. The four quarters of
the earth are represented on the Creator's clock with
east to the right instead of the left, as on popular as-
trological charts.
The circle and cross, when divided into twelve equal
arcs, represent the timepiece upon which future events
may be read in correct relationship with time. This
circle and cross are useless without a known date which
may be used as a constant. Until revealed in the Es-
sene manuscripts, there had been no known constant
which could be used in prophecy. Most interpreters
have used the date 1 A.D., the supposed date of Christ's
birth, as the point in time from which to work. Biblical
and archeological research have brought to light the
fact that 1 A.D. is not correct by at least four years, and
possibly the error is much greater.
The year 1848 is the date when the earth, in its travel
through interplanetary space, entered a new cosmic cycle,
It is a date which may be used with mathematical
certainty in the interpretation of prophecy.
March 31, 1848, gave birth to a new 3,000-yeaf
cycle, sometimes called the Aquarian Age. The first
132 year cycle of Kosman, or the Aquarian Age, will
171
wi,tness the end of a 72,000, a 36,000, a 24,000, and a
12,000-year cosmic cycle.
The years 1940 to 1948 are the last seven years of the
third quarter of the :first 132-year cycle of Kosmon.
The 132 years between 1848 and 1980 will see a com-
plete change in every phase of human activity. This
period will completely alter the map of the world. New
continents will rise, sections of old continents will sink
beneath the seas. Our civilization will be destroyed in
order to clear the ground for a new civilization superior
to any that has preceded it.
The imagination is as unable to visualize the peace,
abundance and·beauty of life in the world of tomorrow
as would the serf of the days of feudalism h;ive been
unequal to the foreseeing of the airplane, auto, radio,
and other inventions of our day.
Cosmic cycles may be divided into twelve lesser
periods of eleven years each corresponding to the re-
cently discovered weather cycle. Three eleven-year
cycles make up a quarter of 33 years, corresponding to
a generation of man. A 144,000-year cycle is made up
of four quarters of 36,000 years or twelve periods of
12,000 years each.
In the 132-year cycle each quarter marks the birth of
a new generation of man; in the 144,000-year cycle each
hour of 12,000 years marks the birth of a new root race.
The year 1848 A.D., or Kosmon 1, is the key to
prophecy. Kosmon 1or1 A.K. (1848) marks the year
when the spiritual and animal phases of man's character
shall begin to equalize. The year 1 A.K. also marks the
year of discovery of gold in California, an event which
led to the opening up of the West and the building of
172
transcontinental railroads. By making the shipment of
agricultural products possible, the railroads were ia-
strumental in the settlement of the western states and
the growth in power of this nation.
It was about 1848 that Japan was opened to commerce
with the Occidentals. This was an outstanding event
in the history of mankind, for it is bearing fruit in the
present attempt to dominate the east. The development
of imperialistic policies- a lesson learned only too well
from the Christian nations- will cause the spread of
communism in China and a revolution in Japan. In the
latter country we shall see a replacement of the present
form of government, which today is a weird conglom-
eration of Emperor worship, feudalism, and capitalism.
It will be replaced by a totalitarian state functioning for
the benefit of the people of Japan rather than for the
aggrandizement of a small group of families who, now,
more completely own the means of production in Japan
than do our sixty families here in the United States.
The year 1848 is a key year in the life of our planet.
It marks the birth of the Kosmon Era, the Aquarian
Age, the millennium of a thousand years of peace, God's
kingdom on earth, or whatever term you wish to apply
to a condition of peace, plenty, and security. However,
the complete manifestation of the millennium, foretold
by every major prophet, will not take place until the
year 1980.
The eleven-year cycle is the minor cycle of prophecy.
It is the sun spot, magnetic, and minor weather cycle.
The major weather cycle is the 33-year cycle. There
is always a correspondence between the cycles of man
and the planet that gave him birth. There are three
173
generations to a hundred years, and 33 marks the time
of a generation of man. Therefore, if we add 33 years
to 1848, we find 1881, the year the Essene histories were
recovered. It is more than a coincidence that the
Oneida community started in 1848 as a pure fraternity
of peaceful communists living the life and abiding by
the teachings of the early Essenes. It lasted just 33
years, and was converted into a capitalistic enterprise in
the year 1881.
The year 1881 marks the production of many books
and prophecies of an inspirational nature. It was the
high noon of a minor cosmic day. The sunset of this
132-year day, the year 1914, sixty-six years after the
birth of the Kosmon Era, witnessed the preview of the
war of Armageddon.
A period of thirty-three years of warfare on earth be-
gan in the year 1914. Before this present cycle of
thirty-three years ushers in the next thirty-three-year
cycle in 1948, the troubles foretold in the Books of
Daniel and Revelation will have come to pass. The
years from 1914 to 1948 are a cycle which will see the
passing of the capitalistic form of society, will mark the
death of imperialism, will witness the downfall of
Fascism, and will convert every major nation into a co-
operative commonwealth.
The thirty-three-year cycle starting in 1948 will be a
cycle of reconstruction for a better and wiser world. By
1980 every prophecy of Edward Bellamy, Henry
George, Tolstoy, Newbrough and other farsighted men
will have been fulfilled.
The fifty-year cycle is one pertaining to manifesta-
tions in the heavens of the earth. In the early days of
174
our planet, the graduation of immortals from the high-
est heavens of the earth into the Etherian Heavens
took place only every 200 years. Now, this event takes
place every 50 years. The year 1980, the termination
of four 50-year cycles,. will be a grand time in the
heavens, for it will see the graduation of the largest host
in the history of the Red Star, Earth.
The one-thousand-year cycle is recognized in the
Bible, for it is said that God's day is as a thousand years.
Three thousand years mark the time of the rise and fall
of a civilization. Every three thousand years the re-
ligions of the world change, for it is harvest time in the
heavens. Every three thousand years witnesses condi-
tions similar to those prevailing today-the downfall of
religions that have served their purpose in the unfold-
ment of the talents of man, and the return to world-wide
worship of one God only, the Creator.
In the past the All One, Creator, Architect of the
Universe, the I AM that I Am, Jehovah, or whatever
term you prefer to apply to the source of all, has been
known by many names. The American Indians knew
Him as Egoquim, the Great Spirit; the ancients knew
Him as Ormazd or Light; and Moses knew Him as
Jehovah, whose name it was forbidden to mention in
the hearing of idol worshippers.
Here it may be well to explain the key to JHVH, the
unpronouncable word. JHVH was used in exoteric
manuscripts open to the public, and, to the initiated,
signified the missing letters, E-0-A. This custom is in
use today by Free Masons, for in their manuals letters
are deleted, making the instructions meaningless to the
uninitiated. In the days of Moses, the name of the
175
Creator (the I AM THAT I AM), could only be
spoken in a whisper, mouth to ear, that it might not
come into the possession of the profane. In Masonic
rituals, a word is used today as a substitute for the lost
word.
Peoples have turned away from the worship of the
Architect of the Universe and now worship lesser gods.
By 1980, the prevailing religions of today-Chris-
tianity, Buddhism, Mohammedanism, and Brahmanism
-will have passed. Following the war of Armageddon,
unity of worship will again be prevalent upon the earth;
and with unity of religion will come unity of govern-
ment, economics, and freedom for all mankind.
Every religion has its purpose. Good, during the
time it commands the respect of the people, after the
lessons it was sent to teach have been learned, it must be
put away as the child puts away his picture-books when
he learns to read. Christianity has served a great pur-
pose. Christian nations have brought a more abundant
life to many nations in their development of machine
production. While their policies have been imperialistic
(selfish) in the exploitation of weaker peoples, it was
through this same exploitation that resources were de-
veloped which would have been undiscovered and po-
tential were it not for the energies and ambitions of these
same Christian nations.
Had Perry never forced Japan to open her ports to
world trade, Japan today would be as backward as she
was a century ago. Today Japan is applying lessons
learned from her Christian neighbors and, in her effort
to exploit China as England has India, is forcing China
again to take her place as a major nation. China is des-
176
tined to become a leading world nation- by peace and
not by war. She has never forgotten the lessons of
Chine and Confucius. She has remembered them far
better than Israel (America) and better than the Jews
have remembered the instructions of Moses and the
Nazarene.
Twelve 1000-year cycles compose one-half of the
cosmic day, and as it takes two twelve-hour periods to
make one day of twenty-four hours, so does it also take
two twelve 1000-year cycles to complete the sidereal
day.
The twelve thousand-year cycle is divided into quar-
ters of 3000 years each. Three thousand years ago
Moses led the Children of Israel out of Egypt and
established a peaceful, non-resistant people who wor-
shipped only the Creator. Six thousand years ago Abra-
ham led the slaves out of a disintegrating civilization
and established a new nation. Nine thousand years ago
Zarathustra (source. of Zoroastrian legends) gave hu-
manity its first Bible and established a nation of peace
and plenty.
Today we are in a new three thousand-year cycle.
The same old story is being reenacted in China. For
nine years communism has been developing in north-
west China and for nine years the communists were
surrounded by hostile troops. Is it not remarkable that
Chiang Kai-shek professes Ch:t:istianity? A few years
ago Chiang Kai-shek was doing his utmost to destroy the
Red army; and, in order to avoid destruction, this army
made a six thousand mile march-about twice the width
of the American Continent-and made it on foot over
terrain too rough for wheeled traffic. The time came
177
when Chiang Kai-shek realized that he was playing
Japan's game, reversed his policy and turned to the Red
army for help. It was with the assistance of the Red,
or Eight Route Army, that Chinese guerrilla resistance
was organized. It is the type of fighting learned from
this army that is defeating Japan.
TWELVE THOUSAND YEAi! CYCLE
A great lesson may be learned from a study of recent
Chinese history. Every great advance in civilization
has first been pioneered by a few. These pioneers in
thought and action blaze the trail afterwards followed
by the thousands. As the Pilgrims first came to America
and provided the seed for the United States of today,
178
so did the communists pioneer a new government and
economic system that will soon be adopted by all of
China. The Reds of China in the Northwest must be
credited with a redistribution of the land from the hands
of a few large land owners into the hands of thousands
of families. The Reds abolished usury, tax-extortion,
and eliminated privileged groups. As the Chinese com-
munists taught the unprogressive Chinese a better
method of resisting Japanese aggression, so are they also
teaching the rest of the nation better government and
better economics. They blazed a trail, in their escape
from Chiang Kai-shek, that is today being followed by
the nation. China is moving her people away from the
coast section and taking an entire civilization thousands
of miles inland to regions as backward as Japan was a
century ago.
Every three thousand years those who are the selected
seed of a new civilization are driven out of the nations
headed for destruction. As we see the migration of the
people from that part of China long controlled by the
capitalists of foreign nations, as we see the Jews driven
from Germany an'd establishing a cooperative common-
wealth in Palestine, so will we soon see a body of our
own citizens, driven by a capitalistic government which
will become Fascist, turned out of cities being destroyed
by civil war. The year 1944-45 is a crucial year in
American history.
Every twenty-four thousand years the earth changes
its center of gravity and its axis. The Bible states that
when the sign of the Son of Man is in the heavens, these
things shall come to pass. Aquarius is the sign of the
Son of Man, and the Aquarian Age is equivalent to the
179
Kosmon Era. It is also said that the moon and stars
shall be moved from their places and a new heaven and
a new earth shall come to pass. Whenever the earth
changes to a new axis, the location of sun and stars are
changed from an earthly viewpoint. Then comes a
change in climate; the arctic regions become warm; the
sea bottom becomes dry land, and mountains are sub-
merged.
In California we have a mine located on top of a
/ ','
~' ,
~' ,
0 ,
0~, I I
~ ,
l' ,
' I
' : ( .ll'C.AVATl()l'.O
I ·"
I .
,
. '
,' .... \'
, '
, '
, '·
, \.
, .,
· ~
'
' '
" \.
"(,..~.,.~~....
~i~:~....
:-~ ~ ·,.'>-
I UVEl Dl!EXTFBHAL BAS&_. - -- --·-·· -
' '
' '''
Rooms and P assages of the Great Pyramid
mountain from which oyster shells are dug. It is the
change in the earth's axis every twenty-four thousand
years that accounts for the former ice-caps in now tem-
perate regions, and explains the finding of tropical
plants in land now arctic.
The prevalence of earthquakes the past few years is
a warning of great changes to come. Changes for the
coast-line of California have been prophesied by many
who have made contact with the unseen. The destruc-
tion of New York city by earthquake has been foretold
180
by Baha'u'llah and several other prophets. Washington
I and Montana in the west, New York and Massachusetts
in the east, have all had hurricanes and earthquakes
in the past five years. What year the earth changes
foretold by prophets will take place is unknown. We
are in the years when a 99, a 200, a 3,000, a 12,000, a
24,000, a 36,000, and a 72,000-year cycle overlap, but
Observatory That Stood by the G reat P yramid of Osiris
a cycle of 33 years is such a small fraction of a cosmic
day that it is impossible for us to tell at this time the
exact year such changes may be expected. It requires a
more profound knowledge of the mathematics of
prophecy than is possessed by man in these early days
of Kosman. Before the next century has passed, how-
ever, science will open the rooms of the Great Pyramid,
now unknown, and rediscover lost wisdom concerning
cosmic cycles and their influence on human affairs.
The archives of the Essenes contain what purports
to be a true account of the Great Pyramid and its build-
18I
ers. In this history we find the statement made that
within the south (undiscovered) room of the Pyramid
records are stored covering 3,000 years. Gathered from
all inhabited sections of the earth, these records cover
data pertaining to weather, wars, races, and other items
used by the prophets in predicting the future.
This room is protected by unseen forces and will be
guarded from discovery until world peace is established
in 1948.
182
CHAPTER XV
SECRETS OF SYMBOLOGY AND ESOTERIC PSYCHOLOGY
SYMBOLOGY UNVEILED
The cross has, for many centuries, been recognized as
a symbol distinctive of Christian peoples. As mankind
progresses from birth to death, and as each new race
appears, so also does the symbology of the race unfold.
Physical, mental, and spiritual man is always denoted
by a harmonious language, both spoken and written, and
its accompanying symbology.
It is often remarked that anything can be proven by
the Bible. Taken literally, much of the Bible is non-
sense. Accepted for what it is, a compilation of inspired
manuscripts dealing with the unfoldment of the human
race, but written in the language of allegory, symbology,
and astrology, it is a medium of spiritual and mental
enlightenment.
Christianity is recognized, by those
who have studied its source, as an out-
growth of the paganism of a past cycle.
Christianity did not originate at the
time the Nazarene lived, but came into
being about three centuries later.
Prior to that time, the cross had been
used as a religious symbol, but carried
a crucified lamb. Among the many
symbols which the early Christians
used to represent the main object of
183
their faith, the lamb was the most predominant. At the
;
beginning of the sixth century, the cross bears a lamb;
later in the century, it is lying on the altar at the foot of
the cross; still later, it appears with blood flowing from
a wound in its side, as well as from its feet; and finally,
by the end of the century, a lamb is painted in the center
of the cross in the place where the body of Christ was
later placed. On the celebrated cross of the Vatican,
where this lamb appears are two portrayals of the Savior,
one above, holding a book in the left hand and giving a
benediction in the Latin manner with his right, the one
below, holding a scroll in the right hand and a small
cross in the left.
At the Sixth Ecumenical Council held at Constanti-
nople in 680 A.D., it was ordained that in place of the
lamb, the figure of a man should be portrayed on the
cross. After this edict, the worship of a lamb on the
cross was forbidden.
As man progressed out of the dark
ages, his worship changed from adora-
tion of an animal to that of a man.
During the past century the Unitarian
faith, Christian Science, New Thought,
Oxford Group (Buckmanites), and
many others have been instruments to
carry worship from a man born of
woman to that of a god of spirit.
As we progress into the cycle of Kosmon, the Chris-
tian cross, as a religious symbol, will become obsolete,
and the Kosmon cross of a new age will be adopted.
The Pope remarked when Hitler visited Mussolini
not long ago, and the streets of Rome were decorated
184
(or desecrated) with the cross of Hitler, that the swas-
tika was not the cross of Christ. Hitler's cross is an
atavistic cross of death, emblematical of the four dark
forces. The one who knows the secrets of symbology
can look at the insignia of a man or an order and know
whether it be of light or dark, good or evil. A man
reveals his mind by the symbols he adopts.
The Christian cross is a representation of the man-
kind of our Ghan race. Western peoples have used the
cross for centuries, little realizing how significant it is of
themselves and their mentalities. The cross symbolizes
the three dimensional consciousness, and as mankind's
mentality develops, so will his cross change from the
unbalanced cross of the Christian to the balanced cross
of Kosman.
There are three phases to the mind of man: the sub-
conscious, conscious, and super-conscious. The subcon-
scious is the composite mind of all the cells of the body;
the conscious is the mind of the self, I Am, or soul; the
super-conscious is the mind of the spirit.
Into the consciousness of man two streams of impres-
sions converge. From the subconscious come the de-
mands of the physical man-his appetite, sex urge,
physical desires of every sort and description, and a
constant stream of impressions from his physical en-
vironment. The subconscious is the field of the physical.
It is the mortal mind of the Christian Scientist, the ani-
mal mind.
Another stream of impressions flows in from the
superconsciousness, which is the mind of the spirit. It is
this phase of mind that we must thank for all original
ideas, our faith, our intuition, our conscience, our re-
18S
ligious ideals, our sense of right and wrong, for these are
all impressions of a spiritual nature.
The subconscious functions over the solar-plexus and
sympathetic nervous system, and centers in the back part
of the brain. The conscious mind, or self-mind, oper-
ates over the cerebro-spinal nervous system and centers
in the fore-brain. The super-conscious manifests
through the pineal gland and top brain.
CHRISTIAN CROSS OF TODAY
THE
WITHIN
OR
UNSEEN
SUPER
CONSCIOUS
TBE CONSCIOUS MIND. IMPRESSIONS FLOWING INTO
CONSCIOUSNESS ORIGINATE IN THE MORTAL MIND OF
THE BODY OR ENTER OVER THE PHYSICAL SENSES FROM
CORPOREAL ENVIRONMENT.
THE
WITHOUT
OR
SEEN
SUB
CONSCIOUS
MORTAL MIND
OF THE BODI
REALM OF
PHYSICAL
APPETITES.
Each phase of consciousness has its own frequency
and color. The subconscious is red, a low frequency.
The conscious is yellow, an intermediate frequency.
The superconscious is blue, a higher frequency.
186
When the cells of the body need nutriment a mes-
sage travels over the sympathetic nervous system, at a
low frequency, to the solar plexus where the impulse is
converted into the intermediate frequency of conscious-
ness. Only then does the individual become aware of
hunger.
A mental impression of any kind outside the field of
the physical body and its three dimensional environment
is a message originating in the super, or spiritual, con-
sciousness. When we have a new idea, have an impres-
sion that an action we are contemplating is wrong, or
endeavor to recall a picture of some past event, each of
these is a function of the super-conscious, and it mani-
fests itself in the body as a nerve impulse of high fre-
quency. When converted into the intermediate fre-
quency of the conscious mind, we have an idea.
Thought is the weighing of a present problem on the
scales of past experience. Consciousness is a medley of
impressions from both the sub and super phases of mind.
Herein is the secret of mental telepathy or trans£er-
ence of thought from one person to another. You may
have a thought that you wish to transmit to some loved
one at a distance. If you are able to convert this thought
into the higher frequency of the super-conscious, it is
broadcast into the ether. This energy impinges on the
superconscious, or spirit mind, of your friend. Only
when he has reconverted the high frequency of the
spirit, by means of his pineal gland, into the intermediate
frequency of the conscious mind will he receive the
message and be aware that you are en rapport or in tune
with him.
Mental telepathy is a transference of mental pictures
or visualizations, and not a transference of words. So
187
if you would try a few experiments in thought transfer-
ence, build a picture of the idea you wish to convey, and
visualize your friend receiving this picture. You may
be amazed at your success.
The conscious mind should be positive, the other two
phases negative. The real self, the I AM, the Soul-
Mind, should be the master. The Essene training de-
velops this soul mastery whereby the initiate comes into
full command of his body, his spirit and his environ-
ment.
The Master, Adept, Prophet, the true Essene, is a
balanced man, a man who has attained the ability to
command equally either the cells of his physical organ-
ism or the attributes of his spirit. He can direct his
attention to any organ or part of his body and force it
to do his will, or he can silence the appetites of his body
and listen ·
,to the still small voice of the spirit. He can
go into the "silence," to that kingdom of heaven to be
found within. He is the super-man. If his attention
is directed to a world without, he is master, for he has
learned concentration of will and effort. If he directs
his attention within, he is in command of his being and
of every .mental power. His is the four dimensional
consciousness, the realization of the unseen world of
spirit and the seen world of matter. His is the ability
to contact the unseen infinite field of causation and the
seen finite fields of effect. Past, present, future are
within his ken. He has the ability to use the superior
laws of spirit to overcome the inferior laws of matter.
The cross of Kosmon is the balanced cross of the
balanced man, equal with respect to the powers of spirit,
body, and intellect. The Master can stop the flow of
188
CROSS OF THE MASTER, PROPHET OR TRUE ESSENE.
The Cross of Tomorrow.
This man makes his own destin1 and creates
his own environment.
SPIRITUAL
OR
SUPER-
COHSCIOUS
ilIND
BLUE
SELF CONSCIOUSNESS, THE I AM OR SOUL MIND
COGHIZES IMPRESSIONS OF THE SPIRIT EQUAL
WITH THOSE OF THE BODY AND CORPOREAL WORLD.
GOLDEB YELLOW
CORPOREAL
MORTAL
OR
SOB-
CONSCIOUS
MIND
RED
This man has faith only in his Creator and
knows that he knows. ·
impressions coming into his mind from the physical
world without, and live in the spirit, or he can heed the
wise voice of his spiritual consciousness and concentrate
his powers on the world without.
189
CHAPTER XVI
THE MARK OF THE MASTER
Masons will note in the following symbolism a cor-
respondence with their order.
The emblem of the Junior Warden is the plumb-line
or perpendicular, while that of the Senior Warden is
Egyptian M asonry
the level or horizontal. The combination forms the
perfect cross: the cross of the master. In Masonry it
is symbolized by the square.
The swastika is made up of four squares placed in
such a position that they denote the direction of travel
190
from east to west. Wherever this cross is found it is
evidence that the people who used it possessed the
secrets of ancient Masonry and had wisdom schools
similar to that of the Essenes. The swastika cross was
known to all the Indian tribes. To them it was a sym-
bol of the Creator, or Great Spirit, and of His works.
It has been found woven in silk and engraved on
coins in China and Japan. It has been placed on coins,
stoles and amulets in Mesopotamia. It has been hewn
into stone in Egypt and Central America. The North
American Indians wove it into their blankets and baskets,
painted and carved it on wood. It is evidence that at
one time every one of these people worshipped the
Great Spirit or Architect of the Universe. It is a sym-
bol of the l'hins, the mound-builders of North America.
The arms of the ancient swastika
were always square with the world,
pointed to the four light quarters of
the universe, east, south, west, and
north, and denoted a clockwise rota-
tion as did the ancient astrological
CR088 OP LUI
charts. In this position, the swastika llq~~:~~i!:u
is a symbol of light and of travel from ignorance to
wisdom. It denotes progression.
Hitler designed the flag of the Nazis, a flag with a
background of red upon which is a white circle having
in its center a black false swastika.
But note this carefully: he reversed the direction of
rotation of the swastika and placed it pointing to the
four dark corners of the universe, northeast, northwest,
southeast, and southwest. In the ancient initiations, the
four dark corners signified four evil forces. By chang- ·
191
ing the direction of rotation of the swastika from clock-
wise to counter-clockwise, he makes this ancient cross a
symbol of travel from knowledge to ignorance, retro-
. gression. This is evidenced in
his exiling many of the best
minds of Germany, and his de-
struction of the German univer-
sities that had so long enjoyed
a reputation as the best.
Placed in the position which
_ r111>W11 the swastika occupies in the Nazi
-~loclr.wiHr:ttlUal
......_ '°" flag, the cross of the master is
changed to the cross of death, the cross-bones, symbol of
poison, darkness, evil, and destruction. It is then a
false, not a true swastika.
Hitler is a psychic controlled by a god of force whose
objective is chaos in the affairs of men. He is the de-
stroyer. His work is the destruction of the competitive
capitalistic system, international banking and national
barriers, that they may be replaced by a system of co-
operative effort. His rabid nationalism will destroy
itself and will be replaced by a benign internationalism.
By means of evil, he clears the way for good. His is
a necessary work in the evolution of mankind.
Hitler is the wrecker; his the work of clearing the
earth of old institutions so that new and better methods
may replace them. He is the destroyer of international
finance based upon banker-controlled gold; his the task
of razing the Christian Church, whose birthplace is
Rome. His part is that of instigating a world-wide anti-
semitism that will purge the Jews of self and money
192
worship, and will separate the Jews from the Israelites,
who worship the Creator only.*
Hitler occupies the place in this cycle of Kosmon
that Pharaoh occupied three thousand years ago. As it
took the oppression of the Egyptians to force the Israel-
ites of old to leave a nation about to be destroyed, so
has it taken the lashes of the Nazis to drive the Israelites
from Germany. Their departure is, in itself, a prophecy
of the destruction of the German Nation.
*Kindly note the difference between Jews and Israelites. The term "Jew"
is commonly used in present day propaganda where Mammon, :Babylon, or
capitalism based upon the principle of usury is meant. The Jew is the an-
tithesis of Israel. The Jew is an idol-a money-worshipper, while the Israel-
ite is a monotheist and obeys the commandment, "Thou shalt have no other
gods before me." The United States is the coming Israel. Our constitution
forbids the power of the state to be used to support any religion. The Creator
can manage His own creations without help from the state or church.
193
CHAPTER XVII
INTERPRETATION OF THE GREAT SEAL OF THE u. s.
AND THIRTEEN CYCLES IN AMERICAN HISTORY
One of the most interesting things in the study of
symbology is the constant adoption of symbols by people
who do not in the least suspect what it is they are doing,
and who have no idea of the meanings of the symbols
which they adopt.
Prior to the year 1914, nations used some member of
the animal kingdom as a symbol on their flags or national
coat of arms, for example, an eagle, lion, bear or dragon.
The unfoldment of the spirituality and intellect of man-
kind in these years of transition is evidenced by the
change in their symbols.
Russia adopted the "Hammer and Sickle"-a symbol
of labor in the Creator's vineyard. Germany adopted
the reversed, or false swastika, an emblem of death or
disintegration. The United States brought to light the
reverse side of the Great Seal of the United States, and
is now using both sides of the seal on dollar bills. The
publication of this seal denotes a coming change in the
religion, government, and economy of the nation. An
interpretation of the symbolism of the Great Seal of
the United States will reveal a prophecy of the future
of our country.
The number four prominently appears in the history
194
of the United States. The Fourth of July is the date
on which the order was given for the designing of this
seal, and is also the date upon which the Declaration of
Independence was signed. The number thirteen is an
expansion of the number four, and appears throughout
the history of our country. Thirteen is our national
number.
There are thirteen bars in our flag and thirteen rods
on our national mace. The inscription "Annuit Coep-
tis," meaning "He hath prospered our beginning," is
made up of thirteen letters. The aura of light above
the eagle's head contains thirteen stars arranged in a
manner to form the interlocked triangles of the Star of
David, or emblem of Israel. The eagle holds thirteen
arrows in the right talon, and an olive branch of thirteen
leaves in the left.
The Confederate flag contained thirteen stars, al-
though there were never more than eleven states in the
Confederacy. On the thirteenth day of the month, Fort
Sumter was fired upon. Dewey took Manila on the
thirteenth.
In the world war, the number thirteen appears again
and again. Although Thomas Woodrow Wilson was
the full name of the president who led us into war, he
had shortened his name to thirteen letters, Woodrow
Wilson. It took thirteen days for the thirteen vessels
making up the first expedition to reach France. John J.
Pershing, a general with thirteen letters in his name,
commanded the U. S. forces in the first battle (Belleau
Woods), occurring on June 13th.
The number thirteen made its appearance in our des-
195
tiny before we were a nation, for thirteen generals of
the Revolutionary War were Free Masons. Washing-
ton was Master of the Lodge.
The Declaration of Independence was drawn up
largely by Masons and Masonic Lodges were the
centers of activity preceding the War of Independence.
The patriotic society, Cacus Pro Bono Publico, was made
up of members of St. Andrews Lodge of Boston, and it
was members of this society, disguised as Indians, who
conducted the historic Boston Tea Party.
There is striking similarity between the symbols of
Masonry and those appearing on the seal of the United
States. Neither the name of Christ nor the term "Chris-
tian" are heard any place in the ritual of the Blue Lodge
of Masonry, nor is any Christian symbol used in the
original three degrees of Masonry. However, the
terms "Architect of the Universe" and "God" are used
many times, for no atheist can become a member of the
Masonic Fraternity without perjuring himself.
The founders of our country were deeply religious
men but were wise enough to forbid, in our Constitution,
any state supported church. Possibly they foresaw the
time when Christianity, in the endeavor to rule the
world, would destroy itself to make way for a new uni-
versal religion based upon the worship of the Creator
rather than worship of a savior.
The All Seeing Eye of the Creator is a Masonic sym-
bol. This same symbol is prominent on the reverse side
of the Great Seal, brought to light on the one dollar
silver certificates first released to circulation December
18, 1935. Enclosed in a triangle, the emblem of office
of God, who is chief executive officer governing our
planet, this eye appears surrounded by an aura of light
196
above the pyramid. While it seems to be the cap stone
of this pyramid, you will note that it is detached from
the pyramid.
Many interpreters of the symbology of the U. S.
seal have claimed that the All Seeing Eye is significant
of Christ. Permit me to state unequivocally and posi-
The Seal ofdie United States
(RBVERSB SJDB)
Novus Ordo Seclorum,
"A N<W Sy.tau of Eiblcs
will uiM:."
tively that this is not correct. The All Seeing Eye is a
symbol of the Creator and signifies his guardianship
over this nation.
The eye looks down on a pyramid built of thirteen
courses. On the bottom course is inscribed, MDCC-
LXXVI, the date 1776. It is probable that the thirteen
courses signify thirteen cycles in our national history
of thirteen years each, a total of 169 years. A few of
the events occurring during 169 years are listed. Only
those occurrences are given which are outstanding in
their effects on tomorrow.
197
The year 1945 marks the end of this series of thirteen
cycles. .With 1945 will come a great change in the
government, economics, and religion of our nation.
Then we shall see the fulfillment of the prophecy con-
tained in the banner at the base of the pyramid, "Novus
Ordo Seclorum," meaning the NEW ORDER and
GENERATIONS.
The new order will not be a counterfeit New Deal,
but will be God's Kingdom on earth brought into mani-
festation by the new generations of Kosman. This
prophecy is verified in the name of our continent,
America. Prof. Miskovski of Oberlin College states
that the word "America" seems to have been formed
from the Gothic words "Amel Ric" meaning heavenly
kingdom.
The archives of the Essenes contain a prophecy stating
that Jehovah's kingdom, or the Kingdom of God on
earth, will first be founded on this continent in the
vicinity of Colorado. We can expect the first signs of
its manifestation between 1945 and 1948.
SALIENT EVENTS IN AMERICAN HISTORY OCCURRING JN THIR-
TEEN CYCLES OF THIRTEEN YEARS EACH
1. 1776-1789. Thomas Payne's pamphlet "Common Sense."
Declaration of Independence.
National flag adopted 1777.
U.S. independence recognized by France.
First newspaper, the Philadelphia ADVERTISER,
begins publication, 1784-.
Shay's rebellion of farmers against high taxes col-
lected to redeem bonds sold to finance the war.
Bondholders had received their money back in
interest already paid.
First presidential election and inauguration of
Washington in 1789.
198
2. 1789-1802. Supreme Court founded.
Bank of the U. S. chartered by Congress in 1791.
Washington's farewell address in 1796, in which he
emphatically warned the country against foreign
entanglements.
3. 1802-1815. Louisiana Purchase in 1803.
War with Great Britain in 1812.
4. 1815-1828. Congress charters second Bank of the U.S.
I819 first steamship crosses the Atlantic.
Declaration of the Monroe Doctrine in 1822.
1828 first protective tariff passed.
5. 1828-1841. Second Bank of the U.S. passes out of existence,
1832.
First railroad started operation.
Money panic of 1837 due to issuance of notes by
wildcat banks.
Telegraph patented in 1840.
Sub-Treasury bill passed making the Federal gov-
ernment the depository of its own funds.
6. 1841-I 854. Joseph Smith, founder of Mormon Church, mur-
dered at Carthage, Ill. June 27, 1844.
Brigham Young leads migration to Utah in 1847.
Gold discovered in California in 1848.
Commodore Perry opens Japan to commerce.
Birth of the Kosmon Era in 1848.
7. 1854-1867. First oil well drilled in Pennsylvania in 1859.
Civil War 1861-65. Chattel slavery abolished.
Bill enacted in 1862 authorizing issuance of paper
money (greenbacks) in place of interest bearing
bonds.
Atlantic cable completed.
8. 1867-1880. Big business born during this cycle.
Atlantic and Pacific coasts joined by rail, 1869.
Telephone patented in 1876.
Electric light invented in 1879.
9. 1880-1893. Founding of American Red Cross, 1881.
Sherman Antitrust law passed in 1890.
Standard Oil trust ordered dissolved in 1892.
Industrial unrest, strikes, and military action against
labor prevalent during this cycle.
199
10. 1893-1906. Panic of 1893 brought on more labor troubles.
Coxey's army marches on Washington, 1894-.
J. P. Morgan strengthens his hold on the govern-
ment of the U. S. with a loan of $62,000,000
at 4-%.
Election of William McKinley was a victory for
Wall Street, and initiated an era of imperialism
and industrial control of the U. S.
Edison invented motion picture camera in 1897.
U. S. declares war on Spain, 1898.
Gold standard established in 1900.
Wright brothers invent airplane in 1903.
11. 1906-1919. War of Armageddon started in Europe in 1914-
with a thirty-three year cycle of disaster.
San Francisco fire and earthquake, 1906.
Money panic of 1907.
Titanic sinks in 1912 with a loss ofover 1,000 lives.
Infamous Federal Reserve Act passed in 1913, giv-
ing privately owned banks license to issue money.
Ludlow massacre of miners by troops in Colorado,
1914-.
Influenza epidemic of 1918 killed hundreds of
thousands.
Armistice, Nov. 11, 1918.
First flight across the Atlantic in 1919.
12. 1919-1932. The twelfth thirteen year cycle brings the harvest
from evil seed sown by the rule of bankers and
big business. Organized crime copied the meth-
ods of bankers and corporations and gave us an
epidemic of gangsters.
1924- reveals the Doheny-Fall oil scandal.
Superintendent of Anti-Saloon league convicted
of forgery. Attorney General Harry L. Daugh-
erty is requested to resign. Governor McCray
of Indiana convicted of mail fraud. Thomas W.
Miller, former Alien Property Custodian, con-
victed of conspiracy to defraud the government.
Herbert Hoover elected president in 1928.
Panic of 1929. Wave of wage cuts started by steel
trust.
Franklin D. Roosevelt elected president.
200
13. 1932-194-5. Closing of the banks and birth of the New {?)
Deal.
Dictatorial powers voted Roosevelt in 1933 to cope
with banking and financial crisis. Ownership of
gold money outlawed. ·
Investigation of J. P. Morgan & Co. by Senate
committee, but nothing comes of it.
U. S. Senate Committee investigates the munition
and armament industry, 1934-. Another dud.
1936 to 194-0 sees march of Fascism-Nazism in
Europe and second session of War of Armaged-
don. Roosevelt and Hull following in footsteps
of Wilson and Lansing on the path to war.
Election of American Dictator in 194-0. Second
Civil War of 194-4-. Release from bondage to
the bankers.
201
CHAPTER XVIII
COMPARISON OF COMMUNISM AND FASCISM
The terms "communism," "Fascism" and "Nazism"
have been used a countless number of times in news-
papers, periodicals, and on the radio during the last
decade. It is astonishing how few people have ever
taken the time or trouble to consider the real meanings
of the terms and to clarify their understanding of the
ambitions of each per~aining to government and econ-
omy.
The average newspaper reader has the idea that com-
munism and Nazi-Fascism are synonymous terms rep-
resenting similar ideologies, when in fact they are terms
representing cultures as opposite as black and white.
Writers in our capitalistic magazines have made little, if
any, effort to clarify the subject, and seem more desirous
of misleading the public than informing them of the
truth.
The ideal of the communist is a classless society
wherein there will no longer exist an excessively rich
few.at the top, nor poverty stricken millions at the bot-
tom, but a new class will be formed, including all the
world's peoples living in an economy of abundance
wherein there shall be plenty for all. The capitalist and
industrialist have always fought and will continue to
fight this ideal, for only by an economy based upon scar-
202
city and high prices can he maintain his excessive riches
and power.
As Hitler is the supreme Nazi-Fascist, we will look to
him for enlightenment on the ambitions and ideals of
his party. It will consist of an elite ruling class with
Hitler the supreme pontiff. Hitler voiced his ideal gov-
ernment in a statement to Hermann Rauschnigg, a
translation of which follows:
There will be a ruling caste tempered by battle, and assembled from
various elements. This group will be the hierarchy of the party.
There will be an intermediate class of the anonymous, the serving
collective, the eternally disfranchised, no matter whether they for-
merly belonged to the bourgeoisie, the big land-owning class, the
workers, or the craftsman. Beneath them there will be another class
of the alien subject races. We will call them the slave class.
The reader will note that the ambitions and objectives
of the Nazi-Fascists are the antithesis of those of the
communists. To aid the reader in comprehending the
similarities and antagonisms between the two ideologies,
they have been compared in their functions in the
columns that follow:
CoMPARISON oF CoMMUNISM AND FAsc1sM-NAz1sM
Communism
RULED BY DICTATOR-
SHIP of the Proletariat. Parlia-
mentary form of government
abolished, and industrial form of
government set up. Government
operated through "soviets" or
councils. President and Secretary
of the party are servants of the
people who rule from the bottom
up through the so~iets.
Fascism-Nazism
RULED BY DICTATOR, fi-
nanced by the bankers and large
industrialists (the HAVES). Used
as a counter-offensive against
Communism by the Owner-
Rulers.
203
Communism
A CORPORATE STATE in
the form of a cooperative com-
monwealth in which each citizen
owns his share of all the collective
wealth: lands, mines, factories,
railroads, etc. Each worker is
entitled to an equal share in prof-
its which are distributed as col-
lective benefits-unlimited edu-
cational advantages, health care,
rest homes, recreational centers,
provisions for sickness and dis-
ability, etc.
FARMS, FACTORIES,
MINES, TOOLS OF PRO-
DUCTION AND ALL REAL
WEALTH are owned coopera-
tively by all the people and oper-
ated for the use and benefit of
all. No exploitation of labor.
UNION membership is almost
obligatory. The union is held in
· highest esteem in the U. S. S. R.
Through .their unions the indus-
trial form of government is at-
tained and the worker takes an
Fascism-Nazism
A CORPORATE STATE
that has taken control of income
from capital. By a system of
taxation and levies against capital,
the state tends to level off great
wealth. It has an equalizing ef-
fect; the wealthy cease to be so
rich, and the condition of the
poorer classes is materially bene-
fited. The U. S. A., with its in-
come and inheritance taxes, and
relief projects, is approaching th is
state.
LAND, FACTORIES, AND
TOOLS OF PRODUCTION
cwned by capitalistic class but the
state takes the profit. Production
for war takes precedence 0ver pro-
duction for peace or the needs of
the people.
UNIONS are destroyed that
the individual may have no means
for collective protest or action
other than that dictated. Every
vestige of democracy vanishes
with destruction of the labor
active part in all government. unions.
All members of the Communist
Party MUST belong to a labor
union. The "soviets" are created
through a union. , The supreme
soviet is made up of members se-
lected by the soviets. The
worker thus has a close, personal
contact with the Supreme Council
through his local soviet whose
position in this council depends
solely on the vote of the workers
204
Communism
in their districts or union. All
representatives draw salaries equal
to the wages of the skilled laborer.
There are no lobbies and no
padded expense accounts.
YOUTH. Full educational
advantages open to all. Drilled
from infancy in Marx's economic
theories that they may bring into
manifestation a classless society
with equal opportunities for all.
The horrors and inequalities of
capitalism explained and possibly
exaggerated.
STANDARD OF LIVING in
terms of bathtubs, not as good as
America's middle class or skilled
worker,. but neither did America
have plumbing when it was
less than twenty-five years old.
Starting from huts and slums less
than twenty-five years ago, the
standard of living is being raised
year by year. The gre;it need
for industrial development held
their housing projects back, so
Russians are greatly over-crowded
in cities and towns.
WAR has not been an objec-
tive of the U. S. S. R. Several
times they have tried ·to come to
an agreement with other coun-
tries for general disarmament, but
were blocked by England. They
have foreseen the time when the
Capitalist nations would gang up
to destroy the new government
and economy, and have been
Fascism-Nazism
YOUTH is given training
only in those things which add
to the nation's war power.
Taught more lies than truth.
Permitted to think only as dicta-
tor wishes.
STANDARD OF LIVING
was slowly being improved until
outbreak of war in Sept. 1939.
Thereafter living conditions rap-
idly became worse. Real wages
decreased. Motto now: "Bullets
before butter," "Battleships be-
fore bread."
WAR is objective of have-not
nations to get needed land for
colonies and raw materials to keep
factories in operation. Imperi-
alism and aggression are major
characteristics of all capitalistic
and Fascist nations. Have na-
tions, like Have people, resent
ambition in Have-Nots.
205
Communism
forced, in self-defense, to arm.
Their conquest of Finland was to
prevent this country being used
as a base of attack by other coun-
tries. The section of Finland
seceded to the U. S. S. R. was
needed by her as time will prove.
PLANNED ECONOMY.
No 'country in the world had
a planned economy until the
U.S. S. R. inaugurated it. The
Planning Board is selected by the
Supreme Soviet, and is composed
of scientific research workers, ar-
chitects, engineers, statisticians,
economists, agricultural experts.
Each works in his own field to
perfect plans that will give each
citizen a more abundant life,
greater opportunities, better
health, more cultural advantages.
Production is planned that great-
est good and wisest use may be
had from land and tools. Work
for everyone.
EDUCATION controlled by
the state. Literacy raised 85%.
Books and publications widely
distributed. Special attention
given to music, the arts, and lit-
erature. Educational advantages
limited only by the individual's
ability to progress. All fields
open. Youth is trained from
earliest childhood to think in
terms of social welfare rather than
individual benefit.
Fascism-Nazism
PLANNED ECONOMY is
concentrated for ~nJ' purposes
rather than abundance for every-
one. Both Mussolini and Hitler
have made honest efforts to pro-
vide work and raise the living
standards of the common people.
Like all capitalist countries, espe-
cially England and the U. S. A.,
the little economic planning that
is done is for war. Any war that
is engaged in will be either to
protect the interests of the own-
er-rulers or to destroy the new
cooperative economy. Everyone
employed, largest percent m ac-
tivities related to war.
EDUCATION is state con-
trolled. Books are burned, pub-
lications suppressed that only
teaching endorsed by the dictator
may reach the eyes and ears of
the people. Illiteracy increased.
Education for war primarily.
Youth educated to think in terms
of rabid nationalism.
206
Communism Fascism-Nazism
SCIENCE. Research unham- SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH is
pered and encouraged. Medi- restricted to that which will in-
cine, agriculture, aviation, and crease war power of the nation.
exploring greatly benefited.
Costs for this are reckoned for in
the planned economy, and come
under the head of benefits for all.
RELIGION similar to the
U. S. A. in that there is no
church recognized by the state.
In Moscow there are Christian,
Jewish, and Mohammedan
Churches. No state aid is given
to them. If members want them
they must support them. Adults
free to worship as they please, but
in schools children are given
anti-Christian teaching. Chil-
dren receive strict teaching as to
morals and behavior. Because
the Communist Party broke the
strangle-hold of the Greek Cath-
olic Church which had fought it
and betrayed the people again
and again, because the Church
fell to pieces when its organized
racket was broken up, the U. S.
S. R. has been maligned about its
attitude toward religion.
RELIGION that of ROME.
Both Mussolini iind Hitler are
Roman Catholics and affiliated
with the Vatican.
Communism represents the positive progressive pole,
Fascism * the negative reactionary pole, democracy (so
called) the neutral. The U.S. A., England, France,
and the Scandinavian countries claim to be democracies,
*Nazism is an outgrowth of Fascism. Nazism is the German brand, Fascism
the Italian brand of the same thing. Today, in the United States, it is fre·
quently termed "Christian Americanism," or some similar ·term acceptable to
the unthinking.
207
but partake of the characteristics of both cooperative
communism and competitive Fascism.
As negative flows to positive, so does the force of cir-
cumstances change Fascism into communism. This is
illustrated in Germany. Hitler damned communism
for years. Fritz Thyssen, the richest industrialist of
Germany, financed Hitler and his party in the early
days, expecting to pull the strings to actively guide Hit-
ler, and insure his own position as owner and real ruler.
But Thyssen found that Hitler could not be controlled,
but on the contrary confiscated all of the Thyssen wealth.
Herein is a lesson for our sixty families, a lesson which
they should, but will not, heed.
Hitler preached the conquest and destruction of the
U.S. S. R. It is one objective he will never attain.
The communist state does the job of re-distributing the
land and wealth directly; the Fascist state accomplishes
the same result by a slower and more indirect method.
The men of the House of Have are but kidding
themselves when they think that they can destroy com-
munism by financing Fascist dictators in their wars.
They but speed the change and destroy themselves.
The conflict between the Communist and Fascist schools
of thought is the War of Armageddon and will be the
means by which the millennium, a thousand years of
peace on earth, good will to men, will be ushered in.
Then, indeed, will Christian prayers be answered and a
kingdom come on earth as it is in heaven.
The Creator's Clock is striking twelve to mark a thou-
sand year recess for the workers of the world. Not
much longer can the owner-rulers withhold plenty-in
a land of plenty-from the people who produce that
208
plenty. Selfishness, like every other evil or negative
condition, is self-destroying. .
In the destruction of self, as embodied in the govern,
ments of today, we will witness the death of three blood
brothers: finance, church, and state. These three are
symbolized in Masonic ritual as the three ruffians;
Jubala, Jubalo, and Jubalum, the last letters of each
name making AOM, the negative principle of the
Creator. As these three ruffians killed and buried the
Master Mason of long ago, so will the trinity- finance,
church, and capitalist state-kill the embryonic democ-
racies of the world.
But as Hiram was resurrected by the grip of the
Lion's Paw, so will the nations recover a new life
through the discovery of the TRUE lost word, JE-
HOVAH, the I AM, Architect of the Universe. With
unity of religion will come unity of government, unity
of exchange, and unity of freedom.
Babylon, a term used in the Bible to denote chaos;
finance, with its gold and silver standards; religion with
its Christian, Mohammedan, Brahman, and Buddhist
churches; the state with its monarchies, democracies, and
dictatorships-all these will go down, to be replaced by
God's kingdom on earth, a cooperative mutualism where
each shall live in peace and plenty and no longer go out
to produce for another while his children starve.
209
CHAPTER XIX
FASCISM IN CALIFORNIA
A history of the labor movement and the age-old
struggle between the dispossessed worker and the owner-
ruler class was written half a century ago by G. Osborne
Ward, then librarian of the U.S. Department of Labor.
In this book, "The Ancient Lowly, a History of the
Ancient Working People,'' Ward proves by innumerable
translations of inscriptions, records, and archeological
discoveries of the nineteenth century that the world-
wide wars of today are based upon the same .causes as the
smaller wars of yesterday, th~t they are, in a word,
economic!
The wars in Europe and Asia are part of the same
struggle along national lines as that which has occurred
and is still going on from an economic standpoint in our
own California. Here in the short history of a state we
see a recapitulation of the history of capital and labor,
the rich versus the poor, which was going on even in
Jesus' time.
John Steinbeck in "Of Mice and Men" and his
"Grapes of Wrath" portrayed the grim story in fiction,
while Carey McWilliams, Commissioner of Immigra-
tion and Housing in California, tells the story of Cali-
fornia's workers and poor in a non-fiction book, "Fac-
tories in the Field," based on investigations of his
comm1ss10n. The story of the suffering of the poor, of
210
course, is not a new story. Charles Dickens gave it to us
in "Oliver Twist," Victor Hugo in c'Les Miserables,"
Paul de Kruif in "Why Keep Them Alive," Helen
Hunt Jackson in "Ramona," and Harriet Beecher Stowe
in "Uncle Tom's Cabin." Yet such a story has always
stirred the heart of humanity, and from time to time
something is done to mitigate the tragedy and suffering,
for the world grows a little better, a degree kinder.
"Factories in the Field" is a brilliant example of his-
tory as it should be written. Too many times history is
but a recital of war aims and accomplishments of the
ruling class, thickly padded with propaganda to "sell"
this dominant class to posterity. In other words, most
history is the written accomplishment of press agents
worlring in the interests of the "robber barons."
McWilliams makes a radical departure, and instead
of painting a Pollyanna picture of wars, battles, gen-
erals, a story of conquests and glory of "bandits" work-
ing within the ~aw, he draws a picture of the systematic
looting of the state, its lands, treasures, and workers, by
the ruling class. The evidence is ·there-although he
doesn't point it out-that "democracy" as the world
knows it today is but the legislative arm of the owning
or capitalistic class. Karl Marx, in 1848, said, "The
capitalistic state is the defender, by force of arms, of the
power and wealth of the ruling class." No greater
proof of this statement could be asked than is presented
in the history of California-"Factories in the Field."
No other state in the Union possessed from the be-
ginning all of the factors which so ably contributed to
the building of Fascism as California. Where the
Anglo-Saxons in the eastern part of the United States
211
killed, dispossessed and drove back the Indian, the Span-
iards fought, crushed and dispossessed the native Indian,
and then converted him into a sort of slave, a peon.
Then came the discovery of gold in '48-49, and with it
came those who found California a going feudal state
with the vast estates of Spanish grandees set amidst a
virgin wilderness. Great and sudden wealth, together
with the lawlessness attendant in a gold rush, enabled
the few at the top not only to seize rich gold holdings
of smaller men but to buy outright, almost intact, the
huge land estates of the Spanish grandees.
The coming of the railroads enabled this same clique
to make large land grabs, to loot public land grants, and
from 1850 to dominate the state. Governors, senates,
legislatures, courts, schools, and colleges all came under
their rule. They went further, for they owned the press
of the state, dominated public opinion, suppressed any
damaging truth, and always played up their own side of
every controversy. Fascism, as early as 1850, took the
place of Spanish feudalism.
Public opinion is very apt to be a canned article-
made and processed by the press. During the very
years when Czarist Russia was held up to Americans as
the country where farm workers were forced to live in
the most degrading, horrible poverty, when the well-
known tyranny of the old Czars made Americans feel
that America was a glorious, free, rich country, and that
Russia· was a most cruel and backward country, right
then, worse conditions of poverty, looting, and degra-
dation were in full bloom here in our own United States,
and of all places, California!
But because these looters owned the press, legislature,
212
the courts, none of these dark facts-not a whisper of
this black history-leaked out, and people thought of
the state as the Chamber of Commerce and the Southern
Pacific wanted them to think of it.
It was natural, therefore, that California should at-
tract some of the most Utopian-minded people that have
ever lived in America. Among these were the founders
of the old Kaweah Co-operative Colony who took up
government land, all properly filed on, and established
a prosperous colony which became known throughout
the United States and much of Europe. McWilliams
tells this story in detail, supporting his charges by the
records.
The two founders, Burnette G. Haskell, a young law-
yer from San Francisco, and J. J. Martin, active in the
labor movement, became convinced after reading a book,
"The Co-operative Commonwealth," by Laurence
Gronlund, that more could be accomplished by with-
drawing from society and founding a co-operative
colony, than could be accomplished by working in and
through labor unions. They interested a group of high-
minded people and together they took up about 600 acres
of wooded land which at the time was thirty miles from
the nearest town. They carefully figured out a road,
through mountains, valleys, and canyons, which if built
would shorten the distance to eighteen miles. They
pitched a tent city and commenced the work of construct-
ing the road. An average of twenty men worked con-
tinually for four years building this road, which wound
through canyons and crossed mountains at elevations of
8,000 feet. They raised $50,000 by subscription to put
info this project, and issued work checks for $150,000.
213
So well did they construct this road that it is in use today.
During these four years, the colonists endured great
hardships and privations to which they submitted cheer-
fully, feeling that they were building a new and better
society, a co-operative commonwealth in which poverty
would be abolished.
When the road was completed, they laid out the town
of Kaweah, allotting plots of 55 square yards for each
homesite.
In 1892, William Carey Jones of the University of
California, visited the place and reported very favor-
ably, saying that he found the people fine, intelligent,
cultured, charming, and many of them very brilliant.
The colonists loved music and art, gave many concerts,
and during the four years of the colony's existence there
was no crime, lawlessness, or misdemeanors of any sort.
At the end of four years this colony, which varied in
population from fifty to three hundred people, was free
of debt, owned property worth $600,000 net, owned and
operated a saw-mill worth $10,000, a tractor and tur-
bine, and equipment to construct a planing mill, a shingle
mill, and a woolen mill. It possessed the best printing
press in California and printed its own weekly magazine,
which circulated throughout the United States and in
Europe. They constructed a ferry, and owned, besides
these things, homes, furnishings, live-stock, wagons, and
other farm implements.
The colonists prospered. They were growing. They
were happy. More, they were proving to the wnole
world that a co-operative colony can be a success. It was
all something to make the ruling class very unhappy.
They decided to build a railroad eighteen miles long
214
to the nearest town. It was as though the gardener had
decided to wear the king's crown, for railroads in the
United States are quite the most peculiar form of private
property that we have. A good orthodox, capitalistic
railroad is built first by huge land grants given to the
company by the government of all the people, and this is
added to by land obtained through various shady trans-
actions. Next, millions of dollars of watered stock is
sold to the public; and last and most important, the gov-
ernment itself pours in millions of dollars to keep the
railroads going.
The innocent might think that because the people's
money (for what else is government money?) built and
maintains these roads that the people would own them-
but no! The people's money built them, but a small
capitalist class owns them.
This economic juggling of the capitalist reveals just
why, when these colonists planned to build a road them-
selves, using their own money and labor, and owning it
co-operatively, they were setting a dangerous precedent.
They were about to let the cat out of the bag about
railroads.
Sheer heresy could not be allowed, and it was not.
Rushing to Washington as a Hungry child runs to its wet-
nurse, the capitalists of California introduced a bill in
Congress and railroaded it through the Senate, making
the colonists' land into a NATIONAL PARK-none
other than SEQUOIA NATIONAL PARK.
The capitalist class has long pointed the finger of
scorn, contempt, and hatred at Karl Marx, but they
would have done better for themselves had they read
his writings, and saved themselves the embarrassment of
215
following the exact lines of the pattern which he said was
theirs. The rest of this story proves Marx's contention
that the government is the legislative arm of the ruling
class, and that the courts and army are maintained to en-
force the property rights, wealth, and power of this
group. This leads to the conclusion that the citizen can
have no legal or constitutional rights which conflict with
the interests of the ruling class. The rest of the story of
the colony would seem to bear this out.
The "robber barons," who put the U.S. Government
itself to work to confiscate the private property of its
own people, trumped up as excuses the charges that the
land had not been filed on properly, that the colonists
had damaged the land and were destroying the trees.
The colonists protested against these charges, and a
government official, U.S. Commissioner L.A. Groff,
was sent to investigate. He found and reported that the
filings were correct and in perfect order; that they had
careful plans under way for conservation and reforest-
ation; that they had been of great service to the timber,
caring for it and protecting it from fire and damage over
a period of five years.
By the testimony of the government's own agent, all
the charges against these people were found to be fraud-
ulent; and yet, despite this proof, the Act of Congress
for evicting these people stood. They were promptly
kicked out, and their property and their total investment
representing five years of hard work was confiscated.
This should have been enough, but the ruling class,
when the theories of its ownership are challenged, be-
comes bestial in its cruelty and lust for revenge.
One of their saw-mills was located on private prop-
216
erty, and when the colonists refused to leave, they were
rounded up like criminals and driven away by the
United States cavalry. Next they were dragged into
court and convicted of cutting timber on government
property! Then they were brought into court to answer
to the charge of using the mails to defraud. U.S. Dis-
trict Judge Ross, however, ordered their acquittal, and
made a very nice speech in their behalf.
It is a fact that they proved their innocence on all the
charges trumped up against them, but it did them very
little good. Their old friend, William Carey Jones of
the University of California, also defended them, say-
ing that a great injustice had been done to a most worthy
group of people, and he cited the fact that large tracts of
land, both valuable timber and good agricultural tracts,
had been taken up by the railroads and large corpo-
rations not only illegally, but with the actual connivance
of the government.
And now, having crushed, dispossessed, and perse-
cuted these people .to the full extent of the law, these
same rulers turned their press loose upon them. These
misguided people had proved beyond all doubt that
cooperatives must fail, that "socialism" could not suc-
ceed! Even as late as 1928, thirty-six years later, a
paper of the California press ran a series of articles about
this venture to prove how doomed to failure were co-
operative or socialistic ventures. The record seems to
prove that this is true, not for the reasons given, but for
the same reasons that Jews do not thrive in Germany!
This brings up the thought: granted that Hitler is an
inhuman brute, that he has confiscated the property of
Jews, run them out of their homes, and indulged in
217
many cruelties, but was he the first to commit crimes
against the weak?
McWilliams tells of the various methods pursued by
the rulers of California in acquiring their vast land hold-
ings-a blood curdling story of crime, looting, graft-
another chapter in America's story of the "robber
barons."
The cultivation of these vast estates, running as they
did from 10,000 to nearly 50,000 acres, brought a new
development to American capitalism, what McWilliams
calls "factories in the field." American agriculture, for
the first time, was put on the basis of big business. Even
the casual stranger is surprised, when he comes to Cali-
fornia, to see vast farms stretching as far as the eye can
reach, but no "farmhouse"! There is no comfortable
home, surrounded by cow barns and out-buildings,
chickens, dogs, and children, giving evidence of the
usual American farmer's genial way of living. None of
these things. Just acres upon acres of garden truck,
berries, or wheat-a few human scarecrows bending low
over the ground-but farmer homes there are none!
It is small wonder that California went into hostile
action over John Steinbeck's book, "Grapes of Wrath,''
for the story of labor on the big farms in California is
quite the most brutal, cruel story that has ever been lived
out by the worker in all of labor's long, heartrending
struggle.
The labor class, back in the early '5O's, was composed
of two totally different peoples: the Chinese coolie and
the American drifter, or, often, hobo. The Chinese had
been brought in and used to help construct the railroads,
and after the railroads were completed, they were
218
shifted to the mines. They were later run out of the
mines, and then became a persecuted racial minority.
The poor whites hated the Chinaman because he was an
economic threat. They needed desperately the jobs he
held. The ruling class played up this race hatred in
their press because it made the Chinese more tractable.
The Chinese had no legal rights, and could even be mur-
dered with impunity. Eventually, they were driven
from the farms into the city.
The American "drifter" for the most part, belonged
to the "49'ers." He had become reduced to pauperism
either because he had failed to discover any gold, or else
had been swindled out of his mining claim. Some had
come out as farmers, but had been swindled out of their
land.
After the banishment of the Chinese, all sorts of
cheap foreign labor was imported: Greek, Hindu, Jap,
Filipino, Mexican. The Japanese outnumbered the
others, and, excepting the Americans, caused the most
trouble. A stranger coming into the state is amazed at
the suspicion and the bitterness manifested toward a race
of people who seem to him very polite, friendly, and
kindly. If this stranger happens to be a cosmopolitan
sort of person, or if he happens to believe in the brother-
hood of man, he is likely to feel that in this mass display
of race hatred there is a "nigger in the woodpile."
There is, and a very big one, a stinking one, and for the
first time in California's history, this "nigger" is re-
vealed by McWilliams in his story of the State's labor,
"Factories in the Field."
The story is too good to be told briefly and second-
hand. The reader should read McWilliams' own ac-
219
count, but in brief, the story is this. The Japs were the
only people ever to come to California who were clever
enough to outsmart California's land barons. One of
the great tragedies of California farm workers is the
seasonal nature of crops. Two, three months, and the
crop is over, the work gone. Another crop is hundreds
of miles distant. The Japs were the first to meet this
difficulty scientifically. They organized (crime of
crimes to the rulers, always), and by the aid of a cen-
tral bureau were able to find work and be transported to
the next crop. Thus by working throughout the entire
year, they were enabled to stretch out the miserable wage
for which all farm labor is forced to work in California.
Traveling about as they did, they were also able to locate
tracts of land which they might buy or lease. It is true
that often they got only the most undesirable land,
sometimes land deemed entirely worthless, but the Japa-
nese possessed an agricultural skill and knowledge that
enabled them to take worthless land and grow luxuriant
crops on it.
All of these things infuriated the land barons who,
until that time, had had everything their own way, and
were, in fact, the undisputed "lords of creation." To
top all of this, the organized Japs would strike just when
a perishable crop was ready to be harvested and there
was no time to import strike-breakers. If this seems
contemptible, we must remember that when the Japanese
were "invited" to enter California they worked for as
· little as thirty-five to forty cents per day, and less, out of
which they had to board themselves and pay their own
transportation, while the owners were making $2,000,-
000 on one or two crops.
220
The rapidity with which the Japanese were able to
enlarge their tracts of land into profitable large hold-
ings, their absorption of Japanese labor, the rise to
wealth of these foreign land-owners who undersold the
American corporation farmers-all these things con-
tributed to the hatred of the white owning class for
the Japanese. Infuriated, they turned their press and
the mechanism of their government loose to arouse race
hatred against these foreigners.
But let us see what kind of people these were who
were stirring up so much race hatred against the Japa-
nese.
McWilliams points to records which show that such
organizations as the Salvation Army, Boy and Girl
Scouts, a Presbyterian Church, state agencies, relief rolls,
detention schools, and even public schools aided the land
owners to exploit the weak, the destitute, the helpless.
Perhaps even worse than the brutal persecution of
racial minorities, was the heartless exploitation of white
Americans.
Detention schools kept two-fifths of each boy's earn-
ings, the boys themselves keeping three-fifths. For a
season's work, such boys earned for themselves from
$20.00 to $50.00. By such methods, the owners boasted
that they had produced a $2,000,000 grape and prune
crop at a labor cost of $20,000. Deaf mutes were taken
out of their schools and sent to work in the fields when
the fruit crop alone was worth $235,000,000. All this
wealth for a few owners, while workers were making,
only $2 and $3 per week and trying to support families
on such a wage. It is no wonder that reports revealed
that children, white children, American children, as
221
young as five years old, were found working in cotton
fields.
It has long been the boast of American capital that
the American standard of living for the worker is the
highest in the world. Roosevelt refers blandly to "the
American way of living." This remark almost proves
that he has never read "Grapes of Wrath" nor "Fac-
tories in the Field." Let us see how high this so-called
high standard of living is for the American farm work-
ers in California.
McWilliams says that in 1938-39 investigation
showed that forty-one people were living in a two-room
shack. Workers with no shelter were forced in cold
weather to sleep on manure piles to keep warm. Work-
ers were found to be living in shacks built of linoleum
and cardboard, of tin and ragged pieces of carpet.
Thousands of them in some of these camps had no
drinking water except that found in stagnant pools.
Some of the "houses" were nothing but gunny sacks
stretched from trees to poles.
Through page after page McWilliams reveals the
sickening horrors of the poverty forced upon workers-
American workers- by the owners of these vast agri-
cultural areas from which these owners reap millions of
dollars a year. At their worst, neither the old Czar of
Russia nor Hitler could have forced more horrible con-
ditions upon the unfortunates of their lands than is en-
dured by the American -migrant farm worker in Cali-
fornia.
Who and what are these people ·who are called "the
migrant workers"? For the most part, they are the
refugees of the "dust bowl." Of American stock, they
222
come from Kansas, Texas, Oklahoma. They have bat-
tled long years with drought, depression, despair, and
then finally the dust. Today they are broken Ameri-
cans: Americans crushed by poverty, housed in filth
and vermin, and filled with despair. These are the peo-
ple who, because of these things, are sneeringly referred
to as "migrant labor." Hoover, who has so much to say
of his great sympathy for the Finns, keeps silent before
the sorrows and wrongs of these fellow-countrymen,
these Americans, these workers within his own state!
Yet all men are not like Hoover. Long ago, an artist
looked upon a French peasant and made himself im-
mortal by giving the world a picture of this broken,
worn peasant as he saw him. Later a poet, Edwin Mark-
ham, gazing on Millet's "Man With the Hoe" wrote
what today can be so well said of the California peasant:
Bowed by the weight of centuries he leans
Upon his hoe and gazes on the ground,
The emptiness of ages on his face,
And on his back the burden of the world.
Who made him dead to rapture and despair,
A thing that grieves not and never hopes,
Stolid and stunned, a brother to the ox?
Who loosened and let down this brutal jaw?
Whose was the hand that slanted back this brow?
Whose breath blew out the light within this brain?
* * *
Is this the Thing the Lord God made and gave
To have dominion over land and sea?
* * *
0, Masters, lords and rulers in all lands,
ls this the handiwork you give to God,
This monstrous thing distorted and soul-quenched?
How will you ever straighten up this shape;
Touch it again with immortality,
223
Give back the upward looking and the light;
Rebuild in it the music and the dream;
Make right the immemorial infamies,
Perfidious wrongs, immediate woes?
0, Masters, lords and rulers in all lands
How will the Future reckon with this Man?
How answer his brute question in that hour
When whirlwinds of rebellion shake the world?
How will it be with kingdoms and with kings-
With those who shaped him to the thing he is-
When this dumb Terror shall reply to God
After the silence of the centuries?
(Edwin Markham's "Man With The Hoe.")
Today the immense farms of California are owned by
corporations which operate with the sole objective of ex-
tracting the greatest revenue from the land, and the
most work for the·least wages from the men who labor
on the land. No matter what the fruit of the land may
be, its greatest harvest today is private profit.
Within the next seven years the Associated Farms
will be the Co-operative Farms, all owned by one mam-
moth corporation-the Corporation of the United States
of America. Then the fruit of the land will feed a
happy, contented, prosperous nation. California's great-
est harvest will be happy, well-fed children. However,
a dark night of strife, revolution and chaos lies between
today and tomorrow.
224
CHAPTER XX
AMERICA: YESTERDAY, TODAY AND TOMORROW
At least three farsighted presidents of the United
States foresaw the present condition of society.
Thomas Je:fferson, author of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence, said:
If the American people ever allow private banks to control the
issue of currency, first by inflation, and then by deflation, the banks
and corporations that will grow up around them will deprive the
people of all their property until their children will wake up home-
less on the continent their fathers conquered.
James Madison, fourth president, said:
We are free today, substantially, but the day will come when our
republic will come to impossibility because its wealth will be con-
centrated in the hands of a few. When that day comes, then we
must rely upon the wisdom of the best elements in the country to
readjust the laws of the nation to the changed conditions.
Abraham Lincoln, sixteenth president, at the conclu-
sion of the Civil War, said:
I see in the future a crisis approaching that unnerves me and causes
me to tremble for the safety of my country. As a result of war,
corporations have been enthroned and an era of corruption in high
places will follow. The money power will endeavor to prolong its
reign by working on the prejudices of the people until all the wealth
is aggregated into a few hands and the republic is destroyed.
The astonishing foresight of early presidents was rec-
ognized by Woodrow Wilson when he was in office, for
he said:
225
The masters of the government of the United States are the
combined capitalists and manufacturers of the United States.
The government of the United States at present is a foster child
of the special interests. It is not allowed to have a will of its own.
The government, which was designed for the people, has gotten
into the hands of bosses and their employers, the special interests.
An invisible empire has been set up above the forms of democracy.
America is not a place of which it can be said, as it used to be, that
a man may choose his own calling and pursue it as far as his abilities
enable him to pursue it.
American industry is not free as once it was free; American enter-
prise is not free.
We have restricted credit, we have restricted opportunity, we have
controlled development, and we have come to be one of the worst
ruled, one of the most completely controlled and dominated govern-
ments in the civilized world-no longer a government by free opinion,
no longer a government by conviction and the vote of the majority,
but a government by the opinion and duress of small groups of
dominant men.
The condition described by Wilson during his time
became much worse in the years following the first
World War. Today we find the wealth of the nation
concentrated into the hands of some sixty families who
represent the system of entrenched privilege and politi-
cal reaction that is aggressively attacking the democratic
rights of the American people. The needs of the people
demand a fundamental revision of the economic, social,
and legal structure, but a coalition of the most reaction-
ary forces will resist any constructive change until they
precipitate a second civil war.
The struggle of the people against these sixty fami-
lies was clarified in a broadcast entitled: "It Is Happen-
ing Here," by Secretary of the Interior Ickes. He said:
Here in America it is the old struggle between the power of money
and the power of the democratic instinct. In the last few months
this irreconcilable conflict, long growing in our history, has come
226
into the open as never before, has taken on a form and an intensity
which makes it clear that it must be fought through to a finish •••
until plutocracy or democracy-until America's sixty families, or
until America's 130,000,000 people win.
Economic power in this country does not rest in the mass of the
people as it must if a democracy is to endure. Wealth is not equitably
distributed nor do its owners in the main even manage and control
it. On the contrary, wealth has become so great and so concentrated
that as a matter of fact, it controls those who possess it.
About three-quarters of the wealth of this country is in corporate
form, over one-half of it is under the domination of 200 corporations,
which in turn are controlled by what Ferdinand Lundberg, in his
recent book referred to as "America's Sixty Families."
Eight years ago America's sixty families had held in their hands,
since the close of the World War, complete domination over the
political life of this country. They had lulled the American people
into the conviction that if the people would grant conditions in which
these sixty families would put capital to work, enterprise would boom,
wages would soar and there would be two cars in every garage.
The people gave the sixty families this confidence; gave the sixty
families this trust in their benevolent despotism-in short, gave them
then what they ask for today, and what happened? Out of their
divinely claimed genius as managers of private enterprise, the sixty
families promptly led the American people into the worst peace-time
catastrophe ever known."
(New York Times, Dec. 31, 1937)
Certain basic lines of growth have been followed in
the development of industry that created the wealth and
power of the Morgan-Mellon-Rockefeller dynasty. In
the days of our fathers small factories existed, employ-
ing a few wage-earners and using little capital. In the
development of the industrial life of America these
small factories gave place to larger and greater manu-
.facturing institutions employing many hundreds of men
with specialized high-speed assembly lines. The great
capital investment required by the larger corporations of
today forced out of existence the individually owned
227
businesses which employed a few people. With the
growth of gigantic industrial units and corporations, the
control of capital played an increasingly important part
in our economy, and led to the development of great
banking and industrial monopolies which drew out an
ever-increasing share of the profits in the form of divi-
dends, with a decreasing share going to the working
class. Industrial interests developed banking proper-
ties, and banks gained control of corporations. A new
form of banking developed, known as finance capital,
giving the financier connections with the major banks
concerned both with banking and industrial finance.
Thus have monopoly, capitalism, and imperialism
grown. They have been developing ever since the Civil
War, and the process of concentration of capital into the
hands of the few continues to accelerate.
Capitalism began its ascendency during the Civil War
of 1861-65 *'Yith the passing of chattel slavery. Prior
to 1860 the total manufacturing facilities of the country
were still small, and plants engaged in the processing of
raw materials more numerous than those engaged i.n
manufacturing. However, manufacturing was well on
its way to rapid growth. Soon the sewing machine, farm
machinery, machine tools, and manufacturing machinery
made in the United States had gained a reputation as the
world's best. In 1820 there were 349,000 small facto-
ries. In 1859 the number had decreased to 140,433, but
the number of wage earners employed in manufacturing
had grown to 1,300,000, and these workers were pro-
ducing two billion dollars' worth of merchandise.
Manufacturing and mining expanded rapidly after
*The Morgan banking empire was founded in 1861.
228
the Civil War. The copper mines of Montana and
Utah, the iron ranges of the Lake Superior country, and
copper and iron mines in Michigan were developed.
The manufacture of steel was multiplied by the discoy-
ery of the Bessemer process. As the country grew, the
technological age came in, giving industry a new impetus.
Manufacturing became concentrated into larger and
larger units, the straight-line method of manufacturing
and assembly was initiated by Henry Ford, and systems
of production became more centralized and more mech-
anized.
In 1900 two-thirds of the total value of manufac-
tured products were produced by corporations. A gen-
eration later, corporations were producing ninety instead
of sixty-five per cent of our needs.
What are corporations?
Corporations are fictitious personalities created by
law. In industry and banking the corporation is a de-
vice used to draw capital from many people who have
a surplus, in order that their capital may be used to earn
a profit for them in the shape of dividends. These in-
vestors take no active part in management, as a rule.
When investing or buying stock in the corporation of
today they lose all control over the money they have put
into it, for the management is now handled by profes-
sional directors elected at the dictation, and acting under
orders of the controlling bankers. At least eighty per
cent of the wealth of the United States today is cor-
porate wealth.
Banks play an ever-increasing part in the control of
corporate wealth by means of their finance-capitalist ar-
rangement. As industry aggregated into super corpora-
229
tions, the demand was created for huge investment$.
The industrialist was forced to go to the local bank,
which turned to the larger New York banks for help.
Thus the bankers came into a full knowledge of the in-
dustrialist's affairs and demanded the privilege of nam-
ing members of the Board of Directors. Through th5!
advancing or withholding of capital, the banker was en~
abled either to assist or destroy a business. The battle a
few years ago between Henry Ford and the New York
bankers is legendary. Ford was enabled to escape the
conspiracies of the bankers to gain control of his com-
pany through his ability to draw capital from his thou-
sands of dealers throughout the country. Had Ford
been unable to obtain funds from sources other than the
banks, he would have had to sacrifice control of his em-
pire as a price for bank finance.
While wage earners were walking the streets in the
vain search for work, and wages were being cut through-
out the country, dividend and interest payments rose
from $1,865,000,000 in 1915 to $8,075,000,000 in
1931.
With the birth of the twentieth cen*"ury, American
capitalism took a new part in world affairs. The salient
causes leading to this expansion were the exhaustion of
free public lands; manufactured products replaced raw
materials as the main exports of the United States; large
corporations created monopolies in many lines; the ma-
jor banks of the country accumulated an abundance of
capital for investment, which led to their control of in-
surance and trust companies and the mechanism for
floating new security issues.
When the United States found domestic expansion
230
slowing down with the passing of the frontier, monopoly
capitalism sought new fields overseas, and entered into
competition with the financiers of Europe. While Eu-
rope was engaged in war and borrowing billions from
the United States, Wall Street built the greatest financial
and political power in the capitalistic world.
This financial power is centered in Wall Street of
New York City in a narrow, inner oligarchy comprised
of the leaders of the strongest financial groups.
Through their New York banks, they dictate to the
smaller banks of the country and help them to a share
of the spoils, subject always to destruction if their inde-
pendence threatens the interests of their overlords.
The Rockefellers, Morgans, and Mellons are the
three leading financial groups in the United States.
These groups act together where their mutual interests
are concerned, but in opposition in their struggle to at-
tain the top of the financial pyramid.
The same forces that bred these financial empires,
with their dictatorship over every basic industry and
their world-wide contacts, also keep in play both
competition and cooperation among the varied groups.
Though rival financial groups may have investments in
the same concern, you may be sure that below the smooth
surface of cooperation, each is in opposition to the other
in the war to gain greater power and privilege.
By the intermarriage of members of the great mon-
eyed clans, the wealth of the country comes more and
more into the hands of the sixty families, and so today,
as in feudal society, it is the family that controls the
banks and banking partnerships, and through them, the
great corporations of the nation.
231
As the family in imperial Rome maintained its power
in government, so do the sixty families, in no less de-
gree, maintain their governance over wealth- accumu-
lating it, guarding it, keeping it intact from generation
to generation. The family is a sacred institution pro-
tected by custom. No agency of government can pry
far into the secrets of a family. Therefore, we find the
family-owned holding company strongly entrenched
today, and their main concern and purpose is the ton-
cealment of money from the tax collector. The family
provides protection above the law for financial skull-
duggery that could not be found either in a partnership
or corporation.
ROCKEFELLER EMPIRE
It is impossible to conceive of the power.of the Rocke-
£eller millions. With assets of over twenty billions,
theirs is the strongest influence in banks and corporations.
Their real estate holdings are not included in this sum.
The Rockefeller holdings also extend another twenty-
four billion into concerns in which the Morgans have
interests. The Standard Oil Company, with close to
five billion in assets, is but one of their many holdings.
MORGAN E MPIRE
The Morgans control over thirty-five banks and in- ·
surance companies and sixty non-financial corporations.
A known sixteen billion is but a small part of their assets
in another group of sixteen banks and miscellaneous
corporations. In fact, their gross assets total nearly one-
sixth of the wealth of all the corporations of the nation,
or about one-seventh of the combined wealth of the na-
tion.
232
MELLON EMPIRE
The Mellons are interested in some thirty-five banks,
insurance companies, and forty or more non-financial
institutions. Their combined assets are four and a quar-
ter billion. They have additional interests of some
twenty-six billion in corporations allied with the Mor-
gans, Kuhn, Loeb & Co., and other bankers.
MINOR EMPIRES
Other families or groups controlling vast wealth are
the Du Pants, the banking firms of Lee, Higginson &
Co., Kidder, Peabody & Company, Brown Brothers,
Harriman Company, Lehman Brothers, and Goldman,
Sachs & Company. It is reported that in one year the Du
Ponts took some fifty million dollars in dividends out of
General Motors Company, just one of the companies
they control. For every dollar paid that year in wages
by the General Motors Company, another dollar was
paid in dividends.
These financial dictators are the real rulers of the
United States, and by means of propaganda they control
public opinion and, directly or indirectly, every action of
the cabinet and legislative bodies of the nation. Their
concentrated wealth is used to conceal and cover up their
financial deals, and counteract public resentment of their
methods. Some years ago, the elder Rockefeller was
the most heartily hated man in the United States. He
hired an outstanding publicity man who has managed,
in a few short years, by judicious planting of stories all
biased in Rockefeller's favor, to change the public's hate
into profound respect, if not hero worship.
Destructive to the public good as are some of the
233
policies of the "economic royalists," the fact remains
that they are essential to the evolution of the economy
of the country. Were it not for the men with ability to
build our mammoth corporations of today, there would
be no training schools to develop the ability to operate
efficiently the super-corporation of tomorrow, the cor-
porate state foretold by Edward Bellamy.
The five methods used by our financial overlords to
contra! public opinion are: the newspapers, radio, mov-
ies, philanthropies, and schools. The newspapers, most
potent of the five in molding public thought, are given
first consideration. It is a standing policy of our news-
papers to defend, either directly or indirectly by impli-
cation, the actions and policies of entrenched privilege.
The institution of journalism in the United States-the
property of the multimillionaire families-is an ef-
ficient tool in building up a counter barrage against the
progressive tendencies of the people.
The Radio Corporation of America is but one of the
Rockefeller-Morgan-Mellon properties. This com-
pany builds or controls through licensing arrangements,
eighty-five per cent of the broadcast receivers sold in the
United States, and through its N. B. C. maintains a
censorship over the information to reach the people over
the air. Columbia Broadcasting Company is under the
control of the Lehman Brothers, Brown Brothers, and
Harriman banking groups, .who see that no time shall
be sold to any organization concerned with airing too
much economic truth.
Eight major producers make sixty-five per cent of the
pictures and control eighty per cent of the capital in-
vested in the motion picture industry. All of the news
234
reels are produced by this group. In the Twentieth
Century set-up, there are over two hundred corpora-
tions-a financial puzzle that the government itself can-
not penetrate. Far more difficult than guessing which
of the three shells conceals the little pea is the task of
tracing the profits through the maze of this complicated
corporate structure. The subject matter of the news
destined to reach the public, and that of the lessons im-
plied in feature pictures, are all dictated in Wall Street,
and not in Hollywood. The slaughtering of innocent
people by the police of Chicago in the strikes of a few
months ago should have been big news. Not one foot
of film shot at the scene of action ever reached the
theatre screen.
The universities and schools of the country are also
dominated by this same group, and nowhere is class
consciousness as strongly exhibited as in our colleges.
By means of money grants and bequests given only to
those schools whose curriculi contain little of a progres-
sive nature, and the selection of trustees from the
monied class, the education of the youth of the country
is held within the narrow limits of capitalistic vision.
This is true not only of the schools and universities on
the east coast, but also of those on the west. The presi-
dent of one of the largest west coast banking groups has
his fingers in many pies. No doubt he is a busy man.
According to the Stanford University Bulletin, March
31, 1939, Graduate School of Business, Mr. Teague is
connected with the following:
President, Security First National Bank, Los Angeles.
President, California Fruit Growers Exchange.
Chairman, Santa Clara Water District (since 1927).
235
President, Ranco La Cuesta (since 1930).
Regent, University of California (since 1930).
President, Agricultural Council (which is virtually legislative arm of
Associated Farmers, Inc.).
Vice-President, Institute of Cooperatives (since 1933).
President, California Walnut Growers Association (since 1912).
President, Limoneira Company (since 1917).
President, Thermal Belt Water Company, Santa Paula (since 1917).
Director, National Cooperative Council (since 1933).
President, State Chamber of Commerce (from 1932-34, was on
Hoover's Farm Board, that arch-reactionary body, foe of small
farmers).
The head of another leading California banking chain
is largely interested in speculative farming. Both of
these banks have interests in large agricultural corpora-
tions, and are fast developing a form of Fascism in
California through their Associated Farmers' Corpora-
tion, which would have been more aptly titled "As-
sociated Bankers and Industrialists."
By control of the people's money, one-fourth of
which is deposited in eleven of the largest banks (seven
in the East, two in Chicago, and two in California), Big
Money can either finance or wreck any business institu-
tion. The government is not permitted by our bankers
to enter any field of banking that can yield a profit. The
banking service of the postal department is confined to
such narrow limits that it has never been a threat to
private banking. By means of generous contributions
to both political parties, the ruling families obligate our
officials so that they may later demand no legislation be
passed that might prove destructive to their established
privileges. By means of their contributions to campaign
funds, the sixty families shape and control our laws.
Should we elect a progressive president, they always
236
manage to tie his hands and sabotage his efforts by dictat-
ing who the members of his cabinet shall be and,
through campaign contributions to reactionary congress-
men, elect sufficient reactionaries to block progressive
legislation.
At no time in recent history has the shortsightedness
of Big Money been shown as in the past eight years.
Every well-informed economist is aware that Roosevelt
saved the banks for the bankers and probably postponed
a revolution in the United States that would have
liquidated the owning and banking class. Instead of
permitting sufficient progressive legislation to be passed,
which would in a small degree correct the causes of our
economic breakdown, our sixty families have caused such
a barrage of misinformation to be given the people that
public opinion has turned from an appreciation of prog-
ress to fear of it. For twelve years, prior to Roosevelt,
the bankers were given complete freedom to run the
country as they saw fit. With their return to power they
will force Fascism upon this country, an act which will,
w~thin a few years, bring about their own complete de-
struction.
The trend has been steadily towards concentration of
wealth in the hands of the few. The rich are getting
richer while the poor become poorer. The old saying:
"From shirt-sleeves to shirt-sleeves in three genera-
tions" is no longer true, for by intermarriage of members
of the sixty families, their wealth has increased to the
point where no one can spend it. The great fortunes
are forced to grow larger and larger, for the income is
so immense that reinvestment is compulsory.
The Brookings Institute, a capitalistic-owned research
237
institution, reports that one-tenth of one per cent of the
rich families receive an income equal to forty-two per
cent of the families of the United States. Six million
families, or twenty-one per cent, have incomes less than
$1000.00 a year; twelve million families have incomes
less than $1500.00; and twenty million, incomes of less
than $2500.00. Only eight per cent, or two million
families, have incomes of over $5000.00.
Living standards of the American worker have risen
but little since the depths of the depression. The
mounting cost of living gives the worker little chance to
better his lot.
The recovery from depression was halted by delib-
erate sabotage on the part of our sixty families. The
sit-down strikes of the workers received acres of pub-
licity, but the sit-down strike of capital was ignored.
Secretary Ickes gives an account of their policies:
To the 130,000,000 people of the United States the sixty families
have made the threat that unless they are free of regulations to protect
the people's money, unless they are free to accumulate through legal
tricks, by means of corporations, without paying their share of taxes;
unless they are free to dominate the rest of us without restrictions on
their financial or economic power; unless they are once more free to
do all these things, then the United States is to have its first general
sit-down strike-not of labor-not of the American people--Jiut of
the sixty families and of the capital created by the whole American
people, of which the sixty families have obtained control.
If the American people call this bluff, then the America that is to be
free will be a democratic America, a free America.
If the American people yield to this bluff, then the America that
is to be will be a big business, Fascist America-an enslaved America.
(New York Times, Dec. 31, 1937)
The 1940 presidential election will be the last under
our present system. The executive elected in November
238
1940 will soon become a dictator of a fascist state al-
though it will still be called a democracy.
"Capitalism is an intermediate stage-it could exist
neither under conditions of complete scarcity nor com-
plete abundance," says Walter B. Pitkin of Columbia
University. True communism is a condition of abun-
dance. Fascism is a condition of scarcity. Fascism is a
counter-offensive instituted by the owning class, aimed
at the maintenance of their power and privileges
through the destruction of communism. Fascism is re-
action armed to destroy progress. It is capitalism plus
murder. It is atavistic, feudalistic, and a revival of
pagamsm.
Fascism, hidden behind a false face .of simon-pure
Americanism, is still Fascism, and means the killing of
the Bill of Rights and every liberty enjoyed by the
American people. Fascism is in power in Washington,
·D. C. Vicious streams of propaganda are persuading
the people of the United States that black is white. The
same tactics are being followed here that proved success-
ful in Italy and Germany.
In those countries socialism was the bait used to con-
ceal the hook. In this country it is "Americanism,"
"Christianity," and the "Constitution,"-terms all ac-
ceptable to the average man-that hide the poison. This
type of propaganda is extremely well organized and
heavily financed. It has one aim-the mis-education of
the American people. It is meeting with fearful and
horrible success.
The United States was forced into the last war largely
through the false leadership of the House of Morgan
with the assistance of the sixty families. When Eng-
239
land declared war on Germany in September, 1939,
J. Pierpont Morgan was shooting grouse in Scotland
with the King of England. As he got us into the first
World War, so will he bend every effort to get us into
the second. It is so much safer to get our people into
an overseas war than to risk revolution at home. But
nothing Morgan, or any other banker, can do will change
the destiny of the United States.
Six thousand years ago Abraham led his people out of
a country where the land was possessed by a few, and es-
tablished a new order wherein there was plenty for all.
Three thousand years later Moses reenacted the play.
And now, in Kosmon, there will be a general exodus
from limitation into peace and plenty. This world chaos
means that the land will, once again, be returned to the
people. Every bit of wealth there ever was, or ever
will be, is the product of mother earth.
However, the owners of the land and factories, the
source of the real wealth of the country, are not going
to give their plunder back to the people without a strug-
gle which will precipitate a civil war.
But wars have their redeeming features as well as
their evils. Wars destroy the old and pave the way for
new and better reconstruction.
In every apparent evil there is a seed of good. The
men of initiative and brains who have developed our
banks, corporations, and institutions have been well re-
warded for the good things they have accomplished, and
will suffer for every mistake they have made. Let us
b:! thankful for them and recognize the marvelous work
they have done rather than condemn and blame them.
It has only been by the concentration of wealth and
240
power in the hands of the few that our corporations have
been built and the executive brains developed that will
make possible the super-corporation of the state pictured
in Bellamy's "Looking Backward," "Equality," and
other books.
Russia, in its e:fforts to provide plenty for all of its
people, had first to develop the factories to build the
machines necessary for rapid production. Lacking the
engineering brains and ability in their own country, they
were forced to send to the United States for engineering
talent. We are fortunate in having that talent trained
and developed in the corporation schools, at present,
owned by our sixty families. Some day this talent will
be used to manage efficiently our productive units for
the profit of all rather than for the profit of the few.
Today every city, county, and state statute book is
filled with laws outgrown and unobserved. For years
our people have been losing freedom, little by little,
through laws adopted at the instigation of various pres-
sure groups. Most of these laws are for the sole pur-
pose of increasing the earnings, rights, and privileges of
the group sponsoring these laws rather than for the
good of the public. Our legislators seem unable or un-
willing to revoke countless useless and detrimental laws,
and each year load us down with thousands more,
further restricting our freedom. History tells us that
peoples of the past have regained their freedom by
revolution. Prophecy informs us that our people will
clear the decks for a new dispensation by means of a
second civil war.
During its few remaining years capitalism in America
will become Fascism. Freedom of speech and assembly,
24-1
the Bill of Rights, the security of the home, and every
other protection to American liberties will be temporar-
ily destroyed by Fascists, dominated and financed by the
sixty families and other large owners of the wealth of
our country.
Such is the destiny of the United States, and none can
change it. It will be the means of forcing our people to
regain lost liberties and to step forth into a newer and
larger freedom. Our partial freedom of the past must
be sacrificed for a short time that we may learn to really
appreciate freedom, to the end that the dawn of a new
day may bring a new birth of freedom and economic
liberty for all.
The years between 1914 and 1948 are thirty-three
years marking the transition period from the Fascist
government of today to the cooperative commonwealth
of tomorrow. The United States of America in its
early days was a government by the people for the
people. In the years since 1776, as symbolized by the
pyramid on the dollar bill, it has changed from a gov-
ernment of the many to a government of the few.
The space between the topmost layer of the pyramid
and its capstone enclosing the All-seeing Eye of the
Creator symbolizes the years between 1945 and 1948
when this country will be virtually without a govern-
ment.
The mis-government of this over-rich few will pre-
cipitate a revol.ution that will return our nation to the
democracy it was designed to be. The comparison be-
tween the government of today and that of tomorrow
is shown in the parallel columns which follow:
242
THE UN-UNITED STATES OF ToDAY AND THE RE-UNITED STATES
OF TOMORROW
From 1940 to 1948
PRESIDENT now a dictator.
Supposed to be chosen by the peo-
ple, but in reality selected by the
HOUSE OF HAVE which gives
the people a choice of two men
either of which will represent big
business and the bankers.
CONGRESS now elected for
political ability and business con-
nections rather than character
and executive accomplishments.
Trade votes to further passage of
legislation favoring special inter-
ests.
SEMI-CORPORATE
STATE that owns post office,
harbors, rivers, and retains title to
a few of the country's resources.
Recognizes private ownership of
corporations, farms, factories, and
tools of production for private
profit.
UNIONS are in constant con-
flict with owning class and be-
tween themselves. The A.F. of
L. Unions are reactionary, unpro-
gressive and capitalistic. They
tend to Fascism, for they are gov-
erned by an executive board that
has entrenched itself as dictator.
A.F. of L. represents the small
group of skilled mechanics.
1948 and After
PRESIDENT selected by the
people, not for his political ability
but for his spiritual and intel-
lectual attainments. He will
head the nation because he is th~
most able of any citizen to lead
wisely and build constructively.
He will be a beneficent ruler not
a malevolent Fascist dictator.
CONGRESS will consist of a
council of men selected for their
outstanding ability in their vari-
ous specialities. Council will ad-
vise the president, but he will
make the decisions, thereby
avoiding vote trading, etc.
CORPORATE STATE own-
ing all natural resources, railroads,
utilities, cooperative farms, fac-
tories, and tools of production and
operating them for the greatest
public benefit.
UNIONS are a thing of the
past. Fraternities have taken
their place. Each fraternity se-
lects its most able member to rep-
resent it on the council. Chief
of each council represents his
council on the next higher coun-
cil, thereby selecting the best men
who form the National Council
similar to the former cabinet.
243
From 1940 to 1948
C.1.0. is representative of the
Communistic thought. They
organize all employees in an in-
dustry rather than the few high
paid workers. Both forms de-
stroyed by dictator during war
years.
ECONOMY as in all other
countries during the last years of
the War of Armageddon, planned
only for war purposes. Over-
production in the midst of starva-
tion still persists.
EDUCATION controlled to
a large degree by owning class.
Freedom of the press, free speech
and free assembly abolished. In-
dividual may educate himself and
reject the curriculum of the Fas-
cists but he must keep silent or go
to jail. Military training com-
pulsory.
YOUTH is forced into mili-
tary training camps or into in-
dustry engaged in manufacturing
implements of war.
SCIENCE. The scientific
mind is confined by the ortho-
1948 and After
ECONOMY planned for the
most efficient use of tools of pro-
duction and conservation of nat-
ural resources. Every citizen
benefits from collective efficient
operation and receives benefits
comparable to $10,000 a year un-
der the capitalist set-up.
EDUCATION. Both brain
and hand are trained. Youth re-
ceives scholastic training in schocl.
and practical experience in in~
dustry.
YOUTH is given the benefits
of army discipline, but discipline
is utilized for peace and not for
war, which has been abolished.
YOUTH, at completion of
schooling, is required to serve in
peace army of general public serv-
ice for three years. From the
age of 18 to 21 both young men
and women belong to groups sim-
ilar to the C.C.C. and do similar
public service work.
SCIENCE is unhampered in
its research to improve living
244
From 1940 to 1948
doxy of usury and the capitalistic
iystem built upon it. Unlimited
scientific research for additions to
the products of the private profit
system. Continual invention of
machines which cause more un-
employment, more deadly war
machines, but inventions that
would upset returns from invest-
ment of private capital are with-
held or destroyed.
RELIGION. Religious lib-
erty, provided in the constitution,
invalidated by organized church-
ery. Fascist groups, organized to
stir up religious hatred, succeed
in establishing a fictitious Chris-
tianity as a state religion.
STANDARD OF LIVING
has suffered during war years.
At beginning of 1940, there were
eleven million unemployed and
twenty-five million without ade-
quate income to insure a healthy
diet. As rich grew richer the
poor grew poorer until millions
Were slowly starving.
WAR between Japan and the
U. S. A. followed by civil war
between the Fascists and pro-
gressives.
1948 and After
standards, health, welfare of the
people. Inventions are public
property. Only the best are used
that products manufactured may
be most efficient, beautiful, and
durable.
RELIGION is that of the
Fatherhood of the Creator, the
Motherhood of the Earth and
Brotherhood of man. Religion
of words has made way for a reli-
gion of works.
STANDARD OF LIVING is
now the highest in the world's
history. Every one now assured
of plenty of all good things of
life.
WAR, imperialism, aggression,
and conflict have given way to
peace and cooperation. All na-
tional barriers to free trade,
travel, and emigration have dis-
appeared.
245
CHAPTER XXI
THE wRITING ON THE wALL
MENE, MENE, TEKEL, UPHARSIN !
MENE: God hath numbered thy kingdom and finished it.
TEKEL: Thou art weighed in the balance and found wanting.
UPHARSIN: Thy kingdom is divided and given to the Medes
and Persians.
Three thousand years ago this warning flashed upon
the wall where Belshazzar, King of Babylon, and his
thousand nobles feasted.
Upon a thousand motion picture screens throughout
the United States another warning is written. "Gone
With the Wind" is a story of yesterday-and a proph-
ecy of tomorrow.
Of all the reviews, criticisms, comments, and opinions
written and voiced about this picture of a decade, we
have yet to find one expressing a conception of the
spiritual and prophetic import of this story.
A book selling two million copies (1,750,000 in the
U. S. A.), resulted in a picture costing three million
dollars, which returned the investment within the first
eight weeks of its release. It has broken all records for
the number of people reading the book and will, if the
hundred million estimated audience see the picture,
break all screen records.
An accident?
I think not.
246
Spiritual forces inspired the story and overshadowed
every person who took a part in its telling.
To what purpose?
The warning is given to the rulers of today, as a warn-
ing was given Belshazzar and his nobles of another day.
Of the one hundred and thirty-five million people in
the United States who read and saw the popular "Gone
With the ·Wind," how many will receive the message it
is aimed to convey?
Not many, and few indeed of those most concerned.
Belshazzar could not read his warning. The House
of Have considers "Gone With the Wind" just another
picture. The interpretation of the writing on the wall
did not save Belshazzar, nor will this or any other inter-
pretation of the meaning of this movie save the rulers
of today from destruction.
It is a spiritually inspired message to those spiritually
blind.
Eighty years ago the Creator's clock struck the hour
for the destruction of chattel slavery on this American
continent. Tomorrow the clock will strike again to mark
the hour for the release of horse-power slaves and their
wage-slave overseers from bondage to the few. They
shall be released to provide plenty of nature's abundance
for everyone, instead of profit for the owners of the
land, mines, mills and factories.
Could the slavery an,d economic questions of eighty
years ago have been peaceably settled?
I doubt it.
Many thinking people realized long before the Civil
War that a condition was fast developing which could
only end in trouble. In 1800 the richest parts of the
24-7
South had a slave population of fifty per cent. Forty
years later the proportion of slaves had increased to
seventy per cent. Another twenty years ( 1860) found
ninety per cent of the population of these same areas in
bondage.
A few who studied conditions of that day and sought
a peaceful solution to the problem, advised the purchase
of the slaves by the government at a fair price, and then
advocated their release to freedom, believing that in
this way slavery could be peaceably abolished.
Who resisted this solution?
The owners of the land to whom belonged the slaves
upon it. These shortsighted owners would not consider
such an "infringement of their rights." They loved the
old economy, and would not admit that a new day was
at hand. With all their combined selfishness, prejudices,
passions and lust for power, they resisted change. By
force of arms they resisted progress and the forward
march of freedom. New and rigid laws were passed.
It became unsafe for anyone in the South to voice an
opinion that slavery was wrong, and that the abolishment
of it would bring a new and better economy with more
abundant life to slave owners as well as slaves. The
forward thinking person of that day was labelled a
nigger lover, a black hearted abolitionist, or a damned
Yank, just as today's open minded student of world and
economic conditions is being labelled a Red, a Com-
munist, or an agitator, should he venture the statement
that something is wrong with capitalism, or suggest that
a more abundant life for everyone awaits the day when
farms, factories and machines are freed to produce for
all, instead of being withheld from production because
248
they cannot produce a profit for the few owners in an
economy based upon scarcity.
All the forces of church, press, finance and state were
mobilized by land and slave owners to arouse the selfish
sectional passions of the people of the South, and hate
was whipped up for the abolitionists and people of the
North.
They were willing to wreck and destroy the nation
rather than free one slave.
They destroyed themselves, cost their country thou-
sands of lives, and the nation a thousand times the
number of dollars it would have taken to purchase and
give peaceful emancipation to the slaves.
Strife and civil war, destruction, desolation and death
resulted-and with it all they lost their slaves and
wrecked the South for a generation. Half the couritry
was left barren for the lifetime of those who wrecked it.
There is a powerful story in "Gone With the Wind,"
and a prophecy of tomorrow in terms of the past.
Rhett Butler, the Northerner, warned the rash young
blades of the South, who gathered in the fo:ing room at
Tara, of the disastrous results that would follow should
the slave owners cause war. Men of small perspective
and less vision could not visualize the power of the
North, nor can our business men, bankers, industrialists
and possessing classes visualize the power of an aroused,
disposed populace. Keen observers are giving our re-
actionaries of today a warning similar to that given by
Rhett Butler to his generation.
Mene, Mene, T ekel, Upharsin!
The revelers of a former cycle lacked the spiritual
wisdom to interpret the writing on the wall. Even
249
when interpreted for them by the prophet Daniel, the
warning went unheeded.
Again the story is being enacted with a new cast.
Thinking minds today realize that an ever-increasing
portion of our people are ill clad, ill fed and ill housed
- if housed at all- in the richest nation the world has
ever known. Millions are half starved, while food is
·destroyed in upholding an outmoded profit system.
Nineteen and three quarter million inanimate horse
power slaves are waiting to be released so that they may
produce an abundance of everything for everyone!
In the old Bible the path of humanity for three thou-
sand years was plotted for those who today have the
spiritual insight to read the road map concealed in par-
able and allegory.
In the year 1881 the Creator inspired the writing of
the Kosmon Revelations, and gave to those ready to ac-
cept it the one and only plan for a peaceful transition
from the hell of competition into the peace of coopera~
tion, mapping the way for a few pioneers to establish
peace, plenty and security.
In 1887 Bellamy in "Looking Backward" painted a
picture of the democratic, corporate state, with its econ-
omy of peace and plenty that will prevail in the year
1980 following the destruction of our present oligarchy
of wealth.
For thirty years Upton Sinclair has been trying to
educate the public to purchase through their government
our utilities, land, banks, factories and machines from
the stockholders of our corporations, so that they might
be operated for the good and profit of all in place of a
few. In all the pamphlets he has published there is
250
some light given, and the subject is discussed in detail
in his "Letters to Judd," "The Way Out," and "Your
Million Dollars."
In more recent years Technocracy, the Townsend
Plan, End Poverty in California, Ham and Eggs, Man-
kind United, and many other movements have served to
inform the public of the plenty waiting to become theirs
when they are ready for it. Each of these plans aims at
a peaceful cure of an economic cancer.
Who oppose?
The land and slave owners of today, the House of
Have, the bankers, the rich industrialists, the sixty fam-
ilies, the Chamber of Commerce, and countless thou-
sands who have a stake in the profit system. They will
consider no other economy.
In December, 1931, in the early days of the depres-
sion, when the nation's millions of unemployed were
walking the streets seeking non-existent jobs, the presi-
dent of the Chamber of Commerce, Silas Strawn, took
a vote among the various Chambers throughout the
country on the following question, "Shall the United
States government help the nation's desperate unem-
ployed?"
197 voted yes.
2,534 voted no.
Thirteen to one against ANY attempt to relieve the
situation, or any e:ffort to find a solution to our economic
crackup.
That was nine years ago.
Has their wisdom increased? Has there been a
change in their state of mind? Have they any more
vision today than they had nine years ago, or are they
251
any more ready to contribute to a solution now than they
were then?
Not in the least!
A wave of reaction has set in.
In California, Governor Olson's program for lib-
eralized relief has been torpedoed and sunk. During
a special session of the Legislature our elected repre-
sentatives, at the instigation of the Chamber of Com-
merce, the Associated Farmers, banks, railroads, steam-
ship companies and other reactionary groups sabotaged
the plan for social reform, instituted a forty per cent cut
in relief allowances affecting three hundred and seventy
thousand clients, and fixed the monthly relief allowance
at a maximum of fifty-eight dollars with resident re-
quirements of three years instead of one. But the maxi-
mum is $58.00. Thousands are allowed only $26.65
a month for man, wife and two children, out of which
they must pay rent, purchase food, medicines, clothes
and all other necessities-an average of fourteen cents
per day per person.
Single men and women receive $9.60 per month.
California is the fourth richest state in the union, and
its relief allowances, though meager to the point of
starvation, are far more liberal than many of the poorer
states.
In the rich state of California the per capita income
in 1939 was but $639.00, of which $132.42 or 20.8 %
were taxes. Those who work must contribute one fifth
of their income to keep from starving the many whom
our capitalists will not permit to work.
A report of the S. E. C. to the Monopoly Committee
states that the twenty-six largest insurance companies
252
have increased their holdings of farm land seven per
cent in the last ten years. In 1938 their income from the
sale of farm land had increased 900% in nine years-
from $9,000,000 to $82,000,000. In 1938 insurance
companies owned over a half billion dollars worth of
farm real estate, and three quarters of a billion dollars
in farm mortgages. The Department of Agriculture
states that the insurance companies have a more aggres-
sive foreclosure policy than any other class of farm
mortgage holder. Profits on foreclosed farm land have
been over $9,000,000.
Other huge profits are raked in annually in the form
of 30% to 40% of the crops of tenant farmers. Glenn
D. Rogers, an official. of the Metropolitan Life In-
surance Company, admitted that 1939 rentals, taken
from the company's sharecroppers, amounted to $5,-
000,000, and for the three years before that it had never
fallen below $4,000,000 annually. He said that the
company would make more money by operating farms
on a share crop basis than by selling the huge tracts of
farm land it has secured by foreclosures.
In 1939 the insurance companies made their usual
billion dollar profit, or three and a half million dollars
a day. Ten billions profit in ten depression years!
While the companies were making their billion dollars
profit, more than half of their full time agents, who
were bringing in the business making this profit possible,
were being paid less than $250.00 a year, according to a
report of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Enormous salaries at the top, starvation wages at the
bottom!
A huge volume just issued by the National Industrial
253
Conference Board entitled, "Enterprise and Social Prog-
ress," reveals that three-tenths of our population of the
lower income groups are worse off now than at any time
in the last thirty years.
At the same time the four richest groups are getting
a larger share of the national income than ever before.
Every unbiased study of the evolution of capitalism
reveals the same trends, the rich getting richer while
the poor get poorer.
In the United States, the richest nation in the world's
history, forty millions of our population are dependent
upon payments from the government. Thirty million
families have incomes of less than $750.00 a year, or
about $2.00 a day. Three hundred and fifty thousand
families, representing more than a million people, roam
the land as itinerant farm workers.
The United States is a country having the resources
and machinery to make possible a national income, in
the year 1940, of one hundred seventy-five billion
dollars, or approximately $4,500 per family. But these
resources must be released for production instead of be-
ing kept in idleness because our business leaders can not
operate them at a profit.
There is considerable difference in a family income of
$2.00 a day- when you get it-and an income of $12.00
each and every day throughout the year. A difference
in food and clothes and housing, in health and happiness.
The first is what we are getting under the capitalistic
system of private profit ;based upon an economy of
scarcity.
The second is what we will have under a system of
cooperative mutualism, in which all the people of the
nation will own the land, factories and electrical slaves.
2H
In Brazil some estates are larger than the British
Isles. In Chile five hundred families own over half the
land. In the Argentine several families own over 150
square miles apiece, and in Bolivia and Peru twenty per
cent of the population own ninety-nine per cent of the
land. In California the land is no longer farmed by
individuals who own their land, but by corporations
who own and farm it. In the United States the Metro-
politan Life Insurance Company owns more farms and
more acreage than any other individual or corporation.
Outside of Russia, it is the world's largest farmer. It
farms its land through share cropping, or by employing
the former owners of its farms at meagre salaries ap-
proaching peonage.
In England the nobility own the land, in Germany
the Junkers, in Japan the Mikado is the richest indus-
trialist and owns more acreage than any single individual
or corporation. France had its two hundred banker-
industrialist families who own and rule the country, and
the U. S. A. has its sixty families.
When old Egypt died, four per cent of the people
owned all the land.
When Babylon perished, three per cent of the people
owned all the wealth.
When ancient Persia died, two per cent owned all
the wealth.
When Rome fell, two thousand people owned the
civilized world; and then followed the dark ages from
which we did not recover until wealth was scattered or
destroyed by continual wars.
Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey,
Where wealth accumulates and men decay.
-Goldsmith
255
In the intermission between the first and second ses-
sions of Europe's part in the War of Armageddon,
Brazil, Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia, Argentina, Cuba, Chile
and Mexico-almost fifty million persons on the Ameri-
can continents have been in revolt.
The year 1940 finds two-thirds of the earth's popula-
tion living in nations at war. Three-fourths of the
earth's surface is inhabited by people engaged in killing
each other. China's 450,000,000 are fighting for life
against 100,000,000 of Japan. The British Empire is
made up of a half billion people of various races, many
of whom are participating in (the Bank of) England's
war. India, with its 350,000,000 will soon be engaged
in a religious war.
The Plunder Bund is marching to war again and
drafting the worker to fight its battles. War between
the Have and the Have Not nations has been declared
by the International Bankers with headquarters in the
Bank of England. The wars in Europe and Asia are for
no other purpose than to prevent plenty of the plenty
for the common people.
Smothered under an avalanche of propaganda against
the Communist and Fascist countries, the truth peeks
out; there is no unemployment in the U. S.S. R., Ger-
many, Italy and Japan. In the first three nations the
state has absorbed and nationalized the banks. In
China, soldiers of Japan are inoculated with Commu-
nist doctrine that will result in the destruction of the
capitalism of Japan and the emperor worship that made
it possible.
The U. S. S. R., the Communist sections of China and
Mexico, are three places in which usury has been abol-
256
ished, and ownership of the land recovered by the
people. Germany and Italy have absorbed corporations
formerly owned privately and embodied them in the
corporate state.
First monarchies, then republics, followed by coop-
erative commonwealths, these are the three steps in the
evolution of government. Feudalism, capitalism, and
common (governmental) ownership are parallel steps
in the development of economics.
The capitalistic nations of the world fear the growth
of the new economy which will eventually mean abun-
dance for everyone, and these nations will soon gang up
on the U. S. S. R. to destroy it if they can.
They will be as unsuccessful as the monarchies were
in their efforts to prevent the evolution of the repub-
lican form of government.
The only thing that will prevent the United States
from joining the "ganging up" will be our second civil
war.
At a time when over ten millions are still unem-
ployed, the President demands, at the behest of the
reactionaries and owning classes, cuts of $477,000,000
for the W. P. A., $300,000,000 less for public works,
$400,000,000 less of farm aid, and $60,000,000 from
the C. C. C., totalling cuts of a billion and a quarter in
relief . . . that the military budget may be increased
$14,000,000,000.
A billion less for butter-$14,000,000,000 more for
guns. Has he forgotten what he said at Atlanta in
1932? "The millions who are in want will not stand
by silently forever while the things to satisfy their
needs are within easy reach."
257
ts he unaware of what God, the chief executive of our
planet, told our people in 1881 ?
I demand of thee that thou shalt give up thy army and navy. Is
thy faith still more in weapons of death than in the voice of ever-
lasting life? Esteemeth thou thy army and navy more to be de-
pended on than thy Creator?
The 1914-1 91 8 session of the war cost the people of
the United States alone over eighty billion dollars.
This is enough to:
Pay off all farm mortgages in the United States.
Build four schools at $25 0,000 each in every county in the United
States.
Establish trust funds of $100 each for every blind and deaf person
in the country.
Build four million modern homes including garage space and a
new car fully paid for.
Give one member from each of five million families a round-the-
world trip.
Enough money was spent on the first World War by
the United States to accomplish, not one of the above,
but ALL OF THEM.
The schools, the homes, the automobiles, the abun-
dant life we might have had were dissipated in a war
"to make the world safe for democracy."
It brought on world-wide unemployment, a ten-year
depression in this country, and economic chaos. Instead
of democracy, the harvest was the destruction of free-
dom and democracy, and an epidemic of dictators.
In the days of Julius Caesar it cost 75¢ to kill a sol-
dier. By the time Napoleon came on the stage, the cost
had increased to about $3,00_
0 a man. In our Civil War
the cost was $5,000 for every man killed, and in the
World War of 1914-1918 the price was $21,000 for
258
every one of the 8,358,315 soldiers killed-a total of
180 billion dollars!
Military experts estimate that the cost of killing a
soldier in the present war is $50,000.
In the Japan-China undeclared war as many people
were killed in two years as were killed in the four year
World War.
How many are to be killed in Europe in the next
seven years at $50,000 a·head? The first two weeks of
the blitzkrieg in France killed 500,000.
Roosevelt and Hull are following the path blazed
by Wilson and Lansing. First: purchases of airplanes
and munitions for cash as long as the cash holds out.
Second: loans that will never be repaid. Loans to be
spent in this country for articles of death; loans to be
spent to kid the people of the United States that they
are getting something of value for the man power, the
energy, the oil, metal, timber and other· natural re-
sources that should be employed to relieve the starvation
and suffering of our people, and to build them better
homes and schools. Third: war.
Can all of the people be fooled all of the time?
For nine long years big business has sabotaged every
effort to solve our economic problems. The year 1940
finds 10,000,000 men still out of work.
European nations solved their unemployment prob-
lems with rearmament and war. As the concluding
chapters of this book are being written in the middle of
August, 1940, it is evident that the United States is
following the same bloody road to revolution.
First a barrage of lies, misrepresentation, war scare
headlines in every conservative newspaper and magazine
259
in the country. Censorship of the press and radio in
order to eliminate any article or broadcast that might
give out the truth.
Forget the Constitution.
Skip the Bill of Rights.
Forbid the Communist party the ballot. Deport
Harry Bridges. Pass a conscription law. Throw all
labor leaders into the army where civil rights may be
denied them and, if they talk too much, they may be
court-martialed. Unconstitutional? Sure, but who
cares?
Fascism-capitalism, plus murder.
Militarism, rearmament, storm troopers, dictatorship,
concentration camps, an ever-lowering standard of liv-
ing, while our resources are being dissipated in another
banker's war.
Fifty million men in Europe either in the armies or
working in industries engaged in supplying war ma-
terials. Soon, it is planned, our unemployed millions
will be absorbed in similar activities.
But after the second armistice, what?
Can anyone using his powers of observation and rea-
son not agree that the wars in Europe and Asia are but
a prelude to a series of internal revolutions and civil
wars similar to that of Russia after the first World War?
Is it probable that the United States will abide in peace
when the rest of the world is in chaos? Do not the
signs of the times prove that the hour is near for the
fulfillment of the prophecies of many seers and three
of our former presidents, foretelling of a time of revo-
lution and death in order that a new and better day may
follow?
260
The nations of the world are lining up in two op-
posing camps. The people within those nations are di-
viding, now, into two schools of thought, just as our peo-
ple did at the time of the first civil war when they
separated into a group which opposed slavery and one
which sanctioned it. The first Civil War is individual-
ized in the character of Scarlett O'Hara, who asked but
one thing of life-wealth. Every worthwhile thing in
life was sacrificed to obtain it. The death of lifelong
friends, the suffering and loss of thousands, the destruc-
tion of her South, meant nothing to her. Greed blinded
her to everything but her own selfish ends. To obtain
wealth, she married three men. Two were killed by the
war and the third, Rhett Butler, left her with an empty
universe in her hands when he abandoned her, sup-
posedly to seek a better woman.
Capitalism, whore of Babylon, also has her three men,
finance, church, and state. Like Scarlett's, two will be
destroyed by the war. Finance, with its international
system of exploitation built upon banker-controlled gold,
is even now more dead than alive. The Churcl?., with
its billions of tax free property and its racketeering
priesthood forever labelling "Forbidden" upon every
progressive movement, will, as ever before, line up its
forces on the side of reaction, and bless, in the name of
God and the gentle Jesus, both sides and their imple-
ments of death, with the result that the peoples of the
world will destroy all state-established and supported
religions. The state will abandon capitalism, with its
creed of much for the few and little for the many, in
order to find a better mate in a cooperative economy
of plenty for all.
261
The wars in Europe and Asia have brought Fascism
to the United States. Fascism means a dictatorship by
the House of Have, the death of every democratic
liberty, of free speech, free assembly and the sanctity
of the home. Fascism will precipitate a civil war and
economic chaos.
The scenes of "Gone With the Wind" will be re-
peated on a national and more violent scale. Civil war,
with the breakdown of governmental authority, ma-
rauding bands roaming the country seeking plunder and
pelf, destruction of homes and industries, a people gone
mad, are all scenes which will be repeated and reenacted
from coast to coast and from Canada to Mexico.
By 1948 the present financial setup with its privately
owned Federal Reserve system and member banks, our
present form of money, our insurance companies, pri-
vately owned land, utilities, factories, and productive
plants will be gone with the wind and be replaced by
public ownership and a more equitable economy. Even
our disunited forty-eight states will be supplanted by a
new union of which each present state will be a united
member.
Impossible, you say!
As impossible as the Russian Revolution, as impos-
sible as the dismemberment of China, as out of the
question as the conquest of Ethiopia and Albania, as
improbable as the war in Spain, Poland, Finland, France
and England ••. and just as certain.
If you had told the people of Spain or Poland that
their country would soon be in ruins, if you had stated
that their homes would soon be bombed, and their
people in concentration camps, would they have be-
262
··'-Y prophecies ana the confirmation of
-· .i ulh found in the countless signs of the times
has convinced the writer that the nations of today will
repeat the mistakes of the nations of yesterday. Change
will come through war and revolution, and not through
education as we wish it might.
The year 1948 will find present governments, state
supported religions, the present financial and private
profit system GONE WITH THE WIND.
At least four years of revolution and chaos are ahead.
What will YOU do in the meantime?
Three courses are open to you.
You may go along with the mob, blind to the obvious;
you may side with the reactionaries in their attempt to
make the world stand still; you may succumb to war
hysteria and join the legions of hate; you may cling to
a dying order and die with it; or you may step aside
and let the stampede pass.
Should you be one of the few who are aware of the
signs of the times and desire to move before the blitz-
krieg comes, you may heed advice similar to that given
263
rather than the destroy...."' J~siri.t1'0Y
.•·
any activity pertaining to war, death ana \.~JI' '
if you recognize the advantage of community rathe~
than individual effort; if you desire to provide a way
in association with others of like mind and development,
our advice is to join one of the several colonies devoted
to blazing the new way of life with peace, plenty and
security for all in place of too much for the few and
little for the many.
This is not
THE END
It is only the beginning.
OLD KING LABOR
I am old King Labor. I was cast asleep in the Garden of Eden.
I have been sleeping for ages, performing my work in a somnam-
bulistic state. I am now awakening from my long sleep-I am
thinking.
I have done all the work of the world since man first inhabited
the earth.
I have made all the useful and beautiful things possessed by all
mankind.
264-
I have made all the inventions possible that are being used all over
the world.
I have made all the vehicles that travel on land, water and in the
air.
I have made all infernal machines that are now being used to kill
my children.
I have fought all wars for kings and rulers and have paid all debts.
I have sunken great shafts into the earth and brought forth untold
wealth for a greedy selfish few.
I have never done much real thinking-toiled from early dawn,
till late at night.
Because of my long sleep the world has gone mad on war, and this
has driven me to serious thought.
Now that I am thinking, a new force is being put into action.
I am doing everything in this world for freedom for all.
I am fighting the battles. I am feeding the world and paying all
debts. I have never thought in war times before.
As a result of my thinking, monarchial governments and kingdoms
are changing and bowing to my command.
I will see that they obey when this great war is at an end.
I have found out that I am the most powerful of all kings.
I have found I can and must rule all nations of the world.
I am the foundation upon which all good, useful and necessary
things must rest.
The people cannot live without me.
This awful condition of mankind has caused me to think of all
the miseries of my people.
And this is the greatest discovery of all ages, and will bring justice
to all mankind. I am breaking the chains of dogmas and superstitions.
All forms of unjust government must pass away.
I will control all that I have produced, that my children may be
happy.
I will convert all implements of war into useful machinery for my
people. And there shall be no more war and bloodshed.
I will shorten the days of labor, that my people may have more
time for learning and pleasure.
I will make conditions impossible for millionaires and paupers to
exist in the world. All food speculators, trusts and money monarchs
must go at my command.
I will abolish all rules of tyranny from the domains of the earth.
I will not forget the past.
265
I am going to keep on thinking, working, enjoying life and mak-
ing conditions more perfect, remembering all nationalities are my
brothers and sisters, that the world is my country, doing good my
religion, with liberty, happiness and plenty for all FOREVER.
266
OAHSPE
A NEW BIBLE
is th'e
WONDER BOOK OF THE AGES
Given to the world in th'e year 1881 this wonder book
is a miracle of the Nineteenth Century. OAHSPE is
a revelation of the new era. It contains the answer to
every economic, social, spiritual and philosophical ques.
tion in the minds of men. It is a history of our planet
since its nebulous days, a record of the human race
since its birth upon earth, a history of every major re-
ligion; and a roadmap to health, happiness and secur-
ity for the individual.
If you would know of the origin and destiny of man,
th'e cosmic causes and purpose of this "Time of Trou-
ble" and of the "Heaven on Earth" that will follow,
you should read OAHSPE for it is the key to the past,
enlightenment for today and a prophecy for tomorrow.
A new unabridged deluxe edition of OAHSPE, a
volume containing thirty-six books and a thousand
pages, printed from the original Newbrough plates,
is now available.
The first edition of OAHSPE sold for $7.50.
Long out of print, used copies have commanded from
twenty to one hundred dollars. You may have a copy
of the New Deluxe large print OAHSPE for $5.00
postpaid.
Order direct from
KOSMON INDUSTRIES
2210 West Eleventh Street
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
Descriptive Literature on Request.
Title
ARcmvEs oF THE Es-
SENES OF KosMoN
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Publisher
ARMAGEDDON Is AT THE Out of Print
DOORS
BAHA'u'LLAH AND THE Bahai Publishing
NEw ERA Committee
CoMMON SENSE MAGA- 315 Fourth Ave.
ZINE
CAPITALISM (Lecture
Outline)
CHANGING GovERN-
Haldeman-Julius
Publications
Foreign Policy As-
MENTS sociation
DESTINY OF THE UNITED Prophetic Age
STATES
DANIEL AND REVELATION Out of Print
Address
Los Angeles, Calif.
New York, N . Y.
New York, N. Y.
Girard, Kansas
New York, N. Y.
Akron, Ohio
EcoNOMIC CoNsE- Harcourt, Brace & Co. New York, N. Y.
QUENCES OF THE
NEW DEAL
FACTORIES IN THE FIELD Little Brown Co.
HITLER Is No FooL Modern Age Books
INTELLECTUAL DE- Out of Print
VELOPMENT OF
EUROPE
JoANNA SouTHCOTT
KING ]AMES BIBLE
KosMoN REVELATIONS
LOOKING BACKWARD
LETTERS To JuDD
MEIN KAMPF
NOTED PROPHECIES
0AHSPE
OuR CouNTRY, OuR
PEOPLE AND THEIRS
Camelot Press
Essenes of Kosmon
Houghton Mifflin Co.
Upton Sinclair
Adolf Hitler
Out of Print
The Kosmon Press
Macmillan Co.
268
Boston, Mass.
New York, N. Y.
London, England
Los Angeles, Calif.
New York, N. Y.
Pasadena, Calif.
Germany
Los Angeles, Calif.
New York, N. Y.
PROPHECIES OF GREAT Aquarian Ministry
WORLD CHANGES
Santa Barbara,
Calif.
RUSSIA WITHOUT
ILLUSIONS
THE PRESENT wORLD
CRISIS
THE STRUCTURE OF
THE AMERICAN
ECONOMY
THE NEW INQUISITION
THE ANCIENT LOWLY
WHAT Is CoMING?
Modern Age Books New York, N. Y.
Out of Print
U. S. Govt. Printing Washington, D. C.
Office
Modern Age Books New York, N. Y.
Charles H. Kerr & Co. Chicago, Ill.
Out of Print
269
