{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1940__amorc___rosicrucian_sunshine_circle.pdf","mytitle":"Rosicrucian Sunshine Circle","mylang":"de"}
SC-2 Rev.-12^9
THE ROSICRUCIM SUNSHINE CIRCLE
Man, in the early days, was an aqueous animal, living near and
depending on brooks, streams, and rivers for his sustenance and mode
of transportation. With the advent of a means whereby he might obtain
food and protect himself from the rapacious wild life, the need for an
abode near running water ceased and, as a consequence, crude living
quarters vere established on higher ground.
Gradually settlements or tribes carne into being and laws were
enacted that all might have equal justice. As the tribes grev, it was
necessary, for the good of all, that the lame, the blind, the halt and
the infirm receive care and attention. Each hunter was required to
deliver a part of the spoils of the hunt for their maintenance. As-
sistance was given them that they might be clothed and sheltered. Thus
was the realization of their responsibility for others. born in our an-
cestors.
Today, there are many institutions and organizations devoted ex-
clusively to the betterment of suffering unfortunates. Means are at
hand, through the charitable inclinations of prosperous individuáis, tú
alleviate, at least temporarily, need and illness. A means of liveli-
hood is available, through organized agencies, for the unemployed. Ar­
tificial replacements may be had for missing appendages of the body,
yet withal, that warmth of personal Ínterest, so necessary for the weli­
being of one who receives, is missing, "Organized charity," operating
as it does, must of necessity limit itself to the immediate material
needs of those in distress, else its field of activity would be cur-
tailed and many requests might be left unattended, thus defeating its
very purpose.
The immediate need is urgent and imperative for a group in each
city, town, and community to supply this missing human sympathy and
understanding. There is a "crying need" for a touch of kindness, a
friendly smile, a ray of sunshine, and to supply this need has come
into being a body of men and women whose object is to voluntarily offer
their services to help those in need. They have organized themselves
into what is called a "Rosicrucian Sunshine Circle" and through their
efforts they endeavor to spread sunshine, figuratively, in the lives of
others. These Sunshine Circles are not just another form of "organized
charity"--rather they are a form of orderly help and Cosmically di-
rected charity. They function according to Cosmic laws and not accord-
ing to man-made laws.
It is confusing, because of the many movements and organizations
which exist for the purpose of aiding those in distress, for the aver-
age individual to know where and how to direct his activities so that
he may most advantageously contribute to the help of those less fortú­
nate than himself. This can best be done through the Sunshine Circle.
This organization does not propose to supplant or take away support
from bonafide charitable organizations. Instead it adds to the work
done by other groups and in addition carries on activities that are
distinctly different from what is done by other organizations.
The members of a Sunshine Circle are from all walks of life, and
are, therefore, capable of extending human sympathy and understanding
in cases of life*s problems as faced by other men and women. The
chairman of each group is chosen because of his ability, initiative,
understandihg, and his willingness to give a part of his time and ener-
gy to this work.
When carrying on activities of this kind, for the benefit of other
people, the means cannot always be measured in terms of money. The Sun-
shine Circle*s primary purpose is not the giving away or the loaning of
money, although at times it is necessary to give material things to
those in need, but rather the giving of advice, metaphysical treatments
for various ailments, practical help and encouragement, are the first
considerations of this work.
Then, too, those who are helped are, by means of a practical ex­
pedient , taught the law of compensation. To illustrate: A grocer who
has been helped in some way by the Sunshine Circle is made to realize
that he can compénsate for the help he received by giving food to some-
one the Sunshine Circle may know to be in need. A mechanic who has
been helped can compénsate by giving service in exchange for what he
has received, etc., etc.
The Sunshine Circle is not a propaganda agency for the Rosicru-
cians. Its primary purpose is service. However, literature, copies of
the Rosjcrucian Digest and books that are helpful to an individual are
presented or loaned, but what is called strictly propaganda work for
the organization is not carried on unless the individual definitely
asks for information concerning the Rosicrucians.
For years the work of the Rosicrucian Sunshine Circle has been
producing marvelous results, and putting into practical demonstration
the principies which the Rosicrucians teach by actually influencing the
lives of thousands of persons. Furthermore, this work helps the work-
ers equally as much as it does those who are given help. You as a Rosi­
crucian will understand why this is true. "....you can only receive as
you are ready and willing to give."
MEMBERSHIP IN SUNSHINE CIRCLES
If you like to help your fellow man, If you feel the urge to give,
that you, too, may receive, then your place is In the Sunshine Gírele.
Your wife, your husband, the members of your family and your neighbors,
who are not Rosicrucians, are also eligible for membership.
Membership in the Sunshine Circle is not strictly limited to AMORC
members. Anyone who has a sincere desire to assist in carrying on the
work of the Sunshine Circle is entitled to membership, whether he is a
Rosicrucian member or not. However, officers of the Sunshine Circle
must be members of AMORC, and a part of the general membership must
also be composed of AMORC members; in fact, in all Sunshine Circles
the majority of members are Rosicrucians. This is necessary in order
to carry on certain of the metaphysical phases of the work, which the
Sunshine Circle does as a distinctive part of its activities. Never-
theless, wherever Sunshine Circles function, anyone and all those in-
terested in the purposes of its activities may be invited to join and
help in any way they can.
SUNSHINE CIRCLE WORK NOT SECRET
The Rosicrucian teachings and principies are not discussed at meet­
ings of the Sunshine Circle, as would be true in the case of a Lodge or
Chapter; therefore, there are no secrets in the Sunshine Circlefs ac­
tivities. In other words, the work of the Sunshine Circle is WITH THE
NEEDY and, as a consequence, non-AMORC members may affilíate freely,
regardless of race, creed, or sex.
Because of this privilege to non-AMORC members, there is the pos-
sibility of the Sunshine Circle becoming "organized charity." There­
fore, it is necessary for each person, (except ASSOCIATE MEMBERS)
whether an AMORC member or not, on joining this group., to sign a state-
ment that he or she will conform to and be worthy of the principies of
the Rosicrucian Sunshine Circle in all of his or her actions while act-
ing for and belonging to this organization. (This is accomplished when
signing Sunshine Circle membership application.
)
HOW TO ORGANIZE A ROSICRUCIAN SUNSHINE CIRCLE
IN CITIES WHERE A LODGE OR CHAPTER EXISTS:
There are two methods whereby local Sunshine Circles may
come into being in cities where Lodges and Chapters exist.
The first me-thod:
The Master of the Lodge or Chapter shall appoint
an active Rosicrucian member, who is also an ac­
tive Lodge or Chapter member, to each of the
following positions:
Director of local Sunshine Circle.
Secretary-Treasurer of local Sun-
shine Circle.
_ k -
The Master shall then complete, sign, and mail
Form H to the Secretary-General, Rosicrucian Sun-
shine Circle, Rosicrucian Park, San José, Califor­
nia, indicating those he has appointed to the posi-
tions of Director and Secretary-Treasurer.
Immediately after the appointment, the new Secre-
tary-Treasurer shall complete and sign Form A . The
form shall then be signed by the Director and im­
mediately mailed to the Secretary-General, Rosicru­
cian Sunshine Circle, Rosicrucian Park, San José,
California.
When both Form H and Form A have been received by
the Secretary-General, he will send a letter to the
local Director authorizing the functioning of the
local Sunshine Circle.
(SEE NOTE BELOW)
The second method;
If your Lodge or Chapter has no active Sunshine
Circle, cali upon your Master, explain to him the
activities and purpose of the Sunshine Circle.
Also explain the advantages of establishing a Sun­
shine Circle. Give him a copy of the Rosicrucian
Sunshine Circle Booklet and ask him to appoint a
Director and Secretary-Treasurer. When these ap-
pointments have been made, the actions indicated in
the first method should be followed.
NOTE: No Sunshine Circle may function as an author-
ized Rosicrucian Sunshine Circle until a let­
ter of authorization has been received by
your Secretary-Treasurer from the Secretary-
General .
As soon as the letter of authorization is
received, the local Sunshine Circle will op-
erate in compliance with the Rules and Regu-
lations for all Rosicrucian Sunshine Circles
as given in the booklet "Rosicrucian Sun^-
shine Circles."
HOV TO ORGANIZE A ROSICRUCIAN SUNSHINE CIRCLE
IN CITIES WHERE NO LODGE OR CHAPTER EXISTS:
Step 1 - Phone or vrite your District Commissioner, making an ap­
pointment. Then cali on him or her at the appointed time.
(The District Commissioner*s address will be furnished you
on application to Grand Lodge.)
Step 2
Step 3
Step 4
Step 5
Step 6
Step 7
Step 8
- Explain to him or her the activities and purposes of the
Sunshine Circle. Explain the advantages to the Order and to
the members of establishing a Sunshine Circle.
- Emphasize the fact, and make sure it is clearly understood,
that there is no connection whatsoever between the activi­
ties of a Sunshine Circle and the administration, ritual,
and studies of a Lodge or Chapter--that the Hosicrucian prin­
cipies and teachings are not discussed at Sunshine Circle
meetings.
- Procure from the District Commissioner such ñames of AMORC
members as he or she has available. Then visit each of them.
If they are interested in the work of the Sunshine Circle,
have them fill out and sign an application blank (Form D).
- Contact your friends and have the District Commissioner con-
tact his or her friends, who are not AMORC members. Explain
to them the activities and purposes of the Sunshine Circle
and if they are interested, have each fill out and sign an
application blank (Form D).
NOTE: If you will advise the Secretary-General at least one
month in advanee, the date and place of your organiza-
tion meeting, the Grand Lodge will notify all AMORC
members in your vicinity, so that those interested
may join your Sunshine Circle.
- You, as temporary chairman, will set a date and ñame a
place for the organization meeting of the Sunshine Circle in
your community and you will notify (at least one week before
the meeting) all the individuáis who have signed application
blanks, asking them to attend and bring with them any per-
sons, whether AMORC members or not, who may be interested in
the work of the Sunshine Circle.
- When all are assembled at this organization meeting and you
(as temporary chairman) have called the meeting to order,
your first duty is to appoint a temporary secretary, who
will make notes of all that transpires.
- You will next present to the assemblage a general statement
of the activities and purposes of the Sunshine Circle. You
will emphasize the fact that it is nonsectarian, nonpoliti-
cal, that its primary objective is service to all irrespec-
tive of their affiliations or connections. You will also
state that the principies and teachings of the Rosicrucian
Order will not be discussed at Sunshine Circle meetings,
that meetings of this body are held only once each month and,
therefore, will not interfere with an AMORC member's attend-
ance at Lodge or Chapter and that attendance at Sunshine
Circle meetings by non-AMORC members only once each month
should not interfere with their activities. (At this point
you will read to the assemblage the first part of this bro­
chare, namely, from the beginning to and including "Sunshine
Step
Step
Step
Step
Step
Step
Step
Step
Circle Work Not Secret.") The meeting should then be thrown
open for general discussion of the aims and principies of
the Sunshine Circle and for questions on points not clearly
stated. (One half hour only should be sufficient.)
9 - You should now cali for nominations for the position of
Director (this position can be held only by a member of
AMORC in good standing), giving sufficient time for all who
may desire to do so, to ñame a person for election to this
important office. After ascertaining that all suggested
ñames are in, the nominations shall be closed.
10- You will now cali for the members to vote on the candidate
or candidates. (Voting is done by a showing of hands. The
temporary Secretary should record the vote for each candi­
date.) Each candidate*s ñame should be presented individual-
ly and a separate vote taken on each. Where there is only
one ñame as candidate for Director, the vote should be con-
sidered unanimous.
11- You should now cali for nominations for the position of
Secretary-Treasurer (this position can be held only by a
member of AMORC in good standing), and the same procedure
followed as in Step 9.
12- You will now cali for a vote to elect the Secretary-
Treasurer (same procedure as in Step 10.)
13- You will now announce the ñames of those elected to the
office of Director (the Director shall serve as Chairman
at all meetings of the Sunshine Circle) and the office of
Secretary-Treasurer and you shall officially install these
two officers in their respective positions.
14- Under the direction of the new Director or Chairman the mem­
bers will now vote on a date and a place for future meetings.
(This date should always be the same for each meeting, that
is, one of the following: the first, second, third, fourth
Sunday or Monday, or Tuesday, etc., of each month. The meet­
ings should always be held at the same place, if possible,
thus avoiding confus ion.)
15- The Director or Chairman shall now appoint the Committee
Chairmen and their Committees. (There are four necessary
committees, all of which must be appointed at this meeting,
namely, Executive, Welfare, Visiting and Shut-In Committees.
Other committees can be appointed at once or as the Sunshine
Circle grows or to meet speeific needs.)
16- The assemblage should now report any known cases of dis­
tress and the Director should assign these cases to the
specific committees for action. Ways and means of further-
ing the work of the Sunshine Circle should also be dis-
cussed.
RULES AND
Sectlon
Section
Sectlon
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
■At the conclusión of this meeting the proper* questionnaire
(Porra B) should be filled in and forwarded immediately to
the Secretary-General, The Rosicrucian Sunshine Circle,
Rosicrucian Park, San José, California,
NOTE: Until and unless the questionnaire (Form B) is re­
ceived at the Grand Lodge, your Sunshine Circle can-
ñot operate.
REGULATIONS OF THE ROSICRUCIAN SUNSHINE CIRCLE
ARTICLE I
CHAPTER I
1 - This body of men and women, the incentive for its forma-
tion having been created by the Rosicrucian Order, AMORC,
of North, Central, and South America, Austraíasia, and
Africa, shall be known as the Rosicrucian Sunshine Circle,
or in its abbreviated form as the Sunshine Circle.
2 - This Sunshine Circle derives its existence and power, to
form into bodies and to act, from the Imperator of AMORC.
It is not chartered and operates wholly by permission of
the Imperator. For the purposes of clarity, it is under-
stood that its supreme authority is the Imperator of AMORC.
3 - The headquarters of the Sunshine Circle and its supreme
authority shall be located at the Grand Lodge of AMORC.
4 - All members of the Rosicrucian Order, AMORC, shall be
eligible for membership in the Sunshine Circle. The Sun­
shine Circle membership shall also be open to non-AMORC
members, regardless of race, creed, or sex.
ARTICLE II
5 - The object of the Sunshine Circle is to help, aid, and
assist such worthy persons as come to its attention, by
giving advice, metaphysical help for various ailments,
practical help, and encourágement.
ARTICLE III
6 - It is recognized that the executive powers of the supreme
authority of the Sunshine Circle shall include the right
to permit the formation of Sunshine Circles, the direct-
ing of their activities, and the right to disband any al-
ready existing.
7 - It is further recognized that this supreme authority rests
in and remains with the Imperator of AMORC.
8 - The se Sunshine Circles are therefore subordínate to and
must obey the proclamations, decrees, edicts, orders,
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
announcements and instructions issued by the supreme
authority.
ARTICLE IV
9 - The judicial powers of the supreme authority as affecting
the Sunshine Circle are as follows: Those which include
the decisión of all controversies between Sunshine Circles
and one or more members, or between members of the same
Sunshine Circle or between Lodges, Chapters and the Sun­
shine Circle. These judicial powers shall also be of an
appellate nature embracing the revisión of all matters •
and controversies, or of discipline and the investigation
of all such matters, along with the exercise of such
disciplinary authority and the direction of the procedure
of all triáis and hearings in regard to charges brought
against any Sunshine Circle member or the Sunshine Circle
of which the complaining individual may or may not be a
member.
ARTICLE V
10- The Imperator of AMORC, or the supreme authority, at his
discretion, may delegate certain powers to the Secretary-
General of the Sunshine Circle or he may leave to the
Secretary-General1s consideration, vote or decisión, such
questions, rules and regulations as he may deem proper
and which may be more efficiently expedited in this man-
ner.
ARTICLE VI
CHAPTER II
Local Bodies of the Sunshine Circle
11- New Sunshine Circles may be organized as outlined under
the heading "How to Organize a Rosicrucian Sunshine Circle."
12- There is and there can be no connection or competition
whatsoever between the activities of the Sunshine Circle
and the administration, rituals or studies of a Lodge or
Chapter.
13- Rosicrucian principies and teachings and the work of AMORC
must not be discussed at meetings of the Sunshine Circle.
14- Meetings of the Sunshine Circle shall be held at least
but not oftener than once a month. This meeting shall
always be in the same week of the month and on the same
day of the week. The order of business must be as fol-
lows:
1 - Opening
2 - Roll cali of officers
3 - Reading minutes of previous sessions
4 - Reading Communications
5 - Reports of committees
6 - Unfinished business
7 - New business
8 - Suggestions for ways and means of making the
Sunshine activities of greater benefit
9 - Treasurer’s report
10 - Closing
Section l4a-Meetings (in addition to Section 14) of the various Sun­
shine Circle committees may be held whenever there is a
need, and should be reported on Porm F.
Section 15- IN CITIES WHERE NO LODGE 0R CHAPTER EXISTS, the adminis-
trative year of a local Sunshine Circle shall end with
the 20th day of March of each year.
Section 15a-IN CITIES WHERE A LODGE 0R CHAPTER EXISTS, the adminis-
trative year shall end on the appointment date of the
Director and Secretary-Treasurer, by the Master at his
first business meeting.
Section 16- Each Sunshine Circle group shall keep the following books
which shall be in the custody of the Secretary-Treasurer
who is responsible for them to the local Circlefs Direc­
tor and the Secretary-General.
1 - A book of the ñames, addresses and telephone
numbers of its members.
2 - A book showing the Service calis relayed to
the several members and the results of these
calis, (in other words, a case history.)
3 - Such books as may be necessary to present
clearly the receipts, disbursements, and
accounts of the Secretary-Treasurer and the
general financial and other transactions of
the Sunshine Circle.
Section 17- Officers of the Sunshine Circle, and their respective
duties, shall be as enumerated herein. They shall assume
offices only as herein provided.
IN CITIES WHERE A LODGE 0R CHAPTER EXISTS:
Section 17a-At the next business meeting after his installation, the
Master shall appoint a Director and a Secretary-Treasurer
for the existing Sunshine Circle. After such appointment,
he shall immediately complete, sign, and mail FORM H
(Rosicrucian Sunshine Circle Appointment Report) to the
Secretary-General, Rosicrucian Sunshine Circle, Rosicru­
cian Park, San José, California. If possible this report
should reaeh the Grand Lodge not later than April 15 of
each year.
NOTE: These appoints may be made regardless of whether
the appointees are already members of the Sunshine
Clrcle or not.
Section 17b-It is understood that the Master of a Lodge or Chapter,
which has an active Sunshine Circle during his term of
office is automatically a member of the Sunshine Circle
and may take part.in all its activities as a member. He
shall be exempt from the attendance and Service require-
ments. However, his position as Master of the Lodge or
Chapter does not make him an (ex-officio or otherwise)
officer of the Sunshine Circle.
Section 17c-It is further understood that the Director and the
Secretary-Treasurer appointed by the Master if not mem­
bers of the Sunshine Circle at the time of their appoint-
ment, automatically become active members of that organ-
ization immediately upon their appointment. As Director
and Secretary-Treasurer, they must comply with and ful-
fill all the Rules and Regulations for Rosicrucian Sun­
shine Circles. However, their membership in the Sunshine
Circle immediately ceases at the expiration of their
term of office, unless they have, previous to the end of
their term, read, completely answered, subscribed to and
signed PORM D.
IN CITIES WHBRE NO LODGE OR CHAPTER EXISTS:
Section 18- The annual election shall be held by each Sunshine Circle
at the March meeting.
Section 19- Members may hold the same office for more than one term,
provided they receive the nomination and are elected to
that office as herein provided.
Section 20- At the Pebruary meeting, nominations for elective offices
will be made. The Secretary-Treasurer is to read a no-
tice to all assembled members, giving full particulars of
the nomination. Each member (except ASSOCIATE MEMBERS)
in good standing in the Sunshine Circle may make a nomina­
tion for office. (Nominations may be made by any Sun­
shine Circle member, except ASSOCIATE MEMBERS, whether he
is an AMORC member or not.) The nomination must be in
open meeting, in the hearing and presence of members and
officers assembled. The Secretary will make a record of
all such nominations, and shall record them on Porm G.
Section 21- The election shall be by a show of hands which must be
counted and recorded by the Secretary. The candidate
receiving the plurality of votes shall be declared
elected. In case there should be but one candidate for
any office, the Sunshine Circle members, by motion, may
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
direct any officer to vote, as the representative of the
entire assemblage, for such candidate. In case of tie,
the Director shall, in the presence of the assembled mem­
bers, select by chance.
22- Notices of electioñ are to be sent to the Secretary-
General at the Grand Lodge, immediately after the elec-
tion, using Form G .
23- The elected officers shall be installed immediately fol-
loving their election at the March meeting.
CHAPTER III
Officers and Their Duties
24- Director: The Director of a Sunshine Circle is appointed
by the Master in cities where there is an active Lodge or
Chapter. In cities where there is no Lodge or Chapter,
the Director is an elective officer. He shall hold of­
fice for one year and may be re-appointed or re-elected
to succeed himself.
25- The Director shall preside as chairman at all Sunshine
Circle meetings and shall be administrative head of it
locally.
25a-ln the event the Secretary-Treasurer*s office becomes va-
cant for any reason whatsoever before the term of office
to which he was appointed or elected is completed, the
Director shall temporarily appoint someone to fill the
post and immediately send to the Secretary-General at the
Grand Lodge the ñame of one who he feels can successfully
fulfill the vacated office for the balance of the adminis­
trativo year. Upon the receipt of approval from the
Secretary-General the newly appointed Secretary-Treasurer
shall immediately be installed in office.
26- The Director shall appoint all committees that are re-
quired by the provisions of the rules and regulations of
the Sunshine Circle and shall assist them in whatever way
he feels will aid the performance of their duties.
27- He must be a member of AMORC in good standing, willing
and able to give freely of his time and effort, to direct
the activities of the Circle and be subject to cali day
and night.
28- The Director should delegate cases to be considered to
the proper individual or committee and be responsible for
the general functioning and carrying out of the purposes
of the Sunshine Circle.
Section 29- The Director may be of either sex, male or female.
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
Section
30- The Secretary-Treasurer: The Secretary-Treasurer is ap-
pointed by the Master in cities where there is in active
Lodge or Chapter. In cities where no Lodge or Chapter
exists, the Secretary-Treasurer is an elective officer.
He shall hold office for one year and may be re-appointed
or re-elected to succeed himself.
31- He shall keep correot minutes of all meetings of the
Sunshine Circle’
; he shall keep a record of the ñames,
addresses and telephone numbers of all members and have
this record available for use of the Director; he shall
keep a record of the members' attendance at meetings; he
shall record the Service calis relayed to the several
members and the results of these calis; attend to all
correspondénce; formally present all Communications re-
ceived by him to the Sunshine Circle; inform members when
they are dropped from membership in the Sunshine Circle
for whatever reason; he shall perform all such duties as
are Inherent and pertain to the duties of his office; he
shall on the first of each month send a report (Form F )
to the Secretary-General.
32- He shall make a record of all monies received and deposit
same in a bank of known solvency in the ñame of the
"Rosicrucian Sunshine Circle."
33* The Secretary-Treasurer shall pay all bilis against the
Sunshine Circle as ordered on vouchers signed by the Di­
rector and shall keep a correct account of the amount
and purposes of disbursements. He shall, at such times
as the Director or Executive Committee or the supreme
authority or the representative of the supreme authority
may direct or require, present for examination all books,
papers, vouchers, etc., that may be necessary for a
proper auditing of his accounts.
j
34- He shall make no disbursements, except from the bank de-
posits and by check.
35“ He shall perform such other duties as may be incident to
his office or may be required of him by the rules and
regulations of the Sunshine Circle.
35a-If during the administrative year, to which the Secretary-
Treasurer is appointed or elected, the position of Direc­
tor becomes vacant for any reason whatsoever, the Secre­
tary-Treasurer shall immediately assume the office of
Director and shall appoint a new Secretary-Treasurer to
complete the administrative year. In the event the
Secretary-Treasurer does not wish to assume the office of
Director, he or she shall then suggest to the Secretary-
General at the Grand Lodge, the ñame of an active Sun­
shine Circle member who is willing, able, and eligible
to fulfill the office of Director for the balance of the
administrative year, and such appointment, if found in
order, vill be made by the Secretary-General. The Secre­
tary-Treasurer shall, at the Sunshine Circle meeting imme­
diately following the receipt of the approved appointment
from the Secretary-General, install the new Director,
Section 36- The Secretary-Treasurer must be a member of AMORC in good
standing, willing and able to give freely of his tim'e.
Section 37- He shall at the expiration of his term of office, or when
relieved of his duties, deliver all records, files, cor-
respondence, monies, and other property, pertaining to
his office to his successor or to a representative of the
supreme authority, as the requirements may be.
Section 38- The Secretary-Treasurer may be of either sex, male or
female.
CHAPTER IV
Committees
Section 39- Executive Committee (Necessary): On the date of his in-
stallation, the Director shall appoint a standing commit­
tee to hold office for one administrativo year, consist-
of the Director, Secretary-Treasurer, and Chairman of all
other committees. This committee is to function on be-
half of the Sunshine Circle in case of an emergency. It
may hold special sessions as they are necessitated for
the consideration of important cases or other matters.
It will audit, in the months of September and March, the
Secretary-Treasurer*s books, and report their findings to
the Sunshine Circle and to the Secretary-General. It
shall consider general plans for Sunshine Circle activi-
ties (provide for an annual meeting for the election of
officers, in cities where there is no Lodge or Chapter)
,
and in every way possible promote the Sunshine Circle's
activities. It may meet upon cali of the Director or a
majority of its members as needed.
Section 40- Welfare Committee (Necessary): On the date of his in-
stallation, the Director shall appoint a standing commit­
tee to hold office for one administrative year, consist-
ing of as many members as the Director feels are necessary
to faithfully perform the work required of them. This
committee chairman must be an active member of AMORC.
The committee must have at least two or three higher De-
gree active AMORC members who are on cali day and night
to do psychic work in the giving of metaphysical treat-
ments. It is their duty to send treatments, and their
responsibility never to neglect that duty. This is a
Cosmic Cali, and the psychic work must not be neglected
for any reason. Each member of this committee should
have a copy of the booklet The Art of Absent Healing re-
gardless of what Degree he may have reached, in order to
be able to follow these instructions in his treatments.
Section 4l- Visiting Committee (Necessary): On the date of his in-
stallation, the Director shall appoint a standing commit­
tee, to hold office for one administrative year, consist-
ing of as many members as the Director feels are necessary
to faithfully perform the duties required. This commit­
tee shall consist of members of the Sunshine Circle to be
carefully selected as to their worthiness and sincerity
of purpose. They are to cali upon those who may be 111
in hospitals or institutions, and to investígate those
who ask for help in personal matters.
Section 42- Shut-In Committee (Necessary): On the date of his in-
stallation, the Director shall appoint a standing commit­
tee, to hold office for one administrative year, consist-
ing of as many members as the Director feels are necessary
to faithfully and efficiently perform the work required.
The purpose of this committee is to cali upon shut-ins,
those chronically ill or unable to leave their homes, and
attempt to cheer them, provide them with Ínteresting read­
ing material, make them feel happy and as though they
were still a part of society and worldly affairs. The
particular needs in each case should be carefully con-
sidered, and whatever is needed--and the Circle is able
to provide--given to assist in making life a little more
Interesting for these individuáis. The ñame AMORC need
not be mentioned to these people, neither should the Sun­
shine Circle supply them with medical attention or Serv­
ice. The Sunshine Circle is merely to bring these people
out of themselves into a better understanding, if able to
do so.
Section 43- Last Rites Committee: The Director shall, as the need
"exists, appoint a standing committee, to hold office for
one administrative year, of not more than three members,
all of whom must be members of AMORC in good standing and
only in such cities and communities where there is no
Rosicrucian Lodge or Chapter. This committee may direct
a Rosicrucian Last Rites Ceremony where it is desired. A
ritual will be provided for this purpose to the Director
of the Sunshine Circle or to an AMORC member selected by
him, from this committee, to perform the ceremony, when
requested. This ritual is never used for nonmembers of
AMORC.
NOTE: In cities or communities where a Rosicrucian Lodge
or Chapter exists, the Sunshine Circle cannot
under any circumstances direct a Rosicrucian Last
Rites Ceremony.
Section 44- Clothing Committee: The Director shall, as the need
exists, appoint a standing committee, to hold office for
one administrative year, of not more than ten ñor less
than three. The duty of this committee is to supply
clothing to those in need.
Section 45- Nurses* Committee: The Director shall, as the need
exists, appoint a standing committee, to hold office for
one administrative year, of not more than seven ñor less
than three. The duty of this committee is to have avail-
able nurses on cali for special help.
Section 46- Physiclans1 Committee: The Director shall, as the need
exists, appoint a standing committee, to hold office for
one administrative year, of not more than seven or less
than three, all of whom must be members of AMORC in good
standing. The duty of this committee shall be to provide
the ñames of physicians who are AMORC members or those
disposed to help anyone who may be in need of special
consideration. .
Section 47- Legal Committee: The Director shall, as the need exists,
appoint a standing committee, to hold office for one ad­
ministrative year, of not more than seven ñor less than
three members, all of whom are members of AMORC in good
standing. The duty of this committee shall be to obtain
cooperation and advice of a Rosicrucian member who is an
attorney, or of an attorney who is willing to give advice
free when necessary and the need warrants this advice.
CHAPTER V
Membershlp
Section 48- All members of the Rosicrucian Order, AMORC, shall be
eligible for membership in the Sunshine Circle. The Sun­
shine Circle membership shall also be open to non-AMORC
members, regardless of race, creed or sex.
Section 49- No person (except as indicated in Sections 17b and 17c)
shall be considered an active member of any Sunshine
Circle group unless they have read, completely answered,
subscribed to, and signed FORM D .
Section 50- Absence from THREE monthly meetings in succession with-
out notiflcation of the Secretary-Treasurer in writing
as to cause, or failure to respond THREE times in suc­
cession when called upon for service, automatically sus-
pends membership in the Sunshine Circle (except ASSO-
CIATE MEMBERS). The Secretary-Treasurer shall notify
the delinquent member of such suspensión.
Section 51- To re-establish active standing, inactive members must
again comply with Section 49, after which they are again
subject to all the rules and regulations of the Sunshine
Circle.
Section 51a-A Sunshine Circle membership known as ASSOCIATE MEMBER
is open to those who, because of existing conditions, are
unable to assume the requirements of ACTIVE MEMBERSHIP.
ASSOCIATE MEMBERS may not hold any office; neither can
they serve on any committee. They may attend meetings,
but are not eligible to take part in voting on any mat-
ters pertaining to Sunshine Circle activities or work.
An ASSOCIATE MEMBER is essentially one who assists the
Sunshine Circle activities by donations. ASSOCIATE MEM­
BERS need sign no Sunshine Circle membership application.
CHAPTER VI
General Provisions
Section 52- Should the positions of both the Director and Secretary-
Treasurer become vacant at the same time, for any reason
whatsoever, the chairman of the Welfare Committee shall
(in cities where no Lodge or Chapter exists) temporarily
assume the office of Director and shall appoint a tempo-
rary Secretary. He shall immediately proceed with the
nomination and election of a Director and Secretary-
Treasurer. The order of procedure shall be that as given
in this brochure beginning with Step No. 9. In cities
where there is a Lodge or Chapter, the Master shall make
such appointment, and shall notify the Secretary-General
of his action on Form H.
Section 53- The term of office of the Director and Secretary-Treas­
urer elected, or appointed, in compliance with Section
52 shall expire on the following March 20. (it is under­
stood that no special elections or appointments of the
type described in Section 52 can be held or made between
March 1 and March 30.)
Section 5^- Any Sunshine Circle falling to report on Form F, for
three consecutive months, is automatically disbanded.
GENERAL PROCEDURE
(A résuméj
Membership Records :•
The Secretary of the Sunshine Circle should be provided with a
suitable record book or card file to keep a record of all its members
(both active and ASSOCIATE): their ñames, addresses, and telephone
numbers (this information is secured from the membership application
Form D or in the case of Associate membership from the members them-
selves). This list should be under the supervisión of the Director,
and whenever it is used by the Director or any committee must be re-
turned to the Secretary. The Secretary should keep in his book or card
file a record of each member!s attendance at meetings. If any active
member misses three consecutive monthly meetings, or fails three times
in succession to respond when called, without good and sufficient rea-
son such as an accident, ill*-health, or an emergency, his ñame should
be removed from the active membership rolls of the Sunshine Circle.
Only those members actually active and participating should be on the
membership rolls as active members (except as indicated in Sections
17b and 17c). A member may be changed from active to Associate
classification or vice versa only on written application by the member
to the Secretary. In addition, an Associate member may become an ac­
tive member only by reading, completely answering, subscribing to, and
signing Form D.
Financial Responsibility:
The Secretary-Treasurer should keep a record of all financial
transaction of the Sunshine Circle, showing receipts and disbursements.
There is no charge for any service rendered by the Sunshine Circle. No
one rendering such service is to receive remuneration under any circum-
stances, although small amounts may be provided for expenses when
thought advisabíe by the majority of the Sunshine Circle members.
Monies which are received as donations by the Sunshine Circle are to be
used for the promotion of its work and payment of meeting-room rent. A
donation may be made from time to time to an active Rosicrucian Lodge
or Chapter.
Remember, it is not the primary purpose of a Sunshine Circle to
provide funds for those who request help in the form of board bilis,
room rent, or loans. There are other agencies which function for'this
purpose. Actual gifts or loans of money should be the exception rather
than the rule, and should have the approval of the Executive Committee
or the entire Sunshine Circle membership. At times the Sunshine Circle
may find it necessary to provide groceries in case of dire distress.
At such times the recipients should be informed, as pointed out in the
first part of these instructions, how they can compénsate for this help.
Careful investigation must be made of actual money given to individuáis,
as unfortunately there are professional seekers of charity who hope to
live through the good intentions of charity workers.
Bear in mind that the Sunshine Circle is not intended to take the
place of the Salvation Army, the Y.M.C.A. or Y.W.C.A., the Catholic
Charities, the Community Chest, or any other charitable organizations
in your community. Do not let financial matters, except in emergencies,
enter into your work, or the Sunshine Circle will lose sight of its
purposes and aims.
Reports:
The Secretary of the Sunshine Circle must make a regular monthly
report to the Secretary-General on the form provided for that purpose
(Form F). It is the duty of the Secretary to become familiar with this
form, and to communicate with the Secretary-General in advance of the
first report if any questions need to be answered in regard to filling
out the form properly. This form should also have attached to it a
short summary of the minutes of your meeting. This summary should be
condensed, yet complete, and should give a summary of the extent of
your activities. Filling out the report form and preparing the summary
of the minutes of the meetings should not take more than an hour once a
month, and they will make it possible for a permanent record of the
Sunshine Circle»s activities to be established, and for the officers of
the Order to keep in touch with your activities, thus enabling them to
offer suggestions and advice whenever necessary. Sunshine Circles must
make their reports regularly. They will not be considered as actively
participating in this work or recognized as Sunshine Circles if reports
are not received. (in cities where there is a Lodge or Chapter it must
be remembered that no official connection exists between those bodies
and a Sunshine Circle. Therefore, under no circumstances are the re­
ports made by Chapters and Lodges and by Sunshine Circles to be made
together; Sunshine Circle reports are to be kept entirely separate.)
Regular Meetings:
The Sunshine Circle must hold a regular meeting once each month
(See Section 14, Rules and Regulations)
. At these meetings members may
make donations if they wish. Donations can be one cent or more, or any-
thing one feels he wishes to give to the work of the Sunshine Circle.
Records of donations are kept only of the total amount received at each
meeting. No record should be kept of the amount each member contrib­
utes.
Meetings can be held in the home of any one of t
h
<
° Sunshine Circle
members, or in a moderately priced room of some auditorium or hotel.
The funds of the Circle may be used for such expenditures. In cities
where there is a Lodge or Chapter, arrangements should be made with the
Lodge or Chapter to use its quarters for the monthly meetings and a
nominal donation should be made to the Lodge or Chapter for such privi-
lege.
The primary purpose of the regular meeting is to discuss and plan
for the activities of the Sunshine Circle, as well as to hear reports
of committees. It must be borne in mind by every Sunshine Circle that
the meeting is not in any way to he" co'n'fused with a meeting of a Lodge
or Chapter. Principies of the Rosicrucian teachings are not to be dis-
cussed, as the Sunshine Circle is not organized for class instruction.
Neither is there any ritual to be followed. However, the Director may
open the meeting by reading an appropriate selection from such a book
as Unto Thee I Grant or Mystics at Prayer. Other activities which will
bring interest to the meetings can be considered. Por example, the
following suggestions will give an idea of the type of activity which
can be included in the Sunshine Circle meetings in Procedure No. 8 of
Section 14, Rules and Regulations.
A physician may be invited to address the group, or a represent-
ative of another local charitable organization may be asked to give a
short talk. (However, the Sunshine Circle meetings are not to be used,
under any circumstances, as a means of soliciting funds for other
groups, regardless of how worthy their purpose may be.) Persons out-
standing in welfare work in the community may be invited to speak, or
discourses in connection with the type of work to be carried on can be
given by the Director from material which he can secure from various
sources. Any social activity which the group may agree upon for their
own enjoyment and benefit may be a part of the meetings.
Directly after every meeting a time should be set aside for a
period of meditation during which members of the Order will unitedly
give metaphysical treatments to all cases standing upon the records.
The Director of the Sunshine Circle may explain to non-Rosicrucian mem­
bers that this period is one of silence and meditation to petition help
from the Cosmic for the welfare of those who seek the help of the Sun­
shine Circle. The method of giving absent treatments and applying Rosi­
crucian healing principies should not, of course, be discussed with
nonmembers of the Order.
(it must be again reiterated that the Sunshine Circle does not
function for instruction in Rosicrucian principies or teachings, and
particularly in cities where there is no Lodge or Chapter it is not to
be considered as taking the place of such a group. Furthermore, it
must be remembered that the discussion of the Rosicrucian teachings,
as contained in the monographs, would be entirely out of order among
those who are not members of AMORC.)
Caring for Cases:
When a cali comes for assistance of any kind which the Sunshine
Circle can render, the Director, Secretary-Treasurer, or person as-
signed to receiving calis should delegate a member of the Circle to
assist, and send him Porm C properly filled out. (Additional copies of
this form can be prepared, or they will be supplied at the rate of 50
cents for fifty, as we can prepare large quantities for the use of all
Sunshine Circles.) When the member has made a cali and investigated
the case, he turas in Porm C with all of the information about the case,
to the Secretary or committee chairman. The form is then filed for
future reference. One of the cards üke the enclosed, entitled "Cosmic
Law Fulfills," is sent to the individual receiving help. The use of
this card should be explained to the individual calling upon the one
seeking help, and if the case needs more than what one individual can
do, it should be brought to the attention of the Director of the Circle.
Case Records:
The individual requesting help should report either to the member
of the Sunshine Circle who called upon him or direct to the Secretary.
If periodical reports about ten days apart are not made, the case is
removed from the active records. Experience has proved that this is
necessary, otherwj.se your files will be filled with cases of which you
have no knowledge as to whether they have been helped or still wish
help.
Personal Calis:
In the case of all welfare calis the member of the Sunshine Circle
who calis upon the patient or applicant should provide this individual
with a copy of Liber 777 and ask him to study it and follow the sugges-
tions and principies presented. The applicant should be instructed
that he will receive benefit in proportion to his cooperation with
those trying to assist him, and that he should attune to each of these
periods if possible. Each committee member, and in fact each member of
the Sunshine Circle, should also read and study the booklet, Cosmic
Guidance, prepared by the Council of Solace. If a copy of this is not
available, a request for one should be directed to the Council of
Solace in San José. Remember that an applicant for help must really
desire such help and assistance, and must express that desire before a
member of a committee should render it, or in fact vill be able to
really assist the individual.
FORMS ENCLOSED
With these instructions you should find enclosed a sample of each
of the forms Usted below. If you wish to cooperate in the organiza­
tion of a Sunshine Circle in your locality, request additional quanti-
ties of Forms C, D, and F. The report form is prepared by us in quan-
tities sufficient for a few months’ use and is available for a remit-
tance of 3 cents to cover cost of mailing. Copies of the "Cosmic Law
Fulfills" card can be secured without cost, although if more than
twenty-five are requested we appreciate it if the Sunshine Circle will
pay postage on them.
Form A: Questionnaire to be used if a Lodge or Chapter exists in
your city.
Form B: Questionnaire to be used if no Lodge or Chapter exists in
your city.
Form C: Notice to members of Sunshine Circle to assist with case.
Form D: Application form to be used by those who wish to become
active members of your Sunshine Circle.
Form E: "Cosmic Law Fulfills" card.
Form F: Monthly report form.
Form G: Yearly nomination and election report.
Form Hs Appointment report (for use of Lodge or Chapter Masters).
SC-2-Rev.-1249
