{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__wright___mahatmas_and_chelas.pdf","mytitle":"Mahatmas And Chelas","mylang":"de"}
Theosophical Manual No. XIII
Mahétmans and Chelas
By
LEOLINE L. WRIGHT
J
TI-IEOSOPHICAL UNIVERSITY Pmzss
Pom": LOMA, CALIFORNIA
1939
THEOSOPHICAL UNIVERSITY PRESS
Pomr LOMA, CALIFORNIA
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
CONTENTS
Who and What are the Mahétmans? 1
The Spiritual Powers of a Mahﬁtman 11
The Elder Brothers of Humanity ........ 28
The Mahéitmans and the Theosophical
Movement ........................................ .. 48
Chelas and the Chela-life .................. .. 57
Initiation — the Goal of Evolution .... .. 66
How Can We Reach the Mahétmans? 77
It should never be forgotten that Occultisrn is
concerned with the inner man, who must be strength
ened and freed from the dominion of the physical
body and its surroundings, which must become his
servants. Hence the ﬁrst and chief necessity of
Chelaship is a spirit of absolute unselﬁshness and
devotion to Truth; then follow self-knowledge and
self-mastery. These are all-important; while out
ward observance of ﬁxed rules is a matter of second
vary moment.
-—H. P. BLAVATSKYZ Lucifer, Vol. IV, p. 348, note
I
WHO AND WHAT ARE THE
MAHATMANS?
THE
teaching about Mahatmans is one
of the most important in the whole
range of Theosophical study. The reason
for this lies in the fact that to attain the
state of Mahatmanship is the object of hu
man evolution and its culmination. Under
standing something of what a Mahatman is
will show what we are going to be in the
future ourselves. For the aim of man’s evo
lution is to transform the ordinary human
being into a perfected spiritual man, a Ma
hatman. The word is a combination of two
Sanskrit words: Mahd, great; and /ftman,
soul. Thus the word Mahatman means
literally ‘a Great Soul.’
2 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
If we look around us even in ordinary
life we see that men are everywhere un
equally developed. There are always the
leaders in every department of human ac
tivity. In the business world there are those
who are sometimes called ‘captains of indus
try,’ men who are the leaders in the develop
ment of industrial and economic life. The
same is true of the world of politics, of art
and religion, in the ﬁeld of education and in
the realm of science. It is a universal law
that the organization of the lesser elements
in any ﬁeld under enlightened and active
leadership is the basis of success in that ﬁeld.
Even among poets and painters, whose work
depends upon individual freedom of expres
sion, we ﬁnd that they have their associa
tions to promote their common objects and
authority. How much, too, we owe to the
great geniuses of the human race, such
characters as Columbus and Galileo, Shake
speare and Florence Nightingale, and many
wrro ARE THE MAHATMANS? 3
others whose phenomenal vision and power
stand out above the common level of hu
manity as dazzling examples of what man
may accomplish by leadership in the pursuit
of truth.
The same basic law holds good of course in
the ﬁeld of human evolution. Even the elder
Huxley, one of the pronounced materialists
of the last century, admitted that there must
be in the universe beings as much higher
than man as man is higher than the black
beetle. Such a belief springs logically and
inescapably from the facts of evolution. But
Theosophy offers the ﬁrst teaching given to
the modern world to show that such per
fected men are actually living now on this
earth and that they can be known and some
times contacted. ,
Questions that spring at once to the mind
of the inquirer will naturally be: What are
such men like? What are they doing and
where do they live? To the ﬁrst question
4 MAHKTMANS AND CHELAS
we answer in the words of G. de Purucker:
The Mahatmans are highly evolved men, control
ling powers over Nature’s forces which they have
gained through self-directed evolution during many,
many lives in the near and distant past. Now they
are become Masters of life; in former ages they
were men like you and me.
— The Masters and the Path of Occultism, p. 9
In this short passage a number of impor
tant expressions are used. We may note
that Dr. de Purucker calls the Mahatmans
‘Masters of Life.’ For that is what a Ma
hatman is —a Master of Life. He is a
graduate in Nature’s great University of
evolutionary development with its immense
ranges of knowledge—knowledge which is
founded upon experience and “self-directed
evolution,” to use another of the expressions
quoted above. The Mahatman is the per
fect ﬂower of human evolution.
It is the existence and nature of the Ma
hatmans that show how and why our evo
WHO ARE THE MAHATMANS? 5
lution is worth while. To become Mahat
mans is our deﬁnite goal, and the scientiﬁc
path to achieve this goal is clearly indicated
by Theosophy. This goal is the result and
the sublime reward for that student who
will practise the lofty ethics and develop the
rounded and perfect character which are
necessary to attain it.
One of the ﬁrst things a student is led to
associate with the nature of a Mahatman is
the possession of great spiritual powers. If
we are to answer our ﬁrst question about the
work of the Mahatmans we must know at
least a little about what these powers are.
And in order to do that—to understand
what they are like and how he has acquired
them —we must examine for a moment
more closely the real nature of man and of
the Universe which surrounds us.
We have referred already to our Cosmos
as a great University of evolutionary expe
rience. But most of us have a very limited
6 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
idea of what the Universe consists of. We
think of it generally in the terms of physical
things. For us it means the rocks and the
ocean, the trees and mountains, the stars,
the solar system and the galaxies, merely as
physical phenomena.
But if we turn to something closer to our
selves we get a different picture. Consider
for a moment some friend we love. What
is the real friend? His body and physical
appearance? No, for he may be quite plain,
even unprepossessing. Nor is it these outer
things that remain in the heart when death
comes, as we think, to take him from us.
What remains with us to cherish, what we
love in him, are his qualities — his power to
love and give, his intelligence and originali
ty, his goodness or charm. These are all
intangible things. They cannot be seen or
weighed or measured. We can only feel
them and love them by means of our own
intangible perceptions and sympathy. After
wno ARE THE MAHATMANS? 7
he is dead the picture in our minds of his
physical appearance may grow dim with the
lapse of time. Not so with his character.
The real man never fades away from our
hearts.
So we see how it is that the physical is
not the real. Man’s body is governed by
physical laws, but his mind and soul are
governed by psychological and spiritual laws.
How then can it be different with the Uni
verse of which we are a part? Can the part
be greater than the whole? Can there be
something in the ﬂower which was not latent
in the seed? Can the seed of a thistle pro
duce a ﬁg tree? And can the Universe pro
duce a soul if it is itself soulless?
From this point of view we realize that
the most important parts of the Universe
around us are the invisible ones. These
more important parts cannot be contacted by
our physical senses. The Universe, as said,
is like a man. For man is a miniature uni
8 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
verse, a Microcosm of the Macrocosm. In
both there are ranges or levels or planes of
being which we can only know by the facul
ties within ourselves, the perceptions which
belong to those various ranges of being.
Like man the Universe has ﬁrst and outer
most a physical aspect with which we are
familiar. Then, just within this, and blend
ing with it in its lowest levels, is the astral
or ethereal world. Above and within this
again are the ﬁner and still more ethereal
worlds. Here the psychological energies
which imbody the laws and activities corre
sponding to our mental and emotional life
have their activity and sway. Beyond and
within the psychological realm is the spirit
ual plane where dwells and is active our
own Atma-Buddhi. Here on this immensely
high and powerful plane of the Universe
dwell all the celestial Beings whose unseen
energies and activities govern all the planes
and worlds below them.
WHO ARE THE MAHATMANS? 9
It can now be perceived how undeveloped
we are. For all that we know of ourselves
and the Universe around us is just a limited
knowledge of the physical world of our senses
plus a still more limited and ineffectual per
ception of our mental and emotional life.
But of our own astral, ethereal or spiritual
ranges of inner being we know practically
nothing, while to the average man, and even
to the greatest of our scientists, the invisible
and higher realms of the Universe are a
sealed book at present.
With the Mahatmans it is far different.
Theosophy tells us that within all men lie
sleeping organs of perception which belong
to all these unknown planes of their being.
Through these now latent perceptions, if
they were developed, we might become con
scious of these inner worlds of the Universe
where we might be as much at home as we
are here on this physical plane.
The Mahatman is a man who has awak
10 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
ened and developed these sleeping faculties.
And it is from his training of these faculties
that he derives his transcendent powers. As
we cannot truly conceive of the work done
by the Mahatmans without some understand
ing of what their powers are, we will next
devote a few pages to the subject.
II
THE SPIRITUAL POWERS OF
A MAHATMAN
A Mahatma endowed with power over space, time,
mind, and matter, is a possibility just because he
is a perfected man. Every human being has the
germ of all the powers attributed to these great
Initiates, the difference lying solely in the fact that
we have in general not developed what we possess
the germ of, while the Mahatma has gone through
the training and experience which have caused all
the unseen human powers to develop in him, and
conferred gifts that look god-like to his struggling
brother below. —W. Q. JUDGE: The Ocean of Theo
sophy, pp. 11-12, orig. ed.
TWO
things are involved in the develop
ment of great spiritual powers. First,
a man must understand himself. Then he will
be able, in the second place, to comprehend
the Universe of which he is a part. It is the
12 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
same with any student. He who would do
research work in a scientiﬁc laboratory must
begin by learning the theory and then how
to use the equipment with which he must
conduct his experiments.
No door can be opened without the right
key. Man’s knowledge of his own constitu
tion, of his own capacities and powers, is
the key which will unlock the door to the
inner worlds of being which lie within and
behind and beyond the physical world. Here
we ﬁnd the meaning of an expression of
G. de Purucker’s from the passage quoted
in Chapter 1, “self-directed evolution.” The
world lags in its evolution, suffering and
confusion prevail, because we have for so
long been taught to look outside of ourselves
for strength and spiritual wisdom. Religion
tells us to rely on a vague and distant God.
Science gives us the barren idea of a ruthless
Nature as the great evolutionary force.
But Theosophy says: Man, know thy
SPIRITUAL POWERS or A MAHATMAN 13
self, for within thee lie all the wisdom and
potencies of the Universe. The urge to evo
lution through self-expression and experi
ence does not come from blind physical na
ture. It comes from your own Higher Spirit
ual Self. And only within ourselves can we
ﬁnd the knowledge and the power to achieve
the aims of evolution. Without our own
vision and will-power and courage we could
never get anywhere. The child can be helped
and guided by parents and teachers. But
it can only itself make itself walk, or eat,
or study, or make itself use its own physi
cal and mental faculties. When the child is
totally unable thus to direct and control its
own faculties we call it an idiot.
So one of the great pass-words of Theo
sophy is self-directed evolution. Theosophy
puts into our hands the science of self-know
ledge. It teaches us what the seven basic
elements of our constitution are.* It gives
*See Manual No. IV of this Series.
14 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
us the spiritual laws by which we can most
quickly and completely understand, control,
and direct these elements. But only we our
selves can apply this knowledge in our daily
lives to bring about a higher and quicker
evolution of our own natures. Therefore
a Theosophist no longer looks outside of
himself for the strength to accomplish
this. He becomes at last his own savior,
powerful to make of himself a god in human
form.
Did not Jesus tell us, in those instructions
which have been so neglected by theological
Christianity: “Know ye not that ye are
gods?”; “Greater things than these shall ye
do”; and “the kingdom of God is within
you,” — thus pointing the way to the spirit
ual basis of self-directed evolution?
It is this kind of self-directed evolution
that a Mahatman has been practising for
many lives here on earth. And when we too
grasp the importance of the teaching and
SPIRITUAL POWERS OF A MAHATMAN 15
start to apply it practically to ourselves we
shall then be putting our own feet on the
path that leads to the goal of human evolu
tion, Mahatmanship.
Some of the highest forms of the great
Mahatmic powers exist even now in all of us.
There is ﬁrst of all the creative imagination.
This is the power to visualize what we want
or need or wish to do, and give it form and
direction in our minds. Men who are suc
cessful in business inevitably possess this
power. Artists and scientists are all highly
gifted with creative imagination. Yet every
one has it in some degree. And it is one of
the ﬁrst lessons in the occult life to recog
nise and develop it in ourselves. Katherine
Tingley wrote:
Visualize! Visualize! You touch a mystic law
when you create in imagination the picture of mighty
things, for you open a door to new powers within
yourself. . . . If you aspire, visualize your aspira
tions. Make a mind-picture of your spiritual ideals,
16 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
a picture of the spiritual life as you know it to be,
and carry that picture with you day by day.
—Theosophy: The Path of the Mystic, p. 49
The next great power which most men
possess is will-power. Without a strong and
active will the creative imagination is use
less. There are people of talent everywhere
who are yet so irresolute and procrastinat
ing that they go through life without accom
plishing anything. But there are also those
like Beethoven. With his terrible handicap
of total deafness he yet had the courage and
indomitable will which enabled him to bring
into being those superb masterpieces which
in his later life he could not even hear.
In a Mahatman the creative imagination
and the spiritual will have been raised to
their ultimate power in human development.
The words spiritual will are emphasized here.
For the personal will, actuated as it general
ly is by selﬁsh desires and narrow personal
interest will not get us far. It too often re
SPIRITUAL POWERS OF A MAHATMAN 17
sults in a form of mere wilfulness that may
injure others and make bad karman for the
man himself. The personal will cannot serve
us in the inner spiritual realms of Nature
where the Mahatman works. The will must
ﬁrst be puriﬁed and made impersonal. Then
it becomes a spiritual power. It must be
trained and actuated by impersonal love.
One of the ﬁrst things a student of Oc
cultism has to learn is the meaning and the
might of impersonal love. And it should
also be explained just here that Occultism
is practical or applied Theosophy. One may
be a student of Theosophy without becom
ing an Occultist. For example, one man
may be convinced that Karman and Rein
carnation as theories offer a completely satis
factory explanation of life—and let it go
at that. Another, once he is convinced of
the truth of these teachings, will use this
belief to change his thoughts and actions.
He will be using his creative imagination.
18 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
No longer will he do anything that can make
for himself unfavorable karman in later in
carnations. Such a man as this latter has
begun to be an Occultist. He is making
practical use of Theosophy.
But any intelligent student will see that
such an attitude is still inadequate spiritual
ly. This motive of taking care of his own
karman is still personal. No matter how
justly it leads him to deal with others he is
still doing it for himself. He has not a
spiritual but a personal motive.
The spiritual nature in man is Atma-Bud
dhi-Manas. Atman is the spiritual essence
at the center of us, the root of being which
is the same in every creature. It is therefore
universal, common to all things. Buddhi is
the spiritual vesture, the highest aspect of
Soul. Through Buddhi, Atman is stepped
down to the individual man, Manas the
Thinker. Atman, clothed or ensouled by the
Buddhic vesture, is a pure ray of the Cosmic
SPIRITUAL POWERS or A MAHATMAN 19
Self. It is an emanation of the Great Self
of the Universe. Until a man has visualized
his Atma.-Buddhi and aspired to it—until
he has in some measure felt the throb and
thrill of the Universal Atmic spirit in his
own heart — not till then can he understand
and practise impersonal love.
It is not enough to love our children and
our parents and our friends, to be willing
to sacriﬁce our interest to theirs. This is
ﬁne, and of course it is the ﬁrst beautiful
step upon the Path of Occultism. It is a
step which all students must take before
they go farther. But to reach the higher
levels in Occultism one must go farther
still. It is comparatively easy to love our
own children and to sacriﬁce for them.
What is more difﬁcult is so to work that
the good of other people’s children may
not be endangered for the well-being or hap
piness of our own.
This is the beginning of impersonal love.
20 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
And when we have expanded our love and
sense of responsibility to the whole world
we live in, then we are beginning to be true
Occultists. We are then sacriﬁcing the per
sonal to the spiritual will. We become gra
dually incapable of using even our own in
tellectual powers in any way that might
harm any living creature.
The thoughtful seeker will admit that such
genuinely practised thought and action de
mands an intense, continuous, and arduous
self-training. But its rewards are beyond
price. We lose all fear for ourselves, all
worry over our own success. And we are
able to train our children to a higher level
of service and happiness, and to save them
from many of the mistakes and sufferings
caused by selﬁshness. We acquire a broad
er wisdom in all the relationships and cir
cumstances of life. That is because we are
bringing the Cosmic Universal Light of
Atma-Buddhi to illumine our minds and
SPIRITUAL POWERS or A MAHATMAN 21
hearts. It was this that Jesus meant when
he told us to seek ﬁrst the kingdom of God
and its righteousness and “all these things”
should be added unto us.
The Mahatman has been training himself
along these lines for ages. And he has at
last so changed and developed and trans
ﬁgured the very atoms of his whole being
that he is in complete response to the Divine
Intelligence and the Will of the Cosmic Uni
versal Self. He no longer lives for himself
in any way. This would not only no longer
be possible for his changed nature; for him it
would be returning from the range and free
dom, the peace and bliss of Cosmic harmony
and power, to the heavy fevers and petty ri
valries, the limited and ignoble aims of per
sonal life. One who has even in the slightest
degree experienced the wondrous happiness
of impersonal living can understand this.
And he will soon bend his spiritual will
towards attaining such freedom and peace.
22 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
We now can get a better idea of the spiri
tual powers of a Mahatman. Having ﬁnally
allied himself with the Universal Soul of
Nature, all its many realms, spiritual, psy
chological, psychic, astral, and physical lie
before him like an open book. Perhaps we
may make a picture that will give us a clear
er idea of his state of being. Think of one
who for a lifetime has lived in a narrow
shut-in valley. And then as old age ap
proaches he gets the idea that he would like
to see what the world is really like. He de
termines to climb the mountains that hem his
valley in. So after great labor he reaches
the almost inaccessible peaks. For the ﬁrst
time he sees the earth spread before his gaze
—its plains and valleys, the rivers and
forests, its mighty cities. Over his head
stretches the immensity of the sky where
at night he can see a whole Universe of
wheeling suns and the far scattered constel
lations of the Milky Way. It is a magni
SPIRITUAL POWERS OF A MAHATMAN 23
ﬁcent revelation to his dazzled eyes and to
his mind that had never been able to think
beyond the narrow valley where he lived so
long. For the ﬁrst time he begins to under
stand the nature of the world at large.
So with the human soul. Dwelling for
long in the dark and narrow limitations of
the personality, but at last aspiring through
awakened imagination, he turns to the moun
tain-peaks of the Mystic East. And calling
upon all his powers of strength and endur
ance he toils long and often painfully up
ward. Then at last he can stand upon the
inner heights of his own spiritual nature,
seeing and understanding what a different
Universe it is from the one seen from his
dark and narrow valley.
So the Mahatman too stands at last at
the summit of his own Universe, where he
has brought himself by the use of his cre
ative imagination and his spiritual will. The
forces of Occult Nature are now his to use.
24 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
And it is through the powers he has at
tained by this slow upward progress that he
can employ these forces of Occult Nature to
produce phenomena that seem to the ignor
ant like miracles. But they are in fact only
an enlightened and impersonally directed
use of these powerful and hidden energies
of Nature.
Better still, he can now see clearly the
causes of human misery, and has the ability
to help. He has reached wisdom and has
the power which enables him to send cur
rents of spiritual energy into the thought at
mosphere of mankind. Many of the most
beneﬁcent movements in history are the re
sult of these spiritual thought currents broad
cast by the Mahatmans amongst men. These
currents touch here and there men and
women who are ripe for spiritual activity,
and great ameliorations for humanity are
the result. For example, some of the most
beneﬁcial and far-reaching discoveries of
SPIRITUAL POWERS OF A MAI-IATMAN
modern science are said to have been due to
the help given to their discoveries by the
Mahatmans who started the Theosophical
Movement. We quote here a reference to
this matter from Charles ]. Ryan’s H. P.
Blavatsky and the Theosophical Movement,
page 163:
Professor Crookes, the chemist to whom science
owes the great discovery of ‘radiant matter’ as he
called it (now known as ‘ionized’ matter), which led
directly in his and other hands to the modern atomic
theories and the ‘New Physics,’ became a councillor
of the London Lodge, and, it is said, received com
munications from the Master Morya, who took
great interest in his work. The Master’s attention
was attracted to him by the moral courage he showed
in daring to investigate psychic phenomena [which
at that time were ridiculed by materialistic science
and those who ‘dabbled’ in them ostracized], and
in publicly declaring that they were facts, sci
entiﬁcally demonstrable, whatever their interpreta
tion might be. Crookes suffered bitter persecution
from many of his scientiﬁc colleagues, but even
under the strongest pressure he never modiﬁed his
statements or withdrew his records.
26 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
The student of the history of our own
times and the events of past centuries will be
interested in tracing where the influences of
the spiritual thought currents broadcast by
the Mahatmans may have been at work. The
inﬂuence of the writings of the so-called Dio
nysius the Areopagite is a case in point. He
was a mysterious writer who lived in the third
century A. D. His ideas had a remarkable
inﬂuence in shaping the thought of early
medieval Christianity, preserving much of
Neo-Platonic thought in Christian theology
which would otherwise have been forgotten.
No one knows who he actually was, but his
writing molded Christian thinking into a
far more spiritual form than it would other
wise have taken. He has been called the
founder of Christian mysticism.
The thinkers and philanthropists and sci
entists inﬂuenced by the Mahatmans are not
of course used by them like puppets — not
at all. That would be an utterly unjustifi
SPIRITUAL POWERS or A MAHATMAN 27
able forcing of the free will of men and
women, something which is entirely contrary
to every teaching and law of Occultism. It
is only that some people, and especially
searchers for truth and a way to help the
world, have made themselves ready to be
touched and inspired by these spiritual light
waves, sent out constantly from the heights
where the Mahatmans watch over and en
courage and inspire all who are advanced
enough to feel them.
III
THE ELDER BROTHERS OF
HUMANITY
WE have now partially answered the
second question as put by the inquir
er, “What are the Mahatmans doing?” The
answer to this question is further implied in
the above heading. The Mahatmans are
our Elder Brothers in point of evolution and
spiritual relationship. Therefore a great part
of their work consists in watching over and
stimulating spiritually the life of the human
race. In The Ocean of Theosophy by Wil
liam Quan Judge we are told that man has
never been without a friend. For he has
always had
. . . a line of elder brothers who continually watch
over the progress of the less progressed, preserve
the knowledge gained through aeons of trial and ex
ELDER BROTHERS or HUMANITY 29
perience, and continually seek for opportunities of
drawing the developing intelligence of the race . . .
to consider the great truths concerning the destiny
of the soul. These elder brothers also keep the
knowledge they have gained of the laws of nature
in all departments, and are ready when cyclic law
permits to use it for the beneﬁt of mankind. They
have always existed as a body, all knowing each
other, no matter in what part of the world they may
be, and all working for the race in many different
ways.-—ch. i, p. 3
The nature of their work may be better
understood if we take the expression above
quoted, “they have always existed as a body,
all knowing each other,” etc., and consider
all that the words imply. The ‘body’ re
ferred to is what is known in Theosophy as
‘The Brotherhood of Compassion,’ or more
familiarly among Theosophical students as
‘The Lodge.’ Theosophy tells us that there
has always existed, from the very earliest
ages of humanity on this earth, an organi
zation or Brotherhood of advanced souls.
30 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
These advanced souls, the Mahatmans, had
become perfected men in former periods of
evolution. As told in other Manuals of this
series, this Earth and everything connected
with it is a rebirth from a former and less
developed world.* In that world we who
are now men were passing through lower
stages of evolution than the human. But
there lived then—as there live now and
always will — those who were further along
on the course of evolution. They had al
ready reached perfection as men when our
earth and everything on it came to be re
imbodied in this present globe which we call
Earth. That reimbodiment was the begin
ning of the immense period of evolution
through which everything is now passing.
At the beginning of this present period of
evolution the human race was but an infant
humanity. Like all infants it needed con
*See Manual No. VII, Rounds and Races: Man’s
Divine Parentage and Destiny, by G. van Pelt.
ELDER BROTHERS OF HUMANITY 31
stant care, help, and guidance. And this
help and care came from these advanced
souls, the Mahatmans who had become per
fected human beings in that former world.
So they were ready to act as Teachers of
humanity; just as our teachers in ordinary
life are men and women who have completed
their education in periods of schooling pre
ceding our own.
In those early ages the Mahatmans lived
among men. They guided and helped them
openly. But the life of the race is very
much like that of every child. The time
comes when youth must begin to think and
act for itself, use its own initiative, cultivate
its own will power, and make its own mis
takes. When that time comes young people
generally rebel against the council of their
elders. And as they lack experience, self
knowledge, and wisdom, they go wrong in
ways that they often ﬁnd it impossible in
one life to remedy.
32 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
It happened very much like this with early
man. At that time humanity was far more
ignorant than the peoples of today. This
was only to be expected. For man was
then but just beginning to learn the moral
lessons that many of us today ﬁnd are in
stinctive in our characters at birth. Pres
ent day men and women have been learning
through the experience and suffering of
many incarnations. But in those early times
the great majority were still undeveloped
as human beings. They were inconceivably
blind and greedy and wilful. So great wrongs
were committed. War, and what we call
‘sin’ appeared, and if you will read what
H. P. Blavatsky tells us in The Secret Doc
trine about the Atlanteans you will get a
picture of how dark and wicked were the
early civilizations which man developed in
those forgotten, prehistoric times. And at
last people grew so selﬁsh and material that
the Mahatmans were no longer sought as
ELDER BROTHERS OF HUMANITY 33
Guides and Teachers by the great mass of
humanity.
It was then that the Brotherhood of Com
passion, to which all these Great Sages and
Seers whom we call the Mahatmans be
longed, retreated into the background and
began their occult or hidden work for the
race — work which up to that unhappy time
they had been able to do openly, moving
more or less freely among men. The chief
reason for their withdrawal lies of course
in the danger of entrusting their great know
ledge to people who would selﬁshly misuse
it and so bring disasters upon themselves
and others. And the same restriction still
unfortunately prevails. For though men
have progressed enormously they have not
yet learned the folly and the dangers of
selﬁshness.
The Mahatmans, then, in those far-off
times, began special work with individuals
here and there who were more promising
34 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
than humanity in its unevolved masses. For
of course at that time too there was the same
inequality of development among men that
prevails everywhere today. Some egos are
older than others and therefore more ad
vanced in character and intelligence. It
was these advanced egos that the Mahat
mans singled out and gathered into schools
or colleges in different parts of the earth.
Every great country in antiquity had one
or more of these occult schools for the study
of the Spiritual Sciences. These colleges
have always been called in Theosophical
teachings the Mystery-Schools.*
Two important points should be brought
out here. One is that even among the Ma
hatmans themselves there are many grades
of development. Some of them of course -
just as in every other phase of evolution,
*For a fuller treatment of Mystery-Schools see
Manual No. XIV of this series and The Esoteric
Tradition by G. de Purucker.
ELDER BROTHERS or HUMANITY 35
spiritual or otherwise -—- are of higher degree
than others. The Brotherhood of Compas
sion is a hierarchy. We quote here a pas
sage in explanation of this hierarchical prin
ciple of being:
Thus it is that the Great Sages, the Mahatmans
or Masters, form one stage or degree on the evolu
tionary scale or Ladder of Life, and just above or
superior to us men of average evolutionary develop
ment. There are other still greater and more
evolved beings on the Ladder of Life, who are very
properly to be called the Teachers of these Great
Sages or Seers themselves, and who are also Su
perior, or still more highly evolved, Men than the
Great Sages themselves are. Higher even than
these Superiors just spoken of there are yet others
still more fully evolved, who may with propriety
be called Human Gods; they are Nature’s Control
lers, Governors, of our own planet, Earth. —G. DE
PURUCKER: The Esoteric Tradition, II, 942-3
It will readily be seen that many of these
godlike celestial beings above mentioned are
too far beyond our plane of consciousness
even to be conceivable to us. And being
36 MAI-IATMANS AND CHELAS
so, they cannot directly inﬂuence us. This
brings us to another of the services by our
Elder Brothers, the Mahatmans, performed
for humanity. That service consists in
‘stepping down’ or transforming the vitaliz
ing energies of these Celestial Beings so
that they can be assimilated by man’s nature.
Probably most of us know what the work
of a transformer is in the use of electricity.
For those who do not it may be explained
that a transformer is an apparatus, a special
coil, for reducing or stepping down a high
voltage current to a lower pressure when
that higher voltage might be too great for
the small apparatus we have to use. It is
like this with the gods and humanity. To be
brought into direct contact with the energies
of the gods would burn us up, so to speak -—
as in the mythological tale of the youth who
ventured to raise the veil of Isis in order to
look directly upon the face of the goddess,
and was slain by a vision he had not power
ELDER BROTHERS OF HUMANITY 37
to sustain. So our Elder Brothers act for
us in the nature of benign transformers and
step down for us the vitalizing currents of
the Celestial Beings who, in the background
of visible creation, govern and sustain our
Universe.
The second point to be marked by the
student is the fact that we should not con
fuse the Brotherhood of Compassion with
the Mystery-Schools. The latter are re
lated to the Brotherhood of Compassion it
self much as a preparatory school is related
to a University. The Mystery-Schools are
lower in grade, because composed of chelas
or students in Occultism. The Teachers in
a genuine Mystery-School must of course
all have passed certain tests and undergone
deﬁnite occult training, but in this day and
age are not Mahatmans, though in the earli
est prehistoric Mystery-Schools already re
ferred to they often were conducted by the
Mahatmans themselves. But the Mahat
38 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
mans are today in the background and watch
over this work. And it is the privilege of
students in a Mystery-School to participate
in spirit in the great initiatory periods
which still take place during certain sacred
seasons of the year at favored points some
where on our earth.
All men are of course related through
their spiritual principles to the Brotherhood
of Compassion. For we derive our Atma
Buddhi-Manas from a common divine source.
But the chelas of a Mystery-School are still
only in training under their adept Teachers.
And this training will ultimately enable them
to become consciously an active part of that
Brotherhood as the Mahatmans and their
Agents already are.
In the Mystery-Schools, ﬁrst founded as
described in past ages, the Mahatmans in
those early days taught their pupils the
truths of the Archaic Wisdom-Science called
by such titles in history as the Secret Doc
ELDER BROTHERS OF HUMANITY 39
trine of the Ages, the Esoteric Tradition,
and other such designations, which we today
know under the name of Theosophy. This
has been deﬁned by Dr. de Purucker as fol
lows:
It
is,
as
a
body of doctrines, the formulation in hu
man language of the essential truths of the Universe.
It comprises the facts regarding the nature of the
Universe, visible and invisible, spiritual, intellectual,
psychical, ethereal, astral, and physical.
It
com
prises also the teachings regarding the structure and
operations and laws of the Universe. It also in
cludes teaching
a
man to ﬁnd himself,
i.
e., to dis
cover and uncover from its enshrouding veils, the
god within him.
—The Masters and the Path
of
Occultism,
p.
39
The teaching and training of these pupils,
however, was but one phase of their work.
For they were also the Founders of the great
world religions. From time to time they
sent out from their midst some of the great
est among them. These Great Souls incar
nated in the different races and the different
40 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
eras of history, when they taught anew the
ethical laws upon which all life must be
founded if it is to endure. It is character
istic of the human race to forget its divine
origin. Men become so engrossed in the
pursuit of personal and selﬁsh ends and the
treasures of this world that every religion
grows dim as the centuries pass away. The
purity of the Founder’s teaching becomes
clouded and fades in human memory. Then
the religion deteriorates and becomes a ve
hicle for the ambitions and power of priests
and theologians. This has always happened
in the case of every religion in the history
of man. So it becomes necessary again and
again for these ethical fundamentals to be
restated in a fresh form.
The earliest of these Teachers which his
tory speaks of sent out by the Great Lodge
of the Mahatmans is Krishna in India. He
struck anew for the world of his day the
keynote of these same ethical teachings.
ELDER BROTHERS OF HUMANITY 41
They are imbodied in the Bhagavad-Gitd
and the great scriptures of the Hindu re
ligion. About 500 years later came Gau
tama the Buddha to correct the abuses
which had crept into Hinduism and give to
the ethics of life a simpler expression, one
which the common people could easily under
stand. After him came Sankaracharya. To
Persia was sent Zoroaster, who did the same
for Mid-Asia. To China were sent Lao-Tse
and Confucius, and to the modern world
Jesus the Christ. These Great Souls all
taught the same fundamental ethical truths,
but of course in each case these truths were
adapted to the characteristics and the points
of view of the people and the period they
came to teach. But the basic doctrines of
all world religions are identical. And this
is because they are all but different expres
sions of the same great Wisdom-Religion of
the ages.
Another aspect of their work as time
42 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
ﬂowed on was the founding of ever more
Mystery-Schools all over the world. Every
large country had its own Mystery-School.
The clearest historical picture we have of
these Mystery-Schools of antiquity is in an
cient Greece. Mithras was the traditional
Savior or Great Teacher of the Mediter
ranean peoples. He appeared in archaic or
prehistoric times and is credited with the
foundation of the Mysteries of Eleusis near
Athens. Another of the original Greek Mys
tery-Schools was the celebrated one at Cro
tona established by a Messenger from the
Lodge, the Greek Pythagoras. Another was
the Mystery-School at Samothrace. Like
their parent-school, the Lodge of Mahat
mans, these foundations sent out in turn
their agents, men like Plato with his Acade
my at Athens in the fourth century B. C.
Plato too was an Initiate and has had an
immense spiritual inﬂuence upon ancient and
modern thought, being almost as much ad
ELDER BROTHERS or HUMANITY 43
mired and studied today as in his own times.
Some of the greatest dramatists of Greece,
such poets as Aeschylus and Sophocles, were
also members of these Mystery-Schools.
Their dramas are true mystery-plays de
picting the trials of the human soul in its
pilgrimage to perfection.
Similar Mystery-Schools are heard of in
all the countries of antiquity. Plato, for ex
ample, is said to have visited and studied at
the one in India, the members of which were
called Gymnosophists, and Herodotus, the
Greek historian and traveler, is said to have
visited the one in Egypt.
The work of the Mahatmans is thus not
only to watch over and inspire and stimu
late the progress of humanity as our Elder
Brothers, but to keep us in touch with the
Divine energies of the Cosmos. They are
also Teachers and personal guides to all
who are ready for the intensive and arduous
training in the occult life. But as the pro
44 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
portion of such men who are ready bears a
ratio of about one in ten million of ordinary
men their actual pupils are very, very few.
But sooner or later all pupils of a Mahat
man become teachers in their turn. Then
they seek out others whose souls are awak
ened to listen and learn. Thus the work and
inﬂuence of the Mahatmans is not conﬁned
to the spiritual thought-currents above men
tioned. It follows more individual and deﬁ
nite channels, reaching out in particular and
special ways through the work of their
agents to inspire and guide all who are
looking to higher and better things for the
world. For there are thousands and thou
sands of bewildered hearts who are now
seeking for some way out of the sorrows and
miseries which oppress all classes and
peoples of this unhappy modern world.
Another side of the Mahatmans’ work con
sists in safeguarding Occult Truth from ex
ploitation and misuse by the evil and igno
ELDER BROTHERS or HUMANITY 45
rant. Only such portions of the Archaic
Science are openly taught as will prove of
beneﬁt to mankind. Here is one great sign
of their wise beneﬁcence as our Elder
Brothers. Today a few of our greatest
scientists realize the mischief that can and
has been unfortunately done by the use of
scientiﬁc knowledge for destructive and cruel
purposes. And at last scientiﬁc bodies are
beginning to take belated steps towards
arousing public conscience in this matter
through the channels of education.
But the forces which physical science has
put into our hands, powerful as they un
doubtedly may be, are but feeble when com
pared to the powers and energies of Occult
Nature. And the knowledge of these powers
and energies must be guarded from the in
satiable curiosity and selﬁsh use of the un
disciplined. Man must ﬁrst learn, as scien
tists themselves now admit, to develop his
ethical and social conscience, to become a
46 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
selﬂess power for good in the world, before
he can be safely trusted with secrets of
power. One has only to look into the sub
ject of the use of Occult powers in the world
today, to see what harm is being done by
dabbling even in the lower psychic forces,
such as clairvoyance, clairaudience, medium
ship and the like. H. P. Blavatsky’s wri
tings, and The Mahatma Letters to A. P.
Sinnett contain material illustrating this
point. When the student has thought seri
ously about the matter he will realize what
the consequences would be to most of us if
the control of the secret and mighty forces
of Occult Nature were to become available
to unscrupulous ambition.
All down the ages these great Seers and
Sages, the Mahatmans, have protected man
kind against itself, as far as that is possible
without interfering with the freedom of the
human will. And this is a phase of their
work that can be done by no other agency.
ELDER BROTHERS OF HUMANITY 47
So now we begin to see an outline of the
picture of the great Spiritual Hierarchy of
Beings who link the human race by gradu
ated stages of consciousness to the Supreme
Hierarch of our own solar Universe, the
Cosmic God at the invisible spiritual heart
of our Sun. Every planet has in its turn a
Celestial Ruler or Hierarch who imbodies
the summit of consciousness and power on
that planet. This is equally true of the
Earth. The Ruler or Hierarch of our planet
Terra is the Head and Heart of the Brother
hood of Compassion which as a body cares
for and oversees the evolution and well being
of all earth’s creatures. The Mahatmans
we are now thinking about are the perfected
men who link the mass of humankind with
the Brotherhood of Compassion. They do
its beneﬁcent work as the Elder Brothers
and spiritual Teachers of the human race.
IV
THE MAHATMANS AND THE THEO
SOPHICAL MOVEMENT
WE come now to what
is,
for us, the
most interesting and important and
well known part of the work of the Mahat
mans. That
is,
the Theosophical Movement.
The word ‘Movement’
is
used here instead
of the word ‘Society.’ And for the reason
that the Society
is
only one phase of the
immense and ancient Theosophical Move
ment itself. The Theosophical Society dates
but from 1875. The Theosophical Move
ment extends backwards into prehistoric
time (as already described in chapter III).
The matter
is
explained by G. de Purucker
in the following passage:
To put
it
brieﬂy: there has always existed in the
world for almost innumerable ages,
a
completely
THE THEOSOPHICAL MOVEMENT 49
coherent and fully comprehensive system of reli
gious philosophy, or of philosophical, scientiﬁc re
ligion, which from time to time has been given out
to man when the world needed a fuller revealing of
spiritual truth than it then at such time had. Fur
ther, this wonderful system has been for all those
past ages in the safe guardianship of the relatively
perfected men [the Mahatmans] . . .
—The Esoteric Tradition, I, 33-4
To this statement the words of H. P. Bla
vatsky should be added:
. . . I must tell you that during the last quarter
of every hundred years an attempt is made by those
“Masters,” of whom I have spoken, to help on the
spiritual progress of Humanity in a marked and
deﬁnite way. Towards the close of each century
you will invariably ﬁnd that an outpouring or up
heaval of spirituality-or call it mysticism if you
prefer—has taken place. Some one or more per
sons have appeared in the world as their agents,
and a greater or less amount of occult knowledge
and teaching has been given out. If you care to do
so, you can trace these movements back, century
by century, as far as our detailed historical records
extend.—The Key to Theosophy p. 306 orig. ed.
50 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
Some indication of these different aspects
of the Theosophical Movement in each
century has already been given in Part
III. To us, of course, the most interesting
of these chapters in mystical history began
in the Egyptian city of Alexandria in the
third century A. D. with Ammonius Saccas
and the Neo-Platonists. For it was then
that the word ‘Theosophy’ was ﬁrst applied
to the teachings of the immemorial Secret
Doctrine or Wisdom-Religion. H. P. Bla
vatsky calls Ammonius Saccas “a saintly
adept.” He seems to have been the ﬁrst of
the public agents of the Mahatmans to what
we know as modern civilization.*
We must remember that in every one of
the ancient civilizations the work of the
Great Teachers of the Brotherhood of Com
passion was well understood. For all of
*See the opening chapters of The Key to Theo
sophy for an interesting account of this era and
its great Theosophists.
THE THEOSOPHICAL MOVEMENT
them had their Mystery-Schools. And the
teachers connected with these had been In
itiates of the Brotherhood and taught its age
old system of ethics and spiritual science.
But in the early years of our Christian Era
the Mystery-Schools in Greece which had
been the chief source of all spiritual Light
in the antique world around the Mediter
ranean had been gradually deteriorating.
Their teachers had lapsed from their high
calling. They became faithless to the Teach
ings and were no longer true Initiates into
the Secret Doctrine. Among them spiritual
self-discipline and selﬂess devotion to Truth
and impersonal love had been gradually re
placed by love of power and privilege. He
who would know the doctrine must ﬁrst live
the life — this is a fundamental principle of
Occultism. The inﬂuence of these Schools
was therefore waning. And a little later in
the sixth century A. D. the last of them
was closed in Athens at the request of their
52 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
own teachers, by the Emperor Justinian.
An interesting point may here be touched
upon. This
is,
that after the termination of
the Mystery-Schools the Theosophical Move
ment was obliged, because of the prevailing
religious bigotry of the times, to follow more
or less hidden channels. It became almost
completely hidden, or occult. From the
sixth century to the nineteenth, there was
a
period of thirteen hundred years during
which only
a
few teachers and some secret
societies, such as the true Rosicrucian Order,
could be used by the Lodge of Mahatmans
as their agents to keep the Secret Doctrine
alive in the Western world. The last of
these secret agents we know of were Count
Saint-Germain and the celebrated Cagliostro
near the close of the eighteenth century.
The latter, who was called by H. P. Blavat
sky the “last of the Rosicrucians,” made an
attempt to found
a
Mystery-School through
his work with Occult Masonry. But he
THE THEOSOPHICAL MOVEMENT 53
was more or less defeated by the bigotry
of his day.
We come now to the founding of the
Theosophical Society in New York City in
1875. Ostensibly it was started by H. P.
Blavatsky herself assisted by a group of
students whom she drew around her, in
cluding Henry Steel Olcott and William Q.
Judge. But she has often told us how she
was sent to New York by her Teachers a
little in advance of the opening years of the
last quarter of the nineteenth century. She
was told by them to start an organization
through which could be restated in a form
suited to the type of intelligence and to the
needs of our modern world the ancient
truths of the Wisdom-Religion. Let us see
what the Mahatmans themselves have to
say about this:
One or two of us [The Brotherhood or Lodge of
Mahatmans] hoped that the world had so far ad
vanced intellectually, if not intuitionally, that the
54 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
Occult doctrine might gain an intellectual acceptance,
and the impulse given for a new cycle of occult
research. . . . We sent her [H. P. Blavatsky] to
America . . . and the trial began. —-The Mahatman
M. in The Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnett, p. 263
And H. P. Blavatsky herself tells us:
Orders received from India direct to establish a
philosophico-religious Society and choose a name
for it—also to choose Olcott. July l875.—From
one of her Scrapbooks as quoted in The Golden
Book of the Theosophical Society, page 19
“From India direct” meant in her case but
one thing— from the Mahatmans.
The evidence showing their work in con
nection with the founding and progress of
the young Theosophical Society can be read
in their own letters as published in The Ma
hatma Letters to A. P. Sinnett. Here the
student can ﬁnd a complete and detailed pic
ture. And also, scattered here and there
among these interesting records of their ac
tivities will be found hints on other lines of
work — what we may perhaps call their
THE THEOSOPHICAL MOVEMENT 55
more esoteric lines of spiritual activity be
hind the scenes of human affairs.
As time went on and H. P. Blavatsky
established in 1888-9 with the active help
of W. Q. Judge her Esoteric Section,
the ﬁrst step was taken towards the re
vival of the Mystery-Schoolsf As exoteric
Theosophy for the public brought back to
humanity the long forgotten Wisdom-Re
ligion of the Ages, so the renewal of the
ancient Mystery-Schools restored the ethic
al-scientiﬁc study of Occultism, and estab
lished that study as a living force in the
modern world. The old sacred relationship
of spiritual Teacher and his disciples pledged
to live and work for the spiritual welfare of
humanity—in other words, of Mahatmans
and Chelas—became once more a vital
factor in man’s spiritual education.
Evidence that the Mahatmans were be
hind H. P. Blavatsky’s work in establishing
the Esoteric Section can also be found in
56 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
abundance in the book just quoted from. A
brief, comprehensive and interesting ac
count of the history of the modern Theoso
phical Movement where the above mention
ed facts are more fully described can be
found in Charles J. Ryan's H. P. Blavatsky
and the Theosophical Mo'vement.*
*Published by Theosophical University Press,
Point Loma, California.
V
CHELAS AND THE CHELA-LIFE
PERHAPS
enough has already been said
about the Mahatmans and their dis
ciples to give some idea of what Chelaship
means. The Hindu word chela is used in
Occultism because it has a more speciﬁc sig
niﬁcance than the words ‘pupil’ or ‘disciple’
as understood today. To be a chela implies
a peculiar degree of loyalty to one’s chosen
Teacher and to the principles underlying
his teachings. It also, and more particular
ly, implies a realization of the sacredness of
the bond between the chela and his Spiri
tual Teacher, or to use again the Eastern
word, his guru. We might helpfully quote
a few passages in this connexion:
To the earnest Disciple his Teacher takes the
place of Father and Mother, for, whereas they gave
58 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
him his body and his faculties, its life and casual
form, the Teacher shows him how to develop the
inner faculties for the acquisition of the Eternal
Wisdom.—From the Book of Discipline in the
Schools of ‘Dzyan’
Now this relation is an extremely sacred one, be
cause . . . the Teacher, the Guru, the Master . . .
acts as the midwife, bringing to birth, helping to
bring into the active life of the disciple, the hid
part of the disciple, the soul of the man.—G. DE
PURUCKERZ Fundamentals of the Esoteric Phila
sophy, pp. 527-8
Even a teacher of ordinary subjects has
a responsibility to his pupils in his in
ﬂuence upon their developments and ideals.
And the pupils have an obligation of grati
tude to a teacher who has been an in
spiration and perhaps opened to him doors
of vision and resolve. But how much deep
er is this bond of responsibility and grati
tude between pupil and spiritual Teacher
—one who can show us how to solve all
our apparently unsolvable problems and
CHELAS AND THE CHELA-LIFE 59
how to recreate ourselves and our lives.
But such a spiritual relationship goes
deeper even than this. For a genuine Oc
cult Teacher is one who can open for us
the inner realms of being. It is not so-called
religious instruction that he gives, though
ethics and morals, as already said, are the
foundation of all genuine spiritual teaching.
He does what religion as we moderns know
it can never do. He not only gives knowl
edge but he actually quickens the human
soul, much as the ﬂame of Manas was
quickened in the early races of mankind
by the Manasapf1tras.* A real Spiritual
Teacher literally raises his chela from the
dead. For unless a man be born again he
cannot enter the kingdom of heaven. And
as Jesus said, the Kingdom of Heaven is
within you.
There are two broad divisions in chela
*See Manual No. VII of this series.
60 MAHATMANS AND CI-IELAS
ship. There are, ﬁrst, lay or probationary
chelas. Second, there are those chelas who
through long self-discipline, perhaps in many
former incarnations as well as in this one,
have proved themselves worthy. They are
then accepted by the Mahatmans themselves
for intensive occult training. Lay chelas, or
probationers, train themselves. They are
given the fundamental doctrines of the Wis
dom-Religion, particularly those which ex
plain the scientiﬁc basis of ethics. The de
gree of earnestness and devotion with which
they study and apply these teachings con
stitutes the ﬁrst test on the Chela-path. To
the extent that the student sincerely applies
himself to determined self-training and self
discipline in the practice of ethics and
brotherhood will the period be longer or
shorter which leads to his being accepted by
the Mahatmans as a chela pledged irrevo
cably to the service of humanity.
Every sincere and devoted F. T. S. is in
cHELAs AND THE CHELA-LIFE 61
this sense a probationary chela. He may
not be conscious of
it,
but his real progress
in impersonal devotion to his family and
friends, to his fellow Theosophists, and to
the work of the Theosophical Movement for
humanity will be registered karmically. And
as this good karman accumulates he will be
led ever nearer to the presence of the Ma
hatmans.
There
is
an ancient saying that discipline
precedes the Mysteries. And when we con
sider the real nature and objects of a Mys
tery-School we understand why this must be
so. For the teachings in
a
Mystery-School
comprise
a
knowledge of the actual and
tremendously powerful laws upon which the
Universe and life are built. To be able to
smash the atom and release titanic forces,
with all the dangers which attend such
power, will give but
a
faint picture of the
potencies and possibilities for either good or
evil which
a
knowledge of Occult Nature
62 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
bestows. So, necessarily, moral and spiri
tual discipline of a most serious kind must
precede the student’s admission into this
sacred arcana. Besides, unlike what is popu
larly known as Science, the Occult teachings
are not experimental. They do not veer
and change from guess to guess, and from
theory to theory.
Why is this? From whence do the Mys
tery-Schools derive their certain knowledge
about these hidden things? The following
passage gives the answer:
Great intellects, titanic spiritual Seers, have sent
their consciousness behind the veils of the outward
seeming deep into the womb of invisible Nature,
and have brought back what they have seen, and
have formulated their knowledge into a grand sys
tem of thought. This system of thought we today
call Theosophy. It is the Mother of all the great
religions and great philosophies of the past time,
and will be so of those of the future; for this reason:
that every one of these other great systems of
CHELAS AND THE cHELA-LIFE 63
thought has been founded upon the teaching of some
great spiritual Seer and Sage.—G. DE PURUCKERZ
The Masters and the Path of Occultism, p. 19
What are some of these deeper teachings
which are revealed to chelas in the Mystery
Schools? For a detailed description the
student is recommended to read The Eso
teric Tradition by G. de Purucker. But a
brief outline of a few of them may here
be given. He is taught among other things
the real origin of his spiritual nature, his
spiritual heredity, so to speak. He learns
how and why he is actually a child of the
Cosmic Gods. The door to the inner worlds
of being is opened for him and he is gradual
ly introduced to a knowledge of the Circu
lations of the Cosmos and the journeys of
the Spiritual Monad along those cosmic
highways into the “vast and inner and in
visible Worlds and Spheres,” to quote from
the above mentioned book. Indeed The Eso
teric Tradition is so full of passages packed
64 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
with occult hints and information that one
or two paragraphs which illustrate the fore
going and suggest the basic lines of chela
training are quoted here:
One of the main objectives in such training is the
arousing and stimulation of the moral sense to be
come so strong in the life of the disciple that the
voice of conscience thus highly developed and trained
becomes the instant and relatively unerring monitor
indicating which path at any moment the disciple
should follow. . . . Coincident with this is the
training of the mind and of the intellect to become
keen, polished, instant in action, and, under the
guidance of the moral sense, virtually unerring in
judgment.—-The Esoteric Tradition, II, 1056
The whole attempt of inner training is to attain
self-identiﬁcation in progressive and ever enlarging
stages with the great Spiritual Powers on which the
Universe itself is constructed and with which it is
molded—strange as this manner of phrasing the
wonderful truth may seem to the Western mind,
untrained in matters of esoteric philosophy and its
deep science.—Op. cit., p. 1055
This expression about the “Spiritual Pow
CHELAS AND THE CHELA-LIFE
ers” etc., refers to the Cosmic and Solar gods
from which man’s Atma-Buddhi-Manas is
radiated or, more correctly, emanated. Che
la-training under a Mahatman opens to the
chela the path to self-conscious union with
his spiritual parent, his own inner god. And
when the pledged chela has been well pre
pared by his guru or Spiritual Teacher and
is ready for the supreme trial he then em
barks upon the sacred and wonderful adven
ture of initiation.
VI
INITIATION — THE GOAL OF
EVOLUTION
There is a road, steep and thorny, and beset with
perils of every kind, but yet a road, and it leads to
the heart of the Universe. I can tell you how to
ﬁnd Those who will show you the secret gateway
that leads inward only, and closes fast behind the
neophyte for evermore. There is no danger that
dauntless courage cannot conquer; there is no trial
that spotless purity cannot pass through; there is
no difficulty that strong intellect cannot surmount.
For those who win onward, there is reward past all
telling: the power to bless and serve humanity.
For those who fail, there are other lives in which
success may c0me.—Editorial in Lucifer, Vol. IX
The purpose of all initiatory ceremonies—. . .
the aim of all initiatory teachings of the ancient
Mystery-Schools was . . . the evocation of the high
er self, of this inner being; and it is possible to do
it. A strong and indomitable will is the ﬁrst requi
site. Purity of life is the second, mental purity
THE GOAL or EVOLUTION 67
above everything else. And absolute loyalty and
devotion to the teachings of the Esoteric Wisdom
and to the Teacher, is the third. -- G. DE PURUCKER:
Fundamentals of the Esoteric Philosophy, p. 361
PERHAPS
the greatest boon that Theo
sophy bestows on us is the conviction
that at last we actually know where we are
going. Unlike the unhappy, drifting, bewil
dered mass of human beings the earnest and
sincere student of Occultism has a deﬁnite
objective. No matter how far in the future
it may be, he knows that sometime, as surely
as the sun rises every day, the privilege of
trying for Initiation into the mysteries of
Occult Nature will be his. And so he moves
conﬁdently forward to the radiant moment
of reunion with his Higher Self. Never again
will he be really uncertain, or lazy, or moral
ly incompetent. He has something absorb
ingly interesting and worthwhile to work for.
And his is the opportunity to press joyfully
onward, serving with those noble Helpers
68 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
who are in advance of the race, towards that
spiritual perfection which shall enable him
to draw the whole of humanity itself with
him a fraction farther onward along our diffi
cult evolutionary way. The Sun, moving
ever forward through its steadfast orbit
draws all its planets year by year into new
spaces of the Universe. So does a man,
steadfastly following the path of occult
progress, draw forward with himself all those
who are united to him in the bonds of spiri
tual brotherhood. Every human problem
and every human sorrow will be just that
much clearer and lighter because he as an
individual has been able to make the goal.
Furthermore, in following the Path of Ini
tiation the chela, either lay or accepted, is
embarking upon a splendid adventure. Life
for the average man is so dull. There is
hardly one man or woman in a million who
is not more or less a slave to some crippling
limitation of environment. Aldous Huxley
THE GOAL OF EVOLUTION 69
says somewhere that modern man is every
where intensely bored with life. And does
it not seem logical to conclude that the preva
lence of crime amongst the young is largely
due to these crippling environments which
offer no scope for individual initiative, and
which surround the effervescing energies
of the young with little but the intensely
commonplace?
Now, in exchange for all this drabness,
what does initiation offer us? To reiterate
the words of a Teacher, it shows us how to
invoke the peace and power and guidance of
the Higher Self. It changes us “into be
coming the bird of eternity.” In other words,
it sets us free. It opens the doors out of
the cage of our personality. It shows us
how then to spread our spiritual wings—
which now lie so feeble and closely folded
from disuse — and, escaping from our phy
sical and psychological limitations, to fare
forth upon the Highways of the Cosmos.
70 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
To the highest Initiate there are no closed
doors in his Universe. The inner worlds,
with all their strange and fresh and won
drous realms, lie open before him. For his
training has developed in him that piercing
spiritual vision to which G. de Purucker so
often refers. His are the strong faculties
and the mighty spiritual pinions that can
carry him to the very innermost portals of
the Spiritual Sun.
A further passage may here be quoted to
show in slightly more detail what Initiation
implies. The writer begins by describing
the greatest event in the history of our Globe
—the awakening in man of self-conscious
humanhood in the Third Root-Race by the
Manasaputras:
This our “awakening” was called by H. P. Bla
vatsky, the incarnation of the Manasaputras, or the
Sons of Mind, or Light. Had that incarnation not
taken place, we indeed should have continued our
evolution by merely “natural” causes, but it would
THE GOAL OF EVOLUTION 71
have been slow almost beyond comprehension, al
most interminable; but that act of self-sacriﬁce,
through their immense pity, their immense love,
though, indeed, acting under Karmic impulse, awak
ened the divine ﬁre in our own selves, gave us light
and comprehension and understanding; so from that
time we ourselves became the “Sons of the Gods”;
the faculty of self-consciousness in us was awak
ened, our eyes were opened, responsibility became
ours; and our feet were then set deﬁnitely upon
the path . . . leading inwards back to our spiritual
home.
. . . initiation is in fact a quickening process,
but it is also something else; it is a copy, an en
deavor to copy, what was done by the incarnation
of those Lords of Understanding, Sons of Light.
It is an attempt to stimulate, to awaken into ac
tivity, the inner spiritual Self, to enliven us more
quickly, to enable us to see and understand, saving
those who successfully pass through the tests aeons
and aeons of suffering and strife, and, noblest of all,
enabling those whose minds have become enlight
ened, themselves to do the same for their brothers
who are less progressed than they.—-G. DE PU
RUCKER: Fundamentals of the Esoteric Philosophy,
pp. 258-9
72 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
Moreover, in following the Path of Ini
tiation under a spiritual Teacher who is him
self a part of the Brotherhood of Compas
sion we knit ourselves into the Great White
Lodge and its work. To the extent that we
then become chelas in spirit and try sincere
ly to live the chela-life we become a vital
part of that Brotherhood. We have ceased
to be wanderers. We have found our true
place in the universal plan. We learn who
we are, where we came from, whither we
are bound and the best and quickest way
to get there. Suffering no longer daunts us,
for it becomes a gateway to freedom.
Even beyond all this, however, is the im
mediate power Initiation will give the aspir
ant to help and bless others. Not only will
his mere presence spread protection and balm
and inspiration. He will eventually become a
part of the living Guardian-Wall which sur
rounds humanity. The signiﬁcance of this
statement will be clear from the following:
THE GOAL or EVOLUTION 73
These Sages are sometimes called the ‘Guardian
Wall,’ for they form in fact a living, spiritual and
intellectual ‘wall’ of protection around mankind,
guarding men against whatever evils men themselves
are unable, because of ignorance and stupidity, to
ward off or neutralize. Yet such guarding is always
in strict accordance with, and always has in view,
the dominant karman of humanity; for against this,
the humanly racial karman, even the great Sages
can no more work than against any one or against
all of the other ‘laws’ of Nature. They are what
they are because they are in utter ﬁdelity the Ser
vants of the Universal Mother in her spiritual,
causative functions. They help men, they inspire,
they protect, they succor, whenever they can, and in
such fashion as their profound knowledge of the
karmic chain of cause and effect in which humanity
is entangled permits them to do. Thus it is that
they serve the humanity over which they stand as
Elder Brothers and Guides. This is their Great
Work; this is their sublime Duty.
—G. DE PURUCKER: The Esoteric Tradition, II, 914
From the foregoing pages it will easily be
seen that for the various stages of initia
tory training an Adept-Teacher is necessary.
74 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
Even the student of mere physical science
must have long preparation, with help and
guidance from an expert, if he aims to do
serious research work in a well equipped
laboratory. So likewise must the advanced
chela, who aspires to the difﬁcult and peri
lous occult highways which lead to initiation,
have the guidance and help of a Spiritual
expert or Adept to watch over and direct
his progress. He must of course do the work
himself. A child must learn to walk, and
talk, and use its own faculties no matter how
much help it may have. The chela must
himself develop the higher spiritual and the
lower psychic clairvoyance and the other
inner senses and powers which enable him
to adventure and learn in these new ﬁelds of
life. But in order that he may not go astray
and that his efforts may be of the highest
efﬁciency he will naturally need the sugges
tions and guidance of a Master of Life.
All this may seem very remote to those
THE GOAL or EVOLUTION 75
who, like you and me, regard ourselves as
quite average and commonplace men and
women. Yet does not our intense determina
tion to ﬁnd the meaning of things lift us out
of the average? Most assuredly it does. It
is because of that determination that we are
members and workers in the Theosophical
Movement. There has reached the inner
ear of every sincere Theosophist a whisper
from the Heart of the Universe. No one
who has once heard that still, small voice —
“the Voice of the Silence” — and known the
divine nostalgia which it inspires in the soul,
will ever again be content with the husks
of material or merely intellectual satisfac
tions.
And one of the most beautiful things about
a knowledge of these truths is that they exalt
the commonplace of everyday. No matter
how difﬁcult or uninspiring may be the daily
grind, when one thinks and lives and feels
in the atmosphere of Occult Truth, every
76 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
form of drudgery will be suffused with the
Buddhic splendor. No matter how tied down
or weary the body, the man himself will be
free. The very act of doing faithfully and
impersonally each smallest duty will itself
be a ﬁrst step on the Pathway of Initiation.
For all that a student of Occultism does will
be self-consciously dedicated to impersonal
service. In addition, he will know why he
is doing it. And not having any egotistical
demands as to the result, he will be able to
do it a hundred per cent. better than former
ly he could. Understanding Reincarnation
and Karman; knowing that his feet are set
irrevocably upon the Right Path; possess
ing in his mind and heart the esoteric keys
to the Sanctuary—the man or woman so
humbly and faithfully working is literally a
companion and co-worker with the gods.
VII
HOW CAN WE REACH THE
MAHATMANS?
ONE
of the most frequent and the most
natural questions of the inquirer is
the one at the head of this page—“How
can I meet a Mahatman? How would I
know one if I were to see him?” For the
teaching about our Elder Brothers is so con
soling, and holds so much inspiration and
purely novel interest for a seeker that his
ﬁrst impulse is to reach out like doubting
Thomas and assure himself by means of his
senses that the Mahatmans actually exist.
He longs to meet them, to secure their at
tention and guidance. And of course it is
right for anyone who has lived the life and
complied with the conditions they set for
78 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
their chelas, to aspire and hope for such ul
timate personal relationship with them. He
naturally longs to ﬁnd his Spiritual Teacher
and devote his life to the service of hu
manity.
Yet the whole of this Manual, and indeed
all of our more profound and detailed liter
ature will have been written in vain if the
student does not soon learn that he must
ﬁrst earn the right to come under their direct
personal notice. As one of the Mahatmans
wrote long ago, in the very beginning of
the Theosophical Society, to an applicant for
chelaship —
If you really want to be a chela i. e. to become the
recipient of our mysteries, you have to adapt your
self to our ways, not we to yours. Until you do
so, it is useless for you to expect any more than
we can give under ordinary circumstances.
— The Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnett, p. 235
And it is of course not only a question of
having the right. It is more than all a ques
CAN WE REACH THE MAHATMANS? 79
tion of individual development. If any one
of us were to pass a Mahatman on the street
the chances are 1000 to 1 that we would
not recognise him as such, unless the Master
chose to reveal his presence to us. The
reason for this lies in our own undeveloped
spirituality. It is rare almost to the point
of impossibility to ﬁnd anyone in whom the
inner spiritual sense necessary to detect the
presence of a Mahatman is yet unfolded.
For his mere physical appearance will not
necessarily proclaim the inner man. It is
the developed spiritual nature, not the body,
which makes the Master of Life.
“But,” you may reply, “if the Mahatman
is so far ahead of us, why is his body too
not different from ours?” It is different,
certainly. But in what way is it different?
Simply in the quality of the atoms and mole
cules and cells which build it. The material
of our bodies, soaked as most of them are
with fatigue poisons, and often with the
80 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
germs of disease, or disturbed by nervous
and emotional instability, could not be used
by a pure and exalted being such as a Ma
hatman. He has long, long ago so reﬁned
and transmuted his physical atoms that his
body is built only of the ﬁnest and purest
materials. The essence and vibration of all
his atoms and molecules are of an in
conceivably higher order than ours. He
could no more live and breathe in such a
body as ours than a bird could live under
water, or a butterﬂy exist in its discarded
chrysalis. And this very unlikeness in es
sence and vibration would make it extremely
unlikely that we could sense his physical
presence. The same thing of course is true
of his psychological apparatus—his mind
and human feelings. They are all so en
tirely different from ours. And that dif
ference is as invisible to our mental appre
hension as the ultra-violet ray is to our eye
sight. And of course the higher we go in
CAN WE REACH THE MAHATMANS? 81
thinking of his constitution the more remote
is the possibility that there could be any
casual rapport between an ordinary man and
a Mahatman.
Just here we may answer the third
question asked in Chapter I: Where do the
Mahatmans live? The inner and highest
Lodge of the Mahatmans is situated in
regions untrodden by the mass of men. It
is in the still inaccessible heights of the
Himalayas of Tibet. Here they may live
in an atmosphere, physical and spiritual,
that makes their work possible. Moreover,
here they can be uninterrupted. Even casual
thought will show that if they lived where
they could be easily reached their work
would suffer, as much from their friends as
their enemies. Even physical science has had
its enemies. Think what a long struggle
Science has had through three hundred
years to earn its freedom for untrammelled
investigation and research. And today we
82 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
see that freedom again menaced. This will
easily suggest why the Mahatmans ﬁnd it
expedient to isolate themselves. They are
of course powerful enough to neutralize the
enemy attacks of bigotry, curiosity, and all
other kinds of investigation and opposition
and interruption. But they are too wise to
waste their energies in this way. Why
spend all the energy necessary to protect
their work against the hordes of human
passion when by just withdrawing to the
solitudes they can live and work at their
easiest and best? And this is another
reason why it is almost impossible for an
ordinary, spiritually undeveloped man or
woman to meet a Mahatman.
These facts have their parallel of course
within the world at large. Remember how
the high executives of great commercial
enterprises are protected against intrusion.
It is almost impossible for anyone but im
portant and favored individuals to work
CAN WE REAcH THE MAHATMANs? 83
through the cordon of ofﬁce employees,
secretaries, and contact men who surround
and cut off an ‘industrial magnate’ from the
public. The same is true of all important
and highly placed workers —college presi
dents, scientiﬁc researchers, and statesmen.
These people have such responsibilities and
such important work to do under so much
intensity and strain that they have to be
protected against useless and wasteful con
tacts. So we see that the Mahatmans are
not so different in their need for quiet and
seclusion in their spiritual retreats. But
there is of course with them the all important
difference that they are always in inner and
sympathetic and ministering touch with all
humanity and its problems.
With a Messenger of the Lodge it is of
course different. They are necessarily more
like ourselves, at least in their physical
bodies. So that if we will, we can recognise
the agents of the Lodge by our ovm intuitive
84 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
vision. Yet — how many are there who can
do even this much? Thousands of people
contacted H. P. Blavatsky, who was one of
the greatest of their agents. How many of
these thousands recognised her for what she
was? If one cannot discover behind the
personality of a man or woman the presence
of a real spiritual Teacher and a chela of
the Mahatmans, how then shall he be able
to recognise a Master and Teacher-Adept?
But, happily, as just stated, the Masters
can see us. For they have developed spiri
tual and psychic clairvoyance which enables
them to overlook the whole world and par
ticularly the Theosophical Movement. Every
act on our part of genuine self-mastery and
unselﬁsh devotion to the interests of another
brings us nearer to their recognition and
help. The following passage will prove of
interest here:
. . . yet constantly as the slow ages pass, one by
one, individuals will be discovered by the Masters
CAN wE REACH THE MAHATMANS? 85
showing unmistakable signs in their thoughts and
feelings and in consequent action of the birth of
the Buddhic Splendor in them; and such individuals
then and there become objects of the personal at
tention of the Great Teachers who do what they
can under karmic law to stimulate a greater growth
of the inner light in such individuals, and gently
to lead them on towards the moment when they
may become self-conscious chelas or disciples pre
paring for initiation.
-— G. DE PURUCKER, The Esoteric Tradition, p. 1036
This then is the ﬁrst step in reaching the
Mahatmans — so to live that the inner Light
kindled in our hearts and minds will bring
us to their attention. We may be sure that
they are looking eagerly for disciples. From
what has already been said we know that
the salvation of humanity is dependent upon
ever more and more of us becoming pupils
in their great Brotherhood of Compassion.
If humanity is to be saved from the lower
forces of its own nature then this Brother
hood which we call the Lodge must gradu
86 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
ally spread its wings to take in as many of
the human race as can make the grade in
this great period of evolution, called a
Manvantara.
The Theosophical Society, with its inner
School of study and development, was
founded for that purpose. It was intended
as a real nucleus of Universal Brotherhood.
This means that its aim was not only to
establish a knowledge of our spiritual
brotherhood as a fact in Nature. It also
means that the Theosophical Society is a
training school in the practice of universal
brotherhood. We must not only know that
brotherhood is a fact. We must prove that
fact by living it. We as Theosophists should
set such an example of solidarity to the world
that all will recognise that brotherhood can
be demonstrated as not only abstractly true,
but possible to be lived.
So one way of more closely approaching
the Mahatmans is to lend our help in the
CAN WE REACH THE MAHATMANS? 87
work of demonstrating and establishing uni
versal brotherhood. We can best do that by
joining the Theosophical Society. That very
step is the second one on the pathway to a
meeting with them. If any inquirer should
ask here: “But do you mean to say that
only by joining your society can I reach
the Masters? That looks to me very like
dogmatism of a kind similar to all the
others.” Then we reply that this is not really
the case. Certainly anyone can gradually
and slowly work through the ages for the
recognition of the Masters. Everyone has
their help. If this were not so then the
doctrine of brotherhood would be but an
empty claim. All humanity is under their
care and protection so far as individual and
national karman permits. And in the course
of evolution everyone can, if he try hard
enough, reach the point in individual de
velopment where he may come into direct
contact with them.
88 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
!
But we are talking here of a ‘short cut
to their recognition. The eager and daunt
less in their search for Truth will not be
satisﬁed to drift with the general current
of human evolution. The very fact that
one is a seeker shows that he is looking for
a way out. In the Theosophical Society,
and the training which membership therein
makes possible, this ‘way out,’ this short cut
to knowledge and peace can be taken. This
is all that is meant. No effort is ever made
to argue or coerce the seeker into joining
the Theosophical Society. Members intro
duced in that way would prove but weak
links in an organization that must be united,
solid enough to withstand the enemies of hu
man progress wherever found.
It cannot be said too often that the Ma
hatmans founded the Theosophical Society
in order to bring about human solidarity.
As they said themselves:
The Chiefs want a “Brotherhood of Humanity,”
CAN WE REACH THE MAHATMANs? 89
a real Universal Fraternity started; an institution
which would make itself known throughout the
world and arrest the attention of the highest minds.
—The Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnett, p. 24
And again:
. . . the chief object of the T. S. is not so much
to gratify individual aspirations as to serve our fel
low men . . . . —Op. cit. p. 7-8
There is another reason — which may per
haps be regarded as more scientiﬁc—-why
joining the Theosophical Society may lead
us more directly to the Mahatmans than
any other course. That reason lies in the
nature of the Brotherhood of Compassion.
For this Brotherhood is not a mere associ
ation of congenially thinking people, like a
club, or a church, or a political or social
fraternity. One does not become a member
of that Brotherhood by signing a printed
form or receiving a diploma. To become
incorporated in this Brotherhood means
that one must have to some extent changed
90 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
one’s nature into the same kind of psycho
logical and spiritual stuﬂ, so to speak. Only
this can so change a man that he becomes
an actual living cell in the tissue of this
Brotherhood. It can almost be called a mat
ter of alchemical or spiritual chemistry.
You cannot combine into one substance
two chemical elements which have no real
vibrational afﬁnity. You may bring them
together under all sorts of conditions, but
you cannot fool Nature. Utterly disparate
elements will not combine under any con
ditions. And a man’s mind and soul must
be in harmony to some extent with the Na
ture of the Brotherhood of Compassion be
fore he can, as a member of the T. S., be
absorbed into its inner body.
Of course nearly every F. T. S. has al
ready something in his nature of this spiri
tual afﬁnity with the Mahatmans. Other
wise he would not be attracted to Theoso
phy. Does not this very attraction show a
CAN WE REACH THE MAHATMANs? 91
spiritually magnetic inner vibration which is
in some degree in unison with the nature
of the Brotherhood of Compassion? If he
then goes on as a constantly more imperson
al and selﬂessly devoted worker he will ﬁnd
the very atoms of his mind and body chang
ing. And this change will still further knit
him into its living organism.
This would seem to be one of the best of
all reasons for joining the Theosophical
Society and becoming a responsible worker
in its ranks. Then one’s personality no
longer ﬂoats like a helpless insect caught in
the web of his own and the world’s karman.
A man gradually disentangles himself from
that web by uniting ever more closely his
personality with its immortal Higher Self,
Atma-Buddhi-Manas. And then as he
changes he becomes instead like a strand of
light, an indestructible ray woven into that
refulgent tissue of spiritual Light which
surrounds and permeates and supports with
92 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
its love and succor the toiling world of men.
For that tissue of Golden Light is the
Brotherhood of Compassion.
There is yet one point more that may prove
of real human interest. It has not always
been the case that the Mahatmans have
needed to live in strict seclusion. Nor will
they need to do so in the future. There
have always been epochs in the cyclic rise
and fall of evolution when the level of spiri
tuality of the race was high. At such times
the Great Teachers can mingle with a cer
tain amount of freedom in the outer world.
And there have also been times of extreme
crisis or spiritual emergency when they have
felt compelled to appear in person to give
counsel or aid. Yet such rare appearances
have generally been incognito, so to say.
There are many fascinating historical legends
which have grown up around these appear
ances. W. Q. Judge, on page 31 of Echoes
from the Orient reports one such incident
CAN WE REACH THE MAHATMANs? 93
said to have happened to Napoleon before
he began to degenerate through personal am
bition. And there are many other such in
stances scattered through the pages of history.
The natural Consequence of all this is to
make us understand that if the Theosophical
Society does its work well, if every member
is faithful to its objects and to the work
of true self-dedication and self-mastery, the
time is not too far distant when the Ma
hatmans will ﬁnd conditions in the world
favorable to their occasional reappearance
amongst us. And this again gives a concrete
and satisfactory reason for the existence of
the T. S. and our membership as active work
ers in its ranks.
As a ﬁnal keynote to this whole subject
of Mahatmans and Chelas we may quote
the following from the Mahatman Morya on
page 252 of The Mahatma Letters:
How many times had we to repeat, that he who
joins the Society with the sole object of coming
94 MAHATMANS AND CHELAS
in contact with us and if not of acquiring at least
of assuring himself of the reality of such powers
and of our objective existence—was pursuing a
mirage? I say again then. It is he alone who has
the love of humanity at heart, who is capable of
grasping thoroughly the idea of a regenerating practi
cal Brotherhood who is entitled to the possession
of our secrets. He alone, such a man—will never
misuse his powers, as there will be no fear that
he will turn them to selﬁsh ends. A man who
places not the good of mankind above his own
good is not worthy of becoming our chela—he is
not worthy of becoming higher in knowledge than
his neighbour.
Additional information may be obtained from:
THE MAsTERs AND THE PATH or OCCULTISM, by
G. de Purucker.
THE OCEAN or Tl-IEOSOPHY, by Wm. Q. Judge:
See Index under Elder Brothers, Masters, Ma
hatma.
FUNDAMENTALS or THE ESOTERrc PHILOSOPHY, by
G. de Purucker:
See Index under Initiation and the Mysteries,
Occultism; also Ch. xlvii, Teacher and Pupil.
THE ESo'rERrc TRADITION, by G. de Purucker:
See Index under Mahatmans, Seers, Teachers, Oc
cultism, Initiation, Mysteries.
THE KEY TO THEOSOPHY, by H. P. Blavatsky:
Exoteric and Esoteric Theosophy, Section II.
The “Theosophical Mahatmas," Section XIV.
STUDIES IN OCCuLTrs1vr, No. I, by H. P. Blavatsky.
THE MAHATMA LETTERs TO A. P. SINNETT, com
piled by A. Trevor Barker, especially the Section:
Probation and Chelaship.
_
The Theosophical Society
Founded in New York City in 1875
G. DE PURUCKER, LEADER
(H. P. Br.AvArsxY, 1875-1891; WILLIAM Q. JUDGE,
1891-1896; KATHERINE TINGLEY, 1896-1929)
General Offices, Point Loma, California
Tm: TI-IEOSOPHICAL SOCnzrY is an integral part of
a Movement which has been active, whether public
ly known or unrecognised, in all ages and in all
countries. The aims and purposes of the Society
are wholly philosophical, religious, scientiﬁc, and
humanitarian. It is entirely non-political.
Founded by H. P. Blavatsky, the Messenger or
Envoy in our age of the guardians and custodians
of esoteric wisdom throughout the ages, the Theo
sophical Society is an organization of students zeal
ously devoted to the research for truth and its pro
mulgation among men, and to the formation of at
least a nucleus of a Universal Brotherhood of Hu
manity.
The Society has neither creeds nor dogmas, but,
teaching a sublime archaic philosophy of the Uni
verse, it recognises through its Fellows the need
of remaining utterly faithful to the spiritual im
pulses which brought about its founding.
From each Fellow it requires the same kindly and
thoughtful consideration for the belief of others
which he expects others to show towards his own.
The Objects of the Theosophical Society are:
(1) To diffuse among men a knowledge of the
laws inherent in the Universe.
(2) To promulgate the knowledge of the essen
tial unity of all that is and to demonstrate that this
unity is fundamental in Nature.
(3) To form an active Brotherhood among men.
(4) To study ancient and modern religion, sci
ence, and philosophy.
(5) To investigate the powers innate in man.
THE TI-IEOSOPHICAL SoC1ETY welcomes to fellow
ship all sincere lovers of Truth, wherever found.
For further information address:
THE SECRETARY GENERAL,
The Theosophical Society,
Point Loma, California, U. S. A.
MANUALS IN TI-HS SERIES
1
2
3
__¢\Ln-h
8
9
10.
ll
12
13
14
WHAT rs THEOsO1>HY?
A
GENERAL V1Ew rOR
INQUIRERS-—-C.
J.
Ryan
REINCARNATIONZ
A
Losr CHORD IN MODERN
T1-[0UGHT—L. L. Wright
KARMAN2 THE LAW or CoNsEQuENcEs
—G. van Pelt
THE SEVEN PRINCIPLES Or MAN — L. L. Wright
AFTER DEATH — WHAT? — L. L. Wright
EVOLUTION —H. T. Edge
RouNDs AND RAcEs: MAN’s DrvrNE PARENTAGE
AND DEs'rrNY—'-G. van Pelt
THE DOCTRINE or CYcLEs—Lydia Ross
HIERARCHIESZ THE LADDER or LIFE
—G. van Pelt
THE ASTRAL LIGHT (in preparation)
PsYcrrrc POWERS AND YooA (in preparation)
THEOSOPHY AND CHRISTIANITY-—-H. T. Edge
MA1rA'rMANs AND CHELAs—L. L. Wright
THE MYSTERY-SCHOOLS (in preparation)
Handbook size, paper, each 25c.
Theosophical University Press
Point Loma, California
A FEW THEOSOPHICAL CLASSICS
The Key to Theosophy: by H. P. Blavatsky. Re
print of Original Edition; 426 pages; Index and
Glossary: cloth $2.50
The Ocean of Theosophy: by Wm. Q. Judge.
Reprint of Original Edition; 154 pages; Index
cloth 75c.; paper 50c.
Golden Precepts of Esotericism: by G. de Pu
rucker. 168 pages, cloth 75c.
Theosophy: the Path of the Mystic: by Katherine
Tingley. 185 pages. Leather or padded $1.25
cloth 75c.; paper 50c.
The Voice of the Silence: by H. P. Blavatsky.
Facsimile edition; 97 pages. Gift edition $1.25
cloth 75c.
The Bhagavad-Gita: Verbatim reprint of Wm. Q.
Judge’s Sixth Edition; 133 pages. cloth 75c.
Letters That Have Helped Me: by Wm. Q. Judge.
92 pages. cloth 50c.; paper 40c.
Light on the Path: by M. C. Reprint of the 1888
edition; 86 pages. cloth 50c.
Theosophical University Press
Point Loma, Califomia
Theosophical Magazines
The Theosophical Forum: Oﬂicial organ of the
Theosophical Society (Point Loma). A monthly
periodical devoted to the discussion of Theo
sophical doctrines and their relation to life.
Subscription Rates: U. S. and possessions and
Pan-American countries, $2.00 a year (six months
$1.10); Canada $2.25 a year (six months $1.25);
Great Britain 10s. 6d.; other foreign countries
$2.50 a year (six months $1.35)
The Junior Theosophist and Lotus-Circle Messen
ger: Theosophy for Young People. An inspira
tion and an aid in the character-development and
training of youth.
Subscription rates: 50c. a year (10 issues), in
United States and possessions, and Pan-American
Union. Foreign, 60c. per year.
Send for complete catalog to
Theosophical University Press
Point Loma, California
