{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__whitney___mightier_than_circumstance.pdf","mytitle":"Mightier Than Circumstance","mylang":"de"}
MIGHTIER
THAN
CIRCUMSTANCE
BY
FRANK B. WHITNEY
Second Edition
UNITY SCHOOL OF CHRISTIANITY
KANSAS CITY, MO.
1939
DEDICATED
TO YOU WHO, TAKING UP THIS BOOK,
TAKE A FORWARD STEP IN PROV-
ING YOURSELF MIGHTIER
THAN ANY CIRCUM-
STANCE IN YOUR
LIFE.
CONTENTS
ARTICLES
Absolute Viewpoint, The 138
Adapting Ourselves to Situations 51
Avoiding Mental Conflicts 83
Being Stabilized 129
By This Sign 148
Children of Light 47
Christ Is My Refuge 43
Each Morning Begins a New Life 11
Each One Has His Own Place to Fill 115
Enduring Prayer 23
Giving to God "for Keeps" 35
God's Will Is Good Will 132
Good Luck Consciousness, The Ill
Great Promise, The 55
Habit of Being Successful, The 107
Healing Treatment Illustrated, X 103
Healthy Reactions 99
How Healing Takes Place 95
How Omniscient Is God? 135
I Give to Christ Two Gifts ... 141
Impersonal Prayers 31
"Let Nothing Disturb Thee" . . 63
Life Begins for Me Anew 19
Living in Eternity 59
Most Effective Prayer, The 27
My Pact with Thee, O Christ . . 39
Nothing Can Retard Your Progress 119
Other Fellow's Problem, The 87
Secret of Happiness,
The 79
Steadfast and Immovable 126
Solution for Personal Problems, The 91
Take Your Place 122
Taking a New Hold on Life 15
"The World Cannot Hate You" . . 75
Things
152
"What Think Ye of the Christ?" 144
You Are Unlimited 67
You Cannot Escape God's Love 71
POEMS
Alone with God in Sleep
42
Begin the Day with Friendliness 10
Blue Skies in the Heart 102
Broader Vistas 62
By This You'll Know 147
Cool Minded 90
Day Well Spent, A 121
Does It Matter? 118
Eyes of Christ . . . 106
God Asks but This . 134
Hands of Prayer 98
Holy Days . 78
How's the Weather? 86
If Life Were but a Day . . 114
I Know God Answers Prayer 131
I Like to Greet a Brand-New Day 54
I Live in the Land of Thankfulness 128
In My Garden 125
It Never Happened 140
Keep Shining 46
Land Where Worries Cease, The 84
Life Begins for Me Today 22
Love Will Meet the Need 74
Making the Most of Life 110
Men of Peace 151
Morning, Noon, and Night 66
My Christmas Gift 143
My Garden Chapel 58
My Part in Prayer 30
Prayer to Christ, A 94
Sanctuary 155
Secret Thoughts 70
Selfless Prayer 34
Somehow God Answers Prayer 38
Soul Dawn, The 50
Stop and Pray 26
Today Is Loaned to You 14
We See the Face of God . 137
When Morning Comes 18
MIGHTIER THAN CIRCUMSTANCE
ff
Greater is he that is in you
than he that is in the world"
BEGIN THE DAY WITH
FRIENDLINESS
Begin the day with friendliness
and only friends you'll find.
Yes, greet the dawn with happiness.
Keep happy thoughts in mind.
Salute the day with peaceful thoughts,
and peace will fill your heart;
Begin the day with joyful soul,
and joy will be your part.
Begin the day with friendliness;
keep friendly all day long;
Keep in your soul a friendly thought,
your heart a friendly song.
Have in your mind a word of cheer
for all who come your way,
And they will bless you too, in turn,
and wish you "Happy day!"
Begin each day with friendly thoughts
and as the day goes on,
Keep friendly, loving, good, and kind,
just as you were at dawn.
The day will be a friendly one,
and then at night you'll find
That you were happy all day long
through friendly thoughts in mind.
C 10 ] Mightier Than
EACH MORNING BEGINS
A NEW LIFE
HAVE YOU ever thought of the dawning of
a day as the dawning of a new life and
a new world? Last night the darkness of
the night blotted out your mistakes of yesterday. This
morning the bright and glorious sun saluted you in
a new world with new opportunities. Is this not
a beautiful truth to contemplate? Does not its
truth seem more and more convincing as you think
about it?
To the man who thinks of life as a humdrum
experience, today is just another day. It links him
up with unfortunate experiences of yesterday as well
as the uncertainties of tomorrow. His calendar re
veals to him but a succession of days. His experi-
ence in living through them is almost the same as
that of a patient and plodding animal working a
treadmill.
Last night the curtain of darkness closed upon
your yesterday. In the darkness of the night, in the
process of sleep, your old self died to things of the
past. The all-wise and all-loving God gave you
sweet forgetfulness. The presence of Christ gave
you rest, courage, and strength to meet the issues of
the day to come. At dawn a new day, a new life,
Circumstance C 11 ]
and a new world were proclaimed to you. In the
new day nothing of the past comes forth.
Do not bring into your new day any adverse
thought of yesterday.
You cannot afford to besmirch
your new day with any old and limited beliefs. Greet
the new day with a smile. Let the dawning sun be
reflected in your countenance and be in turn reflected
into the faces and hearts of those with whom you
come in contact.
Each dawning begins a new life. Not a single
self-imposed limitation of yesterday can prevail in
your new day. The world is yours. You have power
within you to conquer every situation. Everything
lies before you. You stand at the threshold of op-
portunities.
EaAjmorning^exalds
a new existence for you.
Can^you not think of yourself as "reincarnated each
night, invested with new wisdom and strength, em-
powered with new might to accomplish whatever
you set out to do ? Think of yourself as being
brought into a new world with the blessing resting
upon you that everything that happens during the
day is to redound to your highest good. Think of
yourself as having a charmed life, as carrying within
you the
presence^of Christ, which is mighty to do
all tibings.
"""" ~~
The new life that unfolds before you this morn-
ing is but an example of the new life that will unfold
before you every morning. Each morning ushers
you into a new world. Here you find new friends:
your friends of yesterday freed from your adverse
beliefs about them, if you will only discover them.
If you are wanting to meet new friends, what could
[12] Mightier Than
be finer than seeing your old friends in this new
light!
If you think tonight that you could have im-
proved upon your living of today, then at tomor-
row's sun you will have another fresh opportunity.
Just remember, however, that you must not condemn
yourself for your mistakes or failures of today. At
tomorrow's sun, another new life will unfold be-
fore you.
You have a fresh beginning at each morning's
dawn. The world greets you with a sunny smile
at dawn. The sun peeks at you over the horizon in
such a bewitching manner that you just cannot be
downcast. You are called to play. You are called
into the adventure and romance of life. Great ex-
periences may come to you before the sun sinks in
the west. Be ready for them, ready to meet and to
conquer them.
Do you not like this philosophy of dawning new
worlds for you? Do you not want to live for an
eternity in order to see what these worlds have in
store for you? What a panorama life presents to
us! But one thing is necessary in order that we
may live life to the fullest: we must see life in the
right perspective. We must approach each day with
an uplifted heart.
If life looks the same to you as it did yesterday,
then your thought has not gone through the regen-
erating and uplifting process that it should have un-
dergone. Today should appeal to you as much finer,
more capable of giving you blessings than yesterday
was. You should think of today as the best day of
your life. Be happy and joyful in possessing it.
Circumstance [ 13 }
TODAY IS LOANED TO YOU
Today God puts Into your hands
a day that's new and bright;
Yours to enjoy howe'er you will,
it's His again tonight.
This morning in the wee, small hours
He gave to you this
prize.
Intrusted you with one new day
wherein all
goodness lies.
Now you must find the good it has
and bring it
forth to view;
For He has put within this day
some treasures meant for you.
And when you take the
good things out,
some good you must put in;
So when tonight God views your day,
He'll find no thought of sin.
Now if tonight God sees that you
hav-e taken out the good,
And put good back right in its
place
that you have understood
Just how to treat a brand-new day;
then on tomorrow's dawn
You'll find you'll have a brighter day,
and others from then on.
t 14 3 Mightier Than
TAKING A NEW HOLD ON LIFE
YOUR
ABILITY to take a new hold on life de-
pends upon your ability to break with the
thought of the past and acquire a new out-
look on the present and the future. Taking a new
hold, then, is
simply a matter of gaining the right
perspective of time. If the past continues to be
something to you, then the unpleasant events of the
past will continue to live. Their hold on you will
prevent your taking a new hold on life.
If you would take a new hold on life, then life
must ever be unfolding new viewpoints to you. The
value of an unpleasant situation of yesterday lies
entirely in its ability to contribute to your good of
today. Today is the only time you, as a student of
Truth, can recognize. You can do nothing now
about the past beyond handling it in consciousness.
Your future is taken care of by your mental attitude
of today.
Your life is enriched to the extent that you live
in the present. The reason for this is that in the
present you actually participate
in the blessings of
God. The present moment is the only time recog-
nized by Spirit.
You can see that you must grasp
opportunities now, take a new hold on yourself now,
enjoy the blessings of God now.
Probably there are many persons who, in the last
Circumstance
'
{ 15 ]
year or so, were in unpleasant situations, financial
and otherwise, and who for years to come will con-
tinue to vex their minds with their adversities and
reverses of yesterday.
The past
and their belief in
failures, injustice,
and financial losses will have such
a strangle hold upon them that they will be unable
to get a new grip on life. They will be unable to
receive the good things that seek them today. Their
thought about the past will act as a barrier to pros-
perity, justice, order, and success.
Do you see that in order to lay hold of the bless-
ings of today you must break with the unpleasant
memories of yesterday? Do you see that as long
as you hold to negative thoughts and conditions you
cannot be receptive and responsive to new blessings?
Your clinging to the memory of the misfortune and
sorrow of yesterday keeps you from taking a new
hold on life.
Many an invalid has taken his first
step toward
recovery by dropping from his mind adverse thoughts
of the past. By ridding his mind of hate, fear, jeal-
ousy, and revenge he has been able to lay hold of the
love of God. By dropping from mind the belief in
injustice and mistreatment, by forgiving others, he
has taken a step toward receiving the healing power
of God.
Entertain the mental attitude in which you cease
to pay attention to the failures and unpleasant mem-
ories of the past. Remember that Lot's wife became
crystallized when she looked behind her. Your men-
tal attitude should be such that you are always facing
forward, enjoying the blessings in front of you and
preparing yourself for those which lie just beyond.
[16] Mightier Than
The only time to take a new hold on life is the
present time, the present moment. You but delay
your salvation from adverse experiences as long as
you fail to put out of your life the memories of un-
fortunate experiences, and to lay hold of the bless-
ings at hand.
You cannot continue in the thought that some one
has treated you unjustly. You cannot continue to
think of financial reverses, of a position you had yes-
terday that was better than the one you have today.
You must try not to live in the past. If you would
improve conditions you must make new history for
yourself! To be content to bask in the glories and
successes of yesterday is to fail to see the blessings
of today right at hand.
The thought we convey in this message is that of
living in the now, adopting a new outlook on life,
taking a new hold. When you live in memories of
the past, you live in a dream, in an unreality. Only
the present moment has reality in Truth. Only the
present time offers you opportunities. You can live
only in the present moment.
If you would forget the past, you must forgive
yourself; free yourself of the "sin" of holding your-
self in the thought of limitation. You can forgive
yourself only by disabusing your mind of the offend-
ing thought. This you can do by filling your mind
with new ideas, new ideals, new interests* By this
process you place yourself in position to receive from
God.
Circumstance
WHEN MORNING COMES
/ like to greet the morning
with a bright and cheery smile,
To waken with Iightheartedness9
no memory of guile;
To stretch upon my couch full length
and feel that this old earth
Is -filled
with joy and all things good;
and celebrate my birth.
I like to feel that all things new
come forth at mornings light,
That all mistakes of yesterday
just disappeared last
night.
And as I greet the morning dawn
a new world comes to view,
1 see new opportunities>
and enter life anew.
I like to greet the dawning day.
I find the day greets me
And says: "Arise! You've things to do!
A thousand things to see!
For I will show you love and joy
and good you've never seen!"
Oh, ifs a joy to
greet the day
with soul awake, serene.
18] Mightier Than
LIFE BEGINS FOR ME ANEW
AT
THE BEGINNING of each day, life begins
for me anew. At the close of each day,
I emerge from an old world into a new.
This is a provision of God whereby I am daily puri-
fied and renewed. Each new day gives me an oppor-
tunity to begin life anew.
When I go to sleep at night, the merciful and
compassionate Spirit of Christ frees my mind from
all memory of unpleasant events of the day that is
closing. I
give up all tendency to blame myself for
the mistakes of the day, since I have acted according
to my best judgment at the time. I cease to con-
demn myself for what I have thought, said, or done
during the day. I give myself into the care of the
Spirit of Christ and I am loved and forgiven.
I
go to
sleep at night reading that I am in-
folded in the presence of Christ. I know that at the
close of the day I make a break with all
unpleasant
memories, with all
thoughts that would give me
anxiety or worry. The day that closes, closes the old
world to me. Pleasant sleep becomes to me the vesti-
bule through which I enter the new day, the new
world, and the new life.
In sleep,
I am refreshed by the Spirit of peace
and love. I awake to a new day, new possibilities,
new opportunities. I enter a new world into which
Circumstance [ 19 ]
I take no unpleasant memories or worries of the pre-
ceding day. I will not sully my new day by carrying
into it any adverse or negative belief. I
give thanks
for each day and greet it at dawn with a happy
heart and a smile.
At dawn I realize that I have never before lived
in the new day and that it will have pleasant sur-
prises and many blessings for me, I realize that I
have but twenty-four hours to extract from it all the
blessings that it has to offer to me. I
greet each
friend with the realization that he is renewed in the
new day. He is
especially
renewed in my concep-
tion of him, since he is freed from any limited belief
that I have entertained about him in the past.
I
behold him in a new light,
unfettered by his limita-
tions of the past.
I begin the day with the realization that some
great good is in store for me and I know that this
cannot escape me. I realize that no blessing can
pass me by when I am receptive to .it No good
from heaven can find me in a mood to be unfriendly
toward it.
I rejoice each morning that I am freed from every
limiting belief that I have previously entertained
about myself. I rejoice to know that I
approach each
day with the realization that my health problems of
the previous day have been solved. I greet each day
with the realization that it
brings me the conscious-
ness of what I am in the Truth of Christ whole and
well. I know that I am being quickened to the reali-
zation that in Spirit
I am a child of God, fearless and
free. I am ready to accept every good that comes
my way and to draw to me the blessing that comes
"
20 } Mightier Than
from Christ as He draws near to me.
I realize in the new day that my failures of the
past belong to the past. My success belongs to the
present, the new day. No failure of the past can
affect the success and prosperity of the new day. The
new vision that comes to me in my new day reveals
to me fresh opportunities for success.
I cease to look to tomorrow for my happiness. I
realize that I can be happy tomorrow only through
building up a consciousness of happiness today. In
Spirit, today is the only time. It is the eternal now
and the timeless time of Spirit. How important it is
that I should live today to the full and draw from it
all the good that it has to offer me!
Today I realize that neither person nor thing can
keep me from enjoying the blessings of God. Noth-
ing external to me can keep me from realizing that
Christ in me is
greater than that which is external to
me. I turn my attention to the power of Christ in
me and realize that it is the power that gives me light,
peace, joy, love, health, and plenty. His presence be-
comes the presence of the good I desire in my life.
This is the way I
greet my new day. It is the way
I turn in thought to God and give thanks for the
good that is
given to me. I am grateful and thank-
ful for every evidence of the goodness of God.
I rejoice to live in the consciousness that all
good
comes to me now.
Cmumstance
LIFE BEGINS FOR ME TODAY
Life begins for me today!
New worlds before me lie!
The yesterdays have passed away
No more to cause a sigh.
Before me lies the bright today,
All blessings in its hold;
And I rejoice to find it
gay
And sing its joys untold.
Today for me begins anew
A life that holds for me
All that's good and real and true
Its
blessings now I see.
I look no longer to the
past,
Nor wait for future days;
For with today my lot is cast.
Its
present joys I praise.
1 22 } Mightier Than
ENDURING PRAYER
WHAT
SHALL we do when we have prayed
for a time and our prayer appears to
be unanswered? Shall we cease to call
upon the Lord ? Shall we let go ? In Isaiah we read:
"Ye that make mention of the LORD, keep not si-
lence, and give him no rest, till he establish/'
Some persons pray for a time and then accept
whatever comes to them or happens as a result of
their prayer. They accept misfortune or adversity,
if it comes after they have prayed, as an answer to
their prayer. They believe that if they have prayed
in some fashion or other, whatever comes to them is
God's will even though that which comes is obviously
evil.
Many persons do not get the right answer to their
prayer, because they do not reach the spiritual heights
in their praying. They do not enter the conscious-
ness of prayer. Their prayer therefore has no bear-
ing upon the disaster that enters their lives. They
need to get into a higher consciousness when they
pray and hold firmly to Truth.
If you pray for health, expect health. If you
make mention of health in your prayer to the Lord,
hold firmly to the truth until health is established.
Do you weaken in your prayer and then accept dis-
ease as your portion? God's will is health, not
disease.
Circumstance [ 23 }
Do not weaken or waver when you pray, even
though you enter into a high ecstasy of prayer.
Your prayer must always be positive, persistent,
en-
during. You must hold firmly to the truth even in
the face of appearances
that have no place
in Truth.
Learn to be "one-pointed" in prayer. Keep your
mind centered upon the good that God has in store
for you and make no compromise with evil. Accept
nothing short of this good. Above all, do not think
that if adversity appears in your life, your ^prayer
brought it on or that it came through God's will.
God's will is always good will. His will for you is
peace of mind, health of body, and success in affairs.
Give the Lord no rest until He comes into visi-
bility as the blessing you need. Endure to this end.
Pray without ceasing. Let your every breath con-
tribute to the purpose of your prayer.
Let your every
thought be a thought that reinforces your prayer.
In praying the powerful prayer of Truth in
being positive and enduring, you must enter that high
consciousness which knows no sense of weariness or
tenseness. Let your prayer be firm and strong, and
do not try to back it
up by human will power. You
are willing that God should give you something.
You are relaxed in mind to the extent that you know
positively what His good will is.
Enduring prayer persists through all sense of dis-
couragement The human sense of weariness is over-
come when we realize that we are praying the mighty
truths of God. We are seeing His truths established
within us. In this way we lose all sense of discour-
agement and mere personal values. The truths of
God exist independently of our personal feelings.
[ 24 ] Mghtiei Than
When evil presents itself to you in any guise,
make mention of the presence of God, the good.
Rise to the heights where you perceive the allness
of God. Keep not silent.
Speak the word. Take
no rest in your endeavors. Be refreshed through
knowing that you are thinking and acting from the
standpoint of Truth. The Lord will establish your
good because He has naught of evil to offer you.
Ever bear this in mind.
If your efforts appear to avail nothing, you have
but one thing to do: keep praying. The person who
needs to pray can do nothing else but pray. Prayer
is his one and only way out of his difficulties. His
prayer must endure. He must mention his need to
the Lord in prayer and persist in prayer until his need
is met.
When you pray you are but realizing a mighty
truth against which nothing can prevail. This mighty
truth is established in you when you reach that high
consciousness in which this truth is absolute, know-
ing no opposition or limitation. You pray the posi-
tive and absolute prayer when you reach the heights
in which God, the good, exists as all in all. His
good is established in you as the answer to your
prayer when you allow Truth to become firmly es-
tablished in your mind. Your prayer endures when
His Truth endures in your consciousness, defying
all opposition and doubt.
We enter prayer with a sense. of humility and
emerge from it victorious and triumphant if we
know how to pray the positive prayer.
Circumstance
STOP AND PRAY
When things about you are disturbed
and all the world's amiss,
When other persons seem to take
away your joy and bliss,
There's but one thing that you can do
if you would clear your day:
Cease thinking of disturbing things
stop where you are and pray!
"Stop, look, and listen," warns the sign
at busy thoroughfare,
And so in life this warning's good
to free you from all care.
Stop thinking all disturbing thought
and look to Christ instead,
And listen to His guiding voice
if by Him you'd be led.
And when in life you see that you
have troubled thoughts in mind,
There's but one thing for you to do
if happiness you'd find;
Stop, look, and listen
stop ana pray!
Let Christ have His own way!
You'll find your troubles come to end
if you but stop and pray.
Mightier Than
THE MOST EFFECTIVE PRAYER
WHAT
is the method of praying most ef-
fectively? How can I
pray and always
be sure of being answered? How can I
be assured, when I
pray, that it is God's will for my
prayer to be answered? How many times these ques-
tions come to us and how simple are the answers!
How often we become so engrossed in the science
of prayer that we forget to be divinely simple in the
art of praying!
'"*
The most effective prayer is the clearest realiza-
tiorLt!:^ We
get the clear realization that in Spirit we have that
which we desire and we behold it
coming into visi-
bility and manifestation. We can see at once that
this is a prayer of both understanding and faith. Cer-
tainly we must understand Truth in order to pray in
this fashion and, again, we must have faith in order
to see with spiritual eyes the manifestation of that
which has not as yet appeared in manifestation.
There are numerous complications and complex-
ities involved in the various explanations of how to
pray. The best way to pray, then, would seem to be
the simplest way. Certainly seeing the manifestation
of that for which we pray is the measure of simplicity
itself, because by so doing we take the attitude more
or less that our prayer is made, heard, finished, and
answered. It becomes virtually a prayer of thanks-
Cmumstance [ 27 }
giving because we enter into a spirit
of rejoicing for
that which we have sought through prayer.
Getting the clear realization of an answer to
prayer should be a simple matter. The person who
can enter spiritual consciousness may well know that
the answer to his prayer already exists there and that
he has but to make a mental demand or claim for
it in order to see it come into visibility.
One thing is certain. When you pray, you must
not recognize concessions or limitations. You must
not enter a state of prayer with the thought that
something can interfere with the answering of your
prayer. You must not believe that any person, thing,
situation, or power can interfere with God's giving
you your answer full and complete. Your prayer
must be positive.
When you pray for some good, do not take the
attitude that it may not be God's will for you to have
it. Remember that God's will is always good will.
Do not think of God as in the position of some per-
son who has personal choices. God has no choice
but to give you good. It would be utterly impos-
sible for Him to bring evil into your life. Only
you can do this and in opposition to God's will.
What shall we think of the person who prays for
health but fails to get health as the answer to his
prayer? But one thing: his failure to
pray aright.
His attempt to pray did not give him the reward he
sought Many persons who attempt to
pray for
health do not get the clear realization that they al-
ready have health in Spirit. They fail to get results
because they fail to get this clear realization of health.
What about the person who prays for success in
[ 28 ] Mightier
business but fails to achieve it? He fails to get the
clear realization of his success. He fails to behold his
success as a reality. He fails to carry this vision to
the point where failure no longer has a place in his
life. Certainly, he must not blame any other person
or power for his failure. He must not think that
the science of prayer has failed.
When in praying you get the realization that
what you desire is already yours, you may be sure
the answer to your prayer will soon appear in mani-
festation. You may be sure that you have entered
that high consciousness in which prayer and answer
are one. You can see that the clear realization of the
answer to your prayer is the most effective way of
prayer since results are always forthcoming.
Many persons pray with fear and trembling. They
fear that they are about to take something which
does not belong to them. One metaphysical writer
once remarked that many persons praying for health
would succumb from fright if they should suddenly
receive health as an answer to prayer. The indi-
vidual praying must expect the answer. He must
anticipate the blessing he seeks.
Praying in this effective way strengthens our faith
in prayer. We have the inner conviction that our
prayer will be answered. We know that when we
get the clear realization of the answer, the answer
will come into visibility.
Circumstance [ 29}
MY PART IN PRAYER
My part is but to ask in prayer,
not wonder how or when
Will God make answer to my prayer
and send me good again.
My part is but to open wide
my heart and therein find
That God already dwells therein
and has my good in mind;
My part,
to know the good I seek
is ever seeking me
And that the blessing 1 would have,
already I can see;
My part, to leave to God all
things
with not a thought of fear;
For He will always be with me,
yea, ever be so near.
And now I come to think of this:
God's loving part in prayer?
His part is but to bless my life,
His good with me to share.
He'll not withhold one thing from me
when I in prayer can see
That 'tis
my part to well rejoice
and see Him blessing me.
30] Mightier Than
IMPERSONAL PRAYERS
THOSE
who are studying Truth and applying
it
through prayer to their problems find that
there are several methods of praying. They
find that if they do not get results one way, they can
get them by praying some other way. They find that
each problem has its own solution.
Those who have personal problems find that they
have to get out of personal consciousness before they
can get results. If the thought of some person who
is unfriendly toward you comes to you quite often
and this thought is both unwelcome and irritating,
you may know that you are in personal conscious-
ness. We may define personal consciousness as a
consciousness in which we look upon persons as hav-
ing power to harm us. Also, it is a consciousness in
which we are inclined to look to our own personal
and selfish interests to the exclusion of the highest
good of others.
The one who is in personal consciousness must
cease thinking of others when praying about a per-
sonal situation. Trying to declare the truth while
using the name of the person is often to cause more
trouble. The force of our adverse thought enters
into our treatment and it becomes too personal to
yield results.
Recently we heard of a man who had been trying
for years to pray concerning a personal situation,
Circumstance [31}
but without results. Finally he saw that he had not
been praying in the right way. Through praying for
his enemy he was uniting himself and him in a nega-
tive thought, since he was unable to get out of per-
sonal consciousness. The truth dawned upon him.
He discovered that whenever the thought of this per-
son came to him, he should be impersonal. He re-
peated the Lord's Prayer whenever this man came to
his mind! While the man had no relation to the
words of the prayer, the prayer was prayed with the
intention of turning the matter over in an impersonal
way to the Lord. The thought of the enemy came to
be represented in the prayer's mind as the Lord's
Prayer. In a few weeks the prayer was answered and
friendship was restored. Impersonal praying had
brought results.
We are reminded of the story of a little Irish-
woman who once said that she never thought of the
person for whom she was praying. She just said
her beads, and in some way her prayer was answered.
She prayed impersonally. She entered into a high
consciousness where personality is
forgotten.
If you have been holding the name of an enemy
in mind when you prayed for him, get out of per-
sonal consciousness and pray impersonally. Try our
friend's plan of using the Lord's Prayer. This
method of praying will help you to get your personal
self out of the way and let the Lord's work be done.
If you have to repeat the prayer fifty times a day, do
so. You had better think of the Lord fifty times than
think of some one as an enemy that many times.
The prayer will lift you to the realization that you
have no enemies, no personal problems, no difficul-
[ 32 ] Mightier Than
ties. This is the purpose of prayer.
You will never be able to get out o a difficult
personal situation so long as you are in personal con-
sciousness and believe that some person dislikes you
or has power to harm you. You cannot get results
from prayer if in your attempt to pray for him you
give part of your thought to thinking how evil he is.
The first time you use the Lord's Prayer in this
way you must have a definite impression what your
intention is. After that, let the prayer come to your
mind instead of the thought of the one you have
disliked or who has seemed to injure you.
The impersonal prayer belongs to the higher con-
sciousness, to that which is
impersonal and universal.
We lose the personal thought of others when we en-
ter into the realization by which we know them as
children of God. If you have thought of another as
your enemy, you must give your mind a rest so that
God can reveal to you your enemy's Christlikeness.
We have power to see others at times even from a
higher viewpoint than that from which they have
been able to see themselves.
The impersonal prayer is born of the impersonal
consciousness. In the impersonal prayer we lose
sight of the personal side of ourselves and that of
the one for whom we pray. We enter the realization
where God instead of our personal thought is at
work. Our prayer is answered, because our personal
consciousness ceases to act as a barrier to God.
Circumstance 33 ]
SELFLESS PRAYER
Some one prayed at break of day
When some one needed prayer.
Some one's prayer was lifted high
And lifted some one's care.
Some one stopped at early dawn
To greet with prayer the day;
Some one else with burdens bowed
Felt these had gone away.
Some one thought to pray a prayer,
Knew not anothe^s need,
But heaven heard the prayer he prayed
And answered with full speed.
Some one stopped to know the truth
Christ's healing power to know;
And some one else thereby was healed
Of grim disease and woe.
Some one paused to pray a prayer
A selfless prayer rose high
And some one else shared in the prayer;
To him came his supply.
So when unselfishly we pray,
Our prayers are wafted high,
And others though unknown, in want,
Are healed and helped thereby.
[34] Mightier Than
GIVING TO GOD "FOR KEEPS"
IF
YOU WERE to give something to a friend
today, take it back tomorrow, give it to him
again on the third day, and get it
again on the
succeeding day, he would think you a strange giver.
When you turn your burden or problem over to
God, He does not expect to give it back to you. Ex-
pressing the thought in colloquial English, you must
give it to him "for keeps."
If at night you pray and put yourself and some
pet worry or problem in God's hands, reaching a
consciousness of having let Him lift some burden
from your shoulders, do you take the burden back
from Him the next morning? When you surrender
a burden or problem into God's keeping, let^Him
keejjjt.
He cannot help you if you continue to take
if rack into personal consciousness of the conscious-
ness of worry. He cannot act upon your problem if
you do not give it to Him in its entirety. You must
relinquish all claim upon it and lose all
personal con-
cern in it if you expect God to help you.
^XWe are taught to give God two things: first, our
love; secondly, our burdens. If we love God and
trust in Him implicitly, we will have no difficulty in
giving our burdens to Him to keep. If we are not
sure of our love and are wavering in our trust, of
course we shall think that we cannot trust Him when
we give ourselves into His charge. If we find our-
Circumstance C 35 }
selves taking back the burden or problem we had
previously given God, we may know that we need
to increase our love and trust in Him.
If you are worried about some loved one, give
him to God. Let all your worry and concern about
this person go with the giving. Do not place him in
God's keeping and then do such a foolish thing as to
worry about how God will solve the problem. Love
God and trust Him.
Let God keep whatever you give to Him. Assure
God when you place some one or some thing in His
keeping today that you will not take this person or
thing away from Him tomorrow. Let Him keep what-
ever you give to Him. Free your mind from all de-
sire to take back what you give to God, You can do
this by trusting God implicitly
and by knowing that
He will carry your burden and solve your problem.
When you give a burden to God, you give up
all
personal anxiety about it. When you give a prob-
lem to God, you should not expect to see anything of
it or know anything about it until God returns it to
you solved or else returns it to you with directions
as to how you can reach the solution.
When you give your burden to God, you are set
free from all sense of burden. You are mentally
and physically unburdened. You shift the load from
your shoulders to God's. You cannot feel weary or
fatigued when God takes the burden upon Himself.
His taking the load unburdens and refreshes you.
Do you see that when you give to the Lord, you
must give "for keeps*'? Do you see that when you
give Him your burden you must let Him keep it?
Do not feel that you must rest His shoulders by oc-
{ 36 ] Mightier Than
casionally taking it back upon yours. Do not feel
that the load may be too heavy for Him and that
you must share it with Him.
If you do not feel that God is
equal to carrying
your burden, do not give it to Him. Keep it
your-
self and try to bear it alone. If you give it to Him,
He will expect all of it. He will not even expect
you to bear any part of it or to relieve Him of it at
times.
These lines from a little Unity poem convey
something of this message:
Have you yet prayed about it, friend?
You wonder what is best?
Then place the matter in His hands
And leave to Him the rest.
The load is lifted when you pray;
Your heart will lose its sigh
When you give all into His hands
As He is standing by.
Yes, the load is lifted during the time of prayer, but
after we cease praying we may have a sense of its
coming back to us if we are not watchful.
Giving our burden to the Lord is a matter of ab-
solute resignation. We yield all to Him. We hold
nothing back for ourselves. We make a gift to God
without strings on it by which to recover it. When
the time comes for God to give back to us what we
have intrusted to His care, we shall know when we re-
ceive it that He has removed everything troublesome
from its nature and returned it to us as a blessing.
The things in your life that you do not want
can be given to God.
Circumstance { 37 }
SOMEHOW GOD ANSWERS PRAYER
Sometimes when 1 have tried in vain
and seem about to lose, to fail, there
comes to me assuring peace: The
Truth of God will win, prevail.
Or
when it seems that everything gives
only trouble and more care, I turn
to God, I think to pray, and find
somehow God answers prayer, 1
need not tell Him just the way to
answer when to Him 1 call; my faith
assures me He'll not fail when in
my trust I yield Him all. And when
I think of only God} to Him alone
in faith repair,
it matters not how
hard my task, I know somehow God
answers prayer. Somehow, some-
way, God answers prayer when other-
wise I'd be afraid. 'Tis then He
gives me added strength; a thousand
hands come to my aid. I need to
think less of the lack, to know that
He is
everywhere, to just appropriate
the good and question not His way
of prayer.
38] Mightier Than
MY PACT WITH THEE, CHRIST
WITH
THEE, O Christ, I make a pact to-
day. I enter into that higher conscious-
ness wherein I feel that Thou art a living
presence with whom I am inseparably unified. I
enter into the realization that we speak to one an-
other. In making this pact, I realize that Thou art
helping me to keep it to the best of my ability.
I make this pact with Thee today: I will do the
best I can to keep my every thought centered upon
Thee. Through Thy help I will keep my mind
cleared of darkness, hate, fear, cruelty, disease, and
failure. Through Thy heavenly assistance I dedi-
cate my mind and thought to Thee. Thy heavenly
thoughts shall fill
my mind to overflowing, leaving
no room for worldly and adverse thoughts.
Through this solemn and holy pact I dedicate
and consecrate my mind to Thee for this day. I
keep my mind holy that it may be a fit
place for Thy
heavenly thoughts. Through this dedication and
consecration, my mind becomes the proper vessel to
bear Thy message of heavenly truth.
By my pact with Thee, O Christ, I agree to think
of Thee before I utter one word. My words shall
be words of Truth and of light They shall be words
inspired by Thy grace and strengthened by Thy
presence. Thy words, established in heavenly light
and wisdom, shall be my words. My lips and my
Circumstance [39]
tongue are today dedicated and blessed for the pur-
pose of speaking Thy words of wisdom.
In making this holy pact today I
agree to behold
Thy presence of goodness instead of what men have
called evil. By Thy assistance I am enabled to see
beyond the appearance of evil and to behold omni-
present good. I behold Thee as the allness of good
that in Truth leaves no place for man's concept of
some opposite to good.
Bless my inner vision and my eyes today that I
may see Thee clearly expressed in all things. Help
me to keep my vision centered upon Thee this day
and to have eyes dedicated to clear seeing. Help me
to look beyond the appearance of personal limita-
tion and to behold God's perfect man in visibility.
By my pact today, I am endeavoring to hear only
that which is harmonious. In place of words of evil,
gossip, and malice, let me hear Thy "still small
voice." Bless my ears that they may be attuned to
words of Spirit. Enable me to hear clearly and dis-
tinctly all that Thou wouldst say to me.
By my pact today I would live in Thy heart. I
would give my whole heart and soul to Thee for this
day of my pact. I agree to try to keep out of mind
every thought or feeling that would offend Thy
blessed heart. I would feel that Thy heart encom-
passes me completely. Help me to know that I live
in Thy heart, that it is my safe refuge, my retreat,
my holy abiding place, my sanctuary.
I make this pact with Thee today: I will serve
Thee in whatever capacity Thou canst use me. By
this agreement I would minister unto Thy loved ones
by Thy prompting. I would make their burdens
[40] Mightier Than
lighter, their way easier. May my hands be healing
hands, hands of mercy, hands of service, hands of
prayer.
I agree by my pact today to walk in Thy path.
Keep my feet turned from paths of vice, paths made
by evil thought. Set my feet upon higher ground.
Show me the way to go that in all my ways I may
glorify Thee. Reveal to me that Thou art with me
every step of the way. I would know that Thou art
ever at hand, that I walk in Thy path, that Thy feet
precede mine.
I can encounter no difficulty in keeping this pact
with Thee today because Thou art with me, inspir-
ing and strengthening my mind, revealing Truth in
all its fullness. I know that when I enter into this
agreement with Thee, Thou comest to my side to aid
me in all things and to make my way easier. I know
that through Thy help I can keep this
pact and that
I can do whatever I undertake.
When I do the best I can, my reward is sure. I
am compensated with Thy gift of added strength.
I realize that Thou art rejoicing in my every endeavor
to be true to Thy message of Truth and in my every
attempt to grow in Thy likeness.
By my pact today I stand hand in hand with Thee.
When I falter, I have Thy courage. When I suc-
ceed, I have Thy praise. As I go forward in Thy
grace, I have Thy assurance that I need not turn back.
Circumstance [ 41 }
'
ALONE WITH GOD IN SLEEP
At eventide God hides the sun
Within His mantle black
That man may for a time withdraw
His sight from worldly things
And enter through the shades of night
Into the deeper realms of soul,
Where there is only God.
At nighttime) too, God gives man sleep
That he may rest his mind from things,
That he may give his soul a chance
To learn great truths of deep import.
Then in the blackness of the night
His lids are closed in sleep profound.
Man feels the nothingness of things
And, groping in the dark, finds God.
There in his deep, unconscious sleep,
Things are no more. God's world's enough!
His soul and Spirit long commune,
And all of soul is satisfied
If thought to God alone is
given.
At dawn God gives man back his light;
Man sees the world through eyes renewed,
Through eyes and thoughts no more misled.
God stands with man at
dawning time
Upon the threshold of a day;
Sends forth His son to
conquer worlds,
But to return to Him at night
And to His counsels well attend.
C 42 3 Mightier Than
CUEIST IS MY REFUGE
H'AVE YOU not at times wished that you might
find some place of refuge to which you
could go when things seemed to disturb
you more than usual, some sanctuary to which you
could go and think things out, some retreat where
there would be a guide or teacher who would show
you what to do, a high place from which you would
emerge with victory and peace in your heart?
Were it in the power of man to build such an
edifice, every person in the world would clamor for
a place in it. He would be willing to make any
sacrifice, financial or otherwise, in order to be able
to relieve his burdened mind or heavy heart and come
away carefree and victorious. Virtually every per-
son in the world at some time has problems to solve
or decisions to make that seem almost too much for
his own handling or solution.
David knew the Spirit of God as his refuge in
times of trouble, a strong tower to which he could
retreat when his adverse thoughts had to be over-
come through his knowledge of Truth. He ex-
pressed himself in this way:
Thou hast been a refuge for me,
A strong tower from the enemy.
Any concordance to the Bible will bring to our at-
tention many passages under "Tower." If we have
Circumstance
not previously realized that we have a tower or
refuge in times of stress and strain, we make the
startling discovery that such a place does exist and
that we have access to it.
We do not need to go halfway round the world
to find this temple or shrine. It exists at the heart
of our being, Christ is our refuge. In Him we find
sanctuary. To Him we can retreat from adverse
thinking and discover our power through Him to be
triumphant. Christ is our refuge, our tower of
strength, our shrine of devotion, our high place of
victory.
When we seem to be overcome with our thoughts
of adversity, what shall we do? Shall we let our-
selves be mastered by them? Shall we give in to
thoughts of evil, sin, fear, hate, disease, and failure?
In other words, shall we remain outside the refuge
of Christ? Every adverse thought, every thought
contrary to the Truth of Christ, disqualifies us, keeps
us frorti being worshipers in His temple, victorious
followers in His faith.
When we seem to be lost, forsaken, at sea, when
we feel so strongly a need of going into some temple
or sanctuary, what shall we do ? How can we find
this mystical refuge of Christ? Granted that it ex-
ists for those of a higher consciousness, how shall
we, beginners in the study of Truth, discover it, enter
it, and enjoy its
blessings?
First, we must give up our adverse thinking. We
must be like those worshipers who enter a sacred
temple and are required to leave their shoes at the
door. At the door of our temple we leave our
worldly thoughts. We leave those negative and ad-
44] Mightier 'Than
verse thoughts that in our heart we know are con-
trary to Christ and His Truth. We enter the temple
as clean in heart as we can make ourselves, knowing
that our visit to Christ will mean additional puri-
fication.
In the temple our whole attention is
given to
Christ. Of course in His presence there can be no
thoughts of doubt or fear. To get into the presence
of Christ, to have an audience with Him, we must
be loyal to Him and think of naught but Him. We
must realize that we are going into a sacred place for
a visit with Him. We must expect His blessing and
know that He will take all heaviness from our heart.
His light will shine upon us in heavenly benediction
and will reveal to us the very likeness of Himself
within us. A strange mystical experience is this.
We enter the refuge of Christ to have Him revealed
to us and He meets us there to reveal us to ourselves.
We go to discover Him in the temple and find our-
selves revealed in the light of our inner being.
In times of trouble, let us enter this inner tower
of light and strength through knowing that Christ is
our refuge and victory. But one thing is
required
of us: that we enter according to the 24th Psalm,
with our hands and hearts made as clean and as pure
as we can make them. Christ will do the rest. He
will give us that heavenly purification that humanly
we cannot give ourselves.
In having revealed to you this sanctuary of puri-
fication, strength, and triumph, you have learned the
greatest secret in the universe. No money can buy
from you this pearl of priceless value.
Circumstance 45}
KEEP SHINING
The sun is always shining bright
And always giving some one light;
Though clouds may hide its face from you,
'Tis always shiningt
this is true.
You say, "There is no sun today!"
Oh, what an untrue thing to say!
The sun will never cease to shine,,
A thing of faith, of joy a sign.
Now, deep within you there's a sun
That's brighter than the earthly one,
A sun that shines within your heart;
For it is God of you a part.
So when you scowl or when you frown,
'Tis as when rain is
coming down,
Or as when clouds hide sunny rays
And make men think of cloudy days.
Remember well the sun shines bright,
Always ready to give light;
So must the sun of God e'er shine
Within us bright V is heaven's sign.
[46] Mightier Than
CHILDREN OF LIGHT
THOSE
whose thought is directed to Christ, the
presence of light at the heart of their being,
know themselves as children of light. They
are children of illumination and inspiration. They
are a people apart from those who walk in darkness,
those whose inner light appears to be obscured, those
with darkened countenance.
"Believe on the light, that ye may become sons of
light." Turn in thought to the light of Christ within
you and behold in that light your own illumined
countenance. See yourself stripped of darkness, free
from every shadowy thought, released from all heavy
and black thoughts. Behold in your inner light the
image and likeness of God inspiring you to your own
glorious selfhood.
Turn to the inner light and keep your gaze fixed
upon it so that you may know yourself as a child of
light. You can go among men of darkened thought
and bear the candle of the Lord. You can carry on
business in this great modern world and be unmoved
and unconfused by its
glamour; for your own light
will be brightest of all. You, the great business ex-
ecutive on the fiftieth floor of a modern skyscraper,
need to turn often to the inner light of your higher
self. You, the busy housewife with a myriad duties,
need to find this light and to keep it bright in your
little household. Every one needs to find his light
Circumstance 47}
and to know that nothing o the world about him can
obscure its brightness.
Those who have discovered that they are children
of light must keep their light shining. They must
keep a clear realization of its
presence. They must
turn to it when darkness appears to fall about them.
They must turn their eyes to the light when they
need guidance. They must seek its' illumination
when they know not what to do. They must turn
to the light when about them are those who sit in
darkness.
Those who are in high political positions
need to
turn to their light when those about them are dark-
ened by selfishness and greed. They must let their
own light of Christ shine so brightly that those about
them will be quickened to light. Those with black
and heavy thoughts must have their vision turned to
light. They too are in the process of becoming sons
of light.
The salvation of the world will ever depend upon
the children of light, those of high vision. Its salva-
tion depends upon Christ shining in the hearts of
men. The Spirit
of Christ must awaken many hearts
of light before His ideal world comes into manifesta-
tion. The children of light,
children of Truth and
love, must awaken others to light.
The child of light will not let a darkened thought
exist in his consciousness. He cannot entertain
thoughts of ignorance, hate, fear, sorrow, disease,
and lack. The light of Truth shines in his heart. He
is the child of light, the ray of light from the light of
heaven. His mind must be kept so clarified that it is
sensitive to heavenly light, and divine wisdom.
[ 48 ] Mightier Than
The light o Christ shines in the heart of those
who are children of light. Light floods their coun-
tenance. They walk upon a path of light. They are
those who are so illumined with Truth that they re-
fuse to believe in the presence or power of evil. They
are so conscious of the presence of Christ that they
cannot believe in sin, disease, hate, fear, or lack.
Their eyes are ever upon the light of Christ.
Children of light are children of Truth and love.
They are prompted by Truth and love in all their
dealings. Christ is so real to them, so near to them
that Truth has first
place in their thoughts, love has
first
place in their feelings.
If you have found the light of Christ within you,
you will not let any adverse thought darken your
countenance. The darkness of evil, disease, hate, and
fear cannot dim your light. It will keep shining even
when the world about you is dark. The darkness of
indecision cannot cover you when you realize that the
light of wisdom and good judgment shines within
you.
Go forth this day in the realization that you have
within you the light of wisdom, peace, love, and life.
Let no mortal or adverse thought dim this light.
Keep thinking Truth. Keep your light shining.
Abide in the consciousness that as a child of light
you live in a world of light, the world of Christ.
The light of Christ within you can never be taken
from you.
Circumstance
THE SOUL DAWN
When day is dawning in the east,
the sun arises in my soul,
Across the threshold of the mind,
there streams a thought that I am whole;
There comes a thought that glorifies
my inmost being, soul, and heart
The rays of Truth, its sunshine bright,
must penetrate my every part.
When the horizon shows to me
its shafts of glory, warmth, and light,
There dawns upon my consciousness
the light of Truth with rays so bright
That every darkened thought must go,
must be replaced by thoughts of good,
And every doubt and unbelief
give way to Truth that's understood.
When Truth, then, dawns upon my soul,
its
glory fills
and thrills my mind,
A new world opens to my sight,
a heavenly world it is in kind.
Behind me lie the yesterdays,
before me only lies today.
When day is
dawning in the east,
I turn my eyes to Light and pray.
50 } Mightier Than
ADAPTING OURSELVES TO SITUATIONS
WHAT
encouragement or assistance can we
offer to those who think of themselves
as misfits, unable to adapt themselves to
their fellows and to situations in life? How shall we
help the person who says that no one understands
him? What has the study of Truth to offer to the
individual who lacks the common touch and seem-
ingly lives apart from the brotherhood of man?
Paul taught, "I have adapted myself to all men
. . . This I do for the sake of the good news, that I
may have a share in its
blessings" (I Cor. 9:22, 23;
Kent version). We strongly suspect that Paul's
secret of adapting himself to all men was through
his understanding of "the good news," the gospel of
Christ. His purpose, of course, was to further the
work of his ministry, but the message he had to offer
had within it the secret of adaptation.
The individual who is not adaptable to persons
and situations plainly shows that he does not "keep
the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace." He
shows that he lacks an understanding of. -the truth that
teaches the unity of brotherhood in Jesus Christ. He
shows that he needs Truth.
Those who think of themselves as misfits are just
that: products of their thoughts about themselves.
They are misfits, they are apart from their fellows
as long as they remain in this state of mind. They
Circumstance C 51 }
are unable to adapt themselves because they do not
think in terms of adaptation. They allow them-
selves to think opposition. They may pride them-
selves that they do not follow the common herd.
The advice of one religious society to its followers,
"Shun singularity as much as possible," would be
good for such persons to follow.
The person who thinks that no one understands
him is one who does not understand others. He
needs to find that common knowledge of how to get
along in life that other people seem to possess. He
needs to avoid the eccentric in thought, deed, and
habit. He must avoid requiring special attention
from his family, his hostess, or his associates.
The study of Truth will either make us more
adaptable to situations, more friendly in our rela-
tions with others, because we discover the unity of
universal brotherhood, or else it will fail in its
pur-
pose for a time and cause us to be introverts, given
to abnormal introspection, inclined to hold ourselves
apart from the world about us. Truth is always
sane in its
teachings. It does not expect its followers
to be singular. "Shun singularity as much as pos-
sible" even in your practice of Truth.
All persons have many things in common. It is
this which makes the whole world akin. It is the
great leveler. It is the secret of adaptation. We
become singular, unadaptable, irregular only when
we think of ourselves as not having anything in com-
mon with others. The person who adapts himself
to situations feels an inner connection with them.
He may know that he is not bound to them and still
feel his relation to them. He is like a rough stone
[ 52 ] mghtiet Than
whose irregular corners one removes in order to fit
it into the place in which it
belongs.
Very often the individual is
disappointed because
situations do not adapt themselves to his brand of
personality. He expects situations to come to him
tailor-made. Situations are universal. They are of
the same general type and come to all alike. The
individual would probably hold himself less apart
from his fellows if he understood this fact and real-
ized that all persons have the same problems. He
would feel more compassionate toward others if he
could realize that their problems of today are such as
he has previously solved or else will have to solve.
Likewise his problems of today have been or will be
the problems of others.
The individual who is not adaptable experiences
life as more or less of a burden. He neglects to
share in the joys of others. He has not found Christ
in their hearts. He may know something of Christ
in his own heart, but this knowledge is limited if he
does not let Christ in him speak to Christ in others.
His conception is of Christ the limited although he
must know Christ the indivisible.
Adaptation comes through our giving up the per-
sonal consciousness, in which we emphasize the dif-
ferences between ourselves and others, and entering
into a universal consciousness, in which we feel
through Christ in the midst of us that we are
akii^
to all men and share with them the joys of Spirit.
y
Circumstance [ 51 J
I LIKE TO GREET A BRAND-NEW DAY
/ like to wake at early mom
and greet a brand-new day
Just as I like to greet a -friend
who happens 'long my way;
]ust like a friend who bears me gifts,
a new day comes to me.
With arms well filled with blessings rich;
its
sunny smile I see.
I like to have a bright new day
greet me like that at dawn;
I think the sun smiles more and more
as o'er me it
speeds on;
There's magic in a brand-new day,
as though 'twere heaven-sent,
And it would bless me all day long
until the day is
spent.
I feel at dawn a new year come,
a new world open too;
The past is
gone with its mistakes,
and good alone's in view;
I think that when a new day dawns
with sun a-shining bright,
God in His heaven smiles on me
through every ray of light.
[54] Mightier Than
THE GREAT PROMISE
WHAT
would be your reaction if you
should find in your daily paper an an-
nouncement that some one was prepared
to take over all your troubles and guarantee to put
all your affairs in perfect order? If you have some
little
pet or secret worry that has been disturbing your
mind for some time, if you feel that you have some
problem for which there seems to be no solution, if
help or relief seems slow in reaching you, you will
feel quite a relief in learning that you have access
to some one who will come to your aid, see that justice
is administered, and do all this without waste of time.
In Isaiah 46:13, you will find that God makes you
this promise: "I bring near my righteousness, it shall
not be far off, and my salvation shall not tarry." He
promises you that if you will turn to Him, He will
bring His justice right to you without delay. He
promises you that if you will believe on Him He will
adjust the differences between you and your neighbor
immediately. He promises that the right thing will
be done in your life without delay. He promises that
He will correct any situation that needs correcting.
He promises to take over all your troubles and guar-
antees to put all your affairs in perfect order. When?
Without tarrying. Right now and here.
Could God make you a greater promise than this ?
Can He do more than ask you to give all your worries
Circumstance [ 55 }
into His keeping? Would you not enjoy heaven and
perfect bliss if you were without an adverse thought
or thought of worry ? Can you take God at His word ?
Not desiring to withhold justice and salvation
from you, He brings them near to you. He will not
keep these away from you nor will He delay reaching
you. What problem does He refer to? Does He ex-
clude anything? His righteousness
knows no limit.
Nothing is too difficult for it.
Nothing can defy
His justice.
The great promise is that your salvation from evil,
worry, injustice, disease, and lack is a salvation made
evident here and now. Such salvation is
perfect in
that nothing is left to be desired. The promise is that
God will rush His aid to you and that He will do
whatever is
just and right.
In Isaiah 46:9, 10 we read: "Remember ... I
am God, and there is none else! I am God, and there
is none like me . . .
My counsel shall stand." Do
you, in turn, promise to remember that God is God
and that evil or adversity or worry is not some god
or power in your life ? If in Truth there is none else
beside God, then in your life there is
nothing that
can cause worry or adversity.
'There is none like" God because He alone is in
Truth. God, the good, alone exists and there is noth-
ing like Him in power, like Him in presence, like
Him in justice and salvation. To claim the great
promise you have but to know this mighty truth.
You have but to know that God alone has omnipres-
ence and omnipotence in your life. Your worry or
your problem belongs in the category of "There is
none else/' and consequently
it has neither place nor
56 } Mghttef Than
power in Truth to become a rival of God.
To claim the great promise, to have your problem
solved, to have your worry dissolved, you need to
know that God alone has power and presence. He
counsels and advises you in this matter and you must
accept His counsel. It must stand in your conscious-
ness as a challenge to all
worry, all
opposing thought.
Next, you need to realize that His salvation will come
to you right where you are and right at the present
moment.
Previously you have been unable to claim the
great promise because you have thought and done the
thing that is the opposite of His instructions. You
have believed that something in your life unlike God
has power. You have believed that something has
power to thwart God's aid or to delay its
reaching
you. Now you must reverse your thought; you must
think and act according to the great promise. You
must realize that His righteousness is not far off and
that His salvation is
right at hand.
The great promise reveals possibilities in prayer
and treatment that are almost staggering. On the
other hand, invoking the promise is so simple that
we might be inclined to doubt that much can be ac-
complished by such simplicity. We have but this to
do; we have but to claim the promise and see what
happens. We have but to show God that we believe
He is all in all in order to have Him reveal to us
the nothingness of our worries. We have but to ful-
fill our part of the bargain and then see what hap-
pens.
Circumstance 37}
MY GARDEN CHAPEL
My heart is like a garden
where there's springtime all the while,
Where mellow sun is
shining,
where the blooming flowers nod,
Where birds are ever singing,
where companions meet and smile,
And all in benediction
turn in thought to Christ of God.
Enshrined within my garden
is a holy chapel small
Where Christ in radiant beauty
fills
the sanctuary bright,
Where joy and light and beauty
shine with love from wall to wall,
Where Christ relieves from worry,
where He makes my burdens light.
And when my thought is dark
and heavy, when my burdens weigh,
And when the Christ almost forgotten
for my love does yearn,
My garden fair sends forth its call
to reach me by the way,
Its
chapel bell starts
ringing
and to Christ in prayer I turn.
[58] Mightier Than
LIVING IN ETERNITY
LET
us at the start define "living in eternity" as
being in that state of consciousness in which
we see all things from the standpoint of eter-
nal and permanent values. The person who has
learned to live in eternity sees the events of his day
only as they have bearing upon this eternal conscious-
ness. The value of this consciousness lies in the fact
that events ordinarily considered of importance be-
come insignificant. The individual who has lived in
personal consciousness and believed that circum-
stances involving his own personality give him pain
or pleasure, finds when living in eternity that old
values give way to new ones -values established by
Truth.
The study of Truth gives us a true, permanent,
real, and eternal standard of value. Without this
standard we are in the position of placing false or
uncertain valuations upon our experiences. Ac-
cording to the standard of personal consciousness, if
some one says or does something that we think he
should not say or do, we are offended. From the
standpoint of living in eternity, we should view his
words or deeds as having no eternal significance.
We can see that living in eternity and recognizing
its standards and values is the antidote and remedy
for personal slights.
Living in eternity helps us to view all our daily
Circumstance C 59 }
problems from a standpoint other than that from
which problems ordinarily are seen. We see them
not as problems baffling solution, but as problems
being solved through a higher, masterful conscious-
ness. The consciousness of eternity becomes to us
at once a science of spiritual
mathematics by which
all
problems are solved.
The difference between two persons may be
thought of as the difference between their rods for
measuring value. The difference in their reactions
to life or the difference with respect to their success
may be considered as coming from their different
standards of life and the difference in the rules that
they apply to life. The person who puts a high
estimate on life draws rich returns from life. The
individual with a small measuring rod must be con-
tent with small rewards.
The person who puts a high value on some tri-
fling or insignificant experience hugs to himself tri-
fling and insignificant values, since he wants to pre-
serve for himself that which he considers of value.
The individual who views life from the standpoint
of what we have called eternal values sees insignifi-
cant experiences for what they are. He does not
cherish these, because they have no eternal value
for him.
If you find that you are harboring the memory
of unhappy experiences, you may know that you do
so because you once placed some estimate of value
upon them. If you had not done so, you would not
find them in your possession. Your business now is
to revalue your experiences according to eternal
standards. This is
accomplished through living in
60 ] Mightier Than
the eternal consciousness.
The consciousness o eternity gives you a sense
of mastery. Things that formerly disturbed you will
no longer be able to irritate or upset you. Why?
They have no value according to your new standard
of life. Since you live in eternity, measuring all
things by the principle of Truth, they fail to impress
you with any value.
Prophets and sages have always reminded us
that things are fleeting. Metaphysicians call atten-
tion to the nothingness of material things because
they realize that Spirit alone is eternal.
The study of Truth gives us a new appreciation
of life. We look back at situations that formerly
enlisted our attention and wonder how we could give
them a moments thought. We are surprised that we
should have conceded value to that which in Truth
is valueless. The study of Truth gives us the con-
sciousness of eternal and permanent values and we
rejoice to live in the eternal consciousness.
Begin today to reassess the values of your life if
you have not already done so. Cease to hold in
memory unpleasant experiences of the past. Live in
the eternal and by its valuations. Live in the con-
scious realization that only that which is true and
real and permanent and eternal can merit a place in
your thought and memory.
Put first
things first. That which is first in the
mind of God should be first in yours. That which
has eternal value must be preserved in your memory
and given first
place.
Circumstance
BROADER VISTAS
Do you like to see broad vistas
spreading out before your view,
When you're standing on a hilltop,
when the day is
young and new?
Do you like to catch the vision
of God's presence everywhere,
As you stand upon a hilltop,
when your hearfs in morning prayer?
I have jound that from broad vistas
comes a lesson good to heed,
For 't is more of breadth of vision
that we pray for and we need;
Broader minds alone can give us
more compassion, more of light
That reveals to us our freedom
from intolerance's blight.
If you find your thought is narrow,
that you're limited and bound,
That you're circumscribed in thinking,
just remember it's been found
That it's best to see broad vistas,
for in them you're sure to find
Tolerance and sweet compassion
that abide in breadth of mind.
Mightier Than
"LET NOTHING DISTURB THEE"
ALL
THE WORLD is
seeking peace of mind,
freedom from the belief that other persons,
external things, and circumstances can take
their peace from them. Most persons would be will-
ing to make almost any sacrifice in order to reach
the realization that things cannot disturb them. Some
of them try various philosophies and religions, hop-
ing to find in these teachings something that will help
them to reach the consciousness in which they will be
undisturbed. Saint Theresa, a Christian mystic, had
this advice to offer:
Let nothing disturb thee,
Nothing affright thee;
All things are passing;
God never changeth:
Patient endurance
Attaineth to all things;
Who God possesseth
In nothing is wanting,
Alone God sufficeth.
In this inspiring little
poem, our thought is di-
rected away from things and their power to dis-
turb or frighten us. Our attention is directed to God.
We see that things and their condition are transitory.
We see that God Truth, good, love, joy, beauty
alone endures. Things of the world about us lose
their power over us. We come to think of God, the
Circumstance C ^3 ]
infinite good, as all power.
Nothing can disturb or frighten us when we real-
ize that things, of the world are ever going through
a process of change. Only God is
permanent. Pa-
tiently watching God and the things of God coming
more and more into evidence and visibility, we be-
hold the things that disturb passing into a state of
invisibility. Knowing that God possesses us and we
are His own, we can want nothing, not even peace
of mind. We cannot let persons, things, and situa-
tions disturb us when we have a consciousness of
God's presence and power.
His omnipresence and omnipotence must occupy
first
place in our thought. When we believe in Him,
external things will no longer have the power to
make us feel their presence or power to the extent
of robbing us of peace and happiness.
If we believe
that God in His omnipotence has power to make us
peaceful, we cannot at the same time believe that
things have power to disturb us.
Quite likely you are entertaining the belief that
some person or some thing has power to disturb
your peace of mind. But is this true? Do you not
feel something within you trying to convince you
that this is not true? Does not something at the
heart of your being tell you that God is all in all ? Is
it not logical to believe that you came into the world
master of conditions and things about you? Does
it not seem foolish to believe that God would have
created you and placed you in the world to be at its
mercy?
"Let nothing disturb thee." Drop from mind any
belief that you are entertaining to the contrary.
[ 64 ] Mightier Than
Cease to build up a state of mind in which you give
any person or thing power to disturb you. No longer
give any thought to the belief that you are a victim
of another's unkindness, injustice, or ill will. You
are free from all belief that another can disturb you
but you must know this truth in order to see it dem-
onstrated in your life.
jx- Your freedom from all belief that persons or
things can disturb you must be an active thought in
your mind. This active thought must neutralize and
annihilate all belief that you have previously enter-
tained that they can disturb you. You must estab-
lish in mind the truth that you are undisturbed.
You should aim to reach that consciousness of
life where you are not constantly thinking about
what other persons think, say, or do. In the im-
personal consciousness, you will not let
persons and
things disturb you. You will live with God and in
the realization that God in the midst of you is the
only presence and the only power in Truth. You
will come to know that your thought must be upon
God at all times. "Alone God sufficeth."
When things seem to disturb you and seem to
take your peace of mind from you, let this be a warn-
ing that you need to think Truth and direct your
thought to God at the heart of your being. You
cannot believe in the power of other persons and
things when you believe in your own God-given
power, the power of the presence of God within you.
"Let nothing disturb thee."
Circumstance
MORNING, NOON, AND NIGHT
/ like to pause at early dawn
And lift my heart in prayer
And just give thanks that I behold
God's presence everywhere.
When early mornings light appears
And east's horizon's bright
I feel down deep within my heart
The dawning of a light.
I often stop at busy noon
When in life's passing throng
For just a short but hearty prayer
And lift my soul in song.
And as I go my way again,
I feel that I'm aware
Of added courage and new strength
That come from thoughtful prayer.
I always pause when night draws near
To lift my heart in praise
That God has shown Himself to me
And glorified my days.
When sleep would claim me for its own
And stillness fills the air,
I then await the dawn and time
To rise in morning prayer.
C 66 ] Mightier Than
YOU ARE UNLIMITED
H"AVE YOU realized that" there are no limita-
tions upon you except those which you put
upon yourself? Your limitations are
solely those of your own creating, those to which you
agree. Nothing in all the world can set you free
from limited conditions as long as you hold them in
mind. You must first
perceive yourself to be free
before you can expect to be free from what appears
an outer condition that limits or binds you.
You can free yourself from limitations only
through knowing Truth and letting it set you free.
You must free yourself of all belief that any person
or thing can interfere with your perfect freedom or
fullest expression. You need to erase from mind
any belief that binds you mentally and physically.
You are unlimited! The presence of God is ever
with you, inspiring you to rise out of all human
concepts of limitation and accept His Truth. You
can do whatever you want to do. You can be what-
ever you want to be. You can have whatever you
want. But one thing is necessary. You must be
able to reach the high consciousness in which you
know that there are no limitations.
You are unlimited in wisdom. You can perceive
all the Truth that God has in store for man. Do not
ever think of yourself as limited in the amount of
knowledge you can get. Truth is unlimited in its
Circumstance 67 }
scope and man is unlimited in his ability to perceive
Truth. The measure of his understanding of Truth
is but the measure that he makes for himself.
You are unlimited in health. You limit your
health only by living in a state of mind in which you
think of health as limited. You are healthy accord-
ing to the measure of health that you conceive of for
yourself.
You drink at the fountain of life according
to your capacity.
You are unlimited in prosperity
and success. If
you think of yourself as limited, you become limited
in finances because you are unable to escape from the
adverse thought you hold over yourself. You can-
not succeed as long as you think you cannot succeed.
If you think of any external thing or circumstance as
having power to limit your success, you will be lim-
ited, but not because of the thing or the circumstance.
Do you grasp the truth of your being limitless ?
Do you see that God sent you into the world without
limitation? The purpose of your study of the Truth
of God is to convince your own mind of the truth
of your freedom from limitation. You must con-
vince yourself of your freedom to the extent that you
can no longer believe in limitation.
You are the child of God and without limitation.
Created in the image and likeness of God, you are
like God without limitation. Think of yourself as
created in the likeness of limitlessness, as the child
of limitlessness. Know that you are the child of
freedom, created in the likeness of freedom.
The new interpretation and presentation of the
teachings of Christ as given us through these studies
of Truth reveal to us that we have no limitations
68 ] Mightier Than
except those of our own producing. We continually
have our minds challenged by the teachings we find
in the Bible, which force us to give up the viewpoints
that we have clung to for the truth of our unlimited-
ness. Something deep within us literally compels us
to give up limited ideas about our capacity for knowl-
edge, health, and success, and for the enjoyment of
these.
Be fair to yourself. Cease to hold yourself in the
thought of limitation. Above all, never blame the
other fellow for your limitations or think that he is
to blame for them. If you are at present living in a
state of bondage and limitation, admit that it is of
your own producing. Your next step will be that of
admitting your freedom.
Rejoice to know that you have the truth that sets
you free. Rejoice that you are going forth today in
the consciousness that you are unlimited. Abide in
the realization that you accept the truth of your free-
dom and will nevermore be enslaved. Go forth in
the conscious realization that you are forever free
and will never again think of yourself as in bondage.
We salute you as the son of God, unlimited and
free. We greet you in the consciousness that you
know the Truth that will keep you in the realization
of perfect freedom. We declare for you perfect
health and unlimited success.
Circumstance [ 69 ]
SECRET THOUGHTS
If you were ne'er to think a thought
That you from God would hide,
You'd always think the good and true;
In heavenly peace abide.
Your mind would then be crystal clear
No darkened thoughts there found;
The light of heaven would shine through;
In peace you would abound.
If all your secret thoughts were seen
By those who know you well,
Would you be proud of their display?
Would they in friendship dwell?
I'm sure we have no secret thoughts,
I feel that they are seen:
Upon our countenance they flash
Like pictures on a screen.
If we would think but holy thoughts,
And think the good and true,
No shame we'd feel at secret thoughts
If they should come to view,
But man has secret thoughts he'd hide
Or be misunderstood;
How fortunate, we think, man is
That God sees only good!
70} Mightier Than
YOU CANNOT ESCAPE GOD'S LOVE
IF
YOU ascend to the heights of spiritual con-
sciousness, you find God. If you wallow in
disease and live in lack, you still have recourse
to God. He is
omnipresent, ever at hand. David
sang:
If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there:
If I make my bed in Sheol, behold, thou art there,
David knew that God is as omnipresent as light,
peace, love, life, and plenty, even though man at
times fails to recognize Him.
The truth is that we cannot get away from God's
presence or live apart from Him. When through
ignorance of Truth we believe in disease, He is
pres-
ent as our health. When we entertain the thought
of lack, He is the truth of our supply. Even when
we "make our bed" in the depths and believe our-
selves in the darkness of despair, He is there waiting
for us to turn unto Him. We cannot escape His
presence and His blessings.
No doubt this message will be picked up and
read by a great many persons who at the moment are
burdened by the belief that evil in some guise is
affecting them and their interests. By turning ad-
verse matters over and over in their minds they have
come to emphasize evil and to make it
appear to
have presence, reality, and being. Their bed is in
Circumstance
Sheol, but they know not that God is there, that He
alone has presence, reality, and being.
Possibly we are reaching some one whose life
seems quite barren of love because he thinks that
some individual can deprive him of love. His per-
sonal consciousness has put him in Sheol. His belief
that some person can keep love out of his life has
kept him from realizing God's omnipresence as love.
His negative thought has hung a veil that obscures
God and His love. His only relief can come through
a change of thought and his turning to God. He
needs to realize that no person can keep God's love
from him. None can escape God's love.
You cannot get away from God any more than
you can get away from breathing. God is within
you and about you as your peace, joy, life, and love.
When you darken your thought by believing the op-
posite of this, you cannot perceive the truth. God
does not leave you when you depart from Him in
thought.
A little boy called upon to make quite a trip by
himself was asked how he liked to travel alone. He
said, "Wherever I go, it seems that something goes
along to look out for me and I never feel alone."
Many of us have the feeling at times that something
is with us when we are alone, something tangible
enough for us to see with our inner spiritual eyes,
something that speaks to our heart of hearts and
that we hear with the inner ear. In crowds, this
something often draws us away from unpleasant ex-
periences and makes our way easier.
The angel of God's presence attends us. We
cannot escape God. Some day some one who has
[ 72 ] Mightier Than
long believed himself hidden from God will find
God right at hand. Some one who has believed his
position lost or hidden from him will find it and
God will smile upon him. Some one who has re-
joiced to condemn another will behold the presence
of God and his condemnation will turn to praise.
The most futile thing in all this world is to try to
escape God's love.
At this moment some one may be piling up one
bitter thought after another and may appear to be
flying faster and faster from God, but God is
patient
and loving. The more the hater hates the more fu-
tile become his efforts, because God is the only pres-
ence and power in Truth, and God reigns as love.
Many persons find their way in life difficult be-
cause they do not accept enough love from God.
Consequently they do not have much love to radiate
to others. We could never think of the selfish or
loveless person as one who was conscious of God's
love in his heart. If he is not loving toward other
persons, we know that he does not let God love him.
There are those who cannot receive God's love,
because they are too engrossed in thinking about what
others say and do. If we hold in mind the wrong
that some one appeared to do fifteen years ago, we
cannot accept God's love today. Many a person
holds himself apart from God's love because of un-
pleasant memories. But God will change his heart.
He cannot escape this. The day will come when he
must relax from his tense grip upon unpleasant mem-
ories and then God will steal into his heart and love
will appear upon his countenance.
Circumstance 73 }
LOVE WILL MEET THE NEED
When your heart is in despair,
Add more love unto your prayer;
Love will meet the need.
When you find a rugged way,
When you have a long, hard day,
When for help you pray and pray,
Love will meet the need.
When your heart is feeling fear,
When you wish that Christ were near,
Love will meet the need.
Love will bring the Christ to you;
Love will help in all you do;
Love will help you to be true;
Love will meet the need.
God as Love will banish hate
If on Him you only wait;
Love will meet the need.
All your needs will be supplied
If on Love you have relied;
Not a thing will be denied;
Love will meet the need.
[ 74 ] Mightier Than
"THE WORLD CANNOT HATE YOU'
HERE ARE many, many persons who fear
things of the world about them and feel that
JUL the world is filled with things and peopled
by beings that are malicious. Jesus broke the spell
and delivered these fearful persons from such a de-
lusion when He said, "It is
impossible for the world
to hate you" (Weymouth's version).
In declaring this truth, Jesus conveyed a thought
that we can put in the form of denial and affirma-
tion as follows:
/ no longer believe that the external world its
people and things has power to think or act ma-
liciously as far as I am concerned. I know that that
which is external to me has no power to create an
unhappy or undesirable condition in me or in my
affairs.
I know that Christ in the midst of me is the
power of good eternally expressing itself.
Jesus taught the "doctrine of nonattachment"
when He said, "Love not the world/' We are ad-
monished not to place our affections upon worldly
things even as we are told that they have no power
to harm us. We can see that we are not to live in
the emotion of hate or love in relation to the world
about us. We are to center our thought in Christ in
the midst of us and love Him. We are to see the
world about us with its
people and things solely
Circumstance 75]
from the standpoint of Christ within us. His love is
to guide us and to temper our thoughts and emo-
tions at all times.
There are many persons who live in a state of
unhappiness because they believe the world has
power to hate or love them, to hold them in bondage
according to its
capricious
whims at the moment.
Probably all their worry and unhappiness come from
the belief that things of the external world have
power to hate them, to act maliciously toward them.
Jesus set us free from this delusion when He de-
clared our freedom from the world. He spoke the
truth that wipes completely from our mind all belief
that other persons can harm us, that external things
can affect our well-being or our progress, that things
can conspire against our prosperity and success, that
material things can cause disease, that things of the
world about us can overpower the Christ within us.
Jesus summed up all our myriad beliefs about
the malicious power of external things in the phrase
dealing with the hate of the world. He spoke a
truth that frees His followers from all belief in ill
luck, all fear of malicious thought, all
bondage to the
world. He broke the chains that held man captive
to worldly things.
In order to know that the world does not hate
you, in order to be sure that you do not love things
of the external world, you must do one thing. You
must guard your thoughts and emotions. If you are
not to live in hate and love as regards the world, you
must not entertain emotions about it. You are to be
detached from the world and know it
entirely
through the wisdom and love of the Christ within
[ 76 ] Mightlet Than
you. You are to be related to its
people only through
the wisdom and love of your Christ and theirs.
The doctrine of nonattachment to things con-
tinues to be a teaching given us by saint and sage in
order to help us in our overcoming and in the devel-
opment of spiritual consciousness. Detachment from
the world, detachment from the belief in its
power
over us must be made in order to strengthen the
bond between us and Christ.
What should be the attitude toward the world of
the person who lives the life of nonattachment? Is
he to be cold-blooded in love and in his relations
with his friends ? Is he to think of all external things
as evil? Is he to have no personal attachments?
These questions can best be answered by our freeing
ourselves from worldly and personal love and by
our living in the universal and unselfish love of
Christ that unites all men in Spirit.
Our detachment from things of the world about
us draws us nearer to Christ within us. Only His
wisdom and love can direct us in our personal rela-
tions and in our relations to worldly things. Cer-
tainly, we cannot be bound to persons and things if
we go the way of Truth. We cannot believe that
they can injure us. We cannot believe that they are
necessary for our joy and happiness. Wisdom and
Christ love alone can prompt us in our dealings with
others. In Christ love, there is no bondage, no sor-
sow, no grief over personal attachments, no bondage
to things.
Circumstance
HOLY DAYS
A day is a holy thing:
Shining and white.
Virginal at dawn,
Still immaculate at night
If you will let her be.
But if her purity
You would violate
By impure heart,
Unholy deed,
At night her downcast eyes
Bring to your mind remorse
And a vow to your heart
That when tomorrow's dawn
Reveals in your keeping
Another pearly-white day,
You'll be truer to your trust,
And at nightfall
Rejoice to say
To the Father of days,
"She is still a holy one!
9
[ 78 } Mightier Than
THE SECRET OF HAPPINESS
THERE
are millions of persons who would give
almost all they possess in order to be happy.
They go to various places and try every con-
ceivable method for obtaining happiness. They
yearn for things and think that by possessing them
happiness will come to them. They turn to other
persons and to external things but still
happiness
eludes them.
A search for happiness does not always bring it,
because the seeker looks for it in the same spirit that
he would look for a lost purse. We believe that
happiness is found when the seeker arrives at that
place in consciousness and experience where he no
longer seeks for it. When we look for happiness,
we do not have it. When we cease to look for it,
we discover that it is ours.
The person who looks for happiness is
seeking
some sort of entertainment for himself. He thinks
of himself as a guest of the world, and if its enter-
tainment does not please him unhappiness results.
The happy person takes the attitude that he is one of
the hosts who provide the happiness of the world
and he loses himself in directing others to happiness.
Man is ever on the search for Truth, for Christ.
When he learns Truth and discovers that Christ is
within him, he no longer seeks happiness. The search
is ended when he finds Christ in himself. He no
Circumstance 79}
longer looks for happiness, for joy, or for love. The
great secret is revealed to him that happiness comes
only when we cease the great search.
There is an old legend that relates how an un-
happy king was told he would be happy if he would
procure and wear the shirt of a happy man. His
messengers were sent out on a quest for this shirt.
They finally found a happy man but, alas, he wore
no shirt "We grasp the subtle lesson this legend
teaches: We are not to look to the possession of
things for our happiness! Of course, we are not to
infer from this that if we do possess things, have a
shirt or shirts, we are bound to be unhappy. The
lack of possessions make us happy or unhappy only
according to our mental reaction to the situation.
The individual must find his
happiness apart from
the crowd, but this does not mean that he must live
detached from other persons. He must know that
his happiness is not derived from other persons al-
though quite often his happiness increases in their
presence. The Christ in them meets a certain re-
sponse from the Christ in himself and a certain joy
from association with others results. His own hap-
piness is often quickened when in the presence of
those who have found happiness.
Happiness is often found by a sort of elimina-
tive process. The individual finds it after he has
tried many roads and discovers that the only thing
left to do is to quit looking for it. He finds that it
is not in external things and discovers that he has
looked everywhere but within himself. He finds
that it is not in the noise and confusion of the ex-
ternal world but in a certain quietness of soul.
[80] Mightier Than
Passing along a crowded city street, we see few
persons whose faces show that they are happy. Most
of the persons we meet are those who are still look-
ing for happiness, still
looking for things, looking
for the love of others to make them happy, continu-
ing day by day in the elusive search. We see those
who are unhappy because they do not have more
money, those who are unhappy because their friends
have more than they have, those who have known
disappointment in some way and have continued to
feel its sting.
We are never happy when we allow ourselves
to continue in adverse mental states of the past. We
cannot be happy today if we allow the memory of
adverse situations of the past to come to mind. Our
happiness depends to a great extent upon our ability
to approach each new day with a clear mind, recep-
tive to the joys we can discover in the day's experience.
You will become happier through sharing the
secret of happiness with others. The person who
shares the message of Truth with others is certain to
gain a clearer realization of Truth and the presence
of Christ within himself. By directing others to hap-
piness he participates in the reward.
Go forth this day knowing that you are happy
because Christ in you has revealed to you His pres-
ence as a constant source of joy.
Circumstance [ 81 }
THE LAND WHERE WORRIES CEASE
There is a place where troubles end,
A place where worries cease,
A land where there is no more care,
A realm of joy and peace.
You'll find this
place when every thought
Is turned to Christ within;
You see that all your worries cease
And that your joys begin.
You go quite deep within your heart
And there the Christ you find;
You think no more of things without;
Alone He fills your mind.
You find the land where troubles cease
J
Tis ever springtime there
This land where worries are not found}
The place of no more care.
Here is the realm where not a care
Can for one moment live,
A place where every blessing rich
To you God's angels give,
A place where worries come to
naught
And joy is e'er at hand
Just turn to Christ within your heart
And find this
sunny land.
Mightier Than
AVOIDING MENTAL CONFLICTS
IF
YOU would avoid mental conflicts, you must of
course find some way of keeping out of mind
those thoughts which make for conflict. Were
you to permit antagonistc, pugilistic, and destruc-
tive thoughts to run helter-skelter in your mind, were
you to allow these to sink into subconsciousness, you
should expect sometime to hear from them again.
Mental conflict comes about when there is a con-
flict of ideas. When you have the thought or feeling
that you want to do something, and at the same time
know or feel that you cannot do it, there is conflict.
You cannot entertain thoughts of opposite character
at the same time without becoming involved in some
sort of mental warfare.
If you are accustomed to living one kind of life
and at the same time feel compelled to live another,
there is bound to be conflict If you have allowed
a pugilistic thought about another to sink into con-
sciousness, and at the same time are trying to enter-
tain the thought of friendship for him, you will have
to redeem the pugilistic thought before you can
experience real and true friendship.
That which psychologists call a "brain storm"
is but the unexpected explosion of subconscious
thoughts. At some unguarded moment when the
conscious mind (or, as some one has called it, the
conventional mind) is off duty, the deeper thoughts
Circumstance [ 83 }
come to the surface and express themselves. Possi-
bly you have seen some one in an unguarded moment
give vent to hidden feelings and, a second later, seen
them totally nonplused at their own actions. The
individual who seems to lose his head in such a situa-
tion may usually be most considerate of others. How-
ever, his feelings betray his subconscious thoughts.
The only way to avoid brain storms or to keep
from having mental conflicts is to stand guard over
the thoughts. When an insidious little thought comes
to mind, handle it before it
goes into hiding in your
subconsciousness. When a malicious thought about
another comes to mind, neutralize it with Truth be-
fore it
goes into your deeper consciousness. If jou
keep the sly little thoughts out of your conscious
mind, they cannot reach subconsciousness.
The purpose of understanding Truth is to estab-
lish it in consciousness in place of thoughts of error
or evil. Man's salvation depends upon his being re-
deemed from those thoughts which cause him to do
evil deeds. His true redemption must take place in
his mind and in his heart. He must be freed from
unholy subconscious beliefs. He must be saved from
those seething and festering subconscious thoughts
which make for mental turmoil and physical unrest.
An adverse thought in subconsciousness acts upon
the physical body as a thorn in the flesh.
If you would avoid brain storms, clear from your
secret mind the malicious thoughts you have about
others, about your life, or about your relation to other
persons. When an unholy thought comes to mind
neutralize it
promptly. If your work is not entirely
effective the first few times, you may be assured that
84] Mightier Than
it will be simpler and easier as you keep at it.
As to mental conflicts: if you feel that you are
entertaining conflicting opinions, try to stand apart
from your personal life and view the situation as
would a disinterested spectator. If your life has be-
come a tangle of conflicting thoughts, set about un-
tangling things patiently and persistently. Above all,
do not become despondent or discouraged. You will
feel the greatest sense of victory it is
possible for any
human being to feel when you learn to master your-
"
self. There is a way out of any adverse situation.
There is a way to untangle conflicting thoughts.
Christ within you will show you the way.
Truly we say that we cannot entertain two kinds
of thoughts at the same time. If we try to do so,
conflict results. If we entertain but one kind of
thoughts, thoughts of good, then we neutralize
thoughts of evil. The mind in conflict finds its rest
when it
adopts that high spiritual outlook from whicK
it masters adverse thoughts. It deans from subcon-
sciousness those thoughts that are contrary to the
higher truths of Christ. Then it
experiences spiritual
victory, the joy of knowing the soul's supremacy over
baser thoughts.
Circumstance { S3 J
HOWS THE WEATHER?
The day is fair when hearts are light,
When in the heart the light
shines bright,
When not a cloud obscures the mind,
When joy within we well can find.
The day is dark when in the soul
The storms of tumult surge and roll,
And there is
tempest in the heart
And bitterness in every part.
The day is cool when, by this rule,
We find our thoughts are calm and cool
And in the mind no anger's heat
Can cause our pulse to rage and beat.
The day is one that we call bad
When nothing shows to make us glad
And, through distorted vision, we
Can only evil know and see.
The day is sunny when the sun
Within us shines on every one,
And when the Christ within us bright
Is free to shed on all His light.
When "How's the weather?
9
's asked of you,
You then must answer to be true
Just how, within, you view the day:
If sunny, then "It's bright" you say.
[ 86 ] Mightier Than
THE OTHER FELLOW'S PROBLEM
ARE
YOU inclined to be concerned about the
other fellow's problem? Do you find your-
self discussing it with other persons, adding
your criticism and personal opinion, thereby making
it
your problem, too ? Do you not realke that when
you take another's problem into your own conscious-
ness, you make it your own problem just as if it
had been your own in the first
place? When you
get into such a consciousness you really invite a
problem of your own similar to that which the other
fellow has for his thought and solution.
If, for instance, in your neighborhood a prob-
lem comes up which concerns two or three persons,
that problem becomes the property of one more
person as soon as you take it into your conscious-
ness. You do not have just a one-third or a one-
fourth interest in it, but you get the full force of its
effect If you undertake to discipline one of the par-
ticipants by not speaking to him, by criticizing him,
by displaying an unfriendly attitude toward him, you
take a very serious step.
Most persons have so many
problems of their own to be solved, so much per-
sonal overcoming to be done that they cannot well
add another problem to the list, especially one that
belongs to other persons.
If you had the wisdom of the Infinite and had
ability to look into the other fellow's heart and soul,
Circumstance C 87 }
you might to some extent be justified in trying to
penetrate his problems and making them your own.
If you had no problems of your own, you could well
come forward in the spirit
of charity and offer your
assistance. You will lose all interest in gossip, all
desire to give publicity
to the other fellow's prob-
lem, when you see that by doing so you make it
your
own problem.
When you want more problems of your own,
they will be given you. First solve those you have
on hand. When you cease trying to solve your
neighbor's problem, when you cease turning over and
over in your mind the matters in his life, you will
sense a new freedom. You will agree with the wis-
dom of the all-wise God who gave each one indi-
viduality. Your next-door neighbor with his prob-
lems personal, domestic, financial, and the like
must be as free to work out his own destiny and his
own problem as if he lived in South Africa, un-
known to you.
If, when you sense that another has a serious
problem to solve, you can keep out of personal con-
sciousness and share with him your consciousness of
love, wisdom, understanding, and justice, you will
increase your own consciousness of these. When
you sustain another by your high consciousness, you
take a masterful step. When you share understand-
ing and love with him, your understanding and love
increase.
You must remain personally detached from the
other fellow's personal problems but united with
him through the bond of understanding and love.
You lessen your own personal problems, you de-
[88] Mightier Than
crease in personal consciousness, when you share your
understanding love with him. He, in turn, will be
the first to share his love with you when, at some
future time, you need love.
Always think of the other fellow's problem as a
problem in human experience, which is not exactly
his own personal property. The other fellow's prob-
lem, more or less unpleasant to you today, may be
yours tomorrow, unless you have already handled it
in consciousness. When you concern yourself with
the other fellow's problem, when you get into per-
sonal consciousness and try to administer a personal
discipline, you show that you have not mastered the
problem. The individual who by his charity and
love can help another through a personal problem,
shows that he has mastered the problem in his own
experience. He will not have to solve it
again. Hu-
man experience brings us all
problems for solution;
no one escapes. Our only salvation is the Christ con-
sciousness through which we can master all things.
The important point in this message is not the
time-worn admonition to mind your own business,
but the metaphysical reason for it. Remember
when you try to mind the other fellow's business you
assume the responsibility of solving his problem.
His problem becomes yours when through personal
consciousness you invite it to you.
Circumstance
COOL MINDED
Cease to fret, be calm and patient,
Poised and trustful ever be;
You will find you need not worry,
All things righted you will see.
If you will be cool, collected}
If you cease to worry too,
You'll behold your troubles vanish,
Only good will come to you.
Cool in mind and never fretful,
Patient, calm, your thoughts controlled
You'll behold your utmost vicfry,
You will find increased your hold.
Nothing good can e'er escape you,
Only good in life you'll find;
You will have, if calm and patient,
Only thoughts of peace in mind.
Cool in mind, dismiss the weather;
Sun or rain^it matters not;
What reck you of storm or sunshine,
Whether days be cool or hot?
If in mind you're cool, collected,
If your thought is
poised and true.
You will find the world is
showering
All its
blessings upon you.
90 } Mightier Than
THE SOLUTION FOR PERSONAL
PROBLEMS
PERSONAL
problems are solved through spir-
itual understanding by our detaching ourselves
from what appears to be the personal ele-
ment and unifying ourselves with Christ. Of course
this is a very general statement of instructions for
solving problems, for each problem calls for indi-
vidual treatment. In general, the solution is virtually
always the same although its
application to the prob-
lem must be made according to specific conditions.
The fact that there is a problem to be solved
shows that personal consciousness has entered into
our affairs and produced it. The first thing to do is
to get rid of the personal consciousness and to sub-
stitute Christ consciousness for it. In personal con-
sciousness we place our self and the personal selves
of others before all else. In Christ consciousness we
think first of God as Principle and then apply this
thought to our personal life.
When two persons disagree, the first step to har-
mony and agreement must be their rising above per-
sonal thoughts and actions. Each must cease to think
of what the other has thought, said, or done. Both
must break with personal consciousness. They must
cease to remember the incident that caused the
Circumstance [ 91 3
trouble. Certainly they cannot reach a state of agree-
ment if they continue to hold in mind their evil
thoughts or such thoughts as cause personal
ani-
mosity, bitterness, and possibly hatred.
Just as the principles
of mathematics when rightly
understood and applied solve mathematical prob-
lems, so does an understanding of God as Principle
solve personal problems. This is the principle of
love and Truth. There is no personal problem that
does not yield to its
application.
The consideration of God as Principle brings
about mutual understanding. Two persons could
not continue in inharmony and give first
place to
the thought of God. They would find themselves
unable to remember malice or personal injury. They
would be unable to call to mind the memory of in-
jured feelings, and at the same time have the mind
placed upon God.
Do you have a personal problem to solve? Sup-
pose you became offended at what some one said or
did. What shall you do now? In the first
place,
cease for the time being to think of this other per-
son or the incident. Think of God as your friend
and as the other person's friend. Give the problem
entirely into His keeping. Let Him present you with
the solution and show you the steps you need to take
to help Him solve the problem.
Personal problems call very emphatically for
freedom from personal thoughts. You cannot ex-
pect to solve a personal problem and hold personal
thoughts in mind. These are as vinegar to a wound.
You destroy the healing process when your mind
goes back to personal thoughts. You co-operate with
[ 92 ] Mightier Than
God in His healing work when you think with Him.
Why are personal problems of years* standing
so slow in being solved, personal "wounds" so slow
to heal? Because of personal consciousness and a
clinging to wounding memories. Because of the
utter neglect of God.
Do you not see that a solution of your own prob-
lem must come through the right activity of your
own mind? Your own problem cannot be solved
in any other way. This mental activity must be the
activity of the right thought. There must be a
cessation of inharmonious thought and an activity
of harmonious thought. Your own problems in math-
ematics could not be solved except through your own
mental activity and through right thinking. You can-
not expect your personal problem to be solved in any
other way. Self must be gotten out of the way and
God must be given first
place in your consciousness.
Many persons have difficulty in solving their per-
sonal problems because they give too much thought
to the other fellow. When you solve a problem from
the standpoint of Truth you need not consider what
the other fellow thinks or does. You have but your
own consciousness to clear.
In Truth there are no personal problems since
the personal man has no place in Spirit.
There are
no problems, because in Truth man is always harmoi
nious and kind. We have to know this truth very
thoroughly that we may not make concession to ad-
verse beliefs and personal problems. All problems
yield to God's work of understanding, harmony, love,
and justice.
Circumstance [93 J
A PRAYER TO CHRIST
Mind of Christj inspire me.
Light of Christ, illumine me.
Peace of Christy harmonize me.
Joy of Christ, free me.
Love of Christ, satisfy me.
Life of Christ, vitalize me.
Power of Christ^ strengthen me.
Presence of Christy protect me.
Christy ever abiding within me,
Express in me Thine image and likeness.
Eyes of Christy watch over my affairs.
Face of Christ, illumine my countenance.
Shoulders of Christy bear my burdens.
Heart of Christ, quicken my compassion.
Arms of Christ, lift me up.
Hands of Christy bless my undertakings.
Feet of Christy direct my steps.
Body of Christ, establish my health.
Christy ever near and about me,
Help me to
triumph and to overcome.
[94] Mightier Than
HOW HEALING TAKES PLACE
f HE modus operand? of healing through
prayer is very simple, even though sometimes
,
not so easy for the individual to understand.
First we must understand our mental life and appre-
ciate something of its bearing upon the physical.
Thoughts and emotions have been so definitely an-
alyzed and studied that today there is no doubt
whatever about the relation of thought to health.
Thoughts of a certain type produce physical condi-
tions which we know as disease. They bring about
some sort of a mental chemistry that produces a
change of the chemical contents in the body, thereby
producing abnormal or pathological conditions.
A large number of illustrations could be given
showing how thought plays upon the body. In
some instances thought produces a congestion of
blood in one part, thereby robbing another part of
the body of the blood supply it should have. Even
the simplest thought of self-consciousness will cause
a person's face to flush with an abnormal supply of
blood. We dismiss an exhibition of this kind with
the simple thought or statement: He was so embar-
rassed his face turned red. The comical aspect was
quite different from the little drama enacted in the
human body. Here the thought almost instantly
caused blood to be drawn from other parts of the
body and to be rushed to the face and neck. Who
Circumstance 95 }
can say to what extent other organs or parts of the
body suffered? Who can tell what physical condi-
tion of grave consequence would have been produced
if the blushing had continued for a long period of
time?
We also have the instance where an individual
through a thought of fear causes his face to blanch
and the blood supply to be temporarily withheld
from circulating through large areas of blood ves-
sels in the face. What if this uneven circulation were
kept up for a while ? How do we know but that the
internal organs are blanched, too, through fright?
Can we any longer doubt that thought can disturb
the body forces or equalize them, can produce con-
gestion or anemia? Can we doubt that thought can
instantly choke off an organ's blood supply, its nu-
trition, or can overfeed it?
If certain thoughts produce certain visible mani-
festations upon the body, what about other thoughts
and other physical conditions? Is it not possible that
certain thoughts, acting like the thought of fear,
withhold life and blood supply from an organ and
cause a wasting away, that certain thoughts, like self-
consciousness, cause a congestion of blood and body
forces and produce tumors and such conditions ?
How does healing through prayer take place?
What is its modus operandi? Prayer acts as a bal-
ance upon the thought and the body forces. When
the body forces are equalized there can be no anemia
in one part of the body and a congestion or blush
in the other. Best of all, prayer relieves and removes
old chronic adverse thoughts. The thought that pro-
duces a blush or a blanched condition of the face for
196} Mightier Than
a moment or two may be of little
consequence but
the thought of anger, jealousy, revenge, or discour-
agement that could hold an internal or vital organ in
its
grip for months or years could do serious damage
to the health. Healing through prayer turns the in-
dividual from his adverse thought.
Thoughts of God, thoughts of love and trust,
thoughts of healing neutralize the action of thoughts
of evil. When we ascend to the spiritual heights
where we know only God and His love, we shall
break the power of mental law, the action of our ad-
verse thoughts upon our health. We shall arrive at
the place where we are unconscious of the body,
since it will no longer speak its
pain through con-
gestions or starvation from lack of love.
The modus operandi of healing is
quite simple.
God's method of operating in us is
purely this: His
work takes place when we no longer set
up adverse
thoughts as barriers. The individual who knows
God in the midst of him is neither self-conscious nor
afraid. The person who gives up adverse thought
for God cannot produce through adverse thought
those conditions we have mentioned. God works
when we no longer think against Him. His work is
healing at all times.
Through prayer we lose sight of the adverse
thought that has caused disease, and realize the
healing presence of God. His healing streams flow
through us, and we are purified, vitalized, strength-
ened, and healed.
Circumstance
HANDS OF PRAYER
The hands uplifted true in prayer
Are hands that lift another's care:
They help the fallen to arise,
These hands uplifted to the skies,
When clasped in prayer} these praying hands
Unclasp a brothers tightening bands,
But bind him to God's love more sure
And clasp him to His heart secure.
There's healing in the hands that pray
For Christ a channel and a way
They take so little, give so much,
These hands of prayer with healing touch!
There's silence in these praying hands:
They silence pain and pain's commands,
They smooth the brow, its cares erase,
Bestow of Spirit calm and grace.
Now hands, like men, know how to pray;
And somewhere hands both night and day
Are used by Christ, His laws observe,
Reach out to you to help, to serve.
[98] Mightier Than
HEALTHY REACTIONS
VOUR
REACTIONS to the little situations in life
make you either healthy or unhealthy in mind
Jj_ and in body. If you are inclined to resist and
to fight in mind the situations you have to meet, you
will find that you set up a state of tension in the body.
If you are unfriendly toward the persons you meet,
your mental attitude causes an adverse state in your
physical condition. If you are loving in your reac-
tions, your physical body receives a certain loving
reaction.
We have our choice in the matter of reactions.
No external power or person has the power to de-
cide for us what our reaction shall be. We alone
decide such a matter. We can be loving or kind in
our relations with others. We can approach our
work in either a happy or an unhappy spirit.
We
can be either responsive or unresponsive in meeting
our fellows.
One of the greatest blessings that is ours to enjoy
is our freedom to think what we want to think. No
one else can in any way cause us to think something
that we do not want to think. We can think in terms
of love even though the whole world should want us
to think in terms of hate and fear. We can train
ourselves to react wholesomely and healthily to all
situations.
I recall an experience I had several years ago that
Circumstance {99J
makes a good illustration. One evening I had an
engagement, which seemed to become more unde-
sirable as the time for it drew near. I went out to the
house, stopped my car, and began to analyze my
thoughts and feelings. I seemed to be mentally set
against meeting the engagement. In the language
we often hear about such feelings, I would rather
have taken a licking than meet the situation.
I was rather young in the study of Truth at the
time, but my understanding was sufficient to help me
get hold of myself. It dawned on me that my whole
resistance to the situation was mental and that I had
allowed my adverse thought to magnify itself so
that my good judgment was more or less obscured.
I began to think of several friends who would enjoy
the engagement; something that had not been given
them to enjoy. I realized feat there were many pres-
ent who would enjoy the evening. This line of think-
ing caused me to see that my whole problem was
mental and that I could not go ahead save with a
change of mind. Suddenly I had this change of
mind and the whole situation became laughable.
I had a most delightful evening, made several
new friends, and learned quite a lesson. The next
day I heard that one person had remarked about my
congeniality! Secretly I thought what a different
impression he would have had if I had not changed
my mental attitude!
This experience shows how a miserable evening
In prospect was changed into a most delightful one.
We can be on the safe side only by keeping our mind
peaceful and friendly. No doubt, there is many a
person who has lost friends and money because he
[100] Mightier Than
did not know the secret o acquiring a healthy men-
tal reaction. A young salesman without a healthy
and wholesome mental attitude cannot get very far
in his business. The young woman who is
unhealthy
in her thinking, unkind in her relations with others,
finds herself in ill health and with a limited number
of friends.
A peaceful and healthy mental attitude is sure to
have its reward. Such an attitude helps us to mani-
fest peace and health in our physical body. Such a
state of mind will certainly draw to us congenial
friends and associates. The very Spirit of God is
revealed in the mind of the peaceful person.
The congenial and responsive person has reacted
in a healthy way to situations so often that it has
become second nature to him. His congenial atti-
tude shows the inner working of his mind. He reacts
to life itself in a friendly manner, and life in turn is
kind to him. He is
responsive and receptive to all
that life bestows upon him, and life is
generous in
the giving.
If you are mentally fighting something today,
change your attitude. Rest the overworked cells of
your brain and think in terms of peace and love for
a while. Your resistance but acts as a barrier to the
good that might come to you. Your friendly and
peaceful reaction will prove to be the power that
transforms conditions for you and makes you master
and victor.
Circumstance 101
BLUE SKIES IN THE HEART
What if the days are dull and gray
And snow is on the pines!
The Son of God shines every day
Within your heart He shines.
What care you whether snow or rain
fall over leaf and clod?
Each day to you is one more gain,
A chance to know of God.
What if the sky is dark overhead
What matters this to you?
Within your heart no skies of lead;
You have but skies of blue!
Just find the blue skies in your heart;
There shines the Son of Light!
In darkened days you have no part,
Within you no dark night.
C 102 3 Mightier Than
A HEALING TREATMENT ILLUSTRATED
MANY PERSONS unacquainted with the
modus operand* of a metaphysical treat-
ment for health are somewhat mystified
by it. To them it is but a series of affirmations and
denials more or less hypnotic in effect. They think
of the treatment as effective in diseases of the imagi-
nation but of no use in diseases of any consequence.
Strictly speaking, a metaphysical treatment is not
an illustration of the power of mind over matter.
The body is not held under the power of the will. A
healing treatment is the operation of Truth, Christ.
Such a treatment relieves the body of disease-produc-
ing thoughts about it and establishes that which is
true. The human mind has but one part in the
work, that of being a channel through which Christ
Truth works.
In a metaphysical treatment we relieve the mind
of those thoughts which are antagonistic to Truth.
We think thoughts about the body that are true ac-
cording to the mind of Christ. We arrive at a place
in the treatment where we seem to cease individual
thinking and just let the Truth of Christ work
through us.
In the mind of Christ man exists perfect and
whole. This truth remains unchanged regardless of
the extent to which the individual accepts disease
and outpictures it
upon his body. He treats himself
Circumstance [ 103 ]
metaphysically when he relieves his mind of disease
thoughts and lets the Truth of Christ work. His
healing depends upon but one thing: his ability to let
Christ, work. He must be able to behold in his
mind's eye this work of purification, redemption, and
perfection.
A healer or one who helps others to catch the
vision of health is a person trained to pray according
to Truth. He is able to help the one for whom he
prays by helping him get rid of his disease thoughts
and let Christ work. The healer does not heal others
through personal power of his own. His work is
accomplished through his ability to pray.
Metaphysical magazines contain testimonials of
healings that often sound miraculous. They are
modern examples of healing unrivaled by healings
reported in the apostolic days. We see illustrations
of healing by prayer that would startle us but for the
fact that we see and know of so many of them that
we come to think of healing as a matter-of-fact
occurrence.
When the patient catches the vision of his perfec-
tion in Spirit, healing is sure to result. His body may
appear to be diseased but this
appearance soon
changes to health when powerful spiritual forces are
at work in the process of redeeming it from disease
and regenerating it
through Truth. At no time
should we let the appearance of disease deflect us
from our purpose of knowing Truth and applying it
for health.
A metaphysical treatment loses all its mystery
when we begin to see healing taking place. We are
encouraged to give up our adverse thoughts entirely
104] Mightier Than
in order to give the healing processes full rein. After
we have experienced a healing, even though seem-
ingly inconsequential in its
scope, we are more en-
couraged to look for healings of a more important
nature.
Remember that you are not healed by your own
mind. Your mind is the channel through which-
Truth works. Of course, looking at it from your own
standpoint, you think of your mind as the only heal-
ing power. In treatment and prayer, you reach that
high consciousness which is
apart from mere mental
activity and in which only Christ is
recognized.
Jesus performed instantaneous healings because
of His ability to rise to the heights of the Christ con-
sciousness wherein is no disease. He could so clearly
perceive man's wholeness and He instantly wiped
from His own and the patient's mind all that ap-
peared as disease. His mental process in disregard-
ing disease was the same as the operation of your
mind when you know that a lie is a lie. You cannot
accept a lie for truth when you know that it is some-
thing false. You have no difficulty in thinking the
truth about a proposition when you know what is
true about it.
Many persons have difficulty being healed because
they permit their minds to lapse from thinking Truth
and drop back into thinking disease as something
belonging to them. They do not keep the high
vision of Truth.
Circumstance C 10^ 3
EYES OF CHRIST
Eyes of Christ, keep shining
Through these eyes of mine;
Keep my glance turned upward
To your glance divine.
Eyes of Christ, beholding
Beauty long concealed,
By your look celestial
All of good's revealed.
Eyes of Christ enraptured
With the vision fair,
Share with me its
splendor:
Goodness everywhere.
Eyes of Christ, illumined,
Wherein wisdom lies,
Let men see, reflected,
Your light in my eyes.
I 106 3 Mightier Than
THE HABIT OF BEING SUCCESSFUL
)*^
o YOU know people who have the habit of
succeeding In whatever they undertake?
_ Do they not seem to cultivate the habit of
success just as others seem to cultivate the habit of
failure ? Have you not thought of success as a habit
that can be acquired?
Each time a man succeeds, his success makes every
subsequent achievement easier. He establishes a
process of mind activity that anticipates and assures
success. Fear of failure is overcome and confidence
in success is established. His mind thinks success,
and he moves toward success.
The pioneer finds that each time he travels over
a new path that he is
making, his progress becomes
easier. In the same way, every time we use the suc-
cess thought or think of ourselves as successful, the
easier it is for us to succeed. Thinking the thought
of success helps to weaken any thought of failure
that may be lurking in mind.
"Unto every one that hath shall be given, and he
shall have abundance/* To every one who has the
consciousness of success and uses it, shall be given
more and more success. Success eventually will be-
come a habit with him. He will become so used to
thinking success and being successful that he cannot
fail.
Many men need to cultivate confidence in success.
Circumstance [ 107 J
They need to feel, when they are inspired by the
Spirit within them to do something, that they can
accomplish it.
They need to know that the very act
of attempting to do what Spirit
bids them carries
success with it.
In almost every home, office, and institution may
be found some one who succeeds more easily than
his associates. He has discovered the mental tech-
nique of not giving his mind to thoughts of fear and
failure. He has found that success comes by enter-
taining thoughts of confidence and success* The
success of the man who succeeds in modest sur-
roundings is somewhat akin to the success of a man
who conquers a world. Each succeeds according to
his mental capacity to succeed or according to the
measure of his consciousness of success.
After we have established the habit of success,
we feel that certain forces within us rush to our aid
when we undertake to do something. We feel that
we are literally carried forward to the goal Noth-
ing in the external world has power to impede our
progress or interfere with our success.
The person who seems to fail by habit confuses
a new endeavor with a past failure. In so doing, he
causes his former thoughts of failure to play upon
his new undertaking and to identify it with failure.
He may follow such a line of argument as this:
"Once before when I tried to do about the same
kind of thing I failed. I am sure to fail this time,
because here is this person who wants me to fail, and
there is that circumstance which will not add any-
thing to niy success." We can see that he readily
falls into the habit of failing.
108] flightier Than
The man who succeeds carries with him an inner
conviction that he is
going to succeed. He remem-
bers his past successes and this helps to strengthen
his confidence. He seems to think success in some
automatic fashion. He is like some modern Midas
whose golden touch might cause whatever he under-
took to prosper.
Do not discuss your failures with others or put
it in their minds to think of you as always failing.
Let them think of you as succeeding. Those who
want their business to prosper will compensate you
well if they think of you as having the habit of suc-
ceeding. They will want you to share the fruits of
your prosperous consciousness with them.
Before undertaking a new project, get your inner
vision and guidance. Get the approval of your in-
dwelling Spirit, then go ahead. Get the conviction
that the Spirit within you is
urging you to success.
Go forward with this inner secret in your heart.
You cannot fail when you have Truth and love
in your heart You are bound to succeed when Christ
in you succeeds in making His presence known to
you. You can go into the very heart of the commer-
cial world and keep true to the inner vision. You
can go where men are afraid of failure and convey
to them the message of success.
Make a success of something of whose success
you have entertained doubt. Crown this success with
another one possibly a little larger and a little more
difficult to achieve.
Circumstance 109 }
MAKING THE MOST OF LIFE
/ feel that he succeeds the best
who makes the most of life;
Who's not discouraged or defeated,
touched by stress and strife,
Who makes the most of what he has
will find that he succeeds;
The good he has just multiplies,
supplies him all he needs.
No life can be so barren, friend,
but that there's good somewhere;
We must then find the hidden good
and give it
thought and care.
There's no career, no work to do,
but has its full reward,
If we but place our own affairs
in keeping of the Lord.
If you would make the most of life,
to what you have give praise!
But you must never once complain;
Be joyful all your days.
For you can make a big success,
nor once be touched by strife,
If you succeed with what you have
and make the most of life.
Mightier Than
THE GOOD LUCK CONSCIOUSNESS
THE
PERSON who is ordinarily spoken o as
being lucky is one who unknowingly stum-
bles upon the working of the law of good
fortune. Were he to understand this law and live by
it, he would always enjoy good fortune. There
would be no seasons of good and bad luck.
The individual who believes that his luck is de-
rived from some charm that he carries is lucky because
of his faith in the charm. He should have faith in
himself. He should realize that in Truth his good
fortune cannot derive from the power of things. The
only charm of good luck that he can ever need is the
possession of a consciousness of good fortune and
the realization that tfirough this that which is for his
highest good always comes to him.
If you would have good luck and good fortune,
abide in the knowledge that good fortune is yours.
Keep out of mind all belief in ill luck. Never think
of yourself as unfortunate. Never voice any opinion
about your misfortunes. Think of yourself as identi-
fied with good fortune.
The writer once knew a man he would meet him
on the street every few months who always had
new evidence of his own hard luck. This person so
firmly believed in ill luck that it seemed to make him
happy to point out that he was right in his convic-
tions that he was under some spell of misfortune.
Circumstance 111 3
One day he stopped the writer to say, "You seem to
believe in some psychology of personal
finances. But
do you not see that my experiences disprove your be-
liefs?" Of course the writer's reply was something
like this: "Your experiences prove that you are using
a certain psychology of finances adversely. You
firmly believe in ill luck and you are producing it.
The law of good fortune cannot operate in your af-
fairs because it lacks an operator."
The person who believes in his own ill luck is an
enemy to his own good luck. The person who be-
lieves in misfortune cannot be fortunate at the same
time. Viewed from the standpoint of Truth, the
good-luck consciousness is very closely akin to the
consciousness of God as our unfailing supply, pro-
tection, justice,
and order. We can see that the per-
son we call lucky is but one who has occasional
glimpses of the presence of God coming to him in
times of need.
The student of Truth does not believe in luck,
if we are to think of luck as a hit-or-miss proposition.
He does believe in good fortune as founded upon a
scientific law of good fortune. He centers his life
upon the presence of Christ within him and knows
that through this he draws to him his highest good.
Would you build up a good luck consciousness ?
Then build up a consciousness of the presence of
Christ within you. Know that you carry this pres-
ence with you wherever you go, that nothing can
prevail against it, that it draws to itself only good.
Realize that you can know no defeat because Christ
within you triumphs at all times. Realize that no
misfortune can be attracted to you or occupy your
[ 112 ] Mightier Than
world, because you live in the constant expectancy of
good that comes to fill your life with good.
Do you not see that what you have thought of as
luck must be something founded upon substance,
established in Truth? The unlucky person's luck
changes only when he changes his thought and ac-
cepts that truth which will give him a consciousness
of good fortune. Your most lucky possession is such
a consciousness because through it all
good is at-
tracted to you.
If you have thought of yourself as unlucky, if
through your thought you have been attracting to
yourself a series of misfortunes, change your cur-
rent of thought Turn to the law of good fortune.
Expect good to come to you. Think often of your
fortunate experiences. Begin to think of yourself
as lucky. Think more and more of your life as
founded upon a never-swerving law of good fortune.
As long as you hold yourself tinder the spell of
ill luck, you cannot hope to have a better position
or increased finances. What you call ill luck will be
transformed into success and plenty when you grasp
the truth about good fortune. Changing your luck is
a matter of changing your belief. Identifying your-
self with good fortune is solely a matter of identify-
ing yourself with the consciousness of it
The extent of your good fortune depends upon
the extent of your consciousness of Christ in you
and in your life as the presence of that blessing which
you most desire and need.
Circumstance
IF LIFE WERE BUT A DAY
// all that we could know of life
need be but for a day,
If life
were really one day long,
we'd make that one day gay;
We'd never take the time to frown,
to worryj
or to sigh,
We'd get the good we could from life
before the day went by.
Some flowers grow that open wide
at dawn to bloom till
night:
They keep their faces to the sun,
reflect its sunny light,
They shed their beauty, perfume sweet
on all who pass their way
And all they ever know of life
is but a single day.
In Truth we've but today to live,
the present moment's all,
Tomorrow never seems to come
// e'er eludes our calL
We need to get the good we can
from all today can give,
So let's resolve that we today
will love, rejoice, and live!
[114] Mightier Than
EACH ONE HAS HIS OWN PLACE
TO FILL
ACH ONE of us must come to the realization
f
that his place in the great universal plan is
most definite and necessary. He must realize
that he is in the position of trying to work against
this great plan if he does not fill the niche in life
that is
rightfully his. He must come to the realiza-
tion that God has a position for him in which he
alone can do the best work.
Never think of yourself as one who finds him-
self alive and is
compelled to see life through, come
what may! This is not living in the true sense of
the word. You must take an active part in life. You
must help enrich your own life and the lives of
those about you. You must see yourself as a most
necessary part of the great plan of life.
If you find yourself in what you consider an
inconsequential position, what should you do ? Your
first
step is to make your present position one of con-
sequence. With your ever-expanding consciousness
you must outgrow your present position before you
can feel ready for the one you idealize. You must
definitely know that you have an important place to
fill and be ready to fill it
The person who is always without a position is
Circttmstance [ 115 J
one who fails to realize that he has a place in the
great universal scheme of things. The person who
wants to commit suicide has failed to perceive that
he has a definite place in the world's work. The in-
dividual who approaches life from a standpoint of
indifference neglects to see the purpose of life.
Each one has his own place to fill. He produces
a certain lack or confusion in the great universal
scheme if he does not fill his place efficiently and
well. He fails to co-operate in the great plan and
in turn, from his own viewpoint, everything in the
great plan appears to work at cross-purposes with
him. His failure to comprehend the great truth of
life eventually causes him to appear to fail Failing
to take his place in the great plan, he has the strange
experience of feeling that he is a part of life but in
large measure unidentified with its great scheme.
You are in the position
where you find yourself
today because through certain soul activities you have
been drawn to it. Your obligation is to do well the
tasks assigned to you. You are to realize that you
have a salemn obligation to fulfill. You can take a
step forward or upward only when you can idealize
and visualize the place ahead of you as your own.
Each morning you are brought to the threshold
of a new world. You are to conquer this world by
not letting its problems master you. You have a
tremendous responsibility:
that of being ready and
willing to stand aside and let the Lord take full re-
sponsibility.
You must give up personal will in
order that you may know the will of God His
good will.
Your place in life is a unique one. No one in
[116] Mightier Than
all the world knows your soul problems but He who
supervises the great plan. No one can appreciate
your trials and difficulties as He can appreciate them.
Many times your work is almost a secret pact between
you and this great supervisor. Sometimes you are ap-
pointed to do that which no one in all the world
must know about, to perform that task which is to
be considered most confidential.
Think of your position as a most important one.
Think of yourself as having a special task to perform
in the household of the Lord, regardless of how in-
significant it
may appear to be. Realize that all work
is sacred when performed in the higher consciousness.
Do you see that you must have a higher view of
your relation to the great plan? Do you see that you
must take the attitude that you have a great work to
do? Do you grasp the truth that your place, your
work is
important and that only you can fill it or
accomplish its task?
Whoever you are, wherever you are, whatever
your task, realize the truth of this message today.
Begin living a new life through feeling that you owe
something to life. You must make it richer. You
must enrich your own life and the lives of those
about you. You must reach higher and higher in
spiritual understanding and then apply that which is
taught you to the tasks at hand. You will work with-
out a sense of labor when you approach your work
through this new consciousness. His hands will
work through your hands and your task will be easily
but efficiently performed.
Circumstance { 117 J
DOES IT MATTER?
Does it matter, friend, 1 ask,
what other persons do?
What they think and what they say
can never injure you.
Nor their words or deeds unkind
can injure you the least,
If from unkind thoughts you're free,
from thinking fear have ceased.
Does it matter what another
says about you, friend?
Thinking what another's thinking
never comes to end!
If you gave into his keeping
your own peace of mind,
You'd be slave and he'd be master
to your freedom blind.
No, it matters not what others
say or think of you
If about yourself you're thinkingf
always thinking true;
If you're steadfast to the vision
of the truth that lies
In your soul, men will behold itt
will good recognize.
[118] Mightier Than
NOTHING CAN RETARD YOUR
PROGRESS
THINK
of yourself as always going forward.
Realize each day that you are nearer your
goal and your ideal than you were the day
before. Know that within you lies the power to
progress. Nothing in all this world can keep you
from advancing when you know this truth.
There are many things that persons think can
keep them back. They hold many limiting thoughts
concerning themselves. All these thoughts can be
summarized in the belief that other persons or things
can retard their progress. Many persons lack the
consciousness that they have within themselves the
power to progress and to succeed.
All of us have heard individuals confess that
they could not go forward in their work because
other persons or things held them back. Sometimes
the explanations and excuses given have seemed
almost too trivial for consideration; yet we have
heard such confessions made at a time when the inner
thoughts and the subconsciousness of the individual
were plainly revealed. We have known persons to
give some reason why they could not succeed or
progress
that seemed almost ludicrous.
Discipline yourself to thiok of yourself as witfa-
Circumstance
out limitations. You were not created by God and
placed in this world to be held down by the limited
thoughts of others. You were created free, inde-
pendent of the limited beliefs of other persons.
There is but one thing that can hold you back: your
own limited ideas about yourself. Nothing in all
this universe can retard your progress.
No person,
thing, or circumstance can keep you from reaching
your goal and the fulfillment of your ideal when you
realize your freedom from limitations.
Many, many persons in the world are living un-
happy, thwarted, unsatisfied lives because they think
they cannot have what they want. They think they
cannot do what they want to do. They despair of
reaching the goal that looks so attainable except for
the limited thought they hold over themselves. They
live in a state of self-hypnosis, hypnotized by their
own thoughts of limitation.
Nothing can defeat you when you find within
yourself the capacity to succeed and progress.
In
the past you have possibly given much thought to the
world about you. You have been led to believe that
you were influenced by it and subject to it. In the
new understanding you will come to see things re-
versed. You will find the Spirit of God within you
and discover that things of the world are subject to
you through Him.
No longer be shackled by self-hypnosis. No
longer miss the joy of attaining your goal because of
foolish beliefs. You have within you the power to
succeed. You have the power to go forward re-
gardless of what obstacles may seeni to appear on
your path. Within you is God power. Go forward.
[ 120 ] Mightier Than
A DAY WELL SPENT
A Prayer Poem
O LORD, I
pray Thee when tonight
1 see the last of western light,
that 1
may have this sweet content; "Today
has been a day well spent"; that I
may feel I've lessened pain and grief
and want and mental strain of some
lone traveler, as I ought, by sharing
with him strengthening thought; that
life to him has been more bright, and
that I come to greet the night with the
assurance that my aid has made an-
dther less afraid, has helped him well
with courage strong throughout the
day, though seeming long; that by my
thought and help and word some one
has found the force that stirred him
to endeavor and to gain the prize he
cherished, without pain. If but to
one my strength was lent, I'll think
today's a day well spent. Amen.
Circumstance
TAKE YOUR PLACE
Vou
WERE created and brought into the world
to 611 a definite place.
If through your ad-
JL verse thinking you keep yourself out of the
position God has assigned to you, you bring con-
fusion into your life. You cause a certain unsettled
condition in the great universal plan as far as you
are related to it The vacant chair at the Lord's
banquet remains unfilled because you do not fill it.
No one else can take your place in the Lord's sight.
If through misfortune of some kind you find
yourself today in a position that you feel is not the
place God has in mind for you, your duty is to find
that place and fill it You are to accept God's aid
in discovering your place in His great plan of life.
On no account are you to be discouraged, nor con-
tent with anything short of God's blessings for you.
Many persons are ill at ease because within them
is an urge to go forward and upward and they do
not obey the impulse. They become restless because
they have the subconscious feeling that they can go
ahead, but they do not let themselves be impelled by
it. They have the inner conviction that they could
have better things in life but refuse to move toward
the object they seek.
The study of Truth sets us free. We are liber-
ated from inhibitions. We cast off the bonds that
have kept us bound to limitations. We escape from
[ 122 } Mightier Than
the place of humility, sacrifice, and lack and catch
the vision of our place in the Father's business. We
see Him advancing us from glory to glory. We ac-
cept the good fortune that He has in store for us.
Take your place in the Father's love! If you
have been living in animosity and fear, if
you have
let yourself dwell in personal consciousness and love-
lessness, move up higher. Your true place is in the
bosom of the Father.
Take your place in the Father's light! If you are
now in darkness, obey the Father's call to come into
His light and let His glory be shed upon you. You
were not created for a place of darkness. Your soul
ever urges you to finer things in life. Your soul
cries out for more light because in itself it is a thing
of light, of light created.
Take your place in the Father's perfection! Be-
hold yourself as He sees you: perfect and whole in
mind and in body. Deny to mind any thought that
would keep you from enjoying the blessings that are
yours as the perfect child of God.
Take your place in the Father's life! In Him
you live. He lives in you. Do not think of yourself
as compelled to live in anything apart from the
presence of God. Find this presence and live in it.
Realize that you are one with His life and that your
place in it. is established.
Take your place in the Father's blessings! Know
that His limitless resources are at your command.
Do you think this attitude is too self-assertive? Re-
member that the prince of a royal household is not
self-assertive when he shares in his father's bounty.
He may have a feeling of humility when he regards
Circumstance 123 }
his father but he takes the good showered upon him
as a matter of course. He takes his place in the royal
household because there is no other position
to take.
The Spirit of Christ today urges you forward.
You are commanded to lay aside your weeping, dis-
content, and resignation and to take your place in the
royal household. You are to behold yourself as free,
healthy, and successful. You are to see yourself as
the child of God and regard Jesus as an elder brother.
To take your place in the Father's love, to accept
the position He offers you in the great universal plan,
calls for but one thing: the right mental attitude.
You are to rule out of mind every thought contrary
to peace, joy, health, and success. You are not to be
content any longer with anything short of these.
You are to aspire to the high consciousness in which
the blessings of God are showered upon you as the
most natural thing in the universe.
Do you think that aspiring to your rightful place
is
going to make you too discontented with life?
You will be discontented until you find it. You
will be discontented as long as you are content with
anything short of the ideal that you occasionally be-
hold. Your natural choice is to train yourself to
enter the high consciousness in which blessings are
yours at your command and desire.
124] Mightier Than
IN MY GARDEN
Christ is
walking in my garden
in the coolness of the day;
There He comes to wait my coming,
for at early morn we pray.
There we meditate together
as He sits
right at my side,
Thinking of the heav'nly splendor
as we there in peace abide..
In the coolness of the morning,
at the early break of day,
All my thoughts of care and trouble
are forgotten, pass away.
In His presence there abiding
all my thoughts to Him are raised,
Every good He sees within me,
all the good in me is
praised.
Christ is
walking in my garden
when 1 come to morning prayer;
I am sure to find Him waiting,
when to Him I there repair.
In my heart this
garden's blooming;
there in secret Him I find
When but thoughts oj love I'm holding,
like the thoughts of His own mind.
Circumstance C 123J
STEADFAST AND IMMOVABLE
WHAT
ADVICE and encouragement shall we
give those who are not steadfast, those
who are easily moved by adverse condi-
tions, those who cannot stand firm in the face of dis-
couraging conditions? In Truth there is but one
thing to offer. We can but advise the unsteady to
turn from the external condition that disturbs to the
Christ within. We can but advise that the movable
find refuge in the immovable. Those who are not
steadfast must identify themselves with the stead-
fastness of Christ.
"My beloved brethren, be ye stedfast, unmov-
able." Be steadfast in the consciousness that Christ
in you is steadfast and immovable. Be unmoved in
the face of danger or adversity because Christ in you
stands firm in the realization of Truth. Let no belief
that things of the world about you can disturb you
enter your inmost consciousness.
If you would be immovable, if you would be un-
affected by the state of things of the world and by
that which other persons say or do, turn in thought
to Christ. The presence of Christ in you is the power
that makes you steadfast and unmoved even when
the whole world about you appears to be chaotic.
His presence becomes to you the very presence of
stability in your soul. His presence causes you to real-
ize that persons, things, and events cannot shake you.
Mightier Than
When we see some person easily disturbed by
things about him, how natural it is for us to recog-
nize that he has need of some steadying influence!
Students of Truth recognize that he needs Truth,
needs to know of the presence and power of Christ
within him. They naturally affirm peace and poise
for him when they see his need for this. They want
to turn him to Christ.
"Be ye stedfast, unmovable" in the realization
that things of the world about you cannot move you.
Become so conscious of the steadfastness and im-
movability of Christ in the midst of you that you
know with inner assurance that nothing in all the
world about you can disturb or affect you. Cease to
be swayed because things of the world are swaying.
Cause them to cease their swaying by taking a firm
stand for steadfastness.
Do you admire those who can remain calm at the
appearance of adversity? Do you know what it is in
them that you admire? It is the presence of Christ
that steadies them. It is He within them that causes
them to stand firm. You admire Christ standing
steadfast and immovable. You behold His pres-
ence shining through them.
Those who are steadfast in Truth remain stead-
fast even when that which is untrue seems to be evi-
dent They are steadfast in the consciousness of
peace even in the face of chaos and inharmony.
They are immovable in the realization of perfect
health in Christ even when disease appears in some
alarming guise. They are steadfast in the realization
that God does provide even when empty storehouses
would proclaim that God's supply is limited.
.Circumstance
I LIVE IN THE LAND OF
THANKFULNESS
/ love the Land of Thankfulness
where blessings overflow;
I claim it as my native home,
most charming land I know;
And if I've need of anything,
no matter what it be,
I just give thanks with confidence
and see it come to me.
I like to live in Thankfulness
would live there all my days;
Would let its
spirit
stir my soul
and fill my heart with praise.
I questioned once how I had found
a place of such a kind;
Knew I'd discovered it, because
I'd thankful thoughts in mind,
Oh, come with me to Thankfulness!
We ask but this of you:
That you be always thankful, friend
but this is all you do.
And if there's
anything you need,
no longer doubt or fear;
The thing you seek's
awaiting you,
it
surely will
appear.
C 128 3 Mightier Than
BEING STABILIZED
*AVE YOU reached a consciousness in which
you feel that the presence o Christ within
you is like some immovable column? Have
you realized that this presence is
something unshaken
even in times of stress ? Have you gained the realiza-
tion that there is that within you which endures
through all seasons, all situations?
Christ in you is that which is unshaken, immov-
able, enduring at all times. You may succumb to
the race belief in fear, disease, and lack but Christ
still endures. At the moment when you relax men-
tally from thinking adverse thoughts, He steadies you
with Truth. He stabilizes you when you would
waver.
When another says or does something that might
disturb you, Christ stabilizes you in the realization
that no one can affect or harm you. You realize that
you are something like a strong tower against which
the winds or waves cannot prevail. You are sta-
bilized. Even as a high tower has its
footing deep
in earth so do you have your foundation established
deep in Spirit and you are unmoved by capricious
winds or adverse beliefs.
The matter of being stabilized depends upon but
one thing: finding the presence of Christ within us
and identifying ourselves with it. This identifica-
tion saves us from relating ourselves to things of the
Circumstance [ 129 }
external world or believing in their power over us.
Persons, things,
or circumstances cannot affect us
when we know that we have within us the pillar
of
light or column of unchangeable substance.
The unstable person is like the reed in the wind.
The reed is blown first one way and then the other by
the winds about it. It may be broken or destroyed if
it cannot resist the wind. The person who is un-
stable is blown, pushed,
or tossed about by the state
of external things. His state varies according to the
state of things about him.
The stabilized person is unaffected and undis-
turbed by what goes on in the external world. He
is so conscious of his power to withstand things of
the world that their power becomes quite insignifi-
cant in his estimation. The thought of fear, disease,
and lack may prevail
all round him but it does not
affect his consciousness of courage, health, and
plenty.
Other persons about him may succumb to
race thoughts and adverse beliefs but he still remains
true to Christ and takes a firmer hold upon Truth.
Give less thought to the belief that external
things can affect you and you strengthen your con-
sciousness of reliance upon Christ in the midst of
you. Think of His presence as enduring through all
time and all circumstances. Know that His power
remains omnipotent even when things of the world
seem to vaunt themselves against Him. Realize that
He is still
present within you even though the world
about you may present the appearance of every form
of evil. Stabilize yourself in the knowledge that
Christ in you ever endures.
{ 130 } Mightier Than
I KNOW GOD ANSWERS PRAYER
I know not how it will be done,
just how my God will answer prayer,
But I have faith that He will hear,
that He will know and He will care:
As my prayer ascends to heaven,
back will come the answer sure;
If I pray for strength and wholeness,
He will send His strength and cure;
If my need be food and shelter,
He will send His prompt supply;
If I ask for His assistance,
I can best on Him rely;
Ready, He, to lead my footsteps
at the branching of the road,
Ready, too, to take my burden
when it seems to be a load.
I know not how He works or answers,
know not how or when or why,
He has given His assurance
that He's with me, ever nigh,
Giving help and love and substance
when my heart lifts up its cry:
He will answer when I call Him,
to my side in need will fly.
Circumstance { 131 }
GOD'S WILL IS GOOD WILL
THE
PRINCIPLES of mathematics do not per-
mit you to add five and seven and get thir-
teen. We may say that it is the "will" of the
principles of mathematics that you have twelve when-
ever you add five and seven. We can think of this
as "will," because it
proves stronger than your own
human will You could not through concentration
or prayer change the principles
of mathematics or by
any human effort cause them to be other than de-
pendable, accurate, and reliable principles.
You are in the position of having to "obey" the
principles of mathematics whenever you would use
them. The impersonal decree of the laws of mathe-
matics is that you have to abide by their operation.
You have no other recourse. However, their con-
stancy and accuracy prove to be a blessing to you;
otherwise, you could add five and seven one day and
get six; add them the next and get fifty. So you see,
what we have called the "will" of the principles of
mathematics is, after all, good will or else it would
prove to be vacillating and capricious, entirely unde-
pendable, giving you extra measure at one time and
short measure another.
The principle of Truth has some things in com-
mon with the principles of mathematics. When you
understand and use the principle of Truth you can-
not get hate, fear, disease, and failure. Like the
[ 132 ] Mightier Than
principles of mathematics, it does not permit you to
manifest these adversities when you use it. You have
to obey a certain law or come under a certain agree-
ment when you use the principle of Truth. You
have to abide by the "decision" of the principle of
Truth and accept the good it
brings to you.
Thinking of God as "principle" or "law" gives
us a certain feeling of God as being dependable, ac-
curate, and reliable. When we place our trust in
Him and co-operate with Him we understand what
His will for us is. We realize that it is always good
will. Thinking of Him as the "law" of our life, we
realize that He is the "principle" of our health. We
realize that we can have naught but health when
we apply the principle of Truth.
You will not understand the absolute nature of
God until you think of Him as Principle. Prayer will
seem to be a hit-and-miss proposition until you realize
that it is founded on spiritual law. Your business is
likely to have its
ups and downs, its times of pros-
perity and of adversity, until you know that it is
founded on principle, the never-varying principle of
prosperity and success.
God's will for you could no more be disease and
failure than the "will" of the principles of mathe-
matics could be confusion or mistakes in addition.
God does not "permit" you to have disease or failure
when you apply His law any more than the prin-
ciples of mathematics permit you to add five and
seven and get thirteen as the result God is good
and the action of His law is always good.
Circumstance [ 133 J
GOD ASKS BUT THIS
That which your God requires of you
'tis easy work for you:
He asks but this one simple thing:
that you be ever true.
He asks of you to think His Truth,
be true to Him and man,
Be ever thinking) living Truth
be true as e'er you can.
God would that you be true to Him
and in return gives you
The best He has of heaven's wealth.
'Tis little that you do:
You think His Truth about yourself
with health He compensates;
You think the Truth about His love
He sets you free from hates.
God asks but that you think His Truth
and your reward bestows
Upon you as your peace and joy.
Along your way He goes.
God asks but that you think a thought
but that thought must be Truth
And in return He gives you wealth
and love and health and youth.
[134] Mightier Than
HOW OMNISCIENT IS GOD?
OD is omniscience, all science or knowledge of
Truth, all science of spiritual reality. Man
can know the science of God or experience
spiritual understanding only through spiritual con-
sciousness. In his workaday world he may "know**
many things that have no place in the omniscience of
God and, consequently, part of his work when en-
tering spiritual consciousness is to "unknow" that
which he formerly accepted as true.
"But," you may ask, "does not God know all
things? Does not He know our diseases and short-
comings?" Remember that man is the knower and
God is man's spiritual understanding. Since God
is Truth, if God could know that man has disease,
then disease would become an eternal verity and
would become true about man. Does God know
that brother John had indigestion last Friday night?
In universal Truth there exists but one fact about
man that concerns his health and perfection. In uni-
versal Truth there is no brother John, no indigestion,
no Friday night. There exists only man in perfect
health for all time.
When we enter a state of prayer, we do not in-
form God about someone's indigestion or ask if He
knew about it. We pray in order to charge our
minds with the truth that God "knows," or with
the knowledge of Truth that comes to us in prayer.
Circumstance { 135 }
We enter into an attitude of prayer so that our minds
may "unknow" what they have thought about dis-
ease or shortcomings and be filled with spiritual
knowledge.
Omniscience must represent an absolute ideal to
us. Man has power to know all things in the sense
of knowing both good and evil, health and disease;
but in the omniscience of God there exists only man's
good and his health. Man may be dual-minded,
but God is not.
Do not think of God as some sort of a cosmic
brain. You cannot understand what we call the
mind of God from studying your own mind in its
conscious reasoning, entertaining opposing thoughts,
taking cognizance of personal matters.
How omniscient is God? His omniscience is un-
limited as far as absolute Truth is concerned. Think
of God as "all absolute science or spiritual knowl-
edge/' but do not try to include in this any belief that
God knows personal shortcomings in the sense that
man knows them. If God were something that knew
both good and evil, He would be on the same level as
unregenerate man, dual-minded in His thinking.
Quite often we hear it said that God can do all
things; but there remains one thing that God cannot
do, and that is to think evil.
We call God the one Mind because there is but
one science or knowledge of Truth, but one spiritual
consciousness. Were there two minds, two spiritual
sciences, there would need to be two gods. In Truth,
there is but one God and only one Mind of Truth;
only one spiritual consciousness known to the man
who is freed from dual-mindedness.
[136] Mightier Than
WE SEE THE FACE OF GOD
I know we see the face of God
when we behold a smile!
We look upon the face of man,
see God there all the while;
We see God's love there shining through
when smiles the happy soul,
And know that to reflect God's light
should be our aim and goal.
I like to see a happy face
that's tipped with heav'nly light,
A countenance that indicates
a heart whose thoughts are right;
And hack of it I see a soul
where love just overflows,
A soul revealing freely Truth
that the illumined knows.
I like to meet a happy man
whose soul is in his face,
There Love personified behold,
see more of heavenly grace;
I think that heaven's messengers
come to a world distressed
When we meet others on the way
who give us peace and rest.
Circumstance [ 137 }
THE ABSOLUTE VIEWPOINT
UITE OFTEN teachers of Christian metaphys-
ics are criticized because they take an abso-
lute stand. Their opponents criticize them
for taking the stand that in Truth God is
ail in all, that He is the only presence and power.
Some one says that God, the good, cannot be the only
presence and power because there is the appearance
o evil and disease. Another says that God may be
considered all in a theological sense but not in a
practical way.
The teacher of absolute metaphysics takes the
stand that God, the good, alone is
omnipresent and
omnipotent. In this realization he comes to know
the nothingness of the claim of evil and disease. His
only working tool is Truth. Without the realization
that God is all in all, he would be a victim of the
race belief that evil shares in the presence and power
of God.
The teacher of Truth early finds that he cannot
make a compromise. He finds that he cannot be-
lieve that God is only partly omnipresent and omnip-
otent or that He is at one time all-powerful and at
another half-powerful. If God is God, omnipresent
and omnipotent as all good, He must be so at all
times and under all circumstances.
We must think of Truth not as a religion or a
system of theology but as a practical science or
[138} Mightier Than
philosophy. We must think of God as something
that helps man in his extremity. We must know
God as a power that man feels when he needs power.
We need to know God as all in all at a time when
something adverse would seem to usurp God's pres-
ence and power.
The absolute viewpoint knows no concession to
race belief. The absolute philosophy of life has its
reliable principle when evil and disease seem to be
raging as well as when things seem to be going all
right. The absolute viewpoint takes a most positive
stand and gives no quarter to the appearance of any-
thing unlike God.
One time a year or so ago, when many persons
were experiencing adverse conditions, one man, who
was a student of Truth, told us that he had been un-
able to apply it to his own affairs and he was going to
give it
up. Our answer to him was something like
this: "You cannot ever give up Truth. Once you
discover it, you find it is a part of your very life.
Your only possible escape from adverse conditions
is
through your being loyal to Truth and through
applying it." He grasped the point and saw that
even though he had been discouraged, even though
he had failed in his efforts, he still had to remain
positive to Truth.
You can see that the more evil appears in your
life, the more loyal you must be to Truth. You
must be positive and absolute in your thinking. You
must cling to the truth that God is all in all even
when evil seems to be all. There Is no other way out.
There is no other means of escape from adverse con-
ditions but that which comes through Truth.
Circumstance [ 139 }
IT NEVER HAPPENED
The mind of God, to Truth so true,
Can have no thought that limits you.
Has not a record of mistakes
Those memories which cause heartaches.
When you accuse yourself of sins,
The trouble in your heart begins,
Yet through it all, in heaven's sight,
You are God's child, your soul is white.
If in God's sight your "sin" were placed,
You could not have your sin erased;
But God, of mind so pure and true,
Knows not of evil that you do.
If you but know that in God's mind
There's never thought of evil kind,
That sinful deed of yesterday
From memory'II be cleared away
"// never happened" in God's sight.
No darkened thought obscures His light.
Since God is but your Father true,
He knows naught but the good of you.
His Truth endures though you may fall.
Then rise again, obey His call,
Cease blaming self. Just know whafs true,
And say that He's "forgiven" you.
140] Mightier Than
/ GIVE TO CHRIST TWO GIFTS
B
LESSED Christ, I give to Thee today something
that I have hugged to myself for a long
time. I yield to Thee my worries and my
cares. I give these to Thee without expecting to take
them from Thee again. I give them to Thee without
conditions, provisos,
or strings. I give Thee all anxi-
eties that I have entertained about myself, my affairs,
my relatives, my associates.
Blessed Christ, take today this gift which has
been long delayed in reaching Thee. I yield it
up
this day, knowing that I shall never see it again.
This is the first of two gifts that I give to Thee,
The first goes to Thee that I may more fully re-
joice in giving Thee the second gift.
Blessed Christ, the second gift is my full and
complete love. Giving Thee my love, I vow that I
will love nothing in all this world more than Thee.
I will love no personality, external thing, or worldly
circumstance more than Thee. The love that I give
others will be but a love that glorifies Thee. Be-
holding Christ in them, I will keep Thee ever before
my thoughts.
Blessed Christ, in giving Thee my entire love, I
give Thee all my thoughts. Henceforth, living in
Thy love, I will live in Thy consciousness of Truth.
Since I have given Thee my love, I abide henceforth
in Thy heart and consequently must be at one with
Circumstance C 141 }
Thee in thought. I cannot think unloving thoughts
and be unified with Thee. Having given Thee my
love, my love is centered in Thee. Thinking only of
Thee, I can no longer think contrary to good and
Truth. I abide in Thy spiritual
consciousness.
Blessed Christ, I give my loved ones into Thy
keeping. I am no longer concerned about them or
their affairs. I confidently know that they will be
watched over day and night. I
give them to Thee
with my love. I will not ask to take them back into
personal consciousness. I
give them to Thee for Thy
eternal benediction.
Blessed Christ, strengthen me in my decision to
give Thee these gifts.
I give Thee my worries and!
I give Thee my love. Keep these forever as a sacred
trust. May I never weaken and ask Thee for their
return. Give me courage in my determination to let
Thee keep my gifts.
Blessed Christ, that which I have given Thee is
as naught to the peace that comes to me in return.
Blessings unnumbered come to me through the
meager gifts I
give to Thee. Only anxiety and love
are asked of me, but much comes in return. Only
my gifts am I asked to let Thee keep that I may be
bountifully blessed in the giving.
Blessed Christ, keep my two gifts as evidence
that in Thee I have placed my trust. Let these be
evidence of my increasing faith. Let these attest to
my confident assurance that all is well with me and
with my affairs. Let my giving prove to Thee that
I am willing to go forth this day without care, worry,
and anxiety. I am willing to give Thee the burden
and to feel Thy loving arms bearing me up.
[142] Mightier Than
MY CHRISTMAS GIFT
Alone I sat, for I had left
gay friends amid a Christmas rush;
About me there were Christmas gifts,
my room displayed a festive air;
And then I felt a presence near
infold me in His holy hush
The Man of Christmas came to me
as I sat dreaming in my chair.
t(
I bring to you your Christmas gift/
9
He said to me in voice so low,
ff
l bring from heaven peace of mind,
I give you Truth thafs understood,
I bless your tongue to speak the truth,
I go with you where'er you go,
I give you power to conquer wrong,
and give you power to see the good,
I fill your heart with Heaven's love.
Your every need I will supply,
Til guide your feet where'er you walk,
since from my love you cannot drift."
The Man of Christmas passed from sight,
but in my heart I felt Him nigh
And as the Christmas bells rang out,
I thanked Him for my Christmas gift.
Circumstance [ 143
"WHAT THINK YE OF THE CHRIST?39
IN
TRUTH literature we find little about the per-
sonal or historical life of Jesus. Man has
found that he needs to look beyond the per-
sonality of Jesus to the impersonal and mystical
Christ. He looks to that mystical presence that is
divine, heaven-sent. Men may argue and dispute
over theological doctrines, they may disagree about
many things in the history of Jesus, but the man who
has received the great illumination is concerned
only about the mystical presence.
We are reminded of a woman who traveled far
and wide, visited many great churches, sought for
comfort within them, hoped to find some religious
charm or material relic or some spiritual person or
thing, which she might ever carry with her as a shield
or earnest of victory in her life's
experiences. One
day, in a famous old church, she was led to confide
to one of the ministers that she had always hoped to
find some charm against evil. She felt that some-
time she would receive some gift that would pro-
tect her from sin and fear, something that would
always assure her of health and joy and peace.
The minister, who had long seen many of the
faithful of his church look to material or outer things
in their worship without grasping the inner truths he
tried to convey to them, said, "But, my dear lady, you
have the greatest charm of all. You have within you,
144} Mightier Than
in the secret places of your soul, the very heart of
Christ. It is the greatest charm o all. Its value far
surpasses the wealth of the world. Its power to cast
out evil is
unsurpassed. Its power of protection is
unlimited. In order to use it, in order to have it
work its magic for you, your own heart must be right.
It must be purified of all
thought of evil. Go forth
with the heart of Christ and conquer your world."
To this man of saintly vision she turned in sur-
prise and joy. Christ in her? His heart in her?
She could carry His loving heart with her? How
could any thought of evil or fear reach her when she
bore such a sacred charm? She had been taught
something of the mystical Christ. It was by far the
greatest lesson she had ever received. What did she
think of Christ? Her whole being was flooded with
a strange light She felt the presence of His heart
within her. She went bearing the heart of the mys-
tical Christ. In the old church she had found the
charm she sought.
Afterwards she told the minister that this expe-
rience had changed her whole life. With the heart
of Christ in her, there was a new guard over her
thoughts. Her fears vanished. Her health im-
proved. Her doubts fled. Her enemies changed to
friends. Life in general went through a big change.
What do you think of Christ? How can you be
unhappy, fearful, or ill, if you have grasped this
truth? How could you find disappointment or sor-
row or failure, since it is your good fortune to bear
the heart of Christ? A material, fleshly, palpitating
heart? No, a holy, sacred, and mystical heart that
will cause your own heart to beat with a new love. A
Circumstance 145 }
heart that is the very foundation of your own heart.
A heart that loves when you would fear or falter.
A heart that will put new courage in your own heart.
What do you think of Christ? Do you look to
the history or life of Jesus of two thousand years ago
for help, or do you look to the mystical Christ, that
divine presence within you which is mighty to carry
you through any situation and make you victorious ?
Can anything of the external world defeat you when
you realize that in you Christ goes forth to victory?
Can any person harm you when you have in your
midst the very presence of Christ?
Heaven's gift to suffering humanity was the Mas-
ter Jesus with His Christ message. He turned men
to the Christ within themselves. He showed them
their Christhood. He revealed to them that they are
not things of dust, matter, and disease. He revealed
to men their godhood. He declared their spiritual
aristocracy.
Do not think of external things as able to defeat
or thwart you. Go forth each day in the conscious
realization that you have something within you that
is divine. Let this divine presence shed its rays of
love upon your environment and your life.
You will come to think of Christ in a new way
and, best of all, you will think of yourself in a
strange, new way. You will think Christlike
thoughts. You will behold Christ coming forth to
glorify your heavenly Father.
{ 146 ] Mightier Than
BY THIS YOU'LL KNOW
// we but seek the good in life,
Naught but the good we find.
For what we seek is
seeking us,
Attracted to its kind;
And when ifs evil that we seek.
Forgetting Truth and Lord,
We should not feel at all
surprised
If evil's our reward.
Now, if you see in some one else
That which is
good and true,
You may be sure, by this same law,
There's something good in you.
If at some one you look, and think
That evil's lurking there,
You'll find that evil too exists
In your own heart somewhere.
How may you know your heart is
pure
And you from evil free?
When you no longer criticize,
Nor evil in men see.
When you in others see the Christ,
No doubt will fill your mind
That you to heaven's gate have come;
For Christ in you yotfll find.
Circumstance { 147 }
BY THIS SIGN
THE
MOTTO of Constantine I ""In hoc signo
vinces" is one that the Christian may well
adopt. Translated, it reads, "By this sign
[the cross] thou shalt conquer." The practical Chris-
tian sees the cross not as an emblem of crucifixion
but as a sign of victory. He beholds the cross as the
emblem of the victorious Christ. The Christian has
imprinted upon his heart and soul the badge of his
fellowship with Christ, the mark of His promise
of victory.
The cross is the Christian's talisman, his assur-
ance of good fortune. By his consciousness of the
cross, the victory of Christ, he too is victorious.
Christ through spiritual understanding "crossed out"
or obliterated the power of evil. As long as man
realizes the victory of Christ within him, he cannot
believe that evil or sin can be victorious over him.
By the sign of the cross you are victorious. Christ
stamps upon your heart the emblem of your victory
over every adverse thought or situation. You will
conquer because Christ in the midst of you has con-
quered. You will succeed because Christ never fails.
Learn to think of the cross, whenever you see it
displayed, as a statement of Christ's power in you
to prevail. It is at once the statement that you have
power to cross out or obliterate all that appears in
your life as sinful or evil. It is the statement that
Christ has rendered powerless all that would pre-
sume to disturb or injure you.
The student of mystical Christianity looks be-
yond the crucified Jesus and beholds the risen and
triumphant Christ. Just as Jesus made of crucifixion
an opportunity for triumph, so can man with eyes on
the cross make of each trial an occasion for victory.
In higher understanding, he can deny and obliterate
every appearance in his life that is
ungodlike and un-
desirable. He can declare the mighty Truth of Christ
and see it become established as his own victory.
Man stands with Christ at the heart or intersec-
tion of the two lines of the cross. He sees it in its
mystical significance pointing in four directions.
Standing with Christ and accepting the cross as His
gift to him, man can look in four directions and
know that the world is his through Christ.
The cross is so closely identified with Christ that
we must believe in the power of the cross if we are
Christians. We must believe it to be the Christian's
sign of Christ triumphant in himself. If you are a
Christian, you must realize that you carry with you
your protection against evil, your assurance of the
triumph of good.
How would you like to lead a charmed life?
How would you like to feel that you carried with you
a charm or emblem of confidence, protection, health,
and success that would always work miracles for you?
When you have the sign of the cross imprinted upon
your heart, you cannot fail. It is your security
against harm. It is your assurance of die protecting
power and presence of Christ.
Think often of yourself as established' in the
Circumstance [ 149 }
light, peace, joy, love, and life of Christ because you
are a member of His brotherhood. You carry His
insignia upon your heart. Nothing in all the world
about you can prevail against Him or His cross. You
have immunity against pestilence
and fear. You are
protected from all that would attempt to prevail
against Christ
Do you grasp the thought of what it means to be
a Christian and to wear the insignia of Christ, to be
one of His followers, to carry the sign of His cross?
Remember that by this sign you will conquer. The
world about you will respect this cross when in your
heart and upon your countenance you show that you
respect it yourself.
The cross of Christ is the badge placed upon
man that signifies
that he is of Christ
1
s household.
Those who have accepted Christ wear His badge.
They belong to a fellowship in which they are iden-
tified by their consciousness of Truth. They are
known by their loving words. They bear in their
hearts the image and likeness of Christ.
By the cross of Christ we conquer. We are vic-
torious because the power of Christ must prevail.
Nothing can prevail against Christ in us. He abides
in us as our assurance that His victory is sure; His
triumph certain. In this consciousness we go forth
victorious and triumphant.
1 150 ] Mightier Than
MEN OF PEACE
Onward, Christian soldiers,
singing, "Peace on earth/
9
Through your peaceful message
conquer war and dearth!
With your eyes uplifted,
with your hearts on high,
Christ will lead you singing,
"Peace," with banners high.
Onward, Christian soldiers,
sing the "Peace" refrain!
You through Christ will conquer,
every virfry gain.
Onward, ever onward,
keep your hearts at peace;
Through Christ's power eternal,
war is bound to cease!
Christ as love is
reigning,
love must e'er prevail;
Christ is ever with you
and you cannot fail.
Onward, comrades, onward,
panoplied in light;
Nothing can resist you,
Christ alone has might!
Soldiers of His kingdom,
knights of brotherhood,
Shout your peaceful message:
Christ be understood!
Circumstance
THINGS
WHAT
would we say is the cause of most
of man's anxiety? What is it that draws
his attention away from God in the
midst of him? What is it that causes him to doubt
that God is all in all? The belief in things. The
belief that the external world conspires against him.
The belief that things of the world can harm him.
The belief that he must possess things.
Quite often we overhear something like this in
a conversation: "Well, what's troubling you, Bob?'
1
"Oh, just things." In that one little word may be
summed up a great deal of adverse thought. There
is concern about business, worry over family, fear
about finances, thought about the future, anxiety
about health probably affected by the belief in
things. Things usually take on a personal character
in our belief about them and consequently we include
even persons in the classification of "things." All
the external objective world comes under our head
of things, since the individual who worries about
things is
usually found to be in personal conscious-
ness. We are far more concerned about some per-
sonal relationship to things than we are about their
three-dimensional character.
In this connection, we are inclined to think of the
Bible passage "They enquired of the LORD further
if the man should yet come thither. And the LORD
[152] Mightier Than
answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the
stuff" (A. V.) . Man seems to be so engulfed in his
belief in the power of things over him that his spir-
itual character and power are obscured.
The student of Latin often encounters the word
"impedimenta.
3 '
When Csesar broke camp, there
were always the impedimenta to be handled the
baggage, the trappings of war, things! The word
itself conveys a sense of heaviness. How much
easier it would have been for the Roman soldier if
he had been able to "forward-march" without being
impeded and bothered with impedimenta. Possibly
a good heading for this article on things would have
been this Latin word "impedimenta" Certainly it
conveys the thought. It conveys to us, students of
practical Christianity, the thought that the belief in
the power of things impedes our spiritual progress.
From the Hindus we get the thought of the un-
reality of external things. One of our Unity tracts
uses the typographical scheme of referring to God
as Real but to things unlike God as un-Real. Cer-
tainly, a good metaphysical treatment is the realiza-
tion of the unreality of all that is unlike God. Things
considered as having power to harm us would need to
come under the classification of unrealities.
The Hindu thought of the unreality and power-
lessness of things finds its
counterpart in the Chris-
tian Bible. We find such teachings as this: "Seeing
that these things are thus all to be dissolved, what
manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy living
and godliness, looking for and earnestly desiring the
coming of the day of God/' In fact the whole
teaching of the Christian religion centers around the
Circumstance [ 153 ]
paramount truth of the reality and power of God
in the midst of us and the unreality and powerless-^
ness of things of the world.
Now, to what extent can we include other per-
sons in the thought of the unreality and powerless-
ness of external things? We can realize their ina-
bility in Truth to be unlike God. We can realize
their powerlessness to harm us. We can know that
their hate and envy and malice are nonexistent in the
sight of God. To the extent that they are unlike
God they do not exist for us. Believing in the om-
nipotence and omnipresence of God, we cannot be-
lieve in the reality and power in Truth of any person
or thing that is un-Godlike in character or behavior.
The person who does not understand higher
truths thinks of there being a certain center of power
outside of himself, and through the power of things
he is ruled by this external power. He believes in
materiality, fate, and the domination of things. The
student of Truth believes in the omnipresence and
omnipotence of God, the good. Things are his serv-
ants. He helps his fellow man to be delivered from
the belief in things. He is
prompt to declare the
omnipotence of God when his fellow man is bur-
dened by belief in sin, disease, or failure. "The Lord
God omnipotent reigneth" (A. V.) .
[154]
SANCTUARY
I have a sanctuary white,
A temple on a hill so bright,
Where from the world I may retreat
And there the Christ in stillness meet.
It matters not what may befall,
I only need to heed His call.
The sanctuary door's ajar;
The light within shines out afar.
Where'er I am, where'er I roam,
The light still calls me to my home
The light upon my pathway falls,
He from the sanctuary calls.
The holy of all holies bright,
Its tabernacle white with light,
I find within3 where love Intones
Eternal praise and Christ enthrones.
Circumstance [ 155
