{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__teener___unity_school_of_christianity.pdf","mytitle":"Unity School Of Christianity","mylang":"de"}
:
. ‘
i
1
*v&yr* •
?
vv*
m w h *
p *
UNITV LIBRflRV 8 BRCHIUES
U n i t y S c h o o l o f C h r i s t i a n i t y
BX 9890 -T4
0 0051 DDH41T1 E
The Univeroity of'.-Chicago
Unity School of Christianity
A Dissertation
Submitted to the Faculty of the Divinity Schc
In Candidacy for-the Degree of
Doctor ref-J?jbiIoeophy
By
James W* T e e n e r
SCHOOL LIBRARY'.,*,#
UltJY VILLAGE, MISSOURI 6 4 lli/
W UNITY SCHOOL LIBRARY , ‘
W H Y VILLAGE, MISSOURI 6406!
Chicago, Illinois
August, 1999
10
.rv
ACKH0WLEDQMENTS
Unity School of Christianity iB now the most defi­
nitely organized group in the Hew Thought Movement, It has
exerted a steadily widening influence over a period of fifty
years. The writer here endeavors to set forth for the first
time its history and theology. He acknowledges with deep
appreciation the hearty oo-operation of Mr, Charles Fillmore,
co-founder of unity School of Christianity, and Mr, Lowell
Fillmore, its active manager, who have kindly extended to him
the resources of Unity School’s library. They also have
given opportunity to confer with those directly responsible
for the var_ous phases of Unity’s extensive program. The
writer appreciates, too, the critical comments and sugges­
tions of Professor Edwin Ewart Aubrey and Professor William
Warren Sweet, under whose direction this thesis haB bean
completed*
CONTESTS
Acknowledgments
PART I
THE HISTORY OF THE.UNITYMOVS£ENT 1
Chapter
I. THE BACKGROUND OF THEUNITY MOVEMENT 2
II. UNITY*3 PERIOD OF STRUGGLE 43
III. UNITY'S GOLDEN ERA 67
IV. UNITY BECOMES A SECT 97
PART II
THEOLOGICAL ASPECTS OF THE UNITY MOVEMENT ,112
INTRODUCTION! THE SOURCES OF UNITY'S THOUGHT 115
Chapter
V/ THE PROBLEM OF KNOWLEDGE 124
VI, THE NATURE OF GOD 152
VII. MAN 145
VIII. SALVATION 171
IX, • THE PLACE OF JESUS CHRISTINMAN'SSALVATION102
Bibliography 206
-111- <
PART I
THE HISTORY OF THE UNITY MOVEMENT
CHAPTER I
THE BACKGROUND OP THE UNITY MOVEMENT
The Founders
Kansas Cityans delight to call their community the
"Heart of America." In 1891 a real estate promoter, but re­
cently converted to religion, announced that he had found
there a "peculiar psychic atmosphere," which would make the
area a center of great spiritual force. Prophet Joseph
Smith, a generation removed, had suggested that Jesus Christ
would shortly set up his reign Just east of the city, and
many of Smith's followers were gathered at the proposed tem­
ple site. It was also reported that Mrs. Eddy had discerned
a "soul quality"^ in that place which would eventuate in the
most extensive Christian Science work on the earth. Unity
School of Christianity was conceived under this remarkable
influence. It has rewarded the community by carrying the
name of Kansas City around the globe.
Unity School of Christianity is the product of the
combined genius of Charles and Myrtle Fillmore. A short
sketch of their lives will give some insight into the origin
and growth of the movement. Charles Sherlock Fillmore (he
has never used the middle name) was born on a Chippewa Indian
Reservation on Sauk River near 3t. Cloud, Minnesota, August 22
1854. His father, of English descent, originated at Buffalo,
Hew York. He received only a common school education and nev-
^Charles Fillmore, "A Divine Center," Christian
Science Thought, II (Jan., 1891), 6.
5-
er united with any religious organization, but Charles reraem-
bers him as having a good knowledge of the Bible and as prone
to quote it. The father had no physical defects and enjoyed
good health throughout his life. Apparently he had an adven­
turous disposition. When about twenty-one years of age he
left the settled life of Buffalo and migrated to the wilds of
Minnesota to become a trader among the Indians, He later be­
came a land-owner in the northern part of the state. His son
suggests that he was only fairly successful in his business
affairs. He died at the age of seventy-three years.
In Minnesota Charles’ father, Henry G, Fillmore,
met Mary Georgians Stone, who had been born in far-off Nova
Scotia, Her father, by trade a millwright, had brought the
family west while Mary was quite young. She had had little
educational opportunity. The family was Anglican in religion
She married at eighteen years of age, Mary G, (Stone) Fill­
more, like her husband, was blessed with good health; she
died at the age of ninety-seven at Kansas City,
Charles, one of two sons, was b o m on the Minnesota
Indian reservation, August 22, 1854, Although small of body,
he had good health as a lad. However, as a lad of ten years
he injured his hip severely while skating. He estimates that
when he reached manhood, his right leg was some four and one-
half inches shorter than his left. He reoalls his youth as
a time of severe, physical struggle with little opportunity
for play. His father had no interest In education, and under
the frontier conditions Charles reoelved only the limited
-4-
amount of a few terms in a rural school. Moat of his know­
ledge has come in later years because of a personal thirst
for knowledge. His crippled condition did not keep him from
making his own way. He began clerking in a store, a Job he
held two years, when only fifteen. He then spent one year in
the service of a bank. After that he moved out from his
home, going to Denison, Texas, where he clerked in a freight
office of the Missouri, Kansas, and. Texas Railroad for six
years. He pushed on to Leadville, Colorado, in 1879, He be­
came interested in mining, learned assaying, and for two
years practiced the art at Gunnison. After a short stay at
Pueblo, he moved eastward to Kansas City, which became his
permanent home. Charles was not privileged to attend any
church during his childhood, and he never affiliated with any
orthodox religious group. He says:
I was not biased on the God question by an orthodox
education. Born and raised in the wilderness of the
west, my religious education was quite limited. God was
an unknown factor in my conscious mind and always has
been until the past few years,1
However, he early became interested in the mysterious and
occult. While still a youth he dabbled in Spiritualism and
was also drawn to the Hermetic philosophy. He announced in
August, 1889 that he had had twenty years* experience in spir-
o
itualism. This explains some of the oonflict in thinking
^Thought, Y (Feb., 1894), 454 (editorial).
^Modern Thought, I (Aug,, 1889), 8| of. Unity, ILVII
(Sept., 1917), B B S . ■ ^ ----
-5
between Myrtle FILlnore and himself during the early years of
their movement.
Mary Caroline Page, daughter of Mark and Lucy
(Wheeler) Fage, was born at Pagetown, Ohio, August 6, 1844 or
1845. Her parents christened her Mary Caroline, but for some
unknown reason she disliked the nano and began using the name
Myrtle. This change was made before she entered college.
Myrtle Page was one of nine children, none of whom ore now
living. The education of both parents was beyond the grade
school, and both were earnest Christian workers, members of
the Methodist Episcopal Church, Myrtle became a member of
the church during her girlhood. She was given the regular
education of her community. In September, 1868. she entered
Oberlin College, where she remained for one year.^ She en­
rolled in the "literary course for ladies," carrying four sub­
jects— mathematics, algebra, Latin, and English* In these
courses she showed only average scholarship. She left no dis­
coverable impressions upon the Oborlin students of that year.
When she left college she followed a brother to Clinton,
Missouri, and there secured a position as a teacher in the
village school, Sha was also an enthusiastic worker in the
local Methodist church. After two years at Clinton, she se­
cured a contract to teach school at Denison, Texas. During
her stay of six years at Denison she met Charles Fillmore.
Charles Fillmore and Myrtle Page were married at
^Letter from Registrar of Oberlin College, August 10,
1955, Unity School publishes that she was a graduate of
Oberlin, See Myrtle Page Fillmore (Kansas City* Unity School
of Christianity, lU5i2),p. B.----
6
Clinton, Missouri, March 29, 1861. It was a strange combina­
tion— Charles, twenty-six years of age, small of body and
slightly stooped, with a decided limp because of his shortened
leg, suffering from curvature of the spine and deafness in
the right ear;" Myrtle, ten years his senior, and, according
seem that only tragedy could be their loti The pair started
their hone in Pueblo, Colorado. Three sons were b o m into
that home: at Pueblo, Lowell, b o m January 4, 1882, and
Y
.
’
aldo Rickert, born June 1, 1884; at Kansas City, Royal, born
July 16, 1887. Mr. Fillmore reports that the children w6re
sturdy and had only minor diseases such as measles and whoop­
ing cough before ten years of age. Lowell was given a grade
and a high school education; Rickert continued through the
Chicago Art Institute; and Royal spent three years at the Uni­
versity of Missouri. All of them have been engaged with
their parents in the business of Unity School of Christianity.
Royal died of diabetes at the age of thirty-seven years.
Kansas City was at that time In the nidBt of a building boom,
And Mr. Fillmoro decided to enter the real-eBtate business.
He evidently achieved some little success as a promoter of
real estate, for he claims to have accumulated a hundred and
^
TEhe Origin and Growth of the Unity Movement (Kans
City: Unity Scnool of Christianity, 103V), p. 5. By'‘
this
time Hr. Fillmore was calling his leg condition tuberculosis
of the hip.
9
to her claims, already a victim of t u b e r c u l o s i s I t would
The Fillnores came to Kansas City late in 1884.
1
But before 1888 tho boom had collapsed
fifty thousand dollars,
and, like many others, Mr. Fillmore lost heavily and was "left
p
in debt to the amount of one thousand dollars.” Myrtle
Fillmore was also having serious physical disturbances. The
change from the mountains of Colorado to the lov/ country of
Kansas City had done her no good. She was sure that she was
suffering from tuberculosis, and she was looking forward to
the birth of hex’ third son within a few months. Perhaps
Lowell and Hickert were having one of the children's diseases
already mentioned. Myrtle Fillmore felt that she had more
than she could bear. Then something happened! The Fillmores
explain it as follows:
Just when it seemed that there was nothing left to
life, there came an extraordinary change over Iflyrtle,
During the many heartbreaking trials she had z-easoned
out that there must be a supreme power operating by
fixed divine law, and that this law, applied in faith and
faithfully, must of necessity set aside all destructive
agencies. And she applied her theory with remarkable
success. Her tuberculosis vanished, as did the ailments
of her children, . . . Sickness and poverty became as
bad dreams. I
r
. their place health and the ability to
work reigned. And Charles Fillmore, grasping the full
meaning of this divine law, began to help her in her
ministrations, reapir^g much benefit physically, mentally
and materially.0
Christian Science to Kansas City
What had caused the change in Myrtle Fillmore?
Christian Soienoe had come to townl The earliest traces of*
*
^V. E. Sutton-Mattocks, "Miracles Wrought by a Wo­
man's Faith," The Kansas City Star, November 28, lu26, p. lc,
^TTnlty, XVII (August, 1902), 69f.
*
>
V. Z. Sutton-Mattocks, "Miracles Wrought by a Wo­
man's Faith," The Kansas City Star, lov, 28, 1926, p. lo.
organized Christian Science in Kansas City were in 1887, The
route from Boston was through Chicago, Dr. J. S, Thatcher
came from Chicago early that year and in March, about four
months before Royal Fillmore was born, opened the Kansas City
College of Christian Science, Eugene B, Weeks, also of
Chicago, organized and taught the first class; Charles and
Myrtle Fillmore were members of that class, C, I, Thatcher,
a brother of tho founder, later oarae to teach in the college,
Christian Science found a well-prepared soil in Kansas City,
for by 1890 this one college announced tliat it had taught more
than eight hundred students, and Christian Science, a Chicago
magazine, reported that there were already tliree thriving
Bchools in Kansas City with an attendance of fifteen hundred
Christian Science and Mr. and Mrs, Fillmore are said to have
been at one time associated with the Christian Science Church,
which they deny, it is necessary to trace the historical con­
tacts of the two movements. A study of the first volume of
Modem Thought, the original magazine which the Filluores be­
gan to publish in April, 1889, reveals the influences that
led them toward Christian Soienoe, They never studied under
Mrs. Eddy, but tho first book they advertised for sale from
their office‘was her Science and Health. This indicates that,
at the very least, Kansas City was quite Eddy oonscio is.
Scientists•
Because Unity School is now frequently classed as
1
Moreover, the Fillmorea were removed only one step
s
9
from Mrs. Eddy, Three persons exerted noticeable influence
upon them at this point. The first was Mrs, Ursula Gestefeld,
Chicago. When Mrs, Eddy made her first trip to Chicago, April,
1864, Mrs. GestefeT£ mot her and became a member of her class,
%
The First Church of Christ, Scientist, of Chicago was incor­
porated June 13, 1886, with a membership of fifty-one, Mrs,
Ursula Gestefeld was made clerk of the church and the follow­
ing year became one of Its directors, »She was an ambitious
woman of marked literary ability, and she soon was producing
literature on the subject of Christian Science, which did not
fully agree with the thought of Mrs, Eddy. In 1888 she pub- •
lished A Statement of Christian Science, with the subtitle.
An Explanation of "Science and Health,1
1 In this book she ig­
nored the subject of "malicious animal magnetism" and also
declared that the statement that "there is no natter, no body,
no world, no anythin , but God and man, who is spiritual and
not material"^ is a misleading half-truth. The writer was
sharply criticised as a "mesmerist of the most dangerous va­
riety" by The Christian. Science Journal of Boston, and she was
dismissed from the First Church of Christ, Scientist, Chicago,
February, 1889, Mrs, Gestefeld was too spirited to acquiesce
quietly to such treatment. She replied in Jesuitism in Chris­
tian Science, a pamphlet already in the hands of the Fillmores
^Modern Thought, I (Nov,, 1889), 9, Quoted from
the prospectus of the book.
o
In reviewing Jesuitism in Christian Science Hrr,
Eddy said: *Her reasoning is Intoned with Fagan philosophy,
her humanity besprinkled with Buddhism, and her pride and
purpose nerved with tke spirit of a JUdaa." The Christian
Science Journal. VI (Nov., 1888), 427.
-10-
when they published their first issue of Modem Thought. The
reaction of this magazine to the controversial book was very
different from that of Mpb . Eddy. They recommended it in
glowing terns:
All those who have read this work j-ronounce it a
masterpiece in its line; being so far the ..ost coherent
statement of Christian Science from the basis predicted
by Mrs. Eddy. . . . It marks a
j
a era in the extemaliza-
tion of the divine philosophy.
Mrs, Gestefeld was frequently quoted by Mrs. Fillmore in 1CS9;
Bhe contributed heavily to Modern Thought throughout tho nine­
ties* An effort was made to bring her to Kansas City early
in 1890; when she could not come, her lectures were secured
o
and used in a class. She had an abiding influence in shaping
the basic thought of Unity School of Christian!ty.
Joseph Adams, at this time also a resident of Chicago,
was a second influence upon the Fillnores. He was an English­
man, converted in the city of London by the ministry of J. G.
Finney. Under Finney's influence Ur. Adams came to Oberlin
College and studied for the ministry. He was ordained by the
Methodist Episcopal Church and continued under the connection
for fourteen years. He then turned to Congregationalism and
located on the west coast of the United States. The congre­
gational ministers of San Francisco voted to withdraw their
fellowship with him because of the "looseness of his views"
in 1886. Mr. Adams turned hastily to Boston, studied under
^Modern Thought, I (Dec., 1889), 12.
^Modern Thought, I (March, 1890), 6.
'll
UNITY SCHOOL
LIBRARY
Mrs. Eddy, and became her assistant pastor^" for a short while
in the First Church of Christ Scientist, Boston. He then
settled in Chicago. He was at that time a warn defender of
Mrs. Eddy, When he lectured in Kansas City, December, 1869,
the Fi3.1mores attended his lectures. He originated a little
journal. The Chicago Christian Scientist, in 1887, In the
controversy of 1c50-1801 he changed its name to The Chicago
Truth Gleaner. He and Charles Fillmore held lively conversa­
tions through the columns of their respective publications.,
\
A third person who had immediate contact with Mrs.
Eddy and who, in the early days cf their movement, made a
more pronounced impression upon the Fillmores than either of
those already mentioned was Emma Curtis Hopkins. Mrs. Hopkins,
wife of an Andover College professor, became associated with
Mi’
s. Eddy about 1684 and for one year was Assistant Editor of
o
The Christian science Journal. When she disagreed with Mrs.
Eddy, she turned westward to Chicago where she founded "The
Hopkins' Metaphysical Association*" She became the highly
advertised contributor, during 1889-1890, to Christian Solence,
a monthly edited by Ida A. Nichols. This paper also bore the
name The Blue Bird* Mrs. Hopkins was not satisfied with the
name of her Association, but her followers hesitated to change
it. However, in 18e9, after three requests by Mrs. Hopkins,
the members voted to change their name to "The Christian
^Joseph Adams, Chicago Christian Scientist, II (June,
1888), 18, ----- ----------------------
^Edwin Franden Dakin, Mrs. Eddy (Mew York* Charlea
Scribner*• Sons, 1929), p. 181*
-12
Science Association.” One roason given for the change was
that the terra "metaphysical" was too general to designate
their position. About this tine Mrs. Hopkins organized the
"Chicago Christian Science theological Seminary." J. S. 'Jhatcher,
the original Scientist loader of the Kansas grou~-, arranged
for Mrs. Hopkins to lecture there in January, 1C30. The
Fillmores were already under her influence for, in announcing
her engagement, they said:
She is undoubtedly the most successful tea.her in
the world; her instruction not only gives understanding
to the student by which he can cure the ills of himself
and others, but in nar.y instances those who enter her-
classes confirmed invalids cone out at the end of she
course perfectly well,
Mrs. Hopkins' class numbered eighty-seven, which v&s the largest
Christian Science class held in Kansas City up to that time.
She fulfilled her advance notices, and the Fillmores found it
hard to express their appreciation of what she had brought
them. Although their teacher repeatedly Y/amed them against
worshipping "personality” and insisted that she was "simply
an instrument of the Spirit of Truth,” they felt that they
must give her the recognition she deserved:
In even these few words of commendation, we do vio­
lence to the desire of her heart, and in extenuation we
voice the whole class when we say that we bow before the
sweet spirit of the All-Good, which has found a tongue
so eloquent; and knowing, as we do, that without that
spirit Mrs. Hopkins wo.ld be dumb, our souls breathe a
prayer of thankfulness to that Divine kind for the light
ahed upon us through her personality. We doubt if ever
before on this planet were such words of burning truth so
eloquently spoken through woman. . « , It is safe to say
that this course of leotores has given an impetus to the1
1Modarn Thought, I (Nov., 1889), 12.
15-
work In this city which will ultimate in the freeing of
every mind from the thralldom of sin, sickness and death,
and open the way for the new heaven and the new earth.1
Mrs. Hopkins, importuned to return as soon as possible, visited
Kansas City a second time in Haroh, 1890, The Pillmores became
her students in the Christian Science Theological Seminary,
Chicago. Mr. Fillmore was ordained by that school in December,
1890.
Mrs, Hopkins was also indirectly responsible for
giving Unity School of Christianity its basic text. Lessons
in Truth, by H, Emilie Cady. She went from Chicago to Hew
York for a series of lectures, and Miss Cady, a practicing
physician, went to hear her. She became convinced that the
"Divine Science" of which Mrs. Hopkins talked was what was
taught in the Bible and that an individual could learn to
oure people as Christ did. She began to experiment with her
own patients and met such a favorable response that she was
led to write a little booklet. Finding the Christ in Ourselves.
Somehow this booklet fell into the hands of Mrs. Fillmore,
who asked permission to reprint it in their magazine. Dr. Cady
granted the request; she then wrote for them a series of ar­
ticles which were finally gathered and published as Lessons
in Truth; it became the standard Unity text-book, A third
series. Miscellaneous Writings, relates some of her experiences
in applying this method to patients. But Miss Cady, under
this influence, did not give up her work as a phyaioian; she
combined "Divine Science" with her medical training until her
^Modern Thought. I (Jan., 1890), 8,
-14
retirement at an advanced age* /
Thus the movement of the Fillmore3 originated amidst
the influx of Christian Science into Kansas City. Lowell
Fillmore, addressing the First Annual Unity Conference, July,
1923, said: "Father and mother were studying, among other things
Christian Science, and mother found that there is a healing
p o w e r , T h e bodily illness of Mrs. Fillmore, the care of the
two ailing children, the worry Incident to the birth of the
third child, and the business reverses of the head of the family
found their solution in this grand new discovery. The wife
was an immediate and enthusiastic devotee of the new cult.
She began at once to treat her friends. The husband did not
respond so quickly. Indeed, it was some years before he pub­
lished his own complete assurance that he was able to demon­
strate the discovery. However, Mrs. Fillmore’s enthusiasm
countered his doubts, and in April, 1889, they began the pub­
lication of a small monthly magazine, which they named Modem
Thought.
The Search for a Name
Two questions arose at the beginning of the ministry
of the Fillmores: First, should they oharge for their services
according to the standards which were customary among the prac­
titioners of Christian Science at that time? Mrs. Eddy had
set definite atandards, both for leasone and for treatment.
1
But Joseph Adams, one of her former students already mentioned
as having influenced the Fillmores, had broken from her stan-1
1Uhity Souvenir Booklet (Kansas Cityi Unity School
of Chriatiamwy, x w i ) , p* o.
•15
darea in this particular and created his own. He had started
his work in Chicago on the basis of one hundred dollars for
a course of lessons and one dollar for a treatment. Although
he realized that his Christian Science friends would censure
him, he decided, in 1888, to let each recipient give as that
one felt, believing tiiis to be the voice of God:
Now a change has come, and aB far as our personal
oonduct is concerned we cannot walk up to the light which
has come to us, and fix a price any longer for instruc­
tion or treatment on any condition whatsoever, • . •
Hitherto we have tried to improve upon the Master's plan
by telling the applicants for the Truth, "Yes, we will
give it to you on condition that you give us so much
money," This wo now see, as never before, changes the
basis of our relation to Christ, and makes the applicant
of the gospel our Waster, inasmuch as we look to him for
the pay of tine and sorvices, and not to Jesus Christ,
our only Lord, from whom we get the Truth and the assur-
ance--"Thy bread shall be given thee and thy water shall
be Bure,"-*-
The decision to receive what each patient felt he should pay
did arouse severe criticism. But Joseph Adams was vigorous
in his own defense, and others, including the Pillmores,
followed in his steps. They have continued that policy both
in teaching and healing for fifty years declaring that, since
it was God who was doing the work. He would reward them. So
each person helped has been urged to make a "love offering”
to them. They started the same system in payment for food at
Unity Inn, but it did not work out so well and was soon aban­
doned. They have always had regular charges for their magazines.
^Joseph Adams, Chicago Christian Scientist, I (May,
188S), 276 f„ (editorial).
^Unity has recently announced that charges were
placed on their magazines only to meet postal requirements.
See Weekly Unity, XXX (Jan. 14, 1939), 2,
The other question, much more vexing, was the naming
of their teaching. This was not settled at once. A quarrel
between Mrs. Eddy and some of her followers had been raging
for some time. Some of these began choosing other names to
designate the product. Mrs. Hopkins organized her first group
in Chicago under the name "The Hopkins Metaphysical Association.
But, apparently, the name "Christian Science" was already a
helpful advertising symbol; and, as we have noted, her group
returned to it.
Modern Thought began its life at about the same time.
The name indicates the thinking of the editors at that time;
at least, it Indicates th6 position of Mr, Fillmore. Modern
Thought was begun as a "good practical magazine dealing with
the mental handling of problems."^ Immediately beneath the
title of the magazine Mr. Fillmore placed this slogan: "De­
voted to the spiritualization of humanity from an independent
r
>
standpoint."^ Years later Mr, Fillmore stated that he had
not at the beginning believed in Jesus Christ and had wanted
nothing to do with religion.^ This policy of independence is
clearly shown in the leading editorial of the first issue of
Modern Thought. I quote:
The wave of spiritual thought which is sweeping over
the land has created a demand in this vicinity for a
publication devoted to its discussion and dissemination.
With this object in view Modern Thought had its birth.1
1Wbekly Unity, XVII (July 88, 1926), 10.
^Modern Thought, I (April, 1889), 1*
5See Charles Fillmore, "Purpose of Ohity," Weekly
Stellar* XVII (Jul7 17, 1926), 7.
-17-
It is not the organ of any school of thought, but the
mouthpiece of all honest souls earnestly seeking for
spiritual light. It recognizes that all friends of the
movement are striving to attain the same noble end— the
Universal Good, and that the roads traveled, though
various and apparently divergent, in reality all lead to
Rome. It is the desire of Modern Thought that all who
feel the bubbling up within them of the spirit of Univer­
sal Love, will use its columns to express their views.
If God speaks thro* man, he speaks through all men and
all women, and every thought that has for its ultimate
object the amelioration and elevation of humanity, will
be welcomed here. It is not intended, however, that
these columns shall be used to tear down, but always to
build up, hence no space shall be accorded to the icono­
clast nor pessimist, nor he who seeks to cast a slur upon
the work of :iis neighbor; but the^ ideas of all generous,
loving b o u Is will be thrice welcome. We have no desire
to unsettle the religious convictions of anyone, but we
long to be instrumental in freeing the human mind from
creeds. The influx of new thought is always necessary
to life, and he who writes a creed or puts a limit to
revelation, is the enemy of humanity. Creeds have ever
been the vampires that sucked the blood of spiritual
progress in the pa.t, and life can only be kept in the
present movement by latitude of thought,— tempered always
by the power that moves the world, Love,
Modem Thought is a journal of progress. Its state-
ment8~~oT~To^aaymay not be consistent with those of yes­
terday, nor those of to-morrow, with those of to-day.
V
i
e desire to grow--to unfold from the truth side of na­
ture, regardless of preconceived opinions. We believe
with Emerson, that *A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin
of little minds, adored by little statesmen and philos­
ophers and divines. If you would be & man, speak what
you think to-day in words as hard as cannon balls, and
to-morrow speak what to-morrow thinks in hard word* again,
though it contradict everything you have said to-day,*
We believe that truth is an unexplored domain, man
has here and there touched its shining sands, but a uni­
verse lies beyond, which he can only compass step by step
throughout the years of eternity.
We believe that the inspirations of to-day are
worthy of the same reverence as those of former ages;
and in all our citations and quotations from whatever
aouroe, whether religious or secular, oorroborative tes­
timony only, is the object, and not that infallibility
was in the past possessed by any man or coterie of men,
but that certain lines of truth run like silver threads
through* the web and woof of the world's history,1
^Charles Fillmore, Modem Thought. I (April, 1889), 8
0.8-
The contents of that first issue— articles dealing with Christian
Science, Unitarianism, Theosophy, Spiritualism. Transcenden­
talism, Rosicrucianism, and occult suggestions for psychic
development--show how free the editor was from any system of
thought. This is in accord with Mr. Fillmore's lack of reli­
gious experience and his tendency towards the occult,
Mr. Fillmore was given no peace in the independence
he had chosen for his magazine. Questions were raised about
the attitude of Modern Thought toward the expending Christian
Science movement. He replied that their views were "not those
of orthodox Christian Science.*^ But there are hints in the
magazine that Mrs. Fillnore strongly favored the Christian
Science position. In the second Issue, May, 1889, a "Christian
Science Department," edited by "M," appeared. Tills was the
pen name assumed by Mrs, Fillmore, A month later, in a criti­
cism of Spiritualism, she quoted voluminously from i!rs. Geste-
feld's writings and ended by making her position quite plain:
I have never yet seen a Spiritualist who was fully
satisfied. Ke is always searching for greater proof.
Christian Science can givenhim this proof, for we take
nothing for granted but reason from cause to effect. We
are conscious of a power of thought. Consider for a mo­
ment this possiblity, if we th-nk up to God, shall we
not find him; become conscious of him as we are of all
things. And this conscious unity satisfies the heart of
man. Let him wander in his conscio sness as he will, he
cannot separate himself from God, and he Is hid from man
only as long as he neglects to use his own-powers;
neglects to travel along the line of connection between
himself and God until he finds him. When we have this
Oonscious unity with God, or good, we lose sight of evil;
^Charles Fillmore, "Is This Christian Science,"
Modern Thought. I (May, 1683), 12,
Bake Christian
ve have health, Joy, peace and rest*^1
However, Mr. Fillmore was not yet ready to
Science the one emphasis of the magazine:
We think that Christian Science, or some other node
of spiritual unfoldment, is necessary to make men and
women permanently good, and consequently happy, but our
experience is that there is frequently a general spirit­
ual awakeninggin the Christian Scientist, without spe­
cific reform.
He also proposed to his Spiritualist friends that they follow
him in the study of metaphysics, which Spiritualism lacks.
Modern Thought wants the attention of all progres­
sive 'Spiritualists, because it can give them metaphysics
'from the standpoint of one who has had twenty years*
experience in their ranks and 1b, therefore, competent
to intelligently meet many of the arguments advanced by
those who think they know all about the invisible source
of the healing power of Christian Science, and many Mind
Cure schools**3
Meanwhile, a discussion concerning the right to use
the name "Christian Science® had broken forth in the Chicago
area. Mrs, Eddy had declared the name her own peculiar pos-
/ v
session. Joseph Adams, still in her good graces, supported
her claims through the Chicago Christian Scientist. Another
Chicago editor, not a devotee of Mrs. Eddy, agreed that her
claim was legitimate:
The peculiar tenets of Mrs. M. B. G. Eddy were stated
by her under the name of "Christian Science." As a chossn
term to designate her distinctive philosophy it is her
trademark, and every principle of eq;ity and honor de-
^Myrtle Fillmore, "Why Should They Conflict,"
Modern Thought, I (May, 1885), 12.
O
Charles Fillmore, "Notes and Comments," Modeni
Thought. (Aug., 1889), 9.
^Charles Fillmora, "Spiritualism and Metaphysics,"
Modern Thought, I (Aug., 188S), 8,
- 20-
mands that "Christian Science" bo conceded as a synonym
for the Eddyietic philosophy. . . . If people want to
buy her goods thoy ought to be able to do sc by calling
for "Christian Science,"
-
*
■
Mrs. Emma Curtis Hopkins, who was seeking to change the name
of her Association and make it include the term "Christian
Science," was loader of those who desired an inclusive use of
the name. She insisted that the name "Christian Science" was
descriptive of a special line of argument and was not the
2
property of any individual. Mr. Fillmore took the position
that "Truth" is a universal thing and belongs undor no partic­
ular label. He caustically criticized those who made a "farce"
out of names:
There is much wrangling in these metaphysical days
as to the power by which the kindred schools of Christian
Scienoe and kindred cults ere inspired. , , , The neo­
phyte is apt to take as gospel truth what ie taught by
hie preceptor, and the impression is abroad that each
school of Christian science, Kind-Healing, Mental Science,
Metaphysical Healing, Psycho-Therapeutics, Mental Cure,
Spiritual Science, Pneumatology, Old Theology, Ontology,
Christian Metaphysics, Mental Hoaling, ETC. ETC., has
each the power to confer upon the individual certain
distinctive qualities not possessed by the other schools,
•and which qualities are exclusive, God-given and attain­
able only at denominated shrines, . . .
Many people are also blinded by a name, and labor
under the delusion that because they have taken lessons
in Christian Science that they are in possession of
truths that cannot be obtained anywhere in the universe,
unless that magic name is over the door. The names by
which certain philosophies and religions arc known, and
the truths whioh they aim to teach, bear about the sane
relation to one another as tho letter of the Bible to
its spiritual import. People of limited spiritual un-
foldment are sticklers for nones and creeds, and are thus
worshippers of idols. • . .
They quarrel over names, names, names, vapid unmean-*
I
I
I
E. Charles, "Render unto Caesar," The Christian
III (Jan., 1689), 21.
See Christian Scienoe, II (Jan., 1890), 154#
Aq
Sgt*Physlclan.
- 21-
ing nanos, that never were anything of themselves, and ,
do not even represent that which they allege to represent.
But this article does not fairly represent the usual
approach of Kr. Fillncro to the various groups about him. He
was always looking for the good in other writers; and, when
he found it, he did not hesitate to pass it on to liis readers.
Mrs. Eddy, at this time, wae rethinking her relationship to
the many parties of the growing Christian Science movement,
and obviously she hoped to bring some of them to her side.
Mr, Fillmore discovered such sentiment in on article in the
Christian Scionce Journal, which he, terming it "broad and
Christlike," copiedi
For some time it has been clear to my mind that those
students of Christian Scienco whose Christian characters
and lives recommend them should receive full fellowship
with us, no matter who has taught them. If they have been
taught wrongly they are not morally responsible for thi3
and need special help. They are as lambs that have
Bought the true fold and the great shepherd and strayed
innocently, hence we should be ready and glad to help
them and point the way,2
When Mrs, Hopkins came to Kansas City a month later, she easily
convinced the Flllmores that the: should follow her example
and claim the name "Christian Science" for their teaching.
The following editorial explains their position:
In harmony with the foregoing gospel of non-limitation'
we have taken what seems to us another step in the pro­
gressive direction, by the unreserved espousal of that
■ysten of scientific religion known as Christian Science.
We have leaned hard in that direction from the first.
"^Charles Fillmore, "Truth Bows at Ro Hunan Shrine,"
Vodem Thought, I (June, 1869), 9.
®Mary Baker Eddy, "The Way," The Christian Science
Joumjil, VI (Dec., 1869), p, 433; and quoted in Modern
Thought, I (Dec*, 1889), 12*
22
but because of the narrow seotional spirit with which
Christian Science has been interpreted by many of its
advocates, we were loath to oome under what we conceived
to be a galling yoke. Since listening to Mrs. Hopkins’
exposition a broader conception has cone to us, and we
now see that the basic statements of Christian Science
form an epitome of the best features of the ethical and
religious systems of the past, . . . As a consistent
Christian Science journal we shall necessarily confine
ourselves to the essential methods of that school.1
At the same time Mr. Fillmore insisted that he was to be the
final interpreter of the "All Good” regardless of details
taught by any school of Christian Science. The FillmoreB now
dropped the word "Modern" from the title of their magazine,
and across the word "Thought" they wrote in smaller letters
the term "Christian Science." This change was made in April,
1690.
A storm of criticism broke over them. The Fillmores,
now on the defensive, declared that they were not trying to
fence themselves away from their friends, assuring them that
Christian Science, since it had no creed or dogma, hampered
no one:
\
That strength is alone in union is a self-evident
proposition, but the natural tendency of the intellectual
man is toward selfishness in reforms as in other matters,
and instead of looking to the Divine Mind for guidance,
he is a law unto himself; the result is a great diversity
of opinion as to methods and names. We fell into this
very error from an honest oonsoientious standpoint. We
felt that Christian Science had a higher grasp of truth
than any system extent. But because Mrs. Eddy claimed
it as her exclusive property we rebelled, yet at the
same time advocated like principles. We felt that this
was hardly right and asked the Divine Mind to guide us.
The answer came and we were made to see that Christian
Science, is the most simple and practical method for the
permanent uplift of humanity, that its origin was ante-
^’Uhere We How Stand," Modern Thought, I (Jan«, 1890),
8 (editorial).
>
2
3
'
rior to any child of Earth, and that it 1b not the prop­
erty of Mrs. Eddy, Mrs. HopkinB, nor any one 6lse, but
that it is a manifestation of the Divine Mind for every
soul in the universe.1 '
The writers opposed to Mrs. Eddy’s exclusiveness, who were
trying to maintain a free and unlimited usage of the name,
welcomed the support given by the little Kansas City magazine.
The editor of Christian Science wrote: "Modem Thought has
changed to the Eternal Mind by writing across its beautiful
p
title page, ’Christian Science Thought.’" Joseph Adams, in
the Chicago Christian Scientist, said: "The editors C. & M.
Fillmore have become converted to the pure doctrine, and their
Journal is now an exponent of this conviction." But the tide
of opposition was not easily dammed, and again Mr. Fillmore
arose in defense and gave an explanation of the implications
suggested by their new name.
The name Modem Thought was not an index to the
Christian Science principles which the paper advocated
and we were in consequence inundated by communications
of a nature which we did not care to publish and were
also constantly obliged to explain our exact place in
that great maelstrom of "modem thought," The new name
now does all this for us. . . .
Names of themselves are nothing, 'tis true, but so
long aB this mundane world sphere exists they will sym­
bolize ideas, and Just at present people are getting a
new idea of Qod, and in their reaching out for that idea
the word Christ seems more nearly to meet their needs
than any other. There is a great running to and fro on
the earth to-day, the new dispensation is upon us and
the hearts of the people yearn for that light and love
which Christian Science in its essence represents. So
to the public understanding the name "Christian Science"
^Mddera Thought, I (March, 1890), 9 (editorial).
^Christian Science, II (March, 1890), 304,
^Chicago Christian Scientist, III (Sept,, 1800), 17.
•24
stands for all the different schools of metaphysics re­
gardless of the technical differences by which their
leaders distinguish them, and it will so continue.1
The millennium had started! Christian Science Thought found
indications of this in another article written by Mrs. Eddy
under the title "Love Your Enemies." The Fillmores copied
this article, and enthusiastically commented as follows:
The paragraph upon which special Btress is laid,--
"The only Justice of which I feel at present capable is
mercy and charity toward every one; with special care
to mind my own and not another^ business"— should be
carefully studied by all students of Divine Science. •
« . Let us remember this, and remembering it, forget
to poison the minds of seekers for Truth with a tale of
the differences with which mortal error attempts to
separate those who try to follow Christ,*
2
But Mrs. Lddy obviously did not want followers who
admired from afar and did not put themselves immediately un­
der her instruction. Christian Science Thought was informed
that her articles must not be copied by other magazines. The
lines were drawn more sharply, and it was not long until those
who had been trying to widen the use of the name "Christian
Scienoe" changed their tactics. In early 1891, Joseph Adams,
now at odds with Mrs* Eddy, changed the name of hiB magazine
to the title Chicago Truth Gleaner. His editorial apology was
quoted by Christian Soience Thought as expressive of the views
of that magazine.
Christian Scienoe is a Hame given by the author to
the best exposition and practical application of the
^Charles Fillmore, "Why Christian Soience Thought?"
Christian Science Thought, II (June, 1890), 9.
2Chrlatlan Science Thought, II (May, 1890), 12*
25-
goepel of Ood thht I know anything about, and right near
to this fact, I find one of the strongest reasons which
impels me to drop the name, and that is— this exposition
of the gospel of God called Christian Science is being
substituted for the Gospel itself, and men and women by
the hundreds ere looking at the opinion of the author of
"Science and Health" concerning the Gospel, instead of
looking at the Gospel itself, . . .
The name of Christian Science has given birth to
another caste or sect), which for jealousy, bigotry, in­
tolerance, selfishness, unrelenting persecution and
deification of personality exceeds any sect in Christen­
dom that we are acquainted with to-day, . , , If I
should go to a place where they have never heard of
Christian Science . . , Jesus would tell me to say to
my audiences, "Be preaching to.the people that God reigns,
the kingdom of heaven is at hand and if you believe in
and trust the everywhere pres .nt and all powerful good,
you will be saved from your sin and sickness," That Is
the Jesus’ method, Christian Science would say, "You
tell the people, ’There is no life, substance or Intelli­
gence in matter, all is Mind,’"
-
*
-
The month following the publication of this statement Mrs,
Fillmore, in the absence of the editor, told the readers of
Christian Science Thought that Thought lives and shall live
and keep its own individuality; it shall be the same true
Thought no matter what modification may be placed before or
o
after its name," The description "Christian Science" was
dropped from the name and the magazine, for the time being,
carried as its title the one word "Thought," The editors be­
came increasingly adverse to Mrs, Eddy, and through the years
they have sought again and again to differentiate their teach­
ing from the Boston brand of Christian Science, They especial­
ly criticized those Christian Science leaders who, they thought
^Charles Fillmore, Christian Science Thought, III
(Sept,, 1891), 252 f,, quoted from Joseph Adams,
^Christian Science Thought, III (Oot,, 1891), 500
(editorial)
“
*
2
6
'
lost their morale and had shut themselves away from the
Spirit by abject submission to Mrs. Eddy. Perhaps their
statements were too harsh; for Unity, in these latter years,
has had to develop its own technique for guaranteeing the
purity of its product.
Names of themselves may be nothing os Mr. Fillmore
suggested, but they do symbolize ideas. The Fillmores’ choice
of the term "Unity” to designate their thinking was a very
fortunate one. The name did not come et once. In 1690, Mrs.
Fillmore organized the "Society of Silent Help" with the pur­
pose of combined prayer for those who sought their aid. In
June, 1691 the Fillmores ambitiously started another monthly
under the name Unity as the mouthpiece of the Society of
Silent Help. This organization then became the "Society of
Silent Unity." Finally, they changed their publishing name
7
to “Unity Bock Company," But Unity magazine was discontinued
in 1892. Meanwhile, Mrs. Fillmore, who had developed in
Thought a department for children, which Bhe called "Wee Wis­
dom’s Way," decided to make out of It a regular monthly paper.
Wee Wisdom began August, 1893. These two. Wee Wisdom and
Thought, were united in 1895 under the title Unity. This is
the chief magazine of Unity School of Christianity to-day.
The Fillmores have related two stories as to the
origin of the name, which, they claim, came to them by special
inspiration. Mr, Fillmore, addressing the First Unity Confer­
ence, 1923, said:
We have borrowed the best from all religion*; that
is the reason why we are called Un-ty. The name, Uhlty,
■was revealed to ua by the Spirit. One day in one of our
•27
little meetings--I do not think we had more than a dozen
in attendance, it was given to me like a flash: "Your
name is Uhity." Then and there we adopted the name,
Unity.
Three years later another origin was suggested: Mrs. Fillmore
received the enlightenment. Ab ahe lay musing one night, per­
haps after reading Emilie Cady’s Finding Christ in OurselveB,
the name "Unity" came to her as a "term that would symbolize
their sympathy for all movements helping in•the uplift of
O
humanity."*' The first story is the one told to-day, but the
writer is oonvinced that the second Is more likely the correct
one. The evidence points in that direction. Silent Kelp,
the ohild of Mrs. Fillmore’s thinking, became "Silent Unity"
that year. The first Unity magazine was started as the organ
of Silent Kelp. Mrs. Fillmore discovered Miss Cady’s booklet
about that time and arranged with Miss Cady to publish it,
which thepr did in October, ie91. Perhaps Mr. Fillmore, with
his keen business sense, decided the consolidation of the two
papers in 1895 and, at that time, selected the name "Unity,"
The name, however, was not new; It had long been
in the nomenclature of the Mental-Cure movement. As early as
1883 a group of Boston people under the leadership of J. I
f
f
,
Winkley, a former Unitarian minister, organized a mental­
healing group and called it the "Church of the Divine Unity."
Mrs. Eddy had made use of the term in the title of her book.
Unity of Good, published in 1887, The International Journal
^Unity, LIX (Oct., 1923), 404.
^Unlty Catalog, 1929, p, 4; cf, V. E. Sutton-
lUttooks, op. ol¥.. p. lo
>28-
of ChrlBtlan Science, August, 1888, carried an article under
this title. And in 1890, before they took the name "Christian
Science" to describe their Thought, the Fillmores were carry­
ing in it an advertisement of the International Ka.gazine of
Truth, published by the Unity Publishing Company of Few York.
The name was also in use outside the i'ental-^
Cure group, and the Fillnores were familiar with it from this
source. A group of Unitarian ministers established a magazine
in Chicago, March, 1876, which they ‘
called the Pamphlet Mission.
The name did not prove satisfactory, so late that same year
they changed the title to Unity, which it lias carried since
that date. In 1891 the Fillmores were advertising Christian
Science Thought in The Christian Metaphysician on the aame
page and immediately following the advertisement of Chicago's
Unity.^ This group also claims that the name came to them by
2
a flash of Insight comparable to those already mentioned.
The editor of the Chicago magazine protested when the Kansas
City paper appeared under Its name, but the Fillmores refused
to look further. Certainly the name has proved a grand slogan /
/
for their organization*
*
Unity Differentiates Itself from Christian Solence
Mr. Fillmore thinks of the early period of
their movement as a wandering in "the wilderness of the •isma*,"^
, ^The Christian Metaphysician, V (Jan. & Feb.,
1691), 29. “
*Unlty (Chicago), Cl (March, 1926), 9. Quoted
from an editorial of J. L. Jones in 1890,
^Cbarlos Fillmore, "Greeting," Unity, XIII
(July, 1900), 58,
-29-
Their metaphysical pattern was that of Christian Science, but
they had opened the pages of their magazine to "all Truth
seekers." W.nen they adopted the name "Unity," while it nay
have suggested their sympathy for the entire race, they were
compelled to explain anew their position in the Mental-Cure
milieu. Especially did they feel the need of distinguishing
themselves from orthodox Christian Science,
We have already noted how oritical Mr. Fillmore
was with any who asserted on absolute authority. Creeds were
anathema to him; each individual under the leadership of the
Spirit was his own authority.
The student who enters the metaphysical arena
should be on his guard in this matter, remembering al­
ways that God is no respecter of persons, and that no
man nor woman, nor angel nor archangel has a copyright
on truth; that all claims of exclusive inspiration, of
whatsoever nature, are fraudulent, and that such claims
are never made by those who have an apprehension of the
real Christ principle.
When differences of opinion arose, each person must accept the
responsibility of arriving at his own decision.
I noticed . . . that all the teachers and
writers talked a great deal about the omnipresent, omnis­
cient God, who is Spirit and accessible to every one. I
said to myself, "In this bal>el I will go t o headquarters.
If I am spirit, and this God they talk so much about is
Spirit, we can somehow communicate, or the whole thing
is a fraud,
Tills idea kept him independent in thought and action. He thought
' of Truth as something that one must discover and use each day.
, ^"Charles Fillmore,
Shrine," Modern Thought, I (June,
"Truth Bows at Ho Human
1869), 9.
^Charles Fillmore,
(July, 1900), 58.
"Greeting," Unity, XIII
'30
A person must not worry about inconsistency but speak the
best he knows at the tine. However, since he believed that
the source of Truth was the Absolute, he felt that people of
kindred nines should seek co-operation. The Fillmores have
always had a strong leaning towards fellowship with other
groups. This led then to adopt the characterization of Chris­
tian Science, while, at the sane tine, they refused to accept
the particular guidance of Mrs. Eddy, When it seemed neces­
sary to acquiesce I
r
: her leadership-or renounce the name, they
took the second course. Mrs. Lddy is the only individual
severely criticized in the fifty years of their magazine’s
history:
The "loyal" Christian Scientists are taught that
all those outside are traitors, nesmerizers and workers
of iniquity,^
There is no doubt but that the persistent claim by
Mrs, Eddy of divine illumination has woven about this
name a glamour of superiority, and Its chief disciples
have unconsciously absorbed the belief that because a
man or woman is kno?/n as a Christian Scientist they
occupy- a realm beyond the pale of error,*
Hence the Fillmores, although they believed that Christian
Science contained the then greatest known Truth, and so adopted
the name and, for a time, quoted Mrs. Eddy and sold her publi­
cations, never accepted her leadership,
Sinoe their early oontacts were mostly with those
who had already exposed themselves to the wrath of Mrs, Eddy,*
I
^C£iarles Fillmore, "Truth Bows at ]
i
o Human Shrine,"
Modern Thought, I (June, 1889), 9,
^Charles Fillmore, "Be Not Deceived," Modern Thought,
I (July, 1889), 9.
31
they Inevitably tended in that direction. This group looked
especially to the thought of ?. P. Quinby E3 interpreted by
Warren Felt Evans. The group, many of whom got their first
introduction to the subject direct from Mrs. Eddy, began the
development of their thought frem the sane premise. All agreed
that God is "Kind, Intelligence, Life, Love, Substance, Spirit,"
Out of this definition Christian Science of Boston concluded:
"Man is God's changeless image and likeness forever. God and
man are all in all, therefore there‘is no sin, sickness or
d e a t h , T h e y continued their thought by declaring for no
world, no matter, nothing mortal. The outlaw group began with
the same God-ooncept but moved positively to the construetion
of a real world. They affirmed a "living soul," which forever
images God, and a "substantial environment" known a s the ma­
terial world, Man is composed of an existent soul and a ma­
terial body. They felt that Mrs, Eddy ignored the fact of a
"real world" and a "material body," that she reduced the
world of sense experience to "mortal error," And they pointed
out that, while she was teaching that there was no such thing
as sin, sickness, or death, her own healers all over the coun­
try were getting results treating these things.
The discusalon reached its climax over Mrs, Eddy's
teaching concerning "malicious animal magnetism"- which, the
others declared, was only her way of covering her own ignoranoe,
lb's, Eddy and many of her "loyal" followers insisted that
inatruetion concerning "malicious animal magnetism" was a
‘
‘
"Ursula N, Gestefeld, The Difference between Science
and the Science of Being (Chioagol The Exodus Publishing Co,J
,
'
p. «• (Pamphlet?)
■32-
necessary port of the system of Christian Sclenco. Joseph
Adams, her most ardent advocate in the Mid?/eat at that time,
said;
Instruction regarding belief in mesmerism is an
essential part of Christian Science and, in a course of
study must not be left out. . . . If you proclaim your­
self a Christian Scientist the public will expect you to
give them all that is involved in Clmistian science or
you will be a cheat for you w ill keep back part of the
price .
•
*
*
•
This apology for her position pleased Mrs. Eddy. She at once
wrote her approval with permission to publish:
The leading article In your Magazine was needed and
will do good. It is only by laying bare the atrocities
of animal magnetism and malicious mental malpractice
that the human race can be saved from a bondage that will
so far exceed the history of the Isrealites in Egypt as
the power of sin exceeds the inertia of matter to cause
sufferings,
Her opponents were just as belligerent in their criticism.
Mrs, Hopkins declared that the first two years she associated
with Christian Scientists they were always talking about "the
malicious mesnerizers" so that she could net enjoy their so­
ciety.^ Mr. Fillmore expressed a similar attitude:
I am acquainted with Christian Scientists who give
so much time to hunting up and locating what they call
"impersonal error'' that they have no room left for the
All Good. I have experienced along that line Just
enough to find out, that such thinking creates what we
would destroy and keeps alive. Just as the pulpits do,
the (d)evil’s cause by free advertising. Thought is ■
*
the vitalizing energy of the world; let us keep it sacred
to the Good.^
1
Joseph Adams, "Common Eonesuy, Chicago Christian
Scientist. II (Oot., 1608), 97.
^Chicago Christian Scientist, II (Nov., 1888), 121.
^See Christian Science, II (March, 1890), 229.
*Unity (discontinued), X (Sept., 1891), 3 (editorial),
tkxity School or Christianity has no record, of the masher of
issues of this ■agssine.
-33-
And Mrs. Gestefeld, ableBt writer of the opposition, nave the
idea its most devastating criticism:
A result of "Christian Science" com-.nly observed,
is the tendency to place responsibility for illness or
misfortune— illness especially— upon one’s "malicious
animal magnetism" instead of upon one’s failure to live
the life that accords with its foundation principles.
• • •
While "Christian Science" repudiates the evangelical
devil, it has one of its own instead, said one far more
powerful. "Malicious animal magnetiam,"--the influence
of mortal mind, intentionally or unintentionally exerted
over others,--is the subtle devil of this denomination,
seen in the mother’s face, in the eyes of a formerly
dear friend, and even in a little child, when a member
is looking for the cause of his indisposition.
Hence, while Unity has been classed with Christian Science
because of their basic likeness in premise and similar aims,
the Fillmores have strenuously sought to give their movement
an independent rating. They have taken occasion repeatedly
p
to point out other differences beyond those just mentioned,
Christian Science established a denomination; Unity maintains
a school. Christian Science has sought to establish its own
faith by tearing down the orthodox churches; Unity lias always
•ought to carry out its work' without demanding that its follow
ers renounce their church membership. Christian Science has
built an organization governed by a single individual; Unity
has enphasizod the freedom of the individual and the authority
of the Spirit speaking Truth to and through the individual.
As we shall note later. Unity has moved beyond the original
Bovement In its concept of salvation and has suggested a tech-
^Ursula K, Gestefeld, The Difference between Chris­
tian Science and the Science of Being, p. 12.
2See Unity, XV (Dec., 1901), 372 (editorial).
34
nique for attaining it which is distinctive. Unity School
of Christianity should not be called Christian Science /
Unity and hew Thought
When the- nane "Christian Science" becane recognized
a
r
. the particulai' possession of Mrs. Eddy, her opponents had
to select anoth.r designation for themselves; so, on i
>
'
a
y 17,
1802, the "International Divine Science Association" v/as
organized. At the Chicago World's Fair, 1895, a meeting of
the group was hold under the name "The Columbian Congress of
Christian Scientists." It was then that they released them­
selves entirely from the name "Christian Science." The third
meeting was held in the Academy of tfusic, Kansas City, May,
16S6. A. P. Barton, who for seme time had written the Bible
lessons for the Fillmore monthly, presided at the sessions,
and bo t
i
l Hr. and Urs. Fillmore appeared on the program. The
president-elect, Mrs. C. L. Cramer, editor of Harmony, San
Francisco, was a close personal friend who co-operated with
the Fillmores foriqany years. The Kansas City Star spoke of
the gathering as a meeting of the "anti-Eddy Divine Scientists"
ani reported one of the speakers as criticizing Mrs. Eddy
because ahe had set herself up as "pope,"^ This •Congress" '
emphasized the watch-word "Unity" which had Just,been taken as
'the title of the Kansas City magazine. The fourth meeting
was held a year later in St. Louis; at that timo the new pres­
ident, W. H. Daniels, asserted: "This is not a Christian
^
•The Kansas City Star, May 12, 1696, p, 2,
-35
Science gathering, but an ‘International Divine Science Asso­
ciation* meeting.1
,
1 The group then claimed a membership of
two million, exclusive of Christian Scientists.
In 1207 the Fillmores made their first definite
atatonent, which ultimately lea to their official separation
from all kindred movements. Speaking of their publication,
they said:
These cclurir.s are open to teachers and healers who
advocate and practice Pure Kind Healing or:iy. f .is does
r.ct mean magnetism, hypnotism, mesmerism, psych ..etry,
palmistry, nor astrology. Hot that wc condemn any sys­
tem, but these are of the Intellect and we seek a higher
power. . . . We find by experience that concentration is
necessary to success and we wish to confine these pages
to that specific doctrine, and holy Ghost power, taught
and demons trazed by Jesus Chris i.2“
The first part of this statement had the approval of all in
the Divine Science group, but when they said that they wished
to concentrate on the "specific doctrine and Holy Ghost power
taught and demonstrated by Jesus Christ," the Fillmores were
giving a theological turn to the movement which many of the
oth. rs could not follow and, when persisted in, led to the
yillnoros establishing their own standards. /
\
Meanwhile, other names were being popularised by
Similarly minded groups in other sections of the country. It
was some tine before it became evident what title would be
•given to the movement in its entirety. One group used the
Mno "Practical Idealism." In 1899, another group organised
■■■" ' ■
■ - ■— .
■ -----— ------------------------ ■ ■ ■
—
•
• 1Unity, VIII (June, 1897), 447.
^"Explanation," Unity, VIII (May, 1897), 393.
y-
-36
the "International Metaphysical League" at Hartford, Connec­
ticut. Dissension hit the ranks of this group the following
year. In 1905 practically the same group reorganized and took
the nano "He's Thought Federation." Tills name probably origi­
nated with a Dr. Holcombe, who employed It as early as 1069
to designate the mental-scie.nce approach to health,^ Health
was the primary problem during this period. While prosperity
was being mentioned in the late nineties, the prosperity
treatment did not come for some tino. The group in the Mid­
west lined up with the "New Thought Federation," Unity of
Kansas City was a regular member until late 190G. At the St.
Louis Convention, 1904, Mrs. Fillmore gave an address; Mr,
Fillmore was elected to the directorate, and C. k. rrather,
a member cf Unity’s sta.f v;as made assistant secretary. This
convention also adopted a constitution in which we find the
following statement of purpose:
To promote the better end wider knowledge and appre­
ciation of the 'unity cf all life, and to assist in the
manifestation of this unity by means of co-operation; to
stimulate faith in, and study of, the higher nature of
man in Its relation and application to health, happiness
and character; to secure to the Individual his rightful
liberty in the choice of therapeutic methods; to foster
the New Thought movement in general; to publish such
literature as may be found advisable; and to take an ac­
tive part in matters pertaining to education along the
lines proposed. In accomplishing these purposes, the
Federation in no w Isg 3hall interfere with, Infringe
upon or be responsible for the teachings and interpreta­
tions of affiliating individuals or organizations.
^H. W. Dresser, A History of the new Thought Movo-
(New York* Thomas Y. Crowell Co., 1&19), 155,
2,,New Thought Constitution," Unity XXI (Nov., 1904),
-57-
Pnity magazine introduced a "New Thought Federation" depart­
ment in 1905. At this time the Fillmores were busy erecting
their first building which they announced as the "first ex-
/
clusively Hew Thought structure in the country."
But the Chicago convention of the year 1906 did not
meet with their favor. When he returned from that meeting,
Mr. Fillmore announced that the subject matter of the persons
taking part was far removed from his understanding of New
Thought. Having asked several to define the term, he decided
that the name was being appropriated by many to advance new
cults and so could no longer be used to express "Absolute
Truth." This diversity of thinking threw him out of the ranks
of the New Thoughters, His standard of faith permitted no
compromise. Henceforth, he declared, his group would do their
work under the standard of "Practical Christianity." This
title was not new; in February, 1897 Mr. Fillmore had given
a course of lessons using that phrase as his subject, and in
1905 the local Kansas City group had incorporated with the
nomen "Unity Society of Practical Christianity." The decision
was a herd one for them to make. They did not want to be con­
sidered critics of the New Thought leaders; yet so many lines
of individual thinking had developed that they felt it was
Impossible to attain unity of expressiont
There iB but one foundation upon which we can have
a permanent federation, and that la the One Absolute
Mind. From that Mind, statements of Truth can be formu­
lated that will be accepted by all who are functioning
in the top brain, where the super-consciousness has its
seat of action. Those in whom the tide of life flows no
higher than intellectual perception, will not rise to
•
5
8
-
the consciousness of this Absolute, hence we cannot ex­
pect them to accept its basis of the origin of all
things. Only those who think purely and act virtuously
in all ways, conserving the vitalities of mind and body,
can rise and stay in the top brain, hence we may not get
together a very large convention in the beginning, but
it will come, and be a permanent federation of all men .
who are truly seeking unselfishly to do the will of God.
This appeared to be the end of Unity’s attempt to
correlate its thinking and program with other New Thought
groups. The next year the Fillmores organized the "Unity
Annual Assembly of Practical Christians" in Kansas City, but,
apparently, there were not yet enough living in the "top
brain" to continue it. From time to time note was made of
some New Thought meeting, but there was no move in that direc­
tion; rather the emphasis was placed on their originality and
independence. In 1915 Mr. Fillmore assured his readers that
hie organization was not a branch of New Thought or Christian
Science, but they should be thought cf as "Primitive Chris­
tians."
We understand and teach the Truth given by Jesus
Christ in its wholeness. This means that we include in
our doctrine the great plan of salvation for the race
which Jesus inaugurated. Hew Thought ignores this and
Christian Science attenuates its fundamental facts until
they lose the force and power necessary to complete the
salvation of the body.*
.V ^
However, by this time Unity had become so important
in the field of mental-cure that the "Hew Thought Alliance"
fslt the need of drawing them into the organization. When
^"About Practical Christianity," Unity, XXVI (Jan.,
1907), 9 f. • J
L
^Charles Fillmore, "Unity la Primitive Christianity,"
Unity. XLII (May, 1915), 559.
-39-
ihe "International Hew Thought Congress" met In Cincinnati in
1919, the leaders wired Unity concerning the conditions on
which they would unite with them. The Fillmores replied that
they oould come into the Alliance only if the entire group would
adopt the Jesus Christ standard, which they stated as follows:
The universe is spiritual and we are spiritual be­
ings. This is the Christ message to the twentieth cen­
tury, and it is a message not so much of words as of works.
To attain this, however, we must be clean, honest, and
trustworthy, and uphold the Christ standard in all things.
Let us build our house upon this rock and nothing can
prevail against it. This is the vision and the mission
of the Alliance.
The Alliance adopted Unity1s suggestion in toto and then, to
ahow its appreciation, added to its executive board the names
of Royal Fillmore and E. V. Ingraham of the Unity staff.
Unity reciprocated by sending an invitation for the next year’s
Congress, The Kansas City meeting was a glorious love feast;
not only Unity, but the "Divine Scientists" of Denver Joined
tho Alliance. The following year the Congress was held in
Denver. Here the Fillmores brought the idea of adding the
name "Christian" to the official title of the Alliance, but
action was postponed for one year. This, however, did not
curb their enthusiasm for the Alliance. They reported to their-
constituency the peace and harmony of the meeting, saying that
•very branch of Hew Thought was represented on the program
but that the doctrines they set forth did not oonflict in the
least.^ Believing that "all Christian schools of metaphysics"
Unity and the International Mew Thought Alliance,"
Baity. XLII (May, 1915), 339.
2
Milty. LIII (Oct., 1921), 377.
40-
were about to be united in one movement, they urged their own
adherents to take membership in the "International Hew Thought
Alliance*"
But this second marriage did not last as long as the
first. On March 7, 1922, at a called meeting of the directors
and teachers of Unity, it was unanimously voted to resign
immediately from the Alliance. Aware that this decision and
the good faith of Unity would be questioned Mr. Fillmore wrote
a long defense of their action."^ He said that Unity had faith­
fully tried to co-operate toward the establishment of a per­
manent Jesus Christ standard which would be for the good of
the race. But the other New Thought groups had insisted upon
putting their own interpretation on the Jesus Christ standard
rather than accepting the ideals as they had been working them
out. Unity had majored in developing one particular line of
teaching, and this was either denied or neglected by others.
Unity taught that eternal life is to be won here and now by the
prooess of body refinement. Body refinement can be achieved
by mental realization of oneness with the Absolute plus the
■renunciation of auch sense habits as the lust for neat, to­
bacco, sex, coarse dances and all pleasures that exalt sense
above the soul,"^ Thus man can overcome death. Most Hew
Thought groups, however, taught that death was an’entrance to
a higher life. This difference of thinking would not have*
I
.
^"Charles Fillmore, "Why Unity Withdrew from the I,
I. T, A.," Unity, LVI (July, 1922), 49-53.
2Ibid., p. 49.
-41
eauaed the break, at least not so quickly, had not two prao- \
tlc&l difficulties arisent An open platform had been set up
between all New Thought Centers and field lecturers from
other groups appeared from time to time in the various Unity
Centers. When they presented ideas at variance with Unity’s
basic thought-pattern, the Center leaders were much grieved.
A stream of letters had come to Unity headquarters in protest.
The other practical difficulty, which was perhaps the crux of
tho whole matter, was that the officers of the Alliance were
trying to give it a directive standing among the various
groups. Mr. Fillmore thought of tho Alliance as a loose fed­
eration of schools; the officers wdre trying to establish at
least one official school for all members of the group. This
point is so important that I quote him:
The I. N. T. A. directors were doubtless not aware
of it, but they were making the Alliance another school
of New Thought people, instead of a federation of the
schools that already exist. We were continually urged
by the I. I
I
. T. A. to co-operate in building up their
school, which was working along lines parallel with
Unity, yet so different in many respects that we did not
harmonize with them. T
?
e were asked to become members of
a faculty to establish an I. N. T. A. normal school,
when we were already part of the faculty of Unity school,
established for the same purpose years before the I, I
I
.
T. A. came into existence, . . , Mere protests that the
I. N. T. A. is not a school do not count in the face of
the facts in the case. In a eircular letter from Presi­
dent Edgerton, sent out about the middle of February, .
»
1922, to the Board of Councilors, he asked for suggestions
about revising the field workers' text-book. Also for
the elaboration and extension of the normal-achool into
an actual school, to be held for several weeks 7
each year.
^Charles Fillmore, "Why Unity Withdrew from the I,
T. A,, • Unity, LVI (July, 1922), pp. 51 f.
•
4
2
-
Thi» letter had precipitated the action of Unity. Unity felt
that her position and growth were at stake. She expressed
appreciation for the benefits derived from association with
the others and withdrew. Henceforth, Unity was to travel
alone
CHAPTER II
U1IITY»S PERIOD OF STRUGGLE
The Early Years
When Mrs. Fillmore, cured of her consumption by Christian
Science, decided to Bhare her experience with her ailing friends,
•he had no conception of what was finally to emerge from that ex­
perience as it has taken form through the years. To-day the
"Winged-Globe," symbol of Unity, is known around the world.^ The
beginning was extremely simple. Mr. Fillmore, not yet fully won
to Christian Science, continued to extricate himself from his real
•state tumble; in fact, after he began work with Mrs. Fillmore,
^llr. Fillmore found the "Winged-Globe" in F. B. Dowd,
The Temple of the RoBycross, (Chicago: F. B. Dowd Publishing
to., 1897). MrT I)ow'd s
"
a
'
I
c
l
“it was the eumbol of a "perfected
•oul." Modern Thought, I (Nove., 1889), 11, Mr. Fillmore now
gives the following explanation of its symbolism: "The winged
globe or sun disk, as a religious symbol, had itB earliest use in
kgypt, but It is found in various forms in the religions of other
races. It represents the relation existing between Spirit, soul
and body. Soul gives wings to the body. Spirit is the envelop­
ing principle, like the atmosphere in which both soul and body
•xiat, and from which they draw their original inspiration,
"The winged globe is also a symbol of the earth and its
•oul. The earth has soul, as have Its products of every descrip­
tion. All exist in the luminiferous ether, the anlma mundl, the
divine mother. When the people of the earth lift up their
thoughts to God, the Animus Del or directive Spirit, then the
planet takes wings into a higher radiation of universal life—
the mortal puts on immortality.
"As man develops spiritual consciousness, he attains the
realization of the soul as the wings of the body. Back of the
•oul is Spirit, It quickens end energizes the soul, that is, it
gives the soul wings. Artists paint their angels with wings, re­
presenting in this way their freedom from physical fetters. But
the soul does not have wings like a bird. The life activity of
the soul Is quickened by Spirit until it rises above the thoughts
of matter ana floats free in the ether or fourth dimension which
Jesus called the kingdom of the heavens.
"Follow the teachings of Unity and you will realize for \
yourself that you are the winged globe." Charles Pillmors, "The
Winged-Globe," Unity. LXXXIV (June, 1956), 66 f. /
he continued In that' business until 1900. However, the two united
in 1889 to publish a little magazine, Modem Thought. The first
issue of this little sixteen-page paper was one thousand copies.
About four pages were given to advertisements of Christian Science
hosiers and the large list of occult literature then flooding the
coacrunity. During that first year they carried one secular ad­
vertisement— that of a painless dentist, who had his office in
the sane building,*
1 Mrs. Fillmore was enthusiastically active
In trying to perfect a Christian Science organization in Kansas
City. She immediately called for a room large enough to seat
two hundred, which might be used as a meeting place. Such a room
was found in the Deardorf Building, Eleventh and Main Streets,
and to this the Fillmores moved the office of Modem Thought
from the Journal Building where they had started. In September,
1889, Mrs. Fillmore invited those who would to Join them there
in meetings twice each week, stating:
A few earnest men and women have undertaken to establish here
a oenter from which to radiate thoughts having for their
basis the love principle as taught by Christ, and they ear­
nestly ask for the cooperation of all seekers after Truth,
regardless of sect or creed,2
The services took the form of the Methodist testimony meetings
of that time; only the testimonies were of healing. An added
feature was group-meditation upon some selected thought for a
Modern Thought fait that some explanation was neoeasary.
It announced that, while it did not feature miscellaneous adver­
tising, this .one came under the "category of human needs.” It
suggested, also, that the dentist's rooms wore adjoining those
of the Christian Science Association, making it especially con­
venient for the ones attending their meetings. Modem Thouj^it,
I (Hov., 1889), 12.
^Modern Thought, I (Oct,, 1889), 8»
-45-
*cnaider*ble period of alienee, In 1890 a few from this original
*roup began to gather oach evening at nine o’clock to pray for
tho»e in "trouble, sickness or poverty," This was suggested as
a way of helping those who were loyal in their search for Truth,
but found themselves so "dominated by the surrounding error" that
they needed a helping hand to overcome their sins, ills, and trou­
bles. Absent healing had already been pronounced a success by
leaders in the Mental-Cure movement. Any one might unite with
this group regardless of where he lived if he would agree to sit
in the silence fifteen minutes each evening, meditating upon a
pre-announced thought. People having needs were encouraged to
write to Modern Thought and were given to understand that there
would be no fees but, as each felt helped, he might advance tho
work by a love offering. The first thoughts held were quite
■inplej "Holy Spirit, thou hast glorified me." "Love and Wis­
dom— Jesus Christ," These are good examples. This group was soon
named "Society of Silent Help." Their attention was already
turned to the area round about; and they suggested that, wherever
two or three in a community had come into an understanding of the
Truth, these form a similar society and unite with the one in
Kansas City, The aim was to realize the presence of God so in­
tensely that all error of mind and body, at least in those prac­
ticing it, would be swept away. Thus from the beginning, two
aethods of dealing with problems were Bet up: first, that of
personal ministration, and, second, that of collective absentee
treatment. Both have been continued by Unity. The Fillmore*
personally carried on both type* until 1908, when Mr, Fillmore
-46-
withdrew from personal healing to give all hie time to Silent
Unity. Most Unity Centers carry healers; the local Kansas City
society no» has twelve.
The name of the other type of service was changed in 1891
to the "Society of Silent Unity," Within one year Silent Unity
was receiving daily from ten to twenty requests for aid; these
have so increased through the years'that Silent Unity to-day is
not only the basic healing agency of Unity Sohool but is the pri­
mary channel through which money comes for the extension of her
physical equipment. This group answers all requests for aid of
every sort— physical, financial, mental, social, religious. The
department at first made no attempt to return a personal answer to
each request. Each inquirer reoeived a number and then he
looked in the next issue of the magazine to see the thought that
was being held for him at headquarters. With the passing years
a master-organization had been perfected, and all correspondents
now receive personal attention. This does not mean, however,
that each disease is carefully diagnosed and given specialized
treatment. Although Unity Sohool has a textbook. Divine Remedies,
which suggests the physical or secondary causes of many diseases,
that is not important in the cure. Patients are encouraged to
tell about their troubles only so that they can free their minds
of the error connected with it. As we shall explain later. Unity
thinks that the same prayer will work in healing any disease. In
fact, as early as 1911, Mrs, Fillmore declared that they had found
that the best results were obtained when they treated patients
•olleotiwely.^
-47-
Silent Unity has made a phenomenal growth through tho
years. Published figures are as follows: 1902, Silent Unity had
ten thousand registered members who held the evening silence. By
1913 this number had increased to twenty-six thousand. In 1910
they claimed to be treating six thousand persons weekly# In 1926,
their banner year. Silent- Un.ty handled 600,007 letters aid 16, 717
telegrams. During the depression years there was a considerable
decrease, Mrs. Clara May Rowland, now head of the department,
explains that this was due to the fact tliat people did not liave
the money for a love offerin^ When the number of requests de­
clined Silent Unity wrote to many of the patients suggesting that
they continue writing for help, assuring them that their prayers
woula be acceptable until they were in position to continue their
love offerings, hlany, however, refused to accept such service.
To-day Silent Unity workers number one hundred and four. «any
of these nave gone through tra ning lasting from tv/o to three
years. Emphasis i3 placed on quick service. All letters are
handled b
_
. the second day after they aro received; telegrams are
answered at once. Two Silent Unity meetings are held each day
in the chapel to pray collectively for those whjo have asked for
aid. Each writer also "holds the thought" which he is sending
to the one who has made a request. One person is kept on duty in
the prayer-room night and day so that prayer is continuous in
Silent Unity.
Silent Unity is now receiving about ten thousand letters
^Information concern'ng depression effects came from
Clara May Rowland, personal interview.
-48-
each week. These are classified by the office in five groups:
health, prosperity, spiritual illumination, religious interpreta­
tion, and family troubles or human relations. For many years
nearly all requests were requests for prayers for health; then
prosperity became the most usual subject of petition. Letters
askinw for prayers for health and for hely in solvin, family
difficulties are now at the head of the list. In each of its
replies Silent Unity sends three things— a prayer to be held for
the difficulty, a statement as to the m.anir.g of the teachings of
Unity, and instructions as to how each can cooperate with Unity
in helpin^ themselves. These Instructions close with a section
called "Compensation,” which will be discussed later.
The year following the organization of Silent Unity was
largely consumed by the arguments over the nature of their teach-
in. s as related to the use cf the term "Christian Science," That
story has been told. In 1092 Modern Thought, now Thought. was
moved to larger quarters in the Eall Bulldin^, Ninth and 7.alnut
Streets, Kansas City. A snail composing room was s.t up, but the
forms were sent out for printing. By late 1692 Mr. Filhuore, who
until this tine hau hesitated to try personal healin,, felt that
ho was able to demonstrate change in his own physical condition.
He then united with Mrs. Fillmore in the advertisement: "Charles
And Myrtle Fillmore, Teacher-ar.d Healers." Both wrote j.rolifi-
cally for their magazine; he used the pen-name "Leo Virgo," and
Mrs. Fillmore signed her articles wit}, her initial "M." The home
and the three growing children were cared for by Mary (Stone)
Fillmore, Charles* mother, who had arrived to make her home with
the family shortly after they aettled in Kansas City. She, a
-49-
large, assertive type, so possessed the home life that Myrtle
was able to do little thero although she was a hone-loving woman.
This partially explains why Hyrtle Fillmore quite early developed
a children's department in their magazine under the name nV<ee
Wisdom,n She decided in 1893 to make this department into a
sepax*at3 magazine, but in 1895 it was returned to the original
manzir.o. However, in l&oG, >
7
o
e Wisdom was given a second chance.
It is now one of Unity's most popular magazines with a range of
influence far beyond t:.ose interested in Unity's religious teach-
i
n
.
,a.
When Modern Thought was first issued it carried display
advertisements for healers and teachers. These gradually in­
creased in both size and numbers so as to crowd out many other
things. In 1894 the editor announced a new policy; henceforth
he wo Id publish only e heeler's directory, giving name and ad­
dress. He declared that while their real message was a "renewing
of the mind through righteousness,n so much emphasis was being
put in healings that it resemblod "patent medicine met'ods."^
The columns of the magaz n
e
- wore at that time closed t
-
, all save
t ose who practiced "lure- Mind Healing" only. The cost of plac­
ing one's nan in the directory was two dollars^ which co^ld be
paid only by getting fo r new subscribers to the paper. The
"Unity Book Company," the name under which the Flllnores had been
transacting business since 1891, was re-organized as the "Unity
Tract Society" in Kay, 1G97, This wa3 in 1 nc with Mr* Fillmore's
genei*al thinking as pupressed in his comment on healing methods:
*Thought. VI (June, 1694), 130 (editorial)
We did it that our publishing department night be relieved
of the appearance of a commercial venture* The dollar tar,
U s been so persistently hung on this movement in its various
departments that it has become known to the public at large
as a new system of therapeutics, with the usual financial
appendix, instead of a religion end its unselfish dispense**
tion. . • , This is not a business but a ministry*
p
. is first period was clearly the mental health period. Although
they spoke of prosperity in 1800, the Fillmores placed no emphasis
u
;on it but followed the trend of all similar groups of the day
until almost the turn of the century. Hr. Fillmore's first such
p
article, "Overcoming the Poverty Idea," first appeared in 1898,
His most publicized article favoring Vegetarlanims, "Flesh hating,
Motapi.ysicelly Considered," first was issued in 1896*
Unity Organizes
Unit;. Society of Practical Christianity
In 1898 the Fillmores moved their growing organization
from the hall Building to a brick cottage, 1318 McGee Streot,
whore It remained for the next sevon years. The records indicate
that these were the group’s happiest years. By securing a small
printing press they became equipped to complete all their work;
their staff increased until there were ten congenial spirits on
it, am.on^ whom was the irrepressible Jennie I
I
. Croft, who was a
driving force in the movement for more than thirty y arc. By 1900
the circulation of the magazine had increased beyond eight thou­
sand, and all were kept busy. One of their number prepared
luncheon for the gro .
p each da;,, a vegetarian meal, and thus was
................ .......... ...................................... «
..... .................................................................. .............................. ■
^Unlty, VIII (May, 1697), 503 (editorial),
^Unity, XI (Aug., 189.), 57 ff.
51
started what was later to blossom out as Unity Vegetarian Inn.
Interest increased, and subscriptions poured in until i
t
'
'
'
become apparent that these quarters would not Ion be sufficient
to meet the demands of the magazine. The local {roup also needed
larger quarters for their Sunda; services. Therefore, the first
<
\
financial campaign of Unity was launched. In July, 1505 "The
Unity Society of Practical Christianity" was incorporated as a
holding corporation with a board of directors numbering twelve,
of which V
Y
. G. Hasoltine was president. The society wus organized
for "scientific and educational p. rposos viz., t
P
;
C
- study and de­
monstration of Universal Law,"-*- It was given power to fix quali­
fications and conditions of membership and to purchase and hold
any and all k-nds of proporty for its exclxxsive use and benefit.
One ’
.of the by-laws gave it the right to license properly qualified
persons "to perform all the privileges of a minister of the gos­
pel," and to grant a diploma to those qualified for special lines
of service. Appeal was made In the magazine for contributions.
The first monuh fifty-five dollars was reported. By September,
1304 this had increased to six hundred twenty-one dollars and
S
eighty-two cents.
Prosperity Treatments
Unity*s "Prosperity Thou ht" and treatments were conceived
in the midst of its first financial campaign. For some years
Unity li&d carried two meditations, a "Noon-Thought" and a "Class-
Thought" for the evening silence. In April, 150-1 the "Prosperity
^The Unity Society of Practical Christianity. p* 6.
(Pamphlet71
•52-
Thoujit" replaced the "Koon-TLoughtMr. Fillmore made a two-\
pa0e explanation of tho change, the substance of which can best
Ee expressed in his words: "It is our right to be prosperous.
In July he continued the education of his readers by informing
then that poverty, like sickness, was a disease and should be
treated in the sane fashion. He also announced that they had
begun to treat delinquent subscribers for prosperity with very
gratifying res Its. This statement aroused numerous criticisms
and with then the suggestion that they should apply the medicine
to themselves so that they would not have to make appeals for
building funds, ter. Fillmore's explanation is important to an
understanding of their position? -
u
.
There is q-ite a lot of misconception and incredulity
about the prosperity part of our work, because people do not
understand it. . . . The foundation of it all and tho me­
dium through which it is accomplished is the Universal Kind.
This is all pres ,nt and open to all who will take advantage
of its potentialities. Whatever roan wants he can have by
voic .nw his desire In the right way Into the Universal hind.
It is pregnant with infinite possibilities, under certain
laws.
One of these laws of mind is thought radiation, from
center to circumference. Each individual has a mind center,
which radiates its ideas to the body and immediate environ­
ment, So an aggregation of individuals can establish a
thought center, from which may be radiated ideas of a higher
potency than the average surrounding thoughts, if all agree
upon certain ideas and mentally concentrate to that end. You
see It is a mere matter of unifying our thoughts and raising
them to a hi^. rate of radiation.
Vie form cho center of a group, and those wh- lave faith
in our power and who are cooperating with us in thought, are
the working circumference, he declare the idea, and radiate
it forth; they catch it mentally and execute it in their
affairs. . . .
A? a Health Center, we radiate certain ideas about health,
and people who put their minds in right relation are healed
daily all over the country.
^Charles Fillmore, "Explanation of Prosperity Thought,"
Pnitv. XX (April, 1904), 22b.
S3-
As a Frospcrity Center, we radiate certain ideas about
prosperity, and t
. ose who believe in the power, open their
ciinds and catch thoughts that help them to become more pros­
perous .
Those ignorant of the process jump to the conclusion that
If wo know the lav; of prosperity so well v
;
o should take ad­
vantage of it ourselves and become .illionoires. The fact
is we deal with th. criminating ideas only; you who work in
the world’s affairs carry it out* A parallel is that of the
inventor, who seldom yets the financial profit out of his
ideas,— tho promoter and the dealer in tho manufactured ar­
ticle jitk- the money*
V
i
e do not drive a hard bargain with you anu demand that
you s
. all jay us in advance a stated sum for our her.1th or
prosperity radiations, but merely ask you to leturn to us a
tithe of tho yood thus comes to you* A Just mar cr woman
will do this without compulsion, and v
/
o find that our radia­
tions do nos t-e.ch tho unjust and miserly*
Durin_. the latter part of 1 04 and early 1.-0S, whiie the
prosperity discussion was in progress little v/ec said about the
new headquarters' fund started the year before* But the leaders
had been soarchin. and l
^
a
c
i found a suitable site at 01o-“lb Tracy
Street, about twelve blocks from the business center of the city.
They now announced their purchase and asked for donations to the
amount of a hundred thousand aollars with which they planned to
erect a publishing plant, a sanitarium, and a healin' temple, all
in one. hvery subscriber of Unity was ached to send a jift and
with it a blessiny which miyht be placed in tho cornerstone of
the new building*
The "Tied Leaf" Controversy
Work on their now building was scarcely under way whenN
tho Fillmore precipitated the most prolonyed and pronounced
criticism of their careers. Tils was the controversy over the
^-Charles Fillmore, "Ab ^ut Prosperity Treatments," Unity,
XXI (Dec,, 14*04), SG6f,
•54
use of the "Red Leaf." The "healing" and "Prosperity" thoughts
i
of Unity, Cctobor, 1J0?c am e forth on a page bright red in color.
The following explanat o
.
. accompanied it:
TiJ.s loaf Iras been spirit -ally treated by the Unity So­
ciety members in Kansas City, It is c’
raryrd with healing-
thought oaoT a
i
r
.
, -
.
.
i
l
l connect all who use it with the Jesus
Christ consciousness.
iiold it in your handc while repeating over and over the
words of Truth are you will foel the Iower of the holy Spirit
anu the promise of Josus Chris t will be fulfilled in you*
according to your faith.
b x relative res orse to t
o
.is was much greater than to the "Pros-
p.rity Thoujlrt." Tonh. alter nontli iir, Fillmore defended their
action, liis editorials are a revelation oi the character o
i
' his
thinirin^. I quote from a number of then:
we respect the conservative element, but we are net to be
hampered by what ethers think. We arc guided by the Spirit
in fan.
I woulu asi: you who ;re object n to this hed Leaf as a
help to concentration, aid Jesus lay hands on the sick and
heal them in many instances; did he put clay cn the blind
min's eyes; did he say, "Those signs slrnli follow then that
believe, . . . and they shall lay hands o
r
. the sick and they
shall recover; Did Pa.J. biers th_ handkerchiefs that healed,
and did the sic:: recover from the shadow of ieter. This is
the Holy Ghost power-— another degree of momifostat ior. beyond
that of Spiritual perception, yet under the c
f
x
r.e law. • , .
T-.cro ic a va_t difference betwocn layin o
r
. oi hands
with prayer, an- laying cn of hands without r r a ’
cr. One is
spiritual h-alir. , while uhe oehcr is merely r.ayic . Those
in t;.c understandin of the law throuv
/
h which mind manifests
]:nov; why this is so. The liand is a conduct:r of the current
whicl: the 1 Ah generates in the mind. If the I All ic fixed
on God, a direct co nectlon is made with the One Life, while
if attention is on the hand, end human ma net ism the highest
concept, there is but a very limited life flow......
This hod Sheet has been present at the S'lent Unity meet­
ings, both open and closed sessions, for the lust fifteen
days, and carries not only the statement of Truth, but also
a great substance radiation, thajj connects it with our Center
and through us with Divine Mind.
^Unity, XXIII (Oct., 1905), insert.
2Charles Fillmore, "The Red Leaf," Unity. XXIII (Dec.,
1905), 566 f.
■
5
5
-
The Red Leaf is not to be used te a mustard plaster or a
magnetic belt, by those who are in the understanding of the
Truth, but as an aid to concentration. Hold it in your hands
and slowly read the words over, then close your eyes and re-
p at them mentally. Do this until your mind is saturated
with the thought. Then meditate upon its meaning, and let it
sink deep into your consc ousness. This is the right use of
the Red Leaf.
But we would not be truthful if we did not plainly tell
you that the Rod Leaf is charged with a spiritual, mental,
physical potency not common to the outer world, and does put
those who use it into a certain unity with higher realms of
consc.ousness, according to their faith. If it is used as a
physical alu, by ap,.-lyiu; to the ailing parts, it increases
the vital flow ana allays pain; applied mentally, it helps to
gather the scattered thoujhts.'. • . This is not human
magnetism, but a life curront direct from the Fountain Head.
Thtj difference between animal ma^jnetisn and this spiritual
force is difficult to explain, because of the lac : of under­
standing of the relations which the various planes of con­
sciousness bear to one another. The open door to the Great
Life Fountain is the Lord Jesus, whoso disciples we are, and
whose power we invoko.
The quest ion is asked by many why they get so much stronger
realization of spiritual power when hold,n_; the thought with
the Red Leaf in their hands. The polarity of all forms Is
accepted as a scientific fact, and in this Is Involved the
potency of the Red Leaf. Han has his positive and negative
poles— the mind bein0 the positive and the body the negative.
All thoujdts and states of consciousness have this "yes" and
"no," or positive and negative points of action. •Health is
harmony and balance between the "yes" and "no" of conscious­
ness. Any thought habit that continually throws the positive
and affirmative to certain brain centers, and depletes other
centers, must f.nally res It In congestion of vital force,
nerve fluid, blood. This produces nearly all the ills that
flesh is heir to. The remedy is mental and physical poise
and equilibrium.
How shall we again balance our forces so that every func­
tion shall receive its proper supply of vital;ty? Through
rl^t thought. Equalize your- thlnkin0, and you will force
the blood into its proper channels.
You need help to do this. That is the office of the Red
Leaf. When you take it in your hands, your thought ie throb-
bin, in your head, and you cannot "let go." But as you hold
the leaf, and quietly repeat the words, your attention is
directed to the paper, and your thought follows, and the de­
pleted negative of consciousness is raised to a degree of the
■^Charles Fillmore, "How to Use the Red Leaf." Unity.
XXIV IJan., 1906), 31.
-56
positive.^"
No claim is made that there is any healing virtue in the
Red Loaf— some mind must be charged with the healing thought
before it is concentrated upon this visible exp. ession. Those
who try to use it as a mustard ]luster will miss the mark of
true healin^. But with nontal cooperat.on it can be applied
to the ner.e centers in the body and help the Spirit in its
word of peace. The mind and the body ofton jet separated,
and treatments are like empty repetitions of parrot-like
words. This is caused by a rate of mina vibration so high
that the body does not sense it. The mental vibrations pass
through the physical as a very hi L voltage of electricity,
which meets with no resistance and is not felt. Rere the
Red Leaf forms a center of union between these separated egos,
and the mind la a.ain restored to its lawful dominion*
To use the Rea Leaf in tills month's Unity: Place it on
the nerve center nearest the affected parF and mentally af­
firm, "Spirlt--Mind Illumines and Reals,” If it is a head­
ache, place the sheet on the forehead. If st,nach ache,
place it on the pit of the stomach, etc. Always remember
that the oojcct of this process is to concentrate Spiritual
thoughts in the mind that movos the body, to the end tliat
they nay be transofmred by the Spirit, With this understand-
in , i
.
.
e assure you no spiritual deter oration will occur
through use of the Red Leaf.
The Red Leaf was soon widely publicized. In July, 1906, one
E. B, Lyman wrote an inquiry to The New York Times about this
"Christian Science in a plaster shape." His comments suggest
the interpretation given to it by the unbelieving public:
You nay pay a dollar for a year of Unity, published in
Kansas City, Mo., and receive as an insert in each month's
number the wonderful Red Leaf. Rave you a toothache, a can-
ccro s growth. • « anything tliat can bo classed as an ill
of the flesh? Merely apply the Red Leaf to or near the af­
fected ozgan and, presto, you are healed. There are no ex­
pensive books to buy, no "readers" to give absent treatment
to your monoy. Just a little Red Leaf and you. • • • Per­
haps your- health is good, but your financial status is not
^■pharles Fillmore, "Questions about the Red Leaf," Unity.
XXIV (April, 190C), 259,
^Charles Fillmore, "Right Use of the Red Leaf," Unity.
XXIV (May, 1906), 355 f.
-57
whxat It ought to be, from your unselfish roint of view. . • .
Simply apply the little Red Leaf to pocketbook or business
letter head, or sleep with it under your pillow, and you
will experience a turn in the tide of your affairs and you
will set a prompt harvest of the "Ions greens." Cr perhaps
you are wealthy and well, but arc not contented with your
psychological make-up. Apply the Red Leaf as directed and
get confidence, trust and courage.
The editor of Unity, upon receiving this statement, declared that
he himself could not have written a better summary of the virtues
of the Rod Leaf, reporting that many serious letters of inquiry
had come because of the free advertis ng they had thus received.
Hie discussion continued into 1-08. Unity offered to send the
Rea Leaf under separate cover to any of its roaders who desired
more than one, saying: "In this way we expect to add increased
power to the leaves, as they will be especially prepared for each
applicant." The June, 1907 Leaf was of pink colored paper. The
editor gave two reasons for this change: first, tho weather was
too warn for red; and, second, the dominant word in the thought
for the month was "Love" and its radiation is pink. "Wien you
see a pink radiation in the silence you nay know that tho most
active thought In your consc.ousnoss Is love." Afterwards other
colors were used to correspond with the thoughts expressed; as
late as 1954 Unity was experimenting with colors as symbols or
manifestations of particular thoujits.
^•E. B. Lyman, The New York Times. July 15, 1906, quoted
in Unity. XXV (Aug., 190s), 12(5.
2Unitv. XXV (Oct., 190C), 313.
5Unlty. XXVI (June, 1907), 407.
-56
The Financial Strangle
Contributions and Bonds
While the Red Loaf discussion v/as progressing, the first
Unity structure was slowly taking fora, The estimated cost was
twenty thousand dollars, about six thousand of which went for the
site. Beceuse the money was slow in beinw realized the trustees
of Unity Society of Fractical Christianity decided to offer twelve
thousand collars in bonds to its adherents. The appear for funds
was constant in Unity magazine, and the cornerstone dedication
was postponed that people night have additional opportunity to
place their blessings on it. A critic wrote Mr. Fillmore that
this was just a scheme to get people to contribute. Mr, Fillmore
was equally frank in his reply:
Well, what if we are? Is it not a good proposition?
Whoever contributes gets a place in the cornerstone of the
first exclusively New Thought structure in the country. It
identifies you with the most powerful spiritual center on
this planet, and you are constantly in touch with higher
planes of consciousness through us.
V
>
e ..:akd this passible through our eternal spiritual v i o ­
lence. Eight and day, mental and spirit al forces a.e being
generated anc sent fort:, into the race mind fro . t
. is center,
and those who identify themselves with us are enveloped in a
great life-giving aura that perpetually imparts health, pro­
tection anc prosperity.
Perhaps it w>.s the very audacit;. of his claims that attracted for
he lnsistod that, while many thought it was a little thing to _et
their names in the cornerstone, the time wo Id soon come when
thoy wo-Id class it as a privilege and honor eq.al to the "sign­
ing of the Declaration of the Independence."
^"CiuestLons and Answers," Unity. XXIV (May, 1906), 296.
"*V: ■
S
•59
Unity's first building was dedicated August, 1905 as a
"Church, a School and a Health Dispensary. At that tine love
offerings totalling six thousand dollars had been contributed,
and the Society was in debt for the rest. The years immediately
follov/inj wore largely .iven over to schemes for lifting this
debt* Hardly an issue of the magazine is published without some
appeal; most of the means used by organizations of that day to
attract money were employed. Announcement was made that S 'lent
Unity s giving prosperity treatments to all who hau already
made contributions, and they were being especially prospered for
their outlay. Souvenir postcards, views inside and outside of
the building, we;'© ofXered with the assurance that whoever bought
them wo.Id know that his mite was "being invested in the safest
bank on earth." The Women's Auxiliary, organized for some time,
contributed in the usual manner of such church organizations—
giving bazaars, suppers and lectures. Unity Guild for young
people was organized, January, 1907, and in two years it was able
to contribute threo hundred ninety-four dollars to the fund. The
Unity emblem, the "Winjed-Globe," made into a pin, was offered at
one dollar to those who desired the article, and a souronir "Chi­
na Flate, with photograph cf the bulldin^," was sold to aid in
liquidating the debt.
The climax of the campaign was reached in the "Irosperit
Dollar Demonstration." In Uovember, 1909 the trustees of Unity
Society announced that they would mail a new paper dollar, blessed
like the Red Leal', to any who would agree to use it as a nucleus1
1Unity. XXV (Sept., 1906), 801.
60-
about which to gather prosperity thoughts. Tils was to be a de­
monstration that God is the prosperity of his people, livery ap­
plicant must a,.ree to "hold the Prosperity Thought" attached to
the dollar every day until December 20 and then return the dollar
to Unity Society with any increase which had beer, manifested in
his affairs as a res.lt of the treatment. Two thousand one hun­
dred eighty-one new bills were mailed, ana Y/ken the returns cane
the amount wus four thousand eight hundred forty-e ight dollars.
Since the total oxpense was only one hundred seventy-throe dol­
lars, the Society realised almost two thousand five hundred dol­
lars toward its debt, and the demonstration w..s pronounced a suc­
cess.
Meanwhile, money for the caro of the new building had to
be raised, and the expenses of the Society incident to its Sunday
program had to be met. These were estimated at approximately
eighteen dollars per v/eok, willed was to come iron the regular
Sunday offerings. Added to this was a love offering for the
speaker of the day. The love ofierings generally ran much more
than the former, and the trustees had 0reat difficulty in secur­
ing from the members and their visiting friends funds sufficient
to meet the need. Each month they published a report. For many
weeks during ld0o-190u the weekly offerings for current expenses
averaged less than fivo dollars. Therefore, money sent from
friends away from Kansas City, wlio thought they were contributing
to the to the lifting of the debt, had to be used for local expenses.
This did not seem right to the leaders; so the editor of weekly
Unity. a little paper but recently started by the local group for
61-
their own enlightenment, commented:
Put the nickel, dime, quarter, dollar into tho envelope,
and If necessary do without some little luxury that means
practically nothin, to you, a drink of soda water, e clear,
a little candy, chewing gum or thoughtless expense.^
One wonders what had happened to their prosperity demonstrations I
Only two thousand had sent love, offerings and got their names in
the cornerstone of the building, yet at this tine there were six
thousand subscribers to Unity. These were now asked to send a
Christmas gift of one dollar each for the building fund. Finally,
in April, 150s, "Unity Correspondence School" was opened, and
lessons began to go out to students on the love oficrlng basis.
Unity Society announcod the liquidation of the debt in July, 1511.
Prosperity Banks
Before the building was paid for it w ,
.
b outgrown by the
expanding work of Unity. During this time there had been two
organizations: Unity Society of Practical Christianity, set up
in 1505 as a holdin._. corporation; and Unity Tract Society, per­
sonal property of the Fillmoros, publishers of Unity and wee Wis­
dom. All business w«s handled by the latter company, and they
in turn made a love of.ering of six hundred dollars annually to
the local society for the use of tho building. In 1503 the next
lot was purchased by the Unity Tract Society ana appeal was made
for at least fifty thousand dollars to erect a plant sufficient
to n-et the%growing needs of tPiC business. By'January, 1910 the
correspondence school had enrolled eight P.undred, and all these1
1"A Little Plain Talk," Weekly Unity. I (Sept, 4, 1909), 1.
-62-
were regularly contributing; love offerings. The leaders then
received another of their inspirat ions, ana the "Prosperity Bank*1
sprang into existence as a supplement to the "Prosperity Bless­
ing." Certainly the adherents of Unity wanted its help in achiev-'
in_ prosperity ana also wished their friends to enjoy the same
great privilege 1 The "Prosperity Bank" was originated as a tech­
nique for makln0 such a purpose effective* Those desiring special
prosperity treatments were asked to write for a bank. They thus
pledged themselves to the use of Unity's "Prosperity Thought" as
directed for a period of ten weeks. The user placed a ten cent
coin in the bank each week as a reminder and earnest of tho pros­
perity which was rightly his. Silent Unity agreed to give one
month's treatment to each user as its part of tire demonstration.
After ten weeks the user could forward one dollar to headquarters
with the name of some friend to whom he desired one of Unity's
magazines sent for the next year, ho statistics are available
to show how rapidly tire idea too : hold, but in 1325 Unity School
announced tliat they were ma'1 ng an average of eight thousand
banks each, month, Tire "Prosperity Bank" lias been an Integral
part of Unity's subscription system since 1-310 and to-day is par­
ticularly pushed in the magazine Good Business. The following
advertisement suggests the type of appeal made.to their con­
stituents :
Why use Unity Prosperity Bank?
Because it gives you a working knowledge of mind and soul
action in contracting the dynamic things of Spirit.
Because it trains you to look back of appearance for all
-63-
that you can possibly need or want.
Because It teaches you how to crate what you need from the
formless substence of the Invisible realm of God.
Because it relieves your mind of all care, uncertainty and
Tear regardln.. money matters.
Because its use makes you strictly honest, just, free, gen­
erous and forgiving in all. monetary dealings.
Because it helps to take your attention from petty, sordid
considerations of making ends meet, of rainy cays, or hoard­
ing and scrimping.
3ccausa, it loaves you free to put the best of yourself into
your work, knowing that God brings the increase.
Because it puts you in touch with Silent Unity, which holds
you In prayerful meditation for succoss.
Because and this is the most Important because— it makos you
know youroelf as an heir of God; and as a co-worker with him
in bringing forth into visible expression hie perfect uni­
verse. This is your prerogative. Bow use it!1
This plan of to-day calls for a drill of seven weeks with three
dollars saved, thus doing three tines as mucl. for tho cause as
when the "rrosperity Banks" were first started.
tem, organized in June, lylO. As Jeaus chose seventy and sent
them out into the towns and villages round about, so Unity sends
out its "SIlent-70,n except that the seventy have become a whole
free literature, many more than seventy responded; so they were
enrolled In* groups of that number, each group being designated
by a letter. By July, 1912, groups to the letter ni
\
9 had been
set up. The director of the department, MIbs Kate P. Robert«on,
nSilent-70n
Unity School of Christianity also has its miss',onary sys
army. when the first call was made for a group to distribute
-64-
reports that nSilent-70n ims enrolled about six thousand since
the department began.^ Desire to spread the gospol of Unity is
the only j
.reparation necessary to join the group. The literature
is spread primarily through institutions--crphar:, peml, soldiers’
and sailors’ homes, hospitals, county poor fame, and any other
tl*at will accept the service. For example, the American Red
Cross, New York, receives one hundred fifty Wee Wisdoms monthly.
Libraries, domestic ana foreign, arc also sup lied from this de­
partment, At the present time there are app-roxina. ely trelve
hundred on Unity's mailing list. The literature thus sent is
mostly of two sorts, recent issues of their several magazines
and panphlets. I>urin , 1-33 ”S‘lent-70" mailed 333,455 separate
pieces of literature. Recont issues of the ma^az_r.es were dis­
tributed in the following proportion: weekly Unity. 7,000;
Dail;.~ VtQ:d . 2,500; Unity. 1,600; Good Bus Incas , 1,500; wee Wis­
dom , 1,600; Progress, 1,3 0. Ti.is v.as a monthly distribution*
There are also 24,7G0 annual subscriptions cf current magazines
now charged to the account of "Silent-70,n The literature is
sent wherever triere is a member of the group who will assume
res onsibility for its distribution.
The department specializes in prison propaganda. Since
1j22 it has given 10,000 copies of Lessons l
r
. Truth with an
annual suoscriptlon to one or more magas'nes to prisoners and is
now corres pndin.g with some two thousand inmates of prisons. The
local organization at Kansas City also visits the nearby federal
and state prisons at Leavenworth and Lansing, Kansas, once each
^■Statement by Kate F. Robertson, personal interview.
-65-
month, carrying an appropriate program. The department adver­
tises that it does no "welfare work" for discharged prisoners.
Another work of which "Silent-70" is quite proud is the free dis­
tribution of literature in Braille, Two books. Lessons in Truth
and Finding the Christ, both written by K, Emille Cady, and two
magazines. Unity Dally Word and Wee Wisdom, arc now available to
any competent tc use then. In 1938 two thousand and forty month­
ly copies of the former magazine were distributed. Hie money for
this comes from the registered members of "Silont-70" who contri­
bute love offerings and from others they can interest in txJ.s
kind of work. Special appeal is now mad© for contributions to
the "Prison Fund" and to the Braille side of the work.
Some idea of She rate of growth of the Unity movement in
the early nineteen hundreds can be gained from statistics pub­
lished in Il’
10*^ They then reported more then three hundred mem­
bers of the local Kansas City Society with an avera e Sunday
school attendance for the year of one hundred fourteen. Fifteen
hundred were registered in the Correspondence School; twenty
thousand wore members of Silent Unity, and the business of Unity
Tract Society required forty full-time workers, Unity Vegetarian
Inn was now ministering not only to the workers but to all who
desired such service, A special vegetarian number of Unity was
Issued, February,', 1911; and shortly the Unity Pure Food Company,
a vegetarian "depot or store," was established so that people
might buy proper foods to take the place of meat. In 1906 Hr*
Fillmcre had tried to give a practical turn to this side of the
XSee Weekly Unity. II (Hot. B4, 1910), 8*
movement by organizing a "New Thought Diet" department in Unity,
which he expected to grow into a magazine, but the idea did not
materialize. During this period Unity Inn was run on the basis
of love offerings— "eat what you like and pay what you please*n
In February, It'll Unity announced that the love of:erings for
this service had netted abovo expenses two thousand dollars in
CHAPTER III
UNITY*S GOLDEN ERA
Incorporation of Unity School of Christianity
Praise Good, from whom all blessings flow;
Praise Wealth, which helps us here below;
Praise Truth, the highest virtue known;
Praise Health, which every one nay own.
The years 1914 to 1^26 are Unity’s golden ora. In them
tho lon_ years of poverty, anxiety, and toil— and nuch such seed
had been sown— bore abundant fruit. The first year of this era
was narked by two important events: the incorporation of Unity
School of Christianity, and the beginning of a building program,
which was to continue almost uninterruptedly until the early
years of the financial depression. In 1914 the Unity Tract So­
ciety, the publishing side of Unity's work; the Society of Silent
Unity, the healing ana prosperity group; Unity Correspondence
School, which gave lessons to those who could not attend the
regular classes given In Kansas City; "Silent-70," the missionary''
arm of the movement; and Unity Pure Food Company were consoli­
dated under the corporate name "Unity School of C h r i s t i a n i t y ,
The following aro the "Articles of Incorporation"*
KNOW ALL ME: BY THESE PRESENTS:
That we, the undersigned, • • •
Charles Fillmore
Myrtle Fillmore
Lowell Fillmore,-
Royal Fillmore’
,^
Tho Administration building of the newly incorporated
school was Also completed In 1914 at an announced cost of sixty
thousand dollars. Six thousand dollars had been contributed
^"The New Unity Doxology," Unity. XXVII (Jan,, 1908)
^"Articles of Incorporation,* typed copy given to writer
by Lowell Fillmore,
68-
towards It in love offerings before tho building was started.
Mr. Fillmore now announced that previous to that time Unity had
been holding to two standards: one in the book anci subscription
department, whero they were necessarily connected with the world
of business; and the other in their healing ministry, where the
Spirit was given full sway. Henceforth they would try to prac­
tice only the Spiritual standard. He illustrated what he meant
by sayin0 that Unity would no longer "appeal to the bargain hunt­
ing tendency” in its announcements-concerning the sale of books
and magazines. I^r. Fillmore must have soon forgotten his re­
solution for in a short time he vsas offering twelve issues of
weekly Unity for ton cents,^ The cornerstone of the new building#
named the "How Race Cornerstone," was to be made at least ten
feet long so that there would be space for all the bleisLn^.s the
friends of Unity desired to contribute. Bonds were also offered
to those who desired to make investments rather thGn contribu­
tions to the work. The dedication was set for Thanksgiving and
then, as with the previous building belon0ing to Unity Society
of Practical Christianity, now recognized as the local Center,
was postponed until January lest some miss the glorious oppor­
tunity to contribute a sustaining blessing and so becoming linked
to this new realm of spiritual force potent to their soul’s
growth. Mr, Fillmore dedicated the building January 1, 1915,
placing and scaling in the cornerstone seven thousand blessings.
For sogie unaocountable reason the masons were not present
to seal the stone. Tills is well for many blessings have
come since,2
^In 1939 Unity is offering the anniversary book. Unity1s
Fifty Golden Years. as a priEe for securing three annual suF^ "
'
' '
Bcr-pilonBrto Unity: see Unity. XC (March, 1939), 96*
“Cbarlearilliaore, Are Primitive Christiana,* Unity.
-69
Then it was decided to leave the stone open until the building
was cleared of debt*
When Unity School of Christianity was incorporated, re-
qi^ests were at once made for diplomas and dogrees. The sugges­
tions cane from some who hau finished Unity's course of training
ana who now wanted Unity’s approval and growing prestige back of
them as they tried to develop teaching and healing centers in
various cities. The Fillnores, perChancc because they had Been
how Lirs. Eddy's difficulties had been multiplied by trying to
direct her students, did not desire to put tho Unity stamp on
any work outBiae Kansas City. They explained^- that the authority
to teach and preach came only from the Spirit while it was the
task of the school to train those called. The granting of titles
would al; o interfere with their announced aim of overcoming the
"personal man." "Degrees are a delusion and a snare."2 Finally,
ordination to the ministry would put Unity leaders in a position
where they would be called to officiate at funerals and woddings.
Both of these ceremonies tend to keep death in the race, which
Unity is set to destroy. The Si.lent Unity department then de­
cided to drop all titles that they mi^t get com; letelg away
from the "personal."
Good Words’ Club
In 1915 Lowell Fillmore, who had grown up in the Unity
movement and was rapidly beoonin^; its chief business executive,
XSee "Extracts," Unity. J
CLI (Aug., 1914), 150 ff.
&
t
>Extracts, " Ibid., p. 150
►70-
put forth an idea which in its practical application soon ri­
valed the use of the prosperity banks. This v/as the formation of
a "Good Words* Club" and, a little later, a "Good Words* Reminder
Box," The conclusion that there is power in the s:oken word and
that every effort should be maae to apeak creatively had been in
the thought of the movement from the beginning., but no practical
application had been maae of the idea in advancing the cause cf
Unity, A Good Words’ Club was now established in order to vain
the power that comes through united effort. Those who became
members were asked to report to a central secretary once a month,
secure at least one new member for the club a year, and avoid
expressions of gossip, poverty, sickness, cr.me, sorrow, discord,
an- anger, ho dues were charged, but "free will offerings" were
accepted. Also pledge cards, cost twonty-five cents, and Club
emblems, the "Three Wise Monkeys" at one dollar, w^re recommended
as of special help to the members. Later a Good Words' Reminder
Box was sent to each member in which he could place si:ch volun­
tary forfeit as he thought suitable whenever he used a negative
word. No requirements were set as to the use of this money, but
the member was kept informed of the good it would accomplish in
the expanding ministry of Unity and how such offerings would
develop his own grasp of things spiritual. The.pledge of the
Good Words* Club was made positive in 1925, Members now sought'
to speak words of "trust, wisdom, goodness, health, courage, truth,
cheer, purity, peace, faith, prosperity, praise, Joy and good
will."^ No longer were they to pay a forfeit for negative words
^
“
"Good Words* Club Pledge Card,"
but rather a dally thank-61': ering for Divine help in speaking
positive words. Unity’s adherents quickly caught the idea; four
thousand em*olled the first year, ten thousand by 1918, and sixty
thousand by 1927, The Unity management is at present giving
little emphasis to the Good.
Words1 Club. A Good Words’ Booster
Club for boys and girls under fifteen is an integral part of the
program of Weo Wisdom. This children's club is a combination of
a Wee Wisdom Club, organized by Royal Fillmore in 1912, and the
adult club Just mentioned. Children are urged to gather their
friends of school or Sunday school into local clubs and unite
them with the central club in Kansas City. The central secretary
reports that they receive over three hundred inquiries each month
from the children but that the idea does not produce sufficient
funds to Justify extensive promotion.^"
Unity and the World War
Unity with its general tendency towards non-violence even
to animals was opposed to the World War. However, since Unity
has always urged only such demonstration as the circumstances
seemed to render practicable, its policy was not that of idealis­
tic pacifism or refusal to bear aims against one's fellownen.
The process of receiving exemption from the army was to be treated
in the sane way as claiming freedom from sin, sickness, and death.
"When the exemption-consciousness is reached, the process of
bringing the matter favorably to the attention of the proper of-
^Statenent by Elisabeth Ease, personal interview.
-72-
ficials will take care of itself."1 When asked to pray with one
of its members against army conscription Silent Unity refused and
explained: "We hold the thought for protection, safety and guid­
ance into that which is the highest good for the individual."2
This was in accord with the position it had repeatedly taken in
its prosperity treatments that it could not "hold for specific
demands," Correspondents were told that they must learn to take
an "impersonal" view of the situation, because they were Truth
students, perchance, there was a particular work for then to do
"at the front," and they were assured that they would "be pro­
tected from doing evil or receiving evil" while they were in the
trenches. Early in lolS Mr. Fillmore had a dream-vision which
he interpreted as meaning that the peace efforts of Woodrow Wil­
son would be successful before the spring plowing and sowing.
But time moved on, and Unity turned its attention to those who
were doin the fightin^. The following advertisement shows their
methods
DO YOU K
I
.
'
O
V
V A SOLDIUR IN TKL TRENCHES?
Do you want to keep him from harm? Do you want him to
know and understand the power of the protecting Word? Do
you want him to come back after the war unsoiled In soul by
the terrors and temptations of that hard life?
Send us £-1.00 and we will send him a year’s subscription
to Weekly Unity and a copy of "Bullet-Proof Soldiers," and
Silent Unity will hold him in prayer.
Unity strenuously opposed conditions of vice and impurity and the
^"Extracts," Unity, XLVII (Sept., 1917), 253.
^"Extracts," Unity. XLVII (Nov., 1917), 447.
^Weekly Unity. X (June 4, 1913), 8.
■
7
3
'
flow of liquor about the training canps and criticized those or­
ganizations handing out tobacco to the soldiers. When the Armis­
tice came in November, Mr. Fillmore explained that his dream
aoout Woodrow Wilson had been correct but that he had misinter-
ri'eted the "field of stubble," which had referred to the end of
the harvest rather than the spring plowing,
Durihg the wr.r period the cost of paper rose rapidly
until the ono-dollar charge for a Unity subscription did not cover
the actual outlay of the magazine, Mr. Fillmore first decided to
raise the price of the magazine and then feared lest that might
bar some from needed help. Therefore, ho ashed for increased
love offerings from those able to give. People were urged to
subscribe several years in advance, and all who mailed money to
Unity were ashed to bless it that there night be no da ger of
loss.
Bills should be protected wit]-, a blessing bp the sender.
Every letter we send out is blessed, and if all those who
write to us would give an audible or silent blessing to their
letters before nailing, zones of security would be estab­
lished between us and never a letter would go astray or a
dollar be lost.
Home BlessingB
In 1917 the Society of Silent Unity Inaugurated its "sys­
tematic House Harmonizing and House Cleaning propaganda."^ When
any member of the society moved into a new apartment the others
called in a group to bloss that home. Statements of Truth were
made silently and aloud for each room: kitchen, reoeption room,
dining room, bedroom, and bath with a final blessing for the en-
^"How to Send Money," Unity, XLYII (Sept,, 1917), 273.
^"Dedication of Bone,” Weekly Unity. IX (June 9, 1917), 2*•
-74-
tire house. Truth students everywhere arc advised to gather with
their friends and follow the some practice:
The Universal Ether can be charged with thoughts or Di­
vine Harmony until it3 power will harmonize a quarrelsome
family. It can be charged with the ioly Spirit of Wisdom
and Love until it will feel like the pres nee cf a church, and
its occupants will fall to praising and giving thinks con­
tinuously. It can be so filled with thoughts of Health that
no contagious disease can find entrance.
Silent Unity stood ready to furnish special blessings for any one
consecrating a new home; ar.d, when it became mechanically pos­
sible, hr. and Mrs. Fillmore placed their personal blessings on
phonographic records that their friends at the cost of seventy-
five cents might have the deep spiritual experience of their
spoken presence in the home. "Can you imagine anything more de­
sirable, were you moving, into a new house, then to have Charles
O
Fillmore there to dedicate it?
Property Rights
The Increase in value of the property of Unity School of
Christianity brought repeated inquiries as to its legal ownership
ana criticism of the stockholders of the corporation in 1918.
Mr. Fillmore, at that time, estimated the value of their holdings
at five hundred thousand dollars includin' good will, of which at
least three hundred thousand dollars was in physical assets**
2
Weekly Unity. IX (June 9, 1917), 2,
2Ibld., XVIII (Sept. 26, 192C), 7.
^"Dedication," Unity. XLIX (Aug., 191G), 178.
>76-
These criticisms led the Fillmores to make what they termed a
"legal transfer" of the property. On August 3, 1918 the four
stockholders and directors signed a "Declaration,1
1 which read in
parr as follows;
V
.
e hold all our right, title and interest in said corpora­
tion (represented by said capital stock) in trust, and dedi­
cate sane to be used to carry out the purposes herein ex­
pressed and referred to, so that all persons who now are or
nay hereafter be members and adherents nay, while so enrolled
or upon proper application, receive the benefits of all the
principles and teachings and othor help that the School can
give; reservin, , however, to ourselves and our successors the
right to manage and control the business and properties, and
to a reasonable compensation for our tiie and services, and
to name our successors who will carry out the purposes herein
declared,
It is to be noted that the above-named instrument was not made as
an amendment to the original charter of the corporation. It was
explained by the directors as an attempt to make clear to others
that they did not regard Unity as belonging to them personally.
The criticism did not die, and, June 27, 1321, the original "Arti­
cles of Incorporation" we: amended by adding a statement which
made It forever impossible for the stockholders to profit by de­
claring dividends. Finally, In order to quiet any further dis­
cussion, the directors made. In 1923, the following "Declaration
of Trust:"
DECLARATION OF TRUST
Whereas, the undersigned incorporated the Unity School of
Christianity in April, 1914, as stockholders and directors;
and • , •
In Witness Whereof, we have hereunto set our hands and
seals this 22nd day of June, 1925*
, Charles Fillmore
Lowe'1 Fillmore
Boyal-Fillmore
Myrtle Fillmore2
plbid., p p . 178-179.
*"Conerning Organization of Unity,
1927), 9ff.
Unity. LXVII (July,
■76-
This cloLed all action by the Flllmores with reference to the
ownership and control of Unity School of Christianity. The fol­
lowing technical appraisal of the value and nr.aning of the docu­
ments Just quoted was made by the legal firm of C-ossct, Lllis
Dietrich and Tyler before the Supreme Court of Missouri in 1932;
All the stock was issued to Charles Fill.tors, his wife
and M s two sons, who constitute the board of directors and
officers. Thereafter, in 1921, the Articles of Incorporation
were amended to provide that no dividends should Le distrib­
uted but that all the- prolits and property of the corporation
should be used foi the purposes of the corporation. Kone of
the students, communicants, patients or adherents of Unity
School of Christianity were ever shown to have any interest
in the corporation and no change in ownership, of the stock
of the corporation v;as ever shown to have taken place. Ko
other papers were shown of ieco;-d. Charles ofiered in evi­
dence as a part of Lis testimony, an unacknowledged, and un­
recorded paper signed by himself, his wife, and his two sons,
who he stated owned all the stock of the company, dated Au­
gust 3, 191c, entitled "Dedication,5
1 purporting to be a de­
claration of the Fillmorea that they held the ca. ital stock
of the company in trust ana dedicated saao to be used for
carrying out the purposes of the corporation, although no
consideration was shown for the instrument, the stock was not
transferred or delivered to any trustee, the instrument con­
tained no provision against being revoked by who Fillmores at
any time, and they particularly reserved to themselves the
management, control and operation of the business and proper­
ties and to receive reasonable compensat on for their ser­
vices and to name their successors, substantially all tine
earmarks of full ownership, A paper substantially to the
same effect was executed by the Fillmores in June, 1923, but
this paper was never shown to have been acknowledged nor
recorded and no pupil, patient or adherent of the school was
giver, any interest in the stock, the family agreed with them­
selves, th re was :
.
o consideration for the instrument and It
contained no provision that it could not be revoked at any
time.
^Tio. 30415 in the Supreme Court of Missouri, April Term,
1932. Clark v. Commerce Trust Co., Appellant’s Abstract of Re­
cord, VoIs. I and II. and Respondents* Additional Abstract or the
Record, Statement. Brief and Argument. Quotation is taken from
nesuonaents* Additional Abstract of the Record. Statement, Brief
and Argument. p 17.
Inner Vision Department
Dreams and their interpretation have long been a favorite
study with Charles Fillmoro, and he claims to have gained M s
chief insights into Truth through this method of revelation.
During the early period of their movement he tried "the silence"
gs a method of seeking desired information but gained little
thereby, There came a time, however, when he noticed that he was
Luvin_ "exceedingly realistic dreams,” He states:
The first connection that I remember to lave observed
between dreams anu my affairs was after closing the purchase
of a piece of property I remembered that I had dreamed the
whole transaction some months before. After that I -watched
my drearns closely an~ found that there v.as a wider intelli­
gence manifesting in my sleep tl_an I seemed to possess in ny
wekin_, state, ana it flah.ed over me one- day that this was
the mode of communication that had been established In re­
sponse tc my desire for information from headquarters, • ,
• , Everything which it is necessary for me to know is shown
to me anu 1 have times without number been saved from false
steps by this monitor.1
In 1914 "Dream Interpretation" was established es a department of
Unity and was carried until 1917, In 1921, under the title "in­
ner Vision," It was resurrected and made a regular- part of their
work. Correspondents were invited to make use of it on the es­
tablished basis of love offerings. Unity School advertised that
it had given much attention to the subject and had developed
teachers who wore able to read and interpret the messages that
the Spirit of Truth was revealing to those who had been living
mostly In the outer realms of their being and had not as yet de­
veloped their faculties sufficiently to rood Intelligibly the
messages thus given. The method of interpretation used by these
teachers was that which they haul been learning from the Fillmores
----------1------------------------------------------------------
Charles Fillmore, "Dreams," Thought. V (Feb., 1894), 454,
- 78-
an;: t M c h Is most clearly seen in their interpretation of the
Scriptures, viz., the allegorical, which would always make the
dream support the Fillmore pattern of Absolute Truth. V/hile many
presented their dreams to Unity School for interpretation, they
did not seem to realize the value to themselves of such services.
This requirod education:
We do not make a definite charge for t: is work but leave
the matter of compensation to the divine justice in those
who ask fox- holp in discernin. the leading of the Spirit,
We find, however, that people .do not appreciate the instruc­
tion of the Spirit as fully as they do the healing, and their
free will offering.:: are not quite as generous as they should
be.
This department is no longer carried regularly in Uni ty. but holp
is extended to any who ask for it, and Mr. Fillmore frequently
refers to the guidance he receives through the method.
Motherhood Department
In July, 1920, the Fillmores started a new discussion
amon.0 their adherents by installing a "Motherhood Department" in
Unity, This seemed to many to be contrary to their previous em­
phasis upon "regeneration of the body" as the wav of salvation
accomplished in part through the renuheiation of. sex. Sex educa­
tion had jlayed an important part in their teachings through the
years:
1589;
The only salvation of the human family lies in the conserva­
tion and purification of the sex force.2
1594* *
Those who desire to come into the closest unity with the1
1Uniti , LIV (Jan., 1921), 58*
^"The Elixir of Life," Modern Thought. I (Kov*, 1889), 8,
•
7
9
-
Spirit of Truth and reconstruct here on earth the temple of
God— the regenera ea body— must abstain from the sex rela­
tion.
Children of the mind can be brought forth and all those
awaitln^ reincarnation can be given a spiritual body. This
will be the ultimate of the regenerative movement that is
now goin._, on, ana '
.
.
e should therefo.-e strive to put on Christ,
and let the body of Christ be formed in us, that we may help
those who are in darkness.^
1915;
iVe do believe in marriage, but-not for the gratification of
sex. The standard cf the Spirit for,those who wo Id attain
eternal liie is absolute continence.0
The fact that Riekert Fillmore had married and that a grandson
was to be born, to Charles and idyrtle Fillmore in a few months
cannot be overlooked as a possible contributin'” factor to their
decision to establish this department. The idea was introduced
to their readers & month before the department was launched:
Truth students may be calssed under tv;o great heads in
the uplift of the race. First are those who follow Joseph and
Mary in submitting themselves and all their acts to the will
of God to the end that, they may bring fort;: the Holy Child.
The second, those who follow Jesus and take the lace of the
Holy Child in consciousness and put on Christ themselves.
While we teach regeneration, vc teach also the steps that
leed to regeneration. We are prepared to help humanity in
every experience ti.at leads from the present development to
the highest, or Jesus Christ consciousnesr of Liie.
While there is yet need of souls being bora into the
physical plane, there is need of the highest teaching by
which to prepare parents for the reception ana education of
these souls. The liary standard of motherhood prepares the
way for the birth of the Christ, and it is- through the teach­
ing of the processes which Idary observed that wo present the
Motherhood Department in the Unity magazine.4
^■"Question, and Answ rs," Thought. IV (April, 1894), 17,
*"hxtracts,n Unity, XXXIV (Jan., 1911), 66.
3"Harriage and Continence,” Unity. XaXIX (3ept., 1913),
^"Motherhood Department," Unity. LII (June, 1920), 549.
-80-
As was expected, letters of protest came. The editors replied
that they must help those who chose, like Elizabeth and Zacharias,
to briny forth children and that many yood lessons could be learned
in generation. They also returned to the idea expressed in the
above announcement made two months previously;
There arc waitlr. to be born into the cart', plane souls
so advanced that their presence and activity will immoasurebl;
promote the race redemption. These souls arc drawn to those
women who seek motherhood in its iamecslate character, the
pure attached to tie pure,-
They also published one letter of approval in which the writer
stated, that until this action he had always thoi: ht that they
v
.
’
tre "unwittingly condemn!np the stair.; by which they had climbed."
One y:ar after the establishment of a motherhood department in
unity the Kansas City Center introduced the rite of Christening
into its worship, hr. Fillmore who was the n'nistcr of this
Croup ^ave the following explanation:
Some of the members of the Unity Society i
r
. Kansas City
have boon request!*!.., for a lonp time, that we christen their
children, llavinp h.ad no re-velation o
r
. this point, we have
never oefore consented.
ho special revelation has yet c me, but the r.quest for
the rite was so insistent, that our Speaker ar.a S.S. supt.
conferred and decided that this ceremony should take place
Sunday, June lit!:.
Some of our people cay think that we arc boconln_ formal
and ritualistic, in nakiny this christening part of our church
work. But we are s archin.p out the spiritual sido of. life
in eyerythin_ else, why should \
/
e not find t
! e spiritual
religious forms and ceremonies.p For there is an inner and
outer expression in everything#
Little Charles Rickert Fillmore was one of twenty-one children
christened at that first servico. Since that time the Kansas
^"The Maternity Ministry," Unity. LIII (Au^., 1320, 153,
2"Unity Christening,■ Weekly Unity. XIII (July, 9, 1921), £
•81-
City Society has practiced what it calls "spiritual baptise."
In Unity we do not make use of water in baptism, as did
John of old, but prefer to follow the example of Jesus, whose
form of baptism John foretold (Mark Ir7, 8). . . , "I bap­
tize you in water; but ho shall baptize you in the Holy Spir­
it."1
Miss Cora Dedrick, then secretary to Mrs. Fillmore, was
placed in charge of the new department in Unity. It was not long
until "Maternity Treatments" became a part of Unity School’s
program with the usual love offerings for the service. This has
become an important work with Unity School, as is evidenced by
the fact that space has been given in the testimonial columns in
Unity for those who have successfully borne children under the
title "Unto Us a Child."
Unity Seeks Popularity
Until the close of the World War women were in the Gscend-
ancy in Unity, being largely influential in shaping its teaching
and policy. The influence of Sama Curtis Hopkins and Ursula
Gestefeld was felt throughout the entire period. Myrtle Fill­
more, through her Wee Wisdom and her Home Department in Unity
her large private correspondence, and her personal charm, colored
the movement every step of the way, Annie Rlx Militz, founder of
a "Home of Truth" in California, was a writer of Unity Lessons,
.V
a frequent leoturer at headquarters, and a contributor to the
magazine, Jennie H. Croft, with Unity more than a quarter of a
century, organizer of its local Sunday school and the Women’s
Auxiliary, was its sturdiest and most dependable character during
^Letter from Louis E. Meyer, Minister of Unity Society of
Practical Christianity, Kansas City, Missouri, March 8. 1939. In
explanation of the method of baptism Mr. Meyer s&ysj "Minister
uses flower petals Instead of water baptism, symbolizing the innate
purity of tbs soul, and calling forth its expression. Flower
•tals are presented in a silver bowl by an attendant*"
•
8
2
-
its days of struggle. And Ida Mingle, sometime secretary to
Charles Fillmore, who has slnoe developed her own work in Chicago
under the na.r.e, "Livable School of Christianity," was a strong
stabilizing influence In the philosophy of the movement.
But a new emphasis came with the twenties. More and more,
men entered to give direction to'Unity's policy of expansion*
Some of them, notably E. V. Ingraham, author of The Silence.
E. B. Jeffrey, author of When Ye Fray, and W. I. Hoschauer, for­
merly a Congregational minister, gave increased depth to the
movement. But a second group were ambitious to popularize Unity,
especially with men. In 1920 the Society of Practical Chris­
tianity organized its men into a club, "The Men's Unity Exten­
sion," T. is was imaged as a club for "matter-of-fact" business
men. The new club held monthly meetings emphasizing how Chris­
tian principles could be applied to economic life. It soon de­
veloped its own set of rules and took a new name, "Business Men's
Christian Unity,*
* The following statements were included in its
constitution:
To search out and apply the laws of God in all the com­
mercial relations between ourselves and all men.
The ecope of the Association shall be the commercial re­
lations of the whole world, to the end that uniform prosper­
ity, officience, equity, honesty. Justice and fair dealing
shall be established everywhere.
In all meetings of this Association, a chair shall be
reserved for Jesus Christ, the unseen Gues£, whom we acknowl­
edge to be the directive head of our work,
Francis J, Gable, originator of the club, sought to popularize
it throughout the Immediate Kansas City area by leoturing before
Rotary and commercial organizations. Unity magazine suggested
Unity
^"Constitution and By-Laws of Business Men’s Christian
The Christian Business Man, I (July* 1922), 24,
-03-
that the pattern of the local organization be followed by other
Centers, and more than one hundred clubs quickly sprang into
existence. Representatives from these groups were then called
to Kansas City to fonn a national organization, which was termed
the "Christian Business Federation.n A magazine. The Christian
Business Man, editor, Francis J. Gable, was established to carry
publicity and foster fellowship among the clubs. The magazine
was to ofier "practical and usable principles that make for good
business." The clubs were vigorously promoted and for a time
seemed to be quite successful; but by 1335 only forty of them
were in existence, and no more tiian three had been continuous
since 1922, The Christian Business Federation was buried about
the middle of the present decade without any publicity. The mag­
azine, however, h^s been kept in the field by Unity School, Its
name was changed to Good Business in 1335 with this announcement:
V
i
e sliall adhere to the high ideals to which the periodi­
cal is devoted, and shall continue to advocate the use of
Christian principles in every activity of business and pro­
fessional life, The only purpose in making the change is to
open the door to a more ready acceptance of our work, espe­
cially by those who have not learned that Christian business
is good business,1
In announcing the change of name the editor also stated that
Good Business would offer "Practical and usable principles that
make for good business— good in profits and in satisfaction as
well as good in practice and methods.
The argument advanced for the change in name is strangely
like that used by the International Hew Thought Alliance in 1921,
^■"Good Business," Christian Business. XXII (June, 1933),
10. The magaxine became Christlan feualness. Jan,. 1926,
•84-
when the Fillmores sought to have the name "ChristIan1
1 added to
that title. In view of- their previous commitments the dropping
of the tern from their magazine’s title seems hardly consistent,
nor has it added to its popularity. The monthly is now composed
of a series of highly-colored success stories, some generally
platitudinous answers to business questions, and a dash of humor.
It has never been able to compete with the success-story maga­
zines of the day, has not captured the imagination even of Unity’s
adherents, and is Unity School’s poorest seller,
A second of the popularizing group was Frank B, Whitney,
a graduate of St, Louis University in dentistry. After practic­
ing his profession for four years he came to Unity In 1915, Ke
served his country in the World War, returned to Kansas City, and
in 1924 introduced Unity Daily Word, a pocket-sized periodical
giving an inspirational message Tor each day of the month. Under
his editorship, continued until his death in 1933, this magazine
became the most popular monthly publication of Unity School,
Another of this groip was Ralph E. Boileau, former automobile
salesman, and Chautauqua singer and entertainer, who cene to
Unity School in the early twenties and rapidly rose to the posi­
tion of Field Director and Lecturer, He proposed to make every
large city in America Unity conscious,^ But Mr, Boileau was too
advanced even for Unity; he disagreed with its leadership in 1930
ana established an independent work, which he called "The Smer-
-------- ■ .1 — ■ — — ------- - ----- -------- - - - --------
^'The following news item is 8uggostivei "Ralph E, Boileau
ia bringing the Unity message before thousands of people in Seat­
tle, , • • a telegram states that 2,200 persons attended the
meeting Sunday night," Unity Hews, X (Dec. 6, 1923), 1,
-85-
gent Life Foundation." He had scarcely got his movement under
way when he was killed in an automobile accident in 1933*
Two others who have added to the popularizing tendency
in Unity are W, Rickert Fillmore and his friend Rov/ard A, Colby.
Rickcrt, second son of Charles and Myrtle Fillmore, has given
very little attention to the philosophy of Unity and has n ver
shown any great concern over its more spiritual aspects, Ke took
his advanced trainirg at the Chicago Art Institute and then re­
turned to Kansas City to beg n work as an architect and decorator*
He has dabbled in amateur theatricals, has been President of
Kansas City Rotary, General Chairman of the Committoe of Fifty
on Kansas City Bonds (192o), General Chairman of Kansas City
Charities (1932), President of Kansas City Art Institue, ana a
trustee of Kansas City Philharmonic Orchestra, He acted as host
to the Republican Rational Convention held in Kansas City in
192S, He became secretary of Unity School in 1915 and, since the
death of Royal Fillmore, has been one of its trustees. He is
also Manager of Unity Farm and Dean of Unity Training School*
Howard A, Colby, son of a former president of Wisconsin Central
Railways, graduate of Princeton University, friend of members
of both, tho Roosevelt and Rockefeller families and, especially,
of Harold McCormick of Chicago, was the most colorful of the
group. Ho was with Unity eight years; he served as host at Unity
Inn and as director of social and athletic activities at Unity
Country Cluti and added spice to the local situation by M s Colby-
grams In Unity Hews. the workers* weekly* Mr. Colby died In
1928.
-86<
The last and most able of this group is Ernost C, Wilson*
Ordained a minister in New Thought in 1918, he soon threw in his
lot with Unity and took charge of their work at Cleveland* He
was callod to Kansas City in 1927; where he shortly became editor
of Youth, a magazine started in January of that year to minister
to Unity’s young people*
•
*
• In 1930 he was appointed editor-in-
chicf of all Unity's publications. When Charles Fillmore retired
as minister of Unity Society of Practical Christianity in late
1933, he announced that he had chosen Mr. Wilson as his succes­
sor. Ernest C, Wilson has been a prolific writer and the most
popular preacher and radio speaker of Unity's history. For some
unannounced reason he left his position of leadership at Unity
headquarters in 193Gkand became the leader of a Unity Center In
Los Angelos. Against the deeper, spiritual note of the earlier
loaders, this group's chief concern has been the spreading of
Unity's doctrine* Increasingly the emphasis lias been on size,
magnificence, prosperity.
Money Flows to Unity
In the ten-year period following 1920 Unity School sought
from its supporters, at different times and in varying amounts,
^The first editor of the magazine was Gardner Hunt ng a
young novelist. The name of the magazine was charged to Progress
in 1953*
^The popularizing tendency Is quite dlscemable in the
titles this group gave to their publlcat'
ons. Frank E, Whitney
wrote Mightier than Circumstance. Open Doors, Beginning Arain.
Ralph E, bolioau published Heaven Kow* Ernest <
U
7 V.ileon nas~con­
tributed The Sunlit Bay, the Son, .of Life* The Protecting Pre­
sence, Save We Lived Before, the Contemplation of Christ.
-87-
a total of over two million four hundred thousand dollars for the
expansion of its plant and organization. Ho record is available
as to how much was realized, either through gifts or the sale of
bonds. However, some insight is given into the financial affairs
of that period through two court procecdin e in which Unity School
of Christianity was one of the parties involved. In the Laura F
.
.
haedahon will contest in 1329 the testimony of Charles Fillmore
as to the financial condition of the School was summarized by the
Appellant’s attorneys as follows:
The evidence shows that Charles Fillmore receives a sal­
ary of $7,500,00 per year, his wife $6,000,00 per year, his
son, Rickert Fillmore, $6,000,00 per year, and his other son,
Lowell Fillmore, $6,000,00 per year. From the $5,000,00
capital shown to have been owned by the company ih 1014, the
properties and monies have increased until at the time of
the trial the company owned a Unity Inn, Unity Center Build-
inb, Unity Annex (a rooming house), the publishing or print­
ing plant comprising a four-story building, covering one-
half a square block, all located at Unity Center-, extending
from 9th to 10th on Tracy, in Kansas City, f'iusouri; also
there is Unity Farm, containing over 1,200 acres, located on
highway No, 50, about 18 miles from Kansas City, with a Si­
lent Unity Building, costing about $200,000,00, a Unity Tow­
er, net yet completed, but already costing $103,000,00, and
or, not yet completed, but already costing $100,000.00, and
various other houses, buildings and bams, all having a value
at tho time of the trial, of approximately $3*000,000,00,
Mr, Barney S, Ricketts, director of the accounting department of
Unity School of Christianity, testified in the same trial that
the "Good Will Offerings" were at that tine averaging about one
^Ko, 50415, Supreme Court of Missouri, April Term, 1S32,
Respondents’ Additional Abstract of the Record. Statement. Brief
ana ArgLsaent, p. IS. Tno- essential facts of this case were:
Laura f
t
, MacMahon, Columbus, Ohio, had beer, a sufferer from goi­
ter since 1$J5* She came to Unity School of Christianity for
treatment about 1911 and lived there the rest of her life. At
seventy-two years of age she made her will, January 27, 1926, ten
months before her death. Relatives were given a total sun of
$1,400; Mercy Hospital of Kansas City, $5,000; Kansas City Coun-
- 88-
thousand dollars daily and that the total daily income of Unity
School of Christianity was about $4,700* On an estimated busi­
ness yehr of three hundred days Unity School of Christianity
had an annual income of approximately one arri one-half million
dollars in 192b, The salaries of Myrtle Fillmore and the two
sons were raised to equal that of Charles Fillmore in 1950^ so
that the four Fillmores, directors and trustees of Unity School
of Christianity, were vetin^ themselves an annual income from the
School of thirty thousand dollars— a goodly sum, but not exces­
sive in view of the holdings involved and the business transacted.
Unity School of Christianity has also profited through
some large gifts, Evidence in the trial concerning the will of
Laura R. hacMahon showed that she had actually given to Ufcitv,
in the three-year period previous to her death, the sum of
$185,000 (approximately), from which she was receiving an annuity
of six percent until her death* A similar situation ago;ared in
the life of Dr, Clara C. Austin, formerly of Boston. When eighty-
two years of age. Dr* Austin transferred her total holdings of
twelve thousand dollars to Unity School of Christianity and re­
e
lil of Boy Scouts of America, $5,000; Lois Coldren, a fellow-
member of Unity Society and companion of the deceased, $5,000.
The remainder of the $50,000 (approximately) estace was willed
to Unity School of Christianity. Suit was entered against the
validity of the will by Nellie E* Clark, a niece. Decision of
Jury in Jackson County Cirouit Court sot aside the "purported
will," Supreme Court of Missouri remanded the case to Jackson
County Circuit Court for retrial because of error in instruc­
tions given* Jury by presiding Judge. Case was finally "com­
promised and settled" out of court,
^•Statement by Charles Fillmore, personal interview.
1
ceived in exchange an annuity contract* Unity School realized
almost two hundred thousand dollars on these two contracts*
The development of Unity Farm malms the height of the
physical expansion of Unity. In 1919 the Fillmore- purchased a
fifty-eight-acre fara, some seventeen miles east of Kansas City,
which- they prepared to develop as a vacation and v;ccl:-end retreat
for Unity employees. This retreat had developed i
r
. ter. years
into a twelvo-hundred-acre Unity Farm and Country Club. A dam,
making a lake of twenty acres, had been thrown across a stream;
a large outdoor amphitheater had been made; and Silent Unity
Building, with a floor-space of fifty thousand square feet, had
beon erected. The Campanile, towering to the height of a ten-
stcry building, was tinder construction. A club house, apartment
house, swimming pool, tennis courts^ golf course, and several
modern residences had been scattered over the farm's rolling
hills. The announced building plans called for a f.'nal outlay
of about two and one-half million dollars. This war. to be the
future home of Unity School. The entire idea was set forth by
Charles Fillmore as a great "Christian Service Stat'on.” "Love
offerings and tithes and the usual blessings were sought from
world-wide Unity.
Tr,e paramount ideal of Unity City will bo the sotting up
on earth of the kingdom of the heavens,— the ideals of peace
and harmony, prosperity and health to be established right
here on earth. We look forward to the fulfill nj of the vi­
sion of John as given in the twenty first chapter of P.evela-
The Kansas City Star. Feb. 22, 1926, p. l. A Hephew of
the deceased" sued Unity ScEool of Christianity, alleging undue
influence. Case was decided for defendent.
-90-
tion*'1
'
Readers of Unity periodicals were invited to suggest possible
nance for the city to be built at Unity Farm. Sons sug estions
were: "Unity City," "Inspiration City," "Unitopia," "Fillmore,"
"Unity Relnora," "Kingdom City," and "Unityopolia." Unity sug­
gested that It would build hones at the "Farm" for those who wore
ready to appreciate Its benefits. In his dedication address Mr,
Fillmore explained:
, It is to be a city of peace for the children of God, Ko-
body car. own anything and property will be for the common
good of all* V
.
e shall try out a real community of interests
witl. God as the head, we were put here as the children were
given their heritage. Most of us have forgotten God. Unity
City will acknowledge Kin and peace will bo the only power
and presence here,®
Of course, not every one could fulfill the conditions of residence
which would guarantee reaching this ideal, "Those who spiritu­
ally understand the Truth taught by Jesus and who are able to
render needed assistance to the cause"0 nay become residents.
Only those who are In the upper bracket of Unity’s payroll or
who have contributed lovingly of their wealth^ to Unity School
have as yet fulfilled these conditions. In the dedication cere­
mony the "Rew Unity Doxolo^y"" was sun_, and a special blessing
was given:*
2
3
*
*
&
lwUnity City," Unity. LXVI (March, 1927), 206,
2"Unit" Farm Dedi_ation,w The Kansas Citv Times, Aug, 29,
1927, p. 1.
3C. W. Ferguson, Confusion of Tongues (Garden City:
Doubleday, Doran and Co,, l3<j8J, p, 225,
^Laura R, MacMahon had a home buiht for heralef at Unity
Farm the year of her death#
&
See p# 67#
-
9
1
.
God bless 1'nity City. All the activities of Unity City
are in divine order. Divine life inspires it and divine
power protects it. The spirit of Jesus Christ is active in
Unity City.1
Other Activities
In September, 1920, Unity School told subscriber’
s to its
various asczincs that a pink wrapper was nolice of expiration
of subscription and that a special meeting of Silent Unity was •
fceinp held each month to bless these particular wrappers with, the
hope that it would keep those who lacked enthusiasm within the
fold. They also Informed their readers that, if requested, they
wo Id place a "plain wrapper" on all Unity literature sent through
the nail to any individual.
Unity Inn
Unity Inn, from iiay, 1916, to April, 1921, was conducted
2
at a loss of $-3,784*54. The leaders, therefore, suggested that,
since every loyal soul .lanned sometime to visit headquarters,
a person would confer a c
;reat favor upon Unity School as w 11 as
drawing a real blessing to hinsolf if he would send an advance of
five dollars for a "certificate of entertainment," which would be
henored at its face value whenever he came. When Howard A. Colby
became host for Unity Inn, publicity for it was intensified. Some
finely equipped busses were purchased and assigned regular routes
through the shopping district of Kansas City. These provided
free transportation to any Unity Inn customer. Unity Inn became
known a3 the Ilargest, strictly vegetarian Inn in the world,"
InDedication of Unity City," Unity. LXVI (Kay, 1927), 410
92-
But the depression wrought a complete change; the busses were
discontinued; and, in 1936 the Inn wan leased to a private party*
This arrangement did not prove successful, The Inn now operates
on a limited basis primarily for the workers in Unity School,
It Is no longer "strictly vegetarian.
The Radio
Visity went on the air over the V<cstem Radio Company,
June, 192c. One year later it purciiasod tl_is station and for
eleven years 'dOQ was a most effective means of spreading the
Unity gospel. The broadcast arrangement included two Unity ser­
mons on Sunday, e morning meditation each week-day at eight-thirty
and "God’s Half Hour'' at 11:00 A.M. Other Unity programs wore
broadcast during the afternoon and evenin^,. But in June, 1034,
WOQ lost its radio license from the Federal Radio Commission, and
since then Unity has taken time through other stations. Unity
now carries its "momin Meditations" on nine stations, located
at Kansas City, Topeka, Los Angelos, San Francisco, Deveriy Hills,
Cleveland, Detroit, ClJLca^o, and New York, It also occasionally
uses a station at Auklanc, New Zealand,
Music and Recoinings
t
In September, 1924, Unity announced the organization of
a "School of Music,” the purpose of which was to awaken the "in-
nner consciousness of melody, harmony ana rhythem" in the mind of
%
the student an~ help him gain an undersoandinr of the spiritual
^Soe p. 166.
■93
t
i
I
i
law of accomplishment. Th±3 adventure was tried for three years
but f
. nelly was dropped for lack of patronage. Lest the reader I
sho^'-ld think that the Red Leaf eplEodc- narked only a temporary
stage in the growth of Unity’s thought to be soon dropped by the \
wayside, v
:
e note that the idea has continued throughout Unity’s
history, now and again being brought to the attention of follow­
ers. This statenent appeared in 1925:
This leaf has been blessed by the Silent Unity Society
of Kansas City, ho. In fulfillment of the preraise of the
Lord Jesus Christ that we might have whatsoever we asked in
his nano we, the GO members of Silent U
r
f
.t
;
* Society, laid
our hands on this leaf and prayed that it would in word and
substance, quicken the healing power of Spirit in all these
who would join us in tho faith. As the woman touched the
hem of Jesus’ garments, and by her faith vac healed, so you
may touch this leaf and receive the same great blessing.1
Unity School began, in 1325, to place its monthly ’
’
Heal­
ing and Prosperity Thoughts’
’ on phonograph records. These, car­
rying the voice of fir. or Mrs. Fillmore or some lesser light,
were offered to their constituency at the subscription price of
three dollars annually. Another method used by the Field Depart­
ment to arouse the interest of more distant members was that of
sending out a motion picture film showing local activities of
Unity School. Since 1327 the School repeatedly has warned its
disciples not to be seduced by the lure of the "charmed beads,”
supposedly blessed by Unity leaders, being, marketed in various
parts of the country. Only after due notice was given in a Unity
publication was a worker sent into any community in the interests
of the School.
^Unity. LXII (April, 1325), 565.
>94-
The Eelp-One-a-konth Club
The Help-One-a-Iionth Club was organized at Unity in 1930
and is the most recent competitor of the "Prosperity Rank" or.d
the "Good ttords' Reminder Box," TI is was specifically announced
as a method for incrcas n
r
. subscriptions to Unity literature.
Like the two just mentioned, there were, no dues for joining the
club; but it would take a great deal more from the pocket of
an individual than either of them. In joining tils club one be­
comes a boy scout of the Unity type (the idea is theirs) and do
one good deed each month. The good deed takos the form of a
gift subscription of some Unity periodical to some needy friend.
At the end of twelve months you will have sent twelve dollars to
Unity School and started twelve messengers of happiness to that
many persons. Ho information has been published as to the ef­
fectiveness of the method in increasing the subscription lists,
but it is still in use,
Automobile Blessings
Silent Unity began the habit of blessing automobiles as
a aeons of insuring the safety of Unity travellers in 1930, A
sug ested blessing foi a road reads as follows:
This is God’s road and it i3 used by Ills c:\ildrcni There
is nothing on the road but perfect safety. All who.travel
this road are protected by the loving .
.
ower of God,
^Unfortunately these blessings do not seem to have been
efiective in*protecting Un.ty’s own cars. At least three damage
suits have been filed a.ainst Unity School in the past three
years for Injury from Unity's cars. See the following cases in
the Jackson County Circuit Court, Kansas City, Mo,: No, 446,750,
B, ELaymar. v. Unity School of Christianity (126A), p* 354}
io, 460,755, William iaorrisou v, Lkuty School of Christianity
(134A)p p* 556; Bo, 460,^54, Bari A. Tweedle v. Unity School of
Chrletlanity (137A), p# 122* ’~ ’
■95-
This idea received notice in the newspapers of the country, and
Unity Society set aside a special Sunday to bless cars of its
worshippers. Cards carrying blessings are now sent to all who
desire to place then in their cars.
The Death of Myrtle Fillmore
Myrtle Fillmore, whose faith was the basis of the found­
ing of Unity School cf Christianity, died October 6, 1951, after
giving more than forty-two ycar„ to ■the practice of Iiealing and
teaching. When other leaders had died, Un,.ty had always explained
that such a person had "grown discouraged" or had become "too
personal" to hold spirit, soul, and body together. Myrtle Fill­
more, like her husband,^ thought that she would herself demon-
o
strate eternal life in the body. Her demise seemed to demand
some explanation. This was given by Ernest C, Wilson in the
"Memorial Address,"
There are very few people who have seen their way so
clearly and made their decisions so definitely as Myrtle
Fillmore did. Her transition was such a decision, A number
of those who have been very close to her know this, and firm­
ly believe that Mrs, Fillmore need not have slipped out of
the body if she had not wished to do so. But she did wish
to do so. She spoke of it to a number of thoso who are pre­
sent here today. She spoke of it to me some time ago, when
clearly there wus no least sliadow of illness upon her to
suggest such an idea. Nor was there any reason at the time
of hor passing why she should need to do so. She could, I
am sure, have remained with us a3 long as she might wish to,
and I think that is what she did. Not that she did not want
to be with us, but that she had some very clear and definite
ideas about work that was Just ahead of her to do, and she
felt that this change had a part in that work.*5
See Letters of Myrtle Fillmore (Kansas City* Unity
hrisEianity
See p. 200.
School of Christianity, 1936), pp, ld)5-ll8,
2
re (Kansas
Ernest C. Wilson, "Memorial Address.".Myrtle.Page Flll-
s Cityi Unity School of Christianity), ppyfi^T ".a
•96-
In 1923 Unity Society of Practical Christianity purchased
a lot in the Country Club District, Kansas City's wealthy resi­
dential section, at a cost of forty thousand dollars# Here they
planned to build a great Unity Temple, Although purchased by the
local Unity Society, not by Unity School, the site and building
were to be paid for pertly by love offerings Bought from Unity’s
worlu-wide following, When Myrtle Fillmore^- died in 1931, Unity's
Memorial Committoo decided that this new Unity Temple should be­
come a shrine dedicated to her memory. For seven years "Temple
Banks" have been sent to all who would save for this purpose.
The lot is still vacant, but a renewed appeal is being made in
this Golden Anniversary Year of 1939.
^On December 30, 1933, Charles Fillmore, then seventy-
nine years of age, remarried, taking as his second wife Cora G,
Dedrlck, fifty-seven years old, his secretary at the time of the
marriage.
CHAPTER IV
UNITY BECOMES A SECT
Unity School of Christianity announces itself an "inde­
pendent educational institution, teaching the use of the Jesus
Christ doctrine in everyday life,"-*- It has from the beginning
repudiated every suggestion that it was forming a new sect or
denomination, "Its purpose is not to found a new church or sect,
but to help men and women of every church, and also those who
have no church affiliations to use the eternal Truth of God."^-
One of the charges it leveled at Christian Science, as presented
by Mrs, Eddy, was its :olicy of exclusiveness;
Many workers along the line of Truth seem to think it
necessary to tear down orthodox Christianity in order to
build up Christian Science, and that Christian Science is to
establish a new sect, with the usual worldly appurtenances*
We do not take this view of it. We think it is the little
leaven that will leaven the whole mass,2^
Hence, Unity has claimed that it could do Its work in and through
the churches without establishing a competing organization* Is
this claim substantiated by the history of the Unity movement?
What has been its expressed attitude toward the organized church?
What trends are apparent in its growth-pattern?
First, lmity*s attitude toward the organized church has
not been that of friendly co-operation but rather of criticism.
Its avowed purpose, according to the first editorial in Modern
Thought, was to free the human mind from creeda, which it de­
scribed as "vampires that sucked the blood of spiritual pro-
l"The Purpose of Unity," Unity* XC (Hay, 1939), 86*
^Modern Thought. I (Feb., 1890), 8 (editorial)#
gress."^ While refusing to advise &ny student to break with his
local congregation, it has unhesitatingly suggested that he in­
troduce the Unity viewpoint into his church at every opportunity
regardless of consequences. The following reply to an inquirer
is a fair statement of their position i
r
. this respect throughout
the fifty years of their history:
We Judge from your letter that the Truth as it is in
Christ is what you want to teach, and we would say to you
that the place to begin is just where you arc. Speak the
Truth fearlessly and let God take care of the results. You
have nothing to do with consequences. Your part is to obey.
If it splits tiie church, well and good; for all the old creeds
and dogmas and forms and ceremonies that have been built up
in the name of Christianity, during the past ages of ignorance
must be broken-down and swept entirely awav, that Christ may
be all in all.
This assumption that the organised Christian Church had ignorantly
betrayed Christ both in its thought and ritual was given practi­
cal expression by the Fillmores at the beginning of their minis­
try, As soon as they had secured a sufficient following, they
organized them into a worshipping group with services at the same
time as those of the churches in the community, A Sunday school
soon followed. They thus made it impractical for their disciples
to continue in the worship life of their local congregations.
When the Unity Society of Practical Christianity was incorporated
in 1905, provision was made not only for the continuance of wor­
ship but for the development of an ordained ministry. Such action
seems hardly consistent with their published determination not
^See "Modem Thought," Modem Thou.;ht, I (April, 1889), 8
feunlty. XXXXX (Oot., 1913), 542.
■99
to establish another organization.
Secondly, Unity in 1890 began to develop a thought-pattern
of exclusiveness, which has resulted in the nineteen hundred thir­
ties in an organization more absolute than is found in nost Pro­
testant denominations. The Fillnores took the first step when
they changed the none of their magazine to Christian Science
Thought, At that tine they broke with their original purpose to
establish an "independent religious journal, • . • liberal enough
in its ideas to embrace the good in all s e c t s , I n announcing
the change Mr, Fillmore said: "As a consistent Christian Science
journal we shall necessarily confine ourselves to the essential
methods of that school."2 This policy of exclusion was carried
further when they announced that they would publish- only such-
articles as dealt with "pure Mind Healing," and eliminated by
name all writings in "magnetism, hypnotism, mesmerism, psycho-
metry, palmistry and astrology*"0
The Fillnores' desire to be Inclusive was expressed during
these early years by their co-operation with those groups which
finally established the New Thought Alliance, But, when Unity
withdrew from that organization in 1906, Mr. Fillmore definitely
served notice of a competitive movement.^ The first building of
Unity Society had just been dedicated, and the tine seemed pro-
^"Our Mission," Modern Thought, I (April, 1889), 10.
2",VVhero V
i
e How Stand," Modern Thought, I (Jan., 1890), 8.
3Unlty. VIII (May, 1897), 393 (editorial).
4
See p. 3 7 .
- 100-
.tious for leadership. The first "Unity Annual Assembly of Prac-
.cal Christians" was called in the summer of 1907. The attempt
is not a success, and no further move was made by the Fillmores
itil 1922. Unity*s first approach to a creed was made in 1913
i a statement entitled "tthnt Is Practical Christianity#"^ How-
ver, no suggestion was made that this statement should become
he basis of an organization.
The pattern of a sectarian organization was fixed on
nity in 1918 when it established a Field Department to develop
p
ontact and understanding with the various Unity Centers# Ee-
ore this time a Center was completely independent but might re­
quest Unity of Kansas City to send a lecturer for some special
lervice# Henceforth, Unity School was to develop a group of lec­
turers whose task was to keep contact with the Centers, making
suggestions both as to organization and teaching. Consonant with
this, in the following year, a simmer school was set up for in­
tensive training of Center leaders. These were called to Kansas
City, where they might have direct contact with the fonders and
come Into a more definite understanding of the movement. Although
as yet Unity School assumed no jurisdiction over the Centers, Mr.
Fillmore announced in 1922 that the Centers usually followed what
the School advocated,^
^•See Unity. XXXIX (July, 1913), 1#
g
"Center" is Unity*8 name for a local church group,
SSee *Why Unity Withdrew from the I, N, T. A#." Unity.
LVII (July, 1922), p. 53,
-101.
Unity School published its first "Statemont of Faith" in
1921, Some doubt was expressed as to the wisdom of this move,
not lest it bind the followers, but lest it restrict the growth
of the leaders. Therefore, the statemont was accompanied by a
notice that it might be changed at any time, but Mr. Fillmore
assured his readers that changes would not be radical. This
docunont, with minor changes, has become Unity's official "State­
ment of Faith" and 1b given as printed in 1958:
1. We believe in God, the one and only omnipotent, omnis­
cient.. and . , , in the name of JesuG Christ,
Amen i*
This theological statement came at the time Unity was
asking the International Row Thought Alliance to recognize the
Jesus Christ standard of living. When Unity precipitately with­
drew from the Alliance the following year, the Fillnores felt
that their organization was strong enough to establish itself on
a national basis. In 1925 the "Annual Unity Conference and Heal­
ing Revival" was started, with delegates coming from thirty
states. Tide was substituted for their summer school, which had
been organized a few years before.
When Unity School announced its second conference, 1924,
Mr. Fillmore stated that a feature of the conference would be the
ordination of all Unity leaders who had received diplomas from
Unity School and that "UBITY CHURCH UNIVERSAL" would be organ­
ized. Let i
|
i
r
. Fillmore explain how this could be co-ordinated
with the idea of not being a sect:
^Unity's Statement of Faith (Kansas City* Unity School
of Christianity, 1939),
102'
The tine is ripe for the expression In the world of the
church of Christ, which has always been recognized as exist­
ing eternally in the heavens or realm of spiritual ideals.
Unity people the world over are asking for a clos.r relation
and a nore definite fellowship with the foundation church.
To meet tills need it has been decided to form a Unity Church
Universal for the Unity people everywhere.
The setting up of this church of Christ in the earth will
not noan the organizin': of another sect, but a universal rec­
ognition of the true Christian principles in all sects. It
will greatly strengthen the faith, understanding, and spir­
itual power of its members by making visible and active the
fellowship they feel in Spirit,
The Protestant Christian phurches are agitating a church
union, but they have so far been unable to ajrc-c as to the
basis of the combination. The f o m s and ceremonies in which
spiritual truths are taught and symbolized are barriers to a
great church coalition, Hence there is need of a church or­
ganization that can Interpret and demonstrate the spiritual
realities back of the church symbols. All Christians could
Join such a church without breaking their present religious
affiliations. Unity in Spirit and practice is the ideal
Christian Church Universal, and it offers to people every­
where a spiritual church membership in willch Christ will
demonstrate his power tc save his people here and now from
the ills of mind, body and affairs.
Members of Unity Church Universal will be prepared to
show that the Bible teaches both Involution and evolution
from Genesis to Revelation, thus unifying the fundamentalists
and the modernists of the church.
The two great rites of the church of Christ are baptism
and holy communion, or the Lox-d's Supper, These rites have
not, heretofore, been administered without the aid of material
symbols; Unity Is a pioneer in formulating into substance and
life the flesh and blood of Christ, V
.
eproclaim that the
body of Christ is a real substance thatcan be handled by the
mind, which will quicken and purify the life stream of one
who has faith in it,
itenbersliip in Unity Church Universal will be based upon
spiritual understending. Application blanks will be sent to
all who d©3ire to become members,^-
Unity Church Universal was organized June 22, 1924, Several hun­
dred persons received spiritual baptism. Ho mention is made of
it, however,' after September, 1924, Mr, Charles Fillmore now
suggests that he quickly came to himself and realized that the
world was not prepared a3 yet for such amove and to have gone
^Charles Fillmore, "Unity Church Universal." Unitv. LX
(May, 1924), 458. **
103-
on would have made Unity into another sect,^
Unity School was now at the crest of her popularity* The
third annual Unity conference announced an attendance of twelve
hundred with delegates from England, Franco, Canada, hew Zealand,
and the Philippine Islands. Increased effort was made to stand­
ardise the Centers, While still emphasizing that local Unity
Centers were independent units. Center- Leaders were informed that
they should not try to teach others until they had successfully
completed "Unity Correspondence Course" and the "Course in Meth­
ods and Ideals" for conducting Centers, This was strongly ex­
pressed by 1931,
Unity feels that more honesty is required in a spiritual
ministry than in any other department of human activity, and
therefore It canrmt accept as sincere any attempt to 'use the
name "Unity," or the name of any other school or organiza­
tion, without at least a definite attempt to uphold In every
respect all the ideals for which the name stands.
In entering upon a spiritual ministry, the Center leaders
assume a responsibility that includes not only the spiritual
welfare of their students, but likewise their mental, moral,
physical, end financial welfare. Therefore, the greatest de­
gree of conscientious endeavor should be exerc'sed. Before
any Individual teacher attempts to establish himself in a
spiritual ministry, especially if that ministry Involves the
supporting of the ideals of some definite Institution, he
should set about systematic preparation for an adequate ser­
vice pccordinw to the principles that he professes to repre­
sent
Unity School, howevor, did not stop with a more admoni­
tion. This year saw the changing of the annual- summer conference
into a "Training School," which was organized on a four-term basis,
^■Statement by Charles Fillmore, personal Interview,
2"Field Department Botes,“ Weekly Unity, XXIII (Oct, 17,
1931), 6
•104'
six weeks to a teia, running froa Hay to October. Leaders of
Centers were expected to attend at least part tine. Then, in
1935, "Unity Annual Conference" was established. The Constitu­
tion of "Unity Annual Cc-nfor-cnce" reveals the technique that
Unity School of Christianity now uses to completely control its
once independent local Centers. I quote its none important ar­
ticles;
Article 3, LC2IBERSIIIF, -The Membership cf Unity Annual
Conference shall consist of recognized Unity center leaders
and ninisters who arc working in co-operation wit*, the Field
Department of Unity School of Christianity, K.C., Me. After
the close of the 1953 Conference, new applicants can be ac­
cepted for membership only if they have been ordainod by
Unity School of Christianity or if their ordination has been
approved by the Field Department and the Unity Training
Scliool Board. Officials of Unity School of Christianity who
have not been ordained may be elected by the Executive Board
to honorary membership in the Conference* Application for
membership must be filed with the Board of Directors and ap­
proved by nine members of the Board. Membership shall be for
one year only. All memberships shall expire at the close of
the Annual Conference unless renewed previous to that date.
Article 4. EXECUTIVE BOARD. The Executive Board shall
consist cf twelve members, ministers of recognized Unity
centers,
Article S. BYLAV.S, All bylaws and regulations for the
government of themselves and the Annual Conference shall be
formulated by the Executive Board.
BYLAV
.
S «
Article 6. A recognized Unity center shall have as its
head an accredited member of this Conference and shall teach
the principles of practical Christianity, 'using, the textbooks
and literature published by Unity School of Christianity, 917
Tracy Avenue, Kansas City, Missouri, and following the course
of teaohing as prescribed by that School.
Article 7. In order to bo aocepted as a recognized Unity
center, a oenter shall eliminate all textbooks and teachings
that do not conform to the Christ standard as recognized by
the Unity School of Christianity.
Article 8. All centers shall make regular annual reports
■105-
to the Field Department, on Toros supplied by the Field De­
partment, and copies of ell announcements and printed natter
nailed out by the local centers shall be nailed to the office
of the Field Department,
Article 9, Ordination of Unity leaders and ministers
shall be performed by the Unity School of Christianity, K. C.,
Lio. or approved by the Field Department and the Unity Train­
ing School Board.
Article 10. The qualifications of a candidate for ordina
tion shall consist of the completion of the Corres. ondonce
School Course and the Methods anu Ideals Course, and two month
attendance at the Unity Training School (eight credits over a
period of two years.), and at least one year's independent
center ministry that satisfies Unity School and the Unity An­
nual Conference Executive Board that the candidate's toaching
and ethics arc of the Christ standard.
Article 11. Liconscd Unity teachers are required to be
actively engaged in fulfilling prescribed preparation and
must have a good record in their present field work. They
are authorised teachers but not ordained. Licensed Unity
teachers are privileged tc have their names listed in the
U. A. C. Yearbook ac a separate group.
The organization of Unity Annual Conference resulted in
some reduction in the number of Unity Centers throughout the
world. There are at prcc.nt eighty-nine "recognized Unity Cen­
ters" including three in Canada, two in England, and one in Hawaii,
There a:e one hundred one five ordained ministers in the Confer­
ence, of when eighty arc women and twenty-five aro men. There are
also sixty-two licensed teachers training for ordination; fifty-
five of these are women c m seven arc men.
The most difficult problem the Executive Board of the
Conference has faced in its five years' history has been that of
granting credit for courses takon in the various Centers, Since
these, being subject to the direction of Unity School's *
**ield
*Unity Annual Conference Yearbook (Kansas Cityi Unity
School of Ciiristianity, 1951), pp, 23-50,
■106'
Department, can use only Unity literature ana must moot Unity’s
standards, many thought that credit should be allowed by Unity
School, Nevertheless, it was finally decided that such courses
were only preparatory to Unity’s Train!n; School and Correspond­
ence study,^ And local Centers were told that they had no au­
thority to start a separate ministry. One wonders if Mrs. Eddy’s
spirit does not sometimes arise to chide Mr. Fillmore concerning
his critical article in 1889— "Truth Bows at I
3
o Human Shrine,”
Svctmary
Unity School of Christianity must now be classed as a
O
Christian sect, not yet come to have denominational status. It
originated as a critic of the established church, both in its
doctrine and ritual, and has continued to express the attitiide
of dissent. For the most part it does not seek to co-operate with
the religious federations of the communities in which it operates
and is not invited to membership in such organisations. As an
institution it has developed all the functions that belony to
the organized church. It has a distinct history, which it is
now recogn_zln^ as it is celebrating its fiftieth anniversary.1
1Ibid., p, 35.
^Robert E, Park and Ernest W, Burgess, Introduction to
the Science of Sociology (2nd ea,; Chicago: Tire University cf
(Jnic'ago Press, 1924), pp, 872 f. These authors define a sect as
a "religious organization that is at war with the existing mores,"
They make a ‘
clear distinction between a sect and a denomination
on the basis of attitude, A sect tends to become a denomination
when it becomes tolerant of rival organizations and is tolerated
by them.
■107
Since the World War it has developed and published its ora creed,
and since 1353 it has required all its ministers end local Cen­
ters to conform to that theology. It now has a Government more
centralised and autocratic than found in most Protestant denomi­
nations# Only Unity literature can be used and sold at its vari­
ous Centers. Its ministers hold their status in the organisation
for but one year at a time. They are required to make an annual
report direct to Unity Dchool of Christianity and to furnish it
copies of all programs and publicity# They can invite no one to
share their pulpit v/ithout the approval of the Field Department
of Unity School of Christianity. Unity Annual Conference, through
its Executive heard, functions as a Judicial body such as the
church courts in Protestant denominations,
Unity has developed a system of worship including both
church and Sunday school. It supplies its own Sunday school lit­
erature and for many years has published a Unity hymnal. The
sacraments of baptism and the Lord*s Supper are observed at Unit-
Centers, the former with a symbolism significant only t o its own
adherents. Unity School, unlike a school but very like a church,
has developed a complete system of propaganda. It has originated
and publishes to-day six such maga2 ir.es. About forty percent of
each issue of these periodicals is nailed to non-subscribers.
Since 1915 It lias kept a strong staff of lecturers in the Field,
Its publishing department is printing several books a year. Every
Center is an official distributor of books, magazines, and pam­
phlets, "Silent-70" sends free magazines into twelve hundred
libraries scattered over the entire world and Into every elee­
mosynary and penal institution where it oan find entrance• One
■108'
Center is ca.ried in Unity’s directory as "Christ Church,” Los
Angeles, and cone of the Center leaders believe that the Centers
should seek membership in the local church federations.
Unity School of Christianity publishes no official record
of the number cf its adherents. Suc;i statistics as it has re­
leased from time to ti 10 have been part of its ar cal for funds
and do not yiven an accurate picture of its influence in the re­
ligious life of to-day, Y
.
c have already noted that the Field
Department directs eighty-nine Centers or churches with a serving
group of one hundred sixty-soven, including both ordained minis­
ters and licentiate.. The original Center, Unity Society of Prac­
tical Christianity in Kansas City, reports an avorage attendance
of sin hundred at its Sunday meetings in 1933,^ South Side Unity
Center in Kansas City has a much smaller attendance. The two
groups ionite each year in a highly advertised haste, service.
There were approximately 2,500 at this service in 1..30, Three
other Unity Conteis; located at Detroit, Los Angeles, and New
York; have attained considerable size. The average Sunday atten­
dance at ail Unity Contcrs during 1053 was 16,900,^ If the ratio
of attendance to membership in Unity is comparable to that gen­
erally found i
r
. Protestant groups. Unity’s adherents number ap­
proximately fifty thousand.
Unity’s influence, however, is mucji wider than the above
^-Statement by Louis E. Meyer, Minister of Unity Society,
personal Interview.
■
’
statement by Celia C. Ayres, Director cf Field Depart­
ment of Unity School of Christianity, personal interview.
-109-
figures indicate. An analysis of the increase in the number of
subscriptions to Unity's various magazines during the past twenty
years gives a better understanding of its place in the religious
life of the period* The following table gives the average number
of each issue of Unity's magazinos for the years 1913, 1923, and
1933:
Liagazine lS19a 192Sb 1938°
Unity 47,500 146,642 06,000
Weekly unity 27,000 1G5,OOu 170,000
Unity Daily Wordc •••••» 144,360 182,000
Wee Wisdom 4,000 52,605 154,000
Good Business® 25,784 17,500
r
Progress •••••• 27,625 50,000
aUnity, LVI
^Unity News
(April, 1922), 376.
, X (Dec. 8, 1923), 1. This was a weekly, now
discontinued, r.ublishea for the benefit of the workers at Unity
headquarters
cStatement by Ralph Tackett, Manager of Publications,
personal interview,
^Pirst published in 1924. ePirst published in 1922.
*First published in 1927,
Unity magazines are marketed both through individual subscriptions
and through news and magazine stands. The following figures show
l
the number of paid subscriptiens to the various magazines in 1938b
^"Statement by Ralph Tackett, personal interview.
110-
exclusive of Weekly Unity, which is distributed largely through
Unity Centers;
Number of Paid
Magazine Subscriptions
U n i t y ............. 75,000
Wee V
.
Isdon . . . . . 114,000
Unity Daily Word . . 143,000
Progress . . . . . . 46,000
Good Bus Incso • • •
' • 15,500
Total . . . . . 305,500
This docs not mean, however, tliat tills number personally sub­
scribed for a Unity monthly in 1953. In 1927 Unity School stated
that seventy percent of its subscriptions were gifts.'*' These
came through the "Prosperity Banks," "Good V/oris’ Clots," and
"Kelp-One-a-Honth Clubs." The ratio is somewhat reduced at the
dresent tine. The following percentages wore released by the
Accounting Department of Unity School, March 5, 1950:
Magazine
Percentage of
Individual
Subscriptions
Percentage
of Gift
Subscriptions
Unitv.............. 70 30
Weekly Unity..... . 55 45
Unit:,- Daily Word.... 65 35
Wee Wisdom,........ 55 45
Progress............ 50 50
Good Business...... 60 40
1Unlty. LXVII (July, 1927), 84.
•
I
l
l
'
Uain^ the paid-subscription list as the basis of calculation
there wore approxinatoly 193,000 personal subscribers to Unity
periodicals in 193C, Ko data is available to show the amount of
overlapping in the subscription lists* Certainly many hones re­
ceive more than one of the na3 azines.
PART II
THEOLOGICAL ASPRCTG OF UlilTY
INTRODUCTION
TIE SOURCE OF UNITY*S THOUGHT
The pliilosophy of Unity is a syncretism cf mental atmos­
phere o
l
' American cult-life during the last decade of the nine­
teenth century. The Plllnorcs, in the first issue of hodern
Thou;lit. set this as their ideal: niiodem Thought hopes to per­
petuate its existence by shov.uny the good in all religions and
all philosophies.r hr. Fillmore, at least, was determined not
O
to confine himself to any sect, creed, or <lo£r.£**' Whether trey
’
’
borrowed the bept from ail religions,as hr* riiluorc thinks,
nay be arg-able; certa.
r.ly they laid hold on all the "rams of
the. day, as v;cll as ether sources, to augment their t---.nIr.nG,
The more apparent sources of Unity’s thought arc: Few S
r
. land
Transcendentalism as represented by Liseupon, Christian Bcioncc,
Hinduism, Theosophy, Rosierueianism. Spirit uaiism, :
:
c
v
/ Troagnt,
popular science, and the Bible,
The first and most abiding love of the F-llnores was New
England Transcendentalism, especially as it cone- to them trrough
the mind of Ralph Y.aldo Emerson. This was in their elooa before
they had any direct contact with Christian Science, In the early
eighties of the past century they named their first-bom con
Lowell and their second, Waldo, Eknerson’s essays on ’Heroism,"
"Love," "History," ’
’
Self-Reliance," "Compensation," "Spiritual
Charles Fillmore, "Our Mice.on,"
(April, 18ch), 10,
2See Unity, XXXIX (July, 1915), 1.
^Unity, LIX (Oct,, 1923), 404,
1
Io d s rn T
..o u rh it, I
-114-
Laws,” "Friendship," "Prudenoe," "The Oversoul," "Circles," "In­
tellect and Art"'*' caught their attention. Modem Thought, first
issue, appeals to all students of metaphysics to make a study of
Emerson. "His writings contain the essence of all the higher
thoughts that are now being so lavishly given to the world through
Christian Science, Metaphysics, Theosophy, and the various ays-
terns of soul culture." This interest in Qaerson has never lagged;
he stalks across the pages of almost every one of their books and
appears frequently between the covers of their magazines. He is
ever with them; the most recent number of Unity carries a thought
from his scintillating mind.
A second and quite influential source of their thinking
was Christian Science. This cult gave hope to them at the darkest
moment of their lives. Through its ministry Mrs. FillmorG was
"healed" of her tuberculosis. From her first contact she became
an enthusiastic devotee of Christian Science, and Bhe finally won
from Mr. Fillmore an acknowledgment that it was "an epitome of
the best features of the ethical and religious systems of the
past*"^ They adopted that name in 1890 for their growing maga­
zine, and only the policy of exclusion set up by Mrs. Eddy kept
then from moving from their originally announced desire to cater
to the good in all religions into the mold which she had set up.*
2
3
^See Modern Thought. I (April, 1889), 8 (editorial).
2Ibid., p. 8.
3See Unity. XC (May, 1939), 20.
^Christian Science Thought, II (June, 1890), 8 (editorial).
3MI1-
m
115'
Because of this, while they sold her Science and Health and quoted
from her other writings, they followed her from afar, becoming
disciples of Emma Curtis Hopkins and Ursula Gestefeld, both rene­
gades to the founder of the movement. Undoubtedly Christian
Science gave Unity its basic pattern: its metaphysical idealism,
it3 nomenclature, its emphasis upon the primacy of health, its
insistence upon the practicability of its methods, its attempt
to give its system standing and respectibility in the community
by appeal to Scripture— all these are direct contributions pf
Mrs, Eddy through the above-mentioned teachers, her former pupils*
A third source of Unity is the occult literature coming
from the East, especially Hinduism. The leading editorial in
the second issue of Modern Thought is introduced by Smeraon’s
poem "Brahma," The writer looks directly toward the East,
The East is the storehouse of a spiritual life of which
we do not, and cannot, in our present material thought en­
vironment, but in a limited degree comprehend. The Christian
religion has answered our needs up to the present age, but
the evolution of the spirit has created a demand for a reli­
gion of broader scope, and we turn to the lore of India, for
lack of a better system nearer home,
The magazine, in its third issue, begins to carry a translation
of "The Legend of Krishna and the Origin of Brahmanism," from the
French of Edwin Schure; and this is continued through seven is­
sues. Such ideas as "God is good— God is all,"-"the divinity
end innate goodness of the soul," "reincarnation," "every reli­
gion • * * is a travelling to the same goal," "God is Father-
Mothers," "believe nothing until you experience it"*
2 are basic in
^Modern Thought. I (liay, 1083), 8 (editorial),
2See Swami Yivekananda, "Hinduism," The World1! Parliament
gf^Rellglona (Chicagot The F&rliaaent Publishing Co,, 1895), XI, “
-116-
Eindu philosophy and play a real part in the thought of Unity and
Christian Science. When Swoni Vivekananda settled in America
after the World’s Pair of 1893, Unity became much attached to
him, quoting and selling his literature."^ ^ _
However, the Fillmore knowledge of the occult East was
for the most part not direct but came through Theosophy. The
writings of Madame Blavatsky, H. S, Olcott, A, P. Sinnet, W. J.
Colville, John Hamlin Dewey, Percy Gregg, and J. D. Buck— all
connected with this movement--were offered for sale by Modern
Thought in its early issues, and a large section of W. J. Col-
O
ville's Spiritual Therapeutics is quoted. In an early editorial
Mr. Fillmore accepts the chronological scheme of Theosophy, the
idea of the spiritualization of our planet, and of knowledge
gained through the "Spiritually Illumined." Such articles as
"Occident and Orient,"^ "Earaa Action,"^1 and "Incarnation and
Reincarnation"^ come from this theosophic school of thought. The
most influential of this group, so far as the Fillmores were con­
cerned, was John Hamlin Dewey, who styled himself a Christian
Theosophist. His book, Christian Theosophy, was favorably re-
7
viewed in Modern Thought and was offered as a subscription prize
in developing the circulation of the magazine. As we shall show
^"See Unity. VII (June, 1896).
^See Modern Thought, I (July, 1889), 1,
SIbid., p. 8. *
4S
rbld. (Aug., 1889), p. 11
5Ibid., p. 7. 67
Ibld. (March, 1890), Pf 5
7Ibid. (April, 1889), p. 15. 8Ibld. (Nov., 1889), p, 11
-117-
later, his attempt to explain that tho life and touchings of
Jesus, metaphysically interpreted, were in accord with the ex­
perience of the sages of the East had a deep influence on Mr*
Fillmore's publication. The Twelve Powers of Man,
Fifthly, the Rosicrucian Influence on Unity Is notice­
able, especially In the writings of F, B. Dowd. Mr. Dowd's book,
The Temple of the Rosycross, found a deep response in the soul
of Mr* Fillmore. From it he got the "’
.Vinged-Globe,D the per­
manent symbol of Unity. The one Idea of Dowd's that most defi­
nitely took hold of Mr. Fillmore was his attitude toward the
problems of sex. Dowd's thesis was that all sin sexual— "all
diseases spring from the nind, and a fallen, reversed, perverted
2
and monstrous love nature." Mr, Fillmore quotes this in his
editorial favoring that position, September, 1889°; he also uses
Dosd as his chief authority a month later in his article "Elixir
of Life."^ Tills article ealls for 3ex continence. There Is a
close parallel between other ideas in this book and Ideas later
expressed by Mr, Fillmore, for example: immortal life Is here
on earth;3 regeneration of tho body cones about through uniting
It consciously with Divine Mind ; the soul is located back of the
n Q
stomach'; and the teachings of Jesus apply wholly to this life.
^See Modern Thought. I (Hov., 1889), p, 11.
mF. B, Dowd, The Temple of the Rosycross (3rd ed#;
Chicago: F. B. Dowd Publishing Co., 1897), p. 93; see also p. 117,
3Charles Fillmore, Modern Thought. I (Sept,, 1889), 8
(editorial),
^Modern Thought. I (Hov,, 1889), 8,
^F. B, Dowd, op, clt«, p, 76,
6Ibld,. p* 71
‘
W - 78»
7Ibld.. p, 115
-118-
For twenty years Mr. Fillmore was directly interested In
Spiritualism. Unity clearly shows evidence of this interest#
The first issue of Modem Thought has an article by George n#
Brooks, a S p i r i t u a l i s t M r . Brooks declares that healing can
best be done by sending thought to the particular part of the
body in which the difficulty is lodged, an idea later stressed
by Mr. Fillmore# On the subject of Spiritualism t
h-..re was a dif­
ference of opinion between Mr. and Mrs. Fillmore, She declared:
"I have never seen a Spiritualist who was satisfied. He is al­
ways searching for greator proof; Christian Science can give him
that proof for it takes nothing for granted but reasons from
p
cause to effect# Mr. Fillmore sought to include M s spiritual­
ist friends in the early circle of the magazine's writers, but
under her leadership he steadily moved away from that position#
Yet their influence has lingered. He still believes their tes­
timony that mediums actually contact departed spiritus but fcMnks
that such spirits, since they did not have sufficient wisdom to
retain their own bodies, can have no greater wisdom than they had
in the flesh. Ke objects to dabbling in Spiritualism because he
thinks it weakens man's control of himself. The ideal of the
Individual is the I AM control of his own thoughts and forces;
so he should not let a medium break that control. Mr, Fillmore
has been pushed to defend himself against the charge of teaching
Spiritualism repeatedly; it is the only "ism" against which he
has felt impelled to write a definite charge#3
^Modern Thought, I (April, 1889), 6.
*TIyrtle Fillmore, "Why Should They Conflict," Modern
Thought. I (June, 1889), 6,
Unity S oh oofS f1c L ^ t i S n ^ ) ? 2- - e'nL-flS 8Plri-tu^ ^
120-
The history of Unity has been closely interwoven with the
whole Eew Thought movement. Alone with most Hew Thought leaders
the Fillmores openly acknowledge their indebtedness to P. p.
Quimby, especially as his thought was interpreted by Warren Felt
Evans. In his first year as an editor Mr. Fillmore espoused the
body-mind theory of Evans against that of Mrs. Eddy.^ Later he
declared that Mr. Evans’ seven volumes were "the most complete
of all metaphysical compilations."^ Unity has twice beon offi­
cially connected with the Hew Thought organization; and there has
been an almost constant exchange of publications and speakers be­
tween the Eome3 of Truth of the west coast, Divine Science of Den­
ver, Unity of Kansas City, and the Hew Thought Centers located
largely in the East. Charles E, Patterson published a biographical
sketch of Mr. Fillmore in Mind in 1902, The names of Henry Wood,
Ralph W. Trine, Charles B. Newcomb, and Abel L. Allen grace the
Unity publications. For almost forty years Horatio 7
.
. Dresser
has contributed articles to Unity. Elisabeth Towne, editor of
Hautllus. has visited Unity at Kansas City and made her contri­
bution to Its growing literature. One of the more recent stars
in the Hew Thought firmament Is a Divine Science leader, Eimot
Fox of Hew York. He has an article in the cur.ont April, fif­
tieth anniversary, number cf the Fillmore magazine. And Unity
x
seems to have published all of the poems of Ella Wheeler Wilco*.
^Modern Thought,
' 1 (June, 1689), 4,
2Unity. XXVIII (Bay, 1908), £85.
SSee Unity. XVII (Aug,, 1902), 69,
It differs
-121-
Unity Is ordinarily classed with Hew Thought,
from It at two points; first, was there a "fall” of nan; and
second, hov: much enpl^asis should be put on the body? Host Hew
Thought teachers emphasize a steady progression of the race from
the animal level; Unity teaches a "fall*" Unity gives more em­
phasis to allegorizing the teachings of Jesus and trying to apply
then directly to the body of man. Hew Thought and Divine Science
leaders are more general in their teachings at this point and
are rather critical of hr* Fillmore's mental treatment of the
body-brain centers. They spec'.: of Unity as being "body-conscious"
and as having a decided materialistic tinge#
While denying any real need for science and its technique
as a way to knowledge, hr. Fillmore has kept his ear tuned to the
popular scientific presentations of the period. Darwin and cos­
mic evolution, Edison and ills phonograph appear in liodem Thought
at its beginning in an editorial discussion the then acute con­
flict between science and religion concerning miracles. The
writer attributes the conflict to the "degeneracy" of the church
and assures ;d.s readers that the gulf between science and religion
will soon be bridged as people become aware of the power of mind
to manipulate matter.^- Ur. Fillmore has searched popular scien­
tific writings for usable statements to support, his position and
then lifted them from their context with little regard for the
purposes of.the writers# In a recent explanation of Unity's
^See Charles Fillmore, "Science and Religion," Modern
Thourjit. I (April, 1839) , 9#
>
122-
thought, he has f
.
o quoted eight scientists— Brady, V/'eiss, Lodge,
Jeans, Crile, Osborn, Eddington, and Russell,^ Bo atterapt to
apply scientific tests or principles to the problems with which
he deals— health and prosperity--is made by him. Science has
O
furnished mien oi his recent terminology.
The final source of Unity's thought is the Bible, es­
pecially Genesis, the four gospels, the writings of Iaul, and
Revelation. Since Unity claims to be primarily a rediscovery*
* of
the technique of Jesus as it is related to the matter of healing,
this is to be expected. Unity goes further in the use of the
Bible than Mrs, Eddy in Science and Health, who confined herself
largely to a few chapters in Genesis, Per almost its entire
history. Unity has offered a weekly metaphysical interpretation
of the International Sabbath School Lessen. Like Mrs. Eddy,
however, Mr. Fillmore is attracted almost magnetically to the
Genesis story, which he calls the “world’s best known and least
understood allegory/# Bo Unity leader has made a systematic
presentation of any book of the Bible save Genes-o; the school
has publishod a large, metaphysical dictionary of the Bible In
wh-ch it seeks to set forth "in simple language the Inner, eso-
^■Seo C. S. Eraden (ed,). Varieties of American Religion
(Chicago* Willett, Clark and Co., 193d), pp. 141-154.
*The following suggests Mr. Fillmore's use of science:
"The scientists tell us that the ether is charged with electric­
ity, magnetism, light rays. X-rays, cosmic rays and other dynamic
radiations;.that it is the source of ail life, light, heat, en-
ergy, gravitation, attraction, repulsion . . . science gives to
the ether all the attractions of heavenwithout directly saying
so," Charles Fillmore, Prosperity (Kansas City: Unity School of
Christianity, 193b), p. 12,
^Charles Fillmore, Mysteries of Genesis (Kansas City*
Unity School of C h r i s t i a n i t y / ), foreword.
nl Wo shall discuss their
-123-
teric meanings of Scriptural names,
attitude towards the Scripture es we deal with their theory of
knowledge and its application to the above-mentioned sources.
« ^Kctarhyalcel Bible Dietionary (Kansas City:
School of Christianity, 1951), preface.
Unity
CHAPTER V
THE PROBLEM OF KNOWLEDGE
The Test of Truth
There are three elements in Unity’s theory of knowledge:
the nature of Goa, the psychology of man, ana the use of logic.
U
l
.^ j ^ u LivwuU..jCxCLi idealism. Gou is Mind; Mind lias
. itself into a world of forms, and one of ti.ese forms is
nan-llind come to self consciousness.
linn is a phase of Gcd-hind, and his mind must act like God-
Mind,1
In Truth there is }jut one Mind , , . nan expresses Mind in a
multitude of ways.^
Goa is supremo Knowing*0
The second element in Mr. Fillnoro’s theory is his idea
of the psychology of man. Psychologically, nan is mini in three
aspects— super-conscious, conscious, and subconscious. Conscious­
ness, the center of this trinity, is man's awareness of liimself;
it is that "phase of knov/inw by which we take cognisance of our
*
»
4
existence and our relation to what we call environment. The
s'ubconsciousncsc is the memory of man— the unity of all past
thinking, both of this and previous Incarnations, and the direct-
i
r
.
.
. agent in all bodily relations. It has no creative ability
but carries out automatically the habits one has trained into
himself throw^ the conscious mind,^ The superconsclous mind
^■Charles Fillmore, Christ lap Heallng (14th ed.; Kansas
City: Unity School of Christianity, l9~£C), pT 1G,
glbid.. p. 90.
T T H Z . , p, 104.
^Consciousness," Metaphysical Bible Dictionary, p, 155.
BMr. Fillmore says: There is a subconsciousness that
carries on digestion, aselmilation, circulation, respiration,
elimination and the like. We should not be in possession of in
organism having the various movements of mind unless at some
point in our experience we had established them." Charles
Fillmore, Mysteries of Oenesls. p, 77.
> i
__:L
rrM* 1 U fH tT ^m K m ^h A
-125-
is located at the top of the head and is the organ of communion
with God.
The superconscicus mind, Christ consciousness, or spiritual
consciousness is a state of consciousness, that is based
upon true ideas, upon an understanding and realisation of
spiritual Truth.^
Christ is the only begotten Son of Gcd, or the one complete
idea of perfect man in Divine Eina. Ills Christ, or perfect
nan-idea existing eternally in Divine LMnd, is the true,
spiritual, higher soli' of every individual.^
iian has a nind called the Lord, transcending both the con­
scious and the subconscious. •
The superconoc.ousnccs in nan, that is, the Christ or
Lord, Is the second element of the "Divine trinity”— mind, idea,
expression. Now the r.roblom of attaining real knowledge is that
of direct adjustment of the conscious nind to the Christ mind.
The conscious mind loolcs in two directions: it looks outward
throuj^h the five senses to other forms; it looks inward and up­
ward through what Mr. Fillmore calls the sixth and seventh
senses— "thought” and "intuitive perception." Tire thinking sense
involves manrs ability to create foms or call God-ideas into
manifestation through words. The intuitive sense, "located back
of the heart at the solar plexus," is that quality of conscious­
ness by which we immediately apprehend Truth. Stated in psy­
chological terms, superconsciousnes3 is "Supreme Knowing"; con­
sciousness turned upward is "Understanding," The procoss of
^•"Consciousness," Metaphysical Bible Dictionary, p, 155,
2"Christ," ibid., p. 150,
^Charles Flllmcro, Christian Healing, p, 30,
126'
gaining Truth, then, is nan’s realization of his true nature as a
"Son of C-od," No outward experience is necessary to such know­
ing; one needs only to affirm one’s birthright:
Never 3ay, "I don’t know"; "I can’t undorstand," Claim
your Christ understanding at all times, ana declare: "I am
not under any spoil of human ignorance, I am one with In­
finite Understanding," The accumulation of ignorance gath­
ered throujh association with ignorant minds car. be dispelled
by the Word, You may know by simply holding that you know.
Tills is not egotism, but spiritual kr.ovvin..
, When you declare
divine understanding, you sometimes meet your old lino of
thought and are disappointed. Right then continue to hold
for knowing. Judge not by appearances. Do not act until you
get the assurance; if you keep, in the Spirit by affirmation,
the assurance will come. Will it come by voice? Hoi you
v/111 1
-
ror? tlrouyh the faculty of intuition. Divine knowing
is direct fuclon of mind of God with mind of man.
So the true source of knowledge is the "Spirit of Truth"
v/ithin every man. Consciousness has blinded man somewhat to this
Spirit by turning outward through the five physical senses into
the world of experience. Tills explains why man is not naturally
conscious of the Divine Presence to-day* Ke has built up a sense-
world, a world of things, which, so long as he trusts it, keeps
him apart from his birthright to "Absolute knowledge," "To ar­
rive at Truth we must find the opposite of what the senses re-
o
veal," Ernest C. Wilson, applying the words of Shelley, says:
"Consciousness • , ,
"Like a done of many-colored class
Stains the whJLte radiance of eternity,"0
■^-Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing, pp. 106-107,
^Charles Fillmore. "Self Training." Unity, VII (July.
1896), 161, ----
^Ernest C, «ilson. The Sunlit Way (Kansas City: Unity
School of Christianity, 192o)~ p. £&,
127
Recovery from this condition of blindness and return to
pure knowledge requires effort, and sometimes ic reached only by
stages through dreams and visions. The consciousness of man may
be so filled with error-thoughts that the Divine i
-
i
n
c
i can.not at
first find entrance to it during nan’s waking moments. Ur,
Fillmore recalls that las earliest experiences of gaining Truth
came in this way.^ when nessayes c
o
:
:
.
c through dreams it may be
necessary for the one receiving them to sock out an interpreter
more advanced in Truth; or, as in the case of Joseph, one may be
so near the Father’s house that Ood himself will show ham the
dream. It fellows, also, that the check or test of knowledge
must necessarily be individual. Ho objective standards can be
set up, and we should not submit our will to another*
Eut hr. Fillmore would not agree that tl-is opens the door
to intellectual anarchy. If one ic in Truth, Le will trust the
logic of mind. Students must learn to follow Truth to its ulti­
mate implication regardless of ecoming inconsistencies. "If ap-
pc ranees are out of harmony with your mental premise, do not let
thorn unseat your logic. " *
2 For example, the statement, "God is
good; God is all," denies that there is or can be any real evil.
Therefore, one must net let any appearance of evil cause him to
waver from this affirmation in thought, word, or deed.
This is not blind belief; it is an acquiescence in the
euperconociousnese of the logic of Being. The Supereonscidle­
ness is man’s only sure guide in the nasos of t2ie creative
process. By trusting to the infallibility of this guide.
^See Thought. V (Feb,, 1694), 454,
2Charles Fillmore, Christian Sealing. p. 8
man
-123-
opens himself to the inspiration of the Almighty,"
An intuitive oxperiencc of the oneness of man with 5cine, delib­
erately affirmed, and followed by nan to its logical conclusion
will guide the o
n
<
~
- who trusts it into knowlvd,e of truth* This is
the theory of knowledge held by Unity*
Application of the Test of Truth to Its Sources
We consider now how Unity1s theory of knowledge oausos
it to react toward its sources. Christian Science, Hinduism,
and Theosophy have so much in common with Unity in this respect
that wo neod not deal with them. Wo must look at Unity’s attitude
toward science and the Scripture,
Mr, Fillmore lias assuned a dual attitude toward sciencei
on the ono side, as lias boon suggestod, ho has developed a scien­
tific nomenclature by which ho has sought to give his system
intellectual standing and ha3 assured his readers that Unity is
the real synthesis between religion and science:
When Christians understand the scionce of thinking, the
power cf thought to manifest itself, and how the manifesta­
tion of thought is accomplished, they will no longer fear
material science; w. cn material scientists have fathomed the
real nature of the living force that they discern as ever
active in all of nature's structures, they will have more
respect for religion,^
On the other hand, lir, Fillmore’s thoory of the Absolute and of
knowledge as intuitive *>
i
t
: out tho need of expoylcnco together
with his theory of ovil as being a darkening of intellectual per­
ception makes him a severe critic of the scientific method. He
says that it is foolish to try to store up knowledge, that intel­
lectual people often make a burden out of life because they try
^Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing. p, 6,
gIbld.. p, 88.
129
to accumulate more knowledge than they can apply#-*- Ho also sug-
guests that intellectual or scientific standards are "constantly
shifting opinions" and adds that the science that is founded
upon Spirit is the "only real science. " *
2* V.hy should one struggle
through the maze of modern scientific education when he has in
him "that which, when opened, will place him in direct contact
with universal knowledge and enable him instantly and continuously
to dr-aw forth anything he may wish to know?"1
' Furthermore, it is
out of sense-perception, which give’
s the basic material that
ocicnce seeks to organize into knowledge, that ti:c ills of man­
kind have come— discord, limitation, disease, death. V
v
e shall
see how antagonistic to science Unity is when we consider the ap­
plication of its theory of knowledge to the problem of disoase#
Finally, how does Unity handle the Bible, which has been
the authority for Christians for so many centurios? Mr, Fillmore
admits that Scripture may be a good guido for those who have not
come into a realization of Truth; but one who has the "Spirit of
Truth" iias the substance of winch the Bible is only the shadow.
Scripture nay be a satisfactory authority for those who are
not thenselveB in direct communion with the Lora, but we
should remomber that we have gone deeper into practical meta­
physics than the people that lived when the Bible was writ­
ten#4
The Bible is one of many sacred books, all of which are to be
treated with reverence, for they aro the "records of men as to
what their experiences have been in communing with the omnipresent
^Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing, p, 7 #
2 Ibld.. p. 9, 5 Ibld#t p. 91
“"Correspondence," Unity. VII (Oct#, 189G), 400#
•150-
God,"^- But these records are only corroborative and sometimes
contain grievous errors, Mr# Fillmore has boon especially criti­
cal oi the Apostle Paul, He feels that Paul has loaded nold be­
llcis ," especially the blood sacrificos of the Hebrew faith, upon
the teachings of Jesus, l
i
e once said: nIf Paul had known how
conditions are made tlirsajp. thinking and speakln.^ l
i
e would not
O
have written many things that are credited to Lin."*' In this
instance, however, Mr. Fillmore does not juuye icul on the basis
of intuitive knowledge but says he knows Paul in the flesh and
has liis word for it.0
huriny thu early years of his movement hr. Fillmore
v/ou.ld have little to do with the Bible; but, as he worked out
things in the Absolute, l
i
e finally discovered that his experiences
were bcin~ "corroborated in c wonderful way in the Hebrew Scrip-
4
tur-cs, Tliis led to a nore definite study of them and finally
to the issuance of a larye Metaphysical Bible Dictionary. the
nest ambitious publication attempt of Unity School. The signifi­
cant tiling about it is its method of interpretation. It assumes
that the historical side of the Bible is e nerc shell in which
an inner moaning is lhddcn and can be discovered only by those
who are already attuned to the Spirit of Truth.
^“
Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of E
T
c
.
n (Kansas City;
Unity School of Christianity, 1950), P» 114.”
g
"Correspondence," Unity. VII (Oct,, 1896), 400.
3 Ibid, See alee Unity. VIII (Jan., 1397), 76. Mr. Fill-
norc reported that at that tine Faul was a "plain American citi-
*on." He did not realise his previous incarnations until he was
thirty-eight years of aye.
^Charles Fillraoro, Christian Healing, p, 69,
•131
The Bible end the prophets can be understood only by those
who arrive mentally at the place where the writers were when
they save forth their messages. It requires the same inspir­
ation to read the Scriptures that it required to write them,1
The met-.od of interpretation is not new. The Plllmorcs in this
respect belong in the lineage of Grigen, Sweucnbor.^, and »rs.
Eddy. To those the allegorical character of the Bible was of
primary importance. Scriptural terms have "both an cuter and
inner significance,1
5 The i-Lstorical is a veil which must be
lifted in order to discover the inner, esoteric, spiritual sig­
nificance. This is the method of Unity:
The history- of the Hebrew race from Auaa to Jesus is a
symbolical picture of the development of one man's character,
veiled under many personalities, and that nan is every man
who is following Christ, The journeys of the children of
Israel are but the Journeys of man's thoughts in Ills con­
sciousness. Ever:/ name, place, and cireinstance refers to
some condition of spirit, soul or body. The spirit is the
realm of ideals, the soul the realm of thoughts, and the body
the realm of forms.
In studying this great arcanum, of Truth we ehould remem­
ber that in encompasses the whole of man and hccc It is a
work on physiology, metaphysics and transcendentalism. Every
character is the representative of come hivino luce operating
on one of tires, three planes. For instance, /.loses represents,
In who spiritual, tire Fcrcoption of the Law; in tho physical,
the Record of tire Law. Aaron represents, spiritually, the
Idoa of Strength; mentally, the Word of Strength; and physi­
cally, Strength in Action. So with all the characters and
incidents— they have a trinity of action. When this is un­
derstood, all seeming inconsistencies in intemretation will
disappear.^
Tiiis is Unity's attempt to unite the metaphysical, mystical East
and tho practical, ethical West, lir, Fillmorer
t theory of God
as the Absolute and knowledge as intuitive has resulted in giving
the Most only the status of a handmaid, both as to science and
religion*
- ■ - ______________________________________________________________ _____ \
1brhtv. VIII (Feb,, 1G37), 21G.
1902), 10,
Charles Fillmore, "The Scriptures,* VII (July,
2 i
CHAPTER VI
THE KATUPLE OP GOD
VPnile Unity leaders attach both personal and impersonal
symbols to their concept o
i
' God, their pattern of thinking is
always pantheistic* Invariably associating personality with f o m
and its linitations, the Fillmores insist that those who think of
C-od in terms of personality get a wrong tinderstondin." of the char­
acter of "original being" and its relation to the world. God is
fcxtJ.es:;, so we must drop all thought of God as circumscribed or
limited. God is Spirit, not person; God is substance, not matter.
God is the basis of all form but does not enter into any form as
a finality. Ho is the "universal Substance," that which stands
bach of and under form and matter-, from which flows all manifesta­
tion.
God can be defined only by the use of abstractions. God
is "Principle, Law, Being, Liind, Spirit, All-Good, omnipotent,
omniscient, omnipresent, unchangeable. . . . Cause and Source of
all tixat is,"’
5
' The personal element is ever excluded from the
definition. “God is not a « . . • person having life, intelli­
gence, love, power, God is that invisible, intangible, but very
O
re-1 something we call Life . . . Love . . . Power.V/ithout
regard to the nature of the subjeot, each tern is given a sort of
spatial or quantitative significance. "Absolute" does not mean
self-existent or unlimited, but rathor the sum of ell being, the
^Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing (14th ed.), p. 15*
Emilie Cady, Lessons in Truth (Kansas City* Unity
School of Christianity, 1925;, p, 6 *
*133-
unity of all distinctions. The "infinite Land . . . fills im­
mensity. " 1 "omnipotence is a nonopoly of power • . , the prin-
c by means of wnreh all power is made manifest. Omnipresent
nicar.s that Goa. is the only Being ‘
of which all creation is but the
indivianalised expression. "he is the universe."s Yd.-on John
said "Goa is love," he meant that C-oG was "the essence by end.
through which men nr-o capable of loving one another*"~ Unity
insists that any attempt to circumscribe God by associating Him
with persons would bo idolatry,
nevertheless. Unity frequently embellishes its concept of
God with personal terms, "blab we need," says I
I
. 1
1
. 'Grosser,
"when tryin^ to make the thought of God as practical as possible
is • • . a symbol or figure of speech to bring the idea homo to
all persons."0 Unity, in common with nany third:*-rs in the hew
Tiought field, has made constant vise of personal symbols of God
i
r
. presenting Its message to the world. The first textbook gives
expression to this method;
To the individual consciousness God takes on personality,
but as the creative binderluring cause of all things. Re is
Principle, impersonal; as expressed in each individual, he
becomes personal to that one— a personal, loving, all-forgiv­
ing rathex— Liother. All that any human soul can ever need is
the infinite Fa thcr-rrir.ciple, the great reservoir of unex­
pressed good, 0
^Tliought, V (April, 1893), 9.
£A, I. Uartcn, "God," Tnounht, V (June, 1C93), 106,
^§arah D. Scott, The True Character of God (Kansas City*
Unity School of Christianity, 1927j, p, 3 (pamphlet)’
.
4 A. F. Bailor, "God," Thought, V (June, 1695), IOC.
^E. S, Dresser, "Spiritual Truths," Unity, LXXVIII (June,
1933), 18.
^Bfailie Cady, Leesone in Truth, p, 11,
■134'
So Ur.lt7 calls God "Father," "Mother," "Creator"; manifestations
of God it terras "sore of God." The abstract nouns defining God
arc turned Irto verbs: "God loves"; "God vrllls"; "God knows."
Believers arc told to trust God and to serve God. Unity litera­
ture is filled with scriptural quotations concerning God, which
carry personal neanin/s. Cora D. FI11...ore, 1
:
: ..no o . Unity’s
latest publications, states all her Affir.:iaL.io. c i
r
. person-to-
persor. terres— "Jesus Christ is raising no*"’
1
- At headquarters
each day th.c entire group cf Unity employees, led through a loud
speaker oyster., pause' fro:-, their activities to re;-eat aloud the
Lord’s prayer. Thus Unity’s adherents and inquirers, already
emotionally enlarged wit: such symbols through their experience in
the Christian community, are warmed and fed and comforted, This
casual adornment of the pantheistic structure with personal sym­
bols coaeti os pivos Unity’s God-idea the appearance of a hybrid,
but it is only appearance. God is still the "inexorable Prinoiple
O
at the source of all existence.
God is Idea and marJLfestatior., thought and extension.
Unity ascribes to t!.c divine essence characteristics of both nind
and matter. Yet there is no dualism in its universe. The in­
finite evolves itself into tho firJLte; the firutc achieves its
destiny by return to the infinite. Charles Filincrc says;
The ie-nes3 of mind is but one eide of it. Being is not
limited tc the level of is-noss; it has all possibilities,
including that of breaking forth from its inherencios into
^Geo Cora D. Fillmore, Christ ^throned in Man (Kansas
City* Unity School of Christianity, 19^7}•
Sollie Cady, Lessons in Truth, p. 11*
135-
tho reala of appearances. Mind has two sides, being and ap­
pearance, the visible and the invisible. To say that nind is
all and yet dny that things that do appear have any place in
the all-ness is to state but half the truth*1
In such a world there is no creation in a personal sense.
As idea, the universe is coexistent with God; as manifestation,
the universe is a continuous evolution of God. "Creation is the
God consciousness forming within itself centers, which it seeks
to endow, through orderly procedure, with all its attributes»"^
The original design in Divino Mind is eternally fixed, but crea­
tion is going on all the time. The first and second chaptors of
Genesis, metaphysically interpreted, are a complete explanation
of Principle evolving its world. The six days of the first chap­
ter represent six "degrees or stages" of God-Mind. "Create"
means to "ideate." God-Mind ideated the world in the heavens—
"the realm of ideas," The climax of the Mind-ideation process
was reached when wisdom and love communed together and produced
the mental image, Man. This particular ideation is the "only-
o
begotten Son, the Christ, the Lord God, the Jehovah, the I An,
"In the six mind movements, called days, Elohim God creates the
spiritual universe and spiritual nan. He then rests. He has
created the ideals, patterns, for the formed universe that is to
follow."i
*
3 *
5
%
The process of bringing the universe into form or mani­
festation is carried on by Jehovah or the Logos, This is the
i
^Charles Fillmore, "The Unreality of Matter," Unity. IX
(Oct,, 1897), 309.
^Charles Fillmore, Mysteries of Genesis, p, 12,
5 Ibid., p. 84,
-136-
subject natter of the second chapter of Genesis. Jehovah God
foms that which Elohim God has created in nind* The Logos makes
visible through the power of thought— "God said." Thought is the
Spirit executing the idea. Ideas project themselves into forms.
This is the law of Being. "The object of creation is to fora the
formless." These foras express Being; every fora, even the most
ninute, oarries all of Being even as one drop of water carries
the sea. The trinity of Being— mind, idea, and expression— has
produced the trinity of fora— substance, life, and intelligence.
Thus Mr. Fillmore has tried to subsume the theological Trinity-
under his explanation of the process of the unfoldnent of Prin­
ciple. The real trinity is mind, idea, and expression. "The
Father is Principle, the Son is that Principle revealed in a
creative plan. The Holy Spirit Is the executive power of both
Q
Father and Son carrying out the creative plan*" God is the only
Being, and all the world is the individualized expression of that
Being. "Divine Mind expresses its Word, and through the activity
of that Word the universe is brought forth, " 3 Being unfolds
itself, "flows" into the multiform objects of the visible uni­
verse. "God is thinking the Universe into manifestation right
now,
God achieves aelf-conaciousnoBS In man. This is the
^Charles Fillmore, Mysteries of Genesis, p, 44,
2"Holy Spirit," Metaphysical Bible Dictionary, p. 623,
^Charles Fillmore, Christian Sealing (14th ed,), p, 56.
4 rold.. p. 17.
137
climax of the evolution of Principle. Jehovah God, the creative
power of Being, has finally brought into manifestation through
the law of mind action self-conscious centers. These centers are
not independent susistences, Man is a "phase of God-Mind,"^- He
is the individualized expression of God-Mind:
God is the one perfect life flowing through us. God is
the one pure substance out of which our organism is formed,
God is the power tiiat gives us motive power; the strength
that holds us upright and allows us to exercise our members;
the wisdom that gives us intelligence in every cell of our
organism, every thought of our mind. God is the only reality
of u s /
Man'has identity only. He can 3ay "I" but never "my." He is
just "the inlet and the outlet" 3 of the eveiywhere-present sub­
stance, life and intelligence. Christ, the Logos, has formed
itself into conscious entities for the purpose of continuing the
creative process. The "I Aid" has become the "I will." The trin­
ity— mind, idea, and expression— has now become Elohim, Jehovah,
and Adam. "Adam is the third in the godhead."^ The unfoldment
of Boing continues as this new member of the trinity deliberately
assumes his functions. "Throw yourself into the Trinity, and you
e
beoome its avenue of expression.
This deliberate identification of self-consciousness with
Being has been supremely realized In the historical Jesus of
bazareth. He so completely identified himself with Principle
^Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing (14th ed.), p. 18,
^Frances W. Foulks (ed.). Letters of Myrtle Fillmore
(Kansas City: Unity School of Christianity, 1936), p, 33.
^Charles Fillmore, Christian lealinr, (14th ed,), p. 81,
^Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Man, p. 98,
®Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing (14th ed,), p, 19,
■1S8-
that he could say: "He that hath seen me hath seen the Father."
This, too, is the privileged destiny of every man. When the in­
dividual asks as to his own nature, "God-Understanding replies:
Spiritually you are my Idea of myself as I see myself in the ideal;
physically you are the law of my mind executing that Idea."^ Man
is God manifest.
The personal or impersonal character of a God-concept
stands most clearly revealed when it is brought to a test in the
practical affairs of every-day living. What demands does God
make? What succor does God offer? In this area the outlook of
Unity is always horizontal, never vertical; God is immanent but
not transcendent. First, what duties does God require of Man?
Only one answer can be given. RoneJ God iB not that kind of
Being.
God is potential, unformed will; man is manifest God-will,
or good-will. . . . God is the one Principle; we are all
as free to use God as we are free to use the principles of
mathematics end music. The principle never interferes, but
if it is to be used rightly we must develop understanding.
God does not use man; man uses God &b he sees fit.
As there are no divine imperatives in Unity's thinking,
so there is no real sin. "God is good and God is all; hence
there can be no real condition but the good."^ Such human incon­
sistencies as appear among men are due only to ignorance. We
shall carry the thought further as we study the’nature and ability
of man. How we note only Unity's tendency to discount all moral
distinctions. The devil is that phase of "mortal mind" which
"deludes us into believing . . . that we are less than1
1 Ibid., p. 18. 8 Ibld., p. 104. sIbld., p. 8 6
-139-
gods. Evil has no real subsistence but Is only the absence of
good:
All things are manifestations of the good, Man In his
spiritual identity is the very essence of gooa, and he can
do no wrong. Ho can in his experience disuse the powers
placed at his disposal by the Father, but he can do no per­
manent evil, " 2
Kan should never condemn hinself nor criticize his neighbor, re­
gardless of any apparent evil. Each should be held in the mind
as he actually exists in Divine Substance— a manifestation of
God. Hr. Fillmore carries tfris to its logical concluaion. Speak­
ing of passion and lust as "love submerged in the human conscious­
ness and smothered with selfishness,” he says:
We should remember that we have laid down, as a founda­
tion principle, that God is love, and, as there is but one
God, there can be but one love. This being true, we must
find place in the creative law for every manifestation, re­
gardless of its apparent contradictions of the righteousness
of First Cause.*5
Under this philosophy there is no need for divine forgiveness.
Ueitlier the God of Sinai nor the God of Calvary walks in the world
which Unity portrays.
Let us now look at the experience of human suffering.
Whence came the harsh features of nature— earthquakes, floods,
and pestilences? Why the strange inequalities of life? Why
should man endure them? What challenge do they bring to sustained
thinking or creative living? Whence comes help-to live sanely in1
1 Unity. LXXXVXI (Jan,, 1930), 80.
o '
Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Fowers of Han, p. 153.
^Charles Fillmore, "The Healing Word," Unity, LXXXV
(Hov«, 1956), 6 *
-140-
the midst of them? The ansv/er of Unity shows anew the controlling
power of tier impersonal God-concept. Suffering and sacrifice
boar no fruits I These physical inconsistencies arc a temporary
product of error-thought on the part of the race and have no real
subsistonco. They exist only as effect and so have no actual
power. Such injury as they bring comes only to the power man
imparts to then by his own limited vision. When man fully real­
izes M s oneness with Doing, the one Absolute Cause, he will
quicldLy dispel all such Gppearances by the authority of his word.
This is the pMlosophy Unity applies to those experiences in
which it is particularly interested— disease versus health, pov­
erty versus prosperity, ignorance versus knowledge. Because of
later discussion, I use only the first by way of illustration.
Since disease is merely tho effect of wrong thinking; since "there
is nothing to heal,"-*- as Mr. Fillmore says; since man can demon­
strate bodily perfection by consciously linking Mmself with
Being, there was and is no real need of the science of medicine.
How tragic, then, the long history of human suffering; how pa­
thetic the innumerable sacrifices made in the interest of supposed
human needl Hature has been making no demand; man has needed no
grace. The centurlos of human struggle eventuating in modern .
applied science have no real significance.
Unity’s impersonal God-pattem continues to manifest
itself when we turn to two problems of religious thought— miracle
^■Charles Fillmore, "The Healing «?ord." Unity, LXXXV
(Bov., 1936), 6 .
-141
and prayer* From the standpoint of religion, the miracles of
Scripture Lave always been interpreted as God’E ansuer to the cry
of human need, a revelation of the activity of a personal Being
in a seemingly impersonal world. Unity, significantly, does not
deny the historicity of the biblical miracles. Jesus actually
increased the loaves and fishes, clear :od the lepers, healed the
sick, and raised Lazarus out of the tomb. Unity docs deny that
n
they cun be called miracles. Jesus, through Divine self-realiza­
tion, drew out of impersonal substance whatever ho desired to
supply the neods of his fellow-mon* That, too, is cur birthright.
How, thon, does the individual approach such a God?
Prayer is quite generally recognized as the coro ov vital reli­
gion. H. H. Farmer says; "All that distinguishes man’s speci­
fically religious response to his world from his response in
morals, science, or art comes to expression in the act of prayer.
This religious response to the world i3 always a personal one, as
Miss Cady has suggested. And one of the most common elements of
prayer is petition* How Unity has no prayer in the sense of peti­
tion. God-liind lias evolved itself under law, and any such prayer
^The following is an example of Mr. Fillmore’s approach
to the miracles of Scripture* "Mary, a virgin, conceived the seed
as an idea in Spirit. Medical authorities claim that European
records testify to cases where virgins have become so exalted
spiritually that they have conceived and given ^irth to infants,
as the Bible states Mary did. So the virgin birth of Jesus is
not a miracle but the attestation of law not fully understood or
observed." See Unity. XXXIV (May, 1911), 45S.
o
B* H. Farmer, The World and God (London* Hisbet and
Co., 1955), p, 515.
5See H. &aille Cady, Lessons in Truth, p. 11.
-142-
is futile, "The prayer of supplication is i m p o t e n t , M y r t l e
Fillmore says;
Prayers aren't sent out Gt allI Soneti
.
.
.
e
s that is our
trouble. Where would we be sending out our- prayers? As in­
dividuals we should direct then to our own mind and heart
and affairs. We connune with God-ldind within our own con­
sciousness, Prayer is an exerciso to change our own thought
habits and our living habits, that we may set up a new and
bettor activity, in accord with divine law.^
Since God-hind has arrived at self-consciousnes3 in nan, he, by
tho realisation of that fact, becomes creator in the use of sub­
stance, Y
.
'
e should cease invoking, the aid of an "imaginary being"
who we hopo will grant us favors and command onnipo.er.ee, omni-
*
presence, and omniscience to do our bidding. Unity, therefore,
has replaced petitions with affirmations, bath in public and
private devotions, "In the presence and power of God's omnipre­
sent substance I decree that my supply shall be made manifest,"^
A second element of prayer which Unity stresses and which
shows the same pattern Is praise, "Praise is one of the avenues
through which spirituality expresses its e l f , H o w e v e r , praise
is net the adoration of g loving Father; it is the increasing of
the activity of Substance, Mr, Fillmore sayst
Be increase whatever- we praise , , , We can praise our
own ability, and the very brain cells will expand and in­
crease in capacity and intelligence,6
■^Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Man, p, 28,
2
Letters of Myrtle Fillmore, p, 27.
3
See L, F, Dale, "The Omnipotence of God," Unit", XC
(May, 1939),* 3,
^"Unlty Prosperity Thought," Feb,-March, 1939.
^Unity. LXXXV (Nov., 1936), 24.
6 Ibld.
•143
We open the way for great demonstrations by recognizing
tho Pros oneo and praising it. . . . V
J
e quicken our life
by affixning that we are alive with the life of the Spirit;
our intelligence by affirmln^ cur ononoss with divine intel­
ligence; and we quicken the indwelling, interpenetrating
substance by recognizing it and claiming it as our own.
Adoration is Unity’s method of mailing usg of God.
In the third place, "communion with God," a phrase fre­
quently on the lips of Unity's teachers does not mean that wo
Iravc sot up a personal fellowship. This will become most evident
when v
/
o study their practice of "the Silence." Now we can say
t!:at Unity thinks of communion as the raising of consciousness
to the level of Superccnsciousness; tho lifting of the "I will,"
tho second part of the human trinity, to tho "I AM," tho origi­
nating oubstanco of tho 2:uman trinity. When Jesus went up into
the mountain to pray, he sought out M s Father, the Christ, lo­
cated at tho top of his hoad. "All that any human soul can ever
need or desire is the infinite Father-Principle, the great reser-
Q
voir of all good." Prayer, as expressed in Unity, is the climax
of self-deification.
Finally, wc see Unity's pantheistic God-concept dominant
in its treatment cf salvation and ultimate destiny. We have
noted how man Las no independent existence, no substance which
he con call his own, but he exists only as Identity in and through
God-Substance. He exists In God as an eddy exists in a stream.
■^Charles Fillmore, Prosperity, p. 35.
2 '
H. Exilic Cady, Lessons in Truth, p. 12.
The particular m
e
n
.
*
*
-144-
"Gou-Uind cannot be separated or divided#"^
tal clip which lias caused the apparent ills of nan was his assump­
tion that he could separate himself from God-!iind, 7
1.erefore,
salvation is man’s conscious identification of himself as within
God-hind, The only salvation nan needs is the self-deification
which we have mentioned— the "I will" completely associating
itself with the aI AM." In this process nan gradually refines
ills tody so that it is no Ion or subject to sense limitations.
The cycle of sickness, death, and rebirth--a limitation of error-
thought— is broken, and the fleshly body becomes a pure, spir­
itual body. Tliis psiritual body lives in the four-dimensional
world, tho world of thought, Just what this involves we cannot
now imagine. We shall later follow Unity’s suggestions concerning
what happened to the body of Jesus, but wc cannot be sure the
same will happen to ours. However, In the mind of Jesus the Biiind
of Being and the Thought of Being were joined, ar.d there was no
O
consciousness of separation or apartness," This suggests the
complete loss of conscious identity. The end of the process is
suggested in the following statement:
When infinite Kind has completed the cycles of creation, both
tho invisible and the vieiule universe will £o rolled up as
a 3 croll and disappear and only Kind remain.
In onoth.r place Mr. Fillmore says the Hindu name for this Kind
is "Brahn."^ This makes the Unity pattern cf pantheism complete,
^nTLc True Character of God," Correspondence School Les­
sons (Kansas City: Unity School of Christianity), Series 2,
Lesson 1 , p, 1 2 ,
2
Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing (14th ed,), p, 25,
^Charles Fillmore, Prosperity, p, 5.
^Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing (14th ed,)* p. 10*
I
CHAPTER VII
KAB
Tho Origin and nature of Man
Man originated not as c free act of a personal Creator
but by the process of the eternal Mind unfolding itself into self-
consciousness, “Man is a focal point in God-consclovsness and
expresses God,"’
1
- Wo have noted how ilr. Fillmoro conceives of God
as having three phases— substance, idea, and expression. Man,
the third of these phases, conos forth from the ether two. The
first phase, substance, is the passive essence out of which all
tilings evolve. This phase he frequently designates by the Old
Testament term, Eloliin, The second phase is the active, ideating,
or causal side of Being— that in Being which enables it to unfold
itself. "The supreme croative Spirit that we call God includes,
as of Kis very nature, fundamental laws or principles by which
He works." In Unity literature this phase of Be ng carries the
names Jehovuh, 1 AM, the Logos, or Man. This last term, when so
used, is always capitalized or given such an adjective as spir­
itual or ideal to distinguish it from the term used generically.
The generic nan, Adam, is the product of the elements of the es-
sonce phas-_- of Being, substance, life, love, intelligence, etc.,
ideated through tho active or causal side of Being. Aden is
Being expressed in thought. "God-Hind is under the lew of thought
seeking to express its perfection." The t o m "thought* is the
■^Charles Fillmore, Prosperity, p. 20.
p
Correspondence School Lessons. Series 2, Lesson 1, p. 7
5
Charles Fill more, Christian Healing (14th ©d.), p. 22.
■146
best Mr. Fillmore has to express the activity or movement of
Being. Ho insists that the key to God-Mind is the action of the
liman nind. Since nan is a "phase of God-Mind," his nind acts
like the original. Hence, as we apprehond the working of our own
nlnds we get an understanding of God-Mind. The basic quality of
the Individual nind is Its power to third:. Out of thinking cor.es
expression. Idoal man, then, is God in idea; racial ran is God
expressed,
Idind at the human level is not to be thought of as having
developed Into independent entities. Because each individual
nind manifests only bits of knowledge we seem to see myriads of
minds. But, in reality, "all knowledge, wisdom, and understand-
in;: are expressions of ideas in one Mind pressing forth through
different channels according to the capacity of the channel
through which they are comin^: forth.Irian Is simply Being ar-
\
riving at the "I-plano" of unfo^nent. Potentially, this ego
stage Is all that God is. God-Mind cannot be divided; every
stage of unfoldnent carries all that God is at that stago of evo­
lution, However, these stages ore demonstrations, and the Prin­
ciple is always superior to the demonstration. Therefore, the •
Individual should say, "The Father is greater than I,"
Since Being is triun6 — substance, idea, and expression-
man, made in the image of Being, is triune--spirit, soul, and
body. God and man arc under the some law of development. Han
* ■ » ■ ,»
■ .A. ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ » - ■ ■ ■ - ■ ■■■ ■ ■
■ — — ■ ■ ■
■
■
■ ■ ■ , ■ . ■ — -
1Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing (14th ed,), p« 22,
o
Correspondence School Lesaons, Series 2, Lesson 1, p, 12,
-147
as Spirit is like God ge Substance* Spirit is ideal nan, the
nonly-begottenn of Elohin, the Logos or I Ah* Tids first element
or, we should say, phase of nan is that which has existed from
cternit". hr. Fillmore frequently calls this phase "The Supcr-
conscio snes;," It Is the invisible, intangible, divine essence
of nan upon which the other two phases of the human trinity are
dependent.
Soul, the second in the trinity, is tine demonstration of
Spirit. "Spirit is potential man.-. • • 3 oul is demonstrated
n a n . T.ls second is the revelation of the first. ‘
'Man is
spirit, absolute and unconditioned, but nan forms an Adonic con­
sciousness into which he breathes the breath of life. This is
2
divine idea," The soul is that part of nan which says "I," It
is man’s memory, both conscious and subconscious; it is that
which responds to the Spirit or I A
i
! by saying "1 will," Unlike
nan’s Spirit, the soul is not eteivial although we cannot say when
any soul actually came into existence. Unity members believe
that every soul has gone through the process cf death ana birth
many tines. "The race tc which we belong o
r
. this planet began
tld.rJd.nj and acting in self-ccnsc lousnees many millions of years
ago. God alone knows the exact ago of evory soul," he shall
note the law of thoso repeated incarnations of soul as we deal
with the question of evil.
^■Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Han, p. 136,
~fchGrles Fillmore, hysterics of Genesis, p. 27.
Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of ilan, p. 136,
148-
Ae in the divine trinity, tho first or hlohin phase is
substance and the second or Jehovah phase is cause; so, in the
human trinity, spirit or supcrconsciousness is tho essence of
nan, and soul is the agent of man. Spirit or substance is at the
service of soul, and from substance soul force a body. The soul
accomplishes this feat by the power of thought. Thought even­
tuates in action, and action "gives rise to relation, tine and
space and form."^ Mr* Fillmore says: "Man is omnipotent Spirit,
l
i
e eupresses himself through soul, .which makes a dwelling called
2
-ody«n The body which nan originally organized for iiinself was
not a flcshLy body such as the race now manifests, Nov; tho body
of sian is natter, limited both in its functioning and life-span,
but soul*a original manifestation was a "divine-substance" or
"universal d_st" body without such limitations. "We should re­
member that the first Adam was perfect in his elemental soul and
body," The lir.iitationo v.kJLch are nov, a part of our odics will
be considered in a laser ooction,
A final word of caution at this point I lie!then the divine
trinity nor the human may be pei-titioned in our thought of then,
God is substance, idea, and expression; Man, too, is spirit, soul, .
and body. Soul is the extension of spirit, and body is theox-
tencion of spirit through soul. In Adam, the third phase of the
^"Charles FilL-iore, Thought, IV (cmy, 18y2), 93,
^Charles Fillmore, "ierpetual Incarnation vs. Reincarna­
tion," Unity. VIII (Hay, 1297), 421,
Charles Fillmore, Mysteries of Genesis, p, 2 2 ,
inrra^rmnii^TWi
-149-
divir.c trinity, the eternal he1ng is continuin' to evolve itself*
Han is alee like C-od in that he carries in his nature
both masculine ana feminine qualities* r
i
e have noted her; the
Divine Hind beg-.r.s to unfold icself through the process of idea­
tion, The l
e
.
f
i of unfolding Being seems always to carry both a
..ositive and a negative, a masculine and a feminine side.
Mental activity in Divine Hind presents two phases:
first, inception of the idea; and secondly, expression of the
idea. In every idea conceived in mind there is first the
quickening spirit cf life, followed by the increase of idea
in substance, wisdom is the Mmalen or expressive side of
Being, while love is the "female” cr receptive c_uc cf Being.
V.isdosi is the father quality of God and love is the mother
quality. In every idea there exist those tv/qualities of
mind, which t
i
n to in order to incroase and briny, forth under
law.
The first 3tage in the i;cation of Bein” was Jehovah— "spiritual
man or God’s perfect idea of man." Mr. hilinore says that tids
first ideation carried \7ithin itself both wl3don and love and
that tho very name of this first stage of God’s unfoilment ex­
pressed tills distinction of qualities.
Jehovah In the Hebrew is written ’Yahweh. ’ ’Yah’ is the mas­
culine and ’v/eh’ is the feminine. The word is made up of
masculine a d feminine elements and represents the joining
together of wisdom and love as a procreating nucleus.
Jehovah, the ideal man, formed Ada i
, tho man of 3df-cons clous-
nesc. In tiJ.3 process the male became separate from the female;
yet, even in this plane of existence, each individual center of
consciousness carries within itself both the masculine and tho
feminine principles. "In the 3ubconsc_cusnecs of every man is
%
trie feminine principle osu in that of every woman is the mascu­
line,Therefore, each human being is complete and needs nothing
2Ibld,. p, 50. 5Ibld,. p. 27.
1Ibid.# pp. 22-23
150-
outside himself to give satisfaction. As we shall see later,
tills idea forme the basis of ilr, Fillmore’s criticism of the ex­
ternal sox life of the race. He says that the command of Hlohim—
’
’
Be fruitful and multiply ana replenish the earth"— t/
cs not
spoken to manifest man, but to the Lo^os ana was c call to wisdom
and lovo to unite i
r
: bringing forth "true ideas, thov. ;hts and
consciousness forms itself into self-conscious centers. Here the
I AM becomes the "I will,"
As the will of God, man represents I AM identity. This
is self-ooxisciousnoce, freedom to act without dictation of
any kind, selfhood without consciousness of cause, the power
to make or break without limitation, constructive and destruc
tivc ability with a universe of potentialities. The will is
the man.
Apparently the God-process, as impersonal, lias evolved to its
Unit in i
.
i
u
n
. And ii the world process is to continue further It
must be ^y a deliberate act of the race. The potentiality of the
Infinite luis come to a focus in man, "God is the one Principle;
we are as free to use God as wo are free to use the principles of
mathematics and music. The principle never interferes. " 5 Man
docs not create any basic substance or originates ideas. God-
Substance, "without form and void," invisible and intangible,
fills the heavens. The ideas for manifesting it arc as eternal
as the Substance. Han’s task is to bring into expression the
jan*r Self-Realization
Man’s self-realization bepins at the point -..here the God
■151-
eternal Substance, God, by calling forth the ideas. In this sense,
man becomes a co-operator with God, What a wonderful opportunity}
An early Unity writer states it after this fashion:
i
r
i
a
:
.
' is the thinking part of God, Goc. in his rich know­
ledge, por/cr and wisdom, created (thought) man, and man ap­
peared in visibility, a conscious identity. As tbought bears
likeness to the mind whonco it proceeded, m
e
.
r
.
, God’s thought,
bears an exact likeness to the Universal Mind--Ocu, He is
the image and likeness of this Universal kind, ana he has the
power, as his Father has power, to font the world In which he
lives.
The techrioue by which, mar. is able to continue the crea­
tive activity, ccmbLnin^ the intangible Substance into forms after
the eternal patterns, is that used originally by dod— "Goa said,”
i'y nature, ideas manifest forms; that is the lav; of being, nAs
God created by the Spoken Word, •without which nothing was made
;hat was m so :.an can create by his spoken v:cri« If this
seems fer-fetched *6 must remember Unity's concept of the nature
of things. "Every form in the universe, every function, all
action, all substance--all these irave a tliinkin. part unich is
receptive and controllable by man. This is the key to nan's
creariveness* He does not need to "concern himself with the
action and reaction of the chemistry of matter, nor does he need
to know all the intricate laws of electricity and magnetism in
I, Froas, "Ti.in.king," Unit-. XII (Jan., 1900), 295.
^Charles Fillmore, Unity, XXIY (June, 1COG), 363,
^Charles Fillmore, Christian He-alia (Ifth od,), p, 46,
order to get the very highest use of them. They arc susceptible
A
to thought through the knowing factor in their construction,"
4 Ibid,, p. 47.
152-
All that nan r.ecde to know, then, la the eternal patterns
that arc to be ccmbined into foms and the words necessary to
bring the::* into expres. tor.. As :
jxc boon cur meted, this knowledge
is gained -irectly from Sod in an intuitive fashion. Potentially
a creator, on bee ores a perfect organ for the expression of
he r
. ac he realizes his true nature or oneness with Being. This
ic r
.
b
r
.
t hr. Fill.-.:ro tisane when he suggests that the individual
throw himself into ti
r
e tr nity. "Know -ourself as an integral
iron in the Divine hind, and all the ether ideas will recognize
you as a fellow w o r k e r . J u s t hov: this recognition works out is
illustrated by hia in the following paragraph:
Sever: emanations, or "woi-ds" or God are operative in the
natural world. They are; V.isdom, Life, Love, icv.hr. Substance,
Strength and Or. sr. All nature ic keyed to this scale. The
seven colors of t'^e spcctrur.., the sever, notes of music, the
sever, physical senses of mar. (two not yet universal y devel­
oped),^ are all emanations of the mystical Y.ordc of Being.
Urher: nan studios and masters thought he discoms the relation
between the various manifestations ar.i the "wor.s* from which
they arise. To illusorato: uher. the word Life is repeated
in the mind a vibration is sent out whoso cole: ic red, in the
musical 3 calc it is do, and its substance ic alcohol; so each
"word" lias its effect upon the sever, fundamental planer of
the natural wcri_, and wi.cn mar: learns to U3e words in the
right relation, ho has the key to all creative processes, and *
can, at will, charge not onlp his own body, but also all the
natural forcos operative everywhere,
l
i
a
r
.
's "chief end," then, is the self-conscious evolution of Being.
This self-conscious evolution involves the deliberate organization
*
»
In a body of three basic factors or streams of Divine :-eing— life.
> P. lb.
<
T4r. Fillmore says the two undeveloped senses are thinking
and intuitive percoptior.. "The brain ic the thinking organ and
the solar plexus is the receiving organ." Charles Fillmore,
Weekly Uni tv. XXII (Feb. 28, 1951), S.
5Charles Fillmore. "Sunday School Lassons." Unity. XX
(Jan*, 1904), 30, * *
•163—
substance, and intelligence. These exist in Being as unconscious
of each other. "Each of these attributes is conscious only of
the principle involved in lt."^- Man as "I" is to lay hold of
these three attributes and so relate them in his body that he
gives a perfect demonstration of Being in bodily form:
Jehovah God, the active representation of Divine Mind
in man, places man in the Garden of Eden^ to "dress it and t
to keep it." Man dresses and keeps this garden by develop­
ing in his consciousness, the original, pure ideas of Divine
Mind. As man establishes ideas of Truth in his mind he calls
into manifestation his spiritual body imaged in Bubstance by
Divine Mind.*
As generic man does this through the body his whole, total en­
vironment positively responds so making a universal demonstration.
Thus the Son of man consciously becomes Son of God. He can say:
"I and the Father are one." Ea^h individual achieves his true
destiny by becoming in his bodily manifestation an epitome of
Being. In this man finds complete satisfaction.
The Origin and Nature of Sin
Mr. Fillmore insists (the one point at which he deliber­
ately turns from intuition and logic) that the theological con­
cept of the "fall of man"* is historically true. Our universal
experience ahows us that man is not now spiritual or perfect.
The possibility of evil in the evolutionary process arose at the*
*
*
^Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Man, p. 130.
2Mt . Pillmore says the Garden of Eden is an allegorical
representation of the elemental life and intelligence placed at
the disposal of man through which he is to evolve a soul and body.
See Charles Fillmore, Mysteries of Genesis, p* 33.
^Charles Fillmore, Mysteries of Genesis, p. 38.
**The 'fall of Man' antedated the formation of this planet
as we behold it geologically,* Charles Fillmore, Jesus Christ's
Atonement (Kansas City: Unity School of Christianity), p. A pamphlet
•154
point where the universe developed self-consciousness. Freedom,
a characteristic of Being, came to a focus in form at the level
of self-conscious expression. The inherent characteristic of
self-conscious form is that it must voluntarily maintain itself.
Form at this level is more than an extension of Principle; it is
also a user of Principle. Freedom consists of man’s ability to
combine the characteristics of Being as he sees fit. The charac­
teristics of Being which come to expression in human nature are
Strength, Faith, Wisdom, Love, Power, Imagination, Understanding,
Will, Order, Zeal, Renunciation, and Life. Man's task is to com­
bine these characteristics according to the law of Truth. There
are a multitude of possible combinations but only one true com­
bination. "Man forms his own consciousness from the elements of
Ood, and he alone is responsible for the r e s u l t s . S i n consists
in setting up a wrong relationship between these elements of
Being.
How man came to make this wrong combination of the ele­
ments of Being is explained allegorically in the third chapter of
Genesis. In cultivating the garden of Eden, i. e., in handling
the elements of Substance, Adam had two possibilities: First,
he might turn directly to God, the I Am of him, and gain an ab­
solute knowledge of the law of Truth, There could, then, have
been no failure on man’s part. Or man could begin to experiment
and gain a phenomenal knowledge of the relations existing between
the elementa of his nature. "Man is a free agent. He can open
his mind to the divine intelligence and know the creative law, or
^Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Man, p. 161.
-155-
he can work out hie character through blind experimentation,"^-
The human pair took the second way thinkin that they would thus
gain wisdom and pleasure. The serpent, the "life center” and the
organ of "sensation,” tempted the soul, "the center of feeling
and love," suggesting indulgence in the pleasures of sense as the
way to a deeper understanding of God and his laws. The soul or
love center succumbed to the suggestion of sense consciousness
and turned itself downward in the body to the life center instead
of pushing upward to the wisdom center in the body. Thus the
serpent became 'the villain in breaking up the "holy marriage" of
wisdom and love through which union Being was perfectly manifest­
ing its ideas. "Man's sin is the misappropriation of ideas,
n
which leads to sensation."^ Man's fall is his descent into the
"lower consciousness of sense."
God cannot be blamed for this failure on the part of man.
"Sensation is itself a divine creation, and all God's creation
was pronounced good."3 Nor was man's fall a moral one. Be acted
blindly, failing to understand the real nature of sensation. Sen­
sation is a mental quality in nature and can be satisfiod only
by being lifted up by the spiritual side of nan's being. "The mar­
riage mystically spoken of in Scripture, and in other sacred
books, takes place in consciousnessj it is a so\il communion of
*the two-in-one more sweet than that between the most harmoniously
■^Charles Fillmore, Mysteries of Genesis, p. 66.
^Ibld., p, 50.
5Ibid., p. 53.
mated man and woman M1
-156-
If man had realized the true nature of
hie being; if the feminine In man— the love center, located near
the heart— had arisen to union with the masculine in man— the
wisdom center, located at the top of the head-man would have
experienced an ecstasy far beyond anything that outward physical
Bensation could give.
But man ignorantly chose the other way and expressed his
choice in the "misuse of the sexual function," the results, says
Mr. Fillmore, were disastroust
In its right relation the serpent stands upright on its
tail, and forms the connecting link between the swift vibra­
tory forces of Spirit and the alow vibrations of the flesh.
. . . In the body the spinal cord is the main cable of sen­
sation, "the tree . . . in the midst of the garden," and
its branches extend to all parts of the system. The "fruit"
of this "tree," which the desire for sensation (serpent)
urges man to eat, is the seminal fluid, which flows through­
out the nervous system and is the connecting link between the
mind and body. When desire for sensation leads man to dis­
sipate (eat) this precious "fruit" of the "tree" in his
earthly garden, the whole nervous system is drained of its
vitality and the spinal cord loses its capacity to conduct
the higher life into the consciousness.*
Sex sensation has made a broken cistern of man's con­
sciousness; for generations the life stream has been turned
into this receptacle, and lust has robbed the bodies of the
whole race, making them mere shells, void of life. The
failing eye, the deaf ear, the festering or withering flesh,
all bear testimony to this perversion of God's life.*
Some Unity teachers have hesitated in so thoroughly condemning
all sexual intercourse; but Mr. Fillmore, during the entire his­
tory of his movement, has been very explicit in' this interpreta­
tion of the nature of man's sin. In an earlier ohapter, we have*
2
^Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Man, p. 164.
2rbid., pp. 165-166 ^Ibld., p. 163
•157.
given quotations showing his teaching before 1920. The following
statement is taken from hia moBt recent treatment of the subject:
The tendoncy to plead that there must be good in sense
habits persists very strongly. We cannot conceive why these
functions, wliich seem, so necessary to reproduction of the
race, should not b© under the divine law, This is because we
have not yet awakened to the fact that they are but an exter­
nal and counterfeit expression, a degenerate imitation of di­
vine reproduction.
Van’s mental transgression cannot be interpreted as a sin
against God. God is not the kind of being that can be touched by
evil.
In the serene Mind of Ood, there is no duality, no good and
bad, no day and night, no understanding and ignorance.2
There is no such thing as sinning against Ood for this would
imply that we could break up the very foundations of Being
itself.3
Man cannot corrupt the inherent purity of any of God’s attri­
butes.4
These statements are in line with Unity’s frequently repeated as­
sertion: "God is good; there is no evil."5 Here Unity 1b often
confvised with Christian Science, But Unity does not deny the
existence of evil; it only denies its independent existence.
"Good and evil are opposite but not adverse to each other."6 Evil •
^Charles Fillmore, Mysteries of Genesis, p. 101.
2Charlcs Fillmore, Christian Healing (14th ed,), p. 51.
^Charles Fillmore, "Where True Reform' Begins," Unity, XII
(Feb,, 1900), 553.
^Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Man, p. 130.
• *
*
^Charles Fillmore, Pure Reason and Honest Logic of Prac­
tical Christianity, p. 50 (pamphlet).
^Charles Fillmore, Mysteries of Genesis, p. 55.
-158-
does exist temporarily but it does not have Principle back of it;
evil does not adhere in substance, for substance is all of God.
Evil is only wrong relationship between the elements of substance,
and it has only such .onier as the human mind gives it. When we
quit thinking in terms of wrong relationships, evil will disap-
Let us compare God to the sun and the clouds and mists to
evil and sin. The clouds and miet3 pass away; they are un­
enduring and therefore not real. They are not a part of the
sun, and although they may seem to hide its shining glory for
a while at times, yet they eventually cease to be, while the
sun continues to shine on. In like manner the aril and sin
within people . . . seem to hide the glory of the Christ
within them, but eventually that which is not of God will
pass away, and the beauty and goodness of God will be re­
vealed.1
Again, man’s mental transgression did not destroy his
ability to manifest or form things through the power of thought
and words. This power is inherent in man as a center of self-
consciousness.
Even in hiB ignorant use of thought, nan's mind is form­
ing conditions, even to the changing of the face of nature
itself. Every thought that goes forth from the brain sends
vibrations into the surrounding atmosphere and moves the realm
of things to action. The effect is in proportion to the
.ability of the thinker to concentrate his mental forces. The
average thought vibration produces but temporaiy results, but
under intense activity, conditions more or less permanent are
impressed upon the sensitive plate of the universal ether, 2
and through it they are brought into physical manifestation.
Thought, word, manifestation— this is the eternal law. Even
"every idle word" produces its proper effect. "The curses of the
witch and blessings of the priest" equally manifest in nature.
pear:
^"Explanations," Unity, LXXVT (Jan., 1952), 80.
^Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing (14th ad.), p. 67.
8Ibld.. p. 62.
-159-
This explains certain seeming inconsistencies which we see about
us. If thought makes the body how can a selfish person manifest
a beautiful body? Unity would reply that beauty, health, wealth,
etc., are not rewards given for certain thoughts; they are the
expression of thought. Their absence is an evidence of limited
or error thinking, but their presence is not necessarily an evi­
dence of good thinking.^-
Stated positively, Adam and Eve in their fall into sense-
consciousness lo81 sight of the one great causing Mind.^ "Man
became confused and lost in a maze of effects and secondary
causes."^ He brought himself into a false state of consciousness,
binding himself in limitation and error, and thus shutting off
for a time his divine possibilities. Through ignorance man be­
came "Personal,""^ "Personality" affirms "possession and separa­
tion," but in the logic of the Absolute there can be no apartness
from the Universal, Because man set himself over against Being,
^•Por example: "Selfish persons are usually vain also.
Therefore they absort all good with but one idea in mind, to
perfect and beautify -heir physical bodies. Hot having the beauty
of Spirit, but desiring to be attractive to their fellowoeings,
they substitute the counterfeit, the beauty of form. Since thoughts
make the body, their bodies develop according to the idea they
hold in the mind, the idea of a beautiful body." "Answers to
Question*," Unity, XL (May, 1914), 595.
^Mr. Pillmore states this quite materialistically: "When
the desire for sensation leads man to dissipate the previous fruit
of the tree of life in his earthly garden, the whole nervous sys­
tem is depleted and loses its capacity to contact the higher life
current and super-mind wisdom." Charles Fillmore, Mysteries of
Ueneais, p. 63.
^Ibld., p. 47.
^Personality is defined as "s false state of conscious-
-160-
the Divine Mind,"^ and "is no longer inaplred with the ability
to idealize direct from the ether"** to satisfy his needs. In terms
of the third chapter of Genesis, man now received a "coat of skins"
and was "sent forth from the garden of Eden." The "coat of skins"
indicates that the "divine-substance" body which man originally
had was now slowed down in its vibrations until it became the
body of flesh— a body corresponding in quality to man’s thought.
"Sent forth from the garden of Eden" means that man now seeks to
supply his needs through toiling in effects rather than supplying
them direct from first Cause through conscious union with his I
AM or euperconsciousnesa.
In summary, man by sinning did not lose contact with
Being. All that man is and uses is Divine Substance. Nor did
nan lose his ability to ideate or express in forms under the law
of Being. But, because he blindly turned from Being as Cause,
man put mental limitations on Being’s expressions. Man began to
Ideate forms under the limited sphere of "personal" consciousness.
"All ideas have their origin in Divine Mind, but man has put the
limitation of his thought upon them and see them ’in a mirror,
darkly.’"® As a sinner, man has inevitably affected both his own
body and his environment. Under the law of thought man has im-
ness formed by identifying one’s self with error." "Definitions
of Karnes Used in Practical Christianity," Unity, XL (Jan., 1914),
30.
^Qharles Pilltaore, Mysteries of Genesis, p. 60.
^Ibid., p. 54,
^Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing (14th ad.), p. 41.
-161-
posed directly upon himself such basic limitations as disease,
poverty, and death. Under the same law he has “by ignorant
thoughts and words, interfered with the natural harmony— produc-
ing cyclones, droughts, floods,"'" Man has sinned only against
himself.
The Historical Consequences of Sin
First, as a result of sin, each individual soul when it
manifests form now has a gross, fleshly body formed by "limited"
or error thought. This body is subject to bondage through con­
scious and subconscious*
2 thoughts— "thoughts of fear, anger, jeal­
ousy, hate, poverty, death," Death is now the universal experi­
ence ,
Secondly, following the fall of man, the race by its in­
herent power to manifest ideas has created a realm that separates
it in consciousness from the Father-Mind, The babe is bound by
/
his physical environment. Incongruous conditions in the formed
realm about him— not only such larger catastrophes as earthquake
and flood, but malformation of body, disease, and the like sug­
gest limitations to his thought. This explains why we, the off­
spring of Divine Mind, "are not naturally conscious of its pre­
sence,"^ This process has been building up through the centuries,
^■"Sunday School Lessons," Unity, XX (Jan., 1904), SO,
21 use the term in the Unity sense to mean "the sum of all
maj-^s past thinking," This refers to previous incarnations as
well as the present. See "Befinitions of Names Used in Practical
Christianity," Unity, XL (Jan., 1914), 50.
^Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing (14th ed.), p, 14*
•162
Son©times the effects are apparent at once, but sometimes the man­
ifestations of combined-error-thinking are delayed for long per­
iods of time. They then break forth with terrific violence, pro­
viding avenues of escape for the "pent-up” error within. Such
vas the flood of Noah’s tine. "If all could understand this law
of thought expression, r
t
c would realize that thinking not only
influences our own affairs but contributes to the total race
thought and by the sane law cones Into expression in the race
environment."^
Thirdly, inheritance plays its part; traists of mind and
body are handed down from generation to generation. Mr. Fillmore
thinks that physical heredity may have some effects, but he de­
finitely minimises it.^ The dominant characteristics of a child
until the age of puberty are largely determined by physical hered­
ity and the conscious thoughts of the parents. His emphasis,
however, lies in another direction. "It is not in the flesh that
we inherit, but in the thoughts of the flesh."® Believing in
reincarnation, he says that the "incarnating Ego," "the great ag­
gregation of cells known as man," begins to assert a character of
its own at tho age of puberty. IIabit3 of thought are thus car­
ried over from generation to generation.^ "The flesh has returned*
*
^Charles Fillmore, Mysteries of Genesis, p, 63.
^See Charles Fill-ore, "Reincarnation Questioned," Unity
XXVIII (April, 1906), 212.
^Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Man, p. 145.
*Kr. Fillmore illustrates by referring to a case of dumb
ness in a ohild in whom all the organs of speech were perfect.
-163-
to dust, but its memories endure until a higher mind power clean­
ses and lifts them to purer states of consciousness,"^ We always
get the fruit of our earthly acts in some future earthly life.
This may seem to be unjust to some parents, but Mr. Fillmore assures
us that the incarnating Ego is under the law of attraction. Like
attracts like. The souls of murderers and drunkards are drawn to
people of similar thinking. If we hold pure thoughts, "there is
no danger of tramp Egos incarnating" with us.
In the fourth place, there is a social drag upon the
individual. This appears in two places: First, the thought of
the child from his birth is geared to the realm of effects. When
man sinned and lost contact consciously with Wisdom, the first
Cause, he turned to the intellect for guidance. Thus the soul
became wedded to the intellect, and the racial system of educa­
tion rises no higher. Racial education is concerned primarily
with the "realm in which the thoughts and actions of the mind
are concerned with reason^ and the relation of ideas in the outer
Such a person through anger or moroseness undoubtedly had refused
to talk for a long period in a previous experience. Thus a habit
had been fixed in his mentality and carried over into the next gen­
eration, See Unity, XVI (April, 1902), 241, He affirms that this
law worked itBelf out in the experience of Paul, who because of
his ambition was reincarnated as Napoleon Bonaparte, Unity, XVIII
(Jan., 1903), 36.
^Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Man, p. 145,
^Charles Fillmore, "Reincarnation Questioned," Unity,
XXVIII (April, 1906), 212.
r. Fillmore says that such men as Kant, Hegel, Mill,
Schopenhauer, and Sir William Hamilton are limited in their think­
ing because they handle the mind and its faculties from this
intellectual standpoint only. See Charles Fillmore, The Twelve
-164-
w o r l d . M o d e m science has bogged man in the realm of effects.
But beyond the educational pattern, there is an immediate
social drag upon the individual of which he for the most part 1b
unaware. Society thinks many negative thoughts, and these thoughts
directly affect the individual as well as physical nature. It is
possible to think another into disease or even death. Perhaps
some children have diseases because of the fear thoughts of their
parents, although they also may come from the thoughts in a pre­
vious incarnation. All thoughts, "the curse of the witch as well
as the blessings of the priest," produce vibrations which are re-
O
corded in whatever they strike. While Mr. Fillmore thinks it
beat not to dwell on this, it is a necessary part of his theory.
He does caution his readers against thinking negative thoughts
and also suggests ways by which they can protect themselves
against such thoughts from others.
The time is coming when man will be able to perceive the im­
pact of a thought as he is now able to feel a physical blow.
When that time comes the nature of thought will be better
understood, and the world will assume the defensive against
negative thought waves.
Protection against negative thought waves requires constant
vigilance, and the most definite and successful protection*
1
*
3
Powers of Man, p. £3.
1Ibld.
®This was the basis of Mr. Fillmore’s argument concern­
ing the positive efficacy of the blessed Red Leaf (see pp. 53-57).
On its negative side, this line of thinking bears a resemblance to
Mrs. Eddy’s,"M. A. 15.," which the Fillmores so vigorously criti­
cized in 1889.
3"Power of Thought over Another," Uhity, LXX (April,
1932), 81. ----
■165
consists in keeping the mind so filled with constructive
ideas that there literally is no room left in which negative
thoughts may find lodgment.1
Finally, in spite of the fact that sin does not adhere
in Principle and that it is e mental transgression only, the con­
dition of man is quite serious. This is evident from the regular­
ity with which death attacks the race. What has happened to the
race? "The tendency of thought emanation is to crystallize about
the form it has made, and, in spite of the struggle of the man ego,
p
to hold it." This has taken place in the case of man. He has
submerged his thinking power in a gross thouofrt-pattern, which we
can only designate as "carnal conscicuBness.* Tnis racial state
of mind has become so crystallized that we are held in bondage to
the mortal beliefs of "sin, evil, sickness, fleshly lusts and
d e a t h . A l t h o u g h man ha3 absolute freedom4 so far as his will
is concerned, fcr will is an attribute of Being, somehow he has
not been a:le to demonstrate the immortal life in form, which is
his intended destiny as a self-conscious ego. Man now finds him­
self "we k" under the "hypnosis of d e a t h . M r . Fillmore sum-
^■"Business Problems," Good Business, :iXXI (Aug., 1957),
46.
g
^Charles Fillmore, Jeaua Chrlat*s Atonement, p. 6.
5Ibid., p. 7
A
See Charles Fillmore, Christian Sealing (14th ed.), pp.
101-102, where he deals with the problem of free will. He sayst
"We know that God is the Great Unlimited, and man, his *image and
likeness,* must be of the same character; consequently man has the
same freedom that God has to act in the fulfillment of desire."
^Charles Fillmore, "The Metaphysical Significance of the
Crucifixion," Unity, LXX (Jan., 1952), 3.
narlzes the condition of man as follows:
We can readily see how a whole race night be caught in the
meshes of its own thought emanations and, through this drowsy
ignorance of the man ego, remain there throughout eternity,
unless a break were made in the structure and t
r
i
o light of a
higher way let in. This is exactly what has happened to our
race
The race has become lost in the meshes of its own thought emana­
tions .
Under the influence of the "carnal thought" pattern of
the race, individuals are also binding themselves more firmly,
bringing particular diseases upon themaolves by the power of their
thoughts and words. Mr. Fillmore says that "materia nedica" and
metaphysics agree that the immediate cause of disease is microbes
or germs. But the physician, who deals with effects only, cannot
account for the origin of microbes. So he deals with the situa­
tion only superficially by trying to destroy the microbes. The
metaphysician, on the other hand, knowing that "every mental pro­
cess is generative . . . stands in tho storehouse of thoughts and
O
sees them poured into visibility as microbes." These microbes
are of every sort depending upon the character of man’s thinking.
"Fear, anger. Jealousy, lust, and kindred thoughts manufacture
disease germs, and no sanitation or serum will ever stop their
destruction."3 Even death has its own specific microbe which
^Charles Fillmore, Jesus Christ’s Atonement, p. 7.
^Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing (2nd ed., 1910),
P. 147.
Charles Fillmore, A Talk on Christian Healing (Kansas
City: Unity school of Christianity), p. 6 (pamphlet). Perhaps
are unnecessary, for Unity teaches that diseases do not come be-
■167.
completes the action of the others*
Therefore, to know the names doctors associate with par­
ticular diseases is not important; rather, we should study to
learn the particular thought which calls forth the microbes that
produce that particular condition. Unity has taken car to point
out many of these thoughts, connecting them with their particular
disease manifestation. The following diagnosis of thought-causes
is taken from their text. Divine Remedies
Anaemia . . . results from a belief in a lack of strength
and substance of life.
High blood pressure results from tension, from living too
much in the head.
A hard, unforgiving state of mind, hardheartedness, is often
the cause of hardening of the arteries.
Continuous thought about self and selfish interests throws
the life force to the nerve centers and those centers become
clogged. This causes deafness.
A condition of cross-eyes denotes an inner crossing of the
thoughts.
Cataracts are caused by looking at the material world too
closely.
Corns and bunions denote a belief in hard, material condi­
tions. They also may be produced by pride.*
The top brain is the seat of spiritual thought, and persons
cause other people have them. The microbes seem to stay with the
person who has called them forth. See Unity, LX (Feb., 1926),
171.
^Divine Remedies (Kansas City: Unity School of Chris­
tianity, 19155) (pamphl et).
^Sometimes they forget their theory that all disease
cause is mental. In this instance they suggest that corns may
also be produced by lack of good Judgment in choosing shoes. See
Divine Remedies, p, 47.
168-
whose minds are kept active in the higher ideals seldom become
baldheaded. Most men become bald aa they approach middle age
because they get material in their thoughts; the cells in the
top brain become atrophied and the hair follicles die. Women
more than men, are given to religious thought; they keep alive
the top brain, and therefore few women get bald.
Worry is the cause of Bright's disease.
The root cause of rheumatism is a critical, cynical state of
mind. . . . which fills the nerves with an acid that eats out
the vitality.
Grief and bitterness are tho root causes of gallstones.
Some thought of accumulation is the cause of too much flesh--
obesity.
Paralysis often res Its from financial grasping and holding.
Infantile paralysis has its primal cause In the foar of the
loss of life.
The central thought cause of goiter is greed.^ The greed may
not be for money; it may be a desire for knowledge or some
other good, a desire that has become such an all-absorbing
interest in the individ’
ial's consciousners that he has become
selfish and stingy.
Constipation is the expression in the body of selfish thought.
Poverty, also, belongs among the diseases: "It Is oauaed
by a microbe that infests and grows lean in the brains of those
who c ltlvate it by their poor thoughts,"^ "Nobody needs to be
poor. It is a sin to be poor."^ In the same way, by the law
^■Unity's diagnosis of goiter was a critical point in
the trial of Clark v. Commerce Trust Co. et al. The plaintiff's
attorneys argued that such statements had an undue influence on
Miss Laura R. MacVahon in her willing her property to Unity. Miss
Macliahon had toxic goiter. See Case No. 50415 Supreme Court of
Missouri, AppellantYs Abstract of Record, II, 867 f.
^Charles Fillmore, "Our Prosperity Treatments," Unity,
XXI (Aug., 1904), 111. ----
^Charles Fillmore, Prosperity, p. 60.
-169-
that like attracts like, man gathers about him those forris of
animal life that distress him and cause him discomfort. For ex­
ample, mice may be attracted from their native hearth into the
home because someone there holes "unsatisfied thoughts," espec­
ially an unsatisfied sense-consciousness for food."^
Thought causes are so complex that it is not always pos­
sible to point out the specific thought which causes a particular
disease; nor can we infer, when we see one under the dominance
of a certain ill, that his own immediate thought has produced
the condition. Else we could not explain how people who in their
conscious minds are far removed from impure and limited thoughts
become victims. The thought cause cf a particular disease may
lie in the great relm of tho subconscious. In it lie stored
error-thoughts received from ancestors or from commonly accepted
beliefs of the race or from previous incarnations.
I£r. Fillmore suggests, however, that It is not necessary
to know the specific thought connected with a disease in order to
overcome it. What we need to realize is that mind ha a dual
nature— a "yes" function and a "no" function. We see this dual
aspect of mind expressed In all nature. Night and day, hot and
cold, intelligence and ignorance proclaim it. And diseases are
largely an overemphasis of or.c of these states of mind, A grasp­
ing, affirmative mind carries with it constipation and other
stomach troubles, A mind excessively negative will end in dropsy,
kidney trouble, or Bright’s disease. So will all discasesl Ide-
^■See "Answers to Questions," Unity, XV (Dec., 1901), 573.
alists, especially, should understand this, for they are likely
to bring physical disabilities upon themselves in their attempts
to reform others. If a reformer's "feelings cone to the point of
’righteous indignation’ and he ’boils’ with anger over the evils
of the world, he will cook the corpus^Le3 of his b l o o d . H e n c e ,
we should not attach ourselves too strongly to the social ill6 of
our fellow men. An excessive "yes" or "no" state of mind leads to
disease. Disease, if it is not arrested and "dissolved," leads
to death.
^Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing (14th ea.), p. 117,
CHAPTER VIII
SALVATION
Unity School of Christianity teaches "Practical Chris­
tianity for Practical Christiana," which it interprets as the
"application in all the affairs of life of the doctrine of Jesus
Christ."^ It thinks of itself as restoring that system of re­
demption taught by Jesus Christ, now largely lost by the organized
church. It uses In the presentation of its thought much of the
nomenclature of orthodox Christianity. Such terns as "forgive­
ness," "repentance," "regeneration," "the new birth," "resurrec­
tion of the body," "atonement," "crucifixion," and the "second
coming of Jesus Christ" frequently occur in its literature.
But it does not offer to its adherents the salvation
proposed by the orthodox confessions. It does not concern itself
with a future heaven in which the "saints Immortal reign." The
keys of the kingdom which Jesus gave to Peter are given to "all
who through faith apply the binding (affirming) and loosing (de­
nying power of Spirit.in the earth (substance consciousness,)"^
"Unity teaches that the eternal life taught and demonstrated by
Jesus® Is not gained by dying, but by refining the body until it1
1Unity, XXXIX (July, 1913), 1.
^Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Man, p. 17,
®Mr. Fillmore says: "It adds greatly to the stability
of a Christian's faith to know that Jesus anticipated the dis­
coveries of modern science of the existence of that kingdom
called the 'ether.' He named it the kingdom of the heavens and
His illustrations of its possibilities are unsurpassed. He did
not say it was a place the good would inherit after death but an
estate we could have here and now." Charles Fillmore, Prosperity,
P* 5.
-172-
becomes the undying habitation of the soul."^*" Its central doc­
trine ia the "regeneration of the body," here and now. It claima
to teach how the individual can demonstrate health over sickness,
prosperity over poverty, life over death. Unity ia the religion
of "Perpetual Incarnation."
Since both God and man are under the law of Being, sal­
vation involves the reversal of the process through which man be­
came lost. Man became lost by ignorantly turning away from the
source of his life— Divine Mind. In the place of Divine Mind he
set up "personality," and this has proved the "abomination of deso-
lation" for him. If he is to reclaim the infinite resources that
belong to him as a son of God, he mist deliberately reunite him­
self with Being that "God may be all in all." This involves in
each individual the reunion of the subconscious mind— "the sum of
all man's past thinking" including its work of carrying on the
functions of the body®— with the Superconscious Mind— the I AM or
Christ— through the agency of the conscious mind. After this
"involution" has taken place, "evolution" will naturally follow.
Evolution consists in dissolving out of the conscious and sub­
conscious life all the temporal forms produced by "personal"
thinking and putting in their place the unlimited, imperishable
forms of infinite wisdom. Unity suggests four practical steps in
accomplishing this end* First, enter into self-realization of
^Charles Fillmore, "Why Unity Withdrew from the I. H, T,
A.," Unity. LVII (July, 1922), 49.
fUnitv, XX (Jan., 1904), 56 (editorial).
‘
■'See ’
'Definition of Mamas Used in Practical Christianity,"
Unity, XL (Jan., 1914), 50.
175-
your divinity through the practice of "the Silence." Secondly,
by use of "denials" in thought and word dissolve out of existence
all these temporary manifestations of evil that have been formed
by the sense-consciousness. Thirdly, by use of "affirmations" in
thought and word manifest the true, unlimited ides^ of Being both
in the body and in the environment. Finally, co-operate with the
divine ideas which you are manifesting by appropriate action in
the process of living.
The Silence
The best method of freeing one's self from the "personal"
or sense-consciousness and restoring to its rightful throne the
superconsciousness is the practice of the Silence. Through its
exercise the theory that God is omnipresent can be vitalized into
individual realization. The Silence must not be looked upon as
an end in itself; it is the open door into the infinite resources
of Divine Being. Its fundamental purpose is "to establish a means
of communion between God and man."^ The Silence should be prac­
ticed consistently. It is man's opportunity to establish himself
at the center of his being, the one place where the supply of
life and substance is Inexhaustible. God is the eternal life
that he makes into living. There are three stages in the prac­
tice: relaxation, concentration, realization.* First, the in­
dividual should put himself in a comfortable position and then
seek physical and mental freedom by surrendering to the presence
and power of God. If need be, one should flefinitely think his
^S. V. Ingraham, The Silence (Kansas City: UHity School
of Christianity, 1957), p. T5~.
•174
body into relaxation part by part.^ This la necessary In order
to break up the tensions built up by the "personal" ego and to
release the individual from a consciousness of self.
Relaxation should be followed by concentration— the at-
tunement of the individual to the Infinite. One should not be
*
too strenuous in this but should approach it with joyous antici­
pation. The easiest way to concentration is to turn the attention
to some statement of truth upon which meditation can take place.
The individual can meditate himself into oneness with Divine
Kind.
The more you think about the Christ within, the stronger
will grow your consciousness of the divine presence and your
oneness with Him, until you can be still, and "know that I
am God"; until you can still all the outer thoughts and medi­
tate upon "Christ in you the hope of glory." Many have been
helped mightily, gloriously in finding the silence, by re­
peating the holy name "Jesus Christ" time after time with
short intervals between.
The most necessary thing here Is to select a simple statement
capable of Infinite enlargement. Such statements as "God is the
name of my Good" or "I think thy thoughts after thoe" are the
common practice of the Unity group.
True meditation consists in allowing the mind to make
unlimited flights of speculation regarding the nature of the
mind of God, the power of that mind, the love of that mind,
the wisdom contained in that mind, the substance which comes
Myrtle Fillmore gives these instructions: "When you
start to go into the silence, you should breathe evenly, in the
happy feeling that you are taking in great drafts of God's pure
life-sustaining air, . . . Take your attention down out of the
head into tl^e organism. The flow of the blood will follow the at­
tention down into the trunk of the body and into the feet and
hands, and thus the forces of being as well as the flow of the
blood stream will be equalised." Letters of Myrtle Fillmore, p. 57.
^Letters of Myrtle Fillmore, p. 40.
•175
from that mind and out of which all things are formed, the
instant availability of all the elements of that mind to the
individual who is open and receptive to it, and so on until
man becomes conscious of the presence of God as he is now
conscious of the presence of warmth, of light, or of any other
element with which he has become familiar.*
The final stage of the Silence is realization. The in­
dividual should never hasten from concentration and meditation
into action; he should av/ait the "still small voice within" until
every fiber of his being thrills with the assurance that he is
always standing in God’s presence.
As you come out of the Silence, count your blessings and
give thanks for them. Realise that owty the good exists in
you and your world, that the power you contacted in the
silence may have opportunity to multiply and increase your
blessings. Give thanks that you have already received the
good for which you looked to God in the silence.^
It is not easy for one immersed in materialistic thinking to prac­
tice the Silence. Such a person should not so prolong it that
his relaxation is broken but should return to it often. Uhity
not only gives instruction in the private practice of the Silence
but actually drills in this method of approach to God in each of
its public services. Its public prayer is a communal practice of
the Silence,
The Silence, inducing in the individual a realization of
his oneness with God, prepares him for action. Since Unity be­
lieves that all concrete expressions are the product of ideas,
action means ideation. The process of ideation, in thought andV
.
V. Ingraham, The Silence, pp. 23-24.
2Letters of Myrtle Fillmore, p. 42.
176-
T l
word, is carried on by the method of denials and affirmation*.
Knowing that all good things are in the One Great Univer­
sal Mind, and that we can only come into a consciousness
thereof through thought, we use in a systematized way thi*
"I can't" and "I can," to bring about any desired change in
our condition. We group under the head of "Denials" those
false appearances of whitfh we wish to be rid, and under "Af­
firmations" those desirable qualities which we know to be
potential in Infinite Mind.
with error thoughts. Denial (repentance in orthodox theology)
a
is the method of cleansing the individual from these limited ex­
pressions of Idea. "What man forma that is evil he must uhform.
. . . Here enters the factor that dissolves the structures that
are no longer useful; this factor in metaphysics is known as
denial."^ Through denial the individual repudiates the false be­
liefs that have produced physical, mental, or financial trouble.
These false belief* have encrusted themselves about the cells of
our bodies and souls; and, by denial, this crust is broken through
so that the substance and life of the cells are freed to accom­
plish their Initial impulse, which is to conform to the divine-
natural law. Mr. Fillmore says that the "greatest discovery of
all ages" is "that man has power to deny and dissolve all disin-
tegrating, discordant, and disease-forming words."
"deny the name for any seeming inharmony." Thinking is formative
Denial
First, deniall Man Is now filled, both in soul and body.
In d-aling with any particular disease we must first
^"Six Day* Treatment," Thought, III (Sept., 1891), 243.
^Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Man, p. 148.
^Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing (14th ed.), p. 64.
177-
and to carry In your mind the name which the physician^ gave to
the inharmony only fastens the disease on the individual more
securely. Then, take up the thought and word cause of the disease
p
and dissolve them out of existence.
Unity deals with the disease of poverty in the same v/ay
as with other diseases. Ihe individual must drop out of the mind
every thought that suggests that God's bounty is limited or that
it can be locked up from any one. "Lack of any kind is not pos­
sible in God’s universe. Sc when there is an appearance of pov­
erty anywhere, it is our duty to deny it."3 The only lack is the
fear that haunts the mind of man. We need to "overcome the fear
of lack."4
In using the method of denial one of the most necessary
things is to forgive oneself. Here is where many fail in the
demonstration. They let their consciences trouble them. One
Mr. Fillmore states: "Doctors are especially industrious
in creating microbes in their particular line. They make a new
disease every day, or rename an old one, and each is endued with
its specific microbe that gives it standing among the people who
believe in such things, and its inventor goeB down in history as
a benefactor of the race." Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing
(2nd ed.), p. 150. Silent Unity also suggests that when patients
describe their disabilities to them they alley's enter a silent
mental denial for each statement of error which they make. See
Unity, XI (Nov., 1898), 22G.
p
‘
'Unity repeatedly affirms that it does not prohibit the
use of medicines by those whom they treat; and .most of their pub­
lished testimonials show no awareness on the part of their fol­
lowers that there is any inconsistency between the philosophy of
Uhity and the employment of physicians. Yet Silent Unity de­
clares: "We have found that when a prson's faith is quickened
to the extent that he is willing to give up all dependence upon
doctors and medicine, he is a hundred fold more receptive to this
mighty healing power of God." Unity, XLI (July, 1914), 68.
^Charles Fillmore, Prosperity, p. 58.
4Ibld., p, 62.
176-
must part forever with the "accusing; conscience."
He who condemns himself for a past mistake uses the law in
the wrong way twice and so reaps two undesirable harvests:
first by entertaining th6 negative thoughts that caused the
experience that he has called a mistake, and second by con­
demning himself for the past mistake.
Since the impersonal God is perfect and does not know evil, those
New Testament passages suggesting forgiveness must be interpreted
in terms of the law of cause and effect as related to the power
of thought. "Forgiveness of sin i$ the erasure of mortal thoughts
Q
from consciousness," This, of course, applies to the mistakes
of others as well as our own. The individual should never con­
demn another. God is everywhere, and the crea .
.
i
v
e mind must think
of the goodness of God that is in every person. He must not let
the appearance of evil blind him; he must think of his neighbor
as that one exists in God Mind.
Hiss H. Emilie Cady, author of Unity School’s first and
perhaps most influential textbook, names four great denials in
which one should be persistent if he would completely cleanse his
consci;usnoss from all error:
Tnere is no evil (devil).
There is no reality, nor life, nor intelligence apart
from Spirit.
Pain, sickness, poverty, old age, and death are not real,
and they have no power over me.
There is nothing in all the universe for me to fear.
These denials contain the common error thoughts of the race.
When one does not know the particular thought that has caused his*
*
*
^-Marjory H. Stageman, "Forgiving Ourselves," Unity, XC
(May, 1958), 45,
P
Chiurlss Fillmore, Christian Hsaling (14th ed.), p. 53,
**H. Emilia Cady, Lessons in Truth, p, 39.
-179-
trouble, one of these general statements will be found effective
in cleansing from error.
The individual should practice denial at set periods each
day; he should also be prepared to use It in all thepetty vexa­
tions of life, whenever and wherever they happen to arise. He
should not let anger, fear, jealousy, self-pity, unhappiness, or
similar emotions have standing in his life. He should deny them
at once. Also any wrong bodily condition, the moment it appears
to the sense, should be dissolved out of existence. One should
not induce tension by his denials^- but rather speak to error in
auch a way that it will glide silently out of existence.
Affirmation
Affirmation, the third step, la most necessary. One dare
not leave his house "empty, swept and garnished" lest worse spir­
its come and possess it. "Though denial is very important in
clearing the subconsciousness of its error, affirmation is more
so, for it fills the consciousness with the constructive ideas of
p
Truth," Denial is the means of chipping off the error crystal­
lization which envelops the cells of body and mind; affirmation
is the method of calling these cells to their divine tasks. All
the infinite potentialities of Divine Mind are waiting to be man­
ifested by the "I can" habit. "You can priase yourself from
weakness to strength, from ignorance to intelligence, from poverty
^Charles Fillmore says: "Make your denials in a qaiet,
indifferent way, and your affirmations with a strong, bold,
vehement, positive mind," Directions for Beginners (Kaneas City:
Unity school of Chr istianlty )7 p. 14 (pamphlet). '
q
Charles Fillmore, Mysteries of Genesis, p. 172.
•180-
to affluence, from sickness to health."^- Affirmation is the link­
ing of the nI will” with the "I AM” to the manifestation of per­
fection of Being.
Unity leaders insist that affirmation roust not be confused
with what ordinarily is called prayer. Prayer, as they interpret
it in the organized ohurch, is largely request; but affirmation
is realization. "God-Mind expresses its thought so perfectly
Q
that there is no occasion for change." All God's creation is
under law. Affirmation is self-realization of that lav/. Neither
does Unity claim actually to do healing. "We can't heal you, but
there is a Presence hero than can. . . . We will help you find
•X
that Presence." Denial and affirmation will lift the conscious­
ness to that Source where healing power is available for every
4
ill. "There is no such things as a 'disease* or incurable condi-
tion in the system."
God is the supreme perfection; the word is like unto that
perfection. All its creations are perfect. It takes cogni­
zance of the perfect only. When we r.allze this perfection
and sp^ak the words of Truth from that plane of understanding,
the word goes forth and establishes that which is. It does
not heal anything. There Is nothing to heal. Its office is
to see the perfection of Being established; and as we do the
works of the Father, we establish that which is and always
^■Charles Fillmore, Christian Healing (14th ed.), p. 74.
P. 17.
^"Questions and Answers," Unity, XIV (May, 1921), 222.
^lir. Fillmore believes that the "ao-cailed" organic dis­
eases can be‘healed by spiritual means as readily as the less
aarious forms. He thinks that the only difference between dis­
eases is their depth in the subconsciousness. Sae Charles Fill-
racre. Modern Spiritual Healing (Kansas City! Unity School of
Christianity), p. 6 (pampHlet).
^Letters of Myrtle Fillmore, p* 64.
1
-181-
was.
Affirmations should not be so specific in expression as
2
denials. Realization of oneness with Being is sufficient to
fill the individual against the attack of any enemy. Also, human
life la a unity of soul and body; bo the healing word should
acknowledge the wholeness of an individual's being. Although the
iiealing word may be spoken to some specific part of the organism,
yet the affirmation should always end with the "thought of being
every whit whole." Silent Unity, in its healing meetings, does
not treat each patient separately; it expresses a general affir-
nation which is effective for the group. It considers this more
effective than individual treatment.
4
The affirmative side of a prosperity treatment parallels
"The Healing fiord," Unity, LXXXV (Hov., 1936), 8.
o
Unity’s monthly Healing and Prosperity Thoughts are
quite general. Xn its book of healing affirmations we read:
"Regardless of the name of the specific error that is being
treated, or the part of the body in which it is located, the ma­
jority, if not all of the healing prayers given in this book,
carry with them the thought of health and wholeness for the en­
tire man." Divine Remedies, p. 107, Certainly they use the same
cure for a multitude of diseases.
5See Unity. XXV (Oct., 1911), 357.
4"The Twenty-Third Psalm" (revised) is suggested as an
excellent prosperity treatment:
"The Lord is my banker; my credit is good.
He maketh me to lie down in the consciousness of omnipresent
abundance;
He giveth me the key to His strongbo*.
He reatoreth my faith in Hie riches;
He guideth me in the paths of prosperity for His name's sake.
Yea, thought* I walk in the very shadow of debt,
I shall fear no evil, for thou art with me;
Thy silver and Try gold, they secure me.
Thou preparest a way for me in the presence of the collector;
that of healing. If one desires some particular good he may af­
firm It, but he Bhould be careful lest he seek less than the Di­
vine Kind has in store for him.^- God* a infinite resources are
ever present, and man has no one to blame but himself if he does
not get what God has for him:
Do not envy the rich. Never condemn those who have money
merely because they have it and you do not. Do not question
how they got their money and wonder whether or not they are
honest. That is none of your business. Your business is to
get what belongs to you, and you do that by thinking about
the onnipresont substance of God and how you can lay hold
on it through love. Got in touch with God riches in spirit,
lay hold og then by love, and you will have sufficient for
every day.
Unity seeks to minister to the spiritual man. Therefore,
the above statement should not be interpreted as an invitation to
selfishness. An Individual can use the law of cause and efi'ect
to amasa temporary possessions; man, by his love of money, has
attracted great amounts of money. But such a person cannot have
a "prosperity consciousness." God is Order. If man is to have
true health end prosperity he must realise God as Order in his
own inner life. God has provided an abundance for every one, so
there is no necessity for hoarding. Selfishness is one of the
root causes of dieease. It separates a man from God and his fel-
lowrnen. The key to abundant receiving is right giving. Both
Thou fillest my wallet with plenty; my measure runneth over.
Surely goodness and plenty will follow me all the days cfmy life.
And I shall do business in the name of the Lord forever."
Charles Fillmore, Prosperity, p. 69.
^■Mr. Fillmore suggests that a person might visualize a
hundred dollars said get it when a thousand was headed his way.
See Charles Fillmore, Prosperity, p, 101•
2Ibid., p. 110.
avarice and charity are wrong ideas and are harmful to any in­
dividual who holds cither thought.
The Fillnorer,, from the very beginning of their movement,
have sought tc destoy these ideas by introducing the "love offer­
ing" as the standard of reward for services. Those who Berve
should have faith that God is faithful; those who seek to receive
cannot do so save as they also lovingly give, "The avaricious
suffer most in body and are the taost difficult to heal, because
of the mental bias that prompts them to get everything as cheaply
as possible, including the kingdom of heaven,"1 Unity School
works constantly by use of the silence, by mental drill, and by
written instructions to educate its group to the "divine law of
equilibrium" in financial matters so that they can achieve that
spiritual balance which results in happiness, health, ;.nd pros­
perity, In recent years this training has been built around the
idea of the "tithe,"
Demonstration through the use of the Silence, denials,
and affirmations requires constant and persistent effort. Unity
leaders find that many fail to demonstrate both as to health and
as to prosperity. This failure is always traced to a lack of
persistence and faith in the patient, "your disabilities may be
erroneous thoughts of generation after generation of ignorant
ancestors, and you cannot, therefore, reasonably expect an in­
stantaneous recovery,"^ So they instruct their followers: "Af-
1Ibld,, p. 153.
^Thought, III (Sept., 1891), 241,
-184
final Affirml" and assure them that, if they will keep at it,
they will Inevitably gain the sense of the Divine Presence and
see the work accomplished before their eyes, Kis Emilio Cady
has suggested learning a few great affirmations which cover every
situation and which may be the basis of constant drill in the
regenerative process]
God is Life, Love, Intelligence, Substance, Omnipotence,
Omniscience, Omnipresence,
I am the child or manifestation of God; and his life,
love, wisdom, power, flow into and through me every moment.
I am one with God, ana am governed by his law,
Gcd works in me to will and^to do whatsoever he wishes
done by me; hence I cannot fail.
Co-operation with Divine Substance
The fourth step in Unity's technique of salvation is co­
operation on the part cf the individual with the Divine Substance
he is seeking to manifest. The person who is honest in his desire
to demonstrate Being will look into his thought habits to be sure
that they ere "pronpted by faith and divine love and wisdom and
o
life and Joy and freedom." In the problem of prosperity he will
bo alert to see and accept those opportunities which come his way.
In the question of health he will follow his thoughts down into
his body and note their effects on the body and its functions.
And he will develop "those habits which keep him making the right
use of all his faculties, and powers, and the life energy and
substance."**
5 Here the Fillmores, following their theory of the
i 1 -_
.
^H. Emilie Cady, Lessons in Truth, p. 50,
^Letters of Myrtle Fillmore, p. 95,
5Ibid., p. 74.
•185
origin of evil, have stressed two requirements for the regenera­
tive process: The regenerate person must be absolutely continent,
and he must become a vegetarian. They think that flesh-eating
and the use of tobacco and alcohol naturally follow from the in­
dulgence in sensation.
First, vegetarianism! Unity School early taught that
vegetarianism was needful in the revitalization of the body,
"Food is an important issue in the-regenerative process and no
flesh-eater can survive.'.1
'
1
' IIr. Fillmore went to the limit in
this direction suggesting that it was best to refrain even from
such animal products as mill and eggs. The argnmont against the
use of animals took eeveral forms. Sometimes it was based on the
law of justice:
It is cruel to kill and it is cruel to steal. The milk of
the cow is needed by her and her calf. . . . It is believed
by many who have looked into the matter that tuberculosis
among cattle is caused by the drain of their substance from
their systems in milk. They need this substance for body
building. Therefor-: , to be just man Bhould refrain from
stealing animal products.2
A second approach was through the asserted consequences to body
and mind of taking flesh into the human system: "He who aats
the flesh of animals is, by and through that process, taking into
his consciousness all the passions, desires and emotions of the
a n i m a l s . W e need to realise, also, that organized life holds
tenaciously to its present forms. Fear grips an animal when it
is being killed and sets u
j
,
- vibrations of terror in its flesh.
Unity, XXXIV (Feb., 1511), 180. This declaration re­
peatedly occurred before 1920.
2nAnswers to Question," Unity, XL (-*7, 1914), 483.
Charles Fillmore, FleshTTaTing Metaphysically Considered
(Kansas City: Unity School ofChristianity, 1896), p. y (pan-
phlet). This article has been repeatedly published in Unity.
■
186-
If a person eats this flesh, the vibrations of fear, one of man1*
greatest enemies, are transferred to his own body. However, Mr*
Fillmore has gradually modified his position concernin' flesh-
eating. At the request of the writer he gives his present posi­
tion as follows:
Diet is not of primal importance in Unity's interpreta­
tion of Christianity; consequently no one is ostracised or
condemned because he does not conform to the vegetarian diet,
which is universally being recommended by food experts as
best suited to man.
"Do all things as unto the Lord." That is, ask continu­
ally for divine guidance in all things and you will be shown
what is best in food anddrink for your individual growth.
Food and drink have much to do with body sensations; conse­
quently we should watch the efiects of these body susGainers
and choose what gives the best results. Personally I have
been guided by a spiritual Intelligence which communicates with
me in dreams, visions and inner inspirations. I call it
Spirit or my Higher Self. When I eat the wrong food and
produce discord in body, I usually have a dream in which the
cause and cure is pointed out. For many years I was a very
strict vegetarian, abstaining wholly from milk, eggs, butter-
in fact every form of animal products. Then came a period
in which I had unusual platform work to do, in which I had to
meet arid shake hands v/ith hundreds of persons. This sometimes
made me nervous and irritable, and I was shown that my vibra­
tion was not strong enough physically to m^et and hold my own
against the flood of eager souls who were charged with animal
impulses and thr.t I wo eld have to either quit my public work
and become a recluse or build up a body that would hold its
own with other bodies of like character. I then began to eat
certain animal products like butter, milk, cheese, eggs, but
nevor meat.
Then came a period in my spiritual unfoldment, which in­
cludes the body as a vehicle, where I lacked raen-tl expres­
sion. I got ideas but could not formulate them in thought
and word. This lested for months, or until I asked the Spirit
to show me the cause. On day like a flash came the words,
apparently out of thin air, "Your brain lacks phosphorus; Eat
fish." Since thco time I have added sea fbods to my diet.
. . . V
/
e should remember that Jesus ate broiled fish.
As late as 1933 Silent Unity was asked if the Bible re­
cord that Jesus fish was sufficient reason for rejecting veg­
etarianism. Its reply is illuminating. "The supposed example of
Jesus in eating fish is often given by the Adversary as proof
sufficient that vegetarianism ie wrong. The undisciplined appe-
Unity doss not make a fetish of food. The primal source
of body energy is thought. If yon think spiritually you
automatically select the more refined types of food. Eut do
not be a food fanatic.-*-
Second, continGncel Unity School, with Its theory that
"sox sensation has made a broken cistern of man’s consciousness,'1
has consistently taught that refinement of the body can be accom­
plished only through the elimination of sox in its outer manifes­
tation. However, it has not followed the technique of Anne Lee
and the Shakers. It has taught that the companionsnip of man and
woman can be made helpful in the regenerative process, tut such
a fellowship cannot be built on the glorification of sox. To see
with the eye of purity means that you become "so mentally trans-
O
lucent that you see men and women as sexless beings.” Cora
Dedrick Fillmore presents their present teachings as follows:
Regeneration means Just what the word deacribes--a re­
generation of man's soul and body through a spiritual activ­
ity of the generative organs. In regeneration the generative
center is no longer allowed to waste its substance on the
sense plane; by pure thinking and chaste acting it generates
an uplifting, living energy in soul and body that, when raised
to the Jesus Christ purity of life, arouses all the faculties
to power and ability. Then the understanding of the silent
end spoken word is magnified, and with renewed thought it
comes forth in a new expression in both soul and body.*
tite of the carnal mind in Its love for the fleshpots tries to
hido behind the Savloir of love and mercy. We do not believe that
the Bible record concerning the eating of fish by Jesus ha3 even
the slightest bearing on the question." The article continues
by suggesting thnt when Jesus multiplied the loaves and fishes
he was just illustrating the law of spiritual suprly and that the
eating of fish was a symbol of the appropriation by man of the
divine ideas of substance. See Unity, LXXIX (Dec., 1339), 79.
^■Letter from Charles Fillmore, Kay S, 1939.
^Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Man, p. 164.
^Cora Dedrick Fillmore, Christ Enthroned in Man (Kansas
Cityi Unity School of Christianity, 1937), p. 15l.
•188
Men. cennot become pure by the mere repression of the
external sex life through an act of will. To deny and fight the
monster of sex may only make it an obsession. Purity comes
through an understanding of the real nature of one’s being, Y.hen
we realize that each individual carries both the masculine and the
Jfeminine within himself and that satisfaction can be attained
only from within ourselves, then we will not dissipate our energy
in uncreativeness but will manifest it in "new ideas, new accom­
plishments, in beauty, in grace, un usefulness. . . . Wake your
passions write poetry.”^
However, since the "Motherhood" dispute of 1920,2 Unity
School has been content to carry within its group two types of
Christians— regenerate and generate. While not relaxing its
former teaching, it has insisted that those practicing generation
were not to be condemned. Ihey are providing bodies fer souls
that have lost out in a ireviouo incarnation and are waiting to
try again. The soul originally had power to ideate it3 own body
out of Divine Subsbar.ee, but that power was lost in the "fall.”
Tliis wo ild seem to bind the human family to an endless cycle of
generation. But Mr. Fillmore teaches thrt this process of physi­
cal generation will be dropped whon the body of Christ is suffi­
ciently formed in the race:
Children of the mind can be brought forth and all those
awaiting reincarnation be given a spiritual body. This will
be the ultimate of the regenerative movement that is now
^Theodos’a D
-
, Schobert, Regeneration (Kansas City: Unity
School -of Christianity), p, 6 (pamphlet).
% e e pp, 78 ff*
-169
going on, and wo should, therefore, strive to put on Christ,
and let the body of Christ bo forad in us, that we nay help
those who are in darkness.
Tnosc who practice generation nay, for the time being, be doing
a good thing, but they must realize that they cannot escape the
heartache, disease, and death which are concomitant to that plane
of living.
Reincarnation
The law of man's being is perpetual incarnation. When
Spirit evolved into so l, soul demonstrated its self-consciousness
by forming for itself a body. The permanent intercommunion of
these three--spirit, soul, and body--is eternal life. The race
lost its opportunity to achieve eternal life tltrough the ignor­
ance and sin of Adam. Through him the recurring cycle of birth
to death became fixed in the race consciousness.
Man’s task is to overcome the racial belief in death and
to restore the consciousness of life, Because of the many genera­
tions of “mortal consciousness" through which the race has gone
that work, even though the technique of salvation has been dis­
covered, may not be finished in any single life span. Therefore,
when death takes place, the law of Being works in man's soul for
re-embodiment, and the soul "takes advantage of Adam's habit of
n '
»
generation to regain a body." Ernest C. V.'ilscn says: "Reincar-
lnExtracts," Unity, XXXIV (Jan., 1911), 66.
^Charles Villnore, Preserving the Unity of Soul and Body
(Kansas City; Unity School of Christianity), p. 1 Cpamphket),
■190.
nation is a token of God's love for us whereby, if we lose the
body, we may be reclothed with another, to try again to complete
the great work the Father has given us to do."^
Unity School recognized that the truth of reincarnation
was first discerned by the "so-called heathen" of the East but
insists that these people did not realize its significance in the
scheme of racial redemption. They interpreted it pessimistically:
p
man, bound by his karma, is in an almost endless struggle of
birth, death, and rebirth seeking to work out the accumulated
effects of the sins of past lives. Unity's thought about rein­
carnation is optimistic: " . . . rebirth is the unifying force
of nature at work in its efforts to restore man to his original
deathless s t a t e . It is not necessary as a step in the evolu­
tion of the race but a "makeshift," a temporary gift to "mortal
man," Reincarnation has only the value of a new opportunity.
Therefore, it should not be unduly emphasized. The mind of man
should be centered on "resurrection," the regeneration or lifting
^•Ernest C. Wilson, Have We Lived Before (Kansas City:
Uhity School of Christianity, 1^36), p, 47.
^The struggle in Christianity is no short one. As we
shall see, Christ struggled through repeated incarnations before
he was able to demonstrate perpetual Incarnation through the body
of the historical JesUB of Nazareth (see Unity, XIV (April, 1901),
149). And his thought and words "had to work in the race con­
sciousness almost two thousand years before any one was suffi­
ciently awakened and quickened to believe in a oomplete redemp­
tion and to strive to lay hold on it" (Charles Fillmore. Preserv­
ing the Unity of Soul and Body, p. 7). We have no way of knowing
how long it will be before the race follows Jesus in the demon­
stration of perpetual incarnation.
^Charles Fillmore, Preserving the Unity of Soul and
Body, p. 5.
up of the body unto eternal life. When the Christ consciousneas
Is again enthroned In the life of the individual and the fleshly
body refined into the spiritual body, death will be no more.
Reincarnation will cease.
CHAPTER IX
THE PLACE OF JESUS CHRIST IN
THE SALVATION OF MAN -
To appreciate the work of Jesus we need to recall the
condition of nan. Man is not immoral; he is anemic, weakened
through error thinking. "Error mentality envelops the human race
like a smoky fog."^ The limited thoughts of disease have weak­
ened,man, and thoughts of death have overcome him. Throughout the
long history of the race the life-cells of man’s body and mind
have become so encrusted with error thinking that there is no pos­
sibility of one breaking through and arousing them to their ap­
pointed task of demonstrating eternal life. "We cannot, by our
efforts alone, save ourselves from this race consciousness of
p
sin, evil, sickness, and death. For mankind to be saved it
"became necessary that some great soul reconnect us with the
Father-Mind,"*
2
*
*
5
Jesus Christ accomplished this for mankind. According
to Mr. Fillmore,4 Jesus Christ was a perfected soul who attained
creative power in a cosmic evolution previous to human history.
He first became known to use as Jehovah God, the Creator of our
universe.5 "This world and everything on it was brought forth
^Charles Fillmore, "The Metaphysical Significance of the
Crucifixion," Unity, LXX (Jan., 1929), 6.
2Ibid., p. 7. 3Ibid., p. 6.
*See Unity, LXX (Jan., 1929), 6; Unity, LXXXV (Dac.,
1936), 6; Unity", LXXXVI (Jan., 1937), 4,
5Mr. Fillmore says: "We behold in Jesus Christ and our
relation to hl« how men who have developed the divine image in
themselves become creators of other men." "Christmas: Its
Scientific Meaning," Unity, LXXXV (Dec., 1936), 6.
-195-
by Him In many earthly incamations/
When man, the offspring of Jehovah, lost his communion
with the Father Mind by acting independently of that Mind, Jehovah-,
or Christ, in order to redeem man, began a series of physical in­
carnations. These physical incarnations reached their climax in
Jesus of Nazareth, He gave up for ages Kis consciousness of spir­
itual perfection in order to contact with our mentality. He en­
tered into the diseased and corrupt flesh consciousness of the
race and, through a series of incarnations, he finally in the
human Jesus "reestablished the intormlnd relation that once ex­
isted between man and God."**
He did part of his work under the names of Moses, Elisha,
David, et al. Those lives were his days at school, and he
arrived at a state of consciousness while manifesting as
Jesus of Nazareth where he remembered his past liV6s,3
The body of Jesus became a bridge between the human race and God.
Jesus Christ broke through the crystallized thought strata that
enfold the race; he "made a great rent in the Bense conscious­
ness and opened a way by which all who desire may demonstrate
easily and quickly."4
The work of Jesus Christ has a two-fold aspect! First,1
1Ibld.
O
Charles Fillmore, "Metaphysical Significance of the
Cruoifixion," Unity, LXX (Jan., 1929), 7.
^Charles Fillmore, "Transfiguration," Unity, XlV (April,
1901), 149. Since this is an interpretation of Sae transfiguration
scene, one would expect the name Elias. But Mr, Fillmore saysi
"The Spirit*reveals to me that an error has been made in the
text which gives Elias— it should read Elisha."
^Charles Fillmore, Jesus Christ*a Atonement, p. 7.
.194-
Ee is our "Way-Shower," leader, and example. Seoond, by the pro­
cess of resurrection and atomization, he sowed the atomic units
of his body as "points of life and light in our mind and body
atmosphere to the end that any one who concentrated his thoughts
upon Christ in faith might attract as a spiritual magnet one or
many of his body a t o m s . T h e s e atoms of Jesus Christ’s regen­
erated body can be made the nucleus of a regenerated body for any
who appropriate then! through faith. This twofold work is the
atonement which Jesus Christ has made for the race.
The work of Jesus Christ as "Way-Shower" also had two
g
sides which Mr. Fillmore has designated as the first and second
coming of Christ. The first coming of Christ was Jesus’ recep­
tion of the Truth of Being Into his conscious mind. Jesus real­
ized and affirmed that He was the Son of God. Ho put out of his
mind by the process of denial every racial thought that has bound
men through the ages. In his threefold temptation experience He
conquered "personal" consciousness. He achieved by the use of
affirmations that supreme spiritual selfhood in which he could
truly sayi "I and the Father are one." Jesus, the soul, recog­
nized Christ, His Superconsciousness, as His Father. He con­
sciously made Himself one with the absolute principle of Being.
"He had no consciousness separate from that Being, hence He was
that Being to all Intents and purposes."*
5
^Charles Fillmore, "All the Way," Unity, LXXXVI (Jan.,
1937), 4.
2See Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Man, p. 16,
5Charles Fillmore, Jesus Chrlatta Atonement, p. 11*
>195
The first coming of Christ led to the second coming of
Christ. This was Jesus* most important work for the race. Hav­
ing consciously realized that the Superconscicusness was His real
self, he now made use of it to redeem the body. The second coming
of Christ "is the awakening and the regeneration of the subcon­
scious mind through the superconscious or Christ m i n d . I t is
the chipping off of the error-thought crystallizations of history
that envelop the cells of the soul' and body and the liberation of
the atomic energy stored in them. Jesus knew the science of Being
hnd hence knew his own body. "Inherent in the mind of Being are
twelve fundamental ideas, which in action appear as primal crea-
P
tive forces." He also knew that these twelve "primal creative
forces" or ideas had their residence in man as presiding egos.
"The subconscious realm in man has twelve great centers of action,
with twelve presiding egos or identities," Jesus symbolized all
this by his calling twelve disciples. These twelve faculties of
Being, the disciples which represent them, and their centers of
action in the human body are as follows:
Faith--?eter— center of brain.
Strength— Andrew— loins.
Discrimination or Judgment— James, son of Zebedee— pit of
stomach.
Love— John— back of heart.
Power— Philip— root of tongue,
-
- ■ , i -—— . -- ■
■
■
— ,
. ---- —.
.
. ■■■■■■■ ■
■ .....
^Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Man., p, 15
2Ibid., p. 53.
5Ibid., p. 15.
196-
Imagination— Bartholomew— be tweon the eyes.
Underb tending--Thomas— front brain.
Will— Matthew-center of front brain.
Order— James, con of Alphaeus— navel.
Zeal--Simon the Canaani te— back head, medulla.
Renunciation or Elimination— Thaddaeus— abdominal region.
Life Conserver— Judas— generative function.^
While every man has these various brain centers or pre­
siding egos, ordinarily he makes use only of the brain in the
head. Jesue, when he reached a certain stage in his soul devel­
opment, called to the aid of the I A& these twelve egos of his
subconscious life. This is symbolized in Scripture by His going
up "into the mountain to pray," and calling the twelve. The
mountain is his Superconsciousness located at the top of his
head. By direct appeal to these presiding egos, Jesus built out
the centers over which they preside. He thought through these
other brains, mastered the functions of the body which they di­
rect, and arrested t
h
,
- deterioration that had been taking place
throughout the body because of the error-thought of the race.
Step by step, by applying denials and affirmations direct to these
centers, he revitalizaed the cells of his body and refined the
"man of the flesh into the man of the Spirit."
This entire process was mental. Jesus was patient; he
spent cruch time in denials— fasting. He persistently treated
these brain centers against the limited thoughts which the world
held. Then he energetically created powerful, unlimited ideas
^Ibid., p. 16.
-197-
of Being and sent them into the centers to complete the work.
Jesus, by affirmation, "delighted in making great and mighty
claims for His God, Himself, His words, and for all men,"^ In
other words, Jesus brought the I AM into direct contact with each
of the brain centers of his body to its purification and empower­
ment. The ignorance of Adam was thus undone; the life of sensa­
tion was made to yield to the life of the Spirit. Jesus achieved
eternal life in the body.
The orucifixion of Jesus'
represents the climax of the
struggle between the Christ Mind and the sense mind for the con­
trol of nan. It marks the putting to death of the Judas con­
sciousness, which through the centuries has robbed the race of
its vitality. At this point the body of Jesus, because It was
so closely connected with the "personal" or Bense-conscionsness,
passed through great suffering and seemed to die:
The crucifixion of Jesus is the symbolical representation
of the crossing out (destruction) of the carnal mind (Satan)
In the redeemed man’s consciousness. Christ was not killed
on the cross, neither was th6 body of Jesus destroyed. The
"ghost" that Jesus gave up with his last breath was mortality.
It was the personal, mortal consciousness that cried, "My
God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me." (This god should
be spelled with a small g.) The personal concept god always
fails to save its worshipper."*
Jesus did not really die on the cross, as we understand
death. The Christ Mind or Superconsciousness transmuted his tody
into a higher spiritual substance. The body was taken from three-
dimensional into four-dimensional life. In this resurrection
^■Charles Fillmore, Jesus Christ’s Atonement, p. 18.
g
Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Man, p. 69.
■198-
Jeaus actually demonstrated the power his I AK had gained over
his body through calling to its aid the twelve disciples and in­
structing then in the Truth about Ood and man. They had learned
the lesson that Ood is Principle and that man is God in action.
In his resurrection Jesus, the man, through his Christ-conscious-
ness "unloosed the dynamic atoms of His whole body and released
their electrical e n e r g y . B y thus atomising his body into the
racial atmosphere, “Jesus offered His body as a life or electric
transformer"2 for the human race. This is the "At-one-ment"
which Jesus Christ has made for the race.
The process of salvation by means of the Silence, denials,
ana affirmations needs, then, to be applied more directly than
has been done in the past. Jesus has made a "rent" in the racial
consciousness of mortal sense. He has made plain the way to the
eternal reunion of Spirit, soul, and body, Man must go in at the
"rent" Jesus has made. It is not, Mr. Fillmore assures us, an
easy task. Only those who really feel that they are "ready for
the great adventure into the attainment of eternal life in the
body here and now"^ should take up the development of the twelve •
powers of man. This method means the release of powerful, dynamic
energy and, "if not controlled and raised to the spiritual rlane,
it may prove a source of body destruction." But whoever has aa-
______________________________________________ J __________S
t
_______
1Ibid., p. 5.
^Charles Fillmore, "All the *ay," Unity, LXXXVI (Jan.,
^Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Men, p. 4.
1937), 7
>199-
vanced In spiritual consciousness to the point where he is "will­
ing to give up all worldly ambitions," oonserve the "pure sub­
stance of his body," and develop the twelve creative centers of
his body may follow Jesus in the nastery of his own body and in
its resurrection from death. He attained only what is expected
of e&cb of us, and we can be saved only as we resurrect or refine
our bodies as he did.^ "It is an error to think that God gives
anybody anything that he has not e a r n e d . W e must work oat our
own salvation,
Mr. Fillmore claims that the knowledge of the functioning
of the body through its twelve brains or "ganglionic centers" ia
his particular discovery and gift to religion. The application
of this discovery gives Unity its status as "Practical Chris­
tianity." His account of the discovery follows:
I am transforming, through mental dynamics, the cells of
ny whole body, the ultimate of which will be immortality in
the flesh. I have discovered that all the ganglion centers
in the organism arc in reality brains thinking thoughts in a
measure independent of the central thinker, whose seat of
action is usually confined to the head. In order to control
the various brains I hage found it necessary' to project into
them my con:clous thought and fill then so full of truo ideas
that there is no room for the false. This task has not been
a light one, and I have spent years in silent willing, deny­
ing and affirming, actually rebuilding every ceil in my or­
ganism. from center to circumference. I would way that in this
work I have been guided by an invisible intelligence, which I
call the Holy Spirit. I have also found that the whole process
is symbolically outlined in the life of Jesus Christ,
^The church has been correct, says Mr. Fillmore, in tell­
ing people to "follow Jesus." It has erred in teaching that Jesus
was "the only begotten Son of God, and that He overcame for us,
and that by simply believing on Him we are saved." See Charles
Fillmore, Jesus Cnrlst’s Atonement, p. 8.
g
Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Man, p. 28,
and Is what is technically called regeneration."^
Stated briefly, Mr. Fillmore’s discovery consists In applying the
ideas of Being— faith, strength, discrimination, love, power.
^Charles Fillmore, "A Biographical Sketch," Unity, XVII
(Aug., 1902), pp. 69 f.: Mr. Fillmore here suggests that ne made
the discovery directly through the Holy Spirit; then he realized
that the life of Jesus Christ carried the same discovery In sym­
bolical language. While his genius is shown in working out and
the Idea, certainly the basic materials for such appli­
cation had beon in the "mental-cure" group for some time. Much
of it had appeared In the Fillmore publication in the preceding
yearn. George H. Brooks, a Spiritualist, had expressed the idea
that any part of the body could be cured by direct application of
thought to that part In the first issue of their magazine (Modern
Thought, I TApril, 1669", 11). The need for strenuous effort,
applied over" a period cf'time, in order tc accomplish worthwhile
results is the central theme in The Temple of the Rosycrosa by
F. B. Dowd, a Rosicrucian. Mr. Fillmore gave this boot: a favor-
able review and took from it the idea of the "Wingea-Globe,"
which he made the permanent symbol of Unity (see Modern Thought,
I ~Hov., 1889], ‘
11).
A simple, yet almost complete, application of the idea is
found in the writings of John Hamlin Dewey, who styled himself a
Christian Theosophist (see John Hamlin Dewey, New Testament
Occnltism. Hew York: The J. H. Dewey Publishing Co., 1805) . New
1Testament Occultism is a plea for joih 'ing the teachings of
'Josub with the occult knowledge of the^ East, neither of ahich is
complete without the other. Some of trie ideas which we later
find in Mr. Fillmore's exposition. The Twelve Powers of Man, are
as follows (references are to New Testament occultism): control
of the secret force of life by a-direct act of the will (p. 9);
control of the forces of nature through appeal to the Intelligence
lodged in each thing (pp. 22 and 26); the idea that Jesus'
control of life in all its planes Is open to each of ua (p. 27);
Jesus realized his supremacy in and over the flesh (p. 45); the
Hew Testament miracles are merely the working out of law (p. 52);
the spiritual emancipation and Illumination experienced and
taught by Jesus was the immediate result of an organic transform­
ation under the transmuting power of a spiritual chemistry-
thought (pp. 75-77); Jesus, the living example and demonstration
of the possibilities In all men (pp. 87-88); the seven senses of
man (p. 106); the three planes of consciousness (pp. 143 f.)j
the idea of a spiritual body within the physical (p. 150).
The entire Idea of body control through the processes of
thought and ‘
meditation is found in Yogiism. T e Fillmores are
aware of this (See Cora Fillmore, Christ Enthroned ih Man, p. 2).
The early magazines show, as we have suggested elsewhere, that
they were reading literature from the East, but most probably
■
201-
Imagination, understanding, will, order, eeal, renunciation, and
life--to the particular "ganglion center" which each controls in
the body of man. This process renews and enlarges these brains
bo that man c6n consciously think through then to the renewing
and revitalizing of all the cells of his body. Thus far can has
failed to demonstrate eternal life because he has not known this
secret. 1 Josus Christ’s life experience, symbolically interpreted,
now gives to the race a complete understanding of the technique.
Since Unity claims that its great gift to the world is
its practical application of the teachings of Jesus, through the
medium of man’s twelve powers, to the refinement of the body, it
is only fair that Unity leaders should present their own process.
auch ideas cane to them through writers like Dewey, ^r. Dewey’s
works wore repeatedly and favorably quoted (e.g,, see hodom
Thought, I June, 1889 , p. 15).
The idea that man has twelve powers and that these powors
were depicted by Jobus through his calling twelve disciples was
first presented in Unity by Annie Rix nilitz, a Ho:ae of Truth
leader from Los Angeles (See Thought, V Aug., 1895 , 181), lira.
Uilitz was in cloo- contact with the Unity fellowship until her
death in 1924. Mr. Fillmore’s first published statement along
this line did not appeal* ’
until 1901 (See Unity, XII May, 1901 ,
509).
^The apostle Paul 1b a good Illustration of man’
s failure.
Mr. Fillmore writes: "Paul did not *glorify God’ in his body.
He saw the possibilities, as we today are seeing thorn in our
study of metaphys.ics, but he did not allow the Christ-child, con­
ceived by the Holy Ghost in the mind, to go down to Bethlehem
(House of Eread— the psycho-physiological substance center at the
pit of the stomach), end be born in a manger among the animals.
By reason of this failure to form, through psycho-chemical pro­
cesses in the psychical, a new body on a higher plane of vibra­
tion, the Christ-child was without a suitable instrument for
manifeoting “
itself and Paul’s corruptible body went the way of
all flesh." "A Question Answered," Unity, VIII (Jan., 1897), 12.
•
2
0
2
So I give what they cell a "Condensed Exercise on the Twelve
M1
Powers
The spiritual center in . . . spiritual understanding,
behold yourself a new creature open only to uhe good.
(Note: T:iis covers pages 119-125 in the 1944 edition
of Christ Enthroned in Han)-HR
Ordinarily one does not try to take such on exercise all at one
tins, but holds to only one part of it addressing hins If to one
of the twelve body conters. The above exercise is a final one
for those who have studied the book "The Twelve Powers of Han."
VS/hile each man must achieve his own salvation, he is not
alone in the struggle. Jesus companies with hin through Hie
words. They are more ixmerful than any other wore, man can use
in the process of body refinement. Especially is this true of
the name Jesus Christ itself.
The mightiest vibration is set up by the speaking of the name
Jesus Christ. This is the name that is named "far above all
rule and authority," the name above all names, holding in it­
self all power in heaven anc in earth. It is the name that
has power to mold universal substance.
When the words of Jesus Christ are Bown in the body centers, they
cleanse these centers of all material thought and awaken and
quicken then into newness of life.
Finally, through f aith in Christ as Lord— not the his-
torical Jesus but the Christ consciousness in Jesus and in each
Cora Fillmore, Christ Enthroned In Man, pp. 163 f. This
is a book of instructIona, supplementary to Charles Fillmore’s
The Ewe1vo Pot era of Han. Mrs. Fillmore says that her husband's
book *undoubtedly afforaa the greatest key t o the logical and
rational expression of spiritual man that has ever been given to
the public."
p
Charles Fillmore, Prosperity, p. 36.
>203-
of us— we can attract to ourselves one or many of the atoms which
were originally in the body of JeBue. T ese body atoms, now
existing in the fourth dimension, are without number. These be­
come food and drink for us. "They form the nucleus of a regen­
erated body for the person appropriating then"^ "YTnoever through
faith in Christ draws to himself one of the life gems boconee
2
inoculated to that degree with Jesus Christ quality." This is
the real meaning of the Lord's Supper, The Catholic theory of
trGnsubstantiation® is true; bat only recently, as we have come to
understand the nature of matter, have wo known that it was not a
miracle but the working of the law of Being. In this way the
Bubstance and lifo of Jesus "becones” the connecting link between
our body and the body of God,"^
This iB "Practical Christianity"— not salvation through
physical death and the resurrection of the body— but a mental
resurrection of man followed by a gradual refinement of his body
through the application of creative thoughts and words. If we
co not demonstrate such salvation in our present body,® it is
1Charles Fillmore, "All the Way," Unity, LXXXVI (Jan.,
1937), 4.
^Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of I
t
an, p. 15G,
®See "Holy Communion,1
1
1 Unity, LXXIV (Hay, 193G), 68,
4Ibld,
^Wnile hr, Fillmore, as early as 1S02, insisted that the
system ought not to be evaluated on the basis of his personal
s iccess, yet he has repeatedly announced that he has making ob­
servable change* in his own body by this netnod:
1902: "I have some teeth that a superficial observer
might say needed attention, and I an giving them attention from
a spiritual standpoint and getting good results. They are hold­
ing their o’
fn and I am on my way to the production of an entirely
-204-
because we do not possess "unwavering belief" in its efficacy.
But we may be sure that our efforts have not been in vain. All
will be preserved and carried into the next Incarnation so that
we can start from where we are. "And whoever accepts the ChristI
new set. Unityt XVI (Jan., 1902), 37. "I have spent several
years in sTTent willing, denying aud affirming, actually rebuilding
every c ell in my organism from center to circumference." Unity,
XVII* (Aug., 1902), 69.
1905: Aftor relating how he had changed the life current
against old age, "Gradually I folt.a new life current coming up
from the life Center. It v/as a faint little stream a
t
, first, and
months went by before I got it to the surface. Now it is growing
stronger by leaps and bounds. J
!
y cheeks have fille-d out, the
wrinkles and 'crow feet' are gone arc. I actually feel like the
boy that I am." Unity, XVIII (Feb., 1903), 2.
1907: "Speaking of his right leg which, because of a
childhood injury, was some shorter than his left: "Through spir­
itual realization the leg has gradually lengthened, until now it
is less than two inches short, ana Aha shrunken muscles and flesh
perfectly whole, although as men count tine, I am over half a cen­
tury in this body." Unity, XXVII (Aug., 1907), 104.
1915: "I can testify to a gradual renewal. I can feel
the new life coming through ra
y nerves in living streams of energy.
This energy I have learned to direct to the various organs of the
body, and through daily practice of thought concentration I am
renewing both mind and body. My skin is getting pink as in youth,
and r
*
i
y grey hair is changing at the roots to its natural color.
I am satisfied that I shall overcome the disintegration of ny
organism and finally conquer death, . . . I have for the past
twenty-five years lived so constantly in the thought of perpetual
life that I have no consciousness of less of force of body energy. •
Unity, XXXIX (July, 1913), 6 f.
1924: "My body Is not disintegrating. Why not/ Because
I ara believing in God's life in rae; I am affirming that life. I
know that If I follow ^ecus Christ In this respect I shall over­
come death. I know that it is incumbent upon me to enter into
r .ali zatior. of tho otornal life in the body and to teach the
world that it is possible to overcome the last .enemy death."
Unltyk LXI (Oct., 1924), 410.
1929: I
:
: answer to a question about his expectation of
life:. "Because I have emphasized the eternal-life-in-the body
teaching of J«sus, this question Is often asked by Unity readers.
3omo of them seem to think that I am either a fanatic or a joker
if I take myself seriously in the hope that I ch&ii with Jesus
attain eternal life in the body. But the fact is that I am seri­
ous about the matter and am striving earnestly to fellow Jesus
in tho regeneration, which I am satisfied will res it in a trana-
-205
as life and substance, and conforms to righteous living as taught
by the Spirit of Truth, will finally sit with Jesus on the throne
of dominion over disease and d e a t h . Y i h e n a large enough group
g
of the race have attained the Christ, power they will usher in
"the new heaven . . . and the new earth," The animal world will
be transformed--"the wolf and the lanb shall feed to'ether"— and
man shall bo in that "place" with Christ which Ke has prepared
for him. Then, perhaps, "both the invisible and the visible
universes will be rolled up and disappear and only kind remain,"
formation of my body, I an ?
■rowing my mind, and, at the same
time, working out body transformation," Unity, LkXI (Aug., 1929), 5,
To-day Hr. Fillmore is a quite interesting, humorous,
white-haired nan. Bone eighty-four years young. His right le p is
much shorter than his left. Ke wears a higher heel on his right
shoe and walks with a decided bitch. When in discussion, his
mind is likely to wander from the point at issue. To a super­
ficial observer, his ceoth show cental work, certainly not of
the "spirit-substance" kind. In 1935 he ceased his work as a
regular weekly preacher before the local Unity Society. Ho is
nos almost retired from the business of Unity School, coming
from his country home to the headquarters only one or two after­
noons each week.
^Charles Fillmore, The Twelve Powers of Kan, p. 118.
2Itid., pp. 68-69
*
Charles Pillnoro, Prosp3rlty, p. 5.
-206-
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Books
Allen, Abel L. The Message of New Thought. Hew York! Thonas
Crowell Co,, 1914.
Allen, Janes. Through the Gate of Good. Kansas Cityi Unity
School of Christianity, 1926.
Anderson, John B. Hew Thought. Its Lights and Shadows. Boston:
Sheman, French' and Co., 1911.
Atkins, GaT.us Glenn. Modom Religious Cults and Movements.
New York: Fleming H
.
' Reveil Co., 1923.
Bellwald, A. M. Christian Science and the Catholic Faith.
New YorTFi The liacmillan Co., 1922.
Book of Silent Prayer. Kansas City: Unity School of Christianity,
1957
Braden, Charles S. (ed,). Varieties of American Religion.
Chicago: Willott, (/lark end do., 1956.
Cady, H. Smilio. Finding the Christ in Ourselves. Kansas
City: Unity 'School. of Christianity, 1871.
__________. God a Present Help. Hew York: Diehl, Landau
and Pettit, 1912.
• Lessons in Truth. Kansas Cityj Unity School of
"Christianity, 1906.
• Miscellaneous Writings. Kansas City: Unity School
"of Christianity, 1929 (revised).
Colville, W. J. The Law of Correspondences Applied to Healing.
Chicago! F. B. Harley Publishing Co., 1898. “
__________ • Life and Power from Within. New York: Alliance
Publishing Co., 1&02.
Cramer, M. E, Lessons in the Science of Infinite Spirit and
the Christ Metnoc of Healing. &an Francisco: f
i
. E.
Cramer, 1890.
Cutten, George Barton. The Psychological Phenomena of Chris­
tianity. Hew York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1&5S.
-207-
Dakin, Edwin Franden. Mrs. Eddy. How York* Charles Scribner*8
Sons, 1929.
Denison, J, H. Emotional Currents in American History. Hew
York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, TSsST
Dewey, John Hamlin. The New Testament Occ lltlsm. Hew York:
The J. H. Dewey Publishing Co., 1&95.
__________ . The Open Poor* Hew York: The J. H. Dewey Pub­
lishing Co., 1891.
__________ . The Way, the Truth and the Life. Hew York: The
J. H. bewey Publishing Co., lfeeS.
Dowd, F. B. The Temple of the Rosydross. 2d ed. Chicago: F.
B. bowd Publishing Co,, 1888.
Dresser, H. W. A History of the New Thought Movement. Hew
York: Thomas 1
'
. Crowell Co., l9l9.
__________ • Julias A. Dresser. Boston: 0. H. Ellis, 1899.
__________ • Handbook of the Hew Thought. Hew York: G. P,
Putnam's Sons, l9l7.
__________ • Health and the Inner Life. Hew York: G, P. Put­
nam's Sons, ldo7.
« Methods and Problems of Spiritual Healing. Hew
~~VorCT 5. P. Putnam*s Sons, 1S9§.
.
_____ . Fhlneas Parkhurst Quimby. 1802-1866. Hew York:
T. Y. Crowell Co., 1&S1.
. The Christ Ideal. Hew York: 0. P. Putnam's Sons.
1 9 0 t:------------ —
« The Power of the Silence. Hew York: G. F. Put­
nam's iions, 1908.
__________ • The Spirit of the Hew Thought. Hew York:. T. Y.
Crowell Co,, 1919.
_
,
_________ • Voices of Hope. Boston: G. H. Ellis, 189e.
Dresser, J. A. The True History of Mental Solence. Hew York:
The Metaphysical Publishing (Jo., 1887.
Eddy, Mary Baker. Science and Health with Key to the Scrlp-
tures, Boston: The dhrlstian Science Publishing
Co., 1918.
•206-
Evans, Warren Pelt, Esoteric Christianity and Mental Thera­
peutics. Boston: H. J
t
i
. Carter ana rarrick, ISfio.
_______ • Soul and Body. Boston: H. H. Carter and Co..
18737 ~
__________• The Divine Law of Cure. Boston: H. H. Carter
and 0o., 1881,
__________ • The Mental Cure. Boston: Colb; and Rich, 1869.
__________ • The Primitive Hind-Cure, Boston: I
I
. H. Carter
and Co., 1885.
Divine Remedies. Kansas City: Unity School of Christianity,
1023.
Famor, L
I
. I
I
. Trie World and God. London: Nisbet and Co..
1935.
Ferguson, Charles W, The Confusion of Tongues. Garden City,
New York: Doubleday, Doran and Co., 1928,
Fisher, H. A. L. Our New Religion, ^ew York: Jonathan Cape
and Harrison Sr.ith,-1§50.
Fillmore, Charles. Christian Healing. 2d ed. Kansas City:
Unity School of Christianity, 1910.
__________ • Christian Healing. 14th ed, Kansas City: Unity
School of Christianity, 1928.
__________ • Directions for Beginners. Kansas City: Unity
School of Christianity, 1935.
. Inner Vision. Kansas City: Unity School of
Christianity, 1936,
__________ . Mysteries of Genesis. Kansas City: Unity School
of Christianity, 1936.'
___
________ • Prosperity. Kansas City: Unity School of Chris­
tianity, 1938.
__________ • Talks on Truth. Kansas City: Unity School of
Christianity, 1034.
__________ • 'The Twelve Powers of Man. Kansas City: Unity
School of Christianity, l£30,
Fillmore, Cora. Christ Enthroned in Man. Kansas City: Unity
School of Christianity, 1^37.
Fillmore, Lowell, Hew Ways to Solve Old Problems. Kansas City:
Unity School of Christianity, 1938,
__________ • Remember, Kansas City; Unity School of Chris­
tianity, 1930,
Myrtle Page Fillmore, i^ansas City: Unity School of Chris-
tianity, 1932,
Foulks, Frances V
7
, All Things ^ade New. Kansas City: Unity
School of Chris tiani'fy, 19317
__________ • (ed,). Letters of Myrtle Fillmore. Kansas City:
Unity School of Christianity, 1936,
Fox, Enaet. The Sermon on the I'ount. Hew York: Harper and
Brothers, 1934,
Gatlin, Dana, The Great Helper. Kansas City: Unity School
of Christianity, ±957.
__________ • Unity’s Fifty Golden Years, Kansas City: Unity
School of Chrlalianity, 1939.
Gestefeld, Ursula N. And God Said. Chicago: Exodus Pub­
lishing Co.# 19oS.
__________ How to Control Circumstances. Pelham, Hew York:
The Gestefeld Publishing Co,, 1901«
__________ . How We faster Our Fate. Chicago: Exodus Pub-
lishing Co., 18SV.
_____________ Reincarnation o: Immortality. Hew York: The
Alliance rubliahln." Co,, 1895,
__________ Statement of Christian Science. Chicago: The
Oestei'eld Publishing Co., 1889,
___________The Bull dor and the Plan, Pelham: The Gestefeld
Publishing Co., 1901.
. The Difference between Christian Science and the
Science ot feeing. Chicago: Exodus Publishing Co.,
1899,
. The Science of the Christ. Chicago: The Geste-
feld Publishing ^
o
,
,1889.
Hopkina, Emma Curtis. Who Carry the Signs. Chicago: Emma
Curtis Hopkins, 1897.
Hunting, Gardner, Working with God, Kansas City: Unity School
of Christianity, 1958.
>210
Ingraham, E. V. Incarnation and Re-Incarnation. Los Angela*
Do Vorss and Co., lS30.
_
. The Silence. Kansas City: Unity School of
Christianity, 1937.
James, William. The Varieties of Religions Experience, Hew
York: Longmans,' Greer* and Co., 1002,
Klnley, Edith, and Gable, Francis J. Child Unfoldment. Kansas
City: Unity School of Christianity, 1927,
Lynch, Richard. Usable Truth. Kansas City: Unity School of
Christianity, 1935.
.
__________ . Work and Supply. New York: The Unity Press, 1924.
Maurer, Genevieve C. The Christ Way of Living. Kansas City:
Unity School' of Christianity, 1935.
Metaphysical Bible Dictionary. Kansas City: Unity School of
Christianity, IS31,
Meyer, L. E. As You Tithe You Prosper. Kansas City: Unity
School” of Christianity, 1937•
Olcott, Henry S. Theosophy. Religion and Occult Science. London:
George Redway, 1885, '
Palmer, Clara. Joy Cometh. Kansas City: Unity School of
Chris tianity, 1937.
Patterson, Charles Brodle, Seeking the Kingdom. Hartfoid:
Charles Brodie PattersonJ 186'a.
• What Is Hew Thought. Hew York: T. Y, Crowell Co..
-----------lein------ ----
Powell, Lyman Pierson. Mary Baker Eddy. Hew York: The Macmillan
Co., 1230.
Schenck, Ruthanna, Be Ye Prospered. Kansas City: Unity School
of Christianity, 1926,
_________ • Heal Thyself. Kansas City: Unity School of
Christianity, 1928•
Shanklin, Ixnelda Octavia. Selected Studies. Kansas City: Unity
School of Christianity, 1926.
. .
_________ What Are You?. Kansas City: Unity School of
Christianity, 1929.
-
211-
Southard, C. 0, Truth Ideas of an M. D. Kansas City: Unity
School of Christianity, 1934.
Sheldon, Henry C. Theosophy and Few Thought, Hew York: The
Abingdon Tress, 1^16.
Sweet, William Warren. The Story of Religions in America. New
York: Harper and Brotners, 1S30.
The TheoBophical Movement, 1675-1925. Hew York; E. P. Dutton
and Co., 1925.
Thomas, Wendell. Hinduism Invades America. New York: The
Beacon Press, 1530.'
Towne, Elizabeth. Practical Methods for Self~Developnent.
Holyoke: E. Towne, 1904.
Trine, Ralph Waldo. In Tune with the Infinite. New York: T.
Y. Crowell Co., 1&97.
__________ • In the Fire of the Heart. Hew York: McClure,
Phillips and Co., 190G.
Vivekananda, Swarai. Vedanta Philosophy. 2d ed. N0w York:
H. J. Van Kaager., 1897.
Walters, Zelia K, Holy Bread. Kansas City: Unity School of
Christianity, l§3o.
__________ • You and Yoir Child. Kansas City: Unity School of
Chr1stianity, 1S3^.
Weber, J. A. (ed.). Religions and Philosophies in the Uhlted
States of America. Los Angelas: Wetzel Publishing
Co., 1931.
Weeks, Eugene B., and Alden, Caroline S. Spiritual Meanlngt of
Biblical Words. Chicago* The Scnool of Christ, le’
5£.
White11, Evelyn. Lovingly in the Hands of the Father. Kansas
City: Unity Scnool of Christianl ty, l9ol.
Whitney, Prank B. Beginning Again. Kansas City: Unity School
of Christianity, 1955.—
» Mightier Than Clrcurnstance. Kansas City: Unity
School of Christianity, l§3o.
_________ • Open Doors. Kansas City: Unity 3chool of Chris-
tisSTty. 1557.
•
212-
Wilcox, Ella fcheeler. The Heart of the Hew Thought, Chicago:
The Psychic Research Co., 1902.
Oilmans, ^olen. A Search for Freedom. Seabreeze, Florida:
lilmans Publishing House, 1898•
__________ , The Conquest of Death. Seabreeze, Florida, Inter­
na tTonaT^cIenTr7TF~XsFociation, 1900.
__________ . The Conquest of Poverty. 'Seabreeze, Florida, In­
ternational Scientific Association, 1900.
Wilson, Ernest C. Adventures in Prosperity. Kansas City: unity
School of Chrislianlty, lS5o.
__________ . The Contemplation of Christ. Kansas City: Unity
School of Christianity, 1&34.
__________ . Have We Lived Eefore. KansasCity: Unity School
of Christianity, lSSo.
__________ . Master Class Le3SonB. KansasCity: Unity School
of Christianity, 153o7
__________ . The Protecting Presence. Kansas City: Unity
School of Christianity, 1&38.
__________ . The Sony, of^ Life. Kansas City: Unity School of
Christianity, la57.
__________ . The iunlit V<av, Kansas City: UnitySchool of
Chi'lationa ty, 1528 ,
__________ . The Unity Viewpoint. Kansas City: Unity School
OP Christianity, luoo*
The World*a Parliament of Religions. 2 vols. Chicago: The
Parliament Publishing CoT, 1893.
Worcester, Elwood, McComb, Samuel, and Coriat, I. H. Religion
and Medicine. Hew York: Moffat, Yard and Co., l906.
Zweig, Stefan. Mental Healers, Hew York: The -Viking Press,
1932.
Pamphletb
Published by Unity School of Christianity, Kansas City:
About the Good Bonds* Club.
Andrews, P. E. A Miracle of Healing and How It Was Done.
.
.
__
-215-
The Apocrypha,
Are You Just a Y/i.sher.
Arguments for Flesh-Eating Refuted by Modem Science.
As to Moat-L'ating.
Attaining Eternal Life.
Attaining Immortality.
Behold I Send f
.
'
y Messenger.
Bible Interpretations.
Blessed Word.
Boileau, Ralph E. Heaven How.
__________ • Tlie Truth about Selling.
The Book That Helped Host In Business.
Building for the Future.
Bullet-Proof Soldiers.
Cady. H. Ewille, All Sufficiency In All Things.
__________ • Loose Hir. and Let Him Go,
Cagting Out Demons
Cheshire, Ella M. The Hlnety-Flrst Pgalm My Divine Protection.
The Christ Kind.
Concerning Spirltualisr.i,
Conservation,
A Convenient Season,
Dedication of the House.
Demonstrating Prosperity.
DeWitt, Mary B. The Consecration of the Room
Diligence.
Downes, Louise, Parent and Child
Dreams and Their Interpretation,
Ever-Present Bounty.
Fear Not,
Fillmore, Charles, As to Meat-Eating.
__________ . Enduring Words.
I
• Flesh-Ir.tins Metaphysically Considered.
. Forgive Us Uur Pobt3.
• How to Handle Substance'Spiritually.
. The- Inpcrscr.al VlcT/polnt.
.
• Interpretation of Visions
Jesue Christ*b Atonement.
The Kingdom of Heaven Is at Hand.
. Life and Sex.
• Vodern Spiritual Healing.
• The Occult Power of Love.
. The Overcoming Power cf a Divine Fearlessness.
• Preserving the Unity of Soul and Body: Reincar­
nation^
. Refold" Your God Thought.
, The Substance of Faith.
A Sure Remedy.
, True Cp:ra~e.
. Truth Demonstrates Itsslf.
. The Twelve Powers of Kan.
, Vitalizing Toser in Kan.
• Chat Is the True Being of Man.
3
Fillmore, Lowell. Thought Substanes
•215-
Foulks, Frances W. t'edltations of a Prospered Consciousness.
Freedom.
Freedom In Giving.
Gable, Francis J. Building with Good Y>'ords.
__________ . Good Words Build Happiness.
__________. Good Words Build Health.
Gaining the Master,;.
Giving and Receiving.
God of the Living.
God Our Support.
God's Hand.
The Great Discovery.
The Great Prayer.
Hall, Arthur D. Judgment and Justice.
__________ . Truth Applied to Dental Ills,
Hardy, Lida R. The Story cf Life.
The Healing Ministry of Jesus Christ.
Heal the Sick.
Health as a Reality.
Health through Body Renewal.
Health through Right Thinking.
Health through Spiritual Methods.
Health through Forgiveness.
Heaven's First Law.
Hensley, Adelaide. Making Frlenca of Enemies.
The Hope of Glory.
Hoschouer, W. I. Is Smoking Detrimental to Spiritual Growth.
How I Found Health.
Howto Meet Bereavement
- 216-
Human Relationship.
Individual Freedom,
Ib the World to Stop Eating Meat,
Justice In Finances,
Letter to Students,
Lift Up a Standard,
Live In the Present,
Living Substance.
Love: The Supreme Gift.
Lovingly In the Hands of the Father.
Lynch, Richard. The Tenth Part.
The ^aBterts Way of Love and Happiness.
Maternity Treatments.
The Ministry of Unity School.
Murray, W. John, The Idealism of Jesus.
One Is Your dealer.
The Origin and Growth of the Unity Movement.
Overcoming the Medicine Habit.
Overcoming the Poverty Idea.
Pearson, Mrs. A. A. Praise.
Permanent Employment Assured.
Points from Silent Unity.
Power of Stillness.
Practical Christianity.
Prayer.
Prosperity and Suooess
r
e
r
a
n -u jw p w g* i i m i u m m
Prosperity In the Home
-217-
Prosperlty Thoughts.
The Providing Law.
The Qualifications of a Spiritual Teacher.
Questions about the Prosperity Law.
Redeeming Prayer*
Regeneration the Way.
Relation between Righteousness and Health.
Relation of Mind and Music.
Relation of Grayer to Redemption of the Body,
Remaking Our World,
Safety In Eating.
Schobert, Theodosia DeWitt. Regeneration,
__________ • Points in the Overcoming Life.
The Second Coming of Our Lord.
Seek the True Source of Supply.
Shanklin, Imelda Octavla, In the Name of ^esus Christ,
Silence.
311ent-70.
The Silent Unity Work.
Sin Shall Hot Have Dominion.
Some Home Problems Solved.
Spiritual Marriage.
The Strength of Joy.
The Study of the Bible.
Talk Abundance.
Teaching of the Scriptures Conoarmlng Eternal Llfa.
The Tenth Part.
I', i ii j iV . h i m . ' . ■ ?!------- ;— r ■rwriiJSM
^ ^ ' III ^ M M 3 B T L J X L L ..i ■!.? .■
. —
-218-
Tilley, Elisabeth C. The Falrlea of Unity Forest.
Tithing as a Keane of Demonstrating Prosperity.
Tithing Questions and Answers.
- .i ■ W ■ —. ■
■ i . .. . ■. . . . . ........
The True Character of God.
*
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1
0
*
1
2
The Truth about Silent Unity Work.
Unity Conference Yearbook, 1939.
Unity Catalog: A Brief Outline of the Alms and Activities of
l)nlty School. T5551 ‘ " “
"Unity Correspondence School Course." First Series.
1. The Silence.
2. Healing.
3. Prosperity.
4. The Body of Christ.
5. Overoonlng.
6. The Great Demonstration.
"Unity Correspondence School Course," Second Series.
1. The True Character of Cod.
2. Christ, the Only Begotten of the Father.
3. Man, the Image and Likeness of Qod.
4. Tiie Formative Power of Thought.
5. Denials and Affirmations.
6. The fcprd.
7. Spirituality, or Prayer and Praise.
8. Faith.
9. Imagination.
10. Will and Understanding.
11 • Judgment and Justice.
12. Love.
The Unity Society of Practical Christianity.
Unltyls Statement of Faith.
The Uplifting Power of Love.
Van Marter, Sophia. The Faith That Removes Mountains*
The Way to Prosperity.
What about Spiritualism.
What Are You Doing through Your Support,
What Practical Christianity Stands For,
Wheeler, ^innle. Is Chrlstl-nlty Practical?.
Why Tonsils Should Not Be Removed,
Womans Intelligent Body.
Words of Truth,
Articles
Goddard, H. H. "The Effects of Mind on Body as Evidenced by
Faith Cures," American Journal of Psychology, X (1699),
431-502,
Sutton-Mattocks, V, E. "Miracles Wrought by a Woman's Faith,"
The Kansas City Star, Nov. 28, 1926, pp. 1 c.f.
Tyner, Paul. "The Metaphysical Movement," Review of Reviews,
XXV (March, 1902), 312-320,
Newspaper
The Kansas City Star (1690-1938).
Magazines
■
■
■+d i--—
The Chicago Christian Scientist, Vols. I-III (1887-1890).
Library of Oberlin College.
The Christ.............. “ “ '-VIII (1887-1894). The
Good Business (Jane, 1922-Juno, 1939), Published by Unity
School of Christianity, Kansas City, TniB magazine had
the title The Christian Business Man (1922-1925) and
Christian Business 11926-1935).
Life, Vole. I-XII (1897-1908). Kansas City Public Library.
Mind (1897-1906). Published by Charles Brodie Patterson.
Chica2 0 Public Library,
Progress (1927-1939). Published by Unity School of Christianity,
Kansas City. Tills magazine appeared as Youth (1927
-1953).
Unity (September, 1891; November 1891; December, 1891),
(Discontinued.) Published by Unity School of Chris­
tianity, Kansas City. Library of Unity School of
Christianity,
Unity (1889-1939), Published by Unity School of Christianity,
Kansas City, This magazine wa3 named Modern Thought
(188S-189C), Christian Science Thought (l'550-l631)/
Thought (1691-1800)'. ^Modern Thought, Christian
Science fought, and Thought are found only in the
library of tfnity School or Christianity, Unity i s
found in the Kansas City Public Library.
Unity Daily Word (1924-1939). Published by Unity School of
Christianity, Kansas City.
Weekly Unity (1909-1939). Published by Unity School of
Christianity, Kansas City.
Wee Wisdom (1893-1895; ie9 8 -1 9 3 9 ). Published by Unity School
of Christianity, Kansas City.
Public Documents
Supreme Court of Missouri, No. 30415. Hellie E. Clark, Respond­
ent v. Commerce Trust Co. et al. Appellants* Abstract
of Record. 2 vols. Respondents* Additional Abstract
of the fcecord, Statement, Brief and Argument.
Record of Jackson County Circuit Court, Kansas City, Mo.
tfo. 448,790. B. Klayman ’
Unity School of Chrii-
-221
tianity. vol. 128A, p. 354.
Record of Jackson County Circuit Court, Kansas City, Mo.
" No. 46t), 753. William korrfson v. Unity School of
Christianity, vol. 13 A, p. 530.
Record of Jackson County Circuit Court, Kansas City, Mo.
No. 436, ^754. Earl A. Tweedie V. Unity School of
Christianity, vol. 137A, p, 122,
Report
First Annual Report of Church of Christ, Scientist, Chicago,
---------- imr.----------------- — ----1
----------
