{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1939__price___fifty_years_of_psychical_research.pdf","mytitle":"Fifty Years Of Psychical Research","mylang":"de"}
FIFTY YEARS OF,
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
A CRITICAL SURVEY
By
H ARRY PRICE
Honorary Se
Councilj
(3
L O N G M A N S , G R E E N A N D C O .
LONDON o NEW YO R K o- TORONTO
LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO. LTD.
39 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON, E.C.4
17 UHITTARANJAN AVENUE, CALCUTTA
NICOL ROAD, BOMBAY
36A MOUNT ROAD, MADRAS
LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO.
114 FIFTH AVENUE, NEW YORK
221 EAST 20TH STREET, CHICAGO
88 TREMONT STREET, BOSTON
LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO.
215 VICTORIA STREET, TORONTO
First Published
ACC. No, |
/3 S'93
- -ft
Ciass No. I A- 43.
Book No.
% . i
— ri
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
BY WESTERN PRINTING SERVICES LTD», BRISTOL
PREFACE
J -M F T T TEARS OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH is the
r l fulfilment of a mental resolution, made many years
JL ago, that some day I would write a continuation of
Podmore’s classic history of the alleged abnormal which he
termed Modern Spiritualism. This work was published in
London in 1902 and is still the standard book of the period
with which it deals. But in preparing the plan of the present
volume, it was found necessary to encroach on Podmore’s
territory to a certain extent, as I decided to extend the scope
of my record so as to cover the last half-century.
Though fewer than thirty years have passed since Frank
Podmore (1856-1910) met with a tragic death1in the Malvern
Hills, a vast change has taken place in the examination of
alleged phenomena, in the technique employed, and even in
some of the manifestations which are investigated. For
example, the ‘spirit photographs3 of Podmore’s time are
quite different from those produced by photographic mediums
of to-day, and other forms of mediumship— real or alleged—
have become fashionable. Even the fraudulent purveyor of
‘ miracles’ has discovered new tricks with which to cheat the
ignorant and credulous, as the reader will discover. But the
greatest changes have occurred in the new methods of inves­
tigation, which are now being used by scientists and in the
universities. Positive results obtained by these methods have
been the means of convincing sceptical orthodoxy (usually in
the shape of incredulous physicists) of the value of psychical
research. The close collaboration between seance-room and
laboratory is at last bearing fruit.
I have endeavoured to make this work not merely a history
of psychical research, but a record of the principal experi­
ments which have been carried out, with the results ob­
tained. To the layman, it is the experiments which are the
most interesting. Also— and again on the layman’s behalf
1 See The Times for August 20, 1910.
V
VI P R E F A C E
— I have deliberately chosen language which he can under­
stand. For less simple language and technical accounts of
our work, he must consult the Bulletins, Proceedings and Jour­
nals of the various psychical societies. I must emphasize that
any opinion or conclusion expressed by me in the following
pages is purely personal and unofficial.
I must warn the reader that this is not a history of fortune­
telling, but of psychical research and spiritualism. The
reason I mention this is because so many spiritualists are
interested in astrology, numerology, graphology, palmistry,
interpretation of dreams and similar superstitions which,
very curiously, are now such popular features in many of our
journals. But the newspapers would not devote space to
these subjects if there was no demand for information con­
cerning them; and this demand is the direct outcome of a
nearly universal and ever-growing hunger for the marvellous,
and the inveterate longing to know what the future holds
for us.
It will be noted that in the following pages I have used the
word 'spiritualism5 in preference to 'spiritism.5 Actually,
the latter term is the more correct as there is little of spiri­
tuality in most of the phenomena, genuine or otherwise, seen
either in or out of the seance-room. But the spiritualists
themselves dislike the word spiritism because their most
bitter opponents— the Roman Catholics— always employ it.
So do the French. Logically, if there are substances or beings
not cognizable by the sensory organs, under normal condi­
tions, and these are of a spirit nature (as the spiritualists
contend) then, I think, spiritism is the correct word. But I
have no wish to offend my friends the spiritualists, though I
must remind them that they have no good title to the word
'spiritualism,5 which in its ancient and historic sense was a
philosophic term meaning the opposite to materialism. I
have also endeavoured to avoid using the word 'super­
natural.’ If a phenomenon occurs in Nature, it must be
natural, even though we are ignorant of the laws which
govern it. I suggest that a more suitable term is 'super­
normal.9 But Richet rejects1 even this as being inadmissible
'for there can be nothing in the universe but the natural and
1 Thirty Tears o f Psychical Research, London, 1923, pp. 3, 4.
P R E F A C E Vll
the normal.9 In 1905 he proposed the word 'metapsychic/
which has been adopted by many Continental psychists,
though the Germans and some others prefer the term ‘para-
psychic.9 Probably the best term of all is ‘paranormal.9
Certain of the chapters in this work formed the basis for
a course of lectures which I delivered in the University of
London during February and March, 1939; and, with some
exceptions, all the books and documents cited in the follow­
ing pages are to be found in the ‘Harry Price Library of
Magical Literature9in the University of London.
H. P.
19, Berkeley Street,
Mayfair, W.i.
CONTENTS
Page
P r e f a c e . . . . . v
In t r o d u c t io n i
Chapter
I. T h e P h e n o m e n a I n v e s t ig a t e d . . 25
I I . T h e B egin n in g s o f O r g a n iz e d R e s e a r c h :
T h e St o r y o f t h e S.P.R. . . 48
III. ‘A F it Su b je c t o f U n iv e r s it y St u d y a n d
R e s e a r c h ’ . . . . . 63
IV. F if t y Y e a r s o f P h y s ic a l P h e n o m e n a . 74
V. T h e S c h n e id e r B o y s — S h e e t -A n c h o r of
Psychical Research . . 92 *
VI. ‘ Margery’ : the Psychic Riddle of the
T wentieth Century . . . n o
VII. Stella C. . . . . . 1 1 9
VIII. ‘R osalie’ . . . . . . 130
IX. Miracles of the Mind:some Famous
M e n t a l M edium s . . . 145.
X. T h e St o r y o f E.S.P. . . . 166
XI. T h e M e c h a n ic s of Sp ir it u a l ism . . i g o -
XII. T h e L a w a n d t h e M ed iu m . . . 213.
XIII. Scientific Method in Psychical Research 235
XIV. Science Solves the Fire-Walk Mystery 250*
XV. Broadcasting the Occult . . 263
XVI. Books that have Made History . 275■
XVII. ‘ I Believe . . . ’ . . . 289
Appendix A.— T he Men Who Made Psy­
chical Research . . . . 305
Appendix B.— T he First Psychic Labora­
tory . . . . . 317
Appendix C.— T ext of Proposed Bill for
the Regulation of Psychic and O ccult
Practices . . . . . 326*
Appendix D.— T he Best Books to Read . 345,
Index . . . . . . 361
IX
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
T h e Sp ir it ‘ K a t ie K in g ’ P h o t o g r a p h e d
b y Sir W il l ia m C r o o k e s . Frontispiece
Plate Facing page
I. Page of Spirits,Spirit Photographs, etc. 34
II. Plaster Casts of K luski’s Wax Spirit
H an d s 35
III. Levitating Handkerchief, Automatic­
ally Photographed at a RudiSchneider
Stance . . . . . 1 0 6
IV. C r u d e ‘ H a n d ’ P h o t o g r a p h e d a t a ‘ M a r ­
gery’ Seance . . . . 1 0 7
V. Charles Eldred’s Faked Chair and ‘Pro­
perties’ . . . . . 1 9 4
VI. Mrs. Mellon and her Spirit Guide
‘ Geordie’ . . . . . 195
VII. Cartoon of Henry Slade and Professor
Ray Lankester . . . . 2 0 8
VIII. Cover and T hree Pages of Sylvestre’s
Catalogue of Fake Apparatus for Fake
Mediums . . . . . 2 0 9
IX. Hussain and V olunteers Doing the Fire-
W a l k a t C a r s h a l t o n . . . 2 5 4
X. Reginald Adcock Doing the Fire-Walk
at Alexandra Palace . . - 2 5 5
XI. Broadcasting from the Haunted Manor,
M e o p h a m . . . . . 268
XII. Emblematical Binding of Southcott
M a n u sc r ip t . . . 2 6 9
xi
XII L I S T OF I L L U S T R A T I O N S
Plate Facing page
XIII. G r a p h Sh o w in g V a r ia t io n s in T e m p e r a ­
t u r e a t Se a n c e w it h M iss S t e l l a G. 294
XIV. L a b o r a t o r y , Se a n c e R oom , e t c ., of U n i­
v e r s it y o f L o n do n C o u n c il f o r P sy ­
c h ic a l In v e st ig a t io n . . . 295
ILLUSTRATIONS IN THE TEXT
Page
A Se a n c e w it h t h e baquet> T im e of M esm er . 15
A r r a n g e m e n t of F u r n it u r e a n d L a y -o u t of R oom
a t ‘ R o s a l ie 5 St a n c e . . . 139
‘T e l e p a t h a ’ C ard s D esigned b y H a r r y P r ic e f o r
T estin g c
E x t r a -sen so ry P e r c e p t io n ’ . . 186
INTRODUCTION
WHAT IS PSYCHICAL RESEARCH?
B
EFORE the reader proceeds further, he should know
what is meant by the words ‘psychical research5and
‘spiritualism.5 Both are modern terms, though there
is evidence that the phenomena which are investigated by
the researchers, and exploited by somespiritualists, have been
recorded for many hundreds of years. And this evidence
comes to us from countries poles apart; from races civilized
and savage; and from every period of history. The ghost
stories of classical antiquity differ little from the experiences
of the modern investigator, and the aboriginal is scared by
exactly the same manifestations that intrigue the scientific
ghost-hunter. When engaged on the present work I received
reports concerning two haunted Homes, one on an island in
the Tonga group and one in Brixton: the former, a typical
Polynesian wooden house; the latter, an artisan’s dwelling.
In both cases the phenomena were identical, stones and
other small objects being thrown about, and the furniture
moved. Both reports were authentic, and I am certain that
the same law—if we can only find it— would explain the
abnormal flight of coco-nut drinking-cups in the South
Pacific and the equally strange shower of brickbats in a South
London suburb.
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH VERSUS SPIRITUALISM
Psychical research is a science and spiritualism is a religion.
The genuine researchers have their laboratories and scienti­
fic equipment, their special apparatus for eliminating human
testimony as far as possible, their scientific methodology,
their critical analyses of the results obtained. Their reports
are published in Bulletins and Proceedings, or in scientific
I B
journals, and these records are entitled to rank with the best
scientific literature.
As I have stated, spiritualism is, at its best, a religion; at
its worst, a ‘racket.3 Spiritualists, though badly organized,
have their churches and lyceums, inspirational speakers,
trance preachers, special prayers and hymn books and their
own special services for marriage, burial, etc. The Spiri­
tualists3 National Union was formed in 1891 in order to
co-ordinate the movement in Great Britain, but is not
representative of the movement as a whole. Spiritualism all
over the world suffers from its Press. With some exceptions,
the spiritualist journals are often badly written and edited,
and a few are sensational to a degree. Sometimes their pages
are devoted to private quarrels, personalities, abuse of the
scientific researcher, gibes at the Church and mud-slinging
at rival editors. The advertisement columns of some of these
journals, especially in America, carry notices offakemediums,
worthless pieces of apparatus which are stated to work
miracles, and similar rubbish. Certain of these psychic and
occult sheets are the happy hunting-ground of the large army
of charlatans who prey on credulity and make a fat living
out of the bereaved, the diseased, the ignorant, and the
morbidly curious. A medium convicted of fraud often
depends upon the popular psychic Press for support and
rehabilitation. At the time of writing, a man is serving a
sentence offour months3imprisonment for mediumistic fraud
at the same time as [a] a fund is being raised for him; (b) a
book is being written about him, the proceeds of the sale
going to the fund; (c) a society is making arrangements for
him to continue his ‘work3 when he leaves prison; (d) and
spiritualists are shrieking at the ‘injustice3 of the sentence,
after the man had been convicted on the clearest evidence at
a trial (and subsequent appeal) which lasted for weeks. If
the fraudulent medium is made such a fuss of in this way,
how much are we to believe of what the spiritualists them­
selves tell us? I reiterate that there are certain spiritualist
papers which try to present to their readers an honest and
dignified account ofpsychic happenings, and fhese the reader
should consult. The editors of these journals are to be pitied,
as it must be extraordinarily difficult to decide what to print,
2 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
*n view of the sensational rubbish which emanates from the
majority of seance-rooms.
A further difference between psychical research and spiri­
tualism is a financial one. There is no money whatever in
psychical research. The few societies that exist for the scien­
tific investigation of alleged phenomena are usually poor,
and are practically living from hand to mouth. Apart from
their membership revenue, most of which is used for over­
head and printing charges, they have little income. Money
is rarely forthcoming for research purposes and they have a
job to make both ends meet. A few secretaries and research
officers are in receipt of modest salaries, but these people do
this work because they like it. Some of them could probably
earn much more in other fields of activity. It is a strange fact
that few persons bequeath money for the furtherance of
psychical research. However much a man (or more often a
woman) identifies himself with psychics when alive, it is
rarely that his financial support survives the grave. The
reason is, I suppose, that one’s interest in psychic matters is,
usually, purely personal, and when one is gone, that is the
end of it.
If there is no money in psychical research, there is plenty
in spiritualism. Most of the big societies are prosperous, and
the smaller ones keep going year after year. The major
societies can afford large and expensive premises, well
furnished, and well-paid secretaries to look after their
interests. Their incomes are derived from membership
subscriptions, the crake-off5 they obtain from the fees of
mediums whom they engage for their members; fees from
those attending seances, lectures and social events (such as
afternoon-tea meetings for 'psychic development5
); and the
sale of books and articles such as trumpets, ouija boards,
crystals, etc. The revenue from services and lectures must be
considerable. Some ofthe largest halls in London are booked
for propaganda work and are usually well filled. Well-
known spiritualist lecturers are engaged, often together with
a trance medium or clairvoyant who delivers messages to the
audience from the spirits alleged to be seen or heard.
The psychic Press supports a number of editors, writers and
staff, not too well paid, but with comfortable jobs. Other
I N T R O D U C T I O N 3
people who make money out ofspiritualism are the mediums,
real and alleged. A few successful trance mediums and
clairvoyants earn large incomes, and at least one woman
keeps two secretaries to look after her business. The big
money is made by the mental mediums and rarely by the
physical mediums for the simple reason that the Staying
powers5of the latter are not good. They are usually exposed
by someone after a more or less successful run. But a really
good physical medium, able to withstand scientific investi­
gation in a laboratory, could literally make a fortune. Such
reputed mediums appear from time to time, but after a while
they are exposed, or their powers disappear just as the
phenomena begin to get interesting.
Others who make money out of spiritualism are the people
who run correspondence courses or home groups for 6
psychic
unfoldment5 or 'development of powers5; those who hold
classes for the purpose of turning the most unlikely material
into (according to their advertisements) cexceptionally
powerful mediums.5 These latter and similar concerns are
often given high-sounding titles by those who run them,
though usually they are located in the back parlours of
suburban villadom. Finally, money is made by those manu­
facturing and selling the various articles and bits of apparatus
for use in seances, home circles, or self-development of one5
s
own latent psychic powers. A glance at the advertisements
in most spiritualist papers will illustrate what I mean. There
are big vested interests involved in the drama of proving
there is life after death, and the business of 'selling spiri­
tualism5has been reduced to a fine art.
4 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
SPIRITUALISM IS ANCIENT
It is generally accepted by people who should know better
that spiritualism and its beliefs are of modern origin. Apart
from the fact that many ancient peoples, civilized and savage,
in all parts of the world, believed in some form of survival,
we in England debated the question in our literature nearly
four hundred years ago. Probably the first book in the
English language to discuss the subject of 'survival,5 as we
I N T R O D U C T I O N
understand it to-day, was a translation of De Spectris, by
Ludwig Lavater (1527-86), published at Zurich in 1570.
Lavater was a Scientific5writer who wrote with considerable
scepticism of the things he records. The English edition1 was
published in London in 1572. In many respects, the book
might have been written yesterday, instead ofin the sixteenth
century, and it is a fact that Shakespeare drew largely from
the work when he wrote Hamlet. The first chapter cConcern­
ing certaine wordes which are often used in this Treatise of
Spirits5 deals with the term spectrum, defined as ca substance
without a body, which beeing hearde or seene, maketh men
afrayde,5 visions, and apparitions. The author then warns
his readers to be critical of the evidence for spirits: ‘ Melan-
cholike persons, and madde men, imagin many things which
in verie deede are not. Men which are dull of seing and
hearing imagine many things which in verie deede are not
so.5 Lavater then proceeds to describe various fraudulent
phenomena and again warns us eThat many naturall things
are taken to be ghosts, as for example, when they heare the
crying of rats, cats, weasles, martins, or any other beast, or
when they heare a horse beate his feete on the plankes in the
stable at midnight, by and by they sweate for feare, supposing
some buggs to walke in the dead ofthe night. . . . If a worme
whiche fretteth wood, or that breadeth in trees chaunce to
gnawe a wall or wainscot, or other tymber, many will judge
they heare one softly knocking uppon an andvill with a
sledge.5 Lavater knew his 'sitters,5who were much the same
three hundred and sixty years ago as they are to-day. The
remainder of the work deals with apparently genuine pheno­
mena and the author discusses survival from every angle.
Considering its antiquity, Lavater’s is an amazing work.
5
SEVENTEENTH-CENTURY RESEARCH
If, as we have seen, the modern conception of'survival5is
not new, scientific research of the supposed phenomena is
1 O f ghostes and spirites walking by nyght> and o f strange noyses, crackes, and sundry
forewarnynges, whiche commonly happen before the death o f menne, great slaughters, &
alterations of kyngdomes, . . . Written by Lewes' Lauaterus, o f Tigurine [Zurich],
London, 1572.
just as ancient. Of several typical cases which I could cite in
order to support my argument that psychical research is not
modern, I will choose the extraordinary affair of the Ring-
croft disturbances. The report was carefully written up and
published as a brochure in 1696.1 The work deals with a
typical case ofhaunting and materialization, with an account
of Poltergeist disturbances which are familiar enough to
modern investigators. I am including the story in this
Introduction to prove my argument that the serious record­
ing of psychical phenomena is not modern.
The chief fault of most ancient accounts of alleged
abnormal happenings is that they are not well authenticated.
The books or brochures containing these memorials of a
by-gone age are valuable to a bibliophile, but are of little
more than academic interest to the modern student ofpsychic
phenomena. It is all the more refreshing then to find a book
containing a summary of remarkable happenings which are
thoroughly attested by a number of responsible persons.
Moreover (and this fact is of extreme importance), each
incident of the narrative is individually vouched for by the
person orpersons who witnessedthe occurrence. This brochure
of nineteen quarto pages was written by the minister of the
parish in which the occurrences took place and the report is
signed by the ministers of five neighbouring parishes; by the
lairds of Colline and Milhouse; and several other persons of
repute, all of whom were eye-witnesses of the phenomena.
The disturbances— oftrue Poltergeist nature— took place inthe
household of Andrew Mackie of Ringcroft. As usual in such
cases, there were a number of young children in the family,
but all were under observation when the major phenomena
happened. It is amusing to note that immediately the mani­
festations became known a rumour was circulated to the
effect that Mackie, a mason by trade, edevoted his first child
to the Devil, at his taking of the Mason-word5i.e. upon his
admission into the ranks of a society formed by Scottish
working masons. The first sign of anything unusual was
noticed in February, 1695, when Mackie found that, during
1 A New Confutation o f Sadducism, Being a true Narrative o f the Wonderful Expres­
sions and Actions o f a Spirit which infested the House o f Andrew Mackie o f Ringcroft, in
the Count)) o f Galloway in Scotland, . . . by Alexander Telfair, London, 1696,
6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
I N T R O D U C T I O N
the night, all his cattle had escaped from their sheds, and
that their tethering ropes had been broken. The next night
the same thing happened and one of the beasts had been tied
to a high beam in the shed, so that it could hardly put its feet
to the ground. A few nights later a quantity of peat was
brought into the house and ignited, and the smoke nearly
suffocated the family. An intensive search failed to reveal
the cause of the disturbance. On March 7, 1695, stones were
thrown all over the house, and this phase lasted for several
days, but no stones were thrown on the Sunday. During the
stone-throwing period, when all the family were out, and the
children happened to arrive home first, a figure, wrapped
in a blanket, was seen sitting by the fire. All the children
saw it. The youngest, a boy, seeing that the blanket be­
longed to him, cried out. The figure suddenly collapsed and
left the blanket on the four-legged stool, which, curiously
enough, was found upside down. On March 11 a number
of pot-hooks and a hanger disappeared from the chimney
corner and were found four days afterwards in a ‘ cockloft5
— which had previously been thoroughly searched. On
March 21 the parish priest went to the house and prayed for
deliverance from the mischievous ‘spirit.5While he was pray­
ing cit molested me mightily, threw Stones and divets other
things at me, and beat me several times on the Shoulders and
Sides with a great Staff, so that those who were present heard
the noise of the Blows. That same night it pull5
d off the side
of a Bed, knock5
d upon the Chests and Boards, as people do
at a Door. And as I was at Prayer, leaning on the side of a
Bed, I felt something thrusting my Arm up, and casting my
Eyes thitherward perceived a little white Hand and an Arm,
from the Elbow down, but it vanished presently.5 During
family prayers the spirit repeatedly cried, 'hush! hush!5 at
the close of every sentence, and the dog, upon hearing the
strange voice, would run to the door and bark. At other
times during prayer the entity would whistle and groan.
Several times it set the house on fire and 'a sheep-house was
intirely consumed5 by the flames. On April 29 'being
Monday, it continued setting fire to the House so frequently,
that Andrew Mackie being weary with quenching it, he put
out all the Fire about the House, and poured Water on the
7
Hearth; yet it set the House on fire again several times, tho
there was no fire to be had within a quarter of a Mile of the
House.5 About the middle of the same day ‘as Andrew
Mackie was threshing in the Barn, it whispered in the Wall,
and then cried Andrew, Andrew, but he gave no answer to it:
Then with an austere angry voice it bid him speak; but he
kept silent: Then it said. Be not troubled,you shall have no m
ore
trouble, except some throwing of stones upon the Tuesday tofulfil the
Promise.s The manifestations ceased completely on May i
and never troubled Ringcroft again.
I reiterate that the chief value of the above report lies in
the fact that it has been carefully drawn up and attested by
a number of educated persons of repute, and that each mani­
festation is witnessed separately. This procedure is not
common to-day; that such a document should have been
published nearly 250 years ago is, I think, remarkable.
8 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
THE 5TOCKWELL GHOST
In case the reader should imagine that in the Ringcroft
disturbances I have chosen an isolated instance of ancient,
serious recording of phenomena, I will briefly refer to the
famous Stockwell ghost. In January, 1772, an elderly lady
named Mrs. Golding possessed a small house at Stockwell,
then a country district. Wanting a maid, she engaged the
services of a young woman named Ann Robinson, aged
twenty. She stayed with her exactly ten days, during which
period the following manifestations occurred:
On January 6 a number of plates-and glasses fell off the
dresser in the kitchen. Only the maid was in the room and
she ran screaming to her mistress. Mrs. Golding visited the
kitchen and saw another row of plates fall off the dresser,
when she and the maid were at the other end of the room.
At the same time loud noises emanated from various parts of
the house; a clock fell offthe wall in another room; a lantern
was thrown down the stairs; fian earthen pan of salted beef
broke to pieces and the beef fell about5; passers-by, hearing
the clatter, rushed to the house and carried Mrs. Golding
to a neighbour’s cottage, where she promptly fainted.
The phenomena ceased only when Ann Robinson left the
house.
A surgeon named Gardner was sent for and he bled Mrs.
Golding. Immediately, the blood esprung out of the bason
upon the floor, and presently after the bason broke to pieces.5
Ann Robinson was again present. This sort of thing hap­
pened at several houses which the girl visited with her
mistress and a detailed account of all the manifestations is
given in the report.1 Mrs. Golding finally got rid of the girl
and the phenomena ceased. My object in citing this case is
to emphasize the fact that it was properly recorded and
signed, and many similar cases to-day are not so well authen­
ticated. At the end of the published report is written: 'The
above narrative, is absolutely and strictly true, in witness
whereof we have set our hands this n th day of January,
1772: Mary Golding, John Pain [a farmer, at Brixton-
Causeway,] Mary Pain, Richard Fowler, Sarah Fowler,
Mary Martin. The original copy of this narrative, signed as
above, with the parties own hands, is in the hands of J.
Marks, Bookseller, in St. Martin’s Lane, to satisfy any
person who chuses to apply to him for the inspection of the
same.’ Camden Pelham suggests2 that Ann Robinson
tricked the investigators. If so, she was not the last alleged
medium to do so!
I N T R O D U C T I O N 9
MODERN SEANCE TECHNIQUE INVENTED
BY A YOUNG GIRL
We have now seen thatcsurvival5was discussed nearly four
hundred years ago and that the serious recording of pheno­
mena was not unknown in the seventeenth century. The
question now arises, when was the typical spiritualist seance
technique first practised in England? The spiritualists them­
selves believe that 'modern spiritualism5began with the Fox
sisters in America in 1848, that it spread to England and
1 An Authentic, Candid, and Circumstantial Narrative, o f the Astonishing Transac­
tions at Stockmll, in the County o f Surry. . . . Published with the Consent and Af(proba­
tion o f the Family and other Parties concerned, to Authenticate which, the original copy
is signed by them. London, 1773.
2 Chronicles o f Crime. London, 1886, Voi. I, pp. 404-5.
Europe during the following years, and that the Fox girls
‘invented9the seance. As a matter of fact, they did nothing
of the sort. The seance, as we know it to-day, was invented
by a naughty little girl as long ago as 1762. And for this
information we have to thank— of all people!— Oliver
Goldsmith. In 1762 Goldsmith wrote a brochure1 on the
Cock Lane Ghost, which was then setting London by the
ears. This major sensation intrigued many eminent persons,
including Samuel Johnson, who was silly enough to visit the
cghost9in the hope of receiving some ‘ communication.9
Goldsmith’s pamphlet is really a defence of the husband of
a Mrs. Fanny Kent who had died in a house in Cock Lane,
Smithfield, two years before the disturbances began. The
‘ghost9accused Mr. Kent, a previous tenant of the house, of
murdering his wife. After a full investigation, it was found
that Elizabeth, a young girl of eleven, daughter of a man
named Parsons, was the source of the disturbance. Parsons
tried to blackmail Kent, who resisted, and, in revenge, the
‘ghost9plot was hatched. Parsons was prosecuted and con­
demned to the pillory. The book is remarkable for the
description of a bedroom seance which might have been held
in the parlour of a modern medium:
‘ To have a proper idea ofthis scene, as it is now carried on,
the reader is to conceive a very small room with a bed in the
middle, the girl, at the usual hour of going to bed, is un­
dressed, and put in with proper solemnity; the spectators are
next introduced, who sit looking at each other, suppressing
laughter, and wait in silent expectation for the opening ofthe
scene. As the ghost is a good deal offended at incredulity,
the persons present are to conceal theirs, if they have any,
as by this concealment they can only hope to gratify their
curiosity. For, if they show either before, or when the knock­
ing is begun, a too prying,- inquisitive, or ludicrous turn
of thinking, the ghost continues usually silent, or, to use the
expression ofthe house, Miss Fanny is angry. The spectators
therefore have nothing for it, but to sit quiet and credulous,
otherwise they must hear no ghost, which is no small
1 The Mystery Revealed: Containing a Series o f Transactions and Authentic Testi­
monials, respecting the supposed Cock-Lane Ghost__ London, 1742 (recte 1762). An
excessively rare pamphlet. A copy was sold for £900 at the Kern sale in New
York.
10 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
I N T R O D U C T I O N
disappointment to persons, who have come for no othdK
purpose.
‘ The girl who knows, by some secret, when the ghost is to
appear, sometimes apprizes the assistants of its intended
visitation. It first begins to scratch, and then to answer
questions, giving two knocks for a negative, and one for an
affirmative. By this means it tells whether a watch, when
held up, be white, blue, yellow, or black; how many clergy­
men are in the room, though in this sometimes mistaken;
it evidently distinguishes white men from negroes, with several
other marks of sagacity; however, it is sometimes mistaken in
questions of a private nature, when it deigns to answer them;
for instance: the ghost was ignorant where she dined upon
Mr. K — ’s [her husband’s] marriage; how many of her
relations were at church upon the same occasion; but particu­
larly, she called her father John instead of Thomas, a mistake
indeed a little extraordinary in a ghost; but perhaps she was
willing to verify the old proverb, that it is a wise child that
knows its ownfather. . . .’ And so on.1
It seems incredible that the above description of a seance
was written 177 years ago. The preparation of the 'medium,5
the introduction of the sitters, the cdrying-up5 of the mani­
festations if the sitters were too inquisitive, the assertion that
scepticism inhibits phenomena, the ctwo knocks for a nega­
tive, and one for an affirmative’ are exactly what take place
to-day at a spiritualist seance. Modern spiritualism is sup­
posed to date from the American 'Rochester blockings’ of
1848, with the Fox sisters as mediums. I suggest that it dates
from the Cock Lane blockings of 1762.
I I
THE COMING OF MESMER
At about the same time as the Cock Lane 'manifestations’
were exciting this country, a young Austrian medical student
named Franz (or Friedrich) Anton Mesmer (1733-1815)
claimed to have discovered Animal Magnetism, or what was
1 For a satirical poem on the Cock Lane ghost, and a good contemporary
account of the imposture, see Poems, by Charles Churchill, London, 1772,
seventh edition.
later termed Mesmerism, Hypnotism, Magnetic Healing,
Suggestion, etc. For his doctor's degree, which he took in
Vienna in 1766, he chose as his thesis Be PlanetarumInjiuxu, or
the influence of the planets on the human body. He con­
tended that there is a mutual influence between the celestial
bodies, the earth and animated bodies; that this 'influence'
is disseminated through a fluid which is universal, con­
tinuous, and subtle; that the action of this fluid manifests
itself in the human body with properties analogous to the
magnet—hence the term 'animal magnetism.’ Putting his
theories into practice, in 1773 he claimed1 to have cured a
woman suffering from, apparently, epilepsy, by applying
magnetic plates. He claimed other successes and endea­
voured to interest his scientific countrymen in his alleged
discoveries. But orthodoxy refused to listen to him and, after
futile visits to Berlin and London in search of recognition, he
went to Paris, where he established himself in 1778. He was
no more successful in France in convincing official science that
there was anything in his discovery, but was fortunate in
securing the aid of M. d'Eslon, the medical adviser to the
Count d’Artois. D’Eslon called a meeting (1780) of the
principal medical men, and suggested a scientific investiga­
tion of Mesmer’s claims. The doctors refused to make such a
test. Little did they guess that, within 150 years, hypnotism
and suggestion would be employed by half the doctors of
Harley Street, and psychophysics would have become a
science.
If the Parisian medicos refused to give Mesmer a hearing,
their patients did not. The immediate effect of d'Eslon’s
abortive meeting of the Faculty of Medicine was to publicize
the fact that a new practitioner with new methods was curing
— or alleged to be curing— all-comers of all diseases, and
people flocked to his clinique. Mesmer was the sensation of
Paris— especially fashionable Paris. The King himself be­
came interested in the new technique, inquired into the
nature of some of the cures, and was very impressed. Finally,
Louis XVI offered Mesmer a pension of 20,000 livres, and
another 10,000 livres a year to equip a suitable establish­
ment in order that he could teach his methods to others.
1 See his Memoirs sur la dicouverte de Magnitisme Animal, Genfcve et Paris, 1779.
12 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
I N T R O D U C T I O N
Mesmer refused these offers, but took pupils ofhis own, giving
lectures on his system. Each student was charged 100 louis
for the course. In addition, certain pupils were permitted to
open centres for magnetic healing in the provinces, on con­
dition that Mesmer was given half of the fees received.
The phenomenal success of Mesmer and his disciples
forced the Government to take some action in the matter.
Although the doctors in 1780 had refused voluntarily to
examine emagnetic healing,9in 1784 the Government com­
pelled the Faculty of Medicine and the Royal Society of
Medicine to examine Animal Magnetism. Other scientists
were added to the Commission, and among them were
Benjamin Franklin and Lavoisier. The Commission sat for
five months, and, of course, the reader can guess the verdict
of the doctors. On August 11, 1784, the Commissioners
presented their report. They contended that the cures were
probably due to imagination or accident, that the technique
was dangerous to the patients, that the existence of the
wonderful fluid could not be proved by the senses, and that
the whole business should be suppressed by law! However,
one doctor, M. de Jussieu of the SocieteRoyale de Midecine, was
bold enough to state that he was convinced of the reality of
the cures, experimented himself, and published a mono­
graph1 on his conclusions.
13
THE FIRST PARLOUR STANCES
The typical modern seance is easily traceable from Mes-
mer’s and d’Eslon’s sittings with the baquet, which was a sort
of large circular tub, around the periphery of which pro­
truded a number of iron rods, connected with the interior,
which were held by the patients or 'sitters.9 Inside the tub
were a number of bottles (presumably containing chemicals),
‘ arranged in a particular manner.*1
2 Those taking part stood
1 Rapport de Vun des Commissaires charts par le Roi de Vexamen du Magnitisme
Animal, Paris, 1784. For a complete history of the Mesmer controversy, see the
Jean Fran9ois-Gillet collection of tracts on Animal Magnetism in the ‘Harry
Price Library of Magical Literature* in the University of London.
2 Compare this technique with the ‘Mars machine* described in Price’s
Confessions o f a Ghost-Hunter, London, 1936, pp, 118-22.
or seated themselves round the baguet. Then each sitter was
joined to his neighbour by means of a cord, or they held
hands in chain formation— exactly as we do at seances to-day.
Very soon, the sitters began to get hysterical, screaming,
frothing at the mouth, ‘with immoderate laughter,9 until
some of them collapsed on the floor! I have seen the same
thing at modern spiritualist seances. During all this com­
motion the patients were supposed to be receiving the cure
for their various ailments, and it is obvious that suggestion
played a large part in the proceedings. I am fortunate in
being able to show the reader a contemporary drawing of
one of d’Eslon’s sittings, which, it will be noticed, is com­
plete with music—in the shape of a piano—which is still
thought necessary at many modern seances.
14 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
ORIGIN OF THE TRANCE
In Dr. de Jussieu’s monograph1 on his experiments, he
mentions the case of a young man who, after becoming
‘magnetized’ at the baguet, was able to walk about and
magnetize other persons by simply touching them. But when
he, himself, lost the effects ofthe baguet, he was no longer able
to magnetize others, and remembered nothing of what had
passed. As Podmore (who cites this case) rightly remarks:1
2
cIn this incidental observation—not the less valuable because
the observer altogether failed to realize its significance— we
have the first indication of the somnambulic trance, the
master fact alike in Animal Magnetism of the first half of last
century and in the Hypnotism of to-day.9 If de Jussieu failed
to grasp the fact that he had stumbled across a major pheno­
menon, there were others, more spiritually minded— and
perhaps more credulous— who claimed that the somnambulic
trance was the outward and visible sign of ‘possession’ by
spirits; or, as it is now called, ‘spirit control.9 It is easy to
see how private seances of the Cock Lane type, and the more
public sittings organized by Mesmer and his disciples were
1 Op. cit.
2 Modern Spiritualism, London, 1902, Vol. I, p. 56.
c
t
fA
A
T
m
?
\AJTTH
T
H
P
T
t
A
f
U
m
T
T
T
M
T
?
OT7
A
/F
F
S
M
R
I?
responsible for the technical base on which the structure of
modern spiritualism has been erected.
The French Revolution did little to stem the tidal wave of
Animal Magnetism which swept France and the entire civi­
lized world and engulfed many eminent medical practi­
tioners.1 In every country were to be found professional
and amateur ‘mesmerists/ schools where the technique of
Animal Magnetism was taught, countless works and bro­
chures on the subject, and a number of Mesmer societies
with high-sounding titles came into being. Charlatans and
quacks by the thousand pretended to cure every disease
under the sun by means of magnetism, and there were to be
purchased ‘magnetic beds/ canes, rings, hats, and even
underwear— all duly ‘magnetized5 and guaranteed to cure
various ailments.
Though Mesmer had died in 1815, serious French experi­
menters such as Dr. Alexandre Bertrand and a Dr. P. Foissac
persisted in the attempt to obtain from orthodoxy some sort
of recognition of his work. Bertrand wrote two classic
works2in which, while ridiculing such theories as a ‘univer­
salfluid/ ‘spirit control/ and ‘magnetic influence/ he pointed
out that the phenomena recorded were really produced by
the influence of one mind over another, or what we now call
‘ suggestion.5 At the same time (in 1826), Foissac succeeded
in persuading the medical section of the Royal Academy of
Medicine in Paris to form another Commission to inquire
into the whole question of so-called Animal Magnetism and
the undoubted phenomena associated with it. The Com­
mission published its Report in 1831 and it makes very
different reading from the one issued in 1784. Parisian
medical orthodoxy executed a complete volteface. The Com­
missioners found that the phenomena were genuine; that the
somnambulic trance was a fact; and that ‘magnetism5
— or
what we now call hypnotism—had a curative effect. So, at
long last, and sixteen years after his death, the claims of
Mesmer received the cachet of official science, even if his
empirical methods were scoffed at. Mesmer had stumbled
1 Including Dr. John Elliotson (1788-1868), one of the founders ofUniversity
College Hospital, London, and founder of The £oist.
2 TraitS du Somnambulisme, Paris, 1823; D u Magnitisme Animal en France,
Paris, 1826.
l 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
I N T R O D U C T I O N
across a most interesting mental phenomenon, invented a
fantastic Explanation5for it, and— quite unprofessionally—
exploited it for his own ends.
It wouldbe tedious in this Introduction to follow the history
of Animal Magnetism any further. Podmore gives a most
detailed history of the subject in Modern Spiritualism,* and I
am indebted to him for some of my data. I have shown how
certain people insisted, without the slightest evidence, that
the phenomena of hypnotism were really the work of spirits,
and they have been doing it ever since. Many seances held
to-day differ little from the mental orgies with the baquet in
Mesmer5
s clinique. The foundations of modern spiritualism
were laid on the half-truths of Animal Magnetism, but it
required something else to give it the impetus which would
enable it to sweep the world as a new religion* Most oppor­
tunely— and most appropriately— the new impetus was
found in America, in the persons of a young visionary named
A. J. Davis, and the two young daughters of a farmer named
John D. Fox.
17
THE SEER OF POUGHKEEPSIE
Andrew Jackson Davis (1826-1910) was born at Blooming
Grove, Orange County, on the Hudson River, in the State of
New York. When he was aged twelve his parents removed to
Poughkeepsie and from the name of this township Davis
afterwards became known as the cPoughkeepsie Seer.5 When
he was seventeen years old it chanced that a lecturer and
demonstrator visited Poughkeepsie and gave a series of talks,
with experiments, on Animal Magnetism. Young Davis was
present at these talks and listened with rapt attention to the
account of the wonders of mesmerism and the somnambulic
trance. Later, he was cmagnetized5 by the local tailor, be­
came a good subject, and began to give trance addresses. At
the age of eighteen, as he tells us in his autobiography,2 he
wandered forty miles, became entranced, during which the
spiritsof Galen and Swedenborg appeared to him in a church­
yard and pointed out to him his life work. For the next three
1 Vol. I, pp. 51-75.
3 The Magic Staff, New York, 1857 (and many later editions).
C
years he practised magnetic healing with great success, dur­
ing which period he was delivering trance addresses, sub­
sequently published in book form. These clairvoyant
addresses were remarkable in many ways, being dissertations
on a vast number ofsubjects in a rather grandiose style which
appealed to those not too well educated.
In 1847 Davis published a long work entitled The Prin­
ciples of Nature, Her Divine Revelations, in which the following
curious prophecy appears:
cIt is a truth that spirits commune with one another while
one is in the body and the other in the higher spheres— and
this, too, when the person in the body is unconscious of the
influx, and hence cannot be convinced of the fact, and this
truth will ere long present itself in the form of a living
demonstration, and the world will hail with delight the
ushering in of that era when the interiors of men will be
opened, and the spiritual communion will be established
such as is now being enjoyed by the inhabitants of Mars,
Jupiter, and Saturn.3
Among spiritualists, this passage is regarded as predicting
the advent of the spirit-rapping sensation at Hydesville, near
Rochester, New York, in the following year, with the Fox
sisters as 'mediums.3 But I agree with Podmore when he
says:1 6In the first place, the spiritualism of the years sub­
sequent to 1848 was not a different movement from the
spiritualism whose course we have been tracing prior to that
year. It was characterized by the same ideas, but found
other external manifestations. In the second place, there is
no doubt that Davis and the little band who gathered round
him helped materially to the fulfilment of this prophecy. It
is conceivable that but for them and the movement they
represented, the Rochester knockings might have remained
as barren of results as the Cock Lane ghost, or any other
exploded Poltergeist.3 I not only agree with Podmore, but
would go further and say that it is certain that had it not been
for the fact that Davis and his followers had set the stage, the
Hydesville manifestations would hardly have been heard of
outside Wayne county, in which Hydesville is situated.
1 Modern Spiritualism, London, 1903, Vol. I, p. 169.
l 8 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
I N T R O D U C T I O N 19
RAPS IN ARCADIA
One night, about twelve months after Davis published his
Revelations, two young girls, Margaret and Katie Fox, aged
fifteen and twelve years respectively,1 were lying in their bed
in a small cottage in the village of Hydesville, Arcadia town­
ship, twenty miles from Rochester, New York. The house
was a frame building and was so small that the tenants, John
D. Fox and his wife, and their two daughters shared the only
bedroom, the girls sleeping in one bed, their parents in
another. On the evening of March 31, 1848, when the
children had retired to rest, and were awaiting the coming of
their parents, a series of loud, percussive raps occurred on or
near the bed in which the girls were lying. According to the
Fox family, as later recorded by them, similar noises had
previously been heard in the house. On this particular even­
ing, the raps were so loud that they attracted the attention of
the parents, who at once visited the room. The raps con­
tinued and, jokingly, one of the girls snapped her fingers,
saying: 'Mr. Splitfoot, do as I do 13 Answering raps were
immediately heard. Several more raps were induced in this
way, the 'entity3imitating the signals given by the children.
Mr. Fox and his wife decided to call in the neighbours in
order that they could witness the miracle.
One of these neighbours, a William Duesler, gives a
graphic account1
2ofthat first s6ance in the Fox cottage. There
were about a dozen people in the little room, the Fox girls
were in bed, and their parents were directing operations.
Duesler sat on the bed, and asked several questions, to which
he received one or more raps— or sometimes no raps if the
answer was in the negative. As each rap was heard, Duesler
informs us: ‘Ifelt the bedstead jar when the sound was pro­
duced.3 By this simple method of question and answer, it
was 'discovered3that a former tenant of the house had mur­
dered a pedlar for his money, and the name of the alleged
murderer was given— by calling out the names of previous
1 One account gives the ages of the girls as 10 and 7 years.
2Recorded in Explanation and History o f the Mysterious Communion with Spirits,
by E. W. Capron and H. D. Barron, Auburn, N.Y., 1850.
tenants, a very loud rap (which shook the bed) announcing
the cculprit.3 It was suggested that the spirit of the pedlar
was communicating. The reader cannot fail to notice the
correspondences between Goldsmith's account of the Cock
Lane seance, and Duesler’s story of the one held in the Fox
cottage: the bedroom, the little girls in bed, the crowd of
curious neighbours round the bed with the parents presiding,
the raps on the bedstead, the allegation that a murder had
been committed in the house, the victim naming the culprit,
and so on. It was spiritualistic history repeating itself,
though more than a century separated the two seances.
If the Arcadian seance in 1848 was an exact replica of the
one held in Cock Lane in 1762, its effect on the public was
very different. The story of the Rochester knockings was the
talk for miles around and thousands flocked to the Fox cot­
tage. A married sister of the Fox girls, Mrs. Leah Fish
(afterwards Underhill), then living at Rochester, also tried
her hand at communicating with the spirits, was successful,
and joined forces with the Hydesville rapping mediums.
Meetings were held at Rochester and other centres, and the
new spirit-rapping movement spread like wild-fire. During
the next year or so hundreds of new mediums went into
business in competition with the Fox girls.
Of course, there were unbelievers, as there are to-day.
Medical men and scientists wanted to see the miracles for
themselves, and the Fox girls were frequently challenged to
produce the spirit raps under test conditions. Some of these
challenges were accepted. In 1851, Professors Austin Flint,
Charles A. Lee, and C. B. Coventry, of Buffalo University,
formed themselves into a panel and tested the girls. They
found that the raps could not be produced when the mediums
sat on a sofa and placed the heels of their outstretched legs on
soft cushions. But when they were allowed to sit upright on
the sofa, with their heels on the hard floor, raps in profusion
were heard. In their report1 they state: ‘The conclusion
seemed clear that the Rochester knockings emanate from the
knee-joint.* Dr. Lee claimed that when he held the knees of
one of the girls during the production of the raps, the motion
of the bone was plainly felt. Many other persons claimed to
1 Quoted by Podmore, op. cit., Vol. I, pp. 184-5.
2 0 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
I N T R O D U C T I O N 21
be able to produce raps with toe- and knee-joint, and a lec­
turer on pseudo-spiritualism, named Chauncey Burr, toured
the country at this period producing raps with his toe-joints
at each meeting.
A short time after the Buffalo medical test, Margaret Fox
confessed to a Mrs. Norman Culver, a relative by marriage,
that the whole affair was a fraud, and demonstrated how the
raps were produced— sometimes by cracking the knee-joints,
but more often by using the toe-joints. This sworn statement
(dated April 17, 1851) was published in the Mew York Herald.
Finally, in August 1888, Margaret gave a public demonstra­
tion at the New York Academy of Music, when she again
confessed that the Rochester knockings were fraudulent and
demonstrated on the stage how the raps were produced.
Kate Fox made*a similar confession. Margaret toured the
country demonstrating how she produced the raps, and
Mr. John Mulholland tells me that Elmer P. Ransom, her
manager and ‘lecturer,’ is still living. But in the following
year Margaret, in an interview, retracted her confession— so,
on her own showing, she was either a fraudulent medium, or
a great liar. The reader can take his choice. Both the Fox
girls secured good husbands, Margaret becoming the wife of
Dr. Elisha Kent Kane, the explorer, and Katie marrying
Mr. H. D. Jencken, a barrister. Dr. Kane died on February
16, 1857. Both mediums visited England, and met a number
of distinguished persons. Sir William Crookes sat with Kate
Fox, and was impressed. Kate died in 1892, Margaret in
1895, and Leah, the eldest of the mediumistic sisters, in
1890.1
1 For a comprehensive survey of the activities and lives of the Fox sisters,
see: Explanation and History of the Mysterious Communion with Spirits, by E. W.
Gapron and H. D. Barron, Auburn, N.Y., 1850; Rochester Knockings! Discovery
and Explanation o f the Source of the Phenomena. . . . Buffalo, 1851; Modern Spiri­
tualism, its Facts and Fanaticisms, by E. W. Gapron, Boston, 1855; Biography o f
Elisha Kent Kane, by William Elder, Philadelphia, 1858; The Missing Link in
Modern Spiritualism, by A. Leah Underhill [one of the Fox sisters], New York,
1885; The Love-Life o f D r. Kane: Containing the Correspondence between Elisha
K . Kane and Margaret Fox, New York, 1866; The Death-Blow to Spiritualism:
Being the True Story o f the Fox Sisters [contains their confessions], by R. B.
Davenport, New York, 1888; The Delusion o f Modem Spiritualism and the
iRochester Knockings': the True Story o f the Fox Sisters, by T. W. Driver, Welling­
ton, New Zealand, 1916; Fox-Taylor Automatic Writing, 1869-92, by Sarah E. L.
Taylor, Lincoln, Nebraska, 1932. A full summary of the history of the Foxes
is given by Podmore, Modern Spiritualism, London, 1902, Vol. I, pp. 179-201.
22 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
AFTER HYDESVILLE
One of the most curious phenomena of spiritualism is the
fact that the exposures, confessions and retractions of the Fox
girls did not strangle the spirit-rapping craze before it was
fairly born. Such scandals connected with any other new
movement would have killed it stone dead. But by the time
the Fox family were thoroughly discredited, forty years had
elapsed and during this period tens of thousands of mediums,
both professional and amateur, were operating all over the
world. By the year 1888, not only had spirit-rapping allied
itself with the phenomena of mesmerism and the somnam­
bulic trance, but many novelties in the way of manifestations
were being demonstrated: materializations, the abnormal
movement of objects (telekinesis), spirit slate-writing, table­
turning, spirit photographs, spirit lights, etc. All these
phases of spirit activity had been discovered by new mediums
at various times and the novelty of the whole business
appealed to those persons, mostly disciples of the 'Pough­
keepsie Seer,5who had been waiting for something of the sort
to happen.
Another reason why the Fox revelations did little to
damage the new movement was because real phenomena were
being recorded through various mediums. There is not the
slightest doubt about this. But real phenomena have been
recorded for hundreds of years, as I have endeavoured to
prove, and it was merely accidental that ihe pranks of the
Fox girls should have stimulated experimentation and
research, especially among scientific men. It is certain that
the vast majority of those who were living on spiritualism and
selling 'phenomena5at this period were just charlatans and
racketeers, and we have many such to-day. But I am con­
vinced that there were some genuine mediums, too. It was
the Hydesville fraud which prompted men to inquire into
these alleged phenomena. The phenomena themselves had
for centuries been crying aloud to be investigated. The time
was ripe for such an examination: the Cock Lane fraud
occurred a century too soon. And in the case of Cock Lane,
the mesmeric trance had not been discovered, and the
mystical writings of A. J. Davis were not there to prepare
men’s minds for the new revelation.
I N T R O D U C T I O N 23
DAWN OF THE SCIENTIFIC ERA
It is a far cry from Hydesville to the Royal Society, but by
the time the nineteenth century had drawn to a close, a
number of Fellows of this scientific body had experimented
with various famous— and infamous— mediums, and many
distinguished men had been impressed. For an account of
these the reader must consult Podmore’s history and con­
temporary accounts of the mediums themselves. But I will
mention briefly a few investigators and some of those whom
they investigated.
Daniel Dunglas Home (1833-86), most famous of all
mediums, was investigated by such men as Sir William
Crookes, Lord Adare, Alfred Russel Wallace, and many
others. They were convinced ofthe genuineness of the pheno­
mena, as I am myself, after reading every work on Home
that has been published. I consider Home to be the greatest
physical medium of whom we have any record, and he was
never exposed. Contemporary with Home were the Ameri­
can conjurers (posing as mediums), the Davenport brothers,
Harry Bastian, Anna Eva Fay, Henry Slade, Mrs. W. R.
Hayden and many more. Among English mediums I must
mention William Eglinton, David Duguid, Mrs. J. B. Mellon,
Richard Boursnell, Florrie Cook, Madame d’Esperance, and
Cecil Husk. Most of them were caught cheating and
exposed. The British investigators of this golden age of
psychical research include not only Crookes, Dr. A. R.
Wallace and Lord Adare, but also Sir David Brewster,
Robert Chambers, William Howitt, Dr. W. B. Carpenter,
Sir William Barrett, Dr. John Elliotson, Michael Faraday,
Edmund Gurney, Richard Hodgson, Andrew Lang, Ray
Lankester, Bulwer Lytton, F. W. H. Myers, Lord Rayleigh,
Balfour Stewart, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, Henry Sidgwick (and
his wife, nee Balfour), and a host of others. Among those
investigating abroad were William James, Cesare Lombroso,
Charles Richet, A. N. Aksakov, Theodor Flournoy, Carl du
Prel, Camille Flammarion, Paul Gibier, Baron Hellenbach,
J. C. F. Zollner, and Professor d’Arsonval.1
At least two commissions were formed to inquire into the
truth of the alleged amazing happenings said to be occurring
at seances everywhere. The London Dialectical Society
established a committee in 18693 and among those who
served on it were Charles Bradlaugh and Alfred Russel
Wallace. Its report2was published in 1871, and proved to be
a triumph for spiritualism. The genuineness of practically all
the major phenomena was said to have been established. In
1884 a similar, but more critical, and certainly more scientific
commission was appointed in America in accordance with
the terms of the will of Henry Seybert, who bequeathed a
large sum of money to the University of Pennsylvania for the
purpose of an ‘impartial investigation of all systems ofmorals,
religion, or philosophy . . . particularly modern spiritualism.5
Most ofthe commissioners were scientists and of considerable
academic standing. In 1887 a preliminary Report3was pub­
lished which was completely negative. The spiritualists were
disappointed. No further report was issued. The real value
ofboth the Dialectical Society’s report and the Seybert Com­
mission’s inquiry was to focus the attention ofscientists on the
miracles which were alleged to be happening in their midst.
It was at least obvious that there was something to be investi­
gated, and, to this end, Professor William Barrett called a
meeting early in 1882, the result ofwhich was the establishing
of the Society for Psychical Research. The founding of the
S.P.R. was the turning-point in the investigation of the
abnormal (the start of the cclassic5 period, as someone has
called it), as it marked the beginning of organized scientific
psychical research. The names of the organizers, and an
account of their work, can be found in 'The Men Who
Made Psychical Research5 (Appendix A).
1 For concise biographies of these early workers, see the invaluable reference
book, Encyclopedia of Psychic Science, by Nandor Fodor, London [1934]-
2 Report on Spiritualism o f the Committee o f the London Dialectical Society. . . .
London, 1871.
3Preliminary Report of the Commission appointed by the University of Pennsylvania to
Investigate Modem Spiritualism. . . . Philadelphia, 1887. For a scathing criticism
of the Report, see: What I Saw at Cassadaga Lake: A Review of the Seybert Commis­
sioners' Report, by A. B. Richmond, Boston, Mass., 1888.
24 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
CHAPTER I
THE PHENOMENA INVESTIGATED
A
LTHOUGH the technique of spiritualism, as we
know it to-day, was invented by Elizabeth Parsons
and the Fox sisters, these young people confined them­
selves to a simple code of raps with which to communicate
with the spirit world. But the last knock in the little Arca­
dian cottage had hardly died away before all sorts of bizarre
phenomena were being recorded and demonstrated by
various mediums all over America and parts of Europe.
Within a few months the Fox girls themselves were giving
seances at which musical instruments played of their own
accord, articles were levitated, and tables waltzed about the
room. This started the table-turning craze, which has not
yet died out. Within a few years of the Rochester knockings,
Katie Fox was sitting for Charles F. Livermore, a New York
banker, and producing materializations. His dead wife,
Estelle, and ‘Benjamin Franklin’ were among the spirits who
visited Katie’s seances, and they were seen, touched, heard,
and even wrote at request. Other mediums were getting
spirit messages on slates, spirit voices through trumpets and,
a little later, spirit photographs, spirit lights, and spirit
paintings. All these phases of physical phenomena have
come down to us, though some are no longer fashionable
(e.g. slate writing and spirit paintings).
The mental phenomena of spiritualism marched hand-in-
hand with the physical: clairvoyance, trance addresses,
psychometry, automatic writing, telepathy, clairaudience,
hypnotism, billet-reading, and so on. New manifestations
appeared with new mediums, some of whom specialized in
one particular miracle, while others produced the whole
gamut of the marvellous at their s6ances. Most of these
phenomena have persisted to the present day and before the
lay reader can understand what investigators have done and
25
are doing in separating the very few grains of genuine psychic
phenomena produced by good mediums, from the vast
mountain offraudulentchaffsuppliedby themiracle-mongers,
I must describe the phenomena themselves in some detail,
with the names of their chief exponents. I should add that
for many of the alleged marvels there is no evidence what­
ever worthy of the name.
26 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
Materializations.—The production of spirits or entities, in
the form, likeness, or appearance of human beings, either in
whole or part, which are said to be composed of ectoplasm or
teleplasm, an amorphous substance externalized or produced
by a medium during a seance and used to build up 'psychic
rods,’ 'pseudopods’ (literally 'false feet’), or other limbs.
Those mediums who have become famous for materializa­
tions include Florae Cook, the investigation of whom by Sir
William Crookes is a matter of history. Florrie’s chief spirit
or 'control’ was Katie King, the daughter of a pirate, and
she was so real that on one occasion Sir William embraced
her and kissed her, as he tells us himself.1 Another famous
materializing medium is Eva C[arriere] or ' Marthe
Beraud,’ examined by Baron von Schrenck-Notzing,2 Pro­
fessor Charles Richet,3 Dr. Gustave Geley,4Mme Alexandre-
Bisson,5 Dr. E. J. Dingwall,6 and others. Willi and Rudi
Schneider are also materialization mediums, but both have
lost whatever power they once possessed. Carlos Mirabelli,
of Sao Paulo, is alleged to produce a crowd of materialized
spirits simultaneously, in full light, but his mediumship has
never been tested by a competent scientific group. In 1931
1 Researches in the Phenomena o f Spiritualism, by Sir William Crookes, London
[1874], p. 104.
2 Materialisations-Phcinomene, Miinchen, 1914. Eng. trans. Phenomena o f
Materialisation, London, 1920.
3 Traiti de Mitapsychique, Paris, 1922; Thirty Years o f Psychical Research,
London, 1923.
4 From the Unconscious to the Conscious, London, 1920 (from the French De
ITnconscient au Conscient, Paris, 1919).
5 Les PhSnornbies dits de Materialisation, Paris, 1921.
6 ‘Report on a Series of Sittings with Eva C.,* S.P.R. Proceedings, London,
1922, Part LXXXIV.
I offered him a fee of £500, and expenses, if he would visit
England, but he refused.1 His ‘manager,3 Miguel Karl,
demanded all expenses for the trip for three persons, and
4,000 French francs per month as a fee. Mr. Karl concluded
his letter with the remark that if I would pay this amount
£
Mr. Mirabelli will attend very pleasingly to your call!3
Another materializing medium was Karl Kraus (or Karl
Weber), who deceived Schrenck-Notzing. He was caught
cheating by Professor Hans Thirring,2 and, later, I bought
his ‘confession3
3 for £10. The most extraordinary material­
izing medium I ever tested was Mrs. Helen Duncan,
whom I exposed in 1931. She ‘materialized3yards of cheese­
cloth ‘spirits,3which I photographed. The ‘ghosts3have to
be seen to be believed.4 She was afterwards convicted of
fraudulent mediumship in Edinburgh, and fined £10.6 A
woman who emulated Mrs. Duncan is Fru Lara Agusts-
dottir, who was brought all the way from Iceland to London
by the International Institute for Psychical Research, Ltd.,
in order to be tested. Six seances were held, but it was the
‘unanimous opinion of the Council that the phenomena
were produced by fraudulent means.’ 6 Her ‘ spirits3 were
composed of cheese-cloth, masks, and other odds and ends.
Among the earlier materializing mediums can be men­
tioned F. W. Monck, ‘ Mme d’Esperance3 (i.e. Elizabeth
Hope),7 Mrs. J. B. Mellon,8 William Eglinton,9 and many
more. Most of them were exposed. Materializations of
animals have been recorded through ‘Franek Kluski,3
10Jean
1 See 0 Medium Mirabelli Mystifica? Sao Paulo, 1929 (written by Mirabelli.
himself); ‘The Mediumship of Mirabelli/ by Hans Driesch, Journal o f Am.
1
S.P.R.f New York, November, 1930.
2 'Psychical Research in Vienna/ by Hans Thirring, in the Journal o f the
American S.P.R ., December, 1925.
3 A resum6 was published in the Berliner Illustrierte £eitung for December 25,
1933.
4 See 'Regurgitation and the Duncan Mediumship,* by Harry Price, London,
1931 {Bulletin I of the Nat. Lab. Psychical Research).
5 For the Duncan trial, see the English and Scots daily Press for May 3-12,
1933.
6 Members’ Advice Card, No. 26, October, 1937.
7 Materialization. (A lecture by Mme. d’E$p£rance), Rochester, N.Y., 1905.
8For an exposure of Mrs. Mellon, see Spookland! by T. S, Henry, Sydney,
N.S.W. [1894].
9 For work of Eglinton, see ’ Twixt Two Worlds, by J. S. Farmer, London,
1886.
10 Wspomnienia Z Seansdw Z Medjum Frankiem Kluskim, by Norbert Okolowicz,
Warsaw, 1926.
T H E P H E N O M E N A I N V E S T I G A T E D 27
Guzik, the Misses Moore, and others. I detected Guzik in
fraud,1 Kluski has never submitted himself to a scientific
panel, and the Misses Moore will not permit me to sit with
them.1
2
3
Telekinesis.— That is, the supernormal displacement of
objects, though the term is not applied to the levitation or
transportation ofthe medium. Most physical mediums claim
to produce telekineses at their seances, and many Poltergeist
cases are remarkable for the production of spontaneous tele­
kinetic manifestations, though no medium is present. How­
ever, the disturbances are often associated with adolescents.
Actually, there is good evidence for the phenomena of tele­
kinesis, though this phase of mediumship is always seized
upon by the fraudulent conjurer, posing as a genuine
medium, in order to impress the credulous. Fortunately,
telekinesis is one of the easiest phenomena to control, as
instrumental aid can be utilized. Judged by the evidence,
genuine telekinetic movements have been witnessed through,
I think, D. D. Home,3 Stella C.,4*the Schneider boys,6
Eusapia Palladino,® Stanislawa Tomczyk (Mrs. Everard
Feilding),7 Anna Rasmussen,8 Eleonore Zugun,9 and— per­
haps— Frau Maria Silbert.10 Other ‘telekinetic’ mediums
28 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
1 'Some Impressions of Jean Guzik and his Phenomena,’ by Harry Price,
Journal o f the Am. S.P .R ., February, 1924.
2 See 'Animal Spirit Seance Manifestations,’ in ih t Sunday Chronicle, London,
November 14, 1926.
3Experiences in Spiritualism with Mr. D . D . Home, by Viscount Adare, London
[1869J; Researches in the Phenomena o f Sp iritua lism by Sir William Crookes,
London [1874].
4Stella C., by Harry Price, London, 1925.
6 'Convincing Phenomena at Munich’ [Willi Schneider], by Harry Price, in
Psyche9 London, Vol. Ill, No. 4, April, 1923; Rudi Schneider, by Harry Price,
London, 1930.
BEusapia Palladino and her Phenomena, by Hereward Carrington, London
[1910]; La Questions Della Erode Negli Esperimenti colVEusapia Paladino, by Julien
Ochorowicz, Milano, 1896.
7 Ueber die Versuche mit dem Medium Stanislawa Tomczyk, by Baron von Schrenck-
Notzing, Leipzig, 1922.
8 'Experimental Inquiries into Telekinesis,’ by Chr. Winther, Journal o f Am.
S.P .R ., New York, January-May, 1928.
0 ‘A Report on the Telekinetic and other Phenomena Witnessed Through
Eleonore Zugun,’ by Harry Price, Proceedings, Nat. Lab. of Psychical Research,
London, 1927, Vol. I, Part 1.
10 See Leaves from a Psychisfs Case-Book, by Harry Price, London, 1933,
pp. 187-200.
include Henry Slade,1 'Margery’ (Mrs. L. R. G. Crandon),1
2
Kathleen Goligher,3 and many more. Sometimes, it has
been alleged, instruments and apparatus (such as type­
writers) have been operated by 'telekinesis/ but the evidence
for these manifestations is bad. Various pieces of apparatus
have been devised to prevent the simulation of telekinetic
phenomena, including a fraud-proof double cage table by
the present writer.4
5
Apports.— Objects brought abnormally into the seance
room or elsewhere, from the French verb apporter, to bring,
produce. Like 'spirit9photographs, the evidence for apports
is bad. Very few mediums have claimed to produce apports,
and many of those who have done so were caught cheating.
Some famous apport mediums are Mme d’Esperance (ex­
posed); Heinrich Melzer (exposed: he specialized in flowers
and small stones, some of which were found stuck behind his
ears by means of sticking-plaster at a seance in 1926);fi
' Margery/ the American medium; Charles Bailey, an
Australian, who 'produced’ small live animals and Egyptian
and other curios; Frau Anna Rothe, the German Blumen-
medium, exposed and imprisoned;6Mrs. Guppy, the medium
who, during a stance, was 'transported9 across London;
Centurione Scotto, an Italian marquis, who was also ' trans­
ported9 from a seance room to a hay loft at his home,
Millesimo Castle;7Thomas Lynn, a miner, and many others.
Flowers have always been favourite objects with apport
mediums, and one young woman, Hilda Lewis, specialized
in various blooms and became known as the 'Flower
Medium.9 She was exposed, and confessed.8 A Budapest
T H E P H E N O M E N A I N V E S T I G A T E D 2 9
1 See Preliminary Report. . . . [Seybert Commission] op. cit.; The Bottom Facts
Concerning the Science o f Spiritualism, by J. W. Truesdell, New York, 1883;
Transcendental Physics, b y j. C. F. Zollner, London, 1880.
2 (Margery9the Medium, by J. M. Bird, Boston, Mass. [1925], and the Journal
and Proceedings of the Am. S.P .R ., New York.
3 The Psychic Structures at the Goligher Circle, by W. J. Crawford, London, 1921;
The Goligher Circle, by E. E. Fournier D’Albe, London, 1922.
4Illustrated in Plate XI, Leavesfrom a Psychisfs Case-Book, op. cit.
5See Psychic Science, April, 1927.
6Der Fall Rothe, by Erich Bohn, Breslau, 1901; Geisterschriften und Drohbriefe.
Fine wissenschaftliche Untersuchung zum F all Rothe, by Erich Bohn and Hans H.
Busse, Munchen, 1902.
7Modem Psychic Mysteries, by Mrs. G. Kelley Hack, London, 1929.
8See The “Flower Medium’s9
’ Confession,’ by F. N. C. Bell in Light,
London, for August 15, 1935.
carpenter, Lajos Pap, like Charles Bailey, concentrates on
live animal apports such as beetles, snakes, frogs, etc. He
was tested in London in 1936 with entirely unsatisfactory
results.1 The latest claimant to 'apport’ honours is Frau
Sadler of Breslau, now being investigated by Major G. Huth.
I have invited her to London.
Levitation.— The abnormal raising of an object or person.
The most famous case of a levitating medium is that of
D. D. Home, as recorded by Viscount Adare in Experiences in
Spiritualism with Mr. D . D . Home.2 This took place on Decem­
ber 13, 1868, at Ashley House, Victoria Street, London.
Home is alleged to have floated out of one of the rooms on the
third storey, and floated in through the window of another
room on the same floor. Those who witnessed the miracle
included Viscount Adare (afterwards the Earl of Dunraven)
himself, the Master of Lindsay, and Charlie Wynne. This
case seems well attested, but is still the subject of controversy.
Home is said to have been levitated many times. Other
mediums who claimed to have been levitated are Stainton
Moses, A Zuccarino, Eusapia Palladino, the famous Mrs.
Guppy, Cecil Husk,3 Frank Herne,4 Maria Vollhardt, and
Carlos Mirabelli, I once visited Vienna in order to test Willi
Schneider who, it was stated, had developed 'levitation’
mediumship. He was unable to produce the phenomenon.5
Levitation among saints and ecstatics has been alleged many
times with many people. Some accounts are well authenti­
cated.6
Elongation.— The lengthening of the body or limbs by
psychical means. As in the phenomenon of levitation, D. D.
Home was the best known exponent, many witnesses testify­
ing to the fact that when this medium was placed against the
wall, and someone held his feet, Home would gradually
1 ‘The Lajos Pap Experiments/ by Nandor Fodor, London, 1936. [Bulletin
//, Inter. Inst, for Psychical Research.)
2 London [1869].
3 See Psychic Force, an Experimental Investigation o f certain little-known Pheno-
mena, by Gambier Bolton, London, 1914.
4Experiences in Spiritualism: a Record o f Extraordinary Phenomena, by Catherine
Berry, London, 1876 [Second Edition].
5An Account of Some Further Experiments with W illi Schneider, by Harry Price,
Journal o f the Am. S.P.R ., August, 1925, pp. 420-45.
6La Livitation. Contribution historique et critique a Vitude du merveilleux9 by
O. Leroy, Paris, 1928. «
g o F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
'grow5 until he was several inches taller than his normal
height. Viscount Adare records (op. cit.) many such in­
stances. Other mediums have claimed to produce this
phenomenon.
Transportation.— The miraculous transition of persons,
usually mediums, from one place to another. We have seen
that D. D. Home was levitated, or rather transported via the
ether, from one room to another outside a house in Victoria
Street. Other mediums, it is alleged, have been transported
much longer distances, and the record is held by Mrs.
Samuel Guppy, who (in 1871), from her home at Highbury,
was instantly precipitated into the middle of a seance at
Lamb’s Conduit Street, some three miles away. This
modern 'transit of Venus’ was amusingly illustrated in one
of J. N. Maskelyne’s books1 where Mrs. Guppy is pictured
sailing over London in her underclothes. I have already
mentioned that Centurione Scotto was also transported from
his seance-room to his hayloft. I was once foolish enough to
bring over from Poland a woman medium at whose seances,
it was stated, the sitters were sometimes transported. An
observer would be in his chair at the seance, when, in an
instant, he would find himself, minus his clothes, in the road
outside the building. Dr. A. Imich, of Czestochowa wrote
us glowing accounts of this woman’s mediumship, and in
1932 we invited them both to London. The medium’s name
is Frau Dr. Matylda Skrzetuska, and she and Dr. Imich
stayed some weeks. We held many stances, but nothing
whatsoever happened— not even a rap. Their trip cost us
£70. Many other instances of the alleged flight of mediums
have been recorded.
Transfiguration.— Change of appearance or form by
abnormal means, the medium sometimes claiming to be
transformed into the physical likeness of a dead person.
Many psychics have sat for ‘transfiguration phenomena.’
Modern examples are those of Madame Eugenie Picquart, a
French medium. During my tests she ‘ changed’ into the
French actor, Coquelin; then successively into an old French
judge, Mephistopheles, an Egyptian mummy, a small boy,
etc. In order to produce these effects, she used odds and
1 Modem Spiritualism, London [1876].
T H E P H E N O M E N A I N V E S T I G A T E D 31
ends of paper, chalk, burnt cork, walking-stick, and so on.
In my opinion,1 there was nothing psychic about it. Other
‘transfiguration9 mediums include Mrs. Bullock, and Miss
Lilian Nutter. All the ‘transfigurations9 I have seen at
seances could have been produced by a good facial con­
tortionist.
Petrifaction or mummification.— The arresting of the natural
process of decomposition by abnormal means. The practice
of mummification among the Egyptians was based upon the
expectation of a return of the soul to the body, but it is not
clear why some mediums profess to be able to ‘mummify9
organic matter, though some of them do. Joanny Gaillard is
the chief exponent of this curious form o f‘mediumship9
, and
(as recently as 1928) he claimed to be able to sterilize or
petrify fresh fish, fruit, meat, etc., by ‘magnetizing9 them
with his hands. I offered him £50 to mummify a fish in my
laboratory. He wanted £100, and negotiations broke down.
Later, M. Rene Sudre, the distinguished French psychist
and other scientists tested Gaillard, in Paris, but no ab­
normality in the medium could be discovered. ‘ Magnetized9
fish, pigeons and chops went bad just as quickly as those
that had not been subject to Gaillard’s ‘influence.9
2
Another medium who claims to mummify is Heinrich
Nusslein.1
2
3
*
Emanations or radiations.—Just as Gaillard claimed to pos­
sess some power which he could exude, and thereby sterilize
organic matter, or even cure malignant growths in persons,
so other mediums have been tested for similar physical ‘rays9
or emanations which they were alleged to externalize. From
the days of Mesmer persons have been cured by ‘magnetic
healing,9by making passes with the hands over the affected
parts of the sufferer. This is now known to be a mental
process (hypnotism). There are many ‘healing mediums9
to-day, and some cures have been effected, probably by sug­
gestion. Other mediums, it is alleged, have affected photo-
1 For an account of this medium, with photographs, see Confessions of a Ghost-
Hunter, op. cit., pp. 101-3.
2 ‘Two Adventures in Metaphysics and Occultism/ by Ren6 Sudre, Journal
of the Am. S.P.R ., Vol. XXIII, No. 3, New York, March, 1929.
3‘The Automatic Art of Heinrich Nusslein/ by Harry Price, Journal o f the
Am. S.P.R .. New York, November, 1928.
32 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
T H E P H E N O M E N A I N V E S T I G A T E D 33
graphic plates sealed in opaque envelopes. Pasquale Erto is
one of these, but our experiments with this man produced no
results.1 Stanislawa Tomczyk was more successful, and
Julien Ochorowicz considered that actual rays emanated
from her fingers, and that these rays were able to move
objects (telekinesis), affect photographic plates, etc. She
was investigated by a number of scientists, and details of her
phenomena can be found in the works of Schrenck-Notzing,
Richet, and others. Many years earlier, Baron Karl von
Reichenbach contended that the human body gave off rays
or an 'aura3which could be seen under certain conditions.
Dr. W. J. Kilner confirmed this and published1
2instructions
as to how the aura could be seen. As regards the alleged
cerebral emanations said to be externalized by some mediums,
Professor F. Cazzamalli has made long and elaborate experi­
ments with a wooden isolating chamber,5 lined with lead,
the whole being earthed. He concluded that cthe human
subject, under particular psychic conditions, and notably
during the development of telepsychic phenomena, gives off
electromagnetic oscillations of the type of radio waves,5
which are amplified and received by sensitive radio appara­
tus.3 Cazzamalli’s technique and conclusions have been
much criticized.4
Psychic or cspirit5 lights.— Lambent or percussive lights
associated with mediumship. These are very common at
seances with both physical and mental mediums but the
good evidence for them is very slight. D. D. Home
produced lights on many occasions, recorded by Viscount
Adare and others: they were probably genuine. During
the seances with Stella C. many lights were produced
and they were unquestionably genuine. They were some­
times lambent and sometimes percussive, usually of an
6
electric blue5 colour (as in a neon tube), but occasionally
1 Leavesfrom a Psychist's Case-Book, op. cit., pp. 354-76.
2 The Human Atmosphere ( The Aura), by W. J. Kilner, London, 1920;
Photographic des Effluves Humains: Historique, Discussion, by E. N. Santini, Paris
[1898].
3 ‘Telepsychic Phenomena and Cerebral Radiations,’ by F. Cazzamalli,
Journal o f the Am. S.P .R ., New York, January, 1926.
4 By Alexandra Tosi, in Lucee Omhra, Rome, November, 1925; ‘Observations
on the Cazzamalli Experiments,* by J. Malcolm Bird, Journal o f the Am. S.P .R .,
New York, February, 1926.
D
yellow.1 Many lights were observed at seances with Stainton
Moses (cM.A., Oxon.3
), William Eglinton, Franek Kluski,
Jean Guzik, and Maria Silbert. Frau Silbert’s clights9were
strongly percussive in their intensity and those I witnessed
reminded me ofsmall fireworks being exploded, though other
observers state that those they saw were lambent, suspended
in the air like small fireballs. Pasquale Erto, the Neapolitan
'rainbow man’ produced lights that could not be dis­
tinguished from the flashes made by ferro-cerium ('flints’ or
strike-o-lights used in cigar lighters). Both Dr. Geley and
I.. found traces of ferro-cerium after our respective experi­
ments with this man; and when, by adequate control
methods, I made it impossible for Erto to use his hands, all
phenomena ceased.2 Another 'luminous medium’ is Anna
Monaro of Pirano. Under the strictest test conditions in
hospital and elsewhere,.scientists found that luminous patches
occurred on her body. The mystery of the lights was never
solved, though it was thought probable that they were due to
pathological causes.3 *
Psychic breezes or thermal variations.— Apparent changes of
temperature during seances have been noted from the time
of the Fox sisters onwards, but I believe I was the first
seriously to study and record these phenomena. For this
purpose I had made for me (by Negretti & Zambra) a
very sensitive recording barograph, sensitive to .or0Fahren­
heit. It was found that during experiments with Stella C.4
and Rudi Schneider, the temperature of the seance-room
rose (which was natural) until the trance began, when it
began to fall. When phenomena occurred, the graph some­
times showed a variation. These records were not very
satisfactory, as it was impossible to control the temperature
outside the room, or the body temperature of the sitters.
The same positive results in a properly constructed thermal
or isolation chamber would be required to make these
experiments convincing. 'Psychic breezes’ are frequent at
1Stella C., by Harry Price, op. cit.
2See the Revue Mitapsychique for May-August, 1924, for Dr. Geley’s experi­
ments with Erto; and Leavesfrom a Psychisfs Case-Book, op. cit., pp. 354-76.
3Sul Fenomeno di Pirano, by F, Vitah (and others), Rome, 1934.
4 ‘Some Account of the Thermal Variations as Recorded during the Trance
State of the Psychic, Stella C.,” by Harry Price, Journal o f the Am. S.P.R .,
November, 1927.
34 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
seances with most physical mediums, but they may be due
to physiological causes, rather than physical or psychical.
D. D. Home produced cbreezes and winds5 (Adare), and
the same phenomena have been recorded at sittings with
cMargery.5 Some haunted houses feel cold, and at the old
Manor, Meopham, Kent, the one from which I broadcast
in March, 1936, unaccountable thermal variations are fre­
quently noted. During the broadcast I measured the
temperature in the cellar (focus of alleged manifestations) by
means of a sensitive transmitting thermograph, and there
was a definite sharp rise and fall round about 10 p.m. We
could not account for it. The house I am at present
(November, 1937) investigating, Borley Rectory, Suffolk, is
strangely cold, a fact recorded by many independent
observers.
Spiritphotographs.— As early as i860 a man named William
Mumler was producing heads of'spirits5on his photographic
plates. Some of the 'spirits5 proved to be very much alive
and he was prosecuted (New York, 1868). Imitators were
numerous and the following 'photographic mediums5 have
appeared: fidouard Buguet (prosecuted and imprisoned,
Paris, 1876); Richard Boursnell (exposed); Edward Wyllie
(1848-1911, exposed); David Duguid (d. 1907, exposed over
and over again); William Hope (d. 1933, exposed); George
H. Moss (exposed and confessed, 1925); Mrs. A. E. Deane
(the Daily Sketch proved that her 'spirit heads5floating round
the Cenotaph belonged to living footballers, 1924); C. and
G. R. Falconer (these two brothers were convicted of fraudu­
lent spirit photography in South Africa, 1931; each was fined
£150 and costs); and John Myers (against whom a charge
of fraud was levelled by Mr. J. B. Mclndoe, the President
of the Spiritualists5 National Union, 1935). There is no
evidence, worthy of the name, in favour of 'spirit5 photo­
graphy.1 I must mention that if a message in writing or a
drawing spontaneously appears on a photographic plate,
with or without its being exposed in the camera, it is known
as a skotograph or psychograph. The evidence for skotographs
is just as good— or bad— as it is for spirit photographs.
1 For the fullest account of ‘spirit5photographs and how to produce them,
with copious notes, see Confessions o f a Ghost-Hunter, op. cit., Chap. XL
T H E P H E N O M E N A I N V E S T I G A T E D 35
Spirit paintings and drawings.— The abnormal production of
pictures or sketches on canvas or paper. The most notorious
exponents of this ‘ psychic9 trick (for trick it is) were the
Bangs sisters, Lizzie and May, two American women who
impressed a number of people who knew nothing about
methods of deception. Hereward Carrington detected them
in fraud in 1909.1 Their methods have been published.2
David Duguid (1832-1907) was another 'medium5 who
specialized in spirit paintings. A collection of ready-made
ones was found down his trousers when he was forcibly
searched at Manchester in 1905. He was then aged seventy-
three.
Spirit slate-writing.— The alleged abnormal or spontaneous
production of messages, drawings, etc., on sealed or unsealed
plates, said to be the work of spirits. These 'phenomena5
are almost on a par with spirit photographs as regards
evidence. This phase of mediumship originated in the
United States, and most exponents of this trick have been
American. eDr.5Henry Slade was the greatest slate-writing
medium. Spirit messages 'miraculously5 appeared on his
closed and locked slates, though explanations of his tricks
have been published in many books on conjuring. Truesdell
thoroughly exposed him3 and Professor Ray Lankester also
unmasked him and prosecuted him (1876). He was con­
victed of fraud. The sentence was quashed because of a
faulty indictment, and before Lankester could apply for a
new summons, Slade fled to Germany where he was experi­
mented with by Zollner,4who believed in him. Another well-
known slate-writer was Fred P. Evans, of San Francisco.
During a seance in 1885 he produced thirty messages, from
as many spirits, on a single slate. Some of his 'messages5
were in multi-coloured chalks, and chalk portraits of dead
people (e.g. D. D. Home) sometimes appeared between his
slates, according to his biographer.5 Another American
1 Annals o f Psychical Science, July-September, 1910. See also Journal, S.P.R.,
Vol. X, pp. 5-16.
2Spirit Portrait Mystery: Its Final Solution, by David P. Abbott, Chicago, 1913.
And see The Bangs Sisters* Manifesto to the Worlds [Chicago, 1909].
3Bottom Facts, op. cit.
4 Transcendental Physics, op. cit.
5Psychography. Marvelous Manifestations o f Psychic Power Given through the
Mediumship o f Fred P. Evans, byJ. J. Owen, San Francisco, 1893.
3 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
slate-writing medium was Mrs. Laura A. Pruden of Cincin­
nati. I had a sitting with this lady in 1925 and was quite unim­
pressed. Four of us sat round a table, draped to the floor
on all sides. Mrs. Pruden held a pair of hinged slates
(between which was a piece of pencil) under the table.
Soon, one heard scratching, and later, badly written messages
were found on the slates. The medium could have produced
these writings herself, using one hand and supporting the
slate between her knee and the underside of the table.1 The
messages themselves were not evidential. She died on
March io, 1939, aged 86 years.
Spirit raps.— Percussive knocks or taps produced on tables,
chairs, walls, etc., by means other than normal. These occur
at seances, with both mental and physical mediums and some
I think, are genuine, though not of spirit origin. I am
convinced that I have heard genuine raps with Stella C. in
London, Anna Rasmussen in Copenhagen, and with Frau
Maria Silbert in Graz. The most famous raps in psychic
history are those of Cock Lane and the Fox girls. O f course,
all were fraudulently produced, but I think that they merely
anticipated the genuine ones, which are of the rarest occur­
rence. By means of raps, intelligences or entities are said to
communicate with the sitters. If raps really occur at seances,
then they are of the greatest importance, proving that energy
other than normal can be induced and demonstrated. If
these raps are real, then I agree with Richet2 that 'this
phenomenon carries the implication of the whole of meta-
psychics.’ Some of the raps heard in haunted houses are
probably genuine, though many are caused by the crepita­
tion of shrinking wood, etc. Because the rap phenomenon
is such a simple one, it is the one most widely imitated by
fraudulent mediums. Many books give instructions for
producing raps by mechanical and other means,3 and self-
rapping tables can be purchased. (See Plate VIII.)
1 See ‘The Slate-Writing Mediumship of Mrs. Pruden/ by Harry Price,
Journal o f the Am . S .P .R ., New York, March, 1926. For scores of slate-writing
tricks, see Spirit Slate-Writing and Kindred Phenomena, by W. E. Robinson
(‘Chung Ling Soo’), New York and London, 1898.
2Thirty Tears o f Psychical Research, London, 1923, p. 445.
:1Behind the Scenes With the Mediums, by David P. Abbott, Chicago, 1907;
Bottom Facts, by Truesdell (op. cit.); Revelations o f a Spirit Medium, edited by
Price and Dingwall, London, 1922, and many more.
T H E P H E N O M E N A I N V E S T I G A T E D 3 7
Table turning.— The movements of a table at a seance,
alleged to be due to spirit energy. Often due to fraud or to
the unconscious muscular action of the sitters. Sometimes
probably genuine. One of the commonest and earliest of
phenomena.
Direct writing.— The spontaneous production of 'spirit’
writing on paper, slates, etc. There is no good evidence for
this phenomenon. (See cSpirit slate-writing5 above.)
Poltergeist phenomena.— The commonest manifestations wit­
nessed at haunted houses. Poltergeist (from the German verb
poltern3to rattle and Geist, spirit) phenomena are disting­
uished by their mischievous, senseless, or noisy nature, such
as articles being thrown or displaced. Simple 'hauntings’
are usually associated with the appearance of phantasms,
ghosts, etc.
Voice or trumpet phenomena, and the independent or direct voice.
—A 'spirit voice5produced through a medium, usually at a
dark seance, and with the aid of a cardboard or aluminium
trumpet which is seen (if luminous) or heard to float around
the circle, delivering messages to the sitters. Although there
have been many 'trumpet mediums,’ there is no good
evidence that a 'direct voice’ has ever been heard. On the
other hand, many a charlatan with half a crown to spare,
and possessing an ability to disguise his voice, has set up as a
'trumpet medium.’ The great American spiritualist
summer camps (where rascality in ' mediumship5 is most
rife) are the happy hunting-grounds for the trumpet faker.
Among the trumpet mediums— and their name is legion
— may be mentioned F. W. Monck, Mrs. T. Everitt, David
Duguid, Etta Wriedt, Mrs. Emily French and Cecil Husk.
Among the later mediums are George Valiantine, whose
mediumship was lauded1 by Dennis Bradley, who finally
exposed1
2 him. I once paid two guineas for a sitting with
Valiantine, and the whole stance was just nonsense.3
Another medium who produces voice phenomena (and most
other phenomena as well) is 'Margery’ (Mrs. Crandon). At
my experiments with her in London, I could not tell the
1 Towards the Stars and Wisdom ofthe Gods, London, 1924and 1925 respectively.
2 . . . And After, London, 1931.
3Leavesfrom a Psychisfs Case-Book, op. cit., pp. 305-15.
38 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H "
difference between "Margery’s5voice on the telephone and
that of 'Walter,5 her alleged spirit control.1 Most cases of
trumpet phenomena present no difficulty to the experienced
investigator, but one woman, a Mrs. Elizabeth Blake of
Ohio, puzzled both physicists and conjurers. She "worked5
in daylight, using a very long trumpet which she placed to
her ear, the ‘voices5 apparently coming from the bell end.2
T H E P H E N O M E N A I N V E S T I G A T E D 39
MENTAL PHENOMENA
Telepathy, thought-transference, thought-reading, clairvoyance
(i.e. 'clear seeing'), clairaudience (i.e. cclear hearing'), are now
known by the generic term extrasensory perception, the sym­
pathetic affection of one mind, person, or entity by another
at a distance, through a supposed emotional or spirit
influence and without any direct communication by the
normal channels of sense.
There are many mediums, both professional and amateur,
who claim the ability to discern objects not within reach of
the eye under normal conditions, especially in the trance or
hypnotic state (clairvoyance). Others claim to be able to
perceive sounds not within reach of the ear under normal
conditions (clairaudience).
Experimentation in telepathy and thought-transference
received a great impetus when Dr. J. B. Rhine published his
monograph Extra-Sensory Perception in 1934.3 For his experi­
ments he used a collection of cards bearing geometrical and
other figures, and his subjects or "percipients5 were invited
to visualize or guess what the unseen figures were. Nearly
100,000 experiments were made and some remarkable
positive results were obtained, the good guesses far exceeding
what would be achieved normally by chance. His experi­
ments have been duplicated in England, especially by S. G.
Soal, under the auspices of the University of London Council
for Psychical Investigation, but the results have been dis-
1Leavesfrom a Psychisms Case-Book, op. tit, pp. 275-85.
2 History of a Strange Case, by David P. Abbott, Chicago, 1908. See also
Proceedings o f the Am. S .P .R ., New York, 1913, Vol. VII, pp. 570-788.
3At Boston, Mass. An English edition, with the same title, was published
in London in 1935.
appointing. Rhine’s technique (tightened up in various
ways) was followed, but the successful guesses were not more
than chance would account for. For many years the Society
for Psychical Research has conducted experiments in tele­
pathy and clairvoyance, using such subjects as the Creery
sisters, Douglas Blackburn, G. A. Smith, Professor Gilbert
Murray, and many others. Few of these cases will bear
scientific analysis, and at least one of the subjects confessed
to fraud. (See Chapter X.)
Hypnotism.—An artificially induced somnambulic state
('hypnosis’) in which the mind becomes passive, acting
readily upon suggestion or direction, and upon regaining
normal consciousness retaining little or no recollection of the
actions or ideas dominant during the hypnotic state. Some­
times this state is self-induced. The phenomena of hypnosis
are often ascribed to 'spirits.9
Psychometry or tactile clairvoyance.— Said to be possessed by
persons capable of divining, by means ofphysical contact, the
properties, character, or associations of a thing with which
it has been connected. This phenomenon has been proved,
and a striking example is that of Mile Jeanne Laplace, who,
when handling a letter sent to me by Dr. R. J. Tillyard,
F.R.S., gave fifty-three impressions, forty of which were
correct or reasonably correct. One prediction (twice
repeated) was that Tillyard 'would die through a railroad
or automobile accident.’ The prediction was made in 1928.
On January 13, 1937, Tillyard was killed in a motor-car
smash near Canberra, where he lived.1 The case is more
fully reported in Chapter IX.
£illet1
2
-reading.— The abnormal cognizance of the contents
of a sealed or unsealed note, by a medium. 'Billet-reading3
is usually another name for 'billet-switching’ (i.e. changing),
and scores of methods of performing this trick can be found
in books on legerdemain.3 Bert Reese (1851-1926) was a
past master at billet-reading, and impressed many people,
1 See Confessions of a Ghost-Hunter, op. cit., pp. 220-5, for full details of the
experiment.
2 ‘Billet/ a written missive; a card or paper conveying a short communication.
(Standard Dictionary).
3 In particular, Fifty Sealed Message Reading Methods, by Burling Hull, New
York [n.d.].
40 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
including Schrenck-Notzing and Conan Doyle. cHarry
Houdini5 (i.e. Ehrich Weiss) claimed1 to have detected
Reese’s methods. Ludwig Kahn (also known by other
names), a German clairvoyant, created a sensation in Paris
in 1925 by his 'lucidity5in reading sealed messages and con­
vinced a number of distinguished persons that he had the
power o f‘seeing5inside folded papers, which were placed in
such a position that they could not, apparently, be read
normally.1
2 It is only fair to add that those present (Professor
E. Leclainche, Professor Vallee and others) knew nothing
whatever of the possibilities of trickery in such experiments.
Another American showman-medium who specializes in
sealed billet-reading is John Kelly, who gave a public enter­
tainment in London in the autumn of 1937.3 His methods
were indistinguishable from those employed by conjurers
when giving a similar demonstration.
It is a relief to turn from rather clever conjuring tricks to
the really abnormal cognizance of the contents of a sealed
package, a feat accomplished during my attendance at the
Second International Congress for Psychical Research (held
at Warsaw in August and September, 1923) by the Polish
engineer, Stephan Ossowiecki. Dr. E. J. Dingwall, then
Research Officer of the (British) S.P.R., also attended the
Congress and took with him a sealed package, consisting of
coloured opaque envelopes, in which were a message in
French, a date, and crude drawings of a bottle and a flag.
By merely holding the package, Ossowiecki correctly
visualized the flag and the bottle, the colours ofthe envelopes,
and the numerals of the date, though not in the order as
written. It was a brilliant success.4 Because he had himself
prepared the drawing, etc., and in order to rule out the
possibility of telepathy, Dingwall did not attend the experi­
ment, the result of which was cheered by those present,
T H E P H E N O M E N A I N V E S T I G A T E D 41
1 See Houdiiii and Conan Doyle, by B. M. L. Ernst and Hereward Carrington,
New York, 1932.
2 ‘Un Homme doue de connaissance paranormale: M. Ludwig Kahn’ by
E. Osty, Revue Mitapsychique, Paris, March-April, May-June, 1925.
3See Light, September 23, 1937.
4 Details of the experiment are given in ‘Une scnsationnelle experience de M.
Stephan Ossowiecki au Gongrfcs de Varaovie,’ by Gustave Geley, in the Revue
Mitapsychique, Paris, September-October, 1923.
Baron Schrenck-Notzing rushing up to the medium and
crying eMerci, merci, aunomde la science! 5 Rafael Schermann,
the Austrian clairvoyant-graphologist-psychometrist, has
emulated Ossowiecki’s feats and was the subject of prolonged
study by Professor Oskar Fischer1 of Prague and E. S. Bagger
also experimented with him.1
2 Dr. W. F. Prince published a
critical analysis of Schermann’s work.3 During a visit to
Vienna in 1925 I made some simple experiments with
Schermann, who rather impressed me. He was very ill at the
time and apologized for not doing better.
Before I ceremoniously ‘opened’ Joanna Southcott’s
famous ‘box,5 I submitted it, steel-bound and sealed, to a
number ofmediums in order to test their‘lucidity5in divin­
ing the contents. Nearly every psychic guessed either MSS.,
writings, documents, drawings or books. Dr. Arthur Lynch,
the psychologist, said the box contained ‘symbols and vest­
ments.5 Miss Stella C. scored a number of hits (during a
seance) when she prophesied that the box would contain
coins, jewels, a ring, books, beads, a bag, and a seal. All
these ‘guesses5were proved to be correct when I opened the
box at the Church House, Westminster on June 11, 1927,
before a large audience. Some of the other mediums did
well, too. Guess-work would not, I am sure, account for all
of their correct statements concerning Joanna’s box.4
Automatism.— The act of doing something, such as
‘automatic5 writing, painting, speaking, etc., unconsciously
or spontaneously. There can be little doubt that many of
these phenomena are genuine, but no doubt whatever but
that they are the result of subconscious activity of the mind,
and nothing to do with spirits. Many otherwise normal
persons are automatists. Sometimes messages from the dead
are supposed to be received by the automatic writer, and
alleged works by eminent authors and others have been
42 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
1 Experimente mit Rafael Schermann, Prague, 1924.
2 See Psycho-Graphology: a Study of Rafael Schermann, London and New York,
1924.
3 Testing Rafael Schermann,1in the Journal o f the Am. S.P.R ., New York,
September, 1924.
4 For a complete account of the finding, psychometrizing, X-raying, and
opening ofJoanna’s box, see the present writer’s articles in the Journal o f the
Am. S.P.R ., Vol. XXI, 1927.
recorded by the same means.1 The planchette, ouija board, and
similar contrivances merely take the place of the hand in
automatic writing. In 1937 a Tost Schumann concerto9was
£
found9by Baron Palmstierna, the Danish Minister, and his
friends, using an inverted glass tumbler on a table as a ouija
board. They 'communicated9 direct with the ‘spirits9 of
Schumann and Joachim.1
2 But it was later discovered that
the concerto was never lost, that many people knew of its
existence, and that it is mentioned in at least two books of
reference.
Precognition,prediction.—The abnormal knowledge of future
events, imparted by trance mediums, clairvoyants, psycho-
metrists, automatic writers and fortune-tellers. Many of
their messages are mere nonsense, but in some cases a para­
normal knowledge of the future cannot be ruled out. Most
of the good predictions have been spontaneous, which is
almost invariably the case with psychic phenomena. That is
what makes investigation so difficult. Many prophecies were
claimed to have been fulfilled during and after the Great
War. Even Nostradamus (1503-66) prophesied many of the
events of 1914-18, according to some writers.3
Miss Stella C. correctly predicted (in 1923) in trance, what
advertisement would appear on the front page of the Daily
Mail thirty-seven days before publication and, as we have
seen, Mile Laplace correctly foretold the exact way in which
Dr. R, J. Tillyard would die. During a broadcast talk on
precognition in 1934, Dame Edith Lyttelton asked listeners
to send her striking personal experiences of fulfilled predic­
tions, dreams, etc. The best of these cases were later pub­
lished4 in book form. Some of the results are good, though
many are obviously due to coincidence.
Premonition.— Literally, a 'previous warning9of something
yet to occur; prevision, ‘prophetic discernment9 or mental
1 For example, see Psychic Messagesfrom Oscar Wilde, edited by Hester Travers
Smith, London [1924]. For the technique of automatic writing, see Automatic
Writing, by A. M. Muhl, Dresden, 1930.
2 Horizons o f Immortality, by Erik Palmstierna, London, 1937.
8See Die Weissagungen des altfranzdsischen Seims Michael Nostradamus mid der
jetzige Weltkrieg, by Albert Kniepf, Hamburg, 1914; Nostradamus et les Mvinements
de 1914-16, by A. Dcmar-Latour, Paris, 1915; Der Weltkrieg 1914-15 itn Lichte
der Prophezeiimg, by Reinh. Gerling, Oranienburg-bei-Berlin, 1916.
4Some Cases o f Prediction, London, 1937.
T H E P H E N O M E N A I N V E S T I G A T E D 43
vision of a future event; presentiment, a personal foreboding or
prophetic apprehension of something in the future.
Crystal-gazing orscrying.—Divination by gazing into a white
or coloured crystal, bowl of mercury, pool of ink, back of a
spoon or other reflecting surface. The crystal, etc., is used
merely in order to induce ‘lucidity5 in the scryer. The
pictures ‘seen5by the scryer are, of course, subjective. Crystal
gazing is of very ancient origin. The best modern scryer is
Miss Nell St. John Montague, of South Kensington. To my
personal knowledge, she has scored some remarkable
successes.
Dowsing or divining.—The searching for water, minerals,
dead bodies, etc., by means of a hazel twig, piece of whale­
bone, loop of wire, bobbin on a thread, etc. O f very ancient
origin. It is not clear (and the dowsers themselves know
little about it) if divining is accomplished by physical or
mental means. If the former explanation is correct, it would
appear that a ray or electrical or magnetic emanation is
induced as a nexus between the hidden water and the
dowser; if the latter theory is accepted, then the finding ofthe
water or mineral must be due to some form of clairvoyance.
My own experiments with the famous dowsers, Major
C. A. Pogson, and his mother-in-law, Mrs. M. E. Pogson
have convinced me of the reality of the faculty (possessed
by many people) of divining. The water supply at my own
home was finally discovered by a dowser from the South
Downs, after the orthodox water engineers had failed to find
it. In 1930 I accompanied the famous diviner, the Abbe
Gabriel Lambert to Hyde Park, where he found a number of
hidden springs by means of a bobbin on a thread suspended
from his right hand. We afterwards made a map of the
hidden water-ways, and its accuracy was later confirmed
by the Park authorities.1 In 1934 Dr. C. E. M. Joad and I
conducted an experiment with Captain W. H. Trinder, the
well-known dowser, who cfound5 a submerged lake merely
by suspending his wooden bobbin over an estate map, on
which the lake or other water courses (fifty miles away) were
1 For a detailed account, see my notes in the Journal of the Am. S .P .R .,
October, 1930. For a general description of his work see Le Mysthe du Sourcier,
by Gabriel Lambert, Paris, 1931.
44 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
not marked.1The experiment was most carefully planned and
Trinder’s success rather suggests that in his case, the dowsing
faculty is a clairvoyant one, though he denies this. (The
Times, September 8, 1938.) The late Sir William Barrett was
keenly interested in dowsing and devoted much time to a
lengthy work2 on this subject which was published pos­
thumously.
Hyperasthesia.— An exaggerated sensibility or hyperacuity
of the normal senses. A condition often witnessed in persons
under hypnosis, but the term is also used in describing
muscle-reading feats (hyperaesthesia of the sense of touch),
etc. cStuart Cumberland9
3 (i.e. Charles Garner) was a
famous hyperaesthete and muscle-reader, and ‘ Maloitz5
(i.e. Max Louis Blitz)4 is another. 6Fred Marion5 (i.e. Josef
Kraus) is a brilliant hyperaesthete and before the National
Laboratory of Psychical Research was taken over by the
University ofLondon Council, Mr. S. G. Soal and I arranged
a long series of experiments with Marion, and a report on the
investigation has recently been published.6 'Marion5 and
cMaloitz5 (as Cumberland did) earn their living on the
vaudeville stage by means of their hypersesthetic faculty.
Xenoglossy.— Speaking in a real language of which the
medium has no conscious knowledge. Many cases of sup­
posed xenoglossy have been investigated, but the good
evidence for a genuine phenomenon of this type is scanty.
Even when fraud was not apparent, it was sometimes later
discovered that the medium had come into contact with the
strange language (either written or spoken), had forgotten
all about it, and that afterwards the subconscious mind had
revealed it. A good modern case of alleged xenoglossy is that
of George Valiantine, the American medium, who, during
experiments with Dr. Whymant, a Chinese scholar, recited
a passage from the Analects of Confucius.6
Dreams.— Veridical dreams, real or alleged, are investi­
gated in psychical research, and are amongst the most
1 For a fuller account, see my letter in The Times, September 6, 1938.
2 The Divining jRod, London [1926].
3 See A Thought-Reader's Thoughts, by Stuart Cumberland, London, 1888.
4 For my experiments with ‘Malo’
itz,*see my Confessions, op. cit., pp. 259-260.
5 ‘Preliminary Studies of a Vaudeville Telepathist/ by S. G. Soal, Bulletin III
of the University of London Council for Psychical Investigation, 1937.
0 Psychic Adventures in New Tork, by Neville Whymant, London, 1931.
T H E P H E N O M E N A I N V E S T I G A T E D 45
common phenomena. Many good cases have been examined
and in Dame Edith Lyttelton’s book1 are several instances
where the dreamers have had their dreams fulfilled. Dream­
ing of winning race-horses is common. Many cases are on
record where artists have finished their pictures, poets their
sonnets, and inventors their drawings in dreams or in the
somnambulic or hypnotic state. Murderers have been un­
masked in dreams,2 treasure has been located during sleep,
and, in prophetic dreams, many predictions— afterwards
verified— have been made. An important contribution to
the study of dreams and dreaming was made in 1927 when
J. W. Dunne, an aeronautical engineer, published his An
Experiment with Time} It is a difficult book to read, but one
that should be studied by the serious investigator.
Spirit healing.—Healing by mediums alleged to be 'con­
trolled5by the spirits of doctors and others. From the days
of Mesmer, claims have been made that certain diseases are
curable by magnetic or mediumistic means. In 1789 Mr. de
Loutherbourg, an artist, and his wife were performing
miraculous cures in London by what we should now call
psychic means, if we can believe the contemporary account4
of their healing mission. During the past fifty years, scores
of men and women have set up as healing mediums and have
effected some extraordinary cures. Whether these cures
(some of which I can vouch for) are the result of 'suggestion5
or 'faith,5 or are really due to healing spirits is a matter of
opinion. But undoubtedly there have been many such cures.
'Spiritual healing5and 'faith healing5hardly fall within the
field of psychical research, except that the technique is
largely a mental one.5 Undoubtedly spiritual healing is on
the increase, and Milton Abbey, near Blandford, Dorset, the
great healing centre, is to be enlarged. The warden, the Rev.
John Maillard, has been amazingly successful there. Another
noted spiritual healer is the Rev. Leslie Weatherhead, of the
City Temple. These healing missions have the approval of
1 Some Cases of Prediction, op. cit.
8A classical example is that of ‘Maria Marten and the Red Barn1: see Trial
o f William Corder, London, 1828.
3London, 1927; Third Edn., simplified and enlarged, London, 1934.
4A List o f a Few Cures Performed by Mr. and M rs. De Loutherbourgt o f Hammer­
smith Terrace, Without Medicine, by Mary Pratt, London, 1789.
5See Psychological Methods o f Healing, by Dr. William Brown, London, 1938.
46 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
the Church of England and are not to be confused with
spiritualism.
Other mental phenomena.— These include dissociation of
personality, split personality, multiple personality, imper­
sonation, cryptomnesia, possession, etc., and belong to the
realm of abnormal psychology. Some typical cases will be
mentioned in this work. Finally, it should be borne in mind
that common to most mental phenomena is the fact of a
person acquiring knowledge in an abnormal manner. The
knowledge itself is usually of a normal type: it is the manner
alone ofits acquisition that constitutes the abnormal element.
T H E P H E N O M E N A I N V E S T I G A T E D 47
CHAPTER II
THE BEGINNINGS OF ORGANIZED RESEARCH:
THE STORY OF THE S.P.R.
OR fifty-seven years the Society for Psychical Research
has kept the flag flying for the investigation of alleged
abnormal phenomena, though it must be admitted
that at times the perishing winds of criticism and hostility
threatened to tear it to ribbons. But the storms were
weathered and to-day the Society, still undaunted, calmly
surveys the psychic scene, as it has done for more than half
a century. The Society was not the first organization of its
kind to make the attempt a tcestablishing’ psychical research.
This honour belongs to the older Oxford Phasmatological
Society, which lasted only a few years. But the S.P.R. was
built on more solid foundations and can be regarded as the
first real society formed for serious psychical research, in any
part of the world.
It was on January 6, 1882, that Professor (afterwards Sir
William) W. F. Barrett (then Professor of Physics at the
Royal College of Science, Dublin) suggested forming a
society for the study of alleged abnormal happenings. He
approached several of his friends, including F. W. H. Myers,
Edmund Gurney, and Professor Henry Sidgwick. Myers and
Gurney said they would support the project if Sidgwick
agreed to be President.1 His consent was obtained, and the
Society came into being on the following February 20. The
newly-formed S.P.R. attracted to its ranks members of
certain small societies (including the Ghost Society, Cam­
bridge, founded in 1851 by the Rev. B. F. Westcott, after­
wards Bishop of Durham; the Psychological Society, founded
in 1875 by Serjeant Cox; the British National Association
of Spiritualists, 1878; and the Phasmatological Society,
Oxford, 1875, the most ‘scientific’ of them all), which were
1 Myers’s statement, P r o c Vol. VIII, p. 598.
4
8
investigating ‘supernatural’ phenomena in a rather sporadic
way. The first list of members (published in September,
1882) contains 100 names and on the original Council of
the S.P.R. sat W. F. Barrett, E. T. Bennett, W. R. Browne,
Alexander Calder, W. H. Coffin, D. G. FitzGerald, Edmund
Gurney, C. C. Massey, Rev. W. Stainton Moses, (C
M.A,,
Oxon.5
), F. W. H. Myers, F. W. Percival, Frank Podmore,
Dr. C. Lockhart Robertson, E. Dawson Rogers, Professor
Balfour Stewart, Morell Theobald, Hensleigh Wedgwood,
and Dr. G. Wyld. Theobald acted as treasurer and E. T.
Bennett was secretary. Henry Sidgwick was President, and
one of the Vice-Presidents was Arthur J. Balfour. Some of
these men were advanced and avowed spiritualists, and
Stainton Moses and Dawson Rogers were the founders
(1881) of Light, the still popular spiritualist weekly. Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick was another original member, but her name
did not appear in the lists until January, 1884, because, as
she tells1 us, holding a responsible position at Newnham
College, cit was probably not thought desirable to risk
associating the College in the public mind with what was
likely to be regarded as a cranky Society.5 Psychical research
is now, of course, ‘respectable.5 William Crookes, A. P.
Sinnett, Alfred Russel Wallace and other well-known men
joined the Society soon after its formation.
T H E B E G I N N I N G S OF O R G A N I Z E D R E S E A R C H 4 9
DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES
When the S.P.R. was formed, it was understood that the
Council should be composed of both spiritualists and non­
spiritualists, and that the aim of the Society should be to
approach the problems presented by alleged phenomena
scientifically and without prejudice or prepossession of any
kind. To this end, it was agreed that the Society should have
for its objects:
An examination of the nature and extent of any influence
which may be exerted by one mind upon another, apart
from the normal sensory organs; the study of hypnotism,
mesmerism, clairvoyance and allied phenomena; the investi-
1 Proc.9Vol. XLI, p, 1.
E
gation into Reichenbach’s alleged discoveries of the so-
called £
odic force"; inquiry into apparitions and haunted
houses; investigation of the physical phenomena of spiri­
tualism; the formation of a library relating to psychic
subjects generally, etc.
It was emphasized that ' Membership of the Society does
not imply the acceptance of any particular explanation of
the phenomena investigated, nor any belief as to the opera­
tion, in the Physical world, of forces other than those recog­
nized by Physical Science.’1 Members are of two classes:
full members and associates, the latter paying half fees.1
2
The work of the Society is published in its Proceedings (1882)
and Journal (1884) the latter being for cprivate circulation
only.’ This rule effectively prevents anyone from analysing,
in print, the finances of the Society, the many controversial
matters which are thrashed out, and details of the rather
piquant squabbles which fill its pages from time to time. In
the present writer’s opinion, much of the most interesting
information connected with the Society is published in its
Journal.
50 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
PRESIDENTS, 1882-1939
A glance at the list of Presidents since the founding of the
Society reveals the names of many persons distinguished in
various fields of activity, though some of them have made
no serious contribution to psychical research. Naturally, the
Sidgwicks and their relatives are well represented. A
strange omission from the list is Sir E. N. Bennett, M.P. for
Central Cardiff, and Assistant Postmaster-General (1932-5).
Sir Ernest joined the S.P.R. in its early years and has done
much more, both for the Society and psychical research
generally, than many of its Presidents, a list of whom follows:
Henry Sidgwick (1882-4), Balfour Stewart (1885-7),
Henry Sidgwick (1888-92), Lord Balfour (1893), William
James (1894-5), Sir William Crookes (1896-9), F, W. H,
Myers (1900), Sir Oliver Lodge (1901-3), Sir William
1 Extract from Constitution.
2Associate membership has now been suspended, except in the case of
Student Associates.
Barrett (1904), Charles Richet (1905), Gerald W. Balfour
(1906-7)3 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick (1908-9), H. A. Smith
(1910), Andrew Lang (1911)3 Bishop Boyd Carpenter (1912),
Henri Bergson (1913), F. C. S. Schiller (1914), Gilbert
Murray (1915-16), L. P. Jacks (1917-18), Lord Rayleigh
(1919), W. McDougall (1920-1), T. W. Mitchell (1922),
Camille Flammarion (1923), J. G. Piddington (1924-5),
Hans Driesch (1926-7), Sir L. J. Jones (1928-9), W. F.
Prince (1930-1), Mrs. Henry Sidgwick and Sir Oliver Lodge
(1932), Mrs. A. Lyttelton (1933-4), C. D. Broad (1935-6),
Lord Rayleigh (1937-8), H. H. Price (1939).
An analysis of the above list reveals that during fifty-seven
years, only six foreigners were elected to the Presidential
chair; that the founder of the Society (Sir William Barrett)
occupied it for one year only; and that the Sidgwicks and
their relatives occupied it for nineteen years.
T H E B E G I N N I N G S OF O R G A N I Z E D R E S E A R C H 51
DISSENSIONS
, I have stated that both scientists and spiritualists were on
the first Council, and it was hoped that they would agree.
But it was like trying to mix oil and water. The experiment
has been tried more than once, and has usually failed. In
1886 Stainton Moses, the medium, objected to certain com­
ments on Eglinton’s phenomena which appeared in the
Proceedings, and resigned his membership. He was not only
on the Council but was also a Vice-President. For the same
reasons that Doyle and Bradley resigned from the S.P.R.
nearly fifty years later, Moses left the Society because he did
not consider that spiritualism was getting a square deal. In
his letter of resignation he stated: 61 have conceived that as
a representative Spiritualist I could not do otherwise con­
sidering, as I do, that the evidence for phenomena of the
genuine character of which I and many others have satisfied
ourselves beyond doubt, is not being properly entertained
or fairly treated by the S.P.R.’ Some of his spiritualist
friends also resigned.
The uproar caused by the S.P.R.’s attitude towards
William Eglinton (who may have produced genuine pheno­
mena; he certainly cheated on many occasions) had reper­
cussions in various ways. Of course, the spiritualists were
furious. Their fury was intensified by the fact that an amateur
conjurer, S. J. Davey, posing as a medium, duplicated many
of Eglinton’s phenomena, afterwards revealing the fact that
he staged the mock seances in order to test the sitters3powers
of observation. Davey deceived nearly everyone who sat
with him and his slate-writing, Materializing,3 and other
tricks were performed very cleverly. Dr. Hodgson has left
us full accounts of the experiments and the way the tricks
were done.1 Davey3
s tricks were so clever that a scientist of
A. R. Wallace’s calibre insisted that he was, in reality a
medium posing as a conjurer.3
It is inevitable that in a society like the S.P.R., investigat­
ing a subject as controversial, difficult, and elusive as
psychical research, there must sometimes be violent differ­
ences of opinion between members and the executive. Con­
sequently, there have been many resignations because
members did not always see eye to eye with those who were
responsible for the conduct of the Society. People join the
S.P.R. for a variety of reasons. Some are convinced spiri­
tualists and hope to have their convictions endorsed by the
more scientific methods of the Society. When they find that
this is not the case, they resign— sometimes rather violently!
They forget that the S.P.R. does not deliver ex cathedra
opinions, but tries to stimulate investigation. Some of the
criticisms have, I think, been deserved. Certain of the
officers of the S.P.R. had an unhappy way of dealing with
members, some of whom found a lack of warmth when visit­
ing its rooms. The Society has been accused of being a
efamily affair,3 and of various other alleged sins. Even
Council members have complained to me of the way they
have been treated. The late Sir William Barrett once wrote
me that he was 'treated like a child3at the Council meetings,
and that 'Mrs. Sidgwick always gets her own way3
—which
I could quite believe. The feminine element was always a
factor at the S.P.R., as in most psychic societies. In a letter1
2
1 Proc.y Vols. IV and VIII. Also ‘Experimental Investigation,’ by S. J,
Davey, Proc.y Vol. IV., p. 405.
2 See Proc., Vol. VIII, pp. 253-5, 308-9.
52 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
dated November 3, 1930, Professor Schiller wrote me in the
same strain, remarking that 'members are resigning in
large numbers/ on account of the circumstances under
which Sir Arthur Conan Doyle left the Society.
T H E B E G I N N I N G S OF O R G A N I Z E D R E S E A R C H 5 3
THE CONAN DOYLE UPROAR
In January, 1930, a few months before his death, Sir
A. Conan Doyle addressed a letter to the cChairman of the
Council of the S.P.R.,5 resigning his membership, at the
same time as he sent a printed copy of it to every member.
The trouble arose through the slating of a certain book by
an employee of the S.P.R. in the pages of its Journal. In his
letter Sir Arthur said that the hostile review was a series of
misrepresentations and insulting innuendoes that tended to
lower the good name of the Society. He concluded his letter
by saying: cMy only resource is, after thirty-six years of
patience, to resign my own membership, and to make some
sort of public protest against the essentially unscientific and
biassed work of a society which has for a whole generation
produced no constructive work of any kind, but has confined
its energies to the misrepresentation and hindrance of those
who have really worked at the most important problem ever
presented to mankind.’ He invited other members to follow
his example.
I must admit that my sympathies were entirely with the
S.P.R. The book in question deserved all that was said
about it. I reviewed the book1 for an American monthly
and said something similar to what appeared in the S.P.R.
Journal, but in more polite language. The Times Literary
Supplement,2in referring to the book, remarked>that eit can
hardly excite surprise that in the Journal of the S.P.R. . . .
the account was savagely criticized.’ The book in question
tells of seances held in an Italian castle, during which
‘apports* were brought into the room through locked doors
and finally the owner himself (an Italian nobleman) was
'transported5 through six locked doors, being found two
1 Modern Psychic Mysteries, by Mrs. G. K. Hack, London, 1930.
2 March ao, 1930.
54 f i f t y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
hours later in some stables in a deep trance. Sir A. C. Doyle
believed all this.
The Doyle resignation was rather in the nature of a test
as to whether members approved of the way in which the
Society was managed. There were resignations. In 1920,
there were 1,305 members and associates; in 1931, the
number had fallen to 954. In 1932, the number was 809.
The latest figures, just published, show a grand total of
699 members1 and associates. Excluding subscribing lib­
raries, the number is 636.
BRADLEY INDICTS THE S.P.R.
The split between the spiritualists and the psychical
researchers caused by the resignation of Doyle in 1930 was
intensified by the resignation of Mr. Dennis Bradley in 1931.
Bradley was not content to write a letter about his alleged
grievances, but compiled a whole book2 about them, a copy
of which he sent to every member. He says: cAfter nearly
fifty years of research . . . the present coterie of adminis­
trators dispute, deride, and cast contumely upon all pheno­
mena that are brought before their notice. Individual
members who, at considerable expense and sacrifice of time,
have devoted many years to genuine research work, are
grossly insulted by ignorant criticisms and dastardly insinua­
tions.5 There is a good deal more in the same strain.
As in Doyle’s case, my sympathies were again with the
S.P.R. Bradley, like Doyle, championed the spiritualists and
a good deal of his ‘indictment’ concerned the Society and
George Valiantine, Bradley’s voice medium. The same
year, Bradley himself exposed him!3 The S.P.R. moved
much too slowly for Bradley’simpulsive temper and spiritistic
beliefs. I doubt whether his brochure had much effect on
the Society: Doyle’s resignation caused an upheaval, and at
one period I believe the Society was in danger of extinction.
1 The total membership, February 1939, was 688 [Journal, S.P.R,, Feb.,
1939)-
2 An Indictment o f the Present Administration o f the Society for Psychical Research,
London [1931].
3 . . . And After, London, 1931.
T H E B E G I N N I N G S OF O R G A N I Z E D R E S E A R C H 5 5
WHAT THE S.P.R. HAS DONE
The Society has, in its time, done some valuable work. The
best of it belongs to the past, during the classic days of
Myers, Gurney, Barrett, Hodgson, Podmore, and the other
cgiants9of the period. Its Proceedings and Journal are full of
important papers on clairvoyance, book tests, telepathy,
cross-correspondences. Poltergeists, premonitions, hauntings,
trance mediumship, apparitions, dowsing, etc. A good deal
of it makes rather dreary reading, and to appreciate some
of the papers, one has to be a mathematician. The Society
has specialized, so to speak, in the mental phenomena
rather than in the physical for the simple reason that there
were more mental mediums. In any case, physical pheno­
mena have never attracted most of the officers of the Society,
at any period.
For a classified list of the principal cases, papers, and
experiments of the S.P.R., the reader should consult the
*Jubilee9 volume of Proceedings-1 It is complete to June,
1932. Both Dr. Hereward Carrington2 and Dr. Nandor
Fodor3 have published the main contents of the Proceedings
in a convenient form. The activities of the Society have been
very diverse and I will now summarize the most important
of them.
For the first few years of the Society9
s life, telepathy and
allied phenomena (now known as ‘extra-sensory percep­
tion9
) occupied the attention of the S.P.R., just as it does
to-day, judging by recent Proceedings. In 1883 Gurney,
Myers and Podmore began the gigantic task of compiling
their Phantasms of the Living, and it was not until 1886 that
the book was published. The work of the Society at this
period can be judged by the fact that in one year (1883) it is
computed that 10,000 letters were sent out by its officers.
Another classic work was F. W. H. Myers’s Human Personality,
a book dealing with automatism, phantasms of the dead,
trance, etc. It was published by Longmans,4 and was, in
1 Vol. XLI, 1932-3, pp. 27-59.
2 The Story o f Psychic Science, London, 1930, pp. 370-87.
3Encyclopedia, op. cit., pp. 302-9.
4Human Personality and its Survival o f Bodily Death, London, 1903.
part, a reprint of various papers which had appeared in the
Society’s Proceedings.
5 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
EXPOSURE OF THEOSOPHICAL cMIRACLES*
In 1884 the Society deputed Dr. Richard Hodgson to
inquire into the so-called miracles which the Theosophists
were claiming on behalf of some of their devotees. The
alleged phenomena differed little from those ofthe spiritualist
seance rooms: apparitions, telekinetic movements, and—
especially— the miraculous appearance of written messages
from the Mahatma cKoot Hoomi’ and others. To complete
his inquiries Hodgson journeyed to India, where he stayed
three months. He found that the ‘miracles’ were mere tricks,
and interviewed some of Madame Blavatsky’s confederates.
These included Madame E. Coulomb, who wrote a full
account1 of her part in the frauds. Hodgson’s report was
published as Volume III of the Society’s Proceedings. It is a
voluminous document, with many facsimiles of letters, etc.
The report caused a major sensation and the controversy
which centred around it is still raging.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH
In 1885 an American S.P.R. was opened in Boston, due
largely to the initiative of Sir William Barrett, who had
lectured in the States and Canada in 1884. In 1887 the
Boston Society became a branch of the British S.P.R., with
Hodgson as secretary, and William James as guide, philo­
sopher, and friend. When Hodgson died (1905) it again
became independent, with Professor James Hervey Hyslop
(1854-1920) as its leading spirit. It was during the early
years of the American S.P.R. that Hodgson, Hyslop, and
William James became interested in the famous Boston
trance medium, Mrs. L. E. Piper. It was through this
1 Some Account o f my Intercourse with Madame Blavatsky . . . and a Full Explanation
o f the Most Marvellous Theosophical Phenomena> Madras, 1884 (and London,
1885).
remarkable woman that Dr. Hodgson, Professor Hyslop and
Sir Oliver Lodge became convinced of ‘survival/ and the
spirits of Hodgson, Myers, Gurney, and many other students
of psychical research are alleged to have 'communicated’
through her.1
T H E B E G I N N I N G S OF O R G A N I Z E D R E S E A R C H 57
CENSUS OF HALLUCINATIONS
Edmund Gurney (1847-88) had been slowly building up
a list of those who declared that they had seen a vision or
apparition which they recognized. More than five thousand
persons answered his questionnaire. His death in July, 1888,
was a great shock to psychical research and especially to the
S.P.R., as the Society lost its editor and honorary secretary
at one blow. His ‘ census’ was then incomplete, and, in
1889, the Society decided to start another Census ofHallucina­
tions, under the direction of Professor Sidgwick and a com­
mittee, on a more ambitious scale. About four hundred
collectors were appointed and some 17,000 answers were
received. The collecting, analysis, and collating of these
answers took five years, and the report2 appeared in 1894.
Of those who answered, 2,272 persons declared that they
had seen an apparition. In preparing the report, great care
was taken in ruling out all cases of ‘hallucination’ thought
due to pathological causes.
AUTOMATIC WRITING AND CROSS-CORRESPONDENCE
The death of F. W. H. Myers (1843--1901) was another
blow to the S.P.R. These great pioneers ofscientific psychical
research were gradually disappearing, and their places were
not being taken by men of the same calibre. Soon after
Myers’s death, his friend Mrs. A. W. Verrall (1859-1918),
lecturer in classics at Newnham College, discovered she had
the power of automatic writing. A number of her friends
x For accounts of Mrs. Piper’s mediumship, see Proc., S.P.R,, Vol. VI,
Part 17, and later vols.; Mrs. Piper and the Society fo r Psychical Research) by
M. Sage, New York, 1904; The Life and Work of M rs. Piper, by Alta L. Piper,
London, 1929.
2 Proc.s Vol. X, Part s6.
and others, and her daughter (now Mrs. W. H. Salter), also
declared they possessed a similar faculty and their various
cscripts9were compared. It was found that, although some
of the automatists were strangers to one another, and had
never met or communicated, their scripts contained refer­
ences to the same subject or subjects, either directly or
indirectly. The term ccross-correspondence9 was coined.
This method is alleged to have been suggested by the spirit
of Myers, as one of the principal Communicators,9 and
'Gurney9 is said to be another. Records of the cross­
correspondence scripts are interesting and important, and
suggest a nexus of some sort between the living and the
dead. A famous example of cross-correspondence is that of
the ‘Ear of Dionysius,9
1 but there are many papers on the
subject, and automatism generally, scattered throughout the
later volumes of the S.P.R. Proceedings,2
Book-tests (in which a medium, in trance, gives references
— more or less cryptic— to a certain subject which is to be
found on a given page in a particular book in a place
unknown to the psychic) also occupied the attention of
various members from time to time, but I do not consider
the evidence very satisfactory. The present writer once con­
ducted experiments in ‘book-tests9with non-mediums, and
chance accounted for as many ‘successes9 as are recorded
with some mediums. It is often a matter of skilful ‘inter­
pretation.9
5 8 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
TELEPATHY VIA THE ETHER
The only other experiments in the realm of mental pheno­
mena which need detain us here is the telepathic test which
was made over the radio on February 16, 1927. In 1924 I
approached the old British Broadcasting Company with
details of a series of telepathic experiments in which listeners
could join. The B.B.C. was sympathetic, but after a long
correspondence concluded that ‘ We have to avoid doing
anything which will justifiably expose us to an attack by the
1 ‘The Ear of Dionysius: Further Scripts Affording Evidence of Personal
Survival/ by the Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Proc.9 Vol. XXIX, 1918, Part
73-
2 Especially Vols. XX-XXXVIII.
medical profession and other students of the mental and
nervous systems.5 However, three years later, similar experi­
ments were broadcast, Sir Oliver Lodge acting as announcer.
The number of listeners who sent in their impressions was
24,659, but, on analysis, the experiments had to be regarded
as negative.1 They are detailed in Chapter XV.
T H E B E G I N N I N G S OF O R G A N I Z E D R E S E A R C H 5 9
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
As I have intimated, physical mediums have always played
a minor part in the activities of the S.P.R. I have already
referred to the dissensions caused by the Society’s attitude
to Eglinton and Valiantine. Certain other physical mediums
were investigated by the S.P.R., and the following were the
principal subjects:
Charles Bailey.—Bailey was an apport medium, and I
have made some mention of him in the last chapter ('The
Phenomena Investigated5
). He was detected in fraud and
exposed.2
Eusapia Palladino.— A famous Neapolitan peasant woman
who was— at rare intervals— unquestionably genuine. But
she often cheated. She impressed Sir Oliver Lodge. In
1895, Myers investigated Eusapia and reported that all the
phenomena were spurious. In 1908 the S.P.R. sent a Com­
mission (the Hon. Everard Feilding, Hereward Carrington,
and W. W. Baggally; the last two were amateur conjurers)
to Naples, They witnessed undoubted genuine phenomena
and wrote a lengthy report3 on their visit. Everard Feilding
was, I think, the greatest sceptic regarding psychic pheno­
mena I have ever met. But a few years before his death he
wrote me to the effect that just as Rudi Schneider (in
1929-30) convinced me of physical phenomena, so Eusapia
had convinced him.
'Eva C.’ (i.e. Marthe Beraud).— French materializing
medium. Studied successively by Professor Richet, Madame
1 See ‘The Broadcasting Experiment in Mass Telepathy/ by V. J. Woolley,
P r o c Vol. XXXVIII, 1928-9, Part 105.
2See Journal, Vol. XV, pp, 194-208. (‘Report on Sittings with Charles
Bailey, the Australian Apport Medium.*).
3Proc.9Vol. XXIII, 1909, Part 59.
•v W \
Bisson (who adopted her), Schrenck-Notzing and Gustave
Geley. In 1920 Eva G. and Madame Bisson visited London
and gave forty sittings to the S.P.R. Most of these were
negative, and the small amount of cmaterialized’ substance
which appeared gave rise to the ‘regurgitation9theory.1
The Price-Hope Case.— In 1922 I completely exposed
William Hope, the cspirit9 photographer and my report
appeared in the S.P.R. Journal.a
Willi Schneider.— One of the famous Schneider boys,
brother of Rudi. In May, 1922, I accompanied Dr. E. J.
Dingwall (then research officer to the S.P.R.) to Munich,
at the invitation of Schrenck-Notzing, to witness the pheno­
mena of his latest protege. We were impressed with what we
saw and said so.3 In view of our reports, Willi was invited
to London in 1924 and gave twelve sittings under the auspices
of the S.P.R. We saw nothing in London comparable with
what we witnessed at Munich, but it was admitted4 that
genuine telekinetic phenomena, under perfect conditions,
were apparently produced by Willi.
Janusz Fronczek.— Polish physical medium, producing
‘psychic lights,9etc. Investigated by Dingwall and Woolley,
but manifestations declared normal.5
6Margery *—At the end of 1924 Dingwall went to Boston,
Mass., as the representative of the Society, in order to
investigate the claims of Mrs. L. R. G. Crandon (‘ Margery9
).
His subsequent report was negative.6 Later (in December,
1929) the Crandons gave some seances in the S.P.R. rooms,
but convinced no one. Dr. Woolley (who acted as observer
for the Society) fully reported the sittings.7
Rudi Schneider.—Brother of Willi Schneider, and also a
famous Austrian medium. Following my adverse report8on
Rudi (1932 experiments) the S.P.R. decided to test him.
1 ‘Report on a Series of Sittings with Eva C.’ by E. J. Dingwall, Proc., Vol.
XXXII, 1922, Part 84.
3 Vol. XX, May, 1922, pp. 271 ff.
3 See 'Convincing Phenomena at Munich/ by Harry Price, Psyche, April
104 Proc., Vol. XXXVI, 1926-8, Part 97.
5Proc., Vol. XXXVI, 1926-8, Part 97.
6Proc., Vol. XXXVI, 1926-8, Part 98.
7 ‘The Margery Mediumship/ Proc., Vol. XXXIX, pp. 358-68.
8 'An Account of Some Further Experiments with Rudi Schneider,9 Nat.
Lab. of Psychical Research, Bulletin IV, 1933.
60 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
From October, 1933, to March, 1934, fifty-five sittings
were held— all entirely negative.1
Of course, many more physical mediums than those men­
tioned above have been tested by members of the S.P.R.
in their private capacity, and short reports have appeared
in the Society’s publications. Also, accounts have appeared
concerning notorious physical mediums, notably F. G. F.
Craddock, Charles Eldred (who made a wonderful mechani­
cal chair, containing masks, cheese cloth, etc. [see Plate V]),
Francesco Carancini, and many others. O f the various
Research Officers who conducted experiments for the
S.P.R., only two need be mentioned: Dr. E. J. Dingwall,
who held the position from 1922 to 1927, and Dr. V. J.
Woolley, who resigned from the S.P.R. in 1932 on account
of friction with certain of the officers. Both are excellent
observers, and Dingwall knows more about the methods of
deception as employed by dishonest mediums than any
officer ever appointed by the Society.
T H E B E G I N N I N G S OF O R G A N I Z E D R E S E A R C H 6 l
THE 'SCANDAL5 PERSISTS
At the first General Meeting of the S.P.R., held at Willis’s
Rooms, London, on July 17, 1882, the President, Professor
Henry Sidgwick, in his Presidential Address, said these
words: ‘The present state of things is a scandal to the
enlightened age in which we live. That the dispute as to the
reality of these marvellous phenomena— of which it is quite
impossible to exaggerate the scientific importance. . . . I
say it is a scandal that the dispute as to the reality of these
phenomena should still be going on. . . . Now the primary
aim of our Society, the thing which we all unite to promote,
whether as believers or non-believers, is to make a sustained
and systematic attempt to remove this scandal in one way or
another. . . . The matter is far too important to be left
where it now is. . . ->
a These words were spoken fifty-seven
years ago and the 'scandal’ still exists. The Society has
reached no conclusions after all these years and after issuing
1 Sec Proc.yVol. XLII, Part 137, October, 1934.
8Proc.y Vol. I, p. 8.
scores of volumes of publications. The questions of tele­
pathy, clairvoyance, trance, dreams, etc., and the various
phases of physical phenomena are still unsettled so far as
the S.P.R., in its official capacity, is concerned. O f course,
some of its Council, and many of its members, are convinced
ofsurvival, and of the genuineness of some of the phenomena
of the seance room. But in view of Professor Sidgwick’s
remarks (which amounted almost to a promise), which he
emphasized, it is a little strange that no ‘pronouncement’ by
the Council has been made at any time.
It is also strange that during fifty-seven years no official
attempt has been made to convince scientific orthodoxy.
With the substantial income which the S.P.R. has enjoyed
for many years, and in view of its many scientific contacts, it
is remarkable that no attempt has been made to establish
a chair or a fellowship of psychical research at one of the
universities. Does the Society consider that the real evidence
is not yet sufficient to put before Science? Is it afraid that
an official university Department would affect its own
status? There must be some reason for the inactivity and
delay in compelling orthodoxy to remove the ‘scandal’ of
which Professor Sidgwick spoke such a long time ago. It
cannot be a question of finance, because the S.P.R. could
get in a month all the money required to endow a university
Department. If the Society thinks that, after fifty-seven
years, there is no good evidence to put before orthodoxy, then
it should consider whether or not it is wasting its time and
money, and should contemplate closing its doors. In any
case, whatever happens, it will be scientific orthodoxy that
will have the last word as to whether the phenomena we call
‘psychic ’ are real or false, and if ‘survival’ is a fact or fiction.
62 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
CHAPTER III
6
A FIT SUBJECT OF UNIVERSITY STUDY AND
RESEARCH5
T
HE words which head this chapter formed part of
the historic letter1 sent me by the late Sir Edwin
Deller, Principal of the University of London, when
he informed me that the Senate had agreed in principle to
my offer, made in 1933, to found, equip, and endow a
Department of Psychical Research in the University. The
proposal was that I should hand over the equipment and
library of the National Laboratory of Psychical Research
(fully described in Appendix B), the directorship of which I
was then relinquishing. Both the Senate and Court were of
the opinion that psychical research is ca fit subject5 to be
investigated, but at that time no accommodation could be
found for the library or laboratory, and no one with the
necessary qualifications or time was available to take charge
of the proposed new Department. For more than twelve
months the proposal had been discussed by the Boards
of Studies (Psychology, Physiology, and Medicine) most
concerned, and by the Academic Council. But the question
of ways and means proved insuperable, and the whole
matter was shelved. However, a great victory for psychical
research was achieved in the extracting from the Senate
that in their opinion cpsychical research is a fit subject
of University study and research/ That pronouncement was
a memorable one and was indeed worth striving for.
I much sympathized with the Senate in their sustained
attempt to arrange matters so that my offer could be
accepted. At that time, it was quite obvious that room could
not be found for my library and equipment. But more than
five years have now passed and during this period the stately
pile of the new University buildings at Bloomsbury has been
1 Dated February ia, 1934.
63
steadily growing, and I hope that accommodation will
shortly be found. Actually, both library and equipment are
now housed by the University authorities.
6 4 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
FOUNDING OF THE cUNIVERSITY COUNCIL5
When it was found impracticable to establish the proposed
new Department officially, it was suggested that those mem­
bers of the University who were most interested in psychical
research, or had been most concerned in examining my pro­
posal, should form themselves into an unofficial body with
the idea of keeping the question alive and remaining in
contact with the authorities. Thus was formed the Univer­
sity of London Council for Psychical Investigation. At our
first meeting onJune 6, 1934, it was resolved cThat this Com­
mittee should carry on the work formerly conducted by the
National Laboratory of Psychical Research until such time
as it was thought desirable to approach again the University
authorities as to the formation of a Department for Psychical
Research.5 And that is how the matter rests at present.
Among the members of the Council were Professor F. A. P.
Aveling, Dr. Guy B. Brown, Professor Cyril Burt, Professor
J. C. Flugel, Dr. C. E. M. Joad (Chairman), Dr. C. A. Mace,
the late Dr. E. D. Macnamara, Professor J. MacMurray,
Professor C. A. Pannett, Mr. S. G. Soal, and the Rev. Pro­
fessor E. S. Waterhouse. I was appointed Honorary
Secretary.
EARLY ATTEMPTS AT INTERESTING ORTHODOXY
The first systematic attempt in Great Britain to examine
scientifically the phenomena which we now call psychic was
made by a little group of Oxford graduates and under­
graduates which went by the name of the Phasmatological
Society. This was about 1874. It lasted but a few years and
when the British S.P.R. was founded in 1882, the little
Oxford group joined their more serious Cambridge brethren.
Among the members of the Phasmatological Society were
young men destined to become prominent in various fields,
and among these can be mentioned Sir Charles Oman, Dr.
F. E. Brightman, and Professor F. C. S. Schiller, who gives
some account of the Society in the Clark University sym­
posium.1
Other attempts at bringing psychic phenomena to the
notice of orthodoxy include the one made by Sir William
Barrett when, in 1876, he was successful in persuading the
British Association at its meeting in Glasgow to permit him
to read a paper2 on thought-transference, even though its
publication in printed form was suppressed. Sir William
Crookes also tried to interest official science in his experi­
ments with D. D. Home and Florrie Cook, and invited one
of the secretaries of the Royal Society to a seance: he refused.
* A F I T S U B J E C T O F U N I V E R S I T Y S T U D Y 5 6 5
WHAT THE UNIVERSITIES HAVE DONE
In spite of the fact that orthodoxy has, in the past, re­
garded psychics with a certain amount of disapprobation, a
few universities have made notable attempts to turn psychical
research into a science. In 1933 a determined effort was
made in the University of Belgrade to induce the authorities
to sanction courses in psychical research. Though no official
action was taken, the principals gave their benevolent
sympathy to the Students’ Society formed for the purpose of
studying paranormal phenomena. The Society formed a
Syllabus of Lectures3 and meetings were held twice a week
at the House of Russian Culture. Seances were arranged.
Amongst other Continental universities, Groningen, nearly
twenty years ago, staged some experiments in telepathy.
They were very ingenious and impressive, and are more
fully referred to in Chapter X (‘The Story of E.S.P.’). We
first heard of them through Dr. H. J. F. W. Brugmans, who
read a paper4on the subject at the First International Con-
1 See The Case For and Against Psychical Belief, Worcester, Mass., 1927.
2 On Some Phenomena Associated with Abnormal Conditions o f M ind.
3 Given in full in Bulletin VI of the Nat. Lab. of Psychical Research, London,
1933» PP- 45-7-
4 Le Compte Rendu Officiel du Premier Congrks International des Recherches Psychi-
ques. . . . Copenhagen, 1922, pp. 396-408.
F
gress of Psychical Research, held at Copenhagen in 1921.
Since that period, both Leiden and Utrecht Universities have
established official Departments of Parapsychology, and
Drs. P. A. Dietz and W. H. C. Tenhaeff (the first investigator
to be appointed officially by any university) respectively are
doing good work there. Many of their reports are printed
in the Dutch psychic journal Tijdschrift voor Parapsychology,
of which they are editors. Another European university
where some attempt has been made at interesting official
science is that of Riga. The most ambitious experiments
were those made with Ilga Kirps1 in 1934-7 by Professor
Ferdinand von Neureiter, Dr. Hans Bender of Bonn, and
others. Ilga is a little peasant girl who is stated to be able to
read telepathically the thoughts of others, principally those
of her mother. At the University of Athens, Professor Voreas
is, with Dr. A. Tanagras, conducting certain experiments in
psychical research.
6 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
GROWING AMERICAN INTEREST
I have already mentioned2the abortive Seybert Commis­
sion of 1884, appointed by the University of Pennsylvania to
inquire into the ‘truths of modern spiritualism.9 In the same
year there died Leland, the only child of Leland Stanford
(1824-93), aged sixteen years. As a memorial, Stanford
founded the ‘Leland Stanford Junior University9 in the
beautiful Santa Clara valley, near Palo Alto, California. He
and his wife endowed it with a sum estimated at thirty
million dollars.3 Its doors were opened in 1891. In 1911,
Thomas Welton Stanford, a Melbourne millionaire and
brother of the American philanthropist, donated to Leland
Stanford University the sum of $50,000, to be used in further­
ing psychical research.4 The money was received in 1912,
and those interested in parapsychology thought that the time
1 See Wissen urn fremdes Wissen: A u f itnbekannlem Wege Erworben, by F. von
Neureiter, Gotha, 1935.
2 In the ‘Introduction.*
3 See Stanford University and Thereabouts, by O. H. Elliot and O. V. Eaton,
San Francisco, 1896.
4Dr. John L. Kennedy has held the Fellowship in Psychical Research at
Stanford since 1937.
had at last arrived when official science would make a deter­
mined effort to investigate whatever truth there was in
psychic matters. But, as with the Seybert endowment
little appears to have been accomplished,1 and, very curi­
ously, it is those universities with the least money which
have done the most work. In 1936 Stanford University
published a monograph3 useful alike to the magician and
the psychologist.
cA F I T S U B J E C T O-F U N I V E R S I T Y S T U D Y * 6 7
THE HODGSON FELLOWSHIP AT HARVARD
Another attempt to interest the universities in psychical
research was made after the death of Dr. Richard Hodgson
(1855-1905). Dr. Hodgson was secretary to the American
S.P.R. from 1887 until his death, and, as a memorial, a
number of his friends established the cHodgson Fellowship in
Psychical Research,’ tenable at Harvard. A fund was raised,
but was found insufficient to provide for such a fellowship
adequately, and for the expenses likely to be incurred in
experiments and investigations. Accordingly, the American
S.P.R., by_resolution of its Executive Committee, agreed to
contribute the excess over the income from the Hodgson
bequest. They guaranteed to augment the fund to $3,000
for the academic years 1922-3 on condition that if the report
of the work done should not be published by Harvard Uni­
versity, it could be issued by the American S.P.R. This
arrangement was accepted by the University.
It was Dr. Gardner Murphy, a psychologist of Columbia
University, who was appointed by Harvard University re­
search fellow for the year 1922-3, under the Hodgson fund.
He retained this post until 1925, and devoted about half of
his time to the investigation of telepathy. Some account of
Dr. Gardner Murphy’s work at Harvard is to be found in
his paper ‘Telepathy as an Experimental Problem,’ pub­
lished in the Clark University symposium.3 Dr. Murphy’s
1 Bui see Experiments in Psychical Research at Leland Stanford, by J. E. Goover,
Stanford University, 1917.
2 The Psychology o f Conjuring, by R. E. Bernhard, Jr., Stanford University, .
Stanford, Cal., 1936.
3 The Case For and Against Psychical Belief, op, cit., pp, 265-78.
successor at Harvard was Dr. G. H. Estabrooks, who also
devoted his time to experimental telepathy.1 Why students
of psychical research in all countries choose telepathy as a
subject is because few or no professional mediums are re­
quired; the apparatus used is usually simple; control is easy;
results can be definite, and investigation costs little.
6 8 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
THE CLARK UNIVERSITY SYMPOSIUM
One of the most interesting experiments connected with
psychical research ever made by an academic body was the
public symposium held at Clark University, Worcester,
Massachusetts, November 29 to December 11, 1926. It was
arranged by Professor Dr. Carl Murchison that a number of
persons interested in psychic matters should either speak at
the symposium or send in papers to be read. Dr. Murchison
is himself a psychologist, and it is natural that the majority
of those invited to take part in the symposium were also
psychologists or philosophers.
There were four classes of speakers: (7) Those 'convinced
of the multiplicity of psychical phenomena5 (Sir Oliver
Lodge, Sir A. Conan Doyle, F. Bligh Bond, Dr. L. R. G.
Crandon (husband of 'Margery5
), Mary Austin and Mar­
garet Deland); (77) those ‘convinced of the rarity of genuine
psychical phenomena5 (Professor McDougall, Professor
Hans Driesch, Dr. W. F. Prince, and Professor F. C. S.
Schiller); (777) those ‘unconvinced as yet5 (Dr. John E.
Coover and Dr. Gardner Murphy); (77) and those ‘anta-
*-. gonistic to the claims that such phenomena occur5 (Professor
Joseph Jastrow and Harry Houdini). All these papers were
published in 1927 in one volume under the title The Case
For andAgainst Psychical Belief\edited by Dr. Murchison, who
warns the reader in his Preface that, in arranging the sym­
posium, Clark University ‘is by no means assuming the role
offriend to psychical research.5 Apparently his warning was
necessary, as Sir Oliver Lodge begins his paper (‘The
University Aspect of Psychical Research5
) with the sen-
1 See ‘A Contribution to Experimental Telepathy,1 by G. H. Estabrooks,
Bulletin V, Boston S.P.R., 1927.
tence: £
I can but heartily welcome the pioneer effort
of Clark University to take the subject of psychical research
under its wing and give it the prestige of academic recogni­
tion.9
The Case For and Against Psychical Belief is well worth read­
ing, especially the papers by Sir Oliver Lodge, Hans Driesch
(sPsychical Research and Philosophy5
), W. F. Prince (cIs
Psychical Research Worth While?5
) and Dr. Schiller (cSome
Logical Aspects of Psychical Research5
). I think the scien­
tific standard of the book is lowered by the reprinting of
chapters from Houdini’s A Magician Among the Spirits,2a col­
lection of mediumistic tricks most of which no fake medium
outside a lunatic asylum would dare to use.
cA F I T S U B J E C T OF U N I V E R S I T Y S T U D Y 9 6 9
' m ir a c l e s 9a t d u k e u n iv e r s it y
Very soon after the Clark symposium, Dr. J. B. Rhine and
his wife, Dr. Louisa E. Rhine, both biologists of the Univer­
sity of Chicago, turned their attention to the alleged tele­
pathic faculties of animals, and their experiments with
cLady,9 the £
mind-reading horse9 are well known. In the
summer of 1930, the Rhines turned their attention to human
subjects and, having now discarded biology for the psycho­
logical field, began a series of tests in telepathy and clair­
voyance at Duke University, North Carolina, in connection
with the Department of Psychology, of which Professor
McDougall was the head. With Dr. Karl Zener and Dr.
Helge Lundholm, of the same Department, the Rhines
embarked upon a long series of 6card calling5 experiments
with hundreds of students and others, using cards marked
with the five symbols: circle, rectangle, plus sign, star, and
wavy lines. Dr. Rhine suggested the term cextra-sensory per­
ception9 as being more suitable than the older forms, tele­
pathy, thought-transference, and clairvoyance.
Dr. Rhine and his colleagues at Duke discovered that
certain of the students and others possessed the telepathic or
clairvoyant faculty to an extraordinary degree. Some
100,000 tests were made in the first period and the good
1 Harper & Brothers, New York, 1934.
cguesses5 recorded exceeded any estimate based on chance.
In fact, some of the results savour of the miraculous. Though
psychical researchers have, for eighty years, been seeking a
subject able to demonstrate at will, under controlled con­
ditions, the faculty of telepathy and failed to find one, Dr.
Rhine discovered scores of them inhis own University— some
even in his own class-room.
The results of the first period of Dr. Rhine’s work were
published in 1934 by the Boston S.P.R.,1and in London the
following year. Among those who took the results at their
face value, the book created a sensation. Those more scep­
tical began to experiment for themselves. Among these was
Mr. S. G. Soal, of London University, who, for the past four
years, has been duplicating Rhine’s experiments, but not his
good results.2 Rhine’s technique was ‘ tightened up.’ Out of
many thousands of ‘guesses,5 with many percipients, the
good ones did not amount to more than chance would
account for. There were no miracles in London. For these
experiments, I asked a firm of playing-card manufacturers
to print special cards, on the faces of which were the Zener
symbols as used by Rhine. These cards were much better
than the early home-made ones used at Duke, which slightly
varied in size.
Dr. Rhine has also experimented with Mrs. Eileen Garrett,
the British trance medium whom I introduced to American
psychists in my article in the Cosmopolitan Magazine in 1931.3
He obtained some extraordinarily successful results.4 Later,
in England, Mr. Soal and a group also conducted a long
series of experiments in telepathy and clairvoyance with Mrs.
Garrett. The results were entirely negative.5
Mrs. Garrett has also been tested at Johns Hopkins
University, but no official report has been issued. Other
academic centres, too, became interested in the Dukesuccesses
and among those who experimented were Dr. J. G. Pratt
(Columbia), J. L. Woodruff and Dr. R. W. George (Tarkio
1 Extra-Sensory Perception, Boston, Mass., 1934.
2Report not yet issued.
3New York, January, 1931. An account of a seance at which the ‘Conan
Doyle’ entity was alleged to control the medium.
4 ‘Telepathy and Clairvoyance in the Normal and Trance States of a
“ Medium” ,’ Character and Personality, London, December, 1934.
5 See Chapter X.
70 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
College, Missouri), and Dr. C. R. Carpenter and Professor
H. R. Phalen (Columbia). Their work is recorded in the
Journal of Parapsychology, issued by Duke University Press, a
quarterly which sprang into being as a result of the Rhine
tests. It was first published in March, 1937.
I cannot close my record of American universities without
mentioning the important 'history of spiritualism*1 by Dr.
George Lawton. It was the thesis he submitted to Columbia
University when he studied for his degree of doctor of philo­
sophy, and is an impartial— and rather amusing— study of,
especially, American spiritualism. His account of the
American spiritualist 'camps* (Lily Dale, Chesterfield, etc.)
is valuable.
' A F I T S U B J E C T O F U N I V E R S I T Y S T U D Y * 71
THE THIRD REICH DECLARES PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
AN OFFICIAL SCIENCE
The outstanding event in psychical research during recent
years is the declaration of the German Government that it
would be prepared officially to give its blessing to a Depart­
ment of Parapsychology at Bonn University, if I would found
it. When Professor Dr. E. Rothacker, the Director of the
Bonn Psychologisches Institut, and his colleague Dr. Hans
Bender, heard that I was anxious for academic support for
my scheme of introducing psychical research into the univer­
sities, I was invited to Bonn to talk the matter over. In the
meantime, the whole question was referred to the German
Home Office, Board of Education, the Foreign Office, and
Ministry of Propaganda. In March, 1937? I was officially
informed by letter that the German Government, having
thoroughly examined the whole question, was favourable to
the founding of the proposed new Department at Bonn. The
letter1
2stated that the Government ' authorized the establish­
ment of a Department for Abnormal Psychology and Para­
psychology (Forschungsstelle fur psychologische Grenzwissen-
schaften) and think of special interest to this Department,
1 The Drama o f Life after Death: A Study o f the Spiritualist Religion, by George
Lawton, London, 1933.
2Dated March 20, 1937.
besides the research work, questions of social hygiene in
occult matters.9 This letter, like the one I have quoted from
Sir Edwin Deller, is of great historical interest, as the Third
Reich is the first Government officially to place its cachet on
psychical research. This is the more striking, as spiritualism
has been suppressed in Germany. The letter I have cited
proposed various academic honours for me in the event of
my founding the proposed new Department.
72 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
WHY BRITAIN LAGS BEHIND
Academically, Great Britain has shown little interest—
officially—in psychical research. Although the Society for
Psychical Research has been established for more than fifty
years, little had been done in this country to attract organized
science until I launched my 'campaign5 to interest the
University of London. If, in the past, the 8.P.R. had made
a real attempt at founding a chair or fellowship at one of the
principal universities, they would have succeeded— especi­
ally at Cambridge, the home of modern psychical research.
But nothing was done. Unofficially, both Oxford and
Cambridge have had for many years smallsocieties, supported
by a few undergraduates, for the study of psychic matters.
This also applies to foreign universities. I personally have,
more than once, lectured within the precincts ofthe following
universities: Oxford, Cambridge, London, Nottingham
(University College), the Sorbonne, Vienna, Copenhagen,
Oslo, Gottingen, and Berlin. My visits were arranged by
those professors and others interested in the subject, but, so
far as 'orthodoxy9 was concerned, they were not always
official.
Why does official science take so little interest in psychical
research? Quoting Professor Schiller, the reason is because
there is no money in it: 'The occult can never become scien­
tifically established until it becomes a commercial success.
. . . At present there is no money wherewith to prosecute
researches, nor any likelihood of raising an adequate supply
until the suspicion has arisen that there is money in it;
because it is necessary, in this case, to convert both the masses
' a f i t s u b j e c t o f u n i v e r s i t y s t u d y * 73
and the professors.*1 At least an attempt is being made to
convert the masses. In New York, I am told, Rhine’s
experimental E.S.P. cards are being sold on every news­
stand at ten cents a packet: this is bringing psychics— literally
—to the man-in-the-street!
1 Occult Reviews Vol. I, No. i, January, 1905.
CHAPTER IV
FIFTY YEARS OF PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
I
N planning this work, I decided that I would write two
chapters on physical manifestations: one, dealing with
those mediums whose phenomena were so well attested
that they could be counted as 'genuine’; the second, a
review of the tricks practised by conjurers— male and female
— posing as mediums. But I found that I should have to
compromise, as 'genuine’ mediums were caught cheating at
times, and some recognized cheaters occasionally produced
good phenomena, according to capable observers. So in this
chapter I have also included those psychics who may have
produced genuine phenomena— at times. Such famous,
interesting, and puzzling mediums as the Schneider boys,
Stella C., and ‘ Margery’ have been dealt with in separate
chapters.
TELEKINETIC PHENOMENA
The objective metapsychic phenomenon which most
impresses the scientist— especially the physicist— is that of
telekinesis, and one of the most convincing exponents of this
phase of mediumship was a Neapolitan peasant, Eusapia
Palladino (1854-1918). There have been some fantastic
stories concerning the discovery of her faculty, but as a young
woman she was an acknowledged physical medium and was
tested by various Italian scientists. We first hear of her in
a letter from Ercole Chiaia to Lombroso in 1888.
Eusapia submitted herself to numerous tests and scientific
committees1 and was sometimes pronounced genuine and
sometimes fraudulent. She was the first to admit that, if not
prevented by an adequate tactual control, she would cheat.
1 In Rome, Naples, Paris, Warsaw, St. Petersburg, New York, and other
capitals.
74
Her telekinetic phenomena were frequently accompanied by
a 'psychic arm5 or pseudo-limb, which was seen on many
occasions under excellent conditions of control.
Amongst the principal investigations was one organized
by Richet and Ochorowicz at the former’s residence in
Roubaud, one of the lies d’Hyeres, in 1894. The observers
included Lodge, Myers, and others. For the experiments
Richet had constructed a square table measuring 39 inches
each way, and 39 inches high. It weighed 44 pounds. At the
first seance it was levitated completely: £
As soon as Eusapia
touched this heavy table with the tips of her fingers, it tilted,
swaying about, and without the legs being touched at all,
it rose up completely with all four feet off the ground. All
hypotheses that attempt to explain this by normal mechanics
are absurd.’1
Eusapia often gave warning that a phenomenon was about
to occur, and the observers redoubled their vigilance in con­
trolling the medium. The ringing of a bell at a distance from
the medium, movements of articles some feet away from
her, the flight of objects, knocks, raps, etc., were amongst
the phenomena witnessed at Roubaud. A peculiar feature
of Eusapia’s mediumship was the fact that the telekinetic
displacement of objects often synchronized with violent
muscular movements on the part of the psychic. The sittings
at Roubaud so impressed Myers that he arranged a further
series of experiments at his house in Cambridge for the fol­
lowing year. These took place in the summer of 1895. The
Cambridge inquiry was in the nature of a fiasco, and un­
doubtedly Eusapia cheated continuously, as she frankly
admitted. Twenty seances were held, and among the
observers were Lodge, John Nevil Maskelyne, and Dr.
Hodgson, who purposely permitted the medium to free her
hand, in order to see if she would cheat. She did! The
Cambridge seances were of little value from a scientific
point of view.
After a further long investigation by the Institut Gdn^ral
Psychologique of Paris (1905-8)2 the British S.P.R. sent
(1908) a commission to Naples in an attempt to determine
1 Richet, Thirty Years o f Psychical Research, p. 402.
2See Rapport stir les Stances d'Eusapia Palladino & VInstitut Giniral Psychologique
. . . by Jules Courtier, Paris, 1908.
F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A 75
the genuineness or otherwise of Eusapia’s phenomena. The
investigators were Hereward Carrington, W. W. Baggally
(d. 1928) and Everard Feilding. The two first-named pos­
sessed a considerable knowledge of conjuring. The sittings
were held in their own rooms at the Hotel Victoria, Naples,
and the usual varied telekinetic phenomena and materializa­
tions were witnessed, under perfect conditions of control.
The illumination employed enabled them to see the medium
at all times, and her limbs were controlled separately by the
observers, to whose hands she was sometimes tied. Notes
were taken by a stenographer in a far corner of the room.
ThisNaplesinquiry finallysetthesealonEusapia’sgenuineness
and that arch-sceptic Everard Feilding was at last convinced.
I have discussed these sittings with him many times. On
one occasion, he told me, while he was holding Eusapia’s
two hands, which were in full view, a third hand, from behind
the cabinet curtain, grasped his fingers so tightly that he
could feel the nails pressing into his flesh. A portion of the
verbatim report of this seance is reproduced in Carrington’s
The Story of Psychic Sciencef and the full account of the
Commission’s findings is given in the S.P.R. Proceedings.2
There is a considerable literature devoted to Eusapia, which
should be studied.3 To sum up, the paranormality of her
phenomena was scientifically demonstrated, and if there
was no other record extant of a physical medium, the
phenomenon of telekinesis would by these experiments, be
amply proved.
76 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
STANISLAWA TOMCZYK
Another medium (non-professional) who produced tele­
kinetic phenomena of unquestionable genuineness was
Stanislawa Tomczyk, a young Polish girl. She was investi­
gated by Ochorowicz, Flournoy, Richet, Schrenck-Notzing
and other famous psychists. A feature of her mediumship
was the ability to produce telekinetic movements to order, in
the laboratory, under perfect conditions. A favourite experi-
1 London, 1930, pp. 217-8.
2Vol. XXIII, pp. 306-569.
3See Psicologia e ‘S p iritism o by Enrico Morselli, Torino, 1908, for a biblio­
graphy of Eusapia Palladino. Also Journal, S.P.R., Vols. VI, VII, XIV, XV.
ment was the supranormal raising, in full light, of a small
object (e.g. a table-tennis ball) when placed between, and
at a distance of about an inch from the two hands of the
medium. Stanislawa would go into a light trance, under
hypnosis or self-induced, and, at request, would raise her
hands. The object rose with them. Numerous photographs1
were taken of this phenomenon and some of them revealed
a psychic extrusion, in the form of a fine fluidic thread
between the fingers of the medium and the object levitated.
This' psychic nexus was also registered on a photographic
plate through an opaque envelope. Ochorowicz also claimed
that on one occasion a garden chair moved and tilted to
order, in full light, when Mile Tomczyk was near.2
F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A 77
ANNA AND THE PENDULUMS
To sit in a sunlit room, and observe pendulums swinging
at command, of their own volition, in a sealed glass case,
is an experience never to be forgotten. I have witnessed
this feat on more than one occasion in the laboratory and
home of Professor Christian Winther of Copenhagen,
through the mediumship of Anna Rasmussen. This was in
1927-
Anna was one of the very few telekinetic mediums who
could produce phenomena under laboratory conditions of
control, in full light. The technique was as follows: Sunk
into a concrete pillar on a concrete floor was a tall glass
shade. Suspended in the interior of the shade were a
number of bobbins or pendulums of dissimilar weights, hung
by silk threads. No normal outside influence could move the
bobbins, and the whole set-up was vibration-proof. The
bobbins could not be moved by knocking the set-up or
stamping on the floor. Around the set-up the sitters would
range themselves, each person being at about one metre
distant from the pendulums. Anna would then go into a
very light trance, and her alleged ‘spirit control,5 ‘ Dr.
1 See Richet’s Thirty Tears o f Psychical Research, Figs. 11 to 13.
2Annales des Sciences Psychiques, Paris, 1910, XX, p. 369, cited by Richet.
See also Physikalische Phaenomene des Mediumismus> by Schrenck-Notzing,
Munich, 1920.
Lasaruz,5 would speak through, of course, the medium’s
vocal organs. cDr. Lasaruz5would then be asked to move
the bobbins. Very slowly, one of the bobbins would begin
to move, gradually increasing its impetus until it struck the
side of the glass shade.
At the seances I attended at Copenhagen, the bobbins were
made to move to order, in various directions. At command,
they would lose amplitude, and slowly come to rest. At
request, one bobbin would tell us the time by striking the
nearest hour on the glass shade. At the last seance at which
I was present we used bobbins containing electric pea-lights
which traced their pendulatory motions on to a moving strip
of bromide paper. A permanent record of their movements
was thus obtained. Professor Winther devoted many years
to studying Anna Rasmussen and has published an important
monograph1 on his results. Anna appears to have lost her
power. She visited London in the winter of 1938, but pro­
duced no phenomena worth speaking about.
78 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
A VIENNA POLTERGEIST
It is a maxim that in Poltergeist cases, one practi­
cally never witnesses the displaced objects in flight, or
the beginning of the telekinetic movements which are a fea­
ture of these cases. A classic exception to the above rule was
Eleonore Zugun, a little Roumanian girl, accounts of whose
telekinetic or Poltergeist phenomena filled the psychic and lay
Press during the years 1926-7.
Eleonore was bom in Talpa, Roumania, on May 13,
1913, and was first studied by Fritz Grunewald. His friend
the Countess Wassilko-Serecki then removed the child from
her rather unsuitable home surroundings and adopted her.
She resided with the Countess at her flat in the Josefstadter-
strasse, Vienna. Soon after her arrival in Vienna, Professor
Hans Thirring, ofVienna University, wrote and informed me
of the alleged amazing phenomena which the girl was pro­
ducing, and invited me to investigate.
1 ‘Experimental Inquiries into Telekinesis,’ in tht Journal of the Am. S.P.R.,
New York, January-May, 1928.
My first seance with Eleonore was at 5.15 p.m. on May
i, 19263 in the Countess’s study-bedroom, fifteen feet square.
The sun was shining, and the large French windows flooded
the room with light. Both windows and door were fastened.
Only the Countess, Eleonore and myself were present. The
apartment was simply furnished with a couch, chairs, table,
etc., on one sideofthe room, which was divided longitudinally
by means of a matchboard partition, six feet high, with an
opening in it at one end. On the far side of the partition
were the usual bed, toilet table, chairs, etc.
I had brought Eleonore a toy spring-gun, firing a celluloid
ball which was caught in a wire basket attached to the gun.
The Countess and I sat on the couch watching the child play
with her toy. In a few minutes, the ball had divided into its
component halves and the child ran to us with a request
that we should mend it. The Countess and I rose and while
she was holding one half of the ball, and Eleonore the other,
a long steel stiletto paper-knife shot across the room from
behind me, just missing my head, and fell against the door. I
was intently watching the Countess and her protegee attend­
ing to the toy and can swear that neither touched the stiletto,
whose normal resting-place was on a writing-table near the
French windows, which were closed and fastened. I was
between the table and my hostess, and whatever projected
the stiletto must have been behind me. But there was no
tangible being behind me, and the paper-knife could not
have been thrown normally. A further and minute search
of the apartment threw no light on the phenomenon, which
occurred at 5.43.
The flight of the stiletto was the first of many telekinetic
phenomena. At 5.58 a small hand mirror was thrown over
thepartition from the bed side of the room, while the Countess,
Eleonore and I were by the couch in the study portion. At
6.15 a metal cap was thrown from the bedroom side of the
partition and fell at our feet. At 6.32 a large stuffed cloth
dog was thrown from our side of the partition and fell on the
coal-scuttle near the bed. I had just previously noticed the
toy dog on a chair to the right of me; the Countess and
Eleonore were on my left: neither could have touched it. It
is interesting to note that after each phenomenon, the child’s
F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A 7 9
pulse-rate increased. Her normal rate was 75; after a minor
telekinetic displacement it rose to 95; after the cflight5of the
dog it had increased to 126 with some palpitation of the
heart.
Soon after the toy dog incident I was watching Eleonore
scribbling on a piece of paper. Between the child and me
was a chair on which rested a large square cushion. Both
girl and cushion were in my line of vision, and the child was
five and a half feet away from the chair. The Countess was
on the other side ofme. At 6.33, as I gazed at it, the cushion
slowly slid off the chair. There was no vibration in the room.
After each phenomenon I searched the double apartment,
and found nothing that could account for these most con­
vincing manifestations, a detailed account of which should
be read.1
I was so impressed with Eleonore that I persuaded the
Countess to bring her to London. They arrived on Septem­
ber 30, 1926, and left on the following October 24. Under
much better conditions, and in my own laboratory, numerous
telekinetic movements of objects were recorded. Especially
striking were the experiments arranged by the late
Dr. R. J. Tillyard, F.R.S., and myself in which coins
placed on the lintel of our seance-room door, six feet, ten
and three-quarter inches from the ground, were supra-
normally displaced under perfect control conditions.
An attempt to induce phenomena while the girl was
being hypnotized by Professor McDougall produced no
results,
A curious feature of Eleonore5
s telekinetic phenomena was
the accompanying stigmata. Just before, during, or imme­
diately after a phenomenon, red weals would spontaneously
appear on various parts of the girl’s body. They would
gradually turn white, and slowly disappear. A prolonged
study of the stigmata suggested that they were really due to
physiological causes induced by the mental excitement of the
telekinetic phenomena. It is interesting to note that the
phenomena, both telekinetic and stigmatic, ceased abruptly
after the first appearance of the menses. Eleonore, now
1 ‘Some Account ofthe Poltergeist Phenomena of Eleonore Zugun,’ by Harry
Price, in the Journal of the Am. S.P.R., August, 1926.
So F I F T Y Y E A R S O F P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A 8 l
aged 26, manages her own hairdressing business in Czer-
nowitz, Roumania.1
PHENOMENA IN THE ‘ BLUE ROOM5
Eleonore Zugun is not alone in producing telekinetic
phenomena in a well-lighted room or in daylight. The case
of Miss Pearl Judd, ofDunedin, New Zealand, is comparable
with that of Eleonore, and there are many correspondences
in the mediumship of these young women. I have never seen
Miss Judd, but Dr. W. P. Gowland, Professor ofAnatomy at
the Medical School, Dunedin, who investigated her case,
was much impressed with what he saw and heard. He was in
London in 1930 and detailed to me his experiments.
At the period of which I am writing, Miss Judd resided at
the house of her uncle, Mr. Clive Chapman, and the seances
were held in a certain £
blue room.5 In the ordinary illumina­
tion of this apartment Professor Gowland witnessed the fol­
lowing phenomena; The levitation of a heavy table when
merely the finger-tips of the circle were resting upon it, and
the sudden inability to raise this table by normal means (the
familiar ‘light and heavy5 phenomenon claimed by some
mediums); the playing of a selected tune on an ordinary
piano when three people were sitting on the closed and
locked lid; and many ‘voices,5 conversing and singing, and
the playing of invisible instruments. Dr. Gowland saw no
trickery and such obvious theories as mechanical contri­
vances and radio were, upon examination, found to be
untenable.
The ‘voices5 were remarkable and purported to be those
of entities calling themselves ‘ Captain Trevor,5 ‘ Ronald,5
‘ George Thurston,5 ‘ Charlie,5 ‘ Grace,5 ‘ Olive,5 and ‘Wee
Betty.5 These entities sang, apparently at request, any speci­
fied tune that was known to them. Miss Judd is about thirty
years old and has been mediumistic for many years. A large
number of scientists, doctors, conjurers and Pressmen have
witnessed the phenomena, and none has been able to suggest
1 For a full account of the London experiments, see Proceedings of the Nat.
Lab. of Psychical Research, London, 1927, Vol. I, Part 1.
G
a feasible explanation except an abnormal one. Mr. Clive
Chapman has written a full account1 of the manifestations.
82 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
THE GOLIGHER CIRCLE
Still another young woman was the centre of a circle
formed in Belfast to develop the telekinetic and other pheno­
mena of an Irish family named Goligher. Kathleen Goligher
and her three sisters were all mediumistic, and the other
members of the family (father, son, etc.) formed the 'circle.3
The manifestations attracted the attention of Dr. W. J.
Crawford, a lecturer in engineering at the Municipal Tech­
nical Institute, Belfast, and he decided to make a prolonged
study of the dynamics of telekinesis as demonstrated by
Kathleen Goligher and her sisters. The seances were held
usually at Mr. Goligher’s house or occasionally in Dr.
Crawford’s own home. It is with the utmost difficulty that
an investigator can adequately control one medium; but Dr.
Crawford considered that he could properly immobilize a
room full of mediums and their relatives, in darkness or
semi-darkness, and this fact is one of the great weaknesses of
Crawford’s many reports2 of his experiments.
Crawford sat with the Goligher circle for six years until
he committed suicide onJuly 30, 1920. There is no evidence
that his death was connected with his psychic investigations.
He concluded that the raps, levitation of the table, etc., were
accomplished by 'cantilevers’ made of teleplasmic 'rods’ or
extrusions from the lower portion of the medium’s body, and
made many experiments (described in detail in his books)
in order to confirm his theory. He also concluded that one
end of the teleplasmic 'rods’ was used for making the raps
which were frequently heard, the intelligence behind the
raps coming from the medium herself. He even obtained
impressions of the 'pseudopods’ or 'arms’ in various plastic
substances. Finally, photographs of the alleged 'psychic
levers’ were published.
1 The Blue Room, Dunedin, 1927.
2See his The Reality o f Psychic Phenomena, London, 1916* Experiments in
Psychical Science, London, 1919; The Psychic Structures at the Goligher Circle,
London, 1921.
Shortly after Crawford’s death, Dr. E. E. Fournier D’Albe1
visited Belfast with the intention of continuing and confirm­
ing Crawford’s experiments. He had twenty sittings with
Kathleen Goligher and duplicated many of Crawford’s tests.
His report2was published in 1922 and is completely negative.
He stated that all he saw— and photographed— could be
explained in terms of normality and his findings created
something of a sensation, coming as they did after Crawford’s
so very positive results. Miss Goligher (now married) rarely
exercised her mediumship after the adverse report, and the
case will remain one of the many interesting psychic
mysteries.
F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A 83
eTHE SEERESS OF WALTENDORF’
One of the most famous, puzzling and versatile physical
mediums of the past fifty years was Frau Maria Silbert, the
‘ Seeress of Waltendorf,’ Austria. Telekinetic phenomena,
apports, materializations, continuous raps, and ‘psychic
lights’ were but a few of her many manifestations.
Maria was a non-professional medium, always willing—
even anxious— to demonstrate her powers to any who would
trouble to visit her home at Waltendorf, a suburb of Graz.
Her phenomena were spectacular, and rarely did she sit in
the dark. But, what answered the same purpose, she usually
formed her circle in the light round a heavy wooden table,
under which the phenomena occurred.
I first sat with Frau Silbert during one of her rare appear­
ances in London, and must admit I was impressed with the
phenomena, mostly of a percussive or telekinetic nature. We
sat in a good light and, sitting on her left, I controlled her
left hand with my right, and attempted to control her left
foot and leg with my feet. The other side of the medium was
controlled by a lady sitting on her right.
The most striking manifestations that afternoon were the
lightning displacements of objects placed on the floor under
the heavy wooden table (in the top of which was a small
trap door) round which we were sitting. A small bell, a
1 Died July 7, 1933, aged 65.
2 The Goligher Circle: May to August, 1921, London, 1922.
watch, and a heavy penknife belonging to myself appeared
successively in the medium’s hands, although a second pre­
viously they were on the floor. Once or twice a white object
was seen momentarily at the aperture in the table top, and
I suspected it was the toes of the medium’s right foot, which,
for a fraction of a second had been removed from her elastic­
sided boots.
A year or so later I had proof that the medium removed
her right foot from her boot during a seance. I was in Graz
in 1925 and on November 3 of that year I had a seance with
her. We sat round the usual heavy table, under which
various objects had been placed. One of these was my gold
lighter, which suddenly appeared on top of the table, with the
word ‘Nell’ engraved on it. eDr. Nell’ was Frau Silbert’s
alleged spirit guide. I asked whether I could look under the
table in order to witness the beginning of the flight of the
objects. Permission was given, and for thirty minutes I was
bobbing up and down trying to detect any movement in the
medium’sfeet. At last I was rewarded: almost simultaneously
with the flight of an object I saw the medium’s right foot out
of her boot, and her toes were plainly visible. Evidently, she
had cut off the end of her stocking, thus enabling her to use
her toes to pick up objects. I am quite satisfied she did this,
and undoubtedly she was very clever at it. I said nothing
at the time as I was then trying to get her to London for
some experiments in my laboratory. I did not succeed.1
My last sitting with Frau Silbert was in 1931 at the house
of my friend Professor Haslinger in Graz. The medium was
not well, and no telekinetic phenomena occurred. But,
under the glare of the electric light, we heard raps, some­
times at command, in various parts of the room, and these
were impressive. To sum up, I believe that Frau Silbert
(who died in 1937) had genuine psychic powers (e.g. the
raps) but that the major phenomena witnessed through this
medium were produced by normal means.
8 4 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF PS Y G H I G A L R E S E A R C H
1 My report on these experiences can be found in the Journal of the Am.
S.P.R., New York, 1926, Vol. XX, pp. 265-79. See also Daily News, London,
January 6, 1926, and Der Physikalische Mediumismus, by Dr. von Gulat-Wellen-
burg [and others], Berlin, 1925, pp. 482-6.
F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A 85
PHOTOGRAPHING THE SPIRITS
A young Italian woman who produced both telekinetic
phenomena and materializations was Linda Gazzera, of good
family and a non-professional medium. She was studied
principally by Dr. E. Imoda of Turin, G. de Fontenay, and
Professor Richet. Under a good control, rapid telekinetic
movements were observed, the objects being manipulated
by a psychic extrusion or pseudopod in the form of an extra
arm, reminiscent of Eusapia Palladino. Her ‘controls/
‘Vincenzo5 and ‘ Carlotta,5 would sometimes produce
phenomena at request. Occasionally, teleplasmic forms were
visible and some remarkable photographs of these were
secured by Dr. Imoda, who reproduced them in his book.1
Although Richet wrote a preface to this work, he criticizes2
Imoda for a lack of proper control of the medium.
Another medium, Indride Indridason (a compositor), of
Iceland, was investigated by Professor Haraldur Nielsson of
the University of Reykjavik and a number of local scientists.
For more than five years Nielsson and his friends accumu­
lated a mass of evidence seeming to prove the validity of the
telekinetic and materializing phenomena produced through
Indridason. The death of the medium (in 1912) prevented
any full report being published, but one of the sitters, Pro­
fessor Gudmundur Hannesson, wrote a long account3of his
experiences. He concludes: ‘The phenomena are unques­
tionable realities.5 Attempts were made to photograph the
materializations, without good results. I have discussed
Indridason’s mediumship with Professor Nielsson and was
impressed with what he told me.
m a r t h e ’s ‘ m i r a c l e s 5
At the beginning of this chapter I stated that I would
include among the best physical mediums who have operated
1 Fotografie di Fantasmi, Torino, 1912.
2Thirty Tears o f Psychical Research, p. 525.
3 ‘Remarkable Phenomena in Iceland* in the Journal of the Am. S.P.R.,
New York, April, 1924, pp. 233-72.
during the past fifty years cthose who have probably pro­
duced genuine phenomena.5 Whether Marthe Beraud,
otherwise Eva C. (Eva Carriere), has ever produced a
genuine phenomenon in her life has been much debated.
I will give her the benefit of the doubt and include her ccase5
in this chapter.
Marthe, or, as we will now call her, Eva, had her first
seances with General and Madame Noel, to whose son she
was engaged. They sat at the General’s residence at Algiers,
known as the Villa Carmen. The other sitters included
Richet, Delanne and two sisters of the medium. A negress,
Aischa, usually sat in the cabinet with Eva.
The seance-room was illuminated by means of a red lamp.
During the sittings a 6
phantom,5 which they called Bien
Boa, materialized several times, and could be seen at the
same time in the cabinet with Eva and the negress. Bien Boa
wore a helmet over which was a white sheet. Photographs
were taken and Richet reproduces one in his book.1 It does
not look unlike a girl dressed up, and the beard appears to
be a false one. The conditions were not very good. Eva was
not undressed but Richet states1
2 that C
I could be sure, by
passing my hand all over her body5 that she had nothing
on her, except her ordinary clothes. O f course, he could do
nothing of the sort, as every experienced investigator knows.
Richet tells us that Bien Boa was ‘so much alive5that he
walked and moved, his eyes rolled, and some attempt at
speech was made. A flask of baryta water reacted to his
breath and carbon dioxide was indicated.
The Villa Carmen experiments were criticized by various
people and Areski, General Noel’s Arab coachman, declared
that he cplayed the ghost5at the seances. He demonstrated
in public how it was done. Eva is also alleged to have con­
fessed to an Algiers lawyer that she cheated. But the evidence
for both Areski’s declaration and Eva’s alleged confession is
not very good. Another phantom which appeared at the
Villa Carmen was said to be the spirit of an Egyptian
princess and Richet tells3 us how he cut a lock of her ‘fine,
1 Thirty Tears o f Psychical Research, p. 507.
8 Ibid., p. 505.
3 Ibid., p. 509.
8 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
silky, fair hair5just before she disappeared. Eva5
s hair was
very dark. Madame Noel published1 an account of the Villa
Carmen experiments.
Eva C. was later adopted by Madame Juliette Alexandre-
Bisson2 who, with Gustave Geley, Schrenck-Notzing and
others, investigated her mediumship for many years. All the
above-named were convinced of the genuineness of the
phenomena, mostly materializations. Schrenck published3
many photographs ofthese 'phantoms/ very artificial-looking
and two-dimensional, as though made of cardboard, news­
paper portraits, etc. (See Plate I.) A sensation was caused
when Mile Berthe Barklay published in the Psychic Magazine4
1
a reproduction of a portrait of President Wilson from Le
Miroir side by side with one of Eva’s paper phantoms. The
latter looks exactly like the picture of the President which
appeared in the newspaper, but altered and touched up.
In 1920 Eva was invited by the S.P.R. to submit to an
investigation in London. She arrived with Mme Bisson, and
forty seances, under the direction of Dr. V. J. Woolley and
Dr. E. J. Dingwall, were held.5 The sittings were almost
uniformly blank. The little 'materialized5substance which
was secured proved, on analysis, to be chewed paper. This
gave rise to the regurgitation theory. Occasionally, a tiny
head could be seen in the exuded mass. Following the
S.P.R. investigation, Paul Heuze requested the Sorbonne to
conduct a further inquiry into Eva’s alleged phenomena.
The fifteen sittings took place in the physiological laboratory
of the Faculty of Science during March-June, 1922, the
investigators being Professors Louis Lapique, Georges
Dumas, Henri Pieron and Dr. Henri Laugier. The result of
the tests was entirely negative.6
1 Conference sur le Moderne Spirilualisme faite a Alger, by Carmencita Noel,
Paris, 1900. See also: ‘Bien Boa. The Hypothesis of the Artist G. von Max,
concerning the Clothing of “Bien Boa,” ’ in the Ann. o f Psych. Sci., London,
1906, IV, 38-54-
2 See her Les Phinombnes dits de Materialisation, Paris, 1921.
3Phenomena of Materialization, London, ig20.
4 Paris, January i, 1914. Vol. I, No. 1.
6See ‘A Report on a series of sittings with Eva G.,’ by E. J. Dingwall,
Proc., S.P.R., London, January, 1922, Vol. XXXII, pp, 209-343.
0See VOpinion, Paris, July 8-29, 1922. For the English translation of the
Sorbonne report, see Journal of the Am. S.P.R., New York, Vol. XVII,
February, 1923, pp. 63-78. For Mme Bisson’s ‘reply’, see her Le Mbdiumnisme et
la Sorbonne, Paris, 1923.
F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A 8 7
We hear little of Eva after the Sorbonne fiasco, and her
mediumship must be regarded as 'not proven.5 As the
control of her person was tightened up, so the phenomena
became fewer and less spectacular. During her best
period (with Schrenck and Geley) the control was bad.
In Schrenck’s laboratory in Munich and at the Institut
Mdtapsychique, Paris, I have seen stereoscopic positives of
photographs taken during the production of her famous
'cardboard5phantoms, in which Eva has loth handsfree!
88 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
KLUSKI AND HIS SPIRIT 'GLOVES5
Quite the most interesting physical mediumship recorded
during the past fifty years is that of 'Franek Kluski,5a Polish
banker, who introduced a new technique into seances by
producing thin wax 'gloves5of materialized spirit hands. A
pail of hot paraffin wax and another filled with cold water
are in readiness at his sittings, and the splashings in the pails
can be distinctly heard. At the end of the seance (usually
held in darkness or a feeble light) very thin wax shells or
'gloves5 of spirit hands are found floating on the water.
Sometimes two hands, entwined or interlocked, and with
bent fingers, are secured. When these delicate moulds are
filled with plaster-of-Paris (which is allowed to set), the wax
is dissolved with boiling water and the resultant casts can be
examined freely. (Plate II.) A feature of these seances is
that the 'hands5are quite unlike those of any person present
at the seances at which they are produced; and for a long
time it was thought impossible that such moulds could be
made normally owing to the difficulty of a human being
drawing his hand (or hands) through the small wrist aper­
ture of the delicate wax shell. But they have been produced
normally and specimens of hands, fingers entwined, are on
view at the Institut Metapsychique. .Of course, that does
not explain how such 'gloves5 could be produced normally
at Kluski’s seances. These same intricate moulds can also
be produced by Dr. A. Poller’s 'Moulage5process.1 Photo­
graphs of many of Kluski’s materialized hands and feet were
1 See his The Ideal Materials fo r Plastic Reproductions, New York, 1933.
reproduced by Gustave Geley in the Revue Metapsychique,2
and crude imitations have appeared at 'Margery’s’ seances.
F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A 8 9
THE 'PITHECANTHROPUS’ AND HIS FRIENDS
Kluski also produces 'animals’ at his seances, some of
them very disturbing. It is not at all easy to obtain sittings
with Kluski and his famous animals do not always materialize.
F. W. Pawlowski, Professor of Aeronautical Engineering in
the University of Michigan, has written a vivid account2 of
his experiences in Kluski’s seance-room. He says: 'The most
frequent visitors of the animal variety are squirrels, dogs,
and cats. On one occasion a lion appeared and on another
a large bird like a hawk or buzzard. I have seen the two
first-mentioned. They behaved in a perfectly natural way
. . . the dog running about, wagging his tail, jumping on the
laps and licking the faces of the sitters.’
One can read all about Kluski’s 'lion’ in Geley’s VEclo-
plasmie et la Clairvoyance.3 This animal is sometimes rather
menacing, beating his tail and striking the furniture. On one
occasion the frightened sitters, unable to control the animal,
broke up the seance by waking the medium, 'who was
deeply entranced.’ Professor Pawlowski states in his article
that 'the buzzard flew around, beating his wings against the
walls and ceiling, and when he finally settled on the shoulder
of the medium he was photographed with a magnesium
flash.’ This picture can be seen in Geley’s book, which I
have cited.
A frequent visitor to the Kluski seances is an animal
which, for want of a better name, is called a 'Pithecanthro­
pus.’ He appears only in darkness and looks like a hairy man
or a huge ape. His face is hairy, but his forehead is high;
he has long, strong arms and behaves rather roughly to­
wards the sitters, trying to lick their hands and faces and his
gambols usually end in the sitters terminating the stance,
1 May-June and July-August, 1921. See also Journal, Am. S.P.R., Septem­
ber, 1925.
2 ‘The Mediumship of Franek Kluski/ Journal, Am. S.P.R., New York,
September, 1925, pp. 481-504.
3Paris, 1924. Eng, trans. Clairvoyance and Materialization, London, J927.
as he is almost uncontrollable. He is said to exude the odour
of a cwet dog.’ A full account of the Pithecanthropus can
be read in Geley’s book, and the history of Kluski’s medium-
ship has been recorded in Polish by Norbert Okolowicz.1
His mediumship is unsatisfactory from the point of view that
no scientific body has investigated the alleged miracles. On
each of my two visits to Warsaw I attempted to obtain
sittings with Kluski, without results.
I have now recorded the work of most of the best physical
mediums of the past fifty years: Some well-known ones, such
as Lucia Sordi, Madame d’Esperance, Cecil Husk, Ada
Bessinet, Valiantine and Guzik we shall meet in another
chapter. It will be noted that no mention is made of 'spirit
photographers5 for the simple reason that I consider the
evidence for all spirit photographs entirely unsatisfactory,
and all photographic mediums who have been tested under
real scientific conditions have failed to produce abnormal
pictures. But there is one phase of physical mediumship
which must be mentioned, and that is luminous phenomena.
The best authenticated case is that of
9 0 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
ANNA M0NAR0.
Anna is called the ‘luminous woman of Pirano5 and
puzzled Italian scientists by emitting a glow of light from
her chest as she slept. She was admitted to the hospital at
Pirano, suffering from asthma, and the nurses at that in­
stitution declared that she ‘glowed at night.5 Professors
Fabio Vitali, G. C. Trabacchi, and Sante de Sanctis con­
ducted an intense investigation of her case and declared that
the phenomena were real. Professor Vitali kindly sent me
their official report.2 After making the control conditions so
severe that fraud of any kind was impossible, the scientists
waited up night after night. Describing one occurrence, the
report says: ‘At 10.35 p.m., without any sound, there sud­
denly appeared a glow of bluish-white light, which appeared
to come from the patient’s chest and lit up her neck and face
1 Wspomnienia Z Seansdw Z Medjum Frmkiem Kluskim, Warsaw, 1926.
2Sul Fenomerto di Pirano, Roma, 1934.
so as to show up her features. The light threw no shadow.
At the same time, the woman stirred uneasily in her sleep
and moaned.5 The phenomenon lasted for only a second,
during which a photograph was taken. But nothing unusual
was seen on the plate. The scientists were convinced that the
phenomenon was real, but it may have been due to some
obscure pathological cause.
F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P H Y S I C A L P H E N O M E N A g i
CHAPTER V
THE SCHNEIDER BOYS— SHEET-ANCHOR
OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
B
RAUNAU-AM-INN, a charming frontier old-world
village in what is now Greater Germany, is famous as
the birthplace of three distinguished persons—Adolf
Hitler, and Willi and Rudi Schneider, the Austrian physical
mediums. Braunau lies on the Austrian bank of the River
Inn, which here divides Bavaria from Oberosterreich.
For many years Herr Josef Schneider, a Maschinerlsetzer
(linotype compositor), who lived over the little printing
office in which he worked, strove hard to rear a large family
of twelve children, among whom were Willi and Rudi.
According to Kapitan Fritz Kogelnik, who has recorded1
the history of the early days of the Schneider mediumship,
the phenomena began when the family were amusing them­
selves one night with a ouija board. They discovered that
crequests to the intelligence operating the board were carried
out even to the extent of the displacement of objects at the
far side of the room, on demand. For example, in the early
spring of 1919, Kogelnik attended a stance at the Schneiders’
modest suite of rooms in the main street of Braunau, and
during the course of these experiments Herr Schneider said:
cOlga, if you are here, go lift up the tablecloth at the front
of the table.’ c01ga’, it should be explained, was the name
of 'control’ or spirit entity supposed to be in charge of the
proceedings. 'Olga’ obliged, and the cloth was slowly
raised from the table, though no mortal hand was near it,
and this miracle was seen in a light 'strong enough to
recognize distinctly every person in the room.’ Willi was
then fourteen years old, Rudi (who was not present) being
aged eight. At that early period Willi did not go into trance,
1 ‘The Early Days of the Willi Schneider Mediumship,’ Am. S.P.R., Journal,
March, 1926.
92
but was merely an amused and puzzled witness of the pro­
ceedings.
Kogelnik was convinced of the genuineness of the pheno­
mena and attended some hundreds of seances with Willi, at
which many telekinetic phenomena and materialized limbs
were seen, under good conditions of control. I know Kogel­
nik well and his word can be trusted, even if he was some­
times mistaken in interpreting the various things he saw.
Kapitan Kogelnik is a retired commander of an Austrian
warship, in receipt of a small income as Collector of Customs
in Braunau.
T H E S C H N E I D E R B O Y S 93
cOLGA* MATERIALIZES
Miracles were such a novelty in Braunau that the advent
o fcOlga’ speedily led to much excitement in the village and
sensational stories in the local Press. Crowds of phenomena-
hunters besieged Herr Schneider’s humble dwelling, and the
manifestations became fewer. Also, according to Kogelnik,
Willi began to 'help’ the phenomena: 'During this period I
caught him tricking several times’1 and the Kapitan
persuaded Willi’s father to permit him to take the boy to
his own flat, where better seance conditions could be im­
posed. Under these conditions, and with only Frau Kogel­
nik, the Kapitan, and two lady friends present, Willi pro­
duced the first of the very few full-form materializations
recorded with this medium: £
In the middle of the room a
sofa was placed, and adjoining it three chairs, so as to give
the general effect of a circle. The room was lighted by a red
lamp, hanging from the ceiling. On a table near me was
placed a phonograph. Willi was comfortably seated on the
left corner of the sofa; at his right was my wife, whom he
liked best of all. She took both his hands, and after about
one minute he was in deep trance. His head sank on to her
left shoulder. I asked: "Olga, are you here?” A slight
tapping of the medium’s foot answered, "Yes.” I continued:
"I know, Olga, that you are very fond of music. Would
1 Am. S.P.R. Journal, March, 1926, p, 152. For a photograph of Willi
tricking, see Bulletin IV, Nat, Lab. Psychical Research, London, ig33, Plate
you perhaps like to materialize yourself and dance a tango?3
3
“ Olga” agreed, with the same tapping of Willi’s foot. The
phonograph was ready to play; I only had to throw the
lever. I did so; and at the first note of the music a phantom
was visible, standing among us. It danced the tango very
correctly and gracefully. It was about five feet tall, and one
got the impression of a slim figure, covered all over with
cobwebby veils. As the dance proceeded these veils waved
about, and I leaned back in my chair as they nearly touched
me. It was a most impressive sight; the gracefully and mutely
dancing phantom, while the medium lay in my wife’s arms,
absolutely motionless. At the last note of the music the
phantom disappeared like lightning, just as it had come.’1
It will be noted that Willi was in a trance, which was un­
usual. But one day Kogelnik introduced another medium
into the Schneider circle at his flat. This person fell into a
trance during a sitting, much to the surprise of Willi, who
promptly became entranced, too.
94 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
CONVINCING EXPERIMENTS AT MUNICH
It was not long before Baron von Schrenck-Notzing heard
of the Braunau seances and he visited the Schneider menage
on many occasions. Finally, he persuaded Herr Schneider
to permit him to take Willi under his care and have him
trained for the dental profession. This was agreed to and
the boy went to reside in the Bavarian capital. Under
laboratory conditions in Schrenck’s own mansion Willi
rapidly developed his famous phenomena, which are the most
impressive (taking into consideration the conditions under
which they were produced) of any physical medium of whom
we have any full record.
Schrenck invited distinguished savants and scientists from
all over Europe to witness the boy’s manifestations and more
than one hundred testified to the fact that they believed the
phenomena genuine. A list of these has been published.2
Many writers and others were also convinced and Thomas
1 Kogelnik, op. cit., pp. 152-3.
* Revlie Mitapsychiqne, Paris, November-December, 1922, pp. 385-6.
Mann has written1 a graphic account of his own experiences
with Willi.
In May, 1922, Dr. E. J. Dingwall and I visited Munich
at the invitation of Baron von Schrenck-Notzing in order to
witness Willi’s phenomena and to point out any trickery, if
we discovered it. We were told that we could control the
seances in any way we pleased, and the only condition was
that we were to give Schrenck a written report of our opinion,
whether this was good or bad.
Our first seance was held at Schrenck’s residence in the
Max Josefstrasse on Monday, May 29, 1922, in a room he
had turned into a laboratory with the traditional ‘cabinet5
formed by a pair of curtains suspended across one corner of
the room, in front of which was a ‘cage,’ resembling a
large meat safe, with gauze panels. The doors of the cage
were locked, with the only opening (about three feet wide
by six inches deep) turned towards the cabinet opening and
away from the medium. The circle was composed of seven
sitters, who held hands in chain formation, and the medium
was controlled by two persons, one of whom held his two
wrists. In addition to this tactual control, just previous to
the seance we had carefully examined the medium and had
dressed him in one-piece tights, studded with luminous pins.
This fore-control was the usual procedure.
For illumination, we used five red electric lights in a
cluster, regulated by a rheostat. The amount of light was
fair and I could plainly see my neighbours in the circle.
Having completed our examination of room and medium,
we took our places in the circle, switched off the white light,
and the seance began (at 8.35 p.m.) The first thing we heard
was the creaking of a heavy table, weighing thirty-three
pounds, which had been placed inside the large gauze cage.
A portion of it had been made luminous and we could see
— and hear— the table bumping up and down. Then
Schrenck placed a large heavy musical-box on the table,
inside the cage, and this wound itself u
p
> and stopped and
started at words of command in three languages. It, too,
bumped up and down. A small luminous hand-bell was
1 ‘An Experience in the Occult/ in Three Essays, New York, 1929. (From the
original German edition: Okkulte Erlebnisses Berlin, 1925.)
T H E S C H N E I D E R B O Y S 95
then placed in the cage. It soon afterwards rang and twice
was thrown out of the cage. Later, a small table (on which
were a luminous plaque and luminous bracelet) was placed
on a larger one in front of the cabinet. The bracelet was
waved in the air, and the table thrown over, being afterwards
passed completely round the large one on which it stood.
Extra red lights were used for this phenomenon. Occa­
sionally, we asked ‘ Mina,’ Willi’s trance personality, to
produce certain results, and this was done. cMina,’ by the
way, had by this time supplanted ‘ Olga,’ Willi’s original
‘ control.’
During this portion of the sitting a white handkerchief
was dropped on the floor; it shortly rose in the air, the effect
of the red light on the rising handkerchief against the black
background being very striking. Then a whitish hand-like
form or ‘pseudopod’ appeared at the opening of the cabinet
and the seance terminated.
Both Dingwall and I were much impressed by what we
had seen and heard. Two days later (May 31) we made a
further and minute examination of Schrenck’s seance-room.
We examined and moved all the furniture, cabinet, and
apparatus. We sounded floor, walls, and ceiling. Every­
thing was normal.
At subsequent seances we experienced similar manifesta­
tions and left Munich with the conviction that Willi was
‘genuine.’ Speaking personally, I was very deeply impressed,
as it was the first medium through whom I had witnessed
phenomena under unimpeachable conditions.1 Following
our Munich experiments, Willi was invited to London by
the S.P.R. and a number of stances was held. A few striking
telekinetic phenomena were witnessed, but the visit was not
particularly successful.1
2
9 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
1 For a full account of these stances, see my 'Convincing Phenomena at
Munich/ in Psyche, London, April, 1933,
2 See P m ., S.P.R., Vol. XXXVI, pp. 1-33.
T H E S C H N E I D E R B O Y S 97
THE LEVITATION THAT FAILED
Soon after my return from Munich, events occurred which
terminated in Schrenck and Willi parting company. The
boy went to Vienna where his mediumship was developed
by Dr. E. Holub, Chefarzt of the Steinhof asylum. It was
stated that a new phenomenon—levitation— had been wit­
nessed. Holub’s sudden death found Willi at a loose end
and his widow offered the youth a home in her flat. The
experiments were continued and in April, 1925, I was in­
vited to take part in them.
The seances were held in Frau Doktor Holub’s flat and
the first I attended was on June 6, 1925. The sitters were
Frau Holub and myself. No 'cabinet5 was used, and it was
a very informal seance, the chief purpose of which was to
introduce me to 6Otto,5 Willi’s latest 'control’ or trance
personality. No phenomena were witnessed, except that
'O tto’ said he was pleased to see me!
The next experiments were held on June 8, and among
the sitters were Professors Thirring and Ludwik of Vienna
University. A two-sided gauze screen, twenty-eight inches
high, was placed round a strong wooden oblong table, on
which was a cloth. The screen was between the medium and
table, on which were placed various articles, including a
rubber squeaking doll. A sitter and I controlled Willi, who
had been examined and was dressed in a two-piece pyjama
suit, to which were sewn luminous buttons. In a few
minutes Willi was in trance, and by the light of a red lamp
(by means of which all the sitters could see one another) the
following phenomena were experienced: the tablecloth was
lifted; the table was moved, and swung round; the luminous
rubber doll squeaked several times (proving that some­
thing was pressing it); the table turned completely over on
to the sitters. These manifestations were witnessed several
times. The 'doll’ phenomenon was particularly striking.
Willi was five feet eleven inches from it, the other sitters
being more than six feet from the toy. No doubt exists in
my mind that we witnessed genuine phenomena, during the
production of which Willi was breathing heavily and
H
rapidly (200 cycles per minute), a trance condition peculiar
to both Willi and Rudi.
The next seance was held onJune 11 and cOtto3promised
that he would levitate the medium. He did not keep his
word. Under rigid conditions the boy attempted this
phenomenon but he did not succeed in raising himself from
the two stools which supported his head and feet respec­
tively.1 In December, 1924, in London, I had witnessed a
similar attempt at levitation and that, too, failed.
g 8 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
MIRACLES AT BRAUNAU
Very soon after my visit to Vienna Schrenck and Willi
became friends once more, and the youth signed a two years3
contract with the Baron, who undertook to continue experi­
ments. I was unaware of this fact when, in October, 1925,
I arranged to hold some seances with both Willi and Rudi
Schneider in their home at Braunau-am-Inn. With two
friends I motored the ninety miles from Munich to Braunau,
where we arrived on October 3 1, 1925, and that same
evening we had our first sitting. We found the Schneiders a
delightful, typical kleinburgerlich family, modest and kindly.
Rudi, unfortunately, was in bed with a poisoned leg (which
we examined) and could not walk. At this period of the
Schneider history, Rudi had already become known as a
medium and, very strangely, had appropriated Willi3
s cast­
off Control,5cOlga,3as his trance personality; or, if the reader
is a spiritualist, cspirit guide.3
The Schneiders3seance-room was, in fact, their principal
living-room, and we examined it minutely. It was more
than thirty feet long and eleven feet wide, with two double
windows overlooking the main street, twenty-two feet below.
A pair of light curtains were suspended from the ceiling
across a corner of the room, enclosing one of the windows,
and these served to form the familiar ‘cabinet.3
I arranged two seances in the Schneider home, each being
divided into two portions. Among the sitters were Pro-
1 For a full account of the Vienna experiments, see my ‘An Account of Some
Further Experiments with Willy Schneider,’ Journal, Am. S.P.R., August, 1925.
fessors Karl Gruber and Hildebrand, who had journeyed
specially from Munich to assist at the experiments.
I regret that space will not permit my giving a detailed
account of all the wonders we witnessed at Braunau, but the
following were amongst the phenomena which I recorded
during or immediately after the seances, held under perfect
conditions of control of the medium: swaying and billowing
curtains; cool breezes; telekinetic movements of handker­
chief, lamp, beU, fan, and other objects; the appearance of
pseudopods, or hand-like ‘terminals,5 stumps, and fully-
materialized hand; tug-of-war with handkerchief, between
the ‘hand5 and sitters, etc. These manifestations were
repeated time after time, giving the sitters ample oppor­
tunity to study the conditions of control during the actual
appearance of the phenomena. The two professors, Willi
and I, adjourned to a nearby cafe after the last seance, which
we agreed was the best the medium had ever given under
test conditions. That was my last sitting with Willi.1
T H E S C H N E I D E R B O Y S 99
BRAUNAU REVISITED
We hear little of Willi Schneider after my seances with
him at Braunau. He worked hard at his dental studies, and
his mediumship became a secondary consideration. This
was the less regrettable as his brother Rudi was rapidly
developing into a first-class physical medium, with similar
phenomena and trance technique to those of Willi. Baron
von Schrenck-Notzing wrote to me from time to time, send­
ing information about the boy whom (as in the case of
Willi) he had more or less ‘adopted.5 I decided to test
Rudi for myself and to this end arrived in Braunau on
April 28, 1926. I was accompanied by two hard-headed
business friends and Mr. E. Clephan Palmer, a journalist
on the staff of the Daily News. Mr. Palmer possessed a con­
siderable knowledge of psychical research and had been
impressed with the mediumship of Stella C.
We had two stances with Rudi, both divided into the
1 For a detailed account of these experiments, see my ‘Brilliant Phenomena
in the Home of the Schneiders/ Journal\ Am. S.P.R., January, 1926.
usual two portions. The sittings were again held in the
Schneiders’ principal living-room, and the lighting and other
conditions were identical as with Willi, except that there
were now four ofus to control the medium, family and room.
The phenomena we witnessed were almost identical with
those experienced with Willi a few months previously: tele­
kinetic movements, cold breezes, materialized limbs (we saw
a half-formed hand drag a bell off a table); pseudopods play­
ing with handkerchief (‘Mr. Palmer places his handkerchief
on table . . . and immediately a small, perfectly-formed hand,
but with foul* fingers only, shoots out of cabinet and snatches
the handkerchief5
x); knocks, raps, thumps, etc. Rudi’s
mediumship much impressed us and we should have con­
tinued the experiments except for the fact that a general
strike had occurred in London (necessitating Mr. Palmer’s
immediate return), and I was due at Vienna in order to
investigate Eleonore Zugun. On his return to London Mr.
Palmer wrote a series of articles in the Daily News2describing
our experiences and admitted that he 6could imagine no
means by which the phenomena could have been fraudulently
produced.5
IOO F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
CHARGES OF FRAUD
Our visit to Braunau, and the subsequent positive reports
by Mr. Palmer and myself, caused much interest in both this
country and America and a stream of cinvestigators5began
to flow towards the large village by the Inn. Apparently,
by this time, Dr. E. J. Dingwall (who was so impressed with
the Willi seances when he accompanied me to Munich in
May, 1922s) had formulated a theory that, in the Schneider
home at any rate, the phenomena were due to confederacy
— a sort of Familienangelegenheit, or family affair. This
hypothesis would not, obviously, cover the conditions obtain­
ing outside the Schneiders5home when the family was not
1 From verbatim notes, in my account of the experiments: ‘The Phenomena
of Rudi Schneider,’ Journal, Am. S.P.R., November, 1926.
2May 18, ig, so, 21, 1926. See also his book, The Riddle of Spiritualism,
London [1927].
3See ante.
T H E S C H N E I D E R B O Y S 101
present. To test this new theory Dingwall, accompanied by
an Americanjournalist named W. J. Vinton, visited (August,
1926) Braunau and had a number of sittings with both Willi
and Rudi. In his report1 Vinton charges the whole family
with conspiring to produce false phenomena. He admits
that he supplied Herr Schneider with 'unlimited beer3
2 and
'led him on.3
3 Though the usual manifestations were wit­
nessed, Vinton did not detect any fraud. In the same year
Dr. W. F. Prince, of the Boston S.P.R., had several sittings
with Rudi at Stuttgart and Braunau and endorsed the £
con­
federacy by invasion of the cabinet3 theory. But he, too,
discovered no fraud.4 About this period J. Malcolm Bird
had one seance at Braunau on October 11, 1927. He, too,
accepted the Dingwall-Vinton-Prince hypothesis of family
confederacy, but, also like these gentlemen, discovered no
actual evidence of fraud on the part of anyone.5
THE ELECTRICAL CONTROL
During the stormy period when Rudi’s mediumship was
being so passionately discussed, Schrenck was, apparently,
witnessing good phenomena at Munich under perfect con­
ditions of control— that is, tactual control. But the criticisms
levelled against the boy prompted him to look around for
some form of mechanical or electrical controlling method
which would eliminate the human factor. He found such
a method in an idea which I had submitted to him some
years previously. I had sent him plans of what I called an
'electric chair.3 This was an arm-chair with electrical con­
tacts at every point touched by the medium’s anatomy.
Head, arms, feet, seat, hands, etc., were all in contact with
electric light circuits: when a hand, foot, etc., was not in
contact, a small red signal light would automatically switch
off and the lack of control would at once be discovered.
1 ‘The Famous Schneider Mediumship,’ Psyche, London, April, 1927.
2Ibid., p. 5.
3Ibid., p. 37.
4 ‘Experiments with Physical Mediums in Europe,’ Bulletin VII, Boston
S.P.R., 1928.
5See his ‘A Detailed Account of my Stance with Rudi,’Journal, Am. S.P.R.
August, 1929, pp. 407-27.
Schrenck improved on this idea by making the medium and
controllers wear metallic socks and gloves which formed part
of an electric light circuit. If a hand or foot of medium or
controller were not in proper contact, the tell-tale light
would be extinguished. Schrenck and Karl Krall arranged
to have a long series ofsittings in their respective laboratories,
using this tactual-electrical control— a control which was to
silence the critics for ever. But Fate decreed otherwise: the
early weeks of 1929 witnessed the sudden deaths of both
Krall and Schrenck and German psychical research received
a shock from which it has never recovered.
102 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
RUDI GOMES TO LONDON
Immediately I heard of the deaths of the two principal
German psychists I hurried to Munich in order to arrange
with Rudi to continue Schrenck’s experiments in London.
He arrived at my laboratory on April n , 1929* the first
seance being held on the following evening.
For my experiments in London I still further improved the
tactual-elcctrical control by providing all the sitters, con­
trollers and medium with metallic gloves and socks forming
part of an electric light circuit. These gloves, etc., were
securely taped on and could not be removed during a seance
without instant detection. Unless a sitter tightly clasped the
hands of his neighbour, or kept his feet in firm contact with
the metallic plates screwed to the floor, one of six lights was
extinguished, instantly revealing the faulty control. Before
each seance Rudi was thoroughly examined and donned our
special suit. Thermal data, pulse-rate, respiration, etc., were
recorded as a matter of routine.
During Rudi's first visit to London we held five seances
and witnessed the most brilliant and convincing phenomena
under unimpeachable conditions. These will be described
later.
T H E S C H N E I D E R B O Y S 103
RUDl’S SECOND LONDON VISIT
The success of Rudi’s first visit to London was so great
that I was pressed by those scientists and others who had
seen the boy to organize another series of seances. This
I did and Rudi again visited London on November 14, 1929,
remaining until the following January 30. We held twenty-
one seances and again witnessed the most varied and
brilliant phenomena, using the electrical control of sitters,
medium, etc. As my principal aim in psychic matters is to
convince orthodoxy of the reality of certain phenomena, the
following scientists attended at my invitation: Lord Rayleigh,
Professor A. O. Rankine, Dr. William Brown, Professor
F. C. S. Schiller, Professor A. F. C. Pollard, Dr. C. E. M,
Joad, and Professor Nils von Hofsten, of Uppsala.
THE LONDON PHENOMENA
Whatever may have happened in the boy’s home at
Braunau, it is quite obvious that the 'invasion of the cabinet
by the Schneider family’ theory could not be applied to the
London seances, and we heard little more of this suggestion.
The following is a list of the phenomena we experienced,
under conditions of control never previously imposed
on any medium or sitters in the history of psychical
research:
Floating, levitation, and intelligent movements of many
objects such as waste-paper basket, toy zither, etc.; the tying
of knots in handkerchief; writing on paper by pseudopod or
'terminal’; billowing of the curtains; raps and knocks on
table, chairs, etc., both inside and outside of cabinet, at
command; production of teleplasmic masses resembling
arms, legs, a 'snow-man/ 'childlike form/ etc., some
luminous and all showing volition and intelligence; apparent
fall in temperature of cabinet, cool breezes, winds, etc.; taps
felt by sitters, and gentle tugs at their clothing; cognition of
objects whose whereabouts were unknown to the sitters.
Most of the above phenomena were witnessed in the light of
a sixty-watt red lamp, by ninety-nine sitters, twenty-one of
whom assisted at controlling the medium.1
104 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
PARIS EXPERIMENTS
After leaving London, Rudi, at my suggestion, placed
himself at the disposal of the Institut Metapsychique, Paris,
where he remained for fifteen months. The electrical control
was not used there, the sitters relying on the old tactual
control for immobilizing the medium. Most of the seances
appear to have been held for studying telekinetic phenomena
and in order to ccontrol’ the objects to be moved, the
experimenters utilized the well-known system of directing
the rays from the infra-red end of the spectrum through a
filter on to a photo-electric cell, which is a method of
measuring the amount of energy in a beam of light. When
the beam is obstructed (and the amount of interference can
be measured by suitable instruments), a relay comes into
operation, an electrical circuit is closed, and the -current
can, of course, be utilized in a variety of ways, such as firing
a magnesium flash (for taking photographs) or ringing a bell.
The photo-electric cell has been much used commercially
for automatic lighting and extinguishing of street lamps, self­
opening doors, etc.
The infra-red installation at the Institut was a very
elaborate and costly one, but its chief drawback was that the
beam was quite open and unprotected, and though it
guarded the object to be operated upon, it did not guard the
medium or the sitters. If the medium was able surreptitiously
to release a hand or foot, and intercept the rays in any way,
or if any sitter did the same thing, of course it would have
the same effect on the beam and on the recording instru­
ments as if a psychic body had obstructed it.
In due course, the report2 of the Paris experiments was
published and the investigators claimed that they had dis­
covered the existence of an invisible Something’— a psychic
1 For a full illustrated report of these London experiments, see the present
writer’s Rudi Schneider, London, 1930.
2Les Pouvoirs Inconnus de VEsprit sur la Matiere, by Eugene and Marrel Osty
Paris, 1932. For a criticism of this report, see Nature, June 25, 1932.
T H E S C H N E I D E R B O Y S
‘force/ cenergy/ or ‘power5 externalized by the medium,
which affected the infra-red rays, 30 per cent of which were
absorbed by the alleged psychic emanations. The report
was packed with graphs and diagrams— all very impressive,
assuming that every precaution had been taken against
fraud, mal-observation, and experimental error.
105
LAST EXPERIMENTS IN BRAUNAU
I was so struck with the alleged discovery of the psychic
emanations that I decided I would endeavour to duplicate
the experiments of the Fiench investigators. To this end, a
party of four from the National Laboratory of Psychical
Research journeyed to Braunau in order to make arrange­
ments for the proposed visit. While we were there, we
decided to test the theory that the Schneider family sometimes
‘helped5 the phenomena. We took special precautions
against any such ‘invasion5 of the cabinet or circle. We
had three seances with Rudi. The first was almost negative,
the second was very good, the third was brilliant. On this,
my fifth visit to the Inn village, my party was large enough
to control effectively such members of the Schneider family
as were permitted to be present, and any local sitters thought
necessary. Stories were current that Vater Schneider with
a reaching-rod, Mutter Schneider with a ‘hold-out/ and
various small grandchildren with black tights, black masks
— and blacker hearts— crawling between the sitters5 legs,
were responsible for the phenomena.
So at our last— and best— sitting (July 31, 1931) we
screwed up every door and window in the seance room and
attached our seals. We dismissed most of the local sitters,
locked and sealed Herr Schneider in his bedroom and put
surgical plaster over the keyhole. We permitted only three
of the usual circle to remain in the stance room. As there
were five of us (a friend had arrived at Braunau at the last
moment) we could easily control the three local sitters by
sandwiching them between us. The medium, the room, and
every sitter were thus under our own complete control.
I repeat that this last stance was brilliant. A lareje^
enamelled bowl of water was levitated and slowly revolved;
water was splashed over the sitters; knocks on the seance
table and window were given to order; curtains were flung
out over the sitters; table was dragged into cabinet; Mrs.
Goldney’s handkerchief was picked up from the table,
tightly knotted in one corner, and with a large rent made in
it; a small 'hand9or pseudopod picked a handkerchief off the
floor, and several sitters claimed to have seen a teleplasmic
mass resembling a snow-man. It was all very impressive
and silenced once and for all those who asserted that the
phenomena witnessed in the Schneider home were due
entirely to confederacy. We signed Herr Schneider’s protocol
book to this effect.1
106 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
RUDl’s THIRD LONDON VISIT
When in Braunau, we accomplished our mission of per­
suading Rudi to visit London again in order that we could
test the psychic emanations alleged to have been discovered
in Paris. In all, he gave us twenty-seven seances, the first of
which was held on February 9, 1932. Because we wished
to use a number of special instruments, automatic cameras,
infra-red apparatus, etc., we were compelled to revert to the
old tactual control (hand-in-hand chain formation) of
medium and sitters.
Generally speaking, the seances were poor, many being
negative. We experienced no phenomena comparable with
those we saw in the 1929-30 London sittings, or in Rudi’s
own home, and it was evident that the boy’s powers were
weakening. We improved on the Paris infra-red ray instal­
lation by enclosing everything in a gauze cage. The appara­
tus was home-made and, though the beam was affected,
this was afterwards thought due to experimental error or
faulty construction. A very sensitive professional infra-red
ray set-up, erected by Major C. E. Prince of Radiovisor
(Parent) Ltd., failed to detect a trace of interference by
Rudi’s alleged emanations.
1 For text, see Journal, Am. S.P.R., April, 1933, p. 59.
T H E S C H N E I D E R B O Y S 107
A DAMNING PHOTOGRAPH
One of the pieces of special apparatus which I constructed
was a counterpoise table in the automatic camera circuit.
If an object (such as a handkerchief) was placed on one
side of the table, and it was displaced by any means, normal
or paranormal, the other side of the table would fall owing
to the counterpoise, close the electric flash-bulb circuit, and
a number of cameras would automatically photograph— if
photographable— whatever had displaced the object.
In practice, we used a large handkerchief on the table and
some striking pictures of the levitated handkerchief were
secured (see Plate III). But some photographs which were
automatically taken at the twenty-fifth seance on April
28, 1932, show that Rudi had managed to free his arm from
the— admittedly— unsatisfactory tactual control, and it was
quite clear that, on this occasion at least, Rudi had managed
to pluck the handkerchief off the table, the camera catching
his outstretched arm before he could get it in control again.
Because of the possibility of evading control revealed by these
damning photographs, many of the phenomena recorded
at this last series of London seances must be regarded as
suspect. The publication1 of the photographs started a con­
troversy which was as futile as it was acrimonious. But Rudi
has often been accused of freeing an arm (or attempting to
do so) by several people, including Professors Stefan Meyer
and Karl Przibram of Vienna University.2 The publication
of our report made psychists realize that Rudi’s star was
waning, and that the boy was losing his mediumistic faculty.
This was especially apparent to those who took part in the
1932 experiments, the sitters including Professor W. E. Gibbs,
Dr. Guy B. Brown, Dr. William Brown, Dr. C. E. M. Joad,
Professor H. F. Fraser-Harris, Sir Henry Simpson, Professor
J. Alexander Gunn, Mr. Aldous Huxley, and Professor
Julian Huxley.
1 ‘An Account of some Further Experiments with Rudi Schneider,’ by Harry
Price, London, 1933. {Bulletin IV, Nat. Lab. Psychical Research.)
2For their reports, see Bulletin V, Nat. Lab. Psychical Research, London,
* 933-
I 08 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
THE S.P.R. TESTS RUDI
There is little more to be said concerning Rudi Schneider.
Just four and a half years after I brought the boy to London,
the S.P.R. arranged a long series of seances with him. The
result of these last London experiments can be summed up
in a very few words. Fifty-five sittings were held, and not
a single phenomenon was recorded during the six months
(I933"4) boy was under examination. No evidence was
forthcoming that he could externalize any psychic 'power9
or 'force,9 and the Paris infra-red absorption claims were
nullified.
RUDl’s TRANCE BREATHING NORMAL
One interesting fact emerged from the S.P.R. experiments.
A peculiarity of both the Schneider brothers9 trance tech­
nique was a very quick and shallow breathing, accompanied
by violent clonic spasms. This rapid respiration some­
times reached two hundred and sixty cycles per minute.
It remained for Dr. C. G. Douglas, F.R.S., of Oxford, the
authority on respiration, to prove that Rudi9
s trance breath­
ing is absolutely normal, and no indication whatsoever as
to the genuineness or otherwise of the trance. Samples of
the medium's breath were collected (during trance) in
Douglas bags and analysed. It was found that the oxygen
consumption corresponded to a man walking four miles an
hour. As the boy was always in violent motion during
trance, this oxygen consumption was in no way excessive.
Several people have since imitated Rudi's trance breathing
normally.1
And so ends the story of the Schneider boys— by far the
most brilliant mediums of whom we have any record. No
physical medium in the annals of psychical research has pro­
duced such good phenomena under such rigid conditions of
control as the Schneider boys. It is a thousand pities that
orthodoxy did not take the boys in hand when their psychic
faculties were most pronounced. Both Schrenck and I did
1 For a report of the S.P.R. sittings, seeProceedings, Vol. XLII, Part 137,1934.
T H E S C H N E I D E R B O Y S 1 0 9
our best to interest the scientists, and more than two hundred
savants have testified to, or witnessed, the manifestations.
Lord Rayleigh, who first saw Rudi in my seance-room in
1929, considers that the genuineness of certain of his pheno­
mena has been proved.1 Many other scientists have come
to the same conclusion, and, so far as physical phenomena
are concerned, the Schneider boys are the sheet-anchor of
psychical research.
1 'Presidential Address,’ Proceedings, S.P.R., Part 152, Vol. XLV, London,
January, 1938.
CHAPTER VI
'M ARGERY': THE PSYCHIC RIDDLE OF THE
TWENTIETH CENTURY
D
URING the last seventy years, two physical mediums
of outstanding versatility share the honour of pro­
viding for psychical researchers puzzles apparently
quite incapable of solution. They are D. D. Home, the
enigma of the nineteenth century, and Mrs. Le Roy Goddard
Crandon, known to psychists under her pseudonym of
'Margery.9 The mediumship of Home is not within the
scope of the present work, but Margery is still with us, even
if she is not before the public to the same extent as formerly.
Mina Crandon is the wife of Dr. L. R. G. Crandon, a
distinguished surgeon and Harvard lecturer of Boston, Mass.
She was born near Toronto, where she was educated. She
had a brother, Walter Stinson, who was killed in a railway
accident in 1911. It was he who subsequently became
Margery's 'control5or 'spirit guide.9
It is not quite clear when Margery’s mediumship became
apparent, but, rather curiously, the public first heard of her
indirectly through my exposure1 of William Hope, the
fraudulent 'spirit photographer.5 Following this exposure,
the Scientific American offered1
2 a prize of $2,500 to the first
person who could produce a spirit photograph under
laboratory conditions, with especial reference to Hope. The
same journal also announced that it would give a similar
prize to any medium who could produce ea visible psychic
manifestation5 under test conditions. Later,3 the Scientific
American invited Hope to undergo the test, promising to pay
all his expenses to New York and back. He refused. A
similar invitation was also extended to other psychics, the
1 Journal, S.P.R., London, May, 1922.
2 December, 1922.
3April, 1924.
IIO
editor remarking that cit applies specifically to an American
lady of very large mediumistic repute who sincerely seeks
anonymity.5 This lady was cMargery5 Grandon.
Margery decided to enter the contest and a Committee
was formed to test her and any other mediums who were
bold enough to come forward for this purpose. The Com­
mittee consisted of Professor William McDougall (who had
already experimented with Margery in 1923); Dr. Daniel
Frost Comstock; cHarry Houdini5 (Ehrich Weiss), the con­
jurer; Dr. Walter Franklin Prince, of the American S.P.R.;
and Hereward Carrington. J. Malcolm Bird (an Associate
Editor of the Scientific American) was secretary to the Com­
mittee.
‘ M A R G E R Y 5! T H E P S Y C H I C R I D D L E I I I
THE ‘ SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN5INQUIRY
What phenomena were the Scientific American Committee
going to test? According to Dr. Crandon himself,1 Margery
was at this time producing the following manifestations:
Raps, which answered questions through an arranged code;
‘pale, non-radiant, non-illuminating psychic lights5; scents,
of many odours; the music of chimes, bugles, clock-bells,
and other instruments, though none was present; ‘trance­
writing in nine languages,5 though Margery was not a
linguist; telekinetic movements of light and heavy objects,
such as furniture; the passage of matter through matter,
demonstrating the ‘fourth dimension5 of space; the apport
of roses and a live pigeon; the direct independent voice of
‘Walter,5 Margery’s ‘ control;5 the production of teleplasm
(which could be touched), materializations and ‘pseudo­
pods,5 which handled objects in a red light. Dr. Crandon
tells us that ‘the identity of several discarnate relatives of the
people about the table was made out.5
The above were some of the phenomena which Margery
was producing in her home when the Scientific American
inquiry began, so the hopes of the Committee ran high that
the anonymous medium would win the $2,500. Many
seances were held but none of the Committee appears to
1 ‘The “Margery” Mediumship/ article in the Journal of the Am. S.P.R.,
March, 1925, pp. 114-5.
112 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
have been impressed by what was witnessed, except perhaps
Bird and Carrington. The usual dissensions between the
investigators occurred, and McDougall, Bird and Carring­
ton withdrew from the Committee. Houdini, Prince and
Comstock attempted to reach a decision concerning the
mediumship and they, too, failed. What finally smashed the
investigation was the finding during a seance of a carpenter’s
folding rule in a special strong wooden cabinet made by
Houdini in order to test the medium. Margery was immo­
bilized in the cabinet when ‘Walter’ suddenly shrieked out
that Houdini had placed a two-foot rule under the cushion
on which her feet were resting. The rule was found, but it
was never proved whether Houdini put it there in order to
incriminate the medium, or if Margery secreted it so that
she could accuse Houdini of trying to ruin her. That was
the rather exciting— and unsatisfactory— end, of the Scientific
American inquiry,1 and Margery did not receive the $2,500.
Neither did Josie K. Stewart, Mrs. Thompson, Valiantine,
or Nino Pecoraro, four other mediums who entered the
contest.
THE BRITISH INQUIRY
The Scientific American fiasco was the means of bringing
Margery to the notice of psychical researchers all over the
world. Previous to the investigation, Dr. and Mrs. Crandon
had visited Paris and London (Christmas, 1923) and had
given sittings there. A few people, including Conan Doyle,
were impressed by what they saw and heard; others remained
sceptical. After the Houdini squabble, the London S.P.R.,
through its Research Officer, Dr. E. J. Dingwall, arranged
with Dr. Crandon that his wife should be tested in Boston.
An impressive document was drawn up and it was agrccd-
that the ‘name “ Walter,” as applied to the personality
which manifests in the seance-room, purports to be the
deceased brother of the medium, and operates as the “ spirit
1 For Houdini’s account of the affair, see Houdini Exposes the Tricks Used by the
Boston Medium ‘Margery9
, New York, 1924.
2For full text, see Journal, Am. S.P.R., New York, 1925, Vol. XIX, pp.
116-17.
control.9
99 Dingwall agreed that neither he nor his agents
would switch on any light, except with the consent of
'Walter9
; that Crandon could not be excluded from any
seance without his (Crandon’s) consent; and that no sitter
could be introduced to the seances without Crandon’s
approval.
Dingwall held many sittings with Margery duringJanuary
and February, 1925, Professor William McDougall and Dr.
Ellwood Worcester being among the observers. The pheno­
mena witnessed were the usual 'Walter9 voice, telekinetic
movements of objects, hand-shaped materializations which
appeared to exude from the various orifices of the medium’s
body, and so on. (Plate IV.) As regards the crude 'hands,9
Professor McDougall’s opinion1was that they were made from
animal tissue, artificially manipulated to give them a crude
resemblance to human hands. I have a large collection of
lantern slides of these alleged teleplasmic extrusions and Pro­
fessor McDougall (who held a medical degree) and I went
through them on one occasion and the Professor pointed out
to me the arteries, the annular bands corresponding to the
cartilaginous rings of the trachea, the openings of small
lateral arteries, lung, the omentum of a sheep, etc. Ding­
wall’s investigation ended in dissension1
2among the investi­
gators, as so often happens.
The London S.P.R. published Dr. Dingwall’s report3in
due course and it is a most interesting document. He states
that Margery’s mediumship is 'the most remarkable hitherto
recorded,9 and of great importance. Whether genuine or
a vast hoax, it is still the most important. During the whole
ofthis long report, Dingwall cannot say whether the medium-
ship is genuine or not. He says: T did not succeed in
achieving my primary purpose, of coming to a definite
conclusion as to the genuineness or otherwise of the pheno­
mena. During the course of the [twenty-nine] sittings' the
evidence seemed to me at one time for, and at another time
against, their supernormal nature, but never to incline
decisively either way.9 And so ended the British investiga­
1 Boston Transcript, February 18, 1925.
2 See Journal, Am. S.P.R., Vola. XIX, XX, 1925-6.
3Proceedings, S.P.R., London, June, 1926, Vol. XXXVI, Part 98.
' M A R G E R Y 9: T H E P S Y C H I C R I D D L E I I 3
I
tion, which was as inconclusive and unsatisfactory as that
organized by the Scientific American.
114 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
E
WALTER3LEAVES HIS THUMB-PRINTS
Margery is nothing if not versatile and the reader will
have seen that she produced almost the entire gamut of
phenomena, mental and physical, during the few years of
her mediumship. One phase I have not mentioned, and that
I will call "plastic phenomena.3 As far back as May 17, 1924,
Margery produced ‘psychic3 gloves or moulds a la Kluski.
They were not very successful and rather crude, and no one
was particularly impressed. But in July, 1926, a determined
effort was made to obtain prints of the extrusions or "fingers3
which, as we have seen, belonged to the crude materialized
hands which were being seen— and felt— at Margery’s
seances. c Walter3
3 objected strongly to getting printer’s
ink or lampblack on his teleplasmic terminal,’1 so— at
‘Walter’s3 suggestion— a bucket of hot wax and a sheet of
plate glass were tried. "Walter3 dipped his terminal in the
wax and then pressed it on the glass. Skin markings could
be seen, but they were not very good. Then "Walter3sug­
gested that the glass be covered with soft wax, and that he
should press his finger upon it. Again, the markings were not
very good. "The procedure ultimately adopted flowed out
of a suggestion by Margery’s dentist, who is interested in the
phenomena3
- and the suggestion was that "Kerr,3 a pro­
prietary brand of dental wax, which becomes plastic when
warmed, should be used. This technique was successful—
and, a phenomenon, new to psychical research, was born.
For the first time in the history of the occult, a spirit oblig­
ingly and permanently recorded his three-dimensional
thumb-prints, at request.
The technique of securing the prints is as follows: Into a
bowl of hot water is placed a slab of "Kerr3which rests on
the end of a napkin. This cloth trails over the side of the
bowl into another bowl containing cold water. "Walter’s3
1Journal, Am. S.P.R., Vol. XXII, 1928, p. n .
2 Ibid., p. 11.
terminal, in complete darkness, pulls the soft cKerr5 out of
the hot watei by tugging at the end of the cloth, presses his
thumb ‘terminal9on to the wax, continues the pulling of the
cloth, which results in the ‘Kerr5 being deposited in the
cold water, where it quickly hardens. Why the napkin is
used is because it saves ‘Walter5 scalding his fingers in the
hot water. It also prevents his getting his ‘hands5 wet.
Photographs showing ‘Walter’s’ hand (which appears to
be extruded from the medium’s vagina) making the print
have been published.1 By the time the thumb-print tech­
nique had been perfected, ‘ Walter5had improved the shape
of his terminals considerably. The new fingers were much
better to look at than the previous crude cpseudopods5
which, Professor McDougall maintained, were exactly like
lumps of animal tissue carved into the resemblance ofhands.
‘ M A R G E R Y 9: T H E P S Y C H I C R I D D L E I I 5
THE GREAT THUMB-PRINT SENSATION
With the perfecting of the plastic ‘Kerr5 technique,
‘ Walter5 began to deposit his thumb-prints (left and right)
at Margery’s seances on both sides of the Atlantic. At a
sitting I attended in London on December 7, 1929, ‘ Walter’
kindly made one specially for me. These ‘thumb-print5
seances are always held in Stygian darkness, and I must
admit that I was not impressed at what occurred at the
seance I attended. Every alleged abnormal happening could
have been produced normally by the medium, including
‘ Walter’s5 thumb-print, if Margery had secreted a small
thumb-print die on her person. As a matter of fact, after
one of these London seances, a piece of wax was found,
bearing an imprint of the thumb of Margery, who was
supposed to be so controlled as to be incapable of reaching
the wax.*
Often at Margery’s seances the sitters’ finger-prints were
taken in order to demonstrate that they were quite unlike
the prints left by ‘ Walter.’ One day it occurred to Mr.1
2
1 See Leaves from a Psychisfs Case-Book, by Harry Price, London, 1933, *
Platfe XXII.
2See Proceedings, S.P.R., V dI. XXXIX, pp. 358-68.
E. E. Dudley, a former officer of the American S.P.R., to
ask every person who had ever sat with Margery to supply
him with inked prints of his or her right and left thumbs.
Carefully collating this mass of material with the ‘Walter5
prints, he was astounded to discover that the ‘spirit’s5
thumb-prints, left and right, were identical in every respect
with those of Margery’s friend and dentist, cDr. Kerwin,’
who is still living! In this report,1 Mr. Dudley says: ‘The
identification of these patterns has been checked by five
competent and unprejudiced experts, as well as by several
laymen, who. had not the slightest difficulty in satisfying
themselves as to the identity. . . . In the right thumb-print
the reader should be able to find approximately ninety
identical minutiae, while nearly seventy can be counted in
the left thumb-print . . . This means that there is not one
chance in billions of billions that Kerwin’s prints and the
wax [Walter’s5
] prints did not belong to the same person.’
Many a murderer has been hanged because of fewer than
ten correspondences between his own finger-prints and those
found at the scene of his crime.
It can well be imagined that Dudley’s discovery caused
a major sensation. Margery’s dentist was held to be entirely
innocent in the affair, if, indeed, anyone was guilty. The
question as to how ‘Walter’ palmed off the thumb-prints of
a living man as the impressions of his own dead ones has
not yet been solved, though volumes on the subject have
been written by both Margery’s supporters and detractors.
A finger-print expert, Professor Harold Cummins, stated:2
‘There seems just ground for suspecting the use of artificial
dies.’
I l 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
FINGER-PRINTS CAN BE FORGED
The amazing thumb-print discovery prompted various
people to experiment with a view to ascertaining whether
three-dimensional finger-prints, in the form of moulds or
dies, could be produced from two-dimensional inked prints
1 Reprinted as Bulletin III ('The Identification of the “Walter” Prints’) of
the Nat. Lab. of Psychical Research, London, 1932. All the relevant photo^
graphs are reproduced.
2Proceedings, S.P.R., London, April, 1935, Vol. XLIII, Part 139.
an paper. Theoretically, I argued that this could be done
by depositing (electro-plating) a film of copper or silver on
the graphite print, gradually building up the image until it
became three-dimensional, capable of being made into a
thumb-stall die or something similar. But Professor Dr.
Harold Cummins, of Tulane University, who took a great
interest in the 'Walter5prints, has actually produced three-
dimensional dies in hard wax and other substances from
ordinary thumb-prints on paper. He has also reversed and
'mirrored5 the prints which, when made into dies, impress
the original finger-prints on to any substance, like a rubber
stamp. Thus it has been proved that finger-prints can be
forged and copied, and transferred (complete with sweat-
gland markings) to any object which the original fingers
never touched. Dr. Cummins kindly sent me a complete
set of these hard wax ('Kerr5
) dies, produced from two-
dimensional inked prints. His paper1 on the subject should
be studied.
The thumb-print controversy almost killed the Margery
mediumship, but we still occasionally hear of 'Walter5
effecting a marvellous cure,2 becoming cognizant of articles
hidden in a plaster of Paris cake,3 taking part in some cross-
correspondence tests,4 or scoring some incredible card­
calling guesses.5 But the public— always fickle— is now
concerned with the latest card-guessing miracle at Duke
University and 'Walter5is decidedly a back number, though
the controversy continues.
There is a vast literature concerning Margery, and the
student who wishes to study the case more fully should
consult it. The most recent Proceedings and Journal (1925
and onwards) of the American S.P.R. (which has con­
sistently supported Margery, in spite of resignations among
members and officials) contain a complete record of the
case, from the positive angle. For negative reports and
'attacks,5 the catalogues of the 'Harry Price Library of
Magical Literature,5in the University of London, should be
1 Police Science: Counterfeit Finger-Prints} New York, 1934. ^
2Journal, Am. S.P.R., July, 1936.
3Ibid., February, 1935.
4 Ibid., November, 1935.
5 Ibid., January ,1938.
' M A R G E R Y 5: T H E P S Y C H I C R I D D L E 117
studied. This collection contains all the important works,
pro and con, dealing with £
Margery.3
In spite of scientific investigations, committees of inquiry,
and the work of individual researchers, not one of the vast
and varied phenomena, alleged to be the work of cWalter,3
has been proved genuine scientifically. If the phenomena
are genuine, Mrs. Crandon has been singularly unfortunate
in not being able to demonstrate their genuineness before
orthodoxy. If they are genuine, then 'survival5 has been
proved, and the 'independent3 spirit voice demonstrated.
If they are fraudulent, then the 'Walter3 entity marks the
greatest hoax in the annals of psychical research. Whether
it be a hoax or not, I cannot say, as I was never given an
opportunity of testing the medium. Crandon consistently
refused to permit me to investigate though, as I have stated,
I was fortunate enough to be present at one London seance.
I had instruments in my laboratory at Kensington which,
in an hour, would have settled the validity or otherwise of
some of the 'Walter5phenomena. It is to be regretted that
Crandon would not permit me to test his wife’s mediumship,
which, whether genuine or fraudulent, is the most remark­
able ever recorded.
118 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
C H A P T E R VII
STELLA C.
M
ISS STELLA C.shares with the Schneider boys the
honourof being oneof thevery few physical mediums
through whom, during the pastfiftyyears, convincing
positive results have been obtained under good conditions of
control.
Stella (a non-professional medium), unlike her contem­
poraries, dislikes being ‘investigated3
, takes little interest in
psychical research, and scoffs at the idea that the mani­
festations which occur through her are the work of ‘spirits.’
The great majority of psychics, professional and otherwise,
are, of course, convinced spiritualists.
a ‘natural medium’
Stella is also peculiar in that she appears to be a ‘natural5
medium. Though we induced certain phenomena during
our experiments with her, as a young girl she was the focus
of curious, spontaneous psychic manifestations, which
puzzled her, though causing little concern.
When Stella first placed her services— albeit reluctantly—
at our disposal in 1923, she was twenty-one years old, per­
fectly normal, healthy, good-looking, and a typical specimen
of the modern, well-educated English girl. By profession she
was a nurse.
Stella’s story was an interesting one. When she was quite a
child, curious happenings occurred in her vicinity— happen­
ings which we now know must have had a psychic origin,
though she was quite unaware of their importance or signi­
ficance. For example, she would be sitting reading at a table,
on which stood a vase offlowers, when suddenly a strong, cool
breeze would sweep across the room, taking in its path the
119
flowers, which bent under the strain. The flowers were
thought to induce the ‘breezes.3 This would happen at a
time when there was no wind, or in a closed room. Occa­
sionally, small objects in her vicinity would jerk themselves
out of her way as she approached— telekinetic displacements
which we afterwards induced at our experiments with her.
Raps would sometimes be heard in various parts ofthe room
in which she was present, especially on her bedstead— pheno­
mena similar to those alleged to have been heard through
two other young girl ‘mediums,3 Elizabeth Parsons and
Margaret Fox, as I have recorded.1 It is worth mentioning
that these spontaneous phenomena did not manifest them­
selves until Stella had reached the age of puberty, but
whether this fact is of psychological or physiological signi-
fiance, it is difficult to say.
120 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
INDUCED PHENOMENA
On March 22, 1923, we had our first seance with Stella.
We sat in a small room specially prepared for the purpose,
and always locked, with a number of white and red lights,
regulated by a rheostat. A sensitive self-recording thermo­
meter was installed in order to ascertain if the alleged
‘ cold breezes3would affect it.
During the first series (May to October, 1923) of thirteen
stances we witnessed the most remarkable phenomena,
mostly of a physical nature. At the first seance a heavy
table, weighing forty-three and a half pounds, was com­
pletely levitated from the floor three times, at the same time
as distinct vibrations running through the table were felt by
most sitters. The control of the medium was perfect: she
quickly went into a light sleep and sank into the arms of a
hospital matron who was her chief ccontroller.3 The tem­
perature of the room was measured, and it was found
that the thermometer index had fallen n° Fahrenheit—
obviously a telekinetic movement, and only partly a thermal
one.
At the second seance the heavy table was again levitated
1 See ‘Introduction.’
S T E L L A C. 1 2 1
many times, under a good red light which illuminated all
present. A peculiar pulsating effect could be felt in the
wood. The mercury again fell 11.5° Fahrenheit, and Stella’s
pulse slowed down from 126 at beginning of seance to 80
at end (a diminution in rapidity of 22.41 per cent). Raps
in various parts of the room were heard, and the usual ccool
breezes’ were very pronounced.
The third sitting was remarkable for the total demolition
of a new, light, hexagonal wooden table, with three legs,
which appeared to ‘melt’ under the fingers of the medium
and sitters who surrounded it. This took place in full red
light, to which was added some daylight— in order to
diminish the violent psychic power which it was thought
might harm someone. The table was reduced to matchwood,
with percussive noises as each fracture occurred. It was a
curious sensation to feel a strong wooden structure crumpling
up beneath one’s hands.
A SPONTANEOUS PREDICTION VERIFIED
»
The fourth seance (April 12, 1923) was remarkable for
two incidents: by means of raps (calling over the alphabet,
a crap’ signifying the correct letter) it was ascertained that
Stella’s trance personality was named ‘
,Palma.’ As I have
stated, Stella is not a spiritualist and, when she awoke, she
was as puzzled as the rest of us as to the origin of the name,
which was generally agreed to be the product of her sub­
conscious mind. In the time-honoured way, it was to
‘ Palma’ that we addressed all future requests.
Stella’s phenomena were always of a physical nature,
with one extraordinary exception. At the fourth seance, and
while very sleepy (or in a deeper trance than usual) she
suddenly stated that she ‘saw3 the front page of the Daily
Mail. ‘Palma’ was questioned and we were told that the
issue was dated ' May 19, 1923’— i.e. thirty-seven days later.
‘ Palma’— or Stella— minutely described what she saw on
the page: a boy falling, the pouring of a white powder out
of a tin, a man bending over the boy, the name 'Andrew
Salt’ in large letters, etc. All these details were recorded in
the protocol drawn up immediately after the seance and
signed by all sitters— the usual routine.
On Saturday, May 19, 1923, one of the sitters sent me a
telegram telling me to look at the front page of that day’s
Daily Mail. I did so and, to my astonishment, found that
Stella had accurately visualized in trance the full-page
advertisement for Andrews Liver Salts which appeared on
the front page of the journal on this day. Stella was correct
in ten definite points, and the question at once arose whether
she could have acquired by normal sensory means the
information she imparted to us at the seance. We com­
municated with the makers of the salts (at Newcastle-upon-
Tyne) and the advertisement manager of the Daily Mail. The
makers declared that, although the drawing cseen’ by Stella
was in existence on April 12, no exhibition of it had taken
place. The Daily Mail informed us that until about three
weeks before the date of the advertisement (i.e. about
April 28) there not only had been no intention communi­
cated to them to use this picture, but they had been in­
structed to use an ‘Abraham Lincoln’ copy (published
eventually on the front page of the Daily Mail of August
10, 1923), May 19 being originally booked for a display of
this. In other words, the substitution was not ordered until
more than a fortnight after Stella’s trance vision.
122 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
s t e l l a ’s d im in ish in g p o w e r s
During the remaining nine seances of this first series we
witnessed many different phases of physical phenomena, but
Stella’s powers appeared to be weakening after those first
few sittings when such strong— even violent— manifestations
occurred. But we recorded many telekinetic movements of
objects, raps, cool breezes, thermal changes, bluish-white
(electrical?) ‘psychic’ lights, movements of objects in a
sealed cage, etc. All these phenomena were brilliant, but
they became weaker as the year advanced. Stella admitted
that she was tiring of the experiments, in which she took
little real interest.
S T E L L A C. 123
CRAWLING PSEUDOPODS
For the Stella experiments I devised and constructed many
pieces of special apparatus with a view to the production of
phenomena under conditions which precluded fraud on the
part of anyone present. These are detailed and illustrated
in my book1 on Stella. One of the instruments was rather
like an optical bench. A system of lenses transmitted a
pencil of red light through a sealed gauze cage containing
a number of musical toys. If a toy moved, a shadow or
silhouette of it would be thrown on a luminous screen,
together with the shadow of the psychic structure which was
moving it, if opaque enough. In practice, we frequently
witnessed the movements ofsuch toys and even photographed
them being displaced by Stella’s psychic extrusions, by
throwing the shadows on to bromide paper and changing the
red light for a white one.
But the most brilliant of these psychic structures was
witnessed by Dr. E. J. Dingwall at the tenth sitting on June
7, 1923. Though a sheet of fine gauze net and a stout
trellis screen, both reaching to the floor, intervened between
Stella and the beam ofred light, Dr. Dingwall (then Research
Officer to the S.P.R.) plainly saw the pseudopod crawling
from the medium into the beam of light, and back again.
In his report, dated June 8, 1923, he says: cWhen the red
light was switched on under the table, I lay down on the
floor and looked through the passage towards the luminous
screen. From near the medium’s foot, which was invisible,
I saw an egg-shaped body beginning to crawl towards the
centre of the floor under the table. It was white, and where
the light was reflected it appeared opal. To the end nearest
the medium was attached a thin white neck like a piece of
macaroni. It advanced towards the centre and then rapidly
withdrew to the shadow.’
1 Stella C. An Account o f Some Original Experiments in Psychical Research, London
19*5-
a ' m i r a c l e 3in a s o a p -b u b b l e
Another piece of apparatus I devised for the Stella sittings
I termed the Telekinetoscope. In effect, it was a fibre and
metal spring contact-maker enclosed in and protected"by a
strong soap bubble1 over which was placed a glass shade.
From the contact-maker was led a heavy insulated cable
to a small red pea-light and battery, also protected by a
glass shade. The only possible way to light the lamp normally
was to remove the shade, break the bubble, and depress
(2 oz. pressure) the contact-maker— which closed the circuit.
The lamp portion of the set-up was placed on the seance
table in full view of the ten sitters, the bubble and cover
being in the gauze and trellis cage beneath. This apparatus
was tried at several sittings without result, though 'Palma9
had promised us that 'she9 would light the lamp. This
promise was kept, for without warning, at the ninth seance
(May 24, 1923), the lamp suddenly lit upfor about a second. The
sitting was at once brought to a close in order that the
bubble, shade and contact-maker could be examined. The
bubble, shade, and everything were found to be intact, and
witnesses (including Mr. David Gow, then editor of Light)
were brought in to testify to this fact. The bubble itself
lasted for nearly an hour after the termination of the seance,
when it spontaneously burst. The sitters at this first series
of tests, in addition to those already mentioned, included
Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P., Dr. V. J. Woolley, Mr. Hewat
McKenzie, Mr. J. F. R. Stainer, K.C., the Hon. Everard
Feilding, etc.
1 2 4 F I F T Y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
LAST EXPERIMENTS WITH STELLA
Stella returned to us in 1926 and again in 1927, in order
principally to assist us in our thermal experiments, which
are described later. In 1928, just before her marriage, she
consented to give us a final series of seances. Nine sittings
were held between March and July, and a panel of scientists
(which included Professors Julian Huxley, F.R.S., E. N.
da C. Andrade, F.R.S., and Dr. R. J. Tillyard, F.R.S.) was
1 Made of Castile soap, glycerol, and distilled water.
S T E L L A G.
formed to take part in the experiments. Many manifestations
were witnessed under excellent conditions of control, though
it was evident that Stella’s powers were growing still weaker
— or her interest in our work had almost entirely evaporated
— as we experienced nothing like the violent psychic dis­
turbances recorded in the early days of 1923. But the
phenomena, if weak, were good, as the report1 clearly states:
'Thus at three out of the last four sittings considerable pheno­
menawere obtained, clearly denoting a supernormal origin....
These phenomena, although not appearing to indicate the
direction of any profound intelligence, yet did not give the
impression of an uncontrolled force at work. The table was
moved at times in a suggested direction, and raps denoting
an affirmative or negative answer were repeatedly made
either in or on the surface of the table. . . . On no occa­
sion were the musical instruments inside the cage played,
with the possible exception of the squeaker,2 which on two
occasions was thought by Professor Huxley to have been
sounded.’
!25
JULIAN HUXLEY NEARLY ENTRANCED
A curious incident happened at the first seance (March
21, 1928) of the last series. Many raps were heard. Dr.
E. B. Strauss heard— or felt— two raps under his hands, and
then the table jerked slightly. Again more raps and ca
curious movement of the table was felt by Professor Huxley,
Dr. Strauss and Mr. G. C. L. Gregory. Dr. Strauss and
Professor Huxley felt a strange feeling up their arms.’ The
official report continues: cAt 441 Professor Huxley deli­
berately relaxed and nearly went into the trance state.’
The feeling soon passed, but the sitters on either side of him
felt him go limp and he admitted that he felt that he
might be going into a trance. The 'strange feeling up their
arms’ reported by Huxley and Strauss was of an unfamiliar
character, and apparently not the response to any ordinary
external sensory stimulus, such as parasthesia associated
with cramp.
1 By Lord Charles Hope, in the British Journal o f Psychical Research, Vol. II,
pp. 65-78, London, 1928.
2A rubber bulb with reed which, when pressed, emits a musical note,
126 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
STELLA A TRANSFORMER OF ENERGY?
The five years during which Stella was— rather sporadic­
ally— under our observation were sufficient to satisfy us that
we had witnessed the following phenomena under excellent
conditions: (a) Physical. Telekineses, materializations, raps,
lights, thermal variations. [b) Mental. Visual prognosis or
prevision (the Daily Mail incident). Of the above, I think the
variations in seance-room temperature were the most striking.
It has always been a matter for speculation whether the
ecool breezes’ experienced during seances with some psychics
are a physical and not merely a physiological effect. From
the earliest records one learns that this apparent lowering of
the temperature was noticed and commented upon. Sir
William Crookes appears to have made sporadic attempt^
at testing the theory that the immediate vicinity of the psych/c
undergoes some thermal change during the trance state.
But little was done in this direction, and less published.
With the advent of Stella in 1923 I determined thoroughly
to test the possibility of recording these alleged thermal
changes, and installed a delicate recording thermometer.
The results of our observations were startling. As I have
already mentioned, at the first seance the mercury fell no
fewer than ii° Fahrenheit, accompanied by violent tele­
kinetic movements of the seance table. At nearly all of the
seances in this series, the instrument measured a fall in
temperature. The sudden changes appeared to synchronize
with violent telekinetic displacements. The thermometric
records of eleven seances are tabulated below:
Mo.
Date
of
Sitting
Time o f
start
a.m.
Temp.
at
Start
Time o f
Finish
p m .
Temp.
at
Finish
Minimum
[Inter­
mediate)
Fall Rise
1 Mar. 22 11.32 6o° 12.35 62° 49° ii° 13°
2 Mar. 29 u.38 61° 12.47 65“ 49-5° n .5° 15-5°
3 April 5 11.20 64-5° 12.43 65 57° 7-5° 8°
4 April 12 11.20 69° i-3 66° 58° 4° 8°
5 April 19 II.l8 f 3;5° 64.5° 430 20-5° 21.50
6 May 3 11.40 67° 1-45 74° no fall 7°
7 May 10 11-5 58.5° 12.25 64 57° 1-5° 7°
8 May 17 11.0 57-5 12.55 64.0 57° °*5° 7°
9 May 24 11.15 59 12-55 65° 58° i° 7
10 June 7 11.6 69.5° 12.55 68.5° 61.75° °-75° 6-75°
11 June 21 11.15 63.5 12.45 68.5° 62.5° i° 6°
S T E L L A C .
I think it will occur to anyone who studies this table that
some psycho-mechanical power was partly responsible for
the displacement of the index in the thermometer. With the
violent telekinetic movements of tables and other objects
which we experienced in these early experiments with Stella,
it is reasonable to suppose that some small portion of this
kinetic power dissipated itself in displacing the metal index
in the tube of the thermometer, independent of the cooling
of the seance room. Later experiments confirmed this view.
In order fully to appreciate the variations in temperature
and their bearing on the other phenomena, my full report1
of these seances should be studied.
By May, 1926, I had established the National Laboratory
of Psychical Research, and for measuring thermal variations
at seances I had constructed for me a sensitive instrument
which I designed specially for the Stell eaxperiments. It is
a transmitting thermograph with a long mercury capillary
tube and copper bulb. A three-hour drum is driven by the
usual clockwork mechanism. The range of the instrument
is 30°, from 450to 750Fahrenheit. The chart-used with it is
divided into hours, quarters, and minutes. The degree
markings are divided into four parts, and the instrument
can easily be read to *i°. The thermograph is guaranteed
by the makers (Negretti & Zambra) to be accurate to -i°.
The instrument can be securely locked.
Our first experiment with this instrument took place on
May 26, 1926, with Stella. As a control, an ordinary record­
ing thermograph (thermocouple) and a minimum thermo­
meter were placed on the mantelpiece of the s6ance room,
the copper bulb of our special instrument being placed in the
interior of the gauze cage, the top of which was used as a
seance table.
Both thermographs were in situ in their respective positions
for an hour before the seance commenced, in order that the
normal room temperature should be measured. The clock­
work was set in motion at four o’clock. At five o’clock, when
the seance began, the instrument read 71.4°, gradually
rising (5.23) to 72.75°. At 5.23 (as per dictaphone record)
Stella became entranced; the indicating pen at once began
1Stella C., op. cit.
1 2 7
to drop, proving that there was a fall in the temperature of
the interior of the cage table. At 5.45 the thermograph
gave a reading of 72.140
. Afterwards the temperature rose
gradually to 750at 6.35 p.m. The control thermograph on
the mantelpiece showed a steady rise right through the
seance.
1 28 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
DR. TILLYARD TESTS STELLA
At our third experiment, at which Dr. R. J. Tillyard was
present, there were several sudden changes in tempera­
ture at times when special manifestations occurred. Dr.
Tillyard contributed to Nature1
his account of the experiment
and reproduced the graph of the thermal variations recorded
at this stance.
I could go on multiplying instances when we experi­
enced marked changes in the temperature during our
experiments with Stella. A paper, which I read before
the Third International Congress of Psychical Research
in Paris,2 gave complete details and many graphs were
reproduced.
I want to emphasize that every possible precaution was
taken against any tampering with the transmitting thermo­
graph; also that the seance-room was never heated prior to
or during the sittings. At least two control instruments were
always placed in various parts of the seance-room and always
showed a steady rise during the experiments, which, of
course, was normal.
Our experiments proved the objective nature of the cold
breezes and present a purely physicaJ problem. As Dr.
Tillyard remarked in Nature:3 'It is not an extravagant
hypothesis which finds an explanation for the production of
“ supernormal’5 physical phenomena in the withdrawal of
heat from the circle of sitters, such heat being turned into
some other form of energy, possibly of a kind not yet investi­
gated by science.’ Normally, when a number of people sit
in a closed room, the temperature mounts steadily upwards,
1 Science and Psychical Research}July 31, 1926.
2 In September, 1927. Paper published in Am. S.P.R. Journal, November,
1927.
3 Op. cit.
owing to the heat radiation and combustion products of the
persons present.
Assuming our experiments to be as perfect as we thought
they were, it seems almost certain that some sensitives— such
as Stella— are transformers of energy rather than a source of
energy. Mr. E. E. Dudley has computed1 that the trans­
formed energy at one of Willi Schneider’s seances was
sufficient to lift one ton through a height of ten feet for each
minute that the seance continued.
Some other psychics appear to have the power of trans­
forming caloric energy. In my experiments with Willi
Schneider I report1
2 a considerable drop in temperature dur­
ing two seances. The late Professor Karl Gruber of Munich,
wrote me that he had obtained a definite drop in tempera­
ture with the same medium. Professor Christian Winther,
of Copenhagen, has experienced a fall in temperature during
his experiments with Anna Rasmussen, and probably there
are other workers who have achieved the same results. One
thing is quite clear: the thermal variations during the en­
tranced state of a psychic is a phenomenon of considerable
importance, and worthy of the attention of all research
workers who are striving to elucidate the laws underlying
psychic phenomena. But the tests, to be really convincing,
should be held in a calorimetric chamber equipped for
measuring variations in electrical energy.
S T E L L A C. 129
1 'Energy transformation at Seances,’ Journal, Am. S.P.R., July, 1926.
2Journal, Am. S.P.R., January, 1926.
CHAPTER VIII
fROSALIE’
B
EFORE we leave the subject of physical phenomena,
I must describe the most remarkable case of material­
ization, or rather alleged materialization, I have ever
witnessed. It is with considerable hesitation that I publish
this account, as I have had only one sitting, and have been
unable, as yet, to obtain independent corroboration of the
extraordinary phenomenon3which I witnessed. Though I
am satisfied that I took every precaution against deception
which my long experience in these matters suggested, it is
still possible that I was deceived, and I do not, as yet, accept
the materialization at its face value. But if I was deceived,
how was it done and what possible motive could there have
been? The seance was held fifteen months before these
introductory remarks were written, and the publishers of
this volume saw the report soon after I wrote it, within a few
hours of the termination of the seance. After careful con­
sideration, they think that, with the above reservations, the
protocol of the seance should be printed. Striking as my
experience was, it is not comparable with the classic experi­
ments of Sir William Crookes with the medium Florrie Cook,
more than sixty years ago.1 He not only saw, felt, and em­
braced the ‘spirit,3‘Katie King,3but actually photographed
it forty times (see Frontispiece). Sometimes Florrie and
‘Katie3appear in the same photograph. To the end of his
days, nothing could shake Sir William’s conviction that he
had contacted with the spirit world. To conclude, although
I am publishing a record of this most interesting seance,
which much impressed me at the time, I am suspending
judgment as to whether the ‘materialization3 was what it
purported to be.
1 Researches in the Phenomena o f Spiritualism, London, 1874.
I30
' R O S A L I E 5
December 15, 1937.
On the morning of Wednesday, December 8, 1937* I was
rung up at my office by a lady, obviously educated and
cultured, who informed me that she had read in The Listener1
the published version of a broadcast talk2which I had given
on 'haunted houses.5 The reason she gave for communicating
with me was that she was impressed with my efforts to
'ascertain the truth5in such matters. She told me that she
had noted that I could 'guarantee a ghost5in a particular
haunted house which I mentioned in my broadcast; she, too,
could 'guarantee a ghost,5but one of a much more objective
nature than any I had experienced.
My informant lives in one of the better-class London
suburbs, and every Wednesday evening, she told me, she and
her friends hold a 'family seance5at her house, at which a
'little girl spirit,5known as Rosalie, always materializes. The
reason for approaching me, she said, was to invite me to join
the family circle any Wednesday, by arrangement, and she
was certain that I should be convinced of the phenomenon of
materialization, of which she knew I was very sceptical.
131
CONDITIONS OF SITTING
Of course, there were conditions, which I anticipated.
But I was genuinely astonished at the simple rules to which
I was asked to adhere. In the first place, if I accepted the
invitation to attend a seance, I was to promise not to reveal
the identity of any of the sitters, or the locality where the
seance was held. I could write an account of the seance,
giving my candid views of it, provided I mentioned no .
names. If I were impressed with the proceedings, I was 'not
to seek a scientific inquiry5
, as the mother of 'Rosalie,5who
attended each sitting, was 'terrified that her girl might be
frightened away.5 These Wednesday meetings were in the
nature of a sacred communion with the spirit ofher daughter,
and would be maintained as such. I was not to bring to the
seance any light (such as a torch); I was not to speak to or
1For November io, 1937,
2 To the Empire, on November 4, and following days.
touch the materialization without permission, and I was not
to do anything, or make any experiment, without the sitters5
consent. I would not be asked to sign any document embody­
ing these arrangements: it was to be a 'gentlemen’s agree­
ment.9
And now came the surprise. If I accepted their invitation,
I would be allowed full control of the room and the sitters
up to the beginning of the seance. I could search the house from
top to bottom, seal all external windows and doors, search
the seance room (the drawing-room), all doors and windows
of which I could lock and seal, I could move— or remove—
any furniture, ornaments, etc., from the seance room which
I thought fit, I could control the room to the extent of
sprinkling powdered starch or other substance round doors
or windows, or place electrical contacts there (she admitted
that she had gathered that this was what I did, from my
broadcast from the 'haunted house’1), I could search the
sitters or any person in the house immediately before or after
the seance. But once the sitting had begun, I was to remain
passive and ask permission if I wanted to do anything, or
make any alteration during the seance. I told the speaker
that I was impressed with the conditions imposed, and that
I would think the matter over and write to her. She replied
that if I accepted, I was to be at the house soon after seven
p.m. and that the seance commenced usually at about eight
o’clock.
I 3 2 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
A VISIT TO THE SUBURBS
On Monday, December 13, I wrote to Mrs. X., saying
that I would accept her invitation and agree to all the con­
ditions. As I happened to have lunch with Mr. R. S.
Lambert, then editor of The Listener, on the day that she
telephoned me, I asked her whether she would permit him
to accompany me as a sort of witness of anything striking
that might occur. I told her that I would personally
guarantee that he would fulfil all the conditions that I had
accepted, and that he had said as much at lunch on the
1 On March 10, 1936, from an old Manor, Meopham, Kent. (See Chapter
‘ R O S A L I E 5
day she rang me up. If the idea of a witness was acceptable,
I asked her to telephone or telegraph her consent on receipt
of letter, in order that Mr. Lambert could make the neces­
sary arrangements. This confirmatory message was not
forthcoming, so on Wednesday, December 15, I journeyed
alone to the London suburb— to the most amazing seance
that even I have experienced.
133
THE HOUSE
I arrived at M ----- just after seven o’clock and made my
way to Mrs. X ss residence, which I found was a large double-
fronted, detached house, in a good-class road, with a flight
of twelve stone steps leading to the front door, on each side
of which was a large room with bay windows. It was at a
corner of another road, and had an area. There were three
entrances (four, including the French window leading to
garden) to the house: the front door, an area entrance
(seldom used, except when coal was delivered, the coal
cellar being under the front steps), approached by a flight
of steps, and a door at the back of the house reached by a
path running parallel to the side road. There were seven
windows facing the main road: two on ground level, two
above, two small attic windows at the top, and a small
window (guarded by iron bars) in the area room. At the
back of the house were four windows, and a French window
giving access to the long, narrow garden, which was reached
by some iron steps. On the side of the house facing the
transverse road were two smallish windows and a lavatory
window, and in the wall opposite the next-door house were
two windows, a bathroom window and another lavatory
window. I have given a description of the house in some
detail, in order that the reader can visualize the sort of
place it is: a typical, largish, mid-Victorian, double-fronted,
detached suburban house.
THE HISTORY OF C
ROSALIE5
I was admitted by a trim parlour-maid and shown into
the dining-room (the apartment on the right of the stone
steps)3where I was greeted by Mr. and Mrs. X., and their
daughter, aged nearly seventeen. A simple meal was set.
Introductions over, we sat round the table and enjoyed a
light supper, during which I heard the complete story of
'Rosalie.5
Mr. X. is in business in the City and both he and his wife
are charming, with most affable personalities. They are not
spiritualists, but are interested in psychical research, though
they have read little of the standard literature. However,
they listen to broadcasts on the subject, and I found that they
knew something of my work from The Listener and other
journals. They appeared pleased to make my acquaintance.
My hostess has a friend named Madame Z., whom she
met when helping at a local church bazaar. Madame Z. is of
French extraction, was a nurse, and married an English
officer at the beginning of the Great War. Her husband was
killed in action in 1916, leaving his wife with a baby, Rosalie.
Rosalie was never strong and at the age of six she con­
tracted diphtheria and passed away (in 1921) in her mother’s
arms. She was ill for only a few days. Madame Z. is a
spiritualist, though she belongs to no £
church5or group. She
rents two rooms in the neighbourhood, her only home. In
the spring of 1925— according to my hostess— Madame Z.
was awakened during the night by the sound of her dead
girl’s voice crying 'mother.5 This occurred so frequently
that Madame Z. got into the habit of lying awake at night,
waiting for the 'voice.5 Gradually, she thought she could
see (in the dark) the dim outline of 'Rosalie5and hear her
footsteps in the room. Finally, the mother declared, one
night she put her arm out of bed and her hand was clasped
by that of her little girl.
Having very few friends in England, Madame Z. became
intimate with the X. family. It was my host and his wife
who suggested that regular stances should be held in their
house (because Madame’s apartments are quite unsuitable
134 F I F T Y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
' R O S A L I E 5 135
for the purpose) in order to encourage the visits of ‘Rosalie.3
The X.’s knew enough of seance technique to furnish what
they thought were the right 'conditions,5 and the sittings
began. This was towards the end of igs8. It was nearly six
months before there was any sign of 'Rosalie,5though she
visited her mother’s bedroom, as formerly. In the late spring
of 1929 'Rosalie5 materialized without warning and made
her presence known (of course, in complete darkness) by
again gently clasping her mother’s hand. From that evening
the girl appeared regularly. Very gradually, they introduced
a littie light into the seances by means of ordinary cheap
hand mirrors, the glass being covered with luminous paint.
Four of these are sometimes used simultaneously. Finally,
'Rosalie5began to speak, usually to her mother, answering
simple questions, and replying in monosyllables. Very rarely
did she say more than 'yes5 or 'no,5 appearing extra­
ordinarily shy. The original circle, with little alteration,
developed the 'materialization,5but a very occasional visitor
appeared to make little difference to the coming of'Rosalie,5
if that visitor was well known to the circle. Hence my
invitation to be present. I heard a great deal about the
questions that 'Rosalie5was alleged to have answered, but it
would take too long to detail them here. Such is the history
of 'Rosalie,5whom I was so soon to see, feel, and hear.
THE SEARCH
By the time we had finished supper and I had heard the
story of Rosalie, the two remaining sitters had arrived, and
were waiting for us in the room opposite, across the hall—
the drawing-room (seance room). I was first introduced to
Madame Z., a pleasant French lady, and on the right side
of fifty as regards her age. She said she was very pleased to
meet me and apologized for not being able to admit my
friend (Mr. Lambert) to the stance, as they had never
risked two strangers at a sitting 'in case it frightened
“ Rosalie5
5
.5 The other sitter was a cheerful young fellow,
whom I will call Jim. He is a bank clerk in the City, and I
suspect his presence in the circle is due more to his interest
in the daughter of the house than in ‘Rosalie.5 Jim is a
typical, gentlemanly bank clerk, aged about twenty-two.
After the introductions, I said I would make a tour of the
house. I was accompanied by Mr. X. and Jim, and I
explored the place from attics to area. I could go where I
pleased, and asked to be taken to every room. I had brought
with me a gimlet, screw-eyes, white tape, adhesive surgical
tape, a dredger full of powdered starch, and a pocket torch
(which I did not take into the seance-room). As I came to
a window, I closed and fastened it and stuck a strip of tape
(which I initialled in ink) across the join where the sashes
met. In the case of two ‘dormer’-type windows, I twisted
the tape round the fasteners, and secured the initialled sticky
ends to the window frames.
I sealed the three external doors and the French window
of the house with screw-eyes, through which I threaded
adhesive tape, tied in three knots, which I initialled. The
staff of the house consisted of the parlour-maid (whom I had
seen) and a cook, whom I saw in the kitchen. I was warned
to drop no word concerning ‘Rosalie.5 The women knew
that ‘seances3 were held in the house, but had not been
informed as to what took place at them. They were in­
structed not to answer any knock or ring during the seance,
and telephone callers were to be told to ring up later.
I now turned my attention to the drawing-room, where
the seance was to be held, and I examined it with great care.
It was nearly square, measuring twenty-four feet by twenty-
one feet, by nine feet six inches high. In the bay of the
window was a settee and against the opposite wall was a
long mahogany sideboard with eight drawers. On a square
occasional table near one corner was an electric transport­
able ‘Pye5radio, plugged into a socket near the floor. From
this same socket a wire led to a small electric stove in the
opposite corner, the flex trailing across the hearthrug. In
another corner was a round occasional table, supporting a
work-basket. On the mantelpiece were a clock and some
ornaments. Six solid mahogany chairs completed the furni­
ture of the room—with the exception of an Airedale dog
which was now lying in front of the electric fire, having just
shifted his quarters from in front of the grate. There had
I 3 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
' R O S A L I E 5
been a big fire in the grate, but it had been allowed to go
out. One element of the electric fire was switched on. The
ceiling of the room was of plaster and there were six pictures
on the walls, which were distempered. The curtains which
screened the windows had been purchased specially for these
seances. They were of thick, heavy material, suspended on
rails, and the edges overlapped, effectively preventing any
street light from entering the room. On the floor, composed
of polished hardwood boards, were spread four large Persian
rugs.
137
CONTROLLING THE SEANCE ROOM
Having assembled all the sitters in the room, I looked
around to see what could be done without in the way of
furniture, etc. I decided that the ornaments, clock, pictures,
and work-basket were not wanted, and these were removed
into the dining-room. Then I sprinkled starch powder in
the hall outside the seance room door.
I then locked the door, put the key in my pocket, and
proceeded to affix my seals. These were the usual tapes and
screw-eyes. Then I stuck four strips of adhesive tape across
door and lintel, and initialled them. I treated the windows
in the same way, and was confident that no one could enter
the room via door or window. But there remained the
chimney, and for a moment I was puzzled as to how I could
control it. Then I hit on the idea of placing a sheet of an
evening newspaper (which I had with me) flat on the top
bar of the low grate, just under the chimney aperture, and
sprinkling it thickly with the starch powder. Then, widi
my finger, I drew my monogram in the starch, the printed
matter beneath showing through. No one could have
tampered with the grate or chimney without disturbing the
starch.
Having sealed the windows, door, etc., I examined every­
thing in the room very thoroughly. With the aid of Mr. X.,
I moved the large settee and the heavy sideboard. Each
drawer was emptied. They contained such articles as clean
table napkins, gramophone records (the gramophone was in
an upper room) and the odds and ends that accumulate in
every house— especially in drawers. The settee I turned
upside down, trod on the two loose cushions, punched the
canvas and webbing beneath and made the springs creak.
Then we removed the four rugs and I minutely examined
every inch ofthe polished boards, which I found were nailed,
tongued and grooved. It was a well-built house, and I was
unable to get my penknife blade between the boards, every
one of which appeared as solid as a rock. To finish my
inspection of the room, I opened the back of the wireless
cabinet, and saw nothing unusual. In any case, I was
informed that the radio was going to be used.
I had been told that I could examine the persons of the
sitters before and after the seance, if I wished. I could not
very well search the three ladies, but I asked permission to
explore the clothing of Mr. X. and Jim, and they at once
turned out their pockets. I ran my hands over their clothes
and satisfied myself that they were concealing nothing which
could.be used to simulate a phenomenon. The two elder
ladies realized my predicament in not being able to examine
them, and we compromised by their agreeing to my request
that I should sit between them. Miss X. had, it appeared,
attended a fhealth and beauty3 class earlier in the evening
and she had on some sort of gymnasium clothes under her
house dress. Without my requesting it, she immediately
pulled up her skirt and revealed a pair of tight-fitting dark
knickers. I was quite convinced that she had nothing con­
cealed on her person. My last act before switching off the
five (four bracket and one ceiling) lights and the fire, was to
sprinkle starch dust in front of the door and chimney, after
directing the sitters to their seats. The arrangement of the
chairs, and the general lay-out of the room can be seen from
the plan which I made before the seance, reproduced here­
with. It was exactly 9.10 p.m. when the seance began.
138 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
BUILDING UP 6
ROSALIE5
The arrangement of the sitters (j
m
y arrangement, by the
way) was as follows: I (A, see plan) sat with my back to the
fireplace, with my hostess (F) on my right, and Madame Z.
ARRANGEMENT OF FURNITURE AND LAY-OUT OF ROOM
AT *ROSALIE ’ STANCE
A, B, C, D, E, F, seats occupied by Price, Madame Z, Miss X, Jim, Mr.
X, Mrs. X, respectively, in the order named.
(i) Small table supporting radio cabinet; (a) fire-place; (3) electric fire;
(4) sideboard; (5) occasional table; (6) settee; (7) curtained window
recess. X, where ‘Rosalie’ appeared.
(5 ) on my left. Next to her was Miss X. (C), then Jim (Z)),
and finally X. himself (E). Four of the luminous plaques,
already mentioned, had been handed round, and they rested
on the floor face downwards, by the sides of the chairs
occupied by Madame Z., Mrs. X., Jim, and myself. The
luminous surface of each plaque had been activated at an
electric light bulb previous to the seance. We were informed
(by Mrs. X.) that we could talk quietly unless told not to.
There was neither hymn-singing nor prayers, nor any sug­
gestion of the pandemonium which often accompanies a
seance. Although it was pitch dark, I could accurately
determine where a voice was coming from, and whose voice
it was, and could even hear the breathing of the various
sitters.
After chatting quietly for about twenty minutes, we were
asked to stop and Mr. X. said he would put on the wireless.
He left his seat and groped his way to the small table behind
me, to my right. He had some difficulty in finding suitable
music, which he finally received from a foreign station. The
small lamps which lit up the stations panel also- illuminated
the room and I could see the sitters distinctly. Madame Z.
appeared to be crying.
Within five minutes of turning on the radio, X. switched
it off again and resumed his seat. Then we were asked to
remain quiet. No one spoke. A little later I heard Madame
Z. softly whisper 'Rosalie!5 This was repeated, at intervals,
for about twenty minutes. Sometimes Mrs. X. also called
her. I could hear both Madame Z. and Miss X. sobbing
quietly. I had been warned that the seance was of a sacred
character, but I had not anticipated such a display of
emotion. I could not help contrasting this sitting with the
matter-of-fact laboratory experiments with which I was
much more familiar.
I4O F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
THE COMING OF eROSALIE5
It was a few minutes after I heard the clock in the hall
strike ten that Madame Z. gave a choking sob and said
something about ‘my darling.5 Mrs. X. leant towards me
' R O S A L I E 9
and whispered, ' "Rosalie5
5 is here— don3
t speak!5 At the
same moment I, too, realized that there was something quite
close to me. I neither heard nor saw anything, but the
sensation was an olfactory one— I seemed to smell something
that was not there previously. It was a strange, not unpleasant
smell. Everyone was silent except for the rather distressing
emotion of the mother. I sensed, rather than knew, that
she was fondling her child. The next sound I heard was a
sort of shuffling of feet on my left at the same moment as
something slightly touched the back of my left hand, which
was resting on my knee (we were not holding hands in any
way). It felt soft and a little warm. I did not attempt to
feel what had touched me, but sat very still. Madame Z.
continued to whisper to the 'child,9and her sobbing ceased
somewhat.
After a few minutes, Mrs. X. asked the mother whether
I could touch the 'materialization.5 Permission was given,
and I stretched out my left arm and, to my amazement, it
came in contact with, apparently, the nude figure of a little
girl, aged about six years. I slowly passed my hand across
her chest up to her chin and cheeks. Her flesh felt warm,
though (and this may have been imagination) not so warm
as one would expect to find normal human flesh. I laid the
back of my left hand on her right cheek: it felt soft and warm
and I could distinctly hear her breathing. I then placed
my hand on her chest again and could feel the respiratory
movements. My hand travelled to her thighs, back and
buttocks, then traversed her legs and feet. They were the
normal limbs of a normal six-year-old. I estimated her
height at about three feet, seven inches. I could feel her
hair, long and soft, falling over her shoulders.
There are no words to express how I felt at the appearance
ofthe form before me— or rather to the left of me. A supreme
scientific interest, with a feeling of absolute incredulity,
would best describe my reactions. I had not bargained for
anything so wonderful (or so clever!) as this. But if I had
been tricked, so had the mother, and that was unthinkable.
She, at least, was not acting a part. I asked whether I could
hold 'Rosalie.5 I was told that I could move my chair
nearer to the child and this I did. I was now able to use
1 4 1
both hands and again felt every inch of that little form. If
it is a spirit— I argued to myself—then there is no difference
between a spirit and a human being. With my right hand,'
I lifted ‘Rosalie’s3right arm and felt her pulse. It appeared
to be too quick and I estimated a rate of 90 to the minute.1
I put my ear to her chest and could distinctly hear her
heart beating. I then took both her hands and asked X.,
his daughter, and Jim to speak in order to prove then-
presence in their respective seats. They did so. I knew
that Madame Z. and Mrs. X. were on either side of me, as
I had only to put out my hand to touch them.
At this juncture I asked my hostess if Madame Z. would
allow me to use the luminous plaque. After a little discussion
it was agreed that both Mrs. X. and I should shine our
plaques on ‘Rosalie,’ the stipulation being that we should
begin at the feet of the form, and then later illuminate the
upper part of the child. I picked up my plaque and in
turning it over a soft, fluorescent glow flooded the feet of
‘Rosalie.’ They were the normal feet of a normal child.
Mrs. X. held her plaque to the left side of the girl, while I
illuminated the front ofher. I could see the soft texture ofthe
flesh, which appeared to be without a blemish. As our
plaques travelled upwards the face of the form was revealed
and we beheld a beautiful child who would have graced any
nursery in the land. Her features were classical and she
looked older than her alleged years. Her face appeared very
pale, but the fluorescence would tend to ‘kill’ any colouring
in her cheeks. Her eyes (they appeared to be dark blue)
were bright with an intelligent gleam in them. Her lips were
closed, with rather a set expression. Madame Z. said the
examination must now cease as ‘Rosalie was wanted.’ As a
special favour, I requested that I might put some questions
to ‘Rosalie’ and this was granted with the remark that it
was unlikely that she would speak that night.
142 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
1 1 have since ascertained that the normal pulse rate of a child from 2 to
7 years is ioo to 90.
‘ R O S A L I E * 143
‘ ROSALIE 5‘ SPEAKS5
If the reader were suddenly faced with an alleged spirit,
what questions would he ask it? With some preparation,
a series of useful inquiries could be drawn up, but on the
spur of the moment it is extremely difficult to make proper
use of such an opportunity— especially when the ‘spirit5 is
so young and unsophisticated. However, I suppose I must
have subconsciously imagined that the child was a real one;
that it lived in a real place; and that it understood perfectly
what I was saying. I found myself asking ‘Rosalie5what I
should ask any other little girl, who had come from some
strange place and whom I chanced to meet. I was permitted
one minute only in which to question her, and this is what
I asked her:
‘ Where do you live, Rosalie?5 (No answer.)
‘ What do you do there?5 (No answer.)
‘Do you play with other children?5 (No answer.)
‘Have you any toys there?5 (No answer.)
‘Are there any animal pets?5 (No answer.)
The questions were asked deliberately and I paused
between each one. ‘Rosalie5simply stared and did not seem
to understand what I was saying. I asked her a final
question: ‘Rosalie, do you love your mummy?5 I saw
the expression on her face change and her eyes light up.
‘Yes,5 she lisped. ‘Rosalie5 had barely uttered this single
word when Madame Z. gave one cry and clasped her
‘daughter5to her breast. Mrs. X. placed our plaques on the
floor again and asked for complete silence— rather difficult
as all the women in the circle were crying. I must admit
that I was rather affected myself— it was a touching and
pathetic scene.
In about fifteen minutes ‘Rosalie5 had gone. I neither
heard nor felt anything of her leaving, but as the hall clock
struck eleven, Mrs. X. informed me that the stance was
over. X. switched on all the lights and invited me to make
any search I liked. I examined all my seals and every one
was intact. I again removed the furniture and examined
the floor, sideboard, settee, etc., and found everything
normal. The starch powder was undisturbed. Even the
Airedale was still asleep in front of the cold electric fire. At
least, the seance had not affected him. My host asked me
to remove the seals— which I did— and he opened the door
and rang for refreshments. While these were being brought,
I accompanied Jim in another tour of the house. All my
seals were intact. I remained at the house until nearly
midnight, when I took my leave with many thanks for an
extraordinarily interesting and puzzling evening.
December 16, 1937.
I began writing this report (which is printed verbatim and
uncorrected) within two hours of the termination of the
seance, in bed at the Royal Societies Club. I purposely
wrote the report at once, while my impressions were still
fresh. I feel I have not done justice in this report to the
amazing events of last night, and I am still wondering if
‘Rosalie9was a genuine spirit entity, or whether the whole
thing was an elaborate hoax. If the latter, then the ‘hoax9
has been going on for years and no actress in the world
could simulate Madame Z.9
s poignant emotion. And where
did the ‘spirit9 come from? These are questions which
I shall have to think about, and answer. If I had witnessed
the materialization o f‘Rosalie9in my own laboratory, I should
not hesitate to proclaim to an incredulous world that survival
was proved. It is possible— though very doubtful— that last
night’s historic (as far as I am concerned) seance may be
repeated under better conditions in a laboratory. But
Madame Z. is convinced that ‘Rosalie would be frightened
away.9 The sitting I have just attended is at least distin­
guished by the complete absence of blasphemous humbug
and hymn-singing, which characterize so many pseudo­
spiritualist seances run by rogues for profit. Looking at
it in retrospect, I can think of several things I ought to
have done that I did not do, and one of these is the taking
o f ‘Rosalie’s9 finger-prints. I had ample opportunity, but
no materials. Another thing I might have done was to have
ascertained who the ‘medium9 was. Madame Z. herself
denies that she is mediumistic, but I can think of no one
else. Apparently, there was no medium.
1 4 4 F I F T Y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
CHAPTER I£
MIRACLES OF THE MIND: SOME FAMOUS
MENTAL MEDIUMS
I
F survival is ever proved to the satisfaction of scientific
orthodoxy, it will, I think, be by the mental phenomena
ofthe seance-room, and not by the physical. It is difficult
to believe that levitating tables, rattling tambourines, self-
knotting handkerchiefs, thermal variations and the like, are
the outward and visible signs of the presence of ‘spirits.’
Much more probably are these manifestations due to some
power, induced under certain conditions, which physicists
will be able, in time, to duplicate at leisure in the laboratory.
If an attempt is made to prove survival through the trance
utterances, clairvoyance, cross-correspondences, automatic
writings, and kindred phenomena of mental mediums, a vast
amount of chaff will have to be sifted by the scientists before
they discover the good grain for which they are seeking.
Mental mediums, often women, appear to have no quali­
ties, intellectual or physiological, which distinguish them
from their fellows. On the contrary, they often emerge from
the semi-educated class of society. (There are, of course,
brilliant exceptions— e.g. Mrs. A. W. Verrall, the auto-
matist, and Professor Gilbert Murray, the classical scholar—
whose work is known to science, but not to the public).
Their utterances are often puerile, platitudinous, or non­
sensical. The trance addresses one hears at the typical
spiritualist service have been called ‘a farrago of stale
platitudes and twaddling ethico-religious uplift,5 with little
spirituality in them. And after nearly a hundred years of
intensive experimentation, we have learnt absolutely nothing
from the spirits. And the many recorded conversations with
the dead, such as can be found in Raymond, are often so
mundane that they are usually received with scepticism, if
not ridicule. Some of these messages may be true. But if
*45 L
true, why so silly? Are our dead relatives and friends
incapable of giving us information that so vitally concerns
us, and of which we are so badly in need? Are they incap­
able of giving us one new fact concerning this world— to say
nothing of the next— not already known to us? Or one proof
— absolute and scientific— that our souls Survive5 if our
bodies do not? It rather looks like it.
I 4 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
SOME GOOD EVIDENCE
But having said the worst about mediums5 trance utter­
ances and ‘spirit messages,5the fact remains that there is a
residuum of evidence, scattered through thousands of
volumes, which, in the aggregate, is impressive. This
evidence is like the pieces of a jig-saw puzzle. Disconnected
scraps of evidence are on the table before you and, separate
and detached, they appear as if they might be parts of the
‘survival5puzzle you are trying to solve. But, however hard
you try, the bits simply will not fit together and the picture
remains uncompleted.
For my examples of good mental phenomena I have chosen
some representative cases. The mediums concerned, some
of them non-professional, can be regarded as honest and
sincere. They have been selected from thousands of ‘psychics5
— most of them charlatans— who have ‘operated5during the
past fifty years. It is so easy to be a ‘mental5 medium,
‘psychologist,5 palmist or astrologer: no fear of being
‘exposed,5 or grabbed in the dark; no training required or
capital to invest; no tricks to learn and little to fear except
perhaps a rather nervous police emissary posing as a sitter,
with a possible conviction as a fortune-teller. How easy it
is to be a ‘mental medium5is proved by the fact that hun­
dreds of thesewomen can be found in drapery establishments,
cafes, and similar places, and in top back rooms in the
purlieus of Bond Street and Mayfair. Most of these people
have names as picturesque as the rubbish which they sell to
the silly ‘clients5 who patronize them, and it is one of the
major mysteries why the police— who have ample powers—
do not stop this particular ‘racket.5
M I R A C L E S O F T H E M I N D 147
THE GREATEST MENTAL MEDIUM
Probably the greatest mental medium of whom we have
any record is Mrs. Leonore E.' Piper, of Boston, Mass. She
discovered her powers at an early age through visiting a blind
medium named Cocke, and in 1885 attracted the attention
of scientists. Professor William James appears to have been
the first to study her seriously. He was impressed with the
'communications5 which came through her 'controls5 or
spirit guides, the names of which have become famous in the
history of psychical research: 'Chlorine,5 an Indian girl;
'Phinuit,’ a French doctor; 'George Pelham,5a friend of Dr.
Hodgson; 'Hannah Wild,5 and even 'Longfellow,5 'Bach,5
‘ Mrs. Siddons,5 and the 'Imperator5 group of Stainton
Moses.1 These guides 'controlled5at different periods of Mrs.
Piper’s mediumship, though some operated concurrently.
Dr. Richard Hodgson went to America specially to see
Mrs. Piper and spent seven years in testing and checking the
accuracy of her trance messages, many of which were found
to be veridical. After Hodgson’s death, Mrs. Piper was in­
vestigated by Dr. James H. Hyslop, 'Hodgson5 himself be­
coming one of the 'communicators.5 Others who studied
this medium were Sir Oliver Lodge, Professor William
Romaine Newbold, F. W. H. Myers, J. G. Piddington, Sir
William Barrett and Professor Charles Richet, who had one
sitting only, and was informed that, as a child, he possessed
a dog named 'Dick.5 This was true.
MRS. PIPER’S PHENOMENA
Mrs. Piper’s successes were due to the intimate and per­
sonal nature of her 'communications,5when in trance. For
example, 'Dr. Phinuit5gave accurate details of the death of
Sir Oliver Lodge’sfather-in-law. Similar convincing evidence
was given concerning Sir Oliver’s uncles and aunt Ann.
Again, Professor James’s mother-in-law had her lost bank
1 ‘Mrs. Piper and the Imperator Band of Controls,’ by A. W. Trethewy,
Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXXV, Pari 95, pp. 445-65.
book restored to her through ‘Phinuit,5who told her exactly
where it could be found. On another occasion the same
control told ProfessorJames that he had just killed a cat with
ether. He concluded: ‘The wretched animal spun round
and round a long time before dying/ which was correct. A
thousand similar instances could be given. Some of the
Communications5were so detailed and involved that weeks
or even months had to be spent on their verification. The
greatest precautions were taken against the medium acquir­
ing, by normal means, information which could afterwards
be given through her Controls.5 On one occasion, detectives
were employed to shadow her. During her first visit to
England in 1889-90, when she gave eighty-eight sittings,
hundreds of statements, many of an intimate nature con­
cerning sitters, afterwards proved to be true, were given by
her various 'guides.5 It was considered absolutely impossible
for the medium to have acquired such information normally.
There is a very considerable literature concerning Mrs.
Piper, the perusal of which is sufficient to convince the
greatest sceptic of the paranormal origin of her trance
utterances. The Proceedings and Journal of the British S.P.R.
contain many papers and reports1 on sittings with Mrs.
Piper. Further records are to be found in the publications of
the American S.P.R. Other works which should be con­
sulted are Mrs. Piper and the Society for Psychical Research, by
Michel Sage,1
2
3and The Life and Work of Mrs. Piper? by her
daughter, Alta. To conclude, it is not an exaggeration to
state that the phenomena of Mrs. Piper were chiefly respon­
sible for the firm establishment of psychical research in both
England and America during a period when ridicule and
scepticism were almost strangling the new science. Mrs.
M. M. Soule (cMrs. Chenoweth5
), another American trance
medium, is comparable with Mrs. Piper in many ways, and
the alleged spirits of many eminent people communicated
through her.
1 See especially Proc.t Vol. VI, pp. 436-659; Vol. VIII, pp. 1-167; Vol,
XIII, pp. 1284-582; Vol. XVI, pp. 1-649; Vol. XXIII, pp. 2-285; Vol. XXIV,
pp. 31-200; Vol. XXVIII, pp. 1-657. See also Proc., Vol. XLI, pp. 45-6, for
complete list of papers on Mrs. Piper to June 1932.
2New York, 1904 (translated from the French).
3 London, 1929.
I 4 8 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
M I R A C L E S OF T H E M I N D 149
' t h e BRITISH MRS. PIPER’
Mrs. Gladys Osborne Leonard is as celebrated to-day as
Mrs. Piper was in the early years of the S.P.R. It was she
who provided much of the evidence for the alleged continued
existence of Raymond, Sir Oliver Lodge’s son, who was
killed in the Great War on September 14, 1915. In her
autobiography,1 Mrs. Leonard tells us that even as a child
she saw visions. Later, she became a singer, a profession she
abandoned as her mediumistic faculty developed.
Mrs. Leonard’s chief 'control’ is cFeda,’ a young native
Indian girl spirit who speaks in broken English through the
lips of the entranced medium. It was cFeda’ who informed
Lady Lodge, eleven days after her son’s death, that ‘Ray­
mond’ was ‘communicating.’ Later, Vout Peters, with other
mediums, supplied further evidence as to Raymond’s identity
and survival.
A feature of the ‘Raymond’ story is the fact that Vout
Peters— or his control— became cognizant (September 27,
I9I5) a photograph of a group of officers, taken at the
front, August 24, 1915, in which Raymond was included.
The existence of this photograph was unknown to the Lodge
family. On December 3, 1915, Mrs. Leonard— or ‘Feda’—
gave considerable details of this picture. She stated that
Raymond carried a cane; that a brother officer had a hand
on his shoulder, etc. When Sir Oliver received a copy of this
photograph on December 7 following, the accuracy of the
mediumistic description of it was confirmed— a brilliant
example of psychic ‘lucidity,’ though not of spirit com­
munication. As Charles Richet points out:2‘ If we accept the
two facts— that some mediums are awT
are of things that
normal channels cannot convey— and that they tend to
group both normal and supernormal knowledge round real
or imaginary personalities, that amply suffices to explain
everything.’ He contends that the mediums’ subconscious­
ness has ‘invented the personality of Raymond— imaginary
in the sense that Raymond no longer exists, real in the sense
1 My Life in Two Worlds, London, 1931.
2Thirty Tears o f Psychical Research, pp. 215-16.
that round this auto-suggestion they have grouped many
actual facts that their normal senses could not have supplied.
For, finally, if Raymond were really speaking by the inter­
mediary of Feda, why should he be so reticent of proofs?
Why, in such messages, are there so many obscure and sym­
bolical allusions, and why so many words? Why so few
names, dates, and precise remembrances?9 Assuming that
Mrs. Leonard acquires knowledge paranormally, she could
have just as easily supplied details of the photograph,
whether Raymond were alive or dead. Sir Oliver Lodge’s
story1 of Raymond has been much criticized.1
2
3
* The imme­
diate effect of the publication of the work was to make Mrs.
Leonard famous, almost in a night. People clamoured for
sittings with her and her services were bespoken for years
ahead. Another effect due to Raymond was the acceptance of
‘survival’ by tens of thousands of persons who were pre­
viously ‘unbelievers.’ This was on account of the acute
emotional stress caused by the war.
I 5 0 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
UNCONVINCING NEWSPAPER TESTS
I cannot close this notice of Mrs. Leonard without men­
tioning the book and newspaper tests, a curious technique
which has caused considerable controversy. The Rev.
Charles Drayton Thomas has been responsible for recording3
many of these tests through Mrs. Leonard. At some time
during the previous day, the medium— or cFeda5
— suggests
to the sitter that he should look in a certain position in the
next morning’sissue of a specified newspaper (e.g. The Times)
or on a particular page in a certain book (the exact location
of which is given) in his bookcase, where he will find refer­
ences to names, dates or places bearing on the affairs of his
deceased or living friends or relatives: references which the
sitter will recognize as being highly significant. As a control,
1 Raymond, or Life after Death, London, 1916.
2For example: Some Impressions o f a Reader o f 8Raymond,9by G. G. Martindale,
London, 1917; Some Revelations as to *
Raymond,* London [c. 1916.]
3Some New Evidencefor Human Survival, London, 1922, See also ‘An Examina­
tion of Book-Tests obtained in Sittings with Mrs. Leonard,* by Mrs. H. Sidg-
wick, P r o c S.P.R., Vol. XXXI, pp. 241-400.
M I R A C L E S O F T H E M I N D
the record of the sitting is at once posted to a third party,
being often received the same evening. The next morning’s
Times is duly consulted (or the book is found and examined)
and often, by the exercise of some imagination, the cryptic
references of the medium— or her ‘guide’— are confirmed. I
reiterate that imagination is required for this particular
‘game.’ The ‘successes’ have been many, but successes can
also be scored if no medium is involved, as I have myself
proved. The implication in these ‘newspaper tests’ is that a
spirit control, twenty-four hours before a paper is printed, is
able to predict that certain references will appear, for
example, in the birth, death, or personal columns of the next
issue, and the position of such references. There is no ques­
tion of collusion between the newspaper employees and the
medium: it is simply a matter of chance, accident, and the
right interpretation (according to whether one is a ‘believer’
or sceptic) of the ‘evidence’ to suit the purposes of the
experiment. Fortunately, Mrs. Leonard’s reputation does
not rest on her successes in these unconvincing tests. That
this medium is able to acquire information through channels
other than normal is undeniable, and she has been called the
‘British Mrs. Piper’ with considerable truth.1
151
‘irwin’ explains the R ioi disaster
Like Mrs. Leonard, Mrs. Eileen Garrett is a British trance
medium, also with an exotic ‘control’ named ‘Uvani,’ the
alleged spirit of an Arab. Though Mrs. Garrett is now
principally known for her work at Duke and other American
universities, she came into prominence when the airship
R101 crashed in flames near Beauvais, France, in the early
morning of Sunday, October 5, 1930. Her commander,
Flight-Lieutenant H. C. Irwin, was among those who
perished.
On Thursday, October 2, 1930, 1 booked Mrs. Garrett for
a seance in my laboratory on the following Tuesday after­
1 For an excellent report, typical of Mrs. Leonard’s mediumship, see ‘On a
Series of Sittings with Mrs. Osborne Leonard,* by Miss Radclyffe-Hall, and
(Una) Lady Troubridge, Proc,9 S.P.R., Vol. XXX, pp. 339-554.
noon (October 7). The sitting was held as arranged and
almost immediately Uvani announced in broken English,
and through the lips of the entranced medium, that Lieu­
tenant Irwin wished to communicate. This was about sixty
hours after the disaster.
The medium’s voice suddenly changed and the entity
cIrwin9gave us a detailed and highly technical account of
how the airship crashed, why it crashed, and what was
wrong with it. At the subsequent public inquiry, presided
over by Sir John Simon, some of ‘Irwin’s9statements were
found to be correct. The following seance utterances were
laterproved to befacts: ‘Bulk of the dirigible was too much for
her engine capacity9
; ‘Engines too heavy9
; ‘Useful lift too
small9
; ‘ Gross lift computed badly9
; ‘Elevator jammed9
(probable); ‘Flying too low altitude9
; ‘ Load too great for
long flight9
; ‘ Cruising speed bad and ship badly swinging9
;
‘ Severe tension on fabric, which is chafing9
; ‘ Starboard
strakes started9
; ‘Never reached cruising altitude9
; ‘Air­
screws too small9 (probable); ‘ Impossible to rise’; ‘ Cannot
trim.9 ‘ Irwin9made many other comments, complaints, and
suggestions.
152 F I F T Y Y E A R S O F P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
‘IRWIN9REVEALS AN OFFICIAL SECRET
Mrs.Garrett— orcIrwin9
— made oneremarkable statement
at this seance. She said: ‘This exorbitant scheme of carbon
and hydrogen is entirely and absolutely wrong.9 At the time
of the Rio 1 flight a series of experiments was contemplated
with the idea of burning a mixture of hydrogen and oil fuel
(i.e. hydro-carbon). The hydrogen would have been
obtained from the gas bags and the carbon from the oil fuel
of the ship. No experiments had actually taken place but
a gas main had been laid from the gas plant to the engine
test-house. This proposed scheme was unknown outside
official circles, and its sudden revelation by an entranced
woman medium in a London seance-room was startling.
The history of these experiments was later communicated to
us by an officer in close touch with the building of the airship.
Another statement that ‘Irwin9made, in referring to the
M I R A C L E S O F T H E M I N D
falling airship, was: ‘ We almost scraped the roofs at Achy.3
Achy is a small village twelve and a half miles north of
Beauvais and was not mentioned in any Press report of the
disaster. It is not named in any guide book, or on the
ordinary maps of France. But it was discovered on the
special large-scale ordnance flying maps similar to the one
Lieutenant Irwin was using. At the official R i o i inquiry
two French officers stated that when the airship passed over
Poix (fourteen miles north of Achy), she was only three
hundred feet from the ground— thus confirming the seance
information.
It is inconceivable that Mrs. Garrett could have acquired
the R i o i information through normal channels and the
case1 strongly supports the hypothesis of 'survival.9 As an
argument for spirit communication it is much more con­
vincing than the evidence provided by 'Raymond3through
various mediums. Telepathy between the living will not
cover the facts, though some sort of nexus between the living
and the dead would. No one present at the seance was
consciously thinking of the R ioi disaster, and no one had
any technical knowledge of airships. Immediately the Irwin
entity disappeared, cUvani9 announced that ‘Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle3wished to manifest. I had a long ‘ conversa­
tion3with ‘Sir Arthur9which was intensely interesting, but
not very convincing,2
J53
DR. TILLYARDJ
S DEATH CORRECTLY PREDICTED
It is one thing for a medium to impart information con­
cerning past events; it is another thing altogether to receive
predictions concerning the future, which can be verified
scientifically. But this is what happened at a sitting I had
with the well-known French psychometrist and clairvoyanle.
Mile Jeanne Laplace, held in Paris on July 7, 1928.
This seance was arranged by the late Dr. Eugene Osty3
at his house in the Avenue Niel, where I found the medium,
1 Which should be read in detail. See Leaves From a Psychist's Case-Book, by
Harry Price, London, 1930, pp. 118-32.
2 Ibid., pp, 99-117.
3Who died on August 20, 1938, aged 63.
with other guests, My host’s sister-in-law (who took short­
hand notes of all that was said), the medium and I withdrew
to another room and I was requested to give Mile Laplace
a document, photograph, or other article. Mile Laplace
does not go into a trance, and has no 'spirit guide’ or
‘control.’ She just chats with her sitter.
I had a number of letters in my pocket and, at random,
handed one to her. It was from Dr. Robin John Tillyard,
F.R.S., the distinguished entomologist, who lived at Can­
berra, working for the Australian Government. He was then
touring the world. The letter had been sent from Canada
and was dated June 6, 1928. It was of an azure blue colour,
and folded with the blank sheet outwards. The inside was
not visible, and there was nothing to indicate whether it
was a written, typed, or printed document.
I handed the letter to Mile Laplace, who held it flatbetween
her two palms, and did not even glance at it. I did not speak
during the seance which, of course, was held in full daylight.
With very little hesitation, the medium reeled off, in
quick succession, fifty-three ‘impressions,’ which were taken
down verbatim and numbered. Out of these fifty-three,
forty-two were correct or reasonably correct. I could verify
some of them myself, and Dr. Tillyard confirmed the rest.
She said that the letter was typewritten; that the writer was
ca doctor and a scientist’; that he was not in good health;
that ‘arterio-sclerosis is indicated’; that he was cin London
now’; that he 'comes from America,’ etc., etc. Mile Laplace
also 'saw’ the word ‘Rebec* The letter was actually written
from the Chateau Frontenac Hotel, Quebec.
And now for the prediction: in Impression 30, the medium
stated that the writer of the letter 'has not a long life to live
— not very many years.’ Dr. Tillyard was then forty-seven
and a half years old,1 a comparatively young man. Though
he was in ill-health, a medical board had just previously
informed him that he was fit enough for a long lease of useful
activity.
In Impression 23, Mile Laplace made the definite state­
ment: 'The writer will die through a railroad or automobile
accident; wheels or rails are badfor him*
2In Impression 49
1 He was born on January 31, 1881.
a My italics.
1 5 4 F I F T Y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
M I R A C L E S O F T H E M I N D
the medium reiterated the danger from wheels or rails. She
said: 'Will have a tragic death— congestion of the brain and
will fall on railway or under car?x What neither the medium
nor I knew at the time of the seance was the fact that, in
1913, Dr. Tillyard was badly injured in a railway accident
on the North Shore Line and was laid up for two years.
'He had suffered concussion, a broken arm, and severe back
injuries.5
2 Some years later, in Nelson, New Zealand, he was
involved in a motor-car accident, his left arm being fractured.
Subsequently, he suffered a fractured rib in a motor accident
in America.2
On January 13, 1937, Mile Laplace’s prediction was
fulfilled to the letter. On January 12 Dr. Tillyard, his
daughter Hope, and a Miss Brenda Comforth were motoring
between Canberra and Sydney. Dr. Tillyard was driving.
The car skidded and overturned when it was approaching
Barber’s Bridge, a mile from Yarra, near Goulburn. The
doctor was badly injured and was found to be suffering from
paralysis, as his head had been forced through the wind­
screen, causing concussion. He died in Goulburn District
Hospital the next day, January 13.3
I consider the Tillyard case, together with the Daily Mail
episode of Stella C., the best examples of prevision or ful­
filled predictions, as they are both so fully documented.
Immediately after the Laplace seance I wrote an article on
the experiment which, together with the verbatim ‘impres­
sions,’ was sent to New York. The article, complete with
prediction, was published in the following September.4 A
feature of this case is that throughout the sitting (as Mile
Laplace afterwards admitted) the medium was obsessed with
the feeling of danger from wheels or travelling on wheels. It
is quite certain that she somehow sensed Tillyard’s various
accidents.
On my return to London from Paris I informed Dr. Till­
yard of Mile Laplace’s dire predictions, but his only remark
was that 'these things never come true!’
1 My italics.
2Sydney Morning Herald,January 13, 1937.
3Sydney Morning Herald, January 13, 1937. See also The Times for January
14, 1937, and Nature for January 30, 1937.
4Journal of the Am, S.P.R,, September, 1958, pp, 493-5.
155
I have held other experiments with Mile Laplace and in
each case the lucidity shown was brilliant. For instance, from
handling a small passport photograph of a young girl she was
successful in determining the Christian name of the original,
together with the name of the family doctor, and other facts
unknown to me1— excellent examples of lucidity, clairvoyance,
cryptaesthesia or extra-sensory perception. But no proof
whatever that such information was the result of 'spirit5
intervention.
There was also no evidence for spirits in the remarkable
sitting I had with a Silesian peasant clairvoyante, aged twelve,
with whom I experimented in Warsaw in August, 1923,
within two hours of my arrival in the capital. Her name was
Anna Pilch, and she was introduced to me by Professor
Adam Zoltowski, of Posen University, who acted as inter­
preter. I did not say a word. Anna reeled off the following
'impressions5: that when I was a little boy I fell down and
broke my left forearm; that soon after I had a violent
'shock5on a boat; that I 'lived in a square house by a river5
,
and many other facts of a personal nature. Everything that
Anna said was true, and not a living person but myself
knew ofsome ofthe facts as she related them. I assumed that
she 'tapped5 my subconscious mind, as I had completely
forgotten some of the incidents she told me.
1 5 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S O F P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
' s p ir it 5m essa g e s fr o m a l iv in g m a n
It is not always that mediums relay messages from the
deceased. Occasionally, the supposed dead person 'com­
municating5 is found to be alive and well! The classic
example of this is the Gordon Davis case, so thoroughly
reported by Mr. S. G. Soal.1
2
* The medium in question was
Mrs. Blanche Cooper, a well-known psychic through whom
both mental and physical phenomena (including the ‘direct
voice5
) occur. In 1921-2 Mr. Soal had numerous seances
with Mrs. Cooper, at which his brother, killed in the Great
1 For details, see Journal3 Am. S.P.R., April, 1927, pp. 185-92.
2 ‘A Report on Some Communications Received Through Mrs. Blanche
Cooper,’ P r o c S.P.R., Vol. XXXV, 1926, pp. 471-594.
War, purported to manifest. A friend, Gordon Davis, whom
Soal believed also to have fallen in the war, likewise ‘ com­
municated3 via the ‘direct voice.3 Soal had long conversa­
tions with cGordon Davis.3 They discussed incidents of their
childhood days, some of which Soal had forgotten until his
memory was jogged by the communicating spirit. Certain
of the facts were quite unknown to Soal, but he confirmed
them later. Even the seance voice had characteristics
reminiscent of his friend. ‘ Gordon Davis3 sent messages to
his wife and child, and ‘Nada,3 Mrs. Cooper’s ccontrol,3
described in detail the house and furnishings in which she
said his wife and child were then living.
The sequel to these experiments was startling and rather
amusing. Early in 1925 Soal discovered that Gordon Davis
was alive and quite ignorant of any seance experiments or
‘spirit communications.3 Not the least interesting part of
this extraordinary case is the fact that the interior of the
house which ‘Nada3so accurately described exactly corres­
ponded with one which the real Gordon Davis occupied
twelve months after the siance> but which was quite unknown to
him or to Soal at the time of the sitting at which the spirit
‘ Gordon Davis3manifested.
It is very difficult to know what to make of this case, and
it complicates the whole question of survival. Was it an
‘impersonating spirit3 having a little fun at the expense of
Davis, Soal, and the medium? If so, this real spirit must
have tapped the minds of all concerned, besides accurately
predicting what sort of pictures Davis was going to buy when
he settled in his new house. Such cases are infuriating when
one is trying to discover a formula which will cover all the
facts. Both voice mediums and voice phenomena are usually
unsatisfactory, but in the case of Gordon Davis it is quite
certain that Mrs. Cooper transmitted real information
acquired paranormally, thus differing from the pseudo­
spiritual ‘messages3of H61fene Smith in Flournoy’s Des Indes
d la planete Mars1
M I R A C L E S O F T H E M I N D I 5 7
1 Paris and Geneva, 1900.
1 5 8 F I F T Y Y E A R S O F P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
THE AUTOMATISTS
Paranormal information furnished by mediums is obtained
in various ways, each psychic employing a certain technique,
such as the trance, the crystal, psychometrizing, automatic
writing, etc. There is no question that most of the automatic
writing which has been published is the product of the
subconscious, unconscious, or subliminal minds of the auto-
matists concerned, and many of them admit that this is so.
There have been several distinguished automatists includ­
ing Mrs. A. W. Verrall, her daughter (Mrs. W. H. Salter),
Miss Geraldine Cummins, eMrs. Holland3 (pseudonym),1
and Mrs. Hester Dowden (i.e. Mrs. Hester Travers Smith).
Mrs. Verrall5
s automatisms were largely associated with
the ‘ cross-correspondence3 experiments which I mentioned2
in the chapter on the S.P.R. A full account of these can be
found in the publications ofthis society and it makes fascinat­
ing reading. The considered opinion of Mrs. Verrall, after
years of experimentation, was that at least some of the com­
munications received through her hand came from the spirit
world.
Miss Geraldine Cummins is widely known as the ‘auto­
matic3author of The Scripts of Cleophas,3 a narrative dealing
with the history ofthe early Christian Church, parts ofwhich
were written sometimes at the extraordinary speed of nearly
2,000 words per hour. Further books4 are continuations of
the scripture story. Most of these automatic scripts were
produced independently, but some early work was written
in conjunction with Mr. Bligh Bond. F. W. H. Myers is
alleged to be the communicator in Miss Cummins’s more
recent works.
1 ‘On the Automatic Writing of Mrs. Holland,’ and f
iSecond Report,’ both
by Alice Johnson, P r o c S.P.R., Vol. XXI, pp. 166-391; and Vol. XXIV,
pp. 201-63.
2P- 57*
3London [1928]. See also Concerning the Cleophas Scripts, by the same author,
London [1930].
4Paul in Athens; The Great Bays o f Ephesus; Beyond Human Personality; The
Road to Immortality; all published in London.
M I R A C L E S O F T H E M I N D I 59f
c
THE cRETURN5OF OSCAR WILDE
Mrs. Hester Dowden, like Miss Cummins, is a distin­
guished automatist who has produced writings purporting
to be the work of discarnate entities— in particular one by
' Oscar Wilde.3 This script was written in conjunction with
Mr. S. G. Soal (himself an automatist), who actually held
the pencil, which moved at a great speed. Certain charac­
teristics of Wilde’s calligraphy are apparent in the script
writing, and specimens of both are printed in the published
report.1 The literary style of the script also has correspon­
dences with Wilde’s work; and, more convincing, certain
names and places recorded in the scripts were afterwards
found to be connected intimately with Wilde, though it is
certain that they were quite unknown to the conscious minds
of the automatists.1
2
3
Another 'message3from 'Oscar Wilde3was obtained by
Mr. Soal, with Miss Helen McGregor touching his hand.
The automatist distracted his conscious attention during the
writing by concentrating his mind on a mathematical
problem. The 'message3
3 is really a long essay, the style of
which was analysed by Mr. C. W. Soal, the brother of the
automatist, and is judged to be the best imitation of the real
Wilde so far produced; an opinion which was also held by
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, in her review4 of the case. In the
script, 'Wilde3reveals profound unhappiness and describes
himself as 'one of the ignoble dupes for whom Destiny herself
has no doom while the very Fates have forgotten us.3
Mr. C. W. Soal has written a critical and authoritative
analysis5 both as regards handwriting and style, of the
'Oscar Wilde3 scripts, certainly the best that has been
published. The possible sources of many of the veridical
1 Psychic Messages from Oscar Wilde, edited by Mrs. Travers Smith, London
[i?24]-
2But the probable sources of several passages were later discovered. See
‘Note on the “ Oscar Wilde” Script,* by S. G. Soal, Journal of the S.P.R.,
July, 1926, pp. no-12.
3‘A New Message From Oscar Wilde,’ Occult Review, November, 1923.
±Proc„ S.P.R., Vol. XXXIV, pp. 186-96.
6‘The Oscar Wilde Script: A Critique,’ Psychic Science, Vol. II, No. 4,
January, 1924.
incidents attributed to Oscar Wilde were traced to various
nineteenth-century memoirs and autobiographies which the
automatist may have read, or merely glanced at. It is shown
that the handwriting is that of S. G. Soal diluted with
mannerisms which he may subconsciously have picked up
from a facsimile holograph letter by Wilde. And important
light is thrown upon the genesis of certain of the stylistic
resemblances.
l 6 o F I F T Y Y E A R S O F P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
THE MARGARET VELEY CASE
Other remarkable automatic scripts were those produced
by S. G. Soal (under the pseudonym of cMr. V.5
) with Miss
Hood touching the back of his hand. They deal with trivial
details of the life and friends of Margaret Veley (1843-87),
the Victorian poet and novelist, who spent much of her life
at Braintree, Essex. Most of the facts were verified by Mr.
W. H. Salter, who got into touch with Miss Veley5
s surviving
friends. Verses were also given purporting to emanate from
Margaret Veley, but the style of these did not greatly
resemble that of her published work. A possibility is that
the automatist had, during his childhood spent in Essex,
assimilated the contents of old newspapers. But this cannot
be definitely proved.1
A CONVINCING STANCE
Mrs. Hester Dowden, like the majority of mediums, has
a number of spirit 'controls’—mostly exotic personalities.
An Irishman, an Egyptian priest, a Hindoo, and 'Johannes,5
a student, are among those who have 'communicated5
through this psychic. That Mrs. Dowden is as successful at
private seances as she is when producing scripts is proved
by a case which I carefully investigated.
Mrs. Grace Dribbell arranged, through a friend, a sitting
with Mrs. Dowden. No name was given and Mrs. Dribbell
1 For details of this case, see ‘Some Automatic Scripts Purporting to be
Inspired by Margaret Veley/ by W. H. Salter and [S. G. Soal], Proc., S.P.R.,
Vol. XXXVIII, pp. 281“
-374. See also ‘The Margaret Veley Case, and Sur­
vival/ by Rene Sudre, Journal, Am. S.P.R., Vol. XXIII, 1929, pp. 380-5.
M I R A C L E S O F T H E M I N D 161
had never previously seen the medium, who, it is certain, did
not know the identity of her sitter. The seance was held at
Mrs. Dowden’s house on March 8, 1933. The medium
asked no questions, and the sitter gave her no information.
Full notes were taken and Mrs. Dribbell was afterwards
handed the original scripts.
By means of the ouija board and automatic writing,
'Johannes9 introduced various entities who supplied Mrs.
Dribbell with the following information: the Christian
names of her mother (Susannah), father (Charles), her own
name (Grace), and where she lived (Carshalton).
Mrs. Dribbell is an English lady who was married to a
native of Holland, so she asked that she should be 'put in
touch with5 some of her husband’s people. Mrs. Dribbell
does not know the Dutch language. The ouija board spelt
out 'Leman5 (her brother-in-law), 'Lies5 (i.e. Louisa, his
wife5
s pet name), 'Lili5 (his daughter), 'Jan Stokvis5 (the
name of Lili’s fiance), and 'Anna5 (Jan5
s mother).
The medium then wrote the words 'Liesje,5 'Jacob,5
moeder and 'cancer,5purporting to come through the entity
'Leman,5who said that he died of 'heart trouble5four years
previously, when he was living at Bussum, near Amsterdam.
'Leman5 was asked: 'What was your pet name for me?5
Immediately the medium wrote 'Peggy mijn kind,5the Dutch
equivalent of 'Peg o5 my heart.5 Mrs. Dribbell then asked
'Leman5to write something in Dutch. Mrs. Dowden wrote:
6
Ik hebje lief5 (I love you!). 'Leman5then wrote the words
'Lex5 (Mrs. Dribbell’s husband), 'Jack5 (her child),
'Sophie,5 'Marie,5 'Lida5
— all relatives of Mr. Dribbell,
whose mother died of cancer. Every name and statement
recorded at this seance was correct. It is true that Mrs. Dribbell
was herself cognizant of most of the facts, but not all, and the
answers were given with great rapidity. Assuming that in
some way the medium extracted much of the information
— perhaps by telepathy— from the sitter’s subconscious, it
was a remarkable achievement. Mrs. Dribbell, who is not
a spiritualist, and is quite unemotional, was convinced that
she was contacting minds functioning independently of her
own and that of the medium.
M
1 62 f i f t y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
' p a t ie n c e w o r t h 3
Another famous automatist, an American, was Mrs. Henry
H. Rogers (better known as Mrs.John Howard Curran), who
died on December 4, 1937, aged fifty-six years. She had a
'control/ 'Patience Worth/ who stated— via the ouija board
— that she was the spirit ofa young English Puritan girl ofthe
seventeenth century. Outwardly, the medium appeared to
be a normal woman, her first husband being a State Immi­
gration Commissioner of St. Louis, Missouri. In 1913, she
tried the ouija board and, to her astonishment, 'Patience
Worth3 communicated that she was going to take up her
abode with the Curran family. For the next twenty-five years
a spate of novels, parables, poems and other writings were
'dictated3by 'Patience Worth3at a rapid rate, or emanated
from the lips of the medium. A life of Christ,1 running to
640 pages, was produced, parts of it being spelled out at a
speed of 5,000 words in one evening. Much of Mrs. Curran’s
output was of high literary quality and showed considerable
erudition. Before she died she adopted an unborn child.
It was a girl and was named Patience Worth Curran, now
Mrs. George Peters. Dr. W. F. Prince fully investigated
this extraordinary case and wrote two long monographs on it.2
I cannot close my remarks on automatisms without refer­
ring to Mr. F. Bligh Bond’s remarkable works, founded on
automatic scripts: The Company of Avalon* a study of the
script of Brother Symon, sub-prior of Winchester Abbey in
the time of King Stephen; The Gate of Remembrance,4 'the
story of the psychological experiment which resulted in the
discovery of the Edgar Chapel at Glastonbury3
; The Hill of
Vision: aforecast of the Great War. . . .5 This was produced
from information obtained between 1909 and 1912, and in
1918, through the hand of John Alleyne, the clever artist
and well-known automatist. I have said little about auto-
1 The Sorry Tale. See the article ‘Patience Worth,’ by Hettie Rhoda Mead,
Journal, Am. S.P.R., April-May, 1938.
2The Riddle o f Patience Worthy New York, 1926; The Case o f Patience Worthy
by W. F. Prince, Boston, 1927.
3 Oxford, 1924.
4 Oxford, 1918.
5London, 1919.
M I R A C L E S O F T H E M I N D
matic drawing, painting or speaking as they, too, can be
explained usually in terms of the subliminal mind. I have
heard a few striking trance addresses by various mediums
notably by cPower,5 the £
control5 of Mrs. Meurig Morris,
who figured in a cause celebre a few years ago.1
163
MULTIPLE PERSONALITY
Not the least wonderful miracles of the mind are the cases
of split or multiple personality. Though these cases are
studied by psychical researchers, they really belong to the
field of abnormal psychology— a field which orthodox science
has at last begun to till.
One of the most famous cases of dissociation of personality
is that recorded by Dr. Morton Prince2 in 1906. It deals
with Miss Beauchamp, who developed no fewer than four
personalities, all different, all at war with one another,
which ill-health or shock brought successively to the surface
of her consciousness. Morton Prince finally effected a 'cure5
by means of hypnosis.
Another famous case is the one so laboriously investigated
by Dr. W. F. Prince. In 1892 'Doris Fischer,5 then aged
three, was knocked down by her drunken father. The shock
caused by this ill-treatment was responsible for the child
developing three distinct personalities, which were labelled
the 'real Doris,5 'Margaret,5 and 'sleeping Margaret.5
Another shock caused by the death of her mother produced
a further personality, the 'sick Doris,5 and finally a fifth
personality ('sleeping Doris5
) was manifested. It was at this
period that Dr. Walter Prince began his investigation and
treatment, and in three years he, too, had effected a cure.
The various personalities were cognizant of one another,
though the real Doris was apparent for only about five
minutes per day. This most important case has been fully
reported by Dr. W. F. Prince,3 who adopted 'Doris.5 She
1 Meurig Morris v. The Daily M ail. See this paper and The Times for April
6-20, 1932.
2 The Dissociation o f a Personality, New York, 1906.
3 ‘The Doris Case of Multiple Personality,’ Proc., Am. S.P.R., Vols. IX-XI,
New York, 1915-17.
was afterwards known as Miss Theodosia Prince. Many
other cases— some bordering on the pathological— could be
cited. One came within my own experience. Before the
Great War I was acquainted with a man, a fellow book-
collector. We became quite friendly and exchanged dupli­
cates of rare works. I noticed a subtle change coming over
him. One day he would be jovial, taking me to a restaurant
and showing me his recent £
finds.5 He would then wear gay
clothes, smoke and drink, and hardly cease talking. Then
he began to pass me in the street. He would be dressed in
black, and invariably carried a prayer-book under his arm.
I made inquiries and found that he had developed a secon­
dary personality. For periods of perhaps twenty-four hours
he would become deeply religious, a non-smoker and tee­
totaller. During this state he began to write a theological
work, and cultivated an entirely different set of acquaint­
ances. Then without warning, he would don a suit of plus-
fours, telephone me, and we would go to a restaurant, and
browse over the latest booksellers5 catalogues. In the C
A 5
personality he would be cheerful and vivacious, and very
good company. In the 'B 5 personality he became morose
and bad-tempered and cut all his old friends. Then the war
intervened and we drifted apart. I imagine he ended his
days in an asylum. Doubtless, the psycho-therapeutic
methods of Dr. Morton Prince or Dr. W. F. Prince would
have cured him.
In concluding this chapter on the most famous mental
mediums of the past fifty years, I must mention Mrs. R.
Thompson, the British trance medium, who was 'controlled5
by the spirit of her daughter Nelly. Dr. Hodgson, Mr.
Piddington, F. van Eden, Mrs. Verrall, F. W. H. Myers, and
others had many sittings, often with satisfactory results.1 The
American medium, Mrs. Etta Wriedt, also had considerable
psychic powers. She is a 'voice5medium and impressed such
men as Sir William Barrett and Usborne Moore.
Last, but not least, I have to record the remarkable
cryptaesthesia of Miss Nell St.John Montague (Mrs. Standish-
Barry), of South Kensington. Miss Montague uses a crystal
and has scored many successes. I have not sat with her
1 See Proc., S.P.R., Vols. XVII, XVIII, and Journal, Vol. XI.
1 6 4 F I F T Y Y E A R S O F P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
myself, but several persons (including the late Hon. Everard
Feilding) have reported to me favourably concerning her.
Dr. R. F. Korte, of Hameln-am-Weser, wrote me on March
29, 1936, that his cousin had visited Miss Montague, who
accurately described his (Dr. Korte’s) house and household;
had mentioned many true details of his cousin’s husband, an
incident that occurred to him in Portugal, and other intimate
information. Dr. Korte concludes: £
To my cousin’s convic­
tion everything Miss Montague has told her corresponds
absolutely with the facts of the past and coincides with hap­
penings of the future.’ This was an excellent result obtained
by a complete stranger, and with this brilliant example of
Miss Montague’s work, I will conclude my account of the
'famous mental mediums.’
M I R A C L E S O F T H E M I N D 1 6 5
C H A P T E R X
THE STORY OF E.S.P.
XTRA-SENSORY perception5 (E.S.P.) is merely
the latest and now fashionable term for telepathy,
clairvoyance, thought-transference and allied alleged
facilities. I must qualify the word 'latest5 as in the 'First
Report on Thought-Reading/1 by Barrett, Gurney and
Myers, the term supersensuousperception was employed. This
was in July, 1882.
Though the S.P.R. was founded in 1882, Professor (later
Sir William) Barrett and his friends had been conducting
experiments in 'thought-reading5 for many months pre­
viously— probably the first serious experiments in mental
phenomena organized in any country.2 Among his subjects
were five young girls, between the ages of ten and seventeen,
' all thoroughly healthy . . . and perfectly simple and child­
like.53 These were the Misses Creery, four of whom, with a
young maidservant, 'were frequently able to designate
correctly, without contact or sign, a card or other object
fixed on5in their absence.
The Creery girls were the daughters of a clergyman, the
Rev. A. M. Creery, of Buxton. During Easter, 1881, Sir
William conducted a series of experiments with the girls,
one of whom was sent out of the room. On a piece of paper
Sir William then wrote, successively, the names of a number
of common household objects, which he showed to the other
1 Proc.t S.P.R., Vol. I, 1882-3, pp. 13-34.
2 Sir William Barrett tells us (.Proc.9 S.P.R,, Vol. XXXIV, p. 275) that he
‘began a serious and systematic investigation of psychical phenomena’ in
June, 1874.
a ‘First Report,9op. cit., p. 20.
THE CLEVER CREERY CHILDREN
166
T H E S T O R Y O F E . S . P .
members of the family, who were present. Such words as
hair-brush, wine-glass, etc., were recorded. Then the girl
was called in and proceeded to 'guess’— correctly— the
names of the various articles, with few errors.1 At a second
series of experiments, conducted by Myers and Gurney, held
on April 13, 1882, playing-cards were employed. By this
time, it had apparently dawned on the investigators that a
code or collusion might have been used by these clever
children. We are told that £
the experimenters took every
precaution [not recorded] in order that no indication, how­
ever slight, should reach the child5percipient. And yet this
girl 'with downcast eyes’ guessed many of the playing-cards
first time; guessed the names of objects such as 'box of
almonds,5 'white penknife,5 etc. Gurney and Myers were
impressed.
In a leading article in Nature2
it was once emphasized that
'the first necessity [for the investigation of alleged abnormal
phenomena] is a thorough knowledge of the art of mysti­
fication.5 Messrs. Barrett, Myers and Gurney did not possess
such knowledge and, for years, the Creery children— and the
serving maid!— appear to have fooled them by codes to be
found in any shilling conjuring book. At some sittings in
Cambridge, in 1887, attended by Professor and Mrs.
Sidgwick, two of the children were detected1
2
3 signalling the
suits of the cards by slight head movements, scraping of the
feet, coughing, etc. One of the girls finally confessed to ca
certain amount of signalling in earlier experiments.’4 And
yet these simple tricks had deceived such men as Barrett,
Myers, Gurney, Professor Balfour Stewart, Professor Alfred
Hopkinson, etc. A good account of the Creery experiments
is to be found in Phantasms of the Living,5 but as this was
written before the exposure, its only value is to show how
easily scientists can be hoodwinked.
1 Proc., S.P.R., Vol. I, 1882.
2For February 9, 1929.
3Proc., S.P.R., Vol. V, 1888-9, p. 269.
4Journal, S.P.R., Vol. Ill, October, 1887, p. 164.
5By Gurney, Myers, and Podmore, London, 1886. Vol. I, pp. 20-31. See
also Proc., S.P.R., Vol. I, pp. 70-8.
1 6 7
l 6 8 F I F T Y Y E A R S O F P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
THE BLACKBURN—
SMITH FIASCO
Another thought-reading investigation which ended in a
fiasco was the Blackburn-Smith partnership. These two
young Brighton men, Douglas Blackburn and G. A. Smith,
semi-professional 'telepathists,3 submitted their powers to a
number of psychical researchers, including Myers and
Gurney. They worked together, just as the Zancigs, the
Trees, the Zomahs, and other vaudeville thought-readers did
in later years. Smith, blindfolded, would seat himself at a
table, while Blackburn, outside the room, would be shown
some geometrical design drawn on a sheet of paper. Black­
burn would then enter the room and stand behind Smith,
who proceeded to trace on a piece of paper the 'impressions3
of the drawing which, he said, he received from Blackburn’s
mind.1 When the control conditions were really tightened
up (as for example in an experiment described by Sir James
Crichton-Browne)2 the 'telepathists3 failed. Blackburn
finally confessed3 that the good results were obtained by
codes and other trickery. He writes: C
I am the sole survivor
of that group of experimenters and no harm can be done to
anyone. . . . I, with mingled feelings of regret and satis­
faction, now declare that the whole ofthe alleged experiments
were bogus, and originated in the honest desire of two youths
to show how easily men of scientific mind and training could
be deceived when seeking for evidence in support of a theory
they were wishful to establish.3 A full description of all the
tricks and codes was given. Smith denied Blackburn’s
allegations. He could hardly do otherwise considering that
during the interval between the original experiments and the
'confession3Smith had closely collaborated with the S.P.R.
as hypnotist in some telepathic experiments4 conducted by
the Sidgwicks, using various subjects. In these experiments
at guessing numbers, and visualizing scenes, the subjects1
2
3
4
1 For details and drawings, see Proc., S.P.R., Vol. I, 1883, pp. 161-215.
2In the Westminster Gazette, January 29, 1908.
3John Bull, December 5 toJanuary 9, 1909; Daily News, September 1,1911;
‘Confessions of a “Telepathist”,’ Journal, S.P.R., Vol. XV, pp. 115-32.
4 ‘Experiments in Thought Transference’ by Prof, and Mrs. H. Sidgwick,
and Mr. G. A. Smith, Proc., S.P.R., Vol. VI, pp. 128-70.
T H E S T O R Y O F E . S . P .
were, apparently, very successful. But Mr. S. G. Soal, in a
brilliant analysis1 of this case, proves that it would have been
as easy for Smith to have used a code during the Sidgwick
experiments as it was for Blackburn when he deceived Myers
and Gurney. Here we have two professional entertainers,
one of whom eventually revealed his complete bag of tricks.
His partner continues in the business. Is it not reasonable to
suppose that his 'miracles/ too, can also be explained in
terms ofnormality? I doubt if any ofthose who experimented
with Blackburn and Smith knew that as early as 1884 the
former showman had written an illuminating work2 on
'thought reading/
The pages of the S.P.R. publications are full of papers on
telepathy— theoretical, experimental, spontaneous. Con­
venient lists of the principal papers have been published.3
Some ofthe experimental tests appear— on the surface— to be
impressive, but few will bear scientific analysis (as for
example the Guthrie series4) and not one is capable of being
duplicated successfully in a laboratory under properly con­
trolled conditions. There is much food for thought in this
fact when we consider that the S.P.R. has been functioning
for more than fifty years.
169
TELEPATHIC POWERS OF A CLASSICIST
Perhaps the most interesting story of thought-transference
is the account so dramatically interpolated by Professor
Gilbert Murray in his Presidential Address5 to the S.P.R.
on July 9, 1915. He had been discussing Bergson’s philo­
sophy in regard to telepathy, when he remarked: ‘What
makes me incline to a belief in the transmission of thoughts
or impressions by some method different from our normal
five senses is chiefly my own experience in telepathy,... The
1 Experimental Telepathy and Clairvoyance in England, 1881-1933, London, 1933,
in the ‘Harry Price Library’ in the University of London.
2 Thought Reading; or, Modern Mysteries Explained. Being Chapters on Thought-
Reading, Occultism, Mesmerism, etc.; forming a key to the Psychological Puzzles o f the
Day, by Douglas Blackburn, London [1884].
3 Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XLI, pp. 40-3.
4 Proc., S.P.R., Vol. I, pp, 263-83.
method followed is this: I go out of the room and of course
out of earshot. Someone in the room, generally my eldest
daughter, thinks of a scene or an incident or anything she
likes, and says it aloud. It is written down, and I am called.
I come in, usually take my daughter’s hand, and then, if I
have luck, describe in detail what she has thought of. The
least disturbance of our customary method, change of time
or place, presence of strangers, controversy, and especially
noise, is apt to make things go wrong. I become myself
somewhat over-sensitive and irritable, though not, I believe,
to a noticeable degree.’1
Professor Murray then proceeded to detail some experi­
ments, 'where the subconscious impression chose some sense-
channel by which to reach me.’ His daughter thought of
Savonarola at Florence and the people burning their clothes
and pictures and valuables in the square. The professor at
once thought of ‘Italy.’ Then he said: 'This is not modern.’
At this point he hesitated until a small tarry bit of coal
happened to fall out of the fire. This ' clue’ made him smell
oil or paint burning, and so he got the rest of the scene. In
this experiment, the information came through the channel
of the sense of smell.
Sometimes the visualization of the thought-of scene came
through the sense ofsight. Subject set: his daughter’s grand­
father at the Harrow and Winchester match ' dropping hot
cigar-ash on Miss Thompson’s parasol.’ Professor Murray’s
verbatim answer: 'Why, this is grandfather. He’s at a cricket
match—why it’s absurd: he seems to be dropping ashes on
a lady’s parasol.’
Similar successes were achieved many times, and the
full and detailed report2by Mrs. Verrall, of 504 experiments,
should be read, together with the 'Appendix’3 to the same
report, A further 259 experiments are later detailed by Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick,4who described the experiments as 'perhaps
the most important ever brought to the notice ofthe Society.’5
1 Proc„ S.P.R., Vol. XXIX, p. 58.
2 ‘Report on a Series of Experiments in “Guessing”,’ Proc,, S.P.R., Vol.
XXIX, pp. 64-87.
3Appendix, ibid., pp. 87-no.
4 ‘Report on Further Experiments in Thought-Transference carried out by
Professor Gilbert Murray,’ Proc., Vol. XXXIV, pp. 212-74.
6 Ibid., p. 212.
170 F I F T Y Y E A R S O F P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
Of course, hand-in-hand with Professor Murray’s claims,
went a good deal of criticism. It was suggested that, perhaps
unconsciously, he saw his daughter’s written description of
the scene which, it will be remembered, was recorded on
paper. Not only was it written, but the scene or object had
first to be spoken aloud. Was it possible that Professor Murray
possessed— or possesses— super-sensitive ears— i,e. hyper-
aesthesia of the sense of hearing? The Professor does not
claim that his feats are performed by pure telepathy, and he
does admit the possibility of hyperaesthesia. But, as Soal
points out,1 if this is the case, it is really incomprehensible
‘that the experimenters should never have taken the trouble
to test the theory in any way. It might be supposed that the
obvious thing to do was to place Professor Murray at varying
distances from the person who uttered the message and to
have tried the effect of several intervening walls, etc. Yet
apparently, no one even accompanied Professor Murray out­
side the room to see that he £
C
played fair” . . . . The records
published by the S.P.R. are merely the records of a parlour
game, and not of a serious investigation.5 Professor R. H.
Thouless, the psychologist, in a letter (dated December 17,
1924) to the Manchester Guardian2 also hopes 'that these
experiments will not stop at the point of demonstrating that
communication of some sort exists. By the ordinary methods
of scientific research— isolation and independent variation of
all the conditions under which communication takes place
— it should not be difficult to settle conclusively all the
questions that are still in dispute. Such a research should
show whether the results are to be explained by telepathy
or by hyperesthesia.5 But this apparently has never been
done.
I could cite many more similar experiments to those
described above, but there is a sameness about them which
becomes almost monotonous. They can be studied in detail
in the pages of the S.P.R. publications. Most of the extra­
sensory research work has been done in England, though
certain foreigners have experimented in the field. Among
these are Max Dessoir of Berlin, who sent his results to the
1 Experimental Telepathy and Clairvoyance in England.
2Reprinted in Journal, S.P.R., Vol. XXII, pp. 51-4.
T H E S T O R Y O F E . S . P . 1 7 1
compilers of Phantasms of theLivings where they are illustrated
and discussed;1 Rene Warcollier1
2
3 of Paris; John Edgar
Goover3of Stanford University, who obtained 10,000 guesses
with 100 students using playing cards; Naum Kotik,4 the
Russian, and many others. The reader can conveniently
study the work of all these experimenters in the Journal and
Proceedings of the S.P.R. The brilliant results with Osso-
wiecki have already been mentioned in these pages.5 The
most impressive experiments, in the opinion of Mr. S. G.
Soal, who is the greatest authority on everything pertaining
to E.S.P., were those conducted by Professor H. J. F. W.
Brugmans, the late Professor G. Heymans, and Dr. A. A.
Weinberg with the subject van Dam in the Department of
Psychology at Groningen University. In these experiments,
the subject was seated behind a curtain, blindfolded, and
was only able to push his hand under the curtain to move a
piece on a chessboard that was numbered and lettered in the
Continental fashion. Brugmans and his assistants sat in a
darkened room above and watched van Dam through a glass
pane in the ceiling. The experimenters cwilled3 van Dam
to move the piece to a certain square determined by a
random draw of a letter and number from two sets of cards.
Nothing of van Dam could be seen except his hand. In
187 trials the subject obtained 60 successes as against 4 that
chance would suggest. It was found that alcohol increased
the percentage of successes. In the oft-quoted Experimental
Telepathy and Clairvoyance in England, Soal remarks that ‘the
English experimenters in telepathy have produced no positive
investigations which are at all comparable in scientific
precision5 with the experiments carried out by Professor
Brugmans and his colleagues.6
*
8
1 Vol. II, pp. 642-53.
2 La Tilipathie: Recherches Expfoimentales, Paris, 1921.
3Experiments in Psychical Research Stanford Univ., Cal., 1917.
4 D ie Emanation der psycho-physischen Energie, Wiesbaden, 1908.
5 Page 41. See also ‘An Experiment in “ Clairvoyance” with M. Stefan
Ossowiecki,* Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XLI, pp. 345-51. For a criticism, see Soal’s
Experimental Telepathy and Clairvoyance.
8For a r&ume of these experiments, see Journal, S.P.R., December, 1938,
PP- 299-302.
172 F I F T Y Y E A R S O F P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
T H E S T O R Y O F E . S . P . 173
THE UPTON SINCLAIR TESTS
The experiments of Upton Sinclair (6. 1878), the famous
writer and sociologist deserve special notice. In 1930 he
issued a report1 on these experiments, and it makes astonish­
ing reading. Mrs. Sinclair discovered that she could
'transfer5 her thoughts to others and a long series of tests
was staged. Mrs. Sinclair was always the 'percipient/ and
her husband and other persons acted as 'agents.5 The lines
of the experiments followed more or less those of the Guthrie,
Dessoir and Blackburn-Smith tests, which I have already
mentioned. Mr. Sinclair, or another agent, would gaze at
and think of a crude drawing of something. Mrs. Sinclair,
without seeing it, would, in an adjoining room, attempt to
visualize the drawing and reproduce it on paper. Con­
siderable concentration was necessary. Apparently distance
was no obstacle, as experiments with her brother-in-law,
forty miles away, were also successful. An analysis of the
results obtained through the whole series shows a high
average of successes. Out of 290 experiments, Mr. Sinclair
considers that 23 per cent were successful, 53 per cent were
fairly successful, while the remaining 24 per cent were
definite failures. It is probable that some of the successes
were due to a clairvoyant faculty in addition to a telepathic
one. It is to be hoped that the experiments will some day be
repeated in the presence of other observers. Other tests
carried out in the United States were those staged by the
Scientific American in 1933 and 1934, with readers as per­
cipients. Results were negative.3
CARD GUESSING
The easiest, most simple, and cheapest way to test whether
a person has E.S.P. is by means of cards— especially playing
cards— and for this reason they have been used by experi­
menters from the very earliest days. Very many tests have
1 Mental Radio: Does it Work, and How? London and Los Angeles, 1930.
3 See Scientific American,
, New York, July, 1933; February, 1934.
been staged by various people, some with striking results,
some with poor results. For example, Professor Richet, as
early as 1884, made nearly 3,000 tests with people cguessing5
the suits of playing cards. He got poor results.1 Or^ the
other hand, Miss Ina Jephson, forty years later, staged a
very comprehensive test with about 240 people, with most
remarkable results— and an equally remarkable sequel.
The persons selected for the experiment were requested to
‘guess5 twenty-five cards, in their own homes, using their
own cards. Miss Jephson thus obtained 6,000 guesses. For
her analysis of these guesses, she used the numerical scoring
system for playing-cards computed by Dr. R. A. Fisher,
F.R.S. This system allows for successes in colour, suit, num­
ber and rank of a card, combined into a single average score.
When the guesses were analysed, it was found that forty-six
people had sent in results far and away above what chance
could account for: in other words, if the guesses were honest
ones, they must have been due to clairvoyance on the part
of the successful percipients. Mr. Soal was not satisfied with
this report1
2 and insisted that the experiments should be
repeated with cards enclosed in light-proof envelopes, and so
sealed that fraud, if not impossible, would be difficult. The
results of this test, statistically analysed by Mr. Soal himself,
were remarkable. The 9,000 guesses recorded by more than
300 persons showed not the slightest sign of clairvoyance either on
the part of individuals or in the mass; the laws of chance
operated in every respect.3 It was evident that careless
recording, experimental error, or conscious or unconscious
faking on the part of the subjects or the sending in of only
their best results, were responsible for so many cgood5
guesses being sent to Miss Jephson.
1 See 6
M. Richet’s Recent Researches in Thought-Transference/ by Edmund
Gurney, Proc., S.P.R., Vol. II, pp. 239-57.
2 ‘Evidence for Clairvoyance in Card-Guessing/ by Ina Jephson, Proc.,
S.P.R., Vol. XXXVIII, pp. 223-71.
3 See ‘Report of a Series of Experiments in Clairvoyance Conducted at a
Distance under Approximately Fraud-Proof Conditions,* Proc., S.P.R., Vol.
XXXIX, pp. 375-414.
174 F I F T Y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
T H E S T O R Y O F E . S . P . 175
DR. RHINE’S BOMBSHELL
In 1934 a bombshell was dropped into the camp of the
sceptics by Dr. Joseph Banks Rhine when the Boston S.P.R.
published his Extra-Sensory Perception,1
a report on his experi­
ments in card guessing carried out at Duke University in the
Department of Psychology, of which he is an associate
professor. An account of these experimentshasbeen recorded
in Chapter III. A further report by Dr. Rhine, New Frontiers
of the Mind2 is a sequel to Extra-Sensory Perception and the
former book records the progress made since the earlier work
was written.
I must here say a few words about E.S.P. technique, and
the special Zener cards used in the experiments. In a
shuffled pack of twenty-five cards are five sets offive different
symbols, and the person to be tested for E.S.P. is invited to
‘call’ or cguess’ the symbols on the cards which, one by one,
are placed before him, backs upwards.3 If he does not
possess E.S.P., the mean chance expectation of ‘good’
guesses will, of course, be five. Anything significantly above
that average, in a long series of properly conducted tests,
will be something more than chance: it will indicate a para­
normal faculty— i.e. extra-sensory perception.
The successes with Rhine and his colleagues were pheno­
menal. For example, a student named Linzmayer, at the
first attempt, correctly guessed nine cards in succession out of
the shuffled pack of twenty-five— a 2,000,000 to 1 chance.
The next day he did the same thing! The odds against a
person performing such a feat twice in succession, are astro­
nomical. Later, a child of twelve made a ‘perfect* score,
that is, a run oftwenty-five correct guesses. The odds against
this last miracle being due to chance are 623,360,743,125,120
to 1! Rhine, in his book,4 may well raise the query as to
whether he and his colleagues at Duke "have been com­
pletely and continuously self-deluded or incompetent9 in
1 Republished in London in 1935.
2London, 1938.
3The clairvoyance test. If telepathy is being tried, the experimenter looks
at the card, the subject then guessing what the symbol is.
4New Frontiers o f the Mind, p. 290.
failing to discover if there is a snag in the wonders they are
witnessing. I have already mentioned the fact that in
London Mr. S. G. Soal has been trying to repeat Rhine’s
good results, without success* except that in the clairvoyance
tests, some people appear to be slightly subnormal—i.e.
they scorefewer than the average five correct guesses (out of
the twenty-five cards) which chance should reveal.
Even Rhine’s own subjects appear to lose their faculty
when they cross the Atlantic. With Mrs. Eileen Garrett at
Duke University, Dr. Rhine has recorded1 some extra­
ordinary results. In the 625 trials at Pure Telepathy she
scored 336 correct hits, an average of 13-4 per twenty-five
Zener cards. In a series of more than 100,000 guesses (using
a random sequence of cards) Mr. Soal 'obtained only a
single set of twenty-five with as many as thirteen guesses
correct, and no set with more than thirteen correct— a result
which is in accordance with chance expectation.’2 In the
same way with the clairvoyant tests, out of 3,525 calls, the
successful ones in America numbered 888; that is, 183 more
correct guesses than chance would accountfor. In many of these
tests with Mrs. Garrett cards with unscreened backs were
used.
1 7 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S O F P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE EXPERIMENTS
Mr. Soal was so struck with these results that when Mrs.
Garrett, who is British, arrived in London, he arranged
(May, 1937) some further tests with her. Most of these were
carried out in the Psychological Laboratory at University
College with advanced students in the Departments of
Psychology and Philosophy as assistants. In all, 12,425
guesses were recorded and nothing paranormal was wit­
nessed. In the concluding remarks ofhis preliminary report,3
Mr. Soal, in describing the results of his experiments, says:
(In the case of Mrs. Eileen Garrett we fail to find the
slightest confirmation of Dr. J. B. Rhine’s remarkable claims
1 Character and Personality, London, 1934, Vol. Ill, No. 3.
2Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XLV, p. 69.
3 ‘A Repetition of Dr. J. B. Rhine's work with Mrs. Eileen Garrett,’ Proc,,
S.P.R., Vol. XLV, pp. 69-87. A detailed report of these experiments will be
published by Mr. Soal in due course.
T H E S T O R Y O F E . S . P .
relating to her alleged powers of extra-sensory perception.
Not only did she fail when I took charge of the experiments,
but she failed equally when four other carefully trained
experimenters took my place. . . . The more serious question
will doubdess arise as to whether Dr. Rhine’s other major
subjects would fare any better if they crossed the Atlantic.5
Mrs. Garrett also fared badly in the investigation into the
physiological changes that were alleged to take place during
the trance state of this medium. The psychic Press had been
full of stories, emanating from America, that Mrs. Garrett’s
trance 'controls,5 £
Uvani5 and 'Abdul Latif5 reacted diff­
erently, physiologically, from the normal Mrs. Garrett. The
implication was, of course, that the medium’s controls were
separate entities or personalities. Blood counts, coagulation
times, respiration, pulse rate, etc., were all stated to be
different in the 'controlled5 medium from what they were
when Mrs. Garrett was out of trance. It was even alleged1
that the blood of 'Abdul Latif5was the blood of a man in the
last stages of diabetes! As Mrs. Garrett happened to be in
London, Mrs. K. M. Goldney decided, with the medium’s
willing co-operation, to test these remarkable statements, and
a complete investigation was carried out with the assistance
of the following medical specialists: Dr. Geoffrey Bourne,
Dr. Guthbert Dukes, Dr. William Nunan, Dr. V. J. Woolley,
and Dr. Helena Wright. The report1
2 of this careful inquiry
into the alleged paranormal physiological conditions during
the trance state of Mrs. Garrett showed that the results were
entirely negative. As in the case of the American E.S.P. experi­
ments, there were no miracles in London.
177
PSYCHOLOGICAL FACTORS IN E.S.P.
Why is it that Dr. Rhine at Duke, and a few other investi­
gators (principally in America) are obtaining such amazing
results in E.S.P., while we, in England, seem quite unable to
find subjects with a paranormal faculty? It is true that one
1 Ligkt, London, May 20, 1937.
2 *An Examination into Physiological Changes Alleged to Take Place During
the Trance State/ by K. M. Goldney, Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XLV, pp. 43-68.
N
or two people in Great Britain claim successes in this field,
but their work has yet to be repeated independently by
scientific workers. Mr. G. N. M. Tyrrell, for instance, has
been for many years experimenting in E.S.P, and is one of
the very few persons in this country who claim to have ob­
tained positive results in telepathic and clairvoyant experi­
ments on quantitative lines. His principal subject is Miss
Gertrude Johnson, an intimate friend. As far back as 1921
Miss Johnson was able, according to Tyrrell, to 6
guess3the
denominations of the first six or eight cards in a shuffled
pack placed face downwards on the table. This feat she
repeated many times. Later, Mr. Tyrrell devised a piece of
apparatus consisting of five small boxes, padded on the
inside, into which, at random, he inserted the end ofa pointer,
the idea being that the medium should guess in which
box the pointer was placed. A screen was between the
medium and the experimenter. Out of 30,000 trials, the
medium was successful 9,364 times (30.2 per cent) against
a chance expectation of 20 per cent. These results have been
published in a recent work1by Mr. Tyrrell, and his apparatus
has also been described and illustrated.2
Unfortunately, most of the work with the pointer appara­
tus may be vitiated by the fact that it is possible for an agent
to make his pointer selections accord with the general habits
of the guesser, perhaps unconsciously. Indeed, Mr. George
W. Fisk has recently demonstrated3that using this apparatus
he was able to cause almost anybody to score either above
or below chance at will by merely watching the way the
guesser made his choices and then dodging these position
preferences adroitly with the pointer.
If Rhine and Tyrrell can get these— apparently para­
normal— results, how is it that Soal has failed to detect any
trace of E.S.P. in more than 140 subjects (Indians, Chinese,
Egyptians, Greeks, mediums entranced and normal, etc.)
doing 120,000 guesses ? The Americans say that we Britishers
do not possess the requisite 'psychological make-up3 for
1Science and Psychical Phenomena} London, 1938.
2‘The Tyrrell Apparatus for Testing Extra-Sensory Perception,* by G. N. M.
Tyrrell, in the Journal o f Parapsychology, Durham, N.C., June, 1938, Vol.II,
No. 2, pp. 107-18. See also Journal,, S.P.R., January, 1939, PP- 6-8.
* Journal, S.P.R., May, 1938, pp. 219-23.
1 7 8 F I F T Y Y E A R S O F P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
T H E S T O R Y O F E . S . P .
success. It is alleged that we are either too sceptical, too
critical, or too academic; or our approach to the subject is
'unfriendly,5 or that we have 'unsuitable personalities.5
That the psychological factor in E.S.P. experiments is
important is obvious; but seriously to suggest— as has been
done— that 140 persons failed to show a trace of E.S.P.
because the experimenter (Soal) had an unsuitable per­
sonality, is nonsense. Soal has purposely handed over his
subjects— and experiments— to others, not all ofthe academic
type, but employing his technique, with identical results:
not a trace of E.S.P.
As a proof that Mr. SoaPs methods on this side of the
Atlantic are acceptable to at least one person who has
experimented with Rhine I can quote Mrs. Garrett’s state­
ment1 to Mrs. Goldney that SoaPs conditions are actually
preferable. Mrs. Garrett says: ‘The conditions at Duke are
tense and emotional in comparison with those with Mr. Soal
in London. I, personally, prefer the quietermethods, divorced
from constant urging and suggestion, that pertain in London
with Mr. Soal.5 But in spite of these better conditions, Mrs.
Garrett failed to get any extra-chance results.
The reason why we fail to get paranormal results in card
calling in this country is because, I think, our technique is
so much better than the Americans5. Mr. SoaPs methods
exclude the probability of spurious high scores by making it
impossible for normal sensory cues to play any part in the
experiments, but I will refer to this question later.
179
CRITICISMS OF E.S.P.
Mr. Soal is not the only person who has criticized the
American E.S.P. technique and results. But he is the person
most competent to criticize, as, individually, it is probable
that he has made more E.S.P. experiments than any other
person, and knows much more about the subject. He is also
by profession a mathematician, and the proper evaluation
of E.S.P. results is largely a question of mathematics and
statistical method.
1 P r o c S.P.R., Vol. XLV, pp. 86-7.
When Extra-Sensory Perception was published in this country
in 1935 several scientists and pseudo-scientific journalists
accepted the book at its face value and, with uninformed
enthusiasm, wrote glowing accounts of the new psychic
miracles. The same thing happened in America. But with
the realization that the Duke successes could not be repeated
in other quarters, notably in London, some of these scientific
writers repented of their early enthusiasm and wished they
had kept silent.
It would be impossible in this chapter to give a full list of
critical articles pointing out the fallacy of the Duke results
and criticizing the American technique. The most convinc­
ing criticism will come when Soal publishes his important
report on his many years5repetition of Rhine’s experiments.
But in order that the reader can realize the nature of the
scientific hostility to the American tests, I will cite a few
examples.
At a convention ofthe American Psychological Association
in New York in April, 1938, Dr. Steuart Henderson Britt,
of George Washington University, stated that the official
E.S.P. cards as sold to the public in America could be read
from the backs, either by sight or touch, owing to too heavy
printing or other defects. He proceeded to cread5 correctly
twenty-four cards out of a pack of twenty-five, with faces
unseen. At the same meeting Dr. F. H. Lund stated that he
had tested 596 students with E.S.P. cards and had found no
paranormality among them. C
L.A.E.,5who cites these facts,
remarks in a letter to the Two Worlds1 that he had experi­
mented with more than 200 subjects, making more than
500,000 calls, and not one C
can even remotely compare with
Dr. Rhine’s amazing results.’
Professor Chester E. Kellogg of McGill University wrote
a scathing article1
2 on the Duke tests and attacks them from
a new angle: cSince Dr. Rhine’s reports have led to investi­
gations in many other institutions, it might seem unnecessary
1 Manchester, April 29, 1938.
2 ‘New Evidence (?) for “Extra-Sensory Perception”,* in the Scientific
Monthly, New York City, October, 1937, pp. 331-41. See also ‘A Critical
Analysis of Experiments in Extra-Sensory Perception,’ by Max Hertzman;
and ‘Some Implications of Extra-Sensory Perception,* by H. Rogosin, both in
The Psychologists' League Journal, New York, May-June, 1938.
l 80 F I F T Y Y E A R S O F P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
T H E S T O R Y O F E . S . P . 18 1
to prick the bubble, as the truth eventually will out and the
craze subside. But meanwhile the public is being misled,
the energies of young men and women in their most vital
years of professional training are being diverted into a side
issue, and funds expended that might instead support
research into problems of real importance for human wel­
fare.5
Again, Dr. Eugene Adams, of Colgate University, says:1
C
I have completed a series of more than 20,000 individual
card-guessing tests of the sort that Dr. Rhine has conducted
at Duke University. . . , My tests involved thirty different
persons and were designed to test clairvoyance, telepathy
and the two in combination. I used the same cards that
Rhine did. . . . My results were negative. No individual
scored beyond chance expectation, nor did the average
combined scores exceed normal expectancy.5 Professor
Kennedy, of Stanford University, reports similar failures,
after testing 100 students.1
2 Professor Henlein, of Florida
State College for Women, carried out 125,000 guesses with
only chance results; while James C. Crumbaugh, of Dallas
University, made 75,000 tests without success. The chief
critic of Rhine’s methods in this country, apart from Soal, is
Professor R. H. Thouless, of Cambridge University. In a
long review3 of Extra-Sensory Perception he remarks: 6It will
be gathered that Dr. Rhine’s procedure is by no means free
from objection, and that his presentation [of results] is open
to the much graver objection that the experimental methods
are quite inadequately reported.’ Dr. Thouless himself has
carried out between 6,000 and 7,000 experiments in Glasgow,
without success paranormally. To sum up, in no country
has official scientific opinion yet accepted Dr. Rhine’s
results.4
1 New Tork Times, March, 1938.
2 Genii, Pasadena, Calif., Feb., 1938.
3 P?oc.f S.P.R., Vol. XLIII, pp. 24-37-
4For criticisms voiced at the convention of the Am. Psychol. Ass., held at
Columbus, Ohio, on September 9, 1938, see the ‘ESP Symposium at the
A.P.A.,* Journal o f Parapsychology, Durham, N.C., December, 1938. For Pro­
fessor Thouless’s report on his experiments, see ‘Report on Glasgow Repetition
of Dr. Rhine’s Experiments on Extra-Sensory Perception,* Proc.9 S.P.R., Vol.
XLV, Part 159, July, 1939, pp. 252-6.
182 f i f t y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
MECHANICAL ‘ E.S.P.’
Among the critics of the Rhine technique in America are
Professor Walter G. Pitkin and Mr. John Mulholland. They
contend that the extraordinary runs of cgood5 guesses
achieved by some of Dr. Rhine’s subjects need not necessarily
be cextra-sensory’ at all, but due to pure chance. They con­
sider that the number of trials made by Rhine and his
friends is not yet great enough to determine whether chance
does, or does not, account for the many ‘good’ runs.
Professor Pitkin and Mr. Mulholland decided to see what
pure chance would bring by eliminating the human factor
and invited the International Business Machines Corpora­
tion, of New York, to assist them in determining whether
‘ the right answers recorded by the parapsychologists’ subjects
relate to the total answers in a manner significantly different
from similar coincidences of events mechanically produced.’
They wished ‘to see a full intercorrelationworked outbetween
total guesses, right and wrong, in the Rhine experiments,
and a large series made mechanically.’
So the Corporation ran 200,000 numbered cards through
their machines. The first 100,000 were white, ‘and each
card carried digits from one through five. There was an
even distribution of those digits. 20,000 cards carried one;
20,000 two, and so on. The white cards were mechanically
shuffled and run through a machine which printed the
numbers on paper in the order in which they happened to
come. The second 100,000 cards were red, and these also
had an equal distribution of the first five digits. These, too,
were mechanically shuffled, and their numbers were printed
on the paper.’
When the experiment was finished, the two printed
columns of numbers, one column from the white and one
column from the red, were compared. ‘Just as with Dr.
Rhine’s test, there was one chance in five of the pair of
digits in any given line being the same— that is, matching.
But, with our test, there was no possible chance of mind­
reading or clairvoyance as a factor.’
Professor Pitkin and his colleague got some amazing
results. cFor instance, there were as many as thirty-two lines
of figures in sequence without one matching pair. O f course,
by chance we might expect to get six matching pairs. Again,
there would be runs of matching pairs. Professor Pitkin
made a most astonishing discovery about these runs. Runs
of five matching pairs in sequence fell 25 per cent below
theoretical frequency, while runs of six rose to 25 per cent
above theoretical frequency. Runs of seven jumped still
higher to 59 per cent above chance expectancy, and with
runs of eight we went to 780 per cent above theoretical
frequency. . . . Another amusing freak deviation from theo­
retical distribution was that in the first 40,000 pairs there
were almost three times as many runs of five as there were
in the next 60,000, while with the runs of six it was just the
reverse. And neither of these series of runs was to be ex­
pected. . . . Totalling the number of “ correct guesses” in
each thousand of our pure-chance run, we found that 24,000
came within 2 per cent ofmathematical expectancy; 30,000
went above and 46,000 went below theoretical chance. The
total number of pairs in the entire 100,000 was less than
2 per cent away from what was to be expected. The total,
by the way, was under mathematical expectancy.5 I am
indebted to Messrs. Charles Scribner’s Sons (the publishers)
and to Mr. John Mulholland for permission to cite this most
interesting test, which is recorded in full in the latter’s Beware
Familiar Spirits (1938).
T H E S T O R Y OF E . S . P . 183
THE ZENER CARDS
The early E.S.P. cards as used by Rhine and his colleagues
at Duke were originally hand-made. As even playing-cards
when made commercially are never mechanically perfect, it
is obvious that the early home-made ones were unsuitable for
critical work.
The first commercially printed E.S.P. cards were , I think,
those which I had made for me by Messrs. Plafair ofLondon
in November, 1934, for the Soal experiments in the laboratory
of the University of London Council for Psychical Investiga­
tion, and which are still in use. They have on their faces the
Zener symbols: rectangle, star, plus sign, circle, and wavy
lines. The backs are of a uniform 6
playing-card5design.
In 1937 the official Duke University Zener cards were put
on the American market. They were of two kinds, plain and
coloured symbols. The backs of both kinds were similar in
design, but different in colour (blue and brown respectively).
These cards, complete with instructions, were issued com­
mercially and could be purchased at any news stand at
10 cents per pack. Later, a boxed cset5of two packs of cards,
instruction book,1 and scoring pad, were offered to the public
for $1.75 complete.
When I received a pack of the commercial E.S.P.
'official3cards I had a shock. I found that through employ­
ing an unsuitable design on the reverse of the cards, the
stamping die had so cut the pattern (lines and circles) that
some of the cards could be recognized from the backs. In
other words, parts of the pattern varied on some cards. I
found that, in five minutes, I could recognize ten of the cards
from the backs, just as Dr. Britt demonstrated in New York.
Another fault with these cards is that the pattern is not a
symmetrical one (i.e. uniform either end) on account of the
photograph and lettering in the centre. This lends itself to
manipulation on the part of unscrupulous subjects.1
2
The outcry against being able to read the Duke cards
from the backs was met by Rhine advising experimenters
to cover them over with something when being used— a vital
precaution that Soal had been taking with my Plafair cards
in every experiment he had ever made. But in the directions
sold with the Duke cards, or in the Stuart and Pratt hand­
book3issued with them, not a word ofwarning is given about
screening the backs of the cards when testing for E.S.P. On
the contrary, on page 12 of the handbook3 permission is
given to look at the backs: Sit where you cannot see the
faces of the cards. You may close your eyes or look off into
space, or even look at the backs of the cards.’4 It is obvious that
1 A Handbook for Testing Extra-Sensory Perception, by G. E. Stuart and J. G.
Pratt, New York, 1937.
2The American Zener cards are now being used for conjuring tricks. See
‘ESP Miracle,’ by Royal V. Heath, Sphinx, New York, January, 1938.
3 op. cit.
4 My italics.
1 8 4 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
some results obtained with these unscreened cards may be
valueless. To my knowledge, neither cards nor handbook
have yet been withdrawn. In fact there is a sort of defence
of the cards in the Journal of Parapsychology,x of which Pro­
fessor McDougall2 and Dr. Rhine are editors.3 Under the
heading C
ESP Card Imperfections’ it is stated that ‘since
it is much easier to set up simple experimental precautions
than to attempt to produce a “ perfect” commercial ESP
card, it is doubtful whether improvements are at present
feasible/
T H E S T O R Y OF E . S . P . 185
A NATIONAL TEST
When I read the above curious statement, I determined to
produce a card which could not easily be read from the back
except by a hyperaesthete, and the back of which was the
same whichever way one held it. The result is illustrated
on page 186. I named them the ‘ Telepatha* cards, and they
are made by Messrs. Waddington and marketed by Messrs.
George Newnes, Ltd., London. The pattern of the backs was
specially designed to dazzle the eyes of any subject who
attempted to obtain visual clues or indicia from the backs
of the cards. The symbols on the faces of the cards are
X-sign,= sign, triangle, spot, and crescent. The ‘Telepatha’
card set comprises two packs each of twenty-five cards, with
both plain and coloured symbols, an instruction book, and
scoring pad.
In an article in John o'London's Weekly4 I suggested that
a national test should be held in Great Britain in an effort to
ascertain if good telepathic subjects could be found in this
country. Mr. Frank Whitaker, the editor of John o'London's
Weekly, thought well of the idea and in the next issue5 of his
journal, a great national competition was launched. Pro­
fessor J. C. Flugel,6 Mr. S. G. Soal,8 and I were asked to
1 Vol. II, No. i, March, 1938, p. 72.
2 Prof. McDougall died on November 28, 1938, aged 67.
3Beginning with the May, 1939, issue, the editorship will be transferred to
Gardner Murphy (Columbia University) and Bernard F. Riess (Hunter
College), and the Journal will be published half-yearly instead of quarterly.
4 ‘Can Telepathy be Proved?* March 10, 1939.
6March 17, 1939.
6Who also contributed articles on telepathy to John o'London's in the issues
February 24 and March 3, 1939.
supervise the arrangements, my ‘Telepatha5 cards being
chosen for the tests. The most stringent laboratory condi­
tions were imposed on the competitors. The competition is
in full swing as I write these lines.1
186 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
price’s ‘telepatha’ cards, with dazzle backs
To the uninitiated, testing subjects for E.S.P. may sound
a simple job; in reality it is a most difficult and complicated
one. To be an efficient experimenter, one should be a con-
1 The result was negative. About four hundred persons entered the com­
petition and those results sent in ‘lend little or no support to Dr. Rhine’s
theories.’ (For details, set John o’ London's Weekly, May 12, 1939.)
jurer, psychologist, and mathematician rolled into one. The
pitfalls are many.
To begin with, there may be collusion between experi­
menter and subject. Or the latter may be able to exchange
his own prepared pack ('stacked5 cards) for those of the
person testing, or see the reflection of card faces in mirror,
pictures, or shiny table-top. Codes, visual or aural, might be
used between the subject and any person in the room able
to see either backs or faces of the cards. Marked, dirty,
stained, cracked, or used cards would provide the subject
with clues, if they were not screened. Bad shuffling of cards
on the part of the tester would increase the 'good5guesses if
the subject— consciously or unconsciously— remembered their
order. In addition, there is always the possibility of experi­
mental error, faulty recording, mal-observation, faked
records, or sheer lying on the part of the experimenter or his
assistants.
Mr. S. G. Soal, in an illuminating address to the Ghost
Club1 on March 15, 1938, related many of the snags in
E.S.P. work. He pointed out that even in the most perfect
commercial cards there is always some small speck or irregu­
larity, made either mechanically or in printing, visible to good
normal eyesight. And many more markings, etc., would be
visible to a person like Marion, whose feats due to hyper-
aesthesia of the various senses (especially that of touch) have
to be seen to be believed.2 A person has only to see or
recognize one card in a pack of twenty-five to send up his
average from a chance score of five to an extra-chance score
of six. Marion was able to pick out in the light a card that
he had never seen, but had touched only once in the dark.
Another source of error is the careless handling of a pack
of cards so that the subject sees the bottom one. There again
his average would rise to six. It is also possible for a perfectly
honest experimenter, by unconscious whispering, slight
bodily movements, change in breathing rate, or other
indicia, unconsciously to convey to the equally honest subject
1 A social ‘psychic* club, founded in 1862, revived in 1881 and again in
1938 (by Harry Price).
2 See: ‘Preliminary Studies of a Vaudeville Telepathist,* by S. G. Soal,
Bulletin IV, Univ. of London Council for Psychical Investigation, London,
1937.
T H E S T O R Y OF E . S . P . 187
when a card is called correctly. The subject might then be
aware, subconsciously, when five of one symbol (the full set)
had been called, and would refrain— also subconsciously—
from calling that symbol again. This would send up his
average score above chance. That is why a screen between
experimenter and subject is necessary. Preferential mental
associations (and 'pattern habits5
) must also be taken into
account. All these 'snags3and many others are detailed in
Mr. Soal’s paper,1 which should be read by those wishing to
conduct experiments in E.S.P.
Before I conclude this story of E.S.P. and its recent
dramatic developments, I must reiterate that the successes
of Dr. Rhine and his colleagues at Duke University have not
yet been accepted by official science in any country. Dr.
Rhine himself has published two highly provocative works
in which he claims to have demonstrated scientifically that
clairvoyance and telepathy are faculties possessed by many
people in America. All that is now needed to complete the
trilogy is a volume telling us how we can reproduce the
Duke 'miracles’ on this side of the Atlantic.
188 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
CONJURING AND COLLUSION
I have said little in this chapter about the possibilities of
conjuring and collusion in obtaining high E.S.P. scores.
Many methods will suggest themselves to the reader. But
one system, not so well known, is published by Mr. Theo
Annemann in an article ' Was Professor J. B. Rhine Hood­
winked?3
2 This is called the 'mental count3 and has been
used in various conjuring tricks for many years.
In some E.S.P. telepathic experiments, the 'percipient3
(receiver) is in one room, and the ‘ agent3 (sender) is in
another. By means of a telegraph key and sounder, the agent
signals to the percipient when he is thinking of a symbol.
Collusion could be accomplished in the following way,
even when the shuffling of the cards and the conditions of
the test were under the control of the investigators:
1 Snags in E .S .P ., Univ. of London Library (‘Harry Price Library*), 1938,
2See The Jinx, Waverly, New York, August, 1938, pp. 329, 333.
Previous to the experiment, both sender and receiver
practise counting mentally and in unison by means of a
metronome or loud-ticking clock. With very little practice,
their mental counts absolutely synchronize. The counting
is always from one to five.
By pre-arrangement between sender and receiver, each
symbol is allotted a certain number: e.g. a circle would be
one, a cross two, a star three, and so on. The first card turned
up by the agent is a five to one chance against the symbol
being guessed correctly by the percipient. But immediately
after the agent presses the telegraph key for the first time,
both agent andpercipient begin counting mentally 1-2-3-4-5-1-2
-3-4-5-1-2-3- etc. If the agent’s next card is, say, a star
(three), he stops mentally counting at this number and taps
the telegraph key. The percipient also stops counting men­
tally when he hears the sounder, and he, like the agent, has
also arrived at three; and of course, as three is a star he
calls ‘star’— which is correct. Then they start counting
again with the next card. With a little practice, twenty-four
out of the twenty-five newly shuffled cards could be called
correctly. It is obvious that the principle of the 'mental
count’ could be applied to other phases of E.S.P. technique.
T H E S T O R Y OF E . S . P . l 8 g
CHAPTER XI
T
HE history of spiritualism is a history of fraud. From
the days of Elizabeth Parsons and the Fox girls down
to the latest newspaper cexposure/ it is the same dis­
tressing story. It will be noticed that the various prosecu­
tions, ‘ confessions/ and dark-seance grabbings invariably
concern physical mediums— seldom mental ones. If a
mental medium (e.g. a clairvoyants) tells you that she ‘sees5
the spirit of your grandmother attired in a green dress with
red spots, you cannot contradict her. But if this same medium
professes to be able to materialize your grandmother, you
can so arrange conditions that fraud would be impossible.
-Although it is very difficult to ‘ expose5 a mental medium,
one can sometimes check her seance utterances, and prove if
veridical or not; or if performing publicly, it can be ascer­
tained if confederates are used.
Of course, some mediums are alternately fraudulent and
genuine, and these people are difficult to test. Eusapia
Palladino is the classic example. She warned observers that
she would cheat if permitted to do so, and cheat she did.
Her tricks were usually childish: long hairs attached to small
objects in order to produce ‘telekinetic movements5; the
gradual substitution of one hand for two when being con­
trolled by sitters; the production of ‘phenomena5with a foot
which had been surreptitiously removed from its shoe, and
so on. Some of her tricks were so subtle that at the Cam­
bridge tests in 1895 J. N. Maskelync was called in to detect
them. But with all her deceptions, Eusapia was often genuine
and her tricks were of some psychological interest.
Even Florrie Cook, the beloved medium of Sir William
Crookes,was finally caught pirouetting round the room in a
white garment by Mr. W. Volckman, who, at a seance on
December 9, 1873, seized the spirit ‘Katie King5and found
190
T H E M E C H A N IC S O F S P IR I T U A L I S M
it was Florrie.1 She was again exposed on January 9, 1880,
by Sir George Sitwell, who also seized the 'spirit,5and found
Florrie masquerading in her underclothes. More recently,
in 1921, Miss Ada M. Bessinet, the American voice and
physical medium, was investigated in London. Her spurious
phenomena were alleged to have been produced 'subcon­
sciously.’2 Her ‘spirit lights,5 direct voice, and the ‘para­
normal5lashing of her body to the seance chair by 'spirits,5
did not impress Professor J. H. Hyslop, who tested her in
1909 and 1910.3 He concluded that the medium’s per­
formance was fraudulent, to the extent that it was done in a
state of dissociation or hysteria, for which she was not
consciously responsible. One has to be a very experienced
investigator to be able to discriminate between true and
false manifestations. Some people can never tell the
difference and that is why the 'Margery5thumb-print con­
troversy4 is still with us. In the same way, many people
believe that the freeing of Rudi Schneider’s arm5 was an
unconscious 'fraud,5and not a deliberate act.
This question of ‘subconscious fraud5is as perplexing as it
is disturbing. Many observers declare that they do not
know what is, or is not, psychic fraud. A medium may be
normally honest, but subliminally fraudulent, and it is some­
times difficult to be certain that the psychic is cheating: the
subconscious .‘fraud5 may be so like the conscious variety
that we may be unable to tell the difference, though the fact
remains that at least 99 per cent of all alleged psychic hap­
penings are fraudulent. Of course, if there is evidence of
previous preparation for fraud, the case is simplified. And
in dealing with ' obvious charlatans,5 one cannot always be
certain. Wheri Mesmer was hounded from country to
country as an impostor and adventurer, his critics little
realized that his 'animal magnetism5would be developed by
medical science into the curative hypnotism of to-day. And
Dr. Albert Abrams, whose 'magic box’ was hailed as the
'greatest medical hoax in history5 was acclaimed by high
1 See The Medium and Daybreak, January 23, 1874.
- See Psychic Science, London, Vol. I, Part 1, 1922. '1
3 Proc.f Am. S.P.R., Vol. V, New York, 1911.
T H E M E C H A N I C S OF S P I R I T U A L I S M i g i
British medical authorities as the discoverer of a real pheno­
menon.1 The ‘fraud1
2
3 of to-day can easily be the orthodox
science of to-morrow.
During the Meurig Morris action against the Daily Mail,
Sir Oliver Lodge in the witness-box said, according to The
Times report:2 61 hear about fraudulent mediums, but I have
not come across them/ Sir Oliver must have forgotten his
seance in 1931 with Mrs. Duncan, who was thoroughly
exposed that same year.
19 2 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
PHOTOGRAPHING THE SPIRITS
Sir Oliver was also unfortunate with his sittings with
William Hope (1863-1933), the fraudulent spirit photo­
grapher. I caught this man surreptitiously changing my
sensitized plates in 1922,3and he was later again thoroughly
exposed4by Mr. Fred Barlow. After my exposure of Hope,
Sir Oliver wrote me:5
*T don’t see how your proofs of Hope’s
duplicity could be more complete.5 And yet we find, in
J. Arthur Hill’s Lettersfrom Sir Oliver Lodged a reference to
Hope in a letter to Hill, dated July 29, 1929, nearly seven
years after he wrote to me. Sir Oliver says: ‘The probability
to my mindisstrongly infavour ofsimplicity andhonesty, now
that he has been going on so long.5 Which is a curious
argument.
The annals of psychical research are full of exposures of
‘spirit3 photographers. The first, William H. Mumler, of
Boston (Mass.), was prosecuted in 1868.7 He was caught out
because it was discovered that his photographs of ‘spirits’
were, in fact, those of persons who were alive. One such
‘spirit’ testified against him in court. Edouard Buguet, a
French imitator, was imprisoned in Paris in 18768 for spirit
1 See it Preliminary Communication Concerning the c
Electronic Reactions' o f Abrams,
by Sir Thomas Horder, London, 1925.
2April 13,1932.
3Journal, S.P.R., May, 1922.
4Proc.f S.P.R., Part 129, 1933; and Journal, S.P.R., July, 1933.
5April 18, 1922.
8London, 1932, p. 231.
7 The Mumler ‘Spirit* Photograph Case, New York, 1869.
8Revue Spirite, Paris, Nos. 1-12.
photograph frauds. He made a full confession. He began
using living models for his 'extras.5 When that became
too dangerous, he constructed a lay figure which he
could dress up to suit the 'spirit5which he knew his client
so longed to see. Flammarion also detected Buguet in
fraud.
Richard Boursnell (1832-1909), an English photographic
medium, was caught cheating by Usborne Moore.1 He used
the old double exposure and 'substituting the plate5method.
George H. Moss, a chauffeur, became a 'spirit photographer,’
and once photographed the 'spirit5of my 'mother/ Unfor­
tunately for Moss, Hope had alsojust recently photographed
my 'mother/ too, and there was not the slightest resemblance
between the two ladies. Moss was finally caught by Fred
Barlow, who discovered that Moss’s plates were filed at one
end so that, in the dark, he could feel which way up the
'extras5were to be placed. Inverted spirit heads would, of
course, look most inartistic in a photograph! Moss finally
signed a full confession2 that his 'spirits,5 copied from old
illustrated journals and the 'family album/ were produced
by normal means.
Among the most picturesque (see Plate I) of photographic
mediums is Mrs. Ada Emma Deane, a former charwoman,
whose 'spirit heads,5 photographed floating round the
Cenotaphon Armistice Day, were declared by the DailySketch?
to be portraits of living footballers, whose pictures had
appeared in that paper. After this exposure, no more was
heard of the Cenotaph spirits. The London 'Magic Circle5
had previously exposed her in 1922.4 Contemporary with
Mrs. Deane are two Scotch youths, Craig and George
Falconer. One oftheir'spirit heads5was found to be identical
with Albert Moore’s famous study 'Blossoms5 in the Tate
Gallery. Later, they went on a professional tour to South
Africa, were caught by the police (1931)* were convicted for
producing fraudulent spirit photographs, and each was
fined £150 and costs. They appealed and lost, the judge
remarking that the brothers 'were encouraged in their
1 Glimpses o f the Next Statet London, 1911.
2 Psychic Science, Vol. IV, pp. 229-33, London, 1925.
3Daily Sketchy London, November 13-22, 1924.
4 Report of the Occult Committee, London, May, 1922.
T H E M E C H A N I C S O F S P I R I T U A L I S M 193
O
fraud by the credulous fools who supported them.5
Apparently they are still finding ‘clients5as I noticed their
advertisement in The Greater World as recently as March 26,
1938. It stated that they have 'produced astounding evidence
of survival to all investigators;5 excepting, of course, the
Johannesburg police.1 This was almost the end of the photo­
graphic mediums. But in 1932 John Myers appeared, and
what happened to him can be read in the contemporary
psychic and lay Press.2 The principal American spirit
photographer, William M. Keeler, was exposed3 by the
late Dr. Walter F. Prince.4 I will not detail the methods
used, as there is a monotony in the modus operandi of produc­
ing these 'extras5: double exposure; 'switching5 the plates
or dark slides (or even the camera); the use of lay figures,
etc. But there would be no spirit photographs if there were
no foolish sitters to pay their guineas for them.
194 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
'materializing5methods
Reports on 'materializing5mediums during the last fifty
years in all parts of the world are riddled with exposures of
fraud. I will mention a few of those cases which are educa­
tional as well as entertaining. The classic example is that
of Charles Eldred, who travelled from seance to seance,
taking with him his 'highly magnetized5arm-chair in which
the various spirit entities materialized. It seems incredible
that a medium under test should be allowed to use his own
properties, and even his spiritualist dupes at last became
suspicious of the number and variety of 'phantoms5 which
Eldred produced. At a seance in London in 1906 both he
and his chair were seized by Dr. Abraham Wallace. It was
1 For full reports of the trial and conviction of the Falconer brothers, see the
complete files of the South African journals in the Univ. of London Library
('Harry Price Library*). See also Light, October 2, 1931.
2Sunday Dispatch, October 16, 23, 30, 1932. ‘A Charge of Fraud: Accusa­
tions against Mr. John Myers,9byJ. B. Mclndoe, in the Two Worlds, September
6, 1935; also ‘Myers Exposed Again?’ by Roy Brandon, in the Two Worlds,
October n , 1935.
3 ‘Supplementary Report on the Keeler-Lee Photographs,^Proc., Am. S.P.R.,
Vol. XIII, New York, 1919, pp. 529-87.
4 For the result of the Daily M ail inquiry into spirit photography, see The
Times, June 22, 1909.
discovered that the back of the chair was really a box, with
lock and key. In the box were found a collapsible dummy,
yards of cheese cloth and scent (for "spirit perfumes5
),
reaching rods, a musical box (for "spirit music5
), wigs and
beards, etc. (See Plate V.)1
Amongst other exposures must be mentioned that of Harry
Bastian whose "materializations5 in Vienna on February
11, 1884, were proved to be fraudulent.1
2 Frederick Fisher
Craddock was caught at Manchester in 1879. His spirit
guide "Rosetta5was found to be Craddock masquerading
in his shirt. Colonel Mark Mayhew also records3how another
spirit, "Abdullah,5was seized and found to be the medium.4
*
6
Madame d’Esperance was seized in Newcastle in 1880, mas­
querading in her underclothes as her spirit control"Yolande.5
A similar incident occurred at Helsingfors in 1893. Mrs.
J. B. Mellon (Annie Fairlamb) was exposed in Sydney by
Thomas Shekleton Henry,5 a young architect. Her "guides,5
"Cissie5 and ‘ Geordie,5 were impersonated by the masked
medium kneeling or standing. (See Plate VI.) "Dr.5
Monck, an ex-Baptist minister, was sentenced to three
months5 imprisonment in 1876 for fake materializations at
Huddersfield. He had a trunk full of "properties.5 Miss
C. E. Wood was caught cheating at Peterborough in 1882.
She was found on her knees, semi-nude, covered with muslin
and impersonating an Indian spirit "control5named "Pocka.5
In the same way Serjeant Cox exposed Miss Mary Showers
in 1894. The spirit "Florence5had her head-dress knocked
off in the scrimmage— thus revealing the medium. Charles
Williams (who "worked5with Frank Herne, another medium)
was caught out at Paris in 1874 and again at Amsterdam
in 1879. When seized, the usual beards, cheese cloth, phos-
phorized oil, etc., were found on him. Einer Nielsen, the
Danish medium, was accused of fraud at Oslo in 1922,6and
1 Sec ‘Exposure of Mr. Eldred,’ Journal, S.P.R., Vol. XII, p. 242-52.
2Einblicke in den Spiritismus, by Erzherzog Johann [Linz], 1884.
3Light, March 24 and 31, 1906.
4 See ‘Exposures of Mr. Craddock,* Journal, S.P.R., Vol. XII, pp. 266-8,
274-7. See Daily Express for May 16, 17, and June 21, 1906, for conviction of
Craddock who was fined £ 1 o at Edgware Police Court for fraudulent medium-
ship.
6Spookland, by T, Shekleton Henry, Sydney [1894].
6See Norsk Tidsskriftfor Psykisk Forskning, Oslo, for 1922, Parts 2 and 3.
T H E M E C H A N I C S OF S P I R I T U A L I S M I 9 5
again in 1932.1 I sat with Nielsen in Copenhagen, with
unsatisfactory results. William Eglinton, materializing
medium, was exposed in London by Archdeacon Colley
and again in Munich. Dr. Hodgson also accused him of
conspiring with H. P. Blavatsky in producing Theosophical
'miracles.9
2
196 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
THE REGURGITATION THEORY
One of the most amazing exposures of 'materializing9
methods was that of Mrs. Helen Duncan. In 1931 she sat
at the National Laboratory of Psychical Research. She
gave us five seances, which cost us £50. Among the obser­
vers were Mrs. A. Peel Goldney, Professor J. C. Flugel,
Professor W. McDougall, Dr. William Brown, Professor
D. F. Fraser-Harris, etc. Although this woman was medi­
cally examined and enclosed in our own one-piece garment,
she was able to secrete yards of cheese cloth with which she
impersonated 'Albert,9 ‘Peggy,9 and other 'spirits.9 (See
Plate I.) I took a large number of photographs of the
cheese-cloth phantoms and all show the warp and weft of
the material, selvedge, creases and even dirt marks. Other
things which appeared in the photographs were rubber
gloves, safety-pins, and cut-out heads from magazine covers.
The question arose 'How did she secrete these “ proper­
ties9
9
?9 The only part of her anatomy which the doctors
could not explore was her stomach, and we came to the
conclusion—which I am certain is the correct one— that she
possesses an (esophageal diverticulum or secondary stomach,
into which she swallowed the cheese cloth, etc., to be
regurgitated at leisure. Such cases are well known.3 We
published a long illustrated report4 on this woman. After it
was issued, her former maid, Miss Mary McGinlay, came
to us and, before a Commissioner for Oaths, supported our
theory concerning regurgitation.5 Mrs, Duncan was later
1 See Copenhagen Press for April, 1932.
2Proc., S.P.R., Vol. Ill, 1885, p. 254.
3See ‘Diagnosis and Surgical Treatment of Esophageal Diverticula. Report
of Eight Cases,’ by Charles H. Mayo, in Annals of Surgery, June, 1910.
4‘Regurgitation and the Duncan Mediumship,’ by Harry Price. Bulletin I,
Nat. Lab. Psychical Research, London, 1931.
5 Her ‘Declaration* was published as an Appendix to the Duncan Report.
(May ii, 1933) convicted1 at Edinburgh for fraudulent
mediumship (her undervest was the espirit3
) and fined £10
or a month’s imprisonment. After the conviction the
Spiritualists’ National Union gave her a vote of confidence
(July 1, 1933) and her "diploma’ was renewed.2 It may
seem strange that a stomach should be put to such uses, but
"ectoplasm’ (i.e. cotton wool, cheese cloth, etc.) and small
"apports’ have been found secreted in rectum, vagina, and
prepuce of various mediums.
Another recent conviction of a materializing medium was
the case of Clive Holmes, who was charged at Greenwich
Police Court on June 16, 1937, with obtaining four shillings
(the charge made for a seance) by false pretences. A Mrs.
V. B. Evens and her son attended one of Holmes’s seances
at which the spirit "White Moose’ appeared. Mr. Evens
flashed his torch on the "spirit,’ which was alleged to be none
other than Holmes himself, dressed in white muslin. After
several adjournments the magistrate, Mr. L. R. Dunne
(July 21, 1937), sentenced Holmes to four months in the
second division. The medium appealed, and lost.3 The
latest "materializing’ exposure is that of Mrs. Elizabeth
Grover, who, when the light was switched on, was "discovered
in her underclothes draped with wet butter muslin, with a
calico bandage round her head.’4 She signed a confession
to the effect that she "fraudulently produced the materialized
form of ""Albert Stewart” and others.’5 She was making
"something like £20 per week.’6
America has produced many fakers and amongst the most
amusing exposures must be mentioned that of Mr. and Mrs.
Thompson, who "materialized’ the ‘ mother’ of Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle. Sir Arthur was present and, according to the
article,7 embraced his "mother.’ Leonard J. Hartman, the
pastor of a spiritualist church, wrote the report. A few days
after the Doyle seance, the Thompsons were seized at another
1 Daily Telegraph, May 12, 1933, and Scots papers of same date.
2 Two Worlds, Manchester, July 14, 1933.
3See The Times and Daily M ail for June 17 and July 22, 1937.
4 Two Worlds, August 12, 1938.
6 Ibid., August 12, 1938.
0Ibid., August 26, 1938, p. 536.
7 ‘How the Mediums “Brought Back” Sir Conan Doyle’s Dead Mother,’
New Tork Sunday American, September 3, 1922.
T H E M E C H A N I C S OF S P I R I T U A L I S M 197
sitting by two police officers. The usual masks, wigs, chiffon,
musical box and scent-spray were found on them. They
were convicted and fined.
19 8 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
THE eSCIENTIFIC AMERICAN5INQUIRY
In 1922 the Scientific American launched an inquiry into
psychic matters, based largely on my exposure of Hope.
Among those tested was George Valiantine, well-known
voice and physical medium, who entered for the Scientific
American prize of $2,500, to be awarded to any medium pro­
ducing a physical phenomenon under test conditions.
Valiantine was charged with fraud. At the final sitting, in
complete darkness, on May 26, 1923, special apparatus was
installed. This was an electrical circuit which included the
chair on which the medium sat. When the medium rose
from his seat, a light went out in an adjoining room. Dicta­
phone notes were taken of all that occurred. It was found
that Valiantine left his chair fifteen times (when he should
have been in it), sometimes for as long as eighteen seconds,
and that these periods corresponded with those when the
sitters were touched by the 'spirits.51 Other mediums who
were tested included the Rev. Josie K. Stewart, a woman who
produced ‘supernormal5writing on cards; Mrs. Thompson,
materializing medium; and Nino Pecoraro.1
2 They were all
exposed. The reader has already learnt how 'Margery5
fared in this investigation.
Valiantine was in London in 1925 and I had one seance
with him. He was then producing voice phenomena. At
this particular seance, held at the house of Mr. Dennis
Bradley, the spirit of Luigi Arditi (the composer) was
alleged to manifest. I took down all that 'Arditi5 said and
afterwards discovered that every sentence was identical with
those I found in Bradshaw’s Complete Anglo-Italian Phrase-
1 Seeissues ofthz ScientificAmerican, New York, from October, 1922 toJanuary,
1923; and ‘Untold Facts Behind Scientific American’s Psychic Probe!* by
Austin C. Lescarboura in True Mystic Science, Minneapolis, November, 1938.
See also Daily Express, London, May 28, 1923 (article, ‘Spirits with a Punch*).
2See The Medium who Admits he is a Fake, by Jack Alexander, St. Louis,
U.S.A., 1931.
Book and Jasdike’s English-Italian Dictionary. Not a comma
had been altered.1 Dennis Bradley had many sittings with
Valiantine, but in 1931, in some experiments for finger­
print impressions (d la Margery) Bradley found that the
thumb-print of the spirit ‘ Conan Doyle’ coincided with
Valiantine’s right big toe, and a print from the spirit thumb
of Lord Dewar exactly matched that of the medium’s left
big toe. An indelible dye had been painted on the substance
to be impressed, and this same dye was found on the medium’s
feet and elbow.2
Another voice medium whom I detected was Frederick
Tansley Munnings, an ex-burglar. 1 had invented a piece of
testing apparatus which I called the Voice Control Recorder.
Munnings tried hard to beat the machine, but failed. We
heard the voices o f‘Julius Caesar,’ ‘Dan Leno,’ ‘ Crippen’ and
‘Henry VIII,’ but the machine proved that it was Munnings
speaking. He finally sold his ‘confessions’ to a Sunday paper.3
Voice mediums under test have usually done badly. Mrs.
Susannah Harris, an American, was investigated in Oslo in
1920, when twenty-five sittings were held. The final report
was, to put it mildly, very uncomplimentary.4 This account
of unsatisfactory voice mediums could be extended inde-
definitely. Another unsatisfactory seance was that held at
61, North Gate Mansions, Regent’s Park, on May 27, 1938,
with Mr. Colin Evans. This medium claims that, in com­
plete darkness, he is ‘levitated.’ Mrs. A. Peel Goldney, Mrs.
Henry Richards and others were convinced that at this
particular test no levitation took place and the cheque paid
to the medium was returned to the sitters.5
1 The detailed analysis of this case can be found in Price’s Leaves From a
Psychisfs Case-Book, pp. 307-15.
3 Bradley tells the whole story in . . . And After (London, 1931). See also
‘Tricks of a Famous Medium Exposed: Finger-Prints of the Dead Faked/ in
the Daily Express, September 21, 1931. The complete history of Valiantine’s
activities has been summed up (1933) by Mrs. W. H. Salter: ‘The History of
George Valiantine/ Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XL, pp. 389-410.
3 ‘My Confessions: How I Produced “Spirit Voices”/ hatht People, February
5 to May 13, 1928. See also ‘The Case of Mr. Moss and Mr. Munnings’,
Journal, S.P.R., Vol. XXIII, pp. 71-5.
4 See Light, May 1, 1920.
c A photograph of an alleged psychic levitation of this mediumwas published
in the Daily Mirror, June 13, 1938. See also Photography for January, 1939.
How photographs can be obtained of a man assumed to be levitating, but in
reality jumping, is graphically recorded (with illustrations) in Proc., S.P.R.,
Vol. XLV, Part 158, pp. 196-8.
T H E M E C H A N I C S OF S P I R I T U A L I S M 199
200 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
SLATE-WRITING 'MIRACLES5
For some reason I have been unable to fathom, British
slate-writing mediums are, and have been, almost non­
existent. This particular 'spirit5 technique is peculiarly
American, and every exponent who consented to be tested
scientifically has come to grief.
The great spirit slate-writer was cDr.5Henry Slade, who
visited London in 1876 and impressed a number of spiri­
tualists and others. Professor Ray Lankester secured a sitting
with him, saw how the trick was done, and published his
exposure in The Times.1He then charged Slade with having
swindled him. (See Plate VII.) The case was heard at
Bow Street Police Court on October 1, 1876, and the medium
was sentenced to three months’ hard labour. Owing to some
legal flaw in the indictment, the sentence was quashed and
before Ray Lankester could issue a fresh summons, Slade
fled to the Continent.1
2 He was often exposed,3and his tricks
have been published in full by John W. Truesdell.45 These
tricks include the substitution of slates already written on
for blank ones examined by the sitter; the writing on one
side of a slate held flat to the underside of a table by the two
thumbs of the medium (the remaining eight fingers being
above the table), who has cemented a tiny piece of slate-
pencil or chalk to the nail of one thumb, with which he can
easily write the 'spirit message5; the surreptitious addition, to
a pile of examined slates, of an unexamined one bearing a
'message,5 and so on. Another notorious slate-writing
medium was P. L. O. A. Keeler, who was exposed by Dr.
W. F. Prince in a brilliant monograph.6 Another means of
producing spontaneous writing on slates is by means of
chemicals. When first written, the words are quite invisible,
and the slate can be freely examined. In a few minutes the
writing appears and the sitter is duly impressed. Finally,
1 September 16, 1876.
2Where he impressed J. G. F. Zollner, the astronomer. See his Transcen­
dental Physics, London, 1880.
3 See Boston Herald\ February 2, 1886.
— * The Bottom Facts Concerning the Science o f Spiritualism, New York, 1883.
5P r o c Am. S.P.R., New York, Vol. XV, pp. 315-592.
there are mechanical slates. I have a pair, which I bought
for £8 from an American medium, which are marvels of
mechanism. The slates can be handled by the victim, or
even left in his possession: he would never discover the secret.
Yet, at will, the four blank sides can be filled with any
'spirit9 writing desired, in various colours, even when being
held by the sitter. The secret is that the centres of the slates are
in duplicate. Pressure on a certain spot of the frame allows
one flap to fall, instantly and silently, into the frame of the
other slate, where it is automatically locked. Both inside
surfaces of the slates are then covered with writing. The
slates can then be turned over and the operation repeated,
making four sides of writing. Any reader sufficiently in­
terested in slate-writing tricks should read the exhaustive
work1 by 'Chung Ling Soo9 (i.e. William Ellsworth
Robinson).
T H E M E C H A N I C S OF S P I R I T U A L I S M 201
APPORTS AND PSYCHIC LIGHTS
Very few serious investigators of to-day accept 'apports9
(i.e. the spontaneous appearance at a stance of solid objects)
but there have been some famous apport mediums. The
Australian, Charles Bailey, specialized in such things as live
animals, scarabs, and exotic antiques. He was often exposed.
At Grenoble on February 20, 1910, two live birds 'material­
ized9 at a seance. But the birds were recognized by the
local dealer who supplied them to the medium. There was
another scandal in Sydney in 1914.2 I have already men­
tioned in Chapter I the 'apports9of Lajos Pap,3Anna Rothe,
Heinrich Melzer, and Hilda Lewis.4 All these mediums
were exposed.
Another woman medium who fared badly was Mrs.
Baylis. She was tested by Dennis Bradley, who published a
scathing report6concerning her. A famous physical medium,
Stanislawa P., was exposed in Paris by Dr. Eugene Osty,
1 Spirit Slate Writing and Kindred Phenomena, New York and London, 1899.
2For accounts of Bailey’s work in England, see Journal, S.P.R., Vol. XII
pp. 7*7—
88, 109-18; and Vol. XV, pp. 194-208.
3See page 30; see also T Expose the Shams of Spiritualism,3 by Nandor
Fodor, in the Leader, London, October 15, 1938, pp. 28-30.
4 Ibid., pp. 29-30.
6 ‘Another Unsatisfactory Stance,* Light) November 26, 1927.
202 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
who, by means of an automatic camera, photographed her
in flagrante delicto.1The picture shows her making a 'tele­
kinetic3movement with her hand.
Another physical medium, Clemens Kraus {pseudr. e
Karl
Weber5
) was exposed in Vienna by Professor Hans Thirring
in November, 1924. In his report2 Kraus’s tricks are des­
cribed and illustrated. Kraus afterwards wrote his ' confes­
sions,3
3 the MS. and copyright of which were purchased by
me. One of Kraus’s tricks pictured by Professor Thirring
shows the medium, in the dark, lifting a heavy table com­
pletely off the floor by means of his head. His hands and feet
were fully controlled. Still another materializing medium,
Harold Evans (a Britisher) was exposed by a panel formed
by the Sunday Chronicle. Professor Julian Huxley, Professor
A. M. Low, Dr. Harold Dearden, Miss Estelle Stead and
others were thejudges. Evans was found to be masquerading
in a white nightshirt, which was seized.4
Baron von Schrenck-Notzing exposed a number of
physical mediums including Oskar Schlag, Kraus, and
Ladislaus Laszlo,6 the latter a Hungarian. At the time of
his death the Baron had just completed a MS. Gefalschte
Wunder: Kraus-Laszlo-Schlag, a work dealing with the tricks
of the above mediums. Lucia Sordi, an Italian medium,
claimed to be able to cdematerialize’ herself from the inside
of a locked cage. She was tested by Schrenck, who was im­
pressed with the way in which she escaped from her prison
until he found that a wooden block, the exact size of her
head, could be squeezed between the bars of the cage.6 These
'matter through matter’ miracles are part of the stock-in-
trade of many physical mediums. When Slade was in
Leipzig he convinced Zollner that he was able to pass a
sealed loop of cord through a solid wooden ring.7 This
'proof’ of Zollner’s theory of the 'fourth dimension’ caused
1 See Revue Mitapsychique, Paris, for November-December, 1930.
2 ‘Psychical Research in Vienna,’ Journal, Am. S.P.R., December 1925,
pp. 690-707.
3Abstract was published in the Berliner Illustrierte Zeitung, December 25,1932.
4 See ‘Amazing Exposure of a Famous Medium,’ Sunday Chronicle, October
3T
>1926.
6See *Der Betrug des Mediums Ladislaus Laszlo,’ Psychische Studien, Leipzig,
March, 1924, pp. 129-60.
6Luce e Ombra, Rome, November, 1910.
7 Transcendental Physics.
much controversy.1 The trick is now well known and is
worked as follows: the knot is a faked one in which is hidden
a tiny threaded brass tapered socket. To one end of the
cord is glued a tiny tapered brass screw. This end can be
screwed into the knot at will, and as it buries itself in the
knot, the deception is absolutely indetectable. I have a
specimen which I have even loaned to people who have never
found the secret. Yet, with hands behind my back, I was able
to remove the ring from the cord— or put it on— in a few
seconds. In the same way, Cecil Husk claimed, by psychic
means, to pass on to his arm a solid forged iron ring
apparently much too small to encircle his hand. The S.P.R.
demonstrated that by using a local anaesthetic on his hand
the feat could be performed without recourse to the spirits.2
Jean Guzik, whom I exposed3 in Warsaw in 1923, also
declared that he could cause solid objects to pass spon­
taneously into locked boxes, though he never had the
temerity to show me this particular wonder. However, he
did show me (in the dark) his efiery Pithecanthropus3
— his
own hand in a stocking dabbed with two phosphorus ‘eyes.9
T H E M E C H A N I C S OF S P I R I T U A L I S M 2 0 3
MEDIUM OF THE RUE CHRISTINE
In the summer of 1936 I happened to break my journey
at Ostend on the way home from Germany. I was strolling
down the Rue Christine one hot evening when I noticed
outside a shop a board which informed me, in English,
French and Flemish, that a medium was ‘operating9there
nightly. Admission, 25 francs. I looked at my watch and
found the show was due to begin in twenty minutes, at eight
o’clock precisely. I clambered up the short flight of wooden
stairs leading to the first-floor room over the shop, where the
seance was due to be held. A warm welcome from a blowsy-
looking female greeted each sitter, who was asked for his
fee, even before he seated himself.
1 See Gemeinfassliche, Leicht Controlirbare Losung der Aufgabe: 'In ein ringfdrmig
geschlossenes Band einen Knoten zu machen9 . . . *by Oscar Simony, Wien, 1881.
2 See P r o c S.P.R., Vol. Ill, 1885, pp. 460-3.
3 ‘Some Impressions of Jean Guzik and his Phenomena,* by Harry Price,
Light, September 29, 1923.
The seance room was a small one and the medium— of the
typical Belgian mechanic class— was seated with his back
to the only window, over which, just before the seance began,
curtains were drawn, excluding all light. The sitters sat
round him in a semicircle. In front of the medium was a
table supporting a tambourine, a toy trumpet, and a small
accordion. The sitters— most of them of the usual rather
unintelligent sort who frequent seances— were asked to search
the medium and lash him to his chair. Two men volun­
teered. They turned out the man’s pockets very thoroughly,
and made a good job of roping the Belgian. Then the light
was switched off and we were left in complete darkness.
The stance had hardly begun when the female I have
mentioned complained of the heat in the room, and leaving
her place in the circle, went over in the dark to the window,
which she opened a few inches at the bottom, again closing
the curtains.
Then the entertainment began: the tambourine was flung
across the room; the trumpet was blown and an air was
played on the accordion— to the excited plaudits of the
sitters. Then the man’s ‘spirit control,’ whose name I forget
(it was, of course, one of the over-worked Red Indian
‘guides’) spoke in broken English— obviously for the benefit
of the Britishers who were present. Then a small luminous
cross was seen floating near where we knew the medium was
sitting, and the performance finished with a shower of
sparkling ‘spirit lights’, which spluttered hither and thither
from somewhere behind the medium, who, it was seen, was
now almost entirely free from his bonds. The room lights
were then switched on and, the stance having ended, the
sitters departed.
But I stayed on for a few minutes. Most of the per­
formance was rather silly, and a poor imitation of the
Davenport Brothers’ feats. But the lights intrigued me,
especially the luminous cross. I wondered how he obtained
them, as he was really well searched. The woman had now
drawn back the curtains and flung the window wide open.
Then the whole thing was apparent. Outside the window
was a long box containing plants. On the top of the soil was
a heap of large beach pebbles to weight the box in order to
20 4 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
prevent the wind from blowing it over. I walked to the
window and soon found what I anticipated— a large pebble
covered with fulminating paste, which was hardly dis­
tinguishable from its fellows. This pebble, rubbed against a
hard object, produced a percussive flash, such as we had
seen. The next day I saw children playing on the Digue
with something similar.
The medium and his wife watched me with some interest,
if not alarm. Would I demand my money back, or inform
the police? I did neither, but had an interesting chat with
them instead, explaining who I was. They admitted that
the whole show was, well, just a show, and said that if they
were to run a boarding-house, they would be fleecing the
visitors just the same. As I anticipated, when the woman
opened the window just after the seance began, she picked
the fulminating pebble, and another, from off the window-
box and passed them to her husband. The luminous cross,
I learned, was painted on the sole of the marts rightfoot, which
he just waved round and round in the dark. The conversa­
tion was becoming most interesting, with an interchange of
professional secrets, when we discovered it was nearly nine
o’clock, the time advertised for the next seance. As I
wended my way to the Kursaal to watch the gambling, an
urchin thrust a bill in my hand. It read: Votre mainparle . . .
la revelation de votre destines. Chaque ligne de votre main marque
unfait important dans votre vie. . . . Prix 25 francs. But I had
had enough of 'psychics5for one night, and I knew that the
only cpalms5the Ostend mediums were really interested in
were those containing good Belgian fiancs.
T H E M E C H A N I C S O F S P I R I T U A L I S M 205
MEDIUMS5CONFESSIONS
I could fill this entire volume with accounts of fraudulent
mediums, their exposures, and their confessions. And my
list would not include the thousands of fortune-tellers who
have fallen into the hands of the police.
Most fraudulent mediums confess when they are in a tight
corner in order to save themselves from possible legal pro­
ceedings. Some, more honest, get sick of the whole business,
and confess their frauds in order to ease their conscience.1 In
1891, in America, a sensation was caused by the publication2
of The Revelations of a Spirit Medium. In that same year it
was 'entered according to Act of Congress in the Office of
the Librarian of Congress at Washington.5 That is, it was
copyrighted. And that is all we know definitely about the
book. The author was either Donovan, Charles F. Pidgeon,
Frank N. Foster, or Mansfield, and bibliophiles have not yet
decided which. But the work itself is a brilliant and detailed
expose of most of the tricks used by fraudulent mediums, who
bought up all the copies they could find and destroyed them.
The book is now of the extremest rarity. During a lifetime’s
collecting of rare books on magic I have found only three
copies. One of these I sacrificed in order that a facsimile
edition3 could be produced by the anastatic process. This
was edited by Dr. E. J. Dingwall and myself.
Another work, also anonymous (though supposed to have
been written by Chapman), appeared in London in 1882
under the title of Confessions of a Medium: and a series of
articles. Confessions of a Bogus Medium: How I Made £1,000
a Year by Faked Seances was published by a weekly journal.4
It is well worth reading.
2 o 6 f i f t y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
THE BEARE SENSATION
The most sensational confession by a medium during the
past fifty years was that of Charles Albert Beare, the trance
and trumpet medium and psychometrist. It was in 1920
that Mr. Beare first began to take a serious interest in
spiritualism, after having practised conjuring tricks. He
joined a spiritualist organization called the Temple of Light
and soon blossomed out into a full-blown 'medium.5
After a few years Beare became thoroughly sick of the
whole business and, to ease his mind, made a full confession.
1 For example, that of Douglas Blackburn, whose 'Confessions of a Famous
Medium’ appeared in John Bull, December 5, 1908 to January 9, 1909.
2By Farrington & Go., St. Paul, Minn., U.S.A.
3Revelations o f a Spirit Medium; or, Spiritualistic Mysteries Exposed. With Notes,
Bibliography, Glossary and Index. Ed. by Harry Price and E. J. Dingwall, London,
1922. (Sec. Ed., 1930.)
4 In the World*s Pictorial News, London, beginning February 20, 1920.
This was published in the Daily Express1for September 18,
1931. The interview makes remarkable reading. Beare
says: C
I have deceived hundreds of people. . . . I have been
guilty of fraud and deception in spiritualistic practices by
pretending that I was controlled by a spirit guide. . . . I am
frankly and whole-heartedly sorry that I have allowed myself
to deceive people. . . . I believe that when they read my full
and frank confession they will forgive me for the way I have
deceived them, and I am convinced that spiritualists could
not do better than clear their own ranks of the fraud and
deception which I know exist in the greater part of these
practices!5
An amusing feature of Beare5
s 'mediumship5 is that he
received a 'Diploma of Genuineness3 (reproduced in fac­
simile by the Daily Express) from the Temple of Light. The
certificate reads: 'This is to certify that Mr. G. A. Beare . . .
has duly established, before the Board of Examiners, his claim
to possess certain Spiritual Gifts, to wit: Clairvoyance and
Psychometry . . . and the said person named herein was
deemed to have successfully demonstrated such gifts to the
satisfaction ofthe Board and is hereby passedas an Authorized
Medium.5
Beare had to possess a 'spirit guide,5 so he called it
'Shauna,5 a Greek supposed to have lived 130 years ago.
Sometimes the exotic 'Shauna5 was a professor, sometimes
a sheik— according to circumstances. Beare says: 'I used a
sort of gibberish . . . anything that came into my head . . .
in a muddled way. It was all for effect, but it usually went
down all right.5 Occasionally, the sitters declared that they
could see 'Shauna5standing behind him.
On November 4, 1931, I persuaded Beare to address the
members of the National Laboratory of Psychical Research.
His talk, 'Adventures of a Pseudo-Medium5was very amus­
ing. He told us how he used to speak down the trumpet,
and he gave us imitations of 'Shauna5 talking 'Greek.5
When asked why he finally gave up his ‘mediumship,5
Beare replied: 'Because I got absolutely disgusted with what
I saw and with myself!5
1 ‘Medium’s Amazing Confession. . . Stance Frauds/ in the Daily Express,
September iB, 1931, pp. 1 and a.
T H E M E C H A N I C S OF S P I R I T U A L I S M 207
2 0 8 f i f t y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
'gambols with the ghosts9
In order to produce their 'psychic9tricks, the less clever
fakers have to rely on those persons who sell apparatus and
'secrets’ to professional mediums. The existence of these
mediums9supply houses is denied by those in the business,
and I believe it is a fact that very few mediums in this
country (where physical phenomena are rare) know of such
places. But they do exist, and their proprietors loan out
catalogues to those mediums in want of some new spiritualis­
tic effect. Again, it is strenuously denied that such cata­
logues exist, or have existed.
Well, these catalogues do exist (See Plate VIII), but only
just! They are issued on loan to only a chosen few, and they
are so excessively rare that during a lifetime’s search for a
specimen, it was only during the production of this work
that I came into possession of a copy, the only one in Great
Britain. This was in the records of Mr. William Marriott,
the well-known illusionist and veteran arch-debunker of
'spirit9fakes, who kindly presented it to me. I know of only
one copy in America, in the collection ofJohn Mulholland,
- who quotes extracts in his Beware Familiar Spirits1
And now having at last obtained a copy of this almost
unprocurable brochure, the least I can do is to tell my
readers something about it. The title is: Gambols with the
Ghosts. Mind Reading, Spiritualistic Effects, Mental and Psychical
Phenomena and Horoscopy. It was issued in 1901 by Ralph
E. Sylvestre & Co., of 25, Ashland Boulevard, Chicago, a
firm 'Established in 1870.9 On a label attached to the title-
page is printed: ' Return to Geo. L. Williams & Co., Sole
Agents, Syracuse, Indiana.’ Apparently Williams issued
these catalogues for private circulation among mediums,
who had to return to him the list when goods had been
selected. The miracles for sale in the copy I possess are
catalogued 101-70. The 'effects’ (but not the secrets!)
are well illustrated by clever drawings, and the catalogue
runs to forty pages.
In an introductory note 'To our Friends and Patrons,9
1 New York and Loudon, 1938,
Mr. Sylvestre writes: 'Our experience during the past thirty
years in supplying mediums and others with the peculiar
effects in this line enable us to place before you only those
which are practical and of use, nothing that you have to
experiment with. All of our effects are equally suitable for
ladies or gentlemen except where mentioned. We wish you
to thoroughly appreciate that, while we do not, for obvious
reasons, mention the names of our clients and their work
(they being kept in strict confidence, the same as a physician
treats his patients), we can furnish you with the explanation
and, where necessary, the materials for the production of
any known public “ tests” or “ phenomena” not mentioned
in this, our latest list. You are aware that our effects are being
used by nearly all prominent mediums . . . of the entire world,1
and
you can, therefore, be assured of receiving fraternal and
honest treatment in all transactions. . . . There are, as you
are aware, sporadic attempts at exposure of mediums, and
of slurs in the press at the same and at ourselves. We do not
countenance or support the former and utterly ignore the
latter. In our mental feats are found much to ponder over,
and prove the truth of the immortal Goethe’s history of the
friendly philosophers in his wonderful work on Electoral
Affinities, while in our mechanical appliances the work is
absolutely faultless.’
T H E M E C H A N I C S O F S P I R I T U A L I S M 209
CHEAP MIRACLES
And now for the effects themselves. For one dollar you
can purchase a simple slate-writing miracle (instructions
only): fiAny ordinary single or double slate is examined, -
thoroughly washed, and either held by sitter or hung to
chandelier for a few moments; when opened a message is
found thereon.’ Another slate-writing feat Tor close circles,’
which will provide answers to 'questions asked by investi­
gators,’ cost only $1.50. For the same sum you can produce
'Instantaneous Spirit Writing,’ the 'recent invention of a
prominent English medium.’ The modus operandi is that 'the
medium asks for a visiting card of anyone present, and holds
it up in full view in one hand, and while waving the card
1 My italics.
about slowly he asks for the name of any celebrity or person,
living or dead. On same being pronounced, he at once
hands card for inspection and the selected name is found
written thereon.9 Surely a cheap miracle for only $1.50.
Other slate-writing phenomena, even more miraculous, are
priced as high as $10.00 each.
The first requisite for a fake physical medium starting in
business is, of course, the humble but useful reaching-rod.
Mr. Sylvestre sells them: cTelescopic Reaching Rod. A
very useful article for mediums working in the dark. They
go in pocket and extend from four to six feet . . . will pick
up or bring to you any ordinary small object, float a guitar,
etc., $4.oo.5 The guitar mentioned is a self-playing one:
indispensable for mediums. Finely finished Guitars. In
dark seances they play without medium’s hands touching
them. Price $25.00.’
210 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
C onvincing’ spooks
No dark seance is complete without a materialization or
two. As Mr. Sylvestre himself says: 6
For all materializing
mediums, the production of luminous hands or faces is a
sine qud non for their success. We furnish you complete with
explicit directions for the making and production of same,
or furnish them complete and ready for use as desired. Also
draperies, head-dresses, and ornaments of the finest quality
known. $5.00 to $25.00.’ For full-form apparitions the
price is, of course, higher: 'Luminous Materialistic Ghosts
and Forms. All kinds and sizes. Full luminous female form
and dress (with face that convinces) which can be produced
in ordinary room or circle, appears gradually, floats about
room and disappears. $50.00.’
The mental medium is not forgotten. Mr. Sylvestre will
supply 'Clairvoyant and Psychic Readings for Private
Sittings.’ The system is sold to billet-readers, 'under certain
written conditions only,’ and costs $25.00. The effect is
described as follows: 'The sitter enters the medium’s parlour
and is seated anywhere. He is requested to write his ques­
tions on an ordinary piece of paper, and keep same in his
possession, the medium is not necessarily present during the
writings, yet he, in a few seconds, is in full knowledge of
what was written, although he does not handle or touch the
paper on which questions were written. . . . We wish to
impress upon you that in this there is nothing used that has
been made use of in somewhat similar effects in times past.’
I wonder! Mr. Sylvestre must have forgotten his classics,
or he would have remembered that the famous impostor and
false prophet Alexander the Paphlagonian, of Abonou-
teichos (the modern Ineboli) in Asia Minor, established an
oracle of the snake-god Glycon-Asclepius and he, too, gave
answers to sealed messages, but was not always successful.1
Alexander, who ‘flourished’ about a .d . 150, must surely
have been the first fake billet-reader in history. Lucian the
Satirist has left us an amusing and detailed record of his
‘psychic’ frauds, his ‘intelligence bureau’ in Rome, etc.
But to return to Gambols with the Ghosts. In Mr. Sylvestre’s
fascinating catalogue you will find details and prices of spirit
jugs; trick ropes for binding mediums; ‘matter through
matter’ effects; fire tests; fake padlocks, bolts, handcuffs,
benches, shackles and staples; mechanical and self-rapping
tables, chairs, bells, hands and skulls; fake spirit sacks, bags
and trunks; rapping tests ‘as used by D. D. Home’; mind-
reading, clairvoyant, second sight and psychometry tests
(one of the latter having been reduced from $100.00 to
$25.00) and complete mesmeric and hypnotic shows, etc.
Then of course there are the incidentals necessary to every
good physical medium, such as luminous paint, spirit robes,
pasteboard hands, rubber ‘spirits,’ etc. Finally, for the
youngster just starting out in the world and wishing to make
good, there is the ‘ Complete Spiritualistic Stance,’ which
includes spirit slate-writing, table turning, rapping, and lift­
ing, sealedletter reading, fire-resisting effects (such ashandling
heated lamp chimneys or holding handkerchiefs in a naked
flame without burning)— all for $25.00, ‘ express charges
prepaid’ to any address. Now we know what to do with
our sons!
My only comment on this precious catalogue is that
1 Like the fake billet-reader of to-day, he used heated needles for surrep­
titiously removing seals from closed missives. (See Lucian’s Alexander).
T H E M E C H A N I C S OF S P I R I T U A L I S M 211
although Mr. Sylvestre reveals no secrets, practically all the
effects are explained in The Revelations of a Spirit Medium,
published anonymously in 1891 and written by a medium
(either Donovan, Charles F. Pidgeon, Frank N. Foster
or J. V. Mansfield) who suddenly 'got religion3and 'blew
the gaff5with a vengeance.
Mr. Mulholland became friendly with one of these
mediums5outfitters, and was permitted to examine his books.
Out of 2,000 customers, he recognized the names of several
famous American mediums. In his book, my friend also
reproduces an advertisement giving the current prices of
'certificates of ordination3for mediums. One can become
a 'reverend3 for $10.00, a 'D.D.3for $5.00, and a 'bishop5
for five times that sum. These ordinations are cheap at the
price, as under American law, the clergy can travel at special
fares on the railroads.
212 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
THE ONLY REMEDY
The only remedy for all the fraud, humbug, and deception
exemplified in this chapter is to examine and register pro­
fessional mediums and control their activities in some way.
The curse of fraudulent mediumship can be met only by
legislation. To this end I have designed a Bill,1 which I hope
will some day reach the Statute Book. I have had the
assistance of Mr. Gordon Alehin, the distinguished barrister,
who has drafted the Bill for Parliament, where, in due
course, it will be presented and sponsored by a well-known
lawyer M.P. The Bill will have the effect of stimulating
scientific investigation and will confer upon the genuine
medium a cachet he could not otherwise obtain. Conversely,
the professional fraudulent medium will find his nefarious
trade both difficult and dangerous. It will also make
spiritualism 'respectable5 in the eyes of the public. If the
Psychic Practitioners (.Regulation) Bill ever becomes law, we
shall hear much less of the seamy side of spiritualism.
1 See Appendix G.
CHAPTER XII
THE LAW AND THE MEDIUM
I
T is fortunate for modern mediums, genuine and other­
wise, that they ply their trade in the reign of George VI,
and not, for example, in the days of Henry VIII. In this
reign a law,1 An Acte condnyng Egypsyans (i.e. gypsies), was
passed which provided the severest punishments for 'fortune­
telling5 and similar offences. Anyone using 'greate subtyll
and crafty meanes to deceyve the people, beryng them in
hande, that they by Palmestre coulde telle menne and
women’s fortunes, and so many tymes by crafte and subtyltie
have deceyved the people of theyr money’ was to leave the
country within sixteen days of the proclamation. The next
Act2also penalized, to the extent of £40, any person convey­
ing into England such ‘Egiptians,5who, after a sojourn of one
month, automatically became felons. During the reign of
Elizabeth an Act3 was directed ‘ agaynst fonde and phan-
tasticall Prophesys’— especially when these concerned the
death of the monarch.
In 1597, another Elizabethan Act:4An Actefor Punishment
ofRogues, Vagabonds, andSturdie Beggers, increased the punish­
ments for what we should now call ‘mediumship.5 For
instance, it applied to ‘All idle persons going about in any
countrey either begging or using any subtile craft, of fayning
themselves to have knowledge in Physiognomic, Palmestry,
or other like crafty science, or pretending that they can tell
destinies, fortunes, or such other like fantasticall imagina­
tions. . . . And all such persons not being felons, wandering
and pretending themselves to be Egyptians, or wandering
in the habite, forme, or attire of counterfeite Egyptians, shall
1 22 Hy. VIII, c. 10 and 11 (1530-1).
2 1 and 2 Ph. and M., C. 4.
35 Eliz. c. 15.
4Of the two known copies of the original, one is in the ‘Harry Price Library
of Magical Literature,’ University of London.
213
be taken, adjudged and deemed Rogues, Vagabonds, and
sturdy beggers, and shall susteine such paine and punish­
ments, as by this Acte is in that behalfe appointed.5
2 1 4 f i f t y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
transportation for fortune-tellinc
Any person convicted under the above Act shall 'bee
striped naked from the middle upwards, and shall be openly
whipped until his or her body be bloudy: and shall be forth­
with sent from Parish to Parish, by the Officers of every the
same, the next straight way to the Parish where lice was
borne. . . . After which whipping the said person shall have
a testimonial subscribed with the hand, and Sealed . . .
mentioning the day and place of his or her punishment, and
the place whereunto such person is limitted to goe, and by
what time the said person is limited to passe thither at his
perill. And if the said person through his or her default do
not accomplish the order appointed by the said tcstimoniall,
then to be eftsoones taken and whipped, and so as often as
any default shall be found in him or her, contrary to the
forme of this Statute, in every place to be whipped till such
person be repayred to the place limited.3
Should the fortune-teller or 'Egyptian5 'appeare to bee
dangerous to the inferior sort of people where they shall be
taken, or otherwise be such as will not be reformed of their
rogish kind of life/ they shall 'be banished out of this
Realme . . . and conveyed into such parts beyond the seas
. . . or otherwise be judged perpetually to the Galleis of this
Realme. . . . And if any such Rogue so banished as afore­
said shall returne againe into any part of this Realme or
dominion of Wales, without lawfull licence, such offence
shall be felony, and the partie offending therein suffer death
as in the case of felony.5
Very curiously, the above Act specifically states that
nothing therein shall apply to 'the poore people in S. Thomas
Hospitall, in the Borough of Southwarke5 and 'shall not in
any wise extend to dishenherite, prejudice or hinder John
Dutton of Dutton, in the County of Chester Esquier, his
heires or assignes5
; or to children under the age ofseven years.
T H E L A W A N D T H E M E D I U M 215
Cromwell’s Parliament of 1656 found that the Elizabethan
fortune-telling Act was rarely administered. Also, such
crimes were ‘much increased, by reason of some Defects in
the Laws and Statutes heretofore made.5 To remedy this
state of affairs, a further Act1 was introduced by the Lord
Protector to strengthen the Statute made in the thirty-ninth
year of Elizabeth.
ANCIENT LAWS FOR MODERN MEDIUMS
The laws against fortune-telling and prophesying became
gradually less severe. On June 21, 1824, a new Act1
2 was
published, which is in force to-day, and under which
fortune-tellers and the like, and some mediums, are now
prosecuted. Section IV reads: ‘Every Person pretending or
professing to tell Fortunes, or using any subtle Crafts, Means
or Device, by Palmistry or otherwise, to deceive and impose
on any of His Majesty’s subjects . . . shall be deemed a
Rogue and Vagabond, within the true Intent and Meaning
of this Act; and it shall be lawful for any Justice of the Peace
to commit such offender (being thereof convicted before him
by the Confession of such Offender, or by the Evidence on
Oath of one or more credible Witness or Witnesses) to the
House of Correction, there to be kept to hard Labour for
any Time not exceeding Three Calendar Months.5
Under the above Act (which, I reiterate, is still in force) a
fortune-teller, palmist, or ‘medium’ can be arrested on sight
‘ by any Person whatsoever5who can ‘deliver him or her to
any Constable or other Peace Officer.5 In this Act mediums
find themselves in the dubious company of prostitutes, pick-
locks, reputed thieves, wife-beaters and ‘everyone obscenely
exposing his Person in any Street.5
1 An Act Against Vagrants, and Wandring, idle, dissolute persons. At the Parliament
begun at Westminster the 17th day o f September, An. Dcm. 1656.
2 5 Geo. IV, c. 83, Section IV.
2 1 6 f i f t y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
LAWS PROHIBITING SPIRIT INTERCOURSE
Parallel with the fortune-telling or vagrancy Acts went
another set of laws directed against those having intercourse
with spirits. That the authorities fully believed that such
intercourse was possible is obvious from the wording of the
Acts, and the severity of the punishments for these crimes.
The first1 was introduced in 1541 and was intended to
suppress black magic, witchcraft, calling up spirits, invoca­
tions, enchantments, and what we now know as eseances,5
‘to the great Offence of Godes lawe, hurt and damage of the
Kinges Subjectes, and losse of the Sowles ofsuch Offenders.’2
The penalty was forfeiture of all belongings, and death
without privilege of clergy or sanctuary. The Act was
repealed in 1547,3but was revived by Elizabeth.4 ‘Deathe
as a Felon5was the punishment for a second offence. James I
repealed the Elizabethan Act, but substituted one5 just as
severe. James himself tells us what he knows about spirits,
and his book6makes remarkable reading. In 1735 George II
repealed7 the Acts of both Elizabeth and James, and in
1863 the Statute Law Revision Act had the effect of finally
abolishing the official belief in the possibility of spirits and
demons. The 1735 Act made ‘pretending5to be a medium
an offence punishable with one year’s imprisonmentewithout
Bail or Mainprize,5and one hour in the pillory every quarter-
day!
MODERN ATTEMPTS AT REFORM
The above brief historical sketch of the British laws
directed against ‘psychic5activities is necessary to enable the
reader to appreciate why and how fortune-tellers are now
1 33 Henry VII, c. 8.
2The complete text, and a full historical account of British legislation against
supernatural practices is given in Psychic Science in Parliament by ‘Angus Mac-
Arthur,5London, 1916.
3 1 Ed. VI.
4 5 Eliz., c. 16.
6 1Jac. I, c. 12, An Act against Conjuration, Witchcraft, and dealing with Evil and
Wicked Spirits. For text, see Psychic Science in Parliament.
6Daemonologie, in Forme of a Dialogue, Edin., 1597. (London, 1603.)
7An Act to Repeal the Statute, etc.
prosecuted. They are usually proceeded against under the
1824 Act of George IV. Those fortune-tellers calling them­
selves 'mental mediums5are also convicted under the same
Act. But fraudulent physical mediums, on the rare occasions
when they are prosecuted, are usually charged with obtain­
ing money under false pretences, under the common law.
But it is quite clear that any person 'pretending or profess­
ing5to practise mcdiumship of any sort, genuine or not, and
whether or not for money or other valuable consideration,
can be proceeded against under existing laws, and the
genuineness of the phenomena would be no defence. The
astrological 'predictions5 published in our popular Press
must also be illegal, according to the 1824 anc^ I 735 Acts.
A year or so ago, Lord Hewart, the Lord Chief Justice, in
commenting upon certain 'forecasts5published in a Sunday
paper, called them a 'collection of imbecile and repulsive
twaddle.’A
Attempts at reforming the present state of the law have
been few and sporadic. Parliament is apathetic concerning
such matters. On July 1, 1930, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle,
just before his death, headed a deputation to the Home
Secretary in an attempt to make it easier for mediums.
Nothing came of it. On November 26, 1930, Alderman
W. T. Kelly, M.P. for Rochdale, introduced a Bill into
Parliament which would have had the effect of making
mecliumship legal, when the medium was licensed by a
registered spiritualist or psychical society, or someone
approved by the Home Office. It was eventually 'talked
out.5 In Germany, 'official5 spiritualism has been com­
pletely suppressed, though, as we have seen in Chapter III,
scientific psychical research is accepted by the authorities.
A few private mediums arc still 'working5. In France, the
general public cares little about psychical research or
spiritualism, though a few fortune-tellers (for example,
1 How the ‘astrological* racket is worked in Paris was revealed in the London
Times (June 16, 1938), when a number offortune-tellers were fined sums vary­
ing from £170 to £30 on a charge of obtaining money under false pretences:
‘Evidence given during the proceedings revealed an astonishingly systematic
arrangement by which standard horoscopes were drawn up for each age, sex,
and condition for every month of the year, and automatically doled out to the
credulous in return for their money. The “fakirs** appear to have shown an
expensive lack of interest in their own destinies.*
T H E L A W A N D T H E M E D I U M 217
Madame Deux-Thebes,1 who died in December, 1937) have
became notorious. In Italy, as in all totalitarian states,
fortune-telling and mediumship are frowned upon.
The Scandinavian countries are generally hostile to spiri­
tualism and fortune-telling, and apathetic concerning all
psychic matters. On March 14, 1931, Mauritz Hellberg
presented to the Swedish Parliament a Bill2 relating to
psychic matters. It was intended to regularize mediumship
and put psychical research on a scientific footing. Nothing
came of it, and spiritualism has now been suppressed in
Sweden; also in Rumania.
An amusing account of fortune-telling in Japan was
published in the Observer,3where it was stated that popular
occultism is under the close supervision of the police, who
state that there are few complaints about the fees charged
‘because the prophecies are couched in such ambiguous
terms that some parts of them are almost certain to come
true.4 Apparently, fortune-telling in Japan is based on the
same principles as in other parts of the world.
If fortune-telling is on the increase in Japan, the Poles arc
appealing to the police to suppress these superstitions. Early
in 1938 the various religious bodies started a campaign urg­
ing the Government to make such practices illegal.5
2 l 8 f i f t y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
HOUDINI AND THE FORTUNE-TELLERS
The United States of America are, of course, the happy
hunting-ground of the fake medium, fortune-teller and every
type of charlatan who preys on credulity. In an attempt to
remedy this state of affairs ‘Harry Houdini’ (i.e. Ehrich
Weiss),6noted showman and conjurer and foe of all mediums,
good and bad, gave evidence before the District of Columbia
House of Representatives, February 26 and May 18, 20 and
21, 1926. The occasion was a Bill (H.R. 8989) introduced
1 For life and work, see Evening News, December 10, 1937.
2Riksdagens Protokoll. Forsta Kammann, No. 19, Stockholm, March 14, 1931,
pp. 21-44.
8 London, July 3, 1938.
4 Observer, loc. cit.
6 Observer, London, January 30, 1938.
6Died October 31, 1926.
by Sol Bloom, representative in Congress from the State
of New York, to make fortune-telling illegal. The text of the
Bill, which is reminiscent of our own vagrancy laws, is as
follows:
‘Any person pretending to tell fortunes for reward or com­
pensation where lost or stolen goods may be found; any
person who, by game or device, sleight of hand, pretending,
fortune-telling, or by any trick or other means, by the use of
cards or other implements or instruments, fraudulently
obtains from another person money or property or reward,
property of any description; any person pretending to remove
spells, or to sell charms for protection, or to unite the
separated, shall be considered a disorderly person . . . and
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $250 or by im­
prisonment not to exceed six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.9
The chief interest of this Bill is the evidence of the many
witnesses called by proponents and opponents. Harry
Houdini was the principal witness called to support the Bill,
and lie took the opportunity of relieving himself of certain
obiter dicta which were highly typical of the man: ‘There are
only two kinds ofmediums, those who are mental degenerates
and who ought to be under observation; and those who are
deliberate cheats and frauds.9 Again, C
I would not believe
a fraudulent medium under oath; perjury means nothing to
them; I say that no human being possesses mediumistic
powers.9 And again: eI have examined 300 mediums . . . if
there arc any genuine, I have never met one.9 These, and
many similar statements can be read in the extremely
interesting Government report1 issued after the inquiry, at
which Houdini’s detectives gave evidence. Those who testi­
fied against the Bill included mediums, clairvoyants,
astrologers, ‘believers,9 etc., and a great part of the early
history of spiritualism was discussed by one side or the other.
The final decision arrived at appeared to be that there was
already in existence an Act of Congress,2 approved July 1,
1902, which could be used against fraudulent fortune-tellers.
1 Fortune-'felling, Hearings before the Sub-Committee on Judiciary o f the Committee
on the District o f Columbia House o f Representatives... H .R . 8989, Washington,
D.Cl., 1926 (i6y pp.). Houdini sent me a copy on publication.
2 32 Stat, Gaa.
T H E L A W A N D T H E M E D I U M 2 1 Q
It emerged from the inquiry that clairvoyants, mediums,
etc., are licensed to practise in the District of Columbia on
payment of I25 per annum. The difference between a for­
tune-teller and a medium was also given: ‘The fortune-teller
is one who pretends to tell you of coming events without any
basis of present observed condition for forming that opinion.
The medium may receive a communication from the spirit
world which foretells coming events, but it is merely an
incident to the communication, because a spirit is able to
form opinion based upon the condition he observed in the
spirit side of life that the human cannot observe from this
side of life.3
1 The inquiry was enlivened by Houdini doing
a number of slate tricks and trumpet phenomena,3 and
during the hearing of one witness the magician dramatically
threw on to the Chairman’s table a roll containing $10,000
in notes which he offered to give to any medium present
who could produce a phenomenon that he (Houdini) could
not duplicate by conjuring under the same conditions.
220 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
MEDIUMS WHO AID THE POLICE
It has often been suggested that, on account of their varied
claims to clairvoyance, prevision, etc., mediums should
assist the police in elucidating crimes and detecting criminals.
As a matter of fact, this has often been done. Frau Lotte
Plaat, the German psychometrist, frequently helped the
police. I invited her to London in 1930, and was impressed
with her psychometric powers and general clairvoyance. Frau
Plaat was regularly employed by the German police in trac­
ing malefactors and in 1930 she was in France for the same
purpose. During her visit to London, someone from Scotland
Yard rang me up and asked me whether I should be willing,
if invited, to lend Frau Platt to help them— unofficially, of
course—in a case on which they were engaged. I said I
would, and next morning spent an hour at the ‘Yard9
discussing the matter. The case was that ofa woman thought
to have been murdered in Cheshire, and it was decided that
I should approach the Chief Constable of that county. I at
1 Fortim&Telling, op. cit., p. 41,
once telegraphed to that gentleman, who replied that the
local police had the matter in hand and could not be
interfered with. Frau Plaat has been under the observation
of many distinguished scientists, including Dr. Paul Siinner,
Dr. Gustave Pagenstecher, Dr. Harms, Professor Ludwig
Jahn, Professor Kasnacich and others, who have recorded1
brilliant results with her.
Another psychic who frequently aided the police was cErik
Jan Hanussen’ (Hermann Steinschneider), the German
clairvoyant, medium and vaudeville occultist. But in 1930,
when practising’ at Leitmeritz, Czechoslovakia, he was
arrested and charged under a local fortune-telling by-law
with obtaining money under false pretences. He demanded
that his powers should be examined. A test in court was
decided upon and the room in which the seance was held was
guarded by gendarmes with fixed bayonets. The clairvoyance
experiments satisfied the court, and he was acquitted. In
one test he described a motor accident and in another the
scene at a birth. But he fell into disfavour in Germany, and
a year or so after the Czechoslovakian incident, was found
murdered in a Berlin suburb.2
A famous case of a medium being tested in court was that
of Frau Elsa Giinther-Geffers, a clairvoyant and wife of the
head of an agricultural school, who was tried at Insterburg,
East Prussia, in May, 1928, for obtaining money under false
pretences. The case was an appeal by the Public Prosecutor
from a verdict of acquittal given by a lower court. She
demanded that her powers should be tried in court and this
was granted. A police sergeant was brought from a remote
village, to whom, alone of those present in court, were known
the details of a theft committed in the district a few months
before the trial. The thief had not yet been discovered and
even his name was unknown to the police. The problem
given to the medium was to reconstruct the crime and to name
the criminal.
The court was cleared for the experiment and Frau
Giinther-Geffers rapidly fell into a trance. In answer to
1 Sec Die psychometrische Begabung der Frau Lotte Plaat. . . . Ed. by Paul
Siinner, Leipzig, 1939.
5
2See his Maine Lebenslinie, Berlin, 1930.
T H E L A W A N D T H E M E D I U M 221
questions as to when the theft occurred she answered
February.5 She also said she saw 'silver objects which
glittered5; a fur; a large building with dark furniture; the
thief eating a sausage; and many other details, including the
names of the person who had lost the property and that of
the alleged thief.
Almost without exception, every statement made by the
medium was proved to be true. Twelve silver marks and a
fur had been lost by a Herr von Reibnitz, who was aged
eighty-nine (the medium said 'nearly seventy3
), and the
thief had entered his Schloss through an open window. Frau
Gunther-Geffers gave all these facts correctly, and also the
name (Dumke) of the alleged thief, which was not verified.
The clairvoyant concluded her amazing display by giving
a correct description of the complicated wanderings of a
watch which had been lost on the parade ground by a
Reichswehr Colonel. The President of the court, in acquit­
ting her, said he was 'simply dumbfounded.3 The case
caused such a sensation that the Governor of Konigsbcrg,
within whose jurisdiction the town of Insterburg lies, was
compelled to issue an order forbidding the police in future
to employ mediums and clairvoyants in connection with
detective work.1
Another 'psychic,3or rather hyperaesthete, who claims to
have assisted the police is 'Marion3 (Josef Kraus). In the
London Forum2can be found an interesting account of the way
in which his powers led to the conviction of a man who was
suspected by the police in the town of Ulm (Wtirttcmburg)
of the murder of his brother. Marion visualized all the
circumstances of the crime, and finally described how the
victim was attacked from behind with an axe which was
afterwards thrown into a pond. The police found the weapon
in the spot indicated, and the alleged murderer then made
a full confession. A number of British dowsers have also
claimed to have found the bodies of missing persons in ponds
and rivers, and to have helped the police with their divining-
rods in various ways.
1 For full details of this case see: 1st Hellsehen moglich? Der Insterburgvr ‘Jlexen’-
Prozess gegen das kriminal-telepathische Medium, Frau Gunther-Geffers, by Reinhold
Zenz, Konigsberg, 1928. Brief reports of the trial were given in the London
Press in issues, May 4 to 14, 1928. 2June, 1934, pp. 387-94.
222 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
T H E L A W A N D T H E M E D I U M 2
2
3
SOME 'CAUSES CELBERES’
The most famous legal case connected with psychical
research was that in which a widow, Mrs. Jane Lyon, aged
seventy-five, adopted the medium D. D. Home as her son
on condition that he changed his name to Home-Lyon.
The spirit of her deceased husband, working through Home,
commanded her to do this. The same spirit also induced
her to give him a fortune of £30,000 in cash and to settle
upon him a similar amount. This silly old woman finally
came to her senses and demanded that Home should dis­
gorge the money. He refused, and Mrs. Lyon brought an
action alleging ‘undue influence.5 Vice-Chancellor Gifford
decided that the gifts could not be retained, though at the same
time he stated that the plaintiff had persistently lied during
her evidence, and he refused her costs. This was in 1868.1
In 1903 a similar case came up for trial and caused a major
sensation. It was known as the ‘ Great Planchette Case.5 A
young man of fortune named Henry Sheppard Hart Caven­
dish, aged twenty-six, brought an action against a Major
Charles Henry Strutt, his wife Madeline, and a solicitor
named Alfred Washington Guest Ranger, to set aside a
voluntary settlement whereby he gave Major Strutt and his
wife almost absolute control of his estate. Cavendish— like
Mrs. Lyon— pleaded ‘undue influence,5as Mrs. Strutt, who
dabbled in the occult, had persuaded him by spirit messages
purporting to come from his deceased mother and the arch­
angels Gabriel, Michael, and Uriel. These ‘messages5
arrived via table-tipping, Mrs. Strutt’s automatic writing,
and especially the planchette.1
2 Mrs. Strutt herself inter­
preted these messages. After several days5 hearing3 Mr.
Justice Byrne said he would reserve judgment. This was
delivered two months later4 (May 13, 1903), and he ordered
the settlement to be set aside— with costs.
1 See The Times, April 32-30; May i, 2, 23; July 15, 18; Aug. 1, 1868.
2A heart-shaped piece of wood, with two pentagraph wheels at the base,
and a pencil at the apex.
aSee The Times, February 28; March 3-18, 1903. For pictures of the case,
see Illustrated London News, March 7, 1903.
* The Times, May 14, December 11, 1903.
224 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
RAPE AND RHABDOMANCY
In 1901 an American medium named Ann O’Delia Diss
Debar was sentenced in London for caiding and abetting5
her paramour to rape a young girl at their ‘Theocratic
Unity5temple in Park Road, Regent’s Park. She received
seven years5penal servitude. The man, Frank D. Jackson,
got fifteen years. When in this country they called them­
selves the Swami Laura Horos and Theodore Horos, and
told fortunes, divined for lost property, read the cards, held
seances and— ran a ‘Purity League.5 They were not without
humour.
The case1 was tried before Mr. Justice Bigham (afterwards
Viscount Mersey, 1840-1929) and was a major sensation on
account of the horrible disclosures. The police had obtained
the medium’s criminal dossier from America and the full
story is told by John Mulholland in Beware Familiar Spirits.3
It makes astonishing reading. Born in Kentucky in 1849,
Diss Debar was in and out of prison over a number of years,
under many aliases, and her convictions were usually con­
cerned with ‘psychic5frauds.
‘ t h e £ 1,000 g h o s t 9
A year or so later another famous case, known as the
‘Thousand Pound Ghost,5provided this country with a good
deal of amusement. In 1877, when Archdeacon Thomas
Colley [d. 1912), Rector of Stockton, Rugby, was having a
seance with the infamous medium and ex-Baptist minister,
the Rev. cDr.5 Monck, a vapour-like substance appeared to
exude from the left side of Monck and formed itself into
various apparitions: a child, a beautiful woman, Mahdi, an
Oriental, Samuel, etc. They were then reabsorbed by the
medium. An account of these seances was published1
2
3 at the
time.
1 See The Times, December 21, 1901.
2New York and London, 1938, pp. 251-61.
3Medium and Daybreak, November 2, 1877.
In igo6a the Archdeacon wrote of these things in a
pamphlet,1 a copy ofwhich he sent to John Nevil Maskelyne,
the conjurer, who had taken part in a controversy on spiri­
tualism in the Daily Telegraph.2 With the pamphlet was a
letter from Colley, who offered to give Maskelyne £1,000 if
he could reproduce Monck5
s phenomena, cwith all the
machinery he may need/ at Stockton Rectory. He finally
amended the terms of the challenge in order that Maskelyne
could reproduce Monck5
s tricks cany way, anywhere, at any
time, as a conjurer/ In a letter to the Daily Express, dated
June 11, 1906, Maskelyne accepted.
Maskelyne duly staged at St. George's Hall the illusion
known as cThe Side Issue5and claimed the £1,000. Colley
refused to pay, as he said that the conjurer’s version of
Monck’s ‘miracle5 was a travesty. Maskelyne sued Colley
for the money. Colley counter-claimed for damages for an
alleged libel published in Maskelyne’s pamphlet,3 in which
it was stated that ‘he is not an Archdeacon and never was
one.5 Maskelyne lost on the claim and counter-claim, and
had to pay £75 damages and costs for libelling the Arch­
deacon. Alfred Russel Wallace gave evidence for Colley.
Looking at the case in retrospect, it appears remarkable that
Maskelyne failed to secure the £1,000, as it was stated in
evidence that in 1876 (the year before Colley sat with him)
Monck was exposed at Huddersfield by an amateur conjurer
named H. B. Lodge, who insisted upon searching the
medium’s luggage. In it were found the usual ‘spirit hand/
‘spirit lamps/ a ‘spirit bird/ cheese cloth, hold-outs for
floating tambourines, reaching-rods, etc., and a number of
obscene letters from women. The police prosecuted Monck,
who was sentenced to three months’ imprisonment.
Apropos of Maskelyne, it has been often stated that this
doyen of British conjurers ridiculed all psychic phenomena.
This is incorrect, as I have pointed out elsewhere.4 In the
Pall Mall Gazette5he publicly stated that he believed in table­
turning, and in the Strand Magazine for January, 1910, gave
1 Spiritualism not Satanic, London, 1906.
2 April iG, 1906.
3 The History o f a Thousand Pound Challenge, London, 1906.
4 ‘John Nevil Maskelyne as a Believer in the Occult,’ Light, October 11, 1934.
3April 25, 1885.
T H E L A W A N D T H E M E D I U M 225
a graphic account of an accident which befell him as a boy.
He was bathing one day and was carried out of his depth.
Just before he became unconscious, he plainly saw his
mother’s anxiety. He was rescued and on his returning
home his mother admitted that at the precise moment of the
accident she knew he was in great danger.
226 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
POLICE RAID THE SPIRITUALISTS
Consternation was caused in the camp of the spiritualists
when the police raided one of their strongholds, the London
Spiritualist Alliance. In June, 1928, three summonses each
were issued against Mrs. Claire Cantlon, a medium employed
by the Alliance, and Miss Mercy Phillimore, the secretary
of the L.S.A, It was stated in evidence that, on the instruc­
tions of the Commissioner of Police, Detective-Inspector
Walter Burnaby of Scotland Yard sent, at different times,
three women to the L.S.A. to book seances with a medium.
These fitters’ were Miss Lilian Wyles, Inspector of Women
Police; Miss Violet Ritchie, a woman police patrol, and a
Mrs. Dorothy Harrison. Miss Wyles paid 17j. 6d. for her
sitting, of which Mrs. Cantlon, the medium in question,
received 12s. 6d. The seance was held on April 18, 1928.
In due course, the summonses were served on Mrs. Cantlon
who was accused of having 'professed to tell fortunes 5and
on Miss Phillimore for caiding and abetting.’ Proceedings
were instituted under the Vagrancy [fortune-telling] Act of
1824.
The case was heard at Westminster Police Court on July
11, 18, and 24, 1928, the magistrate being Mr. W. H. S.
Oulton. Sir Patrick Hastings, K.C., and Mr. Eustace Fulton
appeared for Miss Phillimore, Mr, P. W. Bullock represented
Mrs. Cantlon, and Mr. H. D. Roome, K.C., was the pro­
secuting counsel.
The defence was that the medium was not telling fortunes,
and that in any case, as she was in a trance, she knew nothing
of what transpired. She later pleaded guilty to a technical
offence. The charge against Miss Phillimore was purely
technical and she pleaded cnot guilty.5
In evidence. Miss Wyles stated that Mrs. Cantlon informed
her that her (the medium’s; control was a North American
Indian called White Chiefwho died 400 years ago. In trance,
the medium described the spirit of a little boy named
Alec or Eric cwho had his white rabbit with him.3 The
witness knew of no such boy. Next was described ‘an old
man of noble appearance,3 named William; also an aunt
Ellen or Eleanor. Miss Wyles had no aunt, alive or dead,
answering to the name or description given, and did not
recognize the old man. A esister3 of the witness was then
described. But she had no sister. Miss Wyles’s 'husband3
was described as ‘a tall, dark man, with blue or hazel eyes,3
temperamental, and Irish; that they had parted, but they
would be reconciled to each other. Miss Wyles was unmar­
ried. Near the end of the seance the medium asked the time
and told the witness that she could give her ten minutes
more.
The other police witnesses gave similar evidence. Miss
Ritchie said the medium gave her the names of Charles,
George, Mary, Leonard and Bobby. 'Bobby3was her own
nickname, and she had a brother Leonard. Her 'husband3
was described, but she was unmarried. The medium told
Mrs. Harrison that she had two children, aged eight and
twelve. The boy ‘had a delicate chest.3 Mrs. Harrison’s
children were aged fourteen and eighteen, and both were
quite strong.
Among the witnesses for the defence were Sir A. Conan
Doyle, President of the L.S.A., and Sir Oliver Lodge. Sir
Ernest Bennett, M.P., sat with the magistrate during part
of the proceedings.
In delivering judgment, Mr. Oulton said: eI do not sup­
pose that my views on spiritualism are of much moment to
anybody except myself. . . . I have a perfectly open mind
on the subject. There is no dispute by either defendant as
to the substantial accuracy of the police evidence. Three
witnesses have testified to the telling of the future by Mrs.
Cantlon by occult means. Mrs. Cantlon has pleaded guilty;
Miss Phillimore has pleaded not guilty. I may say at once
that I am of opinion that both defendants are guilty. On
her own admission Mrs. Cantlon has surrendered herself to
T H E L A W A N D T H E M E D I U M 227
an occult power; if this is so, she is responsible and must face
the consequences should the law be broken. The law makes
no provision for the appearance of a spirit either in the dock
or in the witness-box/ The magistrate gave Mrs. Cantlon
the benefit of the doubt that she did believe she was ‘under
the control of this defunct Indian chief, but I should strongly
advise Mrs. Cantlon to get rid of a disembodied spirit who
wants to know the time when the hour of lunch or tea
approaches/
Mr. Oulton said that he was ‘willing to believe that the
existence of this Alliance is due to an honest attempt to
further knowledge and to benefit mankind, but the earnest
searcher after truth must be amenable to the law, and must
not break it. If he deems the law out of date and thinks it
frustrates his efforts, his remedy is to alter and modernize
the law. For the reasons I have given, and because I think
that fortune-telling is an unusual incident and not an object
of this Alliance, I will deal with this case as leniently as I can.
The summonses in both cases will be dismissed under the
Probation of Offenders Act, and the costs {£30) will be
apportioned: £20 for Miss Phillimore, £10 for Mrs.
Cantlon/
This case1is ofgreat importance and has become historical.
It was the first time that die police had invaded a recognized
spiritualist society, and it was also the last. The prosecution
was so unusual that on August 1, 1928, Mr. Harry Day,
M.P., in Parliament, asked the Home Secretary whether his
attention had been drawn to it, and whether he would con­
sider the appointment of a committee for the purpose of
investigating the claims of spiritualism, apart from those of
fortune-telling, with the object of legalizing investigation in
psychical research and allied subjects. Sir William Joynson-
Hicks, the Home Secretary, replied that he had noticed die
case, but did not propose to inquire into the matter. He
added, in reply to a further question, that he did not consider
the Cantlon case would hinder the class of investigation
referred to.
The Press comments on the case mosdy favoured the
1 For a very fair account of the proceedings, see Light, June 30 to August
18, 1928, inclusive.
228 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
defendants. The Spectator1 remarked ‘we cannot help feel­
ing that the policewomen who were instructed to gather
evidence for this prosecution could have spent their time
very much better. . . . Surely the Home Office has better
ways of spending time and money.5 The Saturday Review2
said: ‘That the police, with so many graver issues, should
waste time in luring fortune-tellers into an offence is pre­
posterous.5 The Morning Post3 in a leading article, ‘Is it a
Test Case?5stated: ‘The Alliance may preach false doctrine;
but since the fires of Smithfield were extinguished that has
ceased to be a crime.5 Even the Law Journal4was able to say:
‘ Of all forms of prosecution which obsolete laws compel the
police to institute, prosecutions for fortune-telling are
perhaps the most absurd. . . . And as for fortune-telling
itself, the days when the public required protection against
witchcraft and other forms of occult science are gone.5
Spiritualists, of course, rushed into print protesting against
their mediums being prosecuted. In a letter to The Times?
Sir A. Conan Doyle said: ‘That the police should be em­
ployed upon such a matter is deplorable, especially as their
activities take the hateful shape of agents provocateurs. . . .
The Home Secretary has informed me officially that there
is no hope of a change in the law. This is not a wise resolu­
tion. We are a solid body numbering some hundreds of
thousands of voters.5
T H E L A W A N D T H E M E D I U M 2 2 Q
A MEDIUM STRIKES BACK
Another cause celebre which made history was the action of
Mrs. Louisa Anne Meurig Morris, a trance medium, who
sued the Daily Mail for alleged libel. In January, 1931,
Mrs. Morris began a series of Sunday evening services at the
Fortune Theatre, London. Her trance addresses, purporting
to be delivered through ‘Power,5her ‘spirit control,5attracted
considerable attention. In reporting these addresses the
Daily Mail had issued a contents bill bearing the words:
‘Trance Medium Found Out.5 The alleged libel was in the
1July 28, 1928. 2July 28, 1928. 3July 25, 1928.
4July 28, 1928. 5July 36, 1928.
wording of this bill, and in an article recording the pro­
ceedings at the Fortune Theatre.
The Daily Mail pleaded justification and fair comment on
a matter of public interest. Mr. Norman Birkett, K.C.,
appeared for the Daily Mail, and Sergeant Sullivan, K.G.,
represented Mrs. Morris. The case1 was heard before the
late Mr. Justice McCardie and lasted eleven days, from
April 5 to April 19, 1932. Among the witnesses for the
plaintiff were Sir Oliver Lodge and Lady Conan Doyle.
The Meurig Morris case was remarkable for three things:
Mr. Justice McCardie’s summing up; the medium’s dramatic
outburst on the last day of the trial; and the wording of the
jury’s verdict. The Judge ruled that the matters in question
were of public importance on which a defence of fair com­
ment could be based. He asked thejury to consider whether
Mrs. Morris could in fact convey messages from the dead;
whether she was a genuine medium; and whether she
honestly believed that she could do what she claimed. If she
were honest, she ought to be vindicated; if she were dis­
honest, she ought to be exposed.
During the Judge’s summing-up, he happened to point to
Mrs. Morris with outstretched hand, whereupon she slowly
rose and, apparently in trance, said in the deep voice of
6Power’ : cHearken to my voice, Brother Judge.’ Obviously
astonished, Mr. Justice McCardie ordered her to be removed
from the court. When she was approached the same deep
voice said: ‘Do not touch her till I have left the body.’
Mrs. Morris was carried to an anteroom where she remained
unconscious for two hours. The case was adjourned for
fifteen minutes, when the Judge resumed. He said: C
I hope
I have not upset the feelings of anyone unnecessarily, but as
a judge I care not for all the incarnate or discarnate spirits
in the world . . . though there may be ten thousand million
discarnate spirits around us.’
The jury’s verdict was: ‘We find for the defendants on the
plea of fair comment on a matter of public interest, but we
do not consider that any allegations of fraud or dishonesty
have been proved.’ Whereupon the Judge ruled that there
must be judgment for the Daily Mail. Mrs. Morris appealed
1 See The Times, April 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19, 20, 1932.
23O F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
and, after a hearing of four days, the judges (Scrutton,
Lawrence and Greer) dismissed the appeal. The case was
taken to the House of Lords, where the appeal was again
dismissed.
The lay Press and legal journals gave great prominence
to the case. The Law Journal1 regarded it as ea notable
event, and, quite irrespective of the verdict, marked a tremen­
dous advance, not only in spiritualism, but in toleration. . . .
Another curious fact appearing from the trial and in the
course of it is that the jury might be expected to find that
a “ discarnate spirit9
3 might transmit messages through a
medium.3 In the following issue of the Law Journal,2 in an
article ‘Evidence and Psychic Phenomena,9it is stated that
the jury’s findings in the Morris case were being hotly dis­
cussed in legal circles as to whether the verdict was legally
sound. The article, which is entirely sympathetic to Mrs.
Morris, emphasizes cthe astonishing interruption of the
summing-up.9 The journal continues: cWe find it frankly
incredible that any litigant, if conscious, would have the
effrontery to attempt a “ stunt9
9ofthat sort at such a moment.
Apart from the gross contempt of court which would be
involved, it would be such singularly bad tactics. As it was,
who can say what influence it had in persuading the jury
to a verdict, which, whether technically correct or not, most
people will probably think achieved substantial justice?3
T H E L A W A N D T H E M E D I U M 2 3 I
A TRAGIC MEDIUM
By far the strangest and most tragic adventures of a
medium were those of Ingeborg Kober, the married daughter
ofJudge Ludvig Dahl. I am peculiarly interested in this case
as I was the Judge’s guest in 1927 at his beautiful home in
Fredrikstad, a busy seaport fifty-eight miles from Oslo,
during my second Scandinavian lecture tour.
Ludvig Dahl was not only the local judge, but was also
the mayor of the neighbouring island of Hanko, the most
fashionable Norwegian seaside resort. My visit to Fredrik­
stad was the result of an invitation to sit with the Judge’s
1 April 23, 193s. 2 April 30, 1932.
daughter Ingeborg who, I was told, had developed medium-
ship since the death ofher two brothers, Ludvig and Ragnar.
After the longest and most sumptuous dinner (which lasted
nearly four hours) I have ever sat through, we adjourned to
the drawing-room for the seance. In full light, we sat round
a largish table and Ingeborg rapidly became entranced. The
two brothers then 'came through’ and I took copious notes
of all that was said. The seance was not particularly con­
vincing, but I was struck by the wayJudge Dahl and his wife
'conversed’ with their two sons, who spoke through the lips
of the entranced Ingeborg. The Judge was particularly
affected. I left Judge Dahl’s hospitable roof with the feeling
that I had spent a most interesting day in the bosom of a very
charming, affectionate and united family. Later, Judge
Dahl wrote an account of his daughter’s mediumship, a
book1 for which I was instrumental in finding a London
publisher, and for which Sir Oliver Lodge wrote a Foreword.
Judge Dahl died on August 8, 1934. He and Ingeborg
were spending a day on the seashore. As the daughter was
sun-bathing on the beach, her father, who was swimming
close by, suddenly called out that he had cramp. Ingeborg
plunged in the water, rescued her father, who was by then
unconscious, and applied artificial respiration. She was
unsuccessful and theJudge died— on the exact spot where his
son Ludvig had met with a fatal bathing accident fifteen
years previously.
Ingeborg ran for assistance and met a friend, another
medium named Mrs. Stolt-Nielsen, who telephoned to Mrs.
Dahl. The usual inquiry was held and it was then found that
the finances of Hanko were in a chaotic condition, and that
a large sum of money was missing from the town treasury.
It was also discovered that the Judge’s life insurance policy
expired on the very day he was drowned.
During the inquiry it transpired that Mrs. Stolt-Nielsen
was in possession of an envelope containing a ‘message,’
obtained at a stance during which her dead daughter spoke.
The 'message,’ apparently, was given to the daughter by
the spirit of Dahl’s son, Ragnar. This 'message’ was to the
effect that 'Judge Dahl will die through an accident in August,
1 We are Here. Psychic Experiences, by Ludvig Dahl, London, 1931.
232 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
1934’ The Judge was present at this seance, and of course
knew of the prognostication.
After this revelation, all the parties concerned were once
more interrogated by the authorities. Mrs. Dahl committed
suicide. The Government then instituted a full investigation
into all the facts and Ingeborg was haled before Judge
Trampe Broch at Oslo. The questions before the court were:
Was Judge Dahl murdered? Did he commit suicide on the
last day that his life insurance was valid,knowing his financial
position was desperate? Did anyone 'will’ him to commit
suicide, by suggestion? Did his knowledge of the fatal
message have an auto-hypnotic effect upon him, causing him
to kill himself? Was the death really an accident, the
'message’ being merely a coincidence?
After an investigation which lasted, on and off, for more
than three years, it was finally decided officially (December,
1937) that Judge Dahl’s death was an accident. The jury
could return no other verdict on the facts. And my contact
with the Dahl family convinces me that the whole inquiry
was preposterous, though the 'spirits’ did a great disservice
to Ingeborg on this occasion. But there was a 'happy
ending,’ as I understand that she married her chief counsel,
Axel Segelcke, after the trial. Norwegian spiritualists are
still discussing whether the spirits really predicted Judge
Dahl’s death, or whether the whole affair was one
extraordinary coincidence after another.
Apropos of foretelling the future, Sir Oliver Lodge once
pointed out in The Times1 that the extent to which fore­
casting of the future can be achieved is a matter for scientific
inquiry. All sorts of people ‘predict’: the time-table maker
predicts the trains for months ahead; an astronomer can
predict eclipses several centuries in advance, and so on.
‘ So some power of prediction is known to exist.’ Sir Oliver
concludes: 'How far foretelling of the future is possible is
not a legal but a scientific question.’
Whether one agrees with Sir Oliver or not, it is obvious
from the Acts which I have cited in this chapter that the law
governing mediumship is anomalous and ridiculous, and the
sooner it is altered the better. It is an anachronism that the
1 October 37, 1935.
T H E L A W A N D T H E M E D I U M 2 33
Witchcraft Act of 1735 and the Vagrancy Act of 1824 should
remain on the Statute Book. The late Mr. E. P. Hewitt,
K.C., a distinguished lawyer and spiritualist, made several
attempts at rousing public opinion in favour of regularizing
mediumship, but failed to enlist the support of either Parlia­
ment or Press. He wrote extensively on the subject.1
234 F I F T Y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
1 See his ‘Spiritualists and the Law,5in the National Review for September,
1923; and ‘Fortune-Tellers and the Law,5in the Daily M ail, October 17, 1925.
See also the following papers by Blewett Lee: ‘The Conjuror5 [re Witchcraft],
Virginia Law Review, Charlottesville, February, 1921, pp. 370-7; ‘The Fortune
Teller,5 Virginia Law Review, Charlottesville, February, 1923, pp. 249-266;
‘Psychic Phenomena and the Law,5Harvard Law Review, Cambridge, Mass.
1921, pp. 625-38; ‘Spiritualism and Crime,5Columbia Law Review, Cooperstown,
May, 1922, pp. 439-49; ‘A Trance in Court’ [re Meurig Morris], American Bar
Association Journal, Vol. XVIII, 1932, pp. 452-3.
CHAPTER XIII
SCIENTIFIC METHOD IN PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
H
AVING become acquainted with some of the tricks
of fraudulent mediums, and the laws under which the
culprits are occasionally punished, it now remains for
me to describe to the reader the scientific methods employed
to [a) combat the machinations of the cpsychic’ faker; and
(6) to detail the apparatus used in those experiments capable
of being recorded by instrumental means. The fact that our
five normal senses are anything but infallible makes this
imperative. In addition, as many seances are held in com­
plete darkness, or in a very dim light, with the limbs of the
sitters immobilized, and their ears deafened with hymn­
singing or other ‘music,’ some of our senses— e.g. those of
sight, hearing and touch— can hardly be used at all. Instru­
ments are therefore necessary.
As long ago as 1871 Sir William Crookes was applying
scientific methods to the investigation of the phenomena of
D. D. Home and, a year or so later, to Florrie Cook. These
have been fully recorded.1 It can be stated that it was
Crookes who first demonstrated the need for a scientific
technique when dealing with the physical phenomena of
the stance-room.
Most serious investigators since Crookes’s classical experi­
ments have adopted and sometimes improved the great
physicist’s methods. The genius ofthe twentieth century was
undoubtedly Fritz Grunewald, a Berlin engineer, who
devoted his life2 to devising instruments of precision3 for
recording or demonstrating psychic phenomena. His
laboratory in the Spandauerstrasse, Charlottenburg, Berlin,
1 See Researches in the Phenomena o f Spiritualism, by Sir William Crookes,
London, 1874.
2 He died July 21, 1925.
3 Described in his Physikalisch-mediianistische Untersuchungen. (‘Die Okkulte
Welt,' Nos. 13-16), Pfullingen-i.-WQrttemberg, 1920.
235
was a veritable museum. It was he who built and installed
the wonderful electric balance in the Institut Metapsychique,
Paris. It is claimed for many physical mediums (e.g. Kath­
leen Goligher) that they lose weight during trance or in
the production of phenomena. For instance, when Ecto­
plasm5 is exuded, the medium is supposed to lose weight
to the exact amount of whatever is exuded, and/or to
the force exerted by that ectoplasm. This has never been
demonstrated scientifically, but Grunewald’s ingenious
balance would prove if this were so. The medium can be
comfortably immobilized in the balance, which auto­
matically records on a graph his or her weight. The slightest
change in density would be instantly detected. But this
apparatus is very complicated, and in any case, mediums
fight shy of it, as they do of all instruments.
2 3 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
CINEMATOGRAPHIC EVIDENCE
The ideal way of recording evidence— either of fraud or
paranormality— at a seance is by photography, especially
cinematography. What I have been aiming at for years is to
produce an infra-red cinematographic film which, when used
in conjunction with infra-red filters and a large aperture
lens, would produce a fully-exposed film in complete darkness
of all that took place in the seance-room. This has not yet
been achieved, though Messrs. Kodak have kindly offered to
co-operate with me in producing this much-desired result.
When we are able to take rapid photographs in complete
darkness it will achieve two things: it will entirely eliminate
the fraudulent physical medium (but not the fake 'spirit
photographer5
); and it will tell us if and when a genuine
phenomenon occurs.
Though we are not yet able to produce a photograph in
complete darkness (except with a fairly long exposure), we
can get a good instantaneous picture in a dull light, using
infra-red rays and films- But unfortunately, the type of
medium (and phenomena) we wish to photograph, will not
function in a 'dull light.5 'The darker the seance-room, the
better the phenomena5 is an axiom well understood by
S C I E N T I F I C M E T H O D
scientific investigators. And if the light is so poor that we
cannot see the medium, then the value of the phenomena is
generally nil. And if the light of the seance-room is so good
that we can take pictures by it, then we do not require a
camera as we can use our eyes.
In the old National Laboratory of Psychical Research,1
the first fully-equipped psychic laboratory in any country,
a comprehensive cinematographic equipment was available,
including standard and sub-standard instruments. The
method we employed for photographing mediums in the
‘ dark3 was as follows: a temporary matchboard division
screened off about a third of the seance-room. The larger
portion of the room was flooded with infra-red light, the rays
passing through deep infra-red filters. Through a hole in
the matchboarding the wide-angle lens of a cine-camera was
focussed on the cabinet in which the medium sat. Near the
top of the cabinet was a microphone connected with an
amplifier, earphones, and loud-speaker in an adjoining
room. The remote controls of the cine-camera and seance
lights were also in this room.
The medium, comfortably seated in the cabinet, gave us
the cue when to turn out the seance-room lights. This having
been done, we waited, earphones in position, for signs of the
beginning of trance— genuine or simulated— transmitted by
the microphone. Then we flooded the room with infra-red
rays and started the motor of the cine-camera. What then
happened was recorded on a dictaphone. The above experi­
ments were perfectly successful, up to a point. We found
that, although the medium, if he left his chair, could wander
about the portion of the room screened off, he was usually
in the field of the camera lens, which he could not touch,
owing to a thick glass Hilger ‘optical flat9 intervening
between the lens and hole in the matchboarding. This
particular medium writhed and bellowed, and twisted and
twirled in his chair. But he produced no phenomena. He
said there was too much light. When we reduced the
illumination by using deeper filters, we had to slow down the
cin6 shutter in order to get a proper exposure. But as this
man was usually in rather violent action, the shutter was
1See Appendix B.
237
too slow for his movements and all we got was a blur. Some
day a super-speedy infra-red film will be produced which
will solve our difficulties. I would give nearly all I possess
to get a well-exposed cine film of a genuine materialization,
from start to finish. What a lot we could learn from, for
example, a film of all that took place during the cRosalie ’
seance!1 The one drawback of using the cine-camera for
continuous seance-room work is the expense. Using sub­
standard 16 mm. film, we found that the cost during
exposure was more than six shillings per minute.
2 3 8 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
CINEMATOGRAPHY IN THE FIELD
For ‘psychic’ field work, the cine-camera is supreme. Our
slow-motion films of the fire-walking experiments1
2 enabled
us to acquire data as to the method of ‘walking,’ and to
make comparisons between, and analyse the movements of
the walkers, which would have been quite impossible with
‘ still3photography. In the same way, we were able to record
the Indian Rope Trick3 as performed by Karachi.
The cine-camera was the means of determining a dispute
concerning the experimental interment of Rahmen Bey, an
Egyptian fakir. On July 15, 1938, we attempted an experi­
ment at Carshalton during which Rahmen, at his own
request, was to have been buried alive for one hour in a
‘ grave’ six feet deep. Rahmen went into his usual trance,
and was lowered into the pit. After about two feet of earth
had been shovelled on to him, the alarm bell rang, warning
us that Rahmen was in distress. The fakir was buried with
the bell switch in his hand, and he had been interred for
exactly four and a half minutes. Frantic efforts were made
to get the man out of the pit and this was done very quickly.
The medical men present said he was little the worse for his
adventure. Rahmen stated that his cataleptic state was
incomplete because, in lowering him into the grave, his arms
caught the side and one of his hands was jerked from his
1 See Chap. VIII.
2 See Chap. XIV.
3For account, see Price’s Confessions o f a Ghost-Hunter, pp. 344-54.
S C I E N T I F I C M E T H O D 239
forehead— a position necessary for complete trance. Many
of those present were not convinced that his hand had been
moved, but my slow-motion film of the experiment confirms
Rahmen’s statement.
THE CAMERA AS DETECTIVE
The camera has been used for seance recording for many
years. In 1874 Sir William Crookes took a series of photo­
graphs of the beautiful spirit daughter of 'John King/ the
pirate chief.1 These pictures (see Frontispiece) of 'Katie
King5 are indistinguishable from portraits of living girls.
But Sir William believed in them, and carried this belief to
his grave.1
2 One of his tests with Florrie Cook, the medium
through whom 'Katie’ appeared, was the placing of the
medium in an electrical circuit, broken by a galvanometer.
The slightest movement of the medium, it was claimed,
would have been recorded. But 'Katie’ appeared as usual
with no deflections of the galvanometer needle.
It is not usually lovely ladies who are photographed at
materialization seances, but strips of cheese cloth, chunks of
cotton wool, and odd and displaced articles of white under­
clothing. As in the case of Mrs. Duncan’s Spirits,’ the
texture of the material is usually quite apparent.
It was the automatic camera coupled to the Vaku-Blitz
flash bulbs which proved that Rudi Schneider was able to
evade control at our experiments;3 and it was a flashlight
photograph which revealed the fact that the 'telekinetic’
movements supposed to occur through Stanislawa P. were
produced normally by the medium.4
1 See Researches in the Phenomena o f Spiritualism.
2 In a letter to Light l D
rDecember 9, 1916, Sir William says *1adhere to my
published statements and have nothing to retract.* He states that ‘survival,’
under certain circumstances, has been demonstrated.
3See Chap. V.
4See Revue Mitapsychique, Paris, November-December, 1930.
2 4 0 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
CONTROLLING THE MEDIUM
Because ninety-nine out of one hundred physical mediums
cheat if they get the slightest opportunity, they have to be
'controlled5
— that is, so held or guarded that they cannot
cheat. They have to be prevented from doing normally
what they claim to accomplish paranormally. This is done
in a variety of ways.
The old method of control was a tactual one: the sitters
joined hands in chain formation and the medium was held
— or supposed to be held— by the end sitter or sitters. But
experience has proved that this method cannot be depended
upon. Either confederates in the circle help the 'pheno­
mena5 or the medium plays the time-honoured trick of
mixing up his ten fingers with those of his controllers so that
the latter are finally both holding the same hand of the
medium (when they ought to be holding separate hands),
who is thus able to free one hand for the production of
' manifestations.5
THE ELECTRICAL CONTROL
In 1923 I devised an 'electric chair5
, which Schrenckand
I finally developed into the electrical control which is des­
cribed in the chapter on the Schneider boys. I believe that
this is the most satisfactory control of a medium ever in­
vented. But it has the disadvantage of preventing those in
charge of the seance from employing instruments and other
apparatus, as their hands likewise are immobilized. But this
difficulty could be overcome.
I have also mentioned in Chapter V that after Rudi
Schneider left us he was investigated in Paris by Dr. Osty,
who used the infra-red ray method of controlling objects to
be operated upon (for telekinesis). This infra-red system has
been simplified and improved by Mr. J. Rigby, of Scar­
borough, who kindly sent me particulars and drawings of
his invention, which is peculiarly suitable for testing material­
ization mediums.
S C I E N T I F I C M E T H O D
The walls and ceiling of an ordinary seance-room are
studded with small infra-red ray projectors, exactly opposite
each of which is a corresponding photo-electric cell. The
medium would be placed in a chair in some part ofthe room,
thus cutting out certain of the rays. This would be noted in
a remote place away from the seance-room. If the medium
remained in his chair, all well and good. But if he began to
wander about, this would be noticed in the control room,
where all his movements would be recorded by indicators
operated by the photo-electric cells, which would register
the smallest action by the medium. If a 'materialization9
appeared (as is so often claimed) it, too, would be registered
in the control room, and a press of a button would auto­
matically photograph it. This system has the advantage of
leaving the medium to himself in an absolutely dark room,
without any form of physical control of his person. These
conditions are better than those usually demanded by
materialization mediums.
2 4 I
THE MECHANICAL DOLL
The most elaborate and ingenious control of a medium
ever devised is the invention of Karl Kraus (eKarl Weber3
)
ofVienna, a ‘medium3who himselfwas exposed by Professor
Thirring,1 and whose Confessions I purchased some years ago,
together with the drawings of his electro-mechanical device
for controlling a medium producing telekinetic phenomena.
Briefly, the medium sits in complete darkness, quite un­
controlled physically, but ‘guarded3 by a number of infra­
red rays. The photo-electric cells are so arranged, electrically
and mechanically, that all movements of themedium are trans­
mitted to the well-lit control room, where they are repro­
duced in an articulated doll or figure placed in front of the
observers. If the medium moves his arm, the puppet’s arm
also moves, and so on. In addition, every movement of the
medium is registered on a graph, on which the time is also
recorded.
‘Psychical Research in Vienna,’ Journal, Am. S.P.R., December, 1925,
pp. 690-707.
R
On a table in front of the medium is the object to be
moved paranormally. Every movement of this object is also
recorded on a graph, and by a similar duplicate object placed
in front of the puppet. If the test object is moved it is auto­
matically photographed. By comparing the two graphs, and
checking up by the movements of the doll, it is claimed that
the abnormality or otherwise of the telekinesis could be
determined. But the whole set-up is very complicated,
though I think it could be made to work. In addition to the
infra-red rays described above, I have used ultra-violet rays
in the seance-room for photographing articles thought to
have been surreptitiously handled by mediums under test for
telekinetic phenomena. The ultra-violet rays will reveal
finger-prints where ordinary photography will not.
242 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
MEDIUMS IN CAGES
Except in a psychic laboratory, it is not often that electrical
controls are available. Investigators have to resort to other
methods, one ofwhich is putting the medium in a cage. This
is not so terrible as it sounds, and it is seldom effective. Or
the objects to be operated upon can be put in a cage, and
we devised a double cage-table for our experiments with
Stella C.
Qjaite a number of phenomena’ can be produced by a
fraudulent medium, even in a cage. ePsychic lights,’
materializations, and other Effects’ can be simulated,
according to what the medium is permitted to take into the cage
with him. This depends on the ‘fore-control,’ which I will
mention later. Professor Thirring, during his experiments
with Kraus, used two cages: the medium was controlled in
one, the objects to be moved were in another. But that did
not prevent Kraus moving the objects normally, as Thirring
has explained in the article cited.
Willi Schneider frequently sat in a cage and in my first
experiments with him at Munich a large and heavy musical
box which we had placed in a gauze cage was successfully
operated, the boy sitting outside the cage held by two con­
trollers. But this was a genuine phenomenon. A famous
'cage medium’ was Francesco Carancini, often suspected
of fraud.1
As an alternative to cages, mediums have been sewn up in
bags, handcuffed, nailed down in boxes, trussed up like a
roast fowl, and placed in one-piece tights, the openings of
which were afterwards sewn together with multi-coloured
silks forming a prescribed, intricate pattern. All these safe­
guards have not prevented the fakers from producing
'effects’ of some sort. Some physical mediums insist upon
being roped to a chair. This is quite useless, as rope tricks
are numerous and it is impossible to tie up a medium satis­
factorily with one piece of rope. If a medium wishes to be
tied up, use many pieces of floss silk with which to secure
him to his chair. He may be able to get out of his ties, but
will not be able to get back into them.
Some mediums dislike being held, so it is permissible to
control their hands only. With Erto, the 'luminous medium,’
we completely stopped his 'psychic lights’ (known to be pro­
duced by bits of ferro-cerium, i.e. the 'flint’ of the cigar-
lighter) by placing each hand in a stout oak box, with
apertures tightly fitting the wrists, afterwards screwing on the
lids. The boxing gloves we previously used were simply tom
to ribbons in the paroxysms of the trance— real or simulated.2
Speaking of psychic lights produced at seances, the spectro­
scope has been used in an endeavour to analyse them, but as
they invariably appear spontaneously and seldom twice in
the same place, their analysis has been almost impossible.
S C I E N T I F I C M E T H O D 2 4 3
CONTROLLING THE 'DIRECT VOICE’
Voice mediums are very difficult to investigate. They
always sit in Stygian darkness and seldom allow any sort of
control. As a 'direct voice’ is supposed to be a spirit voice
comingrout of the ether, and not dependent upon the vocal
organs of the medium, it is important that some precautions
should be taken to prevent the medium using his own voice.
But very few mediums will permit this. Dr. Mark Richard-
1 See Le Secret de la Cage spirite, by Andr6 Durville, Paris [1918].
2For details, see Leaves from a Psychisfs Case-Book (Price), pp. 354-76.
son, friend of ' Margery/ the versatile American medium,
constructed a device which was intended to prove that the
spirit, 6Walter’s3voice, which is heard at Margery’s seances,
was indeed what it purported to be, and did not emanate
from the medium’s own vocal organs.
Dr. Richardson’s apparatus1 consists of a tall glass U-tube,
from one end of which an armoured rubber tube connects
with a short glass tube stuck in the rubber bung of an empty
bottle. In the bung of the bottle is another tube, at the
extremity ofwhich is a glass mouthpiece, alleged to be fraud-
proof. In this mouthpiece are three small holes which, in
use, have to be sealed by the lips and tongue respectively of
the medium.
If the U-tube is partly filled with water, and the person
being tested blows through the mouthpiece, the water is
driven down one arm of the U-tube and up the other.
When the medium ceases to blow, the air rushes in, and the
water in the U-tube again finds its level. Of course, the
apparatus is used in complete darkness, and luminous cork
floats indicate the level of the water.
In my opinion, there are two defects in this apparatus: the
armoured rubber tube and the mouthpiece. The tubes
should be of metal, which would prevent any manipulation
of them; and the holes in the mouthpiece could be sealed
by a piece of chewing-gum secreted in the mouth. A person
could make the water rise in the U-tube, seal the holes in
the mouthpiece in the way I have suggested, and use his
own voice for simulating spirit voices.
As 'Margery’ was reported to be coming to London, I set
about devising an instrument which, I was sure, could not be
fraudulently manipulated in any way. The result was my
apparatus, partly electrical and partly mechanical. The act
of blowing down a rigid metal tube, to which is attached a
really fraudproofmouthpiece, does two things: A red electric
pea-light is switched off ('blown3out), and the air pressure
applied to the mouthpiece is recorded by a pen on a revolving
clockwork drum. With mouth immobilized by the instru­
ment, it is utterly impossible even to begin to say something
1 For full particulars and illustrations, see ‘Dr. Richardson’s Voice-Control
Machine,’ by J. Malcolm Bird, Journal, Am. S.P.R., December, 1925.
2 4 4 F I F T Y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
without the tell-tale light glowing and the recording pen
marking a dip in the graph.
Dr. Crandon, "Margery’s5husband, examined my Voice
Control Recorder, and told me he could not permit his wife
to use it. Afterwards I offered £50 to any person who could
say, cGod save the K ing!5in complete darkness when con­
trolled by the instrument. Several people tried, including
Munnings, the medium, and no one succeeded in beating
the machine.
S C I E N T I F I C M E T H O D 245
TESTING HUMAN EMANATIONS
A number of special instruments have been devised for
testing alleged emanations and radiations from mediums and
others. Dr. Sydney Alrutz invented a machine1 for register­
ing will-power; the Abbe Fortin’s "Magnetometer’ was sup­
posed to register electric emanations; Dr. Paul Joire invented
a machine called the "Sthenometer’ for registering exter­
nalized nervous energy; and much apparatus has been de­
signed by dowsers for recording the alleged radiations from
underground water seams and metallic lodes.
Crawford invented a new technique for demonstrating his
theory that "ectoplasmic rods,’ after leaving the medium,
raised objects by the cantilever system,1
2 but this has never
been confirmed.
Numerous instruments have been made in the hope that
they would displace the human medium in contacting the
spirits. Sir William Barrett has suggested the word "Auto­
scope,’ for such an instrument, one of which, the "Dynamis-
tograph,’ was made by two Dutchmen. And Abrams’s
electronic machines for diagnosing our various ills are still
with us.
TESTING SPIRIT WRITING
Some mediums specialize in producing "spirit writing,’ on
slates or paper. A few years ago such people were common,
1 Illustrated opp. p. 120 of T h i Story o f Psychic Science, by Hereward Carring­
ton, London, 1930.
2 See the list of Crawford’s publications in Appendix D.
but they are not very fashionable to-day. However, one does
occasionally come across writing alleged to have been pro­
duced paranormally, and then it has to be tested, especially
if it is thought that the medium in question has escaped
control. A handwriting expert should be consulted, in order
that the medium’s own writing can be compared with that
alleged to be produced by spirits. Wilhelm Langenbruch
has evolved a graphometric system for the identification of
personality by handwriting, which should yield good results
in the seance-room. It is claimed that certain space propor­
tions exist in the handwriting of every person. These space
proportions are said to express a constant persona] rhythm of
each individual and to offer a mathematically exact basis for
identification. The system can be applied to spirit drawings,
paintings, ‘scotographs,’ etc., in addition to handwriting.1
2 4 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
THE FORE-CONTROL OF A MEDIUM
Many of the instrumental safeguards recorded above can
be discarded if a properfore-controlof the medium is carried
out; better still, if he will consent to work in a white light.
All eapport,’ materialization, and telekinetic mediums
should be subjected to a rigorous medical inspection before
any scientific examination of their claims. Small articles
will produce big effects in complete darkness, if they can be
secreted in or upon the person of a medium and allowed in
the seance-room. Every body orifice should be explored by
a medical man. This may sound outrageous until I mention
that when searching mediums the most extraordinary
phenomena-producing articles have frequently been dis­
covered in places not usually referred to in polite society.
After the medical inspection, a medium should be controlled
by being asked to don one-piece tights, sewn on him, or by
other means suggested in this chapter.
1 The possibilities of this system are discussed by Dr. Alfred Gradenwitzin
the Psychische Studien (Leipzig) for June, 1925.
S C I E N T I F I C M E T H O D 247
TESTING MENTAL PHENOMENA
It is obviously much more difficult to test a mental or
trance medium than a physical one. It is what a mental
medium says, rather than what he does, that is important.
But certain physiological and other changes are supposed
to occur in some trance mediums and these can be tested.
For example, the heart, pulse, blood pressure, and respira­
tion rates can all be tested (by means of the sphygmomano­
meter, the kymograph, etc.) during trance, and compared
with graphs representing the normal condition of the
medium. In the chapter on cExtra-Sensory Perception,5we
have seen how Mrs. A. Peel Goldney carried out an investi­
gation1 into the alleged physiological changes said to occur
with Mrs. Eileen Garrett. Blood counts, coagulation times,
respiration, etc., were all investigated. In addition, thermal
changes, both of the entranced medium and his or her
vicinity, can be measured and compared with graphs taken
in the normal state.
QUANTITATIVE STUDY OF TRANCE PERSONALITIES
Professor Stanley Hall and Dr. Amy Tanner invented
what has been called a 'word-association test5 and applied
this technique to the 'controls’ of Mrs. Piper. Certain
questions or words are asked the medium, and the reaction
limes before answering are noted. The same questions are
asked of the 'spirit controls,5and their reaction times are also
recorded. By this means it is ascertained whether the mind
— conscious or subconscious— of the medium, and that of
the control, are one and the same. If the reaction times are
identical for the same question or word, then we are dealing
with the same mind. If the times vary, then it is possible that
wc are dealing with a distinct personality— perhaps a spirit.
It was Mr. Whately Carington who first suggested using
a quantitative technique in conjunction with the use of the
psycho-galvanic reflex and reaction times. Dr. Hereward
Carrington applied this technique to Mrs. Garrett and her
* ProcS.P.R., Vol. XLV, pp. 43-68.
control ‘Uvani,’ with striking results1 which, however, have
been criticized. Whately Carington developed a much
better technique based on Dr. R. A. Fisher’s ‘Analysis of
Variance.’ The method of reaction times was found to be
much more reliable than with the use of the psycho-galvanic
reflex. Many of Whately Carington’s conclusions were
shown by Professor R. H. Thouless to be without foundation,
but it may be fairly said that he has established several
important results with some certainty. He has shown, for
instance, that when a series of words is called over to Mrs.
Osborne Leonard in the normal state, and then to ‘Feda,’
her alleged spirit control, those words which give short
reaction times with Mrs. Leonard evoke exceptionally long
times when given to ‘Feda.’ This suggests that ‘Feda’ is not
a spirit distinct from the medium, but a secondary personality
built up from material that has been repressed from Mrs.
Leonard’s normal waking life. Professor Thouless thinks
that W. Carington has failed to establish the existence of
real spirits which can communicate through one medium,
and sometimes through another. This is a serious setback
for the spiritualistic hypothesis.2
Speaking of the galvanometer, this has also been applied
to mediums for testing the psycho-galvanic reflexes, induced
by varying emotions.
2 4 8 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
CONTROLLING SEALED BILLET READING
A phenomenon claimed for some mental mediums is that
of reading the unknown contents of a sealed letter or becom­
ing psychically cognizant of what is hidden in a sealed
package. To control such mediums it is necessary to place
the test message in a nest of opaque envelopes, each ofwhich
is sealed. Round every envelope, beginning with the smallest,
a strip of lead foil should be placed, and the ends sealed,
choosing a different position for each envelope. When the
1 See his History of the A .P .I. An Instrumental Test o f the Independence o f a
*Spirit Control/ New York [1932].
2References: ‘The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities/ by W.
Whately Carington, P r o c S.P.R., Parts 136, 141, 149. For review and
criticisms of Carington’s work, by R, H, Thouless, see Proc.9 S.P.R,, Part 150,
S C I E N T I F I C M E T H O D
package is completed, it should be sewn criss-cross with
coloured threads, the ends of which must be sealed with wax
on the back. The package or envelope must then be X-rayed.
The lead-foil bands will form an intricate pattern on the
negative, which must be carefully preserved. After the
medium has returned the packet (the cclairvoyance’ is often
done away from the seance-room) it should be X-rayed again,
and the two negatives superimposed. The slightest tamper­
ing with the envelopes will be revealed by the two X-ray
patterns not exactly registering. The same technique can be
employed where packets containing solid articles are con­
cerned. The objects must be firmly packed in a box, and
well-wrapped and scaled. It was by means of X-raying a
secret pattern on my plates that I exposed William Hope,
the spirit photographer.1
I have omitted to mention the numerous machines (such
asF. R. Melton’s 6
psychic telephone’)2invented by mediums
as a short cut to contacting with the spirit world. Some of
these are ingenious, but I have never yet seen one which
would operate unless the uncontrolled medium was near it.
And a testlike this isuseless. The most amazing instrumentwas
the ‘ Mars machine’ described in a previous book of mine.3
It must be borne in mind that in addition to the special
instruments which I have mentioned in this chapter, the
ordinary apparatus to be found in every chemical, physical,
and psychological laboratory is extensively used in the
scientific testing of mediums. And in the laboratory of the
Psychologischcs Institut of the University of Bonn is a large
and apparently quite innocent mirror. But the cmirror’ is in
reality a window, lightly silvered on one surface. When the
lights are on in the laboratory, observers in an adjoining
room can plainly sec all that is taking place in the laboratory,
though those in the hitter room cannot see the observers,
I hope no German medium reads this! But the idea is so
ingenious that a brief description of the arrangement cannot
be omitted from any chapter dealing with scientific method
in psychical research.
1 Journal, S.P.K., May, 1922.
* A Psychic Telephone, by F. R. Melton, Nottingham, 1921.
s Confessions o f a Ghost-Hunter, pp. 118-22.
249
CHAPTER XIV
SCIENCE SOLVES THE FIRE-WALK MYSTERY
LTHOUGH at first sight it might appear that fire­
walking has little to do with psychical research, as a
matter of fact the subject has interested psychists for
very many years, and especially during the last half-century.
The reason for this is that the secret of immunity from burn­
ing, clearly demonstrated with many professional fire-
walkers, was thought to be due to causes which can be
described as 'mental.’ And that this theory is a very ancient
one is proved by the fact that Virgil1 suggests in Arruns’s
prayer to Apollo that 'faith’ is the cause of the devotee’s
immunity.
Though fire-walking has always puzzled psychical re­
searchers, it is curious that no attempt was made to solve the
mystery until I decided, in 1934, to test such professional
'walkers’ as were willing to be examined scientifically. To
this end, I inserted an advertisement in The Times2 asking
that professional and amateur fire-walkers and fire-resisters
should communicate with me. I did not get a single reply.
Nearly twelve months later, by the merest accident, I learnt
that a young Kashmiri named Kuda Bux, who was demon­
strating his trick blindfold-reading in a London cabaret had
walked on fire in India on many occasions and was willing
to be tested.
The experiments with Kuda Bux were held under the
auspices of the University of London Council for Psychical
Investigation and proved very interesting and instructive.
The tests were carried out on September 9 and 17, 1935, in
some private grounds at Carshalton, Surrey. The fire
1 Mneid XI, 787, 788. 2 por October 23, 1934.
KUDA BUX
250
trenches were made to Bux’s specifications, and at the final
demonstration the one walked on measured eleven feet long,
six feet wide, and nine inches deep. To make the fire (which
was ignited at 8.20 a.m.) some seven tons of oak logs, one ton
of fire-wood, a load of charcoal, ten gallons of paraffin and
fifty copies of The Times were used. The fire was ready for
walking on by three o’clock. The temperatures were then
measured and it was found that the heat of the surface was
430° Centigrade, and the interior, 1400° Centigrade. Bux
walked barefooted over the fire twice, each time in four
strides, and at both attempts each foot was in contact with
the embers twice. He was quite unharmed. Some amateurs
who attempted to duplicate the feat were burned, but not
severely. Our experiments established the fact that a man
weighing 120 pounds, with chemically unprepared feet, can
take four rapid steps on charcoal at 430° Centigrade without
injury to his feet, the average time of contact for each step
being approximately half a second. It was not clear why
the amateurs were burnt, but as they all appeared rather
nervous and floundered somewhat, this was thought to be
the reason. But it was obvious that we had not discovered the
secret of fire-walking, and further experiments were
desirable.1
Though wc did not solve the problem of fire-walking, we
cleared the ground a little regarding rival theories as to how
it was done. We proved that no preparation of the feet was
necessary; that the callosity of the skin had nothing to do
witli immunity, because the soles of Kuda Bux’s feet were
soft, while those of one of the amateurs (Mr. Digby Moy-
nagh) were hard; that fasting or other initial preparation
was not necessary; that the feet did not have to be wet or
damp— a condition which is actually disadvantageous,
because cinders are liable to stick to the soles. We also found
that fire-walking was in no sense a trick. We were left with
three alternatives as to how the feat might have been
accomplished: (a) that it was done by 6
faith’; (b) that the
short average time of contact with the embers was responsible
S C I E N C E S O L V E S T H E F I R E - W A L K M Y S T E R Y 2 5 I
1 For Hit: official account of the 1935 experiments, see ‘A Report on Two
Experimental Fire-Walks,’ by Harry Price, Bulletin II, Univ. of London Council
for Psychical Investigation, London, 1936. (20 illustrations.)
for the absence of burning; (c) that there was a knack in
walking.
2 5 2 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
AHMED HUSSAIN
Accounts of our experiments were published in practically
every principal newspaper in the world, and, in India
particularly, Kuda Bux was hailed as something of a hero.
The publicity he received inspired another Indian profes­
sional fire-walker, Ahmed Hussain, to offer us his services,
and he came to England to be tested in the early part of
I937- Through his agent, I offered him a £50 fee. He
wanted £100, which I said I would pay him if he successfully
passed our tests.
Ahmed Hussain is a Moslem from Gawnpore, was aged
twenty-three, and weighed 126 pounds. Like Kuda Bux,
he is a cmagician5by profession, and has walked 011 fire in
India on many occasions. Also like Kuda Bux, he claimed
to impart his alleged immunity from burning to others.
For the second series of tests which I organized for the
University Council, I again chose the grounds of Mr. Alex.
L. Dribbell’s house at Carshalton. I advertised in The Times1
for volunteer ‘walkers’ to be used as controls, and received
more than forty replies, including one from a girl under­
graduate of a provincial university.
Our first test was held on April 7, 1937, Hussain stipulat­
ing that the trench should be about twelve feet long. The
actual measurements were twelve feet six inches long, four
feet wide, and fifteen inches deep. We used four tons of
oak logs, one ton of firewood, five hundredweight of forest-
burnt charcoal, ten gallons of paraffin, and fifty copies of
The Times. The fire was laid in the ordinary way and
ignited at seven o’clock on the morning of the test. The
fire was reduced to small embers by 3 p.m. and temperatures
were then measured.
1 For March 3, 1937.
S C I E N C E S O L V E S T H E F I R E - W A L K M Y S T E R Y 25 3
MEASURING THE TEMPERATURES
The measuring of the temperatures at our experiments
with Kuda Bux was not particularly satisfactory. The
figures obtained were accurate, but the instruments em­
ployed were hurriedly constructed and difficult to use. For
the tests with Hussain I decided to approach what are
probably the greatest thermal experts in the world, the
Cambridge Instrument Co., Ltd., and I take this opportunity
of publicly thanking them for their skilful and sustained
interest in our investigation. Their representative, Mr.
H. G. Starling (who was responsible for all the measurements
at the three tests) was particularly helpful. As it is very
important to put on record a detailed description of the
instruments used, I will now do so.
Interior temperature.—A 12-inch thermocouple, fitted with
f
iTitan9 elements, was connected to a portable indicator
(reading from 0-1200° Centigrade) fitted with automatic
cold junction compensator and anti-parallax mirror to faci­
litate accurate readings.1 The principle upon which this
thermo-electric pyrometer operates is as follows: if two wires
of dissimilar metals are joined together to form a closed
circuit and one junction is heated, an electro-motive force
is set up, causing an electric current to flow through the
circuit. The junction exposed to the heat is termed the
'thermocouple.5 It is connected to a galvanometer which is
calibrated to read directly in degrees of temperature. The
galvanometer is a strong pivoted coil instrument with pointer
swinging above a calibrated scale. The thermocouple, which
is protected by a steel sheath, was plunged into the glowing
fire to a depth of about six inches, and the temperature at the
end of the thermocouple was read off on the indicator.
1
Surface temperature.— The same portable indicator (as
%
described above) was employed, but with a different type
of thermocouple, designed togive quick and accurate readings
of surface temperatures. In this thermocouple, the ends of
the wires comprising the junction were flattened out to form
1 Types of thermocouple and indicator are illustrated in Folder 50 {Figs. 8
and C), Cambridge Instrument Co., Ltd.
254 f i f t y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
a thin narrow strip, which was held in contact with the
surface of the fire, die temperature being read, as before, on
the portable indicator.
Measuring skin temperature.— To measure the skin tempera­
ture of Hussain’s feet, a special sensitive thermocouple was
pressed into contact with the soles immediately prior to and
after he had. walked through the fire. This skin thermocouple
was connected to a sensitive unipivot galvanometer.1 By
means of constants, determined previously, the readings of
the galvanometer were readily translated into degrees of
temperature. As the temperature of the feet was very near
to that of the atmosphere, considerable errors in reading
might have been introduced by fluctuation in atmospheric
temperatures affecting the temperature of the ‘cold junction’
of the thermocouple. To avoid any possibility of such errors,
the ‘coldjunction5was maintained at a constant temperature
by immersion in a vacuum flask.
TEMPERATURES RECORDED
By the time that Hussain was ready to walk, the internal
temperature of the fire measured 700° Centigrade, and the
surface 5750 Centigrade. Hussain’s feet were examined by
Professors C. A. Pannett and W. D. Newcomb, washed in
cold water, dried, and temperature of soles measured. Pro­
fessor Newcomb drew a pin across the soles of his feet, and
there was no reaction. The6
reflex action5test was then made
and proved normal. At 3.45 Hussain, attired in native
dress, recited a prayer from the Koran, stepped into the fire
and took three quick strides in 1.3 seconds— the right foot
being in contact with the embers twice. He was imme­
diately examined and found to be quite unburned. The
temperature of the soles of his feet was io° Fahrenheit lower
than before the walk. The times were measured by Dr.
Guy B. Brown, using stop-watches, including the latest
model Frodsham split-second instrument, reading to 0.01
second.
1 Illustrated in Supplement to List No. 160 (Fig. 1, Type LX), Cambridge
Instrument Co., Ltd.
S C I E N C E S O L V E S T H E F I R E - W A L K M Y S T E R Y 2 5 5
‘IMMUNITY5NOT CONVEYED TO OTHERS
One of Hussain’s claims was that his immunity from
burning could be conveyed to others. To test this, I chose
five amateurs who volunteered to walk the trench. They
were:
John Graigie (143 pounds)
N. W. Marshall (145 pounds)
H. A. Bould (124 pounds)
A. I. Ghesney (177 pounds)
Reginald Adcock (160 pounds)
They were medically examined by Professors Pannett and
Newcomb, and their feet were tested for possible chemical
preparations, washed, and dried. Temperatures of soles
were then measured. The three amateurs first named then
prepared to accompany Hussain over the fire. They lined
up behind him, holding hands in chain formation, the
foremost (Craigie) clutching the Indian’s belt. Hussain
instructed them how to walk. After more prayers, the
Indian gave the signal to start and they crossed the trench
in 1.5 seconds. (Plate IX.) Hussain failed to impart his
‘immunity* from injury to the amateurs, who were all
burned to a varying, but slight degree. Craigie complained
of a little pain, as a cinder stuck to his foot.
Reginald Adcock then walked the trench alone, taking
three steps in 1.4 seconds, followed by A. I. Chesney, who
took four quick steps. Both were slightly burned, and in
Adcock’s case the foot that was in contact with the embers
most often was the one most affected.
Our first experiments were most instructive. It was
obvious that the effect of the heat on the feet of the walkers
was cumulative, and two steps by each foot appeared to be-
the limit that could be taken without injury, even by the
professional. To test this theory, we asked Hussain if he
would walk on a trench twenty feet long. After some
hesitation, he consented.
2 5 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
SECOND TESTS
The next experiments were held at Carshalton on April
9a T937>and the B.B.C. broadcast a running commentary of
the proceedings. The trench was twenty feet long, five feet
wide, and nine inches deep. We used the following material:
ten tons of oak logs, one ton of firewood, five hundredweight
of charcoal, ten gallons of paraffin, and fifty copies of The
Times. The fire was ignited at 7 a.m. and was ready for
walking on by 2.30 p.m. Professor W. D. Newcomb and
Dr. Cridland were in charge of the medical arrangements,
and Dr. Guy B. Brown was responsible for the instrumental
records. As before, the feet of the walkers were medically
examined, washed, tested, and temperatures measured.
HUSSAIN IS BURNED
At the time of walking, the surface temperature of the fire
was 740° Centigrade, and that of the interior 750° Centi­
grade. At 2.59 p.m. Hussain muttered the usual prayers
and half a minute later stepped into the trench, taking six
steps in 2*3 seconds. This produced six blisters on the left
foot, and one blister and marked erythema on the right,
injuries similar to those sustained by the amateurs after three
or four steps. As we anticipated, the effect was cumulative in
his case also. Hussain refused to walk a second time. His
feet were photographed soon after the walk, and again on the
following morning at St. Mary’s Hospital, Paddington, under
the supervision of Professor Newcomb, who made the fol­
lowing observations:
(1) There was no evidence that any preparation had been
applied to Hussain’s feet to render them less vulnerable to
fire. They appeared the normal feet for an Indian and, as
is usual with that race, are flat. The skin has a curious
tough consistency rather like a kid glove. Several small
scars were noticed on the inner sides and between the toes.
These are consistent with previous burning.
S C I E N C E S O L V E S T H E F I R E - W A L K M Y S T E R Y 2 5 7
(2) After the walks on April 7, he showed no signs of
burning, while all the amateurs were burned.
(3) After the walk on April 9 (about thirty minutes after)
there were three small blisters and two areas of erythema on
the inner side of the sole of left foot in instep. An area of
erythema was present on the upper part of the inner sole of
right foot. All the amateurs who walked were burned more
than Ahmed Hussain, and Mr. Bould was rather badly
blistered. No blister was found on the heel or ball of the
foot (i.e. the areas walked on and so hardened).
(4) On Saturday, April 10, six small blisters averaging
0.4 cm. diameter could be seen on inner side of Hussain’s
left foot, and the area of erythema on right foot was now a
blister. All the blisters were surrounded by small red
areas. I should describe them as second degree burns.
(5) The electrical resistance from foot to foot with the
skin moistened was determined. Four normal students were
tested as controls.
E l e c t r ic a l R e s is t a n c e
Hussain
Students (max.)
Students (min.)
Students (av.)
Heel to Heel
24.000 ohms.
22.000 „
15.000 „
17.000 „
B all to Ball
18.500 ohms.
28.000 „
12.000 „
18.500 „
Instep to Instep
40.000 ohms.
38.000 „
13.000 „
31.000 „
The method used was not very accurate and the error
increases with the resistance. But it is interesting that the only
significant difference between Hussain’s feet and the students’
is in the resistance from instep to instep, where his is greatly
tougher. This is the part of the foot where the amateurs
were burned, and it is possible that owing to the flatness of
Hussain’s feet (and walking barefoot in India?) this part of
his feet is more resistant than the average Englishman’s.
Whether electrical resistance of skin has any relation to heat
resistance, I do not know; it has with m any substances such
as copper, glass, etc.
After Hussain’s attempt on the twenty-foot trench,
Adcock (who had walked previously on April 7) walked the
trench in 1.4 seconds, taking four steps. H e was slightly
burned. Two London University students, A . J. Bould and
D . C. Russell, also walked the trench, and both were slightly
burned.
2 5 8 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
ROPE-SOLED SHOES TEST
During the second demonstration, Adcock walked the
twenty-foot trench in dry rope-soled shoes, taking seven steps
in 3-6 seconds. The soles of the shoes were quite unburned, only
the frayed strands ofrope at the edges being slightly scorched.
The sole of one of the shoes was then wetted and placed in
contact with the fire. Some seconds elapsed before steam was
seen rising from the sole, proving that the Spheroidal state’ 1
(sometimes called the ccaloric paradox’), a popular ‘ex­
planation,’ does not occur in fire-walking.
The results of the tests on April 9 were enlightening. It
was quite clear that, whether amateur or professional, the
limit of walking on a really hot fire was two steps per foot
with contact-time of about one half-second each. Also, it
was quite obvious that ‘ confidence’ had a great deal to do
with it. Most of the volunteers floundered more or less.
Reginald Adcock, who walked the most steadily, was burned
the least. And the fact that the rope-soled shoes were not
damaged made it clear that the low thermal conductivity of
the hot ash and wood embers injures neither normal skin nor
other objects if the contact-time is about half a second.
FINAL TESTS
Our final tests were held in the grounds of Alexandra
Palace on April 20, 1937, and were both broadcast and
televised. This was the first important outside function to be
televised, and the new Emitron camera was used. The
pictures transmitted were of perfect clarity and were wit­
nessed by many people in and around London.
The trench at Alexandra Palace was twelve feet long, four
feet wide, and nine inches deep. Four tons of oak logs, and
the usual firewood, etc., were used. The fire was ignited at
7 a.m. and was in a condition for walking upon by 3 p.m.
1 A state in which water or other volatile liquid forms into drops upon a
smooth surface heated above the boiling point of the liquid, the drops being
supported by a thin, badly conducting layer of vapour, which prevents actual
contact with the heated surface. [Standard Dictionary.]
The temperatures of the fire were again measured by the
Cambridge Instrument Co., Ltd., and were found to be
650° Centigrade in the interior, and 8oo° Centigrade on the
surface (water boils at ioo° Centigrade). This was the
hottest (on the surface) fire we managed to produce at any
test, and the stiff breeze which fanned the trench accounted
for the high temperature.
Professor J. C. Flugel and I were responsible for the
examination and washing of the walkers’ feet, and Dr. E. J.
Dingwall measured the times. The first to walk was Hussain,
who took four steps in 1.6 seconds. His feet were uninjured,
and the temperature of the soles had dropped from 68°
Fahrenheit before the test, to 6i° Fahrenheit immediately
after. Then Adcock—for the third time— walked the trench
in 1.8 seconds, taking three steps (right foot on embers
twice). He was not burned in any way. (Plate X.)
ENGLISHMAN THE BEST cWALKER5
An interesting fact emerged from our final tests: we found
that, in fire-walking, Reginald Adcock proved himself
superior to either Kuda Bux or Ahmed Hussain. Bux walked
in a trench eleven feet long with a surface temperature of
430° Centigrade, Each foot was in contact with the embers
twice. Adcock’s performance surpassed that of the Indian’s
because the surface of the fire was nearly twice as hot; he
walked farther; and the Englishman weighed forty pounds
more— a decided disadvantage in fire-walking.
Adcock also proved himself a better walker than either of
the Indians because the minimum mean time of contact for
each of his feet was 0.60 second against Bux’s 0.55 second,
and Hussain’s 0.40 second. In other words, each of Adcock’s
feet was, at each step, in contact with the embers for a longer
period than the feet of the two professionals.
EXPERIMENTS IN HUMAN GAIT
It will be seen from above that the time of each foot on
the embers was about half a second. But that was for the
whole ofthe foot. Apropos of our tests, Dr. R. Plato Schwartz
S C I E N C E S O L V E S T H E F I R E - W A L K M Y S T E R Y 2 5 9
carried out thousands of experiments in recording human
gait. With 1,000 subjects, it was found that each person
walked a distance of fifty feet at the average rate of 1.8 steps
per second, normal walking. The weight-bearing time from
the contact of the heel with the floor until the great toe left
the floor was 0.65 second; for only 0.05 second was the entire
plantar surface of the shoe in contact with the floor. As
fire-walkers progress faster than in normal walking, it is
obvious that no one portion of a fire-walker3
s foot is in
contact with the embers for more than a minute fraction of
a second. Later experiments by Dr. Schwartz, with an im­
proved recording apparatus, suggested that there may be no
interval of time at which the entire plantar surface of the foot
is bearing weight.1
AMATEURS3REACTIONS TO FIRE-WALKING
Some of the amateur 'walkers3 were asked what their
reactions were before, and during the walk. The most
successful walker, Mr. Reginald Adcock, said that he felt
great confidence when about to begin his last walk— a con­
fidence born of two previous attempts. He experienced no
pain when walking— merely a tingling— or after the experi­
ments. Mr. Craigie, though slightly burnt where the piece
of red-hot charcoal stuck to his instep, felt no pain during
or after the walk. Mr. Bould 'felt the fire somewhat,5 but
no intense pain. He felt a tingling sensation after he stepped
out of the trench. During the test, he 'seemed to lose con­
sciousness a little5and his mental state was rather unusual,
but it lasted for a few seconds only. Mr. Marshall said that
all he thought of when in the trench was getting to the other
end. He was one of those whom Hussain took across the
fire, but at no time did he feel en rapport with the Indian,
who had guaranteed him 'immunity3 from burning. It is
significant that neither professional nor amateurs sustained
any burn on the ball or heel of the foot. Their slight injuries
were on the instep, or at the sides of the feet, where they
sank into the embers.
1 Journal o f the American Medical Ass.> Chicago, December 14,1935. Hislatest
estimate is that no one portion of a fire-walker’s foot touches the embers for
more than 0.05 sec. (Mew Tork Sun, February 23, 1938.)
2 6 0 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
S C I E N C E S O L V E S T H E F I R E - W A L K M Y S T E R Y 2 6 l
CONCLUSION AND EXPLANATION
At our tests in 1935 we discovered that extreme callosity
of the feet was not a factor in walking on fire; that the wood
ash was not necessary as an insulator, because in the case of
Kuda Bux, all the loose ash was blown off the fire before
walking; that fasting or other preparation, mental or
physical, was not necessary; that no preparation of the feet
(by chemicals or local anaesthetic) was attempted; and that
no trickery was employed.
In the 1937 experiments we found that the secret of fire­
walking lies in (a) the short contact-time of each foot with
the embers, with a limit of immunity of two steps per foot
(neither professional nor amateur ‘walked’ more than two
steps per foot without getting burnt); (b) the low thermal
conductivity ofburning or burnt wood embers; (c) confidence
and steadiness in walking. We also discovered that damp or
wet feet are a disadvantage, as the hot embers stick to them.
Kuda Bux was particularly careful to see that his feet were
quite dry before ‘walking.’ But we found no support for the
theory advanced by Sir Leonard Hill, who suggested1 that
in the case of Bux, the increased immunity from burning was
due to a power of controlling the activity of the sweat glands
of the feet, so that they were abnormally dry. Another
theory we exploded was that of the ‘spheroidal state’
explanation. This state simply does not occur in fire-walk­
ing. As we have proved with Reginald Adcock, any person
with the requisite determination, confidence, and steadiness,
can walk unharmed over a fire as hot as 8oo° Centigrade.
The experiments proved once and for all that no occult or
psychic power, or a specially induced mental state, is neces­
sary in a fire-walker.
SCIENCE VERSUS SHOWMANSHIP
In the many magazine and newspaper articles2 on fire­
walking it is invariably found that noisy showmanship and
1 The Listener, October 16, 23, 30, 1935.
2 For a comprehensive bibliography of fire-walking, by the present writer,
see A Report on Two Experimental Fire-Walks, op. cit,
ecstatic ballyhoo take the place of cold scientific procedure.
We are never told the exact temperature of the surface of the
fire at the time of walking for the very good reason that no
one thought of measuring it until I staged the first British
experiments in 1935. Even the modest surface temperature
of 430° Centigrade, on which Kuda Bux walked, was ‘far
more intense5 than any fire ever seen in Southern India,
according to Dr. E. H. Hunt, who witnessed many fire-walk
performances there.1 It is doubtful if any fire-walker in any
part of the world has ever trodden a fire as hot as the one we
prepared at Alexandra Palace on April 20.
To conclude, a photographic record of our tests was taken.
More than 200 pictures were secured, and Mr. S. J. Worsley
and I took a complete front and rear slow-motion cine-film
of all the demonstrators. It shows that Adcock walked just
as calmly as Hussain. No special technique on the part of
the professional is apparent. This photographic evidence
together with the mass of scientific data which we secured
have enabled us to elucidate a mystery which has puzzled
humanity for at least 2,000 years. Those who attended the
experiments, in addition to the names already mentioned,
were the late Dr. William Collier, Professor J. A. Gunn,
Dr. T. E. Banks, Mr. R. S. Lambert, Dr. Reginald E. Gibbs,
Dr. C. E. M. Joad, Mr. S. G. Soal, the Rev. Professor
E. S. Waterhouse, Professor Millais Culpiri, Dr. J. Edgley
Curnock, Dr. A. S. Russell, Sir Richard and Lady Gregory,
Mrs. S. J. Worsley, Mr. F. Yeats-Brown, Professor Cyril
Burt and Mrs. Burt, Mrs. C. A. Pannett, Dr. Joan Malleson,
Mrs. J. C. Flugel, Dr. Frederick Ridley, the Rev. Dr. Ryder
Smith, Dr. Brazier, Dr. G. P. Crowden, Sir Patrick Kelly,
Mr. and Mrs. Reginald A. Rye, and many others.1
2
2 6 2 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
1 See The Times, September 18, 1935.
2 For the official report of the last tests, see 'A Report onThree Experimental
Fire-Walks,’ by G. B. Brown (Bulletin IV, Univ. of London Council for Psychical
Investigation, London, 1938).
CHAPTER XV
B R O A D C A S T IN G T H E O C C U L T
HE radio is an ideal medium by which to conduct
experiments in extra-sensory perception, if the right
technique can be found. Unfortunately, the perfect
method has not yet been evolved. On the other hand, perfect
tests could be arranged by means of television.
The first broadcast of ‘psychic’ matter was, according to
my own personal knowledge, in November, 1921. I hap­
pened to be in Berlin and on m y friend’s set we listened to a
description of some experiments in hypnosis. I do not
know where the broadcast came from, but probably from
a German station. I made some inquiries and could not
discover that any previous psychic broadcasts had been
made.
AMERICAN EXPERIMENTS IN RADIO TELEPATHY
The first experiment in radio telepathy was conducted by
Professor Gardner M urphy o f Columbia University, in col­
laboration with Professors Gault and English. The test was
broadcast by the Zenith Foundation1 in Chicago on
March 2, 1924.
The ‘ agents’ (senders) numbered about forty and the
tests included a number, a wild animal with a letter written
over his head, two intersected coloured lines, a taste, a pain
at some point on the hands or arm, the emotional exper­
iences of a drowning man, and finally what a fireman feels
like when he is rescuing a girl. A ll the stimuli were chosen
automatically by means o f a machine. Listeners were
informed, of the general nature of the stimulus, whether it
was an animal, a number, and so on.
1 The* Zenith Foundation has also more recently staged radio competitions
in connection with Dr. Rhine’s E.S.P. cards.
263
Rather more than 2,500 persons sent in replies, and the
results were actually worse than chance would lead one to
expect. But two persons scored successes which were out­
standing, if inconclusive. In test five, one of the senders in
the studio had tied a string round the little finger of his left
hand in order to convey to listeners the sensation of a dull,
throbbing pain. A listener reported a similar pain in the left
little finger. A young woman also sensed a pain at the base
of the little finger, plus the emotions of a drowning man.
These results are good, but Dr. Murphy was unable to
follow them up with further tests. But however good they
were, these two isolated cases out of more than 2,500 did not
prove that anything but chance was responsible.1
2 6 4 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
EARLY OBJECTIONS TO RADIO EXPERIMENTS
The idea of broadcasting experiments in telepathy was (so
far as Europe is concerned) originated, elaborated, and sub­
mitted to the old British Broadcasting Company by me as
long ago as 1924. In the spring of that year, I went to con­
siderable trouble in devising experiments in thought-trans­
ference, with listeners as ‘percipients,9 which would have
produced a mass of interesting data. Colours, perfumes,
geometrical figures, playing-cards, numbers, scenas, etc.
were included in my broadcasting scheme, which was finally
rejected by the B.B.C. for some very curious reasons. On
June 12, 1924, Mr. Arthur R. Burrows, then Director of
Programmes, wrote me that they were considering my pro­
posal but that they had ‘to avoid doing anything which will
justifiably expose us to an attack by the medical profession
and other students of the mental and nervous systems.9 By
June 19 the Control Board had discussed my proposal, but
6
it was decided that a test ofthis character, with an unknown
number of persons listening, would carry little weight and
could not in any case be convincing.3 Finally, I was told that
cin view ofthe fact, too, that the Company would be exposed
1 For a further account, see ‘Telepathy as an Experimental Problem,* by
Gardner Murphy in The Case for and against Psychical B elief Worcester, Mass.,
1927, PP- 273- 4-
to a deal of criticism, some of which might be quite justi­
fiable,’ the experiment could not take place.
It is strange to read in 1939 these old B.B.C. letters of
1924. Since that date many psychic plays have been broad­
cast, and mediums, fortune-tellers, dowsers, fire-walkers and
other ‘psychics ’ have been on the air repeatedly.
But the old B.B.C. were strangely ‘psychic’ themselves
when they prophesied that an experiment in radio mass
telepathy would ‘not in any case be convincing.’ One was
staged in 1927, and the results were, to put it mildly,
inconclusive.
B R O A D C A S T I N G T H E O C C U L T 2 6 5
THE RADIO TEST OF 1927
Three years after my suggestions to the British Broad­
casting Company (which, on January i, 1927, was incorpo­
rated by Royal Charter), a similar proposal for broadcasting
an experiment in telepathy was made by the S.P.R. This
test was arranged to take place on February 16, 1927,
between 11.15 and 11.35 P-m-
Tlic experiment was carried out by Dr. V. J. Woolley,
then a member of the S.P.R. He, Mr. S. G. Soal, and six
other ‘agents,’ while sitting in an office in Tavistock Square,
thought hard for three minutes each of five objects which
Dr. Woolley successively produced at five-minute intervals.
These objects were:
(1) Two of clubs playing-card, printed in green on a
black background.
(a) A Japanese print of a skull (in a garden), on which
a bird is perched.
(3) Three sprays of white lilac in bloom.
(4) Nine of hearts, printed in red on a black background.
(5) I)r. Woolley himself in a bowler hat and grotesque
mask.
While the ‘ agents’ were in Tavistock Square, Sir Oliver
Lodge was at the broadcasting studio at Savoy Hill, telling
listeners when to ‘ think.’ It is not quite clear why Sir Oliver
wtis needed, as the announcing could have been done by
Dr. Woolley himself, or the experiment could have been held
at Savoy Hill.
All Sir Oliver knew about the objects was that numbers
one and four were £
playing cards ofunusual design/ and that
number two was a picture. This information he passed on
to the listeners, who were asked not only to 'guess’ what the
various objects were, but also to record any emotions which
their mental pictures of the objects might engender. Lis­
teners were asked to send their recorded impressions to the
S.P.R. immediately after the broadcast. The 'agents5them­
selves remained locked up in their office all night, in order
that information concerning the nature of the objects could
not leak out.
'Impressions’ were received from 24,659 listeners, and the
results were analysed by Mr. S. G. Soal and Dr. Woolley.
Taking the cards first, 190 persons correctly guessed the two
of clubs; but the nine of hearts, which was neither seen nor
chosen untilfifteen minutes later, wr
as recorded at the first test by
491 listeners. But when the nine of hearts was chosen and
thought of, only 150 persons recorded it, although 145 other
persons chose the two of clubs, the card which was drawn
fifteen minutes earlier. It is obvious that there was no
evidence of anything but pure chance.
Test No. 2 was announced as a 'picture/ and many
listeners jumped to the conclusion that it was a well-known
portrait or famous painting from a gallery. Only five
persons recorded a skull, though one of these said it was
'a skull in a garden/ which was correct, A sixth guess was
' human head/ though any portrait recorded would answer
this description. But, as Dr. Woolley points out,1 three of
the successful 'skull5guessers, also correctly guessed 'flowers’
(the lilac) for No. 3 test. But in the 'lilac test/ only three
persons guessed correctly.
Test No. 5 was that of Dr. Woolley 'dressed up’ and
five only out of the nearly 25,000 listeners recorded impres­
sions of him. But 146 thought it was one of the 'agents’;
236 guessed 'masquerading’; 73 said 'masks or faces’; and
202 ‘hats.’
1 ‘The Broadcasting Experiment in Mass-Telepathy,* by V. J. Woolley;
Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXXVIII, pp. 1-9.
266 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
As was to have been expected, and as Dr. Woolley
emphasizes in his report,1I
I preferential mental associations
must be taken into account. In the playing-card tests, more
people called odd numbers than even, and the picture cards
were hot favourites. But aces were most popular, these
being called 10,766 times, the winning ace (ace of spades)
being recorded 3,891 times.
After a most careful analysis. Dr. Woolley and his col­
leagues came Lo the conclusion that no indication of para-
normality was evident from the broadcasting experiment.
And statistical methods were difficult because, except in the
case of the playing-cards, the mean chance expectation of
good guesses could not be determined. This could be
remedied by using a different technique.2
B R O A D C A S T I N G T H E O C C U L T 2 6 7
RADIO TESTS IN THE HOME
Any two or more persons can conduct their own radio
tests for E.S.P. in their own homes with little trouble or
expense. All that is needed is a pack of playing cards (the
special 'Telcpatha5or eZener9cards are better) and a wire­
less set. Tests can be carried out in experiments between
friends in different houses, streets, towns, or even countries.
By previous agreement between agents (senders) and perci­
pients (receivers), competitions can be arranged as follows;
On the last striking note of Big Ben, or the last of the six dot
seconds of the Greenwich time signal, the sender looks at a
card (plain or coloured) for one minute. The receiver, in
another house or town, during the same period, tries to
visualize what card (suit, value, or colour) the sender is
looking at. At the end of one minute, the sender looks at
another card for a minute, and so on for a number of cards.
Both sender and receiver keep a careful (duplicate) record
of what they respectively look at and visualize and these
I op. fit.
I
IA sequel to the B.B.O. experiment was the inviting of 150 of the more
promising listeners to be tested in their own homes, while the ‘agents’ met in
London. Mr. S. 0 . Soal, in a long and detailed report (‘Experiments in
Supernormal Perception at a Distance,’ Jftroc,9 S.P.R., Vol, XL, pp, 165-362)
concluded that the results were entirely negative.
records are exchanged by both sender and receiver at once
posting them in the nearest pillar-box. Upon receipt of the
exchanged records, both sender and receiver will see what
successes have been achieved. Competitions among groups
of friends, or between clubs, towns, or villages can easily be
arranged by means of the radio, one suggestion being that a
person acts as sender to a number of his friends, who become
the receivers. These can be in a group or scattered all over
the country. Prizes can be awarded for the best results, and
both clairvoyant and telepathic experiments can be carried
out in the way I have suggested.
268 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
FIRST MEDIUM TO BROADCAST
The first professional medium to broadcast in this country
was Miss Gene Dennis, the American clairvoyantef- who
appeared in the 'In Town To-night5series on April 21, 1934.
Another American, Miss Nella Webb, the 'astrologer to
Hollywood,3 broadcast on May 11, 1935. Since then, a
number of astrologers, fortune-tellers, diviners, 'magicians,5
cwitch-doctors,5and gypsies have been on the air.
Experiments in fire-walking2and dowsing have been both
broadcast and televised, and we have had talks on modern
witchcraft, ghosts, the Indian Rope Trick, treatment by
hypnotism and suggestion, magic in New Guinea, pagan
ritual in Renaissance art, superstitions, how to mesmerize
apes, and the 'supernatural3 generally. In addition, the
following are amongst the 'psychic5plays which have been
broadcast: Ghostly Fingers, The Magician, Witchcraft, Money!
Money! Money! An Exercise in. Sheer Horror, Words Upon the
Window-pane (by W. B. Yeats),3'New Tear's Eve, and Sutton
Vane’s Outward Bound. A series of talks-on astrology ('Birth­
day Party5
) announced for January 1939, aroused a storm
of protest from, among others, the. Astronomer Royal,
Dr. H. Spencer Jones.4 On November 1, 1938, the ‘Under
1 For tests with her. see Confessions o f a Ghost-Hunter, op. cit., pp. 260-6.
2See Chap. XIV.
3Died January 28, 1939.
4See the Daily Telegraph and Morning Post for January 10, 1939; and leading
article in The Times, January 24, 1939: (‘Hullo, Gemini!’).
Tw enty C lub’ debated ‘ghosts’ which was broadcast. I was
the guest speaker.
W hat was a golden opportunity for presenting to the
public a lucid and informative account of psychical research
was quite missed when the ‘ Inquiry into the Unknow n’
scries was broadcast in 1934. It was a symposium by various
people, some of whom knew very little of the subject about
which they were supposed to talk. During this series the
records of Rudi Schneider’s trance breathing (afterwards
found to be quite normal) were broadcast. A more amusing
scries were the ‘ Things I Cannot Explain’ talks in 1937.
Am ong the speakers were Sir Ernest Bennett, M .P., and
Shane Leslie. The talks were printed in the Listener,1 and
make interesting reading. O n A pril 15,1939, Captain W. H.
Grcgson broadcast an account of his strange experiences
at Borley Rectory, ‘ the most haunted house in England.’
B R O A D C A S T I N G T H E O C C U L T 2 6 9
THE HAUNTED HOUSE BROADCAST
Probably the most successful, and certainly the most
interesting, broadcast of a psychic nature was the relay from
the old haunted house near Meopham, Kent, which I
organized for the B.B.C. on March 10, 1936. The house
belonged to a friend of mine and parts of it are hundreds of
years old. There was no reason to hope that we should
broadcast any actual phenomena, which, as is always the
case in haunted houses, arc so very spontaneous, rare, and
sporadic. But what we attempted to do, and what we
achieved, was to give listeners a perfect picture of the
technique employed in investigating an alleged haunted house.
(See Plate XL) Actually, one phenomenon did occur. Our
sensitive transmitting thermograph had been in the ‘haunted
collar’ all day, and the temperature was quite constant, as
shown by the straight line of the graph across the chart. But
about 9.45 p.m., during the broadcast, the temperature
suddenly rose slightly, and then fell sharply below what had
1 From October ijj, 1937 to January 5, 1938. In an article ‘Things I Can
Kxplain* [Listener, January la, 1938), 1 summed up and answered the various
speakers.
been measured during the day. This kick in the graph could
not be accounted for in terms of normality.
A previous tenant of the house, Mr. G. Varley, upon
hearing of our proposed broadcast, sent me the following
letter, dated March 8, 1936:
The Cellar Ghost
‘I am most interested as I lived in the house for six months,
between September, 1931, and March, 1932, having rented the
house from the present owner, and I saw the ghost on several
occasions. Once, I, terrified, threw a poker at him, and he did
not move—so you can believe him a hardy, if disembodied
spirit!
'The house, however, was, I believe, haunted by more than
one ghost, and I could tell you something about their habits and
how I managed to lay, or rather, to a certain extent, curb their
activities during my stay.
'Of course, almost the most persevering of the ghosts is the one
that opens the cellar door. I was always shutting that damned
door! Usually, several times a day, as I had a particular dislike
of being c
cspied on3
5by the cellar ghost. But it was always open
again when I noticed it, though only once was I actually present
in the lounge when the ghost opened it. What happened on that
occasion is more of a tribute to the ghost than to my courage!
T believe undoubtingly that the ghost has a sinister influence
on the people who stay in the house.
cI have really no doubt at all of the success of your broadcast,
as we used to hear footsteps and mutterings every night—the
ghosts, however, may object to your modern gadgets.3
( Signed) cG. Varley.3
If we heard nothing unusual during the broadcast, it cer­
tainly was not the fault of Mr. S. J. de Lotbiniere, B.B.C.
Director of Outside Broadcasts, who was in charge of the
transmission; or of myself, who set a number of 'traps3for
the 'ghost.3 But certain of those present at the broadcast
slept in the house that night and one at least heard footsteps
in the early hours which could not be accounted for. The
only thrill I received that evening was the finding of a
human thigh-bone, much the worse for post-mortem wear,
which some humorist had placed in my car during the
broadcast.
270 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
B R O A D C A S T I N G T H E O C C U L T 271
SPIRITUALISTS AND THE B.B.C.
It is a common complaint among spiritualists that they do
not get a square deal from the B.B.C. They complain that
other religions have a certain amount of time allotted them
on the air, but that the broadcasting of spiritualist services
is forbidden. The reply of the B.B.C. is that spiritualism is
not one of the conventional religions, and it is a perfectly
correct answer. Comparatively speaking, there are only a
handful of spiritualists, and it would be an insult to the
millions of other listeners who might have to listen to the
rubbish which is uttered at some spiritualist churches, or be
compelled to switch off their receivers. In the United States
spiritualist services are broadcast but the time has to be
bought. I imagine that, short of obscenities, anything can be
put on the air in the States, if the time is paid for. Any
spiritualist service broadcast in this country would most
likely be for propaganda purposes. I sympathize with those
sincere believers who are deprived of listening to broadcast
spiritualist services, but they are suffering because a few
societies choose to introduce into their church services
extravagances which are deplored by many of their mem­
bers. Should the B.B.C. ever permit spiritualist services to
be broadcast, details would first have to be submitted to the
Corporation for approval.
As regards the philosophy of spiritualism, a number of
speakers have been allowed on the air. The very first
speaker on 'psychics5 was Sir A. Conan Doyle, whose talk
(on May 20, 1924) on 'Psychic Development5 was largely
connected with spiritualism. And Sir Oliver Lodge’s talk,
in the 'Inquiry into the Unknown5series (March 9, 1934),
was of a decidedly spiritualistic flavour. Finally, Mr. Ernest
W. Oaten, the editor of the Two Worlds, a Manchester
spiritualist weekly, was permitted to broadcast a talk on
spiritualism a few years ago. But these talks were in no
sense services. As I write these lines, I have before me a
cutting from a recent issue of a spiritualist weekly1 containing
1 The Spiritualist News> December 3, 1938. The advertisement appeared at
*east three times.
an advertisement announcing that the Rev. Dick Sheppard
and the Rev. Vale Owen, both of whom are dead, cwill speak
on spirit life and on the spirit of Christmas.’ Tickets of
admission (ij. and is. 6d.), if not sold at the ‘usual agencies,’
had to be obtained in advance—-just like booking a seat
for a theatre or cinema. There is no mention of any
medium or trance address—-just the plain statement that
these two distinguished and deceased divines ‘will speak5on
a certain date and at a certain hour selected by those
responsible for the show. That such a stunt should be staged,
or that such an advertisement should appear is so un­
believable that I will reproduce it photographically. Here
it is, and the use of the cross should be noted:
272 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
DICK SHEPPARD
(Rev. H. R. L. Sheppard, late Canon
of St. Paul’s and St. Martin-in-the-
Fields) and the Rev.
VALE OWEN
will speak on
SPIRIT LIFE and on the SPIRIT
OF CHRISTMAS
at
The Cory Hall, Cardiff
on
Friday Evening, 16th Dec., 1938
Admission by ticket only
Apparently these exhibitions are run by a concern called
the £
Dick Sheppard Spirit Mission,5 from a house named,
of course, eSt. Martin’s,5and from another issue1 of the same
journal we learn what ‘Dick Sheppard5 said at a previous
meeting. Here is his soul-stirring message from the grave:
‘To all people who on earth do dwell— I send greetings.
May you all learn, and realize, the Truth. I have been
appointed to a position ofauthority, and trust I am responsible
to God and to His beloved Son Jesus Christ, whom I hope to
serve all the days of my life. I could not seek any greater
honour. For the peoples of the earth I have a wonderful
message. . . . There is no death. . . .5 There is a whole
column of this ridiculous twaddle, and my only point in
bringing it to the reader’s notice is to emphasize how utterly
impossible it would be for the B.B.C. to run the risk of insult­
ing millions of listeners by broadcasting such stuff. As it is,
it would be interesting to learn what the surviving relatives
of Canon Sheppard and Vale Owen think about it all.
B R O A D C A S T I N G T H E O C C U L T 2 7 3
ARCHBISHOP OF CANTERBURY’S INQUIRY
I understand that the question of broadcasting spiritualist
services was one of the subjects discussed by the Archbishop
of Canterbury’s Commission on Spiritualism, which began
its labours in March, 1937. Dr. Francis Underhill, Bishop
of Bath and Wells, chairman of the Commission, stated in a
Press interview2 that its sole aim is to ‘arrive at the truth’
concerning psychic phenomena. No report has yet been
issued. Mr. Oaten, in his address3 to the Commission,
declared that ‘the Church . . . has used its influence in
Parliament, in the courts, in society, and through the
B.B.C., to ignore, humiliate, and boycott us.’
In this chapter I have been able to deal only with the
broadcasting in this country and in the United States, as I
could not obtain reliable data concerning Europe and nations
1 December 10, 1938.
2News-Chronicle, March 11, 1938.
3Spiritualism and the Church. An Address Given before the Archbishop of Canter­
bury's Committee, by E. W. Oaten, Manchester, 1937, p. 21.
T
farther afield. But I must mention that my friend M. Rene
Sudre, the distinguished French psychist and Scientific
Editor of Le Journal, has broadcast from the Eiffel Tower
regularly at least once each week for nearly twelve years,
often on psychic subjects. This, I think, is a longer run than
can be boasted by any British broadcaster. And Dr. W. H.
C. Tenhaeff, of Utrecht University, has frequently spoken
on scientific psychical research from the Dutch radio stations,
and his talks have proved immensely popular.3
1
274 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
1 1 am indebted to the B.B.C. for kindly supplying some of the data incor­
porated in this chapter.
CHAPTER XVI
BOOKS THAT HAVE MADE H ISTORY
I
T would be no exaggeration to say that were it not for a
certain few books which have been published during the
past fifty years or so, neither psychical research nor
spiritualism would have persisted down to the present day;
in fact, as I have pointed out in the introduction,5 had it
not been for the writings of Andrew Jackson Davis, it is very
improbable that spiritualism per se would have been ‘in­
vented5at all, And Davis himself was indebted to Emanuel
Swedenborg (1688-1772) for many of his ideas. In the same
way, psychical research has been kept alive by the published
work of a very few men, whose books I propose to
mention. If a person reads only these books, he will
find all he needs to know about psychical research and
spiritualism.
I do not propose to include in my list works on psychology
or philosophy. Most of the distinguished psychologists and
philosophers have been— or are— concerned with psychical
research, and men like Henri Bergson, William James,
William McDougall, J. MacMurray, Cyril Burt, J. C. Flugel,
William Brown, C. E. M. Joad, Morton Prince, C. D. Broad,
R. H. Thouless,J. A. Hadfield, and others have written largely
on matters which arc closely allied with psychics. But, with
few exceptions, their interest in psychical research can be
described as academic rather than practical, and it is mainly
with the experimenters that this chapter deals.
CLASSIC EXPERIMENTS WITH HOME
The book which, more than any other, was responsible for
the interest in physical phenomena in the latter part of last
century was Viscount Adare’s Experiences in Spiritualism with
275
Mr. D. D. Home/ with an introduction by his father, the
Earl of Dunraven. Fifty copies of this book were printed
privately and circulated among those friends of Lord Adare
who had sat with the great medium. The sittings were held
in London, Malvern, Norwood, and elsewhere, during the
years 1867-9. The most remarkable and varied phenomena
were witnessed. They included table-tilting, raps, fire­
handling, paranormal playing of an accordion, manifesta­
tions by the spirit of Dr. John Elliotson, who had recently
died (1868), espirit5music, materializations, elongations, and
so on.
2 7 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
MIRACLES IN VICTORIA STREET, WESTMINSTER
The most famous phenomenon was the alleged elevitation’
of Home during a seance in a room on the third floor of Ash­
ley House, Victoria Street, on Sunday, December 13, 1868.
There were present at this seance Lord Adare, Captain
Charles Wynne, the Master ofLindsay and, of course, Home.
After various phenomena, during which ca chair moved of
itself from the wall up to the table/ and cAdah Menken9
communicated, Home said: £
Do not be afraid, and on no
account leave your places.9 Home then became 'both
elongated and raised in the air,9 and walked into the next
room. The sitters heard the window being raised and a
few moments later Home appeared outside the seance-room
window, which he opened eand walked in quite coolly.9
According to the sitters, he had floated over Victoria Street,
from one room to another. A little later, Home, stiff and
horizontal, again shot through the window head first,
returning feet foremost— the second levitation that evening.
This levitation 'miracle9 has been much criticized. The
sitters were in the dark (though a little light may have been
reflected from the gas-lamps in the street below) and there
was no moon. Also, outside each of the windows was a
1 Thought to have been published in 1870. But I have a copy presented by
the Earl of Dunraven to his daughter, with the following inscription: ‘To
Augusta Vivian [i.e., Lady Arthur Pendarves Vivian] from her affectionate
father, July 1869/ proving that the book was published during that month, in
which the last of the Home stances was held.
balcony and two string-courses running between them. I
think it would have been possible for Home to have traversed
this space quickly and normally, in the manner of the
ecat-burglar3 of later date. It is doubtful if Lord Adare
himself was convinced that the feat was a psychic one.
Reading between the lines of his report, he rather implies
that Home could have played a trick on them.
B O O K S T H A T H A V E M A D E H I S T O R Y 2 7 7
A BANNED BOOK
Experiences in Spiritualism created nothing less than a
sensation. Owing to the standing of its author and the social
position of the sitters, ‘orthodoxy’ could not help but notice
it. This book was severely criticized on account of the quite
unscientific way in which it was written. There were few
details of the seances and little attempt was made to rule out
possible fraud. But against this, it must be stated that the
book was merely a series of private letters, reproduced
verbatim, from Lord Adare to his father.
Very soon after the book had been issued to his friends,
Lord Adare regretted having printed it. He asked the sitters
to return their copies. Many did so and these were destroyed.
But a few remained in circulation, and the work became of
extreme rarity.1 Whether the imperfections of the book
itself, or the hostility of the scientists, or the condemnation of
the Roman Catholic Church was responsible for the with­
drawal, I do not know. Popular rumour said that the
Church had banned it— which is more than likely, as the
Dunravcns were an influential Roman Catholic family.
However, in 1924, when psychical research had become
much more ‘respectable,’ the author (then the Earl of
Dunravcn) permitted the S.P.R. to reprint1
2 (with some
omissions) this famous book.
1 I have three copies, with different bindings, in my collection.
2Procti S.P R., Voi. XXXV, June, 1924 (Part 93).
2 7 8 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
SHOCKS FOR THE ROYAL SOCIETY
One of those who was impressed by Lord Adare’s reports
was Professor (later Sir William) Crookes, F.R.S., and in
1871 he began investigating Home himself. His experiments
with this medium, and with the charming Florrie Cook were
responsible for another famous book, his Researches in the
Phenomena of Spiritualism, the complete edition of which was
issued in 1874. Various papers from the Quarterly Journal of
Science (of which Crookes was editor) are reprinted in this
little volume, which was attacked by scientific orthodoxy in
no uncertain fashion. Dr. W. B. Carpenter, his arch­
enemy, hurled abuse (much of it anonymous) at Crookes
because he stated that Home had produced paranormal
phenomena under scientific conditions. Carpenter hinted
that the Royal Society would take some action in the matter.
That this august body was shocked by Crookes’s revelations
is certain, but the scientific achievements ofthe great physicist
made his position invulnerable.
A CLASSIC OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Probably the greatest book on psychical research ever
written is Phantasms of the Living, published by the S.P.R. in
1886. This two-volume work of 1,416 pages was compiled
by Edmund Gurney, Frederic W. H. Myers, and Frank
Podmore. If the S.P.R. had nothing else to its credit, this
vast epitome of psychic happenings will for ever remain a
memorial to the work of the Society, which was only four
years old when they issued it. The book embraces the whole
gamut of paranormal mental phenomena, such as telepathy,
dreams, hallucinations, hypnotism, witchcraft, etc. It
discusses comparative religion, psycho-physics, and biology
in relation to psychical research and criticizes the evidence
to date for the various alleged phenomena. The work was
brought up to date in 1922 by Mrs. Henry Sidgwick in the
Proceedings1 of the S.P.R., and a much abridged edition2 of
the original book was published in 1918.
1Proc., S.P.R., Vol. XXXIII, pp. 23-429. 2 London, 1918.
B O O K S T H A T H A V E M A D E H I S T O R Y 279
A year or so later, Myers produced his second classic,
HumanPersonality, 1which deals with the phenomena of trance,
phantasm, genius, personality, sleep, hypnotism, auto­
matism, etc. This will remain a standard work for many
years to come.
THE VERSAILLES VISIONS
A little book vastly different from those I have described
above was published2in 1911 under the title of An Adventure.
On the title page were the names 'Elizabeth Morison9and
'Frances Lamont,9 pseudonyms which hid the identity of
two distinguished scholars named respectively C. Anne E.
Moberly and Eleanor F. Jourdain. The former was Principal
of St. Hugh's College, Oxford; the latter subsequently
became her vice-principal and successor at St. Hugh's. It
appears that ten years previously (i.e., on August 10, 1901),
these two ladies happened to be in Paris and took the oppor­
tunity of visiting Versailles. They wanted to see the Petit
Trianon. Failing to find it, they began to feel 'depressed.'
They were strangers, they were lonely and, apparently, they
had lost their way. Then the wind seemed to drop and the
scenery and trees, according to our adventurers, appeared
flat and two-dimensional cas though painted on canvas/ as
was afterwards recorded. They moved on towards some farm
buildings, near which they met two official-looking persons
in green uniforms. They thought they were gardeners. They
asked the way to the Petit Trianon and were rather roughly
ordered to go ‘straight on.9 Then they passed a curious
plough— at least, it was thought curious when they discussed
the matter a week later. Then they came to a cottage,
outside which Miss Jourdain— only— saw a woman and
a child. Suddenly they heard the sound of a running man.
It was a youth in a green cloak who stopped abruptly in
front of them. He rapidly, and not unkindly gave them
certain directions which would enable them to get to the
Petit Trianon. So on they went, and passed a stone kiosk
1 Human Personality and its Survival o f Bodily Death, Longmans, London, 1903,
and several later editions.
u London, 1911.
280 f i f t y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
at the entrance to a narrow grotto. On the wall of the
kiosk was sitting a repulsive-looking man with a pock­
marked face. However, they said nothing to each other and
continued their journey over a small footbridge by the side
of a waterfall. Finally, they came to the Petit Trianon itself,
outside which a lady was sketching— seen only by Miss
Moberly, who admits thinking she was a tourist. Everything
then appeared quite ordinary, and still no comment on the
surroundings or people was made by either lady. They
joined a group of tourists who were being cguided’ over the
house, and then returned to Paris.
THE 'ADVENTURERS' MAKE A DISCOVERY
The two ladies had spent an afternoon at Versailles, as
many tourists have before and since, without seeing one thing
strange enough to warrant comment upon at the time of their visit.
It is important to bear this in mind. But a week later, when
the trip was being discussed for thefirst time, something was
said that caused them to wonder whether everything had
been quite normal. For example, one lady had seen things
missed by the other. Miss Moberly had not seen the cottage
or plough and her companion had not noticed the sketching
woman. They thought all this very curious, apparently
forgetting that most people are very bad observers and that
it is not unusual on a walk for one person to miss things seen
by his friend— especially if notes are compared a week later.
And our two 'adventurers' began to compare notes, and the
more they ecompared,3the stranger their adventure seemed.
Finally, they came to the conclusion that on that August
afternoon, 1901, they had stepped back in Time 112 years,
and had walked right into the French Revolution of 1789!
They were so excited that they sat down and wrote indepen­
dent accounts of what they thought they saw on that
'historic3 afternoon. But their reports were written just a
week too late to be of any real value.
B O O K S T H A T H A V E M A D E H I S T O R Y 2 8 l
UNSCIENTIFIC RESEARCH
Having satisfied themselves that a miracle had happened,
they set about proving it! Obviously, this was most un­
scientific. Instead of analysing every incident in terms of
normality, they began hunting for evidence which would
support their ‘magical5 hypothesis. Of course, they found
it: for tenyears they searched archives, examined original
documents, delved into old books, asked questions. In ten
years they had found what they wanted to find: they
‘ discovered5 that the lady sketching was probably Marie
Antoinette; the pock-marked man was ‘placed5as the Comte
dc Vaudrcuil, a notorious courtier; they found on an old
map of the Trianon gardens the stone kiosk and the grotto
— which had actually disappeared scores of years previously.
In fact, they found all that they wanted.
Having utilized this mass of evidence in support of their
story, the ladies decided to publish. This they did in a small
volume, An Adventure, which, as Ihave stated, was issued under
assumed names. Were they ashamed to put their real names
to such a preposterous story? Their book appeared in 1911,
and met with a mixed reception. The spiritualists welcomed
il with open arms as the strongest evidence for survival. On
the other hand, the S.P.R. slated it.1 The general public—
or many ofthem— accepted the book at its face value and the
‘ Versailles visions5became a classic. And yet, very curiously,
it was not a ‘best-seller.5 The first three editions (1911,
1913, 1924) were issued by three different publishers, and
the fourth and later editions contain a Preface by Miss
Kdith Olivier (who has seen similar visions herself) and a
‘ Note5by J. W. Dunne. The original documents pertaining
to this case were, for some unknown reason, deposited in
the Bodleian Library. I think it can be fairly said that
it was solely on account of the academic standing of the
authors that An Adventure ever saw the light at all. And
tluil must be the explanation of the Bodleian accepting the
papers connected with the affair.
1 hoc.. S.P.R., Vol. XXV, p. 333 etseq.
282 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
THE END OF THE VERSAILLES VISIONS
Just before Christmas, 1934, Dr. C. E. M. Joad and I made
a special visit to the Petit Trianon in an effort to recapture
some of the impressions recorded by the authors of An
Adventure. With map in hand, we traversed the familiar
paths of the story. We neither saw nor heard anything
unusual, except that the place did appear rather depressing
on that murky December afternoon.
Towards the end of 1937 I received a manuscript from a
gentleman quite unknown to me— Mr. J. R. Sturge-Whiting.
To my astonishment, it was his ‘answer5to An Adventure and
he asked me whether I could find a publisher for it, and
perhaps write a Foreword to the work. I did both and the
Mystery of Versailles1 duly appeared. Mr. Sturge-Whiting,
who knew little or nothing about psychical research,
attacked the story from a rationalistic angle. Instead of
assuming that the various incidents recorded in An Adventure
were miraculous, as did the authors, he assumed that they
were normal and actually proved it. This he has succeeded
in doing, incident by incident, and a perfectly rational
solution to the mystery is the result. He has proved that if
the heroines of the Versailles adventure had devoted more
time in trying to rationalize what they saw instead of spend­
ing ten years seeking evidence to support their belief in a
miracle, the book never would have been written, and
psychical researchers would have been spared many sleep­
less nights. Mr. Sturge-Whiting has proved that faulty per­
ception, lapses of memory, an irresistible subconscious urge
to accept a supernormal explanation of an occurrence when
a normal one was available, plus a certain credulity and
subconscious elaboration, are the real reasons why we ever
heard of the ‘adventure5 at all.
1 The Mystery o f Versailles: A Complete Solution, by J. R. Sturge-Whiting,
London, 1938.
B O O K S T H A T H A V E M A D E H I S T O R Y 2 8 3
EFFECT OF THE VERSAILLES BOMBSHELL
When Sturge-Whiting’s book appeared, there was a
terrible to-do among the spiritualists. Columns of abuse—
not criticism— were hurled at him in the spiritualist Press for
his daring to knock the bottom out of the 'greatest ghost
story of all time.’ And one ardent 'believer’ I met literally
screamed at me for supporting him. It was very amusing—
and rather pathetic. The lay journals noticed the book fully,
though some reviewers appeared rather hurt that the book
was ever written: cIt seems such a shame to spoil a good
story/ etc. The Times1 devoted nearly a column to review­
ing The Mystery of Versailles. The writer stated, which is a
fact, that Sturgc-Whiting was the first to approach the mystery
in a scientific manner, 'that is, he reminds us that it is a
waste of time to theorize about a phenomenon before
ascertaining that the phenomenon did occur." The Times
reviewer concludes: 'Mr. Sturge-Whiting can fairly claim
that he has laid the Trianon ghosts for good and all.’ To
sum up, 1 suggest that the reader secures both An Adventure2
and its solution, and studies them carefully. He will then be
able to judge whether the two ladies were the victims of a
self-deceptive phenomenon, or that a miracle did in fact
occur at Versailles. I have no doubt what his verdict will be.
DREAMING THE FUTURE
Another book which made history was J. W. Dunne’s An
Experiment with Time? It propounded a new theory, that
the 'now’ can be regarded as existing partly in the past, and
extending partly into the future. The author does not pre­
tend to make a contribution to psychical research, and he
appears rather ashamed of the fact that the phenomena
which attracted his attention fall within the field. But his
experimental methods and results are such as to make his
1 Times Literary Supplement, July s , 1938.
a Now published by Faber and Faber.
a London, 19127.
work the ranking contribution of many years to our science.
One must speak with somewhat less certainty of his con­
clusions. Many readers have extreme difficulty in following
him at all; and others who follow him will not agree that his
experiments lead inevitably to these conclusions. But the
book is one which every psychical researcher must study with
great care. He was led into these experiments by a series of
remarkable precognitive dreams. When he realized that he
was seeing in these dreams events that actually occurred the
following day or even several days later, he thought at first
there must be something eccentric in his relation to reality,
which made him perceive large blocks of personal experience
displaced from their proper positions in Time. He finally
concluded that his experience was normal, that any experi­
menter could duplicate it, and that it arose through a
peculiarity in the structure of Time which had been pre­
viously overlooked.
As I have hinted, Dunne’s book is not easy to read. But
two lucid expositions of his theory have been published: one1
by H. G. Wells, the other1
2 by J. Malcolm Bird. Mr. Wells
in his article warns people against placing too much con­
fidence in dreams. He says: 'Very rarely have they a con­
vincing quality of reality. The dream artist in us is essen­
tially and incurably unsystematic and maundering. We all,
— as our attention sinks down towards the threshold of con­
sciousness, become false and incoherent in our associations.
Every sleeping, hypnotized, anaesthetized, or dreaming man
is, so to speak, insane. Sanity is a waking state. . . . Dream
states, like drug states, are a dangerous field of exploration
for any but very specially endowed and guarded minds.’
A second edition oi An Experiment with Time was published3
and in a third issue4
5
Dunne attempted to clarify his theories.
Another work, The Serial Universe,6 continues his story, and
finally The New Immortality6gives us a brief popular account
of his experiments, with a guarantee as to the 'certainty of
1 ‘The Way the World is Going,’ Sunday Express, July 10, 1937.
2Journal, Am. S.P.R. August, 1927, pp. 4.54-74.
3 London, 1929.
4 London, 1934, revised and enlarged.
5 London, 1934.
London, 1938,
2 8 4 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L . R E S E A R C H
personal immortality.5 He promises us still another volume,
containing further developments of his theories.
With all the author’s painstaking work on the structure
of Time, Dunne’s theories remain theories— brilliant and
suggestive as they are. Attempts have been made to dupli­
cate his positive experiments, both in London and Oxford,
with little success. On the other hand, J. B. Priestley has
utilized Dunne’s theme in a number of plays,1 with con­
siderable effect.
B O O K S T H A T H A V E M A D E H I S T O R Y 2 8 5
REALITY OF PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
An outstanding work on the physical phenomena of
psychical research is Schrenck-Notzing’s Materialisations-
Phdnomene, 1
2 an account of the classic experiments with
Eva C., Stanislawa P., etc. It has been called cthe most
outrageous book on psychical research’ on account of the
almost unbelievable photographs of 'phantoms’ which it
contains. But it made history. Other historical works on
both physical and mental phenomena are: Richet’s Traite de
Melapsychique;3 the books'1 by Frank Podmore; Zollner’s
Transcendental Physics;5 W. J. Crawford’s monographs4
*
*
7
8on
Kathleen Goligher; Rene Sudre’s Introduction a la Meta-
psychique Humainef and my own work on Rudi Schneider,7
the first account of genuine physical phenomena under rigid
electrical conditions of control. Finally, I must mention
Florence Marryat’s There is no Death* dealing with ghosts,
spirits, stances with Mary Showers, Eglinton, Mrs. Guppy,
Florrie and Katie Cook and a host of other mediums. This
book became immensely popular.
O f the purely spiritualistic works, Sir Oliver Lodge’s
1 Dangerous Corner, 1932; Time and the Conways, 1937;/ Have Been Here Before,
1937. Jenson over Jordan (1939) is another ‘psychic* play.
2 Munich, 1914. Eng. trans., Phenomena o f Materialization, London, 1920.
!i Paris, 1922. Eng. irans., Thirty Tears o f Psychical Research, London, 1923.
4 See ‘The Best Books to Read,’ Appendix D.
RLondon, 1880.
0Paris, 1926.
7Rudi Schneider: A Scientific Examination o f his Mediumship, by Harry Price,
London, 1930 (and translations).
8London [1892].
Raymond1 is the one which ‘ made history5 more than any
other. Very curiously, Conan Doyle, with all his brilliance
as a writer, did not produce one work which has left its mark
on either spiritualism or psychical research. In France,
Camille Flammarion and his famous trilogy2 influenced
many unbelievers, and the same can be said of Bligh Bond5
s
The Gate of Remembrance,3 an account of the experiments
which led to the discovery of the Edgar Chapel at Glaston­
bury.
I have already dealt in this work with J. B. Rhine’s books
on extra-sensory perception, which are still making history,
even if the enthusiasm of some of his early ‘ converts5 is
waning a little.
28 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
THE SEAMY SIDE
As regards the negative side of psychical research and the
tricks of the mediums, a few books have become historical.
First I must mention Richard Hodgson’s report4 on the
Theosophical ‘miracles’— a report which revealed Madame
Blavatsky’s machinations in addition to her conjuring tricks.
During his investigation appeared Madame E. Coulomb’s
Some Account of m
y Intercourse with Madame Blavatsky . . . and a
Full Explanation of the Most Marvellous Theosophical Pheno­
mena*— a complete exposure of the ‘phenomena’ of eKoot
Hoomi’ and the other alleged ‘ Mahatmas.’ Madame
Coulomb was Madame Blavatsky’s confidante and in charge
of what might be termed the Theosophical Effects Depart­
ment. She made a clean breast of it.
Books on fake phenomena and the tricks of the mediums
are legion and I suppose that I, personally, must have col­
lected some 5,000 of them. But there are a few outstanding
works which contain explanations of all the most-practised
dodges, many of which are still in use to-day among the1
2
3
4
5
1 London, 1916.
2 See ‘The Best Books to Read,’ Appendix D.
3 Oxford, 1918.
4 ‘Report of the Committee Appointed to Investigate Phenomena Connected
with the Theosophical Society,’ Proc.9 S.P.R., Vol, III, 1885.
5Madras, 1884 (and London, 1885).
miracle-mongers. The following will for ever live in spiri­
tualistic literature and should be consulted by every investi­
gator, be he tyro or expert: The Bottom Facts Concerning the
Science of Spiritualism,, by John W. Truesdell;1 Revelations of a
Spirit Mediumf discussed in a previous chapter; and David
Phelps Abbott’s Behind the Scenes with the Mediums.1
2
3 The
Seybert Report4
*must also be accounted a standard work on
the negative side of spiritualism.
B O O K S T H A T H A V E M A D E H I S T O R Y 2 8 7
IMPORTANT SOUTHCOTT DISCOVERY
Though of little psychic, yet of great psychological and
historical interest is the recently discovered original manu­
script by Joanna Southcott (1750-1814), the religious fanatic
and seer who claimed to be the Bride of the Revelation, and
the mother-to-be of Shiloh, the csecond Christ.’ The reader
will remember that I X-rayedB and afterwards 'opened’6
her famous Box in 1927. The manuscript in question I
discovered in November, 1938, and it consists of 354 folio
pages, composed in doggerel verse by Joanna and written
out by her boy disciple, Henry Prescott, who was known as
c
Joseph.’ It is called The Christian's Robe by Faith, and is
dated September 19, 1795, when Joanna was at the height
of her popularity.
But the chiefinterest in the volume is the most remarkable
emblematical needlework binding. (See Plate XII.) Both
covers and spine are adorned with religious figures and
symbols worked in coloured silks on satin. The manuscript
begins with a description of the binding, as follows:
‘The Lord Jesus Holds the True Light. The Three Stars which
is on his arm is the true light, he holds the Fulness, for his saints is
1 New York, 1883. (Second Ed. 1884).
2 St. Paul, Minn., 1891. A London issue, edited by Harry Price and E.J.
Dingwall, appeared in 1922.
3 Chicago, 1907, and many later editions.
A Preliminary Report of the Commission Appointed by the University o f Pennsylvania
to Investigate Modern Spiritualism. ... Philadelphia, 1887 (and Philadelphia and
London, 1920).
See The Times, May 6, 1927, for account and photographs.
0See The Times for July 12 and 13, 1927. For the complete history of the
opening and contents, etc., of the Box, see ‘Exploding the Southcott Myth,'
in my Leavesfrom a Psychist's Case-Book, op. cit., pp. 287-304.
as Stars in his hands, they fall down at his feet, singing in his
Glory & they are not compleat without the key of Knowledge to
open their Understanding, & they are not compleat then with­
out the Star of his Love to wear on their Breast, & they are not
compleat then without the Anker, believing that it will stand fast
upon Firm Land, saying, upon this Rock I Build my Church,
and the Gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Christ speaking
to the Soul of a Believer, & they are not compleat then without
the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, to send them Peace.’1
I have now cited the principal volumes which have made
psychical research what it is to-day. For further important
works, see the selected list of books in Appendix D.
288 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
1 This MS. is now in the ‘Harry Price Library of Magical Literature’ in the
Univ. of London.
CHAPTER XVII
‘ I BELIEVE
W
HENEVER a new book of mine appears, and after
every broadcast, I receive many letters asking me
exacdy what and how much I believe— if, in fact,
I believe anything at all— and how I account for those
few phenomena which I do not damn out of hand. A day
or so before I began this chapter the B.B.G. forwarded me a
letter from the wife of an Essex rector, who had been asked
to give a lecture on ‘ ghosts.’ She appealed to me for help.
She says: ‘Why does the ghost (which is presumably the
etheric or astral body) not die in due course of nature, as it
naturally should? What has disturbed the natural sequence
of events so as to cause the unnatural prolongation of life in
the astral or etheric body? I understand that it is quite a
common occurrence for the etheric body to linger near the
corpse—in a graveyard for instance— or for the astral body
to be seen by friends of the departed person, immediately or
soon after physical death. But why should such a “ ghost”
linger for years or centuries on the earth? I should be most
grateful if you would give me a brief comment. . . ’ and
so on.
Well, that is a good specimen of the questions which I
have been asked thousands of times, and to which there is no
answer. The terms ‘astral body’ and ‘ etheric body’ are just
jargon except that they do form part of the popular concep­
tion as to what is a ‘ ghost.’
Before I proceed further, I must emphasize that there are
very few phenomena studied by psychical researchers that
have been demonstrated scientifically. Not a single case of
materialization, levitation, ectoplasm or teleplasm, tele­
kinesis, apport phenomena, transfiguration, spirit lights,
psychic breezes, spirit photographs and paintings, slate­
writing, voice or trumpet phenomena, spirit writing, ghosts,
289 u
spirits, hauntings, or Poltergeists, has been observed under
conditions that would satisfy orthodox Science. Conse­
quently, orthodox Science does not believe in them. Not one
of the above phenomena can be produced— or has been pro­
duced— at will by any person claiming psychic powers under
such conditions of control as would satisfy, say, a panel of
Fellows of the Royal Society. Not a single alleged para­
normal rap has been heard under such conditions as would
satisfy orthodoxy that normality was ruled out.
The same can be said for the mental phenomena of the
seance room. Telepathy, thought-transference, thought­
reading, clairvoyance, clairaudience, psychometry, billet­
reading, and the rest of the extra-sensory phenomena simply
do not exist— and never have existed—for scientific ortho­
doxy. Telepathy and clairvoyance cannot yet be demon­
strated at will in the laboratory, and there is no scientific
proof for such faculties, in spite of the fact that many
thousands of experiments have been made by hundreds of
investigators who have been trying to prove the existence of
these supposed phenomena. And thousands of books have
been written on the subject. For fifty-seven years the British
Society for Psychical Research (in addition to the American
S.P.R., and many other organizations) have been established
for the purpose of determining the truth or otherwise of
psychic phenomena, and they have succeeded in doing
neither, with a few exceptions, listed below. During all this
long period hardly a single phenomenon has been proved
genuine to the extent that the scientists are satisfied.
29O F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
FEW 'PROVED5PHENOMENA
And my last sentence brings me to the point where I must
emphasize that certain phenomena— mostly in the field of
abnormal psychology— have been scientifically demonstrated.
These, I think, are the phenomena of dissociation, split or
multiple personality, and similar subconscious activities; the
phenomena of hypnosis, observable any day in many Harley
Street consulting rooms; automatisms (i.e. automatic writing,
speaking, painting, etc.); the phenomena of hyperaesthesia,
‘ i B E L I E V E . . .*
eithernormally— as in the case of Marion— or under hypnosis,
when hyperaesthesia of sight, smell, touch, etc., has been
observed. The 6
genuine9phenomena I have listed above have
been accepted by Science. Lastly, I think I ought to include
dowsing in the list of Accepted5 phenomena, with the
reservation that those scientists who do admit that certain
people possess the gift, do not accept the 'psychic’ explana­
tion. They maintain— and I think rightly— that the faculty
is a physical one, of more interest to the physiologist than to
the psychical researcher.
If Science— and I am now speaking of official science, and
not individuals—has not yet accepted the phenomena of the
seance room, many noted scientists have done so. The names
of A. R. Wallace, Sir William Crookes, Sir William Barrett,
Charles Richet, Sir Oliver Lodge, F. C. S. Schiller, and
others, will occur to the reader, and many more have been
mentioned in this volume.
291
WIIV OFFICIAL SCIENCE IS NOT CONVINCED
The reason why orthodoxy— i.e. official science—is not
convinced is because, in its corporate capacity, it has never
made the attempt. And the reason why the attempt has
never been made is because there has been no money for
such a purpose. Certainly, there have been sums of money,
donated by individuals (such as Leland Stanford and
Seybcrt), available for experimentation, but there have been
no official funds to draw upon. And what private moneys
have been used fell into the hands of persons with a priori
convictions concerning psychic phenomena, with results we
know too well. I have already recorded1 Professor Schiller’s
opinion as to why science has made no headway in psychical
research. He returns to the charge in an article cThe Truth
about Psychical Research.’2 He says: eAt present the subject
often seems attractive to minds of the sort required, but they
dare not devote themselves to it. For there is no career in
it, and their friends and parents and guardians would subject
them to great pressure if they proposed to throw themselves
1 Page 712
, ante. 2 Nineteenth Century, July, 1937, pp. 65-6.
away upon it. But if there existed endowed posts com­
parable in value with university professorships, they could
afford to follow their bent, and to enter on the arduous
training qualifying for them. Moreover, such well-paid posts
would exercise a magical effect upon the academic mind.
They would be to it conclusive proof that a subject which
could support a professor was genuine, and an integral and
essential part of science or learning. Even if the develop­
ment of psychic faculties did not enter into any professional
or technical training (as it easily might!) it would become
part of a liberal education, if only its endowment were suffi­
ciently liberal! The ultimate truth, then, about psychical
research is that its future is essentially a question of funds.
The truth about its phenomena can be ascertained, the
scandal of the present doubts and disputes can be terminated,
the most marvellous discoveries may possibly be made, if
only the public will put up enough money. Until this money
has been found and used, it must remain in doubt, not only
what the real facts are, but also whether the human race in
general is genuinely concerned to know the truth about its
nature and destiny.5
I reiterate that there is no money, officially, for psychical
research. The reader has seen1 that I have made some
attempt at remedying this; but the fact remains that, in this
country at any rate, the universities have no money for
officially determining the truth or otherwise of psychic
phenomena. When we find well-paid professorships or
readerships offered by universities to suitable men, then the
truth of paranormal phenomena will be established. The
evidence for such phenomena is overwhelming. But it will
never be accepted by the ordinary person until Science—in
the shape of a Chair or Department at some university—
places its cachet on it. One of the chief arguments against
official recognition of psychical research is the fact that fraud
and charlatanism are rampant, and scientists, being busy
men, have no time to weed out the good 'subjects.5 The
licensing of mediums, as suggested in my Bill,2would at least
get rid of most of the fakers, and lighten the work of the
university investigator.
1 Page 63, ante.
292 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
2Appendix G.
C
I B E L I E V E . . 293
'i BELIEVE . . . 9
I will now state what, in my opinion, I have observed in
the way of paranormal phenomena. I must emphasize that I
am speaking personally and unofficially. My experiences are
based on thirty years5 intensive experimentation, in many
parts of Europe, and under conditions where fraud simply
could not have occurred. I must claim some authority for
deciding whether fraud was possible or not, as methods of
deception have been a special study of mine— from necessity
and not from choice— a vital study for anyone claiming to be
a scientific investigator.
I am convinced that I have witnessed telekinetic pheno­
mena— the displacement of objects such as the levitation and
intelligent movements of various toys, musical instruments,
waste-paper basket, small articles of furniture, the billowing,
waving, shaking, and bulging of curtains enclosing the
seance 'cabinet,5often violently. I have heard raps, knocks,
and other percussive phenomena, often at command, which
were not produced normally. I have seen seance 'lights5
,
some percussive and some lambent, mostly of a bluish tint,
which could not be explained by any laws with which we are
at present acquainted.
PSEUDOPODS
I have seen, felt, pinched, photographed and played tug-
of-war with 'pseudopods5: teleplasmic masses resembling
arms, hands, tubes, a triangular leg, a chocolate-coloured
leg, a snow-man, childlike-form, luminous masses, etc., all
showing volition and, in some cases, intelligence. These I
have seen when every person in the room was electrically
controlled and fraud was absolutely precluded. Less tangible,
but just as interesting, were the ‘brushings5felt by sitters at
seances with Rudi Schneider when he was at the top of his
form. I experienced the same curious sensation myself— it
was just as if something, invisible and intangible, was squeez­
ing itself between the backs of the sitters5chairs and the net
cage which enclosed us. Each sitter felt it in turn, as the
Something’ passed round the circle. I have never experienced
a similar phenomenon with any other medium.
2 9 4 F I F T Y y e a r s o f p s y c h i c a l r e s e a r c h
FULL-FORM MATERIALIZATIONS
One has heard— and occasionally still hears— of full-form
materializations being seen at seances, but almost invariably
they can be put down to fraud, as is proved by the number of
exposures and prosecutions of those physical mediums mas­
querading as spirits. They are seldom seen under good con­
ditions—the real test of genuineness. But if pseudopods,
limbs, and hands have been materialized and witnessed under
a perfect control of all concerned— as I am convinced they
have—that is a sufficient answer to those who assert that full-
form materializations are impossible.’
If 'Rosalie’ was genuine, then I have witnessed a 'living’
or semi-living full-form materialization. But the 'Rosalie’
experience was as unique as it was baffling, and that astound­
ing 'child’ was 'produced’ under conditions which would
not be accepted by one materializing medium in a thousand.
Or, if accepted, nothing would happen. It is now more than
twelve months1 since I wrote the 'Rosalie’ report in bed at
my club, and several unsuccessful attempts have been made
to induce the mother to consent to further experiments. But
she is terrified at the thought that our arrangements might
have the effect of driving her ' daughter’ away. But I am still
persevering.2 I am trying to work out a technique which will
be acceptable to both mother and those scientists to whom I
hope to exhibit the phenomenon. In particular, I want
Professor G. A. Pannett to apply certain tests which would,
I am sure, elucidate the mystery. A medical examination
would not be difficult under the conditions which obtained
when I saw the girl,
1 1 am writing this on December 17, 1938.
3May, 1939. There is now a possibility of my attending another seance
during next winter.
! I B E L I E V E . . 295
THERMAL PHENOMENA
Another phenomenon for which I am convinced there is
ample evidence is the thermal changes which occur during
the trance state ofsome psychics: the apparent fall in tempera­
ture in the immediate vicinity of the medium (see Plate XIII)
and/or cabinet— especially a stratum of cool air near the
floor, not caused by draughts. This phenomenon was noted
many years ago, but was thought to be a physiological one.
However, our sensitive transmitting thermographs proved
that the temperature was lowered, though I must admit that
the graphs would have been more convincing had they been
secured in a thermal chamber where the temperature could
be kept constant and automatically controlled. Akin to
thermal changes which can be measured are the cool breezes,
winds, etc., the strength of which cannot easily be estimated.
These cold air currents are experienced with certain mediums
and, speaking personally, I have no doubt that they do
occur. I have felt them at many seances. If we have proved
that the medium can extract heat from the atmosphere, this
heat must be utilized in some way. As our graphs show that
the temperature was lowered during the production of
physical phenomena (such as telekinetic movements), it is
reasonable to suppose that the heat thus extracted was con­
verted into energy intelligently directed subconsciously by the
medium. I think that this isthe solution of all physical seance-
room phenomena, witnessed under good conditions. But the
mechanism of this thermal conversion and intelligent direc­
tion is not yet understood.
GENUINE HAUNTINGS
There is such a vast volume of evidence for the haunting
of both places and buildings, that it may appear rather late
in the day to discuss whether such things ascghosts *have been
seen. The evidence is not only vast, but impressive. But the
fact remains that very few well-authenticated reports of such
phenomena have been published. ‘ Everyone— or nearly
everyone— appears to have seen a ghost, or knows of a
haunted house. But when, after much trouble and corres­
pondence, one is at last fortunate enough to get permission
to investigate an alleged haunt, usually nothing happens, or
one is told that one has arrived at an inopportune moment
for the ghostly tenant. Newspaper reports especially are not
to be relied upon. The craze for publicity, or the hope that
kudos— or something even more tangible— will accrue to the
possessor of a picturesque haunt is usually the reason why we
hear of these newspaper ghosts. But I am certain that houses
are affected by influences— evil, beneficent, or mischievous
— and I have proved it over and over again. In particular,
I consider that the genuineness of many Poltergeist cases has
been established. As a lad, I was deeply impressed and
absolutely convinced of the manifestations for which the
Germans have supplied us with a most appropriate term.
The house in question was in Shropshire and the typical
stone-throwing, window-rattling, and door-slamming‘ghost5
made a great impression on my adolescent and receptive
mind, and from then onwards I decided to become an investi­
gator.1 I believe in Poltergeists— again from experience and
experiment—and have investigated them in several Euro­
pean countries. The furniture-moving Poltergeist I exper­
ienced at Hall, near Innsbruck, was in every respect similar
to its brother which I investigated at Brixton. Poltergeists,
like ghosts, are of one family and nationality.
2g 6 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
MY HAUNTED RECTORY
Just as my first ‘case5 convinced me of the existence of
what the Germans call ‘rattling spirits,5so one of my latest
has finally and absolutely convinced me of what, for want of
a better term, we call ‘ghosts,5 This is a rectory which, in
1929, 1 was asked to investigate. Little did I think, as I sped
the sixty odd miles northwards in my car, that I would spend
nearly ten years in an effort to discover who or what was
affecting the house— and finally rent the house myself, which
I did for twelve months, from May, 1937 to May, 1938. The
1 See my Confessions (£
The Ghost that Stumbled’), op. cit., pp. 15-24.
C
I B E L I E V E . .
case has correspondences with that of the famous Berkeley
Square ghost.1
This is not the place to detail the extraordinary occur­
rences which have been witnessed at this rectory,2 as the full
and authenticated report of the investigation will form the
subject of my next book. But I may mention in passing that
many of the phenomena known to psychical research have
been recorded there. They include two apparitions, one of
which, a nun, has been seen by many people, including the
three patrons of the living, two of the rectors, the wife of
one of them, a London maid-servant, a reporter, and the
wife of a B.B.C. director. In addition, the last rector kept
a diary of psychic events, which is as exciting as a thriller,
and which forms a book in itself. Mysterious writing on the
walls; spontaneous outbreaks of fire;3 the violent displace­
ment of objects; the sudden appearance, disappearance and
reappearance of things not previously in the house, such as a
‘
.>i>-carat gold wedding-ring; incessant bell-ringing, stone­
throwing, etc., are common events at this amazing thirty-
six-room rectory, which the Ecclesiastical Commissioners
have now finally disposed of as no tenant could be found to
reside there and rectors fought shy of taking up residence
with—what?
297
MENTAL TELEVISION
I believe in spontaneous telepathy and clairvoyance, but
not— as yet— in the induced telepathy of the s6ance-room or
the laboratory. -The experiments in extra-sensory percep­
tion which are now being made in various seats of learning
throughout the world may establish the fact that these facul­
ties can be demonstrated to order. But so far this has not
been proved to my satisfaction. However, I am quite sure
that persons— not particularly gifted in any way— do get
periods of lucidity when they are able to transmit their
thoughts, impressions, fears and wishes spontaneously and
1 See lim ited Mayfair, by Harry Price, London, 1939, a brochure issued by
Maggs Bros., Ltd.
» Borley Rectory, near Sudbury, Suffolk.
» Borley Rectory wu.s finally destroyed by fire during the night, February
it7 1939. See The Times, March 1, 1939.
instantaneously to another mind, exactly like sending out a
televised picture. I have experienced something of the sort
myself on more than one occasion. It is an interesting and
valuable field, worthy of intensive cultivation.
My remarks concerning telepathy and clairvoyance can be
applied to prevision, precognitive dreams and the lucidity
exhibited by some psychics. I have not the faintest doubt
that Stella C., in her mental picture of the front page of the
Daily Mail, which was not published until weeks later, had a
moment of lucidity as rare with her as it is with most other
mediums.1 But why the Daily Mail? Why at that precise
time and place? What chain of events in her subconscious
mind led up to that extraordinary description of the
Andrews advertisement? There is, at present, no answer to
these questions. Attempts to induce similar lucid periods with
Stella signally failed.
In the same way, Mile Laplace somehow managed to
become cognizant of what had happened, and what was
going to happen, to Dr. Tillyard.2 I am quite certain that
this lucidity was spontaneous, and am doubtful if such a
state could be induced. But this is where a university
Department of Parapsychology would function: it would
experiment with Mile Laplace until it was determined, one
way or the other, whether the French medium’s subconscious
mind could function to order in this way.
2 9 8 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
DO HUMAN EMANATIONS PERSIST?
The 'spontaneous’ theory can hardly be applied to the
brilliant results achieved by some trance mediums when
'contacting5 with the mind of a person who is dead. A
typical— and good— case is that of Mrs. Eileen Garrett and
the ill-fated Irwin of the R101 airship disaster.3 My own
theory concerning such cases is that a portion of us, an
emanation of our ego or personality, or a part of our intel­
ligence, persists after death, and can be picked up by a suitable
mind attuned to that emanation. The 'contacting5 of Mrs.
Garrett with the 'persisting residue’ of the departed Irwin is
1 See page, iai, ante. 2 See page 154, ante. 3See page 151, ante.
C
I B E L I E V E . .
a brilliant example of this. I am convinced that this is the
correct theory. I am not psychic, but am very sensitive to
external influences, especially as regards buildings. When I
enter a strange house I feel either miserable, happy, or
fearful. Many buildings and rooms depress me; others have
an exhilarating effect upon me. My theory is that abodes
and places retain something of the good or bad qualities of
previous owners. I believe that some mediums— literally
'sensitives5
— can ctune in5 to these impressions and contact
with certain emanations which are really part of the mind,
ego, or personality of previous owners.
299
THE EMERGENT THEORY
This leads me to the theory of Dr. C. D. Broad, which he
outlined in the Tarncr Lectures, delivered in Trinity College,
Cambridge, in 1923.1 He suggested the term 'psychic
factor5 as something which may survive the dissolution of
the body for a limited period. (I suggest that the period is
unlimited.) This ‘something,5being part of us, may survive
the grave and unite itself with a suitable entranced medium
and produce another 'mind,5 the active portion of which
belongs to the dead person. The suggestion is that it is this
temporary mind (temporary so far as the medium is con­
cerned) which 'emerges5or is born of the union and reveals
details of its previous owner’s life. O f course, there is no
absolute evidence for this 'psychic factor,5but the emergent
theory is a good one, and covers many of the facts. But it
does not help us with the causation of physical phenomena,
such as materializations, telekineses, etc.
PERIODICITY OF PHENOMENA
My 'persisting emanations5 theory can be better applied
to haunted houses than to the phenomena of the seance-
room. I am quite convinced that certain buildings— and
especially rooms— are saturated with the personalities of
i Published as The Mind and Its Place in Nature, London, 1925.
those (not necessarily dead) who once lived in them. During
the examination of thousands of reports of typical haunts,
and the collating of details and antecedent conditions,
coupled with my own personal experiences, this conclusion
has been forced upon me. And I made a curious and
important discovery. I found that in very many cases, the
phenomena or manifestations had a definite periodicity: that
is, they recurred at regular intervals. Not only did they recur
at definite intervals of time, but they became gradually
weaker at each recurrence, and the intervals may be long or
short; but they are always approximately the same in each
case. There are exceptions, however, as in the case of the
rectory cnun.5
I will give two instances: the figure of the enun5 at the
rectory I rented was supposed to appear always on July 28.
Actually, it does nothing of the sort. I have been there three
years on July 28, and no sign of the figure was visible. But
I found that the nun has been seen at, roughly, yearly
intervals. Therefore, the periodicity of this phenomenon is
twelve months.
During my examination of this case, the rector of a parish
in Staffordshire wrote me to the effect that the strangest
things occurred at his rectory every September— and only in
September. Bangs on the door of the room in which he and
his wife slept; footsteps on the stairs at night, etc. It was at
the beginning of September, 1938, that he wrote me and he
invited me to witness these things for myself. He could not
guarantee that the phenomena would occur on any particular
day, but he assured me that they would happen on a day
in the early part of the month. Unfortunately, I could not
travel so far afield myself on the days he mentioned, but I
arranged for someone to be there. And sure enough the
manifestations took place exactly as anticipated. And a new
phenomenon was witnessed. The rector had occasion to fetch
something from an adjoining room and took the candle with
him, leaving his wife in the dark. ‘ When I returned,’ he
writes, cI found her nervous and white, and she told me that
as she lifted her petticoat over her head, it burst into flames,
and fell to the floor with the appearance of a shower of
sparks.5 The full story of these occurrences will be told in the
300 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
C
I B E L I E V E . . . ’
history of Borley Rectory. Why I have mentioned the case
here is because it illustrates my theory of periodicity.
301
p s y c h ic A c c u m u l a t o r s 5
Having proved to my own satisfaction that ghost and
Poltergeist phenomena often occur at regular intervals of
time, I was led to a theory as to why this was so. And here
again the ‘emanation theory5holds good. For many of the
observed facts of haunted house phenomena suggest that a
room or building becomes saturated with a person’s ego or
intelligence, which— sometimes slowly and sometimes quickly
—increases or ‘ accumulates5 exactly like a storage battery.
If the emanations (personality or intelligence) are strong,
then the ‘battery5takes little time to fill: perhaps a few hours
or days. If the emanations are weak, then the ‘battery5will
take longer to fill: roughly twelve months in the case of the
two rectory apparitions.
But when our hypothetical ‘battery5 (i.e. the haunted
room or place) is full, something must happen. It ‘bursts5or
‘ explodes,5 and produces a phenomenon. Then it starts
charging up or accumulating all over again— hence my
theory of periodicity. But with each ‘ charge5the ‘ explosion5
(phenomenon) becomes weaker, until at last the battery
ceases to charge and we get no phenomena. I reiterate that
my observations of phenomena in haunted houses tend to
show that generally the manifestations are cyclic or recurring,
with a determinable periodicity.
But there are exceptions. The ‘nun,5for instance, was at
one time seen so frequently that the first rector (the man who
built the place) actually bricked up the large dining-room
window (overlooking the drive) because the ‘nun5annoyed
him by peering in. So the figure must have appeared more
than once a year. It is now said that the window was
bricked up for some other purpose (not stated). But it is
admitted that the old rector declared that he often saw the
figure and I can think of no other reason why the window
should have been bricked up, as it quite spoils the appearance
of the front of the house, which was built about 1865.
The intervals between the appearances of the ‘nun3
phenomenon have lengthened, as the emanations producing
this particular ‘ghost3have grown weaker. In other words,
it now takes much longer to build up the psychic image: the
emanations ‘accumulate3much more slowly before produc­
ing the ‘discharge3 (phenomenon). But I reiterate that the
‘nun3phenomenon appears to be one of the few exceptions
to my theoretical psychic cycle of constant periodicity.
The mechanism of the process of the ‘psychic discharge’
becoming visible (as in the case of an apparition) remains a
mystery to me: it may have something to do with the
structure of the ether, or may be partly an electrical pheno­
menon. If the reader argues that my suggested ‘ explanation3
is fantastic, I will retort that it is no more fantastic than the
facts themselves, and much less fantastic than the traditional
spirit hypothesis, for which there is no better evidence. And
the fact remains that we know very little about these matters.
Some disturbing factor in the conditions under which the
human emanations are accumulating may precipitate a
phenomenon. An investigator entering a house might arrive
atjust such a moment when a phenomenon was due to occur.
His intrusion might then have the effect of discharging the
psychic ‘accumulator.3 At least one case comes to my mind
which illustrates this theory. Miss Stella C., as a young girl,
on very rare occasions noted a brilliant flash of light at the
precise moment when she entered her bedroom. As she
opened the door, the flash occurred. Later, and experi­
mentally, we produced these same flashes at seances. I
suggest that her bedroom became gradually and periodically
saturated with the psychic emanations of this remarkable
medium, who herself sometimes precipitated a phenomenon
in the act of opening the door— a ‘ disturbing factor.3 It is
possible that these same phenomena occurred more frequently
when she did not happen to be there.
302 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
THE SPIRIT HYPOTHESIS
I have said little about the spirit hypothesis in this last
chapter because I consider that the spiritualists have not
B E L I E V E . .
proved their case. I admit, however, that the spirit theory
covers many of the facts. The messages alleged to have been
received from the spirits never rise above the cultural level
of the mediums through whom they are received, and I think
that all ‘spirit3phenomena will be explainable on natural,
rather than 'supernatural3grounds, when we know the laws
that govern them. And some faculties, such as lucidity,
thought-transference, clairvoyance and allied extra-sensory
phenomena are probably natural and normal to those gifted
persons possessing them. And we know so little about the
subconscious, and so little more about the conscious mind
that, probably, either one or the other may be responsible for
the mental 'miracles3we investigate. I fail to see why the
spirits must be dragged in in order to bolster up a theory,
however grateful and comforting, when at least as good an
alternative theory is available. Coupled with this is the vast
amount of humbug, charlatanism and general tomfoolery
which goes by the name of spiritualism, and which appears
to be the backbone of the industry. All good spiritualists
agree that this is so. They realize that, to many people,
‘spiritualism3 and ‘trickery’ are synonymous terms. Spiri­
tualism as a religion is ideal, but in my opinion there is not
yet sufficient real evidence for us to be certain that the
phenomena we investigate are produced by ‘supernatural3
powers, rather than natural ones. I have not consciously said
one word in this book which could possibly offend the sincere
and intelligent spiritualist who has the interests of his religion
at heart. He, like myself, must realize what is going on in the
movement; and, if he is honest, he must deplore it.
303
A LAST WORD TO THE SCIENTIST
My last words are directed to the scientist— especially the
sceptical scientist. I implore him not to dismiss too hastily
the facts which I have enumerated in this critical survey of
fifty years ofpsychical research. The fact that I have devoted
many years of my life to experimentation; have studied
thousands of reports dealing with the subject; have travelled
thousands of miles all over Europe for obtaining first-hand
experience of phenomena3; and have spent a fortune in
seeking the truth or otherwise ofpsychic manifestations, must
surely entitle me to a sympathetic hearing. And if I were
not convinced of these things, I would not waste another
moment of my time or penny of my money in further
research. It is as unfair as it is futile for a person to scoff at
psychical research if he has had no practical experience, and
has made no attempt to investigate the subject for himself.
The greatest sceptic concerning paranormal phenomena is
invariably the man who knows the least about them. There
is still a vast amount of work to be done, but the field has
been prepared and it is now the duty of science officially to
cultivate that field. If the scientist argues that his labours
would be unfruitful; or that the yield would be small; or
that the subject is unworthy of him; I commend to him the
words of Lord Kelvin, with which I will fittingly close this
volume: cScience is bound by the everlasting law of honour
to face fearlessly every problem that can fairly be presented
to it.3
3 0 4 F I F T Y Y E A R S OF P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H
APPENDIX A
I
T would be difficult to determine when people started to
inquire into the strange happenings around them. It is pro­
bable that from the time when man began to fraternize with
his fellows, there were ‘investigators3 into natural and super­
natural phenomena. Coming to recent periods of history, the
Inquisitors, the witch-hunters, the alchemists, the ‘magicians3
—
all were ‘researchers’ into real or pseudo manifestations, and
occult literature is full of their ‘reports’ and protocols. Matthew
Hopkins, the witch-finder, was an infamous ‘research officer’ of
society in general, and modern mediums should be thankful that
they live in the twentieth century instead of in the seventeenth.
But even during that period people not only discussed witch
‘miracles’—they investigated abnormal phenomena generally,
and formed themselves into groups for this purpose. For example,
Ferris Grcenslet tells us how Joseph Glanvill became interested:
‘ In February, 1665, Glanvill was the guest of Lady Conway at
Ragley. The other guests were Van Helmont, Henry More and
Valentine Greatrakes. The main purpose was the discussion of
the supernatural world.’3
- It must have been a most interesting
party, the direct result of which was the publication of his
Philosophical Considerations Concerning the Existence of Sorcerers and
Sorcery, which appeared in 1666. This work concerns the famed
‘Drummer of Tedworth,9who made such a noise in 1663, and
doubtless the Ragley house party was about this and similar
wonders. Indeed, Grecnslet even calls it the ‘Ragley Society for
Psychical Research.9 But however fascinating it would be to
pursue our inquiry into the doings of the early investigators, we
must confine ourselves to those who have contributed something
to psychical research during the last fifty years.
T H E M E N W H O M A D E P S Y C H IC A L R E S E A R C H
FAMOUS BRITISH INVESTIGATORS
At the time when Professor Barrett (1845-1926) founded the
S.P.R., he had been engaged in psychical research for some years.
In particular, his experiments (with Gurney and Myers) in tele­
pathy are well known. He concerned himself little with physical
phenomena, but took an academic interest in every phase of the
1Joseph Glanvill, Columbia University Press, N.Y., 1900.
305 X
A P P E N D I X A
occult, and devoted much time to the elucidation of the mysteries
connected with all forms of dowsing. He was convinced of sur­
vival, as he personally informed the present writer.
One can hardly mention Barrett without associating him with
such men as F. W. H. Myers, Gurney, Podmore and Henry
Sidgwick. These were the backbone ofthe S.P.R. for many years.
The name of Myers is synonymous with psychics and his Phan­
tasm
s of the Living and Human Personality are classics for all time.
Philosopher, poet, mystic, psychologist and a brilliant thinker,
he is the outstanding personality of the early days of organized
psychical research. His practical interest in the seance-room
was not very marked, but he sat with a few mediums,
including Stainton Moses, Mrs. Mellon {nee Fairlamb), and
Palladino.
When the S.P.R. was formed in 1882, Edmund Gurney became
one of the honorary secretaries of the ‘literary committee,3which
had to deal with the collection and collation of reports on
abnormal happenings and the production of a conspectus of these
phenomena. The study of hypnotism and hallucinations occu­
pied his attention and he was associated with Myers and Podmore
in preparing Phantasms of the Living, of which he wrote a great
portion. He died (aged forty-one) through an overdose of a
narcotic in 1888, and his sudden death robbed psychical research
of one of its greatest intellects.
Frank Podmore was also associated with Myers and Gurney in
compiling Phantasms of the Living and was the greatest sceptic of
the three, though originally a spiritualist and ‘believer.3 His
interest in the physical phenomena of the seance-room was prac­
tical as well as academic. The tricks of the slate-writing Henry
Slade disgusted him and he became a bitter opponent of all
physical mediums. Podmore’s contribution to psychical research
is best represented by his writings and he rendered a great public
service when he wrote his Modern SpiritualismThe Naturalization
oftheSupernatural,2and The NewerSpiritualism.3These works made
people realize that they were beheving too much. His association
with the S.P.R. (of which he was a Council member for many
years) was partly responsible for the impression—still current—
that the Society was ultra-incredulous and believed too little.
But Podmore himself recognized the value of scientific research
and admitted a residuum ofpsychic phenomena which could not
be explained by laws at present known to us. In the last para­
graph of Modem Spiritualism he warns readers of the ‘superstition
of incredulity,3 chides orthodoxy for not accepting hypnotism
sooner than it did, and contends that ‘even the extravagances of
mysticism may contain a residuum of unacknowledged and
1 London, 1902.
2New York and London, 1908.
3London, 1910.
306
serviceable fact.9 eWe must not,9he concludes, 'throw away the
baby with the water from the bath.9
Among the great psychical researchers who developed the
science during the closing years of the nineteenth century, Henry
Sidgwick’s (1838-1900) influence was the unifying agency which
kept the S.P.R. together during its early period. Even as a young
man he sat with the mediums of the day, and his great interest
in parapsychology never left him. As first President of the
S.P.R. he worked hard to establish the Society and to keep its
work at a high scientific level. He experimented with a few
mediums, including Herne and Williams, Mrs. Mellon, Eusapia
Palladino, and Mrs. Piper. He was President of the S.P.R. for
eight years and, after his death,1 his wife Eleanor Mildred
Sidgwick (nee Balfour) (1845-1936) continued his work for the
good of the Society. Though he sifted the evidence for ‘survival9
for so many years, he died an unbeliever. His wife, on the con­
trary died ca firm believer both in survival and in the reality of
communication between the living and the dead.5
2
T H E M E N ^ W H O M A D E P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H 3 0 7
SOME G R E A T E X P E R IM E N T E R S
Contemporary with the famous men, a sketch of whose work is
given above, there were experimenters who were recording
remarkable results with the physical mediums. Sir William
Crookes (1832-1919) was the greatest and bravest of them. His
experiences with the mediums, Henry Slade, D. D. Home, and
Florrie Cook have made psychic history. He was undoubtedly
duped by the conjuring tricks of Slade, and students of psychic
phenomena are still debating to what extent the attractive young
woman, Florrie Cook (1856-1904), upon whom he expended so
much time and trouble, deceived him. Florrie was a ‘materializ­
ing medium9and her 'spirit control,9'Katie King,9was as pre­
possessing as the medium herself. Crookes’s report1
2
3
4caused a
sensation and, for a time, his Fellowship of the Royal Society was
said to be in jeopardy. The best of the phenomena were wit­
nessed in Florrie’s own home under, apparently, good conditions,
and Crookes took many photographs of the materialized 'Katie.5
In fact, on one occasion he embraced the spirit, and, as he tells us,4
' did as any gentleman would do under the circumstances.9 Some
of Crookes’spictures of‘Katie King9are extant and it is difficult
to believe that the 'spirits9 are not Florrie herself, or a con­
federate. (See Frontispiece.)
1 For his life, see Henry Sidgwick. A Memoir, by A. and E. M. Sidgwick,
London, 1906.
2S.P.R. Proc., Vol. XLI, p. 26.
3Researches in the Phenomena o f Spiritualism, London [1874].
4 Ibid., p. 106.
A P P E N D I X A
Crookes’s experiments with D. D. Home will bear much stricter
scrutiny. His tests were more scientific and he brought his
great knowledge of physics to bear on the construction of special
apparatus with which to test the validity of the phenomena. A
battle royal between Crookes and Dr. W. B. Carpenter in the
pages of the Quarterly Review, concerning his findings, ended in a
victory for the former, who lived to become the President of the
Royal Society and to receive its greatest honours. But the
criticisms caused him abruptly to terminate his psychic inquiries,
though to the end of his long life he always maintained his
belief in the mediumship of Miss Cook and D. D. Home.
Dr. Alfred Russel Wallace (1823-1903) was not only an eminent
naturalist, but became a famous spiritualist, having long before
given up all belief in revealed religion. His acceptance of
'survival’ was based on his experiments with mediums in both
England and America. He sat with £
Dr.’ Monck, Mrs. Guppy,
Katie Cook, Eglinton, Mrs. Ross, P. L. O. A. Keeler, Fred
Evans, Mrs. Marshall, and others. Wallace was credulous and
maintained that certain conjurers were in reality mediums, and
their tricks, phenomena. He declared that 'Dr. Lynn,’ the con­
jurer, was a 'real medium.’1 He was a member of the committee
of the London Dialectical Society, gave evidence on behalf
of the medium Monck in the Maskelyne-Colley lawsuit, and
published (1881) On Miracles and Modem Spiritualism, a work
which had a large sale.
Dr. Richard Hodgson (1855-1905) devoted the best part ofhis
life to the British and American Societies for Psychical Research
and his investigations into the Theosophical 'miracles’ and the
mediumship of Mrs. Piper are famous. His training as a lawyer
makes his reports of particular value and his services to psychics
cannot be estimated. After his death Hodgson is alleged to have
'manifested’ through Mrs. Piper, but the evidence is not very
good.
308
FAMOUS PROPAGANDISTS
Both Sir Oliver Lodge (bom 1851) and Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle (1858-1930) will be known to posterity as propagandists
and writers rather than investigators. It is true that Sir Oliver
has sat with some famous mediums (Palladino, Mrs. Piper, Hope,
Mrs. Duncan, etc.), but it was the publication of his book
Raymondin 1916 that made him famous the world over as a great
spiritualist as well as a great physicist. 'Raymond’ was his son
who was killed in the Great War and the story of his 'return’
through various mediums (Mrs. Piper, Mrs. Leonard, Vout
Peters and others), first published when the emotional stress due
to the war was at its height, must have been the means of con-
1 S.P.R. Proc.9Vol. VIII, p. 308.
verting thousands to the belief in survival. After Raymond came
several works on spiritualism,1 and Lodge, owing to his scientific
status, must be regarded as the greatest propagandist for spirit­
ualism of the twentieth century. Sir Oliver, like A. R. Wallace,
could not always tell the difference between a ‘phenomenon5and
a conjuring trick. David Devant tells3us how on one occasion
he performed a clever cbillet reading9trick on the stage and Sir
Oliver afterwards refused to believe either Nevil Maskelyne or
Devant that it was a trick.
Conan Doyle, sincere, lovable, credulous, was a propagandist
of a different type. He made no pretence to studying phenomena
from the scientific angle. As a young man he was interested in
psychical research. In 1887, in a letter to Light* he describes
some telepathic experiments he was making and he remarks that
he could no more doubt the existence of the phenomena than he
could ‘doubt the existence of lions in Africa.9 So it is apparent
that his concern with the subject of survival was not the result of
the wave of emotionalism which swept the world after the Great
War, as so many people imagine. But it was immediately after
the war that he became an active propagandist and during the
ten years from 1920until his death, he lectured in Australasia, the
United States, South Africa and Northern Europe. His tours
brought him money, but it is probable that, owing to his activities
in the cause of spiritualism, he was thousands of pounds out of
pocket. He sat with many mediums, some of whom deceived
him. Thoroughly honest himself, he could not imagine his too
sympathetic credulity being imposed upon. My own relations
with Doyle varied from month to month. When I was not
exposing his mediums, his letters to me were full of praise for my
efforts in interesting scientific orthodoxy in psychical research.
One of his last letters to me was an invitation to take shares in a
company to run his ‘psychic bookshop9(in Victoria Street, West­
minster), over which he lost a lot of money. He told me it hurt
him very much to have to leave the S.P.R. in such a violent
manner, and it is to be regretted that his death prevented any
reconciliation. Active to the last, it was only a few days before
he died that he headed a deputation (July i, 1930) to the Home
Secretary in an attempt to make the law easier for mediums.
His spiritualistic activities added to his literary output and he
published nearly twenty works on the subject that was so dear
to him. His ridiculous book on the ‘fairies9
4lost him prestige,
even among his own followers, and was a great blunder.5
1 See Appendix D.
2 Windsor Magazine, December 1935, PP- 118-9.
3 Vol. VII, July 2, 1887, p. 303.
4The Coming of the Fairies, London, 1922.
3For a ‘life’ of Doyle, see Arthur Conan Doyle, by John Lamond, London,
1931. For his own reminiscences and early struggles, seeMemories and Adventures,
London, 1924 (and Boston, Mass., 1924).
T H E M E N W H O M A D E P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H 3 0 9
A P P E N D I X A
Other propagandists who have influenced spiritualism are the
Rev. Stainton Moses (1839-92), the medium who wrote under the
pseudonym of ‘M .A., Oxon5; Dennis Bradley (1878-1934);
Stanley De Brath (1854-1937); J. Hewat McKenzie (1870-1929),
the founder of the British College of Psychic Science; and the
Rev. G. Vale Owen (1869-1931). Vale Owen’s articles on 'spirit
life5in the Weekly Dispatch, published at the height of the excite­
ment caused by the Great War, must have converted thousands
to spiritualism.
William T . Stead (1849-1912), founder of the Review o f Reviews
and Borderland (a quarterly review), approached spiritualism as a
journalist and publicized the movement in various directions. He
was an automatic writer, his alleged 'control5being the spirit of
a girl named Julia. Subsequently, he opened (1909) a 'Julia’s
Bureau,5 where, through a band of mediums, inquirers obtained
information from the spirit world. After he was lost in the Titanic
disaster, his daughter Estelle carried on his work.
310
SCIENTIFIC W R ITE R S
As an antidote to the spate of unconvincing spiritistic literature
which has swayed— and almost swamped— the public mind during
the past fifty years, the work of Andrew Lang (1844-1912) was
a timely corrective. With a scientific care for detail and a gift for
presenting a case in an interesting form, his writings on psychic
subjects were the most impartial contributions ever presented
to the layman. It can truthfully be said that his influence on
psychical research was profound, and his contributions to the
Encyclopaedia Britannica (n th Edition) are the best which have
ever appeared in any similar work. Dreams, ghosts, magic,
myths, religion were all popularized by his pen. From the psy­
chical angle, his M aid o f France1 and Cock Lane and Common Sense2
are two outstanding works. Curiously enough, he did not con­
sider the Cock Lane 'ghost5 the complete swindle which public
opinion imagines it to be. He was elected President of the
S.P.R. in 1911.
Other British writers and investigators who have helped to
make modern psychical research are Dr. Walter J. Kilner
(1847-1920), who claimed to have discovered the human aura;3
Dr. W. J. Crawford (
<
d. 1920), the investigator of the 'Goligher
Circle,’ and the propounder of a 'cantilever theory* explaining
the dynamics of telekinesis;4 Dr. E. E. Fournier D ’AIbe,5 who
1 London, 1908.
2 London, 1894.
3The Human Atmosphere, or the Aura Made Visible by the Aid o f Chemical Screens,
London, 1911.
4For his works, see Bibliography, Appendix D.
6The Goligher Circle, London, 1922.
failed to confirm Crawford’s results with Kathleen Goligher;
C. Lloyd Tuckey; F. Bligh Bond (b. 1864), who discovered the
lost chapels of Glastonbury Abbey by psychic means;1 and
John William Dunne, whose An Experiment with Time3 and The
Serial U
niverse* have provided ■ psychists with some startling
theories concerning dreams, precognition, etc.
I cannot close this section of British writers and experimenters
without mentioning the work of Dr. E. J. Dingwall, formerly
Research Officer of the British and American Societies for
Psychical Research; Professor W. McDougall (1871-1938),
Prof. F. C. S. Schiller (1864-1937), Dr. William Brown, Prof.
C. D. Broad, Dr. C. E. M. Joad, S. G. Soal, Dr. Julian Huxley,
Dr. R. J. Tillyard (1881-1937), W. R. Bousfield (b. 1854), the
Hon. Everard Feilding (1869-1936) and the Rev. Herbert
Thurston, S.J. (6. 1856). The two last-named represent the
Roman Catholic interest in scientific psychical research, and
Father Thurston’s informative and entertaining contributions to
the Month and other journals are well known.
T H E M E N W H O M A D E P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H 3 11
AMERICAN INVESTIGATORS
If America was the cradle of modern psychic manifestations,
it was not the pioneer in scientific investigation. This honour
belongs to England, though both here and in the United States
there has always been a close alliance between experimenters.
We have already seen how Sir William Barrett was responsible
for the founding of the American S.P.R. in 1885. Richard
Hodgson, too, spent much of his time in America.
The influence of WilliamJames (1842-1910), the greatAmerican
philosopher, on psychical research on both sides of the Atlantic,
was profound. He was one of the original members of the
American S.P.R., and President of the English Society for two
years. The development of Mrs. Piper’s mediumship was largely
due to him, and he was convinced by her phenomena. The fact
that he was the son of the Swedenborgian theologian, Henry
James, probably had some bearing on his beliefs.1
2
*
4 How William
James became concerned with psychical research is of interest.
As a young man of twenty-seven, and while still a student at
Harvard, he was asked by the editor of the Boston Daily Advertiser
to review Epes Sargent’s Planchette, a work on spiritualism. The
review appeared on March 10, 1869, and from that day James
never lost contact with psychics.
1 Sec his Gate of Remembrance, Oxford, 1918, and other works.
2 London, 1927.
8London, 1934.
4 See The Thought and Character of William James, by R. B. Perry, New York,
1935-
A P P E N D I X A
According to James Hervey Hyslop (1854-1920), William
James ‘ returned ’ after his death and he tells the story in Contact
with the Other World.1 Professor Hyslop was one of the enthusiasts
who kept the American S.P.R. alive in its early days. He was a
prolific writer and keen investigator, and American psychical
research owes much to him. He, too, is alleged to have creturned,5
according to his secretary, Miss Gertrude Ogden Tubby.2
Dr. Morton Prince (1855-1929) of the Tufts Medical School
and editor of the Journal of Abnormal Psychology made important
contributions to the study of abnormal psychology, multiple
personality and hystero-somnambulic subjects. His account3 of
the case of Miss Beauchamp has become a classic.
A namesake, Dr. Walter Franklin Prince (1863-1934) is also
best known for his ‘Doris Fischer5case,4in which five personalities
possessed the young woman. Prince, originally a clergyman of
the Episcopalian Church in New York, entered psychics in 1909,
and (1917-1925) was associated with the American S.P.R. He
was its Research Officer for some years. He later (1925) was
instrumental in founding the Boston S.P.R. and was its Research
Officer and Editor until his death. Amongst his chief works is
the record5 of the amazing automatic utterances of Mrs. John H.
Curran, of St. Louis, Mo., whose alleged spirit entity, ‘ Patience
Worth,5 communicated volumes of prose and poetry.
Another outstanding American psychist is Hereward Carring­
ton, who has devoted his life to the study and recording of
abnormal phenomena. O f the many mediums with whom he has
experimented may be mentioned Eusapia Palladino. With
Feilding and Baggally he visited (1908) Naples to test the woman
and was convinced of her paranormal phenomena.8 O f his very
many books, most are written in a popular strain. In 1920 he
founded the American Psychical Institute and in 1924 was asked
to serve on the abortive Scientific American committee which
inquired into the ‘ Margery3 mediumship.
It was the Scientific American's interest in psychic phenomena
which resulted in J. Malcolm Bird, an associate editor of that
journal, accepting the post of Research Officer (1925-1931) of the
American S.P.R. He followed Dr. W. F. Prince, and devoted
much of his time to the investigation o f ‘ Margery’s3mediumship.
Other American investigators who have a claim on the reader’s
attention are Henry Steel Olcott, the Theosophist; Edward Caleb
Randall, Professor John Edgar Coover, Professor Gardner
Murphy, Dr. Joseph Banks Rhine, and Dr. Alexis Carrel(6. 1873),
member of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research (and
1 London [1919).
2See her James H . Hyslop, York, Pa., 1929.
3 The Dissociation o f a Personality, New York, 1906.
4See Proc., Am. S.P.R., Vols. IX-XI, New York, 1915-17.
5 The Case of Patience Worth, Boston S.P.R., 1927.
6See his Eusapia Palladino and her Phenomena, London [1910].
312
Nobel prize-'winner, 1912). His brilliant essay, M an, the Un­
known?1 is a landmark in psychical research. Though a Roman
Catholic and an eminent scientist Dr. Carrel accepts telepathy,
clairvoyance, and spiritual healing (Lourdes, etc.), and insists
that scientific orthodoxy shall investigate the phenomena.
T H E M E N W H O M A D E P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H 3 I 3
FRENCH SCEPTICISM
As a nation, the French are the most sceptical, and French
scientists are the least easy to convince of the occurrence of
paranormal phenomena. But there are some notable exceptions,
the chief of whom was Professor Charles Richet (1850-1935), the
great physiologist. He sat with many mediums and his experi­
ences are related in his Traite de Me'tapsychique1
2 (Paris, 1922). He
has been called the ‘Father of Metapsychics5 with considerable
truth. His is the outstanding personality in French psychical
research. Though it is often claimed that he died a spiritualist,
this is not so. Just before his death he told the present writer that
he did not believe in ‘ survival.5 Richet’s interest in psychics was
due partly to the work of E. A. Albert de Rochas d’Aiglun
(1837-1914), who devoted much time to experimenting with
‘ human radiations,3
* hypnosis, etc.; and Dr. Paul Joire, whose
researches were in the same field. The work of dJ
Aiglun and Joire
was continued by Hippolyte Baraduc and Emil Boirac. The
former invented an instrument (the Biometer) said to register
human psychic radiations. It is curious that the subject of human
radiations or emanations has always attracted French investi­
gators. In addition to the names I have mentioned, G. de
Fontenay, Dr. Joseph Maxwell, Professor Blondlot, Dr. Jules
Regnault, Dr. Louis Favre and several others claimed to
have recorded a certain ‘ vital force5 externalized by human
beings.
The great French astronomer, Camille Flammarion (1842-
*925), was a spiritualist and wrote many books on the subject.
He was a follower o f ‘ Allen K ardec5
3 (1804-1869), the reincarna-
tionist, and accepted the phenomena of many doubtful mediums,
including the conjuring Davenport Brothers. Curiously enough,
he was President (1923) of the British S.P.R. and his Presidential
Address1 makes astonishing reading.
Other noted Frenchmen who have contributed something to
psychical research are Dr. Paul Gibier (1851-1900), Alfred
Binet, Pierre Janet, Gabriel Delanne, A. Rouhier (whose re­
searches into hallucinating plants and drugs are well known),
1 New York and London [1935].
2 Eng. trans,: Thirty Tears o f Psychical Research, London, 1923.
3i.e., H. L. D. Rivail.
S.P.R., Vol. XXXIV, pp. 1-27, 1923.
A P P E N D I X A
and the eminent philosopher, Henri (Louis) Bergson (b. 1859),
who was President of the British S.P.R. in 1913.
O f the more active workers, Dr. Gustave Geley (1868-1924)
was a spiritualist, but did much for psychical research. His
friend, Jean Meyer,1 founded the Institut Metapsychique Inter­
national and the Maison des Spirites, and Geley was first director
of the former institution. He experimented with Eva C., the
Polish physical mediums, Guzik (who deceived him) and Kluski,
and others. He exposed Erto, the Italian 'luminous5medium. He
was killed in an airplane accident over Warsaw, and his successor
at the Institut was Dr Eugene Osty, another medical practitioner.
Friend and collaborator with Geley, the scientist Rene Sudre
is to-day the principal psychist in France. His Introduction a la
Metapsychique Humaine (Paris, 1926) is the work of a brilliant
thinker and one of the outstanding books of the century.
3*4
GERMAN PARAPSYCHOLOGY
German psychical research and Albert Freiherr von Schrenck-
Notzing (1862-1929) are synonymous, and it is due to this great
investigator that science has been able to witness genuine physical
phenomena. O f course, I refer to Willi and Rudi Schneider, the
Austrian mediums, the development of whom was Schrenck’s
chief work. More than one hundred Continental savants testified
to the genuineness of their phenomena. Other mediums whom
he tested were Eva C., Stanislawa P., Stanislawa Tomczyk,
Kluski, Linda Gazzera, Eusapia Palladino, and many more. He
was a most prolific writer and his death was a great blow to
psychical research all over the world, coming as it did immediately
after that of Karl Krall (1864-1929), the trainer of the famous
'Elberfeld horses.’
Contemporary with Schrenck was the engineer, Fritz Grune-
wald (d. 1925). He devoted his life to the devising of apparatus
for the testing of phenomena, which he used with various
mediums. His laboratory in Charlottenburg, Berlin, was a
veritable museum of recording instruments, and much of the
modern investigating technique is due to Grunewald. With me,
he tested such psychics as Guzik andEleonore Zugun, and others.
Contemporaries of Grunewald were Professor Karl Grtiber
(1881-1927), who sat with me many times with the Schneider
boys,- Professor Konstantin Oesterreich of Tubingen, Dr. Paul
Siinner, Dr. Richard Baerwald, Dr. Ehrich Bohn, Professor
Christoph Schroder, Dr. Rudolph Tischner, and General Josef
Peter (1852-1939).
Other distinguished Germans who have contributed to
psychical research include Professor J. C. F. Zollner (1834-82),
1 Died April 13, 1931.
Baron Carl du Prel (1839-99), Dr. Edward von Hartmann*
Dr. Albert Moll, Hugo Mtinsterberg, Professor M ax Dessoir,
Professor Hans Driesch (b. 1867), an<i Dr. Hans Bender of Bonn.
In concluding this section of German investigators, I must
mention those arch-sceptics, Graf Carl von Klinckowstroem,
Hans Rosenbusch and W. von Gulat-Wellenburg, who have
written largely on the negative side of psychical research. O f
German-speaking countries, Austria has given us Professors
Hans Thirring (who was responsible for my investigation of
Eleonore Zugun), Stefan Meyer and Karl Przibram (all of
Vienna),* and Professors Franz Haslinger and Daniel Walter
(both of Graz). Kapitan Fritz Kogelnik, of Braunau-am-Inn
'discovered’ the Schneider boys.
T H E M E N W H O M A D E P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H 3 1 5
ITALIAN BELIEF
If the French are the most sceptical concerning psychic
phenomena, the Italians are the least. Most of the Italian
scientists who investigated became spiritualists. One of the
earliest to accept survival was Professor Gesare Lombroso (1836-
1909), the psychiatrist. A contemporary spiritualist was Pro­
fessor Marco Tullio Falcomer, whose experiments with Florrie
Cook are well known.1 Another academic spiritualist was
Professor Enrico Morselli (1852-1929), who sat with Eusapia
Palladino.
Other Italian scientific experimenters include Dr. Giovanni
Battista Ermacora (1869-98),- Enrico Imoda, who sat with
Linda Gazzera;2 Professor P. B. Bianchi, Professor Angelo
BrofTerio, Ercole Ghiaia, Professor Philippe Bottazzi, Augusto
Tamburini, and Dr. Rocco Santoliquido (1854-1930), who was to
Italy what Schrenck was to Germany. Santoliquido was partly
instrumental in founding the Institut Metapsychique in Paris,
where he resided for many years. For ten years he was the
President of the Institut.
Modern living Italian psychists include Ernesto Bozzano
(b. 1862), spiritualist and researcher; Professor Giovanni Pioli,
Milan; Professor Lidio Cipriani, University of Florence; Professor
Emanuele Sorge, University of Naples (who asked me to test
Erto, the ‘ luminous’ medium); Dr. William M cKenzie, Genoa;
Gesare Baudi di Vesme (1862-1938); and Professor Ferdinando
Cazzamalli of Como, who has devoted himself to the study of
alleged cerebral emanations. Professors Fabio Vitali, G. C.
Trabacchi, and Sante de Sanctis investigated (1934) the luminous
phenomena of Anna Monaro. Quite recently (1937) a new
organization, the Society Italiana di Metapsichica, has been
1 See his Intorno alia Medianita di M rs. Florence Cook Corner, Genoa, n.d.
2See his Fotografie di Fantam i, Turin, 1912.
A P P E N D I X A
founded in Rome in memory of Richet, and is governed by a
‘ Comitato di Presidenza,’ comprising Professor Cazzamalli,
Dr. Luigi Romolo Sanguined, Professor Giovanni Schepis and
Dr. Emilio Servadio.
3 1 6
DISTINGUISHED EUROPEAN INVESTIGATORS
Poland, home of mediums, has produced at least one great
psychical researcher— Dr. Julien Ochorowicz (1850-1918).
Champion of such physical mediums as Stanislawa Tomczyk and
Eusapia Palladino, his experiments with these subjects and in
the field of paranormal photography are important. Alexander
N. Aksakov (1832-1903), another great experimenter, was
Russia’s principal exponent of parapsychology and spiritualism
and worked in Russia, England and other parts of Europe. He
wrote and translated many works and sat with the principal
mediums of the day (D. D. Home, Madame d’Esperance,
Eusapia, Slade, Eglinton and others). H e bequeathed nearly
£4,000 to the British S.P.R. Another Russian, W. Bechterew,
the famous physiologist, carried out some important experiments
with 'telepathic’ dogs.1
Professor Theodor Flournoy (£ 1920), a psychologist in the
University of Geneva, is best known for his Des Indes a la Planete
Mars,1
2 a monograph on the famous case of 'Helene Sm ith’ (i.e.,
Catherine filise Muller), the 'Mars Medium.’ Other Swiss
investigators include Professor Marc Thury (1822-1905) and
Professor Eugen Bleuler, of Zurich.
Scandinavia has given us Professor Sydney Alrutz (1868-1925)
of Uppsala University; Professor Chr. Winther of Copenhagen;
and the Norwegians, Professor Jaeger and Dr. Thorstein Wereide
who is the present editor of the Oslo Psykisk Tidsskrift. Dr.
Winther’s monograph3 on Anna Rasmussen is one of the most
convincing arguments for the reality of physical phenomena.
Finally, Iceland is represented by Professor Haraldur Nielsson
(d. 1928), and Professor Gudmundur Hannesson, both of Reyk­
javik. Professor Einar Hjorleifsson Kvaran (1859-1938), the
well-known writer, founded the Icelandic Society for Psychical
Research in ig i8 .4
In Holland, the best known experimenters are Professors
Henri Brugmans and Gerardus Heymans (who conducted the
famous experiments in telepathy at the University of Groningen) ;
and Dr. P. A. Dietz (Leiden) and Dr. W. H. C. Tenhaeff
1 Zeitschrift fu r Psyckotherapie imd Medi&nische Psychologie, Vol. 8, 1924.
2 Paris and Geneva, 1900.
3 ‘Experimental Inquiries into Telekinesis/ Journal, Am. S.P.R., N.Y.,
January-May, 1928.
4For an account of his life and work, see Light, June 30, 1938.
(Utrecht), the editors of Tijdschrift Voor Parapsychologie. Though
hardly a psychical researcher, Count Maurice Maeterlinck
(b. 1862), the Belgian author, has done much to popularize
psychics in his various works, especially in Deaths Our Eternity?
and The Unknown Guest? in which he gives his experiences with
the ‘ talking’ horses of Elberfeld, etc.
The Far East has contributed little to psychical research, but at
least one investigator, Professor T . Fukurai of Tokio, studied
parapsychology both in his native country and in England
(where he sat with Hope, etc.) and published the result of his
work.4 Nearer home, Professor Voreas and Dr. Angelos Tanagras
are working at Athens, where there is a flourishing Societe des
Recherches Psychiques Hellenique.
T H E M E N W H O M A D E P S Y C H I C A L R E S E A R C H 3 1 7
APPENDIX B
T H E F IR S T P S Y C H IC L A B O R A T O R Y
I
T was Huxley who reminded us that science is nothing but
trained and organized common sense. That this uncommon
commodity is often lacking in the investigation of alleged
abnormal phenomena is only too apparent to those engaged in
serious psychical research. The work of great psychists like
Barrett, Crookes and Richet is convincing only because we know
that their methods and records are those of the trained and
scientific worker. The most convinced spiritualist will, I am
sure, be the first to admit that much of the work of the old-time
investigators is valueless owing to the inadequacy of their
methods and the incompleteness— or total lack of— detailed
records. Some spiritualists affect to despise the scientific side of
the subject, but it is noticeable that whenever their leaders
wish to appear convincing, either on the platform or in print,
they invariably fall back on the scientist and scientific experi­
ments for their proofs and evidence. Even the Roman Catholic
Church is not averse to the scientist putting his cachet on the
miracles of Lourdes and similar manifestations. In a speech5 the
Pope said that the Church did not fear scientific investigation
with regard to miracles; on the contrary, such help was
welcomed.1
2
*
4
5
1 London, 1911.
2 London, 1913.
9London, 1914.
4 Clairvoyance and Thoughtography, London, 1931.
5 Reported in the Daily Express, March 30, 1926.
318 A P P E N D I X B
FOUNDING OF THE NATIONAL LABORATORY OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
A t the close of the Great War it was obvious that something
would have to be done to combat the machinations of the horde
of charlatans who were battening on the bereaved, the credulous,
and the uncritical. T o this end, I decided to establish a laboratory
in London where the miracle-mongers could be tested and the
genuine medium encouraged. The main object of the laboratory
was to investigate in a dispassionate manner, and by purely
scientific means, every phase of psychic or alleged psychic
phenomena— uninfluenced by the emotionalism of spiritualism
on the one hand, and the ‘ philosophic doubt’ of the orthodox
scientist (especially the physicist) on the other. It was decided
to place the evidence obtained, whether good or bad, before
such members of the public as were interested in the subject.
Starting with no preconceived theories— scientific, philosophical,
or religious— the Council of the Laboratory endeavoured to
ascertain and demonstrate the laws underlying psychic or
abnormal manifestations. Personally, I was determined to bring
psychical research to the notice of orthodoxy, and m y great
ambition was to establish a department of psychical research at
London University.
The first work of the Laboratory was carried out in 1923, in
a house in Queen Square, Bloomsbury. The first ‘subject’ was
Miss Stella C., whose phenomena made psychic history.1 During
the examination of this young woman it was found that our
equipment and apparatus were not sufficient for the many
experiments we wished to carry out, and I decided to lease a suite
of rooms which I could fit out with every scientific and automatic
recording instrument which experience suggested might be useful
to us. I found suitable accommodation in Queensberry Place,
South Kensington, and on January 1, 1926, we opened the
doors of the only properly-equipped psychic laboratory in the
world to those researchers who cared to use it. The apparatus,
furniture, instruments, tools, etc., were valued at £3,000. In
February, 1931, the Laboratory was moved to larger premises
at 13 Roland Gardens, South Kensington, where it remained
until March, 1937, when, upon the termination of our lease, the
equipment, library, etc., were transferred to the University of
London.
THE STANCE-ROOM
For the guidance of those who wish to establish university
departments of psychical research, some account of the rooms and
1 See Stella C., by Harry Price, op. cit.
equipment of the National Laboratory (now the University of
London Council for Psychical Investigation) is necessary.
The Laboratory suite comprised the following rooms: office,
chemical and physical laboratory, seance-room and library,
dark room, workshop, large hall, and usual domestic offices.
(See Plate X IV .)
The seance-room measured 22 feet 7 inches long, by 15 feet
7 inches wide, by g feet 9 inches in height. It had two doors,
one leading into the workshop, the second giving access to the
entrance hall. Both of these doors could be locked and sealed.
One of the recesses formed by the chimney-stack was extended,
on the ceiling, by means of a semi-circular rail, and from, this
rail was suspended by means of pulleys and roller-bearings a pair
of red plush curtains weighing 14 pounds. This formed the
traditionalecabinet,5roomy and comfortable, in which a medium
could sit in an arm-chair, the curtains completely concealing him.
The measurements of the cabinet were: width, 6 feet 3 inches;
height, 9 feet 9 inches; depth, 3 feet 3 inches; depth of sides, 2 feet.
The floor of the seance-room (in common with the other rooms
of the Laboratory) was covered with three-eighths inch natural
cork carpet, which is a bad conductor of heat, and thus keeps the
room at an equable temperature. The cork is pleasant to the
feet and clean, and forms a good background for anything that
may form there.
The lighting arrangements were somewhat elaborate and every
provision was made for various forms of illumination. Ultra­
violet and infra-red installations were available and X -ray
apparatus was at hand, if necessary. The normal white lighting
was by means of a central pendant holding two 100-watt bulbs.
By the turn of a switch, these could be converted into bright ruby
illumination, supplied by two 25-watt red bulbs. This light was
useful for photographic work during a seance.
The illumination of a stance could be accomplished in many
ways, and by various flood-lights, including coloured filters or
screens in special slanterns5 or inverted ceiling lights constructed
by the Wratten Division of Messrs. Kodak, Ltd. The entire
series of Wratten filters or ‘ safelights5 were employed in two
sizes, 12 x 10 inches, and io X 8 inches. The most commonly
used were: Series o, pale orange; series i, deep orange; series 2,
deep red; series 3, a special ‘neutral5 light, a combination of
orange and green tints, which we used for panchromatic or auto­
chrome plates, or cinematographic films. By using a 60-watt new
gas-filled electric bulb with each of these flood-lights and filters,
it was possible to keep constant and to standardize the lighting
of a stance, so that the exact illumination could be duplicated at
future experiments. All these lights were controlled by rheostats
or dimmers. Six lighting plugs and two power plugs were
available for the various lamps and instruments.
T H E F I R S T P S Y C H I C L A B O R A T O R Y 3 1 9
A P P E N D I X B
For heating the room, a 1,000-watt electrical radiator, with
enclosed elements which converted water into superheated steam,
could be used, the fins heating by convection. A thermostat
automatically regulated the heat, which thus remained constant.
The seance-room also contained a fireplace permanently blocked
by a metal plate and a large gas-fire. A large window at one end
of the room could be screened by an opaque, black rubberized
spring blind, the edges of which were masked by a felt-lined
‘ box’ which entirely surrounded the window. These spring
roller-blinds are used extensively for X -ray work in large hos­
pitals. The system is an ideal one for a seance-room which can
be made absolutely dark in a few seconds.
A number of photographic and cine cameras, dictaphones,
time-clock, etc., were at hand for recording purposes and a
cabinet gramophone and musical boxes supplied such music as
was required by the medium. Bookcases lined the walls of the
room (giving the place a homely and comfortable appear­
ance), and the usual chairs, table, etc., were available for the
sitters. A large settee was used for experiments in hypnosis. A
special teak note-taker’s table, on pentagraph rubber wheels,
supported dictaphones (for recording or note-taking), rheostats,
luminous watch for timing, etc. Transmitting thermographs,
barographs, and other instruments were installed for recording
the meteorological conditions. A special instrument which I
adapted for seance purposes is a time-clock which indicates the
exact duration of a phenomenon. The system is an electrical one.
The movement of a special 24-hour clock is so constructed that a
red bulb is caused to glow at regular intervals, of £, 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5
seconds, according to the setting. By the turn of a switch a
buzzer or bell can be operated instead of the light. By placing the
clock in a convenient position in the line of sight of a person noting
the manifestations, the precise duration of a phenomenon can be
accurately determined. A special note-taker’s lamp reflected a
red light from below through the paper which was being written on,
no extraneous light escaping into the seance-room. Another
special piece of apparatus was the fraud-proof double cage table,
used for testing telekinetic mediums.
3 2 0
CHEMICAL AND PHYSICAL LABORATORY
The laboratory belonging to the organization was a well-
lighted front room, 17 feet 4 inches by 16 feet 4 inches, with two
large windows. Wall benches round all four sides of the apart­
ment, with cupboards beneath, afforded excellent working space
for experiments. Bunsen and other gas-burners were attached
to connections at various points. Batteries of electric bulbs could
be used to regulate the lighting of the room, and power and
lighting plugs were spaced round the walls at regular intervals.
Over the benches were shelves for bottles, instruments, etc. A
4 feet 6 inches square teak laboratory table and six chairs com­
pleted the furniture. The laboratory could be converted into a
large dark room by erecting special shutters, impervious to light,
over the windows.
Every chemical likely to be required in photography or psy­
chical research was available, and we were the happy possessors
of several pounds of radio-active red, green, and yellow sulphide
of zinc (which I purchased from Poulenc Freres of Paris), used for
making luminous paint. Our stock probably exceeded that held
by any institution in Great Britain. Glass-blowing apparatus,
laboratory glass-ware, graduated measures, and the hundred-
and-one pieces of apparatus which go to make a well-equipped
laboratory were to be found in our rooms.
The special equipment of the laboratory included an electric
heater for melting wax, etc., chemical balances, electroscopes,
galvanometers, barographs, thermographs and other ther­
mometers for measuring temperatures, a fraud-proof control for
‘ voice mediums,9an air-tester for recording the circulation of the
air, and an extensive broadcasting equipment complete with
microphones. A large copper still provided all the distilled
water needed for photographic and other purposes. A n assort­
ment of luminous objects, musical toys, isolation chambers (for
telekinetic phenomena) and other special apparatus (such as were
used for the Marion experiments in hyperesthesia1) were kept in
the laboratory. For photographic purposes, a 500-watt spot­
light, with filters, and a 1,000-watt flood-lamp were used. For
photographing in a dull light, infra-red lamps and filters (for use
with infra-red films and plates) were employed. For ultra-violet
illumination, a quartz mercury-vapour lamp, in special steel
cabinet, with window for filters, was erected. For certain experi­
ments, complete X -ray apparatus was installed and there were
two battery-chargers (for both A .C . and D .C .). Automatic
flash-light apparatus and Vaku-Blitz bulbs were used for photo­
graphing during a stance.
T H E F I R S T P S Y C H I C L A B O R A T O R Y 3 2 I
OPTICAL EQUIPMENT
The optical equipment of the laboratory was particularly
complete. There were fifteen cameras of various sizes, including
stereoscopic, reflex, and cinematographic. These last-named
included Zeiss 35-mm. and Bell and Howell 16-mm. instruments,
together with their respective projectors, and reeling and splicing
equipment. Three photographic enlargers (one vertical auto­
matic) belonged to this section. Five stereoscopes (including a
1 Illustrated in Confessions o f a Ghost-Hunter (Plates opposite pp. 266 and 276).
Y
A P P E N D I X B
semi-automatic ‘Taxiphote’ instrument for 45 X 107 mm.
positives) by Zeiss and other makers were in the collection.
The Laboratory possessed four microscopes (binocular and
monocular) with batteries of Zeiss and Leitz oculars and objec­
tives (including apochromatic), an automatic microtome for
cutting sections, and the usual mounter’s cabinet, lamps, specimen
cabinets, etc., used in microscopy. Some interesting discoveries
concerning the composition o f £
teleplasm ’ were made with these
instruments.1
For our lectures and demonstrations, both cine projectors and
optical lanterns were used. The latter included an £Optiscopes
(a perfect instrument with many refinements) and an epidiascope
for projecting pictures of solid objects. The necessary silver and
other screens were, of course, part of the equipment. M any
other optical instruments were used from time to time, and for
£
scryers5we had five crystals, including a 5-inch flawless quartz
sphere, true in every diameter to .001 inch.
322
WORKSHOP AND DARK ROOM
The uninitiated, when viewing for the first time the workshop
attached to the laboratory, often expressed surprise that tools
could possibly be used in psychical research. When it was pointed
out to them that the construction, maintenance, and repair of
apparatus, instruments, cameras, electrical equipment, etc.,
needed every kind of tool, they realized the utility of the workshop,
which was in almost daily use.
The workshop attached to the laboratory contained every
tool and gauge necessary for the construction and maintenance of
scientific apparatus. Turning, brazing, casting, forging, grinding,
polishing, etc., could all be carried out in the workshop by a
competent person. Two lathes were installed. The larger, a
4^-inch screw-cutting model, with 6-foot gap bed, was capable
of handling really big work. It could be driven by power or
treadle. The smaller tool was a £
Lorch5 lathe for fine precision
work. Sets of wood-turning and wood-carving tools could be
used with the large lathe. Every size and type of screw could be
made or duplicated by one of the lathes or sets of stocks and dies.
The fittings of the workshop included a strong bench, three
vices, and every kind of tool. Sets of shelves and cupboards
contained stocks of screws, plugs, wire, electrical odds and ends,
gauges, and new material. Gas and electric power were installed
for the forge, brazing jet, soldering stove, etc.
The dark-room contained the usual lead-lined sink; bench;
1 See ‘The Microscopic Anatomy of the Albuminoid Type of Duncan
“ Teleplasm’V by Harry Price, Bulletin I, Nat. Lab. Psychical Research,
London, 1931, pp. 87-95.
various copper electric lamps for ordinary and panchromatic
photography; automatic alarm clocks for timing development or
enlargements; stocks of photographic chemicals; more than a
hundred glass and porcelain dishes and tanks; graduated meas­
ures, automatic washing tanks and drying cupboards, exposure
meters and filters; printing frames and guillotines; stocks of
plates and papers, and an automatic lantern-slide maker. The
window was screened by an X -ray spring blind running in boxes,
similar to the one in the seance-room, already described.
T H E F I R S T P S Y C H I C L A B O R A T O R Y 32 3
A ‘ PSYCHIC9 MUSEUM
I must add that in connection with the National Laboratory
there was a small museum of objects used by mediums; specimens
of ‘ teleplasm* (composed of white of egg and similar substances);
fake ‘ apports/ odds and ends of apparatus used for ‘ phenomena/
and two dictaphone records of a ‘Martian love song9 and a
‘ Martian symphonic chant* recorded through the ‘ Martian
medium/ Mrs. St. John James. Other ‘ museum pieces* were
some ‘ psychic lights’ as used b y the medium in the R ue Christine,
Oslend; a bunch of ‘ psychic roses’ (purchased b y the medium in
Edgware Road); and an assortment of mediums’ ‘ confessions.’
The only laboratory apartment I have not described is the
office, a small room containing the usual equipment and the
card catalogue of my library1 o f some 16,000 volumes on psychical
research, magic, and conjuring; a collection of m any hundreds of
lantern slides, negatives, and the archives of the laboratory.
I have now said enough to give the reader an insight into the
scope, work, and research equipment of the National Laboratory
of Psychical Research. The accompanying photographs will help
to give some idea of the general appearance of the principal
rooms of the organization. It has been suggested that such a full
equipment is not necessary for the investigation o f phenomena,
but in practice we found that every piece of apparatus, tool, etc.,
was used at some time or other, in the examination of some
medium. The choice of equipment was based on research
records of the past fifty years. I drew up a list of the instruments,
etc., which should have been used— but which were not— and
decided to house them under one roof. M any mediums have
failed to pass our instrumental and scientific tests; a few have
succeeded. I will now give a list of those mediums whom I
examined (and place where investigated) during m y Directorship
of the National Laboratory, from 1923 until the Laboratory was
taken over by the University of London Council for Psychical
Investigation on June 6, 1934.
1 Now the ‘Harry Price Library of Magical Literature’ in the University of
London.
324 A P P E N D I X B
PRINCIPAL MEDIUMS INVESTIGATED
Physical mediums.— Jean Guzik (Warsaw); Stella C. (London);
Willi Schneider (Munich* London* Braunau* Vienna); Rudi
Schneider (Braunau* Munich* London); Stanislawa P. (Warsaw);
William Hope* 'spirit5 photographer (London); George Moss,
‘ spirit5 photographer (London); Maria Silbert (Graz and
London); Freda Weisl (Graz); Guy L ’Estrange (London);
Einer Nielsen (Copenhagen); Anna Rasmussen (Copenhagen);
E. M. Sturgess (London); Eleonore Zugun (Vienna and London);
Douglas Drew (London); Herbert Dyer (Llanhilleth); 'M argery5
,
i.e., Mrs. L. R. G. Crandon (London); Frederick Munnings
(London); Helen Duncan (London); Pasquale Erto (London);
Frank Decker (London); Mrs. Henderson (London); Claude
Bishop* 'Dolores9 (London); Matylda Skrzetuska (London);
Laura A. Pruden (London); Harold Evans (London); Mrs.
Irving, 'spirit5 photographer (London); and Mrs. Carnegie
(London).
Mental mediums.— Abbe Lambert, dowser (London); George
Valiantine (also physical medium) (London); Anna Pilch (War­
saw); Ingeborg Dahl (Fredrikstad, Norway); Mrs. Beatrice
Hastings (London); Mrs. St. John James (London); Mrs. Florence
Kingstone (London); Mrs. G. M . Laws (London); Vout Peters
(London); 'John Alleyne5 (London); Mrs. Cannock (Lon­
don); Mrs. Eileen Garrett (London); Mrs. Claire Cantlon
(London); Fraulein Steffi Breicha (London); Mrs, Susannah
Harris-Kaye (Los Angeles); Madame Eugenie Picquart (Paris
and London); Dr. Arthur Lynch (London); Signora S. (in the
Catacombs, Rome); Frau Lotte Plaat (London); Jeanne Laplace
(Paris); Frau Liebermann (Hamburg); Mrs. Stahl Wright
(London); 'Marion9
, hyperaesthete (London); Miss Gene Dennis
(London); and 'M aloitz5
, vaudeville telepathist (London).
OUR COLLABORATORS
This record of the National Laboratory of Psychical Research
would not be complete without the names of those scientists who
have collaborated with me as Council members, lecturers,
correspondents, sitters and in many other ways. They include:
Sir Richard Gregory, Bart.* F.R.S.; Professor Dr, William
McDougall, F.R.S.; the late Dr. R . J. Tillyard, F.R.S.; Professor
Dr. E. W. MacBride, F.R.S.; Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.; Professor
E. N. da C. Andrade* F.R.S.; W. R. Bousfield* F.R.S.; E. Heron-
Alien, F.R.S.; Professor Dr. A. O. Rankine, F.R.S.; the late
Sir William Barrett, F.R.S.; Professor Dr. Julian Huxley, F.R.S.;
Professor Dr. Cyril Burt; Professor Dr. Hans Driesch (Leipzig);
Dr. C. E. M. Joad; Professor Dr. H. Gordon Jackson; Professor
Dr. d’Arsonval (Paris); Professor Dr. Hans Thirring (Vienna);
Professor Dr. Christian Winther (Copenhagen); Dr. Guy B.
Brown; Dr. William Brown; Professor Dr. J. C. Flugel; the late
Professor Dr. F. C. S. Schiller; S. G. Soal; Professor Dr. Millais
Culpin; Professor Dr. T . K . Oesterreich (Tubingen); Professor
Dr. F. Haslinger (Graz); Professor D. Walter (Graz); Dr. A. vor
Mohr (Gottingen); Dr. E. J. Dingwall; Professor Dr. Giovanni
Pioli (Milan); Professor Dr. Eugen Bleuler (Zurich); Professor
Dr. C. Schroder (Berlin); Dr. Paul Siinner (Berlin); Professor
Dr. Lidio Cipriani (Florence); Professor Dr. Nils von Hofsten
(Uppsala); Rene Sudre (Paris); Professor Dr. F. Cazzamalli
(Milan); Professor Dr. F. G. Benedict (Boston, Mass.); the late
Professor Dr. Oskar Jaeger (Oslo); Professor E. R . Dodds; Dr.
David Efron (Buenos Aires); Professor Dr. Ludwik (Vienna);
the late Professor Dr. Karl Gruber (Munich); Professor Dr. J. A .
Gunn; Professor Dr. E. Garnett; the late Professor Dr. W. E.
Gibbs; William Bacon, B.Sc., F.I.C .; Dr. W. H. C. Tenhaeff
(Utrecht); Dr. A. Tanagras (Athens); Professor Dr. Hildebrand
(Munich); Professor Dr. A. F. C. Pollard; Professor Dr. Emanuele
Sorge (Naples); Dr. Th. Wereide (Oslo); Professor Dr. Adam
Zoltowski (Warsaw); Professor Dr. Karl Przibram (Vienna); the
late Professor Dr. D. F. Fraser-Harris and Professor Dr. R . F.
Alfred Hoernle (Johannesburg). M y thanks are due to these
gentleman for their assistance.
T H E F I R S T P S Y C H I C L A B O R A T O R Y 3 2 5
PUBLICATIONS
The work of the National Laboratory was published in
Proceedings (1927-9); the British Journal of Psychical Research
(1926-9); Bulletins I -V I (1931-3); and two offprints from
Mature, July 31, 1926 and August 18, 1928 (articles by Dr. R, J.
Tillyard). In addition, the following books dealing with the work
done at the Laboratory have been issued. They are all by the
present writer: Stella C, (London, 1925, and a French edition,
Paris, 1926); Rudi Schneider (London, 1930, and German and
French editions, Leipzig and Paris, 1930); Leavesfrom a Psychisms
Case-Book (London, 1933); Confessions of a Ghost-Hunter (London
and New York, 1936. Translations appeared during 1936-7 in the
following countries: Holland, Italy, France, Switzerland, Czecho­
slovakia, Austria, Hungary and Sweden). Much of the work of
the National Laboratory was recorded in the Journal of the
American Society for Psychical Research, between 1925 and 1931,
when I was Foreign Research Officer of this Society. In 1935,
the British Movietonews, Ltd., produced a talking film ,4Psychical
Research9 (dealing with m y work at the Laboratory), for which
I wrote the script.
A P P E N D I X B
As I have stated, in June, 1934, the National Laboratory
became the University of London Council for Psychical Investi­
gation. This change was the result of a formal offer which I made
to the University of London. The history of this proposal is out­
lined in Chapter III.
3 2 6
APPENDIX C
P S Y C H IC P R A C T IT IO N E R S (R E G U L A T IO N ) B IL L
[Private Member's Bill)
N O T E
T
H E purpose of this Bill is to amend the law concerning
psychic and occult practices; to regulate the activities of
those purporting to be, or calling themselves ‘ mediums’;
and to safeguard the public from the frauds of those pretending to
possess an occult or psychic faculty, at the same time protecting
the genuine medium and the genuine inquirer, and furthering
the interests of scientific psychical research.
This Bill is also designed to prohibit the sale of articles and
apparatus alleged to induce a psychic or occult faculty and to
prevent the sellers of such articles from battening on the credulity
of the public; and to prohibit psychic organizations from living
on the earnings of fraudulent mediums. Children and adolescents,
too, are protected from being exploited by those seeking to make
money out of their alleged ‘ powers/ the exhibition of which,
invariably for gain, can hardly fail to injure, both mentally and
physically, and also morally, persons of immature age.
‘ p s y c h i c ’ f r a u d s a r e a n c i e n t
The art of deceiving the public by spurious occult or magical
demonstrations is as old as history itself, and the literature of
the subject goes back many centuries. The ancient Greek priests
made a science of deception, and their temples stand to-day as
monuments of charlatanry and artifice far in advance of anything
the modern psychic faker dare construct for purposes of deception.
Hero of Alexandria exposed these priestly tricksters— who called
their assistants sibyls and prophetesses— hundreds of years ago,
and gave the world an illustrated account1 of the working of their
1 Spiritalia, ed. Alex Georgi, Urbino, 1592. For translation, see The Pneu­
matics of Hero o f Alexandria, by Bennett Woodcroft, London, 1851.
T E X T OF P R O P O S E D B I L L 327
oracles, their bleeding statues, their talking gods, their fire­
spitting and food-consuming idols, and the many mechanical
contrivances with which the keepers of the temples deluded their
followers. It is still possible to see the siphons, tubes, vaults,
secret doors, chambers, and speaking-tubes by means of which
they imposed on credulity in ancient Greece. Though the
modern ‘oracle5
— unlike her prototype of Delphi and Dodona—
does not now hand out her prophecies enigmatically expressed in
hexameter verses, the sayings and automatic writings of some
‘ mediums5 of to-day follow the ancient model in that they
require all the interpretation that can be found for them.
EARLY LONDON CHARLATANS
Coming to modern historical times, we have records of many
charlatans who, by means of a little conjuring skill and a pretence
to occult knowledge, easily extracted money from the vacuous
guilelcssncss of the ignorant and credulous. In 1561 Francis
Coxe, a wandering magician, ‘medium,5and miracle-worker was
put in the ‘ pyllorye in Chepesyde5 after being accused of ‘ cer-
tayne sinistral and develish artes.5 He was ordered also to
‘ retract5 and confess his fraud in various parts of London. He
had the temerity to print his confession under the title of The
Unfained Retraction of Francis Coxe . . . (London, 1561). Appar­
ently he found that writing tracts was more profitable than telling
fortunes, for in the same year he published another black-letter
brochure entitled: A Short Treatise, Declaring the Detestable Wicked­
ness ofMagical Sciences asNecromancie, Conjurations, CuriousAstrologie,
etc., one of the very earliest exposures of fraudulent mediumship.
A few years later Reginald Scot devoted a whole volume1 to what
we should now call fraudulent mediumship, and in 1620 John
Melton gave the world a detailed account2 of how an astrologer
robbed him of his money under the pretence of finding lost
property. And there are many other early works of a similar
nature.
WAR INCREASES FRAUD
During and after the Great War, the number of mediums—
especially fraudulent mediums— increased considerably, and the
reason for this is not difficult to understand. The wave of
emotionalism which swept the world during this unhappy period
caused the bereaved to seek their dead ones, made people more
credulous and more easily duped, and the charlatans rose to the
occasion. This extraordinary credulity on the part of the public
1 Discovme o f Witchcraft. . . . London, 1584.
2Astrologaster, or the Figure-Caster., . . London, 1620.
A P P E N D I X C
has persisted and is growing. Legislation in order to protect
these persons is therefore necessary.
One of the crying scandals connected with false mediumship is
the fact that when a medium is prosecuted and convicted on the
clearest evidence, many spiritualists regard him as a sort of
martyr and rush to his support. More than one 'm edium 5 has
leapt to fame solely on account of his having been convicted of a
mean 'psychic5fraud. It is necessary to protect the public from
such people, and from their own folly in consulting these
charlatans.
Briefly, the Bill is intended to provide for the registration of
persons claiming psychic powers, with or without examination by
some competent, sympathetic body, at the same time to leave the
miracle-monger who lives on the credulous, the ignorant, and the
bereaved, punishable under existing law. Under the Bill, any
bona-fide society pursuing scientific research into psychic matters
may obtain recognition from the Secretary of State as 'a recog­
nized Scientific Body.5
32 8
T E X T OF P R O P O S E D B I L L 329
Psychic Practitioners
(Regulation) Bill
A BILL
To provide for the regulation of psychic or occult practitioners:
to restrict the public exhibition of psychic faculties: to confer on
the Secretary of State powers in relation to the registration of
persons professing to possess such faculties: to make provision for
preventing fraud in connection with psychic or occult practices
and for the protection of children and young persons: to repeal
the Witchcraft Act, 1735, and to amend the Vagrancy Act, 1824:
and to provide for purposes connected with the matters aforesaid.
33° A P P E N D I X C
P S Y C H IC P R A C T IT IO N E R S (R E G U L A T IO N ) B IL L
ARRANGEMENT OF GLAUSES
Registration, etc.
CLAUSE
1. Provisions as to psychic practitioners, meetings, and
literature.
2. Establishment of registers.
3. Applications for registration.
4. Particulars and notices.
5. Grant and extent of registration: certificates.
6. Power of Registration Authority to impose conditions and
require undertakings.
7. Refusal and cancellation of registration.
Offences
8. Offences.
9. Penalties for offences.
10. Cancelled or suspended certificates.
11. Penalty for acting as assistant, etc., during suspension or
cancellation of registration.
General
12. Recognized scientific bodies and universities.
13. Investigation Tribunal.
14. Secretary of State empowered to make rules.
Exemptions, etc.
15. Psychopathic or hypnotic treatment by registered medical
practitioners exempted,
16. Repeal.
17. Amendment.
18. Interpretation.
19. Application to Scotland.
20. Short Title, Citation, and Extent.
Be it enacted by the K ing’s Most Excellent Majesty, by and
with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal,
and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows:—
Psychicpractitioners, m
eetings and literature.
1. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, no person shall,
on or after the appointed day
T E X T OF P R O P O S E D B I L L 331
(a) practise for reward as a psychic practitioner as
hereinafter defined without being duly registered
under this Act,
(b) act as manager for or representative of or assistant
to any unregistered psychic practitioner practising
for reward,
(c) hold or convene or attempt to hold or convene or
assist in holding or convening any public meeting
for the purpose of exhibiting or demonstrating or
attempting to exhibit or demonstrate psychic or
occult phenomena, or at which such phenomena
are exhibited or demonstrated or attempted or
intended to be exhibited or demonstrated, or at
which psychic or occult matters are or are in­
tended to be the subject of any lecture or dis­
cussion, or, being an owner or occupier of
premises, cause or permit such premises to be used
for any of the purposes aforesaid,
(id) cause or permit any child or young person to be
present at any exhibition or demonstration or
attempted exhibition or demonstration of psychic
or occult phenomena or at any lecture or dis­
cussion relating thereto,
(e) distribute or cause to be distributed or be con­
cerned in distributing any document which to his
knowledge contains(
i
)
(i) any invitation to the public to attend any
such meeting, lecture or discussion as
aforesaid,
(ii) any offer to the public of goods as having
psychic or occult properties, or any des­
criptive matter relating thereto,
(iii) any offer of tuition or instruction in psychic
or occult matters,
(iv) any matter whatsoever relating to the
activities of any living unregistered psychic
practitioner, other than bona-fide reports of
proceedings in a Court of Law or before
the Investigation Tribunal constituted
under this Act, or reports the publication
whereof has been duly authorized by the
Secretary of State under this Act,
(v) any information calculated to lead directly
or indirectly to the doing of any act in
contravention of this section by the
recipient of the information.
332 A P P E N D I X G
(/) have in his possession for the purpose of distri­
bution any documents which to his knowledge are
documents as aforesaid,
(g) being a society, club, church, company, firm or
association, receive any commission profit or
reward in connection with any demonstration or
exhibition ofpsychic or occult phenomena, or any
attempted demonstration or exhibition thereof, or
any lecture or discussion relating thereto.
(2) The preceding subsection shall not apply in relation to
bona-fide research or instruction by members of the staff
of any recognized scientific body or to the publications
of such recognized scientific body.
13) A person shall not be taken to contravene this section
by reason only that he delivers or causes to be delivered
to purchasers thereof, copies of any newspaper, journal,
magazine or other periodical publication.
Establishment ofRegisters.
2. Every registration authority within the meaning of this Act
shall establish and keep a Register of Psychic Practitioners.
The Register shall be in the prescribed form and shall be
open to inspection by any member of the public during
ordinary office hours on payment of the prescribed fee.
Applications for Registration.
3. (1) Every psychic practitioner as hereinafter defined shall
not more than six weeks nor less than twenty-one days
before making any application to be registered under
this Act, insert in a London daily newspaper in two
different issues a notice stating that he intends to make
such application: and shall give not less than seven
days’ notice in writing to the Registration Authority
and to the Chief Officer of Police of the police area in
which he intends to practise of his intention to apply
for registration.
(2) Every such notice as aforesaid shall contain particulars
of every name which has at any time been used by the
applicant or by which he has at any time been known.
(3) It shall not be necessary to insert or give any such
notices as aforesaid where the application is for the
renewal without alteration of an existing certificate of
registration.
Particulars andNotices.
4. (1) Every person making application to be registered under
this Act shall furnish to the Registration Authority of
the area in which he resides or if he has no fixed place
of residence in Great Britain to any Registration
Authority particulars in the prescribed form.
(2) If any circumstance occurs in relation to any person
registered under this Act which affects the accuracy of
any particulars with respect to the person so registered
in the Register of Psychic Practitioners, the person so
registered shall forthwith in writing inform the Registra­
tion Authority with which he has been registered and
shall forward to the Authority his Certificate of Regis­
tration to be amended, and on receipt of such informa­
tion the Registration Authority may in its discretion
(a) cause the entries respecting the person so regis­
tered and the Certificate to be amended or
(b) require the person so registered to renew his
application to be registered, with or without a
notice in the form prescribed by section 2 of this
Aqt.
(3) Upon any application for registration the Registration
Authority may charge such fee not exceeding forty
shillings as may be prescribed for such registration, but
shall not be entitled to charge any fee for such amend­
ments as aforesaid.
Grant and extent of Registration Certificates.
5. Upon any application by any person to be registered under
this Act—
(1) The Registration Authority shall hear and determine
any questions arising out of such application, including
any objections thereto.
(2) The Registration Authority shall have power to require
the applicant to submit to such test as the Investigation
Tribunal hereinafter referred to may require.
(3) The Registration Authority if satisfied that the appli­
cant is a fit and proper person to be registered under this
Act shall cause him to be so registered, and shall as soon
as possible thereafter issue to him a Certificate of
Registration under the hand of a duly authorized
Officer of the Registration Authority. Such Certificate
shall be in the prescribed form and shall, unless pre­
viously revoked or determined as hereinafter provided,
be valid for one year or for such less period as the
Registration Authority shall think fit. Any document
purporting to be such Certificate shall be evidence of
the facts to which it relates.
(4) The Registration Authority shall immediately on the
issue of a Certificate of Registration and on any entry
or amendment of an entry in the Register of Psychic
Practitioners being made transmit to the Secretary of
State in such manner as may be prescribed particulars
of such registration, entry or amendment.
T E X T OF P R O P O S E D B I L L 3 3 3
A P P E N D I X G
Power to require Undertakings.
6. The Registration Authority in granting any such applica­
tion as aforesaid shall have power to impose upon any
person making such application such conditions and restric­
tions and to require from him such undertaking as it shall
think fit; and such conditions undertakings and restrictions
shall be entered in the Register and Certificate as aforesaid.
Refusal and Cancellation of Registration.
7. (1) The Registration Authority may refuse to register any
applicant or may cancel the registration of any psychic
practitioner
[а) if such applicant, or such psychic practitioner, as
the case may be
(i) fails or refuses to furnish such information
as the Registration Authority in accord­
ance with the regulations to be made here­
under may require, or
(ii) furnishes any incorrect information or fails
to correct any incorrect information pre­
viously furnished, or
(iii) fails or refuses to submit to any required
test as aforesaid,
(б) if it appears to the Registration Authority that
(i) by reason of any report by the Investiga­
tion Authority, or
(ii) by reason of such applicant, or such
psychic practitioner having been con­
victed in the United Kingdom of an
offence his conviction for which necessarily
involved a finding that he acted fraudu­
lently or dishonestly, or having been
convicted of an offence under this Act, or
having committed a breach of any rules
or regulations made by the Secretary of
State hereunder or of any condition im­
posed by any Registration Authority
hereunder,
(iii) by reason of any circumstance whatever
reflecting discredit upon such applicant
or such psychic practitioner
the applicant or the psychic practitioner as the case
may be is not, or is no longer, a fit or proper person
to be registered under this Act.
(2) Any registered psychic practitioner whose registration
has been cancelled as aforesaid shall forthwith deliver
up his Certificate to the Registration Authority which
has issued the same.
334
(3) Particulars of such refusal or cancellation shall forth­
with be transmitted to the Secretary of State in such
manner as may be prescribed.
Offences.
8. If any person shall on or after the appointed day
(а) practise for reward as a psychic practitioner
without being in possession of a valid Certificate
of Registration under this Act,
(б) act as manager for or representative ofor assistant
to any unregistered psychic practitioner practising
for reward,
(c) supply false or misleading or incorrect parti­
culars to the Registration Authority or fail within
a reasonable time to inform the Registration
Authority of any change of circumstances or to
forward to the Registration Authority his Certi­
ficate in accordance with the provisions of this
Act,
(d) apply (except as is hereinafter provided) to be
registered as a psychic practitioner after his
registration has been cancelled or while it is
suspended,
(*) fail to produce to the Court or the hearing of any
charge under this Act his Certificate (if any) of
Registration without reasonable cause, or produce
a false Certificate,
[(/) being a company or firm or association of which
any person whose registration has been cancelled
or suspended is a director or manager or by any
other means has control, or is a partner as the
case may be, apply to be registered as a psychic
practitioner,]
(g) do any act in contravention of the provisions of
this Act or of any regulations made thereunder or
of any conditions undertakings or restrictions
imposed by a Registration Authority or cause or
permit any premises to be used in contravention
thereof,
he shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
Penalties.
9. (1) Any offence under this Act shall render the person
committing the same liable, on conviction on indict­
ment to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or to a fine not exceeding five hundred pounds or
to both such imprisonment and such fine, or on sum­
mary conviction to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or to a fine not exceeding one
hundred pounds, or to both such imprisonment and
J
t e x t o f p r o p o s e d b i l l 3 3 5
336 A P P E N D I X C
such fine, and in addition to any other penalty the
Court may in its discretion:—
(а) order the Certificate of any registered psychic
practitioner to be delivered up and the registra­
tion to be cancelled;
(б) order the Certificate of any registered psychic
practitioner to be delivered up and the registra­
tion to be suspendedfor such a period as the Court
may deem fit;
(c) order the person convicted to pay the whole or
any part of the costs of the prosecution.
(2) Any person affected by an order made under this section
may appeal to a Court of Quarter Sessions in the
manner provided by the Summary Jurisdiction Acts.
(3) An order made under this Act shall not come into
force until seven days after it is made or if an appeal
has been entered within that period until the deter­
mination of the appeal.
(4) Where an offence under this Act is committed by
a company or association the chairman and every
director and every officer or other person concerned
in the management of the company or association shall
be deemed to have committed the like offence unless
he proves that the act constituting the offence took
place without his knowledge.
(5) Proceedings for an offence under this Act shall not in
England be instituted except by or with the consent of
the ChiefOfficer ofPolice ofthe police area in which the
offence, or if more than one of such offences, is alleged
to have been committed provided that this subsection
shall not prevent the arrest, or the issue or execution
of a warrant for the arrest, of any person in respect of
such offence, or the remanding, in custody or on bail, of
any person charged with such an offence, notwithstand­
ing that the necessary consent to the institution of
proceedings for the offence has not been obtained.
(6) If a Justice of the Peace is satisfied by information on
oath that there is reasonable ground for suspecting that,
at any such premises as may be specified in the informa­
tion, a person has any documents in his possession in
contravention of the provisions of this Act, the Justice
may grant a warrant under his hand empowering any
constable to enter the premises, if necessary by force,
at any time or times within one month from the date of
the warrant, and to search for, and seize and remove,
any documents found therein which he has reasonable
ground for believing to be in the possession of a person
in contravention of this section.
T E X T OF P R O P O S E D B I L L 337
(7) Any document seized under this section may be
retained for a period of one month or, if within that
period there are commenced any proceedings for an
offence under this section to which the document is
relevant, until the conclusion of those proceedings.
(8) Where any person is convicted of an offence under this
section, the Court dealing with the case may make an
order authorizing the destruction, or the disposal in
any other specified manner, of any documents pro­
duced to the Court which are shown to its satisfaction
to be documents in respect of which the offence was
committed:
Provided that an order under this subsection shall
not authorize the destruction, or the disposal in any
other manner, of a document, until the conclusion of
the proceedings in the matter of which the order is
made.
(9) Subject to the provisions of the last two preceding sub­
sections, the Police (Property) Act 1897 (which makes
provision with respect to the disposal of property in the
possession of the police) shall apply to property which
has come into the possession ofthe police in consequence
of a seizure under this section, as it applies to property
which has come into the possession of the Police in the
circumstances mentioned in that Act.
jCancelled or Suspended Certificates.
| 10. (1) Any registered psychic practitioner whose registration
has been ordered to be cancelled or suspended under
the last preceding section shall forthwith deliver up his
Certificate to the Clerk of the Court by which the order
has been made, and the Clerk of the Court shall as
soon as the order comes into force endorse the Certi­
ficate with a record of the order for cancellation or
suspension, as the case may be, and shall forward the
said Certificate so endorsed to the Registration Author­
ity by which the said Certificate was issued, and the
said Registration Authority shall thereupon cause entry
of such cancellation or suspension to be made in the
Register of Psychic Practitioners, and in the case of
suspension shall, when the period of suspension has
expired, return the Certificate to the psychic practi­
tioner at the address entered on the Certificate, and in
the case of cancellation shall retain the said Certificate.
(2) Where any order as to cancellation or suspension of
registration has been made as aforesaid, the Clerk ofthe
Court shall send notice thereofto the Secretary of State
in the prescribed manner.
z
338 A P P E N D I X C
(3) Any person whose registration has been cancelled, may
after giving notice in the prescribed manner to the
Registration Authority by which his former Certificate
was issued of his intention so to do, apply to the
Investigation Tribunal appointed by the Secretary for
State for a recommendation that he be registered as a
psychic practitioner, and the examining body, if satis­
fied after the applicant has complied with such test or
examination as such Tribunal may think fit that such
person should be registered, may make such recom­
mendation subject to such conditions as it may think
fit:
Provided that no recommendation shall be made
under this section unless a period of at least twelve
months has elapsed since the former registration was
cancelled.
(4) Where any such recommendation has been made, the
applicant may make application to be registered as a
psychic practitioner to the Registration Authority and
the provisions of Sections 2, 3 and 4 of this Act shall
apply to such application:
Provided that upon such application no further test
shall be required by the Registration Authority.
Penaltyfor Acting as Assistant, etc.
11. Any person whose registration as a psychic practitioner
has been cancelled or suspended shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act if at any time while his registration is
cancelled or suspended he acts as manager for or repre­
sentative of or assistant to any psychic practitioner.
Recognized Bodies.
12. (1) The Secretary of State may by order declare any body
ofpersons to be a recognized Scientific Body or a recog­
nized university for the purposes of this Act.
(2) Any order under this Section may be varied or revoked
by a subsequent order of the Secretary of State.
(3) It shall be the duty of every recognized Scientific Body
and every recognized university to furnish to the Secre­
tary of State so often as may be prescribed a list of all
persons who are members of such Scientific Body or
university as the case may be, and a further list of all
members as may be qualified to investigate psychic
and occult matters.
Investigation Tribunal.
13. (1) For the purposes of this Act there shall be an Investiga­
tion Tribunal consisting of a Chairman who shall be a
member of the legal profession appointed by the Lord
Chancellor and four persons who shall be members of
a recognized Scientific Body or a recognized university
appointed by the Secretary of State.
(2) For the purpose olany investigaton under this Act the
Investigation Tribunal shall be empowered to deter­
mine the time and place at which and the conditions
under which any test required by it shall be held; and
shall report the result of every such investigation in the
prescribed manner to the Secretary of State.
(3) The Investigation Authority shall have power to make
such recommendations as it may think fit with regard
to the granting, cancellation, suspension or with­
holding of any registration.
(4) Where any such investigation has been made in accord­
ance with the requirements of a Registration Authority,
the Investigation Tribunal shall as soon as possible after
such investigation has taken place furnish the Registra­
tion Authority concerned with a copy of any report or
recommendation thereon, and if any person having
been required or having applied to submit to investiga­
tion by the Tribunal fails or refuses to submit to any
test prescribed by it, such failure or such refusal shall
be reported in the prescribed manner to the Secretary
of State.
Secretary ofState to m
ake Rules.
14. The Secretary of State shall make rules for prescribing
anything which is required or authorized to be prescribed
under this Act, and generally for carrying this Act into
effect.
Exemption of Registered Medical Practitioners.
15. Nothing in this Act shall affect or apply in relation to
bondfide psychopathic or hypnotic treatment by any regis­
tered practitioner.
Repeal.
16. On the appointed day the Witchcraft Act, 1735, shall so far
as it related to England, Wales and Scotland cease to have
effect.
Amendment.
17. On and after the appointed day Section 4 of The Vagrancy
Act, 1824 shall so far as it relates to England, Wales and
Scotland . . .
T E X T OF P R O P O S E D B I L L 3 3 9
Interpretation.
18. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following expressions have the meanings hereby assigned to
them respectively, that is to say:
340 A P P E N D I X C
‘the appointed day5means such day as the Secretary of
State may by order appoint.
‘children5 and ‘young persons5 shall have the same
meanings as in the Children and Young Persons Act,
*933-
‘Police Area,5 ‘Chief Officer of Police5 as respects the
City of London mean the City and the Commissioner of
City Police, and elsewhere have the same meanings as in
the Police Act, 1890.
‘prescribed5 means prescribed by regulations of the
Secretary of State.
‘psychic practitioner’ includes (i) any medium and (ii) any
person who exercises or professes to exercise psychic or occult
or magic powers or who holds himself out as possessing such
powers and (iii) any person who professes or attempts to com­
municate with the spirits of deceased or unborn persons or to
make such spirits perceptible by living persons and (iv) any
person who professes or attempts by psychic or occult means
to move material objects or to acquire knowledge of, foretell, or
influence future or distant events or to diagnose, alleviate, cure,
inflict or increase bodily or other ailments and (v) any person
who practises or professes to practise mediumship, clairvoyance,
crystal gazing, palmistry, necromancy, conjuration, divination
or any other magical psychic or occult sciences and (vi) any
person who professes or attempts to produce either himself or
with or through another or others psychic, magic or occult
phenomena.
‘recognized scientific body5 means a body of persons
declared by an order of the Secretary of State for the
time being in force to be a recognized scientific body,
‘recognized university5means a body of persons declared
by an order of the Secretary of State for the time being
in force to be a recognized university.
‘registered medical practitioner5 shall have the same
meaning as in the Medical Acts.
‘registered psychic practitioner5means a personregistered
under this Act.
‘registration authority5 for the purposes of this Act
means the Common Council of the City of London or the
Council of a County or County Borough.
Application to Scotland.
19. This Act shall apply to Scotland subject to the following
modifications:—
(To be considered.)
Short Title, Citation, andExtent
20. (1) This Act may be cited as the Psychic Practitioners
(Regulation) Act, 1939.
(2) This Act shall not extend to Northern Ireland.
P
S
Y
C
H
IC
P
R
A
C
T
IT
I
O
N
E
R
S
(
R
E
G
U
L
A
T
I
O
N
)
A
C
T
,
1
9
3
9
T E X T OF P R O P O S E D B I L L 341
5
0
Remarks
Column
6
Ptrs.
of
any
can­
cellation
or
sus­
pension
o
f
regis­
tration
including
the
name
of
Court
by
which
order
was
made,
date
on
which
order
came
into
force,
period
of
suspension.
Column
5
Date
of
Registra­
tion
and
Date
o
f
expiration
o
f
cer­
tificate.
Column
4
In
respect
of
each
per­
son
whose
name
is
given
in
Col.
3
to
every
other
name
which
he
is
now
using
or
has
at
any
time
used
or
by
which
he
has
been
known.
w
his
nation­
ality.
(«)
the
address
at
which
he
resides.
Column
3
I
The
true
name
of
the
P.P.
in
full.
I
f
the
P.P.
is
a
firm
or
partner­
ship
the
names
of
all
the
members
must
be
given:
if
an
incorpor­
ated
Company
the
names
of
all
the
directors
and
secretary
must
be
given.
Christ.
Surname
Name
Column
2
Either
—
(a)
the
address
at
which
the
psychic
practitioner
will
practise,
or
(ib
)
a
permanent
postal
address
from
which
letters
di­
rected
to
the
P.P.
will
be
for­
warded.
Column
1
Name
under
which
the
psychic
prac­
titioner
will
prac­
tise.
Where
the
psychic
practi­
tioner
registered
is
a
firm
or
part­
nership
or
incor­
porated
Go.
this
should
be
stated.
342 A P P E N D I X G
SECOND SCHEDULE
PSY C H IC PR A CTITIO N ER S (R E G U L A T IO N ) A C T , 19 3 9
Form of Notice ofIntention to Register
Notice is hereby given that....................................................(a)
residing a t ................................................................................ (6)
and practising under the name of............................................. (c)
intends to apply to the........................................................... (tf)
for registration under the above Act.
[Date)..........................
Particulars of all names used by the above applicant or by
which he or she has at any time been known..............................
[a) Here insert the true name of the person or persons making:
the application for registration.
(ib) Here insert fixed place of residence in Great Britain, if any.
(c) Here insert the name under which the Psychic Practitioner!
will practise. This may be omitted in the case of an incorporated1
Company practising under its corporate name.
(id) Here insert the designation of the registration authority,;
viz., County Council of................... or County Borough;
Council o f ................... or Common Council of the City of,
London as the case may be.
P
S
Y
C
H
IC
P
R
A
C
T
IT
I
O
N
E
R
S
(
R
E
G
U
L
A
T
I
O
N
)
A
C
T
,
1
9
3
9
Form
o
f
Application
f
o
r
Registration
mdersigned,
do
hereby
apply
for
registration
under
the
Psychic
Practitioners
(Regulation)
A
ct,
1939,
and
T E X T OF P R O P O S E D B I L L 343
3
v
r
B
3
u
3
Ph
U
+
-
>
tu
1
—1
C
L
§
o
XJ
3
ix
l
<
L
>
C
J
<
D
§
3
U
■
4
3
c
3
C
L
3d
1
%
V
s
o
<
u
XI
Ja
<
u
.1
k
) O^
3 «
rh
u d'd
s.g.a 3 a 5 &g
S l j u i'S g
I lg 'S b 'l^
o
to a
jt)
^ l ti F
l fl
° 0* §4
3 °
§ 'E
om ^
£■3 s-al-g
3 s
■9*8
a
j
0
f A
Is
°-.s
i s
D
hT
O
w
every
other
name
which
he
is
now
using
or
has
at
any
time
used
or
by
which
he
has
been
known.
w
his
Ltional-
ity*
P
I
w
the
address
at
which
he
resides.
t> aj j,
. CL
'St. i H
H 3 o? u 3
5 w
» a w m-S
jd | a | s | | S - |
I ? ^ 3 ^ -
!-92- 9*2 g-82 ■ 1
J
S-H
.-
H
|.s g.a„ Jj-g
Sari b^ jb as
l l r i i & S
r
\cv-a^ c
I s l P P
i l V l ^ S
•sXw g e
G
J^-5 \§ .H
"a -t
s
' *3jy 2 g i'S ?
1 & .8*8:1 "
3.a| a-a.g.’fi
itmid
1 1
3
344 A P P E N D I X C
O
)
CO
0
5
S a
g -1
1 a
g i
jj.S
a ^
w ■ §
z g
o
h v
*
u
S
u
I*
Vi
O
h
■aJ:
S y1
3 oi
1 3 i
g-f
O lH
-O u ,
u
!
y-S:
u O'
a
dx
>
.
« S'
•g
4
£ 1
ta-a!
bn
8f
■ si-
'I .a.
fif
I I
I 1
“ I
S .2
s &
3 $
3 *
•
sl
&»
a o,
i l
| ;si
H
§ H
i
A
°?2;
*a
-§i
INDEX
The titles of books, articles, periodicals,^Acts,^ Bills, plays, manuscripts,
lectures and society publications are printed in italics.
Abbott, David Phelps, 36 n, 2, 37 n. 3,
39 n. 2, 287
‘Abdullah/ a spirit, 195
‘Abdul Latif/ a spirit, 177
Abonouteichos, Asia Minor, 211
Abrams, Albert, igi, 245
AccountofSom
eFurtherExperiments with
Rudi Schneider, 60n. 8, 107 «. 1
AccountofSom
eFurtherExperiments with
Willy Schneider, 30n. 5, 98 n. 1
Accumulators, psychic, 301-2
Act against Conjuration, 216 n. 5
Act Against Vagrants, 215 n. 1
Acte conc’nyngEgypsyans, 213
Actefor Punishment ofRogues, 213
Act to Repeal the Statute, 216 n. 7
Adams, Eugene, 181
Adare, Viscount, 23, 2872. 3, 30-1, 33,
35, 275-8
Adcock, Reginald, 255, 258-9, 260-1
Adventure, An, 279-83
Adventures ofaPseudo-Medium, 207
/Eneid, 250n, 1
Africa, 309
Agustsdottir, Fru Ldra, 27
Aischa, a negress, 86
Aksakov, Alexander N., 23, 316
‘Albert’, a spirit, 196
Alehin, Gordon, 212
‘Alec* or ‘Eric5
, a spirit, 227
Alexander, 211 n. 1
Alexander, Jack, 198 n. 2
Alexander the Paphlagonian, 211,
211 n. 1
Alexandra Palace, London, 258, 262
Algiers, 86
Alleyne, John, 162, 324
Alrutz, Sydney, 245, 316
Amazing Exposure of aFamous Medium,
202 n. 4
American Bar Association Journal,
234 n. 1
American Psychical Institute, 248n. 1,
312
American Psychological Association,
180, 181 n. 4
American radio experiments, 263-4
American Society for Psychical Re­
search, 56, 67, in , 117, 148, 290,
308, 311-12, 345-6
American Society for Psychical Re­
search (Boston branch), 56
American Society for Psychical Re­
search, Journal of, 27 n. 1, 2, 29 n.
v, 30 5, 32 n. 2, 3, 33 n
34 »• 4, 37 n. 1, 42 4, 4
78 n. 1, 80 n. 1, 84 n. 1, 8
87 n. 6, 89 n. 1, 2, 92 n. 1, 93 n. 1,
98 7
2
. I, 99 7
Z
. I, IOO72. I, IOI 72. 5,
10672. I , I I I 72. I , 112 7
2
. 2, 11372. 2,
114 72. I , 2, 117 2, 3, 4, 5,
128 72. 2, 129 72. I , 2, 155 7
2. 4,
I56 72. I, l60 72. I , 162 72. I,
202 7
2. 2, 24472. I, 28472.2,31671. 3,
325»346a351 »
■ 1
American Society for Psychical Re­
search, Proceedings of, 29 n. 2,
39 72. 2, 163 72. 3, 191 72. 3, 194 7
2
. 3,
200 7
1
. 5, 312 7
2
. 4, 346
Amsterdam, Holland, 161, igs
Analects (of Confucius), 45
Analysis of Variance, 248
Ancient laws for modern mediums,
215
. . . AndAfter, 38 72. 2, 54 n. 3, 199 72. 2
Andrade, Edward Neville da Costa,
124, 324
Andrews Liver Salts, 122, 298
Animal magnetism, discovery of, 11,
12
Animal Spirit Siance Manifestations,
28 7
2
. 2
Annales des Sciences Psychiques, 77 72. 2
AnnalsofPsychicalScience, 3672. 1,87 n. 1
Annals ofSurgery, 196 72. 3
Annemann, Theo, 188
Another Unsatisfactory Stance, 201 n. 5
‘Antoinette, Marie’, a spirit, 2B1
Apollo, 250
Apparatus for fake mediums, 208-12
Apports, 201-2
Apports, meaning of, 29
Arcadia township, New York State,
*9, 25
‘Arditi, Luigi’, a spirit, 198
Areski, an Arab, 86
Armistice Day, spirit photographs on,
a 193
Arruns’s prayer, 250
Arthur ConanDoyle, 309 72. 5
361
I N D E X
Ashland Boulevard, Chicago, 208
Ashley House, London, 30
Asia Minor, 211
Astrologaster, or the Figure-Caster,
327 n. 2
Astrology in Paris, 217 n. 1
Astronomer Royal, 268
Athens, Greece, 317, 325
Athens University, 66
Austin, Mary, 68
Authentic, Candid and Circumstantial
Narrative, An, gn. 1
Automatic Art o f Heinrich Nusslein,
32 n. 3
Automatic Writing, 43 n. 1
Automatisms, meaning of, 42
Automatists, 57-8, 158-62
Australasia, 309
Australian Government, 154
Austria, 325
Austrian researchers, 315
Autoscope, the ,245
Aveling, Francis Arthur Powell, 64
‘Bach5
, a spirit, 147
Bacon, William, 325
Baerwald, Richard, 314
Baggally, W. W., 59, 76, 312
Bagger, E. S., 42
Bailey, Charles, 29-30, 59, 5971.2,201,
201 n. 2
Balfour, Arthur James, 49
Balfour, Gerald William, 51, 58 n. 1
Balfour, Lord, 50
Bangs, Lizzie and May, 36, 36 n. 1, 2
Bangs Sisters’ Manifesto, 36 n. 2
Banks, T. E., 262
Baquet, description of, 13
Baraduc, Hippolyte, 313
Barber’s Bridge, Australia, 155
Barklay, Mile Berthe, 87
Barlow, Frederick John, 192-3
Barrett, Sir William Fletcher, 23-4,
45»48- 9* 55- 6, 65,147,164,
166, i66n, 2,167,245,291,305-6,
311, 317, 324
Barron, H. D., 19 n.2, 21 n. 1
Bastian, Harry, 23, 195
Bath and Wells, Bishop of, 273
Bavaria, Germany, 92
Baylis, Mrs. A. Batten, 201
Beare, Charles Albert, 206-7
Beauchamp, Miss, 163, 312
Beauvais, France, 151
Bechterew, W., 316
Behind the Scenes with the Mediums,
37 n. 3, 287
Belfast, Ireland, 82
Belgrade University, Yugoslavia, 65
Bell & Howell, 321
362
Bell, F. N. C., 29 n. 8
Bender, Hans, 66, 71, 315
Benedict, Francis Gano, 325
Bennett, Edward T., 49
Bennett, Sir Ernest Nathaniel, 5°>
124, 227, 269
c
B6raud, Marthe’ (see Eva C.)
Bergson, Henri Louis, 51, 275, 3*4
Berlin, Germany, 12, 171, 221, 235*
263, 325
Berliner Illustrierte Zeitung, 27 n. 3,
202 n. 3
Berlin University, Germany, 72
Bernhard, R. E. (junior), 67 n. 2
Bertrand, Alexandre, 16
Bessinet, Ada, 90, 191
Betrug des Mediums Ladislaus Laszlo,
202 n. 5
Beware Familiar Spirits, 183, 208, 224
Bey, Rahmen, 238-9
Beyond Human Personality, 158 n. 4
Bianchi, P. B., 315
‘Bien Boa5
, a spirit, B6, 87 n. 1
Bien Boa. The Hypothesis of the Artist
G. von Max, 87 n. 1
‘Big Ben5clock, Westminster, 267
Bigham, Mr. Justice, 224
Billet-reading, meaning of, 40, 40 n. 2
Binet, Alfred, 313
Biography o f Elisha Kent Kane, 21 n. 1
Biometer, the, 313
Bird, James Malcolm, 29 n. 2, 33 n. 4,
111-2, 244 n. 1, 284, 312
Birkett, Norman, 230
‘Birthday Party5
, (B.B.C.), 268
Bishop, Claude, 324
Bisson, Juliette Alexandre, 26, 60, 87,
87 n. 6
Blackburn, Douglas, 40, 168-9,
169 n. 2, 173, 206 n. 1
Blake, Mrs. Elizabeth, 39
Blavatsky, Helena Petrovna, 56,
56 n. 1, 196, 286
Bleuler, Eugen, 316, 325
Blondlot, Prof., 313
Bloom, Sol, 219
Blooming Grove, New York State, 17
Bloomsbury, London, 63, 318
‘Blossoms’, picture, 193
‘Blue Room5
, phenomena in the, 81
Blue Room, The, 82 n. 1
Bodleian Library, Oxford, 281
Bohn, Erich, 29 n. 6, 314
Boirac, Emil, 313
Bolton, Gambier, 30 n. 3
Bond, Frederick Bligh, 68, 15B, 162,
286, 311
Bond Street, London, 146
Bonn Psychologisches Institut, Ger­
many, 71
I N D E X 3 6 3
Bonn University, Germany, 66, 71,
249
Book-tests, 58
Borderland, 310
Borley Rectory, Suffolk, 35, s>6g,
297 2, 3, 301
Boston, Mass., U.S.A., 39 n. 3, 56, 60,
no, 147, 192, 311, 325* 345
Boston Herald, 200 n. 3
Boston Society forPsychical Research,
68w.x, 70, idi, 101 n. 4, 175, 312,
345-6
Boston Transcript, 1137*. 1
Bottazzi, Philippe, 315
Bottom Facts, 29 w
. 1, 36 w
. 3, 37 n. 3,
200 «. 4, 287
Bould, H. A., 255, 257, 260
Bourne, Geoffrey, 177
Boursnell, Richard, 23, 35, 193
Bousfield, William Robert, 311, 324
Bow Street Police Court, London, 200
Bozzano, Ernesto, 315
Bradlaugh, Charles, 24
Bradley, Herbert Daniel (Dennis), 38,
38 n. 1, 2, 51, 54, 198-9, 199 n, 2,
201, 310
Bradshaw's Phrase-Book, ig8
Braintree, Essex, 160
Brandon, Roy, 194 n. 2
Braunau-am-Inn, Austria, 92-4,
98-103, 105-6, 324
Brazier, Dr., 262
Breezes, psychic, 34
Breicha, Frl. Steffi, 324
Breslau, Germany, 30
Brewster, Sir David, 23
‘Bride of the Revelation’, 287
Brightman, F. E., 65
Brighton, Sussex, 168
BrUliant Phenomena in the Home o f the
Schneiders, 99 n.i
British Association, 65
British Broadcasting Company, 58,
264-5
British Broadcasting Corporation,
256, 2G5-74, 267 n. 2, 274 n. 1,
289, 297
British College of Psychic Science,
310, 345
British Journal o f Psychical Research,
125 n. 1, 325
British Journal o f Psychology, 346
British Movietonews, Ltd , 325
‘British Mrs. Piper’, the, 149-51
British National Association of
Spiritualists, 48
Britt, Steuart Henderson, 180, 184
Brixton, haunted house at, x
Brixton, London, 296
Brixton Causeway, London, 9
Broad, Charlie Dunbar, 51, 275* 299,
311
Broadcasting and the occult, 263-74
Broadcasting Experiment in Mass Tele­
pathy, 59 w
. 1, 266 n. 1, 267 n. 1
Broch, Judge Trampe, 233
Brofferio, Angelo, 315
Brown, Guy Burniston, 64, i o j , 254»
256, 262 n. 2, 325
Brown, William, 46 n. 5, 103, 107,
196, 275, 311, 325
Browne, Walter Raleigh, 49
Brugmans, Henri J. F. W., 65, 172,
316
Bubble, soap, phenomenon in, 124
Bubbles, soap, how made, 124 «• 1
Buenos Aires, S. America, 325
Buffalo University, U.S.A., 20-1
Buguet, Edouard, 35, 192-3
Bullock, Mrs., 32
Bullock, P. W., 226
Burnaby, Walter, 226-9
Burr, Chauncey, 21
Burrows, Arthur R., 264
Burt, Cyril Lodowic, 64, 262, 275, 324
Burt, Mrs. Cyril, 262
Busse, Hans H., 29 n. 6
Bussum, Holland, 161
Bux, Kuda, 250-3, 259, 261-2
Buxton, Derbyshire, 166
Byrne, Mr. Justice, 223
‘Caesar, Julius,’ a spirit, 199
Calder, Alexander, 49
Cambridge, England, 64, 75, 167,190,
899. 346
Cambridge Instrument Co,, Ltd., 253,
253 «* ij 254 ». 1,259
Cambridge University, 72, 181, 299
Camps, American spiritualist, 71
Can Telepathy be Proved?, 185 n, 4
Canada, 56, 154
Canberra, Australia, 40, 154-5
Cannock, Mrs., 324
Canterbury, Archbishop of, 373,
273 w- 3
Cantilever theory of psychic levita­
tion, 82
Caution, Mrs. Claire, 226-9, 324
Capron, E. W., 19 n. 2, 21 n. 1
Carancini, Francesco, 61, 243
Cardiff, Wales, 50, 272
Carington, W. Whately, 247-8,
248 n. 2
‘Carlotta’, a spirit, 85
Carmen, Villa, Algiers, 86-7
Carnegie, Mrs., 324
Carolina, North, U.S.A., 69
Carpenter, Boyd, 51
Carpenter, C. R-, 71
I N D E X
Carpenter, William Benjamin, 23,
278, 308
Carrel, Alexis, 312-13
C[arriere], Eva (see Eva C.)
Carrington, Hereward, 28 n. 6, 36,
41 n. i t 55, 59, 76, m -12,
245 n. 1, 247, 312
Carshalton, Surrey, 238, 250, 252, 256
Case For and Against Psychical Belief,
65 n. 1, 67 n. 3, 68-9
Case o f M r. Moss and Mr. Mannings,
199 *-3
Case o f Patience Worth, The, 162 n. 2,
312 5
Catacombs, Rome, Italy, 324
Causes cSlebres, some, 223-34
Cavendish, H. S. H., 223
Cawnpore, India, 252
Cazzamalli, Ferdinando, 33, 33 n, 3,
315-16, 325
Cenotaph, London, ‘spirits’ round
the, 35, 193
Census of Hallucinations, 57
Chambers, Robert, 23
Chapman, a medium, 206
Chapman, Clive, 81-2
Character and Personality, 70 n. 4,
17671. 1, 346
Charge of Fraud, A, 194 n. 2
‘Charlie,’ a spirit, 81
Charlottenburg, Berlin, 235, 314
Chateau Frontenac Hotel, Quebec,
Canada, 154
Cheapside, London, 327
‘Ghenoweth, Mrs.’, 148
Cheshire, England, 220
Chesney, A. I., 255
Chester, England, 214
Chesterfield Camp, U.S.A., 71
Chiaia, Ercole, 74, 315
Chicago, U.S.A.,69, 208, 263
Chicago University, U.S.A., 69
‘Chlorine’, a spirit, 147
Christian's Robe by Faith, 287
Christine, Rue, Ostend, 203-5, 323
Chronicles of Crime, 9 n. 2
‘Chung Ling Soo*, 37 n. 1, 201
Churchill, Charles, 11 n. 1
Church House, Westminster, 42
Cinematography and Psychical Re­
search, 236-9, 262, 321
Cipriani, Lidio, 315, 325
‘Cissie,’ a spirit, 195
City Temple, London, 46
Clairaudience, meaning of, 39
Clairvoyance and Materialisation, 89 n. 3
Clairvoyance and Thoughtography, 317n. 4
Clairvoyance, meaning of, 39
Clark University, Worcester, Mass.,
65.67-9
364
Clark University symposium, 68-9
Cock Lane and Common Sense, 310
Cock Lane ghost, 10-11, 14, 18, 20,
22, 37, 310
Cocke, a medium, 147
Codes, possibility of, in E.S.P.,
187-9
Coffin, W. H., 49
Colgate University, Madison, N.Y.,
U.S.A., 181
GoJley, Thomas, 196, 224-5, 3°8
Collier, William, 262
Colline, Galloway, 6
Collusion and E.S.P., 188-9
Columbia Law Review, 234 n. 1
Columbia University, N.Y., U.S.A.,
67, 70-1, 185 72. 3, 263
Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A., 181 72. 4
Coming o f the Fairies, 309 n. 4
Commission on Spiritualism, Arch­
bishop of Canterbury’s, 273
Common Council of the City of Lon­
don, 340
Como, Italy, 315
Company of Avalon, The, 162
Complete Anglo-Italian Phrase-Book, 198
Compte Rendu Ojjiciel du Pnmier Congrls,
65 72. 4
Comstock, Daniel Frost, 11 r-12
Concerning the Cleophas Scripts, 158 7
2
. 3
Confirence sur le Moderne Spiritualisme,
8771. 1
Confessions, mediums’, 205-7
Confessions o f a Bogus Medium, 206
Confessions o f a Famous Medium, 206 n. 1
Confessions o f a Ghost-Hunter, 13 n. 2,
32 n. I, 35 7
z. 1, 40 72.1, 45 n. 4,
238 7
2
. 3, 249 7
2
. 3, 2687
2
. I, 2967
2
. I,
321 7
2
. I, 325
Confessions of a Medium, 206
Confessions o f a ‘ Telepathist', 168 n. 3
Confessions of the Fox sisters, 21,
21 7
2
. 1
Congress of Psychical Research, First
International, 65
Congress ofPsychical Research, Third
International, 128
Conjuring and E.S.P., 184 n. 2, 188-9
Conjuror, The, 234 Ji. 1
Contact with the Other World, 312
Contribution to Experimental Telepathy,
68 7
2
. 1
Controlling a medium, 240-6
Convincing Phenomena at Munich, 28 7
2
. 5,
60 n. 3, 96 7
2
. 1
Conway, Lady, 305
Cook, Florrie, 23, 26, 65, 130, 190-1,
*35. 239. 278, *85, 307-8, 315,
Coo^ Katie, 285
I N D E X 365
Cooper, Mrs. Blanche, 156-7, 156 n. 2
I Coover, John Edgar, 67 n. 1, 68, 172,
312
Copenhagen, Denmark, 37, 66, 72,
77-8> 198, 196 n. 1, 316,
334-5
Copenhagen University, 72
Coquelin atni, 31
Corner, Mrs. Florence Cook, 315 n. 1
Cosmopolitan Magazine, 70
Coulomb, Mme E., 56, 56 n. 1, 286
Court of Quarter Sessions, Eng., 336
, Courtier, Jules, 75 n. 2
Coventry, C. B., 20
, Cox, Serjeant, 48, 195
1 Coxe, Francis, 327
Craddock, Frederick G. Fisher, 61,
, 195, 195*-4
Craigie, John, 255, 260
Crandon, Le Roy Goddard, 68,
110-13,118,245
Crandon, Mrs. L. R. G. (See
'Margery'.)
C[ranshaw], Miss Stella. (See
Stella C.)
i Crawford, WilliamJackson, 82-3, 245,
I 245 n. 2, 285, 310-11
|Creery, A. M., 166
ICreery, the Misses, 40, 166-7
1Crichton-Browne, Sir James, 168
i Cridland, Dr., 256
i ‘Crippen', a spirit, 199
|Critical Analysis o fExperiments in E.S.P*,
180 n. 2
ICriticisms of E.S.P., 179-83
Cromwell, Oliver, 215
jCrookes, Sir William, 21, 23, 26,
26 n. 1, 28 n. 3, 49-50, 65, 126,
! *90, 235, 235 n. 1, 239,
! 23911. 2, 278, 291, 307-8, 317
,Cross-correspondence, 57
!Crowden, Guy Pascoe, 262
Crumbaugh, James C., 181
1Crystal gazing, meaning of, 44
,Culpin, Millais, 262, 325
]Culver, Mrs, Norman, 21
‘Cumberland, Stuart’, (i.e. Garner,
Charles), 45, 45 n. 3
,Cummins, Harold, 116-17
!Cummins, Miss Geraldine, 158-9
■Curnock, J. Edgley, 262
jCurran, Mrs. John Howard, 162, 312
Curran, Patience Worth, 162
'Czechoslovakia, 221, 325
Czernowitz, Rumania, 81
Czestochowa, Poland, 31
D’Albe, E. E. Fournier, 29 n. 3, 83,
310
D'Arsonval, Professor, 24, 325
D’Eslon, M., 12-15
‘D’EspSrance, Madame' (i.e. Hope,
Elizabeth), 23, 27, 29, 90, 195,
316
Daemonologie, in Forme o f a Dialogue,
216 n. 6
Dahl, Fru, 232-3
Dahl, Ingeborg, 231-3, 324
Dahl, Judge Ludvig, 231-3, 232 n. 1
Dahl, Ludvig (junior), 232
Dahl, Ragnar, 232
Daily Advertiser, Boston, Mass., 311
Daily Express, London, 195 n. 4,
198 n. 1, 199 n. 2, 207, 207 n. 1,
225, 317 5
Daily M ail, London, 43, 121-2, 126,
. I55> i63 L 192, 194 n. 4,
197 3» 229-31, 234 n. 1, 298
Daily Mirror, London, 199 n. 4
Daily News, London, 84 n. 1, 99-100,
168 n. 3
Daily Sketch, London, 193, 193 n. 3
Daily Telegraph, London, 197 n. 1, 225
Daily Telegraph and Morning Post,
London, 268 n. 4
Dallas University, Texas, U.S.A., 181
Dangerous Comer, 285 n. 1
Davenport brothers, I. E. and
W. H. H., 23, 204, 313
Davenport, Reuben Briggs, 21 n. 1
Davey, S. J., 52, 52 n. 1
Davis, Andrew Jackson, 17, 17 n. 2,
j8-ig, 23, 275
Davis, Gordon, 156-7
‘Davis, Gordon’, alleged spirit, 157
Day, Harry, 228
De Brath, Stanley, 310
D e ITnconscient au Consdent, 26 n. 4
De Loutherbourg, Mr. and Mrs.,
46 n. 4
D e Planetarum Influxu, 12
D e Spectris, 5
Deane, Mrs. Ada Emma, 35, 193
Dearden, Harold, 202
Death, 317
Death-Blow to Spiritualism, 21 n. I
Debar, Ann O’Delia Diss, 224
Decker, Frank, 324
Deland, Margaret, 68
Delanne, Gabriel, 86, 313
Deller, Sir Edwin, 63, 72
Delphi, Greece, 327
Delusion o f Modem Spiritualism, The,
21 n. 1
Dennis, Miss Gene, 268, 324
Dessoir, Max, 171, 173, 315
Detailed Account o f M y Siance with Rudi,
101 n. 5
Deux-Th6bes, Madame, 218
Devant, David, 309
I N D E X
Dewar, Lord, 199
Diagnosis and Surgical Treatment of
Esophageal Diverticula,, 196 n. 3
Dialectical Society of London, 24, 308
‘Dick’, a dog, 147
Dick Sheppard Spirit Mission, 273
Dietz, P. A., 66, 316
Difficulties in E.S.P. technique, 186-9
Dingwall, Eric John, 26, 37 n. 3, 41,
60, 60 n. 1, 61, 87, 87 n. 5, 95-6,
ioo-i, 112-13, 123, 206, 206 n. 3,
259, 287 n. 2, 311, 325
‘Direct voice*, controlling the, 243-5
‘Direct voice*, explanation of, 38
‘Direct writing*, explanation of, 38
Discoverie o f Witchcraft, 327 n. 1
Dissociation o f a Personality, 163 n. 2,
312 n. 3
District of Columbia, U.S.A., 218, 220
Divining, meaning of, 44
Divining Rod, The, 45 n. 2
Dodds, Eric Robertson, 325
Dodona, Greece, 327
‘Dolores’, a medium, 324
Donovan, a medium, 206, 212
Doris Case of Multiple Personality,
163 n. 3
‘Doris’ personalities, 163-4
Douglas, Claude Gordon, 108
Dowden, Mrs. Hester, 158-61, 159 n. 1
Dowsing, meaning of, 44
‘Doyle, Conan’, a spirit, 70 n. 3, 153,
Doyle^Lady Conan, 230
Doyle, Sir Arthur Conan, 41, 41 n. 1,
5L 53“4
> 68, 70 n. 3, 112, 153,
I97j 217, 227, 229, 271, 286,
308-9, 309 n. 5
Drama o f Life After Death, 71 n. 1
Drawings, spirit, alleged, 36
Dreaming the future, 283-5
Dreams, instances of fulfilled, 45-6
Drew, Douglas, 324
Dribbell, Alex. L., 252
Dribbell, Mrs. Grace, 160-1
Driesch, Hans, 27 n. 1, 51, 68-9, 315,
324
Driver, T. W., 21 n. 1
Dr. Richardson’s Voice-Control Machine,
244 n. 1
‘Drummer of Tedworth*, 305
Du Magnitisme Animal en France, 16, n. 2
Du Prel, Carl, 23, 315
Dudley, E. E., 116, 129
Duesler, William, 19-20
Duguid, David, 23, 35-6, 38
Duke University, N. Carolina, U.S.A.,
69,117, 175-7, 180-1,183-4,188,
346
Duke University Press, U.S.A., 71
3 6 6
Dukes, Cuthbert Esquire, 177
Dumas, Georges, 87
Dumke, alleged thief, 222
Duncan, Mrs. Helen Victoria,
27 n. 4, 192, 196, 239, 308, 32
Dunedin, N.Z., 81
Dunne, John William, 46, 281-5, 3
Dunne, Laurence Rivers, 197
Dunraven, Earl of, 30, 276, 276 n.
277
Durham, Bishop of, 48
Durville, Andre, 243 n. 1
Dutton, Cheshire, 214
Dutton, John, 214
Dyer, Herbert, 324
Dynamistograph, the, 245
‘E., L. A.*, 180
Ear of Dionysius, 58, 58 m. i
Early Days o f the Willy Schnei
Mediumship, 92 n. 1
Early London charlatans, 327
Eaton, O. V., 66 n. 3
Ecclesiastical Commissioners, En
297
Ectoplasmie et la Clairvoyance, 89
Eden, F. van, 164
Edgar Chapel, Glastonbury, Som
set, 162, 286
Edgware Police Courl, Londi
195 n. 4
Edgware Road, London, 323
Edinburgh, Scotland, 27, 197
Edward VI (of England), 216 n. 3
Efron, David, 325
Eglinton, William, 33, 27, 27 n. 9, ;
5I-2»59* 196,285, 308, 316
Eiffel Tower, Paris, 274
Einblicke in den Spiritismus, 195 n. 2
Elberfeld horses, 317
Elder, William, 21 n. 1
Eldred, Charles, 61, 194, 195 n
< 1
‘Electric chair’ control, 101
Electrical control ofa medium, 101-
240-2
Elizabeth, Queen (of England), 21
213 n. 3, 215-16, 216 n. 4
Elliot, O. H., 66 n. 3
Elliotson, John, 16 n. 1, 23, 27G
Elongation, examples of alleged, 30
Emanation der psycho-physischen Energ
172 n, 4
Emanations, human, 32, 298-9
Emergent theory, the, 299
Emitron camera, 258
Empire broadcast, 131 n. 2
Encyclopaedia Britannica, 310
Encyclopedia of Pscyhic Science, 24 n.
55 n*
Energy transformation at Siances, 129 n
I N D E X
Energy, transforming of, at seances,
126-8, 295
England, 252, 316-17, 339
English-Italian Dictionary, 199
English, Professor, 263
Ermacora, Giovanni Battista, 315
Ernst, Bernard M. L., 41 n. 1
Erto, Pasquale, 33-4, 34 n. 2, 243,
314-15, 324
Esophageal diverticula as ‘psychic’
hiding-places, 196-7
E.S.P. (see extra-sensory perception).
E SP Card Imperfections, 185
E SP Miracle, 184 n. 2
E SP Symposium at the A .P .A ., 181 n. 4
Essex, England, 289
Estabrooks, G. H., 68, 68 n. 1
Europe, 316
Europe, Northern, 309
Eusapia Palladino and her Phenomena,
28 n. 6, 312 n. 6
Eva C., 26, 26 n. 6, 59, 86-8, 87 n. 5,
285, 314
Evans, Colin, igg
Evans, Fred. P., 36, 36 n. 5, 308
Evans, Harold, 202, 324
Evening News, London, 218 ft. 1
Evens, Mrs. V. B., 197
Everitt, Mrs. T., 38
Evidence and Psychic Phenomena, 231
Examination into Physiological Changes,
177 ft. 3
Examination o f Book-Tests, An, 150 n. 3
Experience in the Occult, An, g5 ft. 1
Experiences in Spiritualism: a Record o f
Extraordinary Phenomena, 30 n. 4
Experiences in Spiritualism with Mr. D . D .
Home, 28 ft. 3, 30, 275, 277, 277
n. 1
Experiment in ‘Clairvoyance* with M .
Stefan Ossowiecki, 172 ft. 5
Experiment with Time, An 46, 46 ft. 3,
283-5, 311
Experimental Inquiries into Telekinesis,
28 n. 8, 78 ft. 1, 316 ft. 3
Experimental Investigation, 52 ft. 1
Experimental Telepathy and Clairvoyance
in England, 169 ft. 1, 171 ft. 1, 172,
172 ft. 5
Experimente mit Rafael Schermann, 42 ft. 1
Experiments in human gait, 259-60
Experiments in Psychical Research at Ley-
land Stanford, 67 ft. 1, 172 ft. 3
Experiments in Psychical Science, 82 ft. 2
Experiments in Supernormal Perception,
267 ft. 2
Experiments in Thought-Transference,
168 n. 4
Experiments with Physical Mediums in
Europe, 101 ft. 4
Explanation and History o f the Mysterious
Communion with Spirits, ig ft. 2,
21 ft. 1
Exploding the Southcott Myth, 287 ft. 6
Exposure of M r. Eldred, 195 ft. 1
Exposure of Theosophical Oracles’,
56
Exposures o f M r. Craddock, 195 ft. 4
Extra-sensory perception, 39-40,
145-89
Extra-Sensory Perception, 39, 70 ft, I,
175, 180-1
Extra-sensory perception by radio,
263-8
Faber & Faber, 283 n. 2
Faculty of Medicine, Paris, 12-13
Fairlamb, Miss Annie, 195, 306
Falcomer, Marco TulliD, 315
Falconer, Craig and George R., 35,
193
Fall Rathe, Der, 29 ft. 6
Famous Schneider Mediumship, 101 n. i,
2, 3
Far East, 317
Faraday, Michael, 23
Farmer, John S., 27 «. 9
Farrington & Co., 206 n. 2
‘Father of Metapsychics’, 313
Favre, Louis, 313
Fay, Anna Eva, 23
‘Feda5
, a spirit, 149-50, 248
Feilding, Everard, 59, 76, 124, 165,
311-12
Feilding, Mrs. Everard. (See
Tomczyk, Stanislawa.)
Fifty Sealed Message Reading Methods,
40 ft. 3
Finger-prints easily forged, 116-17
Finger-prints technique, alleged spirit,
H4“ I7
Fire-walking experiments, 238,
250-62, 251 n. 1, 261 ft. 2, 262 n. 2
First Report on Thought-Reading, 166,
166 ft. 3
‘Fischer, Doris*, a personality, 163,
312
Fischer, Oskar, 42
Fish, Mrs. Leah, 20-1
Fisher, Ronald Aylmer, 174, 248
Fisk, George W., 178
FitzGerald, D. G., 49
Flammarion, Camille, 24, 51, 193,
286, 313
Flint, Austin, 20
‘Florence*, a spirit, 195
Florence, Italy, 170, 325
Florence University, 315
Florida State College for Women,
U.S.A., 181
3 6 7
I N D E X
Flournoy, Theodor, 23, 76, 157, 316
‘ Flower Medium's*Confession, 29 n. 8
Flugel, John Carl, 64, 185, 196, 259,
275>325,
Flugel, Mrs. J. C., 262
Fodor, Nandor, 24 n. 1, 30 n. 1, 55,
201 n. 3, 4
Foissac, P., 16
Fontenay, Guillaume de, 85, 313
Fore-control of a medium, 246
Forschungsstelle fur psychologische
Grenzwissenschaften, 71
Fortin, Abb6, 245
Fortune Teller, The, 234/1. 1
Fortune-Tellers and the Law, 234 n} 1
Fortune-Telling (Bill against), 219/2. 1,
220 n. I
Fortune Theatre, London, 229-30
Foster, Frank N., 206, 212
Fotografie di Fantasmi, 85 n. x, 3x5 n. 2
‘Fourth dimension’ theory, 202
Fowler, Richard, 9
Fowler, Sarah, 9
Fox, John D., 17, 19
Fox sisters, Margaret and Katie,
9-i ia25, 34,37, 120, 190
Fox- Taylor Automatic Writing, 21 n. 1
France, 325
France, spiritualism in, 217
Frangois-Gillet, Jean, collection, 13
n. 1
Franklin, Benjamin, 13
‘Franklin, Benjamin’, a spirit, 25
Fraser-Harris, David Fraser, 107, 196,
325
Fredrikstad, Norway, 231, 324
French, Mrs. Emily, 38
French Revolution, 16, 280
French scepticism, 313-14
Frodsham, C. & Co., Ltd., 254
From the Unconscious to the Conscious,
26 ». 4
Fronczek, Janusz, 60
Fukurai, T., 317
Fulton, Eustace Cecil, 226
3 6 8
‘Gabriel’, a spirit, 223
Gaillard, Joanny, 32
Galen, Claudius, spirit of, 17
Galloway, Poltergeist phenomena in,
6—
8
Gambols with the Ghostst 208-12
Gardner (surgeon), 9
Garner, Charles . (See ‘Cumberland,
Stuart’.)
Garrett, Mrs. Eileen, 70, 151—
3,
176-7, 176 n. 3, 179, 247, 298,
324
Gate of Remembrance, The, 162, 286,
311 n. I
Gault, Professor, 263
Gazzera, Linda, 85, 314-15
Gefalschte Wunder, 202
Geisterschriften tendDrohbriefe, 29 n. 6
Geley, Gustave, 26, 34, 34 n. 2, 41 n. 4
60, 87-9D, 314
Gemeinfassliche, Leicht Controhrbare
Losung derAufgabe, 203 n. 1
Geneva University, Switzerland, 316
Genii, 181 n.2
Genoa, Italy, 315
‘Geordie’, a spirit, 195
George II (of England), 216
George IV (ofEngland), 215 n. 2, 217
George VI (of England), 213
George, R. W., 70
George Washington University,
Washington, D.G., U.S.A., 180
Georgi, Alex., 326 n. 1
Gerling, Reinhard., 43 n. 3
German Government and psychica
research, 71-2
German parapsychology, 314-15
Germany, 36, 2x7, 3x5
Germany, suppression of spiritualisn
in, 217
Ghost Club, London, 187, 187 n. 1
Ghost Society. Cambridge, 48
Ghost that Stumbled, 296 n. 1
Ghostly Fingers, 268
Gibbs, Reginald E., 262
Gibbs, W. E., 107, 323
Gibier, Paul, 24, 313
Gifford, Vice-Chancellor, 223
Glanvill, Joseph, 305, 305 n. t
Glasgow, 65, 181 1
Glastonbury Abbey, Somerset, 311 j
Glastonbury, Somerset, 162, 286, 311!
Glimpses of the Next State, 193/1. 1
Gloves, alleged spirit, 88-9
Glycon-Asclcpius, snake god, 211 !
Golding, Mrs. Mary, 8-9
Goldney, Mrs. Alfred Peel [K. M.],
106, 177, 177 n. 2, 179, 196, I99i
247
Goldsmith, Oliver, 10, 20
Goligher Circle, The, 83 n. 2, 3x0 n. 5
Goligher, Kathleen, 29, 29 n. 3, 82~3S
82 n. 2, 83 n. 2, 236, 285, 310-11
Gottingen, Germany, 325
Gottingen University, Germany, 72
Goulbura, Australia, 155
Gow, David, 124
Gowland, W. P., 81
‘Grace’, a spirit, 81
Gradenwitz, Alfred, 246 n. 1
Graz, Austria, 83-4, 324-5
Great Britain, 321, 332, 342
‘Great Planchette Case’. 223
Great Days o f Ephesus, 158 n. 4
I N D E X 369
Greater World, The, 194
‘Greatest mental medium9
, 147-9
Greatrakes, Valentine, 305
Greece, 327
Greenslet, Ferris, 305
Greenwich, London, 267
Greenwich Police Court, London,
197
Greer, Lord Justice, 231
Gregory, C. C. L., 125
Gregory, Lady, 262
Gregory, Sir Richard Arman, 262,
324
Gregson, W. H., 269
Grenoble, France, 201
Groningen University, 65, 172, 316
Grover, Mrs. Elizabeth, 197
Gruber, Karl, 99, 129, 314, 325
Grunewald, Fritz, 78, 235-6, 314
Guitars, self-playing, 210
Gulat-Wellenburg, Walter von, 847
2
. 1,
^ 315
Gunn, J. Alexander, 107, 325
Gunn, James Andrew, 262
Gunther-Gcffers, Frau Elsa, 221-2,
222 n. 1
Guppy, Mrs. Samuel, 29-31, 285, 308
Gurney, Edmund, 23, 48-9, 55, 57-8,
166-7, 167 n. 5, 174 n. 1, 278,
305-6
Guthrie, Malcolm, 173
Guzik, Jean, 28, 28 n. 1, 34, 90, 203,
203 n. 3, 314, 324
Hack, Mrs. G. Kelley, 29 n. 7, 53 n. 1
Hadfield, James Arthur, 275
Hall, Innsbruck, Austria, 296
Hall, Stanley, 247
Hamburg, Germany, 324
Hameln-am-Wcscr, Germany, 165
Hamlet, 5
Handbookfor Testing E .S .P ., 1847?. t
Hanko, Norway, 231-2
Hannesson, Gudmundur, 85, 316
‘ Hanusscn, ErikJan*, 221
Harley Street, London, 12, 290
Harms, Dr., 221
Harper & Brothers, 69 7
2
. 1
Harris, Mrs. Susannah, 199, 324
Harrison, Mrs. Dorothy, 226-7
Harrow School, England, 170
Harry Price Library of Magical
Literature, vii. 13 n. 1, 117* I®9
7
2
. i, 18872. t, 194n. 1,21372.4,288
«. I, 323 7
2
. I, J45
Hartman, Leonard, J., 197
Hartmann, Edward von, 315
Harvard Law Review, 234 7t. 1
Harvard University, Mass., U.S.A.,
67-8, no, 311
Haslinger, Franz, 84, 315, 325
Hastings, Mrs. Beatrice, 324
Hastings, Sir Patrick, 226
Haunted house broadcast, 269-70
Haunted Mayfair, 297 n. 1
Hayden, Mrs. W. R., 23
Healing mediums, 32
Heath, Royal Vale, 184/7. 2
Hellberg, Mauritz, 218
Hellenbach, Baron Karl von, 24
Helmont, Van, 305
Helsingfors, Finland, 195
Henderson, Mrs. Dorothy, 324
Henlein, Professor, 181
Henry, Thomas Shekleton, 27 n. 8,
195* 195"- 5
Henry VII (of England), 216/2. 1
Henry VIII (ofEngland), 213,21377.1
‘Henry VIIF, a spirit, 199
Henry Sidgwick, A Memoir, 307 n. 1
Herne, Frank, 30, 195, 307
Heron-Allen, Edward, 324
Hertzman, Max, 180 72. 2
Heuz6, Paul, 87
Hewart, Lord, 217
Hewitt, E. P., 234
Heymans, Gerardus, 172, 316
Highbury, London, 31
Hildebrand, Professor, g9, 325
Hill, John Arthur, 192
H ill of Vision, The, 162
Hill, Sir Leonard Erskine, 261
History o f a Strange Case, 39 n. 2
History of a Thousand Pound Challenge,
225 n. 3
History o f George Valiantine, 199 72. 2
History o f the A .P .I., 248 n. 1
Hitler, Adolf, 92
Hodgson Fellowship, Harvard Uni­
versity, 67
Hodgson, Richard, 23* 52, 55~7* 67,
75, 147, 164, 196, 286, 308, 311
‘Hodgson, Richard9
, a spirit, 147
Hocrnle, R. F. Alfred, 325
Hofsten, Nils von, 103, 325
Holland, 161, 316, 325
‘Holland, Mrs9
, 158, 158 72. 1
Hollywood, Cal., U.S.A., 268
Holmes, Clive, 197
Holub, Dr. and Frau E., 97
Home, Daniel Dunglas, 23, 28,28 72.3,
30-1, 33* 35-6, 6*, no, 311, 223,
235* 276-8, 307-8, 316
Home Office, London, 217, 229
Home Secretary, British, a17, 228-9
Homme doud de connaissance paranormale,
41 n. 2
Hope, Elizabeth. (See ‘d’EspSrance,
Madame’.)
Hope, Lord Charles, 125 7
2
. 1
2 B
37o I N D E X
Hope, William, 35, 60, no, 192-3,
198,249,308,317,324
Hopkins, Matthew, 305
Hopkinson, Alfred, 167
Horder, Sir Thomas Jeeves, 192 n. 1
Horizons o f Immortality, 43 n. 2
Horos, Swami Laura, 224
Horos, Theodore, 224
‘Houdini, Harry’, 41, 41 n. 1, 68-9,
111—
12, 112 n. 1, 218-20
Houdini and Conan Doyle, 41 n. 1
Houdini and fortune-telling, 218-20
Houdini Exposes the Tricks Used by the
Boston Medium6
Margery*, 112 n. 1
House of Lords, 231
House of Russian Culture, Belgrade,
Yugoslavia, 65
Howitt, William, 23
How the Mediums iBrought Back5 Sir
Conan Doyle*s Dead Mother, 197/1. 7
Huddersfield, Yorks., 195, 225
Hudson River, N.Y., 17
Hull, Burling, 40 n. 3
Hullo Gemini/, 268 n. 4
Human Atmosphere, The, 33 n. 2, 310 n. 3
Human emanations, testing, 245
Human Personality, 55, 55 n. 4, 279,
279 n. 1, 306
Hungary, 325
Hunt, E. H., 262
Hunter College, U.S.A., 185 n. 3
Husk, Cecil, 23, 30, 38, go, 203
Hussain, Ahmed, 252-60, 262
Huth, G., 30
Huxley, Aldous Leonard, 107
Huxley, Julian Sorell, 107, 124-5,
202, 311, 324
Huxley, Thomas Henry, 317
Hyde Park, London, 44
HydesvBle, N.Y., 18
Hyeres, lies d*, France, 75
Hyperaesthesia, meaning of, 45
Hypnotism, meaning o£ 40
Hyslop, James Hervey, 56-7,147,191,
312
T Expose the Shams o f Spiritualism
201 «. 3
I Have Been Here Before, 285 n. 1
Iceland, 27, 85, 85 n. 3, 316
Icelandic Society for Psychical Re­
search, 316
Ideal Materialsfor Plastic Reproductions,
88 n. 1
Identification o f the 4Walter* Prints,
116 n. 1
lies d’Hy&res, France, 75
Imich, A., 31
Imoda. Enrico, 85, 315
Tmperator5
, a spirit, 147, 147/1. 1
‘Independent voice’, meaning of, 38
‘In Town To-night’ radio series, 268
Indes a la PlanUe Mars, 157, 316
India, 56, 250, 252
Indian Rope Trick, 238, 268
Indictment o f the . . . S.P.R ., 54 n. 2
Indridason, Indride, 85
Ineboli, Asia Minor, 211
Infra-red rays control of medium,
104-6
Inn, river, Austria, 92, id o
Innsbruck, Austria, 296
Inquiry into the Unknown, 269, 271
Insterburg, Prussia, 221-2
Inslitut General Psychologique, 75
Institut Metapsychique International,
88, 104, 236, 314-15, 345
Internationl Business Machines
Corporation, 182
International Institute for Psychical
Investigation, 345-6
International Institute for Psychical
Research, 27, 30 n. 1, 345
Intorno alia Medianitd di Mrs. Florence
Cook Corner, 315 n, 1
Introduction d la Metapsychique Humaine,
285. 3H
Irving, Mrs., 324
Irwin, H. C., 151-3, 298
‘Irwin, H. C.*, a spirit, 151-3
Is Psychical Research Worth While?, 69
1st Hellsehenmdglich?, 222 n. 1
Italian belief, 315
Italy, 218, 315, 325
Italy, fortune telling in, 218
Jacks, Lawrence Pearsall, 51
Jackson, Frank D., 224
Jackson, H. Gordon, 325
Jaeger, Oskar, 316, 325
Jahn, Ludwig, 221
James I ( of England), 216, 216 n. 5
James H . Hyslop, 312 n. 2
James, Henry, 311
James, Mrs. St. John, 323-4
James, William, 23,50,56,147-8,275,
311-12
Janet, Pierre, 313
Japan, fortune-telling in, 218
Jaschke*s dictionary, 199
Jastrow, Joseph, 68
Jencken, H. D., 21
Jephson, Miss Ina, 174, 174 n. 2
‘Jim*, a bank clerk, 135-44
Jinx, The, 188 n. 2
Joachim, Joseph, 43
Joad, Cyril Edwin Mitchinson, 44,
64, 103, 107, 262, 275, 282, 311,
3^5
Johann, Erzherzog, 195 n. 2
I N D E X 371
‘Johannes’, a spirit, 160-1
Johannesburg, S.A., 194, 325
John Bullt 168 n. 3, 206 n. 1
John Nevil Maskelyne as a Believer in the
Occult9 225 n. 4
John 0 *
London’s Weekly, 185, 185 n. 6,
186 n. 1
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore,
U.S.A., 70
Johnson, Miss Alice, 158/1. 1
Johnson, Miss Gertrude, 178
Johnson over Jordan, 285 n. 1
Johnson, Samuel, 10
Joire, Paul, 245, 313
Jones, Harold Spencer, 268
Jones, Sir Lawrence John, 51
Joseph Glanvill, 305 11. 1
Jourdain, Eleanor Frances., 279-83
Journal, Le, Paris, 274
Journal o f Abnormal Psychology, 312
Journal o f Parapsychology, 71, 178 n. 2,
181 n. 4, 185, 185 n. 3, 346
Journal o f the American Medical Ass.,
260 n. 1
Joynson-Hicks, Sir William ,228
Judd, Miss Pearl, 81-2
‘Julia’s Bureau’, 310
Jupiter, planet, 18
Jussieu, M. de, 13
Kahn, Ludwig, 41, 41 n. 2
Kane, Elisha Kent, 21
‘Karachi’, a fakir, 238
‘Kardec, Allen’, 313
Karl, Miguel, 27
Kasnacich, Professor, 221
‘Katie King’. (See ‘King, Katie9
.)
Keeler, P. L. O. A., 200, 308
Keeler, William M t, 194, 194 n. 3
Kellogg, Chester E., 180
Kelly, John, 41
Kelly, Sir Patrick Aloysius, 262
Kelly, William Thomas, 217
Kelvin, Lord, 304
Kennedy, John L,, 66 n. 4, 181
Kent, Mr., 10
Kent, Mrs. Fanny, id
K entucky, U.S.A., 224
Kern,Jerome, io n . 1
‘Kerr’ moulding wax, 114-17
‘Kerwin, Dr.’, 116
Kilncr, Walter J., 33, 33 «. 2, 310
‘King, John’, a spirit, 239
‘ King, Katie’, a spirit, 26, 130, 190,
*39>307
Kingstone, Mrs. Florence, 324
Kirps, llga, 66
Kiinckowstroem, Graf Carl von, 315
‘Kluski, Franek’, 27, 34, 88-90, 114,
3*4
Kniepf, Albert, 43 n. 3
Kober, Ingeborg (i.e. Dahl, Inge-
borg), 231-3
Kodak, Ltd., 236, 319
Kogelnik, Fritz, 92-4, 94 n. 1, 315
Konigsberg, Germany, 222, 222 n. 1
‘KootHoomi’, a Mahatma, 56, 286
Koran, The, 254
Korte, R. F., 165
Kotik, Naum, 172
Krall, Karl, 102, 314
Kraus, Clemens [or Karl], 27, 202,
24*—
2
Kraus, Josef. (See ‘Marion, Fred’.)
Kvaran, Einar Hjorleifsson, 316
Kymograph, the, 247
‘Lady’, mind-reading horse, 69
Lajos Pap Experiments, 30 n. 1
Lambert, Gabriel, 44, 44 n. 1, 324
Lambert, Richard Stanton, 132-3,
135, 262
Lamb’s Conduit Street, London, 31
Lamond, John, 309 n. 5
‘Lamont, Frances’, 279
Lang, Andrew, 23, 51, 310
Langenbruch, Wilhelm, 246
Lankester, Sir Edwin Ray, 23, 36, 200
Lapique, Louis, 87
Laplace, Mile Jeanne, 40, 153-6, 298,
324
‘Lasaruz, Dr.*, a spirit, 78
Laszlo, Ladislaus, 202, 202 n. 5
Lauaterus (i.e. Lavater), Lewes, 5 n. 1
Laugier, Henri, 87
Lavater, Ludvig, 5, 5 n. 1
Lavoisier, Antoine Laurent, 13
Law Journal, 229, 231
Lawrence, Mr. Justice, 231
Laws, Mrs. G. M., 324
Laws prohibiting spirit intercourse,
216
Lawton, George, 71, 71 n. 1
Leader, The, 201 n. 3, 4
Leaves From a Psychist’s Case-Book,
28 n. 10, 29 n. 4, 33 n. 1, 34 n. 2,
38 n. 3>39 »• L 1J5 L *53 L
2, 199 n. 1, 243 «. 2, 287 7
2
. 6, 325
Leclainche, E., 41
Lee, Blcwett, 234 7
2
. 1
Lee, Charles A., 20
Leiden, Holland, 316
Leiden University, Holland, 66
Leipzig, Germany, 202,246/1.1, 324-5
Lcitmeritz, Czechoslovakia, 221
Leitz, E., 322
Leland Stanford Junior University,
Cal., U.S.A., 66-7, 66 n. 3, 4,
67 /i. 1, 2,172,172 72. 3,181 *
‘Lcno, Dan’, a spirit, 199
372 I N D E X
Leonard, Mrs. Gladys Osborne,
149-51, 248, 308
Leroy, Olivier, 30 n. 6
Lescarboura, Austin C,, 198 n. 1
Leslie, Shane, 269
L’Estrange, Guy, 324
Lettersfrom Sir Oliver Lodge, 192
Levitation, examples of alleged, 30
Levitation, La, 30 n. 6
Levitation, meaning of, 30
Levitations (D. D. Home), 276-7
Lewis, Hilda (the ‘Flower Medium’),
29, 29 n. 8, 201
Liebermann, Frau, 324
Life and Work o f Mrs. Piper, 57 n. 1, 148
Light, 29 n. 8, 41 n. 3, 49,124, 177 »
■ x>
194«■ *95 «• 3
>x99 4»201 n. 5,
20371.3,225 7
z. 4, 228 7i. 1, 239 n.
2, 309, 316 n. 4, 346
Lights, psychic, or ‘spirit’, 33, 201
Lily Dale Camp, U.S.A., 71
Lincoln, Abraham, 122
Lindsay, Master of, 30, 276
List o f a Few Cures Performed by Mr. and
Mrs. De Loutherbourg, 46 n. 4
Listener, The, 131-2, 134, 261 n.x,
269, 269 n. 1
Livermore, Charles F., 25
Livermore, Estelle, 25
Llanhilleth, Wales, 324
Lodge, H. B., 225
Lodge, Lady, 149
Lodge, Raymond, 149-50, 30B
Lodge, Sir Oliver Joseph, 50-1, 57,
59, 68-9, 75, 147, 149-50, 192,
227, 230, 232-3, 265-6, 285, 291,
308-9
Lombroso, Cesare, 23, 74, 315
London, 5, 12, 37, 41, 60, 80, 83, 96,
ioo, 102-4, 108, 112, 115,
x55> 176“ 7> x9x> x96, 198, 220,
229, 244, 250, 258, 276, 285, 318,
324-5. 327. 340
London Dialectical Society, 24, 308
London Forum, 222
London Spiritualist Alliance, 226-9,
345
London University, vii, 13 n. 1, 63-4,
70, 118, 213 w. 4, 257, 288 n. 1,
3*8, 333 n. r, 336, 345
Longfellow’, a spirit, 147
Longmans, Green & Co., Ltd., 55
Lord Chancellor of England, 338
Los Angeles, Cal., U.S.A., 324
Lotbini&re, S. J. de, 270
Louis XVI (ofFrance), 12
Lourdes, France, 317
Love-Life o f D r. Kane, The, 21 n. 1
Low, Archibald Montgomery, 202
Luce e Omka, 33 n, 4, 202 n. 6
Lucian the Satirist, 211, 211 n. 1
Ludwik, Professor, 97, 325
‘Luminous woman of Pirano*, 90-1
Lund, F. H., 180
Lundholm, Helge, 69
Lynch, Arthur, 42, 324
‘Lynn, Dr.’, 308
Lynn, Thomas, 29
Lyon, Mrs. Jane, 223
Lyttelton, Mrs. Edith, 43, 46, 51
Lytton, Bulwer, 23
‘M.A. Oxon.’, (see Moses, Stainton)
‘MacArthur, Angus’, 216 n. 2
MacBride, Ernest William, 324
Mace, C. A., 64
Mackie, Andrew, 6-8, 6 71. 1
MacMurray, John, 64, 275
Macnamara, E. D., 64
Maeterlinck, Count Maurice, 317
Maggs Brothers, Ltd., 297 n. 1
Magic Circle, London, 193
Magic Staff, The, 17 n. 2
Magician Among the Spirits, 69
Magician, The, 268
Magnetometer, the, 245
‘Mahdi*, a spirit, 224
M aid o f France, 310
Maillard, John, 46
Maison des Spiritcs, 314
Malleson, Joan, 262
‘Maloitz’ (i.e., Blitz, Max Louis), 45,
45 7
2
. 4, 324
Malvern, Worcestershire, 276
Malvern Hills, Worcestershire, v
Man, The Unknown, 313
Manchester, England, 36, 195, 271
Manchester Guardian, 171
Mann, Thomas, 95
Mansfield, J. V., 206, 212
Margaret Vcley Case, The, 160 n. 1
‘Margaret’ personalities, 163
‘Margery’ (i.e. Crandon, Mrs. L. R.
G.), 29, 39 n. 3, 35, 38-9, 6o, G8,
74,89,110-18,191, 198-9,344-5,
3'2, 324
Margery Mediumship, The, 60 n. 7
‘Marion, Fred’ (i.e. Kraus, Josef), 45,
187, 222, 291, 324
Marks, J., 9
Marriott, William S., 208
Marryat, Florence, 285
Marshall, Mrs. Mary, 308
Marshall, N. W., 255, 260
Mars machine, 13 72, 2, 249
‘Mars medium’, the, 316
Mars, planet, 18
Marten, Maria, and the Red:Barn,
46 n. 2
‘Martian* love song and chant, 323
I N D E X 373
Martin, Mary, g
Martindale, Cyril Charlie, 150/2. 2
Maskelyne, John Nevil, 31. 75, 190,
225-6, 225 n. 4, 308
Maskelyne, Nevil, 309
Massey, Charles Carleton, 49
Materialisation, 27 n. 7
Materialisations-Phanomene, 26 n. 2, 285
Materializing methods, 194-8
Materializations, meaning of, 26
‘Matter through matter* trick, 202-3
Max, Gabriel von, 87 n. 1
Maxwell, Joseph, 313
Mayfair, London, 146
Mayhcw, Mark, 195
Mayo, Charles H., 196/2. 3
McCardie, Mr. Justice, 230
McDougall, William, 68-9, 80,
111-13, 115, 185, 185 n. 2, 196,
275* 3iL 324
McGill University, Montreal, Canada,
180
McGinlay, Miss Mary, 196, 196 7
2
. 5
McGregor, Helen, 159
Mclndoe, John B., 35, 19472. 2
McKenzie, James Hewat, 124, 310
McKenzie, William, 315
Mead, Hettie Rhoda, 162/2. 1
Mechanical E.S.P., 182-3
Medium and Daybreak, 191 n, 1, 224/2. 3
Medium Who Admits he is a Fake, 19872.2
Midiumnisim et la Sorbonne, 87 n. 6
Medium's Amazing Confession, 207 n. 1
Mediums* confessions, 205-7
Mediums in cages, 242-3
Mediums who aid the police, 220-2
Meitie Lebcnslinie, 221 7
2
. 2
Melbourne, Australia, 66
Mellon, Mrs.J. B., 23,27, 27 n. 8,195,
306-7
Melton, Frederick Reginald, 249,
249 n. 2
Melton, John, 327
Melzcr, Heinrich, 29, 201
Mimoire sur la dkouverte de Magn&tisme
Animal, 12/2. 1
Memories and Adventures, 309 n. 5
‘Mental count* trick, 188-9
Mental mediums, famous, 145-65
Mental phenomena, 39-47, 145-89
Mental phenomena, testing, 247
Menial Radio: Does it Work, and How?,
173/1. 1
Mental television, 297-8
Meopham, Kent, 35, 132/2. 1
Mephistopheles, 31
Mersey, Viscount, 224
Mesmer, Franz (Friedrich) Anton,
n -17, 32, 191
Meyer, Jean, 314
Meyer, Stefan, 107, 315
‘Michael*, a spirit, 223
Michigan University, Mich., U.S.A.,
89
Microscopic Anatomy o f . . . ‘ Teleplasm
322 n. 1
Milan, Italy, 315, 325
Milhouse, Galloway, Scotland, 6
Millesimo Castle, Italy, 29
Milton Abbey, Dorset, 46
‘Mina’, a spirit, 96
Mind, 346
Mind and Its Place in Nature, The
299 n. 1
Mirabelli, Carlos, 26-7, 27 n. 1, 30
Miroir, Le, 87
Missing Link in Modern Spiritualism
The, 21 7
2
. I
Mitchell, Thomas Walker, 51
Moberly, C. Anne E., 279-83
Modern Psychic Mysteries, 29 t
z
. 7, 53 n, 1
Modern Spiritualism, v, 14 n. 2, 17, 17 n.
I, l8 7
2
. 1, 20 7
2
. I, 21 7
2
. I, 31 7
2
. I,
306
Modern Spiritualism, its Facts and Fanati­
cisms, 21 7
2
. 1
Mohr, A. vor, 325
Moll, Albert, 315
Monaro, Anna, 34, 90-1, 315
Monck, Francis Ward, 27, 38, 195,
224-5, 308
Money! Money! Money!, 268
Montague, Miss Nell St. John, 44,
164-5
Month, The, 311
Moore, Albert, 193
Moore, the Misses, 28
Moore, William Usbome, 164, 193
More, Henry, 305
‘Morison, Elizabeth’, 279
Morning Post, 229
Morris, Mrs. Louisa Anne Meurig,
163,16372. 1,192,229-31,23472.1
Morsclli, Enrico, 76 n. 3, 315
Moses, Stainton (‘M.A., Oxon.*), 30,
34»49, 5L 147, 306, 3*°
Moss, George H., 35, 193, 324
Moulage moulding process, 88,88 t
i. i
Moynagh, Digby, 251
M . Riche?s Recent Researches in Thought-
Transference, 17472, 1
Mrs. Piper and the Imperator Band o f
Controls, 147/2. 1
Mrs. Piper and the Society for Psychical
Research, 57 7
2
. 1, 148
Muhl, Anita M., 43 t
z
. i
Mulholland, John, 21, 182-3,
212, 224
Muller, Catherine Elise, 316
Multiple personality, 163-4
I N D E X
Mumler 'Spirit' Photograph Case, 192 n. 7
Mumler, William, 35, 192, 192 n. 7
Mummification, cases of alleged ab­
normal, 32
Munich, Germany, 60, 88, 95-102,
96 7
2
. 1, 129, 196, 242, 324-5
Municipal Technical Institute, Belfast,
82
Munnings, Frederick Tansley, 199,
199 n. 3, 245, 324
Miinsterberg, Hugo, 315
Murchison, Carl, 68
Murphy, Gardner, 67-8, 185 n. 3,
263-4, 264 7
2
. 1, 312
Murray, George Gilbert Aime, 40,
51, 145, 169-71, 170 n. 4
My Confessions: How 1 Produced 'Spirit
Voices’, 19972. 3
My Life in Two Worlds, 149 n. 1
Myers Exposed Again?, 194 7
2
. 2
Myers, Frederic William Henry, 23,
48-50, 48 n. 1, 55, 57-9, 75, 147,
158, 164, 166-8, 167 n. 5, 378-9,
305-6
Myers, John, 35, 194, 194/2. a
Mystere du Sourcier, 44 n. 1
Mystery o f Versailles, 282 n. 1, 283
Mystery Revealed, The, 10 n. 1
‘Nada*, a spirit, 157
Naples, Italy, 59, 74 7
2
. 1, 76, 312, 315,
325
Naples University, Italy, 315
National Laboratory of Psychical
Research, 28 n. 9, 45, 60 7
2
. 8,
63-4* 65 n. 3, 81 7
i. 1, 93 7
2
. 1, 105,
107 7
2
. I, 2, 116 7
2
. I, 127, 196,
196 7i. 4, 207, 237, 317-26,
322 7
1
. I, 345
National Review, 234 7
2
. 1
National test, British, in E.S.P., 185-6
Naturalization of the Supernatural, 306
Nature, 104 7
2
. 2, 128, 128 7
2
. 1, 3,
155 n. 3, 167, 325
Negretti & Zambra, 34, 127
‘Nell, Dr.*, a spirit, 84
Nelson, N.Z., 155
Neumann, Therese, 351 t
z
. i
Neureiter, Ferdinand von, 66, 66 72
. 1
New Evidence (?) for ‘E . S . P 180 n. 2
New Frontiers o f the Mind, 175, 175 7
2
. 4
New Guinea, 268
New Immortality, The, 284
New Message from Oscar Wilde, A,
159 n. 3
New Tear’s Eve, 268
New York City, i o n . 1 , 35, 73, 7471. x,
no, 155,180, aig, 318, 385, 345
New York Academy of Music, 21
New Tork Herald, 21
374
New York State, 17-21
New Tork Sun, 26071. 1
New Tork Sunday American, 197 7
2
. 7
New Tork Times, 181 n. 1
Newbold, William Romaine, 147
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, England, 122,
195
Newcomb, W. D., 254-6
Newer Spiritualism, The, 306
Newnes, George, Ltd., 185
Newnham College, Cambridge, 49, 57
News-Chronicle, 273 tz. 2
Newspaper tests unconvincing, 150-1
Niel, Avenue, Paris, 153
Nielsen, Einer, 195-6, 324
Nielsson, Haraldur, 85, 316
Nineteenth Century, 291 7
1. 2
Nobel prize winner, 313
Noel, General, 86
Noel, Mme Carmencila, 86-7, 87 7i. 1
Norsk Tidsskrift for Psykisk Forskning,
1 9 5 72. 6
North Carolina, U.S.A., 346
North Gate Mansions, London, 199
North Shore Line, N.Z., 155
Norwood, London, 276 ,
Nostradamus et les Evinements de
1914-16, 43 7
2
. 3
Nostradamus, Michel, 43, 43 n. 3
Note on the ‘Oscar Wilde’ Script, 159 71. 2
Nottingham University, England, 72
Nunan, William, 177
Nusslein, Heinrich, 32, 32 7
2
. 3
Nutter, Miss Lilian, 32
0 Medium Mirabelli Mystified?, 27 7 2 . I
Oaten, Ernest W., 271, 273, 273 7
2
. 3
Objections to radio experiments,
364-5
Observer, 218, 218 7
2
, 3, 4, 5
Occult Review, 73 n. 1, 159 n. 3, 346
Ochorowicz, Julien, 28 n. 6, 33,
75-7. 316
‘Odic force’, alleged, 50
Oesterreich, Traugott Konstantin,3i4
O f ghostes and spirites walking by nyght,
571. 1
Official Science, why not convinced,
291-2
Ohio, U.S.A., 39
Okkulte Erlebnisse, 95 7
2
. 1
Okkulte Welt, 235 n, 3
Okolowicz, Norbert, 27 a. io, 90
Olcott, Henry Steel, 312
‘ Olga’, a spirit, 93-4, 96
‘Olive’, a spirit, 81
Olivier, Miss Edith, 281
Oman, Sir Charles William Chad­
wick, 65
I N D E X 375
On a Series o f Sittings with Mrs. Osborne
Leonard, 151 n. 1
On Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, 308
On Some Phenomena Associated with
Abnormal Conditions of Mind, 65 n. 2
On the Automatic Writing o f Mrs. Hol­
land, 158 n. 1
Opinion, V , 87 n. 6
Orange County, New York State, 17
Ordinations for mediums, 212
Oscar Wilde Script, The: A Critique,
159". 5
Oslo, Norway, 195, 199, 231-3, 316,
325
Oslo University, 72
Ossowiecki, Stephan, 41-2, 41 n. 4,
172, 172 n. 5
Ostend, Belgium, 203-5, 323
Osty, Eugene, 41 n. 2, 104 n. 2, 153,
201, 240, 314
Osty, Marcel, 1047*. 2
‘Otto’, a spirit, 97-8
Oulton, William Harold Stowe, 226-9
Our Eternity, 317
Outwaid Bound, 268
Owen, George Vale, 272-3, 310
Owen, J. J., 36 n. 5
Oxford, England, 64, 108, 285
Oxford University, England, 72
P., Stanislawa, 201-2, 239, 285, 314,
324
Paddington, London, 25C
Pagcnstccher, Gustave, 22x
Pain, John and Mary, 9
Paintings, spirit, alleged, 36
Pall M all Gazette, 225
Palladino, Kusapia, 28, 28 n. 6, 30, 59,
74-6, 76 n. 3, 85, 190, 307, 312,
3x4-16
‘Palma’, a spirit, 121
Palmer, E. Clephan, 99-100
Palmsticrna, Baron Erik, 43, 43 n. 2
Palo Alto, Cal., U.S.A., 66
Pannett, Charles Aubrey, 64, 254-5,
294
Pannett, Mrs. C. A,, 262
Pap, Lajos, 30, 30 71. r, 201
Paris, 35, 74 "• 75*88, 104,106, 112,
128, 153, 155, 157 n. 1, 172, 192,
195, 201, 2x7 "* h 23b, 240,
279- 83>313, 3L5, 3«i, 324- 5, 345
Paris, mesmerism m, 12-16
Parsons, Elizabeth, xo-x 1,25,120,190
Parsons, Mr., xo
Patience Worth, 162 n. 1
Paul in Athens, 158 n. 4
Pawlowski, P. W., 89
Pecoraro, Nino, 112, 198
‘Peggy’, a spirit, 196
Pelham, Camden, g
‘Pelham, George’, a spirit, 147
Pennsylvania University, U.S.A., 24,
66
People, The, 199 n. 3
Percival, Francis William, 49
Periodicity of phenomena, 299-301
Perry, R. B., 311 n. 4
Peter, Josef, 314
Peterborough, Northanls, 195
Peters, Mrs. George, 162
Peters, Vout, 149, 308, 324
Petrifaction, cases of alleged ab­
normal, 32
Phalen, H. R., 71
Phantasms o f the Living, 55, 167, 172,
278, 306
PhasmatDlogical Society, Oxford, 48,
64
Phenomena o f Materialisation, 26 n. 2,
87 n. 3, 285 n. 2
Phenomena o f Rudi Schneider, 100 7
2
. 1
Phinomenes dits de Materialisation, Les,
26 7
2
. 5, 87 7
2
. 2
Philip and Maiy (ofEngland), 213 72.2
Phillimore, Miss Mercy, 226-9
Philosophical Considerations, 305
‘Phinuit*, a spirit, 147-8
Photographic des Effluoes Humains, 33 t
j
. 2
Photographs, spirit, 35, 192-4
Photography, 199 72. 5
Physical mediums quickly exposed, 4
Physical phenomena described, 26-39,
74-144
Physikalische Mediumismus, Der, 84 7
2
. 1
Physikalische Phaenomene des Mediumis­
mus, 77 n. 2
Physikcdisch-mediumistische Untersuchun-
gen, 235 72. 3
Physiological tests with Mrs. Garrett,
177, 17771.2
Picquarl, Eugenie, 31, 324
Piddington, J. G., 51, 147, 164
Pidgcon, Charles F., 206, 212
Pieron, Henri, 87
Pilch, Anna, 156, 334
Pioli, Giovanni, 315, 325
Piper, Miss Alta L., 57 72. 1, 148
Piper, Mrs. Leonore E., 56, 57 72. 1,
147-9, 147 7
2
. I, 148 7
2
. I, 247,
307-8,311
Pirano, Italy, 34, 34 n. 3, 90, 90 72. 2
‘Pithecanthropus’, the, 89-90, 203
Pitkin, Walter G., 182
Plaat, Frau Lotte, 220-1, 221 n. 1, 324
Plafair, Henry, 183-4
Planchette, 311
‘Planchette Case, Great’, 223
Pneumatics o fHero o fAlexandria, 326 72. x
‘Pocka’, a spirit, 195
I N D E X
Podmore, Frank, v, 14, 17-18, 20 n. 1,
21 n. 1, 23, 49, 55, 167 n. 5, 278,
285, 306
Poems (re. Cock Lane Ghost), 11 n. 1
Pogson, C. A., 44
Pogson, Mrs. M. E., 44
Poland, 31, 316
Poland, fortune-telling in, 218
Police Act (Eng. law), 340
Police (Property) Act, (Eng. law), 337
Police raid the spiritualists, 226-9
Police Science: Counterfeit Finger-Prints,
117 n. I
Pollard, Alan Faraday Campbell, 103,
325
Poller, A., 88
Poltergeist disturbances in Galloway,
6-8
Poltergeist phenomena, 6-8, 38, 78-80
Polynesian haunted house, 1
Pope, His Holiness the, 317
Portugal, 165
Posen University, Poland, 156
‘Poughkeepsie, Seer of*, 17
Poulenc Freres, Paris, 321
Pouvoirs Incomus de VEsprit sur la
Matiere, 104 n. 2
‘Power*, a spirit, 163, 229-31
Prague, Czecho-Slovakia, 42
Pratt, J. G., 70, 184, 184 n. 1
Pratt, Mary, 46 71. 4
Precognition, meaning of, 43
Prediction, examples of, 43
Predictions, spontaneous, verified,
121-2
Preliminary Communication Concerning
the 'Electronic Reactions’, 192 n. 1
Preliminary Report o f the Commission
(Seybertrequest), 24n. 3, 29 n. 1,
287 n. 4
Preliminary Studies o f a Vaudeville
Telepathist, 187 n. 2
Premonition, meaning of, 43
Prescott, Henry, 287
Presentiment, meaning of, 44
Price, Henry Habberley, 51
Price-Hope case, 60
Priestly, John Boynton, 285
Prince, C. E., 106
Prince, Morton, 163-4,275* 312
Prince, Miss Theodosia, 164
Prince, Walter Franklin, 42, 51, 68-9,
ioi, h i , 162-4, 162 n. 2, 194,
200, 312
Principles o f Nature, 18-19
Probation o f offenders Act (Eng. law),
228
Pruden, Mrs. Laura A., 37, 37 n. 1,
« 3*4
Prussia, East, 221
376
Przibram, Karl, 107, 315, 325
Pseudopods, crawling, 123
Psicologia e ‘Spiritismo*, 76 n. 3
Psyche, 28 n. 5, 60 n. 3, 96 it. 1, 101 it. 1,
2, 3
Psychic Adventures in New Tork, 45 n. 6
Psychical research, meaning of, 1-3
Psychical Research (talking film), 325
Psychical Research and Philosophy, 69
Psychical Research in Vienna, 27 n. 2,
202 n. 2
Psychical research versus spiritual­
ism, 1
Psychic Development, 271
Psychic Force, 30 n. 3
‘Psychic’ frauds, ancient, 326-7
Psychic Magazine, Paris, 87
Psychic Messages from Oscar Wilde,
43 n‘ L !59«
* *
Psychic Phenomena and the Law, 234 n. 1
Psychic Practitioners (Regulation) Bill,
212, 329-44
Psychic Science, 29 n. 5, 159n. 5,191n. 2,
193 n. 2, 346
Psychic Science in Parliament, 216 n. 2, 5
Psychic Structures at the Goligher Circle,
29 it. 3, 82 n. 2
Psychic Telephone, A , 249 n. 2
Psychische Studien, 202 n. 5, 246 n. 1
Psychograph, meaning of, 35
Psycho-Graphology, 42 n. 2
Psychography, 36 n. 5
Psychological factors in E.S.P., 177-9
Psychological Methods o f Healing, 46 n. 5
Psychological Society, 48
Pscyhologisches Institut, Bonn, Ger­
many, 249
Psychologists’ League Journal, 180 it. 2
Psychology o f Conjuring, 67 n. 2
Psychometrische Begabung der Frau Lotte
Plaat, 221 it. I
Psychometry, meaning of, 40
Psykisk Tidsskrift, 316, 346
Purity League, 224
‘Pye’ radio, 136, 140
Quantitative Study o f Trance Personalities,
247-8, 248 n. 2
Quarterly Journal of Science, 278
Quarterly Review, 308
Quebec, Canada, 154
Queen Square, Bloomsbury, London,
318
Qiieensberry Place, S. Kensington,
London, 318
Questione della frode negli esperimenti
coll’Eusapia Paladino, La, 28 n. 6
R ioi airship, 151-3, 298
Radclyffe-Hall, Miss, 151 n. 1
I N D E X
Radiations, alleged human, 32
Radio telepathy, 263-8
Radio tests in the home, 267-8
Radiovisor (Parent) Ltd., 106
Ragley (Warwick) ‘S.P.R.*, 305
Randall, Edward Caleb, 312
Ranger, A. W. G., 223
Rankine, Alexander Oliver, 103, 324
Ransom, Elmer P., 21
Rape and rhabdomancy, 224
Rapport de Vun des Commissaires, 13 ti. 1,
14 n. 1
Rapport sur les Stances d'Eusapia Falla-
dino, 75 n. 2
Raps, spirit, examples of, 37
Rasmussen, Anna, 28, 37, 77-89 *29,
3
16
9324
Rayleigh, Lord, 23, 51, 103, 109,
324
‘Raymond’, a spirit, 149-50, 153
Raymond, 145, 150, 150 n. 1, 286,
308-9
Reality o f Psychic Phenomena,
, 82 n, 2
Reese, Bert, 40-1
Reforming the Vagrancy Acts, 216-
20
Regent’s Park, London, 199
Rcgnault, Jules, 313
Regurgitation and mediumship, 196-7
Regurgitation and the Duncan Medium-
ship, 27 n. 4, 196 n. 4
Reibnitz, Herr von, 222
Reichenbach, Baron Karl von, 33, 50
Remarkable Phenomena in Iceland, 85 n. 3
Repetition o f D r. J . B , Rhine's work,
176 n, 3
Report of a Series of Experiments, 174 n. 3
Report o f the Committee (re Theoso-
phir.al Society), 286 n. 4
Report o f the Occult Committee, 193 11. 4
Report on a Series o f Sittings with Eva C.,
aC n, 6, 87 n. 5
Report on Glasgow Repetition o f D r.
Rhine’s Experiments, 181 n. 4
Report on Some Communications, 156 n. 2
Report on Spiritualism (Dialectical
Society), 24 n. 2
Report on the Telekinetic and other Pheno­
mena, a8 n. 9
Report on Three Experimental Fire-
Walks, 262 n. 2
Report on Two Experimental Fire- Walks,
251 n. 1, 261 w
. 2
Researches in the Phenomena o f Spiritual­
ism, 26 ti. 1, 28 n. 3, 130 n. 1, 235
n. 1,23911. 1,278, 307/1. 3,4
‘Return’ of Oscar Wilde, 159-60
Revelations of a Spirit Medium, 37 n. 3,
206, 206 n. 3, 287
Review o f Reviews, 310
Revue Metapsychique, 34 n. 2, 41 7
2
. 2, 4,
89, 94 n. 2, 202 n. 1, 239 7
Z
. 4,
346
Revue Spirite, 192 n. 8
Reykjavik, Iceland, 316
Reykjavik University, Iceland, 85
Rhine, Joseph Banks, 39, 69-71, 73,
i75-899 263 7
1. 1, 286, 312
Rhine, Mrs. Louisa E., 69
Ricerca Psichica, 346
Richards, Mrs. Henry, 199
Richardson, Mark, 243-4, 244 n. 1
Richet, Charles, vi, 23, 26, 33, 37, 51,
59* 75-69 75 n- 77 n. 1, 2, 85-6,
1479 1499 1749 174 n- 285, 291,
3i3»316-17
Richmond, A. B., 24 n. 3
Riddle of Patience Worth, 162 7
2
. 2
Riddle o f Spiritualism, 100 n. 2
Ridley, Frederick, 262
Riess, Bernard F., 185 n. 3
Riga University, Latvia, 66
Risby. J> =40
Riksdagens Protokoll, 218 n. 2
Ringcroft, Galloway, Scotland, 6,
6 n. 1
Ritchie, Miss Violet, 226-7
Rivail, H. L. D., 313 w
. 3
Road to Immortality, 158 7
2
. 4
Robertson, C. Lockhart, 49
Robinson, Ann, 8-9
Robinson, William Ellsworth, 37 n. 1,
201
Rochas d’Aiglun, E. A. Albert de, 313
Rochdale, Lancs., 217
Rochester, New York, 18-21
‘Rochester knockings’, 11, 20-1, 25
Rochester Knockingsl, 21 n. 1
Rockefeller Institute for Medical
Research, 312
Rogers, Edmund Dawson, 49
Rogers, Mrs. Henry H., 162
Rogosin, H., 180 n. 2
Roland Gardens, S. Kensington,
London, 318
Roman Catholic Church, 317
Rome, Italy, 74 n. 1., 211, 316
‘Ronald’, a spirit, 81
Roome, H. D., 226
‘Rosalie’, alleged spirit, 130-44, 238,
294
Rosenbusch, Hans, 315
‘Rosetta’, a spirit, 195
Ross, Mrs., 308
Rothacker, E., 71
Rothe, Anna, 29, 29 n, 6, 201
Roubaud, France, 75
Rouhier, A., 313
Royal Academy ofMedicine, Paris, 16
Royal Societies Club, London, 144
377
I N D E X
Royal Society, London, 23, 65, 278,
290, 307-8
Royal Society of Medicine, Paris, 13,
Rudi Schneider, 28n.5, 104.W.1, 285 n. 7,
325
Rugby, Staffs., 224
Rumania, 78
Rumania, spiritualism in, 218
Russell, Alexander Smith, 262
Russell, D. C., 257
Russia, 316
Rye, Mr. and Mrs. Reginald Arthur,
262
378
S., Signora, 324
Sadler, Frau, 30
Sage, Michel, 57 n. 1
St. George’sHall, London, 225
St. Hugh's College, Oxford, 279
St. Louis, Missouri, U.S.A., 162, 312
St. Martin-in-the-Fields,London,272
St. Mary’s Hospital, London, 256
St. Paul’s Cathedral, London, 272
St. Petersburg, Russia, 74 n. 1
St. Thomas’s Hospital, London, 214
‘Salt, Andrew’, 121
Salter, William Henry, 160, 160 n. 1
Salter, Mrs. W. H., 58, 158, 199 n. 2
‘ Samuel’, a spirit, 224
Sanctis, Sante de, 90, 315
Sanguined, Luigi Romolo, 316
Santa Clara Valley, Cal, U.S.A.,
66
Santini, E. N., 33 n. 2
Santoliquido, Rocco, 315
Sao Paulo, Brazil, 26
Sargent, Epes, 311
Saturday Review, 229
Saturn, planet, 18
Savonarola, Girolamo, 170
Savoy Hill, London, 265-6
Scandinavia, 316
Scandinavia, spiritualism in, 218
Scarborough, Yorks, 240
Schepis, Giovanni, 316
Schermann, Rafael, 42, 42 n. 1, 2, 3
Schiller, Ferdinand Canning Scott,
51. 53. 65, 68-9, 72, 103, 291,
311, 385
Schlag, Oskar, 202
Schneider, Frau, 105
Schneider, Josef, 92-106
Schneider, Rudi, 26, 28, 28 n. 5, 34,
59-60, 60 n. 8, 74, 92-109, 119,
191, 239-40, 269, 285, 293,
Schneider,^Wilii, 26, 28, 28 n. 5, 30,
6°, 74> 92-109, 93 n. 1, 119, 129,
242, 314-15. 3«4
Schrenck-Notzing, Freiherr Albert
von, 26-7, 28 n. 7, 33, 41-2, 60,
76, 77 n. 2, 87-8, 94-9. 101-2
108, 202, 240, 285, 314-15
Schroder, Cristoph, 314, 325
Schumann, Robert Alexander, 43
Schwartz, R. Plato, 259-60
Science and Psychical Phenomena, 178 n. 1
Science and Psychical Research, 128
n. 1
Scientific American, 110-12, 114, 173,
173 w
. 2, 198, 198 n. 1, 312
Scientific American inquiry, m -12,
198, 312
Scientific Monthly, 180 n. 2
Scotland, 339
Scotland Yard, London, 226
Scot, Reginald, 327
Scotto, Centurione, 29, 31
Scribner’s Sons, Charles, 183
Scripts o f Cleophas, 158, 158 n. 3
Scrutton, Mr. Justice, 231
Scrying, meaning of, 44
Sealed billet reading, controlling,
248-9
S6ance technique, how invented, 9-11
Second International Congress of
Psychical Research, 41, 41 n. 4
Second Report [on Mrs. Holland],
158 n. 1
Secret de la Gage Spirite, 243 n. 1
Secretary ofState, Eng., 328-9,330-1,
337-40
‘Seer of Poughkeepsie*, 17
‘Seeress of Waltendorf’, 83-4
Segelcke, Axel, 233
Sensationnelle Experience, Une, 41 n. 4
Serial Universe, The, 284, 311
Servadio, Emilio, 316
Seybert Commission, 66
Seybert, Henry, 24, 67, 291
Shakespeare, William, 5
‘Shauna*, alleged spirit, 207
Sheppard, Hugh Richard Lawrie,
272-3
‘Shiloh*, 287
Short Treatise, 327
Showers, Miss Mary, 195, 285
Shropshire, Eng., 296
‘Siddons, Mrs.’, a spirit, 147
‘Side issue’ illusion, 225
Sidgwick, Arthur, 307 n. I
Sidgwick, Henry, 23, 48-51, 57, 61-2,
167-9, *68 n. 4, 306-7
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry, 23, 49-52,
x50 ». 3, 159, 167-70, 168 n. 4,
278, 307, 307 »
• 1
Silbert, Frau Maria, 28, 34, 37, 83-4,
324
Simon, Sir John Allsebrqok, 152
I N D E X 3 7 9
Simony, Oscar, 203 n. 1
Simpson, Sir Henry, 107
Sinclair, Mr. and Mrs. Upton, 173
Sinnett, Alfred Percy, 49
Sitwell, Sir George, 191
Skin, electrical resistance of, 257
Skotograph, meaning of, 35
Skrzetuska, Matylda, 31, 324
Slade, Henry, 23, 29, 36, 200, 202,
3D7, 316
Slate-writing, alleged spirit, 36
Slate-Writing Mediumship, 37 n. 1
Slate-writing tricks, 200-1
Smith, G. A., 40, 168-9, 168 n. 4, 173
Smith, H. A., 51
‘Smith, Helene’, 157, 316
Smith, Mrs. Hester Travers, 158-61,
159 n. 1
Smith, Ryder, 262
Smithfield, London, 10
Snags in E .S.P ., 188 n. 1
Soal, G. W., 159
Soal, Samuel George, 39, 45, 45 n. 5,
64, 70, 156-7, 159-60, 160 n. 1,
172, 172 n. 5, 174, 176, 176 n. 3,
179-80, 183-5, 187, 187 71. 2, 188,
2G2, 265-7, 267 n. 2, 311, 325
Society Italiana di Metapsichica, 315
Soci6te des Recherches Psychiques
Hellenique, 317
Soriety for Psychical Research, Lon­
don, 24, 40-1, 48-62, 64, 72, 75,
87, 108, 113, 148, 166, 168-9,
203, 265-7, 277-8, 281, 290,
306-11, 3i3” i4>3i6, 345-6
Society for Psychical Research,
London (American branch), 56
Society for Psychical Research, Journal
of, 36 n. 1, 50, 53, 54 n. 1, 59 n. 2,
60, Go n. 2, 76 n. 3, no n. 1, 117,
148, 159 n. 2, 1G4 n. 1, 167 71. 4,
168 n. 3, 169, 171 7i. 2, 172,
172 ri. 6, 178 7
1. 2, 3, 192 n. 3, 4,
195 n. 1, 4, 199 n, 3, 201 n. 2,
249 11. 1, 346
Society for Psychical Research, List of
Presidents, 50-1
Society for Psychical Research, Pro-
ceedings of, 26 n. 6, 48 7
1. 1, 49 «. 1,
50-1, 52 n. 1, 2, 55, 55 n. 1, 56,
57 n. 1,2, 58, 5871. 1,2, 59 «. 1,3,
Go «. 1, 4, 5, G, 7, 61 71. 1, 2, 76,
76 7
1
. 2, 87 7
1
. 5, 96 7
1
. 2, 108 7
1. I,
109 7
1
.1,113/1. 3,11571.2,116/1.2,
117, 147 n. r, 148, 148 7i. i,
15071.3, *5*«- L 13671.2,158ml,
15971.4,160 7
i. 1,16471.1,16671. i,
167 »• 3>5» *68 4> 169,
*69n. 3,4,5,i 70 n. 1 ,2,3,4,5>*72,
172 «• 5, *74 L2, 3,176 n. 2, 3,
Society for Psychical Research, Pro-
ceedings of—Cont.
177 7i. 2, 179 7i. 1, 181 7i. 3, 4,
192 7
1
. 4, 196 7
1
. 2, 199 7
1
. 2, 5,
203 7
1
. 2, 247 7
1
. I, 248 7
1
. 2,
266 7
1
. I, 26771. 2, 27771.2, 278, 278
7
1
. I, 28l 7
1
. I, 307 7
1
. 2, 308 7
1
. I,
313 7i. 4, 345-6
Some Account o f my Intercourse with
Madame Blavatsky, 56 n. 1, 286
Some Account of the Poltergeist Phenomena
o f Eleonore %ugun, 80 n. 1
Some Account o f the Thermal Variations,
34 «
■ 4
Some Automatic Scripts, 160 7
1. 1
Some Cases o f Prediction, 43 n. 4, 46 72. 1
Some Implications of E .S.P ., 180 7
1. 2
Some Impressions o f a Reader o f *
Ray­
mond’, 150 71. 2
Some Impressions o f Jean Guzik, 28/1. 1,
203 7
1
. 3
Some jVeiw Evidence for Human Survival,
150 »• 3
Some Revelations as to ‘Raymond
150 7
1. 2
Sorbonne, Paris, 72, 87, 87 t
z
. 6, 88
Sordi, Lucia, 90, 202
Sorge, Emanuele, 315, 325
Sorry Tale, The, 162/1. 1
Soule, Mrs. M. M., 148
South Africa, 35, 193, 309
South Downs, Sussex, 44
South Kensington, London, 44, 118,
164, 318
South Pacific, phenomena in, 1
Southcott, Joanna, 42, 42 n. 4, 287-
8
Southwark, London, 214
Spandauerstrasse, Berlin, Ger,, 235
Spectator, 229
Sphinx, 18471. 2
Sphygmomanometer, the, 247
Spiritalia, 326 n. 1
Spirit Healing, meaning of, 46
Spirit hypothesis, 302-3
‘Spirit’ messages from a living man,
156
Spirit photographs, spurious, 192-4
Spirit Portrait Mystery, 36 7
1. 2
Spirit Slate Writing, 37 n. 1, 201 n. 1
‘Spiritism’, why term not used, vi
Spirits with a Punch, 198 72. 1
Spiritualism, ancient, 4-17
Spiritualism and Crime, 234 n. x
Spiritualism and the Church, 273 «. 3
Spiritualism, meaning of, 1-5
Spiritualism not Satanic, 225 n. 1
Spiritualist News, 27171.1
Spiritualists and the B.B.C., 271-4
Spiritualists and the Law, 2 1
I N D E X
Spiritualists’ National Union, 2, 35,
. *97 . .
Spirit-writing, testing, 245-6
‘SplitfoDt, Mr.’, a spirit, 19
Spookland, 27 nt 8, 195 n. 5
Staffordshire rectory phenomena, 300
Stainer, J. F. R., 124
Standard Dictionary, 40 n. 2, 258 n. 1
Standish-Barry, Mrs., 164
Stanford, Leland, 66, 291
Stanford, Leland (Junior), 66
Stanford, Thomas Welton, 66
Stanford University. (See Leland
Stanford Univ.)
Stanford University and Thereabouts9
66 n. 3
Starling, Herbert George, 253
Statute Book, British law, 212
Statute Law Revision Acts 216
Stead, Miss Estelle, 202, 310
Stead, William Thomas, 310
Steinhof asylum, Vienna, 97
Steinschneider, Hermann. (See 'Han-
ussen, Erik Jan*.)
Stella C., 28, 28 n. 4, 33-4, 34n. 4, 37,
42-3* 74> 99. 119-29, 155, 242,
298, 302, 318, 324
Stella C., 28 n, 4, 34 n. 1, 123 n. 1,
127 n. 1, 318 n. 1, 325
‘Stewart, Albert’, a spirit, 197
Stewart, Balfour, 23, 49-50, 167
Stewart, Josie K., 112, 198
Sthenometer, the, 245
Stigmata, appearance of, 80
Stinson, Walter. (See also ‘Walter’),
no
Stockton, Rugby, Staffs., 224-5
Stockwell ghost, the, 8-9
Stolt-Nielsen, Mrs., 232
Story o f Psychic Science, 55 n. 2, 76,
245 n. 1
Strand Magazine, 225
Strauss, E. B., 125
Strutt, Charles Henry, 223
Strutt, Mrs. Madeline, 223
Stuart, C. E., 184, 184 n. 1
Students’Society, Belgrade University,
65
Sturgess, E. M., 324
Sturge-Whiting, J, R , 282-3, 282 n. 1
Stuttgart, Germany, 101
Sudbury, Suffolk, 297 n. 2
Sudre, Ren6, 160 n. 1, 274, 285, 314,
325
Suggestion, healings by, 46
SidFenmeno di Pirano, 34 n. 3, 90 n. 2
Sullivan[Serjeant], Alexander Martin,
330
Sunday Chronicle, 28 n. 2, 202, 202 n. 4
Sunday Dispatch, 194 n, 2
380
Sunday Express, 284 n. 1
Sunner, Paul, 221, 221 n. 1, 314, 325
Supersensuous perception, 166-89
Supplementary Report on the Keeler-Lee
Photographs, 194 n. 3
Surrey, Eng., 250
Sweden, 325
Sweden, spiritualism in, 218
Swedenborg, Emanuel, 17, 275, 311
Swedish Parliament, 218
Switzerland, 325
Sydney Morning Herald, 155 n. 2, 3
Sydney, N.S.W., 155, 195, 201
Sylvestre & Co., Raph E., 208-12
‘Symon, Brother’, a spirit, 162
Syracuse, Indiana, 208
Table-turning, 38
Tactile clairvoyance, meaning of, 40
Talpa, Rumania, 78
Tamburini, Angelo, 315
Tanagras, Angebs, 66, 317, 325
Tanner, Amy, 247
Tarkio College, Mo., U.S.A., 70-1
Tamer Lectures, Cambridge, 299
Tate Gallery, London, 193
Tavistock Square, London, 265
Taylor, Sarah E. L., 21 n. 1
‘Tedworth, Drummer of’, 305
Telekinesis, meaning of, 28
Telekinetoscope described, 124
‘Telepatha’ cards, description of, and
tests, 185-6
‘Telepatha’ cards, radio tests with,
267-8
Telepathic experiments, 166-89
Telepathic tests by radio, 263-8
Tilipathie, La, 172 n. 2
Telepathy and Clairvoyance, 70 n. 4
Telepathy as an Experimental Problem, 67
Telepathy, meaning of, 39
Telepathy via the ether, 58, 263-8
Telepsychic Phenomena, 33 n. 3
Telfair, Alexander, 6n. 1
Temperatures in fire-walking, 251,
S53“4. 256, 259,1261-2
Temple of Light, 206-7
Tenhaeff W. H. C., 66, 274, 316, 325
Testing human emanations, 245
Testing spirit writing, 245-6
Theobald, Morell, 49
Theocratic Unity Temple, London,
‘ 224
Theosophical ‘miracles’, 286
There is no Death, 285
Thermal phenomena at stances,
120-1, 126-8
Thermal variations, 34, 34 n. 4
Things I Can Explain, 269 n. 1
Things I Cannot Explain, 269
I N D E X 3S l
Thirring, Hans, 27, 27 n. 2, 78, 97,
202, 241-2, 315, 325
Thirty Tears o fPsychical Research, vin. 1,
26 n. 3i 37 n. 2, 75 n. 1, 77 n. 1,
85 n. 2, 86 ti. 1, 2, 3, 149 n. 2,
285 n. 3, 313 n. 2
Thomas, Charles Drayton, 150
Thompson, Miss, 170
Thompson, Mr., 197
Thompson, Mrs., 112, 197-8
Thompson, Mrs. R., 164
‘Thompson, Nelly’, a spirit, 164
Thomson, William (see Kelvin, Lord)
Thought and Character of William James,
311 n. 4
Thought-Reader's Thoughts, A , 45 n. 3
Thought-reading, meaning of, 39
Thought Reading, 169 n. 2
Thought-transference experiments,
166-89
Thought-transference, meaning of, 39
Thouless, Robert H., 171, 181,
181 n. 4, 248, 248 w. 2, 275
‘Thousand Pound Ghost’, 224-5
Three Essays, 95 n. 1
‘Thurston, George’, a spirit, 81
Thurston, Herbert, 311
Thury, Marc, 316
Tigurine (Zurich), Switzerland, 5 n. 1
Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie, 66, 317,
346
Tillyard, Miss Hope, 155
Tillyartl, Robin John, 40, 43, 80, 124,
128, 153-5, 311,324-5
Time, structure of, 283-5
Time and the Conways, 285 n, 1
Times, The, vii, 1, 45, 45 n. 1, 150-1,
*55 3. *83 n. 1, 192, 194 n. 4,
*97 3
>200, 217 n. 1, 223 n. 1 ,3
>
4, 224 n. 1, 229, 230 n. 1, 233,
250-2,256, 262 n. 1,268 n. 4,283,
287 «. 5, 6, 297 n. 3
Tz'm
&r Literary Supplement, The, 53,
283 7
1
. x
Tischner, Rudolf, 314
‘Titanic’ (liner), 310
Tokio, Japan, 3x7
Tomczyk, Stanislawa, 28, 28 n. 7, 33,
78- 7, 3*4>3*8
Tonga, Polynesia, x
Toronto, Canada, n o
Tosi, Alexandro, 33 ». 4
Towards the Stars, 38 n. x
Trabacchi, G. C., 90, 315
Tragic medium, A, 231-3
Traiti de Mitapsychique, 26 n. 3, 285,
3*3
Traiti du Somnambulisme, 16 n. 1
Trance breathing, alleged abnormal,
108
Trance in Court, A , 234 n. 1
Trance Medium Found Out, 229
Transcendental Physics, 36 n, 4, 200 n. 2,
202 rz, 7, 285
Transfiguration, examples of alleged,
3*
‘Transportation’, examples of alleged,
3 *
Transportation for fortune-telling,
^ 214-15
Trees, The, vaudeville telepathists,
16B
Trethewy, Anthony William, 147 n, 1
‘Trevor, Captain’, a spirit, 81
Trial of William Carder, 46 n. 2
Trianon, Petit, Versailles, 279-83
Tricks o f a Famous Medium Exposed,
19912. 2
Trinder, W. H., 44-5
Trinity College, Cambridge, 299
Troubridge, (Una) Lady, 151 n. 1
True Mystic Science, 198 n. 1
Truesdell, John W., 29 n. 1, 36,
37 n. 3, 200, 287
Trumpet phenomena, 38
Truth about Psychical Research, 291
Tubby, Miss Gertrude Ogden, 312
Tubingen, Germany, 314
Tuckey, C. Lloyd, 311
Tufts Medical School, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A., 312
Tulane University, Louisiana, U.S.A.,
117
Turin, Italy, 85
’ Twixt Two Worlds, 27 7
2
. 9
Two Adventures in Metapsychics, 32 7
2
. 2
Two Worlds, 180, 194 «. 2, 197 n. 2, 4,
5> 6, 271
Tyrrell Apparatus fo r Testing E .S.P.,
178 n. 2
Tyrrell, G. N. M., 178, 178 72
.2
Ueber die Versuche mit dm. Medium
Stanislawa Tomczyk, 28 n. 7
Ulm, Germany, 222
Underhill, Francis, 273
Underhill, Mrs. A. Leah, 20-1,
Under Twenty Club (B.B.C.), 26B-9
Unfained Retraction o f Francis Coxe,
327
United Kingdom, 334
United States of America, 56, 273,
3°9»3**
‘Universal fluid’, 16
University Aspect o f Psychical Research,
68
University College, London, 176
University College Hospital, London,
16 72. 1
I N D E X
University of London. (See London
University.)
University of London Council for
Psychical Investigation, 39, 45,
45 n. 5, 64, 183, 187 n. 2, 250,
251 n. 1, 252, 262 n, 2, 319, 323,
336, 345-6
Unknown Guest, The, 317
Untold Facts, 198 n, 1
Uppsala, Sweden, 325
Uppsala University, Sweden, 103, 316
Urbino, Italy, 326 72. 1
‘Uriel*, a spirit, 223
Utrecht, Holland, 317, 325
Utrecht University, Holland, 66, 274
‘Uvani*, a spirit, 151-3, I77>248
Vagrancy Act (of 1824), 215, 215 n. 2,
234>329, 339
Vagrancy Acts, 213-18
Valiantine, George, 38, 45, 54, 59,
90, 112, 198-9, 324
Vallde, Professor, 41
Van Dam, Medium, 172
Vane, Sutton, 268
Varley, G., 270
Vaudreuil, Comte de, 281
Veley, Margaret, 160, 160 n. 1
‘Venus, transit of*, 31
Verrall, Mrs. Arthur Woollgar, 23, 57j
145, 158, 164, 170
Versailles, France, 279-83
Versailles ‘visions’, 279-83
Vesme, Cesare Baudi di, 315
Victoria Hotel, Naples, Italy, 76
Victoria Street, London, 30-1, 276,
309
Vienna, Austria, 12, 30, 42, 78, 97“8
>
98 n. 1, 100, 195, 202, 241, 324-5
Vienna poltergeist, A, 78-80
Vienna University, 72, 78, 107
‘Vincenzo’, a spirit, 85
Vinton, Warren Jay, 101
Virgil, 250
Virginia Law Review, 234 n. 1
Vitali, Fabio, 34 n. 3, 90, 315
Vivian, Lady Arthur Pendarves,
2 7 6 72. 1
Voice Control Recorder, 199, 245
Voice phenomena, 38
Volckman, W., 190
Vollhardt, Maria, 30
Voreas, Professor, 66, 317
Waddington, John, Ltd., 185
Wales, 339
Wallace, Abraham, 194 ,•
Wallace, Alfred Russel, 49, 52, 225,
291, 308-9
Waltendorf, Austria, 83
382
‘Walter’, alleged spirit, 39, iid- i 8,
244
Walter, Daniel, 315, 325
War, increase offraud during, 327-8
Warcollier, Rene, 172
Warsaw, Poland, 41, 41 n. 4, 74 n. 1,
90, 156, 203, 324-5
Was Professor J . B . Rhine Hoodwinked ?,
188
Washington, D.G., U.S.A., 206,
2 1 9 72. 1
Wassilko-Serecki, Zoe, Countess,
78-80
Waterhouse, Eric Strickland, 64, 262
Way the World is Going, 284 72. 1
Wayne county, New York State, 18
We Are Here, 232 7
2
. I
Weatherhead, Leslie D., 46
Webb, Miss Nella, 268
‘Weber, Karl*. (See Kraus, Clemens
[or Karl])
Wedgwood, Hcnsleigh, 49
‘Wee Betty’, a spirit, 81
Weekly Dispatch, 310
Weinberg, A. A., 172
Weisl, Freda, 324
Weiss, Ehrich. (See ‘Houdini,
Harry’.)
Weissagungen des altfranzdsischen Sehers
Michael Nostradamus, 43 n. 3
Wells, Herbert George, 284
Weltkrieg 1914-15, Der, 43 n. 3
Wereide, Thorstein, 316, 325
WestcDtt, Brooke Foss, 48
Westminster, London, 309
Westminster Gazette, 168 n. 2
Westminster Police Court, London,
226
What I Saw at Cassadaga Lake, 24 72. 3
Whitaker, Frank, 185
‘White Chief’, a spirit, 227
‘White Moose’, a spirit, 197
Whymant, Neville, 45, 45 n. 6
‘Wild, Hannah’, a spirit, 147
Wilde, Oscar, 159-60,159 n. 1, 2, 3, 4,
‘Wilde, Oscar’, alleged spirit, 159-60,
159 n- h 2, 3>4>5
Williams, Charles, 195, 307
Williams & Co., George L., 208
Willis’s Rooms, London, 6i
Wilson, Woodrow, 87
Winchester Abbey, 162
Winchester School, England, 170
Windsor Magazine, 309 72. 2
Winther, Christian, 2872. 8, 77-8,129,
3*6, 325
Wisdom o f the Gods, 38 n. 1
Wissen umfremdes Wissen, 66 n. 1
Witchcraft, 268
I N D E X
383
Witchcraft Act (of 1735), 216, 216 n. 7,
234) 3^9) 339
Wood, Miss C. E., 195
Woodcroft, Bennett, 326 n. 1
Woodruff, J. L., 70
Woolley, VictorJames, 59 n. 1, 61, 87,
124, 177, 265-7, 266 n. 1
Worcester, Ellwood, 113
Words Upon the Window-Pane, 268
World’s Pictorial News, a06 «. 4
Worslcy, Mr. and Mrs. Sidney John,
262
‘Worth, Patience’, a spirit, 162,
162 w
. 1, 2, 312
Wriedt, Mrs. Etta, 38, 164
Wright, Helena, 177
Wright, Mrs. Stahl, 324
Writing, automatic, meaning of, 42
Wspomnienia Z Seansow Z Medjum
Frankim Kluskim, 277*. 10, 90 n. 1
Wttrttcniburg, Germany, 222
Wyld, George, 49
Wylrs, Miss Lilian, 226-7
Wyllie, Edward, 35
Wynne, Charles, 30, 276
X-family, 131-44
Xenoglossy, meaning of, 45
Yarra, Australia, 155
Yeats, William Butler, 268
Yeats-Brown, Francis, 262
‘Yolande*, a spirit, 195
Z., Madame, 131-44
Zancigs, The, 168
Zeiss, Carl, 321-2
Zeitschriftfur Psychotherapie, 316 n, 1
Zener, Karl, 69-70
Zener cards, 267
Zener cards, description of, 183-5
Zener symbols in E.S.P., 70
Zenith Foundation radio station, 263,
263 n. 1
Zenz, Reinhold, 222 n. 1
Zoist, The, 16 n. 1
Zollner, Johann Carl Friedrich, 24,
29 71.1, 36, 200 n. 2, 202, 285, 314
Zoltowski, Adam, 156, 325
Zomahs, The, 168
Zuccarino, Araedee, 30
Zugun, Eleonore, 28, 28 n. 9, 78-81,
100, 314-15, 324
Zurich, Switzerland, 5, 316
